<eo
\qyR££-	=■ |] . * i vy\ , o k\			
&f?v			i cn	Of
	a£		iz	lIL
fiS: Of fMPLdYEf.S				
N©MaS8 _				If-
—D1 t’M H L 0 V £!»		r		
COLLECTIVE
AGREEMENT
between
Textron Automotive Interiors and
United Steelworkers of America AFL-CIO-CLC on behalf of its Local 889 Effective July 1, 1995 to December31, 1998
.	5 ujj

1995-1998
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT BETWEEN
TEXTRON AUTOMOTIVE INTERIORS
AND
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA ON BEHALF OF ITS LOCAL 889
INDEX
Article
Page
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
Scope and Recognition..........
Relationship ..................
Reservation of Management Rights
Check-off of Union Dues .......
No Strikes or Lockouts ........
Representation............
Grievance Procedure............
Seniority .....................
.8.07 Lay-off .................
.8.08 Job Posting Procedure . . .
.8.09 Loss of Seniority........
Leave of Absence...............
.9.04 Maternity ...............
.9.05 Sick Leave ..............
.9.10 Bereavement .............
Overtime ......................
.10.03 Reporting Pay...........
.10.07 Shift Bonus ............
Vacations......................
Designated Holidays ...........
Safety and Health..............
General .......................
.14.07 Safety Committee........
.14.08 Pension Plan............
Wages..........................
Duration.......................
4
5 5 7
7
8
10
15
17
20
21
22
23
23
25
26 28
30
31 31 33
36
37 37 A9 40
1
Pay Rates and Labour Grades ....................
Schedule of Statutory and Designated Holidays . . Letter of Understanding:
# 1 Grievance Meetings..................
#2 Shift Changes........................
#3 Disciplinary Notations...............
#4 Wages and Inflation..................
#5 Bidding on Postings Vacated as a Result of Personal Leaves of Absence
#6 Mutually Agreed Items................
#7 Absentee Pool Employees .............
#8 Subcontracting ......................
#9 Transfer Policy......................
#10 Plant Closure.......................
#11 Union Leave of Absence..............
41
44
45
46
47
48
49
50
52
53
54
55
56
2
Wherever the singular and masculine are used in this Agreement they shall be construed as if the plural or feminine had been used where the context so requires, and the rest of the sentence shall be construed as if the grammatical and terminological changes thereby rendered necessary have been made.
3
THIS AGREEMENT ENTERED INTO AS OF THE 1st DAY OF JULY 1995 BETWEEN
TEXTRON AUTOMOTIVE INTERIORS (hereinafter referred to as the "Company") OF THE FIRST PART
-and-
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA ON BEHALF OF ITS LOCAL 889 (hereinafter referred to as the "Union")
OF THE SECOND PART
ARTICLE 1 - SCOPE AND RECOGNITION
1.01	The Company recognizes the Union as the sole and exclusive bargaining agent for all of its employees at Port Hope, Ontario, save and except foremen, supervisors, persons above the rank of foreman or supervisor, office staff, clerical staff, sales staff, students, security guards, full-time first aid staff, part-time temporary persons employed for not more than twenty-four (24) hours per week.
1.02	The Company agrees that in the event it decides to transfer all or a major part of its manufacturing operations from the Port Hope plant to another plant, which results in the permanent layoff of full-time employees it will meet with the Union within fifteen (15) working days of that announcement. Any permanent Port Hope TEXTRON Automotive Interiors employee laid-off as a result of the transfer of work to any other TEXTRON facility which might be established within the Durham or Northumberland Counties will be offered work within that new facility. Any such job offer would be subject to qualifications for the available job.
4
ARTICLE 2 - RELATIONSHIP
2.01	The Company and the Union agree that there will be no
discrimination, interference, restraint or coercion exercised or practised by the Company or the Union, or by any of their representatives, with respect to membership or non-membership in the Union. The Union agrees that no Union member will conduct Union activities on the premises of the Company except as specifically permitted by this Agreement.
ARTICLE 3 - RESERVATION OF MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
3.01	Except as, and to the extent specifically modified by this Agreement,
all rights and prerogatives which the Company had prior to the execution of this Agreement are retained by the Company and remain exclusively and without limitation within the rights of the Company and its management. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Company’s rights shall include:
a)	the right: to maintain order, discipline and efficiency; to make, alter, and enforce, from time to time, reasonable rules and regulations, policies and practices, to be obeyed by its employees; to discipline and discharge employees for just cause. In the event the Union disputes the reasonableness of such rules and regulations, the Union shall have the right to file a policy grievance in respect hereof pursuant to the provisions of Article 7.11 of this Agreement. Such grievances shall specify the rule or rules being disputed.
b)	the right: to select, hire and control the working force and employees; to transfer, assign, promote, demote, classify, lay-off, recall, suspend and retire employees pursuant to the provisions of any pension plan; to plan, direct and control operations; to designate, establish, revise or discontinue departments; to select and retain employees for positions excluded from the bargaining unit and to transfer employees into the bargaining unit.
c)	the right to determine: the location and extent of its operations and their commencement, expansion, curtailment, or discontinuance, the direction of the working forces; the products to be manufactured; the standards of production; the subcontracting of work; the schedules of work and of production; the number of shifts; the methods; processes and means of performing work; job content and requirements; quality and quantity
5
standards; the qualifications of employees; the use of improved methods, machinery and equipment; whether there shall be overtime work and who shall perform such work, the number of employees needed by the Company at any time and how many shall operate or work on any job, operation, machine or production line; the administration of the Company’s pay system; which jobs shall be incentive jobs and which jobs shall not; the number of hours to be worked, starting and quitting time, and generally, the right to manage the enterprise and its business without interference are solely and exclusively the right of the Company.
y«)
A
Supervisors and other excluded personnel will not perform work which supplants any other production maintenance or warehouse employee except for purposes of instruction, inspection or in cases of emergency.
e) The Company may from time to time appoint an employee to act as a "Group Leader".
Group Leader is not a separate classification as such and persons appointed as Group Leaders are expected to perform their regular duties.
A Group Leader shall guide, aid and instruct a designated group of employees and will be responsible for coordinating the work of the group and for the quality and quantity of their work.
Group Leader appointments shall not be subject to the provision of Article 8.08 of this Collective Agreement. An employee designated as a Group Leader, will be paid, while serving as a Group Leader, fifty cents (.50) per hour more than the job rate of the highest classification held by anyone in the group he/she is leading. The fifty cents (SO) per hour premium will not be subject to overtime or shift premiums.
Group Leaders do not have any disciplinary responsibilities and may not enter any dispute between the Company and any of its employees.
6
ARTICLE 4 - CHECK-OFF OF UNION DUES
4.0!	The Company and the Union agree that all present employees,
transferred employees, and new employees must as a condition of employment have their regular monthly Union dues deducted in accordance with the Constitution of the Union and as determined by the Local Union No. 889 for the life of this Agreement. Such deductions shall be in respect of regular monthly Union dues only including first month’s dues, and shall not apply to any levies or special assessments.
4.02	The mount to be deducted in accordance with the provisions of
Article 4.01 hereof shall be in an amount provided by the Union Constitution. The Company shall remit the dues as aforesaid not later than the tenth day of each month following the month of such deduction to a designated Union officer. The Company will supply the Union with a list of the employees from whom deductions were made.
4.03	The Union agrees to indemnify and hold the Company harmless
against all claims, demands and expenses, should any person at any time contend or claim that the Company has acted wrongfully or illegally in making such deductions.
ARTICLE 5 - NO STRIKES OR LOCKOUTS
5.0!	The Union undertakes and agrees that while this Agreement is in
operation neither the Union nor any employee shall take part in or call or encourage or support or condone any strike, picketing, sitdown, slowdown, or any suspension of or stoppage of or impeding of or curtailment of or interference with work or production, which shall in any way affect the operations of the Company, nor shall there be any sympathy strikes or secondary boycotts and the Company agrees that it will not engage in any lockout during the term of this Agreement.
5.02	Any employee who participates in any of the foregoing conduct shall
be subject to discipline up to and including discharge. Such employee may have recourse to the grievance procedure and a board of arbitration shall have jurisdiction to determine if the grievor did, in fact, improperly participate in the foregoing conduct. If the arbitration board determines that the grievor did, in fact,
7
improperly participate in the foregoing conduct, the board of arbitration shall not have jurisdiction to interfere with such discipline or discharge.
ARTICLE 6 - REPRESENTATION
6.01	Bargaining Committee
The Company acknowledges the right of the Union to appoint or otherwise select from the Union membership in the Company's Port Hope, Ontario plant, a Bargaining Committee comprised of not more than four (4) seniority employees in good standing of the Company. The Local Union President shall be Chairman thereof. The Company will recognize the Bargaining Committee for the purpose of handling any grievance or discussing a matter properly arising during the continuance of this Agreement. Wherever in this Agreement the term "committee" or the term "plant committee" is used, it shall be deemed to mean "Bargaining Committee."
The Company agrees to recognize eight (8) stewards, who shall be seniority employees.
When there are fifty (50) or more employees on the night shift, the Union shall be entitled to an additional steward on that shift.
When there are more than five hundred (500) employees in the Bargaining Unit, the Union shall be entitled to two (2) additional stewards and when there are more than seven hundred and fifty (750) employees in the Bargaining Unit, the Union shall be entitled to one (1) additional steward.
The Company agrees to recognize one (1) additional steward as a Chief Steward.	_
6.02	Not more than two (2) International Representatives of the Union may be present and participate in any meeting of the Plant Committee and the Company. The Company will not be required to meet a total of more than four (4) Union representatives at any time in addition to an International Representative of the Union.
8
6.03	One (1) member of the Plant Committee will be permitted to leave his
work and unit when notified by his supervisor that he has been summoned for the purpose of handling grievances. A member of the Plant Committee will be permitted to leave his work and unit when notified by his supervisor that there will be a meeting with representatives of the Company. A Shift Steward may be permitted to leave his work when he has been notified by his supervisor for the purpose of handling a grievance at the first or second step of the grievance procedure. Such employee shall report to his supervisor upon his return to work. Time away from work for the purpose herein specified shall not be on the aggregate exceed three (3) hours per week for any one individual.
6.04	A Committeeman or Shift Steward required under the grievance
procedure to enter another unit must inform the supervisor of that unit which he enters of the reason for his presence. Committeemen or Shift Stewards, as the case may be, shall expeditiously attend to the grievance so that no unnecessary loss of time or interference with production will result therefrom.
6.05	The Union recognizes and agrees that members of the Plant
Committee and Shift Stewards have their regular duties to perform in connection with their employment. The Company will compensate such Committeemen and Shift Stewards for time spent at the plant during their regular working hours in handling grievances of employees pursuant to the grievance procedure at their regular straight time base hourly rate of pay, provided this privilege is not abused by the Committeemen or Shift Stewards. Committeemen or Shift Stewards will not be compensated for time spent prior to or beyond their regular working hours on Union business unless at the request of the Company.
6.06	Notwithstanding anything Otherwise contained in this Agreement, the
Company may delay or defer permission to a Steward, Committeeman, or other Union official who wishes to leave his work pursuant to the provisions hereof, if such leaving would interfere with the efficient operation of the Plant.
6.07	The Union agrees to 'supply the Company with the names of
Committeemen and Shift Stewards and to keep such list up to date at all times and the Company shall not be obliged to recognize such personnel until it has been so informed.
9
6.08	The employees shall be represented by stewards upon their shift as set out in Article 6.01 hereof, not more than two (2) of whom shall be from any single department with fewer than thirty (30) employees per shift.
For the purposes of this Article, areas of coverage, by stewards will be mutually agreed upon by the parties during January of each calendar year.
Exceptions to the above due to transfers, reassignments, shift changes and layoffs may be mutually agreed upon by the parties as the need arises.
6.09	For the purpose of this Agreement, the Plant Grievance Committee and the stewards, together with the officers of the Local Union, shall be deemed to be officials of the Union. The parties hereto agree that the Union officials occupy positions of leadership and responsibility to see that this Agreement is faithfully carried out.
6.10	The Company will recognize a bargaining unit employee, who has received training in time study methods, as an observer in cases where a work standard becomes the subject of a grievance. The observer shall have the right to be present during a review of work method, time study and calculations necessary to check the general standard.
ARTICLE 7 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
7.01	The grievance procedures herein provided for are among the most important matters in the successful administration of this Agreement. The Company and the Union therefore agree that 'the designated grievance procedure as hereinafter set forth shall serve as and constitute the sole and exclusive means to be utilized by the grievor for the prompt disposition, decision and final settlement of a grievance arising in respect of the interpretation, application, administration or alleged violation of this Agreement, and the specifically designated grievance procedure shall be strictly followed. Wherever the term "grievance procedure" is used in this Agreement it shall be considered as including the arbitration procedure.
7.02	"Grievance" shall mean a complaint or claim concerning improper discipline or discharge, or a dispute with reference to the interpretation, application, administration or alleged violation of this Agreement.
10
7.03	The Company shall be under no obligation to consider or process any grievance unless such grievance has been presented to the Company in writing at Step 1 of the grievance procedure within five (5) working days from the time the circumstances upon which the grievance is based were known by the grievor. However, if the Company does consider or process a grievance which has been presented late, the Company shall not be estopped or precluded at any stage of the grievance procedure from taking the position that the grievance is late and not arbitrable.
7.04	All time limits referred to in the grievance procedure herein contained shall be deemed to mean “working days”, ie., exclusive of Saturday, Sunday or the holidays set out in Article 12 hereof
7.05	No employee shall have a grievance until he has discussed his complaint with his immediate supervisor. If the employee wishes, he may be accompanied by his steward. If the employee’s immediate supervisor does not promptly settle the matter to the employee’s satisfaction an employee’s proper grievance shall be processed as follows:
STEP No. 1
If any employee has a grievance the grievance shall, within the five (5) working days referred to in Article 7.03, be reduced to writing and presented to the Shift Coordinator. The steward will present the written grievance to his Shift Coordinator. The Shift Coordinator shall give the grievor a written reply as soon as possible but not later than five (5) days after such discussion. If the Shift Coordinator’s reply is not satisfactory to the grievor, the next step must be taken within five (5) days of the Shift Coordinator’s answer, but not thereafter.
The written grievance referred to above shall identify: the facts giving rise to the grievance; the section or sections of the Agreement claimed to be violated; the relief requested; and shall be signed by the employee and countersigned by his steward.
STEP No. 2
At this step the written grievance shall be presented to the Manager concerned within the aforesaid five (5) days of receipt of the Shift Coordinator’s written reply, but not thereafter.
11
A meeting will be held between the Chairman of the Plant Committee together with the steward involved, and the Manager concerned together with other representatives of management, within five (5) days of the presentation of the written grievance to the Manager concerned. The Manager concerned shall give his written reply to the Chairman of the Plant Committee within five (5) days of such meeting.
If such Manager’s reply is not satisfactory to the Chairman of the Plant Committee the next step shall be taken within five (5) days after the delivery of such Manager’s reply to the Chairman of the Plant Committee, but not thereafter.
STEP No. 3
At this step, the Union shall, within the aforesaid five (5) days, notify the General Manager in writing of its desire to appeal the decision of the Manager concerned at Step No. 2. Shortly thereafter, a meeting will take place between the Plant Committee (which may be accompanied by the International Representative of the Union) and the General Manager and any other representatives of management. The grievor shall be required to be present at the request of either
party. The Company shall deliver its decision in writing to the Chairman of the Plant Committee within ten (10) working days of such meeting.
STEP No. 4
In the event the grievance is not settled at Step No. 3, the party having carriage of the grievance shall request arbitration of the grievance by giving notice in writing to the other party within thirty-five (35) days from delivery of the decision at Step No. 3 to the Chairman of the Plant Grievance Committee, but not thereafter.
If a request for arbitration js not so given within such thirty-five (35) day period, the decision at Step 3 shall be final and binding upon both parties to this Agreement, and upon any employee involved. The notice to arbitrate shall contain the name and address of the moving party’s nominee to the Board and shall also specify all of the outstanding issues of the written grievance to be dealt with by the Board and the remedy sought. The party giving such notice shall be bound by the same and shall be restricted at arbitration to the issues presented by the notice.
12
The recipient of the notice shall within five (5) days advise the other party, in writing, of the name of its appointee to the arbitration board.
The two appointees so selected shall, within five (5) days of the appointment of the second of them, appoint a third person who shall be chairman. If the recipient of the notice fails to appoint an arbitrator, or if the two appointees fail to agree upon a chairman, within the time limited, the Minister of Labour for Ontario shall, if requested within the five (5) days from expiry of the date upon which the two appointees are to appoint a chairman (but not hereafter), forthwith appoint a qualified person to be chairman.
7.06	The arbitration board shall hear and determine the matter and shall issue a decision which shall be final and binding upon the parties and upon any employee affected by it. The decision of the majority shall be the decision of the arbitration board, but if there is no majority decision, the decision of the chairman shall govern.
7.07	The Board of Arbitration shall not be authorized to make any decision inconsistent with provisions of this Agreement, nor to alter, modify or amend any part of this Agreement, nor to adjudicate any matter not specifically assigned to it by the notice to arbitrate in Step. No. 4 of Article 7.05 hereof.
7.08	Each party hereto shall bear its own costs of and incidental to any such arbitration proceedings. The fees and charges of the chairman of the board of arbitration shall be borne equally by the two parties hereto.
7.09	The time limits and other procedural requirements set out in this Article 7 are mandatory and not merely'directory, and no matter may be submitted to arbitration which has not properly been carried through all specified previous steps of the grievance procedure within the times specified. The parties recognize that in some departments and on some shifts "immediate supervisor" and "Shift Coordinator" shall be the same person, and the grievance shall be filed with such person after being discussed with him as a complaint, pursuant to the provisions hereof. The provisions of this clause shall not be considered to have been waived by the parties or either of them unless they expressly provide a waiver thereof in writing, signed by both parties.
7.10	A decision or settlement reached at any stage of the grievance procedure shall be final and binding upon all parties hereto, including the
13
complaining employee, and shall not be subject to reopening by any party except by agreement in writing. If the grievance is settled at any step of the grievance procedure, both the Company management and the Union representatives who pass on the same as provided herein shall sign the settlement as endorsed upon the written grievance, so that no question or argument may arise as to what the settlement was. Either party shall have the right to require the attendance of the grievor at any meeting held pursuant to Steps 1, 2, or 3 of the grievance procedure.
When an employee’s grievance is settled by the parties or determined by the board of arbitration on the basis that the employee is entitled to be reimbursed for wages lost as a result of action on the part of the Company in violation of this Agreement, such reimbursement shall be retroactive to the date of the presentation of the grievance to the Company in writing. Such reimbursement shall be at the employee’s regular straight time earnings for such hours as the employee would have worked for the Company if the violation had not occurred, but there shall be subtracted therefrom any monies the employee received during such period and any Unemployment Insurance benefits received by the employee during such period.
7.11	Union Policy Grievance or Company Grievance
A Union policy grievance or a Company grievance may be submitted to the Company or the Union, as the case may be, in writing, within seven (7) days from the time the circumstances upon which the grievance is based were known or should have been known by the grievor. A meeting between the Company and the Union shall be held within five (5) days of the presentation of the written grievance and shall take place within the framework of Step No. 3 of Article 7.05. The Company or the Union, as the case may be, shall give its written decision within three (3) days of such meeting.
If the decision is unsatisfactory to the grieving party, the grievance may be submitted to arbitration within thirty-five (35) days of the delivery of such written decision and the arbitration sections of this Agreement shall be followed.
It is expressly understood that the provisions of this paragraph 7.11 may not be used by the Union to institute a grievance directly affecting an employee or employees which such employee or employees could themselves institute, and the provisions of Article 7.05 hereof shall not thereby be bypassed.
(a) DISCHARGE CASES
7.12
A claim by a seniority employee that he has been discharged without just cause shall be treated as a grievance and shall commence at Step No. 3 of Article
7.05	provided a written grievance signed by the employee and his Department Steward or Bargaining Committee is presented to the General Manager within three (3) days after the discharge. The International Representative of the Union will be permitted to attend the meeting held pursuant thereto, with the General Manager. The Union will. not question the discharge of any probationary employee nor shall such discharge be the subject of a grievance unless such discharge was for unjust cause.
A seniority employee who is discharged while on the Company premises shall have the right to confer with his steward for up to fifteen (15) minutes, in a place designated by the Company, before leaving the Plant.
7.12	(b) Should the parties agree or should the grievor satisfy the arbitration board that an employee has been discharged without just cause, such employee shall be reinstated as an employee without loss of seniority and shall be compensated in accordance with the provisions of Article 7.10 hereof
ARTICLE 8 - SENIORITY

i
8.01	An employee will be considered a probationary employee until he has
been employed by the Company for sixty (60) calendar days within a twelve (12) month consecutive period. During his probationary period he will have no seniority rights but when such rights are acquired, seniority will be regarded as having started from the date sixty (60) days immediately prior to acquiring such seniority. The employee shall carry such seniority in his unit.
8.02	The Company will post seniority lists once every six (6) months and
such list shall show the employee’s seniority and unit in which the employee holds such seniority. Subject to the provisions of this Agreement, seniority shall be by unit and plant-wide. The Company shall furnish the Union with a copy of the seniority list.
15
8.03	For the purpose of applying the seniority provisions of this
Agreement, which seniority provisions shall be applied only to the extent expressly provided in this Agreement, the present units are as follows:
Unit No. 1 - Production operations including Labour Grade 99s, Compounders and Shell/Foam/Injection/Brown Technicians Unit No. 2 - Warehouse and Production Drivers Unit No. 3 - Maintenance Mechanics, Maintenance Fitter & Welders, Industrial Instrument Electricians, Apprentices, Machinists, Millwrights, Gas Fitters, Tooling Mechanics, Modular Tooling Specialists
Unit No. 4 - Colour, Physical/Chemical, Development, Foam/Shell, Auditors
New product lines or changes in existing product lines may require additions to or changes in the foregoing unit structure. The Company will notify the Union of any such additions or changes. Should the Union, after being so notified, wish to discuss any such additions or changes, the Company will meet with the Union and explain or otherwise discuss the additions or changes.
8.04	A seniority employee who is transferred to another unit by seniority
on an indefinite lay-off (ie. lay-off for a period longer than a temporary lay-off as defined herein), or on recall therefrom, shall lose seniority in his former unit (ie. in which he held unit seniority) after thirty (30) days worked and attain seniority in the new unit, after thirty (30) days worked in the new unit. During such thirty day period he shall continue to accumulate seniority in his former unit and when he attains seniority in the new unit he shall be credited with the seniority which he had in his former unit. However, if such employee’s former job re-opens within such thirty days in the new unit the employee shall return to his former job. An employee shall hold seniority in only one (1) unit at any one time.
A seniority employee who has held a job classification for a period of 30 days or longer, and who is reclassified due to a work shortage to a lower rated job classification, shall have the right to return to the job from which he was displaced provided that such job reopens within a period of 60 days.
In the event that the original job does not become available within 60 days then the job will become the subject to the job posting procedure as described in Article 8.08.
16
OJ5
8.05	The selection of employees for supervisory positions or for any
position not subject to the conditions of this Agreement is not covered by this Agreement. A non-bargaining unit person with less than one (1) year of service in a salaried position who is transferred to a position within the bargaining unit shall be credited with seniority equal to his full accumulated service with the Company excluding the time worked outside the bargaining unit. Upon such transfer into the bargaining unit, the employee shall exercise his seniority to bump the least senior employee in the bargaining unit. Should suchjob not be available the employee shall exercise his seniority under the provision of Article 8.07. Employees with more than one (1) year of service in a salaried position shall not be transferred back into the bargaining unit.
8.06	In filling permanent job vacancies (except those in respect ,ofpositions
excluded from the bargaining unit) and in cases of decrease or increase of the working force, the following factors shall be considered.
a)	length of seniority;
b)	experience, efficiency and qualifications;
c)	ability to perform the essential duties of the job and reliability.
Where the qualifications in facts (b) and (c) are relatively equal in the judgement of the Company, factor (a) shall govern.
Where educational requirements are specified they shall be interpreted to mean either actual academic qualification or proven and demonstrated ability to perform work requiring similar qualifications.
8.07	When there is to be a lay-'6ff in a unit the junior employees in the
classification affected shall be subject to be laid-off provided the remaining employees are, in the judgement of the Company, of relatively equal skill, competency, efficiency and-qualifications. The Company will furnish the Union with a list of those employees who are to be laid-off and will discuss the list with the Union prior to notifying the individual employees affected by the lay-off.
An employee so subject to lay-off will be assigned by the Company to work being performed by another employee with less seniority in the plant, subject always to the provisions of Article 8.06 hereof.
17
5)	Time spent on lay-off will not count towards qualifying for incremental wage increases.
c)	In all cases of temporary lay-off (ie. up to eighty (80) full regular working hours) seniority need not be considered. No employee may be laid off under this provision for more than a total of eighty (80) working hours in any calendar year. For the purposes of computing temporary lay-off hours no period less than two (2) full working hours shall be used and periods in excess of two (2) hours shall be credited to the nearest full working hour. Absentee Pool employees may be retained for up to eighty (80) regular working hours while permanent employees are on temporary lay-off.
The Company will continue the practice of allowing employees who are to be temporarily laid off for two (2) hours or less the option to displace Absentee Pool employees working in the plant provided they have the skill and ability to perform the work.
d)	In the event that a vacancy exists at the time of reduction of force the Company shall have the right to assign an employee affected by such a reduction of force to such vacancy, provided he is qualified to perform the work in accordance with the Company’s quality and production standards.
e)	In the case of reduction in force involving a number of employees in one (1) week, employees affected may be laid off for a period of one (1) week without regard to seniority to allow time to make reassignment on the basis of the provisions of Articles 8.06 and 8,07 hereof.
f)	When the company implements the provisions of paragraphs (c) or (e) of this Article 8.07 the Company will, upon request of the Plant Committee, advise the Plant Committee of the reasons thereof.
In all cases of lay-off other than temporary lay-off as defined in this Agreement under Article 8.07 (c) or (e) the Company will give three (3) days notice to the employees affected of the impending lay-off.
19
JOB POSTING PROCEDURE
8.08
4
U
The Company agrees to advertise all permanent job vacancies for three (3) days. All job postings shall state openings by shift. During the posting period the Company may temporarily fill the job as it deems proper. The Company will consider applications and apply the provisions of Article 8.06 hereof. All employees interested in the job vacancy must make application within three (3) working days.
Such job posting shall apply in respect of the original vacancy and the next two (2) vacancies resulting from the filling of the original vacancy. If the bid of an employee for a particular job vacancy hereunder is accepted, such employee shall be ineligible to bid under this Article 8.08 for any job vacancy for a period of at least six (^calendar months from the date of such successful bid and related job transfer. An employee transferred under the provisions of this Article 8.08 who in the judgement of the Company is subsequently unable to meet the Company’s standards of quality and production within the first thirty (30) days of such transfer, will be transferred back to his/her former position without loss of seniority or bidding rights.
An employee transferred under the provisions of this Article 8.08 who during the first thirty (30) days following such transfer makes request to return to his/her former position may do so. An employee electing to return to his/her former position under this provision shall forfeit any right under the job bidding procedure for six (6) months from the date of the bid closing.
The purpose of the job posting procedure is to provide employees with the opportunity to bid on jobs in a higher labour-grade. In certain circumstances an employee may wish to bid on a job at the same or lower labour grade than the employee’s existing job. In order to be eligible to bid on a job at the same or lower labour grade than the employee’s current job, the employee must have held the current position for a period of not less than six (6) months.
The foregoing provision shall not apply to employees exercising their bidding rights under Article 8.08 for the first time, nor employees making a bid to transfer from a position to which they were appointed.
When new jobs are created or existing jobs are open the Company shall be able to fill such jobs for a period of thirty (30) days during which such jobs shall
20
be posted. Employees working during the first thirty (30) days shall not have such time taken into consideration for qualifications.
When an employee is successful in obtaining a higher rated job through the bidding provisions of Article 8.08, he shall be placed in the job within forty-five (45) days of being awarded the position. In the event that the employee is not placed in the new job within the thirty (30) day period, he shall be paid at the rate for the new job from the thirty-first (31st) day until such time as the transfer is effective provided that the new job is still available.
8.09	LOSS OF SENIORITY
An employee shall lose all seniority rights and service rights if
a)	he quits his employment;
b)	he is discharged for just cause not reversed through the grievance procedure;
an employee with less than four (4) years seniority is laid off for a period in excess of one (1) year; an employee with four (4) years or more of seniority is laid off for a period in excess of two (2) years.
d) a person on lay-off fails to return to work within five (5) working days after the Company’s notice of recall is sent by registered mail or telegram to the last address of the person shown on Human Resources Office records, or, if the person within three (3) working days after such notice of recall is so sent fails to notify the Human Resources Office of his intention to return to work.
The foregoing-provision may be waived by the Human Resources Manager in writing if the person furnishes reasons satisfactory to the Human Resources Manager for such failure on his part. In such cases of waiver, the person will not be permitted to displace another employee with less seniority who has been employed in the meantime, but will be rehired-with seniority intact when employment for which he is qualified and for which he has the necessary seniority is available.
21
an employee fails to return to work promptly after the expiration of any leave granted to him unless he is excused by the Human Resources Manager.
It shall be the duty of the employee or laid-off person to notify the Company office promptly, in writing, of any change of address or telephone number. If an employee or laid off person should fail to do this, the Company will not be responsible for the failure of a notice to reach him and any notice sent by the Company by registered mail to the address which appears on the Company’s personnel records, or telephoned to the telephone number which appears on the Company’s records shall be conclusively deemed to have been received by the employee or laid off person;
8.10	PREFERENTIAL SENIORITY
j The executive officers of the Union, not to exceed seven (7), will be J retained by the Company in the event of a lay-off affecting their unit, so long as there is work in their respective units which they are qualified to perform, notwithstanding their position on the seniority list.
ARTICLE 9 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE
9.01	All leaves of absence as referred to in this Agreement shall be without
pa} or any other form of compensation.
9.02	The Company may, in its own discretion, grant leave of absence,
without pay, to any employee for legitimate personal reasons, and any person who is absent with such permission shall continue to accumulate seniority, for a period not to exceed three (3) months, during such absence.
9.02	(a) The Company will grant leave of absence to not more than seven
(7) employees in good standing at the same time for legitimate Union business. This leave of absence shall not exceed fifteen (15) working days each year per employee, and in any event not to exceed a total of one hundred five (105) working days per year in respect of all such employees. In addition to this foregoing, the Company will grant an additional twenty (20) days per year leave
22
of absence to the President of the Local Union, and fifteen (15) additional days per year leave for safety related Union business.
9.03	(b) An employee with seniority who is elected or selected as a full-
time officer or representative of Local 889, the United Steelworkers of America, or the International Union, upon request in writing to the Company will be granted a leave of absence for whatever time is necessary. Should he request reinstatement within thirty (30) days after the termination of the Union position, he will be reinstated in his former job. . If his former job has been eliminated, he will be offered a similar job. Seniority will accumulate during such absence.
9.04	Any seniority female employee will, in case of pregnancy, certified
by a qualified physician, be granted a leave of absence subject to the following positions:
a)	The employee involved must notify the Company’s Human Resources Office of her condition at least five (5) months prior to the expected date of delivery.
b)
d)
The employee must furnish the company with a certificate from her physician stating she is no longer capable of performing her normal duties.
Seniority will accumulate during the period of such leave.
Before returning to work the employee must provide the Company with a physician’s certificate stating she is fit to perform her normal duties.
If the employee fails to report for work promptly after the expiration of the leave, she shall be considered as having voluntarily quit.
9.05	SICK LEAVE.
Any employee who, because of illness or injury requiring an absence from his job for more than two (2) working days, shall, upon furnishing satisfactory evidence to the Company of such illness or injury, be granted a sick leave for the duration of the period of his disability due to such illness or injury, except that at the end of twelve (12) months in the case of an employee with less than four (4) years’ seniority, or twenty-four (24) months in the case of an employee with four (4) years or more seniority, of continuous absence because of such illness or injury
23
the employee’s employment and seniority shall be terminated. The employee shall furnish supplementary medical evidence of disability, from time to time, as required by the Company. Failure to furnish such evidence of disability will result in the termination of the employee’s employment and seniority. Before any employee on sick leave may return to work he must present a doctor’s certificate stating that he has fully recovered both physically and mentally and is able to return to his regular job classification and perform suchjob in accordance with the Company’s quality and production standards. The Company reserves the right to have any employee examined by a Company physician in connection with a sick leave.
The Company reserves the right to refuse or terminate a leave of absence under this provision if the record of the employee indicates an excessive amount of time off or recurring or repetitive time off. The determination as to what constitutes excessive, recurring or repetitive time off will be negotiated and mutually agreed upon between the Union and the Company.
For Worker’s Compensation cases the maximum allowable leave of absence for seniority employees shall be forty-eight (48) months.
9.06	Employees returning from authorized leave of absence will be returned to the same job, providing such job exists, or a comparable job with a comparable rate of pay providing such a comparable job exists for which the employee is qualified.
An employee returning to work under the provision of this Article may be placed back in the work force under the provisions of Article 8.07 if his former job does not exist.	"
9.07	Application for leave of absence shall be made in writing to the employee’s immediate supervisorjind it will then be referred for final approval in accordance with Company policy; however, no leave will be granted for a period greater than an employee’s accumulated seniority and in no case, other than as specifically set out in Article 9.05 hereof, in excess of two (2) years.
9.08	If an employee overstays his leave of absence he is presumed to have severed employment with the Company unless he can give an explanation satisfactory to the Company for his inability to return to work on the expiry date of his leave of absence.
24
JURY DUTY
9.09
Each seniority employee who is summoned to and reports for jury duty, or is subpoenaed as a Crown witness, as prescribed by applicable law (subject to the eligibility requirements set out below), shall be paid by the Company the difference between the employee’s regular base rate exclusive of premiums for the number of hours up to eight (8) that he otherwise would have been scheduled to work and the daily jury duty or witness fee paid by the Court (not including travelling allowance or reimbursement for expenses). The Company’s obligation to pay an employee for jury duty or a Crown witness under this section is limited to a maximum of sixty (60) days in a calendar year, and in order to receive payment under this section, an employee must meet all of the following eligibility requirements :
a)	the employee shall have given twenty-four (24) hours notice to the Company that he has been summoned for jury duty or subpoenaed as a Crown witness.
b)	the employee shall furnish satisfactory evidence to the Human Resources Manager that he reported for and performed jury duty or appeared as a Crown witness on the days for which he claims payment and shall furnish acceptable proof of the amount of jury pay or witness fees received by him;
c)	the employee would otherwise have been scheduled to work for the Company on the day or days for which he claims payment;
d)	when an employee is subpoenaed by the Company to testify as a witness in a grievance arbitration case the Company will reimburse the employee for lost wages at his straight time hourly rate of pay.
9.10	BEREAVEMENT
When death occurs in a seniority employee’s immediate family (ie. current spouse, including common-law spouse, parent, parent of current spouse, step-parent, child, step-child, brother, step-brother, sister, step-sister, grandparent, spouse’s grandparent or grandchild of the employee, son-in-law or daughter-in-law) the employee on request, will be excused for a period not to exceed three (3) working days, or such fewer days as the employee may be absent, immediately following the date of death and ending of the day of the funeral providing he attends the funeral.
25
b)	When death occurs to an employee’s sister-in-law or brother-in-law, the employee, on request will be excused for the day of the funeral provided he attends the funeral.
c)	When death occurs in a employee’s immediate family and the employee, for reasons of distance or personal hardship, is unable to attend the funeral, he shall be allowed a one (1) day leave for personal grief immediately following the date of death.
d)	The employee shall not be entitled to receive any pay for any day upon which he would not otherwise be scheduled to work for the Company. Payment will be based upon the employee’s straight time day work hourly rate exclusive of any premiums.
9.11	A member of the Bargaining Committee who is temporarily assigned
by the Company to another operation because of his frequent absence in connection with Bargaining Committee activities, will not undergo a reduction in his hourly rate because of such assignment. When his frequent absence is no longer required, he will be reinstated to his regular job.
ARTICLE 10 - OVERTIME
10.01	For the purpose of computing overtime and premium pay, the regular work day is eight (8) hours and the regular work week is forty (40) hours, unless otherwise scheduled.
The work week shall be a calendar week beginning at 12:01 a.m. Monday morning, except that in the case of shifts beginning on Sunday evening the work week shall begin at the starting hour of the shift on Sunday evening. A work day shall consist of the twenty-four (24)hours from midnight to midnight.
The provisions of this Article 10 are for the purpose of computing overtime and shall not be construed as a guarantee or limitation of hours of work per day or per week nor as a guarantee of working schedules.
An employee whose scheduled shift starts on or after 5:00 a.m. but before 12:30 p.m. shall be deemed to be working on the first (day) shift; an employee whose scheduled shift starts on or after 12:30 p.m. but before 9:00 p.m. shall be
26
deemed to be working on the second (afternoon) shift; and an employee whose scheduled shift starts on or after 9:00 p.m. but before 5:00 a.m. shall be deemed to be working on the third (midnight) shift.
When a third shift is scheduled, such shift shall normally be of eight (8) hours’ duration.
The Company will give the Union and the employees affected as much notice as reasonably possible of any change in normal shift schedules.
Employees working on the second (afternoon) shift shall not be scheduled to work overtime on weekends with a starting time less than eight (8) hours following the completion of their regular shift.
10.02	In determining the hours worked by the employee for the purpose of entitlement to overtime pay, hours not worked because of a paid holiday, bereavement leave, jury duty, lay-off, leave of absence necessitated by an unavoidable problem provided written leave is requested and secured not later than the day prior to the date of the leave, shall be counted as if worked. When the Company requires that additional work be performed per day or per week, such additional work shall be compensated for at the rates set forth below:
a)	Time and one-half (11/2) will be paid for all time worked in excess of eight (8) straight time hours in any one (1) day, provided, however, that this rule will not apply when an employee is required to work more than eight (8) hours in the day or forty (40) hours in the week because of
i)	a transfer resulting from the lay-off and recall procedure or permanent transfer procedure;
ii)	a change in shift or exchange of shifts requested by the employee and consented to by the supervisor;
iii)	the granting of a request for transfer.
b)	Time and one-half (1 1/2) will be paid for all time worked in excess of forty (40) straight time hours worked in any one (1) work week, or, for work performed upon Saturday.
27
c)	Employees on the third shift (midnight shift) shall be paid time and one-half (1 1/2) for all hours worked in excess of eight (8) straight time hours in any one (1) work day and shall be paid time and one-half for hours worked on Saturday.
Time and one-half (1 1/2) shall be paid for all time worked on the following holidays: New Year’s Day, Good Friday, Victoria Day, Canada Day, Civic Holiday, Labour Day, Thanksgiving Day, Christmas Day, Christmas Eve and Boxing Day. There shall be four (4) additional designated paid holidays. Whenever any of the above enumerated holidays occur on a Saturday or Sunday, the holiday will be observed on the Monday after such holiday, excepting any holiday that falls within a plant shutdown. Whenever any of the above enumerated holidays occur within the period of an employee’s vacation, he shall substitute the first working day following the vacation period for the holiday, excepting when such holiday falls within a plant shutdown.
Double (2) time will be paid for all time worked on Sunday.
10.03	REPORTING PAY
Any employee who properly reports for work at the beginning of his regular shift, unless he has been notified in advance not to report, will receive at least four (4) hours’ work or shall be paid for four (4) hours at his regular straight time earnings, except in cases of labour disputes, machinery, equipment, power or other utility breakdowns, fire, flood or any other causes, without limitation, beyond the control of the Company. In cases where an employee properly reports for his regular shift and the equipment or machinery-breakdowns prevent him from completing at least four (4) hours of work the employee shall be given four (4) hours of alternate work or shall be paid sufficient to bring his earnings for the day to the equivalent of four (4) hours at his regular straight time rate. Where an employee reports for work on his regular shift and is sent home with instructions to report on a later shift, he shall be paid ‘for two (2) hours subject to the same exceptions and conditions as set forth in this section. An employee, other than an employee who reports for work on his regular shift and is sent home with instructions to report on a later shift, who does not accept available work when offered shall not be entitled to payment for reporting.
28
When an employee has not been working because of illness, leave of absence or any other cause, it shall be his responsibility to arrange with the Company for his return to work at least one (1) but not more than two (2) regular working days prior to the time of his intended return. It is the employee’s duty to keep the Human Resources Office informed of his correct address and telephone number, and the Company will not be liable for any payment unless such arrangements have been made.
10.03	(a)	STAND-BY-PAY
An employee who is required by the Company to hold himself ready and available to be called in to perform work on a Saturday, Sunday or designated holiday will be paid four (4) hours’ pay at his straight time rate of pay exclusive of premiums for each twenty-four (24) hour period he is required to stand-by subject to the following:
a)	Stand-by pay shall be paid in addition to any pay that the employee may be
entitled to under the provisions of Article 10.04 hereof
b)
Stand-by duty shall not be considered to be time worked.
10.04	An employee called in to do emergency work will be paid a minimum of four (4) hours’ pay for such work at his regular rate; however, when an employee, after leaving the plant at the completion of his shift is notified to report for work four (4) hours or less prior to his regular starting time and he is expected to work through and complete his regular shift, he will be paid only for the hours worked in excess of eight (8) on an overtime basis.
10.05	When overtime is scheduled to be performed by employees in a unit the Company will endeavour as far as practicable to equitably allocate the overtime among qualified employees, of the unit who presently and normally perform the major or dominant portion of the work required. However, the Company shall not be required to interrupt production lines or group operations. An employee on an individual operation or assignment will not be displaced for overtime occurring at the end of a regular shift. Employees who are absent from work for any reason shall be considered not available for the allocation of overtime and shall not be entitled to be called in.
29
10,06	It is not the intention of the parties to this Agreement that the Company shall be held to an obligation of equal allocation of overtime but is only intended to be a general rule for the guidance of the Company in allocating overtime. An employee who is justifiably aggrieved as a result of the Company's failure to follow this general rule shall not be entitled to money payment for overtime which has not been allocated to him in the past but shall be entitled to be allocated future overtime to restore him to a relatively equitable position with those other qualified employees in the department who presently and normally perform the operation upon which the aggrieved employee is involved.
&
10.07	Employees working on the second (afternoon) shift shall receive forty-
five cents (.45) per hour as a shift bonus, and employees working on the third (midnight) shift shall receive forty-five (.45) per hour as a shift bonus.
If an employee is working a regular shift he shall be paid the shift bonus, if any, of the shift to which he assigned for all hours worked even though the hours worked extended into another shift.
10.08	(a)	Single shift or two-shift operations which are scheduled for eight
(8) hours or more shall have two (2) ten minute breaks as well as a thirty (30) minute unpaid lunch period.
10.08	(b) For shifts scheduled on an eight (8) hour continuous operation, j L I there shall be two (2) ten minute breaks as well as a twenty minute paid lunch s J period.
9-°
10.08	(c) When the Company requires more than two (2) consecutive hours of work immediately following the completion of a full eight (8) hour shift of work, an employee shall be entitled to a rest period of ten (10) minutes to be taken at the beginning of the overtime hours.
10.08	(d) An employee who during his regular shift is requested to work
four (4) or more hours of overtime immediately following his regular shift shall receive a meal allowance of five dollars ($5.00).
10.09	In instances where an employee is notified prior to his/her normal starting time that the shift will be delayed and is requested to remain available for work later in the day and the shift is subsequently cancelled, the employee shall receive two (2) hours pay at his/her regular straight time rate.
30
ARTICLE 11 - VACATIONS
11.01	Wherever the term "vacation year" is used in this Agreement it shall mean the year from one July 1st to the following June 30th.
11.02	The employee shall be entitled to an annual vacation in accordance with the following schedule on the basis of his service (ie. seniority) at June 30th in each year.
-	Less than one (1) year of service (seniority) - four percent (4%) - one (1) day vacation, to a maximum of nine (9) days, for each month of service in excess of three (3) months;
-	One (1) year of service (seniority) but less than five (5) years as at June 30th - two (2) weeks;
o 3
o d
Five (5) years of more of service (seniority) as at June 30th - three (3) weeks;

O l 'l
o 5
Twelve (12) years or more of service (seniority) as at June 30th - four (4) weeks;
Twenty (20) or more years of service (seniority) as at June 30th - five (5) weeks.
11.03	Pay for the vacation to which the employee is entitled hereunder will be two percent (2%)of wages earned' in the vacation year for each week of vacation entitlement. "Wages earned" as used in this Article 11.03 shall include vacation pay received by the employee during the vacation year.
ARTICLE 12 - DESIGNATED HOLIDAYS
12.01	Employees shall be paid, as provided hereinafter, for New Year's Day, Good Friday, Victoria Day, Canada Pay, Civic Holiday, Labour Day, Thanksgiving Day, Christmas Day, Christmas Eve, and Boxing Day, providing they meet all of the following eligibility rules unless otherwise provided herein:
31
a)	The employee has seniority as of the date of the holiday; and
b)	The employee must have worked the last full scheduled work day prior to and the first full scheduled work day after the holiday.
The Company may, in its discretion, excuse an employee who provides a reason satisfactory to the Company for his failing to comply with the provisions of this Article 12.01 (b).
c)	An employee on approved leave of absence or lay-off who would otherwise qualify for holiday pay hereunder, shall receive holiday pay only if he has worked at least one (1) scheduled work day in the five (5) calendar days immediately preceding the holiday and one (1) scheduled work day in the five (5) calendar days immediately following the holiday.
12.02	There shall be four (4) additional designated paid holidays, making a total of fourteen (14) to be taken at a time designated by the Company after discussion with the Union. It is understood that the additional holidays will be used first in conjunction with the Christmas Shutdown period December 24th to January 1st. The eligibility rules set out in Article 12.01 hereof shall also apply to the eleventh, twelfth, thirteenth, and fourteenth designated paid holidays. A schedule of holidays is contained in Appendix (b).
12.03	An employee who qualifies under the provisions set forth in Article
12.01	hereof shall receive pay for his normal number of daily hours not exceeding eight (8) for each of the holidays specified in Articles 12.01 and 12.02 hereof, computed at his straight time base hourly rate of pay exclusive of any premiums.
12.04	When a holiday falls during a seniority employee’s vacation such
holiday shall be observed on the first Monday following completion of the employee’s vacation.	_
12.05	Employees who agree to work on a holiday and then fail to report for and perform such work, without a reason acceptable to the Company, shall not receive holiday pay under this Section.
32
ARTICLE 13 - SAFETY AND HEALTH
13.01	The Ontario Health and Safety Act as it pertains to the activities of the Company shall be considered as a minimum standard for conditions in the plant.
13.02	An employee who is injured during working hours while properly performing his duties of employment and who is sent home from work by the Company or by a physician, shall be paid for the time lost on the day he was injured at his regular straight time rate of pay for the unexpired portion of his scheduled work day.
13.03	No employee shall be assigned to a job that has previously been refused by another employee on health and safety grounds until he/she has been thoroughly informed of the reasons.
13.04	For active seniority employees who are eligible, and "eligible" shall mean:
i)	single employees;
ii)	employees who are married or have dependents and whose spouse is not receiving similar benefits at his or her place of employment, the following shall apply:
The Company agrees to obtain insurance to provide the vA following benefits:
a)
A non-compensable Sickness and Accident Weekly Indemnity Plan to provide a benefit of sixty-six and two-thirds percent (66 2/3 %) of the employee's basic wage for a fifteen (15) week period commencing upon the first day of accident or hospitalization due to illness or the fifth working day of sickness to a maximum amount in accordance with the Unemployment Insurance Commission maximum period.
All employees who have completed more than four (4) years of continuous service with the Company will be provided with the aforementioned benefits for up to twenty-six (26) weeks commencing upon the first day of accident or hospitalization due to illness or the fifth working day of sickness to a maximum amount in accordance with the Unemployment Insurance
33
Commission maximum. Effective January 1, 1995, the aforesaid 4 years eligibility will be reduced to three (3) years. The Company shall be entitled to retain one hundred percent (100%)of U.I.C. premium savings.
Life Insurance and A.D.&D. - Term Insurance
-	Effective July 1, 1995 - $25,000.
-	Effective January 1, 1997 - $26,000.
-	Effective January 1, 1998 - $27,000.
Major Medical Plan with deductible $25.00 - no co-insurance.
Dental Plan - the Company will provide a dental care plan. Details of the Plan are covered in the Group Insurance booklet.	/a *-
The Company will provide a pay direct Prescription Drug Plan with a $2.00	- J
1/ "f7
per prescription fee.
/o a
13.05	a) For seniority employees the Company agrees to pay ninety-five dollars ($95.00) toward the cost of one (1) pair of safety boots per calendar year.
b) The Company will subsidize protective workwear, in the form of coveralls or shop coats, for eligible employees. Eligible employees will be those who normally perform the jobs of general maintenance, tooling maintenance and project maintenance, lab, process, tool and machine technicians, compounding, quality and quality inspection.
The amount of the subsidy will be the cost of one garment per calendar year up to a maximum of $50.00. Reimbursement for the cost of the garment will be subject to the employee furnishing the Company with proof of purchase.
13.06	(a) The Company will pay the cost of A.O.C.O. prescription safety glasses at intervals of not less than twenty-four (24) months. The cost will be for lenses and frames only which comply to C.S.A. Industrial Standards, purchased through the Company from A.O.C.O.
34
(b) Family Eye Care
The Company will provide a Family Eye Care Plan providing a benefit of $200 once during a two year period. This includes prescription eye wear and prescription contact lenses. Effective January 1, 1997, this benefit increases to $250 once during a two year period.
'IifK’
/#&
(c) RRSP/DPSP Savings Plan
Effective January 1, 1996, the Company agrees to establish a group Registered Retirement Savings Plan (RRSP) to which employees may contribute through payroll deduction. The Company will match employee contributions at a rate of 25 percent of employee contributions to a maximum employee contribution rate of 4 percent of base wage. The Company contribution will be paid into a Deferred Profit Sharing Plan (DPSP). The Company reserves the right to modify the plan or to merge the plan with any other plan when and if these options become available.
13.07	Such benefits and plans are necessarily qualified in their entirety by reference to the underlying policies or contracts of insurance. The terms of any contract issued in respect hereof by an insurance agency or governmental agency shall be controlling in all matters pertaining to qualifications of employees for benefits thereunder and in all matters pertaining to the existence and extent of benefits and conditions.
iA
13.08	No grievance may be processed in support of a claim or dispute with respect to the aforesaid plans, and the decision of the insurer or governmental agency involved will be final and binding upon the parties hereto and upon any employee affected thereby. Nothing contained herein shall prevent the employee or the Union from taking the matter up with the insurance company or governmental agency involved.
13.09	The Company agrees to' pay employees up to two (2) hours at their straight time earnings rate for time taken to attend a medical examination required by the Company. This provision shall apply to seniority employees only. -
13.10	The Company will ensure that any employee required to work alone in the plant or large area of the plant shall be protected by a patrol or check by supervisory or security personnel on at least an hourly basis.
35
13.11	In the event of a lay-off or plant closure, other than as a result of a strike or lockout, the Company shall provide coverage under the benefit programs outlined in this Article 13 for a period of ninety days (90) days following the layoff or plant closure. The foregoing provisions shall apply to all employees with three (3) or more years of seniority at the date of the lay-off or plant closure.
ARTICLE 14 - GENERAL
14.01	The parties acknowledge that during the negotiations which resulted in this Agreement, each had the unlimited right and opportunity to make demands and proposals with respect to any subject or matter not removed by law from the area of collective bargaining, and that the understandings and agreements arrived at by the parties after the exercise of that right and opportunity are set forth in this Agreement. Therefore, the Company and the Union, for the life of this Agreement, each voluntarily and unqualifiedly waives the right, and each agrees that the other shall not be obligated to bargain collectively with respect to any subject or matter even though such subject or matter may not have been within the knowledge or contemplation of either or both of the parties at the time that they negotiated or signed this Agreement.
14.02	BULLETIN BOARDS
The Company will provide a bulletin board for the convenience of the Union in posting notices of Union activity and Union educational material. All such notices must be signed by the proper officer of the Union and submitted to the Manager or his authorized representative for approval before being posted. With the exception of notices limited strictly to time, place and speaker, there shall be no posting of political matter. Furthermore, there shall be no posting of matter adverse to the Company or its management.
14.03	If any provision of this Agreement is in conflict with any existing or future provincial or federal law, such provision shall become inoperative, but the validity of the remainder of this agreement shall not thereby be impaired and shall remain in full force and effect.
36
NO DISCRIMINATION
14.04
The Company and the Union agree that they will not discriminate against, ^ restrain or influence any employee solely because of race, religious affiliation or 1/ national origin.	^
14.05	The Company agrees to maintain the standards of safety, health, sanitation and work conditions in the Plant required by law.
14.06	When the Company makes rules and regulations governing the operation of the Plant and posts same on the bulletin boards, violation of any of such rules and regulations by an employee will result in disciplinary action up to and including discharge. The Company will give the Union notice of any major changes in the rules and regulations.
14.07	SAFETY COMMITTEE

The Company and the Union agree to establish a Safety Committee comprised of eight (8) people, four (4) from the Company and four (4) from the Union. It shall be the duty of this Committee to meet once a month or oftener if necessary to discuss the safety of the plant. Attendance at the monthly meetings will be limited to three (3) representatives from each party on a rotating basis. The Union may appoint two (2) of its representatives as regular attendees with the remainder rotating and the Company may appoint members in a similar manner. Meetings of the Safety Committee will be chaired on alternate months by the
Safety Coordinator and the Union Safety Chairperson. The-Safety Committee will also make a salety inspection tour.of the plant each month.
14.08 PENSION PLAN
a)
6o1 <
The Pension Plan entitled "Textron Automotive Interiors, Hourly-Rated Employees’ Pension Plan, Port Hope, Ontario", shall remain in effect throughout the life of this Agreement.
The Company will provide for credited service prior to July 1, 1995, to have pension benefits of twenty dollars ($20.00) per month/per year service.
Effective January 1, 1997, the pension benefit will increase to twenty dollars and fifty cents ($20.50) per month/per year service.
37
continued educational development programs which will enhance employees’ development personally and professionally.
Successful incumbents will meet the skill requirements established for skilled trades as set forth under the Ministry of Skills Development and Textron Automotive Interiors.
Upon successful completion of the training program if a position is not available, the employee will return to the last ‘position held in line with his
The parties to this Agreement recognize that employee involvement at all levels of the organization is critical to the long term welfare of the Company. While employee involvement will be encouraged it shall in no way affect the Collective Agreement and/or grievance procedure contained herein.
14.11	The company agrees that the Pension Plan, the Health Insurance
Program and the letters of understanding referenced in this agreement shall form part of this Agreement.	"
14.12	Skilled Trades employees will be paid one hundred seventy five ($175) dollars for tool allowance. Payment to be made on February 01 (1st) of each year.
38
Skilled Trades shall mean:
1)	Maintenance Mechanic
2)	Maintenance Fitter & Welder
3)	Industrial Instrument Electricians
4)	Apprentices /-------<2 5 U	J
5)	Machinists	7 v
6)	Millwrights
7)	Gas Fitters
8)	Tooling Mechanics
9)	Modular Tooling Specialists
ARTICLE 15 - WAGES
15.01	The wages set forth in Schedule "A" hereto shall represent the minimum rates to be in effect during the life of this Agreement.
15.02	The parties agree that the document entitled "Wage Payment - Basic Policy” will serve as a basis of administration of the Incentive Program.
15.03	In the event a grievance arises out of a new or changed incentive standard, it shall be subject to the following grievance procedures:
1)	When Management establishes a new standard or changes an existing standard on the job, the Union, if it does not agree with such standard after a period of not less than thirty (30) days nor more than forty-five (45) days after such new standard or change is put into effect, may, within the foregoing period file written grievance. A meeting will be held between the Company and the Union within five (5) days of receipt of such written grievance. The Company will give its written decision within three (3) days of such meeting.
2)	If the Company's decision is not satisfactory to the Union, the Union shall, within five (5) days of receipt of the Company's decision, but not thereafter, file a request in writing that a joint study be made by a representative selected by the Company and an Industrial Engineer representative of the Union. The representative of the Company and the Union will jointly study
39
+
the job and agree to a resolution of the grievance in writing. Each party shall bear the cost and expenses of the representative which it appoints.
15.04
SENIORITY BONUS
£ j
Employees shall be paid an additional five cents (.05) per hour for each five years of seniority.
ARTICLE 16 - DURATION
16.01	This Agreement shall become effective on the 1st day of July, 1995, and shall remain in full force and effect until the 31st day of December, 1998.
16.02	Notice that amendments are required shall only be given during the period of not more than ninety (90) days and not less than thirty (30) days prior to the 31st day of December, 1998.
DATED AT PORT HOPE, ONTARIO THIS 21st DAY OF SEPTEMBER, 1995.
TEXTRON AUTOMOTIVE INTERIORS
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA AND ITS LOCAL 889
40
PAY RATES AND LABOUR GRADES
EFFECTIVE JULY 1, 1995
LABOUR
GRADE
Step 1
(Hire)
11
12
15
17
19
20 21 99
Skilled Trades: 15 17
19
20 21
12.58
12.90
13.84
14.47 15.15
15.47 15.82
14.86
15.49
17.95
18.53
19.39
Step 2 (90 Days)
13.08
13.43
14.43 15.16 15.83 16.18 16.51
13.63
15.45
16.18
18.64 19.24
20.08
Step 3 (180 Days)
13.60
13.97
15.06
15.82
16.51
16.90
17.28
13.80
16.08
16.84 19.32 19.96
20.85
Step 4
(270 Days)
14.11
14.55
15.66
16.44
17.22
17.66 18.02 14.00
16.68
17.46
20.02
20.72
21.59
Step 5
(Merit)
14.81
15.25
16.51
17.22
18.09
18.53
18.92
17.53
18.24
20.90
21.59
22.49
45-
to
PAY RATES AND LABOUR GRADES
EFFECTIVE JANUARY 1, 1997
LABOUR
GRADE
11
12
15
17
19
20 21 99
Step 1
(Hire)
12.89 13.23 14.19 , 14.84 15.53 15.86 16.22
Skilled Trades:
15	15.23
17	15.88
19	18.40
20	19.00
21	19.87
Step 2 (90 Days)
13.40
13.77
14.79
15.54
16.23
16.58 16.93 13.97
15.84
16.58 19.10 19.72
20.59
Step 3 (180 Days)
13.94
14.32 15.43 16.22 16.93
17.32 17.71 14.15
16.48
17.26
19.80
20.46
21.37
Step 4
(270 Days)
14.46 14.91 16.05 16.85 17.65 18.10
18.47 14.35
17.09
17.90
20.52
21.23
22.13
Step 5
(Merit)
15.18
15.63
16.93
17.65
18.55
19.00
19.39
17.97
18.69
21.42
22.13
23.05
PAY RATES AND LABOUR GRADES
EFFECTIVE JANUARY 1, 1998
W
LABOUR
GRADE
Step 1
(Hire)
Step 2 (90 Days)
11
12
15
17
19
20 21 99
Skilled Trades:
13.15 13.49 14.47 15.13 15.84 16.18 16 54
13.67
14.04
15.09
15.85
16.55
16.91
17.27
14.25
15	15.54	16.16
17	16.20	16.91
19	18.77	19.48
20	19.38	20.11
21	20.27	21.00
Step 3 (180 Days)
14.22
14.61 15.74 16.54 17.27 17.67 18.06 14.43
16.81
17.61 20.20 20.87 21.80
Step 4
(270 Days)
14.75
15.21
16.37
17.19
18.00
18.46
18.84
14.64
17.44
18.26
20.93
21.66
22.58
Step 5
(Merit)
15.48
15.94
17.27
18.00
18.92
19.38
19.78
18.33
19.07
21.85
22.58
23.51
SCHEDULE OF STATUTORY AND DESIGNATED HOLIDAYS
New Year’s Day Good Friday Victoria Day Canada Day Civic Holiday 42, Labour Day
Thanksgiving Day Designated Holiday Christmas Eve Christmas Day Boxing Day Designated Holiday Designated Holiday Designated Holiday
1996
January 1 - Monday April 5 - Friday May 20 - Monday July 1 - Monday August 5 - Monday September 2 - Monday October 14 ? Monday December 23 - Monday December 24 - Tuesday December 25 - Wednesday December 26 - Thursday December 27 - Friday December 30 - Monday December 31 - Tuesday
1997
January 1 - Wednesday March 28 - Friday May 19 - Monday June 30 - Monday August 4 - Monday September 1 - Monday October 13 - Monday November 28 - Friday December 24 - Wednesday December 25 - Thursday December 26 - Friday December 29 - Monday December 30 - Tuesday December 31 - Wednesday
1998
January 1 - Thursday April 10 - Friday May 18 - Monday July 3 - Friday August 3 - Monday September 7 - Monday October 12 - Monday November 27 - Friday December 24 - Thursday December 25 - Friday December 28 - Monday December 29 - Tuesday December 30 - Wednesday December 31 - Thursday
TEXTRON
Automotive Interiors
Division of
Textron Canada Limited
128 Peter Street, P.O. Box 300 Port Hope, Ontario L1A 3W4 Phone: (905) 885-7231 Fax:	(905) 885-2658
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #1
United Steelworkers of America AFL-CIO-CLC, Local 889
Attention: Bargaining Committee
Dear Sirs and Mesdames:
Re: Grievance Meetings
The Company and the Union agree that from time to time, meetings between the parties, for reasons of resolution of a grievance, may extend beyond the normal working hours of the persons involved. The Company will, in attempting to schedule such
meetings, endeavour to hold them at times most convenient to the employees involved and to minimize the amount of time spent outside of regular working hours. However, in cases where a meeting extends beyond the normal working hours of the participants or is held at a time other than one which falls within the employees’ regular shift, no compensation will be made to the employee for such time.
Yours very truly,
TEXTRON AUTOMOTIVE INTERIORS
Human Resources Manager
TEXTRON
Automotive Interiors
Division of
Textron Canada Limited
128 Peter Street, P.O. Box 300 Port Hope, Ontario L1A 3W4 Phone: (905) 885-7231 Fax:	(905)885-2658
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #2
United Steelworkers of America AFL-CIO-CLC, Local 889
Attention: Bargaining Committee
Dear Sirs and Mesdames:
Re: Shift Changes
The Company and the Union agree that seniority employees who wish to change shift other than as a result of bidding pursuant to Article 8,08 shall place their name on the Shift Transfer Request List, indicating what shift they wish to transfer to. When a vacancy occurs in the same classification on the desired shift, the transfers will be affected on the basis of employee’s seniority. If no such vacancy exists, but a vacancy exists in the General Factory classification on the desired shift, the most senior employee will be assigned to the job provided he has so indicated on the Shift Transfer Request List. This procedure shall take place prior to the posting of vacancies, and is subject to the provisions of Article 8.08.
Employees who exercise their right to transfer onto an alternate shift through the General Factory classification forfeit the right to bid under the provisions of Article 8.08 Fcr a period of six (6) months from the date of transfer.
Yours very truly,
TEXTRON AUTOMOTIVE INTERIORS
Dianne Huffman
Human Resources Manager
TEXTRON
Automotive Interiors
Division of
Textron Canada Limited
128 Peter Street, P.O. Box 300 Port Hope, Ontario L1A 3W4 Phone: (905) 885-7231 Fax:	(905) 885-2658
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #3
United Steelworkers of America AFL-CIO-CLC, Local 889
Attention: Bargaining Committee
Dear Sirs and Mesdames:
Re: Disciplinary Notations
The Company agrees that when occasion arises to issue a disciplinary letter of notation to an employee, the following guidelines will apply:
1.	The notation will be issued not more than three (3) working days following the infraction to which it refers.
2.	The notation will be issued to the employee(s) concerned with copies to the Union Steward for the appropriate area and to the employee’s personnel file.
3.	Should a period of twelve (12) months lapse between the issuance of a notation and the issuance of any subsequent related notation, the original notation will not be used in a disciplinary manner against the employee.
Yours very truly,
TEXTRON AUTOMOTIVE INTERIORS
Dianne Huffman	“
Human Resources Manager
TEXTRON
Automotive Interiors
Division of
Textron Canada Limited
128 Peter Street, P.O. Box 300 Port Hope, Ontario L1A 3W4 Phone: (905)885-7231 Fax:	(905) 885-2658
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING U
United Steelworkers of America AFL-CIO-CLC, Local 889
Attention: Bargaining Committee
Dear Sirs and Mesdames:
Re: Wages and Inflation (as agreed between parties)
Should the inflation rate exceed the total wage increases granted during the first 2 years of this agreement.
The Company agrees to meet with the Union and this meeting will be for the purpose of adjusting the 3rd year wage rates. This adjustment will provide for an increase which corresponds to the differences between wage increases granted in the first 2 years of this agreement and the percent of increase in the inflation rate for the same period, as published by Statistics Canada in its Consumer Price Index.
Yours very truly,
TEXTRON AUTOMOTIVE INTERIORS
Automotive Interiors
Division of
Textron Canada Limited
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #5
United Steeworkers of America AFL-CIO-CLC, Local 889
Attention: Bargaining Committee
Dear Sirs and Mesdames:
Re: Bidding on postings vacated as a result of personal leaves of absence
In cases where an employee is granted a personal leave of absence, the job that he or she occupies at the time leave is granted shall be exempted for thirty (30) days from the job posting procedure in Article 8.08 of the Collective Agreement. Should the leave continue beyond the thirty (30) day period, then the position will be filled through the normal procedure of job posting.
Yours very truly,
TEXTRON AUTOMOTIVE INTERIORS
Dianne Huffman
Human Resources Manager
TEXTRON
Automotive Interiors
Division of
Textron Canada Limited
128 Peter Street, P.O. Box 300 Port Hope, Ontario L1A 3W4 Phone: (905) 885-7231 Fax:	(905) 885-2658
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #6
United Steelworkers of America
AFL-CIO-CLC, Local 889
Attention: Bargaining Committee
Dear Sirs and Mesdames:
Re: Items agreed upon by the Company in the 1981 negotiations
In the course of the 1981 negotiations, the Company has agreed to the following:
1.	The Company will change the pay day from Friday to Thursday of each week but reserves the right to return to a Friday pay day in the event that a significant increase in absenteeism on Fridays becomes apparent.
2.	The Company will implement a system to provide for collection of Union dues from those employees who would normally pay dues but are exempted in the regular deduction period due to lack of earnings in the period.
3.	The Company will provide for publication of highlight job descriptions to accompany job posting under Article 8,08 of this Agreement.
Letter of Understanding #6 Page 2
4.	The Company will provide for pay cheques to be in envelopes. This will become effective following automation of payroll preparation (approximately August 1982).
5.	The Company will notify the Union of any job classification changes prior to implementing any such changes.
Yours very truly,
TEXTRON AUTOMOTIVE INTERIORS
Dianne Huffman Human Resources Manager
TEXTRON
Automotive Interiors
Division of
Textron Canada Limited
128 Peter Street, P.O. Box 300 Port Hope, Ontario L1A 3W4 Phone: (905) 885-7231 Fax:	(905)885-2658
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #7
United Steelworkers of America AFL-CIO-CLC, Local 889
Attention: Bargaining Committee
Dear Sirs and Mesdames:
Re: Absentee Pool Employees
The Company may from time to time utilize an Absentee Pool of temporary parttime personnel for work on a call in basis.
The pool will have a maximum number of participants equal to 7 percent of the full-time workforce. Participants will consist of:
1.	Regular full-time employees on lay-off;
2.	Part-time employees as defined in Article 1.01
A form will be issued to full-time employees with their lay-off notice to be completed if the employee is interested in being part of the pool. Selection to the pool will be based on seniority.
Employees who place their names on the call in list will be expected to report for work when requested.
Yours very truly,
TEXTRON AUTOMOTIVE INTERIORS
Dianne Huffman
Human Resources Manager
TEXTRON
Automotive Interiors
Division of
Textron Canada Limited
128 Peter Street, P.O, Box 300 Port Hope, Ontario L1A 3W4 Phone: (905) 885-7231 Fax:	(905)885-2658
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #8
United Steelworkers of America AFL-CIO-CLC, Local 889
Attention: Bargaining Committee
Dear Sirs and Mesdames:
Re: Subcontracting
The Company will not employ outside contractors when, in its judgement, existing Facilities employees are available and capable of performing the work.
Yours very truly,
TEXTRON AUTOMOTIVE INTERIORS
Dianne Huffman
Human Resources Manager
TEXTRON
Automotive Interiors
Division of
Textron Canada Limited
128 Peter Street, P.O. Box 300 Port Hope, Ontario L1A 3W4 Phone: (905) 885-7231 Fax:	(905)885-2658
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #9
United Steelworkers of America AFL-CIO-CLC, Local 889
Attention: Bargaining Committee
Dear Sirs and Mesdames:
Re: Transfer Policy
The Company and the Union agree that seniority employees who wish to change lines shall place their name on the Line Transfer Request List, indicating what line they wish to transfer to. When a vacancy occurs on the desired line, the transfers will be effected on the basis of seniority. To be eligible, employees must be actively working when a line transfer becomes available. Employee's work performance and absentee records will be taken into consideration when selections are made.
Employees may turn down two offers to transfer before their name comes off the transfer list and are not eligible to request another transfer for six months. Employees who accept a line transfer may not make another line transfer request for six months.
Yours very truly,
TEXTRON AUTOMOTIVE INTERIORS
Dianne Huffman
Human Resources Manager
TEXTRON
Automotive Interiors
Division of	128 Peter Street’ Pa Box 300
Textron Canada Limited	Port HoPe- Ontario L1A 3W4
Phone: (905) 885-7231
Fax:	(905)885-2658
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #10
United Steelworkers of America AFL-CIO-CLC, Local 889
Attention: Bargaining Committee
Dear Sirs and Mesdames:
Re: Plant Closure
In the event of a full plant closure during the life of this agreement, the Company and the union will meet to discuss the impact of the company’s decision.
Yours very truly,
TEXTRON AUTOMOTIVE INTERIORS
Dianne Huffman
Human Resources Manager
TEXTRON
Automotive Interiors
Division of
Textron Canada Limited
128 Peter Street, P.O. Box 300 Port Hope, Ontario L1A 3W4 Phone: (905)885-7231 Fax:	(905)885-2658
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING #11
United Steelworkers of America AFL-CIO-CLC, Local 889
Attention: Bargaining Committee
Dear Sirs and Mesdames:
Re: Union Leave of Absence
The company agrees to provide to the union president eight (8) hours per week and the union treasurer thirty-two (32) hours per month of unpaid union time for the purpose of conducting legitimate union business. During the allowed time, the company will provide benefits including pension.
Yours very truly,
TEXTRON AUTOMOTIVE INTERIORS
Human Resources Manager
Contract Language Amendments Cover sheet referencing company name change.
Article 1.02 company name change.
Article 3.01 e) deleting last sentence of final paragraph.
Article 6.03 changing wording to supervisor, deleting recording of time, and adding reporting to a supervisor.
Article 6.04 changing wording to supervisor.
Article 6.05 add language “unless at the request of the Company".
Article 7.05 Steps No. 1 and Step No. 2 changing wording to "Shift Coordinator" and five days.
Article 7.09 changing wording to "Shift Coordinator”.
Article 7.12 adding unjust discharge clause to first paragraph, last sentence.
Article 8.03 changing unit definitions.
Article 8.05 deleting classification and adding bargaining unit.
Article 8.06 deleting previous section c) and substituting ability to perform clause. Article 8.07 changing numbering from alpha to numerical.
Article 8.07 i) deleting labour grade reference and adding clause on job classification. Article 8.07 iv) new language on labour grade 99 replacing section 8.07 d).
Paragraph after old article 8.07 e) deleted.
Article 8.07 c) deleted one hundred and sixty (160) and changed to eighty (80) and deleted two (2) and changed to eight (8). Paragraph on students and part time temporary deleted, added Absentee Pool for up to eighty hours, and deleted "as provided above".
Added new paragraph after Article 8.07 c) referencing full time employees displacing Absentee Pool employees after temporary layoff.
Article 8.08 deleting referenceto incentive rating.
Article 8.08 paragraph seven deleted referencing incentive ratedjobs.
Article 8.09 d) and e) changed to reference Human Resources Manager.
Article 8.11 deleted in its entirety.
Article 9.03 changed from (4) four to seven (7) employees, ten (10) to fifteen (15) working days, deleted forty (40) and added one hundred and five (105) working days, and deleted twelve (12) and added fifteen (15) working days.
Article 9.04 a) changed to reference Human Resources.
Article 9.06 paragraph 1, deleted section on period of six (6) weeks and added “providing such job exists”.
Article 9,06 paragraph^ deleted.
Article 9.06 paragraph^ deleted.
Article 9.07 changed to two (2) years.
Article 9.09 b) changed to reference Human Resources Manager.
Article 9.10 a) added new paragraph 9.10 d).
Article 10.02 d) changing Dominion Day to Canada Day.
Article 10.03 last paragraph changed to reference Human Resources.
Article 13.04 c) added word ’’Medical”.
Article 14.07 first paragraph changed to Safety Coordinator Article 14.08 a) to change company name.
Article 14.09 added third and fourth paragraphs added in reference to training programs.
Article 14.12 changing Skilled Trades job classifications.
Letter of Understanding #7 on Absentee Pool Employees adding section on number and definition of participants, deleting paragraph on canvassing full time employees on lay off, and deleting "Regular” in last paragraph.
New Letter of Understanding re ’’Subcontracting”.
New Letter of Understanding on “Transfer Policy”.
		Pay Rates and Labour Grades			
		Effective Julv 1.1995			
					
Labour	Step 1	Step 2	Step 3	Step 4	Step 5
Grade	(Hire)	(90 Days)	(180 Days)	(270 Days)	(Merit)
11	12.58	13.08	13.60	14.11	14.81
12	12.90	13.43	13.97	14.55	15.25
15	13.84	14.43	15.06	15.66	16.51
17	14.47	15.16	15.82	16.44	17.22
19	15.15	15.83	16.51	17.22	18.09
20	15.47	16.18	16.90	17.66	18.53
21	15.82	16.51	17.28	18.02	18.92
99	13.44	13.63	13.80	14.00	
					
Skilled					
Trade					
15	14.86	15.45	16.08	16.68	17.53
17	15.49	16.18	16.84	17.46	18.24
19	17.95	18.64	19.32	20.02	20.90
20	18.53	19.24	19.96	20.72	21.59
21	19.39	20.08	20.85	21.59	22.49
					
		Effective January 1,1997			
					
Labour	Step 1	Step 2	Step 3	Step 4	Step 5
Grade	(Hire)	(90 Days)	(180 Days)	(270 Days)	(Merit)
11	12.89	13.40	13.94	14.46	15.18
12	13.23	13.77	14.32	14.91	15.63
15	14.19	14.79	15.43	16.05	16.93
17	14.84	15.54	16.22	16.85	17.65
19	15.53	16.23	16.93	17.65	18.55
20	15.86	16.58	17.32	18.10	19.001
21	16.22	16.93	17.71	18.47	19.39
99	13.78	13.97	14.15	14.35	
					
Skilled					
Trade					
15	15.23	15.84	16.48	17.09	17,97
17	15.88	16.58	17.26	17.90	18.69
19	18.40	19.10	19.80	20.52	21.42
20	19.00	19.72 20.46 21.23 22.131			
21	19.87	20.59	21.37	22.13	23.05I
		Pay Rates and Labour Grades			
		Effective January 1,1998			
					
Labour	Stepl	Step 2	Step 3	Step 4	Step 5
Grade	(Hire)	(90 Days)	(180 Days)	(270 Days)	(Merit)
11	13.15	13.67	14.22	14.75	15.48
12	13.49	14.04	14.61	15.21	15.94
15	14.47	15.09	15.74	16.37	17.27
17	15.13	15.85	16.54	17.19	18.00
19	15.84	16.55	17.27	18.00	18.92
20	16.18	16.91	17.67	18.46	19.38
21	16.54	17.27	18.06	18.84	B.78
99	14.06	14.25	14.43	14.64	
					
Skilled					
Trade					
15	15.54	16.16	16.81	17.44	18.33
17	16.20	16.91	17.61	18.26	19.07
19	B.77	19.48	20.20	20.93	21.85
20	19.38	20.11	20.87	21.66	22.58
21	20.27	21.00	21.80	22.58	23.51
6/
a