SOU tff.	vCE i.				
		M		e(<	{?/
, TSRO				M.	3L
'"No;:	Of		'			
SMPt	cmts		/ -		
NOW O'iM	3KE piov(s		M		■• _ ■
GOLLEGTIV&'AGfjEEMENT BETWEElji PENMANS INC.
AND
AMALGAMATSEClCfTHING AND TEXTi LE ‘ WOR KERBS; UNION, APL-ClD-ClCr AND tJOCAL 1967
'In'Ri oLw\
00908 (04)
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
PENMANSINC.
AND
AMALGAMATED CipTHING TEXTILE WORKERS UNI AND LOCAll
AND
(ON, AFUCIO-CLC, 1967
INDEX
ARTICLE	PAGE
Purpose	2
It Recognition	3
III Union Security	3
IV Discrimination and Union (Activity	4
V Management Rights	S
VI No Strikes or Lockouts	6
VII Union Representation	7
VIII Grievance Procedure	a
IX Seniority	13
X General Provisions Respecting Lay-offs	IS
XI Recall	1S
XII Provisions Respecting Fling	in
Permanent and Tempoiarv Vacancies	
XIII DTs'clpllne	22
XIV Leave of Absence	23
XV Wages	25
XVI Co-Operation and Effectlvl Utilization	26
of Manpower, Etc. • incentive Standards	
XVII Hours of Work and Overtilns	31
XVIII Designated Holidays	33
XIX Vacation With Pay	35
XX Bulletin Boards and Noticls	36
XXI Safely, Health and Wellarl	
XXII Termination	(38
XXIII Letters of Understanding	Sr
Rate Schedules Appendices
Letters of Understanding
THIS AGREEMEN IhN IftHfcU n I U AS up THE 1ST DAY OF JUNEJ1891
BETWEEN
PENMANS INC.
Hereinafter referred to «a- the "Company"
AND
AMALGAMATED CLOTHNG AND TEXTILE WORKERS UNION AFL-plO-CLC AND LOCAL 1967
hereinafter referred to as the "Union".
ARTICLE I - PURPOSE
1 .fit The general purpose of. this Agreement shall be to provide for orderly collective bargaining relations between the Company, Its employees end the Union, It is the desire of the parties to co-operate In maintaining a proper relationship between the Company. Ifeemployees andthe Union, and to settle differences or grievances which may arise from time to time hereunber In the manner hereinafter set out The Union recognizes that In order to provide a proper relationship between trie parties the Company must be kept In a strong, competitive market position, which means I mist manufacture its products to be oonpetllve, cost-wise, quality-wise end service wise, and the Union agrees to support the Comparer ■«	surer «hnreiups
ARTICLE II - RECOGNITION 2.01 The Company recognizes the exclusive Bargaining Agenl lor . Company In Cambridge, Ontarlfr, Supervlaors. persona above (hi 15/
i II
Engineer, Offce and Seles Stall, Lai Technicians, Industrial Engineers, personnel. Quality Control persom students employed during the schoc Entry personnel, Berrslbl die maker, Oyenouse Control Room Operstori Machine Fixers. The Company will positions ot Instructors and Pattern k apply win be considered In the C applicant employees. However, the restricted thereto. Employees succi Job will be subject to bumping only t r previously satisfactorily performed
Jnion as the sole and employees of the save and except If of Supervisor, Chlel oratory and Formation •toduct Development I, Security personnel, vacation period, Data Gerber marker maker, Knitting and Sewing rost vacancies tor the akers. Employees wtic mpany's selection ol Company shall not be npsfuly performing the employees who have ha Job.
2j02 The term ’employee" or "employees" as the case may be, when used In this Agee mem, shall mean only such persons as are Included in the ahq/e-deflned bargaining unit.
2j03 For the purposes ol lacH'ititlng drafting ol this Agreement, the masculine pronounKvIll be used; however, where the context permits, the ten-mine may be inferred.
ARTICLE III - UNION SECURITY
3.01	The Company agrees that present enployses covered by this Agreement except new employees still serving their probationary period, stall, as a condition ol employment, become and remain members of the Union In good standing.
3.02	New employees shall inane application for membership in the Union on forms supplied by the Union at the time cf their hiring, and shi I become and remain members of the Union in good sta ding as soon as theli probationary period has been cotrpleted.
3.03	The Company agrees that suyung In the first month following the employee's entry int i the bargaining unit, (whether or not from another posltlc t within the Company, but outside the bargaining usit), ork llowlng the completion of his probationary period I theempl yes has not previously completed a pmbationaiy Period.« will deduct weekly from
3
Hitt fceiimiy* ui baui suwii ■winutMj Bitipiufw, w •«
dues payable by such empli yee to the Union. Also In the aforanentllxtgU* tl'St month, t ia Company agrees to deduct an Initiation fee (if one was n )t paid during the employee's previous employment with th > Company or its predecessor) in an amount equal to One nonth's union dues.
The Union dues so dei ucted shall be remitted to the South Vttestem Ontario Join Board by the 30th day of the month tor which the money was deducted, and shall be aoocmpanled by an Initiation lee deducted during the same month The Joint Board's receipt therefore shall be considered as a discharge to|the Company for the anxxnts so deducted.
3.04 The Union duest to be 3.03 hereof is to be fixed doll >i all bargaining unit employe! in terms of "X hours earning! shall not be required to n amount of such dues. In ordli delinile instructions as to w for weekly dues, i t is agrees notify the Company in writlns Board Director, of the amoui t by the Company for regula Company shall have the rig writtennotificslion, untill It from the Union signed with
deducted pursuant to Article r amount uniformly levied on s and shall not be expressed ' or the like, and the Company ake any computation of the that the Company may have tat amount is to be deducted that the union shall promptly .Over the signature of its Joint ‘ of the deduction to be made weekly union dues, and. the it to continue to rely on such eives other written notification the same formality.
3.05 The Company will, it the time of making each remittance to the Joint Boar I, specify the employees from
whose pay such dedu ctions by the Union.
3.06 The Union agrees employees trio membersh employees of the Company' Union's constitutional! requl
were made on forms supplied
ihat it will accept present p aid will accept all future no membership, subject to the ements.
3.07 The Union agrees to) harmless against all dainti should any person at any ti Company has acted wrong1' dues deductions.
t olaid and hold the Company is, demands, and expenses (me contend or claim that the llpllf or illegally in making such
ARTICLE IV - mSCRIMHN/jTDN AND UNION ACTIVITY
4.01 There will be no disdlminatlon or coercion by the Company or Union against any employee becauseof race,
creed, national origin, age, sex, u Ion orftce, or handicap (aa defined In the Ontario Humar Rights Ad of ISSt).
4.02	Neither the Union nor any er ployee shall engage In Union activities on the Company s premises except as permitted by this agreement or withpior written permission ol the Company. Such permission ryllt not unreasonably be withheld.
ARTICLE V - MANAGEMENT RIGHTS 5.01 The Union agrees that all nghts and prerogatives which the Company had prior tqthe execution ol this agreement and which are not restected by the provisions of this collective agreement are repined by the Company and reman exclusively and without limitation within (ha rights ol the Company and its Management. Without Umltlrg the generality ol the loregoing, the company's rights- shall include;
(a)	The right: to maintain order, di cipline and eltideney: to consult and confer with the U' making and altering rules and r practices to be observed by Its and discharge any employee' the right ol that employee to
on as necessary, when gulatlons, policies end < Tiptoyees; to discipline just cause, subjed to sLbmit a grievance.
»fc •
(b)	The right: to select, hire and mi tage the working force of employees; to transfer, ass gn, promote, demote, classify, lay-off, recall, auapen I employees: to plan, dired and manage plant ppar lions; to introduce or change machine processes; to make atudlea ol workloads and to institute changes Irf the workloads and job assignments; to sated and retain employees lor positions excluded from the tffirgalning unit and to transfer employees Into the bargaining unit, subject to the provisions ol this collective rnreomenl and the right of employees to submit grievances.
(c)	The right to determine: the location and extent ol Its operations and their commancemenl, expansion, curtailment, or discontinuance; Vie management ol the working forces; the products tope manufactured; the standards of production; the sub ontradlng of work, the schedules of work and of proc idion, the number of shifts; the methods, processes nd means of performing work; Job content and reqi irements; quality and quantity standards: the qualifies ons of employees: the use of Improved methods, mraclllnery and equipment;
processes and place ol m shall be overtime work anc needed by the Company shall operate or work on or production line; II an e hour, on piece work or ai number of hours to be wi time. And generally, the and its business without exclusively the right ol the
inufacture: whether there the number ol employees i any time and how many y job, operation, machine nlployee will be paid by the ii cording to a bonus plan; cpked; starting and quitting to manage the enterprise nterferenca is solely and Company,
a i|
rlglt
(d)	In reference to subcontra ting referred to In Article 6.01(e) above, the Com >any will attempt when practicable and in the bes Interests ol the operation, 10 avoid subcontracting whijh could affect the continuity of the existing workforce.
(e)	The Company agrees that It will not exercise its management rights contrafy to any cl the provisions of this agreement.
5.02	Management and exduc Article 201, will not perform be done by employees in thi except when necessary to Ins i the case of emergency to mat I In the instance of the develc di experimental work. It should Knitting machine fixers and exempt from restrictions reg management personnel, as paragraph. It is the intent ol practical, instruction and Iralnlf by duly assigned bargaining
ed personnel referred to in Irk done or work which can bargaining unit save and :ruct or train employees. In tain the flow of production, sment of new products or be noted that Head fixer, Sewfng machine fixers are irdlng work performed by r ilerred to in the preceding le Company, that wherever g ol employes will be done ■nil personnel.
ARTICLE VI - NO STRIKES IOR LOCKOUTS
6.0! The Union undertakes ana agrees that while this agreement Is In operation, lalther the Union nor any employee shall take part In or tall or encourage arty strike; picketing, sltdown, sJowdowi, or any suspension of or stoppage of or interference w ;h work or production which shall in any way affect the ope allons of the Company, and that there shall not be any sympathy strikes, and the Company agrees that It will not engage in any lockout during the term of this agree nent. The Company agrees that the exercise of '« manag merit's rights will be applied m a fair and non-p‘evocative mannner to all employees.
6.02	Any employeewho participated In anyot th« loregoing conduct shall be subject to discipline uo lo and including discharge.
ARTICLE VII - UNION REPRESKfTATION
7.01 The Union shall designate tlhd the Company will recognize stewards from eaehof Mellowing departments or groupings of departments.
Isl Shitl 2nd Shift 3rd Shift
Maintenance & Services	1	1	1
Knitting	1	1	1
Dyehouse & Dry Finishing Cutting	1 1	1 1	1
Sewing & Inspecting	3	3	
Warehouse 4 Distribution	1	1	
When twenty-five (25) or moreipeope are wcrtdng In the plant on overtime, one of these persons will be a steward or officer providing that person Is qualified and available to perform one ol the operations bjing worked on during that overtime period.
In addition to the loregoing, trie Union shall appoint a negotiating committee composedlof not more than five (5) employees.
No member of the bargaining ifilt may serve on more than two (2) Plant committees corn urrently.
Should the operations of an one department be seriously affected by the dlstrii ution of committee representatives, the Company and le Union will meet to discuss a more equitable represen ttion.
The Company and the Union < gree that in the event that the bargaining unit employgi s exceed a number beyond which a steward would no natty be expected lo represent, both parties will meet an I discuss the addition of an extra steward(s). Such i rguest will not be unreasonably denied.
No one shall be eligible to lerve as department steward or committeemen unless he is an active employee of the Company and has attained i aniorlty.
F a the puposes of this Ag ee the above committee, together with
nent, tha members ol he stewards, shall be deemed to be officials ofthe Union, mdthe parties hereto
agree that the Union officials o leadership and responsibility to see faithfully carried out.
cupy a position of hat this Agreement is
7
The Union will inform lh< identity of all stewards and « m department or shift whidi eadh Company shall not be obliged i j until It has been so informed
Company in writing of the mlttee members and the steward represents and the recognize such personnel
7.02 No Union official shall I this agreement, without red1 permission of his department and such permission will net be jurisdiction and duties of a sti department or group of deparli
Save his work to administer n esting and obtaining the : upervlsor or his designate, unreasonably withheld. The rand shall be limited to the menia he represents.
:e«
703 Any committeeman or si in a grievance, during workiji! permission from his departmen and shall notlly ha department when leaving and returning required under tn« grievance department, must Inform the dpi designate of thd department * for Ms presence. The steward the grievance, so that no ui interference with production
upward required to participate ' ig hours, shall first obtain supervisor or Ms designate supervisor or his designate, his job. Any such steward procedure to enter another ipartment supervisor or hs itch he enters, cf the reason hall expeditiously attend to ir necessary loss of time or ylll result therefrom.
7.04	The Union recognizes ajld agrees that the members of the committee and slews ds have regular duties to pertormln connection with the) employment. The Company will compensate such eommltt amen and stewards for time spenl during their regular s iheduled working hours In handling grievances ol employees pursuant to the grievance procedure (but not t arbitration) at their earned average rale o< pay, provided this privilege Is not abused by the committeemen or stew irda Neither committeemen nor stewards will be compen ated for time spent outside of their regular scheduled wort Ing hours. The Company will compensate each member of i He negotiating committee for the tone ha loses from workw tile engaged In negotiations (inducing ampliation and me nation) tor the renewal of tHs and all subsequent collective agreements.
7.05	In the case cf a recorded complaint or reprimand, the employee has the right to have his Department Steward, or in the absence of the steward, an officer of the Union in attendance.
ARTICLE VIII - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
8.01 The grievance proeu-r.-s within Artlde VIII and
Article XVI are among the most Imdsrtsnt nuttan in the successful Adninistation of this agrc rment. The Company and the Union therefore agree that the grievance procedures set forth In subsectionst 05,8.U,8.\2antSlor
18.08 shall be utilized by the grlever I * the prompt dlsposl-lion, decision and final settlement c a grievance arising in respect of the Interrelation or al iged violation ol thia agreement, and the specifically c isignated grievance procedure shell be strictly followed Wherever the term ‘grievance procedure' is used Imth a agreement. II shall be considered as including the Arbitration Procedure.
8.02	‘Grievance' shall mean a [complaint of claim concerning improper discipline or discharge, or a dispute with reference to the Interpretation qr alleged violation of this agreement.
8.03	All time limits referred to in the abeyance procedures shall be deemed to mean ‘working days" exclusive ol Saturdays, Sundays and holiday shits.
8.04	Failure to submit a written orielrance in accordance with the requiremaits of the applies Me sub-section 8.05, ait, 812, or 16.08 shan be deemed a complete waiver and abandonment of the grievance m t answered by the Company within the time Irrfts ot the espective Article VIII or Article XVI shall be conside red se tied as submitted by the Union. Equally, any Company rasp :nse to the grievance not appealed by the Union within I re time limits ol the respective Artide VIII u Article XVI wl cause the grievance to be abandoned.
8.05	Grievance Procedure
(excluding Incentive Grievances)
VERBAL DISCUSSION
The employee shall first discuss hi> uomplalnt or c>aim drecSy with his immedate supervise and it he wishes, be accompanied by his steward. Alter s ich discussion takes place and the employee's complaint ir claim is not settled a tie immedate supervisor has note van a response, then the employee together with his st ward shall put the conplalnt u dam in writing on a gri vanca form supplied by the Union.
STEP lit
The employee's steward will I submit the written grievance to the employee's departiT'enl manager or his designate. The Company shall be u frier no obligation lo
o
consider or process any grievance unless such grievance has been presented to the C apartment Manager or his designate within ten (10) wort Ing days from the time the circumstances upon which th s grievance Is based were known or could have been km wn by Ihe griever. However. II the Company does consider < r process a grievance which has been presented late, the C mpany shall not be stopped or precluded at any stage ol It- > grievance procedure from taking the position that the grievance la late and not arbitrable. The Department M inager or hie designate will convene a meeting within three (3) working days and shall have present the griever, his steward and the immediate superdsor Involved to hear the|evldence and determine the tacts. After the Department Manager or his designate has reviewed the ease, he wil within three (3) working days submit his written signed response to the employee's steward.
STEP #2
K Ihe Department! Managers or his designate’s response Is not satlslactory to tie employee, the employee's steward shad submit the grievance to the Plant Personnel Manager or his designate wkhln three (3) working days Indicating by Initialling, the resolved areas of this grievance. The Plant Personnel Manager or hie designate wtl convene a meeting within three (3) working days and shall have present the employee, tho employee's steward, the employee's Immediate supervisor or the Department Manager or his designate to enable him to hear first hand the case evidence, and farts. The Plant. Personnel Manager shall submit his written signed response to the employee's steward within three (3) working days.
STEP 13
If the Plant Personnel Manager's or his designate's response Is not satisfactory 11 the Griever endfor steward, a Local Union Committee Men her shall srixrtt the grievance to the Plant Manager within th oe (3) working days Indicating by Initialling the resolved area i ol Ihe grievance, wheretpon the grievance shall be placet on an agenda fer consideration at Ihe next Labour/Mana lament meeting between the Management Committee.. Th Local Union Committee and the Union's Business Agenl Within live (S\ working days alter the grievance was riceived, Ihe Company shall arrange a meeting dale la c scuss the grievance.
The Company shall ha re the right to have any other Company representatives p easnt. as It may eelect. and either party may have the griever, any witnesses or any
representativesof the Union presdtJThe Plant Manager or fils designate shall give his written signed decision on the grievance within sewn f 7ywrKMg days following such meeting, to the Local Union Committee.
STEP 04
If the Company's decision It not satislactoty, the Union may, by whiten notice within II rty (30) calendar days after the dale the Company's deciaio was received, advise the Company of its Intent to proceer to arbitration. In said notice, the than shall propose Its n mlnses to act as sole arbitrator to hear the grievance.
Should the Union's nominees >e unacceptable, the Company shall propose alternate antes. Should these names beunaccsplable to the Unio , than the parlies will continue to try I o arrange for an aco ptahle nominee. If an acceptable sole nominee eannol I e agreed upon or If parties take longer than thirty (30) c ilendar days to agree on an acceptable nominee, then eil er party may request the Ministry of Labour for Ontario to appoint one. The Arbitrator shall hear and defermlr e the mailer of the grievance and shall issue a declslo t which shall be linal and binding upon the parties and t son any employee(s) affected by it.
8 0S The Arbitrator shall not be silborUed to make any decision inconsistent with the provisl mscf this agreement, nor to alter, modify or amend any p ri of this agreement, norto adjudicate any metter not Incl ided in the grievance related to him. The Arbitrator may rubstltute such other penalty for the discharge or discip ine as the Arbitrator deems just and reasonable In alt It > circumstances,
8.07 Each patty hereto shall bear pqually the fees and charges of the Arbitrator.
8.00	The time limits and other requi amenta set out In this Article VIII are mandatory and not m rely directory, and no matter may be submitted to arbitr itlon which has not property been carried through all sp dried previous steps of the grievance procedure within th time limits specified at each step. The provisions) of thi: clausa shalf not be considered to have been waived by1 te parties or either of them unless they expressly provfd a waiver thereof In writing signed by both parties, whereqpon arch waiver shall lake effect.
8.09 A decision or settlement reachbd at any stage d the grievance procedures(Arlicle VIII anfltor Article XVI) and/or
prior lo the arbitration neanng upon all parties hereto, in employee(s), and shall not ben
anall be final and binding luding the complaining b|ed to re-opening by any irrltlng. If the grievance is
party except by agreement In settled pnor lo an arbitration* hearing, the Company representatives and the Ltlcn rr praeentatives who pass on the same as provided herein, stall sign the settlement as endorsed upon the written grlmnce, so that no question or argument may arise as to vyhat the settlement was.
8.10 When an employee's u levance Is settled by the parties or determined ty an art trator an the basis thd the employss entitled te be relmt jrsad for wages lest as a result of action on the part of I e Company In violation of this agreement, such relmbun sment shall be retroactive to the date of presentation of tlw grelvance, to the Company, however in the case of a pay i rievance, It may cover the whole cl the pay period In question. Such reimbursement shall be al the applicable rate(i) the employee would have earned for the hours he world have worked for the Company, if the violation had r pt occurred, but there shall be subtracted therefrom any monies the employee received during such period.
an Union Policy Qrlevanet i A Union policy grlevsnc msy be submitted to the Compr may be. In writing within Ian (10 the circumstances upon which known or could have been kr Arrangements lor a meeting bi Union shell be made within (5) tation of the written grievance, place within the framework o above. The Company or the Un gl\» its written dedsian within meeting If the dedsion Is unsai the grievance may be submit!
(30) calendardays of the dsliij^ and the arbitrabon sect km* fallowed. It is expressly undersl Clause 811 may not be usee grievanoe dreetty dfedngan such employee(s) could thi provisions of Clause 8.05 bypassed, unless the Union rights under the Cdlecthre Agreement
or company Grievances or a Company grievance i^iy cr the Union, as tha case working days from tha lima ha grievance Is based were own by the grieving party, efwean the ‘Company and tha working days of the presen-land the meeting shat take Step No. 3 of Clause 805 i. as the case may be. shat le (3) walking days of such nbfactory to the grieving party,
' to arbitration within thirty iry of such written decision ' this agreement shall be it&od that the provis’ons of this : by the Union to Institute a i mplcyea or employees which iqmsetves Institute and the eof shall not thereby be can show that employee's andtor Law Redefined
hm
cewwj may nava or could be violated. I*1 moss caaaa. ina
Union's policy grievance^) will bad all with In accordance with the Grievance and/or Arbltrati >n Procedures.
NOTE: Law ii defined to include, 3r example:
-	Employment Standards Apt of Ontario
-	Labour Relations Act of Ontario
-	Worked Compensation act ol Ontario
-	Occupational Health andlSatety Act and Its Regulations for Industrial Establishments.
8.12	Discharge Cases
A claim by a sen,only employee that he has been discharged without proper cause ihail be heated as a grievance and shall commence at St p Na 3 of Clajse 8.05 provided a written grievance signer by the employee and his department steward or a Union Committee Member is presented to the Plant Manager or h r designate within lour (4) working days after tne dlachar jo. When a seniority employee is discharged and Is upon the Compeny prem.ses, h.s steward or a Committer Member will be called into me meeting at which he is dlsch irged. If the employee is discharged while off the Compan t premises, a steward or Committee Member will be not lied In writing of the discharge, and In such case, the fou (A) working days time limit stipulated above shall be enlarp d to seven (7) working days from the date of such wrf en notification. The international Representative of the l nlon will be permitted to attend the Step Ala 3 meeting beh een tha Management Committee end the Union Committee held pursuent thereto The discharge of a probationary em iloyee may not be the subject of e grievance, however, the Jnlon may request en explanation of the Company'a dec! ion.
ARTICLE IX - SENIORITY
9.01	Seniority is defned for the purposes of this agreement as the length of service within the largalnlng unit of an employee cf h e Company, computed from the data of hiring or the date of transfer Into the barga ling unit, (as coversd by Clausa 12.13 below) or In the case ol a part lime employee computed from a date t be determined and governed as follows. During the prt aationary period, the part time employee will be credited with hours worked to Include hours paid for under Article) VIII. To determine the number of credited days such empli yea has, calculations wl'l be made on the principle that [each eight (8) hours
13
worked and/or pcud win equal ope \ i)u#y ut utvun umatu* worked days lor the purposes ol Clause 9.02 below.
Whan a part lima empto ee has sixty (SO) ersdllse days hit seniority date will be patculatad by back datin{ sixty (SO) calendar days tram tr i data of completion of the probationary period, then tr m the established data onwards such employee’s ier orlty will be calculated or the same basis as a full time imptoyee.
Seniority sfiatt' apply only the extent provided In this agreement.
Service Is defined for the purposes xif Jhls-igteemeni as the length of sendee while In the employ of the Company from the date of the employee's last hiring.
9.02	An employee having le»a(<han ol aervlce shall be considered will have no seniority rights In until ho has wortad lor the Ci period ol sixty (60) worked dqyt period and Shalt than be placer; lists. The Union may requi Company's decision to diamt employee, however, such dlsm subject ol a grievance. A wor this clause shall be considered reported for work Including or
sixty (60) worked days probationary employee and rkgard to lay-off or dismissal lo ltpany lor an accumulated i within a twelve (12) month ion the appropriate seniority an explanation of the or lay off a probationary east or lay-off cannot be the ;ed day, (or the purpose ol adtyln which the employee n ertlme days.
cat
Its
9.03	The Company will malnt; iin saps rate seniority lists in each Department and will Indicate then In, those employees classed as part time.
9.04	The Company will maintain separate plant-wids seniority lists and win Indicate life rein, those employeee who are classed as part time.
90S The following are the departments In existence at the present lime:
Maintenance and Services Knitting
Dyehousa and Dry Finishing Cutting	I
Sewing and Inspecting Warehouse and Distribution
906 Seniority lists, in accordance with the loregoing, shall show ths date from which seniority commences and also, where different, the dale of commencement ol service and such seniority llsta shall be reused not lees than once every
six (S) month* and a copy of oacf ll«t posted on the departmental plant-wide seniority list posted Ir standing the foregoing, the Com from the Union, revise and post sooner than three (3) months nor after the last posting. The Comdai steward with a copy of the seniorlt or departments In which he has jur Company will supply copies Of plant lists to the South Vtfeetem'
l Or li
departmental seniority
I Jlletin board and each the cafeteria. Notwith-any will, upon request ruch seniority lists not iter than six (6) months ny shall supply each list for the department idlctlon. In addition, the departmental and ario Joint Board office.
a me i
9.07 Seniority rights and employment shall cease lor any
of the following reasons:
t. if an employee quits or retires.
2.	If an employee le discharged and the discharge Is not reversed through the grievancr procedure:
3.	If an employee Is absent from w rk without notifying the Company, inless a reason satisfactory to the Company is given;
A. If, after a lay-off, the employe* wit to return to work within seven (7) wotdng days aftir the Company's notice of recall has been sent by I aglstered Mail or by telephone to the last address or telephone number shown on be Company's record: or the date designated for his return, whichever last t>
5. if the employee falls to report tor expiration cf any leave granted reasons acceptable to fie Comi the employee's control.
vork promptly after the to him unless it is for any which are beyond
6. It an employee is absent fromwetk due to layoff f acne (1) year.
90s An unacceptable level of una may be subject to discipline up to a which may be subject to the provfc
thortzed absenteeism including dismissal, iflons Of Article VIII.
dli
909 The Company agrees to aeco status to Lead Hand, Instructors and only during their respective terms o of layoff and recall only. Such prefi restricted to the department in whl the time, regularly employed. In ui an employes can displace a more
d a preferred seniority Tepartmental Stewards office, lor the purpose rred seniority shall be h the employee Is. si isi ig preferred seniority, > Lnior employes In the
15
department provided he II If such a position Is not avallstjfi Junior employee In the depart familiarization period of five (S) the war* required in accordance and production standards.
The Company agrees lo status to the following Unioi President, Recording secrets Sergeant-at-Arma. If nartheye provisions of the previous pan a more Junior employee in the qualified to perform the work.' able herthey can replace the plant provided Ihel within a far [ill days worked herihey canperfot fi dance with the Company* qua If
puttied to perform tne wont. ' ' e, he can replace the most nent provided that within a faye worked he can perform with (he Company’* quality
accord a preferred seniority office re: President, Vice-r, Financial Secretary and ihnof be placed through the i graph, herthey can displace riant provided hsAhey lafare such a position Is not avail-neat Junior employes In the mart ration period of five (5) the work required In aocor-Ityand production standards.
ARTICLE X - GENERAL PROVISIONS RESPECTING tAY-OFF
10.01	When It Is necessary 0 decrease the number of employees In a department, fuch reduction wPI be made as foflovs:
(a)	Probationary employees ijn the department will be the first laid off.
(b)	If further layoffs are nece the department effected of seniority provided the the department with a faihi working days can perfn accordance with theComp: standards.
wary the employeefs) within \ III be laid off In Inverse order r imatnlng employee^) within illlarlzatlon period of five (5) rm the work required In lany'a quality and production
In no event shall the Con party be obliged to continue the familiarization pariol II the employee runs an unreasonable amount of inaccaptabfs work or causes damage to machinery or* qulpment. Any employee who fails to meet the quallt1 and production standards during the five (5) day (amlllarlzatlon period will be subject to lay-off.
(c)	In the event that the prov sions ol sub-section 1001 (b) cannot be utilized by an • mployee. the employee will be allowed to displace th i most junior employee In any other department providing he has the necessary qualifications and seniority to do the Job. In no event
shall the Company be obliged b accord the employee a re-tamiliarization period, It be employee runs an unreasonable amount of unacc iptable vortc or causes damage to machinery or equi; mertl.
(d)	Wien It appears that a lay-offwi be for a period of more than ten (10) consecutive work ng days, an employee having two (2) years or more s< nlority may be allowed lo displace the most junior emi loyee In the plant with a familiarization period of se en (7) working days, providing he can perform t le worik required In aooordance with the Compayq quality and production standards.
In no event shall the Company » obliged to continue the aforesaid familiarization peril d, if the employee runs an unreasonable amount of nacceptable work or causes damage to machinery ir equipment.
(e)	The Letter of Understanding re C ro up Seniority tor the Sewing Room Is attached a id forms pari of this Collective Agreement. The L< ter of Understanding provides for Infernal movement 9) of employees within the Sewing Department where pnd when reduction of the work lores Is required.
10.02	Notwithstanding the provlsbns of Section 1001 hereof, seniority employees may bd laid off without regard to seniority for a temporary period pf one (1) working day each, per calendar week.
It is agreed that a seniority employee shall not be laid oil for more than eight (6) world jig days per twelve (12) month period without regards to seniority.
1 n addition to the foregoing, as employee may be laid off without regard lo seniority during stocktaking periods, and days on such lay-offs shall not be counted In the maximum of eight (8) days set out)above
10.03 M e r e the fob of an employes or more seniority is permanently trasted with a lay-off caused by s n employee, after a conference betw the Union will be assigned by " suitable vacancy or lo work t employee with less seniority and su be given a trial period of six (8) w he falls to become qualified In si become subject to exercise his noi
It 9
'be! ii
Having two (2) years llscontinued (as conduction in work) such en the Company and Company either to g performed by an senior employee will eks. In the event that job, he Shan then ' seniority rights. In
h
el
:i :h ir sal r
no event shall the Company® obliged to aeotd the employee the aloresald trial p^d, if the employee runs an unreasonable amount of un Iceptable work or causes damage to machinery or equ pmenl.
10.04	Wherever used In thi agreement, the word "qualified'* shall mean presen / possessed of the skills
and aptitudes which enable t work required in accordance w and productron standards.
i person to perform the h the Company’s quality
10,05	The Company will atte »r, wherever practicable, to give notice of Impending s »rt term lay-offs as soon as knowledge of same beco es available. Mere the Company has more than on I (1) week's notice of a planned lay-off, the Company give the Union at least one (t) week's notice thereof®
ARTICLE XI - RECALL
11.01	When the Company dedldes to Increase the work force in a department, the m ist senior lald-otr person from the department (wheih ir he has exercised his seniority to transfer to anothi r department or whether he is still on lay-off) wilt be r< called to the department In accordance with his senlorl y, provided he is qualified to perform the work require! in accordance with the Company's quality and pr (duction standards. An employee so recalled may at f s option and upon mutual agreement between the Comp iny and the Union, remain in the department in which I e Is currently employed, In which case the employee t tail forfeit his right to the opening in question. One (1) n onth after having reached the mutual agreement, the ei iployee shall lose his old departmental seniority and at quire seniority In the new department and be credited In such new department with his full plant seniority.
i re :<
11.02 An employee on lay-ol in accordance with the Agreement, and cannot be which he was laid oil, sh employment In another pos1 provision is not intended lo of Section 1101, but rather seniority employee remslnlnt . of perspective new emplnuais
if who still has recall rights iprms ol this Collective tailed to his position from " be offered aitemalive within the plant. This tlrcumvent the provisions Is intended lo prevent a on lay-off and the hiring
ill
ll on \
ARTICLE XII - PROVISIONS RESPECTING FILLING PERMANENT ANO TEMPORARY
VACANCIES
12.01	The Company will determined il needs lo fill a new job or vacancy prior to posting anlavallable vacancy.
(a)	The Company agrees to post naice plant-wide on the plant bulletin, boards for Ihrens (3) working days, permanent lull-time or part-llmr vacancies, Including new or expanded occupations 'hich will result In an increase in the number of imptoyees within a classification, save and except or vacancies arising from the permanent severam a of a probationary employee having completed lo s than fifty (50) days of his probation period.
(0) The Company agrees to post department wide on the bulletin boards for three (3) working days, any temporary vacancy the length o which Is expected to exceed twenty (20) working day . but less than twelve (12) months. Notice ol tempo ary vacancy will be posted on the bulletin board in the department wherein the vacancy occurred. A ty experience gained by a selected employee while wo king in the temporary assignment under this sub-sect on will be credited lo the employee for future job of rlicalion ol a similar nature. There will be no Iransl ir ol seniority In the filling ol temporary vacancies emporary vacancies wilhin a department are restricted to employees within that department.
(c) During the period of time required for the posting and the time of making a selection! and awarding a job and/or position to an employee, the Company may lift the vacancy by means of a temporary transfer for up to ten (10) working days.
12.02	In the awarding of a job posted vacancy, the following procedures will apply:
I as
(a) In giving consideration to appn will be awarded to the most sank department, provided that he formed the job previously as a an awarded job posted temporary on the job as a result of a reduc arxt'cr as a job to which he was
ants, the posted Job r applicant within the successfully per-ermanent |ob, or as vacancy, a worked ion in the work force called to from lay-off.
19
(b)	If the |on is not titled tnrpugn 12.110 (aj, men otner applicant employees wKljln the department shall be considered, the senior oi|[those will be awarded the posted|ob/positlon.
(c)	If the job is not filled flirough 12j02 (b), then the Company shall consider applicant seniority employees having two (2) years or mttre seniority, and award the job to the senior applicarjf employee from any other department.
(d) If the Job Is not filled (hrotjgh 12.02 (c), the Company
shall consider and award| senior applicant seniority
[he posted Job to the most employee having less than
two (2) years seniority fro n any other department
(e) If the job Is not filled through 12.02 (d), Ihe Company shall consider probationarvtl rmlcyees within the plant lo fill the vacancy.
□ hr
(f)	If the job Is not filled throuqf may fill the vacancy by
(g)	Wien a posted job Is applicant employee under (c) or (d), the senior applli right lo lodge a grietanca I
12	(e). then the Company
ler means including hiring, bt awarded to the senior he applicable12.02 (a), (b), I ant employee reserves the accordance with Artide VIII.
12.03	The Company will posl notice on the plant bulletin boards of Ihe names and (osltlons of (he successful applicants who have been awarded the positions for which postings have been made.
12A4 An employee successrurry posting for an occupation IhrouEh the posting procedure, is outlined in Artide 1201 (a) above, shall not be eligible or mtltled, without the consent of the Company, to be grantor any vacancy or transfer for a period of nine (9) montis from the date of the Implementation and the postinj of his name on the bulletin board of his aforesaid selectl in.
Any employee who afte' successfully posting, for an occupation, is removed from that occupation by reason beyond his control, shall not b< subject to the nine (9) month restriction outlined aboie. An employee who after successfully posting for an oc lupation, Is removed from a posted position because of In ibillty to do the work, will be permitted to re-post once in ti)e above refetreato nine (9) month period.
(2.05 The job posting procedure herein provided shall apply In respect of the first vacancy, but will not apply to
20
subsequent vacancies created tjy tne filling of the firs vacancy.
12.06 All transfers resuiting fromp posting applicator will be paid at the rate of the job.
12.07	An employee shall be returfed to his old Job wlthoui detriment to his seniority stand'nj, it he expresses such t preference or If he runs an u reasonable amount ol unacceptable work or causes d mage to machinery oi equipment during the ilrsl fifteen (15) days worked In the new position, or on the complete t of the fifteen (15) days worked in the new position, if hs 1 unable to prove that he Is capable of performing the neq job.
12.08	If after the fifteen (15) days Ivor ked in the successful employee's posted position, the an)( loyee has proved ha has the ability to do the lob, then (la1 ranster and all of the subsequent transfers Involved Kilt be deemed lo be permanent.
12.09	If a successful applicant employee during the fifteen (15)days worked period in the poi led positlon/foh/occupa-tlon, expresses his preference to elum to his old job, the skills acquired during that period * the skills acquired by en employee during a temporary tr nsfer other than through the Job posting provisions ol 12.0' (a) and (b) and/or 12.04 will not be considered When maklr j selections and awards, nor can the skills acquired be jsed to displace other employees during a reduction Injthe workforce.
ister shifts within their tion, may apply to the isted vacancy becomes will arrange the transfer.
[ olicant for the position,
12.10 Employees wishing to (re department on the same oecup Personnel Manager. When a non available, the Personnel Manager In the case of more than one a| seniority will be the deciding defer.
l-f oi
12.71 Employees with a minimpi seniority wishing to change their the Personnel Manager. When becomes available, the Personne those applications submitted at le prior to the vacancy becoming aval than one applicant for the pos seniority will be considered and, appllcantsare relattvetyequal. the selected.
m of three (3) years ccupatlon may apply to a non-posted vacancy Manager will consider ist five (5) working days able. In he case of .mors ion, qualifications and where qualifications ol senior applicant will be
12.12	(a) An employee who trans: jrs trom one department to another voluntary through the posting procedure, shall have 10 seniority In such new department for the firs one (1) month but shall continue to accumuli te seniority in his old department. Alter such one (1) month period, he shall lose his old del artmental seniority and acquire seniority In the new department and be credited In such new pepartmenl with his full plant seniority.
(b)	Wiere an employee is another department, s a period not exceedtn} mutually agreed. The t to accumulate senlorlt1 ment. At the end ol sui employee shall return necesssary. exercise hilt In Articles X, XI and )
I sui i
ramrerred temporarily to jch transfer shall be for two (2) months unless imployee shall continue In his previous depart-temporary transfer, the to his previous Job, or if seniority as provided lor ill.
(c)	The seniority ol an employee exercising his rights or being assigned under the provisions ol sub-sections 10.01 o' 1003 will transfer to his new department Imme (lately thereby bypassing the other seniority prqylslons In this Collective Agreement
12.13	An employee transferred o a position outside the bargaining tnl shad continue to : cumulate seniority rights lor a period of six (6) months bo n the date of transfer. In the event of his retim to the bargi Inlng unit (lor any reason) within such six (6) month period, I a shall be entitled to carry with him his total seniority including the seniority accumulated while he was outs la the bargaining unit).
After the six (6) month pe iod has elapsed and the employee has not returned to l te bargaining unit, said employee will be added to the Company's list ol non-bargaining unit employees.
For the purposes of applicable benefits, the length ol continuous service of the employee with the Company will apply.
ARTICLE XIII - DISCIPLINE
13.01	The company reserves t?e right to discipline any employee who violates the ruled and/or regulationsof the Company up to and including discharge. The normal
progressive stages of discipline wSlpo us foiloivs, hcrwver, the Company nay by-pass arry ol the Mowing stages up to that of discharge, depending upontflenatureor theoffense.
Stage 41	Verbal warning
Stage #2	Recorded verbal	warding
Stage #3	Written warning
Stage #4	t to 3 day suspensitfi without pay
Stage AS	Discharge
13.01	Any disciplinary actions Initiated by the Company and not reversed or reduced by Ih > grievance procedure will remain on Ihe employee's per: mal record as follows: Stage *2	6 months from the d te of Ihe olfense
Stage 13	12 months from the date of the offense
Stage AA	2 years
ARTICLE XVI - LEAVE OF ABS^fCE
Ilf Xil
1 4.0 1 (a) All leaves of absence agreement shall be wif
(b)	The Company may, in leave of absence, withoi for legitimate personal Company is given suffidi leave. Any euth leavr requested, in writing to t and, if granted, such leav i tio-i will be given in writir J weeks after receipt of ' of such authorization ser leave will affect the emp In Ihe w e of a leave ol the answer wO be given weeks, along with the rei
a copy being sent to th
(c)	The Company will grant more than two (2) errploli at the same time, to all: or conferences, lor a perl (15) working days each, and in any event not to a: days per year In respect The foregoing, howavi r, limitation that not more employees shall be Iron and further, that such'
is referred to In this il pay. own discretion grant pay, to any employee reasons provided Ihe nl notice ol Ihe desired of absence will be e Personnel Manager of absence authorize-. no later than four (4) • request, with a copy to the Union. No such oyee's seniority rights, ibsence being denied, i writing within lour (4) gson lor Ihe denial, with Union.
l lei vi
lave of absence to not aes in good standing, . nd Lhion conventions .’I >d net to exceed fifteen I er year, per employee, i. ceed a total of fifty (SO) if all such employees, r, Is subject to the than one (1) ol such the same department ■a of absence maybe
wunneio oy trie company.» m« auaein.ii *1 any such employee will ln|bifere with production.
14X13 Pregnancy Laava
A seniority lemale employee will, in case of
pregnancy certified by a qualifiei physician, be granted a
leave ol absence subject to the following conditions:
I) The employoe Involved musi notify her Supervisor ol her condition at least five |5) months prior to the expected day of delivery or vhen it Is known by the employee that her health am /or health of the felue Is jeopardized as a result o complications in her pregnancy, and she present: the Company with such advice, In writing, from her;
ii)	The employee Invok/ed may >e required to take leave of absence from employmeni for up to four (4) months prior to and lour (4) montl s following the date of delivery Any extension of euef leave must be requested pursuant to Article 14.01 (b) hereof;
iii)	Seniority will accumulate dgrlng the period of such leave:
Iv) If the employee falls io report tor wont promptly after the expiration of the leave, sl)e shall be considered as having voluntarily qull;
v)	Before returning lo work, the employee must provide the Company with a physlclr rfs certificate slating she Is tit to perform her normal futlas;
vi)	The provisions of Article 14/ 2 shall not apply, unless the employee requesting the | regnsncy leave, nas been in the Company's employ or a period of eight (8) months. However, a seniority mployee not meeting this requirement, shall have her name placed on a recall Pst and shall, when recalled, assume the seniority she had attained at the time of qeing laid off by reason of pregnancy.
14.03	(p) YJIten an employees spouse and/or child (Including the employ la's common-law spouse and/or child of the com mon4aw spouse) dies, the employee, on request, will be excused for the five (5) consecutive working days Immediately following the death.
On the death of an anmoyee’s parent, parent of the current spouse, legal guardian, brother or
24
sister, the employee, on request, wilt be excused for three (3)working dm following the death. On the death of an amptoyoe'e, or current spouse's grandparent, Brother-in-law, sister-in-law, grandchild, aunt or Inde, the employee, on request, will be excused]for one (1) working day following the death.
(b) When an employee Iseifcusedfrom work under
the Provisions of subsec
on request, receive the t oplicabte live (5). three
(3) or one (t) day's pa scheduled day(s) of wor
time hourly rate, or at hi i average rate of pay if he is an Incentlve/piece vorker.
ion (a) above, he shall,
ouring his otherw.se at his regular straight
14.04 Each employee who Is sumn oned to and reports tor injury duty, as prescribed by applie ibis law (subject to the eligibility requirements sat out bale v) shall be paid by the Company, the difference between re employee’s straight time hourly wage rate (average ncentive earnings for Incentive operators) exclusive ot iremiums or overtime hours for the number of hours that f i otherwise would have been scheduled to work, and the d lly jury fee paid by the court. The Company's obligation l pay an employee for Jury duty undr this section Is limited to a maximum of sixty (60) days in any calendar year, and in order to receive payment under this section, an employee must meet all of the following eligibility requirements:
a)
the employee shall have attained seniority as of the date of commencement of the jury luty;
b) where practicable, the employ least twenty-four (24) hours' not! he has been summoned for ju
e shall have given at :e lo the Company that y duty;
c) the employee shall furnish aausg Company, that he reported fo on the days for which he dairt
actory evidence to the id performed jury duty s payment;
d) the employee would otherwise have been scheduled to work for the Company on tha dav or days lor which
he claims payment.
ARTICLE XV -WtES
15.01 The Company agrees to pa to accept the Schedule of Wagi
he Union agrees : and payments
structure (hourty to Incentive or or group of employees. Should regarding the change, the
•r if
es JA. B and (4) which form a C< mpany agrees that It will * any change In the pay vice versa) of any employee Here be any dsagreemenl ipany will meet with the a change.
Co m
t«
"•tfMW. M»W4 JW/ «M W ^U<M at he is transferred. If the rate ol th i ts temporarily transferred oth »i exercising his seniority during a request, ts less than the rate of paid the rate of Ns regular Job (dji operator) during the period o Where the transfer results fro+i during lay-off, or as a result of shall be paid the rate ol the |ot tt The provisions of this Article 1 a temporary transfer lasts for the ful worldng day. In no case twenty (20) worked days untes > the employee and the Compa ly.
15.03 An employee who prop h beginning of his regular anift, i ir in advance not to report, wBf re :i work at his average straight tit na be paid for four Hi hours at his
e rtporarify I	i
the rate of the job to which job to which an employee r than as the result of layoff or at an employee's lis regular Job, he shall be irrent average for Incentive such temporary transfer, the exercise of seniority le employee's request, he to which he Is transferred. L02 shall apply only when nore than one-half (1/2) of ihall transfer last more than mutually agreed upon by
rly reports for work at the unless he has been notified eive at least four (4) hours a hourly earnings or shall sveraae stralQht time hourly
when offered, shall not be enllt When an employee has not illness, leave of absenoe or ar responsibility to arrange with
working days prior to the tim
It is the employee's dufy Informed of his correct adctes: the Company will not be liable arrangements have been ma
15.04 An employee called ic
pd to payment for reporting, been working because of i other cause, it shall be his he Company for his return
of his intended return.
to keep the Personnel cflYR and telephone number and 'or any payment unless such e.
from home to work tn an
his regular shift, will be paid a mlni|num or three (3) hours pay at his average earnings.
15.05 Wherever the term "rate" or agreement, il shall ba deemed lo oul in Appendix "A" or "B".' Where work/incentive earnings apply, it wii and average piece work/incentive I )i current average piece work/ince Current average shall be the avert g employee obtained during the wei the current working week providint of twenty (20) hours on incentive.
"rated" is used in this tean the base rate sel is intended that piece be expressly so stated iurly earnings shall be itlve hourly earnings, je earnings which the k immediately prior to d he •tKrt.ed ■a'rrtvmm
15.06 A piece work/incentive appointed by the ucnpeny to ad he average piecework/ineentive ea rate, whichever Is the greater whi r
mployee, temporarily Instructor, wSI be paid ningsorthe Instructor's so engaged.
15.07	Piece work/incentive eamingsjshall be calcdated daily.
15.08	A shift premium of twenty cbnta (20*) per hour will be paid for hours worked during t is afternoon shift, and a shift premium <f twenty-five cent i (25*) per hour will be paid for hours worked during the ni ]ht shift. The foregoing shift premiums will be paid only o employees who are actually scheduled to work such sf Its and the twenty cent (206) premium shall not be paid to rmployeas whose work on the day shift continues into the afternoon shift, nor will the tvratyfhe cent (25*) premium I a paid to employees on the afternoon shift whose work contfiues into the night shift.
15.09	When a new classification, this Agreement, is established Company shall determine the rat i classification and notify the Unior challenges the rate, it shall have meeting with the Company to enp mutually satisfactory rate. Such within ten (10) days after receipt of of such new classification and rale to agree, the dispute concerning submitted to arbitration as provided fifteen (15) days ol such a meeting, shall be based on the retatidv comparison with other dassificatio unit, having regard to the
classification. The decision as toth
rnich is not covered by >y the Company, the ol pay lor such new of same. If the Union the right to request a leavour to negotiate a jquest shall be made tram the Company (the parties are unable the new rate may be nthis Ageement within The arbitration decision ship established by s within the bargaining quirements of such rale of pay established
will bo paid retroactive to the date the employeels) commenced work In the new aassiflcation.
ARTICLE XVI - CO-OPERATI UTILIZATION - INCENTIVE
PN AND EFFECTIVE OF MANPOWER, ETC. STANDAROS
16.01	The Union agrees that it will actively assist the Company In its efforts to ellm nate waste In production, conserve materials and suppl as. Improve the quality of workmanship, effectively and ful y utilize manpower, prevent accidents, and strengthen Oooc will wilh the "Company, the employees, the customer and :he public.
The Company maintains t re right to set and Implement all production standards. Time study, standard data from studies taken wKhh this Plant a id any recognized standard data system will be used to er labllsh such standards.
The Union agrees that It will fully cooperate with the Company In respect of all sjlch standards set by the Company.
In all cases, standards will be set In a manner which will be fair and equitable lo the emptoyee(a) and the Company and represent the v ork being performed.
In no case will productlo i standards be established on an operation until the prescribed methods are satisfactorily set u p by the Cor ipany. The operator will be Instructed as to any change In l le operation. Sufficient time will be given to the operator to accustom herfhlmself with the changed operation before commencing the study.
16.02	100% efficiency shall re normal operator working undpi normal pace (100%) using prei a normal piece that will pass Production standards wll operations so dial a qualified o pace will have an opportunity
lect the time required for a ir normal conditions at a Scribed methods lo produce he quality standards, be establshed on Incentive lerator working al Incentive o earn 125% of base rale.
f 6.03 Where there Is a dlspul a of a production standard develi i time system, a stopwatch stud' standard. Where there is a standard will prevail.
16.04 When incentive standards have been established,
they shell remain in effect unli
concerning the accuracy ped from a predetermined will be taken to confum the clscrepaney, the stopwatch
ss there is a change, such
amt M«th«d, tools, equipment, work ssquanca, quality
standards, design, machine speeds] metertais, or when there has been an error in eatabliahing df posting the standards.
Standards affected by clerical or math errors win be discussed with the Union before standards are changed.
Only those elements ot worlj effected by the change will be subject to revision.
Where revisions of metncps, equipment, quality standards, design, machine speed or materials have taken place, a new time study will be la en if thirty-five percent .	) or more of the elements mal Ing up the standard are
involved. The Company will disc ss with the Union the breakdown of the elemental write-i) to verify that thirty-five percent (35%) or more of the elem nts have changed prior to the actual tlm ing and establishrjient of a new standard.
post a notice in the m as practicable, prior
16,05 The Company agrees to Department, two (2) days or as ec to the Introduction of a new atani srd, At the time of posting, all pe formed the basis ol the change sh the Union lor review on Company
mem Information which ill be mads available to premises.
16.06	A new standard or change IP existing standard may be challenged only on the baa is ot whether or not a qualified
experienced employee working a{ 125% has potential to earn 125%.
16.07	A new or revised standard «nt be considered to be under trial for a period of not greats than fifteen (15) worked days (days on which the new or re rlsed standard Is being worked against) during which lime he employees will work under the conditions as sett out n the new or revised standard. If the above new or revls d standard rasults from a change in method, machine typ or style, the employee will be paid his average earnings >r the first live (5) days of ths said trial period. After the sta idard has been in effect for two (2) working days, If may be hallenged on the basis of Article 1606 above end such cl altengs must be made In writing pursuant to the specific ( rievance procedure set out In Article 1666 hereof. It ths standard has not been challenged during the fifteen (15) < ay period as described above, such standard shall be dejmed acceptable to the employees and the Union.
16.08 Incentive Qrievanct Procjdur*
I) In challenging such new orlrevised standard, the employee shall first discuss ha complaint directly with
oq
hla Department Supervisor may. il ha wishes ba eecomi such discussion takes complain! la no! settled, promptly within the time " above, but not thereafter, to his Department Supervisbr
pie ci d, 11 t lin II pr i:
or his cosigners, ana ne ' by his steward. After e and the employee's t ten the employee shall it set out In Article t&07 sent a written grievance or his designate.
A meeting shall be halo ot the presentation ol the the Company's Industrial Steward or Committee Mem grievance and explain how hi such meeting, the Compaq ,v Union representative who ms r for use In the presence ot Engineer, the Company’s v to such new or changed si
n seven (7) working days written grievance, between utglneer and the Union let, In erder to discuss the ha rate was arrived at. Al will make available to the rbean Industrial Engineer, he Company1! Industrial Working paper with respect n indarda.
i wnryi
III)- If the matter la not settled a such meeting, the Union may within one (1) week el er such mealing, but not thereafter, make a written r guest for a Joint study to be conducted between Ita li dustrtal Englnaar and tha Company's Industrial Englr aar. Such Joint study shall be conducted as soon ai practicably possible In compliance with the procec ure for Joint Time Studlea as outlined in Appendix I )(this Agreement. At the discretion of the Depart me ital steward, ha may be in attendance at the commer cement ot the Initial Joint study, In order to aseartiln that the correct work methods are being follower. Within eight (8) weeks o( the physical study, tha Ur on ahall submit a written report and reeontnendati ms and the Company's Industrial Engineer shall ri ply within one (1) week ol tha recalpt ol auch report, rt r ahall be deemed complete 1.
rt that time, the joint study
Iv) If the matter Is not settled conducting the Joint sUdy, matter to arbitration by glr writing of auch intention completion of the Joint st single arbitrator who shell the firm of Stevenson and Such arbitrator shall be _ this Collective Agreement shall be shared fiftyflfty (' Agreement This spadle Inept
I slur y.
gevr
ty the .ndustrial Engineers ihe Union may process the ng the Company notice In grlthln one (1) week of the The arbitrator ahall be a an Industrial Engineer with Kellog or Woods. Gordon, vamed by all provisions of tnd hit fete end expenses ! 3-50) by each party to this nntlye Grievance Procedure,
V)
Article 16.08, shall be deemed to be the specifically designated grievance procedire for grievances with respect lo Incentives; theretole, Article 8.03 and 8.11 hereof shall not be used ty process an incentive grievance.
mcer live
In the event a different upon by the parties during processing of a grievance r arbitrator, the employee correspondlnglyadjusted retr new or revised standard was
standard is agreed or subsequent to the Is established by the earnings shall be Irfcactlvely to the dale the made effective.
vi) If no grievance Is filed within the lime specified, or il the 'Union does not request a, rint stuff rivIMn the time specified or if the Union does t ot give notice to arbitrate within the time specified, i is grievance shall be deemed to have been settli d on the basis of the standard established by the ( ompany or the basis of the Company's last reply, as the case may be. The provisions of this grievance pr< cedure shall be deemed to be mandatory and not mere y directory, and shall be deemed to comply with a# roeiirementa T5t ’theTUrttstd Labour Relations AcL
ARTICLE XVII - HOURS OF Wt?HK AND OVERTIME
17.01 It is hereby expressly understood and agreed that the provisions of this Article XVI are for the purpose of computing overtime and shell net be construed to be a guarantee of or a limitation uponlthe hours of work to be done per day or per week or otherwise, nor as a guarantee of working schedules.
a) It is agreed that the following s		run hours will be in effect.
and that ail eight (8) hour shift:		shall MiUUtHin thdihdute
shown In Schedule A, ten (10		hour
B and twelve (12) hour shifts		in Schedule C.
• Knit	7:00 a.m. •	3:00 p.m.
	3:00 p.m. -	1:00 p.m.
	11:00 p.m. -	7:00 a.m.
* Dye	7:00 a.m. •	3:00 p.m.
	3:00 p.m. •	1:00 p.m.
	11:00 p.m. -	7:00 a.m.
* Dry	7:00 a.m. •	3:00 p.m.
	3:00 p.m. •	f:00 p.m.
	11:00 p.m. •	7-nn a.m.
n
•cut
7CO a.m. • 3:00 p.m.
3:00 p.m. • 11:( 0 p.m.
11:00 p.m.- 7:10 a.m.
‘ Replacement lunch 20-mlnute bret K tor the above shifts
• ‘ sew	7.00 a.m. - 3:: 0 p.m.
3:30 p.m. • 12:i 0 a.m. (midnight)
700 a.m. . 3;l 0 p.m.
3:30 p.m. • 12:i 0 a.m. (midnight) 7:00 a.m. - 3:: 0 p.m.
3:00 p.m. • 11:: 0 p.m.
11:00 p.m. • 7:: 0 a.m.
730 a.m. - 4;i 0 p.m.
3-30 p.m. • 12:i 0 a.m. (midnight) 1130 p.m.- 7: 0 a.m.
' * 30-minute unpaid lunch braak fijr the above shifts.
Premium
Inspection
Varehouse
Malntenurce & Services
0 Shift Schedule A	1st
20*	2nd
25*	3rd
20* Shift Schedule B	
(considered as 2nd shift)
7:00 a.m. - 6:00 p.m. 6:00 p.m. -1:00 a m 1p:00 p.m.. 9:00 a.m.
:00 p.m. - 3:00 a.m.
0 Shift Schedule C 1st 25*	2nd
1:00 a.m. • 8:00 p.m. 1:00 p.m. - 8:00 a.m.
Premiums will be paid as ah iwn.
Overtime will be paid In aecorc ance with Article 1702 hereof and also when an employee's are changed, for the Company's temporary basis.
normalworklnghoun convenience, on ■
17.02	Overtime premium shall be Paid on hours worked:
a)	In excess of the employee's sta idard work day;
b)	On the employee's schedule dav or days Oft; or
c)	On a designated holiday.
17.03	An employee shall be paid all follows for overtime hours worked:
a)	An employee not on Incentive vam be paid at the rate of one and one-half (1*4) times| hs base hourly rate exclusive of premiums.
32
0) An •mpeyM on incentive wit oe paio ms incentive earnings plus one-half (VV) ris earnings at current average for those hours worked In excess of his standard work day.
17.04	In no case will there be a explication of pyramiding of any overtime or any other prerium compensation.
17.05	There will normally be a o|*-half (Vj) hour unpaid lunch period.
ARTICLE XVIII • DESIGNATED HOUDWS 10,01 a) t b the intent of Ihd Company to permit
obsetvancs at certain
specified, without lose ol pay to eligible senlorily employees, subject t > certain conditions hereinafter set forth, ach eligible seniority
employee will be peld his
tor maldally hours at his
base rate or establish d current piece work average, u the caae may be, exclusive of the shift end overtime premiur is, lor the following designated holidays wNcl tell on such employee's regularly ached Jed wor days:
New Vear'a Day Good Friday Victoria Day Canada Day Civic Holiday Labour Dey
Tha
Chr
Box
Thri
(to
Chr
Provided the employer eligibility requirements:
I) The employee would otherwise have been
scheduled to work or
been observed as a I silday;
il) The employee has
holidays, hereinafter
iksglvlng Day itmas Day ng Day
(3) additional holidays je observed between itmas and New tfaar's)
meets the following
such day, II il had not
worked the full last
scheduled work day mor to and the tun next scheduled work day sifter such holiday. An otherwise eligible em iloyee, who reports for work less than one hoi lal* on one, only, of the qualifying days with ri ason acceptable lo the Company, will retain t a eliglbllly:
Hi) A designated holiday I Ul'ng on an employee's scheduled day off w I be paid as per the provisions of this Artldle.
b) An othenvise eligible [employee wno tailed t o quality solely as a resul ol not werking one (1) only of the full last schedule d work day prior to or the full next scheduled wo k day after such holiday, shall be paid for such holiday if such failure to work was as a result of:
i) lay-oil which commenced in the week In which the employee did noiwork the qualifying day, or
li) the employee attenrjng Union business under (he provisions of ArBcle 14.01 (c) hereof, or
ilr) the employee's sickness andbr injury of one (f) working day or more, but less than ten (10) working days, provided the employee furnishes proof satisfactory t f the Company of such sickness and/or in) ry, or
Iv) authorized leave of t psence under Article 14.01 (b) hereof, commer cing within five (5) days before the holiday orpommencing upon the day after the holiday.
it 3 ir tl
v) the employee havlr reporting to work oi day following the Illness, proof of which Company's Perscnr
_ to leave after properly the next scheduled work oliday, due to verifiable may be requested by the el Department.
c) An otherwise eligible quality as a result of
employee who failed to not working the full last
scheduled work day prior to and the full next scheduled work day a ler such holiday, shall be paid for such holiday, 11 such failure to work was as a result of authorizt d loave of absence under Article 14.01 (b) hereof, :ommendng within five (5) days before the holiday and terminating not more than five (5) days after the holday. In this event, the employee conceited must work the full scheduled workday pri ir to and the fill schediied work day following hat leave of absence to be eligible for (he holiday pay.
18.02 When one of the fore-dplng designated holidays occurs on a Saturday or Sunday the Company may declare the scheduled work day In mediately preceding or immediatelyfotowlng the hollde ’ as the day for observance of the holiday.
18.03 VWiere a regularly scheduledlshitt starts on the night preceding a designated holiday anwinishes on tho holiday, or starts on the night ot the designated holiday, such hours of the shift as are worked wtlf not ee paid tor at overtime or premium rates, but shall be pal) for at the employee's regular rates
18.04 An otherwise eligible emptfri to work on one (1) of the designate i report to work as scheduled shall nf I that partlaiar holiday, unless he is1 satisfactory to the Plant Manager
be, who is scheduled holidays, but does not tell his holiday pay lor ble to provide a reason br such failure.
18.05 An employee who attains set brlty subsequent^ the
designated holiday, will retroactive! accordancewith Artcle 18.01 here® of the eligibility requirements.
receive holiday pay in provided he meets all
AHTICLE XIX - VACATION WITH PAY
19.01 The Company will grant eaC this Agreement avacation with vacsl as follows:
Vacation percentages
Less than 3 yeai 3 years less than 5 year 5 years less than 10 year 10 years less than 15 year 15 years less than 20 year 20 years less than 25 year 25 years and over
Vacations
Less than 6 years 6 years less than 14 years 14 years less than 20 years 20 years and over Service will be calculated June 30th of the vacation year.
The appropriate rate will employee’s earnings for work perfo during the twelve (12) months end
19.02 In the event there is no pi vacation period, vacations will be a seniority and the Company's open
35
p employee subject to Kin pay to be computed
4.0%
4.5%
6.5%
7.5%
8.5%
9.5%
10.5%
2	weeks
3	weeks
4	weeks
5	weeks
up to and Including
be applied to the mBd for the Company ig May 31st.
ml shutdown lor the ranged with regard to lional requirements.
19,03 Employees must lake tht vacation to which they sre entitled. The vacation pay win #e paid on th* pay day prior to the commencement of ne employee's vacation. Employees with more than bne week's vacation pay entitlement, may elect, subleclto giving the Company two (2) weeks notice, to receive th|e balance of that vacation pay in one week Increments.
ARTICLE XX - BULLETIN BPAR08 AND NOTICES
20.01 The Company agrees notices announcing Union subject to the following condli <
o post In Its plant. Union nestings or social events, Ions:
a) such notices shall first rei of the Plant Manager prlo1
quire the stamped approval to posting;
b) no change shall be made Company or by the Unloft, stamped approval of the
20.02 The Union will not die permit to be distributed or po Company, for on on Its behalf
or political matter, cards, nonces except with the written perm! ‘
|n any notice, either by the i, alter It has received the [lent Manager.
■touts or post or cause or |ted on the property of the any pamphlets, advertising I or other kinds of literatus lesion of the Plant Manager.
20 .03 Except as otherwise rserein specifically provided, any notice which either party desires to give to the other shall be given by Registeredlbail as follows:
To the Company:
Penmans Inc.
111 Savage Dnve Cambridge, Ontario N1R 5X9
Attention: Employee Relations Manager
To the Union:
Amalgamated Clothing and ifextle Workers Union AEL-CIO-CLC and Local 1957
545 Main Street East Hamilton, Ontario L6M 1H9
Copy: Recording Secretary, .ocal No. 1967
accidents and enforcement of sa
ARTICLE XXI - HAI-tl Y, MEAL) M AMO WELrAHE
21.01 The parties agree to cooprfate in the preventionof pty rules in the plant
be paid tor Ihe balance
timed, at Ihe applicable mployea al Ihe lime ol ilums, If the Company n outside hospital.
o pay 554b and the
21.02 Aa employee on ike |ob sha of his shift on which the injury oci rate of pay being earned by the the Injury, exclusive of shift prei sends the employee home o' to
21.03a) The Company agrees
employee 454b of the ast of premiums for:
Extended Health Benefit
Death and Dlsmembern ent Plan and a Wage
Lost Indemnity Plan. Life will provide $5,000.00 Haalih Sene tit. forties life
a plan baaed on a thirty-1 re cent (35*) pay direct drug plan with the balano of medt-pack based on a twenty-live dollar (S 5.00) deductible and reimbursement for eight' percent (B04b) of all approved coats above tie deductible amount. Semi-private hospitall co erage Is one hundred percent (1004b) peid by ne carrier.
For the life o) this contra: >, ihe Company agrees to pay 1004b o< the premli nsfor a vision earn plan for sll employees coverec by this agreement and their eligible family mom era. The plan will be a 1004b relmbureement ( an with a maximum
benefit of one hundred
Group Lite, Accidental
Insurance and A.D.& 0. f coverage. Extended ol this contract shall be
dollars ($100.00) per
Insured parson every twepty-lour (24) contraelual months.
b) The provisions of this ArtiCle21.03(i)ihill apply only In respect of those employees who era not covered by their mount's. oarenls' or other coverage.
c) Such benefltsend p IBIIS in their entirety by refer policies or contracts of i any contract issued In Insurance agency or gov be controlling In all qualifications of employee end'ih iirmitth'fs pertalnjv extent ol benefits and ci
l i g iigwaS
ssarily qualified nee to the underlying insurance. The terms of aspect hereof by en mmental agency shall labors pertaining to forbenefits thereunder igb the existence end chditlons.
37
-Tit— d) No grievance may tw processed in support of a dam or dispute with f 'tpect to the aforesaid plan, and the decision of lie insurer or government agency involved will final and binding upon the parties hereto and JIW any employee affected thereby.
e)	The Company agree! to pay the cost of and to supply to the Union membership, copies of the Collective Agreement!
f)	The Compeny agrees that, in the event the Province of Ontariosnoulddecide to abandon the current payment sysfemfor hospital insurance, the Employer Health Tax fe.H.T.)-and to revert to the same, or a simitar Ontario Hospital Insurance Plan (O-H.I.P),it will pay one hundred per cent (100At>) cl the premium, cost qf that insurance plan for all employees.
ARTICLE XXII - TERMINATION
22.01 This agreement shall become effective on the 1st di of June, 1991 and shall remalr shall nol be 're-openable, sav i herein specifically provided, and shall continue automatic! periods of one year each, unit: other party in writing as provldep of its dasire to negotiate amei
22.02Notice that amendment: given during the period of not twenty (120) days and not tea td the expiry difr at stated1 In Z llteuuflar. II italics cl iiaiitt t received by either party In acc the other party tjrtrt renegotiation. Negotiations will calendar days of the first
ur ilUha 31st day of ca fy theraaner cun
iheraaiW A ring annual ss either party notifies the ' lor In Clause 2202 hereof, ildments to this agreement.
I party
ard
22.03 II the parties enter into of amending this agreement,a or amendment of thlsagreame stated termination date, harepl agreement shall be auto consummation of a new agre< conciliation proceedings pro: Relations Act of the Province
the 1st dev euoct and
In full force and effect and and except as otherwise ’	~ rtevnfMav. 19fld.
are required shall enly bei pore than one hundred and than thirty (30) days prior 01 or dintitj mtaltir -ptitods i amend, this tirtto.tht is irdance with the foregoing, neet for the (wrjreee ef i ommencewithin thirty (30) opining requilt.
i egotlatlorasfor the purpose 'agreement on (he renewal it la not reached prior to the if, the terminition of this tatleatly extended until intent,ot completion of the tcrlbed under Tbs. Uhcur-of Ontario.
ARTICLE XXIII - LH1HRSF ijNDERSTANDING
23.01 The following Letlers of Understanding win form part of the Collective Agreement.
a| General Provisions covering Payment ol Average Earnings.
b)	Letteri of Understand) na re: Vacation Pay.
c)	General Provisions em/erlng Tran a ter with Incentive Assistance [Program in Sewing Department.
d)	General Provisions cove|lng Group Seniority in Sewing Department
e)	Provisions, re: Temporars Hales.
9 Letter of Understanding, g) Letter of Understanding.
h) Letter of Understanding, r i: Forklift Truck Drivers. I) Letter of Understanding, re: Safety Footwear D Letter of Understanding, ft: General Provisions respecting lay-off.
k) Letter of Understanding, re: Restoration of Seniority.
re: List of Chemicals, re: Job Duties.
I) Letter of Understanding, So: General Provisions covering previous seniority.
EXECUTED by Ihe parties hereto as of the tsl day of June, 1991.
PENMANS INC.
John Sager Jack Carter Don Pearson Mick Jones
39
AMALGAMATED CLOTHING kND TEXTILE WORKERS UNION, AFL-CIO-CLC AND LJDCAL 1967
_ Marg Armstrong . Linda Freeze _ Gary \Milton . Florence Maunder _ Joan Smith _ Norm Younger
APPENDS h
NON-INCENTIVE WSE RATES
Department &
Occupation
Maintenance & Sarvtca Maintenance Helper Janitor
Material Handler/Recelver Truck Driver
Industrial Mechanic Millwright*
Junk 1 June 1 tail 1992
2
7. 7 7. fl 11.
Industrial Mechanic Milwright Apprer ce
Stationary Engineer Class IV 12. 2
Pipefitter	9.4
Welded	'0. 4
Hi-Pressure \Atelded	11. 2
June 1 1993
8.16
7.79
0.05
3.36
11.68
7.79 7.42 7.67 7.S6 11,12 ■ Start 70% of I.M.M.
12.12	12.73
9.54	10.02
10.14	10.65
11.12	11.68
These rates will apply to perims employed in the designated categories.
Knitting
Knitting Machine Operator	7,ffl	7.93	8.33
Production Recorder	8.Sp	8.20	8.81
Dyehouae and Dry Finishing
General Help Floor Help Tri-Pad Operator Calendar Operator Dryer Operator Napper Operator Batchman
Compactor Operator Asst. Leadhand Batchman Leadhand Bstchman Kettle Cpitn:
Bleach Range Operator Dye Kitchen Operator Leadhand Dry Finish
Cutting Root Help
7.7fe	7 78	8.15
7.7B	7.76	8.15
7.67	7.67	8.05
7 .Sr	7.67	8.05
7.6'	7.87	8.05
7,7)	7.70	8.09
7.71	7.78	8.15
7.6 1	7.89	8.28
7.81	7.89	8.28
8.21	8.22	8.63
7.9,	7.94	8.34
7.9 i	7.94	8.34
8.3 ’	8.37	8.79
8.2s	8.26	8.67
7.-$6	7.76
8.15
APPfNilX "A"
NON-INCENT WAGE RATES
Department &	une 1	June 1	June 1
Oecupetlon	1991	1992	1993
Sewing			
Floor Help Incl	7.76	7,76	8.15
Repairs and Cleaning			
Badwork (Sscsnd6)	7.76	7.76	8.15
Returns, Semples and	7.45	7.45	782
Consolidation			
Checker	745	745	7.82
Finish Goods Twckor/Hetp	7.76	776	8.15
Finish Goods Manifest	767	767	8.05
Clerk	7 69	7.69	8.07
Goods Distributor	7.76	7.76	8.15
Console Operator	778	7.78	8.15
Sewing Samples	7.92	7.92	8.32
IN A Clerk	7.99	7,99	6.39
Sewing Floor Expediter	8.14	8.14	8.55
Instructor	8.14	S.14	8.55
Training School Instructor	9.54	9.54	10.02
Warehouse and Oletributl			
General Warehouse Help	7.82	7.82	8.21
Shipper	8.33	8.33	8.75
Leadhand	8.39	8 39	8.81
APPENDIX "B"			
iNcasmvE	GE PATES		
Department &	una 1	June 1	June 1
Occupation	1991	1992	1993
All Incentive Operations	616	616	647
Policy on New Hires			
00% o( job rate or greater	impany	discretion.	
(APPENDIX 4 JOINT TIME STlfllES
A dispute between the Company anil the Union resulting in the need for a Joint Study as relerredko it Article XVI Section
16.08	fiiij'df'the' tasourt*greement, fit be conducted In the following manner
1 The Company Industrial Endneer and the Union Industrial Engineer will meet and review the fads of the dispute (cause at dispute. eamin|smethod calculations, etc)
2. The Engineers referred to abovi will then conduct joint time studies on the operates) pHected by the dispute
The studies will be conaucteo q the same operators), the dura of sufficient length toensuretha has been sufficiently observer detertrtreficn or the elapsed tin the two Engineers the study w
me same time, and on on of the study will be the disputed1 titcmert(s) to permit an accurate e. On the agreement ol II then be terminated.
Note: During the joint study, theloperator wil wait at his or her rorref pace using the m >thod(s) upon which the standard in dispute was delsrr Ined. During the study, the two Engineers will determl e and record the pace ratings that will be used tp determine their respective "normal* times.
4.	Fotowtng the completion of thb joint study or studies, each Engineer will summaries the findings of his particular study
5.	The two Engineers will then melt and attempt to resofve the dispute based on the above findings.
6.	The Company Engineer will thin report Ihe final results of the study to the Company tp decision.
The Union Engineer will also report the final results ol the study to the Union Esecutpe and the employee(s) for their decision.
(APPENDIX 2)
PROCEDURE-FORTH IE BETTING! OF NEW OR REVISED PERMANENT INCENTIVE STANDARDS
1 In the case where thempiemsntallon of the above procedure requiresthe operstcWs) to be time studied, the following rules will apply
a) The opento<e$r will, to Intolmed by the foreman or his designate of the upcoming jtudy and the reason for the study
b) The operator will be methods to be followed du
c) The methods followed in determine the new or revl
Instructed (If necessary) In the •Ing the study, the study will be used to standard.
tsd i
d)	The study or studies will >e of sufficient duration to ensure that resulting standards aie accurate and represent the lime required lo perform the required work element
the
a) Upon the completion of leaving the operator's workp win, H requested by the opqri the approximate peoe rallni 9 No calculations win be mai pace ratings have been
observations and prior to ace. the time study observer ator. Inform the operator of observed during the study, on the time study until all forded.
rex
Ail pace ratings recorded o t a time study will be made at the site of the time studv and duifng the time the study is beng taken.
i In the case where the impleihenlalioh cf a new or revised standard does not require a tirfe study the following rules will apply
a) The operator(s) will be informed by (he foreman or his designate or the upcominq change and the reasonfor the change
(APPENDIX 31
APPLICATION OF INCENTIVE EARNINGS CEILINGS
Ceilings will be placed on individuallincentive earnings for unacceptable quality performance I using the following procedure.
First Occurrence - A verbal warring by Supervisor
Second Oocnrence - A written warding
Third Occurrence - A ceiling on ekrnings of 40% above base rate for [i period of six weeks
Fourth Occurrence - A ceiling on earnings of 30% above base rate for a Period of twelve weeks
Fifth Occurrence - Subject to Im nediate dismissal
The above procedure is conaistdlt with the discipline procedure outlined in Article XIII paction 13X>1 of the Collective Agreement, where lengthpf time of disciplinary action will remain on employees’^ personal record is concerned.
43
APPtNUJX 4
PENMANS PARTNERS
"IT's your Business-
employee RECOGNITION!INCENTIVE PROGRAM
PLAN DOCUMENT
OVERVIEW
This document is intended tooutlii and conditions of the prog'em k Partners, Employee Recognita (hereinafter known as the "Progr the Amalgamated .Clothing and (hereinafter referred to as the “Ui (hereinafter referred to as the M
the operational details town as the “Penmans Incentive Program* m")as agreed between Textile Workers Union ion“} and Penmans Inc.
Cjornpany*1).
PROGRAM YEAR AND RECOGNITION AWARD
PAYMENT DATES
The program will have three independent program yean and each program year will have a payout date as follows:
Program Year
1991	(June 1,1991 to Dec. 31, 19
1992	(Jan. 1.1992 to Dec. 31, 1$
1993	(Jan. 1.1993 to Dec. 31, 1$
Employee
Payout
January. 1992 January, 1993 January, 1994
PLANT BUDGETS AND PAYOUf FORMULAE PLANT BUDGETS
The payout fcmnulae wll be applied Independently to each program year and each program eear will have established a Plant Budget Bese made uplol the ‘Normal* plant operations budget excluding material costs, distribution costs, capital spending or any ml«r extraordinary budget expenditure.
All budgets are to be prepared using standard and
recognized accounting principals ind win be reviewed with the Union for explanation, clarinet Jon and communication.
Any budget disputes, if unresolvet are subject to the normal
-------	------' Jes as outlined within the
Company shall make
grievance and arbitration orocedi Collective Agreement and the available, on request, all material! pertaining'to any budget
dispute to the Union and/or the counsel for examination prior to agreed that any budget materia i considered ‘Company Conliden el" documents that may contain certain competitive eostli g Information and era to be guarded as such by the Un c counsel.
Inion's designated legal he arbitration dale. It is s so provided are to be
on or the Union's legal
The Plant Budget Base lor e|ich Program year shall he as follows:
Program Year	Pliant Budget Baae
1991	For	the	pared	June 1, to Dec. 31, 199t
1992	For	the	period	Jan. 1, to Dec. 31,1992
1993	For	the	perpd	Jan. 1, to Dec. 31, 1993
PAYOUT FORMULAE
>	At targeted Plant Budge attainment of one hundred percent (10049) In any “r ogram" year, employees will receive, as per the "Plan Juallflers'', eight percent (849) ol the average base rate In the Plant as calculated on December 31 of the real ective Program year, paid In e lump sum payment du Ina the January Immediately following.
>	II the targeted Plant Budgfet attainment Is ninety percent (9049) (le. ten percent (10 9) favourable) In any Program year, then employees wll share In these efficiencies in that they will receive, as | er the Plan Qualifiers, twelve percent (1249) of the ave age base rata In the Plant as calculated on December 91 of the respective Program year, paid In a lump sumfpaymenl during the January Immediately following.
>	If the targeted Plant Bud et attainment is one hundred and ten percent (110 9) (ie. ten percent (1049) unfavourable) in any Pro ram year, then employees will share in these IneHIclenc es in that they will receive, as per the Plan Qualifiers three percent (3%) of the average base rate In he Plant as calculated on December 31 of the res ectlvo Program year, paid In a lump sum payment du Ing the January Immediately following.
>	There will be no erupiuroo payout from the Plan if budget attainment exceeds one hundred and ten percent (110%).
>	Budget attainment (allln (between the above corridors or less than ninety p reent (9049) payout to be calculated on a pro-rata basis (see figure A).
•ITS YOUR BUSINESS"
EMPLOYEE RECOGNITION INCENTIVE PROGRAM PAYOUT FORMULAE
' PAYOUT RATE**
FIGURE A
'Applied to Average Adual Plan!	at Oecerrter 31
In any Program year, lo be paid lr|a lunp sum separate cheque as early in January as passible.
QUALIFIERS
In order to realise any Employes Recognition Incentive Award Payout, in any Program year, the following Qualifiers" must be met:
a)	A Plant Budget attanmem no greater than one hundred and ten percent (110%) rutst be realized.
i nd
Employees must meet the Service Factor Requrements as stipulated below. .
and
c) Employees must meetl the Attendance Factor Requirementsas stipulates below.
SERVICE FACTOR (Program Years 1S92 and 1993)
a)	Employees having one (IJyear of continuous service at December 31st In any Program year, calalated from their last date of hire, shaflfreceive a km sum payment equivalent to one hundred percent (100%) of the Individual payout calculator?
Employees having nine K9) months of continuous service, but less than one ,1) year at December3tst In any program year, calcutat d from their last date of hire, shall receive a lump sum payment equivalent to seventy-five percent (75°p) of the individual payout calciiation.
c)
Employees having six (0) but less than nine (9) moril Program year, calculated shall receive a lump sum percent (50%) of the Indiyl
■norths ol continuous service Ihs at December 31st In any from their last date of hire, payment equivalent to fifty ■Idual payout calculation.
d) Employees having lessl than six (6) months of continuous service at December 31st in any Program year, calculatedfrom theij last date of hire will qualify for the following year inceptive award accordingto the plan document.
5(
SERVICE FACTOR PROGRAM YEAR 1991 FOR PROGRAM YEAR tai ONLY
Employees having one hundred and fifty-two (152] working days of continuous serv :e durlno the perloc June 1.1991 to December 31.199 shall receive a kmp sum payment equivalent to or a hundred percent (100%) ol the Individual payout i alculalion
b)	Employees having one hundrer working days of continuous serv :i hundred and fifty-two (152] workirjg service during the period Junel, 1991 shall receive a lump sum p seventy-five percent (7595) of t calculation.
and fourteen (111] :a but less than one days of continuous 991to December 31, ymenl equivalent to ie Individual payout
c)	Employees having seventy-six (T6) working days of continuous service but less than one hundred and fourteen (114) working days of consnuous service during the period June 1.1991 to December 31.1991 shall receive a lump sum payment equKalent to fifty percent (5095] of the Individual payout calculation.
d)	Employees having less than seviMy-sIx (78) working days of continuous service durlrp the period June 1, 1991 to December 31, 1991 wilfnot qualify for any oavment lor the 1991 Program Jsar.
ATTENDANC|EFACTORS
a) To qualify for an incentive payout award, any employee must attend work at least ninety-bur (944b) of the regular work days In the Program year. Paid vacations and paid designated holidays are excepted. Any other reason of absence whetnbr excused or not (e g. leave of absence, sickness, bereavement) will be considered an absence for purposes of the Incentive award program.
b)	Any employee who is gi defined within the currant lot the Province ol Ontar award, calculated on a . number ol days absent fri leave.
|i anted a maternity leave as Employment Standards Act, o. will be paid the Incentive pro-rata basis based on the work due to the maternity
E.G. Twenty-five (25) employee would receive twenty-live (25)weeks * I rata calculation would aim payout calculation amount.
vfeeka maternity leave, the > fifty-two (52) weeks minus i frenty-seven (27) weeks. Pro->ly be 27752 times Ihe normal
c)	Attendance calculations dre based on total cumulative hours worked within the Proa ram year and Include all overtime or call-in hours.
Employees who experience absence greater than sM percent (6%) of the regul tr work days of the Program year will not qualify tor an incentive payout award. However, employees may make up time on an overtime basis, on raquest and su ;h requests shall be granted provided that appropriate wofk DrdvaMlfet.
Such requested make up ime shall bepaid al overtime rates as stipulated in th > Collective Agreement bul attendancecredits lo re-c .ratify for an Incentive payoul award will accumulate only on an hour-tor-hour straight time basis.
e)	Any employee laid off wltHin Ihe terms of the Collective Agreement will continue lo accumulate service for purposes of this program, buf any payout cafcufafi'ont will be made on a pro-data basis using total hours worked during the Program year.
UENCnHL
PROQRAM YEAR 1 (June 1,1991 to December 31, 1191)
> At soon •• possible folk—	Juno 1. 1891. oil bargaining unit employees shall r calve a four hundred dollar ($40000) lump sum peym ml as an advance to their anticipated January 1,199 payout amount.
If their Individual payout amount xceeds lour hundred dollars ($40000), they shall race re the larger amount less four hundred dollars ($400 0). It their Individual payout amount Is less than f >ur hundred dollars ($40000) or the plan doe snot del vara payout,,the (cur hundred dollars ($400.00) Is guaranteed.
PROGRAM YEAR 2
(January 1, 1992 to Oecem ler 31, 1992)
>	As soon as possible followinj June 1, 1992, all
bargaining unit employees shaft i tceive a tw) hundred dollar ($200,00) lump sum paym mt as an advance to their anticipated January, 1993 layout amount. This amount shal be an offset to thejefiuary payout amort.
PROGRAM YEAR 3
(January 1,1993 to December 31,1993)
>	Normal payout award as per R(n document
53
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
GENERAL PROVISIONS COVERING PAYMENT OF AVERAOE [EARNINGS
Current Average Earnings ipill be paid for the following reasons:
1.	Time spent by an employee transferred at the Company's convenience to another occupation, while work is availabe and Is leheduled Into production on the employee's designated occupation.
2.	Unmeasured Work - lime spent on an Incentive occupation for which an {engineered standard has not yet been determined.
3.	Time spent making samples.
Extra Handling - Time stent when an operator works against msastrad standi rds which carrot be attained for reasons beyond the control of the operator (e g. Improper cutting, malfunction of machine, etc.)
5.	Tune spent by an Incentive Operator who Is temporarily transferred by the Company to instruct as per Article 15.06.
6.	Vtbrk Station Garment Repairs - Time spent on repairs for which the operator is hot responsible while work Is available on the operators occupation and scheduled into production.
7.	Time spent when an Ihcentlve operator, who has reported a lack of work situation to the foreman or his designate, is not assigned to another operation.
wci icn ur unveno^nwinM
RE VACATION PA)f
When calculated earnings on ilch vacation pay percentages will be applied, time si by an employee covered by Workers' Compensation ill be considered as time effectively worked at the emplo e's base rate of pay for a maximum period of twe l (12) months of compensation.
55
LETTER OF UKQERSTANOINa
GENERAL PROVISIONS COVERING TRANSFER WITH INCENTIVE ASSISTANCE PROGRAM IN THE SEWING DEPARTMENT
Transfer Average Incentive (Till) payments will be In ellect as listed on the attached schedule.
Accumulated time records vni ce kept lor each employee on each operation to which hi is transferred except in the case of short term transfers ti till an operation caused by absenteeism or machine fails, a. where no records will be kept for the first working d y or part thereof on said operation. The employee will be eligible for the Incentive Assistance Payment Prograt i once only per operation. However. If the employee has teen away from an operation for twelve (12) months or m< re, ha will be allowed a re-famlliarliatlon period ol thirty ( 0) hours at TAI. Furthermore. II an employee has not perfon ted an operation for a period ol Iwenty-lour (24) months, h( will be eligible for completa Incentive Assistance Payment Program upon return to said operation.
Employees on the Incentive Assistance Payment Program will be subject to the following maximum payments:
a) TAI Program - payment |up to the equivalent of his current average.
Calculations:
TAI - 504t> of current average at time of transfer. 7544 of SAM s created on the transferred job.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
GBERAL PROVISIONS COVERINGIpROUP SENIORITY (INCENTIVE) IN THE SEWlNGlDEPARTMENT
Designated Groups	Transfer Within tha Oroup
(a)	Chainstilch
(b)	Blindstrtch Hem (cj Single Needle
(d)	Overlock (Serge)
(•) Automatic Belt
(f)	Semi-Automatic
(g)	Computerized Equipment
(h)	Finished Goods Handling
(i)	Unit Production System
irst 30 hours Irst 30 hours irst 30 hours Irst 30 hours Irst 30 hours Irst 30 hours Irst 30 hours irst 30 hours Irst 30 hours
Designated Groups Tran	later Tb New Group	
(a) Chainstitch	I 40	hours
(b) Blindstitch Hem	r 40	hours
(c) Single Needle	I 40	hours
(d) Overlook (Serge)	j «	hours
(e) Automatic Belt	r 40	hours
(0 Semi-Automatic	( 40	hours
(Q) Computerized Equipment	1 40	hours
(h) Finished Goods Handling	1 40	hours
(i) Unit Production System	r 40	hours
56
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
GENERAL PROVISIONS CQVERINO GROUP SENIORITY (INCENTIVE) IN THE SERVING DEPARTMENT
Operations Within Group
Attach bindings, coverseam, tunnel elastic, multi-needle stripes, elastic multi-needle, reinforce neck
All types, wooling
One and two needles
Shoulders, attach necks, attach elastic, all other leece, all other noivfleece, J.P.S. utility
Conveyor belt sleeve operator
Earring, button, buttonhole, 'locking eyelet, doming, labelling (Juki)
(g)	Computerized Equipment 3ockel sew, stitch collars,
nake collar bands, toverseam bottom hem. •mbroldery machines, label making
(h)	Finished Goods Handlins Inspection, lacing, U.P.S
onsolidator
(I) Unit Production System pad garments
51
Oatlgnaled Groups
(a)	Chainstitch
(b)	Bllnostlteh Hem
(c)	Single Needle
(d)	Overlook (Serge)
(e)	Automatic Belt (0 Semi-Automatic
GROUP PROCEDtlnir
a) Other than through a layoff, opefato their respective operations, and af si to their respective operation v structure outlined in the group tysp will always determine the requirements.
rs will remain on >r absence will return vlthin Ihe seniority im. Production levels icessary employes
b) When the volume of production o a group reduces to the point v personnel is warranted, the leas the operation within the group w opening in the said group. If then said group, Ihe employes can displace the most Junior employ n
c) The displaced employee from th r goup will exercise his seniority to displace the ieat senior employee In the department, unless he car be assigned to an opening in the department.
I	an operation within here a reduction ol senior employes on
II	be assigned lo an is no opening In the use his seniority lo e In ihe group.
d) The employee displaced from exercise his seniority as per the in Article X. Section 10.02 of the (
he department cam novisions contained ollective Agreement.
e) An employee who exercises h i rights as per the provisions (cj and (d) above shall continue lo accumulate his seniority In hi; original group or department for a period ofthree 3) calendar months, after which the total accumulr ed seniority of the employee will be transferred t his new group or department. If conditions chan; e within the above-mentioned lima Emit, Creating op things in the original groups or department, the amp oyees affected may return to their original groups an (for departments. All transfers resulting from the foregi ing provisions will be paid on the Incentive Assistancr Program.
The Company reserves the ri hi lo displace Ihe Operators who have exercised twit seniority rights to obtain a new occupation, il they d<| not perform the work assigned in accordance with the Cprpany's quality and productton standards.
Updated listings of Sewing Departtneit employees by Sewing Groups will be posted on tfiejoepartment Bulletin Board every three (3) months.
LETTER OF UNljiERSTANOINQ
RE TEMPORARY RATES
Temporaiy rates will be in effect up lo thirty (30) wotted days during which time standards ^vill be established.
LETTER OF UNDERStwoiNO
RE CHEMICALS NOTWCATION
The Company agrees lo supply the Union President and the Co-Chairman of the Safety Corr miltee with a current list of chemicals being used in the pi int and to update this listing every three (3) months. It la understood that the submitted lists am for the use of the l nton Local and Safety Committee only and are treated as a Confidential COMPANY document

LETTER OP U^EflSTANOINQ
The Company will supply the union with job duties related (o the occupations covered b« this Agreement. The Union agrees that it win assist Industrial Engineering in preparing these job descriptions for fopect jobs.
LETTER OF UNDER S/ANOtNO
RE MOTORIZED VEt ICLES
J| present and future employees^.** are responsiblefdr perating Forklift, Stackers or any J er motorized vehicles rill be required to take an in-plant wi,5"a	*•+ as
iart of the requirements of the job
LETTER OF t|NDER3TANDINQ RESAFETV FOOTWEAR
The Company, at the by the Collective Agredi employees up to a maid ($100.00) per contract year, foolwssr. Such emptoyeen of payment to be eligible '
request of any employee(s) covered merit agrees to reimburse ilnum of one hundred dollars owards the purchase of safely ust provide the original receipt tbr reimbursement.
The Company agrees to a discussion oniy, with the Union, concerning service factor recognil bn of previous TAG employees only once all bankruptcy proceedings Involve the insolvency of TAG. are complc led, and in particular, all proceedings where the union npy be involved.
65
GENERAL PROVISIONS COVERING
PREVIOUS [SENIORITY
For the purposes of the Con1 Part.el, an employee's aam only on an employee's langt and an employees service a employers, including the Apparel Group Inc., shall no purpose whatsoever exceptl
Puve Agreement Between the ity and service will be based ol service with Ihe Company d seniority with any previous enmans Division of TAG oe taken lnk> account for any rthe purposes enumerated
-	Computation of probationary period;
-	Lay-off(s) occurring aftqr the effective date of the Co ective Agreement,
-	Recall(s) occurring after tne effective date of the Collective Agreement;
-	Awarding job posted vacancies;
-	Job assignments pursues! to Article X, Section 1Q.03 of the Collective Agreemeri;
-	Changes of occupation pursuant, to Article XII,. Section 12.11 of the Collective Agreement:
-	Transfers outside the Jiaigalning unit pursuant to Article XII, Section 12.13) of the Collective Agreement;
-	Transfers of employees pursuant to Article XII, Section 12.12 of the Collective Aareement:
-	Pregnancy leave
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN
PENMANS. A SUBSIDIARY OF JOHN FORSYTH COMPANY INC.
AND
THE AMALGAMATED CLOTHINd AND TEXTILE WORKERS UNION AFL-QO-CLC AND ITS LOCAL 19|7
Be it agreed, that during the fonrl ot the Collective Agreement, if the Union or its Local 19 i7 can demonstrate to the Company, that there has tern ai ritrary use ot and/or application of Article X - General Prr visions Respecting Lay-Off, Section 13.02. then the subs action 10.02 will be expunged end will be deleted from a y future Collective Agreement.
Signed this day, the.
.1991.
FOR THE COMPANY
FOl{ THE UNION