
ISCJURO: [ FFf. ,	■:
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT

RENNIE INC.
jAnd:
UNION OF NEEDLETRADES, INDUSTRIAL AND TEXTILE -i EMPLOYEES AFL-CIQ, CLC - LOCAL 740
EFFECTIVE DATES APRIL 1,1997 to
MARCH 31, 2000
Ti
::lu(
7 A ; n n Ji',U
■■if*..
; &£$'■■■
..i, %)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ARTICLE DESCRIPTION

ARTICLE 1 -ARTICLE 2-ARTICLE 3-ARTICLE 4-ARTICLE 5-ARTICLE 6-ARTICLE 7-ARTICLE 8-ARTICLE 9-ARTICLE 10 -ARTICLE 11 -ARTICLE 12 -ARTICLE 13-ARTICLE 14 -ARTICLE 15-ARTICLE 16 -ARTICLE 17-ARTICLE 18-ARTICLE 19-
RECOGNITION.............
MANAGEMENT RIGHTS.......
NO STRIKESAND NO LOCKOUTS
UNION SECURITY..........
UNION REPRESENTATION....
HOURS OF WORK...........
OVERTIME................
INCENTIVE PLAN .........
REPORTINGAND WAITING TIME
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE.....
ARBITRATION..............
DISCIPLINEAND DISCHARGE . . .
SENIORITY...............
LEAVE OF ABSENCE .......
VACATION WITH PAY........
PLANT HOLIDAYS..........
REST PERIODS............
BEREAVEMENT.......'.....
WAGES...................
ARTICLE 20 - WELFARE BENEFITS • • • • ARTICLE 21 - TERM OF AGREEMENT . .
MISCELLANEOUS.................
SCHEDULE"A
INCENTIVEWORKERS......
SCHEDULE “B"
TIME WORK CLASSIFICATIONS
27
28
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
This CollectiveAgreement is made effective this 1st day of April 1997, Between:
RENNIE INC.
(herein called the "Company")
And:
UNION OF NEEDLETRADES, INDUSTRIAL AND TEXTILE EMPLOYEES, AFL-CIO, CLC - LOCAL740
(herein called the "Union)
ARTICLE 1 • RECOGNITION
1.01	The Company recognizes the Union as the exclusive Collective bargaining agent for all employees of the Company at Guelph, save and except foremen, foreladies, persons above the rank of foremen, foreladies, students employed for the school periods, and office and sales staff.
The Employer shall recognize and deal with such representatives of the employees as the Union may elect or appoint. Any Union representative shall, upon obtaining permission of the designated official of the Employer have the right to enter the plant, including any of the work rooms, during working hours, for the purpose of investigating any grievance, or dispute arising out of the administration, interpretation, application or alleged violation of the terms of the Agreement. Union representative or representatives in performing such duties, shall not interrupt or delay production.
1
1.03	The Employer agrees to make available to the Union a quarterly
report of all employees in the Union, showing seniority, job classification, quarterly average or time work rate, addresses and telephone numbers.
104 The Union shall have the right to post notices on a bulletin board or boards to be located in the plant of the Employer at mutually agreeable places, provided such notices first are submitted to the local office of the Employer for approval.
1.05	All Union employees must record the time off their regular work spent on Union business. This "Union business" time will be paid by the Company at average and this amount will be reimbursed to the Company by the Union once each month.
1.06	The Union and the Company will meet monthly. Any issues arising out of the meeting will be resolved by either party by the following month's meeting.
ARTICLE 2 - MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
2.01	The Union acknowledges that it is the exclusive function of the
Company to:
a)	Maintain order, discipline and efficiency;
b)	Hire, retire, classify, direct, promote, transfer, discipline, suspend and discharge employees for just cause, and to increase and decrease working forces;
c)	Generally to manage the industrial enterprise in which the Company is engaged, and without restricting the generality of the foregoing, to determine the number
2
and location of plants, the products to be manufactured and handled, the methods of manufacturing, schedules of production, kinds and locations of machines, tools and equipment to be used, processes of manufacturing and assembling, the design of its products, and the control of materials and parts to be incorporated in the products produced.
d)	To make, alter and enforce the rules and regulations to be observed by employees;
e)	The Company agrees that the functions and rights of management set forth in the immediately preceding subsections 1), b), c) and d) shall be exercised in a manner consistent with all provisions of the Agreement.
ARTICLE 3 - NO STRIKES AND NO LOCKOUTS
3.01	During the term of this Agreement, the Company agrees that it will not cause or direct any lockout of its employees, and the Union agrees that there will be no strike, sit-down, work stoppage, either complete or partial, for any reason by the employees acting in combination.
ARTICLE4 - UNION SECURITY
4.01	Membership in the Union shall be required as a condition of employment of each employee.
4.02	All employees who are members of the Union shall as a condition of continued employment, remain members in good standing during the term of this Agreement.
3
4.03	The Employer agrees to deduct at such intervals as may be agreed upon by the parties, from the wages of each of its employees, who are members of the Union, the prescribed dues and to remit the same once each month to the Union with a list of the employees from whom such deductions have been made.
ARTICLE 5 - UNION REPRESENTATION
5.01	Employees will be allowed to have a Union Representative present at a meeting with the Company whenever the employee requests representation.
ARTICLE 6 ■ HOURS OF WORK
6.01	The normal hours of work shall be forty (40) perweek consisting of eight (8) hours per day (7:30 a.m. to 4:00 p.m.) each day Monday to Friday inclusive. The lunch period shall be unpaid, and shall be one-half(1/2) hour in duration. The Company does not guarantee to provide work or employment for normal hours or any other hours.
Where possible a four (4) hour notice will be given to an employee when there is not enough work for the full eight (8) hour shift.
6.02	Pays will be handed out every Thursday unless the statutory holiday falls on the Thursday, then the pays will be handed out on Wednesday immediately prior to the statutory holiday.
ARTICLE 7-OVERTIME
4
7.01	All work in excess of the regular schedule of hours (hours of work6.01)will be regarded as over-time and paid for at the rate of time and one-half (11/2) of his or her piecework earnings or minimum guarantee, whichever is higher, or, in the case of a time-worker, time and one-half (1 1/2) of the hourly rate.
ARTICLE 8 - INCENTIVE PLAN
8.01	The Company agrees that the Piecework Incentive Plan being operated by the Company as at the effective date of this Agreement shall continue in effect for the duration of this Agreement.
8.02	Standard Piecework Incentive Rates will not be changed, after formal issuance, unless there has been a change of method, material, tooling, equipment, process, location, design or style of product, or unless changed by mutual agreement between the parties. Such restrictions shall not apply when changing temporary or estimated Piecework Incentive Rates.
Rates for new operations, changed operations or changed conditions shall be set by the Employer. Rates for new equipment shall be set by the employer and shall be considered temporary for a maximum period of six (6) months, during which time the Employer shall have the right to modify or change the rate. After the period of six (6) months changing of a rate shall not be done except by mutual agreement.
8.03	Employees assigned work to be performed under the Incentive Plan, will be given the Piecework Incentive Rate applicable to such work assignment. If an employee working on an incentive job believes the Standard Piecework Rate to be incorrect, he/she may take the matter up underthe Grievance Procedure
5
as herein provided.
The Company will make available to the Union Steward all rate changes for their respective department. The Company will make available to the Union Regional Representativeany time study sheet when requested, for the purpose of review in the presence of the Company. Time study sheets will not be photocopied and will not leave the Company premises.
8.04	An employee working on an incentive operation who is temporarily assigned to do other work as a convenience to the Company, when work is available for the employee on his or her regular operation, shall be paid his or her average incentive earnings for the duration of the assignment.
8.05	If an employee is temporarily transferred to another job due to lack of work, he or she will be paid the rate of the job. In case of time workers, the employee will be paid the rate of the job to which he or she is temporarily transferred.
8.06	It is understood that increases in piecework base rates will not be less than the provincial minimum rate.
ARTICLE 9 - REPORTING AND WAITING TIME
9.01	Except under circumstances over which the Company has no control, employees who report for work at their regular starting time, in the absence of notice from the Company not to report for work or at an hour designated by the Company, shall have at least four (4) hours of work provided for them, or, in lieu of work, shall be paid at their straight time hourly rate or at their average straight time hourly earnings whichever is the greater, for the four (4) hours. This clause shall not apply in the event of
6
power failure, fire or other causes over which the Employer has no control.
Except that employees shall be paid their average hourly rate when they are in the plant whether they work or not until such time as they are told to go home.
9.02	Machine breakage will be paid at average hourly rate (or off-standard rate if the employee was working on that rate) for all time approved by the Supervisor. If a similar machine on the same operation is available, the employee may be temporarily transferred to that machine and will work on a piece work basis.
ARTICLE 10 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
10.01	A grievance may arise only from a dispute concerning the interpretation, application, administration or alleged violation of this Agreement.
10.02	The grievance shall be submitted in written form, provided by the Union, and signed by the employee directly involved. An earnest effort will be made on the part of both parties to settle such grievances promptly through the following steps:
STEP NO. 1
The aggrieved employee and the department steward will present the grievance to the department supervisor. The supervisor shall reply to the grievance in writing within two (2) working days. If the matter is not settled satisfactorily the Union may proceed to Step No. 2.
STEP NO. 2
7
The aggrieved employee with the department steward and Local President will present the grievance to the Plant Manager. The Plant Manager shall reply to the grievance in writing within three (3) working days. If the matter is not settled satisfactorily the Union may proceed to Step No. 3,
STEP NO.3
The Local President, Vice-president	and Regional
Representative of the Union will present the grievance to the Plant Manager. The Plant Manager shall reply to the grievance in writing within three (3) working days. If the matter is not settled satisfactorily the Union may proceed to Arbitration.
ARTICLE 11-ARBITRATION
11.01	1)	If the Union and the Employer are unable to adjust any
complaint, grievance or dispute, as the case may be, in accordance with the procedures provided in Article 10, Clause 10.02, then the matter shall be referred to arbitration.
2)	Arbitration shall be by an impartial Arbitrator.
a) If an Arbitrator cannot be agreed upon by both parties within one (1) week after a request therefore, then the Arbitrator shall be appointed by the Minister of Labour of the Province of Ontario.
b) The compensation and the expenses of the impartial Arbitrator shall, in all cases, be borne
8
equally by the Union and the Employer
C) The decision, order, direction, or award of the Arbitrator shall be final, conclusive and binding on the Employer, the Union and the employees represented by the Union.
3)	The parties consent that any papers or notices necessary or appropriate to initiate or continue an arbitration hereunder or to confirm, vacate or modify an award, may be served by registered mail directly to the last known address of the Employer and the Union.
4)	The Arbitrator shall not have any power to alter any of the terms or provisions of this Agreement or substitute any new provisions for any existing provisions, nor to give any decision inconsistent with the provisions hereof.
5)	Either party may call such arbitration hearing on giving five (5) days notice by registered mail or two (2) days notice by telegram to the other party. The Arbitrator however, if deemed appropriate by him or them, may call a hearing on shorter notice. The parties consent that arbitration hearings shall be held at such place as the Arbitrator shall designate.
6)	In the event that any or either party to arbitration shall default in appearing before the Arbitrator then the proof of the party appearing may be taken and any decision, order, direction, or award based thereon.
7)	The procedure established in this Agreement for the adjustment of disputes shall be exclusive means for the
9
determination of such disputes, including strikes,
stoppages, lockouts, and acts rising therefrom except as expressly provided otherwise in this Agreement.
8)	Nothing in this article shall preclude either party from applying for arbitration under Section 49 of the Labour Relations Act.
ARTICLE 12 ■ DISCIPLINE AND DISCHARGE
12.01	A claim by an employee that he or she has been unjustly disciplinedor a claim by an employee, having acquired seniority standing under this Agreement, that he or she has been discharged without just cause from his or her employment shall be treated as a grievance if a written statement of such grievance is lodged with the Company within three (3)working days of the disciplinary action or discharge. Such grievance shall commence at Step No. 2 of the Grievance Procedure.
12.02	A grievance under this section may be settled or disposed of by confirming Management's action, by reinstating the employee with full compensationfor time lost where applicable or by any other arrangement which is just and equitable in the opinion of the conferring Arbitrator.
ARTICLE 13-SENIORITY
13.01	A new employee shall be on probation until after he or she has continuously worked for th'e Company for a period of three (3) months. If retained, he or she shall then acquire seniority standing from date of hire, and his or her name shall be placed on the Seniority Record.
10
13.02	The seniority of any employee shall be considered in the event of permanent lay-offs, demotions or promotions provided that the senior or retained employee is qualified to perform the remaining work. In the event of permanent transfer, temporary transfer or lack of work on an operation the seniority of the operators on that operation shall be considered.
As per past practice when the Company purchases new machinery, the senior employee for the same operation will' have preference for such machinery.
13.03	When an employee is permanently transferred, they shall have fifteen (15) working days on their average rate. If an extension is requested, the Union and the Employer will meet to discuss whether an extension is required. A written notice of permanent transfer shall be received five (5) working days before the transfer is to be made. Where there is no piece work incentive rate the fifteen (15) working days will begin the day after the incentive rate has been set.
13.04	An employee's name shall be removed from the Seniority Record on termination of his or her employment for any reason whatsoever. Employees having been on lay-off for over a six (6) month period shall have their names removed from the Seniority Record.
13.05	Whenever an employee absents himself or herself from work, he or she shall, within twenty-four (24) hours, provide an acceptable reason to the Company, and shall notify the Company by messenger, mail or telephone. When an employee is absent from work on account of sickness, he or she shall on his or her return be reinstated in employment in accordance with his or her seniority rights as provided herein, provided proper notification of his or her intended return has
11
been given to the Company, and provided that his or her health is sufficiently restored to do the work involved, and that the length of absence has been acceptable to the Company.
13.06	Seniority records shall be maintained by the Company, and a seniority list shall also be prepared by the Company at least every six (6) months. Copies of such lists shall be posted in the plant, and shall be furnished to the Local President. The first (1st) seniority list prepared by the Company shall be accepted as correct by the employees and the parties hereto after one (1) month has elapsed from the date of posting. Any adjustments made to the list, as the result of challenges within the aforementioned period, shall be by mutual consent of the parties. The Local President shall be furnished a copy of the first (1st) seniority list within one (1) month of the signing of the first (1st) Agreement by the parties.
13.07	JOB POSTING
The Company shall post in the Plant on Bulletin Boards all job vacancies for a period of three (3)working days. The job will be awarded to a qualified employee based on performance, seniority, quality and attendance. The Company will supply the Local President with the job posting', names of applicants and the successful applicant. The successful applicant will have thirty (30) days to achieve production and quality standards. Applicants must have at least one year of service with the Company and will not apply for another posted job until one (1) year from the date of transfer.
12
13.08	LAYOFFS AND RECALL CLAUSE
Layoffs and recall to work after a temporary layoff (fifteen (15) working days or less) will be by operation or similar operation and shall be governed by the employee’s plant seniority within that operation.
Layoffs and recall to work from an indefinite layoff (sixteen (16) working days or more) will be on the basis of plant wide seniority provided the employee can perform the work to standard. Employees will retain recall rights for a period of one year and will be entitled to their previous job or a similar job or they will have the right to accept or decline one other available job.
This provision is subject to the requirement that the senior employee possesses sufficient skill and ability to satisfactorily perform the work to be done.
The most senior employee shall be the last person laid off and the first recalled providing there is work they are able to perform.
13.09	TransfersOut Of The Bargaining Unit
a)	Any employee who is transferred to a position outside the bargaining unit and is transferred back to the bargaining unit will be regarded as a new hire and will not have any seniority status. However, the employee will maintain their years of service for the purposes of vacation, severance and/or pension.
b)	In cases where an employee is transferred into the bargaining unit and had not been previously in the
13
bargaining unit will also come under the same terms and conditions as stated above and their seniority shall begin as that of a new hire.
It is also understood that no employee from (a) or(b) above will displace another bargaining unit employee, or be placed into a vacancy, prior to the vacancy being posted. In cases of posted vacancies preference will always be given to bargaining unit employees first, and any previous experience the employee had who is returning to the bargaining unit with, will not be considered.
ARTICLE 14 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE
14.01	Leave of absence shall be granted an employee upon request if an employee is ill or a member of their immediate family is seriously ill. Their immediate family to include the employee's brother, sister, husband, wife, son, daughter, father or stepfather (not both), mother or step-mother (not both), legally adopted children and common-law spouse (with proof). Illness shall be certified by a doctor's certificate, from the employee's personal physician, if required, or at the Company's expense the Company may require the employee to attend an independent medical examination by a mutually agreed upon doctor, at some time during the period of disability. Leave on account of illness shall include maternity cases subject to the following conditions:
a)	Employee with less than three (3) months of service shall not be granted a leave of absence.
b)	Employee with more than three (3) months of service
14
but less than six (6) months of service shall be granted up to a maximum of six (6) months leave of absence for personal illness only (not to include maternity leave) and shall be given preference in subsequent hiring.
c)	Employees with more than six (6) months of service but less than one (1) year of service shall be granted leave of absence for personal illness (not to include maternity leave) up to a maximum of one (1) year, previous job to be guaranteed for the first six (6) months with preference in any subsequent hiring for the second (2nd) six (6) months.
d)	Employees with six (6) months of service but less than one (1) year of service shall be granted maternity leave up to a maximum of six (6) months with previous job guaranteed for the first (1st) six (6) months and preference given in any subsequent hiring for the next six (6) months.
e)	Employees with one (1) year or more of service shall be granted maternity leave up to a maximum of one (1) year with previous job guaranteed for the first (1st) six (6) months and preference given in any subsequent hiring for the second (2nd) six (6) months.
f)	Employees with more than six (6) months of service shall be granted leave of absence for illness in the immediate family up to a maximum of three (3) months with previous job guaranteed.
g)	Employees with more than one (1) year of service shall be granted leave of absence for personal illness (not to include maternity leave) up to a maximum of one (1)
15
year with previousjob guaranteed for the first (1st) six (6) months and a job of similar nature guaranteed for the second (2nd) six (6) months.
14.02	a) The initial leave of absence for employees with three
(3) months of service but less than six (6) months of service shall be one (1) month, such leave of absence may be extended for an additional period of one (1) month each up to a maximum of six (6) months.
b) The initial leave of absence for employees with six (6) months or more of service shall not be more than three (3) months, this leave may be extended for additional periods of one (1) month each up to a maximum of one (1) year.
14.03	It is understood that leaves of absence and extensions not herein provided may under certain exceptional circumstances, shall not be unreasonably denied. Leave of absence and extensions under such exceptional circumstances shall be subject to agreement between the Employer and the Union.
14.04	Any employee who has been absent on account of sickness, upon return to work, must be physically able to perform the work available. The Employer may demand a doctor's certificate as evidence of physical capacity.
14.05	In case a job or operation has been abolished during an employee's absence, such provisions shall apply to reemployment as would have,applied had such employee been at work at the time the job or operation was abolished.
14.06	Leave of Absence without loss of seniority shall be granted to a reasonable number of employees elected to act as
16
representatives of the Union, or as delegates to Union conventions, conferences, and other similar functions. Such employees shall be reinstated to their respective previous jobs, operations or machines upon return to work, provided that the leave is two (2) weeks or less. In the event of a leave of absence of more than two (2) weeks for any of the foregoing reasons such employee shall be reinstated to his or her previousjob and insofar as practicable to the same operation or machine. An employee on leave of absence as a delegate to a Union convention, conference or other similar functions shall be entitled to holiday pay for any holiday which occurs during such leave.
14.07	Any employee who is granted a leave of absence under this Article shall be given a written authorization thereof by the Employer, which authorization shall include the dates of the beginning and the end of the leave of absence. A copy of said authorization shall be sent to the Local President within one (1) week of the granting of the leave of absence. Employees on leave of absence wishing an extension should make application for such extension prior to the expiration date of the granted leave of absence.
14.08	Additional time off (not to exceed one (1) month) for reasons - otherthan sickness, to be eligible the employee must have five
(5) years seniority and once every five (5) years thereafter. Adequate notice must be given so that production difficulties can be worked out.
14.09	If an employee is required to be absent from work because he or she is called for jury duty or summoned to be a crown witness, the Employer will reimburse the employee for the difference between his or her average hourly rate or time work rate for the time he or she is away and the amount the court
17
pays him or her for appearing.
In order to qualify an employee must supply the Employer with the necessary receipts showing the amount paid to the employee by the court.
ARTICLE 15 - VACATION WITH PAY
15.01	Untilfurther notice from the Company the plant will be closed for a two (2) week period each year during which time employees will be accorded their annual vacation.
Number of Years of Service	Vacation Payment	Time Off for Vacation
Lessthan 1 vear	4%	—
1 year	4%	1 week
2 years	4%	2 weeks
5 years	6%	3 weeks
10 years	8%	4 weeks
20 years	10%	5 weeks
25 years	10%	6 weeks
18
30 years	12%	7 weeks
35 years	14%	8 weeks
EFFECTIVE AERILUMB
Number of Years of Service	Vacation Payment	Time Off for Vacation
Less than 1 year	4%	
1 year	4%	1 week
2 years	4%	2 weeks
5 years	6%	3 weeks
10 years	8%	4 weeks
15 years	8%	5 weeks
20 years	10%	5 weeks
25 years	10%	6 weeks
30 years	12%	7 weeks
35 years	14%	8 weeks
15.04	The time off for vacations shall be taken during the vacation period (which is the day after the plant shut down to the end of plant shut down) which coincides with the calculation period.
15.05	Third (3rd) week of vacation to be taken between Christmas and New Years or at whatever time as agreed to by the parties, but subject to as production scheduling allows and by seniority.
19
ARTICLE 16 - PLANT HOLIDAYS
16.01	The Company shall pay to those employees who have acquired seniority standing for normal hours ordinarily worked at the employees applicable rate of pay for the following nine (9) statutory holidays, plus three (3)floating holidays subject to the further provisions set forth in this article:
New Years Day Good Friday Victoria Day Floating Day
Canada Day Boxing Day Civic Holiday Floating Day
Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Christmas Day Floating Day
The three (3) Floating Holidays (to. be set by mutual agreement and this shall be established by March 31st.)
Should any of the holidays fall on a non-working day, the day celebrated as such shall be considered the holiday or in accordance with the EMPLOYMENT STANDARDS ACT.
16.02	1) An employee who is absent from work without
reasonable cause on the last scheduled workday before or the last scheduled workday after the holiday shall not be entitled to the holiday pay. (The last scheduled workday shall mean the last day an employee was scheduled to work prior to the layoff, illness, holiday or vacation). Reasonable cause shall include the following:
a)	Personal illness of the employee or serious illness of his or her immediatefamily, as described under Leave of Absence, Article 14, Clause 14.01. The Employer may request a doctor's certificate or other adequate proof thereof.
20
Death in the immediate family of the employee.
b)
c)	Excused absence by the Employer 'for any reason.
d)	Absence from work because work is unavailable.
2)	An employee who is absent from work during the entire week in which the holiday occurs shall not be entitled to holiday pay unless such absence is occasioned by personal illness certified by a doctor's certificate or layoff.
16.03	Time worked on the above mentioned holidays shall be paid for at double time of his or her piecework earnings or minimum guarantee, whichever is higher, or in the case of a time worker, double time of his or her hourly rate.
16.04	In the event that more than one (1) holiday is included in time off, an employee who is absent from work without reasonable cause on the work day before or the work day after the holiday shall be penalized no more than one (1) day's holiday pay for each day's absence.
ARTICLE 17 ■ REST PERIODS
17.01	A rest period often (id) minutes shall be allowed during each half shift.
The lunch period shall be unpaid, and shall be one-half (1/2) hour in duration.
21
ARTICLE 18 - BEREAVEMENT
18,01	a) All employees, except probationary, shall be entitled to a maximum of three (3) working days off with pay for bereavement in the immediate family. Immediate family to include the employee's father, mother, father-in-law, mother-in-law, spouse or common-law spouse (but not both), children, sister, brother, adopted children as well as the following members of the family: sister-in-law, brother-in-law, grandparent-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, stepchildren, grandparent and grandchild.
b)	In the case of out of province death, bereavement will be for four (4) days, without loss of earnings in order to arrange for and attend funeral or memorial, if attending.
c)	An employee requesting a leave of absence under above Clauses a and I? shall submit evidence satisfactory to the Company if requested in order to receive payment for leave :of absence.
d)	It is understood employees do not have to attend the funeral in order to be eligible for their bereavement paid time off.
22
ARTICLE 19 - WAGES
19.01	The wages in effect for the term of this agreement shall be those outlined in Schedules “ A and “B",
Effective April 1, 1997 a five ($0.05) cent wage increase.
Effective April 1, 1998 a ten ($0.10) cent wage increase.
Effective April 1, 1999 a ten ($0.10) cent wage increase.
ARTICLE 20 ■ WELFARE BENEFITS
20.01	The Company agrees to pay one hundred per cent (100%) of the cost of the Group Life and Prescription Drug Plan, after the employee has completed three (3) months of continuous service.
a) The Company agrees to assume one hundred percent (100%) of the cost of the Ontario Health Insurance Plan (O.H.I.P.) rates in effect as of January 1, 1987 for all eligible active employees. Thereafter, any increase in rates will be shared equally between the Employer and the employee.
To qualify for enrolment in the group insurance and prescription drug programmes, the employee must have completed three (3) months of continuous service and coverage will start the first (1st) of the month following completion of said three (3) months of continuous service.
Employeeswill be enrolled in the Ontario Health Insurance Plan in accordance with O.H.I.P. regulations. All employees will be
23
enrolled after completion of fourteen (14) working days except for employees who are exempt underO.H.I.P. regulations and have completed a request for exemption form in duplicate.
20.02	Coverage for eligible employees:
1)	Group	Life Insurance	$5,000.00
2)	Group	Medical and Surgiqal Insurance	O.H.I.P.
3)	Group	Hospitalization - Standard Ward	Care O.H.I.P.
4)	Prescription Drug Programme - 90%	of	Prescription
Drugs
5)	Coverage for eligible dependents- Same as 2, 3 and 4 above.
20.03	PENSION PI AN
The Pension Plan will be a defined contribution plan with the Employer paying one percent (1%)on all earnings accrued (less vacation and statutory holiday pay) to all qualified employees. The employee will match the Employer's contribution. If an employee leaves within a two (2)'year period both employee and Employer's contribution will be refundable under the Ontario Pension Benefits Act.
ARTICLE 21- TERM OF AGREEMENT
21.01 This Collective Agreement shall become effective op the Istdav of April 1997, and shall continue ip effect until the 31st day of March, 2000, and from year to ypar thereafter unless either
24
party gives notice to the other party hereto of an intent to terminate or amend this Agreement. Such notice shall be given in writing not earlier than one hundred and twenty (120) days, and at least prior to the expiry date of this Agreement, or of any subsequent period in which this Agreement, or of any subsequent period in which this Agreement remains in force.
MISCELLANEOUS
The Company will pay for Doctor's fees for notes or reports requested by the Company.
25
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties have executed this Agreement on the 11th day of June, 1997 at Guelph, Ontario.
FOR THE UNION
26
SCHEDULE"A"
PAY RATES FOR INCENTIVE WORKERS
1.	Base rate for sewing machine operators:
ADril 1, 1997	$7.05
April 1, 1998	$7.15
April 1, 1999	$7.25
2.	Base rate for packaging and hand operators:
April 1, 1997	$6.93
ADril 1. 1998	$7,03
April 1, 1999	$7.13
3.	Off Standard Rate for sewing machine operators:
April 1, 1994
$7.44
4,	Off Standard Rate for packaging and hand operators:
April 1, 1994
$7.29
To be eligible for this rdte an operator must have an established quarterly average as good or higher than it. If an operator's established quarterly average is less than the off standard rate the operator will be paid his or her established quarterly average.
This rate applies to waiting for work when an operator is caught up or transferred because of lack of work.
27
SCHEDULE“B”
PAY RATES FOR TIME WORK CLASSIFICATIONS
	4/1997	4/1998	4/1999
SERVICE/CLEA	NER:		
START	6.85	6.85	6.85
3 MONTHS	7.17	7.20	7.22
6 MONTHS	7.50	7.55	7.60
9 MONTHS	7.82	7.89	7.97
12 MONTHS	8.14	8.24	8.34
	4/1997	4/1998	4/1999
			
START	6.85	6.85	6.85
3 MONTHS	7.47	7.50	7.52
6 MONTHS	8.09	8.14	8.19
9 MONTHS	8.71	8.79	8.86
12 MONTHS	9.33	9.43	9.53
28
	4/1997	4/1998	4/1999
LIFT TRUCK DR	MVERS:		
START	6.85	6.85	6.85
3 MONTHS	7.87	7.89	7.92
6 MONTHS	8.89	8,94	8.99
9 MONTHS	9,90	9,98	10.05
12 MONTHS	10.92	11.02	11.12
	4/1997	4/1998	4/1999
LAY UP, POWER CUTTER, COMPUTERIZED CUTTER			
START	6.85	6,85	6.85
3 MONTHS	7,93	7.95	7.98
6 MONTHS	9,00	9,05	9.10
9 MONTHS	10.08	10.15	10.23
12 MONTHS	11,15	11,25	11.35
29
30