BETWEEN:
AND:
AND
AND
AND
AND
COLLECTIVE LABOUR AGREEMENT
QUEBEC COUNCIL - UNITEHERE
(hereinafter collectively referred to as the "Union")
ASSOCIATED CLOTHING MANUFACTURERS OF THE PROVINCE OF QUEBEC, INC.
MONTREAL CLOTHING CONTRACTORS ASSOCIATION INC.
THE QUEBEC COUNCIL OF ODD PANTS EMPLOYERS
RAINWEAR & SPORTWEAR MANUFACTURERS ASSOCIATION
THE CANADIAN TRIMMINGS MANUFACTURERS ASSOCIATION
(hereinafter collectively referred to as the "Association" and each of its members as the "Employer")
December 1, 2005 to November 30, 2009
BENAP-MONTREAL-#10019247 v1
INDEX
ARTICLE
ARTICLE
ARTICLE
ARTICLE
ARTICLE
ARTICLE
ARTICLE
ARTICLE
ARTICLE
ARTICLE
ARTICLE
ARTICLE
ARTICLE
ARTICLE
ARTICLE
ARTICLE
ARTICLE
ARTICLE
ARTICLE
ARTICLE
ARTICLE
ARTICLE
ARTICLE
1	COVERAGE..........................................1
2	UNION RECOGNITION.................................2
3	PROBATIONARY PERIOD...............................3
4	UNION SECURITY....................................4
5	WORKING PRACTICES.................................4
6	ENGINEERED INCENTIVE SYSTEMS......................6
7	WAGES............................................13
8	CALCULATIONS AND PAYMENTS BASED ON AVERAGE HOURLY
EARNINGS.........................................15
9	WORK WEEK AND OVERTIME...........................16
10	VACATION PERIOD.................................17
11	SUMMER VACATION.................................18
12	YEAR-END VACATION...............................19
13	LEGAL HOLIDAYS..................................21
14	EQUAL DIVISION OF WORK AND SENIORITY............23
15	INSURANCE AND RETIREMENT FUNDS..................24
16	HOMEWORK........................................30
17	NON-DISCRIMINATION..............................30
18	CONTRACTORS.....................................30
19	CONTRACTORS OF MANUFACTURERS....................30
20	CANVAS AND SHOULDER PADS........................31
21	UNION LABEL.....................................32
22	CHECKOFF........................................33
23	RIGHT OF DISCHARGE AND DISCIPLINE...............33
BENAP-MONTREAL-#10019247 v1
3
ARTICLE 24 STRIKE OR LOCKOUT.......
ARTICLE 25 ABSENCES................
ARTICLE 26 BEREAVEMENT.............
ARTICLE 27 SEPARATION FROM EPLOYMENT.
ARTICLE 28 PLANT REMOVAL...........
ARTICLE 29 APPRENTICE TRAINING.....
ARTICLE 30 PARITY OF ADVANTAGES....
ARTICLE 31 GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE.....
ARTICLE 32 ARBITRATION.............
ARTICLE 33 LEGAL REPRESENTATION....
ARTICLE 34 SEPARABILITY............
ARTICLE 35 RECORDS.................
ARTICLE 36 GENERAL.................
ARTICLE 37 TERM OF AGREEMENT.......
APPENDIX "A".......................
APPENDIX "B".......................
APPENDIX "C".......................
APPENDIX "D".......................
APPENDIX "E".......................
APPENDIX "F".......................
APPENDIX "G".......................
APPENDIX "H".......................
34
35
36
37
38
38
39
39
40
41 41
41
42 42 44
46
47
48
49
50 52 57
BENAP-MONTREAL-#10019247 v1
WHEREAS the Association and the Union desire a continuation of their contractual relationship, which has existed for many years, for the following purposes:
I	a)	To operate Union shops;
b)	To continue the principle of collective bargaining;
c)	To submit to arbitration in cases of dispute;
d)	For promoting the best interest of the clothing industry;
e)	For the creation and maintenance of friendly and harmonious relations, cooperation and goodwill between employers and employees;
f)	For fixing and adjusting wages and working hours;
g)	For the prevention of strikes, stoppages of work, lockouts, etc;
h)	For the amicable settlement of all grievances, controversies and disputes which may arise between the parties;
i)	For the maintenance of a high order of discipline and efficiency by the willing cooperation of all parties concerned;
j)	For the maintenance of good standards of workmanship and conduct;
k)	For the assurance of proper quantity, quality and cost of production, as well as uninterrupted production;
I)	To promote through good labour relations as stipulated herein the health and safety of employees.
WHEREAS, the respective representatives of the members of the Association and the Union shall in their dealings with each other be leaders in promoting that cooperative spirit and goodwill which underlies this Agreement.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants, promises and agreements herein contained, and the intention of the parties to be legally bound hereby, the parties hereto agree as follows:
Article 1 COVERAGE
1.1	The term "employee" as used in this Agreement shall apply to all production employees of the Employer, including ticket girls, label sewers, floor help and warehouse, shipping and receiving employees, but excluding office, truck drivers, sales and maintenance employees.
BENAP-MONTREAL-#10019247 v1
2
1.2	The Union shall have the right to deal directly with any individual Employer provided, however, that such dealings are consistent with the terms of this Agreement.
1.3	The present Collective Labour Agreement applies to all shops, for which the Employer is member of the Association and for which the Union holds an accreditation.
The Union undertakes to advise the Association of all new accreditations it obtains.
1.4	An employee transferred to a position outside the bargaining unit may be reinstated by the Employer to the bargaining unit with all his rights within six (6) months from his transfer if he has less than five (5) years of service with the Employer or within twelve (12) months from the transfer if he has five (5) years or more of service with the Employer.
An employee who is returned to the bargaining unit after the delay hereinabove mentioned shall be considered as a new employee.
Article 2
UNION RECOGNITION
2.1	The Employer recognizes the Union as the exclusive collective bargaining agent for his employees with reference to wages, hours and working conditions.
The Union hereby recognizes the Association as the exclusive collective bargaining agent for all the Employers subject to this labour agreement.
2.2	The Employer shall recognize and deal with such representatives of the employees as the Union may elect or appoint and shall permit such representatives elected or appointed by the Union to visit his plant at any time during working hours, in accordance with existing regulations, without however disturbing production in the plant.
2.3	The Employer agrees that such representatives as the Union may elect or appoint shall have access to such pay records and related production records of individual employees, as the Union may reasonably require as a collective bargaining agent and/or contracting party hereunder.
2.4	The Employer shall furnish the Union with an employment list indicating the names and the last hiring date of the employees. Said employment list shall be posted on the bulleting board within thirty (30) days of the signature of the Collective Agreement. The last hiring date of each employee shall be presumed correct, unless contested in accordance with the grievance procedure. The employment list shall be updated every six (6) months. For information purposes only and nothing else, the list will also contain the job category of the employees.
BENAP*MONTREAL*#10019247 V1
3
2.5	In as far as the operations are not perturbed, the Employer agrees to grant a leave of absence, without pay, to the officers of the locals and to the members of different committees to allow them to participate in bona fide union activities such as conventions, congresses, seminars and union meetings, in accordance with the following:
(a) The maximum number of union follows:
Up to 50 employees from 51 to 300 employees from 301 to 500 employees from 500 to 700 employees from 701 employees and more
leaves of absence granted shall be as
1	leave of absence
2	leaves of absence
3	leaves of absence
4	leaves of absence
5	leaves of absences
Requests for leave of absence must be submitted in writing at least five (5) working days prior to the event, exception shall be made for emergencies. Only one person at a time per work section can be liberated.
Article 3
PROBATIONARY PERIOD
3.1	A new employee shall be considered a probationary employee until he has performed sixty (60) days of work for the Employer within a period of six (6) continuous months from the date of hiring.
However, upon written agreement between the Employer and the Union, the probationary period may be extended up to an additional thirty (30) days.
During such probationary period, he shall have no seniority rights. Upon completion of this period, the date of the beginning of the employee's seniority shall be the date the employee began his probationary period. It is understood and agreed that the termination of employment of a probationary employee shall be at the exclusive decision of the Employer and shall irrevocably be deemed to be for just and sufficient cause; no arbitrator or board of arbitration shall have any jurisdiction to hear a grievance relating thereto nor to alter, modify or amend the termination of employment or substitute any other penalty for such termination.
The term "regular employees" as used in this agreement shall mean an employee who has completed the probationary period.
BENAP-MONTREAL*#10019247 v1
4
Article 4
UNION SECURITY
4.1	Membership in the Union shall be required as a condition of employment of each employees.
4.2	All employee who are new members or hereafter become members of the Union shall, as a condition of continued employment, remain members in good standing during the term of this Agreement.
4.3	The Employer agrees to employ only members of the Quebec Council -Unitehere in good standing, and whenever an Employer shall be in need of additional workers, application shall be made to the Union, specifying the number and kind of workers desired. If, for any reason, the Union should not be able to furnish the desired workers within forty-eight (48) hours from the time of the receipt of the request, the Employer shall have the right to secure such workers in the open market, and the workers so secured shall become members of the Union.
4.4	All new employees shall fill out a Union card when hired. Once a week the Employer shall notify the shop chairperson in writing of the name and operation of any new employees and give him the Union cards.
Article 5
WORKING PRACTICES
5.1	Changes from one operation to another, fixing of prices for new piece-work rates, reduction in number of employees and any other matters affecting the wages, wage rates, hours, working conditions and conditions of employment shall be made in a manner consistent with the express provisions of this agreement.
5.2	The Union recognizes the right of the Employer to introduce new machinery, changes in manufacturing techniques and in production methods, technological changes or improvements in his plant. In such case, the provisions of clauses 6.20, 6.21 and 6.22, except paragraph b) of clause 6.20 shall apply. The rate or rates applicable shall be determined by mutual agreement or, failing agreement, by arbitration in accordance with article 33 of the present agreement.
5.3	If an employee is temporarily transferred from one job or operation to another at the request of the Employer, he shall, while working on the job or operation to which he has been transferred, be paid his average hourly rate prevailing at the time of the transfer. If the temporary transfer lasts more than six (6) months (except if it is to replace an employee on sick, maternity or parental leave), the Employer must obtain the consent of the Union. This consent shall not be unreasonably withheld. The conditions to apply upon permanent transfer shall be mutually agreed upon by the Employer and the Union.
BENAP*MONTREAL-#10019247 v1
5
5.4	Established piece-work sections or operations shall not be changed to any other form of payment without the mutual agreement of the parties.
5.5	Since it is the intention of the parties to maintain full employment, it is agreed that sections, operations and/or departments shall not be overcrowded by employing more workers than are necessary to meet the production requirements of the Employer.
5.6	The Employer agrees to give reasonable notice to the shop chairperson and the employees affected when overtime is to be worked or when a change in a work schedule is to take place.
5.7	a) In the event of changes in the methods of production made by the addition or use of machinery, or otherwise, such changes shall be permitted subject to the provisions of this Article.
b)	Clauses 5.1, 5.2, 5.4 and 5.7 paragraph a) do not apply to shipping, receiving and warehouse employees.
5.8	The Employer agrees to give the Union reasonable notice in advance of any changes.
5.9	Any employee ordered to report for work and reporting will be guaranteed four (4) consecutive hours work, or four (4) hours pay in lieu thereof. However, this provision shall not apply if work is not available because of circumstances beyond the control of management, such as power failure, fire, specialized machinery breakdown, not susceptible of repair within a reasonable time, or the failure of other employees to report or to remain on the job.
5.10	All employees will be considered called to work unless notified not to report to work within a reasonable time prior to their regular starting time. An employee who could not be reached during the period of notification shall not be entitled to claim the application of 5.9. Each employee is responsible for informing the Employer in writing of any change of address or of phone number. The Employer agrees to keep such information confidential.
5.11	a) In the event of a total or partial shutdown of operations as a result of circumstances out of the control of the Employer such as fire, power failure, failure in the heating system, boiler system, steam generating system or any other system or service, the incentive or hourly rated employees affected by this shutdown shall be compensated at their applicable rate for the duration of any waiting period required by the Employer beyond thirty (30) minutes per day.
b) An employee paid on a piece rate or incentive basis who is required to wait for work due to machine breakdown or other cause beyond the Employer's control shall be compensated at the rate of his average hourly earnings for all such waiting time in excess of a total of twenty (20) minutes per day. Any
BENAP-MONTREAL-#10019247 v1
6
employee who finds it necessary to wait for work, shall on each separate occasion, notify his immediate supervisor both at the beginning and at the end of such waiting period. Payment for waiting time shall cover only such time as follows such notification. The Employer may transfer such employee to another machine or job during waiting time.
c)	The total cumulative waiting time stipulated above at clauses (a) and (b) cannot exceed thirty (30) minutes per day. Any unpaid waiting time shall be excluded in the calculation of the average hourly rates at Article 8.
5.12	In no event shall employees, in any manner, directly or indirectly, suffer a decrease in rates of pay. Thus, employees shall in no case suffer a reduction of their rates of pay for the same operation, taking into consideration however the normal modifications to piece rates, which take place following changes in the operation.
5.13	The Employer shall pay the weekly wage of each employees on Thursday of each week. Any error in pay shall be corrected at the latest on the following pay period.
The Employer can adopt a direct deposit system applicable to all employees. It is agreed, however, that such direct deposit shall be implemented with the approval of the majority of the employees of the Employer.
5.14	Shipping and receiving and warehouse employees shall be required to handle all goods, regardless of type or origin or destination.
5.15	The Employer shall provide an employee, upon the latter's request with the calculation of his vacation pay or termination pay.
5.16	It is understood and agreed that an Employer can measure the work of his employees and their productivity and can carry out time and motion studies.
5.17	The Employer agrees to respect the Pay Equity Act. However, any complaints in that regard must be submitted exclusively to the Pay Equity Commission.
Article 6
ENGINEERED INCENTIVE SYSTEMS
6.1	An Employer who wishes to convert to an engineered incentive system or who wishes to re-engineer an existing system shall give written notice to the Union three (3) months in advance indicating the system he intends to implement or reengineer in the whole shop or a complete production unit (example: the cutting room or the pant shop or the coat shop or vest shop, etc.). An Employer who has commenced implementing an engineered incentive system prior to the signing of the present collective agreement need not give anew the notice stipulated herein for the implementation of his system or of his re-engineering.
BENAP-MONTREAL-#10019247 v1
7
Following the signing of the present agreement, Employers who wish to reengineer their incentive system must at the same time implement to a combination of changes within the meaning of clause 6.19 herein affecting 50 % or more of the operations of the production unit for which notice is given. The reengineering provided for in the present clause cannot be undertaken before the expiry of a period of eight (8) years from the date of putting into effect the first rate reviewed when the current engineered and/or hourly system, now to be reengineered, was implemented.
6.2	A special committee will be immediately created by both parties to implementthe change over and the engineer of the Union will meet with the engineer of the Employer to review the system.
6.3	The standard base rates for the industry applicable to the proposed system shall be, for the purposes of the present agreement, the minimum hourly rates of the present agreement plus ten percent (10 %) for a performance of one hundred percent (100 %).
6.4	For the purposes of the change over to an engineered system as provided for in clauses 6.1 to 6.3 above and taking into consideration the provisions of article 6.24 as well as, where applicable, the average performance of the employee during the period defined in article 8 to determine the average hourly rate of this employee before the change to the new system, if the average hourly rate of the employee, as defined in article 8 before the change to the new system, is higher than the applicable base rate of the system (adjusted by the average performance of the employee, where applicable), then the differential between these two rates shall be treated as a subsidy payable in the same manner and subject to the same terms and conditions as those stipulated in clauses 6.23, 6.24, 6.25 and 6.26 herein; the Union and the Employer, upon the recommendation of the engineering of the Employer and of the Union, may agree on a different formula applicable to the individual case to determine the appropriate subsidy allowance.
6.5	Job descriptions and time studies shall be initialed by the engineer in charge and the shop chairperson for purposes of identification only. The Union shall have access to job descriptions and studies for purposes of reviews of rates, through a qualified engineer.
6.6	Following the expiry of the three (3) months given to the Union by the Employer in conformity with clause 6.1, the Employer shall proceed to the implementation of the new engineered incentive system or to its re-engineering and, in either case, all the rates in the unit for which the three (3) month notice was given shall be restudied without exception, under reserve of those jobs remaining on hourly basis.
BENAP-MONTREAL-#10019247 v1
8
6.7	A "permanent" piece work rate or standard is subject to being changed when there is a change in machinery, method of production or technology or any other element upon which the rate or standard is based. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, such change shall include change in job content or volume; machine pace or cycle; procedure or method or performance; equipment, deployment or arrangement of equipment of work force.
6.8	In determining the extent to which an established piece work rate or standard should be changed pursuant to clause 6.7, only those parts of any operation which are affected directly or indirectly by a change as defined in clause 6.7 shall be re-studied, unless a complete re-study of the rate or standard is required applying normal engineering procedures. Moreover elements, standards or rates incorrectly established shall be corrected. Where applicable, a subsidy shall be defined and applied in accordance with clauses 6.23 and following herein.
6.9	It is understood and agreed that an established rate becomes permanent immediately, unless agreed to otherwise or unless it is a temporary rate for a "short run" or unless challenged by the Union or by the Employer within sixty (60) days of its implementation or unless, in the case of a change over to a specific engineered incentive system, it is challenged by the Union or the Company within the first six (6) months of implementation.
6.10	A challenged rate shall be subject to re-study within thirty (30) days. Failing agreement, the matter may be referred to arbitration as provided herein.
6.11	A permanent piece work rate or standard can be questioned at any time if it is apparent that the standard is improperly established. In such case, a re-study shall take place only by mutual agreement between the Union and the Employer whereby the engineers shall meet and proceed with the study. Such agreement shall not be unreasonably withheld. In the event of disagreement, such matter shall be submitted to arbitration in accordance with clause 6.14 and following herein. The adjustments in wages which may result in case of loose rates shall be dealt with in accordance with the provisions regarding subsidies herein (clauses 6,23 and following). In no cases, shall there be more than two (2) revisions under the present clause within a twelve (12) month period in the same section, except in the case of operations where there is a change to a new operator. The Employer shall inform the Union of the sections within the production unit concerned. There can be no more than five (5) sections per group of one hundred (100) employees.
6.12	Upon request of the Union, the Employer agrees to meet with the Union to discuss any new rates that the Employer establishes.
6.13	Where a plant applies an engineered incentive system, it is understood that both parties shall employ accepted engineered practices applicable to the case to resolve differences which may arise.
BENAP-MONTREAL-#10019247 v1
9
6.14	In the event that the Union cannot agree to the rate established by the Employer, the Union may proceed to arbitration by giving notice to arbitrate in accordance with the provisions of articles 32 and 33.
6.15	The Impartial Arbitrator appointed in accordance with the provisions of Article 33 must, upon request of either party, engage a qualified industrial engineer who is familiar with the men's clothing industry and have him in attendance at the arbitration to assist the Arbitrator, unless he is himself such an engineer.
However, if the disagreement concerns only the determination of the applicable rate, the matter will be referred to a mutually agreed upon qualified industrial engineering graduate who shall determine the applicable rate, after having conducted an independent time study, within thirty (30) days.
The engineer's decision shall be final and binding on the parties. The fees and expenses of the engineer shall be shared equally by the Employer and the Union.
For the purposes of the second paragraph of the present clause, the parties agree that Mr. Michael Foley shall act as designated engineer.
6.16	The Arbitrator's decision is retroactive to the date of the written grievance, unless it is a new rate. In the case of a new rate, the retroactivity can be declared by the Arbitrator to be from the date of official implementation.
6.17	Temporary Transfers
An employee who is temporarily transferred for any reason shall be paid the greater of:
(a)	the incentive rate of the job to which he is transferred; or
(b)	the base rate of the job to which he is transferred.
If the temporary transfer occurs to meet a requirement of the Employer, the employee shall be guaranteed his average hourly rate.
6.18	Permanent Transfers
Permanent transfers shall be made with the consent of the Union which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld. An employee who is permanently transferred shall be paid the applicable rate for the job to which he is transferred, unless agreed otherwise.
6.19	The Union recognizes the right of the Employer to introduce new machinery, changes in manufacturing techniques, technological changes or improvements in his plant.
BEN AP-MONTREAL-#10019247 v1
10
6.20	a) Where an employer contemplates such technological change affecting the level of employment or the level of wages, he shall give to the Union a reasonable written notice for the purposes of consultation on the manner in which this will be dealt with, taking into account clause 6.21.
b)	The base rate applicable to the new machinery or new technology shall be determined in accordance with the standard base rate then in effect (clause 6.3) or, in the absence of such standard base rate, by mutual agreement, in accordance with the level of skill and effort required, with or without subsidy according to the circumstance.
6.21	a) The Employer shall assign the employees affected (unless they are eligible for pension or unless they accept pre-pension), according to levels of skill, productivity, adaptability, capacity to meet the normal requirements of the job and seniority, either to the newly introduced or changed machinery or to a substantially equivalent operation with the opportunity for substantially equivalent earnings. If such job assignment is not available, then the employee shall be assigned to any other available job. If no other such job is available or accepted, the Employer shall, under reserve of paragraph e) herein below, proceed with the termination of employment. Any retraining period shall be determined by mutual agreement but will not exceed four (4) weeks. During the re-training period, the employee shall be guaranteed:
the first week: the second week: the third week: the fourth week:
his average hourly rate; incentive earnings plus eight percent (8%); incentive earnings plus six percent (6%); incentive earnings plus four percent (4%).
b)	If the Employer proceeds with the termination of employment as stipulated herein, he shall pay the technological change indemnity provided for in clause
6.22	herein.
c)	If the employee leaves the employment after having begun the new assignment or the retraining or if the employee is discharged for cause or if the employee is not entitled to the indemnity in accordance with clause 6.22 or with the present clause, the Employer shall not be required to pay the technological change indemnity.
d)	If, however, at any time within the first six (6) months after the beginning of the re-assignment or of the retraining of such employee, the Employer terminates his employment because the employee has failed to attain an adequate production level the Employer shall pay the indemnity for technological change minus any make-up pay received by the employee during the retraining period, provided such employee is entitled to such indemnity in accordance with clause
6.22	and with the present clause.
BENAP-MONTREAL-#10019247 v1
11-
e)	If such other job assignment is not available or is not accepted and if the employee has five (5) years of more of seniority, the Employer, before proceeding with the termination of employment, shall try to arrive at an agreement with the Union for the permanent transfer of this employee to another operation by application of the principles stated in clause 14.3. Failing agreement between the Union and the Employer, the employee may displace the employee having the least seniority in the same section, provided he meets the normal requirements of the job. There shall be no other displacement. Any transfer to another operation as stipulated herein shall occur at the rate of the new operation, without training nor subsidy. The seniority of the employee shall be transferred to the new operation. If such displacement is not available or is refused, the employee may opt for one of the two following situations:
1.	Immediately obtain the payment provided for in clause 6.22 in which case he looses his seniority rights; or
2.	Have his name inscribed on the recall list, in which case the Employer is obliged to recall him only if he must otherwise hire a new employee who is qualified for the operation in question within the same section, at the rate of the operation. The employee may then exercise option 1 or remain on the recall list. If the employee accepts the position, he looses his right to the indemnity provided for in clause 6.22. If the employee is not recalled within the recall period stipulated in clause 14.5, he shall then receive payment of the indemnity.
6.22	Technological Change Indemnity
The technological change indemnity that an Employer shall be required to pay as a result of the application of clause 6.21 above shall be determined and payable as follows:
In the case of an employee who has been in his employ continuously since the last date of hiring for a period of five (5) years or more: one (1) week wages (i.e. his average weekly earnings of the last twelve (12) months preceding the termination) for each year of service up to a maximum of twenty (20) weeks.
6.23	In the event that it is apparent that the rate being changed was improperly established, the correct rate shall be established. However, in the case of a "loose"' rate, the employee shall receive a make-up subsidy to be determined and paid as defined hereunder. Notwithstanding any provisions herein, the variations of ten percent (10%) or less in the over-evaluation of a standard or rate shall not constitute a loose rate for the purpose of establishing a subsidy herein nor to the application of clause 6.11; clause 6.11 moreover, shall not apply in the case of a variation of ten percent (10%) or less in the under-evaluation of the standard or rate.
BENAP-MONTREAL-#10019247 vi
12
6.24	This subsidy shall be determined by applying to the new rate the percentage of over-evaluation in the former rate or by any equitable manner determined by the Union and the Employer, upon the recommendation of the engineers of the Union and the Company, if this method is not applicable.
6.25	a) Such differential shall be paid to each regular employee in the employ of the Employer on the date of signature of the present agreement and to any employee who, having become a regular employee after the date of signature of the present agreement, has accumulated one year or more service in the employ of the Employer, either as an hourly subsidy on all hours worked or converted into a piece rate bonus applicable to production or as a lump sum payment agreed to between the Employer and the employee concerned.
b)	The hourly or incentive subsidy shall be reduced every three (3) months from the date of each general increase granted in accordance with Article 7 of the collective agreement by no more than one-quarter (114) per three (3) month period of the total amount of each applicable general increase; however, and until such time as the Employer offers to an employee a lump sum payment as hereinafter defined, he shall not be entitled to make such reductions by more than 50% of the general increase; the provisions of the present clause also apply to any decreasing subsidy existing on the date of signing of the present agreement.
[NOTE: See Appendix "E" concerning existing permanent subsidies]
c)	For the purpose of determining the lump sum payment stipulated in paragraph a) above, the following formula shall apply:
1)	Determine the hourly amount of the hourly or incentive subsidy in effect at the time of the planned payment;
2)	Multiply the amount determined in subparagraph 1) by a factor sufficient to yield a net sum of two thousand two hundred dollars ($2,200) per one dollar ($1.00) of subsidy, after obligatory deductions at source (fiscal and others of similar nature);
3)	Such lump sum payment frees the Employer of any future payment of the hourly or incentive subsidy defined in paragraph 1) above.
6.26	A subsidy as defined in the preceding clauses is payable to an employee who, having become a regular employee after the signature of the present agreement, has been in the service of the Employer for one (1) year or more, or to any employee in the service of the Employer as a regular employee at the time of the signature of the present agreement, provided such employee maintains a production level at least equal to the minimum guaranteed rate after any applicable adaptation period. Moreover, such subsidy is personal and is lost permanently when the employee leaves his employ or is discharge or when his
BENAP-MONTREAL-#10019247 v1
13
employment is otherwise terminated (including six (6) months lay-off or more, or twelve (12) months lay-off, or more, for an employee with five (5) years, or more, seniority, or permanent transfer to another operation). Subsidies are not increased; when lost or reduced, they are not revived.
6.27	The present article 6 applies only to those production units which operate under an engineering incentive system whether such system was implemented before or after December 1, 1983 or is being implemented at the signature of the present agreement or is put into effect during this agreement. Clauses 5.1, 5.2, 5,3, 5.4, 5.7a), 5.8 and 5.12 do not apply to production units to which article 6 applies.
Article 7 WAGES
7.1	Each employee paid on an hourly basis shall receive the following increases:
a)	Commencing on the first Monday of December 2005, an increase often cents ($0.10) per hour;
b)	Commencing on the first Monday of December 2006, an increase of fifteen cents ($0.15) per hour;
c)	Commencing on the first Monday of December 2007, an increase of twenty cents ($0.20) per hour.
d)	Commencing on the first Monday of December 2008, an increase of thirty cents ($0.30) per hour.
However, the increase for apprentices shall be delayed until the employee has completed his probationary period successfully but shall be retroactive to the applicable date of increase.
7.2	Each piece work employee, including apprentices, shall receive the same wage increases as provided for in clause 7.1 above. The increases shall be incorporated into the existing piece work rates and, where applicable, into the base rates (clause 6.3), for each section or operation in the usual manner.
7.3	The Employer shall give to each piece work employee, as soon as available, his adjusted piece work rates. The Employer shall furnish the Union with a copy of his calculations showing incorporation of the authorized increase.
7.4	a) The following minimum scales of hourly wages applicable in the cutting room for employees paid on an hourly basis shall be as follows:
BENAP-MONTREAL-#10019247 v1
14
Cutters	$15.13
Trimmers	$14.74
Assistant Cutters, Assistant Trimmers and Choppers	$12.45
Pilers	$12.45
Pin Table Operators	$9.80
SCALE APPLICABLE TO ODD PANTS EMPLOYEES
Markers	$14.41
Cutters	$13.13
Pilers	$11.19
c)	In light of the abolition of the Menswear Decree, and the application of the Regulation for the Clothing Industry, as well as the fact that certain operations have never been subject to the Menswear Decree, the applicable minimum hourly rates shall be the following:
Class "B" Class "C" Class "D"
Class "F”
$10.25
$8.50
$8.20
$8.10
$7.75
Classes are as defined in Appendix G herein.
7.5	Any employee who has not attained the scale as per article 7.4 above, shall receive promotional wage increases as follows:
(a)	in accordance with the table of apprentice wage rates stipulated in the Regulation for the Clothing Industry applicable to men's clothing;
(b)	thereafter, every four (4) months - forty cents ($0.40) per hour until the employee reaches the applicable rates in 7.4.
BENAP-MONTREAL-#10019247 v1
15
Article 8
CALCULATIONS AND PAYMENTS BASED ON AVERAGE HOURLY EARNINGS
8.1	It is agreed that for purposes of calculating the payment of overtime premiums, legal holidays and the vacations and of applying other clauses of the present agreement stipulating the payment of an average hourly rate, the straight time average hourly earnings of all employees paid on a piece work or incentive basis shall be determined twice each year for two (2) separate periods as follows:
(a)	from the first Monday in December through the second pay period in May, to be known as the Spring Average Rate;
(b)	from the first Monday in June through the end of the second pay period in November, to be known as the Fall Average Rate.
8.2	The Spring Average Rate is to be determined for each employee by dividing his actual gross piecework or incentive earnings for the period as specified in clause
8.1	b) by the actual hours worked (regular and overtime).
8.3	The Fall Average Rate is to be determined for each employee by dividing his actual gross piece work or incentive earnings for the period as specified in clause
8.1	b) by the actual hours worked (regular and overtime) and adding thereto the amount of increase in the hourly rate due in the life of this Agreement, as per clause 7.1 and 7.2.
8.4	Gross piece work or incentive earnings include the guaranteed basic hourly earnings, if any, but exclude overtime premium, holiday pay and vacation pay.
8.5	The Spring Average Rate is to be used in calculating payments for:
(a)	the half-time premium for all overtime hours worked from June 1st to November 30th; and
(b)	four (4) legal holidays: St-John The Baptist, Canada Day, Labour Day and Thanksgiving Day; and
(c)	the summer vacation pay;
(d)	all hours to be paid to an employee at this average hourly rate in accordance with the provisions of the present agreement between the 1st of June and the 30th of November inclusively.
8.6	The Fall Average Rate is to be used in calculating payment for:
(a) the half-time premium for all overtime hours worked from December 1st to May 31st; and
BENAP-MONTREAL-#10019247v1
16
(b)	six (6) legal holidays: Christmas Day, New Year's Day, the Day after New Year's Day, Good Friday, Easter Monday and Victoria Day;
(c)	the year end vacation pay;
(d)	all hours to be paid to an employee at his average hourly rate in accordance with the provisions of the present agreement between the 1st of December and the 31st of May inclusively.
8.7	The Spring Average Rate and the Fall Rate of hourly paid employees shall be their current rate of pay. The Employer shall remit the Spring Average Rates to the Union no later than the first Monday following June 15 and the Fall Average Rates no later than the first Monday following December 15.
Article 9
WORK WEEK AND OVERTIME
9.1	a) A weeks work shall consist of thirty-nine (39) hours divided into five (5) working days, from Monday to Friday inclusive of each week, beginning each day at 8 o'clock a.m. and terminating at 5 o'clock p.m. (4 o'clock p.m. on Friday) with an interval of one hour for lunch during the noon period; or the Employer by agreement with the Union may determine other regular hours of work.
b)	Shipping and receiving:
From time to time the Employer, after discussion with the Union, may establish regular schedules of work in accordance with his needs, including overtime hours.
c)	The Employer shall have the right to establish a second working shift when required to meet the production needs, in which case the employees working such shift shall be entitled to a premium of twenty-five cents ($0.25) per hour and of thirty-seven and one-half cents ($0.371/2) perhourfor overtime.
All transfers from one shift to another shall be on a voluntary basis.
All other working conditions shall be the ones stipulated in the collective agreement except for the lunch period, which shall be reduced to 30 minutes.
9.2	Overtime shall be dispensed with as far as possible; however, all work performed outside of the aforesaid hours shall be considered as overtime and shall be paid for at the rate of time and one-half, provided the employee has worked the number of regular hours scheduled for the week. Exception to the preceding shall be made in cases of authorized union leave.
Any work performed during a Saturday shall be paid for at the rate of time and one-half.
BENAP-MONTREAL-#10019247 v1
17
Any work performed during one of the legal holidays stipulated in clause 13.1 shall be paid for at double the regular rate of pay of the employee.
9.3	The overtime premium for employees paid on a piece work or an incentive basis shall be calculated in the manner stipulated in Article 8.
9.4	The overtime premium for hourly paid employees shall be based on their current rate of pay.
9.5	All employees shall be granted two (2) rest periods each working day without pay deductions. These rest periods, which may be on a formal or informal basis shall take place approximately during the middle of the morning and the middle of the afternoon and shall be often (10) minutes each.
(NOTE: See Appendix "B" re: substitution of hours.)
Article 10
VACATION PERIOD
10.1	a) The summer vacation period each year shall be comprised of three (3) consecutive weeks. Two (2) of these three (3) weeks must be scheduled to coincide with the two (2) last full weeks of July. Unless the Employer advises otherwise, the third week will be taken immediately following the last full week in July. The Employer shall advise his employees of the applicable dates at the latest on January 31 of each year.
The year end vacation is as stipulated in article 12.
b)	However, vacations for shipping, receiving and warehouse employees shall be granted on a staggered basis, taking in consideration past practices of the Employer and employee seniority, if necessary.
c)	Notwithstanding paragraph a) above and notwithstanding the provisions of Article 11 below, the employees may conclude an agreement with their Employer, following a simple majority secret ballot vote taken no later than January 31st, to displace the third week of the annual vacation to any other agreed period during the year and defining, at the same time, the time of payment of this third week to the eligible employees. If the event of such an agreement, all the clauses of Articles 11 and 27 of the present agreement relating to payment of this third week's vacation shall apply after the necessary modifications to make such change effective.
BENAP-MONTREAL-#10019247 v1
18
Article 11
SUMMER VACATION
11.1	Subject to clause 10.1 c), the Employer shall grant each employee at the time of summer vacation, three (3) weeks vacation. Any request for an extension of the vacation period must be submitted to the Employer in writing at least sixty (60) days prior to the start of the employee's vacation. The Employer's response shall be provided within ten (10) working days following receipt of the request.
11.2	Each employee shall receive vacation pay as follows:
(a)	the employee who has been in the uninterrupted service of his Employer for less than three (3) years shall receive four percent (4%) of his gross earnings between June 1 of the preceding year and May 31 of the current year;
(b)	the employee who has been in the uninterrupted service of his Employer for three (3) years or more shall receive six percent (6 %) of his gross earnings between June 1 of the preceding year and May 31 of the current year;
(c)	notwithstanding the above,
|(i)	employees who have accumulated thirteen (13) years or more of
uninterrupted service as at December 1, 2005 shall, instead, receive three (3) weeks pay calculated at 117 times their average hourly earnings or six percent (6%) of their gross earnings between June 1, 2005 and May 31, 2006, whichever is greater, for the vacation pay accumulated as at May 31, 2006;
(ii)	employees who have accumulated fourteen (14) years or more of uninterrupted service as at December 1, 2006 shall, instead, receive three (3) weeks pay calculated at 117 times their average hourly earnings or six percent (6%) of their gross earnings between June 1, 2006 and May 31, 2007, whichever is greater, for the vacation pay accumulated as at May 31, 2007;
(iii)	employees who have accumulated fifteen (15) years or more of uninterrupted service as at December 1, 2007 shall, instead, receive three (3) weeks pay calculated at 117 times their average hourly earnings or six percent (6%) of their gross earnings between June 1, 2007 and May 31, 2008, whichever is greater, for the vacation pay accumulated as at May 31, 2008;
(iv)	for the vacation pay accumulated as at May 31, 2009, and for all subsequent reference year periods, employees who have accumulated sixteen (16) years or more of uninterrupted service as
BENAP-MONTREAL-#10019247 v1
19
at December 1 2008 and as at December 1 of subsequent years, shall, instead, receive three (3) weeks pay calculated at 117 times their average hourly earnings or six percent (6%) of their gross earnings between June 1 of the previous year and May 31 of the current year, whichever is greater.
11.3	If during the year ending May 31st, the employee who has accumulated more than ten (10) years of uninterrupted service is absent due to lay-off for more than thirteen (13) weeks, he shall be entitled to one (1) week's pay plus four percent (4 %) of his gross earnings from the previous June 1st to May 31st.
11.4	Average hourly earnings shall mean:
(a)	for hourly rated employees, their current hourly rate;
(b)	for all other employees, their average hourly earnings calculated in the manner stipulated in clause 8.
11.5	a) Unless it is physically impossible for reasons beyond his control, an employee who extends his vacation period without written authorization of the Employer shall be subject to an immediate termination of employment.
b) In the event an employee fails to return to work at the end of the vacation period, he shall not lose his seniority rights if he is re-hired by the same Employer within three (3) months from the end of the vacation period.
11.6	The Employer shall give all vacation pay due on the pay day immediately preceding the vacation period. The Employer shall make arrangements when paying out the vacation to make applicable deductions for income tax and other similar provisions on a "prorata" weekly basis.
11.7	Providing an employee gives two (2) weeks prior notice to the Employer that he will not return to work after the vacation period, his vacation pay shall be as stipulated in clause 11.2.
11.8	Should the annual vacation plan (i.e. summer and year-end vacations plan) or termination pay plan provided for in the present agreement (Articles 11 and 12 and clause 27.3 b)) be modified by the provisions of the Act respecting Labour Standards or the Regulations enacted thereunder, such modifications shall be considered incorporated into the present Agreement.
Article 12
YEAR-END VACATION
12.1	a) The Employer shall grant to each of his employees who, on the 24th day of December, has been continuously employed by him for a period of one (1) year or more, a year-end vacation with pay.
BENAP-MONTREAL-#10019247 v1
20
b)	Work shall cease at the end of the working day prior to Christmas Day and shall resume on the working day following the day after New Year's Day.
c)	Shipping, receiving and warehouse employees entitled to the year-end vacation provided for herein shall take such vacation on a staggered basis, taking in consideration past practices of the Employer and employee seniority, if necessary.
d)	Any request for an extension of the vacation period must be submitted to the Employer in writing at least sixty (60) days prior to the start of the employee's vacation. The Employer's response shall be provided within ten (10) working days following receipt of the request.
12.2	a) The Employer shall pay to each employee who is entitled to a paid year-end vacation two percent (2 %) of his gross earnings between December 1 of the preceding year and November30 of the currentyear.
b) notwithstanding the above,
(i)	employees who have accumulated thirteen (13) years or more of uninterrupted service as at December 1, 2005 and who are entitled to a paid year end vacation, shall instead receive one week's pay calculated at 39 times their average hourly earnings as per article 8, or two percent (2 %) of their gross earnings between December 1, 2004 and November 30, 2005, whichever is greater, for the vacation pay accumulated as at December 24, 2005;
(ii)	employees who have accumulated fourteen (14) years or more of uninterrupted service as at December 1, 2006 and who are entitled to a paid year end vacation, shall instead receive one week's pay calculated at 39 times their average hourly earnings as per article 8, or two percent (2 %) of their gross earnings between December 1, 2005 and November 30, 2006, whichever is greater, for the vacation pay accumulated as at December24, 2006;
(iii)	employees who have accumulated fifteen (15) years or more of uninterrupted service as at December 1, 2007 and who are entitled to a paid year end vacation, shall instead receive one week's pay calculated at 39 times their average hourly earnings as per article 8, or two percent (2 %) of their gross earnings between December 1, 2006 and November 30, 2007, whichever is greater, for the vacation pay accumulated as at December24, 2007;
(iv)	for the vacation pay accumulated as at December24, 2008 and for subsequent years, employees who have accumulated sixteen (16) years or more of uninterrupted service as at December 1 2008 and as at December 1 of subsequent years and who are entitled to a
BENAP-MONTREAL-#10019247 v1
-21
paid year end vacation, shall instead receive one week's pay calculated at 39 times their average hourly earnings as per article 8, or two percent (2 %) of their gross earnings between December 1 of the previous year and November 30 of the current year, whichever is greater.
12.3	To qualify for the year-end vacation, an employee must be at work or available for work the two (2) full scheduled working days preceding Christmas and the two (2) full scheduled working days after the day after New Year.
12.4	Absence from work during the above mentioned two (2) working day periods shall not deprive the employee of his rights to the vacation when such absence is on the day after New Year's Day, or authorized, or due to lay-off, illness, death in the immediate family, authorized union leave and/or any justifiable reason. The penalty for absences not herein specified shall be a loss of one-fifth (1/5) of the year-end vacation pay for each day of absence. The total penalty shall not exceed the total amount received by an employee.
In case of absence during the year due to illness or lay-off for more than thirteen (13) weeks, the year-end vacation pay shall be calculated on the basis of two percent (2 %) of gross earnings from the preceding December 1 to November 30. Absences due to illness will be calculated separately from absences due to layoffs. In cases of maternity leave or absences due to a work accident, the respective laws shall apply.
12.5	The Employer shall give eligible employees the year-end vacation pay on the pay day immediately preceding Christmas Day.
12.6	In the event that an employee fails to return to work after the year-end vacation for the notice period required by Article 27, the Employer shall have the right to deduct from any monies due to the said employee an amount equivalent to the year-end vacation pay received by the employee.
In the event that the employee is dismissed for unauthorized extension of the vacation period, then the penalty stipulated in the present clause shall not apply.
In the event an employee fails to return to work at the end of the vacation period, he shall not lose his seniority rights, if he is re-hired by the same Employer within three (3) months from the end of the vacation period.
Article 13 LEGAL HOLIDAYS
13.1	The Employer shall grant to each of his employees the following ten (10) legal holidays:
New Year's Day;
BENAP-MONTREAL-ff 10019247 v1
I
22
-	The Day after New Year's Day;
_	Good Friday;
.	Easter Monday;
.	Victoria Day;
St. John The Baptist Day;
_	Canada Day;
_	Labour Day;
.	Thanksgiving Day;
.	Christmas Day.
and shall give to each of his employees one day's pay for each of the said holidays.
13.2	For the purposes of the present Article, a day's pay shall mean the current hourly rate for hourly workers or the average hourly earnings for piece and/or incentive workers as per Article 8 multiplied by the number of regular hours scheduled for the day on which the holiday occurs as stipulated in clause 9.1 above.
13.3	All new employees shall be entitled to legal holiday with pay. However, the Employer may defer the payment for legal holidays until the employee has been in the employ of the Employer for a period of three (3) months.
13.4	To qualify for holiday pay, an employee must work or be available for work the regular working day preceding and following the holiday. This qualification does not apply to New Year's Day.
13.5	Absence from work on the day that precedes or follows a holiday shall not deprive an employee of his rights to payment of the holiday if this absence is due to an authorized leave, lay-off, sickness, accident, maternity leave, death in the immediate family, authorized union leave and/or any other justified reason.
13.6	However, In the case of absence for sickness, maternity leave, accident or layoff, the employee must have worked one of the ten (IO) scheduled days which precede or follow the holiday.
13.7	All holidays shall be paid for, irrespective of the day on which they fall.
13.8	If a holiday falls on a Saturday or Sunday, then the Monday following shall be considered as the legal holiday.
13.9	In the event that a legal holiday falls during the annual vacation period, then the Employer shall give to all eligible employees a day's pay, in addition to their vacation pay.
13.10	There shall be no substitution of alternate holidays for those enumerated in clause 13.1 except by prior agreement, in writing, signed by the Employer and the Union.
BENAP-MONTREAL-#10019247 v1
23
13.11	The Employer shall give to eligible employees the Christmas Day, New Year's Day and the day after New Year's Day pay on the pay day immediately preceding Christmas Day.
The Employer shall make arrangements when paying out this holiday pay and the year-end vacation pay to make applicable deductions for income tax and other similar provisions on a "prorata weekly basis".
13.12	Employees who are receiving benefits from Unemployment Insurance or payments from Workman's Compensation shall not be entitled to paid statutory holidays.
13.13	All employees who complete all the scheduled hours of work on any General Federal Election Day or any General Provincial Election Day shall receive two (2) hours pay at straight time (calculated in accordance with Article 8) and, if applicable, time off for voting from the hour imposed by law.
Article 14
EQUAL DIVISION OF WORK AND SENIORITY
14.1	It is agreed that equal division of work in each section, operation and/or department shall be observed during regular hours of work and during overtime hours of work. However, when required to work overtime in another department, section and/or operation, the Employer shall divide the work equally among the employees according to their abilities and their level of productivity necessary to meet the employer's requirements.
14.2	During any slack season or whenever there is insufficient work, the available work shall be divided, insofar as is practicable, equally among all regular employees of the Employer, unless the Employer and the Union shall mutually agree upon a lay-off and the conditions applicable thereto.
14.3	If the Employer has had to reduce regular hours of work to less than thirty-two (32) hours per week for four (4) consecutive weeks, he shall proceed to a reduction of personnel unless there is an agreement to the contrary between the Union and the Employer or unless there is agreement to apply to work sharing program. However, a resumption of the working hours to a level of thirty-two (32) hours and more per week, for less than two (2) consecutive weeks, will not interrupt the consecutive nature of the reduction of the regular working hours.
14.4	Seniority is calculated from the date of permanent assignment of an employee (at the time or following the last date of his hiring) to a job or operation and as long as this employee continues in such job or operation. However, an employee permanently assigned to the job or operation he performs may invoke his last date of hiring against any other employee who has more seniority than him in
BENAP-MONTREAL-#10019247 v1
24
such job or operation but who was hired after him, subject to the following conditions:
a)	If the employee has been maintaining a level of performance substantially equivalent to the average level of the group or other employees involved in this job or operation, then this earlier date of hiring shall prevail.
b)	If this employee has not been maintaining such a level of performance but has maintained a level of performance of one hundred percent (100%) or better and if this employee has been in the employ of his Employerfor ten (10) years or more since his last date of hiring then this employee shall be entitled to the job or operation against any other employee hired within the last five (5) years.
14.5 If a lay-off occurs for the reasons stipulated in the present article and if such layoff lasts for six (6) months or more, then the employee loses his seniority; however an employee with five (5) years seniority or more shall lose his seniority only if the lay-off lasts for twelve (12) months or more. A recall within the six (6) month period (or within the twelve (12) month period, in the case of an employee with five years or more seniority) shall not constitute a "new hiring".
14.6	The same principles applied at the time of a lay-off shall apply to any recall made in accordance with the present article.
14.7	An employee on the recall list is also entitled to be recalled by order of years of service in the employ of the Employer, to an operation other than the operation he occupied at the time of lay-off, if the Employer must otherwise hire a new unqualified employee for this operation. In such case, the employee receives the rate of the new operation (without subsidy) with the necessary training and he may not subsequently reclaim his old operation.
14.8	In case of lay-off, the Employer and the Union shall mutually agree upon the conditions applicable thereto, using seniority in a section, operation and/or department as a basis; if the Employer, after such lay-off shall again restore its forces, those employees laid-off shall be re-employed in the order of their seniority before any new employees are hired. Practicality shall be a consideration in implementing this section.
Article 15
INSURANCE AND RETIREMENT FUNDS
15.1	Definitions:
a)	The term "employees of the Employer" as used in this Article means all the employees of the Employer as stipulated in Article 1.1 of this Agreement including employees during their trial period.
BENAP-MONTREAL-#10019247 v1
25
b)	The term "gross wages" as used in this Article means all of the wages of the employees (as defined in sub-paragraph "a" hereof) including payments for vacations and holidays and incentive bonuses.
c)	The term "trustees" as used in this Article shall include the Trustees of the Amalgamated Clothing Workers Insurance Fund of the Province of Quebec and Retirement Committee of the Amalgamated Clothing Workers Retirement Fund of the Province of Quebec.
15.2	This article shall supersede all prior Agreements from and after December 1, 1998; however, all sums of money paid or payable by the Employer, under any prior Agreement, to the trustees designated in one or more Agreements and Declarations of Trust which accompanied and were made part of said prior Agreement or Agreements, and which have not been expended or applied by said Trustees in accordance with the provisions of said prior Agreement or Agreements and Declarations of Trust, shall continue to vest in the said Trustees and to be applied by them for the purpose and in conformity with the provisions of the present Agreement and Agreements and Declarations of Trust now in force and any amendments or changes which may be made by the contracting parties to this Agreement or the Agreements and Declarations of Trust now in force.
15.3	The Employer shall remit on a monthly basis to the Trustees (hereafter called the "Trustees") designated under Agreement and Declarations of Trust dated as of February 1, 1946, for the Insurance Fund, and May 1, 1951 for the Retirement Fund, the terms and provisions of which Agreements and Declarations of Trust are herein specifically incorporated by reference, the following percentages of gross salaries payable for each pay period to all employees of the Employer:
a)	As of December 5, 2005, a total contribution of seven and one half percent (7.5%) for the Insurance Fund and the Retirement Fund, to be divided by the Trustees between the two funds in accordance with their best business judgment.
The Retirement Fund and the Insurance Fund are established for the respective members and employees of the parties to the present collective agreement.
Any Employer who is not a member in good standing of one of the Employer Associations who are a party to the present agreement but whose employees are represented by the Union, must participate in both Funds and must apply to the Trustees to be accepted or to continue to participate in both Funds. Such application shall expressly stipulate that such Employer agrees to pay monthly in addition to the application premiums stipulated herein, an additional 0.25% to be remitted by the Trustees to the Associated Clothing Manufacturers of the Province of Quebec acting on behalf of all the Employer Associations who are a party to the present agreement.
BENAP-MONTREAL-#10019247 v1
-26
In the case of Employers who are not part of the Men's and Boys' industry and are not subject to the Decree relating to the Men's and Boys' Industry, they may apply to continue or to be accepted into either Fund or both, provided that they agree in writing to pay monthly, in addition to the applicable premiums stipulated herein, the addition 0.25% stipulated above to the Trustees for remittance to the Association Clothing Manufacturers of the Province of Quebec. Such application shall be submitted when their collective agreement with the Union is renewed or comes into effect. The present paragraph also applies to the Employers of the jeans industry.
The monthly payment by all such Employers of the applicable premiums and of the additional percentage as stipulated above is an essential condition to such Employers participating in and maintaining such participation in each of the Funds in which the Trustees have accepted them.
An Employer who thereafter becomes a member in good standing of any of the aforesaid Employer Associations shall no longer be required to pay the additional percentage stipulated above for such time as he remains a member in good standing.
Any Employer who fails to pay the applicable premiums or the applicable additional percentage or who fails to remain a member in good standing of any of the Employer Associations herein, shall lose his right to participate in both Funds and the Trustee shall advise in writing such Employer of such suspension.
Any Employer who has been suspended from a Fund shall be entitled to reinstatement by the Trustees provided such Employer pays all arrears in premiums and additional percentage.
b)	Each Employer undertakes and binds himself to pay his contributions to the present Plan monthly by remitting same to the Trustees forthwith, at the latest on the last day of the following month. Each Employer agrees that from the moment such funds are due and payable to the Trustees hereunder, he shall thereby become fixed with a trust respecting such Funds, which he shall segregate and hold as Trustees for the Fund until same are paid to the Fund. An interest charge of prime plus 1 % shall be added to all overdue accounts.
c)	The failure by any Employer to comply with the specific trust hereby fixed upon him shall not affect the nature of such funds as being Trust Funds or the quantum due, nor the responsibility of the Employer, his servants, agents, successors or assignees to pay the said sum, which are at all times deemed to be Trust Funds, by first priority to the Fund.
d)	The bankruptcy, insolvency, liquidation or winding-up of any Employer holding such Trust Funds, which are deemed at all times to be duly segregated and to be the property of the Fund, shall vest in the Trustees of the Fund the right to be fully reimbursed by first priority.
BENAP-MONTREAL-#10019247 v1
27
e)	In the event that an audit of an Employer establishes any amount owing by such Employer to the Trust Fund, the right to claim such amount shall be deemed to commence from the time the audit took place, providing that no more than fifteen (15) months have elapsed since the previous audit.
15.4	All of the foregoing sums shall be administered and expended by the Trustees pursuant to the provisions of such said Agreements and Declarations of Trust as amended both for the Insurance Fund and the Retirement Fund, and as may be further amended by the Agreement of the parties, for the purpose of providing benefits upon their retirement, and life, accident and health insurance and such other forms of group insurance for medical care and hospitalization and such other benefits as the trustees may reasonably determine to employees employed by the Employer, and employees employed by other Employers, including local unions affiliated with the Quebec Council - Unitehere and employees of the Insurance Fund and the Retirement Fund, and also employees of the Quebec Council - Unitehere and its affiliated locals, for whom contributions are made to the Amalgamated Clothing Workers Insurance Fund of the Province of Quebec, and the Amalgamated Clothing Workers Retirement Fund of the Province of Quebec, in the amounts set forth in clause 15.3, all of whom are members of the group embraced within the general plan in the Men's and Boys, Clothing and Allied industries, and also to provide medical care and hospitalization for the families of such employees.
15.5	The Trustees shall have the right and power to construe and apply the provisions of the Insurance Plan andlor the Retirement Plan adopted by them and the terms used therein, and any construction andlor decision made or adopted by the Trustees in good faith shall be final and binding on the Employer, the Union, the employees of the Employer and their dependents.
15.6	The Employer shall furnish to the Trustees, upon request, such information and reports as the Trustees may require in the performance of their duties under any of the Agreements and Declarations of Trust. The Trustees, or any authorized agent or representative of the Trustees, shall have the right at all reasonable times during business hours to enter upon the premises of the Employer and to examine and copy such of the books, records, papers and reports of the Employer as may be necessary to permit the Trustees to determine whether the Employer is fully complying with the provisions of clause 15.3.
15.7	No employee or member of his family shall have the option to receive instead of the benefits provided for by any of the Agreements and Declarations of Trust any part of the contribution to the Employer. No employee or member of his family shall have the right to assign any benefits to which he may be or become entitled under any of the Agreements and Declarations of Trust or to receive a cash consideration in lieu of such benefits either upon termination of the trust herein created, or through severance of employment or otherwise.
BEN AP-MONTREAL-#10019247 v1
28
15.8	During the term of this Agreement, the union obligates itself to enter into no contract of agreement whereby any Employer engaged in the Men's and Boy's Clothing and Allied Industries will not be obligated to pay the amount required to be paid to the Trustees, as set forth in clause 15.3 hereof. During the term of this Agreement, the Union agrees to insert a clause in all of its Collective Bargaining Agreements with Employers engaged in the Men's and Boys' Clothing and Allied Industries to the effect that the Employer shall pay to the Trustees under the Agreements and Declarations of Trust, as amended, the sums set forth in clause
15.3	hereof (as the same may from time to time be modified according to the terms hereof) to be applied under the Agreements and Declarations of Trust, as amended. This paragraph may be waived as to one or more Employers by an instrument in writing executed by the Trustees of the Amalgamated Clothing Workers Retirement Fund of the Province of Quebec and/or the trustees of the Amalgamated Clothing Workers Insurance Fund of the Province of Quebec, but the said waiver shall not be a part only of the Insurance contribution and/or of the Retirement contribution.
15.9	a) This Collective Bargaining Agreement and the Agreements and Declarations of Trust shall be construed as a single document, and all of the provisions of the Collective Bargaining Agreement relating to the administration and enforcement thereof (including provisions for arbitration) shall apply to the administration and enforcement of this Article.
b)	In the event that an Employer shall fail to pay to the Trustees any sum due to the said Trustees, under clause 15.3, any Trustees designated by the Trustees for that purpose may give written notice of said default to the Union, and the Union shall then give written notice of said default to the Employer by registered mail, and if within five (5) days of the receipt of said notice form the Union, the Employer fails to pay the said arrears in full to the Trustee, the Union may direct its members to discontinue work upon clothing manufactured for the Employer by Contractors until all sums due from the Employer under clause 15.3 above have been paid in full. The remedy provided for in this sub-paragraph shall be in addition to all other remedies available to the Union and the Trustees and may be exercised by the Union, anything in the Collective Bargaining Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding.
c)	The Trustees, in their own names as Trustees, or the Union, may institute or intervene in any proceedings at law, or in bankruptcy, for the purpose of effectuating the collection of any sums due to them from the Employer under the provisions of clause 15.3.
d)	Any cause of action arising from a right or claim for payment of a sum of money under the present Agreement, or any Agreement incorporated therein, shall commence on the day of which a written demand is made upon the debtor or party in default, by or on behalf of the claimant.
BENAP'MONTREAL-#10019247 v1
29
e)	Without prejudice to the other recourses provided for herein, the Trustees may advise the administrator of the Insurance Fund to suspend insurance benefits and payments to the employees of any employer who is in default for a period of thirty (30) days or more of paying the contributions stipulated herein. The administrator will advise the Employer and the employees concerned accordingly and suspend all benefits and payments.
15.10	The provisions of this Article shall remain in full force and effect for the full term of the Collective Bargaining Agreement and of any extension of renewals thereof.
15.11	The primary purpose of this Article and the said Agreements and Declarations of Trust being to provide a practical plan for benefits upon their retirement, and life, accident and health insurance, and other benefits for employees and their families, it is understood that the form of the plan, of this Article and of the Agreements and Declarations of Trust, shall not give rise to a literal or formal interpretation or construction; such interpretation or construction shall be placed on this Article, and the Agreements and Declarations of Trust as will assist in the functioning of the plan, for the benefit of the employees, and their families, regardless of form.
15.12	In no event will the Employer be entitled to the return of any part of any contribution made hereunder.
15.13	The Employer and the Union hereby agree that the Amalgamated Clothing Workers Insurance Fund of the Province of Quebec shall pay monthly one-twelfth (1/12) of the three percent (3 %) designated assessment income received by the Insurance Fund to the Quebec Council - Unitehere as compensation for the following, among other purposes:
a)	Rental, cost of maintenance and janitorial services of the premises occupied by the Insurance and Retirement Fund in the Amalgamated Centre;
b)	Administrative and advisory services rendered to the Insurance Fund;
C) To provide and maintain social services and educational programs for the members of the Union;
d)	Active participation and contribution to a fund for a public relations program, in conjunction with the Associated Clothing Manufacturers of the Province of Quebec Inc., for the promotion of the industry.
15.14	The Employer further agrees that if, at any time, the Insurance Funds is in a deficit position, due to the payment as stipulated in clause 15.13, he will pay, upon the written notification by the Trustees, an additional one-quarter percent (1/4%) to the Trustees of the Insurance Fund for such period of time as the Trustees deem necessary to restore the said Fund to a non-deficit position.
BENAP-MONTREAL-410019247 v1
30
Article 16 HOMEWORK
16.1	All homework of any kind is prohibited. Every Employer binds himself that under no circumstances will any work or production be given to home workers, either directly or indirectly.
Article 17
NON-DISCRIMINATION
17.1	It is the continuing policy of the Employer and the Union that the provisions of this Agreement shall be applied to all employees or applicants for employment without regard to race, colour, age, sex, religious creed, national origin or language.
Article 18 CONTRACTORS
18.1	No employer who operates an inside shop shall send out to a Contractor work of a grade similar to that which he is manufacturing in his own shop, unless the workers in his shop are employed full time.
18.2	When an Employer wishes to send work to a Contractor, the Union shall be consulted and a Union Contractor mutually agreed upon.
18.3	Manufacturers who do not have inside shops shall contract out work only to Union contract shops, Such manufacturers are specifically prohibited from contracting out work to Manufacturers with inside shops. In the event of a violation of this clause, the Manufacturer shall be subject to the penalty provided in Article 19.4.
Article 19
CONTRACTORS OF MANUFACTURERS
19.1	To better secure the employment and due remuneration of employees engaged by Union contractors, the Union and the Employers agree that a list will be drawn up by the Union containing the names of all Union contractors, herein referred to as "registered Contractors", to whom work is or will be sent by the Employers during the life of this Agreement.
19.2	During the life of this Agreement, each Employer shall designate one registered coat contractor, one registered pants contractor, and one registered vest contractor for each grade, to whom each such Employer shall send all his contracting work with respect to the coats, pants and/or vest of such Employer, as the case may be.
BENAP-MQNTREAL-#10019247 v1
31
19.3	The Employer shall not have the right, directly or indirectly, to send any of the aforesaid products to any other than the registered contractor designated as aforesaid. Nor shall a Contractor make work for any company for which he is not registered without the consent of the Union. In the event of a violation of this clause, the Contractor shall be subject to the penalty provided in clause 19.4.
19.4	In the event of violation of the conditions herein provided by any Employer, it is agreed that such Employer shall pay to the Union for distribution among the aggrieved Union employees, a sum equal to one-half (1/2) of the registered contractor's charge per garment, multiplied by the total number of garments involved, as liquidated damages stipulated in advance.
19.5	The Employer may, for good cause, request a change of contractor and shall be entitled to change his contractor if the contractor does not maintain quality and production during a period in excess of fifteen (15) working days.
19.6	Every Employer who sends work to a contractor must furnish the Union with faithful and true reports in writing of all work cut and forwarded to the registered contractor.
19.7	Each Employer and each registered contractor shall give to the other three (3) months prior notice in writing, a true copy whereof shall be given to the Union, in any of the following cases:
(a)	change in type of garments manufactured;
(b)	opening an inside shop;
(c)	change of supplier.
19.8	In special cases, where a registered contractor cannot be supplied with sufficient work by Union Employers, such contractors shall be entitled to manufacture for non-Union Employers, but only under the condition that the work of Union Employers shall be given first preference.
Article 20
CANVAS AND SHOULDER PADS
20.1	All canvas fronts, shoulder pads and sleevehead pads used by the Employer shall be made in Union shops and the Union stamp on the canvas fronts and on the pads' container shall be prima facie evidence that the same was made in a Union shop.
BENAP-MONTREAL-#10019247 v1
I
32
Article 21 UNION LABEL
21.1 Th Employer gree to affix copies of th label of the Qu bee Council -Unitehere to men's clothing, including, without limitation, single pants manufactured by the Employer or by the Union contractors on behalf of the Employer, all as provided herein.
21.2	The Union grants the Employer a non-exclusive and non-assignable license to affix copies of the labels, supplied by the Union, to men's clothing manufactured by the Employer or for the Employer of the said collective bargaining agreement.
21.3	The Employer shall affix copies of the labels to all garments as follows:
(a)	a copy of the suit or garment label to every coat forming a part of a suit and to every sport coat, odd coat, top coat and overcoat, and;
(b)	a copy of the trouser label to every pair of single pants (but not to pants forming a part of a suit) manufactured by the Employer or for the Employer by contractors.
21.4	The Employer shall cause all copies of labels supplied by the Union to be sewed to the garments to which they are affixed by machine (and not by hand) during the process of construction. The Employer shall not delivery any copied of the label or permit them to be delivered to any retailer or other person except as part of the garments to which they have been affixed in the factory of the Employer or the Employer's contractors.
21.5	The Union shall supply the Employer with copies of labels in such quantities as the production of the Employer requires.
21.6	Promptly upon receipt of bills therefore from the Union, the Employer shall pay the cost of printing to the Union for copies of labels delivered to the Employer.
21.7	The Employer shall not copy the labels, cause them to be copied, or obtain copies hereof except from the Union pursuant to the provision of this Agreement.
21.8	The provisions of this paragraph shall automatically terminate, without notice from the Union, and the right of the Employer to use the labels shall immediately cease in the event that:
(a)	the existing Collective Bargaining Agreement between the parties terminates by lapse of time or otherwise and is not extended or renewed, with or without modifications, or
(b)	the Union determines that the Employer has violated any of the terms or conditions of employment provided in the aforesaid Collective Bargaining Agreement.
BENAP-MONTREAL-#10019247 v1
33
21.9	In the event of the termination of this license, the Employer shall forthwith deliver to the Union all copies of labels then in the Employer's possession or control.
21.10	The exclusive right to institute legal proceedings for any unauthorized use of the labels shall remain in the Union, but the Union shall not be liable to the Employer for any failure to institute such proceedings.
21.11	Notwithstanding Article 21.7, and after having notified the Union, the Employer may combine and print the Union label with the content label and sew these labels on all garments according to Article 21.1.
Article 22 CHECK OFF
22.1	a) An irrevocable authorization, from every employee, for the weekly deduction of Union dues from their salaries shall be submitted to the Employer. These deductions shall be remitted, once a month, to the Union.
b)	It is agreed that the Employer shall deduct, every week, from the pay of every employee covered by this collective agreement, a sum equivalent to the Union dues and shall remit the sums so deducted, no later than the 15th of the following month, by cheque, to the Quebec Council - Unitehere, Union to dues and shall remit the sums so deducted, every month, by cheque, to the Quebec Council - Unitehere.
c)	The Union shall hold harmless and indemnify the Employer of any claim of any nature whatsoever resulting from deduction made by the Employer pursuant to the provisions of the present article.
d)	The Employer shall send to the Union with the above mentioned remittances a list of employees, their social insurance numbers, the amounts deducted for each of them, and any new address or telephone number. Codes submitted by the Union shall identify the reason for the non-deduction of Union dues. All information shall be kept confidential.
22.2	In the event that employees wish to contribute to the QFL Solidarity Fund, sign proper written authorizations for the Employer to deduct such contributions at source, the Union and the Employer concerned shall consider if arrangements can be made for such deduction at source, in accordance with the terms of the letter of agreement annexed thereto at Appendix A.
Article 23
RIGHT OF DISCHARGE AND DISCIPLINE
23,1	Full power of discharge and discipline lies with the Employer, it is agreed that this power shall be exercised with justice and with regard for the reasonable rights of
BENAP-MONTREAL-#10019247 v1
-34
the employee. The power of discharge shall be exercised only through a fully authorized and responsible representative of the Management. If the Union, after investigation, finds that an employee has been discharged or disciplined without just cause, and that it cannot reach an agreement with the representative of the Management, it may bring the case before the Impartial Chairman.
23.2	Except as set out in this agreement, all rights and prerogatives of Management are retained by the Employer and remain with the rights of the Employer and its Management. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Employer's rights include:
(a)	The right to operate and manage the enterprise in any manner in order to satisfy its commitments and responsibilities; the right to determine the location of operations and their commencement, expansion, curtailment or discontinuance; to select, hire, control and direct the working force; to schedule operations and production, or to determine the work to be done, the number of shifts, the methods, processes and means of production and job content requirements; to establish quality and quantity standards; to use improved or changed methods, machinery and equipment; to decide on the number of employees needed to determine the number of hours to be worked, starting and quitting times and whether there shall be overtime work; to establish a piece work, incentive or a bonus plan or other method of payment and its application to employees and operation;
(b)	The right to maintain order, discipline and efficiency; to work, alter and enforce reasonable rules and regulations, policies and practices to be followed by the employees;
(C) The right to determine reasonable safety, health and protection measures and to enforce the use of the same;
(d)	The jurisdiction over all operations, buildings, machinery, equipment shall be vested exclusively in the Employer.
23.3	When an employee is called to a meeting of a disciplinary nature with the Employer, a union steward must be present unless the employee agrees otherwise. For all other meetings, a union steward can be present if the employee so requests it.
Article 24
STRIKE OR LOCKOUT
24.1	The Union hereby undertakes that it shall not, directly or indirectly, cause any cessation of, or interference with production in the factories of the members of the Association, and the Association and its member Employers shall not engage
BENAP-MONTREAL*#10019247 v1
35
in any lockout, and all differences between the parties hereto shall be settled in accordance with the methods herein provided.
24.2	The parties agree, in keeping with the spirit of collective bargaining, that any strikes, slowdown, stoppage, lockout, walkout, or the calling out of workers for a meeting during working hours, and/or concerted cancellation of overtime, which in any way interferes with or interrupts production in said establishments is prohibited, and is a vital violation of this Agreement.
24.3	This Article shall not apply where the Union causes its members to discontinue work for the purpose of enforcing the provisions under clause 15.3 as provided for in clause 15.9b).
Article 25 ABSENCES
25.1	Whenever an employee shall absent himself from work without a valid reason to the Employer, upon the third working day of his absence, the Employer may consider his position forfeited. In case of absence, a reason therefore must be promptly given to the foreman by messenger, mail or telephone. Failure to give notice, however shall be waived whenever an employee is physically incapable of doing so. No employee having reported for work shall leave during the day without consent of the foreman. This consent shall not be unreasonably withheld.
25.2	A regular employee who is absent on account of accident or sickness shall, on his return to work, be reinstated in his former position provided that the period of such absence:
(a)	does not exceed twelve (12) months in the case of an employee with five (5) or more years of employment in the Employer's shop; or
(b)	does not exceed six (6) months, in the case of any other employee;
and that the Employer has been given five (5) day's notice as to the date when such employee shall resume his work.
In case of maternity leave or absences due to a work accident, the respective laws shall apply.
An employee injured on the job needing immediate attention by a doctor will be transported by the Employer to the nearest doctor or hospital and transported back to work, if in the same day, by the Employer; such employee shall be reinstated in his former position, provided that the period of his absence was reasonable in the circumstances.
BENAP-MONTREAL-#10019247 v1
36
25.3	Maternity leave shall be granted in accordance with the provisions of the Act respecting Labour Standards and Regulations thereunder.
25.4	For humanitarian reasons, an employee may be entitled to a leave of absence of reasonable duration. Such leave of absence shall be arranged by agreement between the Employer and the Union. The employee shall be reinstated in his former position, without loss of seniority, provided he returns within the agreed upon date.
25.5	If the wedding of an employee takes place on a work day, he shall be entitled to a leave of absence for that day without loss of pay and to additional consecutive week without pay, by giving to his Employer reasonable notice thereof in writing.
25.6	An employee may be absent from work for five (5) days at the birth of his child or the adoption of a child. The first two (2) days of absence shall be remunerated if the employee is credited with sixty (60) days of uninterrupted service.
This leave may be divided into days at the request of the employee. It may not be taken more than fifteen (15) days after the child arrives at the residence of his father or mother.
The employee must advise his employer of his absence as soon as possible.
However, an employee who adopts the child of his spouse may be absent from work for only two (2) days, without pay.
Article 26 BEREAVEMENT
26.1	a) In the event of the death of the spouse, mother, father, child, brother or sister of a regular employee, he shall be entitled to one (1) day's leave on the day of the funeral, with pay, provided that his absence coincides with a regular scheduled working day.
b)	In the event of the death of the spouse, mother, father, child, brother or sister of an employee with one (1) year's service or more in the employ of the Employer, he shall be entitled to five (5) consecutive days leave (including the day of the funeral), three (3) of which will be with pay and two (2) without pay, provided that his absence coincides with regular scheduled working days. This can be arranged differently by mutual consent.
26.2	In the event of the death of the grand-parent of an employee, or the mother or the father, the brother or the sister of the spouse of an employee, he shall be entitled to one (1) day's leave with pay, on the day of the funeral, provided that his absence coincides with a regular scheduled working day and provided he has one (1) year's service or more in the employ of the Employer.
BENAP-MONTREAL-#10019247 v1
37
26.3	The pay for such leave shall be calculated on the same basis as holiday pay as per Article 13.
26.4	At the request of the Employer the employee shall produce proof of death of the person involved.
26.5	If an employee with one (1) year's service or more in the employ of the Employer learns of the death of his spouse, mother, father, child, brother or sister as stipulated in Article 16.1 para, b) only after the day of the funeral because the death occurred outside the continent of North America, the employee shall be entitled to a leave of absence of three (3) consecutive days without loss of pay for bereavement as of the day he learns of the death, provided he produces, within three (3) months following the death, satisfactory proof thereof. The same principles apply in the case of the death of a grand-parent, mother-in-law or father-in-law for one scheduled work day without loss of pay.
26.6	For the purposes of the present article "spouse" of an employee means:
a person to whom the employee is legally married or in a civil union and co-resides with;
a person of the same or different sex that live together in a conjugal relationship and are the mother and father of the same child:
(in) a person of the same or different sex that live together in a conjugal relationship for at least one (1) year.
Article 27
SEPARATION FROM EPLOYMENT
27.1	An employee who leaves the service of the Employer must give the Employer at least five (5) working days' notice. The Union agrees to give its full cooperation so that its members may comply with this regulation.
27.2	If the Employer terminates the employment of an employee (and unless it is a discharge for cause) he shall give to the employee notice in accordance with the Act respecting Labour Standards.
27.3	An employee who is separated from his job shall receive all wages due him plus termination pay, in lieu of vacation pay, as follows:
(a) four percent (4%) of gross earnings since the previous June 1st, if the employee has less than three (3) year's employment in the shop of the Employer;
BENAP-MONTREAL-#10019247 v1
38
(b) six percent (6%) of gross earnings since the previous June 1st, if the employee has three (3) years of more employment in the shop of the Employer.
However, if an employee with less than five (5) years of service is dismissed for cause or if he leaves the service of the Employer without giving five (5) working day's notice, he shall receive only four percent (4%) of his gross earnings.
27.4	An employee who is separated form his job, shall receive, except as stipulated in the following paragraph, an additional two percent (2%) of his gross earnings from December 1 of the preceding year in lieu of year end vacation pay provided he has qualified for such year end vacation in accordance with clause 12.1.
However, if the employee is dismissed for cause or if he leaves the service of the Employer without giving five (5) working days' notice, he shall not be entitled to the additional amount stipulated above.
27.5	When a lay-off occurs for an indeterminate period of time, and the Employer applies clauses 27.2, 27.3 and 27.4, any employee subsequently recalled before the expiry of the six (6) month period (or of a twelve (12) month period, in the case of an employee with five (5) years seniority or more) shall receive, for the vacations following his return, the payments to which he is entitled less any amounts received by him pursuant to the application of clauses 27.3 and 27.4 herein.
Article 28 PLANT REMOVAL
28.1	During the term of this Agreement, an Employer may enlarge or move his plant or plants provided his relationship with the Union is maintained.
28.2	Should an Employer plan to remove his present plant or plants from the city or cities in which such plant or plants are located, three (3) month's notice in writing by registered mail must be given to the Union.
Article 29
APPRENTICE TRAINING
29.1	It is agreed that the Employer shall have the privilege of developing workers through the apprenticeship system, on a basis to be determined by the representatives of the Association and the Union.
BENAP-MONTREAL-#10019247 v1
39
Article 30
PARITY OF ADVANTAGES
30.1	It is agreed that the Union shall not make any arrangements with any clothing manufacturer in the Province of Quebec or Ontario on more advantageous terms than those granted to the Association.
30.2	The Union shall submit to the Association drafts of all Agreements, and copies of all existing and future Agreements shall be filed with the Association.
30.3	The Union agrees that during the life of this Agreement and the period of time during negotiations for the extension and renewal of this Agreement, no contract will,be made separately with any one member of the Association.
Article 31
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
31.1	In the event of any dispute or condition arising out of any matter in a shop affecting an Employer or employee, the parties shall proceed in the following manner: the Employer or employee shall place the matter complained of before the Shop Chairperson, who shall endeavour to adjust the dispute. In the event of their not being able to arrive at an agreement, the Shop Chairperson shall refer the matter in dispute to the representative of the Union for the department concerned who, in turn, with a representative of the Employer, shall endeavour to affect a settlement of the dispute. In the event of the parties not reaching an agreement, the whole matter in dispute shall be placed before the Impartial Chairman who shall render a decision which will remedy the dispute or condition, and the said decision shall be final, conclusive and binding on the parties.
31.2	In order that the presentation and adjustment of these grievances shall cause as little confusion as possible, it is hereby agreed that the time for presenting grievances to the Shop Chairperson and by him to the representative of the Employer and for the adjustment of these grievances, shall be after the regular working hours. Exception is made, however, in such emergency cases as require immediate attention.
31.3	In cases of urgency, the aggrieved party shall have the right to demand an immediate hearing before the Impartial Chairman on giving four (4) hours' notice.
31.4	a) Grievance shall be in writing and shall be presented by the Shop Chairperson to the foreman or other representative designated for this purpose by the Employer within fifteen (15) calendar days of the event, or the knowledge the person concerned has or should have had of the event giving rise to the grievance. The foreman or representative designated by the Employer shall give his answer in writing within the fifteen (15) days following receipt of the grievance.
BENAP-MONTREAL-#10019247 v1
40
b)	If there is no agreement at this first step, then the representative of the Union shall have twenty (20) calendar days, from the date of the answer at the first step or from the date of the expiry of the delay to give such answer, if no answer has been given, to meet the plant manager or any other person designated for this purpose by the Employer, and attempt to resolve the grievance.
c)	If there is no agreement within these twenty (20) days, the Union shall have ten (10) calendar days to request arbitration by notice in writing. A copy of all arbitration notices must be transmitted to the Association.
d)	The decision of the Arbitrator shall be rendered within thirty (30) calendar days after the end of the hearing and of the arguments of the parties (verbal or written).
e)	All delays and steps stipulated above are imperative, in default of which the grievance is forfeited. The parties may however by agreement in writing prolong any delay. All the delays stipulated in the above clauses shall automatically be suspended during the summer vacation period as well as during the year end vacation period.
Article 32 ARBITRATION
32.1	Recognizing the necessity and the desire of both parties to be guided by the spirit of collective bargaining, that all controversies and conflicts be settled in an amicable and expeditious manner without harm to either party by way of loss of production, wages, or otherwise, the parties agree that all grievances and controversies which cannot be adjusted by mutual consent shall be submitted to an Impartial Chairman.
32.2	For that purpose and for that of preserving order in the industry, it is agreed that Me Jean-Pierre Lussier shall act as such Impartial Chairman for the term of this agreement, and that his appointment can only be terminated by the consent in writing of both parties to this Agreement.
It is further understood that Me Michel Bolduc shall act as substitute to Me Jean-Pierre Lussier should ever it be impossible for Me Lussier to act within a timely delay.
32.3	It is agreed that all decisions, awards and penalties imposed by the Impartial Chairman shall be final, conclusive and binding on the parties concerned. The Arbitrator must forward a copy of any decision rendered to the Association.
32.4	Both Parties shall jointly and equally share the costs of the Arbitrator.
BENAP-MONTREAL-#10019247 v1
41
32.5	The Impartial Chairman shall have the right to impose such penalty as he may in his discretion see fit for the violation of any of the terms of this Agreement.
32.6	In the event of either party refusing to agree to participate in an arbitration, the Impartial Chairman shall hear the dispute in the absence of the defaulting party and shall render his decision ex parte. Such decision shall be final and binding upon the defaulting party and of the same force and effect as if the defaulting party were present. In the event of such defaulting party refusing to abide by the terms of the decision, such party shall ipso facto and de plein droit be deprived of all rights and benefits under the present Agreement.
Article 33
LEGAL REPRESENTATION
33.1	The Union may institute or intervene in any proceeding at law and/or bankruptcy, on behalf of all employees, for the purposes of effecting the collection of any sums payable to the employees of the Employer under the provisions of this Agreement.
Article 34 SEPARABILITY
34.1	Should any part of this Agreement be rendered or declared illegal by reason of any existing or subsequently enacted legislation or by any decree of a court of competent jurisdiction, or by the decision of any authorized government agency, such invalidation of such part of provision shall not invalidate the remainder thereof. In such event, the parties agree to negotiate substitute provisions.
Article 35 RECORDS
35.1	The Employer agrees that such representatives as the Union may designate shall have full access to the same payroll and production records of the Employer that were previously made available to the Joint Committee of the Men's Clothing Parity Committee and to copy same.
35.2	The Employer further agrees to submit copies to the Trustees of the Amalgamated Clothing Workers Insurance Fund and the Amalgamated Clothing Workers Retirement Fund, of the same payroll and production records of the Employer that were previously made available to the Men's Clothing Parity Committee, for the purpose of determining whether the Employer is complying with the provisions of Article 15.
BENAP-MONTREAL-#10019247 v1
42
Article 36 GENERAL
36.1	In accordance with the spirit of this Agreement both parties pledge themselves to cooperate in making the arrangements successful, and to use their influence and efforts for the promotion and development of goodwill, it being understood that this Agreement shall not operate in any way as to restrict output, impede processes of manufacture or management, but shall encourage maximum production and minimum cost and fair and equitable treatment to any individual concerned in it.
36.2	Every spring, a joint committee of the parties shall recommend measures to be implemented in the event of thermal constraints.
Article 37
TERM OF AGREEMENT
37.1	The term of this Agreement shall commence on the day of its signing and shall terminate on November 30th, 2009. Only wage adjustments and year end vacation calculation accumulated at December 24, 2005, shall be retroactive to December 1, 2005.
37.2	Should either of the parties request the renewal of this Agreement, modifications to same or negotiations of a new Agreement to take effect at expiration on November 30th, 2009, notice in writing by registered mail shall be given to the other party ninety (90) days before the date of expiry of this Agreement.
BENAP-MONTREAL-#10019247 v1
43-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed these presents at the City
of Montreal, and cause their signature to be affixed this _______ day of
_________________2006.
The Associated Clothing Manufacturers The Quebec Council - Unitehere of the Province of Quebec, Inc.
Montreal Clothing Contractors Association Inc.
The Quebec Council of Odd Pants Employers
Rainwear and Sportswear Manufacturers Association
The Canadian Trimmings Manufacturers Association
BENAP-MONTREAL-#10019247 v1
44
APPENDIX "A"
RE: Deductions at source of "Fonds de Solidarite"(FTQ) savings
The parties agree as follows:
1.	The Employer agrees to cooperate with the Union to allow .employees who wish to subscribe to the "Fonds de Solidarity des Travailleurs du Quebec" to do so by way of savings on their wages.
2.	Regardless of the number of employees who make the request, the Employer agrees to deduct at source from the pay of each employee who so wishes and who has signed the subscription form, the amount stipulated by the employee for the term defined by the employee or until notice by the employee to the contrary.
3.	An employee may, at any time, modify his contribution into the Fund or cease the subscription by giving written notice to this effect to the "Fonds de Solidarity" and to the Employer.
4.	The Employer agrees to forward by cheque to the "Fonds de Solidarity" each month (at the latest on the 15th day of the month following the deduction) the sums deducted in accordance with clause 2 above. This remittance will be forwarded with a statement listing the name, the social security number and the reference number (provided by the "Fonds de Solidarity") of each employee and the amount deducted for each of them.
BENAP-MONTREAL-#10019247 v1
45
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed these presents at the City
of Montreal, and cause their signature to be affixed this _________ day of
___________, 2006.
The Associated Clothing Manufacturers The Quebec Council - Unitehere of the Province of Quebec, Inc.
Montreal Clothing Contractors Association Inc.
The Quebec Council of Odd Pants Employers
Rainwear and Sportswear Manufacturers Association
The Canadian Trimmings Manufacturers Association
BENAP-MONTREAL-#10019247 v1
46
APPENDIX "B"
Letter of Agreement concerning substitution of hours
The parties to the annexed Collective Agreement agree to the following:
At the request of the majority of the employees of a shop, the Employer, by mutual agreement, may grant to the employees additional days off on agreed upon dates in exchange for eight (8) hours, worked outside regular hours at straight time, per additional day off so agreed upon; the pay accumulated by each employee for the hours so worked shall be paid to the employee with the weekly pay of the week in which he takes the holiday.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed these presents at the City
of Montreal, and cause their signature to be affixed this ____________ day of
___________, 2006.
The Associated Clothing Manufacturers The Quebec Council - Unitehere of the Province of Quebec, Inc.
Montreal Clothing Contractors Association Inc.
The Quebec Council of Odd Pants Employers
Rainwear and Sportswear Manufacturers Association
The Canadian Trimmings ManufacturersAssociation
BENAP-MONTREAL-#10019247 v1
47
APPENDIX "C"
Letter of Agreement concerning the Trust Agreement provided in Article 15
The parties to the annexed Collective Agreement agree to the following:
Without limiting or otherwise affecting the terms of the Trust Agreement provided for in Article 15 of the Collective Agreement, the parties agree that the Trustees have the right and the power at any time during the term of the said Collective Agreement to define and modify the terms of eligibility to all insurance benefits or any part thereof, and to apply them accordingly.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed these presents at the City
of Montreal, and cause their signature to be affixed this ___________ day of
___________, 2006.
The Associated Clothing Manufacturers The Quebec Council - Unitehere of the Province of Quebec, Inc.
Montreal Clothing Contractors Association Inc.
The Quebec Council of Odd Pants Employers
Rainwear and Sportswear Manufacturers Association
The Canadian Trimmings Manufacturers Association
BENAP-MQNTREAL-#10019247 v1
48
APPENDIX "D"
Letter of Agreement reiterating certain provisions of the Letter of Agreement of January 18, 1984 as follows:
1.	Concerning clause 1.1 of the Collective Agreement the words "Sales employees" include client service employees and the words "Office employees" include the shipping and receiving clerks who do clerical work.
2.	"Bonafide" students hired as warehouse shipping and receiving employees between the months of May and September shall not be required to become members of the Union.
3.	Articles 17 and 18 of the Collective Agreement (concerning contractors) apply only to production employees. It is understood however that no Employer shall have the shipping and receiving work done outside without a valid reason.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed these presents at the City
of Montreal, and cause their signature to be affixed this _____________ day of
___________, 2006.
The Associated Clothing Manufacturers of The Quebec Council - Unitehere the Province of Quebec, Inc.
Montreal Clothing Contractors Association Inc.
The Quebec Council of Odd Pants Employers
Rainwear and Sportswear Manufacturers Association
The Canadian Trimmings Manufacturers Association
BENAP-MONTREAL-#10019247 v1
49
APPENDIX "E"
Letter of Agreement concerning clause 6.25b)
Notwithstanding clause 6.25b) of the Collective Agreement, in the case of employees who by special agreement with the Employer receive non-diminishing subsidies (so-called "permanent subsidies"), the Employers who have granted these subsidies agree to maintain them in force in accordance with the terms of their particular agreements but only for those employees who are receiving such subsidies on December | 1995.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed these presents at the City
of Montreal, and cause their signature to be affixed this __________ day of
___________, 2006.
The Associated Clothing Manufacturers The Quebec Council - Unitehere of the Province of Quebec, Inc.
Montreal Clothing Contractors Association Inc.
The Quebec Council of Odd Pants Employers
Rainwear and Sportswear Manufacturers Association
The Canadian Trimmings ManufacturersAssociation
BENAP-MONTREAL-#10019247 v1
50
APPENDIX “F”
LETTER OF AGREEMENT ON LITERACY
1.	The parties acknowledge that literacy skills can contribute to employee participation in the workplace and in the broader community and that upgraded literacy skills are in the interest of all concerned.
2.	Whenever an agreement is concluded with the Employer, the parties agree to work in good faith to improve literacy skills among employees and therefore:
-	involvement in literacy programs will be encouraged by the parties, but employee participation in such programs shall be voluntary unless otherwise agreed upon.
-	Any literacy program introduced in the workplace shall respect the dignity and privacy of employees. No employee shall be penalized for a lack of or perceived lack of literacy skills.
3.	Any Employer’s participation in the establishment of a literacy program for employees by direct financial contribution or contribution of resources, time, premises or other, shall be deemed to constitute training expenses for the purposes of the Act to foster the development of manpower training (Bill 90).
BENAP-MONTREAL-#10019247 v1
51
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed these presents at the City
of Montreal, and cause their signature to be affixed this _________ day of
___________ 2006.
The Associated Clothing Manufacturers The Quebec Council - Unitehere of the Province of Quebec, Inc.
Montreal Clothing Contractors Association Inc.
The Quebec Council of Odd Pants Employers
Rainwear and Sportswear Manufacturers Association
The Canadian Trimmings Manufacturers Association
BENAP-MONTREAL-#10019247 v1
-52-
APPENDIX “G”
OPERATIONS AND JOB CLASSES
WHEREAS the Menswear Decree has been abolished;
WHEREAS certain job classes were never included in the Menswear Decree;
WHEREAS the parties wish to specify the various operations contained in each job class in this collective agreement;
1.	Men’s and boys’ clothing
1.	I Cutting and trimming operations Class
A.	Marking patterns on paper or cloth. Marking or cutting body or sleeve linings.
B.	Chopping by hand or electric shears. Marking or cutting with shears or knife, trimmings other than body or sleeves linings. Operating automatic cutting machine.
C.	Piling, operating die-cutting equipment. Cutting undercollars. Matching parts to be cut.
D.	Abrogated.
E.	Operating Soabar machine. Sorting. Operating photomarking machine. General hand or floor help.
2.	Men’s and boys’ clothing excluding trousers
2.1	Pressing operations
Class
B.	Finish presser: employee who performs the pressing of a complete sewn garment, with a hand iron or by steam press machine.
C.	Toppresser: employee who presses garments by automatic steam pressing machine or using a dummy or pressed military garments by steam press machine.
Underpresser: employee who opens or presses seams, parts or any other pressing required for the sewing of the garment or does the smoothing of the lining after the garment has been pressed by the finish presser.
E. Attaching pads to shoulders with an automatic steam machine.
BENAP-MONTREAL-#10019247 v1
53
2.2	Machine operations Class
C.	Employees performing any of the following operations: sewing in sleeves. Taping edges. Sewing shape of fronts. Making pockets, which includes: sewing on beesoms, flaps, welts or patches. Stitching edges of fronts. Operating die-cutting equipment. Joining fronts, vees, sides, shoulders, bottoms or backs. Tacking pockets, which includes: closing mouth and tacking corners. Tacking welt corners with zigzag stitch machine. Felling with “Durkopp" or “A.M.F.” type machines. Making or stitching fly fronts. Making lining, which includes: making or tacking pockets, sewing lining o facing, side seams, backs, yokes, vees, shoulder seams, or sewing sleeve lining to body. Sewing topcollarto undercollar. Basting which includes: edges, gorges, bottoms, fronts, canvas, facings, linings, armholes, shoulder seams, topcollar or undercollar to neck. Trimming and tacking armholes. Sewing gorges or undercollar to neck or to lining. Raising seams. Making samples. Sewing sleeves to body before side seams are closed. Closing coat shell to shell. Making general repairs. Sewing or stitching zipper to front or side of body. Sewing or stitching front or back yokes. Operating feed-off the arm machine.
D.	(a) employee performing any other operations not enumerated in classes C
and E;
employee performing any operations on military garments defined in paragraph^ of section 101, except the operations enumerated in class E.
operating an automatic sewing machine, defined in paragraph? of section 1.01.
E.	Operating Soabar machine. Stapling canvas or facings. Basting mouth of pockets. Making ticket pockets. Making or sewing on armhole shields. Gathering shoulder head. Shirring canvas. Tacking hangers or cuffs. Making loops or imitation buttonholes. Closing pockets, sewing around bag when performed as a separate operation after pocket has been tacked. Turning and creasing parts by die machine. Setting hooks, eyelets, rivets or snaps. Threading or cutting zippers. Trimming or pinking bottoms. Sewing labels or tickets. Following operations performed on military garments: sewing inside pockets, making flaps, collars, wristbands, or epaulets; sewing patch pockets which have been previously creased with die machine; making general repairs, making buttonholes; sewing buttons; bar tacking.
2.3	Hand operations
Class
BENAP-MONTREAL-#10019247 v1
54
C.	Fitting; sorting, matching and cutting with shears or electric knife garment parts or linings to be sewn which have been blocked by the cutter or the trimmer. Basting or stitching edges or body or other parts of garment. Underbasting of facing to front. Shaping. Basting topcollar. Examining, general tailoring and busheling. Basting canvas, facing, lining, pleats, yokes or vents. Trimming and tacking armholes. Basting undercollar or topcollar to neck or topcollar to undercollar. Preparing armholes: basting lining or cloth, shoulder seams or crease of lining.
D.	Employee performing any other operations not enumerated in classes C and E.
E.	Sewing on labels or tickets. Thread marking or chalking. Pulling basting or cleaning. Marking buttons. Separating, pairing, numbering, sorting or assembling cut parts to be sewn. Turning garments or small parts. Trimming canvas, linings or small parts. Tacking fronts for shaping. Examining military garments. Fusing by automatic machine. General hand or floor help.
3.	Trousers
3.1	Machine, hand and pressing operations
Class
C.	Making pockets, which includes: sewing on beesoms, welts, flaps, patches or tabs and sewing second stitch on back pocket. Tacking pockets, which includes: positioning pocket, closing mouth of pocket and tacking corners on regular or slant-type pockets. Seaming or raising seams on inside or outside leg seams or sewing seat seam. Stitching lining of waistband. Sewing lining to waistband. Sewing braid. Sewing cloth or elastic waistband on trousers. Operating feed-off the arm machine or die cutting equipment. Stitching flies. Making repairs by machine. Fitting and separating. Pressing legs or top of trousers.
D.	(a) employee performing any other operations not enumerated in classes C
and E;
(b)	underpressing: employee who opens or presses seams, parts or any other pressing required for the assembling of trousers;
(c)	employee performing the following operations defined in class C, on boys’ trousers: making pockets, tacking pockets, seaming, stitching lining, sewing lining, sewing waistband or stitching flies;
(d)	operating an automatic sewing machine defined in paragraph 7 of section 1.01.
E.	Operating Soabar machine. Sewing buttons, labels or tickets. Making loops. Setting hooks and eyes. Threading or cutting zippers. Separating, sorting, pairing, numbering or chalking. Turning and creasing parts by die machine.
BENAP-MONTREALM0019247 v1
55
Trimming or pinking bottoms. Cleaning or brushing. Fusing by automatic machine. General hand or floor help.
4.	Other
Class
F.	All operations in the manufacture of shoulder pad and other products which were not previously subject to the Menswear Decree.
The parties agree that for this class of operation, the applicable minimum hourly rate shall be the minimum applicable to all industries in the Province of Quebec and not the minimum applicable to the clothing industry.
BENAP-MONTREAL-#10019247 v1
56
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed these presents at the City
of Montreal, and cause their signature to be affixed this _________ day of
___________, 2006.
The Associated Clothing Manufacturers The Quebec Council - Unitehere of the Province of Quebec, Inc.
Montreal Clothing Contractors Association Inc.
The Quebec Council of Odd Pants Employers
Rainwear and Sportswear Manufacturers Association
The Canadian Trimmings Manufacturers Association
BENAP-MONTREAL-#10019247 v1
-57-
APPENDIX “H”
COMPUTERIZED TRANSMITTAL OF INFORMATION AND DUES WHEREAS a new computer system shall be introduced;
WHEREFORE, the parties hereby agree to the following:
1.	The Employer agrees to cooperate with the Union in order to allow the transfer of the data and of the union dues in a computerized manner wherever available, so that the Union can process the remittance of union dues and contributions to the Funds in accordance to the said computer system.
2.	The delays cf remittance of union dues to the Union remain governed by article 22 of the collective agreement.
3.	Inasmuch as individual employee consent is obtained, the data so transferred must include the following information:
•	Name of the establishment;
•	Period of total remittance reported (month reported);
•	Total amount remitted;
o Name and first name of employee;
•	S.I.N.
•	Date of birth
o Employee’s status (regular - BTT)
If BTT:
•	Hiring date as BTT If Regular:
o Punch card number;
•	Complete present address;
•	Hiring date;
•	Date cf termination of employment;
•	Rehiring date;
BENAP-MONTREAL-#10019247 v1
-58
•	Hourly rate;
•	Number of hours worked;
•	Gross weekly amount earned;
•	Absence code weekly
•	Amount of weekly remittance of union dues per member;
•	Amount cf initiation fees per member (if applicable).
4.	The data may be produced and remitted to the Union in Excel or in Text Format.
5.	Employers sending a remittance shall use only the absence codes submitted and updated by the Union.
BENAP-MONTREAL-#10019247 v1
59
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed these presents at the City
of Montreal, and cause their signature to be affixed this_day of
___________, 2006.
The Associated Clothing Manufacturers The Quebec Council - Unitehere of the Province of Quebec, Inc.
Montreal Clothing Contractors Association Inc.
The Quebec Council of Odd Pants Employers
Rainwear and Sportswear Manufacturers Association
The Canadian Trimmings Manufacturers Association
BENAP-MONTREAL-#10019247 v1
-60-
THE AMALGAMATED CLOTHING WORKERS INSURANCE FUND OF THE PROVINCE OF QUEBEC HEALTH BENEFITS (GROUP PAN)
FC 1 MEMBERS OF THE QUEBEC JN UNITEHERE
This is a summary of the main features of the current Insurance Fund. The complete provisions are contained in the Maritime Life A.S.O. contract approved by the Trustees of the Fund, which contract will apply in the event of any conflict with or inaccuracies.
CHANGES EFFECTIVE JANUARY 1st 2002
These benefits apply to any member who, on January 1st 2002, is actively at work with an employer contributing to this Fund.
ACWIF
GROUP INSURANCE BENEFITS SECTION 1	DEFINITIONS
In this brochure the following definitions apply:
a)	Spouse: the person who is legally married and residing with the member, or if there is no such person, the common-law spouse of the member.
b)	Common-law spouse: the person who is not legally married to the member, but who has resided publicly with the member for a continuous period of at least one year, and is not contrary to the Provincial Civil Code.
The common-law spouse will be insured from the date of declaration provided that he or she has resided with the member for at least one year.
c)	Dependents: the spouse and their unmarried children under age nineteen (19) if they are not working (under age twenty-two (22)) (age twenty-six (26) for prescription drugs) if they are attending a recognized CEGEP or University full time). The dependents become insured at the same time as the member.
All dependents eligible for benefits must be registered and occupy the same residence as the member. Should a dependent be hospitalized at the time the insurance becomes effective, he will only be covered after he leaves the hospital. New-born infants will be covered after 14 days and after leaving the hospital.
d)	Physician shall mean only a person who is duly licensed to prescribe and administer any drugs or to perform surgical procedures.
BENAP-MONTREAL-#10019247 vi
61
N.B. Members must notify the insurance office of all changes in their civil status within thirty (30) days.
SECTION II	CLAIM PROCEDURES
2.01	All forms for the different services are available from the union representative or at the union offices, 20 de Maisonneuve West, Montreal, Quebec, H2X 1Z3 (514) 8448644 or 1-800-994-8644.
2.02	Claims must be submitted within twelve (12) months from the date of occurrence, unless otherwise stated. If the claim is not submitted within the stipulated time period, it could result in a complete or partial refusal.
2.03	All claim forms must be originals and properly completed and signed by the member. Faxed items are not acceptable.
2.04	The claimant must be a member in good standing and under the (UNITE) collective agreement signed by a contributing company at the time of the event.
2.05	All claims must be accompanied by the original receipts. Photocopies will not be accepted.
A false declaration could annul a claim and/or entail legal proceedings.
2.06	The ACW insurance plan extends the coordination of benefits whereby both spouses may recoverfull medical expenses when both are covered by group insurance plans.
The member must keep a duplicate copy of all receipts, claim forms and the payment voucher in order to be able to submit them to their respective insurance plans to recover the excess. (This office will not supply photocopies).
2.07	All insurance benefits come under the Group Insurance Fund and cannot be purchased on an individual basis. Your Collective Agreement will indicate if you are covered.
2.08	New members will be insured thirty (30) days after hiring date, unless otherwise stated.
2.09	There will be six (6) month waiting period for dental, vision and weekly income benefits for new members.
2.10	Co-insurance is 90% for members and 50% for their spouses and eligible dependents, for all health, dental and vision benefits.
Co-insurance for prescription drugs is 90% for members and their children and 75% for spouses.
BENAP-MONTREAL-#10019247 v1
62
SECTION III	LIFE INSURANCE
3.01	BENEFITS:
Active members	$17,500.00
Spouse	$3,000.00
Dependent children (after 14	days)	$1,500.00
3.02	CONVERSION OF LIFE INSURANCE
Should a member terminate his employment, for any reason whatsoever, with a contributing company, he may convert his group life insurance coverage, at his own expense. He must apply for this protection within 31 days after he leaves work. Further information may be obtained from the Union Insurance Office.
3.03	WAIVER OF PREMIUM
If a member becomes totally disabled, he may keep his group life insurance benefit in force. Medical proof must be submitted within ninety (90) days and on a yearly basis thereafter, until his 65th birthday, after which the benefit will be terminated. Should he become eligible for pension benefits from the ACWRF, this benefit will then be terminated.
SECTION IV	WEEKLY INCOME BENEFITS (WAGE LOSS BENEFITS)
$225.00 per week (taxable)
(A waiting period of six (6) months for new members)
4.01	A member who is absent from work due to a disability, must submit the claim for wage loss benefits to our office within three (3) weeks following the occurrence.
4.02	A member may benefit from wage loss benefits under the following conditions:
a)	the disability occurred while he was actively at work;
b)	our weekly income benefit from has been fully completed and submitted.
N.B. If the member become disabled during a period of lay-off, he may be eligible for benefits once he is recalled to work and provided that the physician confirms that he is still disabled.
4.03	Total weekly disability income paid by the plan shall not exceed fifteen (15). The plan will pay eligible members for one (1) week calculated from the 8th day of the disability, after which the member must apply for the U.I.C. sick benefits. Once the U.I.C. benefits are terminated, or if the member is not eligible and he is still disabled, the plan will resume payments for the remaining fourteen (4) weeks or to the last date of disability advised by the physician, whichever occurs first.
BENAP-MONTREAL-#10019247 v1
63
4.04	Benefits will not be paid until all governmental benefits have been paid. Proof that payment was received, refused and/or only partially paid must accompany all claims. Benefits will be suspended during the time the member receives vacation pay and will resume thereafter.
4.05	Two successive periods of disability will be considered as one unless the member has completed three (3) weeks of full time employment in between, or the second disability is unrelated and the member has returned to prior active duty.
SECTION V	HEALTH CARE BENEFITS (co-insurance see 2.10)
Health care benefits have a life-time limit of $15,000.00 per insured person. Once the limit is reached, a new limit will be re-established the following year at the rate of $1,000.00 per calendar year.
5.01	HOSPITAL BENEFITS
a)	The difference in rate between a regular room and a semi-private room, maximum $60.00 per day;
b)	Maternity - as above.
5.02	EXTENDED HEALTH CARE BENEFITS (co-insurance see 2.10)
$25.00 deductible per person peryear, maximum $50.00 perfamily
a)	paramedical services are covered to a maximum of $350.00 per year. Such coverage includes service by a physiotherapist, chiropractor, speech therapist, osteopath, podiatrist and a psychologist who are duly licensed and a licensed masseur (if prescribed by a doctor); as well as magnetic resonance imaging (MRI).
b)	ambulance service, prescription drugs (oral or by injection) listed on the official drug list established by the Provincial government, medical aids and prosthesis (on prior approval) when prescribed by a physician.
Over the counter drugs are not covered even if prescribed.
c)	oral contraceptives.
5.03	ADDITIONAL HEALTH BENEFITS (co-insurance see 2.10)
a)	ORTHOPAEDIC SHOES
Orthopedic shoes and foot appliances specially designed and molded, by prescription only, by an orthopedic surgeon, to a maximum of $125.00 ($300.00 if attached to a leg brace) in any two (2) year period.
BENAP-MONTREAL-#10019247 vi
64
b)	BREAST PROSTHESIS
After a mastectomy, provided that Quebec Medicare has paid its maximum benefit (Max. $100.00).
c)	ELASTIC SUPPORT	HOSE
Elastic support hose prescribed by a physician to control diagnosed phlebitis and/or varicose veins, to a maximum of $100.00 per year per person.
d)	HEARING AID
Member and spouse only are entitled to one (1) hearing aid once every ten (10) years, the maximum cost of which is $400.00, provided that the need is certified by a physician.
e)	DIAGNOSTIC
Diagnostic benefits for laboratory tests, urinalysis, blood tests, etc. for a member and his dependents, to a maximum of $100.00 in each calendar year.
Tests for employment applications are not covered.
f)	Anti-smoking products (life-time maximum $400.00).
N.B. Not covered:	patent medicines, all vitamins, non-prescription drugs,
aesthetic treatments, all drugs or alimentary products used to treat or control obesity, fertility drugs and all drugs in the erectile dysfunction class (i.e. viagra).
SECTION VI	VISION CARE BENEFITS (co-insurance see 2.10)
(Waiting period of six (6) months for new members)
6.01	The cost of eye glasses (lenses and frames) or contact lenses for members and their dependents to a maximum of $150.00 per person, in any twenty-four (24) month period. Cost of eye examinations to a maximum of $35.00, once every twenty-four (24) months.
SECTOIN VII	DENTAL CARE (co-insurance see 2.10)
(Waiting period of six (6) months for new members)
$25.00 deductible per person per year, maximum $50.00 perfamily
BENAP-MONTREAL-#10019247 v1
65
a)	Eligible expenses refer to the actual expenses incurred by a member and his dependents for the following services and supplies for necessary dental care, administrated by or ordered by a licensed dentist. All eligible expenses will be paid in accordance with the following schedule:
December 1, 2005 - November 30, 2006 - 2002 Provincial Dental Surgeons Association fee schedule;
December 1, 2006 - November 30, 2007 - 2003 Provincial Dental Surgeons Association fee schedule;
December 1, 2007 - November 30, 2008 - 2004 Provincial Dental Surgeons Association fee schedule;
December 1, 2008 - November 30, 2009 - 2005 Provincial Dental Surgeons Association fee schedule;
b)	A maximum of $500.00 is payable to each person for each calendar year.
c)	The eligible expenses are listed below:
i)	oral examinations, including scaling and cleaning of teeth, not more than once in any nine (9) month period;
ii)	dental x-rays, limited to one set of bitewing x-rays in any nine (9) month period and one set full mouth x-rays in any 24 month period;
iii)	application of fluoride and other anticariogenic substances not more than once in any nine (9) month period;
iv)	fillings;
v)	extractions;
vi)	treatment of periodontal and other diseases of the gum and tissues of the mouth;
vii)	oral surgery of a dental origin;
viii)	endodontics treatment;
ix)	inlays, crowns and bridges; and
x)	installation or replacement of a partial or complete denture, subject to a maximum of $500.00 ($250.00 for the top and $250.00 for the bottom) in any five (5Jyear period.
BENAP-MONTREAL-#10019247 v1
-66
N.B. The member may obtain information on the amount payable by the plan submitting an "estimate" to the insurance office before the procedure is done.
d)	EXCLUSIONS AND LIMITATIONS TO DENTAL BENEFITS
No benefits are payable for:
i) full mouth x-rays for children covered by Medicare;
H) charges that are made for orthodontic or malocclusion treatment or services;
iii) charges for cosmetic surgery or treatment except for treatment of injuries caused by an accidental bodily injury, provided such treatment is rendered by a licensed dentist, within 180 days after such injury is sustained.
SECTION VIII	EXTENSION OF BENEFITS
8.01	EXTENSION OF LIFE AND HEALTH INSURANCE BENEFITS FOR MEMBERS TOTALLY DISABLED
Active member of less than 5 years	6 months coverage
Active member of 5 years or more	15 months coverage
SECTION IX	LIMITATIONS TO HEALTH BENEFITS
9.01	This plan does not cover disabilities arising from self-inflicted injuries, insurrection, war, participation in any riot or similar events.
9.02	These benefits are applicable to expenses incurred inside the boundaries of Canada and continental U.S.A. only.
9.03	Retirees are not covered by these benefits.
SECTION X	TERMINATION OF INSURANCE
a)	If a member is laid-off, for lack of work or a shop closure, insurance benefits for
him and his dependents will be continued for a period of thirty (30) days from the last day worked.
BENAP-MONTREAL-#10019247 v1
67
Registrationwith the government drug plan is recommended after this period.
Information about health benefits (Group Plan) may be obtained from:
ACWIF - Insurance Fund 20 de MaisonneuveBlvd. West Montreal (Quebec)
H2X 1Z3
Telephones: Local calls (514) 844-8644 Toll-free calls 1-800-994-8444 Fax (514) 845-5001
BENAP-MONTREAL-#10019247 v1
68
THE AMALGAMATED CLOTHING WORKERS
RETIREMENT FUND OF THE PROVINCE OF QUEBEC
PENSION BENEFITS (NON-CONTRIBUTORY PLAN)
FOR MEMBERS OF THE QUEBEC COUNCIL - UNITEHERE
This is a summary of the main features of the current Pension Fund. The complete provisions are contained in the Trust Agreement and Regulation which will govern in the event of any conflict with or inaccuracies.
CHANGES EFFECTIVE JANUARY 1st 2002
These benefits apply to any member who, on January 1st, 2002, is actively at work with an employer contributing to this Fund.
FOREWORD
This is a summary of the main features of the Plan as they apply to any member who, on January 1st, 2002, is actively employed by an employer contributing to the Fund, or who became a member of the Plan on or after January 1st, 2002, with a contributing company. Your Collective Agreement will show if you are covered.
The benefits with respect to participation prior to January 1st, 2002 or any member who is not actively employed by a contributing company on this date shall continue to be governed by the provisions of the Plan as in effect on the date of termination of his employment with a contributing company. The current provisions shall govern his benefits in respect of his participation after January 1st, 2002 only.
The new rules are also applicable to members who on January 1st, 2002 were (aid-off and whose seniority is covered under the collective agreement.
The member who is absent from work as at January 1st, 2002 because of an accident, sickness or maternity leave, will benefit under the new rules as long as his or her seniority is covered by the collective agreement and has provided the necessary proof.
The member who is unemployed as at January 1st, 2002 because of a shop closure will benefit under the new rules as long as his absence from work does not exceed the periods covered by the collective agreement in force at termination of employment.
BENAP-MONTREAL-#10019247 v1
SECTION I
DEFINITIONS
69
In this summary, the following definitions apply:
a)	COVERED EMPLOYMENT (Participating employers)
The member has been working for an employer or employers contributing to the Retirement Fund.
b)	YEARS OF SERVICE
To receive the full credit for one year of service, the member must have been working in Covered Employmentfor a minimum of forty-four (44) weeks between the 1st of January and the 31st of December of that year. Otherwise the credit for that year is partial and corresponds to the number of weeks the member has been working in covered employment between the 1st of January and the 31st of December divided by 52 weeks (see Section 2.6 for interruption of employment of more than three (3) months).
c)	SPOUSE
At the start of pension payment, the Spouse means:
i) the person who is married to the member at that time; or in the absence of such,
jj) the person who has been publicly living in a conjugal relationship with the member for at least three (3) years or for at least one (1) year if a child is born of their union, or they have jointly adopted a child or one of them has adopted a child of the other, and is not contrary to the Provincial Civil Code.
d)	NORMAL FORM OF PAYMENT
j) the pension is paid to the member on a monthly basis during his or her lifetime. Should the member with a spouse at the time the payments began die, an amount equal to sixty (60) percent of the pension is paid to the said surviving spouse. In the event that the spouse is more than ten (10) years younger than the member, the pension shall be reduced by 0.5% for each such year in excess often (IO).
jj) if the member does not have a spouse at the time the payments begin, the pension is paid monthly for his life-time. Should the member die before one hundred and twenty (120) payments have been made, payments will continue to the beneficiary until one hundred and twenty (120) payments in all have been made since retirement.
BENAP*MONTREAL-#10019247 v1
70
SECTION II
BENEFITS
2.01	REGULAR PENSION AT AGE 65
To receive a regular pension the member must have:
a)	reached normal retirement age (65);
b)	been employed in covered employment for at least two (2) years;
c)	complete and submit the appropriate application form to the Retirement Fund office.
The amount of the monthly pension shall be equal to $15.00 multiplied by the number of years of service in covered employment (see Definitions).
The regular pension is payable starting the month following the member's 65th birthday, in accordance with the normal form of payment (see Definitions).
2.02	EARLY RETIREMENT PENSION
Provided the member has reached the age of fifty-five (55) and he has been employed in covered employment for at least two years, he can elect to receive his pension on an early retirement date.
The monthly amount of the early retirement pension shall be equal to the product of the number of years of service in covered employment (see Definitions) by the pension unit which depends on the age upon retirement, in accordance with the following table:
The early retirement pension is payable from the month following the retirement in accordance with the normal form of payment (see Definitions).
Monthly
Retirement Age
55 years
Pension Unit
BENAP-MONTREAL-#10019247 v1
71
Once the member starts to receive an early retirement pension, he cannot accrue further benefits should be become employed in covered employment again.
2.03	EMPLOYMENT AFTER AGE 65
Pension is payable from age 65. Should the member remain employed in covered employment after the 65th birthday he will continue to accrue further benefits, if he advises the Fund in writing to suspend pension payments before the start of pension payment. Thereafter, his pension will be reevaluated with the additional covered employment, up to a maximum of age sixty-nine (69).
2.04	TOTAL AND PERMANENT DISABILITY PENSION
a) Members who become totally and permanently disabled and are unable to perform any remunerated work, or if they are aged 60 or over and cannot perform any remunerated work in our industry, because of a disability recognized by the Regie des Rentes du Quebec, may be eligible to receive a disability pension benefit if:
j) the member has been working in covered employment for at least two years; and
jj) the member has stopped working due to disability in the twelve months preceding his application; and
Mi)	the member has stopped working for a minimum of thirteen (13) weeks;
jV)	the member has been examined by a physician or physicians designated
by the Fund, and has been declared totally and permanently disabled, or the Fund may also grant the pension after having received the medical evidence and documentary proof that the Quebec Pension Board has so granted a disability pension.
b)	The monthly amount of the disability pension shall be equal to $15.00 multiplied by the number of years of service in covered employment (see Definitions). It is authorized under the Normal Form of Payment (see Definitions).
c)	The granting of a disability pension is subject to periodic medical review.
2.05	RECIPROCAL PENSION
If the member's employment with an employer contributing to this Fund terminated and the member became covered by another Retirement Fund with which this Fund has made reciprocal arrangements, he may be entitled to a partial pension from this Fund when he reaches retirement age.
BENAP-MONTREAL-#1Q019247 v1
72
2.06	BENEFITS ON TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT
If the member ceases to participate in the Pension Plan after the termination of employment and he has not returned to work within the industry during the following three (3) months, he or she is eligible for termination benefits, provided that he or she has been working in covered employment for at least two years. He or she may then choose one of the following options:
a)	receive a monthly pension commencing at the normal retirement date (65 years) equal to $15.00 multiplied by the number of years of service in covered employment (see Definitions); or
b)	receive an early retirement pension as described in Section 2.02 (EARLY
Retirement pension).
In addition, if the member is not eligible for an early retirement pension when he stops working, he or she may elect to:
C) transfer the value of the deferred pension to the pension plan of his subsequent employer, or
d)	transfer the value of the deferred pension to a Locked-in Retirement Account (L.I.R.A.), as required by the Supplemental Pension Plans Act (Quebec). An exemption to the locking-in requirement is permitted by the Supplemental Pension Plans Act (Quebec) for small amounts to be transferred.
The value of the pension is based on actuarial factors, which depend mainly on the age of the member and prevailing interest rates in the financial markets at the time of calculation.
2.07	TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGES
An active member whose employment is terminated because of a technological change, and has twenty (20) continuous years or more of covered employment, and is sixty (60) years or older at the time of termination, he/she shall be eligible for a full pension ($15.00 per month per each year of covered employment).
The technological change must be substantiated in writing by the Employer and confirmed by the Union representative.
2.08	DEATH BENEFIT
Any memberwho is eligible to receive a regular pension from the Fund, will be covered by a $1,500 death benefit payable to the spouse, or to the designated beneficiary, or to the estate, if the retiree meets the following requirements:
a) terminated his/her employment after having reached the age of 55 years of over;
BENAP*MONTREAL*#10019247 vi
73
b)	has been employed for twenty (20) or more years in covered employment prior to retirement;
c)	is retired from all work in the industry;
d)	should a member die before retirement date, there is a lump sum payable equal to the benefit that would have been paid had the member terminated employment on the day of the death. This benefit is paid to the spouse, or to the designated beneficiary, or to the estate. The value of benefits accumulated after 1989 is payable to the spouse, even if another beneficiary has been designated. In the case of death after retirement, the benefits are payable according to the Normal Form of Payment (see Definitions).
2.09	COVERAGE
a)	all benefits from the Retirement Fund are part of the non-contributory plan and cannot be purchased on an individual basis;
b)	your Collective Agreement will indicate if you are covered.
3.0 CLAIMS
In order to receive pension benefits from the Fund a written application must be submitted on our form available from our office. Retroactivity is applicable for three (3) months only.
Only original documents are acceptable.
Information about retirement benefits may be obtained from:
The Retirement Committee ACWIF - Pension Fund 20 de MaisonneuveBlvd. West Montreal (Quebec)
H2X 1Z3
Telephones: Local calls (514) 844-8644 Toll-free calls 1-800-994-8444 Fax (514) 845-5001
BENAP-MONTREAL-#10019247 v1