THIS AGREEMENT MADE AND ENTERED INTO THE CITY OF VANCOUVjE^^Y-c IN THE PROVINCE OF BRITISH COLUMBIA, THIS _ th DAY OF  200&-r~:——-
BETWEEN:
AERO GARMENT LIMITED 333, Woodland Drive,
Vancouver, B.C.
V5L 3P6
(Hereinafter referred to as the “Company”)
PARTY OF THE FIRST PART
AND:
UNION OF NEEDLETRADES AND TEXTILES EMPLOYEES, LOCAL 178
fl i7 - 119, West Pender Street,
Vancouver, B.C VLB tS5
(Hereinafter referred to as the “Union”)
PARTY OF THE SECOND PART THE PARTIES HERETO HEREBY AGREES AS FOLLOWS:
ARTICLE 1 - PREAMBLE
The purpose of this Agreement is to secure for the Company, the Union and the
employees, the full benefits of orderly and legal collective bargaining, and to ensure to the utmost extent possible the safety and physical welfare of the employees, economy of operation, quality and quantity of output, and protection of property. It is recognized by this Agreement to be the duty of the Company and the Union and of the employees to
co-operate fully, individually and collectively, for the advancement of said condition.

The Company and the Union agree to abide by the terms set out in this Agreement. The Union further agrees that it will at all times, instruct its members to act in accordance with the terms contained in this Agreement. The Company agrees, in the exercise of the functions of Management, that the provisions of this Agreement will be carried out.
The Company and the Union both agree that it is to their mutual benefit to
endeavour to bring about complete organization and both parties will work with their respective associates toward achieving that end,
ARTLCLE 2 - BARGAINING AGENCY
2.01	Sole and Exclusive Bargaining Agency
The Company recognizes the Union as the sole and exclusive bargaining agency
purpose of colllective bargaining with respect to rates of pay, hours of employment, and all other conditions of employment.
2.02	Definition of Employee
lire term “Employee” as‘used and for the purpose.of this Agreement shall include
all persons employed by the Company duly certified by the Labour Relations
Board, exceptand excluding office personnel, supervisory staff, sales representatives, and shipping department employees.
2.03	Dispute on Bargaining Unit
When a dispute arises as to whether or not a person is an employee within the bargaining unit it shall be subject to the grievance procedure as provided in Article 11, and in the event of failure to reach a satisfactory settlement it shall be dealt with by Arbitration a set forth in Article
2.04	Bankruptcy
The bankruptcy, insolvency, liquidation or the winding up of the Employer holding union dues and back wages which are deemed at all times to be segregated and the property of the Union and Union members in absolute ownership, shall not affect the right of the Union and
12.
Union members to be paid by the first priority.
2.05	Union Label
The employer shall incorporate a union label into every article. The label shall generally be in the form of a small logo printed on the “Material Specification Label”, If separate Union labels ore required, the Union shall supply them. The Union shall have the right to check articles to ensure that the provisions of this article are observed.
Union label contribution is $ 200.00 for 2000 paid at year end and $ 300.00 for 2001 and 2002 paid at year end,
ARTICLE 3 - MANAGEMENT
The management and operation of the workplace and the direction of the employees, including the right to hire and to discharge for just cause, is vested in the management provided, however, that this Article will not be used in a discriminatory manner against any employee or group of employees, and provided further that management rights under this Article shall not be exercised in any way inconsistent with or in violation of any of the terms or provisions of this Agreement. -
ARTICLE 4 - HOURS OF WORK
4.01	Normal Hours of Work
Forty(40) hours, Monday to Friday, inclusive, shall constitute a normal week’s work. Bight (8) hours shall constitute a normal day’s work. Day shift shall normally commence at 8,00 am and end at 4.30 pm with one half (1/2) hour unpaid lunch break.
4.02	Rest Breaks
(a)	All employees shall have two (2) ten (10) minute rest periods per day without loss of pay, one( 1) in the morning and one( 1) in the afternoon.
(b)	There shall be no work done during the lunch hour or rest period or before or after regular hours unless overtime premium is paid.
4.03	Minimum Guaranteed Hours
All employees called in to work and receiving less than four(4) hours of work shall be paid for four(4) hours. However, if four(4) hours work are not
available at the regular job, the employees shall not refuse to perform other work for the remainder of the time up to four(4) hours at this average rate per

ARTICLE 5 - OVERTIME
5.01	Overtime Lunch Period
If employees are requested to work overtime for more than one( 1) hour after completion of eight(8) hours in any work day, a lunch period of twenty(20) minutes duration shall be allowed and not deducted from their pay.
5.02	Overtime Compensation
a)	Daily Overtime:
l. - Any time worked by employees in excess of eight(8) hours per day shall be paid at the rate of one and a half times (1.5X) the regular earnings.
ii Any time worked by employees in excess of eleven (1 1) hours per day shal be paid at the rate of double times (2X) the regular earnings.
b)
Working on a Saturday:
All work performed by employees on a Saturday shall be considered as overtime and be paid for at the rate of one and a half times (1.5X) the regular earnings until 12.00 noon, and double times (2X) the regular earnings after. This provision shall not apply to part time or shift workers.
c)
Working on a Sunday:
All work performed by employees on a Sunday shall be paid at double times (2X) the regular earnings. This provision shall not apply to part time or shift workers.
d)
Working on a Statutory Holiday:
All work performed by employees on a statutory holiday shall be paid at triple times (3X) the regular earnings.
5.03	Overtime by Seniority
Overtime shall be distributed according to seniority within a department
provided the senior worker is capable of handling the work efficiently.
For administration of this provision, supervisor(s) of each department shall
be provided by the Company, once a year, with a list of seniority and operations of all employees within his/her department.
APTTrT.F. 6 - HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME FOR SHIFTWORK 6.01 Normal Hours of Work
The Company shall have the right to operate the factory and any part thereof on a shift basis and all employees working afternoon shift or graveyard shift within the Embroidery Department or Laundry Department shall receive eight
(8) hours pay upon completion of the full hours established as their regular shift.
6.02	Paid Lunch Period for Afternoon and Graveyard Shift	P
a)	A regular shift shall be eight(8) hours. It is understood that a lunch period
of one half(l/2) hours is allowed per shift and counted as part of the eight (8) hours worked.
b)	It is understood that 6.02 (a) shall apply to employees working afternoon shift or graveyard shift in the Embroidery Department or the Laundry Department.
6.03	Rest Breaks
a)	All employees shall have two (2) ten (10) minutes rest periods per shift without loss of pay.
b)	There shall be-no work done during the lunch hour or rest period.
6.04	Minimum Guaranteed Hours
All employees called in to work and receiving less than four (4) hours of
work shall be paid for four (4) hours. However, if four (4) hours work are not available at the regular job, the employees shall not refuse to perform other work for the remainder of the time up to four (4) hours at his average rate per hour.
6.05	Saturday and Sunday work
Those employees who regularly work on Saturday and Sunday shall take two(2) other days of the week off as their rest days. In such event, Saturday and Sunday shall be considered regular shift and overtime rates shall not apply.
6.06	Overtime Lunch Period
If employees are requested to work overtime for more than one( 1) hour after completion of eight (8) hours in any work day, a lunch period of twenty (20) minutes duration shall be allowed and not deducted from their pay.
6.07 Overtime Compensation
a)	One and half times (1.5X) regular earnings shall be paid for the following:
j)	hours worked in excess of eight (8) hours per day;
ii)	hours worked in excess of forty (40) per week, but excluding
from the calculation hours worked in excess of eight (8) in a day. For the purpose of overtime pay calculation, statutory holiday occurs during the work week shall be considered as a shift worked.
b)	Double times (2X) regular earnings shall be paid for the following:
i)	hours worked in excess of eleven (11) hours per day;
ii)	hours worked in excess of forty eight (48) per week, but	excluding
from the calculation hours worked in excess of eight (8) in a day. For the purpose of overtime pay calculation, statutory holiday occurs during the work week shall be considered as a shift worked.
ARTICLE 7 - VACATIONS
7.01 Definition
a)	“Anniversary Date” means “Hiring Date”
b)	“Continuous Service” means “Continuous Employment”
c)	“Gross Earnings” shall include actual wages earned, overtime payment, statutory holiday payment, and vacation pay for the preceeding year.
7.02	Vacation and Vacation Pay Entitlement
a)	Under One (1) Year’s Service:
An employee with less than one year of service shall be entitled to vacation pay calculated at four percent (4%) of his/her gross earnings.
b)	One(l) to Three (3) Year’s Service:
An employee with one (1) year or more continuous service as at his/her anniversary date of employment shall be entitled to two(2) weeks vacation and vacation pay calculated at four percent (4%) of his/her gross earnings for the preceeding year.
7.03
7.04
7.05
c)
Four(4) to thirteen (13) Year’s Service:
An employee with four (4) years or more continuous service as at his/her anniversary date of employment shall be entitled to three (3) weeks vacation and vacation pay calculated at six percent (6%) of his/her gross earnings for the preceeding year.
Fourteen (14) or More Yeur’s Service:
An employee with fourteen (14) years or more continuous service as at his/her anniversary date of employment shall be entitled to four (4) weeks vacation and vacation pay calculated at eight percent (8%) of his/her gross earnings for the preceeding year.
Vacation Credits
For the purpose of this Article, an employee shall be credited as being employed
for sick leave, injury leave, layoff, and approved leave of absence.
Vacation Allottment
a)	The Employer shall circulate a vacation calendar between March 31
to April 30 of each year. All employees who have vacation entitlement in excess of the plant shut-down period of that year may apply for vacation in accordance with their seniority.
b)	The plant shall normally shut down for a vacation period to be taken by all employees covered by this Agreement. The dates set for the plant shut-down shall be posted no later than March 31 of that year.
When a shut down is not practical, the company shall advise the Union before March 31 of that year and meet with the Union to discuss the vacation arrangement for that year.
c)	Vacations shall be arranged between the parties to this Agreement at a mutually agreeable time.
Vacation Payment
a)	The Company shall pay out all vacation pay to all employees on or before July 15 of each calendar year.
b)	If requested by an employee and with a minimum of seven (7) days notice, the company shall pay out all his/her vacation pay on or before his/her last scheduled working day prior to his/her vacation.
ARTTCJ ,F, 8 - STATUTORY HOT JDAYS
8.01 a) Recognized Holidays
All employees covered by this Agreement shall receive their normal days' pay, eight (8) hours' pay at their average straight time rates, for each of the following eleven (11) Statutory Holidays in addition to any wages which they may be in receipt of for work performed on such holidays.
1.	New Years Day
2.	Good Friday
3.	Victoria Day
4.	Canada Day
5.	B,C. Day
6.	Labour Day
7.	Thanksiving Day
8.	Remembrance Day
9.	Christmas Day
10.	Boxing Day
11.	Floating Holiday
b) Proclaimed Holidays
Any Statutory Holiday proclaimed by the Federal or the Provincial Government shall be .added to the list of Statutory Flolidays.
8.02	Holidays Falling on a Saturday and/or Sunday
Payment for any of the above mentioned eleven (1 1) holidays shall not be voided should such holiday(s) fall on a Saturday and/or a Sunday, when the holiday(s) will be observed on the following Monday, if applicable, and Tuesday.
8.03	Floating Holiday
The dates for 2000,2001 and 2002 Floating Holiday shall be announced no later than January 31 of the calendar year.
8.04	Qualifying for Holiday
a) Any employee who is absent on the day preceding and the day following the Statutory Holiday shall not be entitled to payment for such Statutory Holiday unless the employee is absent for illness, layoff due to lack of work, and leave of absence granted by the Employer.
b) With the exception of the Floating Holiday, any employee who is
absent more than 28 consecutive days prior to the Statutory Holiday shall not be entitled to payment herein before provided.
8.05	New Employee
Employees with less than thirty(30) calendar days’ service with the Company shall not be entitled to the Statutory Holiday payment.
8.06	Holiday Coinciding with a Day of Vacation
When any of the above named holiday(s) fall within an employee’s vacation period, such employee shall be entitled to an extra day’s pay in lieu thereof, or an extra days’ vacation with pay.
8.07	Bereavement Leave
For the purpose of this Agreement, immediate family is defined as father, mother, father-in-law, mother-in-law, brother, sister, spouse, common-law spouse and child.
When a member of an employee’s immediate family dies, a leave of absence with pay will be allowed up to a maximum of two(2) days.
When the grandfather, grandmother, grandchild, son-in-law, daughter-in-law of an employee dies, a leave of absence with pay will be allowed upto one( 1) day.
8.08	Injury pay
When an employee is injured on thejob, the employer shall pay a full day’s pay for the first day of the injury.
8.09	Pregnancy Leave
I.	A pregnant employee who requests leave inder this section is entitled to upto 18 consecutive weeks of unpaid leave
(a)	beginning no earlier than 11 weeks before the expected birth date and
(b)	ending no earlier than 6 weeks after the actual birth date unless the employee
requests a shorter period.	jQ
2.	An employee who requests leave under this section after the birth of a child or the termination of a pregnancy is entitled to upto 6 consecutive weeks of unpaid leave beginning on the date of the birth or of the termination of the pregnancy.
3.	An employee is entitled to upto 6 additional consecutive weeks of unpaid leave if, for reasons related to the birth or termination of the pregnancy, she is unable to return to work when her leave ends under subsection (1) or (2)
4.	A request for leave must
(a)	be given in writing to the employer,
(b)	if the request is made during the pregnancy, be given to the employer at least 4 weeks before the day the employee proposes to begin leave, and
(c)	if required by the employer, be accompanied by a medical practitioner’s certificate stating the expected or actual birth date or the date the pregnancy terminated or stating the reasons for requesting additional leave under subsection (3).
5.	A request for a shorter period under subsection (1) (b) must
(a)	be given in writing to the employer at least one week before the date the employee proposes to return to work, and
(b)	if required by the employer, be accompanied by a medical practitioner’s certificate stating the employee is able to-resume work;
8.10	Family Responsibility Lea\ e
An employee is entitled to upto 5 days of unpaid leave during each employment year to meet responsibilities related to
(a)	the care, health or education of a child in the employee’s care, or
(b)	the care or health of any other member of the employee’s immediate family.
8.11	Parental Leave
1.	An employee who requests parental leave under this section is entitled to upto 12 consecutive weeks of unpaid leave beginning,
(a)	for a birth mother, immediately after the end of the leave taken under section 50 unless the employer and employee agrees otherwise,
(b)	for a birth father, after the child’s birth and within 52 weeks after that event, and
(c)	for an adopting parent, within 52 weeks after the child is placed with the parent.
2.	If the child has a physical, psychological or emotional condition requiring an additional period of parental care, the employee is entitled to upto 5 additional weeks of unpaid leave, beginning immediately after the end of the leave taken under subsection (1).
3.	A request for leave must
(a)	be given in writing to the employer,
(b)	if the request is for leave under subsection (l)(a) or (b), be given to the employer at least 4 weeks before the employee proposes to begin leave, and
(c)	if required by the employer, be accompanied by a medical practitioner's , certificate or other evidence of the employee's entitlement to leave.
4.	An employee's combined entitlement to leave under 'Pregnancy Leave' and this section is limited to 32 weeks plus any additional leave the employee is entitled to under 'Pregnancy Leave’(3) or subsection (2) of this section.
8.12	Jury Duty
An employee who is required to attend court as a juror is considered to be on unpaid leave for the period of the jury duty.
ARTICLE 9 - UNION SECURITY PROVISION
9.01	Union Membership
All employees now members of the Union shall, as a condition of employment, remain members in good standing for the duration of the Agreement.
All new employees shall, as a condition	employment, become members of the
Union upon completion of thirty (30) days' service with the Company.
9.02	Hiring
It is agreed that in the event of hiring, the Company will notify the Union, and in the event the Union is unable to supply people in the categories required, the Company has the right to hire any available workers, provided however, that no one unfair to the Union shall be employed.
9.03	Union Dues Deduction and Payment
The Company will deduct from the pay of each employee covered by this Agreement all Initiation Fees, Union Dues and Assessments.
All deductions shall be made during the first pay period of the month.
All sums deducted, together with a record for whom deductions have been made and the amount, shall be forwarded to the Secretary/Treasurer of the Union at # 117 - 119, West Pender Street, Vancouver, B,C, V6B 1S5 not later than the fifteenth (1 5th) day of the calendar month in which such deductions are made.
9.04	Union Dues Total -T4
It is agreed that the Employer will enter the amount of Union dues paid by each Union member during the year in the designated area on the T4 slip.
9.05	New Employee
The employer agrees to acquaint new employees with the fact that a Collective Agreement is in effect and to introduce a new employee to his/her Union representative so that he/she can be advised of the terms and conditions set out in the Agreement.
9.06	Information Relating to Bargaining Unit.
The Company shall provide the Union on a current basis with all necessary information relating to the. following matters when they concern employees within the bargaining unit:
a)	Promotion, permanent transfix, hiring, discharge, suspension, written warning.
b)	In case of layoff, resignation, retirement, and death, Union will be notified by a copy of Record of Employment (R.O.E.)
9.07	Employment Standards Act
All parts of Employment Standards Act shall be in full force and effect for the life of this agreement.
9.08	Contracting Out
It is agreed that Aero Garment is a producer of pants, skirts and certain jackets. While Aero Garment will endeavour to maintain full production on the aforementioned, they will retain the right to have merchandise not normally produced in the faptory to continue to be sent out.
All work normally performed by employees who me members of the Union, shall continue to be performed by them, and this work shall not be performed outside the Employer's establishment, unless:
(a)	the employees are unable to perform the work, or
(b)	there has been a breakdown of machinery or equipment.
ARTICLE 10 - SAFETY. HEALTH AND WELFARE
10.01	Company Facilities
The Company shall provide a clean and sanitary workplace, with adequate light and adequate ventilation, and an adequate lunch room.
10.02	Safety Committee
There shall be a Union - Management Safety Committee, with equal representation, to act in accordance with the rules and regulations of the Workers' Compensation Board of British Columbia.
10.03	Medical Services Plan of British Columbia
The Company shall contribute fifty (50%) of the cost of the Medical Services Plan of British Columbia.
10.04	Extended Health Benefits Plan
The Company shall contribute one hundred percent (100%) of the premium costs for its employees and their dependants enrolling in an Extended Health Benefits Plan. The plan shall offer eight percent (80%) refund on claims with zero (0) deductible.
The plan shall include extended medical, oral contraceptives, and an eyeglass option to amaximum of one hundred dollars ($100.00) of benefits in each two (2) year period.
10.05 Continuation of Benefits
The Company shall continue to pay fifty percent (50%) of the premium cost for Medical Services Plan of British Columbia and one hundred percent (100%) of the premimum cost for Extended Health Benefits plan for a period of not exceeding four (4) months after layoff, sick leave, and approved leave of absence.
ARTICLE 11 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
11.01	Grievance Steps
If a difference arises between the Employer and Employee(s) or between the Company and the Union concerning the interpretation, application, operation or any alleged violation of the Agreement, the employee(s) shall continue to work in accordance with the agreement and the matter shall be conclusively settled in the following manner:
Step 1: The Employee concerned shall refer the grievance to the supervisor
either directly or through the shop steward. The supervisor shall render a decision within t\vo(2) days or any longer period mutually agreed upon.
Step 2: If the grievance is not satisfactorily settled under step 1, the grievance shall be referred to an.authorized Union.representative and a designated representative of the Company.
Step 3: If final settlement of the grievance is not completed within twenty-one (21) days after the referral to Step 2, the grievance may be referred to Arbitration by either party.
11.02	Time Limits
a)	If a grievance is not submitted to the Management within thirty(30) days after the occuranee of the mutter which gave rise to the grievance
or sixty (60) days in the case of sickness or layoff or bona fide leave of absence, the grievance shall be deemed to be abandoned, and all rights of recourse to the grievance procedure shall be at an end.
b)	The time limits specified for the various steps may be extended by mutual written agreement between the Company and the Union.
c)	Saturdays, Sundays and all statutory holidays shall not be counted in determining the time element in any steps of the grievance procedure.
11.03	Policy Grievance
Any dispute or grievance arising directly between the Company and Union may be submitted in writing by either party at Step 2 of the grievance procedure.
11.04	Attendance at Grievance Meetings
The aggrieved employee and/or supervisor shall be required to attend the grievance procedure at the request of either the Union or the Company.
11.05	Discipline/Discharge Subject to Grievance/Arbitration
The Company has the right to suspend or dismiss an employee for just cause but such action shall be subject to the grievance and arbitration procedure as set out herein.
11.06	Conclusions
Conclusions reached at meetings between'Management and..Union shall.be in writing and signed by the Company and..Unionrepresentatives within seven (7) days.
ARTICLE 12 - ARBITRATION
12.01	Submission to Arbitration
The Company and the Union agree that all questions to be arbitrated shall be submitted to an individual, mutually acceptable Arbitrator. •	■
12.02	Arbitration Procedure
Any question of interpretation, or any alleged violation of any matter in dispute between the parties arising out of this Agreement which can not be settled by the Union and the Company, shall be determined by Arbitration in the following manner:
Either party may notify the other party in writing by registered mail of the question or questions to be arbitrated and the name of its choice of Arbitrator. If within thirty (30) working days from the mailing date of this notice and statement, the parties have failed to agree upon a mutually acceptable Arbitrator, they shall apply to the Minister of Labour of British Columbia to appoint an arbitrator to hear the matter
in dispute.
12.03 Jurisdiction of Arbitrator
a)	When the appointment of an arbitrator has been concluded, such arbitrator shall have the power to determine whether the matter is arbitrable. Having made this decision, the arbitrator shall hear and determine the differences and shall render a decision and the decision shall be final and binding upon the parties. The arbitrator shall not have thejurisdiction or authority to alter, modify, extend or amend the provisions of this Agreement.
b)	If an arbitrator finds than an employee has been unjustly suspended or discharged, such employee shall be reinstated by the Company without loss of pay and with him all his rights and privileges preserved under the terms of the Agreement.
12.04	Fees and Expenses of Arbitrator
The Company and the Union will each bear'in equal proportions the expenses and allowance of the arbitrator, stenographic and secretarial expenses and rental of meeting facilities.
- ARTICLE 13 - LAYOFF AND RECALL
13.01 Definition of Temporary and Long Term Layoff
I a)	“short term layoff is a layoff
i) which does not exceed thirteen (13) weeks, or
ii) which may exceed thirteen (I 3) weeks but for a definite term not to exceed one (1) year.
b) “long term layoff’ is a layoff which exceeds thirteen (13) weeks andupto one(l)year.
13.02	Notice or Pay in Lieu Not Required
Notice or pay in lieu of notice is not required for:
a)	discharge forjust cause:
b)	Layoff or partime employee
13.03 Long Term Layoff
When the long term layoff is affecting the employees with six (6)months serivce or longer, the following notice or pay in lieu of notice shall apply:
LengflLofSfimce
Notice or Pav in Then of Notice
After 6 months
After 3 years After 4 years After 5 years After 6 years After 7 years After 8 years or longer
Two (2) weeks Three (3) weeks Four (4) weeks Five (5) weeks Six (6)weeks Seven (7) weeks Eight (8) weeks
a)	The period of notice shall not coincide with employee’s annual vacation.
b)	Payment under this clause shall not relieve the Employer from making any other payment to which the employee is entitled.
c)	Payment under this clause shall be paid to an employee in a lump sum and shall be solely and exclusively allocated to the specific week in which is paid.
d)	Payment under this clause shall be based on average earnings.
13.04	Severance Pay Options
a)	Employees who are laid off for a long term as defined in 13.01 shall, have the option of taking any severance pay to which they may be entitled in accordance with 13.03 or remain on the recall list. If they choose to take the severance pay, their recall rights shall be forfeited and their employment terminated.
b)	Employees who choose to remain on the recall list but who are not hired within twelve (12) months of layoff shall then receive any severance pay due to them and their employment terminated.
c)	Employees who are laid off for a short term period who are not recalled within thirteen (13) weeks shall be deemed to be on long term layoff and shall be entitled to the Provision of 13.03 and 13.04 91) and 13.04(b) of this Agreement.
13.05	Notice of Layoff
Employers shall inform the employee at least one (1) day in advance of any layoff.
13.06	Layoff and Recall
a)	In the event than an employee is laid off, he/she shall be given an approximate date of recall.
b)	Employees laid off shall be recalled before any new employees are hired.
c)	Employees laid off shall be recalled in the order of seniority.
<j) Recall rights shall be forfeited when layoff exceeds one (1) year.
13.07	Vacancies - Job Postings ■
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)
(1)
(g)
The Employer shall post for three (3) working days all vacancies.
Present employees shall have priority by seniority in bidding for such vacancies.
The successful candidate has to demonstrate the ability to perform the new operation to the satisfaction of the company and if not satisfactory, may be transferred to the previous job. The decision to let the candidate remain
or to go back to the previous job shall be 1 day (1 working day).
For present categories, an employee may request to be transferred when a vacancy occurs.' ■
The employer shall consider the request based on its production requirements, as well as the skills and qualifications of the employee.
If the employer consents to the transfer, the employee terminates his seniority in the previous category.
The employer shall provide the Union office with a copy of eachjob posting.
ARTTCT/R 14 - SENIORITY
14.01 Seniority Defined
Seniority is defined as lenght of service in the bargaining unit and shall be
applied:	1 0 O
u)	for layoffs;
b)	for recalls;
c)	in other provisions	of this Agreement
14.02	Bumping Rights
In the event of a layoff, the principle of seniority as defined in 14.01 shall apply, and a senior employee reserves the right to displace less senior employee within '	|
the department provided the senior employee is capable of handling the work. "	"
In the case of a piece work employee, the senior employee must be able to perform piece work on the.operation(s) and must be able to earn piece work
monies no less than the applicable rate of time work.
14.03	Departments within the Company
aj For the administration of this Article, departments within the Company are identified as follows:
Cutting Sewing J Pressing Inspection Embroidery Laundry Sewing II
b) Any changes made to the above list shall be communicated forthwith to the Union in writing.
14.04	Promotion by Seniority	,
i 6 ^
a) Promotions shall be based on seniority. The senior employee's ability	^
to fill the j ob requirements shall be considered first before those with less seniority. The Company and the Union will mutually agree on the promotion.
Department # 0008 Department # 0009 Department #0010 Department# 0011 Department #0012 Department #0013 Department #0019
b) A promotion shall be defined as a transfer to a position paying a higher rate, and no employee shall be considered as being demoted unless he or she is transferred to position paying a lower rate.
14.05	Transfer due to Health Reason
Employees may in the case of ill health, be transferred form one operation to another as may be mutually agreed upon.
14.06	Loss of Seniority
Seniority standings shall be considered broken if an employee:
a)
b)
c)
d)
e)
f)
g)
voluntarily leaves the service of the Company: is discharged forjust cause;
is absent without permission from the Company or without a reasonable explanation;
fails to report to work without adequate reason within seven (7) days following delivery of a recall notice as referred to in 14.08 of this Agreement;
chooses to take the severance pay under 13.04 of this Agreement; is laid off more than one (1) year;
is transferred to a position outside the bargaining unit for more than three (3) months.
14.07	Availability of Seniority Record - Union
Seniority records shall be made available to the Union-upon request.
14.08	Notice of Recall
Any employee who has been notified ut his or her last known address to return
to work, and within seven (7) days has failed to do so, or failed to contact the Company's office, shall be considered to have quit this employment voluntarily, and his/her existing seniority rights shall thereupon be terminated. When any such notice is sent to an employee,copy thereof shall be sent concurrently to the Union office.
14.09	Continuation of Seniority - Union Appointment
One (1) employee, who may be elected or appointed to a position in the Union, upon proper notice to the Management, shall be granted leave of absence without pay. Upon one (1) week's notice of his/her desire to again return to work for the Company, he/she shall be placed on thejob he/she previously held or one with
equal pay without loss of seniority.
14.10	Continuation of Seniority - Absence
If an employee is absent from work because of accident or sickness or approved leave of absence, he or she shall not lose seniority rights and shall also return to the position held prior to his or her absence, or to one of equal rating, providing he or she is capable of performing former duties. In the case of such absence, it shall be the duty of each employee so absent to notify the Company in writing of the reasons for the absence and how long they expect their absence will Inst. Permission for leave of absence extending over a period of more than two (2) weeks must be receiving in writing and in no case shall the absence exceed three (3) months period, provided however, that it may be extended upon mutual agreement by the parties hereto.
14.11	Probationary Employee
A newly hired employee will be classified as a probationary, employee for sixty(60) days, and. shall have no seniority.rights during that period. At the' • end of the probationary period, a probationary employee will become a regular employee with seniority dated back to the hiring date. The Company may lay off, transfer, or discharge such probationary employee and such action will not be subject to the grievance procedure.
14.12	Positions outside the Bargaining Unit
An employee transferred to a position outside the bargaining unit is returned to the bargaining unit:
a)
within a three (3) month period - the employee shall, revert to former job held with foil seniority credits accumulated in the'bargaining unit.'" '
b) after a three (3) month period - the employee shall lose the previous seniority credits accumulated in the bargaining unit.
ARTTCT.F. IS ■ PTF.CF,WORK
15.01	Calculation of Piece Work Earnings
a)	The computation of piece work earnings shall be the piece work earnings plus the applicable subsidy.
b)	Hourly piece work earnings is the total amount of piece work monies earned divided by total of piece work hours the employee worked.
15.02 Piece work Price Formula
Formula used for piece work price:
No. of minutes required = pure operation time + 15% allowance Base - $ 2.50
Piece work price = no. ol’min. required/ 100 x $ 2.50
60 min.
= price/100 units
Standard Allowance of 15% shall be given for:
Break (2x10 minutes.each)
Personal time
Fatigue factor	'
Minor delays and interruptions
15.03	Minimum Guaranteed Rate
Any employee on piece work shall receive no less than the applicable time work rate.
15.04	Daily Calculation of Piece Work Earnings
Effective January 1, 1992 (Extraordinary circumstances shall be taken up with the Union), all piece work tickets shall be .handed in at the end of the day for piece work calculation. Any make up or bonus shall be calculated and credited daily.
15.05	Average Piece Work Earnings Defined
Average piece work earnings when referred to for statutory holiday payment and temporary transfer shall mean the average piece work earnings calculated over the last four (4) week period.
15.06	Pay Method - Temporary Transfer for the Convenience of Employee
An employee who is temporarily transferred from one operation to another operation for his/her convenience shall be paid the greater of: a) the piece work earnings of the j ob to which he/'she is transferred; ht the rate of time work.
15.07	Pay Method - Temporary Transfer for the Convenience of Employer
An employee who is temporarily transferred from one operation to another operation for the conveience of the Employer, he/she shall be paid the greater of:
a)
b)
the average piece work earnings of the employee:
the piece work earnings of the job to which he/she is transferred
15.08 Pay Method - Mechanical breakdown
In the event of mechanical breakdown, ane mployee shall be paid at the rate of time work until repairs are completed.
15.09	Pay Method - Sample
Sample whenever possible shall be done on piece work basis, however, the pay for sample work shall be no less than the minimum guaranteed for sample maker as stipulated under 18.03 or the average earnings of the employee, whichever is the greater.
15.10	Piece Work Rate, Adjustment and Grievance
I a)	The schedule of piece work rates shall be kept by Management and it is
accessible to the Union upon request. The Union shall also have access to job descriptions and studies for the purpose of reviewing of rates.
b) It is agreed that an established rate shall become permanent immediately unless it is challenged by the Company or the Union within thirty (30) days of its implementation.
c) A “permanent” piece work rate is subject to being changed when there is a bona fide change in production method or machinery or technology or any other clement upon which the rate of standard is based.
d)	In determining the extent to which an established piece work rate of
standard should be changed pursuant to 15.10(c) only those parts or any operation which are affected diretly by a change as defined in 15.10(c) shall be restudied.
e)	A challenged rate shall be subject to re-study within ten (10) days. Failing agreement, grievance procedure shall apply up to and including arbitration as provided herein.
f)	The arbitrator’s decision is retroactive to the date of implementation of
the challenged rate.
ARTICLE 16. SHOP STEWARDS
16.01	Company Recognition of Shop Steward
The Company recognizes the importance of the Shop Steward and agrees that there shall be no discrimination on their part because an employee is a Shop Steward.
16.02	Layoff of Shop Steward
The Shop Steward shall be the last paerson laid-off in his/her section, regardless of seniority in the event of a reduction of work.
16.03	Discharge of Shop Steward
Should the Company wish to discharge a Shop Steward they must first notify the Union and discuss the matter with them before taking any action.
16.04	Shop Steward - Grievances and.Meetings
The Shop Stewards shall be entitled to leave their work during working hours with pay in order to carry out their functions under the Agreement including the investigation, procession of grievances, meetings with management, and participation in negotations.
ARTICLE 17 - GENERAL
17.01	Union Access
The Union Representative(s) shall have access to the Company premises providing they do not interfere or cause employees to neglect their work.
17.02	Distribution of Work
The Company shall at all times endeavour to so organize the work as to provide steady and uninterrupted employment for all departments. In the event of work shortage, unless agreed otherwise between the Employer and the Union, the layoff of Employee shall be in accordance with Article 14 - Seniority of the Agreement.
17.03	Just Cause
No employee shall be disciplined or discharged except forjust cause.
17.04	Continuation of Rights and Privileges
It is understood that all rights and privileges presently enjoyed by the employees to which no reference has been made in this Agreement, shall continue during the term of this Agreement.
17.05	Notice Board
The Company agrees that the Union may post notices in the shop on a notice board supplied by the Company for that purpose.
17.06	No work on Union Meeting Nights
No work shall be performed on Union meeting nights
17.07	Discrimination
The employer ana the Union agree that they will not discriminate against any employee of the employer or member of the Union or applicant for employment because of Race,Colour, National origin,
Sex or Age.
17.08	Sexual Harassment
The employer and the Union do not condone sexual harassment.
Any incidents which are reported shall be investigated, and where appropriate, action shall be taken.
ARTICLE 18 - WAGES
18.01 Sewing
a) Time Work:
The hourly rate applicable to a regular time work sewer shall be as follows: January 1, 1999-
January 1, 2000 - $ SrOl (retroactive to Jan.l, 2000)©.
January 1, 2001 - $-8r09 8> to January 1, 2002 - $ &T9 6> • \ 8>
b) Piece Work Subsidy:
The hourly subsidy rate applicable to a piece work sewer shall be as follows: January 1, 1999-
January 1,2000 - $ 6tT9 (retroactive to Jan. 1,2000) ^
January 1, 2001 - $ 6~£5 January 1, 2002 - $ tr33 ^ '-STl.
18.02	Pressing
a)	Time Work:
The hourly rate applicable to a regular presser shall be as follows: January 1, 1999- $ 8.26 January 1, 2000 - $ 8.34 January 1, 2001 - $ 8?43- S 'A 2.
January I, 2002 - $ 8:53
b)	Piece Work Subsidy:
The hourly rate applicable to apiece work presser shall be as follows:.
January 1, 1999- $6r44vo Hvo
January 1, 2000 - $ dr50 (retroactiveto Jan. 1, 2000)
January 1, 2001 - $-6r57^> ,SC\
January 1, 2002-- $ 6r€-5 '-c -vov^
18.03	Permanent Time Work Sample Maker
The hourly rate applicable.to a permanent time.work sample maker shall b e
as follows:
January-1, 1999- $8.26- ’
January 1,2000 - $ 8.34 (retroactive to Jan.l, 2000)
January 1,2001 - $' &43 B
January 1, 2002 - $ 8:53 SQ
18.04	Cutting Department
a) The classification rates applicable to the Cutting Department shall be
as follows:
Jan 1/99. Jan 1/00 Jan 1/01 Jan 1/02
(retroactive to Jan.l, 00)
Layer	$ 9£1	\Oo3$ 10.13
Bundler & Ticketer $8^8*^.^	$	$ 8r65*8 ^5	8476
b) The classification rates applicable to the non-union entry level Cutting Department shall be as follows:
JanJiPJP.	Jan 1/O.Q	Jan.l/Ql	Jan,l/Q2
retroactive to Janl, 00
Layer	$ 8.25	$ 8.33	$ -8,428^	$-8^2 8 ^
Bundler & Ticketer	$ 7.07	$ 7.14	$ 7.21	$7.30 ^2^
If Aero Garment deems the employee to qualify for full employment prior to the two month probation period he/she will be immediately put into the Union and qualify for Union wages.
Jan 1 /99 Jan 1/00 Jan 1/01 Jan. 1/02 retroactive to Jan. 1/00
Gerber Cutter Operator. Gerber Cutter Operator Back up
Gerber Cutter Operator Helper
$11.44 $11.55	$11.67
$ 10.23 $ 10.33 $10.43
$Ht82 \ V'A'A $l-fr56-lO.;S2>
$ 8.99 $9.08	$ 9.17
$ 9£9°i
NOTE: Gerber Cutter Operator and Gerber Cutter Back up positions are exempt from Article. 14.02
18.05	Embroidery Department
Effective January 12000 the classification,rates tor regular employees within 1 the Embroidery Deportment shall be os follows:
Jan 1/99 Jan 1/00 Jan 1/01 Jan 1/02 retroactive to Janl, 00
Qualified Machine Operator	$8.57 $8,66	$ 8r74<!iA^’$#r85
Hooper/Machine Operator Trainee	$ 7.98°l $	8rt48 l -£ $8-24 %	2.3.
General Help	$7.72 $7.80	$ 7^7T-*2
18.06	Laundry Department
All regular employees in the Laundry Department shall be entitled to the
following:
Jan 1/99 Jan 1/QQ Jan 1/Q.L Jan 1/02
retroactive to Jan 1/ 2000
Nightshift Washing operator -$ 9,09 Washing assistant	$ 8rfl4S ©S'
Helper	$ 8,76ft
Qualified Machine Operator $ 8.33
$9.18
$
$
$ 8.41
$9.27	$939^-5»o
$ 9r023lJ5i$9rl-3 °w \ "X $ 8t94YT£$9:05°i oh $ 9396 ^$8760*2 sr*
18.07	Others
Any regular employee who is not classified under any of the above operations shall be entitled to the following:
January 1, 2000 - 1% increase based on the 1999 rate.
January I, 2001 - 1% increase based-on the 2000 rate .
January 1, 2002 - 1,25 % increase based on the 2001 rate
18.08	Definition of Average Earnings
The term “average earnings” on a per hour or gross basis will be defined as follows:
a)	For time worker, it shall refer.to. his/her hourly rate.
b)	For piece worker; it shall refer to his/her average pieceowork earnings calculated over !he last four (4) week.period;. •
18.09	Definition of Regular Employee
The term ‘Regular employee’ shall refer to an employee who has completed the probationary period.
18.10	Availability of Average Earnings Records - Union
The Company shall supply the Union with the average earnings of the employees every six(6) months upon request by the Union.
ARTICLE 19-PLANT CLOSURE/TECH CHANGE/
REDUCTION OF THE WORK FORCE AND DOWNSIZING
19.01 In the event of any of the above the employer agrees to:
a) Give not less than 3 months notice to the Union.
The following notice of pay in lieu of notice privisioned shall apply:
Length of Service	Notice or Pay in Lieu of Notice
After 3 months
One to two years
After 3 years
After 4 years
After 5 years
After 6 years
After 7 years
After 8 years and longer
One (1) week Two (2)weeks Three (3) weeks Four (4) weeks Five (5) weeks Six (6) weeks Seven (7) weeks Eight (8) weeks
ARTICLE 20 - DURATION OF AGREEMENT
This Collective Agreement shall be effective from January 1, 2000 to and including December 31, 200 2'and thereafter from year to year unless written notice of intent to amend or terminate is given by either party to the other party at any time within four (4) months prior to the expiration of the Agreement.
Dated this

day of
2000.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties have hereto caused their names to be subscribed and their seals to be affixed by their respective officers, thereunto duly authorized.
FOR THE UNION:
FOR THE COMPANY:
UNION OF NEEDLE TRADES, INDUSTRIAL AERO GARMENT LIMITED AND TEXTILE EMPLOYEES,