BETWEEN
UNITE
(UNION OF NEEDLETRADE-S INDUSTRIAL AND TEXTILE EMPLOYEES)
Lcjcal 459 AND
GARMENTMANUFACTURER*' ASSOCIATION OF WESTERN
QO*\W pQ>)
UNITE
OF -I
ANDTEXTILE . LOCAl
RADES, INDUSTRIAL EMPLOYEES)
L 459
505 - 138 PORT4 WINNIPEG, MAN TELEPHONE: (J FAX: (204)
GE AVE., EAST (TOBA R3C 0A1 04) 942 - 7454 949-0759
710
PLEASE BE SURE
THE BENEFIT R UNITE LG TEiLEPHON
REGISTER WITH
#3HTS FUND OF CAL 459 : 943-6954
INDEX
Article No.	Page
1.	Definitions ................................... 4
2.	Recognition ................................... 5
3.	Access To Plants..................................6
4.	Procedure In Application For Employment
or Membership lnfhs/'6sod£ficn................. 6
6.	Conditions Of Employment......................... 7
6.	Prohibitions................................... 'I 0
7.	Transfer From One Operation To Another ‘11
8.	Settlement Of Disputes.........................'12
9.	HoursOfWork And Overtime.......................'16
9. Overtime During Standard Work Week................16
9.	Overtime on	Saturdays and	Sundays...........'16
9.	Changes to Shifts..............................'16
10.	Factory Interruptions	and	Machine Breakdowns , 'I 9
11.	RestFbfcd.....................................19
12.	Lay-Offs And Temporary Help.....................20
13.	DischargeAnd Discipline.........................20
14.	Holiday With Pay................................21
15.	Vacations With Pay..............................22
16.	Wage Rates And Related Factors 25
17.	Classes of Cutters..............................27
18.	Establishing Piecework Prices (Line	System).....28
19.	Leave Of Absence................................29
20.	Underpayment Or Overpayment To	Wbrkers.....31
21.	Technological Change .........................31
22.	Union Bulletin Board..........................32
23.	Union Label.....................................33
24.	Injury on the Job.............................33
25.	DscoutdFadoy Cutlets..........................33
2S.	Miscellaneous.................................33
27.	Duration and Revision of Agreement............34
28.	Health Fund-Transitional Provisions ... 34
29.	Union Health Plan.............................37
30.	Pension Fund-Transitional Provisions.......... 38
31.	Union Retirement Benefit......................39
32.	Remittanceof Contributionsunder Agreement.....41
33.	Administration of Benefits..•.................41
34.	Workplace Safety and Health Program...........42
34.	Basic Objectives of a Democratic Safety
and Health Program..............................42
35.	Harassment and Discrimination ................ 44
36.	Binding Clause................................44
Appendix
A List of Participating Manufacturers...........46
This AGREEMENT made in duplicate as and from the 15th day of December, 2000.
BETWEEN:
UNION OF NEEDLETRADES; INDUSTRIAL AND TEXTILE EMPLOYEES, LOCAL 4£i9 (hereinafter called the "Union")
OF THE FIRST PART,
AND:
GARMENT MANUFACTURERS ASSOCIATION OF WESTERN CANADA
(hereinafter called the "Association") composed of several Manufacturers listed in Appendix A who now executa or may hereafter execute this Agreement and who become patties hereto (hereinafter called the "Manufacturers")
OF THE SECOND PART.
WHEREAS the Manufacturers are engaged in the manufacture of overalls, shirts, playsuits, pants, wind-breakers, sports apparel, and other manufactured products. and
WHEREA15 the Union is composed of Workers engaged in various occupations in connection with such manufacturing who are or will be, from time to time, employed by the Manufacturers in their factories,
NOWTHEREFORE THIS AGREEMENT WITNESSETH that the parties hereto hereby.agree as follows:
3
ARTICLE 1 — DEFINITIONS
1.01	In this Agreement:
(a)	’’Average Hourly Rate” or “Average Hourly Earnings” means the average hourly rate calculated on any qualified earnings over a period of six (6) months immediately preceding, the applicationoftheaverago hourlyrateor earnings. In the case of a Worker with less than six (6) months employment, the period of time up to the six ((5) month period shall be used to determine the six (6) month average.
Such calculations shall be based on the actual hours worked, including all time work and piecework hours divided fhto the qualified earnings, being the actual total gross amount of monies, excluding the overtime premium, paid to such Worker for said hours.
There shall not be included in such calculations, any monies and/or earnings attributed to Holidays and/or Vacations and/or signing bonuses as provided for under this agreement.
The six C6ymonth periods shall be from the 15th day of December to the 14th day of June and from the 15th day of June to the 14th day of December.
(b)	“Cutting Room Help” where referred to in this Agreement or schedule means personnel working in the Cutting Room, other than those using cutting knives or shears for actual production purposes.
(c)	“Fund” means UNITE, Local459, and Garment Manufacturers Health Welfare and Pension
4
Fund Inc. which is being ^terminated under this agreement, and is also referred to as tho "Health Fund” or the ’’Pension Fund“.
(d)	“Holiday” means: New Year’s Day Good Friday Victoria Day Canada Day
Thanksgiving Day Christmas Day Boxing Day Civic Holiday
Labour Day	Remembrance Day
(e)	“Manufacturer” means an Employerwhom the Association shall list, at the time of signing,., in Appendix A as a member of the Association.
means an Employee of a Manufacturer but for the purpose of this Agreement shall exclude mechanics, office staff, shipping staff, sales staff, forepersons.
(g)	“Steward” means a Worfcerwho is appointed or otherwise selected by the Union.
(h)	“Technological Change” includes new machinery, equipment, methods of production, products, management systems and/or reorganization.
(I) “Unit”—with respecttotechnologychange,“unit” refers to the Plant, department, or section.
ARTICLE 2 - RECOGNITION
2.01	The Union shall have the right to deal directly
with any individual Manufacturer provided, however, that such dealings are consistent with the terms of this Agreement.
2.02	No Manufacturer shall hereafter make any
5
Agreement with any individual Worker nor exact or accept any cash deposits or other security from a Worker nor enter into any agreement with any individual Worker guaranteeing any length of employment.
2.03	The Union and it's officials must not interfere with the discipline and management of the factories and must not restrict employment or curtail production.
2.04	The Association and each of its members agree that the Union is the Exclusive Bargaining Agent for the Workers of each Manufacturer with reference to wages, hours and working conditions.
ARTICLE 3 —ACCESS TO PLANTS
3.01	The Business Representativesofthe Union shall be admitted, at all reasonable times during business hours, to the premises of each Manufacturer when on legitimate business for the Union.
The presence of the Business Representative shall be reported to Management upon arrival.
ARTICLE 4 PROCEDURE IN APPLICATION FOR EMPLOYMENTOR MEMBERSHIP IN THE ASSOCIATION
4.01	Whenever in need of a Worker, a Manufacturer shall apply to the Representativeofthe Union who shall be given a time (reasonable under the circumstance of the requirements of the Manufacturer) in which to supply a Worker acceptable to the Manufacturer. Whenever the Union is unable to supply such help, whether temporary or permanent, the Manufacturer may secure such help, but such help must become membersofthe Unionfrom date of hire. Itistheintent of this Agreement that the Union shall useallpossi-
6
ble means to assure such adequate supply of help.
4.02	The Manufacturer agrees to advise the Union
and the Fund immediately of any Worker who quits or is laid-off, in order for the Union to be able to effectively implement Article 4.01.
4.03	When the Union shall organize a non-Union
Manufacturer who wishes to become a slgnator of this Agreement, the Union shall advise the Manufacturer to apply to: the Association for membership. The Association reserves the right to review the membership application and to set terms and conditions for theiacceptance and to set terms and conditions for ithe acceptance and continued membership status of a new member. The Association shall advise the Union of the acceptance to the Manufacturer as .a member in good standing of the Association.
4.04	The Association will advise the Union in a timely
manner of Manufacturers who have ceased to be members in good standing of the Association or of Manufacturers who have terminated their membership in the Association prior to the expiry of the agreement and who will not be represented by the Association in future negotiations. This will allow the Union to negotiate directly with that Manufacturer on the expiry of this Agreement, for a new collective agreement with that Manufacturer. It is understood and agreed that the departure of a Manufacturer from the GMAWC or any change in status of a Manufacturer's rights or responsibilities as set out in this Agreement.
ARTICLE 5 - CONDITIONS OF EMPLOYMENT
5.01	Every Worker in the bargaining unit of the
7
Manufacturers shall be not less than sixteen (16) years of age and shall be a member in good standing of the Union. It shall be the responsibility of each Manufacturer to deduct the initiation fees and monthly clues of each Worker.
It is further agreed that the Manufacturer shall complete the Union-supplied Worker Information Sheet for all new Workers and shall include said Information Sheet in with the remittance of the initiation fees and monthly dues. The Worker Information Sheet shall contain the name, address, telephone number, birthdate, start date, S.I.N, and sex of the Member. The Manufacturer alsoagrees to notify the Union as to the reasoij for any absence of a Worker on the dues checkoff system of this Collective Agreement. ,
5,02	Every Manufacturer shall deduct from the wages earned by each member of the Union, the monthly dues of the Union as the Union may determine from time to time, and also any initiation fees and arrears in dues and assessments officially requested by the Union. All monies so deducted shall be remitted monthly, by each Manufacturer, to the office of the Union in Winnipeg within four (4) days of the last pay day of the current month
It is further agreed that if the Manufacturer is in deliberate and/or dear violation of the Collective Agreement
(a)	by not putting new Workers into the Union as per the Collective Agreement, then that Manufacturer shall be responsible for the payment of the arrears created by such violation, on behalf of said Worker(s), and
8
(b)	if the Manufacturerdoes not deduct the monthly dues as per the Collective Agreement, from the earnings of the Workers, then that Manufacturer shall be responsible for the payment of the arrears created by such (Violation, on behalf of said Worker(s), and '
(c)	by deducting the monthly dues of the Union, as
per the Collective Agreement, but does not remit said monies to the office of the Union, as per the Collective Agreement, then that Manufacturer shall forthwith remit said monies and shall include a penalty payment of interest of 1 1/2 % compounded monthly on the balance due to the offlceiol the Union.
It is understood thataclear violation of the Collective Agreement means that there is no valid question as to whether or not a Worker falls under the definition of "Worker" in this Collective Agreement,
It is further understood' that a deliberate violation of the Collective Agreement means that a Manufacturerdoes not correct the violation forthwith, after being given notice, in writing, by the Union, that he/she is in violation.
5.03	The Union shall indemnify and save harmless the Manufacturer from any and all claims, demands, actions, proceedings, and any other form of liability orexpense arising from any deductions made by the Manufacturerfrom the wages of any Worker pursuant to Article 5.02, except where the Manufacturer has failed to make the deductions as required in this Article.
5.04	Workers must not be engaged in Union activities
during working hours or on the Manufacturer's
9
promises, and must be at work on time, and must not be absent without permission, but such permission shall not be unreasonably withheld by the Manufacturer.
5.04	Each Worker must do first dass work in keeping with Union principles.
5.06	A newly hired worker shall be on probation for thirty working (30)dayslrom thedateof hire. Thegrievance or arbitration procedure shall not apply to a worker who has been released or disciplined during the probationary period.
5.07	Manufacturers shall not be required to calculate,
accrue, or remit payment for health or retirement benefits under this agreement in respect of workers who are in their probationary period.
ARTICLE 6 — PROHIBITIONS
6.01	No Manufacturer who operates an inside factory, shall send out work to a Contractor of a grade similar to that which he/she is manufacturing in his/her own factory, unless the Workers in his/her factory are employed full time.
6.02	Where a Manufacturer wishes to send work to a Contractor, the Union shall be consulted and a Union Contractor shall be mutually agreed upon, if such Contractor can provide delivery and quality consistent with the Manufacturer's standards and the costs are consistent with the local conditions. There shall be reasonable time allowed for the choosing of a Contractor and delivery.
6.03	Mo Manufacturer shall give out work to the home of any person.
Manufacturer shall engage or take part in any lock-outs.
10
6.05	No Worker shall take part in any strikes, slowdowns, sitdowns. stoppages, unusual holidays, or a cessation of work or slowing down of work of any
nature or kind whatsoever.
ARTICLE 7 TRANSFER FROM ONE OPERATION TO ANOTHER
7.01	The average hourly rate for a two (2) week period is to be paid in case of a transfer from one (1) operation to another, providing:
(a)	That the request is made by the Manufacturer at a time when the Worker has sufficient work at his/her own position;
(b)	That the transfer is not a seasonable type when this is normal totheoperationof the Manufacturer;
(c)	That the transfer is not made as a result of change-ovars in types of garments being made by the Manufacturers, also when this is inconsistent to the operation of the Manufacturer.
(d)	Workers shall not refuse to do any work which they are given whether same consists of a transfer from one (1) operation to another or not, provided, however, that a Worker may reject a transfer from his/her operation to another if there is no work available at his/her operation.
7.02	In the case of dissatisfaction with the work given, or the transfer made, Workers must continue to do such work as is given or to which they have bean transferred, but may complain in the manner set forth in Article 8 hereof, and the procedure therein provided for shall then be proceeded with so that the complaint may be heard and adjudicated
■M
upon, through 1hs machinery provided by said Article 8,
7.03	Whenever there shall be a breach of any of the provisions of this Article by the Workers or by any one of thorn, no negotiations shall take place, and no complaints shall be heard or adjudicated upon, until all Workers who have committed such breach are back lo work in the usual way unless the parties otherwise agree. If any Worker commits such breach of Article 7, then the Union agrees to consult such Worker.
ARTICLE 8 SETTLEMENT OF DISPUTES
8.01	It is the mutual desire of the parties hereto that complaints of the Workers Or Manufacturers shall be adjusted as quickly as possible without stoppage of work, and it is understood that a Worker or Manufacturer may present an oral complaint at any time, without recourse to the Grievance Procedure herein.
8.02	Whenever any dispute, difference or question shall arise between a Worker, a group of Workers or tho Union, on the one hand and a Manufacturer, a group of Manufacturers or the Association, on the other hand, such dispute, difference or question shall constitute a grievance when the complaint is put in writing.
8.03	The word 'days' as used in this Article, shall mean working days.
8.04	Grievances shall be processed in the following manner and sequence:
STEP 1.
The Griever concerned may submit a
12
Grievance lo the appropriate Supervisor within ten (10) days of the event giving rise to the Grievance, The Griever may have his/her Union Representative and/or Shop Steward present at the submission of ths Grievance. The Supervisor shall reply within five (5Jdays aftaf the Grievance was submitted.
STEP 2.
Failing satisfactory settlement at Step 1, the Union's Grievance Representative may submit the Grievance, in writing, within ten (10) days from receipt of the decision from Step 1, to the Plant Manager who shall render his/her decision, in writing, within five (5) days after receipt cf the Grievance.
At the beginning of Step 2, the Grievance Representative shall notify, in writing, the Association of the nature of the Grievance and the Manufacturer involved.
STEP 3.
Failing satisfactory settlement at Step 2, the Union's Grievance Representative may submit the grievance in writing to the CEO or the Company President within five (5) days from receipt cf the decision in Step 2. The Union's Grievance Representative and the CEO or designate shall meet within five (5) days to attempt to settle the Grievance.
STEP 4 OPTIONAL
OPTION A:	Where a difference between the
parties to this Collective Agreement concerning its meaning, application or alleged violation, the Minister of Labour may, on the joint application of
13
the parties, appoint a grievance mediator to assist the parties in resolving the difterence,
•or-
OPTION B: Where both parties agree, they may decide to use a 'mediation board made up of two (2) representatives of each party to assist the parties in resolving the grievance.
This optional Step 4 is non-binding on the parties and it is solely to give the parties another opportunity to review the problem before deciding to go to arbitration.
STEP 5.
Failing satisfactory settlement at gtep 3, the matter may be referred to Arbitration, within ten (10) days of the conclusion of STEP 3.
Where the Step 4 option is used, the time limit allowed to refer a matter to arbitration shall be twenty (20) days.
8.05	The timo limits in this Article may be extended by mutual agreement between both parties.
8.06	For the purpose of this Article and for that of
preserving order in the industry, it is agreed that
L.	Cherniak with P. Teskey as his alternate, and
M.	Freedman with J. London as his alternate, shall be such Single Arbitrator who shall rotate their turns as such Single Arbitrator during the term of this Collective Agreement. It is further agreed that these appointments can only be terminated by the consent, in writing, of both parties to this Collective Agreement
It is further agreed that either party may appoint a Nominee, who shall sit with Single Arbitrator and
14
who shalt have all the [rights of the Single Arbitrator, regarding testimony and evidence presented and who may advise the Arbitrator but who shall not have the right to vote on the decision.
8.07	Either party to the Arbitration shall serve notice, in writing, upon the other party and the Arbitrator setting out:
(a)	the names of all the Manufacturers and the workers involved in the dispute: and
(b)	the issues and/or complaints touching upon the Grievance which it is requesting, the Single Arbitrator to settle.
Within five (5) days of receipt of the aforesaid notice, the other party named therein shall serve notice on the first party and the Arbitrator setting out the issues and/or complaints which it is asking the Single Arbitrator to settle.
8.08	The Single Arbitrator shall set the date of the
hearing and shall hear and determine the issues and/ or complaints with all reasonable dispatch and such hearing shall be limited to the issues and/or complaints set forth in the notices referred to in Clause 8.07.
The decision of the Arbitrator shall be the Award of the Arbitrator and the Award of the Arbitrator shall be final and binding on all parties concerned.
8.09	Notwithstanding anything Io the contrary in this
Collective Agreement contained. the parties hereto may extend any of the time, limits specified in this Article for such further period as they may mutually agree.
8.10	Each party shall pay one-half (1/2) of the costs of the impartial Single Arbitrator.
15
8-11 Steps in the grievance procedure may be waived by mutual consent between both parties.
ARTICLE 9 HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
9.01	The standard work week shall consist of forty (40) regular hours of employment consisting of eight (8) hours per day Monday to Friday inclusive in each calendar week, providing that where a Holiday occurs on any day within the standard work week, the regular hours of employment shall exclude eight (8) hours per Holiday.
9.02	(a) Whenever a Manufacturer requires overtime, it
shall:
(i)	give as much advance notice as possible to the Workers*and *”
(ii)	ensure that the distribution of overtime is done in as fair and equitable manner as possible for all concerned.
(b) The Union and the Workers must co-operate fully whenever possible.
9.03	OVERTIME DURING STANDARD WORK WEEK
All work in excess of eight (8)hours per day during the standard work week shall be considered as overtime and shall be paid for at the rate of time and one-half (1,5x)andsuch timeworked shallbe included in the calculation of a year of seivice for the purpose ol vacation pay and vacation entitlement.
9.04	OVERTIME ON SATURDAYS AND SUNDAYS
AND HOLIDAYS
(a) All work done on Saturdays and Sundays shall be considered as overtime and shall be paid for at the rate of time and one-half (1.5x) and such
16
time worked shall be included in the calculation of a year of eervica for the purposes of vacation pay and vacation entitlement.
(b) All work done on a Holiday shall be considered as overtime and shall bfc paid for at the rate of triple time (3x), that is. double time (2x) for the work performed plus payment for the Holiday as provided by Article 14 hereof, and such time worked shall be included in the calculation of a year of service for the purposes of vacation pay and vacation entitlement.
9.05	Notwithstandinganyotherprovision of this Agreement to the contrary, a Workermayworkon aSaturdayfor the purpose of making up time lost during the week and such Worker shall not be paid overtime in respect of such time which is so made up, if:
(a)	the time lost is caused solely by the Worker, and
(b)	the Manufacturer shall have the factory open on the Saturday of the week during which the Worker lost time, and then only to a maximum of eight (8)hours and such time shall be included in the calculation of a year of service for the purposes of vacation pay and vacation entitlement.
It is further agreed that' if the Worker is sent home by the Manufacturer during the standard work week, causing lost time, then the Manufacturer shall pay overtime for any work performed on the Saturday to such Workers sent home during the standard work week.
9.06	Notwithstanding any other provision in this Agreement to the contrary, should the majority of Workers in a factory and the Manufacturer of
17
those Workers desire to bank hours for the purpose of making up work time in order to have up to three (3) additional days off between Boxing Day and New Year's Day, the Manufacturer must meet with the Union by November 30lh of that year to determine which Saturdays shall be worked at regular pay, according to (i) or (ii) below;
(i)	the 1st three (3) Saturdays immediately before Christmas Day at eight (8) hours per day at regular rate of pay, or
(ii)	the last six (6) Saturdays immediately before Christmas Day at four (4) hours per day at regular rate of pay.
It isagreod that the Workershallbe paidfor such time banked at the time that the work is performed, as per the Collective Agreement and it is further agreed that after the time has been banked, and the Manufacturer then chooses not to close the factory for the said banked days, then that Manufacturer must pay the premium portion of the overtime rate for such time worked to all the Workers who banked time, All such time worked shall be included in the calculation of a years service for the purposes of vacation pay and vacation entitlement.
9,07 CHANGES TO SHIFTS
(a) Notice of intent must be given to the Union by the Manufacturer, of no less than seven (7) days when the starting and/or quitting time of a regularly scheduled shift is to change. A regularly scheduled shift shall be defined as a shift which is not periodic but is ongoing on a permanent basis as agreed by the Manufacturer and the Union,
18
(b) Notice of intent must be given to the Union, by the Manufacturer, of no less than £6Uan (7) days when a second ahd/or third shift is to be implemented and/or discontinued.
Whenever another shift is to be implemented, the Manufacturer shall meet with the Union to discuss and agree on the method used for determining which Worker shall work on each shift.
ARTICLE 10 FACTORY INTERRUPTIONS AND MACHINE BREAKDOWNS
10.01	When a Worker is ordered to'report to work and does
report at his/her regular starting time, he/she shall be guaranteed four (4) hours of work or in lieu of this, four (4) hours of pay. However if circumstances arise, which are beyond the control of Management such as power failure, fire or failure of other Workers to report, or remain on the job, this provision shall not apply.
10.02	In the event of machine breakdown later in the day, a Worker must report to a Foreperson when the machine is first out of order. If after waiting fifteen (15) minutes the machine is not in suitable working order, the Foreperson will give him/her other employment or permission to go home. The Worker will be paid at his/her Average Hourly Rate for the fifteen minutes delay and for any other work assigned in lieu of hisher regular work if not sent home.
ARTICLE 11 — REST PERIOD
11.01	There are to be two (2) ten (10) minute rest periods, one (1) “organized' and the other to be arranged by each Manufacturer.
19
ARTICLE 12 — LAY-OFFS AND TEMPORARY HELP
12.01	Whenever lay-offs are necessary they are to be put
into effect on a departmental or sectional seniority basis. During slack seasons or temporary shortages of work, each Manufacturer shall have the option of dividing the work so that each Wbrker will receive approximately an equal amount of work or of dividing the hours on equal working time.
12.02	No temporary help shall be employed by the Manufacturers unless there is a full week's work for the permanent Workers. The Union is to supply all temporary help when available provided the same is acceptable to the Manufacturers.
12.03	When a lay-off of, two (2) 'weeks or more becomes necessary and/or apparent, the Manufacturer shall notify the Union of such lay-off at the time such lay-off becomes apparent. Workers laid off shall be re-employed in the order of their seniority on a sectional, operational or departmental basis, before any new Workers are hired.
12.04	A worker must give one pay period notice when leaving the employment of a Manufacturer. The same notice period applies to termination by the Manufacturer, except for termination for just cause or for workers under probation.
12.05	A Worker who is terminated or discharged shall receive his/her appropriate vacation pay plus all wages due.
ARTICLE 13 DISCHARGEAND DISCIPLINE
13.01	The Manufacturer and/or anyone acting on behalf of the Manufacturer agrees at all times to act fairly,
20
reasonably, in good faith and in a manner consistent with the Collective Agreement as a whole.
13.02	Full power of discharge and discipline lies with the Manufacturer but this power shall be exercised with justice and with regard for the reasonable rights of the Worker. The power of discharge shall be exercised only through a fully authorized and responsible representative of the Management.
13.03	No Worker shall be discharged or discriminated against for Union activities.
ARTICLE 14 HOLIDAY WITH PAY
14.01	Every Worker who is a member of the Union shall receive pay for every Holiday based on his/her average hourly or piece-work earnings, if such Worker has worked the regular hours of work on the work day immediately preceding and succeeding the particular Holiday unless:
(a)	he/she has been prevented from doing so by bona fide illness, or
(b)	he/she has been absent with the consent of the Manufacturer provided that such absence does not exceed thirty (30) working days.
14.02	Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement contained, every Worker who is a Member of the Union shall be paid for Christmas Day and New Year's Day at the particular Worker's average hourly or piece-work earnings.
14.03	Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement to the contrary, any Worker who terminates his/her employment during the calendar week in which any of the aforementioned Holidays occur without giving at least one (1) week's notice prior to
21
the date of terminating the employment shall not be entitled to payment for such Holiday.
14.04	When any of the said Holidays fall within a Worker's vacation period, he/she shall be entitled to an extra day's pay and an extra day off.
14.05	Where New Year's Day. Canada Day and/or Christmas Day falls on a Saturday or Sunday, the Worker shall be granted a Holiday with pay on the working day immediately proceeding or following said Holiday.
ARTICLE 15 VACATIONS WITH PAY
15.01	Every Worker who has completed a year's service with a Manufacturer, as of Ju|^ 1st of any year, is entitled to an annual vacation of two (2), three (3), or four (4) weeks with pay, based on his/her Average Hourly Earnings, as that year of service relates to the vacation entitlement in clause 15.03.
15.02	(a) The period commencing the 1st day of July
in a year and terminating on the 30th day of June in the following year shall be used for determining the numberof hours of employment constituting a year's service.
(b) A year's service shall constitute 1800 hours of employment, including regular hours and overtime hours and excluding the premium portion of overtime, during the term referred to in 15;02 (a) hereof, but
(i)	there shall not be included in such
computations of 1800 hours of employment the two (2) weeks of annual vacation constituting eighty (80)hours of employment;
(ii)	where any Worker shall have worked less
22
than 1800 hours of employment and if such lesser period shall be accounted for by;
1.	Consent to absence from employment given by a Manufacturer to the Worker, anchor
2.	Absence due to bona fide illness, and/or
3.	Absence due to lack of work, the aggregate of such absences up to a maximum of two hundred and forty (240) hours of employment shall be added to the actual number of hours worked if the resultof such addition shall total 1800 hours or more, the Workershall bedeemed to havecompleted, for the purpose of this Article 15 a year’s serviceandshall receive an annualvacetion of two (2), three (3), or four (4) weeks with pay as that year of service relates to the vacation entitlement in clause 15.03.
15.03	(a) Every Worker not otherwise entitled to full vacation pay, as provided in 15.01 hereof, shall be treated in the following manner:
Every Worker who has given four (4) years or less of service to the Manufacturer, butwhodoesnot have 1800 hours of employment in the vacation year shall be paid four (4%) percent of his/her earnings, exclusive of the overtime premium, or
Every Worker who has given five (5,)years and up to thirteen (13) years of service to the Manufacturer, but who does not have 1800 hours of employment in the vacation year shall be paid six (6%) percent of his/her earnings, exclusive of the overtime premium, or
23
Every Worker who has given fourteen (14) or more years of service to the Manufacturer, butwho doesnot havs 1800 hoursof employment in the vacation year shall be paid eight (8%) percent of his/her earnings, exclusive of the overtime premium.
(b)	Every Worker with less than one (1) year’s service with the Manufacturer shall be entitled to a vacation period which shall be prorated on the basis that the number of hours of qualifying employment bears to 1800; a fraction of a day shall extend to a whole day's vacation.
(c)	Wien a Worker has given one (1) year and up to four (4) years of service-in one factory, he/she shallbeentitledtotwo(2)weeks vacation in that year. When a Worker has worked fifty percent (50%) of the regular working hours, in each of the four (4) years in the preceding ten (10)years, in one factory, he/she shall be entitled to three (3) weeks vacation for each year subsequent to the fourth (4th) year and up to the thirteenth (13th) year.
When a Worker has given fourteen (14) years or more of service in one factory, he/she shall be entitled to four (4) weeks of vacation in that year. A year of service shall be defined as in clause 15.02.
15.04	A Worker shall be entitled to vacation with pay during the period from the Is! day of July to the 1st day of September, as the Manufacturer may find convenient, unless the Worker and the Manufacturer agree otherwise.
24
15.05	Total vacation pay shall be paid to each Worker just prior to commencement of such Worker's vacation, or in the case of termination of employment, as the Vacation With Pay Act provides.
15.06	A Manufacturer may close his/her plant for the vacation providing he/she gives two (2) months written notice to the Union prior to the vacations,
15.07	In the case of a Worker entitled to four (4) weeks vacation, three (3) weeks may be taken consecutively, during the vacation period as per clause 15.04, and the fourth ,f4th,i week shall be taken any time up to January 31 st of the following year.
ARTICLE 16 WAGE RATES AIsjD RELATED FACTORS
16.01	In all questions of wages, rates, our garment industry in Manitoba is a separate entity whose wages are affected by local conditions prevailing in our own industry here.
16.02	The Manufacturer shall submit to the Union, upon request, quarterly statements indicating the following information for each Worker.
(a)	Clock number and name.
(b)	Description of operation performed.
(c)	Average Hourly Earnings.
(d)	Actual Average Hourly Rate earned based on piecework calculations.,
(a)	Actual hours worked
25
16.03
(A)	CUTTERS
Increases shall be granted to the Cutters in the following stages:
1.	One percent (1%) effective December15,2002;
2.	One and one half percent (1.5%) effective
December 15, 2003.
(B)	TIME WORKERS
Increasesshall begranted to the Time Workers in the following stages:
1.	one percent (1%) effective December 15,2002;
2.	One and one half(1.5%) effective December15, 2003.
(C)	PIECEWORKERS
Increases shall be granted to the Piece Workers in the following stages:
1.	One percent(1%) effective December 15,2002;
2.	One and one half percent (1.5%) effective
December 15, 2003.
16.04	All wages shall be paid weekly or biweekly unless otherwise agreed to by the Union and the individual Manufacturer,
16.05	Samples are to be paid for on time work rates.
16.06	Time work shall not be the basis of payment where piecework prices are provided for, except as provided herein.
16.07	All increases as provided in Article 16.03 shall be compounded.
16.08	Non-probationary full time Workers who are
26
actively employed on the date of ratification of this agreement shall be entitled to a signing bonus of $100, provided the worker was actively employed with a Manufacturer on December 15, 2000, It is understood that this bonus will not be used in any calculation in this agreement related to wages, holidays, or benefits,
ARTICLE 17 CLASSES OF CUTTERS
17.01	There shall be three (3) classes of Cutters. namely,
First Class Cutters, Second Class Cutters and Apprentices or Third Class Cutters.
First Class Cutters shall make markers and grade patterns to the extent of adjusting such pattern up and down one (1) size.
Second Class Cutters shall be fully responsible for his/her lay by taking the marker, checking it for omissions, laying up and cutting properly.
17.02	Each Manufacturershallemploy at leastone(l) First Class Cutter except where such Manufacturer (i.e. the proprietor thereof) himself does all the marking in such factory.
17.03	The Manufactureragreesthat the Cutter's minimum-hourly rates shall be as follows for. the period effective December15, 2000 to December 14,2004,
27
DEC.
15/00
DEC.
15/02
DEC.
15/03
CUSS
First Cl EiS3	$12,436
Second Class (Istyear)	$12,131
(2nd year)	$12,221
Third Class
(Istyear)	$11,830
(2nd yeai)	$11,944
(3rd year)	$11.975
$12,560	$12,748
$12,252	$12,436
$12,343	$12,528
$11,948	$12,127
$12,113	$12,295
$12,095	$12,276
ARTICLE 18 — ESTABLISHING PIECEWORK RATES
18.01	Line System
The Worker shall be paid his/her previous Average
Hourly Earnings until:
(a)	The Manufacturer shall set a piecerate to fit the
new conditions on the job. However, the piecework rate must be set within two (2) weeks, unless the Manufacturerand the Union agree to another mutually, acceptable time.
(b)	If after working on the operation for a period of two (2) weeks, the Worker feels that the new piecerate is inadequate, a complaint to that effect shall be submitted by the Shop Steward. The Manufacturer shall then recheck the rate and meet with the Union Representative.
(c)	In the event that the meeting referred to in subparagraph (b) hereof does not result in settlement of the complaint, the dispute may
28
then be dealt with as provided for in Article 8 hereof.
18.02	If, after a lurther period of two (2) weeks, no Grievance has been submitted, it is assumed that the Union has accepted the new piecerate price.
18.03	Where significant numbers of Workers, in any factory are not able to achieve piecework earning in excess of the provincial minimums, on existing piecework rates, a Union Time Study Engineer, in conjunction with Management, shall have the rightto study the operations involved, using accepted engineering practices. The Manufacturer shall be notified, inadvance, of thpnameandquali'ficationsof the Time Study Engineer, and the time and date of the proposed study. If no agreement is reached the matter will be dealt with under Article 8,
18.04	Motion and Time Study Analysis Summaries for all new operations and rate changes shall be available on the Manufacturer's premises for examination by a person qualified in such activities and authorized by the Union.
ARTICLE 19 LEAVE OF ABSENCE
19.01	A Worker who has three (3) or more years of employment shall be entitled to leave of absence, without pay, for a period not to exceed eight (8) weeks, if compassionate reasons shall arise. On his/her return he/she shall be reinstated in his/her former position without 'loss of seniority. A grant of a leave of absence shall be given to a Worker, in writing, and a copy thereof sent to the Union.
19.02	A worker, after twelve (12) consecutive months of employment who submits to his/her employer a writtenapplication at least four (4) weeks in advance,
29
shall be entitled to maternity, paternity and/or adoption leave, as the case may be, in accordance with the provisions of the Employment Insurance Act, and provincial Employment Standards Code, as amended from Rime to time. A worker who has taken leave under the terms of this Article and/or the Legislation wishes to resume his/her employment shall be reinstated by the Manufacturer in the position occupied by him/her with no loss of seniority.
19.03	All time spent on contract negotiations and/or leave taken pursuant to Clause 19,04 and/or Clause 19.05 shall not be considered as leave of absence in Clause 19.01,
19.04	Workers selected as delegates to any Labour Conference or training session may be granted a leave of absence, without pay, with the Manufacturer's consent. which shall not be unreasonably withheld. This leave of absence shall not exceed five (5) working days.
19.05	If any Worker shall have reasonable grounds for requiring a leave of absence of five (5) days, the Manufacturer shall not unreasonably withhold his consent to such absence, it being understood and agreed, for the purpose hereof, that the term "leave of absence" is exclusive of any absence due to bona 'fide illness.
19.06 A Worker on bona fide leave of absence shall accumulate seniority and upon return from such leave shall be reinstated to his/her former position.
30
ARTICLE 20 UNDERPAYMENT OR OVERPAYMENT TO WORKERS
20.01	If a Manufacturer is fodnd to have underpaid any Worker, contrary to the terms of this Agreement, the Union shall have th'e right to demand, and the Manufacturershall pay to such Worker, the amount underpaid. When overpayment occurs, due to an error on the part of the Manufacturer or the Workers, and if the Union agrees that such an error occurred then the Manufacturer shall be entitled to deduct the overpayment over a reasonable time. In the event that the Union does not agree, the matter may be dealt with under the provisions of Article 8,
ARTICLE 21 TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE
21.01	Each Manufacturer agfees to give notice, to the Union, of any technological change that he intends to effect, if it is likely to affect the terms and conditions, or the security, of employment of a significant number of employees in the unit or alter significantly the basis upon which the Collective Agreement was negotiated. Such notice shall be given at least ninety (90) days before the date on which the technological change is to be effected.
21.02	The notice referred to in Clause 21 01 shall be in writing and shall state;
(a)	the nature of the technological change, and
(b)	the day on which the Manufacturer proposes to effect the technological change, and
(c)	the approximate number and type of Workers likely to be affected by the technological change; and
(d)	the effect the technological change is likely
31
to have on the terms and conditions, or security, of employment of the Workers affected or the alterations that is likely to be made to the basis upon the Collective Agreement was negotiated.
21.03	When a Manufacturergives notice under this Article then the Union may serve notice upon said Manufacturer to commence collective bargainingwith a view to eliminate or reduce the impact of the technology change by the revision of the Collective Agreement or the conclusion of a new Collective Agreement according to the terms of the Labour Relations Act applying to technological change.
21.04	Either party to this Collective Agreement may submit to Arbitration, the question of whether or not the technological change is likely to affect the terms and conditions, or security of employment of a significant number of workers in the unit, or to alter significantly the basis upon which the Collective Agreement was negotiated, and if 'the Single Arbitrator finds, in his/her Award that the technological change is likely to effect the terms and conditions, or security of employment of a significant number of Workers in the unit, or to alter significantly the basis upon which the Collective Agreement was negotiated, then such Award shall be deemed to be notice under the terms of this Article.
ARTICLE 22 UNION BULLETIN BOARD
22.01	Each Manufacturer agrees to furnish a suitable bulletin board, or boards, and to provide a space for the Union to install a hot file of hot file(s) for the use of the union and such board(s) shall be located in a conspicuous place in the area where the Workers are
32
working, or lunch rooms, but in any event, at least one (1) such bulletin board and hot file on each floor of the Manufacturers premises.
ARTICLE 23 UNION LABEL
23.01	The Association acknowledges that the use of Union Labels on garments manufactured by Association members should be encouraged. The Association agrees thatwithin the limits of its ability to do so, it will urge members to use such labels.
ARTICLE 24 INJURY ON THE JOB
24.01	Each Manufacturer agrees that if a Worker is injured on the job and requires the attention of a Medical Practitioner.
(a)	Should the accident happen during the first half of a shift the Worker will be paid a total of four (4) hours,
(b)	Should the accident happen during the second half of a shift the Worker will be paid for a full shift
ARTICLE 25 DISCOUNTSA FACTORY OUTLETS
25.01	Workers shall beentitled toamanulacturer'sdiscount at the factory outlets of Manufacturers that are open to the public, on presentation by the Worker of a UNITE Local 459 membership card with proper identification.
ARTICLE 26 MISCELLANEOUS
26.01	In accordance with the spirit of this Agreement, all parties pledge themselves to co-operate in making the arrangement successful, and to use their influence and best efforts for the promotion and development of goodwill; it being understood
33
that it is not the intention that this Agreement shall operate in any way so as to restrict output or production, nor impede the processes of manufacture or management, but to encourage maximum production with minimum waste and fair equitable treatment to everyone concerned.
26.02	Nothing herein contained shall be construed so as to make any Manufacturer responsible or liable for the covenants, agreements, acts or omissions of any other Manufacturer.
ARTICLE 27 DURATION AND REVISION OF AGREEMENT
27.01	It is hereby understood and agreed that this Agreement shall continue and remain in full force and effect up to the close of business on December 14, 2004, and thereafter from year to year, unless either the Union or the Manufacturers give written notice to the other of its desire to revise this Agreement, or to conclude a new Collective Agreement for any period after December14, 2004, The said written notice may be given at any time after the 1st day of October, and not later than the 15 th day of November, in any year during which the said Agreement expires.
This agreement may be re-opened by mutual agreement of both parties.
ARTICLE 28 HEALTH FUND -TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS
28.01	The existing Health Fund which is cc-managed by the Union and Manufacturers under the UNITE Local 459 and Garment Manufacturers Health, Welfare and Pension Fund Inc. shall be wound up
34
as of February 28, 2001, and replaced as of that date with a Union Health Plan.
28.02	The existing Health Fund will be responsible for payment of legitimate claims in the following categories, as follows:
(a)	All covered benefits under the prior collective agreement which have transaction dates forthe covered benefit on or before February16, 2001, except as provided in (b) and (c) below.
(b)	Dental services that are assigned by Manitoba Blue Cross to the premiums paid for the period up to
The Health Fund shall, give notice to Manitoba Blue Cross of its intent to terminate its dental benefits contract. and the Union agrees to pay the dental premiums on behalf of its members, to Manitoba Blue Cross from March 112001 until such time as the current dental benefits agreement expires, but no later than April 30, 2001, The patties agree that the Union shall have the option to seek a transfer or assignment of the current Health Fund agreement with Blue Cross from the Health Fund to the new Union Health Plan.
(c)	For weekly indemnity claims that ‘Initiate prior to the date of ratification and continue beyond that date, the existing health fund will be responsible for the coverage of any difference in waiting periods between the old and new benefit up to a maximum of three days.
(d)	It is stipulated that any eligible claims, as above, must be received by the Health Fund for approval, by March 23, 2001, and that any claims submitted or received by the Health
35
Fund after that date will not be the responsibility of the Health Fund.
28.03	As of March 23, 2001 and subject to a final accounting of all claims received, approved, and established as payable as of that date, it is agreed that the Health Fund will have fulfilled its benefits management obligations to the Workers.
28.04	The Health Fund will undertake such actions as are necessary to wind up the Fund, including a final audited statement and such joint actions with the parties for changes or amendments to the statute that created the Fund, as may be required.
28.05	During the windup period, it is agreed that the Board of Trustees of the Health Fund shall continue to be bound by the terms of the prior agreement in respect of the eligibility of claims, and by the rules and procedures established by the Health Fund, except as otherwise provided in this Agreement.
28.06	The parties agree that upon windup and final accounting, any surplus funds shall be turned over to the UNITE Local 459 Health Plan, subject to any reserves held back as deemed appropriate by the trustees after consultation with the health fund auditors.
28.07	The parties agree that in consideration of the Manufacturers making their Health Fund contributions as required under the prior agreement to February 28, 2001, the Manufacturers are released from any obligations in regard to the operation of the Health Fund.
36
ARTICLE 20 UNION HEALTH PLAN
29.01	The Manufacturers agree that they will pay to the Union Health Plan a contribution for each Worker for health benefits, as follows:
(a)	Five and one-half percent (5.5%) of wages, per month, for each non-probationary Worker, effective March 1, 2001;
(b)	An increase of or&half percent (0.5%) of wages to a total b< six percent (6%), per month for each n6n-probationary Worker, effective December 15, 2001,
29.02	It is understood and agreed that the responsibility of the Manufacturers to provide for health benefits is limited to the contributions made to the Union Health Plan as listed under Article 29.01. It is solely the responsibility of the Union to select health benefits that will be offered to the Workers from time to time, to set rules and procedures regarding eligibility for benefits, and to administer the Union Health Plan.
29.03	It is understood that the-new Health Plan shall not be or be deemed to be part of this Agreement and shall not be subject to the grievance procedure or to the arbitration provisions contained in this Agreement. Any decisions as to the benefits to be provided by the Union to. its members, the administration of tine Union Health Plan and the resolution oi any disputes in that regard shall be solely the responsibility of the Union. This provision does not exclude or remove the rights of the Union to the grievance and arbitration procedures in tho Agreement if a Manufacturer is delinquent in theii contributions to the Union Health Plan,
37
29.04	The Manufacturers agree that they shall have no further right to administer or control the Union Health Fund or its benefits.
ARTICLE 30 PENSION FUND
—TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS
30.01	The Union and Manufacturers agree to terminate and wind upthecurrent Pension Fundwhich is jointly managed by the Union and Manufacturers through the UNITE Local 459 and Garment Manufacturers Health Welfare and Pension Fund Inc., effective as of March 31,2001,
30.02	Current service payments and accumulations of years of service under the existing Pension Fund will accumulate to March 31, 2001 only. The final pension liabilities for the Manufacturers will be determined as of that date by the final actuarial reports required by the Pension Benefits Act as at the termination date of the Pension Fund, and later dates as required, and are limited to those liabilities as established therein.
30.03	Any periods of employment accumulated after March 31, 2001 will have no bearing on the benefits or liabilities of the terminated Pension Fund. Any future retirement benefits for existing Workers, former Workers, and retired Workers after March 31,2001 shall be limited to those established under Article 27 only.
30.04	The trustees of the Pension Fund are directed to:
(a)	Implement the windup in accordance with the provisions of the Pension Benefits Act and regulations:
(b)	Initiate and approve the necessary plan text
38
changes to terminate the current Pension Fund;
(c)	Terminate the Pension Fund in a timely and orderly manner with due regard to the rights of existing, former and retired Workers under the Pension Benefits Act;
(d)	Manage the Pension Fund, as required, until all obligations of the'Pehsion Fund are completed.
30.05	The Pension Fund, the Union and the Association will undertake such steps as are necessary to wind up the Fund, including joint actions for changes or amendments to the statute that created the Fund, as may be required.
ARTICLE 31 UNION RETIREMENT BENEFIT
31.01	The Manufacturers agree that they will pay to the Union a Retirement Benefit for each Worker, as follows:
(a)	The implementation of the new retirement benefit is effective January 15, 2002.
(b)	One and one-half percent (1.5%) of wages, per month, for each non-probationary Worker, effective January 15, 2002.
(c)	An increase of one percent (1.0%) of wages, per month, to a total of two and one-half percent (2.5%), for each non-probationary Worker, effective December 15, 2002;
(d)	An increase of one-half percent (0.5%) of wages, per month, to a total of three percent (3,0%), for each non-probationary Worker, effective Decomberi15, 2003.
31.02	It is understood and agreed that the Union
39
shall establish a program of individual RRSP benefits on behalf of each eligible Worker, with the pro-portional contributions made by the Manufacturers under Article 31,01 for 'each worker, to be credited to that worker's RRSP program, It is solely the responsibility of the Union to select the RRSP program that will be offered to the Workers from time to time, to set miss and procedures regarding eligibility for benefits, and to administer the retirement benefit program.
31.03	The responsibility of the Manufacturers to provide for retirement benefits is limited to the contributions made to the Union as fisted under Article 27.01. It is understood and agreed that the Manufacturers fulfil their obligations under this Article by making the contributions herin to the Union. The obligations of the Manufacturers to make payments shall in no manner whatsoever extend to the performance by the Union or its designates of its obligations in respect of the retirement benefit,
31.04	It is also understood and agreed that the Union's management of the retirement benefit shall not be or be deemed to be part of this agreement, and shall not be subject to the grievance procedure or the arbitration provisions contained in this agreement, The administration of the retirement benefit and the resolution of any disputes in that regard shall be the sole responsibility of the Union. This provision does not exclude or remove the rights of the Union to the grievance and arbitration procedures in the Agreement if a Manufacturer is delinquent in its contributions to the Union for the retirement benefits.
40
31,05	The Manufacturers agree that they shall have no further right to administer or control the Union retirement benefit program.
ARTICLE 32 REMITTANCE OF CONTRIBUTIONS UNDERTHE AGREEMENT
32.01	Each Manufacturer will forward to the Union monthly, by the end of the following month:
(a)	All health and retirement benefits contributions for pay periods that were completed in the previous month;
(b)	A list of the names of the Workers lor whom the contributions have been made, and for each name on the list, the wages paid for each Worker for the pay periods reported and the amount of the contributions allocated to each worker.
32.02	Should a Manufacturer be found to be in violation of the Collective Agreement by not remitting the contribution to the Union for health and/or retirement benefits as per the agreement, then, after receiving written notice of the arrears, the Manufacturer shall p^y a penalty of 1,5% interest, compounded monthly, on the unpaid balance.
ARTICLE 33 ADMINISTRATION OF BENEFITS
33.01	The Fund office shall continue to operate, on an in term basis, and deal with the respective responsibilities outlined in this agreement that relate to the winding up of the existing Health Fund and Pension Fund. It is acknowledged that management of the Fund office staff during the transition period will require joint planning by the
41
Association, the Union, and the Board of Trustees of the existing pension and health funds.
33.02	Expenses related to the Fund oftice shall be allocated as follows:
(a)	The current allocation formula for expenses between the Pension Fund and Health Fund shall continue during the transition period.
(b)	The Pension Fund shall assume the full responsibility for Fund office expenses in (a) after the Health Fund transition is completed, until such time as the activities related to the Pension Fund termination begin to wind down.
33.03	The parties agree to consult on the ongoing administrative requirements, the role of the Fund office and/or changes in the allocation formula, and to implement such changes by mutual agreement, as required.
33.04	It is understood and agreed that the Union, in selecting its health and retirement benefits, will have the right to establish its preferred service delivery mech-anist-r for its health and retirement benefits programs.
ARTICLE 34 WORKPLACE SAFETY AND HEALTH PROGRAM
34.01	The Manufacturer and the Union agree to establish Safety and Health Programs in all Plant!; in accordance with the Workplace Safety and Health Act.
34.02	BASIC OBJECTIVES OF A DEMOCRATIC SAFETY AND HEALTH PROGRAM
(a) The Manitoba Workplace, Safety and Health Act provides for the establishment of Joint
42
Labour-Management Safety and Health Committees in individual workplaces 01 classes of workplaces designated by the provincial cabinet.
(b)	Workers and Manufacturers share an equal concern in preventing accidents and ill-health arising out of conditions in the workplace. The intent of the Joint Safety and Health Committee is to enhance the ability of Workers and Manufacturers to resolve safety and health concerns reasonably and co-oper-actively. They should do so on their own, with a minimum of government involvement.
(c)	The specific objectives of a Safety and Health Committee include:
(1)	assisting Workers and the Manufacturer to identify, record, examine, evaluate and resolve safety and health concerns in the Workplace;
(2)	developing practical procedures and conditions to help achieve the highest possible degrees of safety and health in the Workplace: and
(3)	promoting education an'd training programs to develop detailed knowledge of safety and health concerns and responsibilities in each individual in the Workplace.
ARTICLE 35 HARASSMENT AND DISCRIMINATION
The Manufacturers and the Union share an equal concern over the issues of harassment and discrimination in the Workplace and are fully
43
supportive of the principles contained in the Manitoba Human Rights Act.
ARTICLE 36 BINDING CLAUSE
36.01	Where in this Agreement the masculine or the singular has been used, it shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter or plural, as the case may be, wheresoever the context of this Agreement requires.
36.02	'Time shall in all respects be the essence of this Agreement.
36.03	'This Agreement shall ensure to the benefit of, and be binding upon, the parties hereto and their respective heirs, executors, administrators, successors and assigns.
44
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have hereunto set their hands and seals the day and year first abrwe written.
GARMENTMANUFACTURERS	UNION OF NEEDLETRADES,
ASSOCIATION OF	IMXJSTRAL AAD TEXTILE
vmm Canada	aaoraa local
45
APPENDIX A LIST OF MANUFACTURERS
The following list comprises the manufacturers that the Garment Manufacturers of Western Canada has stated that it has legally represented in the negotiation as an employer association, and on whose behalf it has executed this agreement.
This list of firm also comprises the list of frims whose workers UNITE Local 459 has represented in this negotiationand on whose behalf it hasoxecuted this agreement.
Arthur Street Fashions Gemini Fashions Kaplan's Manufacturing MWG Apparel Peerless Garments Richlu Sportswear Western Glove Works
46
BENEFIT RIGHTS FUND
UNITE - Local 459
Union of Needletrades, Industrial and Textile Employees
CLC-AFL-CIO
BENEFITS
YOUR BENEFIT RIGHTS FUND
of UNITE, Local 459
We would like to take this opportunity to welcome our Members to the new Benefit Rights Fund and introduce you to the benefit package that you are entitled to through the Fund.
This booklet will give all our Union Members an understanding of the Fund, their benefits and the method in which benefits may be obtained. The Fundlhas its own Board of Trustees, chosen by the Union. Benefits will be paid in accordance with the regulations. All Claims are dealt with in a fair and unbiased manner, safeguarding the interest of all parties involved. However, in the event that a discrepancy should occur, concerning the information printed in this booklet the dispute regulations will apply.
The Board of Trustees of the Fund shall have the right, at their discretion, to refuse to pay any benefits under the Benefit Rights Fund, which are duplication!; of payments made by any Government body and/or other Health and Welfare Plan; or to pay only the difference when the other payment is less than the benefit provided for by the;Fund.
The Fund has been and will continue to be a most important factor in providing short term security for our Members.
Remember that this is your Fund that has been set up to help you! Keep this Benefit Booklet as a reference when claiming Benefits. You should not experience any difficulty obtaining your entitled benefits if you follow all the rules and instructions as they have been stated in this Benefit Booklet.
GLOSSARY
Bereavement- The loss of a relative by death.
Child - For the purpose of this Fund, “Child” is defined as all natural children, legally adopted children, stepchildren and children of the person of the opposite sex with whom the member is living with in a husband and wife relationship. This is providing such children are living with the Member, are unmarried, under the age of 21 and are dependent upon the employee for support. (Note: The following applies to Blue Cross dental claims only: This age restriction does not apply to a physically or mentally incapacitated child who had this condition and was insured as a dependent of the member immediately before the age of 21, It also applies to an unmarried child under the age of 25 who is a full-time student at a specialized school, college or university, providing that proof of student status accompanies such declaration of that dependent. This proof of student status should be in the form of a letter from the school they are attending indicating the year of attendance. The Fund must be informed .each and every year of this dependent’s student status).
Dependent- For the purpose of the Fund, this means a child or spouse of a Member.
Discrepancy - An inconsistency of a failure to agree.
Discretion- Wise judgement or freedom to act.
Formulary - A list of drugs that the Pharmacare Program will provide reimbursement for.
Fund -- Benefit Rights Fund - UNITE (Union of Needletrades, Industrial and Textile Employees), Local 459
Member - An Employee of a contributing the Manufacturer who is also a Member in good standing of UNITE Local 459.
Reimbursed- lo retuna or pay oacK an amount equal to something spent.
Spouse - A person of the opposite sex with whom the Member is living with in a husband and wife relationship. (Note: the following applies to Blue Cross claims only: There is a one-year waiting period immediately prior to the start of benefits for the dependent common-law spouse. ‘This waiting period is administered by Manitoba Blue Cross).
Verifiable - Capable of being proven to be true.
Members Eligible to Receive Benefits-Regulations
All forms submitted toward the Fund, require an original signature. No photocopies or faxed copies accepted.
A new Member shall not be eligible for benefits, except for Bereavement Pay, until premiums have been paid on their behalf for 6 months. A Fund member must be a Member, in good standing, of the UNITE; Local 459 to be eligible for benefits.
In order to be eligible to receive benefits, you must register with the Fund. To do this, it is necessary that you complete a ‘Registration Notice’ which is available through your Steward or the Union office. After carefully completing the
‘Registration Notice’ questions, return the form to your Shop Steward, Business Agent or the Fund Administrator. Any questions concerning this Registration Notice can be directed to the Fund Administrator at 943-6954,
Jo be eligibly to r_eceipe benefits, the following conditions must be met
You must be a Member in good standing, of the Union:
The Manufactureryou are employed with must be a signature to the Master Agreement and must have made contributions on your behalf, to the Fund, for a period of 6 months prior to any claim.
CHANGE OF STATUS
A new Registration Notice is to be filled out and sent to the Fund if you get married, divorced, are living with or no longer living with someone in a common law relationship or have changed your name or address.
BENEFITS
Sick Leave
All eligible Members shall be entitled to 70% of earnings, to a maximum of the equivalent of the hourly minimum wage x’s 40 hours (ie 6,25 x 40 hrs = $ 250,00), beginning from the third day of the illness. EJenefits will be paid for a period not to exceed the Employment Insurance waiting period of up to two (2) weeks. A Member must have premiums paid for at least one month before another claim can be made. All claims must be received within 2 weeks after return to work, to be eligible for payment.
BereayemenLPay
In the event of a death in the family of an eligible Member, there shall be shall be paid to such Member:
Three (3) days bereavement pay, if the deceased is a Mother-in-law, Father-in-law, Brother-in,-I aw, Sister-in-law, grandparent or grandchild, and
Five (5Jdays bereavement .pay if the deceased is a Mother, Father, Spouse, Sibling or child.
Note: A death certificate or obituary notice from the newspaper must be sent in with your bereavement request.
Prescription Drugs
All eligible Members and eligible dependants shall be entitled to 90% reimbursement of the total costs of prescription drugs to a maximum of $ 300.00. Receipts can be submitted any time between January 1 to December 1, based on a minimum of $ 50.00 of receipts.
Dental Plan
All eligible Members and eligible dependants shall be entitled to receive 80% of the "Basic” dental services listed below.
Diagnostic
Complete examination, once every three (3) years Recall or oral examination covered twice in each calendar year.
Periapical or bite-wing x-rays covered twice in each calendar year,
Full mouth x-rays! once every two (2) years, if necessary. Preventative
Combination of one and on&half units of polishing and/or scaling (removal of deposits and stains from the tooth surface), twice in each calendar year.
Topical application of fluoride, up to Iwo (2) appliances in each calendar year.
Space maintainers (except when used in orthodontic treatment).
Surgical
Extractions and complicated surgical procedures preformed in the dentist's office, including postoperative care and general anesthesia.
Restorative
Fillings made of amalgams, silicates, plastics and synthetic porcelains. Includes temporary stainless steel crowns.
Prosthetic
Repair of damaged dentures. Adding teeth to existing dentures, or relining or rebasing the dentures. Each procedure limited to once every three (3) years.
Accidental injury
Major dental services as a result of an accident, up to a maximum of $ 1.000.00 per year, per person.
Anesthesia
Nitrous oxide analgesia, administered in the Dentist‘s office.
In addition to the “Basic” services listed previously, all eligible Members and eligible dependants shall be entitled to receive 50% of eligible charges for the following “Major dental services.
Endodontics
The usual procedures required for pulpal therapy and root canal filling.
Periodontics
The usual procedures for treatment of the diseases of the tissues and bones supporting the teeth.
Extensive Restorations
Gold inlays and onlays
Jackets, crowns and bridges to rebuild and replace missing teeth.
Each procedure, except crowns, limited to once I a five (5) year period. Crowns will not be replaced within five (5) years <f placement.
Prosthetic
Partial or complete upper and lower dentures, provided by a dentist or licensed denturist. Each procedure limited to once every five (5) years. Allowances include all adjustments. Annual maximum for the dental plan is based on the prevailing Dental Fee Guide. Any changes over this guide shall be the responsibility of the Member.
Vision Care
All eligible Members shall be entitled to 75% of prescription eye glasses and /or contact lenses, to a maximum cf $ 200.00 per claim, once every twenty-four (24) month period.
All eligible Members shall be entitled to one eye examination, once every twenty-four (24) month period, to a maximum of $ 40.00.
All claims must be received within two weeks of purchase (original or photocopied receipt attached).
Hearing Aids
All eligible Members shall be entitled to 85% of verifiable costs towards the purchase of a hearing aid, to a maximum of $600.00, every 5 years. All claims shall be claimed within two (2) weeks after the trial period, with original or photocopied receipt attached.
NOTES
Temporary Pamphlet
Kristine Korol, Fund Administrator
BENEFIT RIGHTS FUND - UNITE, Local 459 Union cf Needletrades, Industrial and Textile Employees 505 - 138 Portage Ave. E.,Wpg,, MB. R3C 0A1 Ph: (204) 943-6954 Fx: (204) 949-0759