(o£)
SOURCE ? \j/YU
V- iv_ l O’
^ No. OF j
lb oC aS	EMPLOYEES if Cf o
NOM3RE	'
D'EMPIOYES
AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
LEVI STRAUSS & CO. (CANADA) INC.
Hereinafter referred to as the "COMPANY"
of the first part
UNITED GARMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA
(A.F.L. - C.I.O., C.L.C.) LOCAL 120
hereinafter referred to as the "UNION"
of the second part
AND
Do ci 19 oS
INDEX
DESCRIPTION
ARTICLE PAGE
Guiding Principles Management Rights Union Recognition
Strikes, Work Slowdown, Work Stoppages and Lockouts Union Security
Stewards, Committee Members and Committees
Leave of Absence and Sick Leave
Seniority
Lay-Off
Recall
Safety and Health Conditions T ransfers
Lunch/Rest Periods Bulletin Boards
Discharge and Disciplinary Procedure
Access To Plants
Grievance Procedure
Performance Expectations
Establishment of Methods and Work Assignments
Payment of Wages
Hours of Work and Overtime
Paid Holidays and Vacation With Pay
Goodwill
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8 9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20 21 22 23
1
2
3
3
3
4
5
7
8 8 9
10
12
12
13
14 14 17 19 21 21 22 25
Duration
24	25
APPENDIX I - Job Classifications and Pay Rates	26
APPENDIX II - Bonuses	32
APPENDIX III - Benefits Coverage	33
1.01
1.02
1.03
- 1 -
ARTICLE I GUIDII PRINCIPL
The parties recognize that the employees, the Union and the Company are interdependent and are necessary for the success of the business.
The parties also acknowledge that in order to meet competitive challenges and customers’ needs there is a need to transform the present organization into a new work system.
This will require new skills, roles, responsibilities and relationships.
Therefore, it is agreed by the parties that they will work together to develop a continually improving work environment of trust, open communications and respect which will encourage meaningful employee involvement and achieve mutually agreed upon goals.
The parties agree to protect the safety and health of all employees and to provide for prompt and equitable disposition of grievances or disputes which may arise between the parties.
To support their strategic alliance, they will establish joint committees of 6 members with equal representation from the Union and Company. The Union and the Company will jointly monitor and evaluate the process to assure that the values, purposes and goals of our new work system are nurtured and maintained.
Should any part of this Agreement be rendered or declared illegal by reason of any existing or subsequently enacted legislation or by any decree of a court of competent jurisdiction or by decision of any authorized government agency, such invalidation of such part or provisions shall not invalidate the remainder thereof.
Both parties may mutually agree to amend or supplement this Agreement at any time.
2.01
2.02
2.03
- 2 -
ARTICLE II
MANAGEMEIM RIGHTS
The Union recognizes that the Company has the exclusive control of matters relating to the management and conduct of its business, the planning, processing and determining the methods of plant operation and the kind and use of equipment and materials.
Except as otherwise provided by this Agreement, the Company has the exclusive right of selection and direction of the working force including the size and composition thereof, the right to hire, promote, transfer, lay-off, to discipline and discharge, with just cause, and to establish and maintain rules and regulations covering the operation and conduct of employees.	—
Subject to the expressed provisions of this Agreement, these statements of management functions shall not be deemed to exclude other functions not specifically stated herein and any of the rights, powers or authorities which management has relating to management functions are retained exclusively by the Company. The Company shall not exercise the right to direct the workforce in a discriminatory, unequitable, or unfair manner.
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05
4.01
5.01
- 3 -
ARTICLE III UNION RECOGNITION
The Company recognizes the Union as the sole and exclusive bargaining agent for all employees of Levi Strauss & Co. (Canada) Inc., in all facilities in the City of Edmonton and the Province of Alberta, with the exception of clerical or office personnel, supervisory personnel, instructors and persons ranked above these classifications.
The words "employee" or "employees" as used in this Agreement shall mean only such employees as are included in the bargaining unit as defined in Clause 3.01 of this Agreement.
In this Agreement, words using the singular include the plural and the plural singular where the text so indicates.
The Company shall not hereinafter enter into any agreement with any individual employee to guarantee any length of employment.
Employees shall not be discriminated against or dismissed because of activities in the interest of the Union.
ARTICLE IV
STRIKES. WORK SLOWDOWN. WORK STOPPAGES AND LOCKOUTS
Both parties agree that strikes, work slowdown, work stoppages, or lockouts would not be in the best interests of either party and would contravene our Guiding Principles.
ARTICLE V UNION SECURITY
It is agreed that all employees shall become members of the Union and remain members in good standing upon completion of thirty (30) working days of continuous service with the Company. All new members will serve a probation period of sixty (60) working days.
5.02
5.03
5.04
6.01
6.02
- 4 -
The Company agrees that they will deduct from the earnings of the employees who have completed their 30 day period, Union Initiation Fees, as well as appropriate Monthly Union Dues and Fines, upon written authorization from the employee concerned, and will remit any money so deducted to the Union. A receipt from the Union for all amounts so deducted shall be considered a discharge to the Company.
Short-term employees, or part-time employees working no more than 20 hours a week shall become temporary members of the Union after 30 days of employment. It is understood that the duration of employment for short-term and part-time employees shall be no longer than three months, after which they shall become full Union members. Short-term or part-time employees shall not be hired unless present employees have full-time-work.
The Company shall supply the Union Business Representative with a seniority list of all departments every three (3)months. Any error with respect to an employee's position on the seniority list shall be corrected promptly. The Company will not be held liable for actions taken on the basis of the seniority list prior to the error having been brought to the Company's attention.
ARTICLE VI
STEWARDS, COMMITTEE MEMBERS, AND COMMITTEES
The Union acknowledges that Committee members and Stewards have duties to perform on behalf of the Company and will not absent themselves from those duties unreasonably in order to investigate and deal with grievances and complaints of employees.
It is understood and agreed that Committee members and Stewards, as well as other employees, have regular duties to perform in connection with their employment. The Committee person or Steward shall, however, with the approval of the Supervisor of the department in which she/he is employed, be permitted during regular working hours, without loss of pay, to leave her/his regular duties for a reasonable period of time to investigate grievances or complaints. Permission will not be unreasonably withheld.
7.01
7.02
- 5 -
ARTICLE VII
LEAVE OF ABSENCE AND SICK LEAVE
PERSONAL LEAVE:
Employees with more than two years accredited service will be allowed an extended leave of absence upon advanced application, in writing, of up to four weeks duration in any 36 month period. Employees with more than five years accredited service will be allowed an extended leave of absence upon advance application, in writing, of up to three months duration in any thirty-six (36)m onth period. In all cases of such leave, the employees will retain their job classification, operation or particular type of work for a period of up to four (4) weeks duration. Application for such leave of absence must be submitted to management in writing, no-later than four (4)weeks prior to the scheduled commencement of the leave. Linder special circumstances the company may grant an additional leave of absence after 12 months of service.
Approval of such leaves of absence shall be given to the employee in writing.
COMPASSIONATE LEAVE:
Notwithstanding Clause 7.01, where a worker requires a leave of absence for compassionate reasons, the Company shall not unreasonably withhold consent to such absence provided that:
(i)	application for such leave is submitted in writing, if possible, as long before commencement of such absence as is reasonably practicable;
(ii)	the duration of absence shall be for travel time, when necessary and a reasonable period of time governed by the reason for the compassionate leave;
(iii)	the reason for the compassionate leave shall be limited to the immediate family. Immediate family shall be deemed to include parents, spouse, children, brothers, sisters, grandparents, father-in-law, mother-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, grandchildren and legal common-law spouse.
7.03
7.04
7.05
6
MATERNITY LEAVE:
A female employee shall be entitled to a maternity leave of absence provided that:
(i)	she has twelve (12) consecutive months of employment with the Company at the commencement date of the leave of absence.
(ii)	she submits a written request for maternity leave of absence accompanied by a duly qualified medical practitioner’s certificate, certifying her pregnancy and the estimated date of delivery, at least two (2) weeks prior to the scheduled commencement of leave of absence.
The period of Leave of Absence shall consist of a period of seventeen (1 7) weeks plus an additional period equal to the period between the date of delivery specified on the medical certificate and the actual date of delivery, if delivery occurs after the date mentioned on the certificate. Leave of Absence shall commence no earlier than eleven (11) weeks immediately preceding the estimated date of delivery, except in the case where, on the advice of a certified medical practitioner, the leave should begin earlier.
An employee may return to work earlier than scheduled upon the written mutual consent of the Company and her duly qualified medical practitioner certifying that her health will not be endangered.
An employee who is granted a Maternity Leave of Absence shall retain her job classification upon her return to work.
UNION BUSINESS LEAVE;
Leaves of Absence without loss of seniority shall be granted to a reasonable number (up to five) of bargaining unit employees selected as delegates to Union Conventions and conferences, with at least two weeks notice in writing unless otherwise mutually agreed. Such leaves shall not exceed three weeks yearly unless otherwise mutually agreed. Such employees shall be reinstated to their previous jobs upon their return to work. An employee on a leave of absence for this purpose only shall be entitled to holiday pay for any holiday which occurs during the leave of absence.
7.06
7.07
7.08
8.01
7
SICK LEAVE:
In cases of personal illness, necessitating sick leave of a total of three weeks each year, with an extension if necessary, the employee will retain her job classification, operation or particular type of work, provided that a doctor's certificate is furnished with the application and also provided that the job is still in existence.
BEREAVEMENT LEAVE:
In the event of a death in the immediate family of an employee, the Company shall grant three (3)days leave of absence with pay to the employee.
Immediate family shall be meant to include: parents, spouse, children, brothers, sisters, grandparents, father-in-law, mother-inlaw, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, grandchildren, and legaf=eommon-law spouse.
Any additional days granted by the Company shall be without pay. JURY DUTY:
When an employee reports for jury duty, the time lost will be considered time worked and he or she will be reimbursed the difference in lost wages by the Company.
ARTICLE VIII SENIORITY
The term, seniority, as used in this Agreement, will be defined as the employee's recent date of hire, except in the case of an employee who is rehired. If an employee is rehired within one year their service will automatically be reinstated and recognized. If an employee is rehired after one year, then, upon the employee completing the same amount of time as they were absent, they can apply to have their service recognized and reinstated. This will be their new date of service. The new service date shall be calculated by taking the original date of hire and adding the break in service.
In event of equality in seniority dates, seniority shall be determined by the employee with the lower employee number.
9.01
9.02
9.03
10.01
- 8 -
ARTICLE IX LAY-OFF
Where lay-off becomes necessary, it shall be put into effect on an operation and/or job classification basis within the plant.. The employees with the least seniority with the Company, who are working on the operation affected, shall be the first to be laid off, provided that the remaining employees are each currently demonstrating reasonable levels of quality, workmanship, attendance, punctuality and performance sufficient to maintain the required levels of production. If possible other jobs will be made available to employees so displaced.
In the event of a temporary reduction of labour force, the«Gompany agrees to, if at all possible, furnish all available work during a continuous period before laying off employees, except upon mutual agreement between the parties in cases where it might be in the interest of the employees affected to work on a part-time basis.
An employee recalled to work in a different department or a different classification from which she/he was laid off, shall have the privilege of returning to the position she/he held prior to the layoff should it become available, within thirty (30) days of returning to work and providing that the employee had demonstrated reasonable levels of quality, workmanship, attendance, punctuality and performance.
ARTICLE X RECALL
Employees laid off in accordance with Article IX of this Agreement shall be recalled after lay-off in the reverse order of lay-off as outlined in Article IX of this Agreement.
ARTICLE IX Lav Off
9:07 (new)
An employee recalled to work in a different department or a different classification from which he/she was laid off, shall have the privilege of returning to the position he/she held prior fo the lay-off should it become available, within 30 days of returning to work and providing that the employee had demonstrated reasonable levels of quality, workmanship, attendance, punctuality and performance.
ARTICLE XVII
Discharge and Disciplinary Procedure
17:02 (Revised)
Any notice of disciplinary action which £ intended to form par! of an employee's employment record shall be given in writing with a copy to the Union, and all such notices shall be withdrawn from the employees' file after a period of two years from the date of issue, provided that there are no subsequent incidents.
26:09 (New)	ARTICLE XXVI General
Employees who attend company sponsored meetings shall not suffer any loss of regular pay by reason of their attendance. As far as practicable, meetings will be held during the scheduled hours of the employees participating.
GUIDING PRINCIPLES
The parties recognize that the employees, the Union and the Company are interdependent and are necessary for the success of the business.
The parties also acknowledge that in order to meet competitive challenges and customers' needs there is a need to transform the present organization into a new work system*.
This will require new skills, roles, responsibilities and relationships.
Therefore, it is agreed by the parties that they will work together to develop a continually improving work environment of trust, open communications, and respect which will encourage meaningful employee involvement and achieve mutually agreed upon goals.
To support their strategic alliance, they will establish joint committees of 6 members with equal representation from the Union and the Company. The Union and the Company will jointly monitor and evaluate the process to assure that the values, purposes and goals cf AMS are nurtured and maintained.
Page 37 Appendix III
BENEFITS COVERAGE
4, Eyeglasses - employees shall be reimbursed eighty (80%) percent of the verifiable cost of prescription eye glasses to a maximum of one hundred and seventy five ($175.00) dollars every two (2) years.
6. Alberta Health Care - the cost of coverage will be shared between the Company and the Employee. Fifty five (55%) percent cf the premium will be paid by the Company, and forty five (45%) percent of the premium will be paid by the Employee effective November 1, 1993.
9. Pension Plan - (to be added to present clause.) - effective October 15, 1993, the rate will increase by $1.00 per month, and as of October 15, 1994, the rate will also increase an additional $1.00 per month. These increases will not be retroactive.
Levi Strauss and Company (Canada) Inc. Edmonton, and The United Garment Workers of America (A.F.L. - C.I.O., C.L.C.) Local 120
have agreed to the following amendments that will constitute the new agreement:
The Union and the Company agree to a two (2) year agreement commencingJOctober 15, 1993. All employees on company payroll as of October 15,1993, will receive a one time signing bonus of $400.00 to be paid by the end of November 1993.
In the second year of the agreement employees on company payroll as pi October 15, 1994, will receive a one time signing bonus of $400.00 to be paid by the end of October 1994.
Signed this 6th day of October, 1993, in the City of Edmonton, Alberta
On behalf of the Company
11.01
11.02
11.03
11.04
11.05
- 9 -
ARTICLE XI
SAFETY AND HEALTH CONDITIONS
The Company agrees to maintain proper Safety and Health conditions in all departments covered by this Agreement.
No employee will be subject to discipline for refusing to work under conditions which are unsafe or unhealthy if such conditions are reported to the immediate supervisor and/or safety committee members by the employee.
It is mutually agreed that a joint Safety and Health Committee shall be established consisting of equal representation from the Company and the Union, with a limit of six members representing the Union and six members representing the Company. There shall be two Chairpersons (Co-Chairpersons), one from the Union, and one from the Company. This Committee will be empowered to make decisions as to whether working conditions or work areas are unsafe or unhealthy. If the standards of the Occupational Health and Safety Act are found to be higher than the standards agreed to by the Committee, then the Company will abide by the higher standards. In the event of disagreement between the CoChairpersons as to the safety of a work site, then a representative from the Government Health and Safety Department will be called in to arbitrate on such decisions.
The Committee will make recommendations for the improvement of safety and health, investigate all accidents, and will work toward the elimination of all safety hazards. The Committee Co-chairmen will accompany any Government Health or Safety inspector when he responds to a complaint or to a request for an investigation.
Any reports the Inspector makes relative to his inspection must go to the Committee as well as to Management. The Committee shall meet once a month, and if necessary, at the call of the CoChairmen, to make inspections of any or all the Company's work sites and departments covered by the Bargaining Unit Agreement, to check all health and safety conditions, and to make recommendations to Management in this regard.
11.06
12.01
12.02
12.03
12.04
- 10 -
Records of all Committee proceedings are to be accurate and posted in each department. Copies of reports to be supplied to the Union. Committee members are to be compensated by the Company at their own particular rate of pay while on Committee business.
ARTICLE XII TRANSFERS
TEMPORARY TRANSFERS:
Operators may be transferred to any operations temporarily to balance the teams, provided that those operators shall be removed from the operation in time to leave the regular operators sufficient work to keep them occupied full time.
PERMANENT TRANSFERS:
If any vacancies occur, or a new position created in any job classification, in any department covered by this agreement, opportunity and preference shall be given to those employees already on Company payroll, and who are members of the Union, before hiring new employees.
All applications for transfers to other job classifications or operations shall be made to the responsible Manager or his delegate, and notification of all applicants shall be given to the Business Representative.
All vacant job classifications or new positions will be posted for three (3)full days on the bulletin boards. Employees with more than 6 months continuous service will have the opportunity to apply The Union Representative shall be notified in writing of the names of all applicants. The resulting vacancies created by transfers of employees to posted vacancies need not be posted.
Posting requirements of new positions would not apply in cases where there are more than 10 new positions in the plant at one time.
In cases where there is a change in operation, the people displaced would be given first consideration to new or vacant jobs.
12.05
12.06
12.07
12.08
- 11 -
In cases of a permanent transfer to another job classification or operation, seniority shall be the determining factor, provided that the employee is currently demonstrating reasonable levels of quality, workmanship, attendance, punctuality and performance.
The employee must accept the rate for the job to which she/he is being transferred. Employees will be placed on a training program. If the employee does not maintain satisfactory progress on the training curve while working under proper job conditions, then she/he shall be officially warned and given a further period of time in which to improve her/his performance. Should the employee fail to demonstrate satisfactory progress, then the employee would be subject to termination.
An employee can only apply for a transfer to another position after she/he has completed six (6) months in her/his present position.
In cases of permanent transfers to other job classifications or operations initiated by the Company, the employee will be guaranteed her/his previous hourly earnings for a training period of time, the length of which shall depend on the severity of the change, but shall not be shorter than forty (40) hours nor longer than eighty (80) hours.
13.01
13.02
13.03
13.04
13.05
13.06
13.07
13.08
14.01
- 12 -
ARTICLE XIII
LUNCH PERIOD/REST PERIOD
The Company and the Union agree that lunch periods and rest periods are essential to the health and welfare of employees, therefore, employees must stop working during these periods of time.
A lunch period of one-half hour (unpaid) shall be provided for all employees who are working a regular eight (8) hour day.
Two (2) fifteen (15) minute rest periods shall be provided each day.
A lunch period of twenty minutes (unpaid) shall be provided for all employees who work the regular night shift.
One (1) fifteen (15) minute rest period shall be provided for all night shift employees.
Anyone working a regular night shift of five (5) hours or less is entitled to one (1) fifteen (1 5) minute break period every two (2) hours.
During the first two (2) hours of overtime, employees are entitled to one (1) fifteen (15) minute break, to be taken at the end of the regular eight (8) hour shift.
If the employees work three (3) to four (4) hours overtime, they are entitled to two (2) fifteen (15) minute rest periods. One is to be observed at the end of the regular eight (8) hour shift, the other to be taken mid-way through the overtime.
ARTICLE XIV BULLETIN BOARDS
The Company agrees to provide the Union with a bulletin board on the floor of its premises for the purpose of posting Union notices and official papers. Notices will be posted only by officers of the Union and will be in keeping with the spirit and intent of this Agreement.
13
15.01
15.02
15.03
15.04
ARTICLE XV
DISCHARGE AND DISCIPLINARY PROCEDURE
The right of discharge and discipline lies with the Company. This right shall be exercised with justice, regard for the rights of the employee with just cause and shall be exercised only through a fully authorized representative of management.
Any notice of disciplinary action which is intended to form a part of an employee's employment record shall be given in writing with a copy to the Union, and all such notices shall be withdrawn from the employee's file after a period of two (2) years from the date of issue, provided that there are no subsequent incidents.
Any grievance alleging improper disciplinary action or discharge, must be filed with the Company, in accordance with this Agreement within five (5) working days of receipt by the Union of notice concerning such disciplinary action or discharge.
An employee may be terminated from the Company:
i.	) if the employee is laid off for lack of work without recall date
and fails to return to work in accordance with the following procedure; the employee laid off shall be sent a Notice of Recall by registered mail, to the employee's last known address. It is the responsibility of the employee to notify the Company of any change in postal address. The employee shall notify the Company of her/his intention to return to work within ten (10) working days from mailing date of such recall notice and shall return to work within ten (10) working days from the mailing date of the recall notice;
ii.	) if the employee is absent for three (3)consecutive working
days and fails to notify the Company. If the employee is unable to notify the Company due to verifiable circumstances beyond their control, this clause shall not apply.
16.01
17.01
- 14 -
ARTICLE XVI ACCESS TO PLANTS
The business representative of the Union shall be admitted at all reasonable times during business hours to the premises of the Company.
ARTICLE XVII AIMCE_______l
For the purpose of this Agreement, a grievance is defined as any difference between the employer and the employee, or a gfoup of employees or a policy grievance between the employer or the Union concerning the interpretation, application, administration or alleged violation of specific terms of the Agreement. If an employee feels that he or she has a grievance, it shall be reported in the first instance to the immediate supervisor of such an employee as soon as possible. No further steps shall be taken and the grievance shall not be put into effect until the immediate supervisor has first been given an opportunity to adjust the grievance. In presenting such a grievance to the immediate supervisor, an employee may be assisted by the Union Business Representative or by the Shop Steward.
If such grievance cannot be settled to the satisfaction of the employee(s) concerned within two (2)working days after the grievance has been reported to the immediate supervisor, or within any longer period of time that may be mutually agreeable upon at that time, then the following steps of grievance procedure shall be followed in due order.
- 15
Step 1
All grievances shall be stated in writing and signed by the grieving employee(s) setting out the nature of the complaint in short terms, the date when the grievance first occurred and the section(s) of the collective agreement allegedly violated, and shall contain the relief requested by the employee. In preparing such a grievance, the employee may be assisted by the Business Representative of the Union or the Shop Steward. Three copies of this Grievance form shall be delivered to the Plant Manager and a meeting shall be held within two (2) working days between the Manager, the Department Supervisor, the Union Representative and the representative of the aggrieved employee(s).
The Company shall then answer the grievance in writing within five (5) working days after the grievance meeting, and shall return two (2) copies of the Grievance form to the Union, who may then accept or refuse the proposal for settlement of the grievance in writing and return one (1) copy to the Company.
Step 2
Should the grievance not be settled at the first step of the Grievance Procedure, the subject in dispute shall be submitted to a meeting to be held between representatives of the Company who may consist of the Director of Human Resources or his designate, the responsible officer, the Department Manager or their designates, and the representatives of the Union who may consist of the International Representative, the Business Representative and the President of the Union or their designates.
Both parties may, upon prior notification to the other, call upon other representatives to attend the meeting. This meeting shall be held within five (5) working days, and a decision shall be given in writing within five (5) working days or such other longer period as may be mutually agreed upon.
Step 3
Should the said grievance not be settled in the second step of the Grievance Procedure, the subject in dispute shall be submitted to a mediator to be mutually selected by both parties for a ruling.
Failing the agreement of a mediator within five (5) working days, either party may refer the grievance to arbitration and, in this case, shall notify the other party in writing of its desire to do so within ten (10) working days and the notice shall contain a statement of the difference, the section(s) of the collective agreement violated,
17.02
17.03
17.04
16
any relevant particulars, the remedy requested and the name or list of names of the persons who will be willing to accept the arbitrator’s position.
Upon the receipt of such notice, as referred to in Step 3 of Article XVII, the party receiving the same shall:
(a)	If it accepts the person suggested as an arbitrator, notify the
other person within five (5) working days indicating its acceptance of such an arbitrator, or if the receiving party does not accept any of the persons suggested by the party presenting the notice, it shall, within five (5) days notify the party accordingly and send the name or list of names of the person or persons that it would be willing to accept as the arbitrator.	_
(b)	Where the parties are unable to agree upon the appointment of the arbitrator, either party may request the Minister of Labour, in writing, to appoint the arbitrator.
(c)	The arbitrator shall, upon his appointment, arrange to convene a hearing to resolve the dispute in question.
The arbitrator shall have the power to determine all questions of arbitrability and shall issue a decision that is final and binding upon the parties and upon any employee affected by it.
The arbitrator shall determine his own procedures, but shall give full opportunity to all parties to present evidence and to make representation; the arbitrator shall also have the power to relieve against non-compliance within time limits, or any other technicality or irregularity.
The arbitrator shall determine the real issue in dispute according to the merits and make whatever disposition he deems equitable. The arbitrator shall also provide reasons, in writing, for such decision within 20 days from the date of the hearing of the grievance. However, permitted in the next clause, the arbitrator shall not alter, amend, change, modify or extend the terms or conditions of the Collective Agreement.
17.05
17.06
18.01
18.02
18.03
- 17 -
If the arbitrator, by his award, determines that an employee has been discharged or otherwise disciplined by an employer for a cause, and the collective agreement does not contain a specific penalty for the infraction that is the subject matter of the arbitration, the arbitrator may substitute or modify such penalty for the discharge or discipline as to him seems just and fit in the circumstances.
The employer and the Union hereto agree to equally share the cost of the arbitrator.
ARTICLE XVIII
PERFORMANCE EXPECTATIONS	—
The quality and production standards as set out by the Company shall be maintained in all departments.
Employees are expected to work together to develop a continually improving work environment of trust, open communication, and respect.
Quota will be defined as 112% of the engineered standard rate for the purposes of this agreement.
i)	Each operator hired prior to October 1992 is expected to achieve her/his quota on one operation.
ii)	Each operator hired after October 1992 is expected to achieve her/his quota on two different operations before she/he can be paid at the fully-trained operator pay rate for that specific group (refer to Appendix 1 (a) for pay structure).
iii)	Each operator is expected to know her/his regular operation and two (2) additional operations assigned to her/him after six months of service, for which she/he will receive training time based on the frequency of transfers to her/his alternate operations, but which in any case shall not be less than forty (40) hours or more than eighty (80) hours.
iv)	Each operator is expected to put forth her/his best efforts on her/his subsequent operations.
18.04
18.05
18.06
18.07
18.08
18.09
18.10
18
Employees who attend Company sponsored meetings shall not suffer any loss of regular pay by reason of their attendance. As far as practicable, meetings will be held during the scheduled hours of the employees participating.
Employees will be paid at their hourly rate for attending meetings, development needs, or in-house medical needs.
Employees shall be at their workplace ready to commence work when the starting bell, or the bell after each break period rings. Employees shall not leave such workplace until the finishing bell, or the bell at the start of their break period rings.
It shall be the responsibility of each operator to keep her/his machine cleaned and oiled.
If a machine is out of order, the operator shall promptly report to her/his supervisor, who shall provide another machine of the same type in good working order. The operator shall not be penalized for this lost time. She/he may be temporarily transferred to her/his alternate operation.
Work on any job classification in this agreement shall not be performed by supervisors and others outside the bargaining unit.
All employees are required to promptly notify their Supervisor whenever absent from work.
19.01
- 19 -
ARTICLE XIX
ESTABLISHMENT OF METHODS AND WORK ASSIGNMENTS
The Company shall set, institute and revise work methods, work assignments and time standards. These standards will be developed from Time Study on local Levi Strauss conditions, or from available Predetermined Sewing Data adjusted for local Levi Strauss conditions. New work methods will be developed by the Company's Industrial Engineer with as much involvement as possible by the operators concerned.
All standards will be reviewed and equity established so that quotas reflect effort required.
Once a time standard has been established, it shall stay in effect until there is a change in the conditions under which it was established.
The Company and the Union will co-operate in the introduction of incentive time standards on as many measurable operations as possible.
The Company shall furnish the operators and the Union Business Representative with copies of all rate notices. Predetermined Sewing Data Analysis Summaries, for all operations, will be available on the Company's premises to the Union Business Representative.
Tentative Standards
A tentative standard will be used for a maximum of ninety (90) days while a permanent standard is being established.
The appropriate job training period means:
Group I - to a maximum of 12 weeks Group II - to a maximum of 17 weeks
19.02
19.03
19.04
19.05
- 20 -
When any such work methods, work assignments, or quotas have been instituted, a training period will follow, the length of which shall depend upon the severity of the change. During this training period, the operators shall be paid their hourly rate. It is the operators' responsibility to apply themselves, and to make every effort to achieve quota and the Union will co-operate in this regard. If after the new rates have been in effect for a period of thirty (30) calendar days any operator questions the fairness of a time value, she/he may request a review of the time standard in question, and the Union may call upon the Union Time Study Engineer to examine the standard in dispute. The Company shall be notified of the name and qualifications of such Time Study Engineer. He shall be accompanied during his studies by one of the Company's Industrial Engineers. The motion and time study analysis summaries for the time standards in dispute will be made accessible to the Union Time Study Engineer on the Company's premises.
In the event that the parties cannot agree upon a time standard within thirty (30) days after the review, the employee may thereafter file a grievance with the Plant Manager. If no such grievance has been received within a further thirty (30) day period, then the standard shall be deemed final and shall be accepted by both parties.
All new or revised job classifications are to be established mutually by job evaluation acceptable to both parties.
The Employer shall establish thresholds of production and quality standards for collective groups of jobs and team(s) or individuals. Employees assigned to such groups or teams shall be eligible to receive additional wage payments for collectively achieving such threshold standards (see Appendix II).
20.01
20.02
21.01
21.02
21.03
- 21 -
ARTICLE XX PAYMENT OF WAGES
All employees covered by this Agreement shall be paid on a weekly basis for the preceding week's work.
The statement of the employee's weekly pay shall include a breakdown of regular hours paid, overtime pay and bonus.
ARTICLE XXI
HOURS )F WORK AND /ERTIME	—
The regular hours of work for the different departments of the Company shall not exceed eight and one half (8 1/2) hours per day, forty (40) hours per week for the first five (5) days of work. All work over and above this time shall be considered overtime except in the case of shift workers or part-time workers whose regular hours of work are less than forty (40) hours per week. Payment of overtime premiums for these shift or part-time workers will only be made for any hours over and above the total of eight and one half(8 1/2) hours per day or forty (40) hours per week, except if required to work on Saturdays, which would be considered as overtime and paid at time and a half.
Overtime in all departments covered by this Agreement shall be paid for at the rate of time and one-half for the first two (2) hours per regular working day and at double time for all time in excess of two (2) over-time hours per regular working day. Overtime on Saturdays shall be paid for at the rate of time and one-half.
Overtime work on Sundays is to be paid at the rate of double time, and overtime work on paid holidays is to be paid at the rate of triple time.
Overtime shall be on a voluntary basis, except in cases of emergency, and will be allocated in a manner which is fair, equitable and consistent with the employee's qualifications and ability to perform the work. Full time employees will be given preference over temporary and part-time help. Employees shall be notified one day prior to this overtime whenever possible.
21.04
22.01
- 22 -
The Company shall maintain a Log Book in each department of all overtime hours worked and such Log Book shall be open for inspection for Employees in their department
An employee who reports for work at her regular starting time and who was neither absent from work in her previous shift nor advised by the Company not to report to work, shall be guaranteed a minimum of four (4)consecutive hours work or pay if she is a day worker, or three (3)consecutive hours work or pay if she is a shift worker unless the reason for her lack of work is a major mechanical breakdown, such as fire, power failure or cause over which the Company has no control. If the employee is given pay in lieu of part or all of the work guaranteed under this subsection, such pay shall be at the employee’s hourly rate.
ARTICLE XXII
PAID HOLIDAYS AND VACATION WITH PAY
The following holidays will be observed and employees shall be paid for them:
New Years Day Good Friday Canada Day Labour Day Remembrance Day Boxing Day
Family Day Victoria Day Civic Holiday Thanksgiving Day Christmas Day Floating Day
The floating holiday will be mutually agreed upon by both parties. This day will be designated on or before the anniversary date of this contract, which is the 15th of October each year.
If any of the above holidays falls on a Saturday or Sunday, it shall be observed on a working day in lieu of the holiday, this working day to be mutually agreed upon.
22.02
22.03
- 23 -
If pay day falls on any paid holiday, the employees shall be paid on the day previous. No deductions shall be made in the pay of any regular employee for a holiday except in the following cases:
When an employee is absent without written approval of the appropriate manager or delegate on the working day before or after the holiday. In cases of a certified personal illness or death in the immediate family, necessitating the employee’s absence, the employee shall receive pay for the holiday. Immediate family shall mean parents, spouse, children, brothers, sisters, grandparents, father-in-law, mother-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, grandchildren and legal common-law spouse. In the case of a short term layoff not exceeding ten (10) consecutive working days, the employee shall be paid for the holiday.
Employees‘ vacation time with pay is based on completed years of service.
One (1) completed year service Five (5) completed years Ten (10) completed years Eighteen (1 8) completed years Twenty-five (25) completed years
-entitled to two (2)w eeks
-	three (3)weeks
-	four (4) weeks
-	five (5) weeks
-	six (6) weeks
Employees must take three (3)weeks vacation time during the three (3)weeks of plant shutdown. Any vacation time over and above three (3)w eeks should be scheduled at a time that is mutually agreeable to the Employee and the Company.
Employees returning late from their vacation without prior authorization by the Company, may lose their job classification, operation or particular type of work unless there is a good cause for the delay. The Union is to be notified when such action is taken.
Holiday pay shall be based on the employee’s current hourly pay.
Employees who have not had one year’s continuous service with the Company shall be paid four percent (4%)of their total earnings for the period ending June 30th of each year. All calculations of earnings shall exclude overtime premium.
22.04
22.05
- 24 -
Annual vacations shall be excluded from Sick Leave of Absence and Industrial Injury Leave of Absence.
The Company agrees to make every reasonable effort to post the vacation shutdown no later than March 30th of each year.
23.01
24.01
24.02
24.03
24,04
- 25-
ARTICLE XXIII GOODWILL
The Union agrees to do all in their province as a labour organization to advertise the goods and otherwise benefit the business of the Company.
ARTICLE XXIV DURATION
This Agreement shall be in full force and effect as of the 15th of October, 1993 and continue in full force and effect until the 15th of October, 1995 and fro,m year to year thereafter except as hereinafter provided.
Either party may terminate this Agreement by notice in writing to the other party not less than one hundred and twenty (120) days prior to the 15th of October, 1995 or any subsequent year.
Either party desiring changes to this Agreement shall give notice in writing of such desire to the other party not less than ninety (90) days or more than one hundred and twenty (120) days priorto the 15th of October, 1995 or any subsequent date.
If notice to negotiate has been given by either party, this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect during any period of negotiation, even though such negotiations may extend beyond the expiry period until discontinued by notice in writing from either party.
Signed this 6th day of October, 1993, in the City of Edmonton,
- 26-
APPENDIX I
JOB CLASSIFICATIONS AND PAY RATES
The Company and the Union agree to a two (2) year agreement commencing October 15, 1993.
All employees on company payroll as of October 15, 1993, will receive a one time signing bonus of $400.00 to be paid by the end of November 1993.
In the second year of the agreement employees on company payroll as of October 15, 1994, will receive a one time signing bonus of $400.00 to be paid by the end of October 1994.
A. OPERATORS HOURLY RATES:
New hires (trainees) starting rate:	$6.00
Fully trained operators:	Group I $9.80
Group II $10.60
When referring to "quota" please see definition in article 18.02
A.01 PAY RATES FOR TRAINEES:
Pay will increase once specific quotas are achieved on the first operation, during a forty (40) hour time period.
Group I	Group II
50% of quota	$6.86	$7.42
75% of quota	7.35	7.95
100% of quota	8.82	9.54
A.02
A.03
- 27 -
When 100% of quota is achieved on first operation the pay will increase once these specific quotas are achieved on the second operation, during a forty (40) hour time period.
Group I	Group II
50% of quota	$9.31	$10.07
100% of quota	9.80	10.60
For trainees whose first operation is a Group I operation, and whose second operation is a Group II operation, the following scale would apply:
When 100% of quota is achieved on the first operation (group I), and once these specific quotas are achieved on the second operation.
50% of quota	$9.54
100% of quota	$9.80
PAY RATES FOR REHIRES ABSENT LESS THAN ONE YEAR:
When rehiring an employee who has been gone less than one year, then as a former Group II operator being rehired to a Group I operation, the employee would automatically be paid at the equivalent step/level of the Group I pay rates. In this way, we are crediting her/him with their prior timely experience/knowledge with the Company.
PAY RATES FOR FULLY TRAINED OPERATORS TRAINING ON SUBSEQUENT OPERATIONS:
When a Group II operator is training in a Group I operation, the operator will continue to be paid at her/his Group II rate.
When a Group I operator is training in a Group II operation, the operator will continue to be paid at her/his Group I rate until she/he achieves 50% of quota during a 40 hour period on that second operation.
50% of quota	$10.09
90% of quota	$10.29
A.04
A.05
- 28 -
Once the operator achieves forty (40) hours at 100% of quota, then the full Group rate is paid when working on her/his second operation.
Under normal conditions, a fully trained operator is expected to consistently achieve 100% of quota and will be paid accordingly.
Fully trained operators who do not consistently achieve 100% of quota will be paid at 95% of the pay rate.
Group I	Group II
$9.31	$10.07
Operators who have demonstrated a return to consistently achieving 100% of quota will return to 100% of the pay,£ate.
A fully trained operator who cannot consistently average 95% of quota, will be reassessed and if necessary, reassigned to another type of position.
PAY RATES FOR TRANSFERS:
When there is a permanent transfer from a Group II position to a Group I position, the employee will automatically go to the equivalent step/level of the Group I pay rates.
When there is a permanent transfer from a Group I position to a Group II position, the employee will be paid her/his current pay rate until she/he reaches these specific quotas on the Group II position:
50% of quota $10.07 100% of quota $10.60
- 29 ■
B. JOB CLASSIFICATIONS AND PAY SCALES FOR INDIRECT EMPLOYEES:
1.	Flaw & Damage and Repairs
-	start and 1	month	8.10
-	1-2 months	8.37
-job rate	10.00
2.	Quality - Load Audit
-job rate	10.90
3.	Material Handler I
(Matching/Bundling,Bigelow Packing, Flopping)
-	start and 1 month
-	job rate
Material Handler II (Conveyor)
-	job rate
4.	Receiver/Shipper
-	start and 1 month
-	job rate
5.	Assistant Receiver/Shipper
-	start and 1 month
-	job rate
-	lead hand rec/shipper*
*is not entitled to "Lead Hand" differential as in Appendix 1 F
9.04
10.03
11.00
11.23
12.88
11.23
12.21
12.47
C. CUTTING ROOM JOB CLASSIFICATIONS AND PAY SCALES:
1.	Cutters and Spreaders
-	start and first	6	months	10.91
-	6-12 months	11.56
-	12-18	months	12.57
-	18-24	months	13.82
-	24-30	months (JOB RATE SPREADERS)14.63
-	30-36	months	15.35
-	After 36 months (JOB RATE CUTTERS)1 5.57
2.	Utility Person
(Job rate for experienced cutter only)	15.57
- 30-
D. MAINTENANCE JOB CLASSIFICATIONS AND PAY SCALES:
1. Mechanics
-	start and 1 month	11.33
-	3-6 months	11.69
-	6-9 months	11.97
-	9-12 months	12.30
-	12-18	months	12.84
-	18-24	months	13.36
-	24-30	months	13.81
-	30-36	months	14.22
-	36-42	months	14.65
-	42-48	months	15.08
-	job rate	17.34	^
-	Mechanic Training Coordinator*	Additional $60.00/week
* Mechanic Training Coordinator will be defined as a fully trained mechanic who has in-depth knowledge of most machines and is responsible for a mechanic training program.
2
3
Sweeper/Washroom Attendant/Buggy Wheel Cleaner
-	start and 1 month
-	job rate
Utility Person
Group I
-	start and 1 month
-	job rate (non-maintenance)
-	job rate (maintenance)
Group II
-	job rate (maintenance)
9.03
9.84
10.94
13.13
4. Other Classifications
-	Boiler Engineer	15.13
(4th class in charge)
-	Boiler Engineer	14.20
-	Plant Repair Mechanic	16.94
- 31 -
E. WAREHOUSE JOB CLASSIFICATIONS AND PAY SCALES: 1. Truck Driver
- First Class	13.81
- Second Class	12.94
F. PAY ADJUSTMENTS:
1.	"Lead Hand” differential in maintenance and cutting is the job rate plus five (5%) percent.
2.	"Lead Hand" differential in sewing, finishing, and load audit is the job
rate plus fifty five cents ($0.55) per hour.	—
3.	Any employee in any classification that trains and instructs , shall receive an additional $5.00 per day plus her/his regular rate of pay.
4.	An employee who is required to temporarily fill an indirect job classification which carries a higher rate of pay, shall receive that rate of pay for such classification for all time spent on the higher classification.
5.	Any new employee with previous Levi Strauss experience rehired by the Company for an indirect job with a progression scale shall be paid according to her/his applicable experience and training on that job.
6.	Rates of pay for all new and revised job classifications established during the life of this Agreement, will be established by the Company and the Union.
- 32 -
APPENDIX II
A.	TEAM BONUS:
For any employees working for a sew team (sewing operators, material handlers I matching/bundling and bigelow packers)she/he will be entitled to a 5% TEAM BONUS upon achieving the production and quality thresholds for that team. The bonus is paid on gross earnings (earnings include regular, overtime, vacation and paid holiday wages). No bonus is paid during the scheduled plant shutdown.
B.	PLANT BONUS:
If all sew teams achieve their production and quality thresholds, then all hourly employees would be entitled to a 5% PLANT BONUS. Bonus is paid on gross earnings (earnings include regular, overtime, vacation, and paid holiday wages). No bonus is paid during the scheduled plant shutdown.
- 34 -
8.	Long Term Disability Plan - Employees will be eligible for the LTD plan after one year of service. The plan comes into effect after a twenty-six (26) week elimination period and pays 50% of regular gross earnings to a maximum of $2,000.00 per month for a period of five (5) years. The monthly benefit is fully offset by CPP etc. Employees must be unable to perform any occupation. Effective October 15, 1992, Long Term Disability payments could be paid for up to ten (10) years.
9.	Pension Plan - All bargaining unit employees are eligible to be members of the Pension Plan upon completion of one (1) year of service. The pension will be eight (8.00) dollars per month for every year of service up to October 15, 1993. Calculation of years of service will be as per article 8.01.
Effective October 15, 1993 the rate will increase by one ($1.00) dollar per month and as of October 15, 1994 the rate will also increase an additional one ($1.00) per month. These increases will not be retroactive.
Pension will be calculated at:
For every year up to October 15, 1993 = $8.00/month/year of service For October 15, 1993-October 15, 1994 = $9.00/month For October 15, 1994-October 15, 1995 = $10.00/month
Early retirement is allowed as long as the employee is at least fifty five (55) years of age, with a minimum of 15 years of service and she/he will then receive a discounted pension based on a pre-determined calculation format with the insurance company.
There is no post-retirement death benefit. A pre-retirement death benefit will be commuted to the value of the accrued pension. The pension benefit is for the life of the retired employee only. The premium will be paid by the Company.
10.	Employees are entitled to a Basic Dental Plan on a cost sharing basis of eighty (80%) percent Company paid premiums and twenty (20%) percent Employee paid premiums. Coverage is limited to a maximum of $1,000.00 per employee/per eligible family member. Coverage will be 100% reimbursement for Preventative dental care and 80% reimbursement for other Basic Dental work - re fillings etc. Based on current Alberta Dental fee schedules.
N.B. These are summaries of the actual contract of benefits with Prudential Assurance and Levi Strauss & Co. (Canada) Inc., Edmonton facility.