
AGREEMENT made in duplicate as and from, the 15th
190?
BETWEEN*
AMALGAMATED CLOTHING AND TEXTILE WORKERS UNION,
LOCAL 459
(hereinafter called the "Union")
OF THE FIRST PART,
AND:
GARMENT MANUFACTURERS ASSOCIATION CF WESTERN CANADA (hereinafter celled the "Association*) composed of the several Manufacturers who now execute or may hereafter execute this Agreement and who become parties hereto (hereinafter called the ‘Manufacturers’)
OF THE SECOND PART.
WHEREAS the Manufacturers are engaged in the manufacture of
overalls* shirts, playsults* pants* wind-breakers* sports apparel, and other manufactured products, and
WHEREAS the Union is composed of Workers engaged in various occupations in connection with such manufacturing who are or will be, from time to time* employed by. the Manufacturers in their factories.
NOW THEREFORE THIS AGREEMENT WITNESSETH that the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
1 - DEFINITIONS
In this Agreement*
(a)	0Average Hourly Rate' or "Average Hourly Earnings' means the average hourly rate calculated on any qualified earnings over a period of six (6> months immediately preceding the application of the average hourly rate or earnings.
Such calculations shall be based on the actual hours worked, including all time work and piecework hours divided into the qualified earnings, being the actual total gross amount of monies, excluding the overtime premium, paid to such worker for said hours..
There shall not be included in such calculations, any monies and/or earnings attributed to Holidays and/or Vacations.
The six (&> month periods shall be from the 15th day of December to the 14th day of June and from the 15th day of June to the 14th day of December.
(b)	'Cutting Room Help* where referred to in this Agreement or schedule means personnel working in the Cutting Room, other than those using cutting knives or shears for actual production purposes.
(c)	"Fund" means ACTWU» Local 459» and Garment Manufacturers Health Welfare and Pension Fund Inc.
<d>
■Holiday"
means t
New Year's Day Good Friday Victoria Day Canada Day, Labour Dar
Thanksgiving Days' Christmas Day Boxing Day Civic Hoii day Remembrance Day
(e) "Manufacturer* means an Employer who is Signator to
this Agreement and whom the Association shall list, at the time of signing, as a member of the Association.
means an Employee of a Manufacturer but for the purpose of this Agreement shall exclude mechanics! office staffs shipping staff* sales staff* foreman* foreladies.
(g) "Steward" means a Worker who is appointed or otherwise selected by the Union and vtfio is recognized as such by the Manufacturers.
2 - RECOGNITION
The Union shall have the right to deal directly with any individual Manufacturer provided, however, that such dealings are consistent with the terms of this Agreement*
2.02	No Hanufacturer shall hereafter make any Agreement with any individual Worker nor exact or accept any cash deposits or other security from a Worker nor enter into any agreement with any individual Worker guaranteeing any length of employment.
2.03	The Union and it’s officials must not interfere with the discipline and management of the factories and must net' restrict employment or curtail production.
2.04	The Association and each of its members agree that the Union is the Exclusive Bargaining Agent for the Workers of each Manufacturer with reference to wages* hours and working conditions,
ARTICLE 3 - ACCESS TO PLANTS
3.01	The Business Representatives of the Union shall be admitted, at all reasonable times during business hours* to the premises of each Manufacturer when on legitimate business for the Union.
The presence of the Business Representative shall be reported to Management upon arrivai.
m§M,j i*Hffg8BnBi ftPPLICftTIQN FOR	.PR
A. 01 Whenever in need of a Worker a Manufacturer shall
the -Rep.ne.sj&nta.t.i.ye. at. the JJ.n.i.oji,w.h°~^hLMLL-be-SiJWMl a time treasonable under the circumstance of the requirements of the Hanufacturer) i n which to supply a Worker acceptable to the Manufacturer. Whenever the Union is unable to supply such help* whether temporary or permanent, the Manufacturer may secure such help, but such help must become members of the Union within six (6) weeks. It is the intent of this Agreement that the Union shall use all possible means to assure such adequate supply c£ help.
4.02	When the Union shall organite anon-Union Manufacturer who wishes to become a signator of this Agreement* this Manufacturer must become a member in good standing of the Assoc i a t Sen.
■ 5 - CONDITIONS OF EMPLOYtCNT
3.01	Every Worker In the bargaining unit of the Manufacturers shall be not less than sixteen (16) years of age and shall be a member in good standing of the Union: but all Learners and Beginner6 shall be given six (6) weeks to become members of the Union. -It shall be the responsibility of each Manufacturer to deduct the initiation fees and monthly dues of each Learner or Beginner at the conclusion of the probation period of six <6> weeks.
It is further agreed that the Manufacturer shall complete the Union-supplied Worker Information Sheet for all new Workers and shall include said Information Sheet in with the remittance of the initiation fees and monthly dues. The.Worker Information Sheet shall contain the name, addressi telephone number* birthdate, start date* S.I.N. and sex of the Member. The Manufacturer also agrees to notify the Union as to the reason for any absence of a Worker on the dues checkoff system of this Collective Agreement.
5.02	Every Manufacturer shall deduct from the wages earned by each member of the Union* the monthly dues of the Union as the Union may determine from time to time* and also any initiation fees and arrears in dues and assessments officially requested by the Union. All monies so deducted shall be remitted monthly* by each Manufacturer, to the office of the Union in Winnipeg within four (A) days of the last pay day of the current month.
It is further agreed that if the Manufacturer is in deliberate and/or clear violation of the Collective Agrement:
(a)	by not putting new Workers into the Union as per the Collective Agreement! then that Manufacturer shall be responsible for the payment of the arrears created by such violation, on behalf of said Worker (s)* and
(b)	if the Manufacturer does not deduct the monthly dues as per the Collective Agreement from the earnings of the Workers, then that Manufacturer shall be responsible for the payment of the arrears created by such violation, on behalf of said Worker (e) * and
(c)	by deducting the monthly dues of the Union, as per the Collective Agreement, but does not remit said monies to the office of the Union, a5 per the Collective Agreement, then that Manufacturer shall forthwith remit said monies and shall include a penalty payment of interest of 1 1/2% compounded monthly on the balance due to the office of the-Union.
It is understood that a clear violation of the Collective Agreement means that there is no valid question as t o whether or not a Worker falls under the definition of •Worker* in this Collective Agreement.
It is further understood that a deliberate violation of the Collective Agreement means that a Manufacturer does not correct the violation forthwith* after being given
notice, in writing* by the Union, that he/she is in *#■{ ^ ^
5.03	Worker* mu*t not be engaged in Union-activities during working hour8 or on the Manufacturer's premises and bust be »t work on tinct and must not be absent without
permission! but such permission shall not be unreasonably withheld by the Manufacturer.
5.04	Each Worker must do first class. work in keeping with Union principles.
5i0S Every Manufacturer shall ensure so far a5 it is reasonably practicable) the safety) health and welfare at work of all his/her Workers and shall abide by the Manitoba Workplace Safety and Health Act.
JiRTTCLE 6 - PROHIBITIONS
6.01	No Hanufacturer who operates an inside factory, shall rend out work to a Contractor of a grade similar to that which
he/she is inanufacturin« in his/her own factory, unless the Workers in his/her factory are employed full time.
6.02	Where a Manufacturer wishes to send work to a Contractor? the Union shall be consulted and a Union Contractor shall be mutually agreed upon, if such Contractor can provide delivery and quality consistent with the Manufacturer’s standards and the costs are consistent with the local conditions, There shall be reasonable time allowed for the choosing of a C ontractor and delivery.
6.03	No Hanufacturer shall .give out work to the home of any
person.
6.04	N) Hanufacturer shall engage or take part in any lockouts.
6.05	Na Worker shall take part in any strikes, slowdowns) sit-downs) stoppages, unusual holidays, or a cessation of work or slowing down of work of any nature or kind whatsoever.
ARTICLE 7 ~ TRANSFER FROM ONE OPERATION TO ANOTHER
7.01 The Average Hourly Rate for a two (2) week period is to be paid, in case of a transfer from one operation to another, providing i
(a) That the request is made by the Manufacturer at a tirriB when the Worker has sufficient work at his/her
own opera*: ion;
<b> That the transfer is not of a seasonable type when this is normal to the operation of the Manufacturer:
(c)	That the transfer io not made as a result c£ change-overs in types of garments being made by the
Manufacturer, also when this is inconsistent to the operation of the Manufacturer.
(d)	Workers shall not refuse to do any work which they are given whether same consists of a transfer from one operation to another or not, provided) however* that a Worker may reject a transfer from his/her operation to another i-fthere is no work available at his/her own operation.
In the casts of dissatisfaction with the work given* or the transfer made* Workers must continue to do such work as is given or to which they have been transferred* but may complain in the manner ret forth i n Article 8 hereof, and the procedure therein provided tor shall then be proceeded with so that the complaint may be heard and adjudicated upon* through the machinery provided by said Article 0.
Whenever there shall be a breach of any of the provisions of this Article by the Workers or by any of them, no negotiations shall take place, and no complaints shall be heard or adjudicated upon* until all Workers who have corns itted such breach are back to work in the! usual way unless the parties otherwise agree. If any Worker commits such breach of Article 7* then the Union agrees to discipline such Worker.
ARTICLE 8 - SETTLEMENT OF DISPUTES
It is the mutual desire of the parties hereto that complaints of the Workers or Manufacturers shall be adjusted as quickly as possible without stoppage of work* and it is understood that a Worker or Manufacturer may present an oral complaint at any time* without recourse to the Grievance Procedure herein.
Whenever any dispute, difference or question shall arise between a Worker* a group of Workers or the Union* on the one hand* and a Manufacturer* a group of Manufacturers or the Association, on the other hand* such dispute* difference or question shall constitute a grievance.
The word "days** as used in this Article* shall mean working days.
Grievances shall be processed in the following manner and sequence!
Step 1
The <5r ievor concerned may submit a Grievance to the appropriate Supervisor within ten <10) days of the event giving rise to the Grievance. The Gr ievor concerned may have his/her Union Representative and/or Shop Steward present at the submission of the Grievance. The Supervisor shall reply within five <5) days after the Grievance was submitted.
gtffP—?.
Failing satisfactory settlement at Step 1* the Uhicn's Grievance Representative may submit the Grievance, in writing, to the Plant Manager who shall render his/her decision* in writing* within five <5) days after receipt of the Grievance.
At the beginning of Step 2* the Grievance Representative shall notify, in writing, the Association of the nature of the Grievance and t h e Manufacturer involved.
8.01
8.02
8.03
8.04
EtftP-3.
Failing *Ati«factory settlement at Step 2« the Union Manager and the CEO or the Company President shall wet and attempt to settle the Grievance, within five (3) days of the conclusion of step 2,
Step 4
Failing satisfactory settlement a t step 31 the matter may
be referred to Arbitration, within ten (10) days Of the conclusion of step 3.
0.05 Should any of the time limits expire in this Article
without the mutual consent of both parties, then any one of the parties so affected may require that the Single Arbitrator shall forthwith hear the Grievance. No Grievance may be referred directly to Arbitration under the provisions Of this Article, when the party requesting the Grievance deliberately omits one (1) or more of the steps described in the Grievance Procedure herein.
0; 06 For the purpose of this Article and for that of preserving order in the industry, it is agreed that L. Cherniaek with P. Teskey as his alternate, and M. Freedman with J.
London as hi5 alternate, shall be such Single Arbitrator Who shall rotate their turns as such Single Arbitrator during the term of this Collective Agreement, It is further agreed that these appointments can only be terminated by the consent> in writing, Of both parties to this Collective Agreement.
It is further agreed that either party may appoint a Nominee i who shall sit with the Single Arbitrator and who shall have all tho rights of the Single Arbitrator, regarding testimony and evidence presented and who may advise the Arbitrator but who shall not have the right to vote on the decision.
0.07 Either Party to the Arbitration shall serve notice, in
writing, upon the other party and the Arbitrator setting
out:
(a)	the names of a31 the Manufacturers and the Workers who are involved in the dispute; and (b> the issues and/or complaints touching upon the
Grievance which it is requesting the Single Arbitrator t o settle?.	_
Within five (5) days Of receipt c£ the aforesaid notice, the other party named therein shall serve notice on the first party and the Arbitrator setting out the issues and/or complaints which it i 0 asking the Single Arbitrator to settle.
8.00 The Single Arbitrator shall set the date of the hearing
and shall hear and determine the issues and/or complaints with all reasonable dispatch and such hearing shall be limited to the issues and/or complaints set forth in the notices referred to in Clause B.07*
The decision of the Arbitrator shall be the Award of the Arbitrator and the Award of the Arbitrator shall be final and binding on all parties concerned.
8.0? Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this
Collective Agreement contained the parties hereto way extend any at the time limits specified in this Article for such further period as they may mutually agree.
8.10 Each party shall pay one-half (1/2) of the costs of the
impartial S ingl e Arbitrator.
ARTICLE 9 - HOURS OF WORK AND OVERT I HE
9.01	The standard work week.shall consist Of forty <40> regular hours of employment consisting of eight (8) hours per day Monday to Friday inclusive in each calendar week; providing that where a Holiday occurs on any day within the standard work week* the regular hours of employmen
shall exclude eight (B> hours per; Holiday.
9.02	(a) Whenever a Manufacturer requires overtime^ it shall
Ci) give as much advance notice as possible to the Workerst and
Cii) ensure that the distribution of overtime is
done in as fair and equitable manner as possible for all concerned and each Manufacturer must ensure that any "overtime policy" in his/her factory currently and/or in the future must be fair and equitable.
(b) The Union and the Workers nust co-operate fully whenever possible*
9.03	OVERTIME DURING STANDARD WORK WEEK
All work in excess of eight (B> hours per day during the standard work week shall be considered as overtime and shall be Paid for at the rate of time and one-half <1 l/2x) and such time worked shall be included in the calculation of a year of service for the purpose of vacation pay and vacation entitlement.
9.04
OVERTIME ON SATURDAYS AND SUNDAYS AND HOLIDAYS
<a)
(b)
All work done on Saturdays and Sundays shall be considered as overtime and shall be paid for at the
rate of time and one-half (1 l/2x) and such time u'orked shall be included in the calculation of a
year of service #or the purposes of vacation Pay and vacation entitlement.
All work done on a Holiday shall be considered as overtime and shall be paid for at the rate of triple time (3n>; that is» double time (2x) for the work performed plus payment for the Holiday as provided by Article 14 hereof, and such time worked shall be included in the calculation of a year of service for the purposes of vacation pay and vacation entitlement.
9.05	Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in thi* Agreement contained, • Worker may work on • Saturday for the purpose of making up time lost during the week and such Worker shall not be paid overtime in respect of such time which is so made up» i f
(a)	the lost time is caused solely by the Worker, and
<b) the Hanufacturer shall have the factory open on the
Saturday of the week during which the Worker lost time, and then only to & maximum of eight <8) hours and such time shall be'included in the calculation of a gear of service for the purpos.es of vacation pay and vacation entitl ement.
It is further agreed that if the Worker is sent home by the Manufacturer during the standard work week* causing lost time, then the Manufacturer shall pay overtime for any work performed on the Saturday to such Workers sent home during the standard work week.
9.06	Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in thio Agreement contained) should the majority of Workers in a factory and the Hanufacturer of those Workers desire to bank hours for the purpose of making UP work time in order to have up to three (3) additional days off between Bowing Day and New Year's Day» the Manufacturer must meet with the Union by November 30th of that year to determine which Saturdays shall be worked at regular pay* according fo (i) or <ii> below:
<i> the last three (3) Saturdays immediately before
Christmas Day at eight <8> hours per day at regular rate of pay» or
(ii) the last six (6) Saturdays immediately before Christmas Day at four (4) hours Per day at regular rate of pay.
It is agreed that the Worker shall be paid for such time banked at the time that the work is per formed j as per the Collective Agreement and it is further agreed that after the time ha5 been banked* and the Manufacturer then chooses not to close the factory for the said banked dayst then that Manufacturer must pay tho premium portion of the overtime rate for such time worked to all the Workers who banked time, All such time worked shall be included in the calculation of a years service for the purposes of vacation pay and vacation entitlement.
9.07	(a) Notice of intent must be given to the Union* by the
Manufacturer, of no less than seven (7) days when the starting and/or quitting time of a regularly scheduled shift is to change, A regularly scheduled shi f t shall be defined as a shift which is not periodic but is ongoing on a permanent basis a5 agreed by the Hanufacturer and the Union.
(b)	Notice of intent must be given to the Unioni by the Hanufacturer, of no less than seven (7) days when a second and/or third shift is to be implemented and/or discontinued.
Whenever another shift is to be imp]emented* the Manufacturer shall meet with the Union to discuss and
agree on the method used for determining which Workers shall work on each shift.
ARTICLE IP - FACTORY INTERRUPTIONS
.01
When • Worker is ordered to report to work and does report At his/her regular starting time> he/she shall be guaranteed four (4) hours work or in lieu of t h i«i four (4> hours pay* However if circumstances arise, which are beyond the control of Management such as power failure, fire or the failure of other Workers to report, or remain on the Job* this Provision shal1 not apply.
10.02 In the event of machine breakdown later in the day, a Worker must report to a Foreperson when the machine is first out of order. If after malting fifteen (15> minutes the machine is not in suitable working order, the Worker will again report to the Foreperson who will give him/her other employment or permission to go home. The Worker will be p'ai'd') at his/her Average Hourly Rate for'the f if teen ftlS'F minutes delay and for any other work assigned in lieu of his/her regular work if not sent home.
ARTICLE 11 - REST PERIOD
11.01 There are to be two (2>i ten (10) minute rest periods'!
one (1) 'organized1 and the other to be arranged by each Manufacturer.
ARTICLE 12 - LAY-OFFS AND TEMPORARY HELP
12.01	Whenever lay-offs are necessary they are to be put into
effect on a departmental or sectional acnlorita basis. During slack seasons each Manufacturer shalI~fiave the option of di vldins the work so that each Worker will receive approximately an equal amount of work or of dividing the hours on equal working time.	\[\
12.02	No temporary help shall be employed by the Manufacturers unless there is a full weak's work for the permanent Workers. The Union is to supply all temporary help when available provided the Sanie is acceptable to the Manufacturer.
12.03 When a lay-off of two <2> weeks or more becomes necessary and/or apparent) the Manufacturer shall notify the Union of such lay-off at the tinte such lay- off becomes apparent. Workers laid off shall be re-employed in the ordex. of their ja.enA.ori.ty on a sectional) operational or" departmental basis, before any new Workers are hired.
12.BA A Union member who leaves the service of * Manufacturer after an initial period of two (2) weeks must give five (5) leorking days notice. The same shall apply to termination by the Manufacturer.
12.05 A Worker who is terminated or discharged shall receive his /her appropriate vacation pay plus all wages due.
ARTICLE 13 - DISCHARGE AND DISCIPLINE
13.01	The Manufacturer and/or anyone acting on behalf of the Manufacturer agrees at all times to act fairly, reasonably, in good faith and in a manner consistent with the Collective Agreement a5 a whole.
Full power of discharge and discipline lies with the Manufacturer but this power shall be exercised with Justice and with regard for the reasonable rights cf the Worker. The power of discharge shall be exercised only through a fully authorized and responsible representative of the Management.
13.03	No Worker shall be discharged or discriminated against for Union activities.
ARTICLE 1A - HOLIDAY WITH PAY
1A.01 Every Worker who is a member of the Union shall receiv.e f3jU=L_Jtor^_eveny-Holiday based on his/her average hourly or piecework earnings, if such Worker has worked the regular hours of work on the work day immediately preceding and succeeding the particular Holiday unless:
(a)	he/she has been prevented from doing so by bona fide illness, or
(b)	he/she has been absent with the consent of the Manufacturer provided that such absence does not exceed thirty <30) working days.
1A.02 Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement contained, every Worker who is a Member of the Union shall be paid far Christmas Day and New Year's Day at the particular Worker’s average hourly or piecework earnings.
14.03	Notwa thstandi ng anything to the contrary in this Agreement contained) any Worker who terminates his/her employment during the calendar week in which any of the aforementioned Holidays occur without giving at least one <1) week’s notice prior to the date of terminating the employment shall not be entitled to payment for such Holiday.
14.04	When any of the *»id Holidays fall within a Worker's vacation period* he/she shall be entitled to an extra day’s pay and an extra day off.
14.05	Where New Year's Da«j» Dominion Day and/or Christmas Day
falls on a Saturday or Sunday* the Worker shall be granted a Holiday with pay on the working day immediately preceding or following said Holiday.
ARTICLE 15 r VACATIONS WITH PAY
15.01	Every Worker who has completed a year's service with a Manufacturer, as of July 1st of any year, is entitled to an annual vacation of two (2)» three (3) or four (4) weeks with pay> based on his/her Average Hourly Earnings, as that year of service relates to the vacation entitlement in clause 15.03.
15.02	(a) The period commencing the 1st day of July in any year
and terminating on the 30th day of June in the following year shell be used for determining the number of hours of employment constituting a year’s —service.
(b) A year's service shall constitute 1800 hours of employment! including regular hours and overtJme hours and excluding the premium portion of overtime, during the term referred to in 15.02 (a) hereof! but
<i> there shall not be included in such computations of 1800 hours of employment the two (2) weeks of
annual vacation constituting eighty (80) hours of employment;
<ii) where any Worker shall have worked less than 1800 hours of employment and if such lesser period shall be accounted for by:
1.	Consent to absence from employment given by e Manufacturer to the Worker! and/or
2.	Absence due to bona fide illness* and/or
3.	Absence due to lack of work,
the aggregate of such absences up to a maximum of 240 hours of employment shall be added to the actual number of hours worked and if the result of such addition shall total 1800 hours or more, the Worker shall be deemed to have completed; for the purpose of this Article 15i a year's service and shall receive an annual vacation of two (2)» three (3) or four (4) weeks with pay as that year of service relates to the vacation entitlement in clause 15.03.
15.03	(a) Every worker not otherwise entitled to full vacation
pay* as provided in 15.01 hereof, shall be treated in the following manner*
13
Every Worker who ha* given four (4) year.* or less of
service to the Manufacturer, but who does not have 1800 hours of employment in the vacation year shall be paid four (4%) percent of his/her earnings* exclusive of the overtime premium, or
Every Worker who has given five (5) years and UP to thirteen (13) years of service to the Manufacturer * but who does not have 1000 hours of employment in tho vacation year shall be paid six (6%Jpercent of Ms/ her earnings* exclusive of the overtime premium, or Every Worker who has given fourteen (14) or more years of service to the Manufacturer, but who does not have 1000 hours of employment In the vacation year shall ,be paid eight (8%) percent of his/her earnings, exclusive of the overtime premium.
<b) Every Worker with less than one (1) year’s service with the Manufacturer shall be entitled to a vacation period which shall be pro-rated on the basis; that the number of hours of qualifying employment bears to 1800! a fraction of a day shall extend to a whole day's vacation,
(c)	When a Worker has given one (1) year and up to four (4) years of service in one factory* he/she shall be entitled to two <2) weeks vacation in that year.
When a Worker ties worked fifty (5051) of the regular working hours* in each of the four (4) years in the preceding ten (10) years* in one factory, he/she shall be entitled to three (3), weeks vacation for each year subsequent to the fourth year and UP to the thirteenth (13) year.
When a Worker has given fourteen (14) gears or more of service in one factory, he/she shall be entitled to four (4) weeks of vacation in that year.
A year of service shall be defined a5
in clause IS.02.
15.04	A Worker shall be entitled to vacation with pay during the period from the 1st day of July to the 1st day of September* as the Manufacturer may find convenient, unless the Worker and the Manufacturer agree otherwise.
15.05
Total vacation pay shall be paid ta eommeneement of such Worker’s of termination of employment* as provides.
to each Worker just prior vacation, or in the case
the Vacation with Pay Act
15.04 A Manufacturer may close his/her plant for the vacation providing he/she gives two (2) months written notice to the Union prior te vacations.
15.07 In the case of a Worker entitled to four (4) weeks
vacation, three (3) weeks may betaken consecutively,
during the vacation period as per clause 13.04* and the fourth (4th) week shall be taken any time UP to January 31st of the following year.
ARTICLE 16 - WAGE RATES AND RELATED FACTORS
j.fol In »11 questions of wage rates, our garment industry in
Manitoba is a separate entity whose wager are affected by
local conditions prevailing in our own industry here.
16,02 The Hanufacturer shall submit to the Union, upon request? semi-annual statements indicating the following inf or mat ion for each Worker:
(a) Clock number and nifne_.
lb) Description of operation performed,
(c) Average Hourly Earnings.
<d) Actual Average Hourly Rate earned based on piecework calculations.
16.03 (a) Cutters
A total increase of one dollar and fourteen ($1,14) cents per hour shall be granted to the Cutters in the following stages:
1.	Fourty (40) cents per hour commencing December 15, 1989,
2.	Thirty-si(36) cents per hour commencing December 15, 1990,
3.	Thirty-eight (38) cents per hour commencing December 15, 1991,
and the minimum wages paid to Cutters shall be set out in clause 17.03 hereof.
<b> Time Workers
Increases shall be granted to the Time Workers in the
following stages:
1.	Four per cent <4 %) per hour commencing December 15, 1989,
2.	Three and one-haif per cent (3 1/2%) per hour commencing December: 15, 1990,
2. Three end one-half per cent (3 1/2%) per hour commencing December 15, 1991.
(c) Piece Workers
increases shall be granted to the piecework rates and applicable percentages in the following stages:
1.	Four per cent (47.) commencing December 15, 1989,
2.	Three and one-half per cent <3 1/2%) commencing December 13, .1990,
3.	Three and one-half per cent1 (3 1/2%) commencing December 15, 1991.
16.04	All wages shall be paid weekly unless otherwise agreed to by the Union and the individual Manufacturer.
16.05	Samples are to be paid for on time work rates.
16.06	Time work shall not be the basis of payment where
liecework prices are provided fori except a5 providedj^^r^v
erein.	‘ ‘
h
16,07	All increases as provided for herein shall be compounded. ARTICLE 17 , CUTTEBS
17.01	There shall be three (3) classes of Cutterst namely? First Class Cutters, Second Class Cutters and Apprentices or Third Class Cutters.	\	‘
First Class Cutters shall make markers and grade patterns to the extent of adjusting such pattern up and down one s i re.
Second Class Cutters shall be fully responsible for his/ her fay by taking the markeri checking it for omlssionsi
laying UP and cutting properly.
17.02 Each Manufacturer shall employ at least one <1> First Class Cutter except where such Manufacturer (i.e.t the proprietor thereof) himself does all the marking in such factory.
17.03 The Manufacturer agrees that the Cutters' minimum hourly rates shall be as follows for the period effective December 15» l9B9i December 15 t 1990 and December 15j 1991.
Effective
Dec. i5th/09 Dec. lSth/90 Dec.l5th/91
First	Class	10,304
Second Class	10.034
(1st year)
Second Class	10.114
(2nd rear)
Third	Class	9.764
(by	d of 1st	year, ,1
Third	Class	9.014
(by end of 2nd year.)
Third	Class	9.894
(by end of 3rd ynar.)
10,664
10.394
10.474
10.1S4
10.174
10.254
11.044
10.774
10.054
10.504
10.554
10.634
JCLE- 18 .- ESTABLISHING. PIECEWORK PR?
J.B1 Line Systm
The Worker shall be paid his/her previous Average
Hourly Earnings unt ll *
(*> The Manufacturer shall set a piecerate to fit the new conditions on the Job?
(b> If after working on the operation for a period of two <2) weeks, the Worker feels that the new piecerate is inadequate, a complaint to that effect shall be submitted by the Shop Steward. Tho Manufacturer shall then recheck the rate and meet with the Union Representative.
(c) In the event that the meeting referred to in
subparagraph (,b'> hereof does not result in settlement of the complainti the dispute may then be dealt with as provided for in Article B hereof.
IS. 02 If* after a further period of two (2) weeks* no Grievance has been submitted, it is assumed that the Union has accepted the new piecerate price.
18.03 Where significant numbers of Workers, in any factory are not able to achieve piecework earnings in excess of the provincial minimumsi on existing piecework rates, a Union Time Study Engineer, in conjunction with Management* shall have the right to study the operations involved* using accepted engineering practices. The Manufacturer shall be notified, in advance, of the name and qualifications of the Time Study Engineer, and the time and date of the proposed study. If no agreement is'reached the matter will be dealt with under Article 8.
18.04 Motion and Time Study Analysis Summaries for all new operations and rate changes shall be available on the Manufecturer’s premises for examination by A person qualified in such activities and authorized by the Union.
ARTICLE 19 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE
19.01	A Worker who ha5 three (3) or more years of employment shall be entitled to a leave of absence* without pay* for
a period not to exceed eight (8) weeks, if compassionate > .-7* reasons shall arise.' On his/hef return he/she shall be reinstated in his/her former position without loss, of	3*
seniority. A grant of a leave of absence shall be given to a Worker* in writing, and A COPY thereof sent to the Union.
19.02	A Worker* after twelve (12) consecutive months of employment who submits to his/her employer a written application at least four (4) weeks in advance-
shall be entitled to JiiA-tecDity, paterjjjLty and/or adoption leave, as the case may be* in the following manner:
17
1. Maternity Leave
(a)	A 'perfod not exceeding eleven (11) weeks, immediately preceding the estimated date of delivery.
(b)	The period between the estimated date of delivery And the actual date of delivery.
(c)	A compulsory period of six (6) weeks immediately	£
following the actual date of delivery. She m*yi by C »rutual consent with her employer and the consents in writing) of her duly qualified medical practitioner certifying that her health will not be endangered, return sooner.
She shall be reinstated in her former position, a5 long as she does not remain absent more than ten (10) weeks following the actual date of her delivery.
^.Paternity Leave
Six (6) weeks to be taken, as the Worker elects, during the ninety (90) days following the birth of the child. The actual date of delivery maybe counted as day one (1) of
such ninety (90) day period.
3.Adoption Leave
Seventeen (17) weeks to be taken, as the Worker elects) (
during the ninety (90) days following the date the child „
comes into the Worker's actual care and custody. The	(
actual date the child comes into the Worker's care and
custody may be counted as day one <1) of such ninety (90) day period.
A Worker who has taken leave under the terms of 19.02 (2)
i
and/or <3)> and wishes to resume his/her employment shall be reinstated by the Manufacturer in the position occupied by him/her with no loss of seniority.
A
19.03 All time spent on contract negotiations and/or leave taken
pursuant to Clause f9,04 and/or’THause 19.05 shall not be considered as leave of absence in Clause 19.01.
19.04 Workers selected as delegates to any Labour Conference or. ^t train	—ppBuyin mau be granted a leave of absence,
without pay* .until the Manufacturer's consent) which shall 3/., fiDf—tre'‘tinreasonably withheld. This leave of absence shall not exceed five (5) working drys.
19. 05
If any Worker shall have reasonable grounds for requiring a leave of absence of five (5) days, the Manufacturer shall not unreasonably withhold his consent ta such absence: it being understood and agreed) for the purpose hereof) that the term "leave of absence" is exclusive of any absence due to bona fide illness.
(d
* w
19.06 A Worker on bona fide leave of absence shall Accumulate seniority and upon return from such leave shall be
reinstated to his/her former position.
ARTICLE 2fl IDERP_________OR_______/MEN! TQ WORKERS
20.01 If a Manufacturer is found to have underpaid any Worker, contrary to the terms of this Agreement) the Union shall have the right to demand? and the Manufacturer shall pay to such Worker? the amount underpaid. When overpayment occurs) due to an error on the part of the Manufacturer or the Workers, and if the Union agrees that such en error occurred then the Manufacturer shall be entitled to deduct the overpayment over a reasonable tine. In the event that the Union does not. agree? the matter may be dealt with under the provisions of Article B.
ART I Cl E 21 - MISCELLANEOUS
21.01	In accordance with the spirit of this Agreement) all parties pledge themselves to co-operate in making the arrangements successful? and to use their influence end
best efforts for the promotion and development of goodwill; it being understood that it is not the intention that this Agreement shall operate in any way so as to restrict output or production, nor impede the processes of manufacture or management) but to encourage maximum production with minimum waste and fair equitable treatment to everyone concerned.
21.02	Nothing herein contained shall be construed so as to make any Manufacturer responsible or liable for the covenants, agreements, acts or ommissions of any other Manufacturer.
21.03	Each Manufacturer agrees to furnish a suitable bulletin board) or boards, for the use of the Union and such board(s) shall be located in a conspicuous place in the area where the Workers are working, or lunch rooms? but in any event, at least one C1 > such bulletin board on each floor of the Manufacturer’s premises.
21.04	The Association acknowledges that the use of Union labels on garments manufactured by Association members should be encouraged. The Association agrees that within the limits of its ability to do so* it will urge members to use such labels.
21.05 Each Manuflicturer agrees that if a Worker is Injured cn the Job and requires the attention of • Medical
Practitionert
(a) Should the accident happen during the first half of a shift the Worker will be paid a total of tour (4)
hours tor the full shift and/or Cb> Should the accident happen during the second halt of a shift the Worker w i 11 be paid for a full shift.
21.06 Each Manufacturer agrees to contribute the equivalent of one-quarter <1/450 Percent of Union Member’s wages‘ into a A. C.T*W.U. Local 459 Educ ..and Research Fund, whieh shall be solely adminFs ered By the Union.
The Union shall submit to the Association, upon, request) : annual generalised statenrents giving account of the use of said Funds.
ARTICLE 22 - TECHNOLOGICAL CHANCE.
22.01 Each Manufacturer agrees to give notice, to the Union, any technological change that he intends to effect, if is likely to affect the terms and-conditions, or the security, of employment of a significant number of employees in the unit or alter significantly the basis upon which the Collective Agreement was negotiated.
Such notice shall be given at least ninety (90) days before the date on which the technological change is to be effected.
of
it
22.02 The notice referred to in Clause 22.01 shall be in writing
and shall state;
(a* the nature of the technological change, and
(b)	the day on which the Manufacturer proposes to effect the technological change, and
(c)	the approximate number and type of Workers likely to be affected by the technological change, and ^
<d> the effect the technological change is likely to have on the terms and conditione, or security, of employment of the Workers affected or the alterations that is likely to be made to the basis upon which the Collective Agreement was negotiated,
22.03 When a Manufacturer gives notice under this Article then A. C.T.W.U. Local 459 .may serve notice upon said
Manufacturer to commence collective bargaining with a vieu< to the revision of the Collective Agreement or the conclusion of a new Collective Agreement according to the terms of the Labour Relations Act applying to technological change.
,*2.04 Either party to this Collective Agreement may submit to Arbitration, the question Of whether or not the technological change is likely to affect the terms and conditions, or security, Of employment of • significant number c£ workers in the uniti or to alter significantly the basis upon which the Collective! Agreement was negotiated) and if the Single Arbitrator finds, in his/her Award that the technological change is likely to effect the terms and conditions) or security, of employment of a significant number of Workers in the unit, or fo alter significantly the basis upon uhich the Collective Agreement was negotiated, then such Award shall be deemed to be notice under the terms of this Article.
ARTICLE 23 - DURATION AND REVISION OF AGREEMENT
23.01	It is hereby understood and agreed that
shall continue and remain in full :force<ind effect up
the close of business on the 14th day of .December) 1.7.72!) and thereafter from year to year! unless either the Union'
or the Manufacturers give written notice to the other of it5 desire to revise this Agreement) or to conclude a new Collective Agreement for any period after the 14th day of December, 1792. The said written notice may be given at any time after the 1st day of October, and not later than the 15th day of November, in any year during uihich the said Agreement expires.
ARTICLE 24—THE ACTW, LOCAl______452,__AND GARMENT MANUFACTURERS
HEALTH. WELFARE AND PENSION FUND, INC.
24.01	It is understood and agreed, between the parties hereto, that the provisions governing the operation of the Fund, including the amgunt payable_to the Fund, the benefits paid out of the Fund, and the terms and conditions under which benefits become Payable, may be the subject of negotiations of a revision to this Agreement, or tor the conclusion of a new Collective Agreement! and that ell the provisions of the said Fund are part of this Agreement.
it ±s further agreed that the Board of Trustees of the Fund shall have the right, at their discretion, to refuse to pay any benefits,.under the Health and Welfare portion of this Agreement) uihich are duplications of payments made by any Government body and/or other Health and Welfare Plan, or to pay only the difference when the other payment is less than the benefit provided for by the Fund.
A. WEALTH AND WELFARE
1. Death Benefit
Upon the death of an eligible member) the Fund will pay the Death Benefit to the designated Beneficiary, as follows:
Members	$50(30.00
Post Retirement(after six (6) months) $1500.00
2. Weekly Indemnity
All eligible Members shall be entitled to * minimum of seventy percent (70J£) of weekly earnings to a maximum of $200.00 for 13 weeks in any consecutive 12 month period with no waiting days. Tho Matbar must be sick at least seven (7) days to be eligible.
Mr,
3. Hospital Allowahce
All eligible Members and eligible Dependents shall be entitled to a special allowance equal to the cost of send-or 1 vate accomodation) as defined by Manitoba Blue Crossi per day while in hospital] not exceeding fourty two (42) days in any
0*
consecutive twelve (12) month period.
Adoption
In the event of confinement by reason of Maternity c£ any person who becomes eligible therefor, there shall be paid by the Fund, benefits in the sum of one hundred and fifty dollars ($130.00).
In the event of confinement by reason of Caesarean Birth to any person who becomes eligible therefor3 there shall be paid by the Fund benefits in the sum a£ one hundred and seventy five dollars ($175.00). In the event of adoption by any person who becomes eligible thereforl there shall be paid by the Fund benefits in the'sum of one hundred and fifty dollars ($130,00).
5, Bereavement Pay
In the event of a death in the family of an e 1 i g i b 1 f Member I
eligible Memberi there shall be paid to such a
(a)	Three (3) days bereavement pay if the deceased is a Mother-in-law, Father-in-l aui) Son-in-laW) Daughter-in-law* Brother.-in-lawj SIster-in-lawt grandparent or grandchild) and
(b)	Five (5) days bereavement pay* if the deceased ‘s a Mother) Father) Spousei Sibling or child.
Vision Care
All eligible.'Members and one <1) eligible Dependent shall be entitled to 75’/. of verifiable costs of prescription eyeglasses and/or contact lenses to a ireximLm of $200.00 per claim every two
(2) years.
Prescription Drugs
All eligible Members and eligible Dependents shall be entitled to 90'/. c£ the total billet with no deductible, for prescription drugs, based on submitted and verifiable bills.
8. Dental Plan
All eligible Members and eligible Dependents shall be entitled to receive 80/, of the 'Basic* dental services listed below*
Diagnostic**
Preventative*
Surgical :
complete examination* once every 3 years, recall or oral examination covered twice in each calendar year.
periapical or bite-wing x-rays once every 2 years
if necessary.
prophylaxis (theremoval of deposits and stains from the tooth surface) up to twice in each calendar year,
topical application of fluoride up to two applications in each calendar year, space maintainers (except when used in orthodontic treatment)*
extractions and complicated surgical procedures performed in the dentist's office* including post operative care and general anaesthesia.
Restoratives
-	fillings made of amalgams* silicates* plastics
and synthetic porcelains. Includes temporary stainless steel crowns.
Prosthetic:
-	repair of damaged dentures. Adding teeth to existing dentures* or relining or rebasing the dentures. Each procedure limited to once every 3 years.
Accidental Injury*
-	major dental services a5 a result of an accident up to a maximum of $1*000.00 per rear per person.

In addition to the "Basic* services listed previously, all eligible Members and eligible Dependents shall be entitled to receive 507, of eligible charges for the following "Major* dental servi ces:
Endodontics*
-	the usual procedures required for pul pal therapy and root canal filling.
Periodontics :
-	the usual procedures for treatment of the
diseases of the tissues and bones supporting the teeth.
Extensive Restorations:
-	gold inlays and onlays.
-	Jackets, crowns and bridges to rebuild and replace missing teeth.
-	each procedure except crowns limited to once in a 5 year period. Crowns will nut be replaced within 5 years of placement,
\~4
*naesth*si«t
Prosthetic*
9
10,
11.
-	nitrous oxide analgesia, administered in the dentist’s office.
-	partial or complete upper and lower dentures, provided by a dentist or licensed denturist. Each procedure limited to Once every 5 years.
Allowances include all Adjustments,
Annual maximum for the dental plan is *1»250.00 per person. The plan is based on the prevailing Dental Fee Guide. Any charges over this guide shall be the responsibility of the Member.
Chiropractic Care
All eligible Members shall be entitled to payment by the Fund for verifiable Chiropractic Care up to a limit of $48.00 over and above that paid by
Manitoba Healtti Services Commission in any one year.
Jury Duty
In the event that a Worker is called upon to
perform Jury Duty? there shall be paid, as a benefit from the Fund? all loss of wages incurred by such Worker.
AMRULANCE FEES
All eligible Members shall be entitled to receive payment front the Fund, for verifiable ambulance fees far trips that occur in the home area of the each Member.
an
24
I. Pension
The maximum monthly pension benefit to which Member shall be entitled is 8
1.	$135.00 effective'December 15* 1989.
2.	$145.00 effective December 15* 1990
3.	$155.00 effective December 13» 1991.

The eligible retirenient age shall be 60 years of age-on a pro-rata basis, according to the following percentages*
65*/.	^
72 V,
79%
867.
937.
1007. '
Totally disabled IttBS who meet the criterea shall be entitled to retirement benefit of at least
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
If retirement at 60 If retirement at 61 If retirement at 62 If retirement at 63 If retirement at 64 If retirement at 65
C.
777. .
OTHER PROVISIONS
1.	contrahl,f<rm hv M-annfarti.ir^g to the Fund is
the equivalent of three.and three quaftere-per^eent (3 3/4% lot Union Member's wages., Manufacturers shall also contribute the equivalent of one quarter percent (1/4%) of Union Member’s wages to the Amalgamated Clothing and Textile Workers UnJo Local 459 Education and Research Fund. Both of these shall be remitted monthly by the and of the following month.
Should a Manufacturer be found to be in violation of the Collective Agreement by not remitting the! contribution to the Health* Welfare and Pension Fund and/or the Education Fund as per the contract* then* after receiving written notice of the arrears* that Manufacturer shall pay a penalty of 1 1/2 7. interest, compounded monthly on the unpaid balance.
(a) The Off ice Employees of the Fund shall be entitled to the benefits of the Health* Welfare and Pension Fund in the same way AS Union Members and shall be subject ta the same Fund by-laws, The premiums* equivalent to the Manufacturer’s contributions, shall come from the Fund itself. Any terms of original employment which mere more favourable shall remain in effect and supersede this Clause.
(b) The Office Employees of Local 439 may be entitled to the benefits of the Health Welfare and
Pension Fund in the same way a5 Union Members and shall be subject to the same Fund by-laws. The premiums* equivalent to the Manufacturer’s contributions, shall come front the Amalgamated Clothing and Textile Workers Union* Local 459»
3i For the purpose of the Health and Welfare Fund? ’Dependents* shall mean a child or spouse of the Member. Child.or spouse shall be defined by the following definition obtained from Blue Cross:
"The term 'Dependent' means all natural children, legally adopted children, stepchildren and children of the person of the opposite sex uidth whom the employee is living in a husband and wife relationship, providing such children are living with the Worker, are unmarried! under the age of 21 and dependent upon tho employee for support.”
A. Those Members who retire are eligible for benefits for six <6) month? from the date of retirement? where applicable.
5, The Worker shall become eligible for benefits in the beginning cf the sixth (6th) month of employment.
25.01 Where in this Agreement the masculine or the singular has been used, it shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter or plural, a5 the ceee may be, wheresoever the context of this Agreement requires.
25.02	Time shall in all respects be the essence of this Agreement.
25.03	This Agreement shall enure to the benefit of, and be binding upon, the parties hereto and their respective heirs, executors, administrators, successors and assigns.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have hereunto set their hands and seals the day and year first above written.
GARMENT MANUFACTURERS	AMALGAMATED CLOTHING AND
ASSOCIATION OF	TEXTSLE WORKERS UNION,
WESTERN CANADA	LOCAL 459 t
ARTICLE 25
or
David Rich President G*M.A,W,C, Co-Cha iriTien Negotiating Committee
or
William Haiko
Manager
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN
AMALGAMATED CLOTHING-AND.TEXTILE WORKERS UNION, .LOCAL 459 and
GARMENT MANUFACTURERS. ASSOCIATION OF'.WESTERN CANADA.
It: is hereby understood, and agreed.by the parties who are Signators to .th^ . Collective Agreement between Amalgamated Clothing and Textile Workers Union, Local 459 and the Garment Manufacturers Association of Western 'Canada that:
(a) effective December 15th/ 1989/ the level of contributions to the ACTWU/Local .459 and GMA Health, Welfare and Pension Fund shall be' 2.and‘3/4'%v and. ‘
(b) effective December 15th{^*19Q9r the level of contributions to the ACTWU/Local 459 and GMA Health/ Welfare and Pension Fund shall be 3 and 3/4 %.
It,Is further, understood and agread,.that a. formula will be devised-'and approved'by. both .parties/ that will .allow any overpayments that a Manufacturer. may have made since December 15/ -1989 to -be recoveredby said'Manufacturers-
garmentivianufactlirersAssociation AM&E^AM&ED .CLOTHING and TEXTILE
WORKERS UNItSN, LOCAL 459
_________WtZfA'Jh:
The undersigned, being members of the Gaimait Manufacturers Association of Western Canada, hereby ratify, sanction and confirm the Collective Agreement dated as of December 15* 1989 between the Amalgamated Clothing and Textile Workers Union, Local 459 and the Gaiment Manufacturers Association of Western Canada, and acknowledge receipt of the delivery of a copy of such Agreement
CANADIAN SPORTSWEAR CO. LTD
FREED A FREED INTERNATIONAL LTD. - PANT'SHO^
/ ...........r
KAPIL'S HFG. CO. LTD.
per_—^
PERFECT UNIFORM & SPORTSWEAR LTD.
(1966) LIMITED
3^