No. OF EMPLOYEES
This AGREEMENT made and entered into this 4th day of July, 1995, by and between Levi (Canada) Inc., at 563 Barton Sbssfc, Stoney Creek, Ontario, Canada, hereinafter referred to as
Ei'ripleyeri'ts
and the Union of'Needletrades, Industrial and Textile Employees, CLC, AFL-CIO, hereinafter referred to as the “Union”.
EfF.
term.

ml
g3 M

-tor)
UL
GENERAL
Unless the contract indicatesotherwise, the masculine pronoun refers to either a male or female person.
ARTICLE T ■ MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
1.01	The Employer has and shall continueto have full and complete control over matters relatingto
the management and conduct of its business, the planning, processing and determiningof methods of plant operation and the kind and use of equipmentand materials. The Employer shall have the right to continue or discontinuethe whole or any part of its business. Except as otherwiseprovided by the Agreement, the Employer shall have the right of selectionand direction of the workingforce includingthe size and composition thereof,the right to hire, promote, transfer, make lay-offs for lack of work, the right to retire employeesat the established retirement age and for reasonable rules and regulationswhich do not conflict with the terms and provisionsof said Agreement. Except as specificallyceded, abridged or modified by the terms and provisions of the Agreement, these enumerationsof management functions shall not be deemed to exclude other functions not enumeratedherein. Any of the rights, powers or authorities which management has relating to management functions are retained exclusively by the management of the Employer.
OCT 31 1995
26/10/95	I

ARTICLE II ■ UNION RECOGNITION
2.01	The Employer recognizes the Union as the exclusivebargaining agent for all employeesof Levi Strauss & Co. (Canada) Inc., at 563 Barton Street, Stoney Creek, Ontario, engaged in production work, save and except supervisors, instructorsor trainers, maintenancepersonnel, quality resource personnel, persons above the rank of supervisor, office and sales staff and anyone employed on a casual or part-time basis to perfonn work nonnally done by persons outside of the bargaining unit.
2.02	The Employer shall meet with no more than six (6) representatives of the employees as the Union may elector appoint. A Union Representative,after first notifying die appropriate management representative, shall have the right to enter the work area of the plant during working hours for the purpose of investigatingany grievance or complaint. A Union Representative performing such duties shall not interrupt or interferewith the plant operations.
2.03	The local presidentand stewards shall, with die approval of the supervisorof the department in which she is employed,be pennifted during regular working hours, widiout loss of pay, to leave her regular dutiesfor a reasonable period oftime to investigate grievances or complaints. Pennissionwdl not be unreasonably widdield.
2.04	The Union acknowledgesdiat the local president and stewardshave regularjob duties to perfonn on behalf of die Employer and wdl not absentdiemselvesfrom diose duties unreasonably in order to investigateand deal with grievances and complaintsof employees.
2.05	The Employeragreesto submitto die Union, copies of lists of employeesdiat are hired, laid-off or recalled.
26/10/95
2
ARTTCFFTTT- NO STRTKF OR LOCKOUT
3.01	The Union hereby undertakesthat it shall not directly or indirectly cause any cessationof or interference with production in the plant of the Employer and the Employer shall not engage in any lockout and all differences between the parties hereto shall be settled in accordancewiththe methods herein provided.
3.02	Any strike, slowdown, stoppage, lockout, walk-out or the calling out of workers for the meeting during working hours and/or cancellationof overtime which in anyway interfereswith or interrupts production in the establishments of the Employer is prohibited and is a vital violation of the Agreement.
26/10/95
3
ARTICLE TV - CHECKOFF
4.01	The Employer shall deduct from the wages ofemployeesupon written authorization of the employees, Union Dues, Initiation Fees and Assessments. The amounts deducted pursuant to such authorization shall be transmitted at monthly intervals to the properly designated official of the Union together with a list of names of the employees from whom the deductions were made on forms to be provided by the Employer. Sums deducted by the Employer as Union Dues, Initiation Fees or Assessments shall be kept separate and apart from the general funds of the Employer and shall be deemed trust funds.
4.02	The Union agrees to hold the Employer harmless in the event that it is required by law to make any restriction ofDues and Initiation Fees and/or Assessmentswhich have been deducted and transmitted to the Union in accordance with the provisions of this Article.
4.03	Membership in the Union shall be required after assessment in the skill centre when employees have received a permanent offer of employrru .t; a new employee shall be known as a probationary employee for a paricd of sixty (60) calendar days.
4.04	Ail employees who are now members or here ter become members of the Union shall, as a condition of continued employment, remain i embers in good standing during the term of this Agreement.
26/10/95
4
ARTICLE V ■ INSURANCE BENEFITS
5,01
Upon completionof sixty (60) calendar days offhployment, the Employer shall provide the followingbenefits as detailed in the Employer’s Penefit Booklet:
(a)
(b)
Life Insuranceof twenty tliousanddollars ($20,000),
a Supplementary Healtli Care Plan vXhich includes an employee vision care, major medical, and hospital expense coverage
a Weekly Indemnity Plan (the cost o[ any premium increase will be shared equally between the Employer and the Employte with the employee’s share not to exceed three ($3.00) per month, and
(d) a Basic Dental Plan.
5.02	The benefits provided under this Agreement a| set out in Paragraph 5,01, are provided by an Insurance Company. Any dispute regarding bei efit entitlement is between the employee and the Insurance Company. The Employer will	with an employee who is seeking a
resolutionof said dispute with the Insurance <
5.03	In addition to the benefits provided by the Employer through an Insurance Company, as set out in Paragraph5.01, die Employerwill also provide:
Ontario Healtii Insurance Plan, for either single or family coverage as required by the employee, if premiums would be increased during die life of the agreement, the employee’s share ofthe increase t	six dollars ($6.00) per month,
(b)
(c)
at the sole discretion of the Employer shall reimburse
have become worn during the two (2) $80.00,
onjobs designated as requiring footwear, the cost of such footwear to a maximum of $80,00
during a two-year period.	designatedjobs can demonstrate that shoes
year period, they will be replaced to a limit of
to employees who have completed jwo (2) years of service, membership in the Employer’s Hourly Employee’s Pension Plan. The benefit under the Pension Plan for eligible employees is:
-	for serviceprior tO'March 9, ^995, eight dollars ($8.00)per mondi per year of service,
-	for service from March 9, 19f?5, ten dollars ($10.00) per mondi per year of service,
for servicefrom March 9, 199)3, eleven dollars ($1 1.00) per mondi per year of service, and
for servicefrom March 9, 199f7, twelve dollars ($12.00) per month per year of
service.
Furtherdetails are listed in (d) at the Employer’s discretion,
ument.
may be reimbursed.
26/10/95
5
6.01
ARTICLE VT - ANNUAL VACATION
l
Company ServiceforvacationentitlementshaSl be measured as ofyour service(liire) date. Vacation entitlementshall be as follows:
(a)	Where an employee has less thaji one (1) year of Company Service, the employee shall receive 4% of gross earnings from the date on whichvacation pay is calculated.
(b)	Where the employee lias complet td one (1) year of Company Service, the employee shall be entitled to two (2) weeks' acation with pay.
Company Service, the employee
shall be entitled to three (3) weeks vacation with pay	'	'
(d) Where the i	Company Service, the employee
shall be entitled to four (4) weeks vacation with pay.
6.02
Company Serviceforvacation pay purposes	be
first week of the month preceding that in |_
measured from your service(hire) date to the the employeetakes his vacation.
Vacation pay shall be calculated as follows:
Where the employee lias less tha vacation pay will be Calculated a date on which vacationentitleme
Forthe purposes of administrptio olus bbnus for all vacations.,
(a)
((1) ; gn i based.
le minii n annu:
year of Company Service (per 6.01) the gross earnings from the date of hire to the
calculated at base made to calculate
(c)
rate p
vacationasthe greaterof:
1)	base rate plus bonu? times the number of vacation entitlement weeks,
or	'
2)	2% per week of entitlement of gross earnings (based on a 52 week period).
Forthe purposes of calculating vacation pay, gross earnings will include regular pay, weekly bonuses, overtime pay, shift premiums, statutory and floater holiday pay and will exclude othervacationpayme its in the period.
Employees who have been absen from work for more than 240 hours during the period from July 1 to June 30 wil receive vacation pay at 2% of gross earnings for each week of entitlement. Emp oyees who were absent due to layoff, Maternity Leave, WCB, or Weekly Sick Benefits will be paid their weeks of vacation entitlementas in 6.02 b) above.
6.03	Vacation pay will be paid to the employee onlj? when the vacation is taken and any vacation pay and entitlements not taken in the vacation pejriod (December 1 to November 30) will not carry forwardto the subsequentvacationyear.
6.04	Employeeswho terminate with less than one (f) year of Company Service (per 6 01), will receive 4% of gross earnings from the date of hire to the date of termination.
6.05	Employees who terminate vith more than gtje (1) year of Company Service as of the date of
termination, will receive vacation pay calculated at 4% of gross earnings for the period beginning with the day followingthe fast day! of scheduled plant vacation, ending on the day of termination and exclusive of any vacation pay Received for additional vacation entitlement earned prior to the scheduledplant shutdown.
' 6.06	The Employer normally schedulesplant '
agrees to make every reasonable effortto anno later than October 1 st of the year prior to the a
in shutdown(s) each calendaryear. The Employer unce vacation shutdown(s) and floater holidays no jplicable year.
26/10/95
6.07	An employee who becomes ill while on vacation: may substitute that period while ill with sick
leave, if the employee produces a certificate fro	registered medical doctorverifying the nature
of the illness and the period during which the employee was incapacitated.
6.08	Employees wishing a leave of absence for personal reasons may apply in writing for special consideration which may be granted at die discretion of the Employer.
6.09	Vacation requests outside of the shutdown period (as determined in 6.06 above) shall be submitted prior to November 1 of die year preceding the vacationyear. Vacation wdl be granted according to plant seniority depending on production needs of die faedity. The Employer shall respond to such employee’srequest in writing qy December 1 or not later dian 30 calendar days from the date of request.
26/10/95
7
ARTICLE Vn - HOLIDAYS
7.01
For each' calendar year the Employer shall giant to each of its eligible employees the following nine (9) holidays:
New Year's Day Gxd Friday Victoria Day Canada Day CivicHoliday
LI >ourDay T1 anksgiving Day C ristmas Day Bi xine Day
In Addition, diree (3) floatingholidays will fcb gi amed by die Employerat dates to be detennined by mutual agreementbetweendie Employer and die Union (per 6.06). The Employer shall pay to the employees for each holiday at
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
An employee shall be eligible for holiday immediately preceding and fodowingdie pail cause an employee to be ineligible for holiday furnishsatisfactory proof of illness, i
he has worked his regularly scheduled work day except that authorized absence shall not Employer may require the employee to a doctor’s certificate.
An employee on lay-off status is entitled to holiday pay if the lay-off during which die holiday occurred is not of more dian two weeks duration.
if the holiday falls on a Saturday, the preced1 Rg Friday shall be observed as die holiday, if die holiday falls on a Sunday,die Monday follow! *g shall be observed as the holiday.
An employeereturninglfom an absence whic'1 is covered by U.I.C. benefits wdl receive payment for statutory holidays duringdiis period at basF rate plus bonus milusthe benefit paid by U.I.C.
26/10/95
8
ARTICLE Vm • WORKWEEK AND OVERTIME
8.01	A normal work week shall consist of forty (4(J) hours divided into five (5) working days from Monday to Friday inclusive. The normal w|rk week is defined to commence at 12:01 am Monday and ends at 11:59 p.m. Friday.
8.02	(a) Overtime is defined a s work perform!
Overtime work as defined herein shall below) except that where an employee in the week, the excess will be paid at However, the regular hours worked fro] (40) in accordance with Article !
of the employee’s normal work hours. paid at time and one half (as in 8.03 and 8.04 n excess of ten (10) hours overtime ouble time (2X) for work performed.
Monday to Friday must amount to forty
(b) In those cases where the employee doe^not complete his regularly scheduled shift at the request of the Employer, or due to a vejlfiable personal emergency, which requires the employee to leave the plant, overtime touts worked in accordance with Article 8.02 (a) will be paid at overtime rates.
(c)	Ouertine shall be worked on a sen )rity by job function basis, understanding that employees performing modified wor) (light duty) or employees in training are not generally eligible for overtime work.
(d)	When overtime is needed on acertain )b functionemployeesonthatjob function will be notified as soon as reasonably possibli and employees who wish to work overtime must sign an availability list. The most :nior person(s) on the list will be assigned the overtime available.
(e) To support production needs, in cases >f absences, machine delay, etc., an employee on the same shift who is available an trained on the affected job function will be transferred to fill the need. When th is not possible, persons on the next shift within the samejob functionwill be called in irder of seniority to fill the need.
8.03	Any employee working overtime in a higher ' age class, will be paid overtime at the base rate plus bonus (if bonus earned in the applicable pi (duction week) for the hours worked in the higher wage class.
8.04	Hours worked in excess of the regularly schedu ;d work hours in each day will be compensated at the rate of time and one half of thejob’s base ate plus bonus (if bonus earned in the applicable production week).
8.05	All employees shall have paid ten (10) minute iSt periods in the forenoon and afternoon.
8.06	If an employee reports to work on schedule without having received prior notice from the Employer not to report, such employee shal be entitled to fair (4) hours of work or the equivalent in wages (at the base plus bonus if >onus earned in the applicable production week). The provisions of this Article shall not apply f no work is available as a result of fire, flood, power failure, or other causesbeyond the contr I of the Employer.
8.07	Ail overtime shall be on a voluntary basis,
8.08	All employees will be paid a shift premium 1 ‘ $0.35/hour for hours worked on the afternoon shift.
26/10/95
9
ARTICLE IX - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
9.01	A grievance shall consist only of a dispute regarding interpretation, application or alleged violation of the Collective Agreement. In a sjhcere effort by both parties to resolve the dispute, a grievance shall be handled in accordance wit*1! tthe followingprocedure:
9.02	The grievance shall be discussed within fiv6 [3) working days of the occurrence of the situation on which the grievance is based, by the Uni<u Steward, the employee involved, and his or her immediate supervisor, in an attempt to settle the matter. The supervisor involved shall give a written answer with respect to the grievance within one (1) working day followingthe discussion, if the answer given does not settle the issu, then the employee and the Union Steward may proceed with the next grievance step.
9.03	Within three (3) working days following recjeipt of the answer provided by Step 1, the Union Representatives and the aggrieved employee shall present the grievance in writing to the Production Manager and/or her designate in an attempt to settle the matter, if settlement is reached, the matter shall be considered cloi d. if the grievance is not settled, a written and signed decision setting forth management’s p sition and the reasons therefore, shall be submitted by management to the Union President, the 'nion Steward and the aggrieved employee within two (2) working days following said meeting. If the grievance is not settled at this step, then:
9.04	Within seven (7) working days following receipt of management’s written decision, the Regional Representative, alongwith the Local Representatives and the aggrieved employee shall meet with the Employer and attempt to settle the gri ranee. In the event that any complaints, claims, disputes or differences are not settled in accordance vdth the foregoing steps, then same may be submittedto arbitration in accordance with Amide X herein.
9.05	The Employer and the Union may mutually agree to have a Grievance Mediator assist in resolving the grievance prior to Arbitration.
26/10/95
ARTICLE X - ARBITRATION
10,01	Only thofce grievances or disputes between th which involve an alleged violation of a not been properly interpreted or arbitration under this Section. disagreementsor disputes, in following the final meeting as described in Ai
an Arbitrator, the appointment shall be made request of either party.
Employer and the employee and/or the Union, n of this Agreement or an allegation that it has be carried beyond die grievance procedure into on or the Employer may request arbitration of le during a period of fourteen (14) calendar days cle XI, paragraph 4, Upon such timely request,
Union shall have the option to
select either a	Board. If the parties cannot agree upon
>y the Minister of Labour for Ontario upon the
Arbitration Board. In die event diat an Arbitr settle the grievance, each party shall appoint a a mutuady agreeable Chainnan of the Arbitral!
ion Board is selected as die mediod employed to ominee to die Board. The nominees shall select n Board.
26/10/95
11
ARTICLE XI - I ISCHARGE
11.01	No employee covered by this Agreement shd l be discharged or disciplined without just cause. The Employer shall, however, continue tol have the right and authority to discipline and discharge employeesforjust cause. Grievanc or disputes, alleging improper disciplinary action or discharge, must be filed with the Emploj in writing, within five (5) working days after receipt by the Union of notice concerning sai disciplinary action or discharge. Failure to file a timely grievance will cause the employee to )rfeit any right or claim to reinstatement or back pay. If the grievance or complaint cones ning disciplinary action or discharge cannot be adjusted by mutual agreement between ref esentatives of the Union and the Employer as provided in Article IX, paragraph 4, saiq grievance or complaint shall be processed in accordance with Article X herein.
11.02	The Employer may terminate an employeedu ng the probationary period (as defined in 4.03)for any reason it considers sufficient, including without limiting the generality of the preceding, work deemed inadequate by the Employer oi inability to get along With Management or fellow Employees.
26/10/95
1:
ARTICLE XU - ABSENCES
12,01	An employee who is absent from work for ttvo (2) consecutive working days, without valid reason, will be terminated from employment. Therefore, in case of absence, a valid reason must be promptly given to the Employer by
An employee who is absent due to illness fcjr three (3), or more, consecutive days, may be required to provide satisfactory proof of illness including a doctor's certificate.
12,02	For purposes of this Article, disability will t>d taken to mean illnesses or accidents which are neither governed by, nor compensated by	Law. Upon written request,
leaves of absence for reasons of disability shall be granted to an employee who has completed sixty (60)days of serviceand all benefits will continue to accrue including seniority.
The Employer will hold open for six ^maitths, a job left vacant by virtue of its incumbent employee being on approved disability leave Qf absence. In the case of absences over six (6) months and up to one (1) year, the Employers 11 reinstate the employee in the same or similar job. Extensions may be granted at the Employers discretion.
Employees on extended leave may be notice of their expected return to work followin,
lo provide the Employer with up to one (1) week disability leave of absence.
12,03	In the event of the death of a spouse (which inc ludes common-law or same-sex spouse), child, or
a parent of an employee, the	(3) working days leave of absence with
pay.	’	’
In the event of the death of a brother, sister, n Ither-in-law, father-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, daughter-in-law, son-in-law, grandpan ts, grandchildren, or grandparent of a spouse, the Employer will grant three (3) working day s lei e of absence with pay.
12.04	Upon written request, unpaid leaves of absenc	for compassionate reasons may be granted at the
discretion of the Employer. Approval of s	:h leaves of absence will not be unreasonably
withheld and will be given to employees in wn ng,
12.05	Leaves of absence without loss of seniority she be granted to a reasonable number of employees selected as delegates to Union conventions, co erences and other similar functions. Such leaves shall not exceed two (2) weeks unless otherwi : mutually agreed upon and such employees shall be reinstated to their respective previous] obs u an their return to work.
12.06	The Employer shall pay an employee who is i<	juired forjury service, for each day of service, at
the employee's base rate plus bonus (if bonus <	imed in the applicable production week) and the
employee will forward their payment forjury ervice to the Employer. In order to qualify for this payment, the employee must present proof' f service.
12.07	Any employee who leaves the employ of the	Employer or transfers from Union to Salary and
returns, shall gain past serviceupon serving at :qual amount of time of continuous service a s the length of the leave.
26/10/95
13
ARTICLE XIII-NON	TION
13.0 The parties hereto agree that the provisions this Agreement shall be applied to all employees or applicants for employment without regal to race, colour, religious creed, national origin, handicap or sex.
26/10/95
1
ARTICLE XTV. fj'ENIORITY
14.01	The Employer will recognize individual geliioritv after the successful completion of the probationary period.
14.02 a)
b)
In the event of a temporary layoff o ftw]o layofifwill be governed by plant senio; temporary layoff shall be recalled to th
reverseseniority basis '________________
(2) weeks or less in planned duration, such within respectivejob functions. Employees on within the respectivejob function, on a nes available.
rty
In the event of a temporary layoffof weeks in planned duration, such 1 that is the employee's ;___________
)re than two (2) weeks but less than fourteen (14) will be governed by plant seniority within ajob eemoloyeehas achieved trained status.
14.03 In the event of a permanent layoff of more than| thirteen by plant seniority within aj ob that is the em trained status, orthe employee has the abilityto
(13) weeks, such layoffwill be governed n^loyee’s primary job, the employee has achieved learn within two weeks.
14.04 Where possible, permanent shift assignments kvill be offered to qualified employees based on plant seniority withinjob functions.
14.05 In the event of elimination or indefinite layoffs on the afternoon shift, employees affected will have the right to exercise their plant seniority on the day shift within their respectivejob functions.
26/10/95
15
ARTICLE XV - SE PARABILITY
15.01	Should any part of this :	by reason of any existing or
subsequently enacted	jurisdiction or by the
decision of any ;	or provisions shall
not invalidate the remainderthereof.
26/10/95
I
ARTICLE XVll-WAGES
16.01 Employees in Group classifications hereto sfet out in the Wage Schedule shall be paid the appropriate hourly rate for the Groupclassificqtion, effectiveas of the date set forth in die Wage Schedule.
16.02
The Employer shall establish standards of pircjduction tiiresholds of cost, production and quality individuals. Employees assigned to such groi wage payments for collectively based on regular hourly bonus rate times
and quality for jobs and further establish 'or collective groups of jobs and/or team(s) of ps or teams shall be eligible to receive additional h threshold standards. Bonus payments will be r hours worked duringthe eligible period.
16.03
16.04
An employee who is required to temporarily receive the higher rate of pay if they If an employee is required to temposarily fill base rate will not change.
Quotas as set, are the minimum requirements ensure tiiat bonus payments may be made for tft
which carries a higher rate of pay shall t|iejob for four (4) or more hours during that shift, job which carries a lower rate of pay, his or her
to be readily attainable so as to
e effortexpended.
26/10/95
17
ARTICLEXVTT ■ TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE
17.01	It is understood that the Employer shall make e very reasonable effort to reassign those employees displaced as a result oftechnologicalchange* V offeringthe displaced employeea choice betw een a vacancy in the samejob class on the same! flift or thejob held by the mostjunior employee in their ownjob classonthe same shift or a lo^T job class on the same shift. Thejunior employee displaced as a result will be placed in a vacW position and if there is no vacancy, then Article XIV (Seniority)will apply.
17.02	The Employer will make a reasonable effort jo inform the Union and the affected employees of planned technological changes at the earliest oossible date and the potential impact on the affectedjobs or employees.
17.03	Insofar as practicable, when ajob is eliminated and one is created in its place, the employee(s) on the affected job(s) will have right of first refusal on the newlv created job.
26/10/95
1:
ARTICLE XVm - JOB POSTING
18.01	When additionaljobs are created or when a jib becomes vacant, the Employer shall post such jobs for forty-eight (48) hours. The Union will be given a copy of suchjob postings,
18.02	Job applicants must have been employed witH die Employer for at least sis (() mondis. The senior employee applying witiiin die time a job is posted, who possesses sufficient skdl and ability to perfonn the work to be done shall be given thejob.
18.03	The employee shall be granted a period of tu/6 (2) working days on the newjob in which diey shall have the opportunity to transfer back to i heir originaljob. Once the employee accepts the
job they will be placed on a training	Should the employee fail to demonstrate
satisfactory progress, then the employee '	subject to placement in an available position
regardless of pay group. If diere are no availal le positions, dien the employee is subjeetto layoff as governed in Sectionl4,03, Once placed, thp employee remains subjeetto Sectionl8,04 from the date of the most recent placement.
18.04	A successful applicant cannot apply for another! posted iob until twelve (12) mondis from the date of transfer.
18.05	Jobs which becomevacant as a result of a transfer pursuantto Sectionl8,01, wdl not necessardy be filledby subsequentjobposdngs,
18,06	In the event diat the successful candidate i: reasonable time frame, the Employerwill make for die delay and wdl attemptto rectify the pro!
: not transferred to the new position widiin a every effortto infonnthe employee of the reasons as promptly as possible.
26/10/95
19
ARTICLEXVI -PERFORIN7 NCE EXPECTATIONS
19.01 Employees shall become multi-skilled, involv |d in non-sewing activities, and work co-operatively within a team environment, as assigned.
26/10/95
20
ARTICLEXX-rar.ttKEND SHIFT
20.01 The majority of employees will continue to wo rf regular day or afternoon shifts.
In order to meet incremental needs of the businrs, a partial shift(s) may be scheduled.
For those employees working a partial	seniority will be calculated by adding together
days worked (more the four (4) hours in a	their date of hire. For purposes of all other
clauses in this agreement, seniority will be
Employees whose normal scheduled work week [consists of less than twenty (20) hours will not be entitled to benefits or holidays other than which!is provided for the Employment Standards Act.
As with full-time employees, quotas as set, are the minimum requirements for ajob. They are to be readily attainable soasto ensure that bonus payments may be made for the effortexpended.
26/10/95
21
ARTICLE XXI - TERllIl OF AGREEMENT
21.01 This Agreement shall become effeclhta-M-arch 9, 199*, and shall remain in full force and effect
IsFTal
automatically renewed from year to year thereafter, unless, on or before January 9, 19feH, or January 9th of any year thereafter, notice in writing by certified mail is given by either th< Employer or the Union to the other of its intention to terminate or modify this Agreement. Ir the event that notice to terminate is given, this Agreement shall be terminated upon the en: uing March 9th, but shall continue in effect until such time as an agreement is reached	parties or either party gives written notice to
the other that it desires to terminate this Agreement in which event this Agreement shall be terminated on said date.
For the Employer;
the Union:
Paul Barker	:n Baker
Katie Hunter	endv Mclnnes
Paul Lavergne	nod Chhabra
Patti Smyth	rrlenePettitt
	ena Clayton
	ale Murphy
	aura Pfau
26/10/95
■TOBGRdUPS
GROUP1
Clip Pockets Pocket Setters Serge left Fly SergeBacks Button Fly
Attach Watch Pocket Hem Hip Pocket Hang Front Pocket Sew Left Fly Attach Facing 7 & 8 SergeFronts Manual Scallop SergePockets Tack loop
Button & Buttonhole Band End Leather Labels Rivets Make Loops Zipper Station Packing Turn Pants Cutting Repair Material Handler Spreaders Gerber Take-off Auto Riser Auto Hem/ Scallop Riser Label Close Pocket Label Printing
GROIIP2
Set Front P^kets Bartack
Serge Right] Fly Join Crotch
Two Needlt Front Pocket
Bartack
Pocket Bag
GROUP3 Manual Risfr Seatseam Waistband
Fell Inseaml/ Outseam Hem Legs Serge Pockets Sideseam Cord Outsei im Gerber Ope ator Cutting EMe Operator
26/10/95
23
GROTTP4
Forklift
WAGE SCHEDULE
Potential Bonus Total
Potential Bonus TCaL
Group 3
Potential Bonus TbtaL
Group4 Potential Bonus TfcfcaL
MARCH 9/95	MARCH 9/96	MARCH 9/97
$09.36	$09.56	$09.56
____.94	 .94	1.13
$10.30	$10.50	$10,69
$09.83	$10.03	$10.03
___M	 M	 L18
$10.81	$11.01	$11,21
$10.30	$10.50	$10.50
1.03	1.03	1.24
SI 1.33	SI 1-53	$11.74
$09.70	$09.90	$09.90
___M	 M	 JO
$10.30	$10,50	$10,70
26/10/95
2
LETTER OFlINDftRSTANnTNO MODIFIEDlfoVORK
Employees returning to work from a non-work related llillnpc® nr ininrv mav tin nrovided with modified
26/10/95
25
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING INDIVIDUALPERFO(RMANCE BONUS
The Employer's intention, as soon as practical and vjitl the involvement of the Union Executive, is to establish an individual performance bonus that will	improvement in sewing and non-sewing
performance.
26/10/95