SOURCE	T J fYlLOy"v			
err.	CW		ia.	J5_
TERM..				
No. or iMnoYtes		4-30		
NOMIRI O'lMPlOiJS				
COMBINED AGREEMENT BETWEEN
AND
UNITED GARMENT WORKERS OF, AMERICA LOCAL 35 (A.F.L.. 0,1^0,
INDEX
Article 1	-	Definitions
Article 2	-	Recognition
Article 3	-	Access to Plants
Article 4	-	Conditions of Employment
Article 5	-	Supply of Workers
Article 6	-	Prohibitions
Article 7	- Transfer from one Operation to Another
Article 8	- Settlement of Disputes
Article 9	- Hours of Work and Overtime
Article 10	-	Breakdown of	Machinery
Article 11	-	Rest Period
Article 12	-	Lay-Offs and	Temporary	Help
Article 13 - Seniority
Article 14 - Discharge and Discipline
Article 15 - Holidays with Pay
Article 16 - Vacations with Pay
Article 17 - \Naga Rated and Related Factors
Article 18	-	Cutters
Article 19	-	Establishing	Piecework	Prices
Article 20 - Establishing or Changing Piecework Prices
Article 21 - Underpayment to Workers Article 22 - Miscellaneous Article 23 - Leave of Absence Article 24 - Health & Safety Article 25 - Technological Change Article 26 - Goodwill Article 27 - Benefits
Article 28 - Duration and Revision of Agreement
Page 1
Page 3 Page 4 Page 4 Page 4 Page 5 Page 5 Page 8 Page 10 Page 11 Page 12 Page 12 Page 15 Page 15 Page 16 Page 17 Page 20 Page 21 Page 21 Page 22
Page 23 Page 23 Page 24 Page 25 Page 26 Page 26 Page 26 Page 27
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT made in duplicate as and from the 16th day of December, 1991,
BETWEEN:
WESTERN GLOVE WORKS LTD. (hereinafter called the "Manufacturer"),
OF THE FIRST PART
and
UNITED GARMENTWORKERS OF AMERICA, LOCAL 35 (hereinafter cal Ied the "Union"),
OF THE SECOND PART.
WHEREAS the Manufacturer is engaged in the manufacture of overalls, shirts, playsuits, pants, wind-breakers, sports apparel and other garments,
AND WHEREAS the Union is composed of Workers engaged in various occupations in connection with such manufacturing who are or will be from time to time employed by the manufacturer in their factories.
NOW THEREFORE THIS AGREEMENT WITNESSETH that the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARILC1E 1 - DEFINITIONS I n this agreement:
(a) "Average Hourly Rate" or "Average Hourly Earnings" means:
Average hourly rata over a period of three (3) months immediately preceding the application of the average hourly rate or earnings based on the number of regular hours worked by such employee divided into the total earnings over the said three (3) months period during such regular hours, Piece work average to be calculated on actual hours performed on piece work, The three (3) month period shall be calculated from the 15th day of December to the 14th day of March, from the 15th day of March to the 14th day of June, from the 15th day of June to the 14th day September and from the 15th day of September to the 14th day of December.
2
(f)
(g)
(h)
(i)
"Cutting Room Help" where referred to in this Agreement or schedule means :
Personnel working the Cutting Room, other than those using cutting knives or shears for actual production purposes.
"Holiday" means:
New Years Day	Remembrance Day
Good Friday	Christmas Day
Victoria Day	Boxing Day
Canada Day
Civic Holiday
Labou r Day
Thanksgiving Day
"Manuf acturer" means:
An employer who is signatory to the Memorandum of Agreement.
"Worker" means :
An employee of a Manufacturer but for the purpose of this Agreement shall exclude mechanics, office staff, sales staff, foremen, foreladies.
"Regular Working Hours" means:
Regular working hours is the normal operating time for any particular shift.
"Operational Seniority" is defined as applying within a single operation (eg. J-stitching, side seaming, bar tacking, bar tack loops, etc. ).
"Sectional Seniority" is defined as applying to operators working on identical machinery within the same department (eg. single needle machines, double needle machines, etc.).
"Departmental Seniority" is defined as applying to a II operators on machines under the control of a single supervisor (eg. parts, fronts, backs, cutting, finishing, etc.).
3
ARTICLE 2 - RECOGNITION
2.01	The Union recognizes the Manufacturer in the same manner as the Manufacturer recognizes the Union,
2.02	The Manufacturer shall not hereafter make any agreement with any individual workers nor exact or accept any cash deposit or other security from a worker nor enter into any agreement with any individual worker guaranteeing any length of employment,
2.03	The Union and its officials must not interfere with the discipline and management of the factories and must not restrict employment or curtail production,
2.04	The Manufacturer agrees that the Union is the exclusive bargaining agent for the employees of each member with reference to wages, hours and working conditions.
2.05	The Union recognizes that the Manufacturer has the exclusive control of matters relating to management and conduct of its business, the planning, processing and determining of methods of plant operation and the kind and use of equipment and materials.
2.06	Except as otherwise provided by this Agreement, the Manufacturer has the exclusive right to hire, promote, lay-off, to discipline and discharge employees for just cause.
2.07	Subject t o the expressed provisions of t h is Agreement, these statements of management functions shall not be deemed to exclude other functions not specifically stated herein and any of the rights, powers or authorities which management has relating to management functions are retained exclusively by the Manufactuer. The Manufactuer shall not exercise the right to direct the workforce in a discriminatory, unequitable, or unfair manner.
4
2.08	The Manufacturer recognizes United Garment Workers of America as the sole and exclusive bargaining agent for all workers of Western Glove factories in the Province of Manitoba.
TO PLANTS
The business representative of the Union shall be admitted, at all reasonable time during business hours to the premises of the Manufacturer when on legitimate business for the Union.
ARTICLE 4 ~ CONDITIONS QF EMPLOYMENT
4.01	Every worker engaged in the manufacturing of garments in the factories of the Manufacturer shall be not less than sixteen (16) years of age and must be a member in good standing of the Union, But, all learners and beginners shall be given six (6) weeks time to become members of the Union.
4.02	The Manufacturer shall deduct from the wages earned by each member of the union the monthly dues of the Union as the Union may determine from time to time and also any initiation fees (and arrears in dues and assessments officially requested by the Union).
4.03	Workers must not be engaged in Union activities during working hours or on the Manufacturer's premises and must be at work on time, and must not be absent without permission, but such permission shall not be unreasonably withh e Id by the Manufacturer.
4.04	In keeping with Union principles, the quality standards as set out by the Manufacturer shall be maintained by all Union members.
ARTICLE 6 - SUPPLY OF WORKERS
5.01	The Union agrees to co-operate in supplying to the Manufacturer a constant and adequate supply cf workers as required in each factory,
5
It Is the Intent of this agreement that the Union shall use all possible means to assure such adequate supply of help,
5.02	The Union undertakes and agrees, forthwith after the execution of this agreement, to maintain a special department of the Union for the unionizing of all non-Union shops in this district and the Union further agrees that it will make a concerted and vigorous effort to accelerate the unionizing of non-Union shops, with the object of establishing uniformity and stability in this industry in this district.
ARTICLE 6 - PROHIBITIONS
6.01 No Manufacturer shall give out work to the home of any person.
6.02 Copies of this agreement between the Union and the Manufacturer shall be lodged with the Department of Labour.
6.03	All knowledge obtained by the Union representatives in the various factories in the course of performing their Union duties are to be kept strictly confidential by them and must not be divulged to any other Manufacturer.
6.04	The Manufacturer shall not engage or take part in any lock-outs,
6.05	No worker shall take part in any strikes, slow-downs, sit-downs, stoppages, unusual holidays, or a cessation of work, or slowing down of work of any nature or kind whatsoever,
ARTICLE 7 _ RANSFER FROM ONE 0PERATI0JQ3._ANQIfc[ER
7.01	The average hourly rate for a two (2) weak period to be paid in case of a transfer from one operation to another providing:
(a)	that the request is made by the Manufacturer at a time when the employee has sufficient work at his/her own operation;
6
(b)	that the transfer is not of a seasonal type when this Is normal to the operation of the Manufacturer;
(c)	that the transfer is not made as a result of change-overs in types of garments being made by the Manufacturer, also when this is Inconsistent to the operation of the Manufacturer;
(d)	workers shall not refuse to do any work which they are given whether same consists of a transfer from one job to another or not, provided, however, that a worker may reject a transfer from his/her operation to another if there is no work available at her own operation.
7.02	Incase of dissatisfaction with the work given, or the transfer made, workers must continue to do such work as is given or to which they have been transferred, but may complain in the manner set forth in Article 8 hereof, and the procedure therein provided for shall then be proceeded with, so that the complaint may be heard and adjudicated upon through the machinery provided by said Article 8.
7.03	Whenever there shall be a breach of any of the provisions of this Article by the workers, or by any of them, no negotiations shall take place, and no complaints shall be heard Or adjudicated upon, until all workers who have committed such breach are back to work in the usual way unless the parties otherwise agree. If the worker commits a breach of the provisions of this Article 7, then the Union wi II be held fully responsible far such breach and agrees to discipline all workers who commit the same.
7.04	Wages earned on piece work shall not be utilized in any part of any working day or week to cover work performed on time work transfer or a second operation. Employees who have an operation which provides
7
short hours in each day shall be granted a second operation to provide 40 hours whenever possible (seniority shall prevail),
7.05	\Nben an operator is transferred to an alternate operation she/he shall be paid a split incentive bonus as follows:
(a)	average hourly earnings or
(b)	split incentive
Split incentive shall consist of the following breakdown:
Example:	Piecework tickets - 80* + 50* of average hourly
earnings, provided the operator does not make more than his/her average piece work on direct piece work rate, The above percentage can be changed according to the severity of the change. The above Is to apply if the operator is not an his/her regular operation.
Example :	n an operator is requested to do other work on
his/her own machine with new methods which are entirely different to his/her regular operation this shall be considered a transfer.
VVhen an operator has one or more established operations on a regular basis the additional operations shall not be considered a transfer.
7.06	No utility operator will be given any operation which will cause shortage of work on any particular line.
Floaters shall be laid off by seniority. No floater shall be guaranteed a forty (40) hour weak when other senior employees are baing laid off.
Consideration shall be given when delivery problems are in question, Operators out of work by seniority shall be offered a transfer to operations available that are not assigned to any particular operator.
a
AR TI CUE. 8 - SETTLEMENT OF PISPUTES
8.01	A grievance i s any controversy, complaint, misunderstanding or dispute arising as to the meaning, application or observance of any of the provisions of this agreement.
8.02	A I I grievances shall be taken upon Manufacturer's time during regular working hours for the settlement of disputes and grievances with no deduction of wages and/or benefits of such representative for time spent during working hours.
8.03	If a Shop Steward is required to be temporarily absent from his/her station or department in connection with a grievance, he/she shall first notify the immediate Supervisor in that section or department before leaving his/her station. He/she must then report to the Supervisor in charge of the section visited before contacting any employee in the said section,
8.04	It is agreed that a desirable feature of the grievance procedure will be to settle a 11 grievances promptly, and that consultation i n any step of the procedure will take place quietly and speedily so that friction and animosity will be reduced to a minimum.
8.05	After the initial occurrence of the grievance a Shop Steward shall be present at all meetings between Management and Employee.
8.0Q Step One
An employee having a grievance shall take it up with his/her section Supervisor Immediately. The Supervisor shall give his/her decision within two (2) working days.
Step Two
If the grievance is not settled as outlined in Step One, then the
9
grievance shall be submitted by a Shop Steward inwriting to the Plant Manager within five (5) working days from the time the grievance is presented under Step One, and the Plant Manager shall render his/her decision 1n writing to the Shop Steward within two (2) working days from the time the written grievance was received by him/her.
Step Three
If the decision of the Plant Manager i s not accepted by the Local Union then the matter will be discussed at a meeting within five (5) working days with the Business Agent and Local Grievance Committee. If the matter i s not resolved then the matter can be submitted to arbitration by either party.
8.07	Both parties can' request a reasonable extension of time limits stated in this grievance procedure provided that such extension is mutually agreed upon by both parties in writing.
a.08 If the grievance or complaint is an error in calculation, then all remuneration due the employee shall be made retroactive to the date of the i n i t i a I occurrence.
8.09	If the said decision is not accepted by either of the parties, or if no decision is rendered by the grievance committee® as required by 8.06 hereof, it may be referred by either party to a single arbitrator.
8.10	Each party shall name three (3) names to the other to be considered as an arbitrator. If the parties fail to agree upon an arbitrator within ten (10) working days they shall request the Minister of Labour to appoint same. When the appointment of an arbitrator has been concluded, the arbitrator shall have the power to determine whether the matter before him is arbitrable. Having made such determination the
arbitrator shall hear and determine the differences and shall issue a
IQ
decision, and that decision shall be final and binding upon the p a r ties.
8.11	The expenses of the arbitrator shall be share equally by the parties, a.12 A grlevor who fails to present a grievance to the next step within the grievance procedure within the prescribed time shall be deemed to have abandoned the grievance unless an extension of the time limits 1s mutually agreed to be both parties.
ARTICLE 9 - HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
9.01	The standard work week shall consist of f rty (40) regular h urs of employment consisting of eight (8) hours per day, Monday to Friday inclusive in each calendar week; provided that where a Holiday occurs on any day within a standard work week, the regular hours of employment shall exclude eight (8) hours per Holiday.
9.02	Whenever the Manufacturer requires overtime work the Union and the Workers must co-operate fully whenever possible.
9.03	OVERTIME DURING STANDARD WORK WEEK
(a)	All work in excess of the regular working hours per day during the standard work week shall be considered as overtime.
(b)	Ail work in excess of the regular working hours per day shall be considered as overtime and shall be paid for at the rate of time and one-half (1-1/2).
(c)	No overtime shall be performed on a Union Meeting night, which falls on the first Wednesday of every month (excluding July and August).
9.04	OVERTIME ON SATURDAYS AND HOLIDAYS
(a) All work dona on Saturdays shall be considered as overtime and
11
shall be paid for at the rate of time and one-half (1/2),
(b)	All work done on a Holiday, shall be considered as overtime and shall be paid for at the rate of triple (3) time, that is double (2) time for the work performed, plus payment for the holiday as
provided by Article 15 hereof.
(c)	In the event an employee works a full weeks work, with full week defined as seven (7) consecutive days, the seventh day of work will be paid at double time,
9.05	LAUNDRY MIDNIGHT SHIFT
The laundry midnight shift will be brought in line with the other shifts with regards to paid and unpaid hours, and shift starting time. The shift will start at 11:30 p.m. and finish at 8:00 a.m. Eight (8) hours will be paid each shift, with one-half (1/2) hour observed as an unpaid lunch break.
9.06	No Worker shall engage in any overtime work in any factory or shop in this industry other than the factory of his or her own Manufacturer without the explicit written consent of the said Manufacturer,
ARTTr.1 Flp- BREAKDOWN OF MACHINERY
10.01	Wien a worker reports for work, he/she shall be guaranteed a minimum of four (4) consecutive hours of work or four (4) hours of pay at the average hourly rate unless he/she has previously been advised by the Manufacturer not to report for work.
10.02	The provisions set out in sub-paragraph 10.01 hereof shall not apply when the plant is unable to commence operation due to any matter, cause or thing beyond the control of the Manufacturer.
12
10.03	A worker must; report to a Foreman or Forelady when his/her machine is not in suitable working order, piece work average shall be paid for lass of time. The Worker will again report to the Foremanor Forelady who will give him/her other employment or permission to go horns, Where a machine delay has occurred, after the first 15 minutes waiting time, piece work average shall be paid for loss of time.
10.04 The employee must report breakdown of machinery to the supervisor. The supervisor shall mark paper or punch out card to record time, No operator shall be penalized because of delay by the mechanic servicing another machine.
10.05	When the operator is requested to move to another machine of the same type on a temporary basis while his/her own machine 1s being repaired, the temporary machine shall be serviced (thread, etc.) to enable the operator to perform his/her piece work rate.
ARTICLE 11 - REST PERIOD
11.01	There are to be two (2) ten (10) minute rest periods, one "organized" and the other to be arranged for the Manufacturer,
11.02	When two (2) hours of overtime is requested there shall be a fifteen (15) minute break granted far supper. When three (3) hours overtime is requested, twenty (20) minutes shall be granted.
ARTICLE 12 - LAY-OFFS AND TEMPORARY HELP (SENIORITY)
12.01	Senior itv;
Whenever lay-offs are necessary, they are to be put into affect as follows:
a)	If the lay-off is to be of eight (8) hours or less, operational seniority shall apply.
13
b)	If the lay-off is to be more than eight (8) hours but less than eighty (80) hours, sectional seniority shall apply.
c)	|-fffhe lay-off is to be of more than eighty (80) hours, the Manufacturer shall inform the Union. Workers shall be laid off based on departmental seniority, as long as the workers to be retained have the ability to perform the operations in question. Ability is defined in terms of quality and speed as demonstrated during a maximum eight (8) working hours assessment during which time such employee shall be paid at his/her piece work average. If, after this period, the employee is able to demonstrate competence to the satisfaction of management, earnings will be determined by the piece work rate for that operation without any guarantee of average or additions.
d)	The manufacturer shall have the option of dividing the work so that each worker will recieve approximately an equal amount of work or of dividing the hours on equal working time up to a period of two (2) weeks or eighty (80) hours. If the period in question exceeds eighty (80) hours, refer to paragraph c) above.
12.02 No temporary help shall be employed by the Manufacturer unless there is a full weak’s work for the permanent workers. The Union is to supply all temporary help when available provided the same is acceptable to the Manufacturer.
12.03	Notification:
a) Short term lay-off- Short term lay-offs shalI be defined as any lay-off that is less than four (4) weeks. The Manufacturer shall notify employees one (1) week prior to the affective date of layoff, unless the lay-off is due to unforeseen circumstances.
14
Ib) Long term lay-offs- Long term lay-offs shall be defined as any lay-off that exceeds four (4) weeks. The Manufacturer shall notify employees three (3) weeks prior to the effective date of lay-off, unless the lay-off i s due to unforeseen circumstances. c) Permanent Lay-offs - The Manufacturer shall notify employees who are to be permanently laid off four (4) weeks prior to the affective date of lay-off unless the lay-off is due to unforeseen circumstances, If a greater period of notice is required by legislation, such greater period of notice shall be given. d) Notification to the employee shall be in writing and one copy will be sent to the Union.
12.04 Recall:
a) When a lay-off becomes necessary, employees laid off shall be
recalled on the basis of last person laid off shall be the first person recalled. Article 12.01 paragraph c) shall apply if the employee is recalled for any operation other than his/her original operation, No new employees shall be hired until all laid off employees have been given the chance to fill the jobs available, b) Long term lay-offs - Notice of recall to an employee who has been laid off shall be made by registered mail to the last known address of the employee. The employee must respond to such notice within twenty-four (24) hours of receiving it. In the event that he/she has found other employment during a lay-off, then the employee shall be granted the days of termination notice required by the other employer.
15
12-05 Union officers and stewards shall be the last persons laid off and the first persons recalled, subject tu Management and Union determining that employee's ability to perform the job function for which they have been recalled,
ARTICLE 13 - SENIORITY
13.01	Seniority is defined as length of continuous service In the bargaining unit and shall be applied on a departmental or sectional basis.
13.02	If an employee has been transferred, at the request of management, to a position outside of the bargaining unitbutwithin the Company,
and subsequently returns to the bargaining unit within six (6) months, they may do so without loss of operational seniority.
13.03	The Manufacturer s h a 11 maintain a seniority list showing the data upon which each employee's service commenced. A copy of the seniority I ist shall be sent to the Union and shall be kept up-to-date by the Manufacturer.
ARTICLE 14 - DISCHARGE AND DISCIPLINE
14.01 Full power of discharge and discipline lies with the Manufacturer but this power shall be exercised with justice and with regard for the reasonable rights of the worker. The power of discharge shall be exercised only through a fully authorized and responsible represntatl ve of the management.
14.02	No worker shall be discharged or discriminated against for Union activities and the Union shall not require the discharge of any worker unless such worker i s replaced by the Union by another person satisfactory to the Manufacturer.
16
A Union representative shall be present during any disciplinary action. A I I Union members must receive two (2) written warnings before being discharged. The exception being those actions that could be construed as a serious offence.
The Manufacturer shall provide the Union with a copy of any written warning effecting the employees within the bargaining unit.
The record of any disciplinary action shall not be referred to or used against said employee at any time after twelve (12) months following such action.
ABTJLQ.LE—15..-= HOLIDAYS WITH PAY
15.01 (a) Every employee who is a member of the On on shall receive pay for every Holiday based on his/her average hourly or piece work earnings, and such employee has worked the regular hours of work on the work days immediately preceding and succeeding the part ic u la r Holiday unless;
(b)	he/she has been prevented from so working by bona fide illness, o r
(c)	he/she has been absent with the consent of the Manufacturer provided that such absence does not exceed thirty (30) working days,
(d)	Any employee practising paragraph (b) more than twice within one given year could be subject to providing a medical certificate at the Manufacturer's request,
(e)	If any employee shall have reasonable grounds for requiring a leave of absence of five (5) working days, the Manufacturer shall not unreasonably withhold his consent to such absence, it being understood and agreed, for the purpose hereof, that the term
14.03
14.04
14.05
17
”leave of absence” i s exclusive of any absence due to bona fide illness.
15.02	Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this agreement contained, every employee who i s a member of the Union shall be paid for Christmas Day, Nov Year's Day and Boxing Day at the particular worker’s average hourly or piece work earnings.
15.03	Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this agreement contained, any employee who terminated his/her employment during the calendar week in which any of the aforementioned holidays occur without giving at least one (1) weeks's notice prior to the date of terminating the employment, shall not be entitled to payment for such holiday.
15.04 Wien any of the said holidays fall within an employee's vacation period, he/she shall be entitled to an extra day’s pay in lieu thereof.
15.05	VWren anft of the said holidays as set aut in Article 1, paragraph (c) falls on a Saturday or a Sunday same shall be observed on a Friday or Monday, whichever i s agreed upon by Management and the Union.
ARTICLE 16 - VACATIONS WITH PAY
16.01	Every employee who completes a year’s service with the Manufacturer as of July 1st of any year is entitled to an annual vacation of two (2) weeks with pay based upon his/her average hourly earnings.
16.02	The period commencing the 1st day of June in any year and terminating on the 31th day of May in the following year, shall be used for determining the number of regular hours of employment constituting a year's service.
16.03	Every employee who has completed one (1) year service shall be entitled to two (2) weeks vacation with pay.
18
16.04	Every employee who has completed five (6) years service shall be entitled to three (3) weeks vacation with pay.
16.05	Every employee who has completed fifteen (15) years continuous service with the Manuacturer shall be entitled to four (4) weeks vacation with pay at the rata of 8*.
The fourth (4) week vacation shall be taken at the discretion of the Manufacturer.
16.06	Every employee who has completed twenty-five (26) years of continuous service with the Manufacturer shall be entitled to five (5) weeks vacation with pay at the rate of 10%.
The fourth (4) and fifth (5) week shall be taken at the discretion of the Manufacturer.
16.07	Every employee who has completed thirty (30) years of continuous service with the Manufacturer shall be entitled to six (0) weeks vacation with pay at the rate of 12%.
16.08	Any employee entitled to more than three (3) weeks vacation may request in writing three (3) months in advance, that their full entitlement of vacation be granted at one time. All requests will be discussed with, and written copies given to the Union. The consent of management to the request will not be unreasonably withheld and will be granted based upon production needs, date of written request and seniority.
16.09	Every employee not otherwise entitled to two (2) weeks vacation with pay as hereinbefore provided in this Article 15 shall be treated in the fo IIow i n g manner:
Amount of vacation Pay
(a)	Time Workers
Every employee shall be paid his/her regular hourly earnings
19
prevailing at the beginning of his/her vacation.
(b)	Piece Workers
Every employee who works on an incentive basis, the amount of vacation pay payable shall be calculated on —— average weekly earnings for regular working hours during the six (6) months immediately preceding the beginning of the vacation.
(c)	Every employee not entitled to the foregoing paragraphs (a) and
(b)	shall be paid 4* of his/her earnings exclusive of overtime, from the date of commencement of his/her employment.
(d)	Wien a Holiday defined in Article l, paragraph (c) occurs during the period of a vacation with pay, the period of vacation with pay shall be lengthened by one (1) working day.
16.10	An employee shall be entitled to vacation with pay during the period from the 15th day of May to the first day of September as the Manufacturer may find convenient, unless the employee and the Manufacturer agree otherwise.
16.11 Vacation pay shall be paid to all employees on June 1st. In case of termination of employment, as the Vacation with Pay Act provides in Chapter V20 Article 10 and 11.
16.12	The Manufacturer shall place a Vacation Schedule an the bulletin board no later than April 30th of each year thereafter to enable the employees to specify date and length of vacation time. Preference in scheduling of vacations shall be based an seniority. An employee shall receive an unbroken period of vacation unless otherwise mutually agreed upon by the employee and the employer.
20
ARTICLE 17 - WAGE RATED AND RELATED FACTORS
17.01	I n all questions of wage rates, our garment industry in Manitoba is a separate entity whose wages are affected by local conditions prevailing in our own industry here.
17.02	The Manufacturer shall submit to the Union upon request, semi-annual statements indicating the following information for each employee:
(a)	clock number and name
(b)	description of operations performed
(c)	average hourly earnings 1 7.03TIME WORK AND PIECE-WORK
Effective June 15,	1 992	2%
Effective December	15, 1992	2%
Effective December	15, 1993	2.5X
17.04	A supplementary pay of forty	cents ($0.40) per	hour shall be added to
all work performed on piece work.
17.05	All wages shall be paid bi-weekly unless otherwise agreed to by the Union and the Manufacturer.
17.00	Samples are to be paid for on time work rates.
17.07	Time work shall not be the basis of payment where piece work prices are provided.
17.08	Pressers piece work tickets shall be time studied on 10X differential,
17.09	Employees below base rata shall be reviewed and re-evaluated every three (3) months by both Manufacturer and Union. Upon evaluation, one month shall be allowed for the employee to show improvement.
17.10	Implement a scale for all time workers according to departments,
17.11	Any changes in the Provincial minimum wage will result in the time workers scheduled rates to be adjusted accordingly,
21
ARTICLE 18 - CUTTERS
18.01	There shall be three (3) classes of cutters, namely, First Class Cutters, Second Class Cutters, Apprentices of Third Class Cutters, First Class Cutters shall make markers and trade patterns to the extent of adjusting such patterns up and down one size; a Second Class Cutter shall be fully responsible for his/her lay by taking the marker, checking it for omissions, laying up and cutting properly.
18.02	The Manufacturer shall employ at least one (1) First Class Cutter except where such Manufacturer (i.e. proprietor thereof himself/ herself does all the marking in such plant),
18.03	The Manufacturer agrees that the Cutter’s minimum hourly rates shall be as follows for the period effective June 15, 1992, December 15, 1992 and December 15, 1993.
First Class
Second Class (1st Year)
Second Class (2nd ‘fear)
Third Class (by end of 1st year)
Third Class (by end of 2nd year)
Third Class (by end of 3rd year)
JUN. 15/92 $10.13 $9.71 $9.81 $9.29
$9 135
$9147
DEC. 15/92 $10.33 $9.90 $10.01 $9.48
$9.54
$9.68
DEC. 15/9-3 $10.59 $10.15 $10.26 $9.72
$9.78
$9.90
APTIOI F 19 - FftTARI TftHING PIECE WORK PRICES 19.01 Line System
The employee shall be paid his/her previous average hourly earnings unti1 :
(a)	The Manufacturer shall set a piece rate price to fit the new
22
conditions on the job and in addition, the Manufacturer shall have the right to install piece work systems on operations currently paid as time work.
(b)	If after working on the operaton for a period of two (2) weeks the employee feels that the new piece rata price is inadequate, a written complaint to that effect shall be submitted by the shop chairperson, The Manufacturer shall then re-check the rate and meet with the Union representative for settlement;
(c)	In the event that the meeting referred to in subparagraph (b) hereof does not result in settlement of the complaint, the dispute may then be dealt with as provided in Article 8 hereof.
19.02	if after a further period of two (2) weeks no written grievance has
been submitted, it is assumed that the Union has accepted the new piece rate price.
ART1C I F 20 - ESTABLISHING OR CHANGING PIECE WORK PRICES
20.01	\Nage rates in effect after this contract is established are not to be changed unless new techniques are developed or new methods are instituted, and that to be done with the consent of the Manufacturer and the Union.
20.02	The Manufacturer shall furnish the Union Representative with copies of all rate notices, motion and time study analysis for all operations upon request by the Union.
20.03	Where changes are made under new conditions, revised work methods, the Industrial Engineer shall provide a summary to verify the changes.
20.04	Upon Introduction of a tentative or estimated standard the employee will be paid at his/her average hourly earnings for a period of two (2)
weeks.
23
In the event that after two (2) weeks a finalized standard is not available, the operator shall be paid on a split incentive until such time as the finalized standard is issued.
21.01	If the Manufacturer is found to have underpaid any worker contrary to the terms of this Agreement, the Union shall have the right to demand and the Manufacturer shall pay to such worker the amount underpaid.
21.02	At no time shall the piece work earned on established piece work prices in any part of the day be utilized to cover make up owing to change.
ARTIHI F 09 MISCELLANEOUS
22.01	The Union undertakes and agrees not to request in the course of negotiations with any other employer conditions of work including rates of pay that are less favourable than those provided in this Agreement.
22.02	In accordance with the spirit of this Agreement, all parties pledge themselves to co-operate in making tho arrangements successful, and to use their influence and best efforts far the promotion and development of goodwill; It being understood that it is not the intention that this Agreement shall operate in any way so as to restrict out-put or production nor impede processes of manufacture of management, but to encourage maximum production with minimum waste and fair equitable treatment to everyone concerned.
22.03	Nothing herein contained shall be construed so as to make any Manufacturer responsible or liable for the covenants, agreements, acts or omissions of any other Manufacturer.
22.04	The Manufacturer agrees to furnish a suitable bulletin board or boards for the use of the Union and such board shall be located in a
24
conspicuous place in the area where the Workers are working, or lunch rooms, but i n any event, at least one bulletin board on each floor of the Manufacturer’s premises.
22.05	Piecework employees must submit all tickets for hours performed each day.
22.06	The Manufacturer shall attempt to have the Union label sewn into the garment.
ARTICLE 23 - LEAVE of ABSENCE
23.01	An employee	who has three (3)	or more	years of	employment	shall be
entitled to	a leave of absence	without	pay for a	period not	to exceed
eight (8) weeks, once every three years OR
23.02	An employee	who has five (5)	or more	years of	employment	shall be
entitled to	a leave of absence	without	pay for a	period not	to exceed
three (3) months, once every five years.
23.03	All requests shall be granted according to the discretion of management and the Union based upon written application, productivity and seniority. An employes requesting a leave of absence must apply in writing to the Manufacturer three (3) months in advance.
23.04	VWren an employee returns from an authorized leave of absence, on his/her return, they shall be re-instated without loss of operational seniority or rata of pay. If the employee is unable to return to his/her former position because that position no longer exists, the rules of article 12 c) shall apply.
23.05	Leave of absence must be i n writing. Reply by management must be authorized in writing. The Union must be notified of same.
23.06	An employee shall be granted up to two (2) months leave of absence
25
immediately on compassionate grounds.
23.07	Maternity leave
(a)	After twelve (12) consecutive months of continuous employment an employee 1a entitled to a seventeen (17) week leave of absence for pregnancy as provided by the current legislation. This request must be in writing to the Manufacturer and a copy thereof sent to th e Union,
(b)	Matern 1 ty_aod~Ear^n&aJ Leave With Pay;
Refer to the current legislation.
(c)	Matern1ty_and Parental_ Leave Without Pav:
When requested, additional time off without pay provided by the Provincial or Federal Legislation shall be granted.
(d)	Wien returning to work the employee shall not suffer any loss of seniority or rate of pay,
(e)	Wien an employee returns from a leave of absence or maternity leave, the Manufacturer w i 11 make a catch-up payment on their behalf to the Dental Plan and the Employee Benefit Fund to cover this period.
ARTICI E 24 ^ HEALTH AND SAFETY
24.01	The Manufacturer agrees to maintain proper Health and Safety conditions in all departments covered by this agreement,
24.02	No employee will be subject to discipline for refusing to work under conditions which are unsafe or unhealthy If such conditions are reported to the immediate supervisor and/or Safety Committee members by the employee,
24.03	Employees involved on the Health and Safety Committee shall not suffer any lostwages incurred while performing their health and safety duties
20
as specified by the committee. They shall be paid on the basis of their piece work average or time workers rate as the case may be.
24,04	It is required that each employee maintain their immediate work area in a clean and orderly manner to standards deemed appropriate by Management and Union,
ARTICLE 20 - TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE
25.01	In the event of technological change refer to the current legislation.
ARTICLE 26- GOODWILL
26.01	Where in this agreement the masculine or the singular has been used, it shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter or plural as the case may be wheresoever the context of this Agreement requires.
26.02	Time shall In all respects be the essence of this Agreement.
26.03	This Agreement shalt ensure to the benefit of and be binding upon the parties hereto and their respective heirs, executors, administrators, successors and assigns.
ARTICLE 27 “ BENEFITS
27.01	WHEREAS THE UNION and the MANUFACTURERS who have contractual relations with «BI UNITED GARMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 35, have previously agreed to establish "Sick Benefit Funds" (which funds are now administered by committees consisting of equal representation from the Union and from the Manufacturers), it is now agreed that an additional purpose of the Fund w i I I be to provide "retirement pay" to the employee upon leaving his/her employer, in accordance with the rules and by-laws as set out by the above committees.
27.02	I t is further agreed that the MANUFACTURER shall contribute to the FUND
27
the sum of ten dollars ($10.00) each month, for each Union employee. 27.03 Dental Plan
The Oental Plan became effective from December 15, 1983. This is to continue from year to year at the orevailing fee schedule. The Basic Plan Is to cover periodontal scaling. It is further agreed that the Manufacturer shall contribute 100* of the premium for an 80* basic coverage as defined,
ARTICLE 28 - DURATION AND REVISrON OF AGREEMENT
28.01	This Agreement shall be effective and operative, except as may be
otherwise expressly provided herein, from the 15th day of December 1991
<*
and shall continue in full force and affect up to the close of business on the 14th day of December 1994 and thereafter year to year, unless either the Union or the Manufacturer give written notice to the other of its desire to revise this Agreement, or to conclude a new collective agreement as hereinafter provided.
28.02	The notice hereinbefore referred to may be given at any time after the 1st day of October and not later than the 15th day of November in any year during which the said Agreement expires.
28
]N witness WHEREOF the parties hereto have hereunto set their hands and seals the day and year first above written.
UNITED GARMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA,