AGREEMENT
between
Levi Strauss & Co. (Canada) Inc. Edmonton
and
The United Food and Commercial Workers Union
(AF.L. - C.I.O., C.L.C.) Local120G
Effective October 15,1995 to
October15,1998

AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
LEVI STRAUSS & CO. (CANADA) INC.
Hereinafter referred to as the "COMPANY"
cf the first part
AND
THE UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIALWORKERS UNION
(A.F.L. - C.I.O., C.L.C.) LOCAL 120G
hereinafter referred to as the " UNION"
of the second part
INDEX
DESCRIPTION
ARTICLE PAGE
Guiding Principles
ManagementRights
UnionRecognition
Strikes, Work Slowdown, Work Stoppages and Lockouts Union Security
Stewards, CommitteeMembersand Committees
Leave of Absence and Sick Leave
Seniority
Lay-Off
Recall
Safety and Health Conditions T ransfers
Lunch/Rest Periods Bulletin Boards
Dischargeand Disciplinary Procedure
Access To Plants
Grievance Procedure
Performance Expectations
Establishmentof Methods and Work Assignments
Payment of Wages
Hours of Work and Overtime
Paid Holidaysand Vacation With Pay
Goodwill
Successor Rights Duration
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8 9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20 21 22
23
24
25
1
2
3
3
3
4
5
7
8 8 9
APPENDIX I -Job Classifications and Pay Rates
26
APPENDIX II - Bonuses
32
33
APPENDIX III - Benefits Coverage
1
101
1.02
1.03
ARTICLE I
GUIDING PRINCIPLES
The parties recognizethat the employees,the Unionandthe Company are interdependentand are necessary for the success of the business.
The parties also acknowledgethat in order to meet competitive challenges and customers' needs there is a needto transform the present organization into a new work system.
This will require new skills, roles, responsibilitiesand relationships.
to
communications and respectwhichwill encourage meaningful employee involvement and achieve mutually agreed upon goals. The parties agree to protectthe safety and healthof all employees and to	i
providefor prompt and equitable disposition of grievancesor disputes which may arise betweenthe parties.
v
To support their strategic alliance, they will establishjoint committees of 6 memberswith equal representationfrom the Unionand Company.
The Union and the Company will jointly monitor and evaluate the processto assure that the values, purposes and goals of our new work system are nurtured and maintained.
Should any part of this Agreement be rendered or declared illegal by reason of any existingor subsequently enacted legislationor by any decree of a court cf competent jurisdiction or by decision cf any authorized government agency, such invalidationof such part or provisionsshall not invalidatethe remainderthereof.
Both parties may mutually agree to amend or supplement this Agreement at any time.
2.01
2.02
2.03
2
ARTICLE II
MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
The Union recognizesthat the Company has the exclusive control of matters relatingto the managementand conduct cf its business, the planning, processingand determining the methods of plant operation and the kind and use of equipment and materials.
Except as otherwise providedby this Agreement, the Company has the exclusive right of selection and direction of the working force including the size and compositionthereof, the right to hire, promote, transfer, lay-off, to discipline and discharge, with just cause, and to establish and maintain rules and regulationscovering the operation and conduct of employees.
Subjectto the expressed provisionscf this Agreement, these statements of managementfunctions shall not be deemed to exclude otherfunctions not specifically stated hereinand any cf the rights, powers or authorities which management has relatingto management functions are retainedexclusively by the Company. The Company shall not exercise the right to direct the workforce in a discriminatory, unequitable, or unfair manner.
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05
4.01
5.01
3
ARTICLE III
UNION RECOGNITION
The Company recognizesthe Union as the sole and exclusive bargaining agent for all employees of Levi Strauss & Co. (Canada)
Inc., in all facilities inthe City of Edmonton and the Provinceof Alberta, with the exception of clerical or office personnel, supervisory personnel, instructors and persons ranked above these classifications.
The words "employee" or "employees" as used in this Agreement shall mean only such employees as are included in the bargaining unit as defined inClause3,01 of this Agreement.
In this Agreement, words using the singular include the plural and the plural singularwhere the text so indicates.
The Company shall not hereinafter enter into any agreementwith any individual employee to guarantee any length of employment.
Employees shall not be discriminated against or dismissed because of activities inthe interestcf the Union.
ARTICLE IV
STRIKES. WORK SLOWDOWN. WORK STOPPAGES AND LOCKOUTS
Both parties agree that strikes, work slowdown, work stoppages, or lockouts would not be inthe best interests cf either party and would contravene our Guiding Principles.
ARTICLE V
UNION SECURITY
It is agreed that all employees shall become members of the Unionand remain members in good standing upon completion of thirty (30) working days of continuous service with the Company. All new memberswill serve a probationperiodcf sixty (60)working days. o
\
/
Y
5.02
5.03
5.04
6.01
6.02
4
V
The Company agrees that they will deduct from the earnings of the employees who havecompletedtheir30 day period,
Union Initiation Fees, as well as appropriate Monthly Union Dues and Fines, upon written authorizationfrom the employee concerned, and will remit any money so deducted to the Union. A receipt from the Unionfor all amounts so deducted shall be considered a discharge to the Company.
Short-term employees, or part-timeemployeesworking no more than 20 hours a week shall becometemporary membersofthe Union after 30 days cf employment. It is understoodthat the duration of employment for short-term and part-time employees shall be no longer than three months, after which they shall become full Union members. Short-term or part-time employees shall not be hired unless present employees have full-time work.
’ i
I'
The Company shall supply the Union Business Representativewith a seniority list of all departments every three (3) months. Any error with respect to an employee's position on the seniority list shall be corrected promptly. The Company will not be held liablefor actions taken on the basis cf the seniority list priorto the error having been brought to the Company's attention.
ARTICLE VI
STEWARDS, COMMITTEE MEMBERS, AND COMMITTEES
The Union acknowledges that Committee members and Stewards have duties to perform on behalf of the Company and will not absent themselves from those duties unreasonablyin order to investigate and deal with grievances and complaints of employees.
It is understood and agreed that Committee members and Stewards, as well as other employees, have regular duties to perform in connection with their employment. The Committee person or Steward shall, however, with the approval of the Supervisor of the department in which she/he is employed, be permitted during regularworking hours, without loss of pay, to leaveher/his regulardutiesfor a reasonable period cf time to investigate grievances or complaints. Permissionwill not be unreasonably withheld.
5
7.01
7.02
ARTICLE VII
LEAVE OF ABSENCE AND SICK LEAVE PERSONALLEAVE:
Employees with more than two years accreditedservicewill be allowed a personal leave of absence upon advanced application, inwriting, of up to four (4) weeks duration in any thirty six (36) month period. Employeeswith more than five years accreditedservicewill be allowed a personal leave of absence upon advance application, in writing, of up to (3) three months duration in any thirty-six (36) month period. Any personal leave request must be scheduled at a time and of a duration that is mutually agreed upon and convenient to the Employee and the Company, Applicationfor personal leave must be submitted to management inwriting no later than four (4) weeks prior to the requested commencementof the leave. In all cases of such leave, the employeeswill retain theirjob classification, operationor particular type of work for a period of up to four (4) weeks duration. Approval of all personal leaves shall be given to the employee inwriting. Under special circumstances,the company may grant an additional leave of absence.
COMPASSIONATE LEAVE:
I
NotwithstandingClause7.01, where aworker requiresa leave of absence for compassionate reasons,the Company shall not unreasonably withhold consent to such absence providedthat:
(i)	applicationfor such leave is submitted inwriting, if possible, as long before commencement of such absence as is reasonably practicable;
(ii)	the duration of absence shall be for travel time, when necessary and a reasonableperiod of time governed by the reasonfor the compassionate leave;
(iii)	the reasonfor the compassionate leave shall be limitedtothe immediate family. Immediatefamily shall be deemed to include parents, spouse, children, brothers, sisters, grandparents, son-inlaw, daughter-in-law,father-in-law, mother-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, grandchildren and legal common-law spouse.
6
7.03
7.04
7.05
MATERNITY LEAVE:
A female employee shall be entitled to a maternity leave of absence providedthat:
(i)	she has twelve (12) consecutive months of employment with the Company at the commencementdate cf the leave of absence.
(ii)	she submits a written requestfor maternity leave of absence accompaniedby a duly qualified medical practitioner‘s certificate, certifying her pregnancy and the estimateddate of delivery, at least two (2) weeks prior to the scheduledcommencement of leave of absence.
The period of Leave of Absence shall consist of a period of seventeen (17) weeks plus an additional periodequal to the period betweenthe date of delivery specifiedon the medical certificateand the actual date of delivery, if delivery occurs after the date mentionedon the certificate. Leave of Absence shall commence no earlierthan eleven (1I )weeks immediately precedingthe estimated date of delivery, except in the case where, on the advice of a certified medical practitioner,the leave should begin earlier.
An employee may return to work earlier than scheduled upon the written mutual consent of the Company and her duly qualified medical practitionercertifyingthat her healthwill not be endangered.
An employee who is granted a Maternity Leave of Absence shall retain herjob classification upon her return to work.
UNION BUSINESS LEAVE;
Leaves of Absence without loss of seniority shall be granted to a reasonable number (up to five) of bargaining unit employees selected as delegates to Union Conventions and conferences,with at least two weeks notice in writing unless otherwise mutually agreed. Such leaves shall not exceed three weeks yearly unless otherwise mutually agreed. Such employees shall be reinstatedto their previousjobs upon their returnto work. An employee on a leave of absence for this purpose only shall be entitledto holiday pay for any holiday which occurs during the leave of absence.
7.06
7.07
7.08
SICK LEAVE:
In cases of personal illness, necessitatingsick leave of a total of three weeks each year, with an extension if necessary,the employee will retain herjob classification, operation or particulartype of work, provided that a doctor's certificate is furnished with the application and also providedthat the job is still in existence.
BEREAVEMENT LEAVE:
Inthe event cf a death inthe immediatefamily of an employee, the Company shall grant three (3) days leave of absencewith pay to the employee.
Immediatefamily shall be meant to include: parents, spouse, children, brothers, sisters, grandparents, son-in-law, daughter-in-law,father-in-law, mother-in-law,brother-in-law,sister-in-law, grandchildren, and legal common-law spouse.
Any additional days granted by the Company shall be without pay.
o ?
JURY DUTY:
When an employee reportsforjury duty, the time lost will be considered time worked and he or she will be reimbursedthe difference in lost wages by the Company.
ARTICLE VIII SENIORITY
8.01	The term, seniority, as used inthis Agreement, will be defined as the
employee's recent date of hire, except inthe case of an employeewho is rehired, If an employee is rehiredwithin one year their servicewill automatically be reinstated and recognized. If an employee is rehired after one year, then, uponthe employee completing the same amount of time as they were absent, they can apply to have their service recognizedand reinstated. This will be their new date of service. The new service date shall be calculated by taking the original date of hire and adding the break in service.
In event of equality in seniority dates, seniority shall be determined by the employee with the lower employee number.
8
ARTICLE IX
9.01
9.02
9.03
I AY-QFF
V
Where lay-off becomes necessary, it shall be put intoeffect on an . operationand/orjob classificationbasiswithin the plant.. The	^
employeeswith the least seniority with the Company, who are working on the operation affected, shall be the first to be laid off, providedthat the remainingemployees are each currently demonstrating reasonable levelsof quality, workmanship, attendance, punctualityand performancesufficientto maintainthe required levelsof production. If possible otherjobs will be made available to employees so displaced.
Inthe event cf a temporary reductionof labour force, the Company agrees to, if at all possible,furnish all availablework during a continuous period before laying off employees, except upon mutual agreement betweenthe parties in cases where it might be in the interest of the employees affected to work on a part-time basis.
An employee recalledto work in a different department or a different classificationfrom which she/he was laid off, shall havethe privilege of returningto the position she/he held priorto the lay-off should it become available, within thirty (30) days of returningto work and providing that the employee had demonstratedreasonable levels of quality, Workmanship, attendance, punctuality and performance.
10.01
ARTICLE X RECALL
Employeeslaid off in accordancewithArticle IX cf this Agreement shall be recalled after lay-off in the reverse order of lay-off as outlined in Article IX of this Agreement.
9
11.01
11.02
I103
11.04
11.05
ARTICLE XI
SAFETY AND HEALTH CONDITIONS
The Company agrees to maintain proper Safety and Health conditions in all departments covered by this Agreement.
No employee will be subject to discipline for refusing to work under conditions which are unsafe or unhealthy if such conditions are reportedto the immediate supervisor and/or safety committee members by the employee.
It is mutually agreedthat ajoint Safety and HealthCommitteeshall be	. ^
established consisting of equal representationfrom the Company and	^/
the Union, with a limit of six members representingthe Unionand six “ members representingthe Company. There shall be two Chairpersons (CO-Chairpersons),one from the Union, and one from the Company.
This Committeewill be empowered to make decisions as to whether working conditions or work areas are unsafe or unhealthy. Ifthe standards of the Occupational Health and Safety Act are found to be higher than the standards agreed to by the Committee, then the Company will abide by the higherstandards. Inthe event of disagreement betweenthe CO-Chairpersonsas to the safety cf a work site, then a representativefrom the Government Health and Safety Departmentwill be called in to arbitrate on such decisions.
The Committeewill make recommendationsforthe improvementof 'o / safety and health, investigateall accidents, and will work toward the	y ' V
elimination of all safety hazards. The CommitteeCo-chairmenwill accompany any Government Health cr Safety Inspectorwhen he	a
respondsto a complaint or to a requestfor an investigation.
Any reports the Inspectormakes relative to his inspection mustgo to ^ the Committee as well as to Management. The Committeeshall meet once a month, and if necessary, at the call of the Co-chairmen,to make inspections of any or all the Company's work sites and departments covered by the Bargaining Unit Agreement, to check all health and safety conditions, and to make recommendationsto Management inthis regard.
11.06
12.01
12.02
12.03
12.04
10
Records of all Committee proceedings are to be accurateand posted in each department. Copies of reports to be suppliedto the Union. Committee members are to be compensated by the Company at their own particular rate of pay while on Committee business.
ARTICLE XII
TRANSFERS
TEMPORARY TRANSFERS:
Operators may betransferredto any operationstemporarilyto balance the teams, providedthat those operators shall be removed from the operation intime to leavethe regularoperators sufficient work to keep them occupiedfull time.
PERMANENTTRANSFERS:
If any vacancies occur, or a new position created in any job classification, in any department covered by this agreement, opportunity and preferenceshall be given to those employees already on Company payroll, and who are members of the Union, before hiring new employees.
All applications for transfers to otherjob classificationsor operations shall be made to the responsible Manager or her/his delegate, and notification of all applicants shall be given to the Union Business Representative.
All vacantjob classificationsor new positionswill be postedfor three (3) full days on the bulletin boards. Employeeswith more than 6 months continuous servicewill havethe opportunity to apply. The Union Representativeshallbe notified inwriting of the names of all applicants. The resultingvacancies created by transfers of employees to posted vacancies need not be posted.
Posting requirements of new positionswould not apply in cases where there are more than 10 new positions in the plant at onetime.
In cases where there is a change inoperation, the people displaced would be given first considerationto new or vacantjobs.
12.05
12.06
12.07
12.08
12.09
11
In cases of a permanenttransfer to anotherjob classification or operation, seniority shall be the determiningfactor, providedthat the employee is currentlydemonstratingreasonable levels of quality, workmanship, attendance, punctuality and performance.
The employee must accept the rate for thejob to which she/he is being transferred. Employeeswill be placed on a training program. If the employee does not maintainsatisfactory progress on the training curve while working under properjob conditions, then she/he shall be officially warned and given a further periodoftime in which to improve her/his performance. Shouldthe employeefail to demonstrate satisfactory progress, then the employeewould be subject to termination.
An employee can only apply for a transfer to another position after (1 she/he has completedsix (6) months inher/his present position.	s ✓
Incases of permanenttransfers to other job classificationsor operations initiated by the Company, the employeewill be guaranteed her/his previous hourly earningsfor a training periodoftime, the length of which shall depend on the severity of the change, but shall not be shorter than forty (40) hours nor longer than eighty (80) hours.
Any newly hired employee assigned to the night shift must remain on thatshiftfor a minimumcf 12 months.
13.01
13.02
13.03
13.04
13.05
13.06
13.07
13.08
14.01
12
ARTICLE XIII
LUNCH PERIOD/REST PERIOD
The Company and the Union agree that lunch periods and rest periods are essential to the health and welfare of employees, therefore, employees must stop working during these periods of time.
A lunch period of one-half hour (unpaid) shall be provided for all employeeswho areworkinga regular eight (8) hourday.
Two (2) fifteen (15) minute rest periodsshall be provided each day.
A lunch period of twenty minutes (unpaid) shall be provided for all employeeswho work the regular night shift.
One ^Ifi^een (15) minute rest period shall beprovidedfor all night shift employees.
Anyone working a regular night shift of five (5) hours or less is entitled to one (1) fifteen (15) minute break period every two (2) hours.
During the first two (2) hours of overtime, employees are entitled to one (l)fifteen (15) minute break, to be taken at the end of the regular eight (8) hour shift.
If the employees work three (3) to four (4) hours overtime, they are entitled to two (2) fifteen (15) minute rest periods. One is to be observed at the end cf the regular eight (8) hour shift, the other to be taken mid-way through the overtime.
ARTICLE XIV BULLETIN BOARDS
The Company agrees to provide the Unionwith a bulletin board on the floor of its premisesfor the purpose of posting Union notices and official papers. Noticeswill be posted only by officers of the Union and will be in keeping with the spirit and intent of this Agreement.
15.01
15.02
15.03
15.04
13
ARTICLE XV
DISCHARGEAND DISCIPLINARY PROCEDURE
The right of discharge and discipline lies with the Company. This right shall be exercised withjustice, regardfor the rights of the employee with just cause and shall be exercised only through a fully authorized representativeof management.
Any notice of disciplinary actionwhich is intendedto form a part of an employee's employment record shall be given inwriting with a copy to	\
the Union, and all such notices shall bewithdrawnfrom the employee's file after a period of eighteen (18) months from the date of issue, provided that there are no subsequent incidents.
Any grievance alleging improper disciplinaryaction or discharge, must befiled with the Company, in accordancewith this Agreement within five (5) working days of receipt by the Union of notice concerning such disciplinary action or discharge.
An employee may be terminated from the Company:
i.	) if the employee is laidofffor lackcf work without recall date and
fails to returnto work in accordance with the following procedure; the employee laid off shall be sent a Notice of Recall by registered mail, to the employee's last known address. It is the responsibility of the employee to notifythe Company of any change in postal address. The employeeshall notifythe Company of her/his intentionto returnto work within ten (I0) working days from mailing date of such recall notice and shall returnto work within ten (10) working days from the mailing date of the recall notice;
ii.	) if the employee is absent for three (3) consecutiveworking days
and fails to notify the Company. If the employee is unableto notify the Company due to verifiable circumstances beyondtheir control, this clause shall not apply.
16.01
17.01
14
ARTICLE XVI ACCESS TO PLANTS
The Business Representativeof the Unionshall be admitted at all reasonabletimes during business hoursto the premises of the Company.
ARTICLE XVII GRIEVANCE______JURE
Forthe purpose <f this Agreement, a grievance is defined as any difference between the employer and the employee, or a group of employees or a policy grievance betweenthe employer or the Union concerning the interpretation,application, administrationor alleged violation of specific terms of the Agreement. If an employeefeels that he or she has a grievance, it shall be reported in the first instance to the immediate supervisor of such an employee as soon as possible.
No further steps shall be taken and the grievanceshall not be put into effect until the immediate supervisor hasfirst beengivenan opportunity to adjustthe grievance. ]h presentingsuch a grievance to the immediate supervisor, an employee may be assisted by the Union Business Representativeor by the Shop Steward.
If such grievance cannot be settled to the satisfaction of the employee(s) concernedwithin two (2)working days afterthe grievance has been reported to the immediate supervisor, or within any longer period of time that may be mutually agreeable upon at that time, then the following steps of grievance procedure shall be followed in due order.
All grievances shall be stated in writing and signed by the grieving employee(s) setting out the nature of the complaint in short terms, the date when the grievancefirst occurred and the section(s) of the collective agreement allegedly violated, and shall contain the relief requested by the employee. In preparing such a grievance, the employee may be assisted by the Business Representative^ the Union or the Shop Steward. Three copies of this Grievanceform shall be delivered to the Plant Manager and a meetingshall beheldwithin two (2)working days betweenthe Manager,the Department Supervisor, the Union Representativeand the representative of the aggrievedemployee(s).
The Company shall then answer the grievance inwriting within five (5) working days after the grievance meeting, and shall return two (2) copies of the Grievanceform to the Union, who may then accept or refuse the proposalfor settlement of the grievance in writing and return one (1) copy to the Company.
Step 2
Should the grievance not be settled at the first step cf the Grievance Procedure,the subject in dispute shall besubmittedto a meetingto be held between representativescf the Company who may consist cf the Director of Human Resourcesor his designate, the responsible officer, the Department Manager or their designates, and the representatives ofthe Unionwho may consist of the International Representative,the Business Representativeand the Presidentof the Union or their designates.
Both parties may, upon prior notification to the other, call upon other representativesto attend the meeting. This meeting shall be held within five (5) working days, and a decision shall be given inwriting within five (5) working days or such other longer period as may be mutually agreed upon.
Step 3
Should the said grievance not be settled in the second step cf the Grievance Procedure,the subject in dispute shall be submittedto a mediatorto be mutually selected by both parties for a ruling. Failing the agreement of a mediatorwithin five (5) working days, either party may referthe grievanceto arbitration and, inthis case, shall notify the other party in writing of its desire to do so within ten (10) working days
17.02
17.03
17.04
16
and the notice shall contain a statement of the difference, the section(s) of the collective agreement violated, any relevant particulars, the remedy requested and the name or list of names of the persons who will be willing to accept the arbitrator's position.
Uponthe receipt of such notice, as referredto inStep3 of Article XVII, the party receiving the same shall:
(a)	If it accepts the person suggested as an arbitrator, notify the other personwithin five (5) working days indicating its acceptance of such an arbitrator, or if the receiving party does not accept any of the persons suggested by the party presenting the notice, it shall, within five (5) days notifythe party accordingly and send the name or list of names of the person or persons that it would bewilling to accept as the arbitrator.
(b)	Where the parties are unable to agree upon the appointment of the arbitrator, either party may requestthe Ministerof Labour, in writing, to appoint the arbitrator.
(c)	The arbitrator shall, upon his appointment, arrange to convene a hearing to resolve the dispute in question.
The arbitrator shall havethe powerto determine all questions of arbitrability and shall issuea decision that is final and binding uponthe parties and upon any employee affected by it.
The arbitrator shall determine his own procedures, but shall give full opportunity to all parties to present evidence and to make representation;the arbitrator shall also have the power to relieve against non-compliancewithin time limits, or any other technicality or irregularity.
The arbitrator shall determine the real issue in dispute according to the merits and make whatever disposition he deems equitable. The arbitrator shall also provide reasons, in writing, for such decisionwithin 20 days from the date of the hearing of the grievance. However, permitted in the next clause, the arbitrator shall not alter, amend, change, modify or extend the terms or conditions of the Collective Agreement.
17.05
17.06
18.01
18.02
18.03
17
If the arbitrator, by his award, determines that an employee has been discharged or otherwise disciplined by an employer for a cause, and the collective agreement does not contain a specific penalty for the infraction that is the subject matter of the arbitration, the arbitrator may substitute or modify such penaltyfor the discharge or discipline as to him seems just and fit inthe circumstances.
The employer and the Union hereto agree to equally share the cost of the arbitrator.
ARTICLE XVIII
PERFORMANCE EXPECTATIONS
The quality and productionstandardsas set out by the Company shall be maintained in all departments.
Employees are expected to work together to develop a continually improvingwork environment cf trust, open communication, and respect.
Quota will be defined as 112% cf the engineered standard rate for the purposes of this agreement.
j) Each operator hired prior to October 1992 is expected to achieve her/his quota on one operation.
ii)	Each operator hired after Octoberl 992 is expected to achieve her/his quota on two different operations beforeshe/he can be paid at the fully-trained operator pay rate for that specificgroup (referto Appendix 1 (a) for pay structure).
0
iii)	Each operator is expected to knowher/his regularoperationand two (2) additional operations assigned to her/him after six months of service, for which she/he will receivetrainingtime based on the frequency of transfers to her/his alternate operations, butwhich in any case shall not be less than forty (40) hours or more than eighty (80) hours.
iv)	Each operator is expected to putforth her/his best efforts on her/his subsequent operations.
18
18.04
18.05
18.06
18.07
18.08
18.09
18.10
Employeeswho attend Company sponsored meetings shall not suffer any loss of regular pay by reason of their attendance. As far as practicable, meetings will be held during the scheduled hours of the employees participating.
Employeeswill be paid at their hourly rate for attending meetings, development needs, or in-house medical needs.
Employeesshall be at their workplace ready to commencework when the starting bell, or the bell after each break period rings. Employees shall not leave such workplace until the finishing bell, or the bell at the start of their break period rings.
It shall bethe responsibility of each operatorto keepher/his machine cleaned and oiled.
If a machine is out cf order, the operator shall promptly reportto her/his supervisor, who shall provide another machine of the same type in good working order. The operator shall not be penalized for this lost time. She/he may be temporarily transferred to her/his alternate operation.
Work on any job classification in this agreement shall not be performed by supervisors and others outside the bargaining unit.
All employees are requiredto promptly notify their Supervisor whenever absent from work.
19.01
19
ARTICLE XIX
ISHMEN OF MET AND WORK
The Company shall set, institute and revisework methods,work assignmentsand time standards. These standardswill be developed from Time Study on local Levi Strauss conditions, orfrom available Predetermined Sewing Dataadjustedfor local Levi Strauss conditions. New work methodswill be developed by the Company's Industrial Engineerwith as much involvementas possible by the operators concerned.
All standardswill be reviewedand equity established so that quotas reflect effortrequired.
Once a time standard has been established, it shall stay in effect until there is a change in the conditions underwhich it was established.
The Company and the Unionwill co-operate in the introduction of incentive time standards on as many measurable operations as possible.
The Company shall furnish the operators and the Union Business Representativewithcopies of all rate notices. PredeterminedSewing Data Analysis Summaries, for all operations, will be available on the Company's premises to the Union Business Representative.
Tentative Standards
A tentative standardwill be usedfor a maximumcf ninety (90) days while a permanent standard is being established.
The appropriatejob training period means:
Group I - to a maximum of 12 weeks Group II - to a maximumof 17 weeks
20
19.02
19.03
19.04
19.05
A
**</
- 'i
When any such work methods,work assignments, or quotas have been instituted, a training periodwill follow, the length of which shall depend upon the severity of the change. During this training period, the operators shall be paid their hourly rate. It is the operators' responsibility to apply themselves, and to make every effort to achieve quota and the Unionwill co-operate in this regard. If after the new rates have been ineffectfor a periodof thirty (30) calendar days any operator questions the fairness of a time value, she/he may request a review of the time standard in question, and the Union may call upon the UnionTime Study Engineerto examine the standard in dispute.
The Company shall be notified of the name and qualifications of such Time Study Engineer. He shall be accompanied during his studies by one cf the Company's Industrial Engineers. The motionandtime study analysis summaries for the time standards in dispute will be made accessible to the UnionTime Study Engineer on the Company's premises.
In the event that the partiescannot agree upon a time standardwithin thirty (30) days after the review, the employee may thereafterfile a grievance with the Plant Manager. If no such grievance has been received within a further thirty (30) day period, then the standard shall be deemed final and shall be accepted by both parties.
new or revisedjob classifications are to be established mutually by job evaluation acceptable to both parties.
The Employer shall establish thresholds of production and quality standards for collective groups of jobs andteam(s) or individuals. Employeesassignedto such groups or teams shall be eligible to receive additional wage paymentsfor collectively achieving such threshold standards (seeAppendixll).
20.01
20.02
21.01
21.02
21.03
-21 -
ARTICLE XX PAYMENTOF WAGES
All employees covered by this Agreement shall be paid on a weekly basis for the precedingweek's work.
The statement of the employee's weekly pay shall include a breakdown of regular hours paid, overtime pay and bonus.
ARTICLE XXI
HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
The normal hours of work are: four (4) days of eight and a half hours (81/2) and a fifth day cf six (6) hourstotalling forty (40) hours per week. Inthe case of a week with a holiday, the holiday will be paid	^
eight (8) hourswith the workweek totalling40 hours.	'b/* »
If in a week an employee completes more than the normalforty (40) hours of work:
(a)	the hourscfwork in excess of eight and a half (81/2) hours each day of the week shall be totalled, and
(b)	the hourscf work inexcess offorty (40) inthe week shall be totalled,
and the overtime rate shall be paid for whatever isthe greater number of hours of clause (a) or (b). Except if requiredto work on Saturdays, which would be considered as overtime and paid at time and one-half.
Subjectto 21.02, overtime in all departments covered by this Agreement shall be paidforatthe rate of time and one-half for the first two (2) hours per regularworking day and at double time for all time in excess cf two (2) overtime hours per regularworking day. Overtime on Saturdaysshall be paidfor at the ratecf time and one-half. Overtime work on Sunday is to be paid at the rate of double time, and overtime work on paid holidays is to be paid at the rate of triple time.
21.04
21.05
22.01
-22-	, D
Overtime shall be on a voluntary basis, except in cases of emergency, and will be allocated in a mannerwhich is fair, equitable and consistent with the employee's qualifications and ability to perform the work. Full time employees will be given preference over temporary and part-time help. Employees shall be notified one day prior to this overtime whenever possible.
The Company shall maintain a Log Book in each department of all overtime hours worked and such Log Book shall be open for inspection for Employees in their department
An employeewho reports for work at her/his regularstarting time and who was neither absentfrom work inher/his previous shift nor advised by the Company not to report to work, shall be guaranteed a minimum of four (4)	e hourswork or pay unless the reason for their
lack of work is a major mechanical breakdown, such as fire, power failure or cause over which the Company has no control. Ifthe employee is given pay in lieu of part or all of the work guaranteed under this subsection, such pay shall be at the employee's hourly rate
ARTICLE XXII
PAID HOLIDAYS AND VACATION WITH PAY
The following holidayswill be observed and employees shall for them:
New Years Day Good Friday Canada Day Labour Day Remembrance Day Boxing Day
Family Day Victoria Day Civic Holiday Thanksgiving Day Christmas Day Floating Day
be paid
The floating holiday will be mutually agreed upon by both parties. This day will be designated on or before the anniversary date of this contract, which is the 15th of October each year.
If any of the above holidaysfalls on a Saturday or Sunday, it shall be observed on a working day in lieu of the holiday, this working day to be mutually agreed upon.
23
22.02
22.03
If pay day falls on any paid holiday, the employees shall be paid on the day previous. No deductions shall be made in the pay of any regular employee for a holiday except in the following cases:
When an employee is absent without written approval of the appropriate manager or delegate on the working day before or after the holiday. in cases of a certified personal illness or death inthe immediatefamily, necessitatingthe employee's absence, the employee shall receive pay for the holiday. Immediatefamily shall mean parents, spouse, children, brothers, sisters, grandparents, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, father-in-law, mother-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, grandchildren and legal common-lawspouse. Inthe case of a short term layoff not exceeding ten (10) consecutiveworking days, the employee shall be paid for the holiday.
Employees'vacation time with pay is basedon completed years of service.
One completed year service Five (5) completed years Ten (10) completed years Eighteen (18) completed years
* entitled to two (2) weeks -three (3) weeks -four (4) weeks - five (5) weeks
Twenty-five (25) completedyears - six (6)weeks
Employees must take three (3) weeks vacation time during the three (3) weeks of plant shutdown. Any vacation time over and above three (3) weeks should be scheduled at a time that is mutually agreeable to the Employee and the Company.
Employees returning latefrom their vacation without prior authorization by the Company, may lose their job classification, operation or particulartype ofwork unlessthere is a good cause for the delay. The Union is to be notified when such action is taken. Holiday pay shall be based on the employee's current hourly pay. Employeeswho have not had one year's continuous service with the Company shall be paid four percent (4%) of their total earnings for the period ending June 30th of each year. All calculations of earnings shall exclude overtime premium.
W
22.04
22.05
23.01
24.01
24
Annual vacations shall be excludedfrom Sick Leave of Absence and Industrial Injury Leave of Absence.
The Company agrees to make every reasonable effort to post the vacation shutdown no later than March 30th of each year.
ARTICLE XXIII
GOODWILL
The Unionagrees to do all in their province as a labour organizationto advertisethe goods and otherwise benefit the business of the Company.
ARTICLE XX1V SS( R 3HTS
This agreement shall ensure to the benefit cf and be binding uponthe parties hereto and their respective heirs, executors, administrators, successors and assigns.
25.01
25.02
25.03
25.04
25
ARTICLE XXV DURATION
This Agreement shall be infull force and effect as cf the 15thcf .October, 1995_and continue infull force and effect until the 15fFTof October, 1995 and from year to year thereafter except as hereinafter provided. "
Either party may terminate this Agreement by notice inwriting to the other party not less than one hundred and twenty (120) days prior to the 15th of October, 1998 or any subsequent year.
Either party desiring changes to this Agreement shall give notice in writing cf such desire to the other party not less than ninety (90) days or more than one hundred and twenty (120) days priorto the 15th of October, 1998 or any subsequent date.
If notice to negotiate has been given by either party, this Agreement shall remain infull force and effect during any period cf negotiation, even though such negotiationsmay extend beyond the expiry period until discontinued by notice in writing from either party.
Signed this 28th day cf September, 1995, in the City cf Edmonton, Alberta.
-26-
APPENDIX I
JOB CLASSIFICATIONS AND PAY RATES
The Company and the Union agree to a three (3) year agreement commencing October 15, 1995.
All employees on company payroll as of Octoberl 5,1995, will receive a one time signing bonus of $600.00 to be paid by the end of October, 1995.
Inthe second year of the agreement, employees on company payroll as of Octoberl 5, 1996, will receive a one time signing bonus cf $600.00 to be paid by the end of October, 1996.
Inthe third year of the agreement, there will be a 32 cents per hour increasefor all employees on company payroll as of Octoberl 5, 1997.
A. OPERATORS HOURLY RATES:
New hires (trainees} starting rate:	$6.00
Fullytrained operators:	Groupl $9.80
GrouplI	$10.60
When referringto "quota" please see definition in article 18.02
A. 01 PAY RATES FOR TRAINEES:
Pay will increase once specific quotas are achieved on the first operation, during a forty (40) hour time period.
Groupl	GrouplI
50% of quota	$6.86	$7.42
75% cf quota	$7.35	$7.95
100% of quota	$8.82	$9.54
27
A.02
A. 03
When 100% of quota is achieved on first operation, the pay will increase once these specific quotas are achieved on the second operation, during a forty (40) hour time period.
Group I	Group II
50% of quota	$9.31	$10.07
75% of quota	$9.55	$10.33
100% of quota	$9.80	$10.60
Fortrainees whose first operation is a Group I operation, andwhose second operation is a Group II operation, the following scale would apply:
When 100% of quota is achieved on the first operation (Group I), and once these specific quotas are achieved on the second operation.
50% of quota	$9.54
75% cf quota	$9.67
100% cf quota	$9.80
PAY RATES FOR REHIRES ABSENT LESS THAN ONE YEAR:
When rehiring an employeewho has been gone less than one year, then as a former Group II operator being rehiredto a Group I operation, the employeewould automatically be paid at the equivalent step/level cf the Group I pay rates. Inthis way, we are crediting her/him with their prior timely experience/knowledge with the Company.
PAY RATES FOR FULLYTRAINED OPERATORSTRAINING ON SUBSEQUENT OPERATIONS:
When a Group II operator is training in a Group I operation, the operatorwill continuetobe paid at her/his Group II rate.
When a Group I operator is training in a Group II operation, the operatorwill continue to be paid at her/his Group I rate until she/he achieves 50% of quota during a 40 hour period on that second operation.
50% of quota	$10.09
90% of quota	$10.29
A 04
A. 05
28
Once the operator achieves forty (40) hours at 100% of quota, then the full Group rate is paid when working on her/his second operation.
Under normal conditions, a fully trained operator is expectedto consistently achieve 100% of quota and will be paid accordingly.
Fully trained operators who do not consistently achieve 100% of quota will be paid at 95% of the pay rate.
Group I	Group II
$9.31	$10.07
Operatorswho have demonstrated a returnto consistently achieving 100% of quota will returnto 100% of the pay rate.
A fully trained operatorwho cannot consistently average95% of quota, will be reassessedand if necessary, reassignedto another type of position.
PAY RATES FOR TRANSFERS:
When there is a permanent transfer from a Group II positionto a Group
I	position, the employeewill automatically go to the equivalent step/level of the Group I pay rates.
When there is a permanenttransferfrom a Group I positionto a Group
II	position, the employeewill be paidher/his current pay rate until she/he reaches these specific quotas on the Group II position:
50% of quota	$10.07
100% of quota $10.60
29
B. JOB CLASSIFICATIONS AND PAY SCALES FOR INDIRECT EMPLOYEES:
1.	Flaw& Damage and Repairs	8.10
	- start and 1 month	
	-1-2 months	8.37
	-job rate	10.00
2.	Quality- Load Audit	10.90
	-job rate	
3.	Material Handler I	
(Matching/Bundling.Bigelow Packing, Flopping)
-	start and 1 month	9.04
-	job rate	'•0-03
Material Handlerll (Conveyor)
-job rate	IL OO
4. Receiver/Shipper
-	start and I month
-	job rate
1 123 12.88
5. Assistant Receiver/Shipper
-	start and I month	11.23
-	job rate	12.21
-	lead hand rec/shipper*	12.47
*is not entitled to "Lead Hand1.'differential as inAppendix 1 F
C. CUTTING ROOM JOB CLASSIFICATIONS AND PAY SCALES:
1
Cutters and Spreaders
-	start and first 6 months
-	6-12 months
-	12-18 months
-	18-24 months
-	24-30 months (JOB RATE SPREADERS)
-	30-36 months
10.91
11.56
12.57 13.82 14.63 15.35
- After 36 months (JOB RATE CUTTERS) 15.57
2. Utility Person
(Job rate for experienced cutter only) 15.57
-30-
D. MAINTENANCE JOB CLASSIFICATIONS AND PAY SCALES:
1
Mechanics
-	start and 1 month
-	3-6 months
-	6-9 months
-	9-12 months
-	12-18 months
-	18-24 months
-	24-30 months
-	30-36 months
-	36-42 months
-	42-48 months
-	job rate
-	MechanicTraining
11.33 H. 69 11.97 12.30 12.84 13.36 13.81 14.22 14.65 15.08
17.34
Coordinator* Additional $60.00/week
* MechanicTraining Coordinatorwill be defined as a fully trained mechanicwho has in-depth knowledgeof most machines and is responsiblefor a mechanictraining program.
2
3
Sweeper/Washroom Attendant/Buggy Wheel Cleaner
-	start and 1	month	8.60
-	job rate	9.07_	prS
Utility Person
Group I
-	start and 1	month	9.03
-	job rate	9.84
(non-maintenance)
-	job rate	10.94
(maintenance)
GroupII
-	job rate	13.13
(maintenance)
4.	Other Classifications
- Boiler Engineer	15.13
(4th class in charge)
- Boiler Engineer	14.20
-	Plant Repair Mechanic
31
E. WAREHOUSE JOB CLASSIFICATIONS AND PAY SCALES:
1.	Truck Driver
- First Class	13.81
- Second Class	12.94
F. PAYADJUSTMENTS:
1.	"LeadHand" differential in maintenanceand cutting is thejob rateplusfive (5%) percent.
2.	"Lead Hand"differential in sewing, finishing] and load audit is thejob rate plus fifty five cents ($0.55) per hour.
3.	Any employee in any classificationthattrains and instructs, shall receivean additional $5.00 per day plusher/his regular rate of pay.
4.	An employee who is requiredto temporarily fill an indirectjob classification which carries a higher rate of pay, shall receivethat rate of pay for such classificationfor all time spent on the higher classification.
5.	Any new employeewith previous Levi Strauss experience rehired by the Company for an indirectjob with a progression scale shall be paid according to her/his applicable experience and training on thatjob.
6.	Rates of pay for all new and revisedjob classifications established during the life of this Agreement, will be established by the Company and the Union.
7.	All employeeswho are requiredto work on the afternoonshift shall receivea
differential of twenty five (.25) cents per hour in addition to their regular hourly pay. This would apply to employeeswho are scheduled to commence their regularshift at3:00 p.m. or later.	A
v
-32-
APPENDIXII
A. TEAM BONUS:
Forany employeesworkingfor a sewteam (sewingoperators, materialhandlersl	2
matching/bundling andbigelow packers)she/he will beentitledto a 5% TEAM BONUS	^
upon achieving the production and quality thresholdsfor that team. The bonus is paid	/
on gross earnings (earnings include regular, overtime, vacation and paid holiday wages). No bonus is paid during the scheduled plant shutdown.
PLANT BONUS:
If all sewteams achieve their productionand quality thresholds, then all hourly employeeswould be entitled to a 5% PLANT BONUS. Bonus is paid on gross earnings	/
(earnings include regular, overtime, vacation, and paid holiday wages). No bonus is paid during the scheduled plant shutdown.
33
APPENDIX III
BENEFITS COVERAGE
The Company agrees to provide the following benefits coverage underthe provisionsof master policies, Employeesshall become eligiblefor coverage underthese benefits upon completion of three (3) months continuousservicewith the Company.
I
2.
3.
4.
5.
Group Life Insurance- Employeesshall becoveredfor Life Insurance and Accidental Death and Dismemberment Benefits in the amount of $20,000.00,
Weekly Indemnity- Employeesshall receive benefitscommencing on the fourth (4th) day of non-compensable accident or illness. The maximum period of coverage shall not exceedfifteen (15) weeks for employees with three (3) monthsto fifteen (15) years seniority or twenty-six (26) weeks coveragefor employees with over fifteen (15) years seniority. The Weekly Indemnity Benefit shall be seventy (70%) percent of the employee’s Regular Weekly Gross Earnings. The three (3) day waiting periodwill be waived in the case of hospitalizationand/or under registered out-patient care.
Hospitalization- Employees and their dependentswho become hospitalized shall be eligible for a Hospitalization Benefit of Twelve Dollars ($12.00) for each day hospitalized for a period not exceeding forty-two (42) days in any consecutive twelve (12) month period.
Eye Glasses- Employeesshall be reimbursed eighty (80%) percent of the verifiable cost of prescription eye glassesto a maximum of One Hundredand Seventy Five Dollars ($175.00) every two (2) years. Employees shall be reimbursed eighty (80) percent of the cost of eye examination to a maximum of fifty ($50.00) dollars once every two (2) years.
A
'A
n
aJ
f

Prescription Drug: verifiable drug bill
s- Employeesshall bereimbursedfor eighty (80%) percent of
/
<r
6. Alberta Health Care- The cost of coveragewill be shared betweenthe Company and the Employee. Fifty-five (55%) percent of the premiumwill be paid by the Company, and forty-five (45%) percent of the premiumwill be paid by the Employee.
34
7
8.
9
Retirement Benefit- Employeesshall beentitledto a One Thousand Dollar ($1,000.00) retirement benefit at the cessation of employment, provided the employee has reached the age of sixty-five (65) years and has completed a minimumof twenty-five (25) years servicewith the Company. Such benefit may be received as either a paid up life insurance policy or a cash benefit at the discretion of the employee.	?	/
LongTerm Disability Plan- Employeeswill b3^liglbl§Jof4fcie LTD planafterone year of service. The plan comes into effect affSfabwenty-six (26) week elimination period and pays50% of regulargross earnings to a maximum of „ $2,000.00 permonthfor a period of five (5) years. The monthly benefit isfully offset by CPP etc. Employeesmust beunableto perform any occupation. Effective Octoberl 5, 1992, LongTerm Disability payments could be paidfor up to ten (10) years.

n V 0
9
Pension Plan- All bargaining unit employees are eligibleto be members of the Pension Pian upon completion of one(1) yearcf service.
Pensionwill be calculated at:
1
YEARS OF SERVICE:
D.O.H. to October 15, 1993 Oct. 15, 1993 - Oct. 15, 1994 Oct. 15, 1994- Oct. 15, 1995 Oct. 15, 1995- Oct. 15, 1996 Oct. 15, 1996 -Oct. 15, 1997 Oct. 15, 1997 - Oct. 15, 1998
PENSION ENTITLEMENT:
$ 8.00/month/year of service $9.00 $10.00 $11.00 $12.00 $13.00
Dateof hire(D.O.H.) will be calculated as perarticle8.01
Early retirement is allowed as long as the employee is at least fifty five (55) years of age, with a minimumof 15 years of service and she/he will then receive a discounted pension based on a pre-determined calculationformat with the insurancecompany.
There is no post-retirement death benefit. A pre-retirement death benefitwill be commutedto the value of the accrued pension. The pension benefit isfor the life of the retired employee only. The premium will be paid by the Company.
10,
35
Employeesare entitledto a Basic Dental Plan on a cost sharing basis of eighty (80%) percent Company paid premiumsand twenty (20%)percent Employee paid premiums. Coverage is limitedto a maximum of $1,000.00 per employ'ee/per eligiblefamily member. Coveragewill be 100% reimbursementfor Preventativedental care and 80% reimbursementfor other Basic Dentalwork-refillings etc. Basedon current Alberta Dentalfee schedules.
n
N.B. These are summaries cf the actual contract of benefitswith Prudential Assurance and Levi Strauss & Co. (Canada) Inc., Edmontonfacility.