AGREEMENT made in duplicate as and from the 15.th day
'1986
Between:'
AMALGAMATED CLOTHING AND TEXTILE,WORKERS UNION,
LOCAL 459	•
(hereinafter called the “Union")
OF THE FIRST PART,
AND :
GARMENT MANUFACTERERS ASSOCIATION OF WESTERN CANADA
(hereinafter called the "Association") composed of the several Manufacturers who now execute or way hereafter ewecute this Agreement and who become parties hereto (hereinafter called the "Manufacturers">
OF THE SECOND PART.
WHEREAS the Manufacturers are engaged in the manufacture of overalls, shirts, playsuits, pants, wind-breakers, sports apparel, and other manufactured products, and
WHEREAS the Union is composed of Workers engaged in various
occupations in connection with such manufacturing who are or will be from time to time employed by the Manufacturers in their factories.
NOW THEREFORE THIS AGREEMENT WITNESSETH that the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE 1 - DEFINITIONS
1.01	In this Agreement*
(a)	"Average Hourly Hate" or "Average Hourly Earnings" means the average hourly rate over a period of siK (6) months immediately preceding the application of the average hourly rate or earnings based on the number of regular hours worked by such Worker divided into the actual total gross amount of monies, excluding the overtime premium, paid ta the' Worker over the said si:: (6) month period during such regular hours;. The six (6) month periods shall be calculated from the 15th day of December to the the 14th day of June and from the 15th day of June to the 14th day of December.
(b)	*-"Cutting Room Help" where referred fo in this
Agreement or schedule means personnel working in the Cutting Room, other than those using cutting knives or shears for actual production purposes.
y/
(c) "Fund" means ACTWU, Local 459, and Garment
Manufacturers Health Welfare and Pension Fund Inc
0#
2
ARTICLE 1 - DEFINITIONS (continued)
(c» "Holiday" means!
New Year's Day
Good Friday
Victoria Day Canada Dar Labour Day
Thanksgiving Day Chr i stmas Day
Boxing Day Civic Holiday Remembrance Day
(e) "Manufacturer" means an Employer who is signator to this Agreement and whom the Association shall list at the time of signing as a member of the Association.
<f) "Worker (s)" means an Employee of a Manufacturer but for the purpose of this Agreement shall exclude mechanics, office staff, shipping staff, sales staff, foreman, foreladies.
(g) "Steward" means a Worker who is appointed or otherwise . selected by the Unian and who is recognized as such by the Manufacturer.
ARTICLE 2 - RECOGNITION
2.01	The Unian shall have the right ta deal directly with any individual Manufacturer provided, however, that such dealings are consistent with the terms of this Agreement.
2.02	No Manufacturer shall hereafter make an Agreement with any individual Worker nor enact or acce Pt any cash deposit or Other security from a Worker nor enter into any Agreement with any individual Worker guaranteeing any length of employment.
2.03	The Union and its officials must not interfere with the discipline and management of the factories and must not restrict employment or curtail production.
2.04	The Association arid each of its members agree that the Union is the exclusive bargaining agent far the Workers of each member with reference towages, hours and working conditions.
ARTICLE 3 - ACCESS TO PLANTS
3.01 The Business Representative of the Unian shall he
admitted, at all reasonable times during business hours, to tbs promises of each Manufacturer when on legitimate business far the Union.
The presence of the Representative shall be reported to Management: upon arrival.
3
ART I Cl P_4________ROCmURT___I N 'APPI IHATIDN_EOB__puipi nviuiCKrr_qr
membership in the association
4.01	Whenever in need of a Worker A Manufacturer shall apply to the Representative of the Union who shall be'given a time (reasonable cinder the circumstance of the requirements of the Manufacturer) in which ta supply a Worker acceptable to the Manufacturer. Whenever the Union is unable to supply such help, whether temporary or permanent, the Manufacturer may secure such help, but such help must become members of the Union within six (6) weeks. It is the intent-of this Agreement that the Union shall use all passible means to assure such adequate supply of help.
4.02	When the Union shall organize a non—Union Manufacturer who wishes to become a signator of this Agreement) this Manufacturer must become a member in goad standing of the Association,
ARTIfll F S - nOMntTTONR OF FMPIOYMFNT
5.01	Every Worker in the bargaining unit of the Manufacturers shall be no less than sixteen (16) years of age and shall be a member in good standing of, the Union} hut all learners and beginners shall be given six <6) weeks time to became members of the Union. It shall be the responsibility of every Manufacturer to deduct the initistion fees and monthly dues of each learner or beginner at the' conclusion of the probation period of six (6) weeks.
5.02	Every 'Manufacturer shall deduct from the wages earned by each member of the Union the monthly dues of the Union as the Union may determine- from time to time and also any initiation fees and arrears in dues and assessments officially requested by the Union. All monies so deducted shall be remitted monthly by each Manufacturer to the office of the Union in Winnipeg within four (4) days of the last pay day of the current month.
5.03 Workers must not be engaged in Union activities during working hours or on the Manufacturer's premises and must be at work on time, and must not be absent without permissions but such permission shall not be unreasonably with Held by the Manufacturer.
g.04 .Each Worker must do first class work in keeping with Union principles.
5.05 Every Manufacturer shall, ensure so far as it is reasonably practicable! the safety) health and welfare at work of all his Workers and shall abide by the Manitoba Workplace Safety and Health Act.
4
ARTICLE 6 - PROHIBITIONS
6. E>1 No Manufacturer who operates an inside shop shall send out to a Contractor work of a grade similar to that which he is manufacturing in his shop unless the Workers in his shop are employed full time.
6.02	Where a Manufacturer wishes ta send work to a Contractor? the Union shall be consulted and a Union Contractor will be mutually agreed upon if such Contractor can provide delivery and.quality consistent with the Manufacturer *s standards and the costs are consistent with the local conditions. There shall be reasonable time allowed for the choosing of a Contractor and for delivery.
6.03	No Manufacturer shall give out work to the home of any person.
6.04	Na Manufacturer shall enrage or take Part in any lockouts.
6.05	No Worker shall take part in any strikes? slow-dawns, sit-downs? stoppages? unusual holidays? or a cessation of work or slowing down of work of any nature or kind whatsoever.
ARTICLE 7______AMPPTFP FROM CNF OPFRATION TO ANOTHFR
7.01	The Average Hourly Rata for a two (2) week period is to be paid in case of a transfer from one operation to another providing s
(a)	That the request is made by the Manufacturer at a time when the Worker has sufficient work at her own operation;
(b)	That the transfer is not of, -a seasonable type when this is normal to the operation of the Manufacturer5
(cl That the transfer is not made as a result of change-overs in types of garments being made by the Manufacturer? also when this is inconsistent to the operation of the Manufacturer.
(d) Workers shall not refuse tu do any work which they are given whether same consists of a transfer from one job to another or not, provided, however, that a Worker
5
ARTICLE 7 - TRANSFER FROM ONE OPERATION TO ANOTHER (continued)
may reject a transfer from his or her operation to another if -there is no work available at his or tier operation.
7.02	In the case of dissatisfaction with the work given) or the transfer made) Workers must continue to do such work as is given or to which they have been transferred, but may complain in the mariner set forth in Article B hereof) and the procedure therein provided for shall then be proceeded with so that the complaint may be heard and adjudicated upon, through the machinery provided by said Article 8.
7.03	Whenever there shall be a breach of any of the provisions of this Article by the Workers or by any of them) no negotiations shall take place, and no complaints shall be heard or adjudicated upon) until all Workers who have committed such breach are back to work in the usual way unless the parties otherwise agree. If any Worker commits a breach of the provisions of Article 7) then the Union agrees ta discipline such Worker.
ARTICLE 8 - SETTLEMENT OF DISPUTES
8.01	I t is the mutual desire of the parties hereto that complaints of the Workers or Mahufacturers shall be adjusted as quickly as possible without stoppage of work) arid i t is understood that a Worker or Manufacturer may present an oral, complaint at any time, without recourse to the Grievance Procedure herein.
8.02	Whenever any dispute) difference or question shall arise between a Worker, a group of Workers or the Union, on the one hand, and a Manufacturer, a number of Manufacturers and/or the Association, on the other hand) such dispute, difference or question shall constitute a grievance.
8.03	The word "days", a5 used in this Article) shall mean working days.
8.04	Grievances shall .be processed in the following manner and sequences
Sten 1
The Worker concerned may submit a Grievance ta the Supervisor within ten <101 days of the event giving rise to the Grievance. The Worker concerned may have his/her Union Representative and/or Shop Steward present at the submission of the Grievance . The Supervisor shall reply within five (5> days after the Grievance was submitted.
ARTICLE n - SFTTI fHENT OF DISPUTES (continued) Step 2
Failing satisfactory settlement at Step 1? the Union's Grievance Representative may submit the Grievance* in
writing, to the Plant Manager who shall render his/her decision? in writing? within five (5) days after receipt of the Grievance.
Failing satisfactory settlement at Step 2? either party may refer the Grievance to the Grievance Committee.
8.05	The said Grievance Committee shall consist of an appointee of the Union and the Association? respectively, and the Chairman thereof (whose function shall be procedural only and shall have no additional or casting vote in the event of a tie) shall alternate every three (3) months between the Union appointee and the Association appointee. Either party may appoint an observer/alternate? but in any case there shall, be only one vote from either party. Appointees to such Committee must be named and must meet to hear the Grievance within ten. (10) days from the date of the request for a Grievance hearing. Such Committee shall' hear the Grievance within five (5) days, including the first
meeting.
8.06	The said Grievance Committee shall render its decision within five (5) working, days after the Grievance shall have been referred to it.
8.07	If the said decision is not accepted by either of the parties;; to the Grievance or if no decision is rendered by the Grievance Committee as required by 8.06 hereof? or if any of the time limits have expired i'ri this Article without the mutual consent of both parties? then any one of the parties So affected may require that the Single Arbitrator shall forthwith hear'the Grievance. No Grievance may be referred directly to Arbitration? under the provisions of this Article, where the Rarty requesting the Grievance deliberately ■ omits one or more of the steps describad in the Grievance procedure herein,
8»08 For the purpose of 8.07 hereof and for that or preserving order in the industry, it is agreed that'Jack M. Chapman? Q.C.? shall be such ,8ing 1 e Arbitrator during the term of
7
ARTICLE 8 - SETTLEMENT OF DISPUTES (continued)
this Agreement and that his appointment can only be terminated by the consent) in writing? of both parties to this Agreement.
It is further agreed that Jack M. Chapman, 0. C., shall
appoint an alternate from year to year with the approval of the Amalgamated Clothing and Textile Workers Union, Local 439 and the Garment Manufacturers Associatian of Western Canada.
8.09 Either party so affected shall serve notice, in writing, upon the other party and the Arbitrator setting out:
(a) the names of all the Manufacturers and Workers involved in the dispute:	and
<b) the issues and/or complaints touching upon the
Grievance which it is requesting the Single Arbitrator to settle.
Within five (5) days of receipt of the aforesaid notice, the other party named therein shall serve notice on the first party and the Arbitrator setting out the issues and/or complaints which it is asking the Single Arbitrator to settle.
S. 10 The hearing of the Single Arbitrator shall be limited to the issues set forth in the notices referred to in paragraphs 8.07 and 8.09.
8.11	The Single Arbitrator shall hear and determine the issues and/or complaints with all reaonable dispatch and the decision of the Single Arbitrator shall be the Award of the Arbitrator and the Award of the Arbitrator shall be final and binding upon all parties concerned,
8.12	Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agrement contained, the parties hereto may extend any of the time limits specified in this Article for such further period as they may mutually agree.
'8.13 Each party shall pay one—half (1/2) of the costs of the
impartial Single Arbitrator or the appointed alternate of the Single Arbitrator.
ARTICLE 9 - HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
9.01	The standard work week shall consist of forty <40) regular hours of employment consisting of eight (8) hours per day Monday to Friday inclusive in each calendar week; providing that whore a Holiday occurs on any day within a standard work week, the regular hours of employment shall e:-:elude eight (8) hours per Holiday.
9.02	Whenever a Manufacturer requires overtime work* the Union and the Worker5 must co-operate fully Whenever possible.
E
9.03 OVERT IMF! DURING STANDARD WORK MEEK
All work in excess of eight <£)) hours per standard work week shall be considered as shall be paid for at the rate of. time and (1 1/2x).
day during the
overtime and
one-half
9.04	OVERTIME ON SATURDAYS. SUNDAYS AND HOLIDAYS
(a)	All work done on Saturdays and Sundays shrill be
considered as overtime' and shall be paid for at the rate of time and one-half (1 l/2>:).
<b) All work done, an a Holiday shall be considered as
overtime and shall be paid for at the rate, of triple time <3x); that is, double time <2x) for the work performed, plus payment far the Holiday ae provided by Article 14 hereof.
9.05	Notice of intent must be given to the Union, by the Manufacturer, of no less than seven (7) days when the starting and/or quitting time of a regularly Scheduled shift is to change. This notice will not apply to any Worker whose terms of employment are understood to cover a multiple shift basis. A regularly scheduled shift shall be defined as a shift which is not periodic hut is ongoing on a permanent basis as agreed by the Manufacturer end the Un i on.
ARTICLE 10 - FACTORY INTERRUPTIONS
10.01	When a Worker is ordered to report to work and does report at his regular -stairting time, he shall be guaranteed four (A) hours work or. in lieu of this four (4) hours pay. However if. circumstances arise, which are beyond the control, -of Management such as power failure, fire-or the failure of other Workers to report, or remain or, the job, this provision shall not apply.
10.02	In the event of machine breakdown later in the day, a Worker must report to a. Foreman or Forelady when his machine is first -sat of order. If after waiting fifteen (15) minutes ths machine is not -in suitable working order, the Worker will again report to the Foreman or Forelady who will give him other employment or permission to go home. The Worker will, be paid at his/her Average Hourly Rate for the fifteen (15) minutes delay and for any other work- assigned in lieu of his/her regular- work if not sent home.
ARTICLE 11 - RE!ST PERIOD
11.01	There are to be two <2), ten'(10)- minute rest periods, one "organised" and the-other .to be arranged by each Manufacturer.
9
ARTICLE 12 - LAY-OFFS AND TEMPORARY HELP
12.01	Whenever lay- offs are necessary they arc to be put into
effect on a departmental or sectional seniority basis. During slack seasons each Manufacturer shall have the option of .dividing the work so that each Worker will receive approximately an equal amount of w5rk'“'tJr' of dividing the hours on equal working time..	' (\
12.02	No temporary help shall be employed by the Manufacturers unless there is a full week's work for the permanent Workers. The Union is to supply all temporary help when available provided the same is acceptable to the Manufacturer.
12.03	When a lay-off of two <2) weeks or more becomes necessary
and/or apparent, the' Manufacturer shall notify the Union of such lay-off at the time such lay - off becomes apparent. Workers laid off shall be re-employed in the order of their seniority on a sectional, operational or departmental basis? before any new Workers are hired.
12.04	A Union member who leaves the service of a Manufacturer after an initial period of two <2) weeks must give five (5) working days natice. The same shall apply to termination by the Manufacturer.
12.05	A Worker who is terminated or discharged shall receive his appropriate vacation pay plus all wages due.
ARTICLE 13 - DISCHARGE AND DISCIPLINE
13.01	The Manufacturer and/or anyone acting on behalf of the Manufacturer agrees at all times to act fairly? reasonably? in good faith and in a manner consistent with the Collective Agreement as a whale.
13.02	Full, power of discharge and discipline lies with the Manufacturer but this power shall be exercised with Justice and with regard for the reasonable rights of the Worker. The power of discharge shall be exercised only
through a fully authorised and responsible representative of the Management.
13.03	No Worker shall be discharged or discriminated against for Union activities.
ARTICLE 14 - HOLIDAY WITH PAY
14.01 Every Worker who is a member of the Union shall receive pay far every Holiday based an his average hourly or
10
ARTICLE 14 - HOLIDAY WITH PAY < continued)
piecework earnings, if such Worker ha5 worked the regular hoars of- work on the work dags immediately preceding and succeeding the particular Holiday unless:
(a) he ha5 been prevented from doing so by bona fide
illness? or
<b> he has been absent with the consent of the
Manufacturer provided that such absence does not exceed thirty <30> working days.
14.02	Notwithstanding anything ta the contrary in this Agreement contained, every Worker who is a member of the Union shall be paid for Christmas Day and-Mew Year's Day at the particular Worker's average hourly or piecework earnings.
14.03	Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement contained, any Worker who terminates his employment during the calendar week in which any of the. aforementioned Holidays occur without giving at least one (1) week's notice prior to the date of terminating the employment shall not be entitled to payment for such
Hoi i day.
14.04	When any of the said Holidays fall within a Worker's vacation period? he shall be entitled to an extra day's pay and an extra day off.
14.05	Where New Year's Day, Dominion Day and/or Christmas Day falls un a Saturday or Sunday? the Worker shall- be granted a Holiday with pay on the working day immediately
preceding or following said Holiday.
ARTICLE 15 - VACATIONS WITH PAY
15.01 Every Worker who has completed a year’s service with a
Manufacturer? as of July 1st of any year? is entitled to an annual vacation of two <2) weeks with pay? based upon his Average Hourly Earnings.
15.'02 (a) The period commencing the 1st day of July in any year and terminating on the 30th day of June in the following year shall be used for determining the number of regular hours of employment constituting a year’s service.
<b) A year’s service shall constitute 1800 regular hours of employment during the term referred to in subparagraph (a) hereof? but
< i )
there shall not of 1900 regular weeks of annual regular hours of
be included in such hours of -employment vacation constitutin employment»
computations the two < 2) g .eighty (80)
11
ARTICLE 15 - VACATIONS WITH PAY (continued)
(ii) where any Worker shall have worked less than 1800 regular hours of employment and if such lesser period shall 'be accounted for by
1.	Consent to absence from employment given by a Manufacturer to the Worker? and/or
2.	Absence due to bona fide illness? and/or
3.	Absence due ta lack of work?
the aggregate of such absences UP to a maximum of 240 regular hours of employment shall be added to the actual number of hours worked and if the result of such addition shall total. 1800 hours or more? the Worker shall be deemed ta have completed, for the purpose of this Article 15? a year’s service and shall receive an annual vacation of two (2) weeks with pay a5 provided in paragraph 15.01 hereof.
15.03	Every worker not otherwise entitled to two (2) week's vacation with pay? a5 hereinbefore provided in this Article 15? shall be treated in the following manner!
(a)	Amount of Vacation Pan
Every Worker shall he paid'four per cent (4%)of h i 5 earnings? exclusive of overtime? from the date of commencement of h i 5 employment or'the date of the commencement of the vacation in the next preceding year? as the case may he;
(b)	Length of Permitted Annual Vacation
The length of the vacation period shall be pro-rated on the basis that the number of regular hours of employment actually worked bears to 1800? a fraction of a day shall extend to a whole day’s vacation.
(For the purpose of illustration:
200 hours = t working day+ therefore 2 working days 900 hours = 5 working days
1100 hours = b working days+ therefore 7 working days)
15.04	A Worker shall be entitled to vacation with pay during the period from the 1st day of July ta the 1st day of September? as the Manufacturer may find convenient, unless the Worker and the Manufacturer agree otherwise.
12
A’RTTC.T.F. 15 ~ VACATIONS WITH PAY rCONTINUED)
15.05	Total vacation pay shall be paid to each Worker just prior ta commencement of such Worker’s vacation or in the case of termination of employment, as the Vacation with Pay Act provides.
15.06	Where a Worker has worked fifty per cent (50‘/<) of the regular working hours* in each of the four (4) years in the preceding ten (10) years* with one Manufacturer, he shall be entitled to three (3) weeks vacation for each year of service subsequent to the fourth gear. For the purpose of this clause, a gear of service shall be defined as in Article 15 of this Agreement.
13.07	When a Worker has given eighteen (18) years of service in one Plant, he shall be entitled to four <4) weeks' paid vacatian as his vacation for the eighteenth (18th) year.
A year of service shall be defined as in Article 15 of this Agreement and clause 15,06 shall govern the first five years of service. Effective December 15th, 1988, when aWorkpr has given fourteen <14> years of servi_c.a.,.i n one plant, he/she shall, be entitled to four <4) weeks paid vacation as his/her vacation far the fourteenth (14th) year. A year of service shall, be defined as in Article 15 cif this Agreement and clause 15.06 shall govern the first five (5) years of service'.
15.08	A Manufacturer may close his.plant for the vacation providing he gives two (2) months written notice to the Union Prior . to v a c a t i o n s,
15.05' In the case of a Worker entitled ta four (4) weeks
vacation, three (3) weeks may he taken consecutively) during the vacation period as per clause 15.04, and the fourth <4th> week shall be taken any time up to January 31st of the following'year as the Worker and Manufacturer agree.
ARTICLE 16 - WAGE RATES AND RELATED FACTORS
16.01	In all questions of - uaga rates, our garment- industry in Manitoba is a separate entity whose wages are affected by local conditions prevailing in our own industry here.
16.02	The Manufacturer shall submit, to the-Union, upon request, semi-annual statements indicating the following information For each Worker!
(a)	Clock number and name.
(b)	Description of operation performed.
(c)	Average•Hourly Earnings.
(d)	Actual As'erage Hourly Rate earned based on piecework calculate ans.
13
ARTICLE 16 - WAGE RATES AND RELATED FACTORS (continued)
16.03	(a)
A total increase of eighty four (84) rents per hour shall be granted to the Cutters in the following stages :
1.	Twenty seven (27) cents per hour commencing December 15th * 1906.
2.	Twenty eight (28) cents per hour commencing December 15th, 1987.
3.	Twenty nine (29) cents per hour commencing December 15th, 19B8.
and the minimum wages paid to Cutters shall be set
out in clause 17.03 hereof.
< b) Time Workers
Increases shall bo granted to the Time Workers in the following stages:
1.	Three per cent (3 V.) per hour commencing December 15th, 1986.
2.	Three per cent (3 ’/.) per hour commencing December
15 t,h,	1987.
3.	Three per cent (3 V,) per hour commencing December
15th,	1988.
(c)	Piece Workers
Increases shall be granted to the piecework rates and applicable percentages in the fol lotting stages:
1. Three per cent '(3%)commencing December 15th, 1986.
2. Three per cent. (3*/.) commencing December 15th, 1987.
3.	Three per' cent (3’/.) commencing December 15th, 1988
16.04	All wages shall, be paid weekly unless otherwise agreed to by the Union and the individual Manufacturer.
16.05	Samples are to be paid for on time work rates.
16.06	Time work shall not be the basis of payment where piecework prices are provided for, except as provided herein.
16.07	AH increases as provided for herein shall be compounded.
ARTICLE 17
CUTTERS
14
17.01	There shall be three (3) classes cif Cutters? namely, First
Clans Cutters, Second Class Cutters, Apprentices or Third *2^25 Class Cutters. First Class Cutters shall maJce markers and / j grade pattern to the extent of adjusting such pattern lip and dawn one size; a Second Class Cutter shall be fully responsible for his lay by taking the marker? checking it far omissions? laying up and cutting properly.
17.02	Each Manufacturer shall employ at least one <11 First Class Cutter except where such Manufacturer (i.e. ? proprietor thereof) himself does all the marking in such plant.
17.03	The Manufacturer agrees that the Cutters' minimum hourly rates shall be as follows for tho period effective December 15th? 1986? December 15th? 19S7 and December 15th, 19BS.
Effective
First Class
Second Class (1st year)
Dec. 15th/86
9.066-tkl^
Dec. 15th/87
9.616
9.346
Second Class	9. 146
(2nd year)
Third Class (by end of 1st
S. 796 ycaf.-T
9.426
9.076
Third Class	8.846	9.126
(by end of 2nd year.)
Third Class	8.926	9.206
(by and of 3rd year.)
ESTABLISHING ’PIECEWORK PRICES
Dec. 15/88
9.904
9.634
9.714
9.414
9. 494
18.01	Line System
The Worker shall .he paid his/her previous Average Hourly Earnings until:
(a) The Manufacturer shall set a piece rats to fit the new conditions on the job;
15
ARTICLE IB - ESTABLISHING PIECEWORK PRICES (continued!
<b) If after working on the operation for a period of two '	<2) weeks the Worker .feelsthat the new, piece rate
is inadequate, a complaint to that effect shall be submitted by the Shop Steward., The Manufacturer shall then recheck the rate and meet with the Union Representative for settlement.
<c) In the event that the meeting referred to in subparagraph (b) hereof does not result in the settlement of the complaint, the dispute may then be dealt with a5 provided in Article 8 hereof.
18.02	If, after a further period of two (2) weeks, no Grievance has been submitted, it is assumed that the Union ha5 accepted the new piece rate price.
18.03	Where significant numbers of Workers, in any shop,
are not able to achieve piecework earnings in excess of provincial minimums, an existing piecework rates, a Union Time Study Engineer in conjunction with Management shall have the right to study the operations involved, using accepted engineering practices. The Manufacturer shall he notified, in advance? of the name and qualifications of the Time Study Engineer, and the time and date of the proposed study. If no agreement is reached the matter will be dealt with under Article 8.
18.04	Motion and Time Study Analysis Summaries for all new operations and rate changes shall be available on the Manufacturer’s premises for examination by a persan qualified in such activities and authorised by tho Union.
ARTICLE 19 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE
19.01	A Worker who has three (3) or more gears of employment
shall be entitled to a leave of absence, without pay, for a period not to exceed eight (8) weeks, if compassionate reasons shall arise. On his return he shall he reinstated in his farmer position without loss of seniority. A grant of leave of absence shall be given to a Worker, in writing, and a copy thereof sent to the Union.
1'9.02 A Worker; after twelve (12) consecutive months of
employment who submits to his/her employer a written application at 'least four (4) weeks in advance? shall be entitled to maternity, paternity and/or adoption leave, as the case may be, in the following manners
16
ARTICLE 19 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE (continued)
1.	Maternity Leave
(a)	A period not exceeding eleven (11) weeks, immediately preceding the estimated date of delivery.
(b)	The period between the estimated date of delivery and the actual date Of delivery.
(c)	A compulsory period of six (6) weeks immediately following the actual date of delivery. She may, by mutual consent with her employer and the consent, in writing) of her duly qualified medical practitioner certifying that her health will not be endangered) return sooner.
She shall be reinstated in tier former position, as long a5 she does not remain absent more than ten (10) weeks following the actual date of her delivery.
2.	Paternity Leave
Si:: (6) weeks to be taken) as the worker elects, during the ninety (90) day5 following the birth of the child. The actual date of delivery may be counted as day one (1) of such ninety (90) day period-.
3.	Adoption' Leave
Seventeen (17) weeks to be taken, as the Worker elects, during the ninety (90) days following the data the child comes into the Worker's actual care and custody. The ' actual date the child comes into the Worker's care and custody may be counted as day one (1) of such ninety (90) day period.
A Worker who has taken leave under the terms of . Clause
19.02	(2) and (3), and wishes to resume his/her employment shall be reinstated by the Manufacturer in the position occupied by him/her with no loss.of seniority.
19.03	All time spent on contract negotiations and/or leave 'taken pursuant to Clause 19.04 and/or Clause 19.05 shall not be considered as leave of absence in Clause 19.01.
19.04	Workers selected a5 delegates to any labour conference or training session may be granted a leave of absence, without pay, with the Manufacturer's consent, which shall not be unreasonably withheld. This leave of absence shall
"*	not exceed five (5) working days.
17'
RTI .E 19 ~ LEAVE OF
19.05 If any Worker shall have reasonable grounds for requiring a leave of absence of five (5) days, the Manufacturer shall not unreasonably withhold hi5 consent ta such absence:	it being understood and agreed, for the purpose
hereof, that i:he term "leave of absence" is exclusive of any absence due to bona fide illness.
19.06 A Worker an bona fide leave of absence shall accumulate seniority and upon return from such leave shall be reinstated to his/her former position.
ARTICLE 20 ~ UNDERPAYMENT OR OVERPAYMENT TO WORKERS
20,01	If a Manufacturer is found to have underpaid any Worker, contrary ta the terms of this Agreement, the Union shall have She right ta demand, and the Manufacturer shall pay ta such Worker, the amount underpaid. When overpayment occurs, due to an error on the part of the Manufacturer or the Workers* and if the Union agrees that such an error occurred then the Manufacturer shall he entitled ta deduct the overpayment over a reasonable time. In the event that the Union does not agree, the matter may be dealt with under the provisions of Article 8.
ARTICLE 21 - MISCELLANEOUS
21.31 In accordance with the1.spirit of, this Agreement, all parties pledge themselves to co-operate in making the arrangements successful, and to. use their influence and best efforts For the promotion and development of goodwill; it being understood that it' is not the intention that this Agreement shall operate in any way so as to restrict output or production, nor impede processes of manufacture or management, but to encourage maximum production with minimum waste and fair equitable treatment to everyone concerned.
21.02	Nothing herein conraxneo shall be construed so as to make any Manufacturer responsible or liable' for the covenants;, agreements, acts or ommissiahs of 'any other Manufacturer.
21.03	Each Mannfacturer agrees to furnish a suitable bulletin board, or boards,, for'the use of the Union, and such board(s) shall be located in a conspicuous place in the area where the Workers are working, or lunch rooms, but in any event, at least one (1) such bulletin board on each floor .of a Manufacturer7s premises.
18
ARTICLE 21 - MISCELLANEOUS (continued)
21.04	The Association acknowledges that the use of Union labels on garments manufactured by Assoc at ion members should be encouraged. The Association agrees that within the limits cif its ability to do so? it will urge members to use such labels;.
21.05	Each Manufacturer agrees that if a Worker is injured on the job and requires .the attention of a Medical Practitioner:
(a)	Should the accident happen during the first half of a shift the Worker will be paid a total of four (4) hours far the full shift.
(b)	Should the accident happen during the second half of a shift the Worker will be paid for a full shift.
ARTICLE 22 - rittoh &nD REVISION CF AGREEMENT
22.01	It is hereby understood and agreed that this Agreement______
shall, continue and remain in full force and effect UP to-----
the close of* business an the 14th day of December,	---
and thereafter from year to year? unless either the Union or the- Manufacturers rive.written notice to the other of its desire to revise this Agreement, or to conclude a new Collective Agreement for any period after the 14th day of December? 1989. The said written natice' may be given at any time after the 1st day of October? arid not later than the 15th day of November? in any year during which the said Agreement expires.
19
ARTICLE 23—THE ACTUU._____LOCAL 459.___AND GARMENT MANUFACTURERS
HEALTH. WELFARE AND PENSION FUND'. INC.
23.01	It.is understood and agreed, between the parties hereto* that the provisions governing the operation of the Fund) including the amount payable to the Fund, the benefits paid out of the Fund, and the terms and conditions under which benefits became payable) may be the subject of negotiations of a revision to this Agreement, or far the conclusion of a new Collective Agreement; and that all the provisions of the said Fund are part of this Agreement.
11 is further agreed that the Board of Trustees of the Fund shall have the right, at their discretion, to refuse to pay any benefits, under the Health and Welfare portion of this Agreement, which are duplications of payments made by any Government body, or to pay only the difference when the Government payment is less than the benefit provided for by the Fund.
A. HEALTH AND WELFARE 1 - Pg?th,. Ren if it
Upon the death of an eligible member, the Fund mill pay the Death Benefit to the designated beneficiary, as follows!
Members	$5000.00
Post Ret ir ament < after sin (6) months) $1500.-00
2.	Weeklu Indernnitu
All eligible members shall be entitled to a minimum of sixty per cent (60%) of weekly earnings to a maximum of $135.00 for 13 weeks in any consecutive 12 month period with no waiting dart;. The member must be sick at least seven (7) days or more to be eligible.
3.	Hospital Allowance
All eligible members and eligible dependents shall be entitled to a special allowance of $16.00 per day while in th e hospi tal, not exceeding A 2 days in any consecutive 12 month period.
4.	Maternity, Paternity. Adoption
In the event'of confinement reason of Maternity of any person mho becomes eligible therefor, there shall be paid by the Fund Maternity benefits in the sum of one hundred and fifty dollars ($150.00).
pep*
ta
E 23 - THf
_LOCAI___452____AND
EALTH WELFARE AND PENSION FUND* INC. (CONTINUED)
MANUFAfynjRFRR
In the event of confinement by reason of Caesarean Birth to any person who becomes eligible therefotf, there shall he paid by the Fund benefits in the Bam of one hundred and severity five dollars ($175.00
In the event of adoption by any Persan who becom s eligible therefor, there shall be paid by the Fu d benefits in the sum of one hundred and fifty dollars ($150.00).
5.	Bereavement Pari
In the event of a death in the family of an eligible member, there shall be paid to such a member 3 days bereavement pay. "Family" shall mea'jn mother, father, wife, husband, child, brother, sister, rnother~in-law» father-in-l&w, son-.in-1-aw, daughter-in-law, grandmother, grandfather and grandchild.
0. Vision Care
All. eligible members shall be entitled to 757. of verifiable costs of prescription eyeglasses and/or contact lenses to a maximum of $200.00 every 2 years.
7
Prescription Drugs
All. eligible members and eligible dependents s be entitled ta 907 of the total bills, with no deductible, for prescription drugs, based on submitted and verifiable bills.
8. Dental Plan
All e1igib1e.members shall be entitled to receive 807. of eligible charges for the "Basic" dental services listed -below*
Diagnostics
-	complete examination, once every 3 years.
-	recall or oral examination covered twice in each calendar year.
-	periapical or bite-wing X-rays once every 2 years if necessary.
21
___________- TME.CTI_____________________________________________,
HEALTH WELFARE AND PENSION FUND. INC. (continued)
Preventative:
-	prophylaxis (the removal of deposits and stains from the tooth surface) up to twice in each calendar year.
~ topical application of fluoride up to two applications in each calendar Year.
-	space maintainers (except when used in orthodontic treatment).
Surgical :
-	extractions and complicated surgical procedures performed in the dentifet's office, including post operative care and general anaesthesia,
Re storative:
- fillings made of amalgams! silicates! plastics and synthetic porcelains. Includes temporary stainless steel crowns.
Prosthetics
- repair of damaged dentures. Adding teeth to existing denturesi or relining or rebasing the dentures. Each procedure limited fo once every 3 years.
Accidental Injury I
- major dental services as a result of an accident up to a maximum of $1*000,00 per year per person,
In addition to the ’’Basic" services listed previously! all eligible members shall be entitled to receive 50"/. of eligible charges for the following "Major" dental services!
Endodont i cs :
- the usual procedures required for pulpal therapy and root canal filling.
Periodon tics:
-- the usual procedures for treatment of the
diseases of the tissues and banes supporting the ' teeth.
Extensive Restoratians :
-	gold inlays and onlaysi
-	jackets! crowns and bridges to rebuild and repl ace missing teeth.
-	each procedure except crowns limited to once in a 5 year period. Crowns will not be replaced within 5 years of placement.
22
ARTICLE 23	- THE ACTMU, LOCAL 459, AND GARMENT MANUFACTURERS
HEALTH WELFARE AND PENSION FUND.. INC. tconti nn ed t
Anaesthesia:
- nitrous oxide analgesia, administered in the dentist's office.
Prosth e t ic?
- partial or complete upper and lower dentures, provided by a dentist or licensed denturist. Each
procedure Limited to once every 5 years.
Allowances include all adjustments.
Annual maximum for the dental plan is $11000.00,
The plan is based on the prevailing Dental Fee Guide. Any charges over this guide shall be the responsibility of the member. The limits of $1*000.00 shown a5 the maximums for the dental plan and for accidental injury shall be raised to $1*250,00 as of December 15th* 1988.
9.	Chiropractic Care
All eligible members shall be entitled to payment by the Fund for verifiable Chiropractic Care uP to a limit of $48,00 over and above that paid by Manitoba Health Services Commission in any one year.
10.	Juru Dutu
In the event that a Worker is called upon to pel-farm Jury Duty, there shall be paid, as a
benefit from the Fund* all loss of wages incurred by such Worker.
E. Pension
The maximum monthly pension benifit to which an member shall be entitled is s
1.	$110.00 effective December 15* 1988.
2.	$115.00 effective December 15* 19871
3.	$125.00 effective December 15* 1988.
The eligible retirement age sha 11 be 60
on a pro-rata basis* according to the following percentages:
1.	If	retirement	at	60	-	657.
2.	If	retirement	at	61	-	72%
3.	If	retirement	at	62	-	79/4
4.	If	retirement	at	63	-	86%
5.	If	retirement	at	64	-	5'3fc
6.	If	ret i.rement ■	at	65	-	1007.
23
.3__n.fT 23 - THE ACTWU, LOCAI_432,__AND fiARMFNT MANUFACTURERS
HEALTH WELFARE AND____________D INC. continued
7. Totally disabled members who meet the criteria shall be entitled to a retirement benefit of at least 17'/,,
C. OTHER PROVISIONS
1.	The contribution by Manufacturers to the Fund is 47. of Union Member' s wages.
2.	(a) The office employees of the Fund shall be
entitled to the benefits of the Healthy Welfare and Pension Fund in the same way as Union Members and shall be subject to the same Fund by-laws. The premiums} equivalent to the Manufacturer's contributions* shall come from the Fund itself. Any terms of original employment which were more favourable shall remain in affect and supersede this Clause.
(b) The office employees of Local .459 may be entitled ta the benefits of the Health Welfare and pension Fund in the same way as Union Members and shall be subject to the same Fund by-laws. The premiums} equivalent to the Manufacturer’s contributions, shall come from the Amalgamated Clothing and Textile Workers Union* Local 459.
3.	For the purpose of the Health and Welfare Fund, "Dependants" shall mean a child or spouse of the Member. Child or spouse shall be defined by the fallowing definition obtained from Blue Crass:
"The term,'Dependent' means all natural children* legally adopted children}, stepchildren and children of the person of tho .opposite sex with whom the employee is living in a husband and wife relationship} providing such children are living with the employee} are unmarried, under the age of 21 arid dependent upon the employee for support."
4.	Those Members who retire are eligible far benefits for six <6> months from the date of retirement, uttere applicable.
5.	The Worker shall become eligible for benefits in the beginning cif the sixth (6th) month of employment.
6.	A study shall.be conducted during the term of this Agreement Dy the Trustees of fAie Fund} to determine the feasibility of the Fund managing the Dental Plan • internally.
ARTICLE 24
24
24.01 Where in this Agreement the masculine or the singular has been used* it shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter or plural, a5 the case may be, wheresoever the context of this Agreement requirer;.
24.02	Time shall in all respects be the essence of this Agreement.
24.03	This Agreement shall enure to the benefit ofj and be binding upon, the parties hereto and their respective heirs, executorsi administrators, successors and assigns.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have hereunto set their
hands and seals the day and year first above written.
GARMENT MANUFACTURERS ASSOCIATION CF WESTERN CANADA
Sam Klapman	or
David Rich Pi-esident S.M.A.W.C Co-Chairmen Negotiating Committee
AMALGAMATED CLOTHING AND
TEXTILE WORKERS UNION, LOCAL 45*?
William Haiko Manager
25'
The undersigned, baing members of the Garment Manufacturers Association of Western Canada, hereby ratify, sanction and confirm the Collective Agreement dated as a£ the 15th day of December»	1986 between the Amalgamated Clothing and Textile
Workers Unions Local 459 and the Garment Manufacturers Association of Western Canada, and acknowledge receipt of the delivery of a copy of such Agreement.
ARTHUR STREET FASHION
CANADIAN SPORTSWEAR CO. LTD.
. ------------------------
per
CANADIAN SHTRT^AND OVERALL MFG. CO. LTD FREED & FREED/OF ( NADA Lh C. -PANT SHOP.
RICHLU SPORTSWEAR MFG. LTD.