COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
between
LEVI STRAUSS & CO. (CANADA) INC. BRANTFORD FINISHING CENTRE
and
AMALGAMATED CLOTHING AND
TEXTILE WORKERS UNION LOCAL 551
il Ull
ARTICLE
ARTICLE
ARTICLE
ARTICLE
ARTICLE
ARTICLE
ARTICLE
ARTICLE
ARTICLE
ARTICLE
ARTICLE
ARTICLE
ARTICLE
ARTICLE
ARTICLE
ARTICLE
ARTICLE
ARTICLE
ARTICLE
TABLE OF CONTENTS
I EVI STRAUSS & CO. 1CANADAI INC. BRANTFORD RFFINISHINGCENTRF
I-
IV-
V-
VI-
VII	■
VIII	-K-XXI’ XII -
XIII-XIV -XV. XVI -XVII-XVIII -XIX •
MANAGEMENT RIGHTS , . . UNION RECOGNITION....
NO STRIKE CR LOCKOUT
CHECKOFF............
INSURANCEBENEFITS/PENSION
ANNUAL VACATION.......
HOLIDAYS..............
WORK WEEK AND OVERTIME LAY-OFFS, TRANSFER RECALL GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
ARBITRATION ....
DISCHARGE......
ABSENCES .......
NONDISCRIMINATION
SEPARABILITY.....
WAGES ...........
JOB POSTING.....
TUITION PROGRAM ,.
TERM OFAGREEMENT

1
2
2
2
3
t
i
7
8 E
10
11
11
13
13
13
14
15 15
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING-
WASH DEPARTMENT.............................. 16
LETTER CF UNDERSTANDING-
INCENTIVE SYSTEM TO ALTERNATIVEWORK STYLES .... 17
LETTER OF INTENT
WLuivum/ wmoH SHIFT.......................... 18
LETTER OF INTENT
ALTERNATIVE WORK STYLESWAGE ADJUSTMENT...... 19
SCHEDULE "A" ALTERNATIVE WORK STYLES......... 20
1
THIS AGREEMENT made and entered into this 22nd day of JiJy 1992 by and betweenlevi Strauss & Co. (Canada) Inc. af 70 Easton Road, Brantford, Ontario, Canada, hereinafterreferredtoas "Employer" and the Amalgamated Clothing and Textile Workers Union, Local 551, CLC, AFL-CIO, hereinafter referred to as the "Union".
ARTTCIF |- MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
1.01	The Unionrecognizesand acknowledges that the managementofthe
operations and the direction of working forces are fixed exclusively in the Employer, and without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Union acknowledgesthat it is the exclusive function of the Employerto:
1(a)	maintainorder, discipline, efficiency and in connectiontherewith; to
make, alter and enforce from time to time reasonable rules and regulations, policiesand practicesto beobservedby itsemployees, and to discipline or discharge employees for just cause;
hire,transfer, assign to shifts, promote, demote, classify, layoff, recall or retire employees at retirement age; and select employees for positions excludedfrom the bargaining unit;
(c)	establish and administer tests for the purpose of assisting the Employer in determining an employee's qualifications, and require medicalexaminationsfor healthand safety reasonsorto support a benefit or claim underthisAgreement;
(d)	determine the location of operations, their expansion or their curtailment,the subcontractingofwork, the schedules of operation, the number of shifts,job content quality andquant'rty standardsand targets, the establishment of work or job assignments.
(o)	change, combine or abolish job classifications; determine the qualifications of an employee to perform any particular job, the nature of tools, equipment and machinery used and to use new or improved methods or processes; and to decide on the number of employees needed by the Employer at any time.
(f) the Employer agreesthat it will not exercise its functions in a manner inconsistentwith the provisions of this Agreement
(9) the Brantford Finishing Centre shall be characterized by an atmosphereof Continuous Improvement. The Employershallensure
2
that all employees work in a manner which is consistent with the Company's Aspirations.
ARTICLE II- UNION RECOGNITION
2.01	The Employer recognizes the Union as the exclusive bargaining
agent of all employeesof Levi Strauss & Co. (Canada) Inc., at its plant located at 70 Easton Road, Brantford, Ontario, save and except supervisors, instructors, trainers, mechanics, quality control staff, forepersons, clerical and sales staff, studentsemployedduring schoolvacationperiodand persons regularlyemployed for not more than twenty-four (24) hours per week.
The Employer shall recognize and deal with not more than six (6) representatives of the employees as the Union may elect or appoint. A Union Representative, who is not an employee of the Employer, after first notifyingthe appropriatemanagementrepresentative,shall havethe righttoenterthe work area of the plant during working hours for the purposed investigating any grievance or complaint as defined in Article X herein. A Union Representativeperforming such duties shall not interruptor interfere with the plant operations.
2.03	The representativesas in2,02 shall not necessarily constitute the
unionnegotiatingcommittee. The unionnegotiatingcommittee shall beformed at the time of negotiations.
ARTICLE III - NO STRIKER LOCKOUT
3.0t	The Union hereby undertakes that it shall not directly or indirectly
cause any cessation of or interference with production in the plant of the Employer. The Employershallnot engage in any lockout. All differences between the parties hereto shall be settled in accordance with the provisions of Article X herein.
3.02	Any action bya Unionmember, or a Union official which instigates,
prompts or leads to a strike, slowdown, stoppage, walk out, calling out of workers for a meeting during working hours, or cancellation/wrthdrawal d overtime is prohibited and is a violation of this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV ■ CHECKOFF
4.01	The Employer shall deduct from the wages of his/her employees,
upon written authorization of the employees, Uniondues and initiationfees. The
■i
amounts deducted pursuantto such authorizationshallbe transmitted at monthly intervals to the properly designated official of the union, together with a list of namesoftheemployeesfrom whom the deductions were madeonforms provided bythe Union. Sumsdeductedbythe Employeras Uniondues, initiationfeesshall be kept separate and apart from the general funds of the Employer and shall be deemed trust funds.
The Unionagrees to holdthe Employer harmless in the event that it is requiredby law to make any restitutionofdues and/or initiationfees which have been deductedand transmittedto the Union in accordancewith the provisionsof this Article.
Membership in the Union shall be required as a condition of employment for each employee. A new employee shall be known as a probationary employee untilhe/she has completed three hundredand sixty (360) hours of work.
ARTICLE V - INSURANCE BENEFfTS/PENSION
5.01	Commencing on the Monday following the completion of three
hundredandsixty (360) hoursofwork, the Employershallpaythe premiumcosts to providethe following insurance benefits:
Ontario Health Insurance Plan, for either single or family w coverage as requiredby the employee.
... EffectiveAugust 1,1992, $15,000 life insurancecoverage.
1 ' EffectiveAugust 1,1993, $17,500 life insurancecoverage. EffectiveAugust 1,1994, $20,000 lie insurancecoverage.
. . A supplementary Health Care Program, details of which will be ' ' provided in a bookletto be furnished bythe Employer.
. The company, at intervals of not less than two (2) years, will reimburse each employee who requires prescription safety eye glasses at work for the cost of the safety lenses and frames.
. . The Company will contribute a maximumof$100.00 every two years toward the cost of prescription glasses tor eligible employee's spouse and children.
5.02	An employee who attains three hundred and sixty (360) hours of
work with the Company will be eligible tor benefits under a weekly sickness and
4
accident benefitprogram.the details of which will be provided in a booklet to be furnished by the Employer.
5.03	Effective Novemberl 3,1986,allemployeeswhohavecompletedone
(1)	year of service (asof Novemberf3, 1986)will become members of the Levi Strauss & Co. (Canada) Inc. Hourly EmployeesPensionPlan. FormerElginStreet employeesto have membership in the plan retro-active to April 14, 1932, The benefit under the Pension Planfor eligibleemployeesis$5.00 per month per year of credited service.
(a)	Effective August 1, 1989 the benefit under the Pension Planfor eligible employees is $8.00 per month per year of credited service.
(b)	Effective August 1, 1990 the benefit under the Pension Planfor eligibleemployeesis$10.00 per month per year of credited service.
(c)	EffectiveAugust 1, 1991 the benefit under the Pension Planfor eligibleemployees is$l 2.00 per month per year of credited service.
(d)	K is agreed by the Companythateligibleemployeeshave the option of making voluntary contributionstoward their Pension Plan, up to the maximum annual company contribution.
5.04	DENTALPLAN:
As of August 1,1992 coverage will be:
-100% reimbursement for preventative dental care (routine oral examinationandscalingandcleaningof teeth twice inone (I) year.
reimbursementfor other basic dental work (filling, x-rays, root canal, stainless steel crowns, etc.)
The dental plan will cover the employee and his/her spouse and children up to $1,000 per member per year.
The dental plan will be: 80% Company paid premiums, 20% employee paid premiums,
(The employee cost will be approximately: $0.65/week for single, $1.43/week for family.)
5
ARTICLE VI ■ ANNIIAI VACATION
6.01	Employees who have completed one (1) year of continuous
employmentwiththe Employer, as d their anniversary date, shallbeentitledto two
(2)weeks of vacation with pay. Such pay to be computedon the basisof four percent(4%)ofthegrosseamings which the employeehas receivedffom the first week of July inone (1) year to the lastweek of June in the following year or two (2) weeks pay based on the employee's base rate of pay plus bonuses if applicable, whichever is greater.
(a)	Employees who have completed five (5) years of continuous employmentwiththe Employer, as of their anniversary date, shall be entitled to three (3) weeks vacation with pay. Such pay to be computedon the basisof six percent (6%) of the gross earnings which the employee has received from the first week of July inone (1) year to the lastweek of June in the following year, or three (3) weeks pay based on the employee's base rate of pay plus bonuses if applicable whichever is greater.
(b)	Employees who have completed ten (10) years of continuous employmentwiththe Employer, as of their anniversary date, shall be entitled to four (4) weeks vacation with pay. Such pay to be computed on the basis of eight percent (8%) of gross earnings which the employee has receivedfrom the first week of July in one (1) year to the lastweek of June in the following year, or four (4) weeks pay basedonthe employee’s base rate of pay plus bonuses if applicable whichever is greater.
(p)	Effective August 1,1992, employeeswho havecompletedtwenty-one
(21)years of continuous employmentwith the Employer, as of their anniversary date, shallbeentitledto five (5)weeks vacation with pay. Such pay to be computed on the basisof ten percent(10%)ofthe grosseamings which the employeehas receivedfrom the first week of July inone (l)yeartothe lastweek of June in the following year, or five (5) weeks pay basedon the employee's base rate of pay plus bonuses if applicable whichever is greater.
(jj) Effective August 1, 1993, employeeswho have completed twenty (20)years of continuousemploymentwiththe Employer, as of their anniversary date shallbeentitledto five (5) weeks vacation with pay. P^to be computedin accordancewith paragraph 6.01 (c).
. . EffectiveAugust 1,1994, employeeswho have completed nineteen
'e' (19)years of continuous employmentwith the Employer, as of their
6
anniversarydate shall be entitledto five (5) weeks vacation with pay. Pay to be computed in accordancewith paragraph6.01 (c).
(f) Employees who have completed twentyeight (28) years of continuousemployment with the Employer, as of their anniversary date, shall be entitledto six (6)weeks vacationwith pay. Such pay to be computed on the basis of twelve per cent 12% of the gross earningswhichthe employee hasreceivedfromthe first week of July in one (1) year to the last week of June inthe following year, or six (6) weeks pay based on the employee's base rate of pay plus bonuses if applicablewhichever is greater.
. . Forthose employeeswho are entitledto three (3) four (4), five (5), ax (6)weeks of vacation, the vacationtime shallbe mutuallyagreed upon between the Employer and the employee concerned.
Vacation pay shall be paid to an employee not later than the last work day precedingthe week in which the employee's vacation begins.
6.03	Employees who terminate with less than one year continuous
employment shall receivevacationpay equalto 4% of theirgross earnings from date of hireto the date of termination.
ARTICLE VII- HOLIDAYS
(a) For each calendar year, the Employer shall grant to each of its eligible employeesthe following nine (9) holidays: New Year's day, Good Friday, Victoria Day, Canada Day, Civic Holiday, LabourDay, Thanksgiving Day, Christmas Day and Boxing Day.
During each year of this contract an additional two (2) floating holidays will be granted by the Employer at a date to be determined by mutual agreement between the Employer and the Union.
Employees will receive an additional floater to be taken on the employee’s anniversarydate.
,Holidaypayshallbecalculatedonthe basisofthe employee’s base rate plus'bonusesas applicableas per ScheduleA
7.02	An employee shall be eligible for holiday pay if he/she has worked
his/her regularlyscheduledwork dayimmediatelypreceding andfollowingthepaid
7
holiday, except that authorized absence shall not cause an employee to be ineligiblefor holiday pay. The Employer may requirethe employee to furnish satisfactory proof of illness, including a doctor’s certificate.
7.03	An employee on lay-offstatus is entitledto holiday pay ifthe lay-off during which the holiday occurred is not of morethanten (10) scheduled working days duration.
7.04	All holidaysshallbepaidfor irrespectiveoftheday onwhichlhey fall.
Ifthe holiday falls on a Saturday, the preceding Friday shall be observed as the holiday. If the holiday falls on a Sunday, the Monday following shall be observed as the holiday.
ARTICLE VIII - WORK WEEK AND OVERTIME
8.01	A work week shall consist of up to forty (40) hours.
8.02	a) Hoursofwork shall be:
Day shift -	Monday - Thursday
7:00 am to 4:00 p.m.
Friday
7:00 am. to 1.00 p.m.
Afternoon shift-	Monday- Thursday
4:15 p.m, to 1:15 am.
Friday
1:15 p.m. to 7:15 p.m,
Midnightshift-	Sunday
7:00 p.m. to 7;00 a.m.
Tuesday- Friday 1:00 a.m. to 7:00 a.m.
Overtime is defined as work performed in excess of the regularly scheduled hours of work.
Overtimework as definedhereinshallbepaidatthe rate of time and one h at (1 1/2) exceptthat where an employee works ten (10) hours or more overtime Monday through Fridayhe/she shallbe paid st doubletime (2X) forwork performed on the sixth (6th) consecutive day (Saturday)
8
Work performedon a statutory holidayor on a seventh consecutive day cfwork shall be paid at the rated doubletime. Overtimework performedon a Sunday shall be paid at double time.
All work performedat the requestof the Employerbeforethe regular working'day's starting time and/or after the regular day's quitting time shall be considered overtime and shall be paid as such provided that the employee completeshis/her regularly scheduled shift.
In those cases where the employee does not complete his/her regulaS^ scheduled shift at the request of the Employer, or due to a verifiable personal emergency which requires the employee to leave the plant, overtime hours worked in accordancewith Article 8.02(b) will be paid at overtime rates.
All overtime will be on a voluntary basis
8.03	All employees shall have two (2)ten (10) minute paid rest periods
during their respective shifts, at times determined by mutual agreement between the Union and the Employer.
H an employee reportsto work on schedulewithout having received prior notice from the Employernotto report, such employee shall be entitledto four (4) hours of work or the equivalent in wages at his/her base rate of pay plus bonuses ifapplicable. The provisions of Articles 8.04 shall not apply ifwork is not availableasa resultof fire, flood, powerfailure, or other causes beyondthe control of the Employer.
ARTICLE IX - LAY-OFFS. TRANSFER RECALL
9.01	TEMPORARY LAY-OFFS
A temporary lay-off is defined as more than forty (40) consecutive hoursand lessthan thirteen (13) weeks. Ha temporary lay-off is required, such layoff will be governed by plant seniority within the respectivejob function,
9.02	PERMANENT LAY-OFFS
. . A lay-off of more than thirteen (13) consecutive weeks shall be termecfa' permanent lay-off and shall be governed by plant seniority within the respectivejob functions.
(b)
All employees on a permanent lay-off shall retain rights to recall for
9
a maximum of six (6) months from the lay-off date. Recalls shall be made in reverse order of lay-off. The returning employee must have previously demonstratedthe requiredabiifty to performthejob. Failureto reportto work on the specified date of recall will result in immediatetermination.
ARTICLE X- GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
A grievance as defined by this Agreement is limitedto a complaint which involvesthe interpretation, application or alleged violation of a provisionof this Agreement.
10.02	Thereshallbe no suspensions or interruption of work becauseofany grievance. The settlement cf a grievance shall be handled in accordance with the following procedure:
step 1
(5) working days of the occurrencethereof, the grievance shall be discussed in a meetingbetweenthe affected employee and his/her immediatesupervisor. The Union Steward may or may not be involved in this discussion at the option cf the employee. The supervisor involvedshall give an oral answer with respect to the grievance not later than one (1) working day following said discussion. If the grievance is not settled at this step, then:
step 2
Within three (3) working days following receiptof the oral answer provided in Step 1, the grievance shall be put in writing, dated, signed by the employee, approvedbythe Chief UnionStewardand presented to the Plant Manager or his/her designate. The Plant Manageror his/her designate shall within three (3)working days following his/her receipt of the written grievance meet with the employee and the Chef Union Steward in an attempt to settle the matter, if settlement is reached, the matter shall be considered closed. If the grievance is not settled, awritten and signed decision settingfort/jthe Employer's position,and the reasontherefore.shall be submitted by the PlantManager, or his/her designate, to the Chief UnionStewardwithin two (2) working days following said meeting. If the grievance is not settled at this step, then:
10
Step 3
Within seven (7) working days following receipt of written decision provided in Step 2, the NationalRepresentativeofthe Unionandthe Plant Manager or his/her designate shall meet at a mutually convenienttime and place and attemptto settle the grievance. If settlement is reached, it shall be put in writing and signed by both parties. Inthe eventthat no settlementis reachedat Step3, then the grievance may be submitted to arbitration in accordancewith Article XI of this Agreement:
10.03	tf the Employerhas a grievance, itshall betaken upatStep3 of the GrievanceProcedure.
10.04	tf the Union has a policy grievance, such grievance may be filed at Step2 of the GrievanceProcedure. A policy grievance is defined as and limited to one which alleges violation of a specific provisionofthis Agreementwhich could not otherwise be resolvedata lowerstepcf the grievance procedure becauseof the nature and scope of the grievance.
A probationaryemployee may be disciplined, laid off or discharged without such discipline, layoff or discharge being subject to the grievance procedure,
10.06	Exceptforprobationaryemployeescovered in Article 10.05, a claim by an employee that has been discharged without just cause will be treated as a grievanceat Step 3 of the Grievance Procedure. Such grievance must be lodged with managementwithin five (5) working days after the employee ceases to work for the Employer.
10.07	The insurance benefits provided inthis Agreement are provided by an insurancecompany or trustee. Any dispute regardingbenefitentitlement shall be considered to be betweenthe insurer or trustee and the employee, and shall not be subject to the grievance procedure.
10.08	The selection of supervisory employees is the sole responsibility of the Employer and such selection shall not be the subject d the grievance procedure.
ARTICLE XI-ARBITRATION
11.01	Only those grievances between the Employer and the
Employee/Union which have been duly processed through the Grievance
11
Procedure as specified in Article X may be carried beyond the grievance procedure into arbitration. Ether the Union or the Employer may request arbitration of grievances, in writing, at any time during a period of fourteen (14) calendardaysfollowing the final meetingasdescribedinArticle 10.02. Upon such timely request,the arbitrationshall proceedas follows:
The Employerandthe Unionshallselecta neutralArbitrator. ^the parties cannot agree upon an Arbitrator, the appointment shall be made by the Minister of Labourof Ontario uponthe requestof either party. The sole Arbitrator thus chosenshall decide the matter, and the decisionand award shallbe final and binding upon all parties. The Arbitrator shall have no authority to alter, add to or ignore the terms negotiatedintothis Agreement The Arbitrator shall be limitedto finding the facts and to applying them to the terms of this Agreement, and shall notadd. meaning or intenttothisAgreementwhichwas not negotiated. All other mattersareto beresotved by negotiationsbetweentheparties. Each party to the Arbitration shall bear its own expense plus one-half (1/2) of the cost of the Arbitrator.
ARTICLE XII • DISCHARGE
12,01	A grievance alleging improperdisciplinary actionor discharge, must be filed with the Employer, in writing, within five (5) working days after the impositionof such discipline or discharge. Failure to file a timely grievance will cause the employee to forfeit any right or claim to re-instatement or backpay unless compelling reasons for untimely filing can be demonstrated by the employee. If the grievance or complaint concerning disciplinary action or discharge cannot be adjusted by mutual agreement between representativesof the Unionandthe Employeras provided in Article X, said grievance or complaint shall be processed in accordance with Article XI herein.
ARTICLE XIII -ABSENCES
An employee who is absent from work for two (2) consecutive working dayswithoutvalid reason, willbeterminatedfrom employment. Therefore, a valid reason for any absence must be promptly given to the Employer by messenger or telephone.
13.02	Forpurposes of this Article, disability will bedefinedas an illnessor accidentwhich is neither governed or compensatedby provisions of Ontario law. Upon request, leaves of absence for reasons of disability shall be granted to an employee who has completed three hundred and sixty (360) hours of work.
12
Leaves of absence for other personal reasons may be granted at the discretion of the Employer.
13.03	All requestsfor leaves of absence other than disability shall be in writing. Incases of absencedueto disability,the Employermay require evidence of disability includinga doctor's certificate. The Employerwillholdopenforsix (6) months ajob left vacant by virtue of Is incumbent being on approved disability leave of absence. In the case of absences over six (6) months and up to twelve (12) months, the Employerwill reinstate the employee inthe same or similarjob at the first opportunity.
13.04	The Company shall review payment of benefits and determine eligibility for those employees who have been absent from work for over twelve (12) months.
Employeesreturningto work from a non-work related illness or injury may beprovided with modifiedwork by the Company. Thisprovisioniscontingent on availability of suitable productive work.
In the event of death in the immediatefamily, an employee shall be entitled to three (3) consecutive working days leave of absencewith pay. For purposes of this Article, immediate family shall be limited to:	Spouse, son,
daughter,father, mother,brother, sister, parents-in-law,grandparents,sister-in-law, brother-in-law .common-lawspouse, andgrandchildren, grandparents-in-law,son-in-law, daughter-in-law, adopted and step-children.
The Employer reservesthe right to requestverificationof the death, prior to authorizing paymentfor a bereavement leave as above.
Leaves of absence without loss of seniority shall be granted to a reasonable number of employees selected as delegates to Union conventions, conferences and other similar functions. Such leaves shall not exceed two (2) weeks unless otherwise mutually agreed upon and such employees shall be reinstatedtotheir respectivepreviousjobs upontheir retumto work. An employee on leave of absence in accordancewith Article 13.07 shall be entitledto holiday pay for any holiday which occurs during the leave of absence.
13.08	The Employershallpay an employeewho isrequiredforjury service, for each day of service, the differencebetweensuch employee's base rate of pay plus bonuses if applicablefor the numberof hours the employeewould have been scheduledto work, andthe payment receivedforjury duty. Inorderto qualify for this payment,the employee must presentproofof service andthe amount of pay received.
13
Male employees shallbegrantedone (1) day off with pay at the time of their baby's birth. The day can be taken on the day of the birth or on the day that the baby is brought home from the hospital.
ARTICLE XIV- NON-DISCRIMINATION
The parties hereto agree that the provisionof this Agreement shall be appliedto all employeesor applicants for employmentwithout regardto race, colour, religiouscreed, nationalorigin, sex or handicap.
ARTICLE XV - SEPARABILITY
15.01	Shouldany partofthisAgreementberenderedor declared illegalby
reasonof any existingor subsequently enacted legislation, or by any decree of a court of competentjurisdiction, or by the decision of any authorizedgovernment agency, such invalidation of such part or provisions shall not invalidate the remainderthereof,
ARTICLE XVI-WAGES
ALTERNATIVE WORK STYLES
16.01	It is understoodthatthe Employerwill changethe current incentive
system to an alternate form of work method and wage structure herein after referredto as "Alternative Work Styles" effective August 1, 1992.
The Employershallestablishstandards of productionand quality for jobs and further establish thresholdtargets of production, quality and cost for collective groupsof jobs and/or teams of individuals with the teams' involvement.
Eachemployee inthe group or the team will receiveadditionalwage payments (bonus) for collectively achieving all of the threshold targets of production,quality and cost, and inadditiona plant bonuswill be paidwhen plant thresholdtargets are met.
The team and plant bonus payments as defined in Schedule A will be paid on the regular hoursworked during the eligible period.
Quotas will be set at the minimum requirementsforthe respective job. They will be achievable so as to ensure that bonuspaymentcan be madefor the effort expended.
14
An operator transferring to Alternative Wtak Styles shall be paid in accordance with Schedule A
16,04	An AWS operatorwho temporarily transfersto ajob within a higher wage classificationshallbe paidthe higherratefor all hours worked on the higher payingjob.
An AWS operatorwho temporarily transfers (upto two weeks) to a job in a lower classificationshallbe paidthe rate of their regularjobfor all hours worked on the lower payingjob.
All hourly employees directly assigned to a specific department a team will beentitledtothe productivity, cost andqualitythresholdpaymentforthat departmenl/team,
16.06 It is recognizedthat certainemployeesare regularlyassignedto and are requiredto performmorethan one (1)job.
16.07 The Employer agrees that a new or modified operation may temporarily affect an experienced employee's earnings. In recognition of this, the Employeragreesto applya re-trainingincentivebasedon adecliningscale. The duration of the re-training period during which such re-training incentive will be applied will depend uponthe complexity of the change andthe degree of similarity of the newoperationto the former operation.
All jobs will be evaluated by a joint committee with equal representation, Management and Union and in accordance with the Cooper Lybrand Evaluation System or other suitable recognizedjob evaluation system.
ARTICLE XVII - JOB POSTING
17.01	When additional jobs arecreated, orwhen ajob becomesvacant.the Employer shall post such jobs for fortyeight (48) hours, on at least two (2) designatedbulletinboards,
17.02	Job applicants must be at a minimum efficiency of one hundred percent (100%) atthetime of the application and must have been employedwith the Employerfor at leastsix (6) months, (f there is morethan one applicantfor a job posting, plant seniority shall prevail.
17.03	A successful applicant cannot apply for another posted job until twelve (12) monthsffom date of transfer.
15
17.04	Transferredemployeeswho failto meetthe require merits of the new positionwithinthe normal training period for that respectivejob, will be returned to training status, subjectto a needfor Trainees. Inthe eventthat no trainees are required, the employee will be laid off.
17.05	Jobs which become vacant as a result of a transfer pursuantto Article XVII will not necessarily be filled by subsequentjob postings.
ARTICLE XVIII • TUITION PROGRAM
18.01	For all full-time employees who have completedtheir probationary
periodthe Employerwill make available a tuition reimbursement program. Upon approval by the Employer, this program will reimburse the cost of tuition and booksfbreducationalcertificates.designationsanddegreeswhich arejob related. These costswill be reimburseduponproofof successfulcompletionofthe course.
ARTICLE XIX • TERM OF AGREEMENT
19.01	This Agreement shall become effective August 1, 1992 and shall remain infull force and in effect untilAugust 1,1995.’
19.02	Wage ratesas definedin Schedule "A" affixed hereto shall become effectiveas of August 1, 1992, Augustl, 1993 andAugustl, 1994 as indicated.
19.03	The said Agreement shall automatically renew from year to year thereafter unless on or before June 2,1995 arJune2ofany yearthereafter, notice inwriting by certifiedmail is given by either Employer or the Unionto the other, of its intentionto terminate or modify this Agreement lithe event that notice to terminate is given, this Agreement shall determinated uponthe ensuing August 1. 1995 but shall continue in effect untilsuch time as an agreement is reached betweenthe parties, or either party has given written notice to the other that it desires to terminatethis Agreement, inwhich eventthis Agreement shallterminate on said date.
16
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
WASH DEPARTMENT
(a)	Basedon operationaleffectivenessor productionrequirementsinthe Wash Area, the Company may create new shifts .in addition to currentshifisgovernedby8.02. Thenewshiftswillconsistofvaned work hours and employees will work uptofour (4Jorfive (5)days on a shift which two (2) of the days could be Saturday and/or Sunday.
(b)	Foremployeeswho work on these new shifts, weekend hourswillbe definedas all hours between7:00 p.m, Friday to 7:00 p.m. Sunday. A weekend shift premium for these hours will be paid as per ScheduleA. In addition, employees who work cn these new shifts will be paid existing shift premiumsfor hours worked between7:00 p.m. Sunday to 7:00 p.m. Friday.
(c)	Employees working regularshifts asper8.02willcontinueto bepaid overtime as defined in8.02 (a).
<<*) The majority of employees will continue to work regular day, afternoon or midnight shifts. Under normal circumstances, a skeleton staff only will be utilized on weekends so as to achieve required organizationaleffectiveness. Should a shift elimination become necessary, weekend work will be eliminatedfirst.
17
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING -
INCENTIVE SYSTEM TO ALTERNATIVE WORK STYLES
Both patties agree that during the life of this Collective,Agreement, while moving from an incentivesystem to AltemativeWork Styles,amendments, additions, and deletions to this Agreement may be required.
18
LETTER OF INTENT -
WEEKENDWASH SHIFT
EffectiveSeptember30,1992, employeeswho havebeentransferred to the new shift in the Wash Area shall be eligible for wash vacancies (prior to posting).
The vacancies shall be offered to affected employees in order of
seniority.
Each affected employee shall be eligible for wash vacancies up to August 1, 1993.
In the event that an employee declines a wash vacancy on that employee's previous shift, he/she shallforfeit future vacancies.
19
LETTER OF INTENT-
Al TERNATIVE WORK STYl ES WAGE ADJUSTMENT
UponconvertingtoAWS from the Incentive System, employees shall receive the following wage adjustment.
(a)	The employeeshallbepaidonthousand{1000) hoursmultipliedby the difference betweenhls/her Alternative Work Style rate including potentialbonusesandthe employee'sQuarterlyAverageof February 1992, This adjustmentapplies only when the employee's Quarterly Average (as of the above date) is higher than their AWS rate includingbonus.
(b)	A paymentcf fifty percent (50%) of the total amount of the wage adjustmentshall be paidwithin two (2) weeks followingthe date of transfer to the Alternative Pay System.
(c)	The remaining fifty percent(50%) of the total amount of the wage adjustmentshall be paidwithin a two (2) week periodfollowing the completionofthesix (6)month activeworkingperiodfrom the date of the transfer.
(d)	Inthe event that an employee leaves the Company for whatever reason (excluding retirement)during the six (6)month period, the remainingfifty percent (50%)wage adjustmentwill be forfeited.
(e)	Those employeeswho are on a Leave of Absence for any reason (including WCB) during the six (6) month period, shall not receive the remainingfifty percent (50%) wage adjustment until they have completed the six (6)month active working period.
20
SCHEDULE "A ALTERNATIVE WORK STYLES
	3 1ZS		a S
GRADE I		L	
Janitor	$8.50	$8.70	$8.90
Team Bonus	$0.30	$0.35	$0.40
Plant Bonus	$0.30	$0.35	$0.40
TOTAL	$9.10	$9.40	$9.70
GRADE II			
Material Handler Packing Seconds	$ 9.26	$9.40	$9.55
			
I Plant Bonus	$0.32	$0.38	$0.43
TOTAL:	$9.90	$10.16	$10.41
GRADE III			
All Label, All Press Repair, Tum/Sort Audit	$10.00	$io:ioj)	$10.20
Team Bonus	$0.35	$0.40	$0.46
Plant Bonus	$0.35	$0.40	$ 0.46
TOTAL	$10.70	$10.90	$11.12
GRAnF IV			
Team Bonus Plant Bonus TOTAL
$0.36
$0.36
$10.90
$0.41
$0.41
$11.15
$0.47
$0.47
$11.40
21
SCHEDULE " A Al TFR NATIVE WORK STYI FS
GRADE V
09/91/92	03/01/93	08/01/94
		
$10.70	$10.87	$11.05
$0.37	$0.43	$0.50
$0.37	$0.43	$0.50
$11.44	$11.73	$12.05
Shipping & Receiving Wash & Dry___________
Team Bonus
Plant Bonus
TOTAL:
Each employee will be paid a premium of $0.35 per hour for each hour worked on the afternoon shift and $0.45 per hourfor each hourworked on the midnight shift.
Weekendshiftemployeeswillbe paida premiumof$0.50 per hourfor each hourworked between7:00 p.m. Fridayto 7:00 p.m. Sunday.
Trainees in the job classifications of:
Janitor
Pack/Seconds
MaterialHandler
will be paid 80% of the base rate for the first 180 hours of work and 90% of the base rate for the next18Q hoursofwork.
Trainees in the job classificationof
Repair
Turn/Sort Audit All Press All Label Inspection Wash& Dry Shipping & Receiving
will be paid 80% of the base rate for the first 360 hoursofwork and 90% of the base rate for the next 360 hoursofwork.
22
IN WITNESS THEREOF, the Employer and the Union have executed this Agreement by their duly authorized officers.
Signed this 29TH dav of OCTOBER. 1992 at Brantford, Ontario.
For the Employer
LEVI STRAUSS & CO.
(CANADA) INC.
Forthe Union
AMALGAMATED CLOTHING AND TEXTILE WORKERS UNION- LOCAI 551_______
ROSS HA 1ST MAURICEPOLIDORI
DAVID BLACK____
TONI WHIBBS_____
RRADWOI SKOI______
DEBORAHADAMS________
CATHY CHENIER_______
BONN SONG THONGKHAM
KAREN YOUNG_________
KATHY PIERCE________
JUDYLACKNEH_________