THE COMPLETE AGREEMENT
between
LOCAL 283 OF THE
INTERNATIONAL LADIES' GARRENT WORKERS' (div. of UNITE!)
978 NOTRE DATffi AVENUE WINNIPEG, MANITOBA R3E 0H3
NY3ARD INTERNATIONAL LTD NOTRE DAME PLANT 134Q NOTRE DALE AVENUE WINNIPEG, MANITOBA R3E OP4
AGREEMENT
APRIL 1, 1999 - MARCH 31, 2002
UNION
	TAB LB OF CONTENT8
PREAMBLE
ARTICLE 1.	DEFINITIONS 2
ARTICLE 2.	MANAGEMENT RIGHTS 3
ARTICLE 3.	UNION RECOGNITION 3
ARTICLE 4.	UNION SECURITY 3,4
ARTICLE 5.	MISCELLANEOUS 5
ARTICLE 6,	CHECK OFF 5,6
ARTICLE 7.	STRIKES AND LOCKOUTS 6
ARTICLE 8.	BULLETIN BOARDS 6
ARTICLE 9.	TOOLS AND EQUIPMENT
ARTICLE 10,	TRAINING SCHOOLS 7
ARTICLE 11.	PROBATIONARY EMPLOYEES a
ARTICLE 12.	GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE 8,9
ARTICLE 13.	LAY OFF AND RECALL 10,11
ARTICLE 14.	DISCHARGE 11
ARTICLE 13.	BRIDGING OF SERVICE 11
ARTICLE 16	HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME 12,13
ARTICLE 17	ANNUAL VACATION 14,15
ARTICLE 18.	STATUTORY HOLIDAYS 15,16
ARTICLE 19	CITIZENSHIP DAY S JURY DUTY 17
ARTICLE 20.	LEAVE OF ABSENCE General 17 Maternity Leave 17,18 Illness Leave 18 Union Leave 18,19 Bereavement Leave 19
ARTICLE
ARTICLE
ARTICLE
ARTICLE
ARTICLE
ARTICLE
ARTICLE
ARTICLE
ARTICLE
ARTICLE
APPENDIX
APPENDIX
APPENDIX
21.	WAGE RATES
22.	PAY DAY
23.	WORKERS COMPENSATION
24.	IMDIVIDUAL/TRAH INCENTIVE SYSTEM
25.	HEALTH t WELFARE	AND RETIREMENT
2 6 .	UNION LABEL
27.	CONTRACTING OUT
2 S.	SAVINGS CLAUSE
29.	DURATION AND REVISION OF AGREEMENT
30.	DENTALPLAN A
B
C
20
20
20
20,21
22.23
23.24 24
23
23
26
26
20
29
30
This Agreement made as of the 4th day of November, A.D. 1999 BETWEEN:
NVGXRD INTERNATIONAL LTD, ARTS 2 carrying on business at 1340 Notre Dame Avenue Winnipeg, Manitoba R3E 0P4
(Hereinafter called "the Manufacturer"
OF THE FIRST PART,
-and-
LOCJM 288 of the
INTERNATIONAL LADIES' GARMENT WORKERS' UNION (div. of UNITE!)
978 Mot re Darre Avenue Winnipeg, Manitoba, ROE ON3
(Hereinafter called Hth« Union")
OF THE SECOND PART.
WHEREAS:
A.	The Manufacturer in engaged in the manufacture of
Udi»«' sportswear and other garments at the City of Winnipeg, in the Province of Manitoba;	J
B.	The Union is composed of workers engaged in various occupations in connection with such manufacturing who are or will from time to time be employed by the
Manufacturer in its factory: and	J
C.	The parties hereto are desirous of promoting
the principle of oolleotive bargaining, the avoidance of industrial conflicts, and the regulation of relations between the employer and employees governed by the said agreement, for a "term and period, tne whole as more fully hereinafter referred to;
NOW THEREFORE THIS AGREEMENT WITNESSETH that the parties hereto hereby agree as contained within:
APRIL 1, 1999 TO MARCH 31, 2002
2
article 1 - PBrmmoKfl
1*01	In this Agreement:
(a)	"Arbitrator" shall mean one of the
persons named in the Article dealing with
grievance procedure.
means the average amount per hour which-an Employee shall have earned attributable to his or her production during regular working hours.
(c)	"XVirt?! Hourly Pay*' shall mean MTh« Average Hourly Earnings" for each Employee for the preceding six (6) month period calculated the first day of January and July of each year.
(d)	11 MU fib Of of anion” means a union Memberwho is not in arrears for more than one (1) month in the
payment of dues and assessments to the Union.
(e)	Min life Value Yields" shall mean the incentive rates of wages as set out in Appendix HAM.
(t)	" Probationary Employ•#” means an Employee of the
Manufacturer who has not completed the probationary period as provided herein.
means an Employee of the Manufacturer who has successfully completed the probationary period as provided netein.
(h)	"Baniorlty" means length of service in the bargaining unit and shall be applied on a bargaining widebasis. Shall be applied as set out in other provisions of this agreement.
(i)	"Train®#" means a newly hired Employee, who has no job related experience in respect of the position, function or job far which he or she is hired by the manufacturer.
Training" shall mean on the job
training of an Employee unskilled for the position in which he or she is hired, so as to provide said employee with new, specific, job skills.
(k)	"Yaar cf Sarvioe11 means an employee shall have
completed a year's service when they have worked at least ninety-five percent of the regular working hours during a continuous twelve month period..
3
2.01	The Union recognises and acknowledges that, in all respecta, except to the extent expressly abridged Of modified by a specific provision of this agreement, the management and Conduct Of the operations of the business, and the employment and direction of the work force, are the responsibility of the Manufacturer, and nothing in this agreement shall be interpreted as limiting the Manufacturer in any way in the exercise of all the rights, powers, authority, and regular and customary functions of management unless otherwise specifically provided for in this agreement.
Aurrcig 3 - tnrcoK RgcoaHirroH
3.01	The Manufacturer recpgnites that Union as the sole bargaining agent Qff^behalf of all Regular Employees employed in the factory, including those who clean garments or do other work within Union jurisdiction, save and except for Supervisors, Assistant Supervisors, those above the rank of
Supervisor, office and related personnel, and persons performing jobs in Shipping, Receiving and Distribution; Mechanical and Maintenance Repairs; Quality Control; Watchmen; Janitorial Services and any other jpbs which now exist or which maybe created in the future and which are not primarily production line related.
3*02	The tenna and conditions of this Agreement shall
apply to the "ARTS 2M /Manufacturer' s Notre Dame factory located at 134 0 Notre Dame Avenue, in the City of Winnipeg, in the Province of Manitoba.
ARTICLE 4 - UNIOM SECURITY
This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of, and bebinding upon the parties hereto and their respective administrators, successors, and assigns.
It is expressly understood and agreed that in
respect of all matters relating to this Agreement, or renewal thereof, or in respect of any re la ted matters, the Manufacturer in its relationships with the Union, shall not be required to consult with or deal with any person other than the Representative or the Shop Chairperson.
4,01
4,02
4.03
4.04
4.05
4.06
4.07
4.08
4
Where the parties agree it is impractical or inappropriate for the Representative or the Shop chairperson to consult with or deal with the Manufacturer on a particular matter, the Representative may designate another person to consult with or deal with the Manufacturer on the particular matter.
The bankruptcy, insolvency, liquidation or winding-up Of the Manufacturer
holding trust funds which are deemed at all times
to be segregated and the property of the Union in absolute ownership, shall not affect the right of the Union to be paid said funds in priority to any other claimants Of the Manufacturer.
Manufacturer shall not hereafter make any
individual contracts with a Regular Employee, nor exact or accept any cash deposits or other security from a Regular Employee, nor enter into any agreement with any individual Regular Employee guaranteeing employment.
The Manufacturer, or anyone acting on behalf of the Manufacturer, shall not discriminate against any Employee by reason of his or her past or present union activities. The Union, or anyone acting on behalf of the Union, shall not discriminate against the Manufacturer by reason of its past or present activities in relation to the Union.
and the Union agree that in the course of their duties supervisors and employees shall endeavor to conduct themselves in such a manner as to enhance mutual respect and dignity in the work place.
The Manufacturer and the Union each further agree that they will not discriminate against any Employee or applicant for employment because of race, creed, colour, national origin, sex or age Of that Employee or Applicant.
During the currency of this Agreement, the duly authorized Representative of the Union shall have access to the business premises of the Manufacturer as provided herein for the purposes, which shall be disclosed to the Manufacturer, of dealing with any specific complaint, condition, or matter arising our of or pertaining to this Agreement or its implementation or to determine compliance with the terms of this Agreement.
5
MffiXSE&JLs HIgSSttMraggg
5.01	This Agreement may be amended by written agreement and authorisation of both parties or their successors.
5.02	This Agreement is subject to the ratification of the Members of the Union employed in the Factory c£ the lvfenufacturer.
5.03	The article and section titles are included solely for convenience and shall in no event be SO construed as to affect or modify any part of the provision* of this Agreement.
5.04	Wherever, in this Agreement the singular or the masculine has been employed, same shall be deemed to include the plural or feminine gender as the case may be or the context of this Agreement may require.
5.05	Time shall in all respects be of the essence of this Agreement.
5.06	There shall be no differential in pay for equal workbetween female and male employees.
ARTICLE f - CHECK OW
6.01	The Manufacturer shall deduct from the wages of each Regular Employee who is a Mejnber of the Union, the amount of the regular monthly membership dues payable by a Member of the Union, and shall remit the amounts so deducted to the Union, in Winnipeg, not later than the fifteenth
(15) day of the following month.
6.02	TTie Manufacturer shall, at the request of the Union, deduct from the wages of an fcaployea who is a Member a£ the Union, initiation fees and assessments, and shall remit the amounts so deducted to the Union, in Winnipeg, not later than the fifteenth (15) day of the following month.
6
6.03	The Union agrees that it shall not be the responsibility of the Manufacturer to deduct or collect arrears in dues from any newly hired employee, who was an employee cf another manufacturer other than the Manufacturer, and that initiation fees, assessments, deductions which are the responsibility of the Manufacturer to deduct, shall only commence from any such Regular Employee'a date of hire with the Manufacturer.
6.04	The Manufacturer agrees that if the Union provides
to the Manufacturer, signed authorization from any individual, authorizing the deduction of any such arrears which they accumulated while not in the employ of the Manufacturer, the Manufacturer will so deduct them.
ARTICLE 7 - STRIKES AND LOCKOUTS
7.01	During the term of this Agreement, the Manufacturer shall not engage in or take part in any lockouts.
7.02	During the term of this Agreement, no Employee shall take part in any official or unofficial industrial action.
7.03	It shall not be considered a breach of this Agreement on the part of the Union or on the part
of any individual Employee, if any Employee or Employees refuse to cross any legally established picket line recognized by the Union, or to enter upon the legally picketed premises of the Manufacturer, or their own volition or by direction of the Union, nor shall such refusal be cause for discharge or discipline.
ARTICLE ..a.- BULLETIN
8.01	The Manufacturer shall provide the Union with
Bulletin Boards to be used for the purposes of the Union. No notice shall be posted on such bulletin boards without first receiving the approval of the Production Manager of the Manufacturer which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld.
7
miGUL* n .TQgLg...AyP EQVIPMENI
9.01	Scissors will be supplied by the Manufacturer to
Probationary Employees, if required, for the operation of their specific machine. Replacement scissors will be issued to all Employees whenever, the Manufacturer, the scissors In order for the Manufacturer to-replace-the scissors, the old scissors must be turned in. When an Employee, who has been issued. BQissors terminates his/her employment or is granted a leave of absence, the scissors must be returned to the Manufacturer, or the cost of the scissors shall be deducted from the Employee’s final pay cheque.
9*02	Employees who receive tools or equipment shall
sign for them and return them on request by the Manufacturer and/OX upon termination of employment or the cost of same deducted from the Employee’s final pay cheque.
in the opinion of reauiro replacing
ARTICLE 10 - TRAINING SCHOOLS
10.01	The Manufacturer agrees to notify the Union in writing of all the particulars of any vestibule training school, before such a vestibule training school commences and shall, on an ongoing basis, provide the Union with the names of all such trainees who have spent a minimum of four (4) weeks in the school.
10.02	It is agreed that the Trainee shall receive Vestibule Training to the extent of one (1) month
and thereafter the Trainee be placed on probation for a further period of one f.li month and at the expiration of the aforesaid two (2) months the Probationary Employee shall become a Union member.
10.03	A Trainee shall successfully complete four (4) weeks of Vestibule Training, whereupon he/she shall become a Probationary Employee.
a
article 11- PROBATIONARY EMPLOYEES
11.01	All Probationary Employees, whether furnished by
the Union, or otherwise obtained, shall be given a reasonable trial by the Manufacturer and after a probationary period of four (4) weeks shall be constituted aj Regular Employees of the Manufacturer, and shall be entitled to all the rights, privileges and benefits and shall be subject to all conditions and obligations of this Agreement, except as herein specifically exempted therefrom. Any person employed in a training school will be considered a probationary employee when the person becomes part of the production line.
11.02	A probationary Employee shall become a Member of the Union after four (4) weeks of employment with the Manufacturer.
ARTICLE 12 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
12.01
12.02
12.03
A grievance shall be a controversy between the company and any regular employee over the interpretation of or adherence to the terms of this agreement.
The employee may first discuss the complaint with her supervisor. There will be no grievance until the supervisor has had an opportunity to discuss the matter with the employee.
STEP 1
If settlement is not reached after the discussion the grievance shall be submitted in writing to the production Manager by the employee within five (5) days after the discussion and no later than seven (7) working days after the Employee's knowledge of the incident giving rise to the grievance. The grievance shall contain:
•* a description of the problem and sections of the agreement allegedly violated.
-	a statement of remedy sought.
-	the date of submission
-	the employee's signature.
The Production Manager or her designate will respond in writing to the grievance, within five (5) days of the date of submission, to the union representative.
12 • 04 12,05
12,06
12,07
12,03
9
STEP 2
If settlement is not reached under step 1 within five (5) days of the Production Manager's response, the grievance shall be submitted to the Human Resources department which will respond i n writing to the Union, within ten (10) days after the date of the Production Manager's written response, to the union representative.
ST8P	3
If settlement is not reached under step 2 within five (5) days after the response of the Human Resources department it may be referred by either party to a single arbitrator.
If the parties fail to agree upon an arbitrator within five (5) working days after one party has served notice on the other party of its intention to refer the matter to an arbitrator, each shall name three (3) names to the other to be considered as an arbitrator.
If the parties fail to reach agreement on an arbitrator within five (5) working days after the date of referral to arbitration, they shall request the Minister of Labour to appoint same. When the appointment of an arbitrator has been concluded, the arbitrator shall have the power to determine whether the matter before him is arbitral. Havinci made the determination that the arbitrator has jurisdiction, the arbitrator shall hear and determine the difference and shall issue a decision and that decision shall be final and binding upon the parties.
The arbitrator shall only rule on explicit
provisions of the agreement. He shall not have 1urisdiction to amend or add to any of the provisions of this agreement nor to give any decision inconsistent with the conditions of this agreement,
The expenses of the arbitrator shall be shared equally by the parties.
A griever who fails to present a grievance to the next higher level within the prescribed time shall be deemed to have abandoned, unless an extension of the prescribed time limits is agreed upon by the Union and the Manufacturer in writing.
10
12.09	For purposes of time frame specified in this article, the word, "days" will refer to working days.
12.10	No grievance may proceed to arbitration without the approval of the representative or the union.
ARTICLE	13 - -LAY. OTT AMD RECALL
13.01	In the event of a lay off, the employees affected will be determined by department seniority and competency as determined by the Manufacturer.
13.02	In the event of a lay-off of more than two (2) weeks duration, the Employees who will be affected, shall be given one week's notice of layoff or pay in lieu of such notice. Pay for 111 lieu of, shall be calculated at the guarantee hourly rate of such employee.
13.03	When a lay-off of more than two (2) weeks duration is required, the Manufacturer shall discuss the details with the Union as far in advance of the lay off date as possible.
13.04	Employees laid off shall be recalled before any new Employees are hired, provided they are qualified to do the available work. Employees laid off pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 13.02, shall be entitled to at least one week's notice of recall in writing.
13.05	In the event that an Employee obtains work elsewhere while on lay-off, he or she shall not forfeit his or her recall rights.
13.06	In the event that an Employee is laid off he or she shall be given an approximate date of recall.
13.07	The Shop Chairperson or the designated Shop Committee Member shall be informed of all layoffs, in excess of one day.
13.08	The Company will endeavor to give every consideration to bumping within a classification depending on the length of service, performance, attendance and quality.
11
13.09	In the event of a lay off due to the abolishment
of an employees' position, the Company agrees that every effort, where practical, will be made to place the employee, whose position has been abolished, into another available position within the bargaining unit before any new employees are hired. The Company agrees to give the employee ten (10) weeks training to perform the duties of the new position, with their average pay rate.
13 * 10	In the event of lay off of less than two (2) week
duration, the employee who will be affected, shall be given, four (4) hours notice prior to lay off.
ARTICLE 11 -.Slgcmgg
14*01	No Employee shall be discharged by the
Manufacturer except for just cause and provided that notice of the intention to so discharge, where practicable has previously been given to the Union but, if a Regular Employee believes that he or she has been unjustly discharged, he or she may ' file a grievance in accordance with the provisions of Article 12* In the event that such discharge is determined not to be for lust cause, the Regular Employee shall be reinstated to his or her former job and be paid in full for loss of earnings.
14*02	An Employee who wishes to terminate his or her
employment shall provide the Manufacturer with two (2) week's notice.
ARTICLE 15 - BRIggiMS OF fiBBVISfi
15.01
15.02
VACATIONS - With respect to vacations, a former Employee's service with the Manufacturer will be
bridged upon a subsequent rehire on the provision that the Employee had worked a minimum of four (4) years in the preceding ten (10) year period and nSd Worked at least 50 percent of the regular working hours in each of the aforesaid four (4) years.
SENIORITY/IAY-OFF/RECALL “ Provided that a Regular Employee has worked a minimum of three (3) continuous years with the Manufacturer, upon a subsequent rehire by the Manufacturer, said
Regular Employee' s previous term, to a maximum of ten (10) years, will be considered with respect to purposes of Seniority, Lay-offs St Recall.
12
ARTICLE 16 - HOtme-PF WORK_AND OVERTIME
16.01	The standard hours of work Monday through Friday
shall be forty (40) hours divided between the five consecutive working days of Monday through Friday in the following manner:
First SMft
Monday 8 hours
Tuesday a hours Wednesday 8 hours Thursday 8 hours Friday 8 hours
6:50 am-*3 :20pm 6*50 aa-3 : 20 pm 6 * 50 aa-3 : 20 pm 6:50 am-3 * 20 pm 6:50 aia-3:20 pm
3:35 pm-llsSO pm 3:35 pin-11 S 50 pm 3:35 pm-lls 50 pm 3:35 pm-lli50 pm 3*35 pa-11:50 pm
16.02	On each of the above specified days, an interval of 3 0 minutes shall be taken as the lunch period.
16.03	There shall be a rest period of tai(10) minutes in the first half of the shift and ten (10) minutes in the second half of the shift, in each day worked, without deduction by the employer.
16.04	The manufacturer may request an employee to work overtime and said employee shall cooperate with the manufacturer to provide the work required. No employee shall be discriminated against in any way for declining to work the requested overtime.
Whenever overtime work is requested, notice shall be given to the employee at least four (4) hours in advance. The available overtime hours shall be divided equally among those employees who actively work on the overtime operation, wherever same is practical.
16.05	All hours worked in excess of the standard work hours in 16.01 shall be considered overtime and shall be paid for at the premium rate of time and one half (1 1/2) for each hour worked in excess of the standard work hours worked.
16.06	All hours worked on Saturday shall be paid for at the premium rate of time and one half (1 1/2) .
All hours worked on Sunday shall be paid for at the premium rate of double (X2) time.
16.07	Overtime rates shall be taid based on the rate otherwise payable for the work in question plus the premium of one-half (1/2) time calculated based on Average Hourly Pay.
13
16'08	Employees shall not punch in more than 15 minutes
before their start time (before 6:50 am or 3*35 pm) unless authorized by their immediate supervisor.
16,09	If an employee is requested in writing by the
manufacturer to punch in for work before the designated time, then the employee will be eligible for overtime after completing 8 hours of work Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday. Regular hours of work will be made available Monday to Friday to that employee.
16«10	Employees who are requested by the manufacturer to
commence their work day anytime after their regular start time (6*50 am or 3:35 pm) Monday to Friday, shall be paid overtime for all hours worked beyond their regular quitting time (3*20 pm and 11:50 pm Monday to Friday to a maximum of two (2) overtime hours.
16.11	Premium pay for SCCOnd shift shall be 15 minutes
per day, Monday through Friday, for a total of 1 1/4 hours per week providing the employee works the entire shift.
16*12	No work shall be done after regular working hours
if a union meeting has been called for the particular night. The union agrees to notify the manufacturer, in writing in advance when a union meeting will be held, within forty-eight hours.
16.13	All hours worked by an employee in respect of the inventory of the manufacturer during regular working hours, shall be paid average hourly earnings. When inventory extends beyond the
regular work day, the work shall be done on a voluntary basis and paid at time and one half (1 1/2). Every effort, by the employees, must be made to comply.,
16.14	All employees called in to work shall be supplied
with at least 4 hours of continuous work or be paid for at least four (4) hours at their average hourly earnings.
14
ARTICLE 17 - XTOTCAL VACATIONS
17.01	All vacation pay provided for herein shall be paid
directly to each Employee by the manufacturer on or before June 30th each year during the currency of this Agreement.
17.02	Employees covered by this Agreement shall be entitled to an annual vacation and vacation pay in accordance with the following categories:
(!) Employees who, at Etecember 31st in any year during the currency of this Agreement, have less than one (1) year of service, shall receive vacation pay calculated at the rate of four percent (4%) of their total gross earnings which shall include holiday pay earned during their period of employment with the manufacturer for the period ending Etecember 31sfe in any year, and a vacation on a pro rata basis.
(ii)	Employees who at Etecember 31st in any year during the currency of this Agreement, have coraDleted one fl) year or more of servlea are entitled to two (2) weeks vacation with pay calculated at the rate of four percent (4%) of their total gross earnings with the Manufacturer which shall include holiday pay earned during the year ending Etecember 31st i n any year.
(iii)	Employees who at Etecember 31st in any year during the currency of this Agreement have completed four (4) or more years of service are entitled to three (3) weeks vacation with pay calculated at the rate of six percent (6%) of their total gross earnings with the Manufacturer which shall include holiday pay earned during the year ending Etecember 31st i n any year.
( iv) Employees who at December 31st in any year during the currency of this Agreement have completed twelve (12) years or more of service are entitled to four (4) weeks VBCBtlon with pay calculated at the. rate of eight percent (8%)Of their total gross earnings with the Manufacturer which shall include holiday pay earned during the year ending December 31flt in any year.
17.03	Absences due to lay off or for reasons of health, maternity leave, leave of absence, shall not be deducted in the calculation of the numbers of years of service.
15
3,7 »04	The Manufacturer shall circulate a vacation
calendar, no later than February 28th of each
year, and shall continue to circulate said calendar until March 31st of each year. All Employees who have vacation entitlement for that coming year, may apply for vacation in accordance with their seniority. The vacation calendar shall indicate the number-of employees who can be spared from each department at any one time, and Employees shall write their names in the blanks on the calendar when it is their turn, according to the seniority list. Ones an Employee has so indicated his or her choice, they cannot then change that choice, until the calendar has been fully circulated within the bargaining unit.
Employees eligible to take vacation with pay and who are absent from work. at the time the vacation calendar aforesaid is circulated, not of their own volition, shall not forfeit their right to their turn on the seniority list.
ARTICLE 18 - STATIJKKY HOLIDAYS
The following holidays shall be observed and all
Employees covered by this Agreement, shall be paid a full normal day's pay for them up to a maximum of eight (S) hours, in any event and regardless of whether such holiday (s) fall Oft a working day or non-working day of the w^eek or i n any non-working Week.
NEW YEARS DAY GOOD FRIDAY
VICTORIA DAY (EMPIRE DAY)
CANADA DAY (DOMINION DAY)
CIVIC DAY (1ST, MON. IN AUG)
If Canada Day shall fall on a regular w^ork day other than a Monday or a Friday, the date for the observanceof said holiday shall be changed, with the consent of a majority of the membership, to either a Monday or Friday of the week in which the said holiday falls.
Remembrance Day shall be observed and wages, if
any, for that day shall be paid only in accordance with The Remembrance Dav Act of Manitoba.
IS. 02	No Employee shall be compelled to work on any of
the foregoing holidays.
LABOUR DAY
THANKSGIVING DAY CHRETMAS DAY
BOXING DAY
16
18*03	No Employee shall be compelled to work on any
other legal or bona fide personal religious holiday, nor shall they be paid for them.
A new Employee shall not be entitled to payment for any holiday on which he or she does not work if he or she has not earned wages for part or all of each day of at least 15 days during tie 30 calendar day immediately preceding the general holiday.
An Employee who is eligible, pursuant to 18.04 to receive holiday pay, shall receive same provided that, while work is available, he or she works both his or her scheduled work day before and his or her scheduled workday after the holiday unless his or her absence is for justifiable cause, which includes, inter alia, vacation, illness with doctor’s certificate, or if the Employee was on a lay-off within the time frame of seven (7) days before and twenty-one (21) days after and he/sha has worked within the time period of seven (7) calendar days before or twenty-one (21) calendar days after the holiday.
18.06	Any Employee who terminates his or her employment during the calendar week in which a holiday occurs without giving one (1) week's notice shall not be entitled to payment for such holiday.
18.07	HOLIDAY PAY
(a)	The payment of holiday pay for all Employees
paid On hourly time basis shall be up to a maximum of eight (8) hours multiplied by this or her then
guaranteed hourly rate; the foregoing shall be subject to the provisions of Article 16.01 hereof.
(b)	The payment of holiday pay for all employees paid upon an incentive basis shall be up to a maximum of eight (8) hours multiplied by his or
her Average Hourly Pay, subject to the provisions of Article 16.01 of this Agreement
The rate of holiday pay for all Employees in the event any employee is requested to work and
performs any work on any of the aforesaid holidays shall be at the rate of time and one-half (1 1/2) of their rate or average in addition to the regular payment for such holiday.
(d) The payment for holidays which fall on a Saturday or Sunday shall be based on the pay for the day on which the holiday is observed.
18,04
18.05
17
MTigfcff 19 - smissssxs. day
19.01	In the event that any employee is required to be absent from work due to their becoming a Citizen of Canada, that Regular Employee shall be entitled
to be paid at his or her Guaranteed Hourly Rate of Pay for the hours necessary to be absent from work to complete the process of becoming a Canadian Citizen; said payment to be to a maximum of four ( 4) hours.
19.02	JURY DUTY
The Manufacturer agrees that in the event that an
employee is called upon to perform Jury Duty, the employee shall be paid for loss of wages at the guarantee rate minus any monies received from the government agencies for the Jury Duty service.
A3TXSLS 2Q - LEAVE Qr-AffgSWZg
20.01	GENERAL
(a)	With	regard	to	any	Employee	who	is	a	Union
member, a leave of absence without pay shall be
granted to any such Employee, provided that written authorization is obtained from the manufacturer specifying the length of leave of absence before such	leave	of	absence	is	taken.
20.02	MATERNITY	LEAVE
(a) An Employee, upon becoming pregnant and estimating the probable date of birth of the child, is entitled to a leave of absence from work, without pay, for a maximum period of eighteen (18) consecutive weeks or such shorter period as the Employee requests, said leave shall commence, at the earliest, eleven (11) weeks prior to the estimated date of birth, or such later date as the Employee requests.
(b)	Where an Employee gives birth or the
pregnancy is terminated before a request from leave is made under subsection 20.02	(a) the
Manufacturer shall grant the Employee a leave of absence from work, without pay, for a period of seven (7) consecutive weeks, or a shorter period as the employee requests.
18
(C) Where an Employee, who has been granted leave of absence pursuant to subsection 20.02 (a or b) , for reasons related to the birth or the termination of the pregnancy, as certified by a medical practitioner, unable to return to work after the expiration of said leave, the Manufacturer shall grant to the Employee a further leave of absence from work, without pay as may be required, up to a maximum of six (6) consecutive weeks.
An Employee who resumes work upon the expiration of the leave of absence granted in accordance with this Article, shall be reinstated in all respects by the Manufacturer in the position formerly occupied by the Employee, if same is available, and if said position is not available, she will be offered a comparable position, and with all increments to wages and benefits to which the Employee would have been entitled had the leave not been taken. At such time as the Employee's former position becomes available she will have first priority to filling said position.
20.03	ILLNESS LEAVE
(a, Employees who are absent from work due to
injury or illness shall retain their seniority for a period up to twelve (12) months.
Employees who are absent from work due to injury or illness up to a maximum of three (3) months shall be reinstated, in all respects, by the Manufacturer in the position formerly occupied by the Employee, or in a comparable position, with all increments to wages and benefits to which the Employee would have been entitled had the leave not been taken. Piece work Employees shall be credited with their average rate of pay at the time of illness or injury until a new average has been earned..
UNION LEAVE
19
20,04
(a)	The Manufacturer shall, upon written notification from the Union, grant to any Union member, leave for Union Business, without pay or
loss of seniority, in accordance with the following guidelines:
i)	Union Conventions:
-Union to provide minimum of two (2) weeks written notification -maximum of three (3) Employees from the facility at such time
ii)	Other Union Business:
-Union to provide minimum of two (2) weeks written notification -cannot exceed ten (10) working days during any twelve (12) month period for any individual Employee -maximum of two (2) Employees from the facility at any one time.
20.05	BEREAVEMENT LEAVE
(a) Each Employee shall be entitled to three (3) days leave, with pay, within the seven (7) day period immediately following the death of his or her spouse, parent, child, brother or sister.
(b)	Each Employee shall be entitled to a one (1) day leave, with pay, within the seven (7) day period immediately following the death of his or her grandchild or grandparent, mother-in-law and father-in-law.
(c)	Pay for such leave, referred to in paragraphs (a) and (b) shall be calculated at the Average
Hourly Rate of such Employee.
(d)	An Employee shall not be entitled to
bereavement pay, as set out in paragraphs (a) and (b) , if the death occurs while such Employee is on lay-off, sick leave, maternity leave, leave of absence or vacation,
ARTICLE 21 - WAGE RATES
21*01	Employees paid on an incentive basis shall be paid
based on the minute value Rates as set out in
20
Appendix MAM to this Agreement. Employees shall not be paid less than the sum of their Guaranteed Rate as set out in Appendix MBH of this Agreement, multiplied by the number of hours worked.
21*02	Job classifications referred to in this Agreement
shall have the meanings set out in Appendix HC".
ARTICLE 22- FAY DAY
22.01	Pay days shall be fixed as every second Friday with provisions for Holidays occurring on the specified pay day.
22.02	The Manufacturer shall furnish to each employee and the Union, each pay day, information showing:
(a) Date of Pay
(b)	Number of hours worked during the preceding .Doriod including overtime
(c)	Gross wages earned
(d)	Particulars and amounts of deduction from
such pay; and
(e)	Net amount of wages paid.
ARTICLE 11 - WORKERS COKPBHSATION
2 3.01	An Employee, if injured in the shop and requiring
medical attention at a location outside of the Manufacturers premises, shall receive compensation for the time lost from work up to a maximum of four (4) hours, calculated at the guaranteed pay, for the first day of the accident.
AF.TTCT.F 2 4 * TNCF.NTTVF.
24.01	All employment during the currency Of this
Agreement, unless by mutual consent, shall be performed on an incentive basis based upon standards determined by the manufacturer.
23
24.02
24.03
24.04
24.05
24.0$
24.07
24.08
Notwithstanding any provisions of this Agreement, the Manufacturer shall have the right to set the standard for each operation, group of operations or Team incentive system, or to revise existing methods Orstandards for any operation or group of operations, limited only by the requirement that in setting standards, the standard for any operation shall be set, using standard engineering practices, includina General Sewing Data {GSD). or similar engineering-practices to yield a normal operator fully trained and operating under normal conditions at a normal rate of speed, an earning opportunity commensurate with a yield at 100% of the minute value,
In the event that an employee feels that the standard so established is inadequate, the employee shall follow the grievance procedure as set out in Article 12.
In the event of a dispute on incentive rates, anv errployee affected by the standard shall continue' to work at the established rate until the dispute is settled by the Grievance procedure as provided herein, and in the event of any adjustment of the standard upon final settlement, the adjustment shall be paid retroactively to the date of the grievance.
In addition to the rights contained in the Grievance procedures as set out in Article 12, a qualified Union industrial engineer shall have the right twice a year, to check incentive rates and standards in conjunction with the proper representatives of the Manufacturer, using accepted engineering practices. The date and time of proposed study shall be determined by agreement between the parties.
When an employee is transferred to an alternate operation, the operator may be paid on a declining training allowance based on the employee's output.
Where the declining training allowance cannot be implemented and the request for a transfer is made at a time when the employee has continuing work at this or her current operation Average Hourly Pay shall be paid.
Where the declining training allowance cannot be implemented and the employee has no work on his or her current operation, the employee shall be paid his or her Guaranteed Rate.
22
24.09 PELAT TIME
All employees paid upon a piecework basis shall be
compensated for time lost attributable to waiting for work and/or, for machine or equipment down time in the following manner:
a)	Should the waiting time or down time, exceed a combined total in any day of fifteen (15) accumulated minutes, then the affected worker shall be paid for the total amount of waiting time and for down time, at their then guarantee hourly rate which remuneration shall be in addition to their piecework earnings.
Any employee who finds it necessary to wait
for work, shall on each separate occasion notify his/her supervisor both at the beginning and at the end of such waiting period. Payment for waiting time shall cover only such time as following such notification.
24*10	TEAM/GROUP INCENTIVE
Prior to implementation:
1. The Manufacturer will group operators
matching:	a) Operator Efficiency Performance
b)	Skill Levels and Experience
c)	Attendance Performance
To promote encourage and maintain harmony, good team relationship, cooperation and continuity of TEAMS, the Manufacturer would as much as possible group TEAM members who are acceptable to each other.
3. The Manufacturer will not separate current groups which choose to remain together, but accept the TEAM incentive system, and providing the Company determines that the TEAM is a workable One.
4. TEAM earning calculations of daily completion quantities will take into account individual TEAM members attendance. TEAM members are responsible for reporting daily completion quantities relative to members attendance.
TEAMS are responsible for their QUALITY
performance.
23
The Manufacturer, after consulting with the Union, reserves the right to review and change the TEAM incentive system during the tenure of this contract if nod business or production operations are negatively affected. The cooperation of the Union shall not be unreasonably withheld.
7. Each operator in the module will be paid by TEAM incentive. TEAM hourly rate will be calculated by the total daily minutes earned over the total daily available minutes multiply by the 100% yield rate.
Example of operator earnings of a Team
incentive module with each operator working 8 hours :
Units	SAM for	Total	Total	Total on	%/hour
Produced in module	Module	Minutes earned	Operator	Standard minutes	
175	7.82	1368.5	3	. 1440	95%
MTICtK 23 - HEALTH XWD WKLFAM MU BgTIRBXEHT BZNET1TM
25.01	The Health and Welfare and Retirement Funds established by the union and the manufacturer shall be continued in accordance with the prior
agreements between the parties and in accordance
with constitution by-laws and regulations of the plans wherein the union has been designated the NTTU9teQN of the plans and a "Trustee at arms length" from the manufacturers has been appointed.
25.02	The plans, whose administrative offices are located at 978 Notre Dame Avenue, Winnipeg,
Manitoba,. ardentitled :
a)	Western Canadian Region I. L. G. W. U« Consolidated Health and Welfare Fund
b)	Western Canadian Region I.L.G.W.U
Consolidated Retirement Fund
Consolidated Retirement Fund
25.03
25.04
25.05
25.06
ARTICLE.
26.01
24
The parties agree that when appropriate, the Bylaws of the Health and Welfare and Retirement Funds will be amended to provide for joint administration of the funds by the union and the contributing employers.
The manufacturer agrees to contribute to the funds during the term of this agreement, on an monthly basis. The amounts shall be calculated on the total gross weekly payroll of union members in its employment including payments for holiday pay, as follows:
Health and Welfare Fund	1*25%
Retirement Fund	UL1
4.75%
These contributions shall be paid to the union office no later than the 30th day of the following month, effective April 4, 1999,
The manufacturer shall be provided copies of the plan rules.
Auditors assigned by the funds shall have the right to check payroll records Of the bargaining unit employees to determine that full payment has been made by the Company to the funds.
.2 6 - UNION LABEL
The Manufacturer shall have stamped into every garment made by it, the I.L.G.W.U. insignia. The Manufacturer shall purchase the stamp and shall pay a royalty fee to the union in the amount of $800 per year representing labels for all garments produced by the manufacturer and falling under the I.L.G.W.U. in Winnipeg, including but not limited to, Steinbach, Inkster/Mcdenact, Adelaide and Notre Dame factories.
25
ARTICLE 27 - COKTRACTINO OPT
27.01	The Manufacturer agrees that work normally performed by employees within the bargaining unit shall be performed by employees in the bargaining unit, and shall continue to be so performed by employees within the bargaining unit provided that employees qualified to perform the work are available.
27.02	The Manufacturer may contract cut work where for sound business reasons it is necessary to do so, however it is the desire of the parties hereto, to the extent same is consistent with sound business reasons, that any such contracting cut shall not be done in a wav as to cause the lay-off. replacement, or-reduction in regular earnings of any Regular Employee directly affected in the bargaining unit.
27.03	Where there exists Regular Employees on lay-off,
subject to the sound business reasons referred to in 27,02, those Employees on lay-off shall first be offered the opportunity of performing such work referred to herein, provided they have the requisite skills and ability, and are available when required.
anything herein contained, no homework shall be sent cut or permitted.
ARTICLE 28 - SAVINGS CLAUSE
28»01	Should any clause or provision of this Agreement
be declared illegal or in any way conflict with any laws of the Province of Manitoba or any regulation thereof,, both parties agree that this Agreement shall be automatically amended so as to COTCDlV with such law or tabulation, if the law or regulation so requires, The remainder of this Agreement shall not be affected thereby and shall remain in full force and effect.
28.02	The waiver of any of the provisions of the
Agreement or the breach of any of its provisions by either of the parties shall not constitute a
precedent for any further waiver or for the
enforcement of any further breach.
26
ARTICLB_29_ - DURATION AND REVIfllOM.Or-MREBUBlg
29.01	This Agreement shall be effective as of the 1st day of April 1999, • and shall continue in full force and effect up to the close of business on the 31st day of March, 2002, andthereafter from year to year unless either the Union or the Manufacturer gives written notice to the other of
its desire to revise this Agreement, or to conclude a new Collective Agreement.
29.02	Either party may give notice to the other party to commence collective bargaining with a view to the
renewal of this Agreement at any time after January 31 in the year in which this Agreement expires.
MKC&8 30 - Pmfflte-MiMl
30.01	Effective June 11, 1996 each employee and his/her dependants shall be covered by the dental plan at no premium cost to the employee.
30.02	Any newly hired employee, after the signing of this collective agreement, will be subject to a six (6) month eligibility period for coverage of the dental plan.
30.03	The dental plan is a 100% coverage of basic and essential dental work with a limit of $1000.00 per year per family member.
30.04	The Company shall supply each member with dental forms and a copy of the rules and regulations of the dental plan.
27
IN WITNESS HEREOF the Parties have hereunto set their hands and seals the day and year first above written.
NYGARD INTERNATIONAL LTD.
LOCAL 286 OF THE UNION OF NEEDLE TRADES INDUSTRIAL S TEXTILE EMPLOYEES (ILGWU DIV.)
28
APPEHDIX A
Minute Value Yields At 100%
ABC. 1/J?2 Alar *.17 SQ Apr.l/oi
1. Gerber Cutter Operator,
Spreader, Fuser
Minute Value (cents/min.) (.1275)	(.1292)
Yield @ 100% ($/hour)	$7.65	$7.. 75
(.1300)
$7.80
2.	P ieceworkers,underpress
sewer,finishers,general
hand,loaders Minute Value Yield @ 100%
(.1367) (.1383)	(.1400)
$8.20	$8.30	$8.40
Final Pressers Minute Value Yield 0 100%
(.1408) (.1417)	(.1425)
$8.45	$8.50	$8.55
29
APPENDIX B
A.
Progression Scale Of Guaranteed Rates
Effective
HOURLY RATES
Six	One
Sfcart	Months	Year
April 1/ 1999 April 1# 2000 April 1, 2001
OPARANTEE KATE
B.	Effective Apr ..1.1999	Apr.1.2000	Apr.1.2001
56.60	56.65	56.70
C.	All of the above includes the classification of the following:
L, Gerber Cutter Operators Spreader/Fusers
ii.	Pieceworkers (includes Sewers, Ticketers, Finishers,General hands and Loaders)
iii.	Final Pressers
$6,10	$6.20	$6.65
6.10	6.20	6.70
If the minimum wage of the Province of Manitoba increases during the term of this Collective Agreement, any Guaranteed Rate which is less than the Minimum Wage shall be increased to be equal to the Minimum Wage effective on the date the increase in the Minimum Wage is effective. Other Guaranteed Rates shall remain unchanged.
30
APPENDIX C job classifications
1.	Garber cutter Operator
Using Gerber machine cut lays to meet marker and quality specifications.
2.	spreader
Spread material by hand or machine to the number of lays required to be cut, to meet marker and quality specifications.
3.	erber Loader
Load garments on to the carrier of the Gerber
mover.
4.	Fusara
Fuaa together different parts of a garment using a fusing machine.
5.	Operators
Perform any sewing machine operations necessary to complete a garment.
6.	qnderpreasera
Press seams and do other incidental piece pressing necessary to make the pieces ready for the operator or the finishing process.
7.	Final Prasaers
Press any garment using pressing equipment after it has been sewn.
8.	General Hand. Finishers & service Workers
Do sundry factory work incidental to the manufacture of garments and, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, including thread clipping and cleaning.
10 Ticket -
Prints hang tags, labels and attach tickets to
bundles.
Nov. 4, 1999
LETTER CF AGREEMENT BETWEEN
LLGAY.U, Dtv, CF UNITE LOCAL IS? AND
tfYGARD INTERNATIONAL LTD, ARTS J NOTRE DAME PLANT
After negotlatleg in good faith U attentive contract w u concluded between the two parties, which wu subject to membership rail Acs don, which wu held ca Wednesday November e , 1999 whkh rejuKed with a majority in favor of wci u) Agreement.
Therefore, the partial agree to the Mlcrwlof:
A.	All wage increases to be paid retroactively firm April 1> 1999,
And tech retroactive payment tht/l be remitted to the employeesupea the signature of thl* Agreement Payment to be made by November 11,1999,
B.	In addition thll new contract lechidtnj vfl madlflcatlone that were maturity agreed upon are in fall force u of the signing cf the Letter a) Agreement
C ThePaiHeaajrwtohavethenewCIittacttypedncdsignedbyDecemberlli 1999
June 26.2000
Letter of Understanding between
Local 288 of the I.L.G.W.U. and
Nvgard International Ltd Notre Dame Plant
Re: Article 21 • Wage Rates
Ticketers (Luzviminda Mas #538 N/D )
Effective March 31,1999----~$MS & (> ■£ 1""”
March March
31.2000---JfcflT 4 6‘90
31.2001—4am"