THE COMPLETE AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
NYGARD INTERNATIONAL PARTNERSHIPARTS 2 -at-
1340 NOTRE DAME AVENUE WINNIPEG. MANITOBA R3E 0P4
-AND-
LOCAL288 OF
UNITE MANITOBA JOINT COUNCIL 978 NOTRE DAME AVENUE WINNIPEG, MANITOBA R3EON3
APRIL I, 2002 TO MARCH 31, 2005
This Agreement made as of the 29th day of August, AD 2002
BETWEEN/
NYOAPS) INTERNATIONAL PARTNERSHIP ARTS 2 carrying on business at
10 40 Notre Dame Avenue Winnipeg, Manitoba R3C OH
(Hereinafter called "the Manufacturer"
or 7KZ riWT PA*?,
-and-
LCCAL 208 of
UNITE	Joint Council
$7$ Hot re Dame Avenue Winnipeg, Manitoba, R3S CN3
(Hereinafter called "the Union")
or THE SECOND PART.
WHEREAS!
A.	The Manufacturer is engaged in the manufacture of
ladies' sportswear and other garments at the City of /Wlnnlpa?? in the Province oC Manitoba;
B,	The Union is composed of workers engaged in various occupations in connection with such manufacturing who are or will from time to time be employed by the Manufacturer in its factory; and
Ci The Parties hereto are desirous of promoting
the principle Cf collective bargaining, the avoidance of Industrial conflicts, and the regulation of relations batwaan the Employer and Employees governed by the sard Agreement, for a t e n and period, the whole as more fully hacalnHtac referred to;
NOW THEREFORE THIS AGREEMENT WITNESSETH that the Parties hereto hereby agree as contained within:
APRIL 1; 2002 TO NttRCH 31 , 2005
ARTICLE 1	• DEFINITIONS
1.01	In this Agreement:
(a)	"Arbitrator" shall mean one of the persons named in the Article dealing with g l va ce procedure.
(b)	"Average Hourly Earninga" means the average amount per hour which an Employee shall have earned attributable to his or her production during regular working hours.
(C)	"Average Hourly Pay" shall mean "TheAverage Hourly Earnings" for each Employee for the preceding six (6) month period calculated the first day of January and July of each year.
<d|	"Member of Union" means a Union Member who is not in arrears for more than one (11 month in the payment of dues and assessments to the Union.
(e)	"Minute Value Yields" shall mean the incentive rates of wages as set out in Article 24.12.
ut	"Probationary Employee" mean? an Employee of the Manufacturer who has not completed the probationary period as provided herein.
ig)	"Regular Employee" means an Employee of the Manufacturer who has successfully completed the probationary period as provided herein.
(hi ■>	"Seniority" means length of service in the bargaining unit and shall be applied on a bargaining wide basis. Shall be applied as set out in other provisions of this Agreement.
(i)	"Trainee" means a newly hired Employee, who has no job related experience in respect of the position, function or job for which he or she is hired by the Manufacturer.
0)	Training" shall mean on the job training of an Employee unskilled for the position in which he or she is hired, so as to provide said Employee with new, specific, job skills.
(K)	"Year of Service" means an Employee shall have completed a year's service when they have worked at least ninety-five percent of the regular working hours during a continuous twelve month period.
ARTICLE 2 ■	■ MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
2,0V	The Union recognizes and acknowledges that, in all respects, except to the extent expressly abridged or modified by a specific provision of this Agreement, the management and conduct of the operations of the business, and the employment and direction of the work force, are the responsibility of the Manufacturer, and nothing in this Agreement shall be interpreted as limiting the Manufacturer In any way in the exercise of all the rights, powers, authority, and regular and customary functions of Management unless otherwise specifically provided foe in this Agreement. i *4
2.02
ARTICLE 3
3.01
3.02
ARTICLE i 4 .01
4 02
4.03
4.04
It is understood that it is not the intention that this Agreement shall operate in any way so as to restrict'\fhe output of production, or impede processes of the Company or Management, but to encourage maximum production with minimum waste and fair and equitable treatment to everyone concerned.
UNION RECOGNITION
The Manufacturer recognizes that Union as the sole Bargaining Agent on behalf of all Regular Employees employed in the fuctory, including those who clean garments or do other wort within Union jurisdiction, save and except for Supervisors, Assistant Supervisors, those above the rank of Supervisor, office and related Personnel, and persons performing jobs in Shipping, Receiving and Distribution! Mechanical and Maintenance Repairs; Quality Control; Watchmen; Janitorial Services and any other jobs which now exist or which may be created in the future and which are not primarily production line related.
The terms and conditions of this Agreement shall apply to the "ARTS 2",Manufacturer1s Notre Dame factory located at 1340 Notre Dame Avenue, in the City of Winnipeg, in the Province of Manitoba.
UNION SECURITY
This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of, and be binding upon the Parties hereto and their respective Administrators, Successors, and Assigns.
It is expressly understood and agreed that in respect of all matters relating to this Agreement, or renewal thereof, or in respect of any related matters, the Manufacturer in its relationships with the Union, shall not be required to consult with or deal with any person
other than the Representative ok the Shop Steward.
Where the Parties agree ^t is impractical or inappropriate for the Representative or the Shop Steward to consult with or deal i-Ath £n« Manufacturer on a particular matter, the Representative may designate another person to consult with or deal with the Manufacturer on the particular matter.
BANKRUPTCY - The bankruptcy, insolvency, liquidation or winding-up of the Manufacturer holding trust funds which are deemed at all times to be segregated and the property of the Union in absolute
ownership, shall not affect the right of the Union to be paid said funds in priority to any other claimants of the Manufacturer.
The Manufacturer shall not hereafter make any individual contracts with a Regular Employee, nor exact or accept any cash deposits or
other security from a Regular Employee, nor enter into any agreement with any individual Regular Employee guaranteeing employment.
<. OS	The Manufacturer, or anyone acting on behalf of the Manufacturer, shall not discriminate against any Employee by reason of his or her past or present Union activities. The Union, or anyone acting on ' behalf of the Union, shall not discriminate against the Manufacturer by reason of its past or present activities in relation to the Union.
4,0 «	The Manufacturer and the Union agree that in the course of their duties Supervisors and Lnplsyasi shall endeavor to conduct themselves in such a manner as to enhance mutual respect and dignity in the work place.
*.07	The Manufacturer and the Union each further agree that they will not discriminate against any Employee or Applicant Cot employment because of race, creed, colour, national origin, sex or age of that Employee or Applicant.
4,08	During the currency of this Agreement, the duly authorized Representative of the Union shall have access to the business premises of the Manufacturer as provided herein for the purposes, which shall be disclosed to the Manufacturer, of dealing with any specific complaint, condition, or matter arising our o£ or pertaining to this Agreement or its implementation or to determine compliance with the terms of *this Agreement.
ARTICLE 5 ■	- MISCELLANEOUS
S.01	This Agreement may be amended by written agreement and authorization of both Parties or their Successors.
	
5.02	This Agreement is subject to the ratification of the Members of the Union employed in the factory of the Manufacture*.
5.03	The Article and Section Titles are included solely for convenience and shall in no event be so construed as to affect or any part of the provisions of this Agreement.
5.04	Wherever, in this Agreement the singular or the masculine has been employed, same shall be deemed to include the plural or feminine gender as the case may be or the context of this Agreement may require.
5.05	Time shall in all respects be of the essence of this Agreement.
5.06	There shall be no differential in pay for equal work between Female and Hale Employees.
ARTICLE 6	- CHECK OFF
6.01	The Manufacturer shall deduct from the wages of each Regular Employee who is a Member of the Union, the amount of the regular monthly Membership Dues payable by a Member of the Union, and shall remit the amounts so deducted to the Union, in Winnipeg, not later than the fifteenth (15) day of the following month.
6.02	The Manufacturer shall, at the request of the Union, deduct from the wages of an Employee who is a Member of the Union, Initiation Fees and Assessments, and shall remit the amounts so deducted to the Union, in Winnipeg, not later than the fifteenth (15) day of the following month.
6.03	The Union agrees that it shall not be the responsibility of the Manufacturer to deduct or collect arrears in dues from any newly hired Employee, who was an Employee of another Manufacturer other than the Manufacturer, and that initiation fees, assessments, deductions which are the responsibility of the Manufacturer to deduct, shall only commence from any such Regular Employee's date of hire with the Manufacturer.
6.04	The Manufacturer agrees that if the Union provides to the Manufacturer, signed authorization from any Individual, authorizing the deduction of any such arrears which they accumulated while not in the employ of the Manufacturer, the Manufacturer will so deduct them.
ARTICLE 7 ■	• STRIKES AND LOCKOUTS
7.01	During the term of this Agreement, the Manufacturer shall not engage in or take part in any lockouts.
7,02	During the term of this Agreement, no Employee shall take part in any official or unofficial industrial action.
7.03	It shall not be considered a breach of this Agreement on the part of the Union or on the part of any individual Employee, if any Employee or Employees refuse to cross any legally established picket line recognized by the Union, or to enter upon the legally picketed premises of the Manufacturer, or their own volition or by direction of the Union, nor shall such refusal be cause for discharge or discipline.
ARTICLE e -	■ BULLETIN BOARDS
9.01	The Manufacturer shall provide the Union with Bulletin Boards to be used Cor the purposes of the Union. No notice shall be posted on such Bulletin Boards without first receiving the approval of the Production Manager of the Manufacturer which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld.
ARTICLE 9 - TOOLS AM3 EQUIPMENT
Scissors w i.l I be supplied by the Manufacturer to probationary . Employees, if required, for the operation of their specific machine, replacement scissors will be issued to all Employees whenever, In the opinion of the Manufacturer, the scissors require replacing. In order for the Manufacturer to replace the	, the old scissors
must be turned in. When an Employee, who has been issued scissors s hil/har employment or is granted a leave of absence, the scissors must be returned to the Manufacturer, or the cost of the scissors shall be deducted from the Employee's (Inal pay cheque.
9.02	Employees who receive tools or equipment shall sign Cor them and
return them on request by the Manufacturer and/or upon teemination of employment or the cost of same deducted from the Employee’s final pay cheque.
ARTICLE 10 - TRAINING SCHOOLS
10.01	The Manufacturer agrees to notify the Union in writing of all the particulars of any Training School, before such a Training School
commences and shall, on an ongoing basis, provide the Union with the names of all such Trainees who have spent a minimum of thirty (301 days in the school.
10.02	An Employee who is hired by the Company as a Trainee, shall not be considered as a Probationary Employee until such Employee has served a maximum of thirty (30} days of training. The Probationary Period shall commence at the end of the Training Period within said time frame of thirty (30) days.
10.03	A T rainee shall have no Seniority Rights during the period of
Training nor shall a lay off or failure to recall after lay off of a 'Tjiipaa be the subject of a Grievance
ARTICLE U - PROBATIONARY EMPLOYEES
11101	All Probationary Employees, whether furnished by the Union, or
otherwise obtained, shall be given a reasonable trial by the Manufacturer and after a Probationary Period of four (4) weeks shall be constituted as Regular Employees of the Manufacturer, and shall be entitled to all the rights, privileges and benefits and shall be subject to all conditions and obligations of this Agreement, except as herein specifically exempted therefrom. .Any person employed in a Training School will be considered a Probationary Employee when the person becomes part of the production line.
11.02	A probationary Employee shall become a Member of the Union after
four (4) weeks of employment with the Manufacturer.
ARTICLE
12.01
12.02
12.03
12,04
12.05
PROCEDURE
A Grievance shall be a controversy between the Company and any
Regular Employee over the interpretation of or adherence to the terms of this Agreement.
The Employee may first discuss the complaint with her Supervisor. There will be no Grievance until the Supervisor has had an opportunity to discuss the matter with the Employee.
STEP l
If settlement is not reached after the discussion the Grievance shall be submitted in writing to the Production Manager by the Employee within five (5) days aiter the discussion and no later than seven (7) working days after the Employee's knowledge of the incident giving rise to the Grievance.
The Grievance shall contain:
- a description of the problem and sections of the Agreement allegedly violated.
•	a statement of remedy sought.
•	the date of submission
•	the Employee's signature.
The Production Manager ok her designate will respond in writing to the Grievance, within five (5) days the date of submission, to the Union Representative.
STEP 2
If settlement is not reached under 3^*3 l, within five {$) days of the Production Manager's response, the Grievance shall be submitted to the Human Resources Department, which will respond in writing to the Union, within ten (10) days after the date of the Production Manager's written response, to the Union Representative.
STEP 3
If settlement is not reached under St«p 2 within five ($) days, after the response of the Human Resources Department, it may be referred by either Party to a single Arbitrator.
If the Parties fail to agree upon an Arbitrator within five (5) working days after one Party has served notice on the other Party of its intention to refer the matter to. an Arbitrator/ each shall name three (3) names to the other to be considered as an Arbitrator.
If the Parties fail to reach agreement on an Arbitrator within five (5) working days after the date of referral to Arbitration, they shall request the Minister of Labour to appoint same. When the appointment of an Arbitrator has been concluded, the Arbitrator shall have the power to determine whether the matter before him is arbitral. Having made the determination that the Arbitrator has jurisdiction, the Arbitrator shall hear and determine the difference and shall issue a decision and that decision shall be final and binding upon the Parties.
12.06	The Arbitrator shall only rule on explicit proviaions of the Agreement. 3 a shall not have jurisdiction to amend or add to any of the provisions of this Agreement nor to give any decision inconaistant with the conditions of this Agreement.
12.07	The axpansas of the Arbitrator shall be shared equally by the Parties.
12.08	A Griever who fails to present a Grievance to the next higher level within the prescribed time shall be deemed to have abandoned, unless an extension of the prescribed time limits, is agreed upon by the Union and the Manufacturer in writing.
12.09	For purposes of time frame specified in this article, the word, "days" w i I I refer to working days.
12.10	No Grievance may proceed to Arbitration without the approval of the Representative of the Union.
ARTICLE	13 - LA If orr AND RECALL
13.01	In the event of a lay off, the firopioysas affected will be d*cminad by department seniority and competency as determined by the Manufacturer.
13.02	In the event of a lay-off of more than two (2) weeks duration, the Employees who will be affected, shall be given one week's notice of lay-off or pay in lieu of such notice. Pay for in lieu of, shall be calculated at the guarantee hourly rate of such Employee.
13.03	When a lay-off of more than two (2) w^eeks duration is required, the Manufacturer shall discuss the details with the Union as far in advance of the lay off date as possible.
13.04	Employees laid off shall be recalled before any new Employees are hired, provided they are qualified to do the available w?ork. Employees laid off pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 13.02, shall be entitled to at least one week's notice of recall in writing.
13.05	In the event that an Employee obtains w?oik elsewhere while on layoff, he or she shall not forfeit his or her recall rights.
13.06	In the event that an Employee is laid oft he or she shall be given an approximateidate of recall.
13.OT	The Shop StewajV or the designated Shop Committee Member shaqfi) informed of all lay-offs, in excess of one day.
13.08	The Company will endeavor to give every Consideration to bumping within a Classification depending on the length of service, parform-anca, attendance and quality.
13.09	In the event of a lay off due to the abolishment of an Employe"' s position, the Company agrees that every eCfo'-rfc, where practice will be made to place the Employee, whose position has been abolished, into another available position within the Bargaining Unit before any new Employees are hired. The Company agrees to give the Employee ten (10) weeks training to perform the duties of the new position, with their average pay rate.
13.10	In the event of lay off of less than two (2) week duration, the Employee who will be affected, shall be given four (41 hours notice prior to lay off.
ARTICLE 14 - DISCHARGE
14.01	No Employee shall be discharged by the Manufacturer, except for just cause, and provided that notice of the intention to so discharge, where practicable has previously been given to the Union but, if a Regular Employee believes that he or she has been unjustly
discharged, he ok she may file a Grievance in accordance with the provisions of Article 12» In the event that such discharge is determined not to be for just cause, the Regular Employee shall be reinstated to his or her {ocmac job and be paid in full for loss of earnings.
14.02	An Employee who wishes to tetwlnate his or her employment shall provide the Manufacturer with two (2) week's notice.
ARTICLE 15 - BRIDOnta OF SERVICE
15.01	VACATIONS • With respect to vacations, a former Employee's service'
with the Manufacturer will *bo bridged upon a subsequent rehire, with the provision that the Employes had worked a minimum of four (4i years in the preceding ten (10) year period and had worked at least $0 percent of the regular working hours in each of the aforesaid four (4) years.
15.02	SEHlQRtTY/LAY-orr/RgCALL - Provided that-a Regular Employee has worked a minimum of three (3) continuous years with the Manufacturer. upon a subsequent rehire by the Manufacturer, said Regular Employee's previous term, to a maximum of ten (10) years, will be considered with respect to purposes of Seniority. Lay-offs Recall.
ARTICLE U « HOURS Or WORK AND OVERTIME
16.01
The standard hours of work Monday through Friday shall be forty (40) hours divided between the five consecutive working days of Monday through Friday in the following manner:
First Shift	Second Shift
Monday	9	hours
Tuesday	9	hours
Wednesday	9	hours
Thursday	9	hours
Friday	3	hours
6l50 am-3120 pm 9(50 am-3120 pm 6:50 am-3:20 pm 9:50 am-3120prn 6:50 am-3:20 pm
3 f 35 pm-11150 pm 3i35 pin-11150pm 3:35 pm-111 50 pm 3i35 pm-11i50 pm 3:35 pm-11:50 pm
16,02
16.03
16.04
16,06
16,06
16.07
I
16.08
16.09
16.10
16,U
16,12
Ch each of the above specified days, an interval of 00 minutes shall be taken as the lunch period.
There shall be a rest period of tan (10) mlnu^a in the first half of the shift and ten 110) minutes in the second half of the shift, in each day worked, without deduction by the Employer,
The Manufacturer may request an Employee to work overtime and said Employee shall cooperate with the Manufacturer to provide the work
required. No Employee shall be discriminated against in any way €<pr declining to work the requested overtime.
Whenever overtime work is requested, notice shall be given to the Employee at least four (4) hours in advance. The available overtime hours shall be divided equally among those Employees who actively work on the overtime operation, wherever same is practical.
Ail hours worked in excess of the standard work hours in 16,01 shall be	overtime and shall be paid for at the premium rate of
time and one half (1 1/21 for each hour worked In excess of the standard work hours worked.
All hours worked on Saturday shall be paid for at the premium rate
of time and one half (1 1/21 t
All hours worked on Sunday shall be paid for at the premium rate of double {X2J time.
Overtime rates shall be paid based on the rate otherwise payable foe the work in question plus the premium of one-half (1/2) time calculated based on Average Hourly Pay.
Employees shall not punch in more than 16 minutes before their itarc time (before 6i60 an or 313 S pm) unless authorized by their immediate Supervisor.
If an Employee is requested in writing by the manufacturer to punch
in for work before the designated time, then the Employee will be eligible for overtime after completing $ hour8 of work Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday. Regular hours of work will be mack available Monday to Friday to that Employee.
Employees who are requested by the Manufacturer to commence their work day anytime *{5-4?	regular start time {6i$0 am or 3i26 pm)
Monday to Friday, shall be paid overtime Cor allihoues worked beyond their regular quitting time (3i20 pm and lit 50 pm Monday to Friday to a maximum of two (2) overtime hours.
Premium pay Cor second shift shall be 16 minutes per day, Monday through Friday, for a total of i 1/4 hours per week providing the Employee works the entire shift.
No work shall be done after regular working hours if a Union Meeting
has been called for the particular night. The Union agrees to notify the Manufacturer, in writing in advance when a Union Meotinq will be held, within forty- eight hours.
All hours worked by an Employee in respect of the inventory of the' Manufacturer during regular working hours, shall be paid average hourly earnings. When inventory extends beyond the regular work
day, the work shall be done on a voluntary basis and paid at time and one half (I 1/21. Every effort, by the E/nployeej, must be made to comply.
All Employees called in to work shall be supplied with at least 4 hours of continuous work or be paid for at least four (<) hours at their Average Hourly Earnings.
ARTICLE 17 ~ ANNUXL VACATIONS
17,01	All Vacation Pay provided for herein shall be paid directly to each
Employee by the Manufacturer on or before June 30th each year during the currency of this Agreement.
Employees covered by this Agreement shall be entitled to an annual Vacation and Vacation Pay in accordance with the following categories:
(il Employees who, at December 3lit in any year during the currency of this Agreement, have L«ss than one (11 year of service, shall receive Vacation Pay calculated at the rate of four percent (41) of their total gross earnings which shall include holiday pay earned during their period of employment with the Manufacturer for the period ending December 31H in any year, and a vacation on a pro rata basis.
(il) Employees who at December 31 sK in any year during the currency of this Agreement, have completed one (1) year or more of service are entitled to two (2) weeks Vacation with pay calculated at the rate of four percent (48) of their total Gross Earnings with the
Manufacturer which shall include Holiday Pay earned during the year ending December 31st in any year.
(ill) Employees who at December 31st: in any year during the currency of this Agreement have completed four (4) or more years of service are entitled to three (3) weeks Vacation with pay calculated at the rate of six percent (61) of their total Gross Earnings with the Manufacturer which shall include Holiday Pay earned during the year ending December 31st in any year.
(iv) Employees who at December 3i$t in any year during the currency of this Agreement have completed twelve (12) years or more of service are entitled to four (4) weeks Vacation with pay calculated at the rate of eight percent (31) of their total Gross Earnings with the Manufacturer which shall include Holiday Pay earned during the year ending December 31$t in any year.
17,03	Absences due to lay off or for reasons of Health, Maternity Leave,
Leave of Absence, shall not be deducted in the calculation of the numbers of years of service.
16.13
16. H
17,04
ARTICLE
ia ,oi
L6.02
10.03
18.04
19.05
The Manufacturer shall circulate a Vacation Calendar, no later than
February 28th of each year, and shall continue to circulate said Calendar until March 3US of each year, All Employees who have Vacation Entitlement for that coming year, may apply for Vacation in accordance with their Seniority. The vacation calendar shall indicate the number of Employees who can be spared from each Department at any one time, and EmpLoyeea ih*il write their names in the blanks on the Calendar when it is their turn, according to the seniority list. Once an Employee has so indicated his or her choice, they cannot then change that choice, until the calendar has been fully circulated within the Bargaining Unit.
Employees eligible to take Vacation with Pay and who are absent from work, at the time the Vacation Calendar aforesaid is circulated, not
of their own volition, shall not forfeit their right to their turn on the seniority list.
DAYS
The following holidays shall be observed and all Employees covered
by this Agreement, shall be paid a full normal day’s pay for them up to a maximum of eight (9) hours, in any event and regardless of whether such holiday (*) fall on a working day or non-working day of the weak or in any non-working week.
FEW YEARS DAY	LABOUR DAY
GOOD FRIDAY	THANKSGIVING	DAY
VICTORIA CAY (EMPIRE DAY) CHRISTMAS DAY
CANADA DAY (DOMINION DAY)	BOXING DAY
CIVIC DAY (FIRST MONDAY IN AUGUST),
If Canada Day shall fall on a regular work day other than a Monday or a Friday, the date for the observance of said Holiday shall be changed, with the consent of « majority of the Membership, to either a Monday or Friday of the week in which the said holiday falls.
Remembrance Day shall be paid regardless of whether or not such Holiday shall fall on a working day or non-worklday.
Nd Employee shall be compelled to work on any of the foregoing Holidays.
No Employee shall be compelled to work on any other Legal or Bona fide personal Religious Holiday, nor shall they be paid for them.
A new Employee shall not be entitled to payment for any holiday on which he or she does not work if he or she has not earned wages for
part or all of each day of at least i$ days during the 30 calendar day immediately preceding the Holiday.
15.06
18,07
18,03
ARTICLE 1
19,01
19,02
An Employee who is eligible, pursuant to 18,04 to receive Holiday Pay, shall receive same provided that, while work is available, he or she wocki both his or her scheduled work day before and his or her scheduled work day after the Holiday unless his or her absence is for justifiable cause, which includes, inter alia, vacation, illness with doctor's certificate, or If the Employee was on a layoff within the time frame of seven (7) days before and twenty-one (21) days after and he/lhe has worked within the time period of seven (7) calendar days before or twenty-one (21) calendar days after the Holiday.
Any Employee who terminates his ok her employment during the
calendar week in which a Holiday occurs without giving one (1) week's notice shall not be entitled to payment for such Holiday.
HOLIDAY PAY
(a)	The payment of Holiday Pay for all Employees paid on hourly
time basis shall be up to a maximum of eight (9) hours multiplied by this or her then guaranteed hourly	the foregoing shall be
subject to the provisions of Article 16,01 hereof.
(b)	The payment of Holiday Pay for all Employees paid upon an incentive basis shall be up to a maximum of eight (8) hours multiplied by his or her Average Hourly Pay, subject to the provisions of Article 16.01 of this Agreement
(c)	The rate of Holiday Pay for all Employees in the event any employee is requested to work and performs any work on any of the
aforesaid holidays shall be at the rata of time and one-half (1 1/21) of their rate ok average in addition to the regular payment for such Holiday.
Id) The payment for holidays which fall on a Saturday or Sunday shall be based on the pay for the day on which the Holiday is observed.
CITIZENSHIP DAY
In the event that any Employee is required to be absent from work due to their becoming a Citizen of Canada, that Regular Employee
shall be entitled to be paid at his or her Guaranteed Hourly Rate of Pay for the hours necessary to be absent from work to complete the process of becoming a Canadian Citizen: said payment to be to a maximum of four (4) hours.
JURY DUTY
The Manufacturer agrees that in the event that an Employee is called upon to perform Jury Duty, the Employee shall be paid for loss of wages at the Guarantee Rate minus any monies received from the government agencies for the Jury Duty service.
ARTICLE 2 0 ■» LEAVE OF ABSENCE
20.01	EXTENDED ABSENCE
A Regular Employee shall be entitled to request a Leave of
Absence without pay and without loss of Seniority after completion of three (3) years of continuous service. Xn Employee must request Leave of Absence in writing with a copy to the Union at least three
(3) months prior to Leave. The Manufacturer shall respond to the request no later than two (2) weeks after the request for Leave.
b) Employee shall be entitled to request a Leave of Absence for up to four (4) weeks (not including vacation).
The Manufacturer shall take the request for Leave under Consideration depending on production requirements, availability of a replacement and the number of other Employees scheduled for
Vacation or Leave of Absence at that time; and the purpose for the Leave. When more than one (1) request for Leave of Absence is submitted for the same period, the senior Employee (a) will be given preference.
d> Permissions for the Leave, if granted must be approved by the Manufacturer in writing and a copy of the decision given to the Employee and the Union.
e) Leave taken under this Section must be separated by at least three (3) years of continuous service.
20.02	MATERNITY/PARENTAL LEAVE
In accordance with the Regulations of the Employment Standards Code, effective December 31/ 2000:
a\ Every female Employee who has worked for the Manufacturer a minimum of seven (3) consecutive months and submits an application in writing at least four (4) weeks before the Maternity Leave is scheduled to start; specifying a start date and return to work date, and provides a Medical Certificate providing an estimated date of delivery, shall be granted a Maternity Leave without pay as hereinafter set out.
b) Maternity Leave can begin as early as seventeen (l?)'w4*ki prior to the expected date of birth and end not later than seventeen (17) weeks after the date of delivery.
cl Every Employee who becomes a Mother or Father as a result of Birth or adoption of a child, who has worked for the Manufacturer a minimum of seven (7) consecutive months and submits an application in writing at least four (4) weeks before the Parental Leave is scheduled to start, shall be granted Parental Leave without pay as hereinafter set out.
d) A Woman's Parental Leave must follow InvnsdLafcsly after her Maternity Leave is completed, unless She and the Manufacturer have agreed to a different arrangement. The Father's Parental Leave can be taken at the same time, a different time or overlap the Mother's Leave.
20.03
20.04
e) A female Employee who decides to take Parental Leave following Maternity Leave, who has not been previously specific regarding her
return to work date, is required to give the Manufacturer a second written notice four (4)week5 prior to the date on which the Parental Leave is to start.
Notwithstanding that any female Employee does not apply for Maternity Leave as herein before provided, she is nevertheless entitled to and shall be granted Leave for a period not exceeding the period of Maternity Leave to which She is entitled to hereunder.
9) An Employee who returns to work upon the expiration of Matecnlty/Pacental Leave as provided for in this Article, shall be re- instated in all respects by the Manufacturer in the position previously occupied by the Employee providing the position is available. If the position is not available, the Employee shall have first priority on the individual position if and when it becomes available.
If the Employee wishes to return to work earlier than the expiry date of the Leave, the Employee must give the Manufacturer
two (2) weeks notice.
ILLNESS LEAYZ
(a)	Employees who are absent from work due to injury or illness shall retain their seniority for a period up to twelve (12) months
(b)	Employees who are absent from work due to injury ok illness up to a maximum <?( three (3) months shall be reinstated, in all *" respects, by the Manufacturer in the position formerly occupied by the Employee, or in a comparable position, with all increments to wages and benefits to which the Employee would have been entitled had the leave not been taken. Piecework Employees shall be credited with their Average Rate of Pay at the time of illness or injury until a new average has been earned.
UNION LEAVE
( ) The Manufacturer shall, upon written notification from the Union, grant to any Union Member, leave for Union Business, without pay or loss of seniority, in accordance with the following
guidelines:
i) Union Conventions:
-Union to provide minimum of two (2} weeks written notification -maximum of three (3) Employees from
the facility at such time i i) CAh > r Union Buiinmi
-Union to provide minimum of two (2) weeks written notification -cannot exceed ten (10) working days during any twelve (12) month period for any individual Employee -maximum of two (2) Employees from the facility at any one time.
20,05	BEREAVEMENT LEAVE
(a) Each Employee shall be entitled to three (3) days Leave, with pay, within the seven (7) day period immediately following the death of his or her Spouse, Parent, Child, Brother or Sister.
(b)	Each Employee shall be entitled to a one (1) day Leave, with pay, within the seven (7) day period immediately following the death of his or her Grandchild or Grandparent, Mother-in-law and Father-in-law.
(c)	Pay for such Leave, referred to in paragraphs (a) and (b) shall be calculated at the Average Hourly Rate of such Employee.
(d)	An Employee shall not be entitled to Bereavement Pay, a5 set out in paragraphs (a) and (b), if the death occurs while such Employee is on lay-off, sick leave, maternity leave, leave of absence or vacation.
ARTICLE 21 - WAGS RATES
Employees paid on an incentive basis shall be paid based on the Minute Value Rates as set out in 24.12 A. of
Employees shall not be paid less than the sum of their Guaranteed Rate as set out in 24,12 B. of this Agreement, multiplied by the number of hours worked.
Job Classifications referred to in this Agreement shall have the meanings set out in 24*12 c,
ARTICLE 22 - PAY DAY
Pay Days shall be fixed as every second Friday with provisions Gor Holidays occurring on the specified Pay Day.
The Manufacturer shall furnish to each Employee and the Union, each Pay Day, information showing:
(a} Date of Pay
(b)	orked during the preceding period including overtime
(c)	Gross wages earned
(d)	Particulars and amounts of deduction from such pay; and
(e)	Net amount of wages paid.
ARTICLE 23 - WORKERS COMPENSATION
23.01	An Employee, if injured in the shop and requiring medical attention
at a location outside of the Manufacturers premises, shall receive
compensation for the time lost from work up to a maximum of four (1) hours, calculated at the Guaranteed Pay, for the first day of the accident.
22.01
22.02
21.01
21.02
ARTICLE
24.01
24.02
24,03
24-04
24.05
24.06
24.07
24.00
2 4 - INCENTIVE SYSTEM AND WAGE RATES
All employment during tho currency of this Agreement, unless by
mutual consent, shall be performed on an incentive basis based upon standards dit«rn\ln4d by tho Manufacturer.
Notwithstanding any provisions of this Agreement, the Manufacturer
shall have the right to set the standard for each _ operation, group of operations or Team Incentive System, or to revise existing methods or standards for any operation or group of operations, limited only by the roquicefAont that in setting standards, the standard for any opas&tion shall be set, using standard engintaclnq practices, including General Sewing Data (OSD), or similar engineering practices to yield a normal operator fully trained and operating under normal conditions at a normal rate of speed, an earning opportunity	with a yield at J.00% of the minute
value.
In the event that an &n\pLo'/«« feels that the standard so established is inadequate, tho Employer shall follow the grievance procedure as set out in Article \2,
In the event of a dispute on incentive rates, any Employee affected by the standard shall continue to work at the q»tablished rate until the dispute is settled by the Grievance procedure as provided herein, and in the event of any adjustment of the standard upon final settlement, the adjustment shall be paid retroactively to the date of the Grievance.
In addition to the rights contained in the Grievance procedures as set out in Article 12, a qualified Union Industrial Engineer shall have the right twice a year, to chock incentive rates and standards in conjunction with the proper Representatives of the Manufacturer, using accepted engineering practices. The date and time of proposed study shall be detaciftlnad by agreement between the parties.
When an Employee is transferred to an alternate Operation, tha Opscatcc may be paid on a declining training allowance based on the Employee's output.
Where the declining training allowance cannot be implemented and the request for a transfer is made at a time when the Employee has continuing work at this or her current operation Average Hourly Pay shall be paid.
Where the declining training allowance cannot be implemented and the Employee has no work on his ok her current operation, the Employee shall be paid his or her Guaranteed Rate.
24.09	DEWY TIMS
All Employees paid upon a piecework basis shall be compensated for
time lost attributable to waiting Cor work and/or, for machine or equipment down time in the following manner:
ai Should the waiting time ox dawn time, exceed a combined total in any day of fifteen (15) accumulated minutes, then the affected worker shall be paid for the total amount of waiting time and /or
down time, at their then Guarantee. Hourly Rate which remuneration shall be in addition to ttfcit piecework earnings.
b) Any Employee who finds it necessary to wait for work, shall on each separate occasion notify his/hec Supervisor both at the beginning and at the end of such waiting period. Payment for waiting	shall cover only such time as following such
notification.
24.10	REPAIRS
If an Employee has caused garments to require repair, he/she shall not be subject to fine or pay reductions for additional costs OK damages associated with correcting the error except that he/she will repair the fault on hia/her own time during regular working hours.
Such damage may be cause for disciplinary action.
24.11	TEAM INCENTIVE
Prior to implementation:
1.	The Manufacturer will group Operators matching:
a)	Operator Efficiency Performance
b)	Skill Levels and Experience
c)	Attendance Performance
2.	To promote encourage and maintain harmony, good team relationship, cooperation and continuity of TEAMS, the Manufacturer would as much as possible group TEAM members who are acceptable to each other.
3.	The Manufacturer will not separate current groups which choose to remain together, but accept the TEAM incentive system, and
providing the Company determines that the TEAM is a workable one.
4« TEAM earning calculations Of daily completion quantities will take into account individual TEAM members attendance. TEAM members are responsible for reporting daily completion quantities relative to members attendance.
S. TEAMS are responsible for their QUALITY performance.
6* The Manufacturer, after consulting with the Union, reserves the right to review and change the TEAM incentive system during the tenure of this contract if normal business or production operations are negatively affected. The cooperation of the Union shall not be unreasonably withheld.
7. Each operator in the Module will be paid by TEAM incentive. TEAM h ourly rate will be calculated by the total daily minutes
earned over the total daily available minutes multiply by the 100% yield rate.
Example of operator earnings of a Team incentive module with each operator working 6 hours:
Units SAM	for Total	Total Total	on	% / h o u r
Produced	Module	Minutet	Operator Standard	
i n module		earned		minutes
175	7,82	1368,5	3	,1440 954
24.12	WACE RATES
A	WAGES - MINUTE VALUE YIELDS AT 100%
CLASSIFICATION	EXISTING
Gerber cutter operator
Spreader,
Minute Value	{cents/min) ,1300
Yield (3 1004	($/hc)	$7.80
Pieceworkers/ Finisher
Under Presser, General
Hand. Loader, Sewer
Minute Value	.1400
Yield 0 100%	<$/hr)	$9.40
Final Pressers
Minute Value	,1425
Yield 01004 ($/hc)	$8.55
APR 1-02
.1320
7.92
.1420
8.52
.1442
9.65
8 , PROGRESSION SCALE of guaranteed rates
EFFECTIVE
APRIL 1-02 APRIL 1-03 APRIL 1-04
GUARANTEE RATE
EFFECTIVE
TIKEWORXER3
CLASSIFICATION
CONSOLE OPERATORS COII SOLI OATION/SERVICE OP TICKETER5
	START
$6.10	6.75
	6.80
	6.90
EXISTING	APR 1-02
$6.70	6.90
APR 1-02
$.125
6.90
7.15
APR 1-03 APR 1-04
.1342	.1362
8.05	8.17
,1442	,1467
8.65	8.80
.1458	.1478
8.75	8.0?
6 MONTES 1 YEAR
6.00	6.90
6.90	7.05
7100	7.15
APR 1-03 7,05
APR 1-03
$.125
7.10
7.20
APR 1-04 7,15
APR 1-04
$.15
7,20
7.30
c,	JOB CLASSIFICATIONS
1.	GERBER CUTTER OPERATOR
Using	Machine cut lays to meet marker and quality
specifications.
2.	SPREADER
Spread material by hand or machine to the number of lays required to be cut, to meet marker and quality specifications
3*	GERBER LOADER
Load garments onto the carrier of the Gerb«? Mover.
4,	rtJSERS
Fuse together different parts of a garment using a fusing machine
5,	OPERATORS
Perform any sewing machine operations necessary to complete a Garment.
6,	UNDERPRES3ER3
Press seams and do other incidental piece pressing necessary to Make the pieces ready for the Operator or the Finishing process.
7.	FINAL PRESSERS
Press any garment using	equipment after it has been sewn.
8.	GENERAL HAND, FINISHERS	C	SERVICE	WORKERS
sundry factory	work	incidental	to	the	manufacture of garments.
and, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, including thread clLppcleaning.
9.	TICKETER3
Prints	libels and attach tickets to bundles.
ARTICLE 2S - HEALTH AND WELFARE AND RETIREMENT BENEFITS
25.01	The Health and Welfare and Retirement Funds established by the Union and the Manufacturer shall be continued in accordance with the prior Agreements between the Parties and in accordance with Constitution
By-laws and Regulations of the Plans wherein the Union has been designated the "Trustee" of the Plans and a "Trustee at arms length" from the Manufacturers has been appointed.
25.02	The Plans, whore administrative offices are located at 576 Notre Dame Avenue, Winnipeg, Manitoba, are entitled:
a)	Western Canadian Region I.L.G.W.U.
Consolidated Health and Welfare Fund
b)	Western Canadian Region I.L.G.W.U Consolidated Retirement Fund
25.03	The Parties agree that when appropriate, the By-laws of the Health and Welfare and Retirement Funds will be amended to provide for joint administration of the Funds by the Union and the contributing Employers.
25.04	The Manufacturer agrees to contribute to the Funds during the term
of this Agreement, on a monthly basis. The amounts shall be calculated on the total gross weekly payroll of Union Members in its employment	including	payments	for Holiday Pay, as follows:
Health and	Welfare	Fund	1,25%
Retirement	Fund	3.50%
TOTAL	4.75%
These contributions shall be paid to the union office no later than the 30th day of the following month, effective April 4. 1999.
25.05	The Manufacturer shall be provided copies of the Plan Rules.
25.06	Auditors assigned by the Funds lhall have the right to check payroll records of the Bargaining Unit Employees to determine that full payment, has been made by the Kanufactuer to the Funds.
ARTICLE 2 S • UNION LABS
26,01	The Manufacraurer shall have stamped into every garment made by it,
the UNIT! fn*ignia. The Manufacturer shall purchase the stamp and shall pay a royalty fee to the Union in the amount of $800 per year representing labels for all garments produced by the Manufacturer and falling under the UNITE in Winnipeg, including but not li/iite? to: Inkster/McDarmot, Adelaide and Notre Dame factories.
ARTICLE 27	- CONTRACTING OUT
27,01	The Manufacturer agrees that work normally performed by Employees within the Bargaining Unit shall be performed by Employees in the Bargaining Unit, and shall continue to be so performed by Employees within the Bargaining Unit provided that Employees qualified to perform the work are available.
27.02	The Manufacturer may contract out work where for sound business reasons it is necessary to do so, however it is the desire of the Parties hereto, to the extent same is consistent with sound business reasons, that any such contracting out shall riot be done in a way a5 to cause the lay-off, replacement, or reduction in regular earnings of any Regular Employee directly affected in the Bargaining Unit.
27.03	Where there exists Regular Employees on lay-off, subject to the sound business reasons referred to in 27*02, those Employees on layoff shall first be offered the opportunity of performing such work referred to harein, provided they have the requisite skills and ability, and are available when required.
27.04	Notwithstanding anything herein contained, no homework shall be sent out or permitted.
ARTICLE 20	- SAVINGS CLAUSE
29.01	Should any clause or provision of this Agreement be declared illegal or in any way conflict with any laws of the Province of Manitoba OK any regulation thereof, both Parties agree that this Agreement shall be automatically amended so as to comply with such law or regulation, if the law or regulation so requires, The remainder of this Agreement shall not be affected thereby and shall remain in full force and effect.
29.02	The waiver of any of the provisions of the Agreement or the breach of any of its provisions,,by either of the Parties ahall not constitute a precedent for any further waiver or for the enforcement of any further breach.
ARTICLE 25	- DURATION AND REVISION OF AGREEMENT
29.01	This Agreement shall be effective as of the 1st day of April 2002* and shall continue in full force and effect up to the close of business on the 31at daycnf March, 2005, and thereafter from year to year unless either the Union or the Manufacturer gives written notice to the other of its desire to revise this Agreement, or to conclude a new Collective Agreement.
29.02	Either Party may give notice to the other Party to commence collective bargaining with a view to the renewal of this Agreement at any time after January 31 in the year in which this Agreement expires.
ARTICLE 30 30.01
30.02
30.03
30.04
tho rule8
DENTAL PLAN
Effective June 11, 1996 each Employee and hl*/het dependants shall be covered by the dental Plan.
Company maintains both single and family plans a^s presently exist, but require employee contributions, effective 2 payroll September/02 as follows:
family Plan contribution of $5.50 per month Single Plan Contributions of$2«7S per month
Any newly hired Employee, after the signing of this Collective
Agreement, will be subject to a six (6)month eligibility period for coverage of the dental plan.
The dental plan is • 100% coverage of basic and essential dental work with a limit of $1000,00 per year per family member.
The Company shall supply each member with dental forms and a copy of and regulations of the dental plan.
INWITNESS HEREOF the Parties have hereunto ret their hands and seals the day and year fiesc above written.
NYCARD INTERNATIONAL PARTNERSHIP LOCAL 280 OF
UNITE MANITOBA JOINT COUNCIL
Date
pace
op«lu)42*J