BETWEEN
LOCAL 286 OF THE
UNION OF NEEDLE TRADES, INDUSTRIAL AND TEXTILE EMPLOYEES
DIVISION OF
INTERNATIONAL LADIES’ GARMENT WORKERS’ UNION 400-228 NOTRE DAME AVENUE
WINNIPEG, MANITOBA	1
R3B 1N7
-AND-
CANADIAN CLASSIQUE INC.
T/A RICE SPORTSWEAR 1270 NOTRE DAME AVENUE WINNIPEG, MANITOBA R3E OP3
A •	6
1st. . 199K TO
APRIL 30th., 1997
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ARTICLE
PAGE
1.	DEFINITIONS	2
2.	RECOGNITION	3
3.	ACCESS TO PLANT	4
4.	SENIORITY
5.	BRIDGING OF SERVICE
6.	CHECK OFF
7.	PROHIBITIONS
8.	UNION LABEL
9.	HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
4.5
5
5
5.6
7
7,8
10. PIECE RATES-WAGE RATES-AND RELATED FACTORS 8,9
Piecework Rates	9
Union Engineer	9
Small Bundles	9
Large Sizes	9
Boys Operation	9
Kids Operation	9
11. DISTRIBUTION OF WORK	10
12. ASSIGNMENT TO OTHER WORK
10
13. DELAYS
10
14. GENERAL INCREASES-MINIMUM WAGES-PROGRESSION H Applied to Pieceworker Earnings	H
Piece Rate Yield at 100%	11,12
15
16
17
18
PAYROLL-CALL IN PAY-RECALL NOTIFICATION
HOLIDAYS
Holiday Pay
VACATION WITH PAY
12
13.14 14
14.15 15,16,17
HEALTH AND WELFARE-RETIREMENT
ARTICLE
PAGE
19. JOB RIGHTS-LEAVES-BEREAVEMENT PAY Union Leave Maternity Leave Bereavement Pay Paternity Leave Parental Leave	17,18,19 17 18 18 19 19
20. LAY OFF-RECALL Short Term Long Term Short Term And Long Term	19,20 19 19 20
21. VACANCIES .	20,21
22. SHOP CHAIRPERSON-GRIEVANCE & ARBITRATION	21,22
23. CROSSING PICKET LINE	22
24. SEXUAL HARASSMENT	22
25 AMENDMENTS	23
26. DURATION AND REVISION OF AGREEMENT	23
27. ARTICLE AND SECTION TITLES	23
28. MISCELLANEOUS	23,24
29. RATIFICATION	24
RATIFICATION
1
THIS AGREEMENT made as of the BETWEEN:
LOCAL 286 of the
UNION OF NEEDLESTRADES, INDUSTRIAL AND TEXTILE EMPLOYEES, (formally ILGWU),said Local being an unincorporated association and whose offices are located at 400-228 Notre Dame Avenue
Winnipeg, Manitoba, R3B 1N7
(Hereinafter called "THE UNION") OF THE FIRST PART,
-AND-
CANADIAN CLASSIQUE INC., T/A RICE SPORTSWEAR, located at 1270 Notre Dame Avenue, Winnipeg, Manitoba, R3E OP3
(Hereinafter called "THE MANUFACTURER")
OF THE SECOND PART.
WHEREAS :
A.	The Manufacturer is engaged in the manufacture of outerwear and other garments in the city of Winnipeg, in the Province of Manitoba;
B.	The Union is composed of employees in various occupations in connection with such manufacturing who are or will from time to time be employed by the Manufacturer in his factory:
C.	AND WHEREAS the parties hereto are desirous of promoting the principle of collective bargaining, the avoidance of industrial conflicts, and the regulation of relations between the manufacturers and employees governed by the said AGreement, for a term and period, the whole as more fully hereinafter referred to;
D.	The parties have hereto been under collective labour agreements for a number of years past and latterly by an Agreement between the parties dated the 24th day of March, 1993 which was due to expire on the 30th day of April, 1995, and which continued during the negotiations between the parties hereto;
2
E.	AND WHEREAS after further negotiations, the
parties have now agreed upon certain changes and variations to the said Agreement’
AND THEREFORE THIS AGREEMENT WITNESSETH THAT THE PARTIES HERETO HEREBY AGREE AS FOLLOWS:
ARTICLE 1 - DEFINITIONS
1.01	In this Agreement:
a)	"PROBATIONARY EMPLOYEE" means an employee of the employer who has not completed the probationary period as provided herein.
b)	"MANUFACTURER" means the Employer(s) and any other authorized party signing this Agreement as a party of the Second Part.
c)	"UNION" means Local 286 of the International Ladies’ Garment Workers’ Union.
d)	"MEMBER OF THE UNION" means a Union Member who is not in arrears for more than one (1) month in the payment of dues and assessments to the Union.
e)	"ARBITRATOR" shall mean one of the persons as named in Article 22 hereof.
f)	'AVERAGE HOURLY EARNINGS" or "PAY" means the average amount per hour which an Employee shall have earned attributable to their production during regular working hours including those hours worked as overtime but not the overtime premium attributable to those overtime hours. Piecework Average shall be calculated every six (6) months for the period January 1 to June 30 and July 1 to December 31 of each year.
g)	" EMPLOYEE" means an employee of the Manufacturer who works in the unit for which the Union is the Bargaining Agent.
3
ARTT f.LF, 2 - RF, COUNT TT ON
2.01	The Manufacturer recognizes the Union as the Bargaining Agent on behalf of the employees and on behalf of the employees and agrees with the Union to operate a Union Shop, that is after the completion of the probationary period employees shall join the Union.
2.02	The Manufacturer shall not hereafter make any individual contracts with an employee nor exact or accept any cash deposit or other security form an employee, nor enter into any agreement with any individual employee guaranteeing any employment.
2.03	Any employee who cleans garments or does other work with Union jurisdiction in the factory(s) must be a Union Member.
(i) Exclusions:	The Union and the Manufacturer
agree that those employees excluded from Union Membership, are office and supervisory staff, shipping and receiving, and the design and pattern maker.
Nothing in this Agreement shall be interpreted as limiting the Manufacturer in any way in the exercise of all rights, powers, authority and regular and customary functions of management except as otherwise provided in this Agreement.
The Union shall have the right to appoint Chartered Accountants to examine those books and records of the Manufacturer(s) containing the data relating to the payroll of the employees, the computation of the contributions by the Manufacturer to the various funds referred to herein and with the observance of minimum pays to be paid to the employees, Any other information obtained out of payroll records not within Union jurisdiction shall not be disclosed to the Union.
2.06	(a) The Manufacturer agrees that work normally
performed by employees within the bargaining unit shall be performed by employees in the bargaining unit, and shall continue to be so performed by employees within the bargaining unit provided that employees qualified to perform the work are available.
(b)	In the event it is necessary that work be contracted out, it shall not be done in such a way as to cause the lay off, replacement, or reduction in the regular earnings of any employee directly affected in the bargaining unit.
2.04
2.05
4
(c)	Where there employees on lay-off, those employees on lay-off shall first be offered the opportunity of performing such work referred to herein, provided they have the required skills and ability, and are available when required.
(d)	Notwithstanding anything herein contained, no homework shall be sent out or permitted.
2.07	The Manufacturer(s), signatory hereto, shall
maintain Union Shops in the factories during the existence of this Agreement, and it is mutually agreed that the terms and provisions of the within Agreement shall be applicable, in its entirety, to all factories, whether they be located in the City of Winnipeg, or any place outside of the City of Winnipeg.
ARTTCT.E .1 - ACCESS TO PLANT
3.01	A duly authorized officer or representative of the
Union shall at all reasonable times, have access to the places of business of the Manufacturer which shall include the production areas for the purpose of dealing with any specific complaint, condition, or matter arising out of, or pertaining to this Agreement or its operation and such representative and the Manufacturer shall cooperate together so as to enable such matter to be investigated, dealt with and disposed of as satisfactorily and expeditiously as possible, but not as to disturb the business of the manufacturer.
ARTICLE 4 - SENIORITY
Seniority is defined, for the purpose of the Agreement, as the length of service of an employee in the employment of the Manufacturer and shall be applied as provided for in the Agreement.
Any person employed by the Manufacturer shall be considered probationary for the first forty (40) cumulative working days of employment. The probationary period may be extended for a further period of time of thirty (30) days by advising the Union and the employee of the additional probationary period.
4.01
4.02
5
4.03	An employee shall have no seniority rights during the period of probation. Upon expiration of the probationary period as hereinbefore provided, the employee shall be considered a permanent employee and the seniority of such employee shall date back to the date on which the employment commenced and the employee shall then forthwith become a Member of the Union.
4.04	The dismissal, lay off or failure to recall after lay off of a' probationary employee shall not be the subject of a grievance.
ARTICLE	5 - F5RTDOTNO OF RFRVTCF,
5.01	When a employee ceases to be an employee of the Manufacturer but subsequently returns to employment with the Manufacturer, her/his resumed employment shall, after two (2) years of continuous service, be deemed to be continuous with previous periods of service.
ARTICLE	fi - C.HFC.K OFF
6.01	The Manufacturer shall deduct from the wages of each employee, who is a Member of the Union or from newly hired employees, after forty (40) cumulative working days of employment, the amount of the regular monthly membership dues payable by a Member of the Union, and shall remit the amounts deducted to the Union in Winnipeg not later than the first Friday of the following month.
6.02	The Manufacturer shall at the request of the Union, deduct from the wages of an employee who is a Member of the Union, initiation fees, arrears and assessments, and shall remit the amounts to the Union in Winnipeg not later than the first Friday of the following month.
ARTICLE	7 - PROHIBITIONS
7.01	During the term of this Agreement, the Manufacturer(s) shall not engage or take part in any lock-outs.
7.02	During the term of this Agreement, no employee shall take part in any strikes.
6
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06
7.07
7.08
7.09
7.10
The Manufacturer shall not exercise or permit any discrimination of any kind against any employee by reason of her/his past or present Union activities. The Union shall not exercise or permit any discrimination of any kind against the Manufacturer by reason of its past or present activities in relation to the Union.
The Manufacturer and the Union further agree that they will not discriminate against any employee of the Manufacturer or Member of the Union or applicant for employment because of race, color, national origin, sex or age.
No employee shall terminate her/his employment except on one (1) weeks notice.
No homework shall be permitted.
No work shall be done after regular working hours if a Union Meeting has been called for that particular night. The Union agrees to notify the Manufacturer(s) in advance when a Union meeting will be held, within forty-eight (48) hours.
AUTOMATION - No Union employee shall lose their job or incur a loss in earning as a result of automation or the application of new technology provided, however the employee must be prepared to accept another job with equal earning possibilities and be prepared to accept any necessary retraining. Said individual shall be entitled to receive their average hourly pay for a period of six (6) weeks only.
BANKRUPTCY - The bankruptcy, insolvency, liquidation or winding-up of the Manufacturer holding Trust Funds which are deemed at all times to be segregated and the property of the Union in absolute ownership, shall not affect the right of the Union to be paid by first priority.
DISCHARGE - No employee shall be discharged by the Manufacturer except for just cause and provided that notice of the intention to discharge, where practical, has previously been given to the Union but, if a worker believes that he has been unjustly discharged, he may file a grievance in accordance with the provisions of Article 22. If a discharge is found to be unjust, the employee shall be reinstated to his previous job held and be paid for a full loss of earnings.
7
ARTT f.LF, R - I TNT ON T.ARF.T,
8.01	The Manufacturer(s) agree to have incorporated into every garment made by them a Label which shall indicate that the garment was made in a Union Shop and shall also include the initials of the I.L.G.W.U.
8.02	The Union agrees that the Manufacturer(s) will print its own label and the Manufacturer(s) agree to continue to forward to the Union an amount equal to $500.00 per annum payable on May 1st of each year.
8.03	No employee shall be entitled to request or receive any compensation on piece work for the work required to insert the Union Label.
ARTICLE 9 - HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
9.01	a) The standard hours of work Monday thru Friday
shall be thirty-eight and one-half (38 1/2) hours divided between the five (5) consecutive working days of Monday thru Friday in the following manner:
MONDAY eight (8) hours 7:30 am to TUESDAY eight (8) hours 7:30 am to WEDNESDAY eight (8) hours 7:30 am to THURSDAY eight (8) hours 7:30 am to FRIDAY six & one-half (6 1/2) 7:30 am to
4:00 pm 4:00 pm 4:00 pm 4:00 pm 2:30 pm
9.02	On each of the above specified days an interval on one-half (1/2) hours shall be taken as the lunch period.
9.03	There shall be a rest period of ten (10) minutes in the morning and ten (10) minutes in the afternoon on each day worked without deduction by the Manufacturer.
9.04	All hours worked at other times than those specified above shall be deemed to be overtime and shall be paid in accordance with 9.08, 9.09 and
9.10 thereof.
9.05	Whenever overtime is requested, notice thereof shall be given to the employee, at least four (4) hours in advance.
8
9.06
9.07
9.08
9.09
ARTICLE
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04
The Manufacturer may request an employee to work overtime and the said employee shall co-operate with the Manufacturer to produce the work required but no employee shall be discriminated against in any way for declining to work the requested overtime.
The available overtime hours shall be divided equally among those employees who actually work on the overtime’operation whenever practicable.
All hours worked in excess of the standard work period (re:9.01) shall be considered overtime and shall be paid for at the premium rate of time and one-half (1 1/2).
All overtime rates shall be calculated at the average hourly earnings for the previous four (4) weeks (re: previous month), exclusive of the overtime hours, and said average hourly earnings shall include increases herein provided for.
10 ~ PIECE RATES - WAGE RATES - AND RELATED FACTORS
All employment during the duration of this Agreement, shall unless by mutual consent, be performed on a piecework basis.
Prices on piecework arising from a grievance shall be settled between the Manufacturer and the representative of the Union, but should any price not be so settled, the employee affected by piecework price shall continue to work until the dispute is settled and if there is any increase in price on final settlement, same shall be paid retroactively forthwith to the employee.
If the Manufacturer and representative of the Union are unable to settle the said dispute within ten (10) working days, the matter may be determined by arbitration in accordance with the provisions of Article 22 hereof.
Particulars as to all piecework price settlements shall be furnished by the Manufacturer to the Union upon request and the schedule of piecework rates are to be typed and kept at the Manufacturer’s office, easily accessible to the Shop Chairperson, and Union representative.
9
10.05	PIECEWORK RATES
(a) In calculating piecework rates or prices, each operation shall be set to yield an employee of average skill and ability an earning opportunity commensurate with a piece rate yield of 100%, which is presently $7.72 and will increase to the following:
Effective	05/01/95	05/01/96
$7.72	$7.87
(b) Existing piecework rates and prices previously established or new rates established during the term of this Agreement shall not be lowered without the consent of the Union.
10.06	UNION ENGINEER
(a)	Upon, at least, one (1) week's notice to the Manufacturer, the Union Engineer shall have the right to conduct his investigation of the complaints submitted by the Union.
(b)	The Manufacturer shall make available to all Union representatives, which shall include Union Engineers, upon its request, all pertinent information regarding earnings of piecework and time studies involved.
10.07	SMALL BUNDLES
The Manufacturer agrees to continue to pay pieceworkers an additional ten (10%) percent of monies payable on piecework bundles which consist of less than five (5) garments.
10.08	LARGE SIZES
In addition to any small bundle premium that may be applicable, the Manufacturer agrees to continue to pay pieceworkers an additional ten (10%) percent of the piecework rates payable when work is done on size 48 or larger.
10.09	BOYS OPERATION
The piecework prices paid for boys operations shall be ninety-five (95%) percent of that paid for men's operations.
10.10	KIDS OPERATION
The piece work prices paid for kiddies operations shall be 90% ninety percent of that paid for men's operations.
ARTICLE 11 - DISTRIBUTION OF WORK
11.01
11.02
arttcle
12.01
12.02
arttcle
13.01
13.02
10
Hours of work shall be distributed among the workers as equitably as possible, among those workers employed in the department or in the section. (A section or department is that section or department to which the worker is normally assigned).
No members of the company or Supervisory employee or designee or any other person outside the bargaining unit (except Learners) shall perform any work in any job covered by this Agreement except in cases of emergency.
12 - ASSIGNMENT TO OTHER WORK
Pieceworkers who are assigned or are requested to perform other than their regular work, on a temporary basis, while their regular work is available shall receive for such work their average hourly rate or the piecework earnings from the new work’, whichever is greater. Where the assignment is of a permanent nature, the piecework rate for the newly assigned operation, shall apply.
Pieceworkers who are assigned or requested to perform work other than their regular work is unavailable shall receive for time spent on such other work their minimum hourly wage or the piecework earnings from the new work, whichever is greater, and their earnings from their regular work is calculated separately and not reduced.
13 - DELAYS
MACHINE BREAKDOWN - Machine Breakdown, when in excess of fifteen (15) minutes per day and when not due to employee negligence, will be compensated for at the employee’s piecework average, providing there is no spare machine available. The supervisor may assign other work temporarily at a rate of pay equal to the employees piecework average.
REPAIRS - Employees instructed to make repairs or alterations, when not their own, shall receive their piecework average for time spent on training or instructing.
ARTTGT.E 14
GENERAL INCREASES - MINIMUM WAGE
PROGRESSIONS
11

14.01	(i) As of May 1, 1995, there shall be an
increase of two (2%) Percent to all Timeworkers' wages and two (2%) Percent increase to the Minute Value of all Pieceworkers.
As of May 1, 1996, there shall be an increase of two (2%) Percent to all Timeworkers’ wages and a Two (2%) Percent increase to the Minute Value of all Pieceworkers.
(ii)	The above increases shall be applied to all pieceworkers in the following manner:
Mav 1/94	_____Mav 1/95	______May 1/96
Current
S.M.O.	$7.57
100% Yield .1261
$7.72	$7.87
,1286	,1311
Cutters	10.42
100% Yield	.1737
10.63	10.84
,1771	,1806
Cut/Spr.	8.94	9.12
100% Yield .1490	,1520
9.30 , 1550
Spreaders	7.45	7.60
100% Yield	.1241	.1266
7.75 , 1291
Bundlers	6.82	6.95
100% Yield	.1137	,1158
7.09 , 1181
Fusers	7.57	7.72
100% Yield	.1261	.1286
7.87 , 1311
Pressers	7.57	7.72
100% Yield	.1261	,1286
7.87 , 1311
(iii)
(a)	Effective May 1, 1995 all Pieceworkers who have completed one (1) year of service shall receive a Guaranteed Hourly Rate equivalent to thirty ($.30) cents per hour over the Manitoba Provincial Minimum Wage.
(b)	Effective May 1, 1995 all Pieceworkers who have completed two (2) years service shall receive a Guaranteed Hourly Rate equivalent to forty ($.40) cents per hour over the Manitoba Provincial Hourly Minimum Wage.
12
14.02	The increases shall be applied to all,
Pieceworkers,Timeworkers or Hourly Rated Employees in the following manner.
(i)	Effective May 1/95, two (2%) Percent shall be applied to the then existing hourly rate and piecework rate of each affected employee.
(ii)	Effective May 1/96, two (2%) Percent shall be applied to the then existing hourly rate and piecework rate of each affected employee.
APTTr.T,E 15 - PAYROLL - (".ALT, TN PAY - PECATJ, NOTTFTClATTOT\T
15.01	The Manufacturer shall furnish to the Union on
request, a copy of its payroll for all Bargaining Union Employees showing the (i) date of pay:	(ii)
the number of hours worked during the period including overtime hours: (iii) the gross wages earned; (iv) the particulars and amounts of deductions from such pay; and (v) the net amount of wages paid.
15.02	CALL IN PAY
On each occasion when an employee is required to report for work on the premises of the Manufacturer's establishment, the Manufacturer shall supply the employee with at least four (4) hours of continuous work or shall pay the employee for not less than four (4) hours of work calculated on the basis of the employee's average rate of pay per hour during that current week.
ARTICLE
16.01
16.02
16.03
16.04
16.05
16.06 16.07
13
- HOLIDAYS
The following holidays shall be observed and all employees covered by this Agreement, shall be paid a full normal day's pay for them, up to a maximum of eight (8) hours, in any event and regardless of whether such holidays fall on a working day or non-working day of the week or in any non-working week.
New Years Day Good Friday
Victoria Day (Empire Day)
Canada Day (Dominion Day)
Civic Holiday (1st Monday in August)
Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Remembrance Day Christmas Day Boxing Day
CITIZENSHIP DAY - an employee shall be allowed time off from work to become a Canadian Citizen and such employee shall be paid up to one (1) full days pay as other Statutory Holidays are paid.
No employee shall be compelled to work on any of the foregoing holidays.
No employee shall be compelled to work on any other legal or personal religious holiday, nor shall they be paid for them.
A new employee shall be in the employ of the Manufacturer at least fifteen (15) calendar days out of the previous thirty (30) days from his date of hire before being entitled to payment for any holiday.
An eligible employee shall receive holiday pay provided that, while work is available, he works both his scheduled work day before and his scheduled work day after the holiday unless his absence is for justifiable cause.
Any employee who terminates his employment during the calendar week in which a holiday(s) occurs without giving one (1) weeks notice shall not entitled to payment for such holiday(s)
HOLIDAY PAY
14
16.08
(i)	The payment of holiday pay for all time or hourly workers shall be up to a maximum of eight (8) hours times their then guaranteed hourly rate but subject to the provisions of Article 9 -9.01 hereof..
(ii)	The payment of Holiday Pay for all pieceworkers, including pieceworkers in the Cutting Department, shall be up to a maximum of eight (8) hours their established "Average Hourly Earnings" for the prior month but not less than eight (8) times their then guaranteed hourly rate, but subject to the provisions of Article 9 - 9.01 hereof.
(iii)	The rate of holiday pay for any employees in the event that employee is requested to work and performs any work on any of the aforesaid holidays, shall be at the premium rate of double time of their hourly rate or average in addition to the regular payment for such holiday.
(iv)	Holidays which fall on a Saturday or Sunday shall be observed on the Friday immediately preceding or the Monday immediately following it and shall be paid at the rate of seven and one-half (7 1/2) hours.
The provisions of (iv) above shall not apply to Remembrance Day. All eligible employees shall receive for Remembrance Day when it falls on a Saturday or Sunday one (1) additional day's pay at the rate of a Friday Holiday if it falls on a Saturday and at the rate of a Monday holiday if it falls on a Sunday.
Under (iv) above the Friday or Monday shall be so designated by the Manufacturer.
ARTTC.LFi 17 - VACATIONS WITH PAY
17.01	All vacation pays shall be paid directly to each employee by the Manufacturer.
17.02	Every employee shall receive two (2) weeks vacation with pay calculated on the basis of four (4%) percent of such employee's total gross earning, which shall include holiday pay earned during each eligible year of the term hereof, to
17.03
17.04
17.05
17.06
ARTICLE
18.01
15
those employees who are members of the Union and who have been employees of the Manufacturer for four (4) years or more and based on the anniversary date of each employee.
The Manufacturer shall continue to pay annually a third (3rd) weeks' vacation with pay calculated on the basis of an additional two (2%) Percent making a total of six (6%) Percent of such Employee's total gross earnings, which shall include Holiday Pay earned during each eligible year of the term hereof, to those employees who are Members of the Union and who have been employees of the Manufacturer for four (4) years or more and based on the anniversary date of each Employee.
The Manufacturer shall continue to pay annually four (4) weeks vacation with pay calculated on the basis of an additional two (2%) percent making a total of eight (8%) percent of such employee's total gross earnings, which shall include holiday pay, earned during each eligible year of the term hereof, to those employees who are members of the Union and who have been employees of the Manufacturer for ten (10) years or more and based on the anniversary date of each employee.
Absences due to lay-off, illness, approved leaves shall not be deducted in the calculation of time.
The vacation time shall be taken by the employee so entitled in the following manner:
(a)	A two (2) week vacation may be taken by the employee during the summer of each year; and
(b)	the balance of the vacation shall be taken by the employee in one (1) week periods as may be designated by the Manufacturer after consultation with the employee.
L8 - HEALTH AND WELFARE
RETIREMENT
The Health and Welfare Fund previously established by the Union and the Manufacturers shall be continued in accordance with the Rules and Regulations as amended January 1, 1983 governing the Fund, wherein a Board of Trustees has been provided for and the Union has been designated as the Trustee who is selected at arm’s length.
16
(1)	The Fund name is designated as:
"WESTERN CANADIAN REGION I.L.G.W.U. CONSOLIDATED
HEALTH AND WELFARE FUND"
18.02	The Retirement Fund previously established by the Union and the Manufacturers shall be continued in accordance with the amended Deed of Trust dated November 13, 1978, in compliance with the Pension Act of the Province of Manitoba and in accordance with the Rules and Regulations of the Fund wherein a Board of Trustees has been provided for and the Union has been designated as the Trustees has been provided for and the Union has been designated as the Trustees of the Fund, with one (1) additional who is selected at arm's length.
(1)	The Fund name is designated as:
"WESTERN CANADIAN REGION I.L.G.W.U. CONSOLIDATED RETIREMENT FUND"
18.03	The manufacturer agree to continue to contribute to the said Funds and that the following amounts shall be paid to the Health and Welfare and Retirement Funds based on the total gross payroll, on a monthly basis of the Union Members in its employ,
Effective May 1, 1992:
Health & Welfare -	one (1%) percent
Retirement -	three point seven five (3.75%) percent
TOTAL	four point seven five (4.75%) percent
18.04	Total gross weekly payroll shall include each employee's total gross earnings in each pay period including overtime premium, holiday pay and vacation pay.
18.05	All Funds contributions to be paid in respect of the Health and Welfare and the Retirement Funds, are to be paid into the Fund (Union) Office, not later than the fifteenth (15th) calendar day of the month immediately.
18.06	The Manufacturer shall be provided with yearly financial statements of the Funds, copies of the Trust Agreement and Rules and Regulations governing the Fund and Actuarial reports as prepared.
17
18.07	Auditors assigned by the Union shall have the right to check payroll records of the bargaining unit employees to determine that full payment has been made by the Manufacturer to the Funds.
18.08	The Manufacturer acknowledges that the Trustees of the Retirement Fund are required by the Pension Act of Manitoba to report delinquent payments due to the Fund to the Superintendent of Pensions of the Pension Commission of Manitoba, in accordance with Chapter P-32 of the "Pension Benefits Act".
ARTTCT.F, 19 - JOR RIGHTS - TFAVF.F - BF.RF.AVF.MF.NT PAY
19.01	With regard to any employee who is a Union Member:
(a)	A leave of absence without pay shall be granted to any such employee, provided that the length of absence is agreed upon in advance in writing.
(b)	Upon the granting of any such leave of absence the employee's employment shall be protected up to twelve (12) months, and upon their return to work they shall have the right to their individual job, if available, and if not available they shall have first priority to their individual job if and when it does become available.
The employee shall receive all increments to wages and benefits to which the employee would have been entitled had the leave not been taken. Piece rate workers shall be credited with their average rate of pay at the time of the leave until a new average has been earned.
(C) UNION LEAVE
The Employer shall, upon written request from the Union, grant to any employee, member of the Union, leave without pay and without loss of seniority for Union Business: provided that any leave for an employee for longer than two (2) weeks in any one year or that entails more than four (4) people being off the job at one time shall require that prior written agreement of the manufacturer, with the exception of negotiations, which may necessitate the absence of more than four (4) workers at any one time.
18
(d) MATERNITY LEAVE
(i)	An employee who has completed the prescribed probationary period of employment with the Manufacturer, upon becoming pregnant and estimating the probable date of birth of the child, is entitled to a leave of absence from work, without pay, for a period of seventeen (17) consecutive weeks or a shorter period the employee requests, commencing eleven (11) weeks immediately before the estimated date of birth or a later time the employee requests.
(ii)	Where an employee gives birth or the pregnancy is terminated before a request for leave is made under subsection (i) , the employer shall grant the employee leave of absence from work, without pay, for a period of six (6) consecutive weeks, or a shorter period the employee requests.
(iii)	Where an employee who has been granted leave of absence under this section is, for reasons related to the birth or termination of the pregnancy as certified by a medical practitioner, unable to work or return to work after the expiration of the leave, the employer shall grant to the employee further leaves of absence from work, without pay, for a total of six (6) consecutive weeks.
(iv)	An employee who resumes employment on the expiration of the leave of absence granted in accordance with this Article, shall be reinstated in all respects by the employer in the position previously occupied by the employee, if available, and if not available, they shall have first priority to their individual job if and when it does become available, or in a comparable position with all increments to wages and benefits to which the employee would have been entitled had the leave not been taken.
19.02	BEREAVEMENT PAY
(A)	Three (3) days off with pay shall be given to any employee, upon the death of their spouse, parent, child, grandchild, brother, sister or inlaws.
(B)	Bereavement Pay shall not be paid while an employee is on layoff, sick leave, maternity leave or personal leave or vacation.
19
19.03	PATERNITY LEAVE
Leave may be granted, without pay, for reasons of paternity for up to a maximum of five (5) days.
19.04	PARENTAL LEAVE
Leave may be granted, without pay, for reasons of family responsibility for up to five (5) days per year.
Family responsibility includes reasons of illness of a family member, doctors or dental appointments of children or other parental duties which may necessitate absence from work.
ARTICLE 20 - T,AY-OFF - RECALL
SHORT TERM: two (2) weeks duration or less
20.01	In the event of a lay-off of two (2) weeks duration or less the employees to be laid off shall be determined by job and department seniority and skill and competency as determined by the Manufacturer.
20.02	Employees laid off on short term shall be recalled before any new employees are hired, provided they are qualified to do the available work as determined by the Manufacturer.
20.03	Employees laid off on short term shall be entitled to at least one (1) full day's notice of recall.
LONG TERM: in excess of two (2) weeks duration
20.04	In the event of a lay-off excess of two (2) weeks duration, the employees to be laid off shall be determined by plant seniority and their skill and competency, as determined by the Manufacturer for the jobs available.
20.05	In the event of a lay-off in excess of two (2) weeks duration, the employees who will be affected shall be given at least one (1) week's notice of lay-off or paid in lieu of such notice.
20.06	When a lay-off of more than two (2) weeks duration is required, the company shall discuss the details with the Union as far in advance of the lay-off date as possible.
20
20.07	Employees laid off on long term shall be recalled before any new employees are hired, provided they are qualified to do the available work as determined by the Manufacturer.
20.08	Employees on long term lay-off be entitled to at least one (1) full week's notice of recall. If the employee is not reached by telephone, notice shall be given in writing.
SHORT TERM AND LONG TERM
20.09	In the event that an employee obtains work elsewhere while on short term or long term layoff, they shall not forfeit their recall rights, as described in 20.08 hereof.
20.10	In the event that an employee is laid off on short term or long term they shall be given an approximate date of recall.
20.11	In the event of lay-offs in excess of one (1) full working day, the Shop Chairperson or the designation Shop Committee Member shall be so informed.
20.12	For the purpose of lay-off. Rice Sportswear, Rice Basement cloth & Leather, Rice Leather and Steinbach Sportswear will be dealt with as five (5) separate plants.
ARTTOLE 21 - VACANCIES
21.01	The company shall post all vacancies in the bargaining unit for a period of seven (7) working days.
21.02	Vacancies as defined herein, does not include positions open due to a leave of any nature being taken by an employee where the employee is expected to return on a certain date.
21.03	The Company has the right to fill any position on a temporary basis pending the outcome of the posting. This includes any position which becomes vacant as a result of abandonment or as a result of any employee not returning from a leave of absence. .
21.04	Present employees shall have priority by department seniority in bidding for such vacancies.
21
21.05	The candidate has to demonstrate and shall be chosen on her/his ability to perform the new operation to the satisfaction of the company and if not satisfactory may be transferred to the previous job.
21.06	For present operations and job classifications presently in the factory, an employee may request to be transferred to that operation or job classification if available or when it becomes available.
(i) The company shall consider the request based on its production requirements, as well as the previous skills and qualifications of the employee so requesting the transfer.
NOTE :	This Article does not apply when
employee fails to give one (1) week's notice of termination.
A~RTTC.T,F. 22 - SHOP CHAIRPERSON - GRIEVANCE AND ARBITRATION PROCEDURE
22.01	The Union shall notify the Manufacturer(s) of the person(s) employed in its factories designated as the Shop Chairperson(s).
In this Agreement, unless the context otherwise requires, "GRIEVANCE" means*.
22.02	Any dispute or difference between Rice Sportswear, Rice Basement Cloth & Leather, Rice Leather, or Steinbach Sportswear, and Local 286 of the International Ladies’ Garment Workers’ Union, governing the dismissal or suspension of an employee bound by this Agreement, and;
22.03	any difference between the persons bound by this
agreement concerning its interpretation, application, operation or alleged violation thereof.
If any grievance arises affecting any employee bound by this Agreement, it shall be finally and conclusively settled without stoppage of work in the following manner:
22.04
22.05
ARTICLE
23.01
ARTICLE
24.01
22
The employee concerned shall submit any grievance within thirty (30) days of its occurrence to the Shop Chairperson or a representative of the Union who shall attempt to settle the matter with a representative of the Manufacturer. (No adjustment shall be deemed binding on the Union unless approved by an authorized representative of the Union which shall be limited to the Manager or Business Agent or any other person so designated in writing by the Union giving them such authority).
Should the matter still be unsettled, the Manufacturer and the Union shall meet in order to agree upon a single Arbitration, or failing agreement, each shall name an Arbitration Board Member. The two (2) Arbitration Board Appointees shall meet within seven (7) days in order to arrange for an Arbitration Chairperson. Failing agreement on a Chairperson, they shall request the Minister of labour to appoint a Chairperson. When the appointment of an Arbitrator(s) has been concluded the Arbitrator(s) shall have the power to determine whether the matter before him is arbitral. Having made this determination the Arbitrator(s) shall hear and determine the differences and shall issue a decision, and that decision shall be final and binding upon the parties.
23 - CROSSING PICKET LINE
It shall not be considered a breach of this Agreement on the part of the Union or on the part of any individual employee, if any employee or employees refuse to cross any legally established picket line recognized by the Union or to enter upon the legally picketed premises of the Manufacturer(s) , of their own violation or b;y direction of. the Union, nor shall such refusal be cause for discharge or discipline.
24 - SEXUAL HARASSMENT
Sexual harassment shall be defined as any sexually oriented action that undermines any employee's health or job performance, or endangers an employee’s employment status or potential. As a result of sexual harassment an employee shall not be transferred against the employee’s will.
ARTTr.TiF, 25 - AMENDMENTS
23
25.01	This Agreement may be amended by written and
authorization of both parties or their successors.
ARTT CIT.F, 26 - PUR ATT ON AND RFVTSTON OF AGREEMENT
26.01	This Agreement shall be effective as of the 1st day of May, 1995 and shall continue in full force and effect up to the close of business on the 30th day of April, 1997, and thereafter from year to year unless either the Union or the Manufacturer(s) gives written notice to the other of its desire to revise this Agreement, or to conclude a new Collective Agreement as hereinafter provided.
26.02	The notice hereinbefore referred to may be given at any time before the 28th day of February in any year during which the contract expires.
26.03	Notwithstanding the provisions hereinbefore set out, this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect from and after the commencement of negotiations- for a new Agreement and during the term provided for in the Labour Relations Act of Manitoba.
ARTTC.T.F, 27 - ARTTCT.F. AND SFC.TTON TTTT.F.S
27.01	The Article and Section titles are included solely
for convenience and shall in no event be construed to affect or modify any part of the provisions of this Agreement or be construed as part thereof.
ARTTCT.F. 28 - MISCELLANEOUS
28.01	Where in this Agreement the singular or the masculine has been used, it shall be deemed to include the plural or feminine gender as the case may be or the context of this Agreement may require.
28.02	Time shall in all respects be the essence of this Agreement. .
28.03	This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of, and be binding upon the parties hereto and their respective heirs, executors, administrators, successors, and assigns.
24
28.04	There shall be no differential in pay for equal work between female and male employees.
28.05	BULLETIN BOARD
The Manufacturer(s) agrees to provide the Union with suitable bulletin board space(s) in a place(s) readily accessible to all Union Members.
ARTICLE 29 - RATIFICATION
29.01	This Agreement is subject to the ratification of the Members of the Union employed in the shop(s) of the Manufacturer(s).
ALL BENEFITS AND INCREASES RETROACTIVE FROM MAY 1, 1995
IN WITNESS WHEREOF of the Parties hereunto have affixed their hands and seals and the corporate parties have hereunto affixed their corporate seals, attested by the hands of its proper officers in that behalf, the day and year first above written.
LOCAL 286 of the UNION /5$\needletrades , INDUS/TRIAX and textile
CANADIAN CLASSIQUE INC
T/A RICE SPORTSWEAR