BETWEEN:
nygArd INTERNATIONAL LTD.
- and
LOCAL 288 of the
INTERNATIONAL LADIES’ GARMENT WORKERS’ UNION
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT 1340 NOTRE DAME AVENUE
April 1, 1993 - March 31, 1996
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREAMBLE
ARTICLE 1 ■	- DEFINITIONS 2
ARTICLE 2	- MANAGEMENT RIGHTS 3
ARTICLE 3 -	■ UNION RECOGNITION 3
ARTICLE 4 -	• UNION SECURITY 3
ARTICLE 5 -	■ MISCELLANEOUS 5
ARTICLE 6 -	CHECK OFF
ARTICLE 7 -	STRIKES AND LOCKOUTS 6
ARTICLE 8 -	BULLETIN BOARDS 6
ARTICLE 9 -	TOOLS AND EQUIPMENT 6
ARTICLE IO -TRAINING SCHOOLS
ARTICLE 11	- PROBATIONARY EMPLOYEES 7
ARTICLE 12	- GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE 8
ARTICLE 13	- LAY OFF AND RECALL 	 g
ARTICLE 14	- DISCHARGE IO
ARTICLE 15 ■	■ BRIDGING OF SERVICE IO
ARTICLE 16	- HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME 11
ARTICLE 17	- ANNUAL VACATIONS 19
ARTICLE 18	- STATUTORY HOLIDAYS 1 *
ARTICLE 19	- CITIZENSHIP DAY 1R
(i)
ARTICLE 20 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE ...................
ARTICLE 21 - WAGE RATES........................
ARTICLE 22 - PAY DAY ............................
ARTICLE 23 - WORKERS COMPENSATION ...............
ARTICLE 24 - INCENTIVE SYSTEMS ..................
ARTICLE 25 - HEALTH AND WELFARE AND
RETIREMENT BENEFITS...................
ARTICLE 26 - UNION LABEL.........................
ARTICLE 27 - CONTRACTING OUT.................., . .
ARTICLE 28 - SAVING CLAUSE ......................
ARTICLE 29 - DURATION AND REVISION OF AGREEMENT . . .
APPENDIX A - MINUTE VALUE YIELDS @ 100%..........
APPENDIX B - PROGRESSION SCALE OF GUARANTEED RATES
APPENDIX C - JOB CLASSIFICATIONS ................
. .16 . 19 . 19 . . 1 9 ■ , 20
. 21 . 22 , ■ 22
■	23
■	23 . 24
. . 25 . 26
(ii)
This Agreement made the //^day of September, 1993
BETWEEN:
NYGARD INTERNATIONAL LTD. carrying on business at 1340 Notre Dame Avenue Winnipeg, Manitoba R3E 0P4
(Hereinafter called “the Manufacturer”)
OF THE FIRST PART,
-and-
LOCAL 288 of the '
International Ladies’ Garment Workers’ Union an unincorporated association with offices at
401 - 228 Notre Dame Avenue Winnipeg, Manitoba, R3B 1 N7
(Hereinafter called “the Union”)
OF THE SECOND PART.
WHEREAS:
A.	The Manufacturer is engaged in the manufacture of ladies’ sportswear and other garments at the City of Winnipeg, in the Province of Manitoba;
B.	The Union is composed of workers engaged in various occupations in connection with such manufacturing who are or will from time to time be employed by the Manufacturer in its factory; and
C.	The parties hereto are desirous of promoting the principle of collective bargaining, the avoidance of industrial conflicts, and the regulation of relations between the employer and the employees governed by the said agreement, for a term and period, the whole as more fully hereinafter referred to;
NOW THEREFORE THIS AGREEMENT WITNESSETH that the parties hereto hereby
agree as contained within:
APRIL 1, 1993 TO MARCH 31, 1996
ARTICLE 1 - DEFINITIONS
1.01
(a)
(b)
(0
(d)
(e)
(f)
(g)
(h)
(i)
(j)
(k)
In this Agreement:
"Arbitrator” shall mean one of the persons named in the Article dealing with grievance procedure.
"Average Hourly Pay” shall mean the average amount per hour which an Employee shall have earned attributable to his or her production during regular working hours during the preceding six (6) month period calculated from the first day of January and July of each year.
"Guaranteed Rate” shall mean the rate of wages set out in Appendix "B” and subject to the particular employee’s job classification and length of service.
"Member of Union” means a Union Member who is not in arrears for more than one (1) month in the payment of dues and assessments to the Union.
"Minute Value Yields” shall mean the incentive rates of wages as set out in Appendix "A”.
"Probationary Employee” means an Employee of the Manufacturer who has not completed the probationary period as provided herein.
"Regular Employee” means an Employee of the Manufacturer who has successfully completed the probationary period as provided herein.
"Seniority” means length of service in the bargaining unit and shall be applied on a bargaining wide basis. Shall be applied as set out in other provisions of this agreement.
"Trainee” means a newly hired Employee, who has no job related experience in respect of the position, function or job for which he or she is hired by the Manufacturer.
"Vestibule Training” shall mean on the job training of an Employee unskilled for the position in which he or she is hired, so as to provide said employee with new, specific, job skills.
"Year of Service” means an employee shall have completed a year’s service when they have worked at least ninety-five percent of the regular working hours during a continuous twelve month period.
2
ARTICLE 2 - MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
2.01	The Union recognizes and acknowledges that, in all respects, except
to the extent expressly abridged or modified by a specific provision of this agreement, the management and conduct of the operations of the business, and the employment and direction of the work force, are the responsibility of the Manufacturer, and nothing in this agreement shall be interpreted as limiting the Manufacturer in any way in the exercise of all the rights, powers, authority, and regular and customary functions of management unless otherwise specifically provided for in this agreement.
ARTICLE 3 - UNION RECOGNITION
The Manufacturer recognizes the Union as the sole bargaining agent on behalf of all Regular Employees employed in the factory, including those who clean garments or do other work within Union jurisdiction, save and except for Supervisors, Assistant Supervisors, those above the rank of Supervisor, office and related personnel, and persons performing jobs in Shipping, Receiving and Distribution; Mechanical and Maintenance Repairs; Quality Control; Watchmen; Janitorial Services and any other jobs which now exist or which may be created in the future and which are not primarily production line related.
The terms and conditions of this Agreement shall apply to the Manufacturer’s Notre Dame factory located at 1340 Notre Dame Avenue, in the City of Winnipeg, in the Province of Manitoba.
3.01
3.02
ARTICLE 4 - UNION SECURITY
4.01	This Agreement shall enure to the benefit of, and be binding upon the parties hereto and their respective administrators, successors, and assigns.
4.02	It is expressly understood and agreed that in respect of all matters relating to this Agreement, or renewal thereof, or in respect of any related matters, the Manufacturer in its relationships with the Union, shall not be required to consult with or deal with any person other than the Representative or the Shop Chairperson. Where the parties agree it is impractical or inappropriate for the Representative or the Shop Chairperson to consult with or deal with the Manufacturer on a particular matter, the Representative may designate another person to
3
4.03
4.04
4.05
4.06
4.07
4.08
ARTICLE 5
5.01
5.02
consult with or deal with the Manufacturer on the particular matter,
BANKRUPTCY -The bankruptcy, insolvency, liquidation or winding-up of the Manufacturer holding trust funds which are deemed at all times to be segregated and the property of the Union in absolute ownership, shall not affect the right of the Union to be paid said funds in priority to any other claimants of the Manufacturer.
The Manufacturer shall not hereafter make any individual contracts with a Regular Employee, nor exact or accept any cash deposits or other security from a Regular Employee, nor enter into any agreement with any individual Regular Employee guaranteeing employment.
The Manufacturer, or anyone acting on behalf of the Manufacturer, shall not discriminate against any Employee by reason of his or her past or present union activities. The Union, or anyone acting on behalf of the Union, shall not discriminate against the Manufacturer by reason of its past or present activities in relation to the Union.
The Manufacturer and the Union agree that in the course of their duties supervisors and employees shall endeavour to conduct themselves in such a manner as to enhance mutual respect and dignity in the work place.
The Manufacturer and the Union each further agree that they will not discriminate against any Employee or applicant for employment because of race, creed, colour, national origin, sex or age of that Employee or Applicant.
During the currency of this Agreement, the duly authorized Representative of the Union shall have access to the business premises of the Manufacturer as provided herein for the purposes, which shall be disclosed to the Manufacturer, of dealing with any specific complaint, condition, or matter arising out of or pertaining to this Agreement or its implementation or to determine compliance with the terms of this Agreement.
- MISCELLANEOUS
This Agreement may be amended by written agreement and authorization of both parties or their successors.
This Agreement is subject to the ratification of the Members of the
4
Union employed in the Factory of the Manufacturer.
5.03	The article and section titles are included solely for convenience and shall in no event be so construed as to affect or modify any part of the provisions of this Agreement.
5.04	Wherever, in this Agreement the singular or the masculine has been employed, same shall be deemed to include the plural or feminine gender as the case may be or the context of this Agreement may require.
5.05	Time shall in all respects be of the essence of this Agreement.
5.06	There shall be no differential in pay for equal work between female and male employees.
ARTICLE 6 - CHECK OFF
6.01	The Manufacturer shall deduct from the wages of each Regular . Employee who is a Member of the Union, the amount of the regular monthly membership dues payable by a Member of the Union, and shall remit the amounts so deducted to the Union, in Winnipeg, not later than the fifteenth (15) day of the following month.
6.02	The Manufacturer shall, at the request of the Union, deduct from the wages of an employee who is a Member of the Union, initiation fees and assessments, and shall remit the amounts so deducted to the Union, in Winnipeg, not later than the fifteenth (15) day of the following month.
6.03	The Union agrees that it shall not be the responsibility of the Manufacturer to deduct or collect arrears in dues from any newly hired employee, who was an employee of another manufacturer other than the Manufacturer, and that initiation fees, assessments, deductions which are the responsibility of the Manufacturer to deduct, shall only commence from any such Regular Employee’s date of hire with the Manufacturer.
6.04	The Manufacturer agrees that if the Union provides to the Manufacturer, signed authorization from any individual, authorizing the deduction of any such arrears which they accumulated while not in the employ of the Manufacturer, the Manufacturer will so deduct them.
5
ARTICLE 7 - STRIKES AND LOCKOUTS
7.01	During the term of this Agreement, the Manufacturer shall not engage in or take part in any lockouts.
7.02	During the term of this Agreement, no Employee shall take part in any strikes.
7.03	It shall not be considered a breach of this Agreement on the part of the Union or on the part of any individual Employee, if any Employee or Employees refuse to cross any legally established picket line recognized by the Union, or to enter upon the legally picketed premises of the Manufacturer, or their own volition or by direction of the Union, nor shall such refusal be cause for discharge or discipline.
ARTICLE 8 - BULLETIN BOARDS
8.01	The Manufacturer shall provide the Union with Bulletin Boards to be
used for the purposes of the Union. No notice shall be posted on such bulletin boards without first receiving the approval of the Production Manager of the Manufacturer which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld.
ARTICLE 9 - TOOLS AND EQUIPMENT
9.01	Scissors will be supplied by the Manufacturer to Probationary Employees, if required, for the operation of their specific machine. Replacement scissors will be issued to all Employees whenever, in the opinion of the Manufacturer, the scissors require replacing. In order for the Manufacturer to replace the scissors, the old scissors must be turned in. When an Employee, who has been issued scissors terminates his/her employment or is granted a leave of absence, the scissors must be returned to the Manufacturer, or the cost of the scissors shall be deducted from the Employee’s final pay cheque.
9.02	Employees who receive tools or equipment shall sign for them and return them on request by the Manufacturer and/or upon termination of employment or the cost of same deducted from the Employee’s final pay cheque.
6
ARTICLE 10 - TRAINING SCHOOLS
10.01
10.02
10.03
ARTICLE 11
11.01
11.02
ARTICLE 12
12.01
12.02
The Manufacturer agrees to notify the Union in writing of all the particulars of any vestibule training school, before such a vestibule training school commences and shall, on an ongoing basis, provide the Union with the names of all such trainees who have spent a minimum of four (4) weeks in the school.
It is agreed that the Trainee shall receive Vestibule Training to the extent of one (1) month and thereafter the Trainee be placed on probation for a further period of one (1) month and at the expiration of the aforesaid two (2) months the Probationary Employee shall become a Union member.
A Trainee shall successfully complete four (4) weeks of Vestibule Training, whereupon he/she shall become a Probationary Employee.
- PROBATIONARY EMPLOYEES
All Probationary Employees, whether furnished by the Union, or otherwise obtained, shall be given a reasonable trial by the Manufacturer and after a probationary period of four (4) weeks shall be constituted as Regular Employees of the Manufacturer, and shall be entitled to all the rights, privileges and benefits and shall be subject to all conditions and obligations of this Agreement, except as herein specifically exempted therefrom. Any person employed in a training school will be considered a probationary employee when the person becomes part of the production line.
A Probationary Employee shall become a Member of the Union after four (4) weeks of employment with the Manufacturer.
- GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
A grievance shall be controversy between the Manufacturer and any regular employee over the interpretation of or adherence to the terms of this agreement.
The employee may first discuss the complaint with her supervisor, There will be no grievance until the supervisor has had an opportunity to discuss the matter with the employee.
7
Step 1
12.03	If settlement is not reached after the discussion the grievance shall be submitted in writing to the Production Manager by the employee within five (5) working days after the discussion and no later than seven (7) working days after the Employee’s knowledge of the incident giving rise to the grievance. The grievance shall contain:
a description of the problem and sections of the agreement allegedly violated a statement of remedy sought the date of submission the employee’s signature
The Production Manager or her designate will respond in writing to the grievance, within five (5) days of the date of submission, to the union representative.
Step 2
12.04	If settlement is not reached under step 1 within five (5) days of the Production Manager’s written response, the grievance shall be submitted to the Manufacturer’s Human Resources department which will respond in writing to the Union, within ten (IO) days after the date of the Production Manager’s written response, to the union representative.
Step 3
12.05	If settlement is not reached under step 2 within five (5) working days after the date of the written response of the Human Resources department it may be referred by either party to a single arbitrator.
If the parties fail to agree upon an arbitrator within five (5) working days after one party has served notice on the other party of its intention to refer the matter to an arbitrator, each shall name three (3) names to the other to be considered as an arbitrator.
If the parties fail to reach agreement on an arbitrator within five (5) working days after the date of referral to arbitration, they shall request the Minister of Labour to appoint same. When the appointment of an arbitrator has been concluded, the arbitrator shall have the power to determine whether the matter before him is arbitrable. Having made the determination that the arbitrator has jurisdiction, the arbitrator shall hear and determine the differences and shall issue a decision and
8
that decision shall be final and binding upon the parties.
12.06
12.07
12.08
12.09
12.10
ARTICLE
13.01
13.02
13.03
13.04
13.05
The arbitrator shall only rule on explicit provisions of the agreement. He shall not have jurisdiction to amend or add to any of the provisions of this agreement nor to give any decision inconsistent with the conditions of this agreement.
The expenses of the arbitrator shall be shared equally by the parties.
If the Union or a grievor fails to present a grievance to the next step within the prescribed time, the grievance shall be deemed to have been abandoned, unless an extension of the prescribed time limits is agreed upon by the Union and the Manufacturer in writing.
For purposes of time frame specified in this article, the word "days” will refer to working days. '
No grievance may proceed to arbitration without the approval of the representative of the union.
13 - LAY OFF AND RECALL
In the event of a lay off, the employees affected will be determined by department seniority and competency as determined by the Manufacturer.
In the event of a lay-off of more than two (2) weeks duration, the Employees who will be affected, shall be given one week’s notice of lay-off or pay in lieu of such notice.
When a lay-off of more than two (2) weeks duration is required, the Manufacturer shall discuss the details with the Union as far in advance of the lay off date as possible.
Employees laid off shall be recalled before any new Employees are hired, provided they are qualified to do the available work. Employees laid off pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 13.02, shall be entitled to at least one week’s notice of recall in writing.
In the event that an Employee obtains work elsewhere while on layoff, he or she shall not forfeit his or her recall rights.
13.06	In the event that an Employee is laid off he or she shall be given an approximate date of recall.
13.07	The Shop Chairperson or the designated Shop Committee Member shall be informed of all lay-offs, in excess of one day.
ARTICLE 14 - DISCHARGE
14.01	No Employee shall be discharged by the Manufacturer except for just cause and provided that notice of the intention to so discharge, where practicable has previously been given to the Union but, if a Regular Employee believes that he or she has been unjustly discharged, he or she may file a grievance in accordance with the provision of Article 12. In the event that such discharge is determined not to be for just cause, the Regular Employee shall be reinstated to his or her former job and be paid in full for loss of earnings.
14.02	An Employee who wishes to terminate his or her employment shall provide the Manufacturer with two (2) weeks’ notice.
ARTICLE 15 - BRIDGING OF SERVICE
15.01	VACATIONS - With respect to vacations, a former Employee’s service with the Manufacturer will be bridged upon a subsequent rehire on the proviso that the Employee had worked a minimum of four (4) years in the preceding ten (IO) year period and had worked at least 50 percent of the regular working hours in each of the aforesaid four (4) years.
15.02	SENIORITY/LAY-OFF/RECALL - Provided that a Regular Employee has worked a minimum of three (3) continuous years with the Manufacturer, upon a subsequent rehire by the Manufacturer, said Regular Employee’s previous term, to a maximum of ten (10) years, will be considered with respect to purposes of Seniority, Lay-offs & Recall.
ARTICLE 16 - HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
16.01	The standard hours of work Monday through Friday shall be thirty-
eight and one-half (38 1/2) hours divided between the five consecutive working days of Monday through Friday in the following manner:
10
16.02
16.03
16.04
16.05
Monday
Tuesday
Wednesday
Thursday
Friday
8 hours 8 hours 8 hours 8 hours
First Shift
7:00 am-3:30 7:00 am-3:30 7:00 am-3:30 7:00 am-3:30
Second Shift
pnr 3:30 pm-l 1:45 pm pm "3:30 pm-l 1:45 pm pm ' 3:30 pm-l 1:45 pm pm » 3:30 pm-l 1:45 pm
6 1/2 hours 7:00 am-l :50 pm 1:50 pm- 8:35 pm

On each of the above specified days, an interval of 30 minutes shall be taken as the lunch period.

There shall be a rest period of ten (IO) minutes in the first half of the shift, and ten (10) minutes in the second half of the shift, in each day worked, without deduction by the employer.
The manufacturer may request an employee to work overtime and said employee shall cooperate with the manufacturer to provide the work required. No employee shall be discriminated against in any way for declining to work the requested overtime.
Whenever overtime work is requested, notice shall be given to the employee at least four (4) hours in advance. The available overtime hours shall be divided equally among those employees who actively work on the overtime operation, wherever same is practical.
All hours worked in excess of the standard work hours in 16.01 shall be considered overtime and shall be paid for the premium rate of time and one half (1 1/2) for each hour worked in excess of the standard work hours worked.
16.06	All hours worked on Saturday shall be paid for at the premium rate of time and one-half (1 1/2).
16.07	Overtime rates shall be paid based on the rate otherwise payable for the work in question plus the premium of one-half {Vi) time calculated based on Average Hourly Pay.
16.08	Employees shall not punch-in more than 15 minutes before their start time (before 6:45 am or 3: 15 pm) unless authorized by their immediate supervisor.
16.09	If an employee is requested in writing by the manufacturer to punch-in for work before the designated time, then the employee will be eligible
11
16.10
16.11
16.12
16.13
16.14
16.15
ARTICLE
17.01
for overtime after completing either 8 hours of work Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday, and after 6 1/2 hours work on Friday. Regular hours of work will be made available Monday to Friday to that employee.
Employees who are requested by the manufacturer to commence their work day anytime after their regular start time (7:00 am or 3:30 pm) Monday to Friday, shall be paid overtime for all hours worked beyond their regular quitting time (3:30 pm and 1 1:45 pm Monday to Thursday and 1:50 pm and 8:35 pm on Friday) to a maximum of two (2) overtime hours.
Employees who commence work any time after their regular start time (7:00 am of 3:30 pm), NOT at the specific request of the manufacturer, shall only qualify for daily overtime pay after completing 8 hours of work Monday through Thursday or 6 1/2 hours on Friday.
It is agreed the employee may make up the shift deficiency to a maximum of two (2) hours per day at regular pay.
Premium pay for second shift shall be 15 minutes per day, Monday through Friday, for a total of 1 1/4 hours per week providing the employee works the entire shift.
No work shall be done after regular working hours if a union meeting has been called for the particular night. The union agrees to notify the manufacturer, in writing in advance when a union meeting will be held, within forty-eight hours.
All hours worked by an employee in respect of the inventory of the manufacturer during regular working hours, shall be paid Average Hourly Pay. When inventory extends beyond the regular work day, the work shall be done on a voluntary basis and paid at time and one half (1 1/2). Every effort, by the employees, must be made to comply.
All employees called in to work shall be supplied with at least 4 hours of continuous work or be paid for at least four (4) hours at their Average Hourly Pay.
7 - ANNUAL VACATIONS
All vacation pay provided for herein shall be paid directly to each Employee by the Manufacturer on or before June 30th each year
12
during the currency of this Agreement.
17.02	Employees covered by this Agreement shall be entitled to annual vacation and vacation pay in accordance with the following categories:
(i)	Employees who, at December 31st in any year during the currency of this Agreement, have less than one (1) year of service, shall receive vacation pay calculated at the rate of four percent (4%) of their total gross earnings which shall include holiday pay earned during their period of employment with the Manufacturer for the period ending December 31 st in any year, and a vacation on a pro rata basis.
(ii)	Employees who at December 31 st in any year during the currency of this Agreement, have completed one (1) year or more of service are entitled to two (2) weeks vacation with pay calculated at the rate of four percent (4%) of their total gross earnings with the Manufacturer which shall include holiday pay earned during the year ending December 31st in any year.
(Hi) Employees who at December 31st in any year during the currency of this Agreement have completed four (4) or more years of service are entitled to three (3) weeks vacation with pay calculated at the rate of six percent (6%) of their total gross earnings with the Manufacturer which shall include holiday pay earned during the year ending December 31st in any year.
(iv) Employees who at December 31st in any year during the currency of this Agreement have completed twelve (12) years or more of service are entitled to four (4) weeks vacation with pay calculated at the rate of eight percent (8%) of their total gross earnings with the Manufacturer which shall include holiday pay earned during the year ending December 31st in any year.
17.03	Absences due to lay off or for reasons of health, maternity leave, leave of absence, shall not be deducted in the calculation of the numbers of years of service.
17.04	The Manufacturer shall circulate a vacation calendar, no later than February 28th of each year, and shall continue to circulate said calendar until March 31st of each year. All Employees who have vacation entitlement for that coming year, may apply for vacation in accordance with their seniority. The vacation calendar shall indicate
13
the number of employees who can be spared from each department at any one time, and Employees shall write their names in the blanks on the calendar when it is their turn, according to the seniority list. Once an Employee has so indicated his or her choice, they cannot then change that choice, until the calendar has been fully circulated within the bargaining unit.
Employees eligible to take vacation with pay and who are absent from work, at the time the vacation calendar aforesaid is circulated, not of their own volition, shall not forfeit their right to their turn on the seniority list.
ARTICLE 18 - STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
18.01	The following holidays shall be ‘observed and all Employees covered
by this Agreement, shall be paid a full normal day’s pay for them up to a maximum of eight (8) hours, in any event and regardless of whether such holiday(s) fall on a working day or non-working day of the week or in any non-working week.
NEW YEARS DAY GOOD FRIDAY VICTORIA DAY CANADA DAY
CIVIC DAY (1ST MONDAY IN AUGUST)
If Canada Day shall fall on a regular work day other than a Monday or a Friday, the date for the observance of said holiday shall be changed, with the consent of a majority of the membership, to either a Monday or Friday of the week in which the said holiday falls.
Remembrance Day shall be observed and wages, if any, for that day shall be paid only in accordance with The Remembrance Day Act of Manitoba.
LABOUR DAY THANKSGIVING DAY CHRISTMAS DAY BOXING DAY
18.02	No Employee shall be compelled to work on any of the foregoing holidays.
18.03	No Employee shall be compelled to work on any other legal or bona fide personal religious holiday, nor shall they be paid for them,
18.04	A new Employee shall not be entitled to payment for any holiday on which he or she does not work if he or she has not earned wages for
14
part or all of each day of at least 15 days during the 30 calendar days immediately preceding the general holiday.
18.05	An Employee who is eligible, pursuant to 18.04 to receive holiday pay, shall receive same provided that, while work is available, he or she works both his or her scheduled work day before and his or her scheduled work day after the holiday unless his or her absence is for justifiable cause, which includes, inter alia, vacation, illness with a doctor’s certificate, or if the Employee was on a lay-off within the time frame of seven (7) days before and twenty-one (21) days after) and he/she has worked within the time period of seven (7) calendar days before or twenty-one (21) calendar days after the holiday.
18.06	Any Employee who terminates his or her employment during the calendar week in which a holiday occurs without giving one (1) week’s notice shall not be entitled to payment for such holiday.
18.07	HOLIDAY PAY
(a)	The payment of holiday pay for all Employees paid on hourly time basis shall be up to a maximum of eight (8) hours multiplied by his or her then guaranteed hourly rate; the foregoing shall be subject to the provisions of Article 16.01 hereof.
(b)	The payment of holiday pay for all employees paid upon an incentive basis shall be up to a maximum of eight (8) hours multiplied by his or her Average Hourly Pay, subject to the provisions of Article
16.01	of this Agreement.
(c)	The rate of holiday pay for all Employees in the event any employee is requested to work and performs any work on any of the aforesaid holidays shall be at the rate of time and one-half (l-l /2) of their rate or average in addition to the regular payment for such holiday.
(d)	The payment for holidays which fall on a Saturday or Sunday shall be based on the pay for the day on which the holiday is observed.
ARTICLE 19 - CITIZENSHIP DAY
19.01	In the event that any employee is required to be absent from work due
to their becoming a Citizen of Canada, that Regular Employee shall be
15
entitled to be paid at his or her Guaranteed Hourly Rate of Pay for the hours necessary to be absent from work to complete the process of becoming a Canadian Citizen; said payment to be a maximum of four (4) hours.
ARTICLE 20 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE 20.01	General
(a)	With regard to any Employee who is a Union Member, a leave of absence without pay shall be granted to any such Employee, provided that written authorization is obtained from the Manufacturer specifying the length of leave of absence before such leave of absence is taken.
20.02	Maternity Leave
(a)	An Employee, upon becoming pregnant and estimating the probable date of birth of the child, is entitled to a leave of absence from work, without pay, for a maximum period of eighteen (18) consecutive weeks or such shorter period as the Employee requests, said leave shall commence, at the earliest, eleven (11) weeks prior to the estimated date of birth, or such later date as the Employee requests.
(b)	Where an Employee gives birth or the pregnancy is terminated before a request for leave is made under subsection 20.02 (a) the Manufacturer shall grant the Employee a leave of absence from work, without pay, for a period of seven (7) consecutive weeks, or a shorter period as the Employee requests.
(c)	Where an Employee, who has been granted leave of absence pursuant to subsection 20.02 (a or b), for reasons related to the birth or the termination of the pregnancy, as certified by a medical practitioner, unable to return to work after the expiration of said leave, the Manufacturer shall grant to the Employee a further leave of absence from work, without pay as may be required, up to a maximum of six (6) consecutive weeks.
(d)	An Employee who resumes work upon the expiration of the leave of absence granted in accordance with this Article, shall be reinstated in all respects by the Manufacturer in the position formerly occupied by the Employee, if same is available, and if said position is
16
not available, she will be offered a comparable position, and with all increments to wages and benefits to which the Employee would have been entitled had the leave not been taken. At such time as the Employee’s former position becomes available she will have first priority to filling said position.
20.03	Illness Leave
(a)	Employees who are absent from work due to injury or illness shall retain their seniority for a period up to twelve (12) months.
(b)	Employees who are absent from work due to injury or illness up to a maximum of three (3) months shall be reinstated, in all respects, by the Manufacturer in the position formerly occupied by the Employee, or in a comparable position, with all increments to wages and benefits to which the Employee would have been entitled had the leave not been taken. Piece work Employees shall be credited with their average rate of pay at the time of illness or injury until a new average has been earned.
20.04	Union Leave
(a) The Manufacturer shall, upon written notification from the Union, grant to any Union member, leave for Union business, without pay or loss of seniority, in accordance with the following guidelines:
(i)	Union Conventions:
Union to provide minimum of two (2) weeks written notification
maximum of three (3) Employees from the facility at such time
(ii)	Other Union Business:
Union to provide minimum of two (2) weeks written notification
cannot exceed ten (1 0) working days during any twelve (12) month period for any individual Employee maximum of two (2) Employees from the facility at any one time
17
Bereavement Leave
20.05
(a)	Each Employee shall be entitled to three (3) days leave, with pay, within the seven (7) day period immediately following the death of his or her spouse, parent, child, brother or sister.
(b)	Each Employee shall be entitled to a one (1) day leave, with pay, within the seven (7) day period immediately following the death of his or her grandchild, grandparent, mother-in-law and father-in-law.
(c)	Pay for such leave, referred to in paragraphs (a) and (b) shall be calculated at the Average Hourly Rate of such Employee.
(d)	An Employee shall not be entitled to bereavement pay, as set out in paragraphs (a) and (b), if the death occurs while such Employee is on lay-off, sick leave, maternity leave, leave of absence or vacation.
ARTICLE 21 • WAGE RATES
21.01	Employees paid on an incentive basis shall be paid based on the minute value Rates as set out in Appendix "A” to this Agreement. Employees shall not be paid less than the sum of their Guaranteed Rate as set out in Appendix "B" of this Agreement, multiplied by the number of hours worked.
21.02	Job classifications referred to in this Agreement shall have the meanings set out in Appendix "C".
ARTICLE 22 - PAY DAY
22.01	Pay days shall be fixed as every second Friday with provisions for Holidays occurring on the specified day.
22.02	The Manufacturer shall furnish to each employee and the Union, each pay day, information showing:
(a)	Date of Pay
(b)	Number of hours worked during the preceding period including overtime
(c)	Gross wages earned
(d)	Particulars and	amounts	of deduction from such pay; and
(e)	Net amount of	wages	paid.
18
ARTICLE 23 - WORKERS COMPENSATION
23.01	An Employee, if injured in the shop and requiring medical attention at
a location outside of the Manufacturer’s premises, shall receive compensation for the time lost from work up to a maximum of four (4) hours, calculated at the guaranteed pay, for the first day of the accident.
ARTICLE 24 - INCENTIVE SYSTEMS
24.01	All employment during the currency of this Agreement, unless by mutual consent, shall be performed on an incentive basis based upon standards determined by the Manufacturer.
24.02	Notwithstanding any provision of this Agreement, the Manufacturer shall have the right to set the standard for each operation or group of operations, or to revise existing methods or standards for any operation or group of operations, limited only by the requirement that in setting standards, the standard for any operation shall be set, using standard engineering principles, to yield a normal operator fully trained and operating under normal conditions at a normal rate of speed, an earning opportunity commensurate with a yield at 100% of the minute value.
24.03	In the event that an employee feels that the standard so established is inadequate, the employee shall follow the grievance procedure as set out in Article 12.
24.04	In the event of a dispute on incentive rates, any employee affected by the standard shall continue to work at the established rate until the dispute is settled by the Grievance procedure as provided herein, and in the event of any adjustment of the standard upon final settlement, the adjustment shall be paid retroactively to the date of the grievance.
24.05	In addition to the rights contained in the Grievance procedures as set out in Article 12 a qualified Union industrial engineer shall have the right, twice a year, to check incentive rates and standards in conjunction with the proper representatives of the Manufacturer, using accepted engineering practices. The date and time of any proposed study shall be determined by agreement between the parties.
24.06	When an employee is transferred to an alternate operation, the operator may be paid on a declining training allowance based on the
1 q
employee’s output.
24.07	Where the declining training allowance cannot be implemented and the request for a transfer is made at a time when the employee has continuing work at this or her current operation Average Hourly Pay shall be paid.
24.08	Where the declining training allowance cannot be implemented and the employee has no work on his or her current operation, the employee shall be paid his or her Guaranteed Rate.
ARTICLE 25 - HEALTH AND WELFARE AND RETIREMENT BENEFITS
25.01	The Health and Welfare and Retirement Funds established by the union and the manufacturer shall be continued in accordance with the prior agreements between the parties and in accordance with constitution by-laws and regulations of the plans wherein the union has been designated the "Trustee” of the plans and a "Trustee at arms length” from the manufacturers has been appointed.
25.02	The plans, whose administrative offices are located at Room 1001 -228 Notre Dame Avenue, Winnipeg, Manitoba, are entitled:
a)	Western Canadian Region I.L.G.W.U.
Consolidated Health and Welfare Fund
b)	Western Canadian Region I.L.G.W.U.
Consolidated Retirement Fund
25.03	The parties agree that when appropriate, the By-laws of the Health and Welfare and Retirement Funds will be amended to provide for joint administration of the funds by the union and the contributing employers.
25.04	The manufacturer agrees to contribute to the funds during the term of this agreement, on a monthly basis. The amounts shall be calculated on a total gross weekly payroll of union members in its employment including payments for holiday pay, as follows:
Health and Welfare Fund Retirement Fund
1.0% 3.5% 4.5%
20
These contributions shall be paid to the union office no later than the 30th day of the following month.
Effective April 1, 1994, the Manufacturer’s contribution to the Health and Welfare Fund shall be increased to 1.25%.
25.05	The Manufacturer shall be provided copies of the plan rules.
25.06	Auditors assigned by the funds shall have the right to check payroll records of the bargaining unit employees to determine that full payment has been made by the Company to the funds.
ARTICLE 26 - UNION I,ABET,
26.01	The Manufacturer shall have stamped into every garment made by it,
the I.L.G.W.U. insignia. The Manufacturer shall purchase the stamp and shall pay a royalty fee to the union in the amount of $500 per year representing labels for all garments produced by the manufacturer and falling under the I.L.G.W.U. in Winnipeg, including but not limited to, Inkster/McDermot, Adelaide and Notre Dame factories.
ARTICLE 27 - CONTRACTING OUT
27.01	The Manufacturer agrees that work normally performed by employees within the bargaining unit shall be performed by employees in the bargaining unit, and shall continue to be so performed by employees within the bargaining until provided that employees qualified to perform the work are available.
27.02	The Manufacturer may contract out work where for sound business reasons it is necessary to do so, however it is the desire of the parties hereto, to the extent same is consistent with sound business reasons, that any such contracting out shall not be done in a way as to cause the lay-off, replacement, or reduction in regular earnings of any Regular Employee directly affected in the bargaining unit
27.03	Where there exists Regular Employees on lay-off, subject to the sound business reasons referred to in 27.02, those Employees on lay-off shall first be offered the opportunity of performing such work referred to herein, provided they have the requisite skills and ability, and are available when required.
21
27.04	Notwithstanding anything herein contained, no homework shall be
sent out or permitted.
ARTICLE 28 - SAVING CLAUSE
28.01	Should any clause or provision of this Agreement be declared illegal or in any way conflict with any laws of the Province of Manitoba or any regulation thereof, both parties agree that this Agreement shall be automatically amended so as to comply with such law of regulation, if the law or regulation so requires. The remainder of this Agreement shall not be affected thereby and shall remain in full force and effect.
28.02	The waiver of any of the provisions of the Agreement or the breach of any of its provisions by either of the parties shall not constitute a precedent for any further waiver'or for the enforcement of any further breach.
ARTICLE 29 - DURATION AND REVISION OF AGREEMENT
29.01	This Agreement shall be effective as of the 1 st day of AprN 1993, and shall continue in full force and effect up to the close of business on the 31 st day of March, 1996» and thereafter from year to year unless either the Union or the Manufacturer gives written notice to the other of its desire to revise this Agreement or to conclude a new Collective Agreement.
29.02	Either party may give notice to the other party to commence collective bargaining with a view to the renewal of this Agreement at any time after January 31 in the year in which this Agreement expires.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the Parties have hereunto set their hands and seals the day and year first above written.
o
NYGARD INTERNATIONAL LTD.
LOCAL /188J OF THE INTERNATIONAL LADIES/GARMENT WORKERS’ UNION

22
APPENDIX A
Minute Value Yields At 100%
Effective April 1 1993
1. Cutters
Minute Value (cents/minute)	(.1833)
Yield @ 100% (S/hour)	$11.00
2
Spreaders
Minute Value Yield @ 100%
(.1367)
$8.20
3. Final Pressers
Minute Value Yield @ 100%
(.1383)
$8.30
4.	Pieceworkers
Minute Value Yield @ 100% (includes underpressers, sewers, finishers and general hands)
5.	Bundler
Minute Value Yield @ 100%
(.1333)
$8.00
(.1242)
$7.45
6. Fusers
Minute Value Yield @ 100%
(.1175)
$7.05
23
Effective April 1 1995
(.1850)
$11.10
(.1383)
$8.30
(.1400)
$8.40
(.1350)
$8.10
(.1258)
$7.55
(.1192)
$7.15
APPENDIX B
Progression Scale of Guaranteed Rates
Effective
April 1. 1993	HOURLY RATES
	Start	Six Months	One Year
Cutter	$5.50	$5.90	$7.80
Spreader	5.40	5.60	7.05
Pieceworker	5.40	5.60	6.15
(includes underpressers, sewers finishers, general hands, bundlers, final pressers and fusers)
Effective
April 1, 1995	HOURLY RATES
	Start	Six Months	One Year
Cutter	$5.60	$6.00	$7.90
Spreader	5.50	5.70	7.15
Pieceworker	5.50	5.70	6.25
If the Minimum Wage of the Province of Manitoba is increased during the term of this Collective Agreement, any Guaranteed Rate which is less than the Minimum Wage shall be increased to be equal to the Minimum Wage effective on the date the increase in the Minimum Wage is effective. Other Guaranteed Rates shall remain unchanged.
24
APPENDIX C
Job Classifications
1.	Cutter
Spread material including plain,	patterned,	plaid, striped,	shells,	interlinings
and linings by hand or machine to the number of lays required to be cut, exercise judgement in splicing damaged raw materials, block and match plaids. Cuts all materials with knives, shears and electric cutting machines.
2.	Spreader
Spread material including plain,	patterned,	plaid, striped,	shells,	interlinings
and linings by hand or machine	to the number of lays required	to be cut,
exercise judgement in splicing	damaged	raw materials,	block	and match
plaids.
3.	Bundlers
Assemble, bundle or separate parts of garments for further operations after the garments or parts including trimmings have been cut, operate a soabar machine, separate piecework tickets into the proper operations and attach same to the applicable bundles.
4.	Fusers
Fuse together different parts of a garment using a special machine, monitor quality and run tests, set the machine to proper specifications.
5.	Operators
Perform any machine sewing operation necessary to complete a garment.
6.	Underpressers
Press seams and do other incidental piece pressing necessary to make the pieces ready for the operator or the finishing process.
7.	Final Pressers
Press any garment after it has been sewn.
8.	General Hand
Do sundry factory work incidental to the manufacture or garments and, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, including thread clipping and cleaning, but not including service workers.
25