Toronto Cloak Manufacturers' Association
and
The Ontario District Council Of The Union of Needletrades, Industrial and Textile Employees
Local 14, 83/ and 92
July I, 1995 - June30/ 1998
Collective Agreement
Between : The Toronto Goak Manufacturers’ Association (hereinafter referred to as the "association" €br and on behalf of itself and all persons, funs and corporations who are at present or who m y hereafter become matters of the said Association, such Association and each of its matters being hereinafter referred to as the ’’Employers”,
OF THE HRSTPART
And : The Ontario District Council of the Union of Needletrades, Industrial and Textile Employees (UNITE), formerly the International Ladies’ Garmoit Workers' Union (ILGWU), Locals 14, 83 and 92 hereinafter referred to as the "Union", for and on behalf of themselves and all persons who are at present or who m y hereafter become members of the. said Union,
OF THE SECOND PART
WHEREAS the Employers are engaged, within the Province of Ontario, in the manufacture of cloaks, coats, suits, jackets, reefers, skirts, windbreakers, leather and suede garments and rainwear of all description, and simulated fur and pile fabric garrrmts, for women and children hereinafter referred to as the "INDUSTRY' , and the Union is composed of Employees in the said Industry, who are employed by the members of the Toronto Cloak Manufacturer’s Association;
AND WHEREAS the parties hereto are desirous cf continuing and promoting the principle of Collective Bargaining, the avoidance of industrial conflict, and the regulations between Employers and Employees in the Industry;
NOW THEREFOREthe parties hereto covenant, promise and agree with one another as follows:
1
1.	AGENCY
Q.
l.Oi	The Employers recognize and acknowledge the Union as the exclusive agent and representative of the workers in the Industry and the Union recognizes and acknowledges the Association as the exclusive agent and representative of the Employers in the Inistry.
2.	PERFORMANCE
2.01	The respective patties hereto covenant and agree with one another to observe the terms and conditions of this Agreement and to perform them in good faith, and, by the due exercise of all the powas which they lawfully possess, to secure and enforce the due performance of the provisions thereof.
3.	UNION SHOP
3.01	All Employers, hferbers of the Toronto Cloak Manufacturers’ Association, are rhl-iryH to maintain a Union Shop in their own establishments and in any establishment with which they are directly or indirectly connected, or with which they may become associated or have any relationships either as a partner, shareholder, director, cr otherwise, the whole in cmnectim with the industrial jurisdiction of UNITE.
3.02	It is the intention of this Agreement that where one or more persons are engaged in the manufacture of products foiling inder the industrial jurisdiction of this Agreement or inany industrial field or jurisdiction in which UNITE iscperating cr has Employer-Employee Agreements or relationships, such person or persons, whether individuals or partnerships or corporations, shall be obliged to maintain a Union Shop in all establishments wherein they 4 or any of Ihern have an interest, whether such an interest is a minority or a majority interest, and the principle of a Union Shop shall be and ranain paramount and held inviolate in respect to all members of the Association and signatories hereto, and all indirect violaticns of this principle are prohibited.
3.03	This Clause shall not apply to any Manufacturer a- Employer who purchases shares in any public corporation of which the stock is listed on a recognized stock exchange but who is not otherwise interested in such corporation except as a shareholder.
2
cloak, con
4.	CLOSED SHOP
4.01	For the performance of the cpecatkns of cutting, operating; pressing, finishing, tailoring, bushelling, special machine work, butbcn sewing and examining, the Employer shall subject to the provisions of 4.03 cf this Clause, engage and retain in their employ only workers who have best furnished by the Union and who are members in good standing of the Union; a member in good standing, for the purpose of this Agreement being a person who holds and is entitled to hold a Union bfeirirerehrip Card and who is not in arrears for more than (bur weeks mthe payment to the Union of dues, fines or assessments.
4.02	Subject Id the provisions of 4.03 of this Clause, no new nates shall be engaged by an Employer unless and until such worker prssaits to the Employer a working card properly signed by the responsible official of the Union directing such worker to the place of business of such Employer.
4.03	The Employer shall make all such provisions and shallsnbmit all such dues to the Union for new members cf the Union upon completion of the Employee’s probationary period.
4.04	If the Union is unable to supply to an Employer within 48 horns after he <r the Association submits a request to the Union for such help as he may require, the Employer may engage persons who are not members of the Union, provided that such Employees shall become members of the Union within two weeks of die date upon which they commence their employment.
5.01	It is agreed that each and every Employer shall deduct from the wages of every Union Employee the sum that shall be determined by the Union from the first pay of each month fir Uhitn h-fr and the money so deducted shall be remitted to the:
Ontario District Council of U.N.I.T.E.
25 Cecil Street, 2nd floor, Toronto, Ontario. M5T INI
3
6. TRIAL PERIOD
6.0i	' Any worker furnished by the Union shall be given a reasonable trial period of two weeks and after this trial period the worker shall constitute an Employee of such Employer and shall be entitled to all die rights, privileges, and benefits, as per rules and regulations, and shall be subject to all of the conditions and obligations of this Agreement
7.	DISCHARGE CLAUSE
7.01	No worker shall be discharged cr otherwise disciplined without good or sufficient cause, except during his trial period. If the discharge or disciplinary act is found to be unjustified, the worker shall be re-instated and may be compensated for his loss of earnings during the period of such discharge or disciplinary act.
8.	NO DISCRIMINATION
8.01	The parties agree that there will be no intimidation, discrimination, interference, restraint or coercion exercised or practiced by either of than or their representative or members because of an Employee’s membership or activities in the Union, or because of age, creed, colour, national origin, political or religious affiliation, sex or marital status.
9.	HOURS OF WORK
9,01	A week’s work shall consist of thirty-five (35) hours divided into five (5) working days, from Monday to Friday of each week, and work shall begin at 8:00 a.m. and shall continue until 4:00 p.m. with an interval of one (1) hour for lunch from 12:00 o'clock noon to 1:00 p.m. All work outside of the aforesaid hours shall be considered as overtime.
10.	REST PERIOD
10.01	Every Employer shall provide that all his Factory Employees shall have a ten minute rest period during each afternoon.
- 4 -	cloak.con
11. OVERTIME AND EMERGENCY OVERTIME
11.01	Subject to the provisions of Article 11.02 no overtime“"shall be worked in the Industry in violation of the following principles:
i)	No overtime shall be worked, in the establishment of any Ehplqyer unless there is a shortage of labour, or unless all machines 0|)cnitiiig in the establishment are in use and no space or facilities are available for additional machines or for additional Employees.
ii)	No overtime shall be worked on Friday or on any days or at times when work is prohibited by law.
iii)	No overtime shall be worked on Saturday except that when during the regular working periods there is a labour shortage in the Industry or in the Employer's establishment or all machines are in use and there are no available spaces for additional machines or for additional employees and where overtime work has been performed in the Employer's establirianent by his Employees on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday and Hmtsday of a week, then overtime work shall be permitted between 7:00 a.m. and 2:00 p.m. on the Saturday of the week in which said overtime work has beat performed at overtime rates of wages.
iv)	Save for the production of samples and duplicates, no overtime shall be worked during the period between Good Friday and the first day of July, inr-lirfingboth such days, and daring the period between Thanksgiving and the first day of January, including both such days.
v)	Overtime shall not exceed two (2) hours during the period between January 1st and Good Friday and two (2) hours during the period between the first day of June and Thanksgiving Day cm each of the first four working days of the week, namely; Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday, provided that fur tailors may work overtime for not more than two (2) hours on any day and eight (8) hours in any week.
11.02	Notwithstanding tie provisions of Article 11.01 if the parties declare an emergency to exist with regard to any particular shop or with regard to any particular craft in a shop, they may jointly permit the Employees overtime for not more than one (1) hour per day on the first four (4) working days of the week, namely; Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday, either over and above the regular working hours or over and above any overtime permitted in the Industry in accordance with the provisions of Article 11.01 as they may deem fit, provided that neither of the parties shall arbitrarily refuse to join in such a declaration of emergency.
5
11.03	No employee shall arbitrarily refuse to work overtime when reqj' id by his Employer to work overtime in accordance with the provisions of Article 11.01 or when permission to work overtime has been jointly granted by the patties hereto in accordance with the provisions, of Article 11.02. An Employer will give an Employee reasonable notice of such request. Reasonable notice shall be construed to include notice on die night before the day of the overtime. Reasonable notice does not apply in case of an emergency declared by the patties.
11.04	It is agreed that overtime work shall be on a voluntary basis.
11.05	The overtime rate of pay shall be one and one-half (1%) times the regular rate, and shall be computed, in 1he case of a week worker on the basis of the actual pay per hour earned by each vendor, and, in the case of a piece-worker, on the basis of the total number of hours worked by him in the week in which he worked overtime, and shall be paid to a worker who works nos than seven (7) hours in any working day, provided that a worker shall be entitled to payment of overtime rates where he has failed to work seven (7) hours in any working day by reason of;
i)	His observance of	a religious holiday or rite;
ii)	Illness;
Hi)	His reporting for	work after 8:00 a.m. with	the consent of his
Employer; or
iv) Failure of the Employer to provide seven (7) hours work before 4:00 p.m, on the day on which the worker is required to work overtime.
11.06	The overtime rate of pay for piece-workers shall be one and one half times the rate of pay received by such worker for the previous holiday, and in the event such rate of pay is not available then the overtime rate of pay shall be computed by calculating the average earnings per hour for the week immediately preceding the week in which overtime was worked by dividing the gross pay for such week by the numbers of hours worked, to determine the rate of pay for one hour and the overtime rate of pay shall be one and one-half times such hourly rate.
6
cloak.con
12. WAGES
12.01	Bonus Schedule: Effective October 1, 1995 d e bonis sySIlm to be folded into all piecework rates.
Daft
Operators
Finishers
Pressers
July 1993
1066
1066
1066
Gross wages herein as related to piece-workers shallconsist of the settled piece rates pins the cost of living bonus.
12.02	All siplqyees to receive the following wage increases: Effective
October 1, 1995 twenty-five cents ($0.25) per hour. Effective July 1, 1996, twenty cents ($0.20) per hour, and effective July 1, 1997 twenty cents ($0.20) per hour.	Such increases to be incorporated into SL
piecework rates and to all minimum rates of pay.
12.03	All employees on active peyroU as of July 1, 1995 stall receive a signing bonus of $100 by a separate cfeqte.
12.04	Further Id Article 12.02, the parties agree Id increase the
pieceworkers rates inthe following manner:	Effective May 1, 1996 an
increase of 2% (two percent) to all piecework rates, effectiveMy 1, 1996 a further increase of 1.5% (one and one-half percent)to all piecework rates, and effective July 1, 1997 a further increase of 1.5% (one and one-half percent) to all die piecework rates.
13. MINIMUM WAGES
13.01	All Employees shall receive fix a 35 hour week the minimum wage as set out in Schedule 1 annexed hereto.
13.02	Special Rates: The Associatecn and the Union shall have the right jointly to issue a special permit fixinga special rate below the minrnim rates for deficient Employees whose production is below normal and for Apprentices. In the event that the Association and the Union disagree on a rate fix a deficient waiter, then the Impartial chairman, before granting a special permit fixing a special rate for any deficient Bipkyee.. shall obtain
-7-
records of production from the Employer in order to determine a rate of payf 1 copies of such records of production shall be made available to the Union.
13.03	Minimum Rates:	Nbtaathstancting anything herein contained, all
minimum rates of wages payable under this Agreement shallbe at least fifteai percent (15%) higher than those provided by the Employment Standards A±, and at least tsi percent (10%) higher than those provided by the Schedule for the Ladies’ Cloak and Suit Industry under the Industrial Standards Art, and all the minimum rates of wages payable under this Agreement shallbe re-adjusted accordingly.
i)	SAMPLES: The rates to be paid to piece wotfeas other than
qpecataEs engaged in making samples shall be 75 % above stock price settled for the ensuing seascn.
ii)	The rates to be paid to operators engaged inmaking samples shall be as follows:
Categories #1 and #2 - $4.00 per garment categories#2 and #3 -$4.50 per garment
Categories #4 and #5 - $5.50 per garment
iii)	It is agreed that the parties hereto shall estrialish a category for new shops.
13.04	If an Employer elects to change the system of work for sample makers from week-work to piece-work during the sample making seascn, the new system shall prevail in his shop for at least two fall consecutive seasons.
13.05	Duplicates: The rates to be paid to piece-workers engaged in making of duplicates shall be as follows:
1	Duplicate - 40% above stack prices
2	Duplicate - 35 % above stock prices
3	TT][3ifl{fef=; - 30% above stock prices
4	rtpa-irgfeR - 25 % above stock prices
5	nphreteg; - 20% above stock prices
13.06	All percentage premiums for samples and duplicates shall be paid within one mcnthi of the oommenoement of the season.
8
cloak.con
14. WAGE ADJUSTMENT
14,01	In the event the cost of living should change substantially outing the course of any year either above or below the Cost of Lrvinglndex published by Statistics Csceda. then either party, may give the other party 30 days notice in writing c£ its desire to adjust wage rates in the Industry. If the parties are unable to reach accord, either as to whether the adjustment should be made or as to the amount c£ the adjustment the matter shall be referred to the Impartial Chairman whose decision shall be final and hi riding on both parties.
15.	SYSTEM OF WORK
15.01	One system of weak, either piece-work or week-work shall prevail in any craft in any one factory of an Employer.
15.02	If ary Employer elects to change die system of work in any craft in his shop from piece-work to week-work (r from week-work to piece-work, the new system shall prevail in such craft in his factory for at least two full consecutive seasons.
16.	BASIS OF PRICESETTLEMENTS
16.01	The basis of price settlaients on piece-work shall be as follows:
i)	The prices to be paid to operators and finishers shall be fixed upon a defined body basis of piece-work according to established categories and prices;
u) The price to be paid to pressers, under-pressers and fur tailors shall be fixed according to established categories and prices.
16.02	The Union or an Employer may request a revision of a category or categories at intervals of not less than twelve (12) months and in any event prior to the commencement of a season, and notwithstanding the provisions of Article 16.01 of this Agreement, any question which may arise as to whether the garments of an employer have been assigned to the proper categories shall, in default cf Agreement between the patties hereto be referred for determination to the Impartial Chairman and shall not constitute a ground for refusal by either of the parties hereto to commence work at the beginning of a season.
9
17.^ShOP chairman and pricecommtttees
17.01	The employees in each shop shall, at a regular nesting convened at the insistence of the Union, but not during business hours elect
i)	A Shop Chairman, who shall deal and negotiate with the Employer on behalf of the employees.
ii)	Price Committees in the various crafts, who with the Shop
Chairman, shall settle prices with the Employer on behalf of the employees.	,
iii)	The Employer Shall compensate the Price Committees for loss of time if prices are settled at the Employer's request during working hours when the shop is in operation.
17.02	The Shop chaiiman shall be entitled to miiart- Union Dues during business hours, but so as not to disturb the business of the Employer.
17.03	It is agreed that the chairperson is to be the last person laid off due to lack of work, providing he can do the work
18.01	At the commencement of the season, piecework prices shall, s±gect to the provisions of Article 16.02, be settled for all crafts bdicre any worker commences work.
18.02	If, subsequent to the commencement of the season, the parties are unable to agree upon any piece-work price, the workers may be requested by the Employer to work pending the setdemenl of die price, but in that event the workers shall be entitled to receive the price demanded by the Union, and such price shall remain the settled price for such work, unless another price is settled between the parties hereto or the matter is submitted to the Impartial Chairman within fourteen (14) days after the worker has started to work.
10
cloak.con
19. PRICELISTS
19.01	All piece-work price lists shall be posted conspicuously and with easy access of Ihe Employees in the factory.
19.02	Copies of all settled piece-work prices and adjusted week-work rates shall be furnished by the Employer to the Union at the commencement of each season.
20. MINIMUM PAYMENT FOR PART OF A DAY
20.01	Any worker called into work at 8:00 a.m. on any regular working day shall receive a minimum of four (4) hours work for that day, or payment in lieu thereof at their regular rate of wages. Any worker called to work at 1:00 p.m. on any regular working day shall receive a minimum of three hours’ work for that day, or payment in Heu thereof at the regular rate of wages. The Employer shall give a minimum of four hours’ notice whenever workers are to be sent home early.
21. HOLIDAYS
21.01	No Employee shall be compelled to work on any legal or religious holiday.
21.02	Employees shall receive payment, calculated in the manner hereinafter set forth, fir ten legal holidays, or for the days on which any of the legal holidays are observed.
New Years’ Day	Good Friday	Victoria Day
Canada Day	Labour Day	Thanksgiving Day
Christinas Day	Boxing Day	Civic Holiday
Easter Monday
21.03	No worker shall qualify for payment for each of the holidays enumerated inAiticle 21.02 unless he has been at work on the lastworlring day before and die first working day after each cf the said holidays if his attendance at work is required by his Employer, provided that no worker sh al Ibe disqualified for payment because of non-attendance at work on either of such days by reason of:
it
^ i)	His observance of a religious holiday;
ii)	Illness, unless the absence is due to illness which has been continuous for 3 months in which event the Employee shall not be paid for the holiday; or
iii)	If he absents himself from work with the consent of his Employer.
An Employee receiving benefits from the U.I.C. shall be paid for part only of the legal holiday which is not covered ty the Unemployment Insurance, so as to give the Employee the same amount for the legal holiday as if such Employee had worked.
21.04	A piece-worker who qualifies for payment for a holiday as herein before set forth shallreceive one-fifth of one week’s pay on the basis cf such verted sannual earnings for the preceding calendar year in which the holiday occurs or as provided in the provisions of 1he Employment Standards Act. R.S.O. 1970 as amended. In the event there are no records for a full preceding calendar year, than the average earnings for the four (4) weeks immediately preceding the holiday shall be used to determine the rate of pay ty dividing the gross pay for such four (4) weeks by the number cf days worked to determine the rate of pay for one day.
In the event four (4) weeks’ record isnot available, thsi the average daily earnings shall be deemed to be the same as the average daily earnings of an employee of ths same firm of comparable ability doing the same work
21.05	A vadc-warfer who qualifies for payment for a holiday as herein before set forth shall be paid ere day’s pay calculated on the basis of his weekly rate cf pay.
21.06	An employee, who at the date cf execution of this Agreement, receives payment for legal holidays other than those enumerated Article 21.02, notwithstanding the provisions of this Clause, shall continue to receive payment thereof.
22.01	Employees will be granted two (2) days' leave of absence with pay upon the death of a member of his immediate family, provided the atployee loses the on a regularly scheduled work day. The pay will be calculated on the same basis as holiday pay. At the request of the Employer, the employee shall produce proof of death of the person involved. Immediate shall be
- 12 -	ctoak.con
defined as spouse, child, father, mother, brother, Sister, mother-in-law, and father-in-law. An employee most have worked in the same plant f ' least two (2) months prior to the granting of such leave and have been marfaer of the Union for one (1) year to qualify for the leave. Employees shall be s±Ltlsd to only cne (1) paid day bereavement leave if the death occurs outside of Canada.
22.02	It is agreed that workers shall have job protection for 21 days when attending a funeral away from the city, vhich requires extensive travelling.
22.03	At the Written request of the Union, an Employer shall grant a leave c£ absence for an Employee without pay, but without loss of seniority and other benefits provided by this Agreement, to attend Union business or other activities provided the Employee can be replaced with an equally skilled Employee. Such leave of absence not to exceed cne Employee at any one time.
22.04	Requests for leave of absence must be made to the Employee’s supervisor and, if granted, such leave of abssioe will be confirmed, in writing, and without pay or any other monetary benefit under the provisions of the Agreement. Leave of absence, except as otherwise provided herein, shall he permissive only, and shall be understood to mean an absence from work requested, in writing, by the Employee on the form provided for such purpose and consented to, in writing, by the Employee’s Supervisor covering a permitted period of time for personal reasons. Leave of absence will not be granted to accept other employment of any kind. The Company agrees, as a matter of policy, to attempt to co-operate with Employees with respect to leave of absence for personal reasons, wherever practical.
13
_______________________________is hereby granted leave of absence
from
_________________to______________________without pay or any other
form
ofircnetary benefit. This leave will not be extended unless it is in writing.
_______________________________must return to work on_____________
Dated at_________________this_________day of______________19______
Employer
Employee
Copy for union Copy for Employer Copy for Employee
14
cloak.con
23.	VACATION
23.01	Every Employee, save as hereinafter provided, who is a noSnber of the Union and who is employed by a hfaiber of the Association, shall receive two (2) weeks annual vacation with pay based on four percent (4%) of die gross arrant which he or she has earned during the fifty weeks preceding the date designated for the commencement of the Vacation period in each year.
23.02	The parties hereto shall determine, prior to May 1st, in each year, the period in which vacations be taken during the currency of this Agreement Vacation period shall be between the first Monday in July and the 15th day cf August c£ the same year.
23.03	An QtpLc^ee, as of the cfete of the commencement of the Vacation period, who has bear continuously employed for two (2) or more years by one or more members of the Association and who has been continuously a member in good standing of the Urkn for two (2) or more years, shall receive three (3) weeks annual vacation with pay, based on six percent (6%) of the gross wages which he or she has earned during the fifty (SO) varies preceding the date designated for the commencement of the vacatim period, provided that any such employee who ceases to be employed by a Member of the Association and becomes employed by ere who is not a Member of the Associati'on during any particular year shall receive four percent (4%) of the gross amount which he or she has earned during the portion of the year so worked for a Member of die Association.
23.04	Any Employee entitled hereunto to three (3) weeks' vacation shall receive two (2) of the said weeks consecutively during the period designated for vacation as herein provided and the thud week shall be between Christum and New Year of any year.
24.	HEALTH AND SAFETY COMMITTEE
24.01	It is agreed to maintain a Health and Safety Committee in
accordance with the Health and Safety act of the Province of Ontario. The union shall either elect or appoint members of the union in each factory to be a member of the Health and Safety Committee.
15
25.	CLOAKMAKERS HEALTH AND WELFARE FUND
r
25.ui	The Toronto Cloakmakers’ ftalfli and Welfare Fund shall be
administered by the Union under the supervision of the Board of Trustees appointed in equal numbers by each of the parties hereto.
25.02	Effective the first Monday in July, 1995 to the last day of June 1998, the members of the Association shallhave a moratorium of payments to tte Health and Welfare EVmd.
25.03	The parties agree that they will prepare and execute agreements, regulations, declaration cf trust as are necessary to effectuate the terms and purposes of the parties hereto as expressed in this Clause. Such agreements, nagulahims and trust rhril araticns shall provide that the Board of Trustees cr other body administering the said Ftind shall be authorized in its sole discretion upon such basis as it daem desirable and to the extent permitted by law to transfer or mingle the assets of and or to merge any other benefit funds now existing or hereafter estdnlifhsd and provided for in Collective Bargaining Agreements with the Union of Needletrades, Industrial and Textile Employees (formerly ILGWU), with the Toronto Ctoakmakers’ IfeaLth and Welfare Fund on behalf of the employees cf the Ladies Cloak and Suit Industry.
25.04	Employers’ cmtrdbuticns to the Tteaxnbo Cloakmakers’ Health and Welfare Ebnd, if and when reinstated, shall be made monthly and not later than the 15th day of the following ircnthi. In the event of default by an Employer, the Impartial Chairman is authorized to require more frequent payment where 1he Employer has a record of late payments or where in the cpinim of the Impartial Chairman other circumstances require more frequent payment'. Payments to the Tfcarnto Cloakmakers’ Health and Welfare Fond are to be forwarded to the Union Offices ±. 25 Cecil Street, 2nd floor, Toronto, Ontario. M5T INI
25.05	The parties hereby agree that Sick Benefits will be increased to
$150.00 per week effective October 1, 1995. Each employee is entitled to two years of consecutive side benefits if they are ill for this length of time. However, ary employee who qualifies for the disability pension under the rules and regulations of the Cloakmakers’ Retirement Fund, shall be only entitled to one year of side benefits.	After this one year, such employee
shall receive tie disability pension. During one year, each employee is entitled to a maximum of twenty consecutive weeks of sickbenefits
25.06	It isagreed that in the case cf illness,the employee’s job is protected for a period of six (6) months of continnous absence.
16
cloak, con
25.07	The parties further agree that if an employee is sick €or four consecutive days and supplies proper medical information, that emf e will be entitled to one week of sick benefits, as per the normal application procedure. This does not apply for employees who ate hospitalized. Such hospitalized employee is a±Ltisi to claim side benefit from day one of their stay in the hospital, providing proper medical information is supplied.
25.08	It isagreed that a worker willreceive a full day's pay if injured in the shop. Payment for this day would be paid to the woiker fern the Sick Benefit Fund.
25.09	It is agreed that rules and regulations will be made and changed from time to time by the Board of Trustees of die said Funds. These rules and regulations of the Board cf Trustees shall be the guideline for obtaining benefits.
25.10	It is agreed that the Eyeglass Benefits will be increased as of October 1, 1995 to $150.00 every 2 years.
25.11	Effective October 1, 1995, the Drug Plan will cover for members and their immediate family (spouse, children up to 18 years of age) to a maximum of $1000.00 per year per family.
25.12	Dental Plan: Effective October 1, 1995 the Dental Plan will cover members and their immediate family (spouse and children under 18 years cf age) mi a 100% reimbursement basis for a maximum of $1000.00 yearly. Rules and regulations willbe the same as in the Dress and Sportswear Wei fate Fond.
25.13 Tire union shall survey its membership to prepare an up-to-date listing of all members, their children with their birth-dates, and spouses, and provide copies of such lists to the association.
26. RETIREMENT FUND
26.01	The parties hereto agree to continue the maintenance of the Retirement Fund esttolidrad. in the Industry pursuant to the Agreement between them dated July 1, 1948, for Employees in the industry who are members cf the Union and who are employed by members of the Association.
26.02	Each Employer shall contribute to such fund an amount equal to
three percent (3%) of the total, wages payable by such Employer to all of his
- 17 -
factory employees, both Union and non-Union, excepting foremen, des^gs, shippers and stock-keepers.
26.03	The parties hereto agree that contributions to 1he Rmd shallbecome due and payable monthly during the currency of this Agreement
26.04	The parties hereto agree that they will execute such further Agreements and Declarations of Trust as may from time to time be necessary to effectuate the terms and purposes of this Clause.
26.05	On or about July 1 of every year a representative of tine Cloak Association and a representative of the Union shall meet to review the Annual increase for the pensioners. As a principle, the pension will be increased by 7 5% of the Consumer Edce Index for Canada for the year as of the month of June, providing the fund is actuarily sound. The representatives c£ the Chian and the Association shall endeavour to evaluate vhetbsr the fund can afford such an increase. If the parties are unable to mutually agree on the amount of the annual increase, the fund's auditors will be asked to prepare a report for this purpose only to determine whether 75% of the CPI is financially feasible. The representatives of He Union and the Association will abide by the written recommendation of the fund's auditors for He July 1, increase. Both parties agree that the financial viability of the retinarent fund is of paramount oonoem. Such agreed upon increase will apply to the current pensioners’ cheques beginning the irenth of July of every year.
26.06	It is agreed that Pension Reciprocity fir UNITE mariners who are part of the r>m=; and Sportswear agreement be ttittei into the Toronto Cloak and Snit Retirement Rmd Ttrri- Agreement,
26.07	Further to the Collective Agreement and the parties hereto effective the first day of October 1980, the Regulations of the Toronto Cloak and snit employees Retirement Fund shall be amended to include the following:
An employee who has been snplcyed twenty out of thirty years, with the last tm years continuous, and has reached sixty-frveyears of age, or is unable to work and has reached the age of fifty-five immediately prior to retirement, and provided that such employee isa matter of the Union and has been employed by a member of the Association, such Employee shallbe entitled to a full passim.
26.08	All retirees to receive a $10.00 increase per month effective October 1, 1995 to their pension amount For vested retirees, such increase would be pro-rated and applied to their monthly paasicn. For all calculations of vested pensioners, such increase to be applied to the formula.
- 18 -	cloak.con
PAYMENT TO THE RETIREMENT FUND
27.01	All contributions to the retirement fund as herein describe? shall be paid monthly and no later than the fifteenth (15) day of the following month, for which the contribution is bang made.
27.02	It is understood and agreed that the failure of an BrpLqyer to pay the amounts due or to file the required statements with the Lhicn, as provided for under the terms of this Agreement shall be deemed a breach of this Agreement The Union may proceed under the arbitration provisions of this Agreement against the Employer for an award directing payments and filing of statements by the Employer. If the Impartial Chairman issues an award, he may also direct that the Employer shall pay liqjkfcted damages to the Union in an amount which the Impartial Chairman shall determine (which is deemed liquidated damages since the exact amount is difficult to ascertain) for his failure to remit payments and file the required statements with the Union when due.
27.03 The Impartial	may also direct that the Employer shall pay two percent <2%) for each monthly payment from the date when it becomes due, and the costs c£ any investigation made to determine the amount due and lawyers fees and expenses incurred by the Union, in connect! cn with the arbitration proceedings and which may reasonably be incurred by it in connection with any action or proceeding to confirm his award.
27.04	National Retirement Fund: it is agreed that a National Retirement Fund be discussed for the purpose of administering the UNITE Retirement Fund across Canada and to, eventually, equalize payment to all members of the UNITE across Canada.
27.05	Conditions of Payment: All monies payable to the Toronto Cloak Industry Retirement Fund provided for in tins Agreement shall be paid into die existing office of the Etmd, presently at 444 Adelaide St West, Toronto, Ontario not later than the 15th day of the month which said money be due. The Union shall have die right to examine the ledgers and accounts of the different funds for the purpose of assuring itself that payments are made by Employers in accordance with foregoing. It is further agreed that the liiicn or Association may ajpply collection and/or arintration procedures in order to effect collection of contributions overdue to the Retirement, Health and Welfare Fund in case of delinquency beyond two (2) months.
27.06	lithe event Arbitration procedures are required, the Employer must abide by the decision c£ the arbitrator within forty-eight (48) hours of the said decision. Failure to do so vcuM entitle the thkn without prejudice to any other recourse available in law to cause cessation of wade in the plant of
'	-19 -
the Employer, and the Employer shall compensate his employees for the tine lost ing said cessation at the Employees' regular rates cf pay. It is further agreed that the Union shall have the right to assure itself that the Employers are canplying with the terms of thisAgreanent regarding payment made to the Benefit Funds. The Union may, in concert with the Association request tint an examination of the Employer's wage records of factory employees be made under the directim cf the auditors of the Benefit EUnds and members of the Association hereby agree to make such records available forthwith upon request.
27.07	The parties hereto agree that contributions required to be made by the Employers to any Fund under this Collective Agreement shall be deemed and considered to be wages of the employees.
27.08	It is acyeed to implement the payment of $13.00 per year per retired member for the Death Benefit.
27.09	It is agreed that the Union and the Association willjointly administer the Retirement Fund, and all files, and equipment be held by the Union in a segregated place.
27.10 It isagieed that clauses 4, and 10 be incorporated into the rules and regulations of the Funds:
Clause 4 Mariners with 30 years of service be allowed to retire at 60 years of age.
Clause 10 Eferioss who leave the Industry with 25 years of service
to obtain full pension at normal retirement age of 65 years.
28. RECORDS
28.01 The Trustees of the Benefits Funds shall, at the request of the Union, have the auditors of the benefit Etmds, examine the payroll records of the employees to ascertain if the Employers have made the contributions to the Toronto Cloak Health and Welfare Fund and the payroll records of all factory employees both Ehim and non-Union, excepting foremen, designers and stockkeqpers, for the purpose of ascertaining that the Employers have made the contributions to the Retirement Fund in Accordance with the terms of this Agreement.
20
cloak, con
29.	BENEHT FUNDS
29.01	The parties hereto agree that the Board of Trustees of THE Benefit Funds may at any time during the terms of this Agreement deal with the subject of increasing existing benefits payable thereunder to the employees, provided that any change or changes will pot impair the financial stability or reserves of the funds or willnot alter the financial obligations of the members of the Association to such funds other than as set forth in this Agreement. For greater clarity, the Benefit Fund as referred to in this Agreement shall be the Retirement Fund, Health and Welfare Fund (formerly the Sick Benefit) and Severance Fund.
30.	JOINT COMMITTEE
30.01	The parties hereto agree m appoint a Joint Committee composed c£ an equal number of representatives from the Employers and from the Union whose duty it shall be to:
i)	Study ways and means cf stimulating and promoting buyers' interest in the Toronto market for the purpose cf increasing production in the Industry and fir the mutual benefit cf the patties hasbo;
ii)	Have the right to deal with any dispute of any manner of Mnd whatsoever which may arise between the said parties or between any members ofthe said parties.
31.	AUTOMATON	;	|
31.01	An Employe? desiring to introdj^newtosu^nnoy can A) so on condition that his Employees do not suffer the loss cf his or her job or suffer the loss of his or her learnings, and if retraining :s necessary, or required for
any such Employee, the earnings jof such Employee shall lx* maintained Airing the training period. The Union and the Associauon shall determine the length
of time of sudi training period.
21
32. TIME CLOCKS
32.	OT^ Each Employer shall install and maintain in good working order, upon his premises, a time punch clock on which all his Employees shall be required to record their starting and finishing time of work each day upon which work is performed.
33.	WORKING TOOLS
33.01	Every Employer shall supply his Employees with sewing machines driven by electric power and other requisite working implements.
34.	EMPLOYERWORKING
34.01	No Employer shall perform my of the operations of operating, trimming, cutting, pressing, finishingor tailoring.
35.	HEAD CUTTER.
35.01	This Agreement and the terms thereof shall not apply to a head cutter, namely, an Employee who isemployed exclusivelyas a Supervisor over cutting operations and vto does not himself engage m or perform any marking, cutting or trimming.
36.	APPRENTICESHIP
36.01	The Association, after consultation with the Union, shallbe entitled to establish a scheme of apprenticeship in any craft or crafts in the Industry provided that in case of disagreement between the parties as to any feature of such scheme, the matter may be referred by either party to tire Impartial Chairman.
22
cloak, con
37.	WORKER ENGAGED IT ANOTHER FACTORY
37.01	No permanent Employee shall engage in work in any factorshop xi the Industry other than the factory of his own Employer, provided that an employee may work temporarily , either overtime or during slack periods, in the factory of another Employer, who has a Collective Agreement with the Union of Needletrades, Industrial and Textile Etiployees or a local thereof.
38.	OUTSIDE WORK
38.01	Every garment (for putpose of this Clause defined as a garment manufactured by the Ladies Cloak and Suit Industry as defined in Paragraph 1 of Appendix E of Regulation 244 of Revised Regulations of Ontario, 1970 made by the Minister of Labour under the Industrial; Standards Act! with which an Employer deals shall .be completely manufactured in the inside factory and upon the premises of such Employer. No company shall deal with a* be financially interested in dealing with or disposing of any garment not so manufactured by the Employer’s inside factory as herein provided, whether as a manufacturer, jobber or otherwise, either directly or through any interest in any other outside concern.
39.	EMPLOYER AND CONTRACTOR RESPONSIBILITY
39.01	No work shall be contracted out unless die inside shop is fully employed. If work has to be contracted out the Union will he notified m advance. If the Union alleges that- there jsa violation to this Clause, it has the rigit to grieve to the Impartial Chairman. The Impartial Chairman has the authority to penalize die offending Company! ten percent (10%) of the value of the work contracted out deemed by the Impartial Chairman to be in violation cf this Clause, these monies to be paid to the Retirement Fund within one month of judgement.
39.02	Each Employer shall be jointly and severally responsible together with each contractor and Sub-contractor to whom each Employer shall send or furnish work MUdgunder the jurisdiction of this Agreement, for the payment of wages, and for payments into die Welfare Funds, and £r due and proper compliance with working conditions as set out m this Agreement. Each Employer shall deduct at the source all payments due to suchVHfae Funds covering the Employees of each contractor and sub-contractor he deals with, and shall remit the same to the Trustees of such Welfare Funds by the first day of the fidlowingrrcnth.
23
40.	NO WORK TO SHOP WHERE STRIKE IS IN PROGRESS
40 .W' No Employer shall directly or indirectly either give work to or purchase any garments from or do or perform any work or services for or supply merchandise (whether completed or partly completed) to any manufacturer or jobber against whom the Union is conducting a strike.
41. DIVISION OF WORK AND SENIORITY
41.01	Seniority is defined as the length of an Employee's uninterrupted service with the company.
41.02	Where labour requirements are to be reduced for a period cf less than five (5) working days, consideration will fust be given to toe principle of equal division of work in each department and operation affected. Otherwise the principle cf seniority in each department and operation shall be applied.
41.03	Where labour requirements are to be reduced for aperiod cf five (5) working days or longer, the principle of seniority in each department and operation shall be apphed. However, a seniority employee laidoff from his/her department or qpexatim may displace an employee with less seniority in anotha: department, providing sfe is sufficiendy capable of doing such V\fork.
41.04	For any layoff that may occur during tie course cf the season as outlined in tods article, tie employer dial! be obligated to inform all affected
employees by 1:00 p.m, of the day preceding the lay-off. Ebr clarity purposes, this article shall apply for all lay-offs- both very drrt term and long term during tie season only.
41.05	At the arZ cf toe season, the employer shall be obligated to provide work so that the affected employee shall complete a full w ork week prior to such lay-off.
42. INDIVIDUAL CONTRACTS
42.01 No Employer shall make any individual contract or arrangement with
an employee, nor shall he exact, or accept from any employee any cash deposit or other security, nor shall he enter into any Agreement with any individual employee guaranteeing him any specific period cf employment.
- 24 -	cloak, con
43. VISITS TO EMPLOYEES
43.01	A duly authorized officer cr representative of the Union shall at all reasonable times have access to the place of business of each Employer for the purpose (which he shall disclose) of dealing With any specific complaint, condition or other matters arising out of pertaining to this Agreement or to its operation car to the relations of the parties hereto, and such representative and the Employer shall together co-operate; as to enable any such matter to be investigated, dealt with and disposed of as satisfactorily and expeditiously as possible, but not so as to disturb the business of the Employer.
44. PROHIBITION OF HOMEWORK
44.01	The parties hereto shall, forthwith after the execution of this iigivcnxnt, jointly petition the Minister c£ Labour fir the Province of Ontario, praying that he instruct the Inspector:
i) To refrainfrdm issuing any additional permits under the Act for the production by homeworkers of any cloaks, ccats, suits, jackets, reefers, skirts, windbreakers, leather and suede garments, and rainwear of all descriptions and ’simulated fur and pile fabric garments for women and children c£ the sort c£ description manufactured by the Members of the association, and to cancel such permits as have heretofore been issued for the prodoction by homeworkers; of any such garments. And further praying that the Minister secure the enactment of such further or other legislation as may be necessary to eliminate all homework in connection with the production of such garments.
45.	ARBITRATION
45.01	In the event of the occurrence of any dispute respecting the interpretation, application, proper cfcssrvarre or performance of any clause of this Agreement, including any case arising out of discharge, such dispute shall, in the first instance, be negotiated between the Association or their Appointee of the Association (or his deputy) and the Manager cf the Union (or her deputy) and any decision mutually agreed upon by such Executive Director and Manager (or their deputies) shall be binding upon each of the parties hereto.
25
45.02	It is agreed that there be three (3) arbitrators named, namely; Mar Teplitsky, Kenneth Swan and Boss Kennedy. The Grievor will have the nght to crosscut one of the three Arbitrators, then the other party will cross out one of the remaining two Arbitrators, and the one that is left shall be the Arbitrator.
45.03	If the Association or ftar Appointee and the manager of the Union (or their deputies) fail to agree, the dispute shall be referred for decision to our selected Impartial Chairman according to our means of selection in Article 45.02.
In the event the parties are unable to agree to an Impartial Chairman, the Minister of Labour willappoint one and the cost will be borne equally by the parties. The party applying for arbitration shall notify the other party prior to the filing of the qplicatim, of its choice of arbitrators cc of its choice to file for an expedited arbitration under Section 46 of the Ontario T -abour Relations Act
45.04	The decision of the Impartial chairman shall be binding upon all parties and persons concerned.
45.05	Any dispute to be referred to such Impartial chairman shall be reduced to writing by fhe party claiming to be aggrieved and a copy shall forthwith be furnished to the Impartial Chairman and to the other party, and any decision rendered by the Impartial Chairman upon such dispute shall be fully complied with within twenty-four (24) hours of such decLSicn.
45.06	The Impartial Chairman shall alsodeal with and decide upon allother matters which may be referred to him for decision under this Agreement.
46.	NO STRIKE, STOPPAGE OR LOCKOUT
46.01	Pending the negotiations or Arbitration of any dispute under this Agreement, neither party, nor any member of either of fhe parries hereto, shall institute or engage in any interruption of work, lockout, stoppage or strife against the other party or any matter of such other party.
26
cloak, con
47.	PICKET LINE
47.01	It is agreed between the parties hereto that the refusaiTff cross a Union Picket Line to a picketed shop, or any branch, subsidiary, affiliate or allied shop, or contractor or sub-contractor, or shop manufacturing incidentals ar accessories for such shop, by a Member of the Union, shallnot be considered a violation of this Agreement either on the part of the Union or the Mfenkeas of the Union.
This Clause shall not apply to an Employer a- his shop which have no connection or relationship either directly or indirectly as above nerticrEd, with the picketed shop.
48.	UNION LABEL
48.01	The parties hereto agree that the Employers shall continue to use the Union Label upon the same terms, conditions and practice as heretofore.
48.02	it is agreed that the Union Label be up-graded, charged and discussed to establish a more comprehensive plan for the use of control and advertisement of our
product.
49.	RECOGNITION OF ASSOCIATION
49.01	The Union ie-affinns its policy of entering into OaUecthe Agreements on an Industry-wide basis and, in recognition of the fact that the Association is the representative organization of manufacturers in the Industry in Toronto, the Union covenants with the Association that it will continue to pursue such polity to the utmost extent consistent with its hagai obligations under the provisions of such labour relations laws as may from time to time be applicable to it
49.02	lathe event that the Union shall enter into a Collective Agreement with an employer who is not amsiber of the Association or aparty to this Agreement, the Union shall forthwith notify and submit a copy thereof to the Association, and if the terns of such Agreement are more favourable to tire Brployer than those adt out in tins Agreement, the Union shall grant to the Association and to its members such modification of the terms of this Agreement as it may be necessary to place the Association and its members in an equally favourable position.
27
50.	USTOF ASSOCIATE MEMBERS
50-bT^ The Association shall furnish to the Union a list of its members from time to t i , together with a signed copy of a document, in the form hereto annexed, signed by each of such matters, wherein they agree to carry out the terms ard provisions of this Agreement.
51. USTOF UNION MEMBERS
51.01	The Union shall furnish to the association during the rrmth of January in each year a list of its members showing die name, date of birth (if available), the year and the date on which such member is a matter of the Union in good standing.
52.	E.S.L.AND EDUCATION FUND
52.01	E. S.L.classes to be established in shops where workers are interested.
Education Fund to be established.
i)	The Association agrees to contribute $1,000 pa year of the Collective Agreement to the Union’s Education Fond. Such amount shall be paid from the Cloakmaker’s Health and Welfare Fund. This annual contribution shall be paid on July 1 of each year of the
agreement.
ii)	Edratim leave be granted to selected member's without loss of job seniority.
iii)	More advanced training and job promotion and job posting be implemented. Whenever possible, education leave shall be granted, providing individLial craftsman can be replaced for duration of such course. This applies to ii) as well.
28
cloak.con
53.	DURATION
53.01	This agreement shall be effective from the first day Of Juh^P95 and shall be and shall remain and continue in full force and effect to June 30, 1998, and continue in force thereafter from year to year unless either party hereto shall give at least ninety (90) days’ notice in writing to the other party hereto of its desire to terminate; or modify the Agreement on the 30th day of June following such written notice. The parties will meet within fifteen (15) days after suchhotice to commence necptLafcirrs for a new Agreement.
54.	APPLICATION
54.01	This Agreement shall extend m and shall apply to the entire Province of Ontario.
55.	AMENDMENTS TO SCHEDULE
55.01	The parties hereto agree to apply to the Department of Labour for the Province of Ontario under the Industrial Standards Act for Amendments to the schedule for the Ladies’ Cloak and Suit Industry to increase the minimum rates of wages and rate of wages, for overtime work provided fin: in Sections 10 and 11 of the Schedule, and to establish a scheme of apprenticeship for tins Industry and generally to follow the rates and dassificationsset out m the Schedule for the Ladies’ Cloak and Suit Industry for the Province of Ontario.
56.	MISCELLANEOUS
56.01	It is agreed that a copy of the contract to >e given to all members upon request.
56.02	It is agreed that all Rules and Ragulaticns concerning: Side Benefit, Retirement Barflt, Severance Benefit, Eyeglasses Benefit, and Death Benefit, be included in the Collective Agreement.
29
57. STATEMENT OF EARNINGS
57.uiy Upon request the following records shall be made available by Employers to piece-workers: the quantity of units worked upon, the style number of each unit, the rate of pay per unit.
57.02	All other workers shall receive with their pay envelopes,on or in, whichever system the Employer uses, the following particulars: the date of pay, name of firm, regular hours and overtime, wages earned, the deductions from the wages, net amount of wages.
Dated at Toronto the
dav of ///W; 19	.