BETWEEN:
AND :	UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS
INTERNATIONAL UNION AFL-CIO-CLC LOCAL 1000A (FORMERLY FUR, LEATHER, SHOE AND ALLIED WORKERS UNION LOCAL 82)
HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AS THE UNION
WHEREAS the Union and the Employers are mutually interested in the conditions and terms of employment in the industry and have agreed to enter into this Agreement for the purpose of more effectively assisting in securing order and continued operation in the said industry and for the purpose of assisting and promoting proper and fair standards of labour in the industry.
THEREFORE this Agreement WITNESSETH that the said parties • hereto, each in consideration of themutual entering into of this Agreement have covenanted and agreed each with the other as follows :
Article 1 - Hours of work
1.	The work week shall be 35 hours, five days per week, to
be worked as follows: Monday through Friday.
All work over 35 hours per week to be performed at the option of the employee. Any work performed after 37,5 hours per week will constitute overtime and be paid at the rate of time and one hall.
Article 2 - Overtime
2,01	All and any work performed during any hours or done any
days other than the aforementioned will be overtime.
All overtime work shall be paid at the rate of time and one half.
It is understood that there shall be no overtime work by an Employer after 7:00 p,m. in the evening.
Employees refusing to work overtime for their Employer are not to work outside the factory.
The Union shall not deny a worker the privilege of working overtime at any time and particularly during the hearing of any dispute or complaint against the Employer or during the negotiating of any Agreement between the Employer and the Union.
'Cc\3n oS
2
Article 3 - Statutory Holidays
3.01(a) The Employer agrees that all employees shall be paid a regular day's pay for the holidays hereunder set out, without work, no matter what day of the week such holiday may fall: New Year's Day, Good Friday, Victoria Day, Dominion Day, Civic Holiday, Labour Day, Thanksgiving Day, Christmas Day, Boxing Day or any other day substituted by mutual agreement between the Employer and the employee.
(b)	Should the shop of the Employer be working the full
■	week during which the holiday occurs, the employee shall be entitled to receive such proportion of pay for such holiday as the time worked bears to the holiday week, which shall be based on the number of hours to be worked exclusive of the said statutory holiday.
(c)	Should the shop of the Employer be closed for all or a portion of the holiday week and be open for the full two weeks prior to the holiday, any employee working the full two week period before the holiday week shall be entitled to receive full payment for the said holiday, provided however, that should the shop be closed for the full week in which the holiday occurs
■	and is open only a portion of the two weeks before the week in which the said holiday occurs, the employee shall be entitled to receive such portion of pay for
'	such holiday as the time worked bears to the full two
.	week period before the holiday week which shall be
based on 7 0 hours.
Should the shop of the Employer be closed part of the two weeks before the holiday and part of the holiday week, the employee shall receive such portion of pay for the said holiday for the time worked by the employee, either during the two weeks before the said holiday or during the holiday week, whichever shall be the greater amount.
Should any holiday occur during the vacation period, the employee shall be paid for such holiday on the percentage basis, either for the two weeks worked prior to the vacation period or the first week following the vacation period, whichever shall be the greater amount.
Should the shop of the Employer be closed during the two weeks before the holiday and holiday week, no payment shall be made by the Employer to the employee for the said holiday.
3
In the event of any employee working on the above holidays, he shall receive a day's pay at the regular rate and in addition, time and .one half for all hours worked.
It shall be optional with the individual employee as to whether he or she will consent to work on such holiday.
Article 4 - Annual Vacation With Pay
4.01(a) The period of annual vacation each year shall commence the last Monday in July for a period of two (2) consecutive weeks.
The vacation pay shall be paid by the Employer to the employees' in cash in advance of the commencement of the vacation period.
Employees who have been with the same firm since the preceding vacation period shall receive two weeks' vacation and shall be paid for the said vacation period.
An employee who has been engaged after the preceding vacation period, shall receive at the time of the vacation, an amount equal to four percent (4%) of regular wages so earned, as vacation pay.
(e) An employee who severs his employment with the Employer
shall be entitled to receive an amount equal to the
total of four percent (4%) of regular wages so earned since the last vacation period, as vacation pay.
(f) However, an employee, who at the commencement of the vacation period has been in the fur industry and a member of the Union for five (5) consecutive years or more and on the payroll of the same firm for two (2) consecutive years or more, shall receive at his regularly hourly rate three (3) weeks' vacation with pay,
(g)	Any employee in the category of paragraph (f) of this section, who severs employment with the Employer, shall be entitled to an amount equal to six percent (6%) of the total regular wages so earned since the last vacation period, as vacation pay.
(h)	Employers shall make available a third (3rd) week's vacation with pay to employees who are eligible for such week, providing that it does not interfere with orderly production.
4
In the event a large number of workers in any department choose to take the third (3rd) week's vacation with pay simultaneously which could interfere with the orderly production, then the Employer shall, on the basis of seniority, give priority of the third (3rd) week to the employees with the longest seniority.
(i)	Such third week vacation pay shall be paid to the employee on the first scheduled pay week, that such employee returns to work following the vacation period as outlined in paragraph (a) and shall include those employees who do not immediately take the third week vacation off, or who may decide not to take the third week off.
(j)	In the event an employee:
(i) takes time off from work without the consent of the Employer; or
(ii)	fails to report to work after a recall from
layoff; or
(Hi)	fails to report to work following the two (2)
week vacation period,
Said employee shall receive vacation pay on the basis of the appropriate percentage i.e. either 4% or 6% of the total regular wages earned since the last vacation period.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, this provision shall not apply in the event of certifiable illness.
Article 5 - Wages
5,01	There shall be no general wage increase during the
period of February 29, 1992 to February 28, 1994 inclusive.
Article 6 - First of May
6.01	It shall not be a cause for discharge if any worker
refrains from working on the first of May.
Article 7 - No Separate Agreement
7.01(a) No Employer shall make any individual or separate contract with any employee whether as to wages or otherwise; nor accept or require any cash deposits or other security from any employee.
Article 8.01
8,02
8.03
5
Grievance Procedure
It is understood that the Shop Chairperson has his/her regular work to perform and that if during working hours it is necessary to service a grievance or to discuss with a foreman, matters which may effect the welfare of a department as a whole, even though at the time, the same may not constitute a grievance, the Shop Chairperson will not leave his or her work without first obtaining the permission of his or her immediate supervisor, which permission will not be unreasonably withheld and he or she shall report again to him or her at the time of his or her return to work. The amount of time absent from work must be seasonable. Such Shop Chairperson may, within reason and subject to the above, investigate and process grievances. The Union agrees that there will be no meeting or other Union activities on the premises of the Company or during regular working hours except as specifically permitted by this Agreement or in writing by the Company. The Company and the Union therefore agree that the designated grievance procedure, as hereinafter set forth, shall serve as and constitute the sole and exclusive means to be utilized by the grievor for the prompt disposition, decision and final settlement of a grievance arising in respect of the interpretation, application, administration or alleged violation of this Agreement. Whenever the term "grievance procedure" is used in this Agreement, it shall be considered as including the arbitration procedure.
"Grievance" shall mean a complaint or claim concerning discipline or discharge or dispute with reference to the interpretation, application, administration or alleged violation of this Agreement.
An employee should attempt to discuss his complaint with his supervisor prior to filing a grievance. If the employee's supervisor does not promptly settle the matter to the employee's satisfaction, an employee's
grievance may be processed as follows:
Step No. 1
If an employee or a Shop Chairperson has a grievance, the grievance shall be reduced in writing and presented to the Supervisor. The Supervisor shall give the grievor and Shop Chairperson a written reply as soon as possible but not later that three (3) working days after such grievance has been presented. If such reply is not satisfactory to the Union, the next step must be taken within a reasonsIbe period of time following the Supervisor's answer.
6
Step No. 2
At this step, the written grievance shall be presented to the Shop Manager. A meeting will be held between the Union together with the grievor involved and the Shop Manager and other representatives of the Company, within five (5) working days of the presentation of the written grievance to the Shop Manager. The Shop Manager shall give his written reply to the Union within 3 working days of such meeting. If the Shop Manager's reply is not satisfactory, the next step must be taken within a reasonable period of time after the delivery of the Shop Manager's reply to the Union. If settled, the Union and Company Representatives shall sign the grievance, noting the disposition made.
Step No. 3
In the event the grievance is not settled at Step No.
2, the party having carriage of the grievance shall request arbitration of the grievance by giving notice in writing to the other party within a reasonable period of time from delivery of the decision at Step No. 2.
8.04	Union Policy Grievance or Company Grievance may be submitted to the Company or to the Union as the case may be in writing. A meeting between the Company and the Union shall be held within five (5) working days of the presentation of the written grievance and shall take place within the framework of Step No. 2 of Article 8,03 hereof. The Company or the Union, as the case may be, shall give its written decision within five (5) working days after such meeting has been held. If the decision is unsatisfactory to the grieving party, the grievance may be submitted to arbitration within a reasonable period of time.
Arbitration
8.05	If settlement is not reached through the procedure outlined in Article 8, the grievance shall be referred by the Union or by the Company to a single arbitrator, to be mutually agreed upon by the parties. If the parties fail to agree on an arbitrator, the party submitting the grievance to arbitration shall request the Minister of Labour to appoint an impartial arbitrator.
8.06	No persons may be appointed as an arbitrator who has been involved in an attempt to negotiate or settle the grievance.
7
8.07	The arbitrator shall not be authorized to make any decision inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement, nor to alter, modify, add to or amend any part of this Agreement.
8.08	Each of the parties hereto will jointly share the expenses if any, of the arbitrator.
8.09	The time limits specified in the Article may be extended either before or after the expiration thereof only by mutual consent of the Company and the Union.
8.10	The Employer shall at all times have the right to discharge for just cause. Prior to the employee's dismissal, the Employer shall notify the Union. It is
agreed however, that when one or more Employers shall
discharge any one or more of their employees, those discharges shall never take place to obviate the clause of equal division of work, nor to be the result of discrimination against Union workers or against any worker because of his peaceful or orderly conduct of Union propaganda outside of working hours, nor against any employee because of his orderly insistance upon the strict observance of the terms of this Agreement.
8.11	The Company agrees that whenever an employee is to be disciplined by a verbal warning, written warning, suspension or discharge, the Union area representative shall be present at such meeting.
Article 9 - Equal Division of Work
9.01	It is agreed that the principle of equal division of,
work shall be adhered to, having regard to the practical working of the shops and to the ability of the employees to execute same. At all times when there is not sufficient work for all employees, all available work in the shop shall be divided equally among all employees properly engaged in the work who are competent to do the work. All employees who have worked for four (4) consecutive weeks shall be entitled to share in equal division of work, except employees specifically designated by mutual agreement as "temporary employees".
Article 10 - Prohibited Practices
10.01(a) The Employer agrees to make an effort to offer overtime to employees prior to contracting out.
8
(b)	It is agreed that "contracting out of work" shall be to "Union Shops 11, However, it is specifically understood and agreed that if the Union is unable to supply the Employer with the required capable worker or workers, such Employer may not be denied the right "to contract work out" to a non-union fur operation.
(c)	It is agreed that the Employer shall undertake to obtain alternative fur contracting service available from Union contracting shops.
It is further agreed that:	Where the Employer lays off
staff and gives out contracting work which can be properly performed by presently employed staff, such practice shall be deemed as contrary to the intent of the Prohibited Practices Section and shall be dealt with under clause eight (8) headed Grievance Procedure.
(d)	Homework (carrying on work, directly or indirectly) or causing work to be carried on, directly or indirectly, at a place which is or can normally be used as a residence or any annex or dependence of same.
Article 11 - Sanitary Conditions
11.01	The Employer undertakes to maintain proper sanitary
conditions, adequate fire protection and safety regulations and observe all Laws, By-Laws, Orders-in-Council, Work Orders and all such legislation relevant to sanitary conditions, fire protection and safety regulations.
Article 12 - No Stoppage of Work or Lockout-Pending Settlement of Dispute
12.01	During the existence of this Agreement and pending the negotiations of any dispute or the settlement of any price or the hearing of any complaint, neither party hereto nor the respective members hereof will institute or take part in any lockout, stoppage or work or strike.
Article 13 - Apprentices (Learners)
13.01(a) An employee who without any previous "in factory" fur
production work as listed in Schedule "A" and who seeks to acquire fur skills, shall complete a probation period of twelve (12) months.
9
(*>) On completion of such twelve (12) months' probation period, such employee who is doing actual fur production work shall be designated as a "Fur Apprentice". The Union shall be so advised and such apprentice shall become a member of the Union and the Employer shall deduct from said employee and remit to the Union, union dues of 2 1/2% of such apprentice's gross weekly earnings and conform to the terms of conditions as stated in Paragraph 18 - Check Off (Union Dues).
(c)	On completion of twelve (12) months' employment, the
. Employer shall on behalf of such apprentice contribute to the Sick Benefit, Hospitalization and Death Benefit Fund an amount equal to two percent (2 %) of such employee's gross wages as stated in paragraph 19,
(d)	On completion of twenty-four (24) months' employment, the Employer shall on behalf of such apprentice, contribute to the Union Pension Fund an amount equal to four and one half percent (4.5%) of such employee’s gross weekly wages and remit same to the Union as stated in paragraph 20 of the said Union Agreement.
(e)	Both parties agree to work together with the objective of creating a comprehensive Fur Apprentice Training Programme and the Union agrees that during such apprenticeship period, they will refrain from inducing apprentices to leave his/her place of employment.
(f)	After completion of eighteen (18) months' employment as an apprentice, said employee shall become a Union member and shall receive an increase of eight percent (8%).
Article 14 - Engaging Help
14.01(a) It is agreed that when the Employer requires help, they will request same from the Union and the Union will endeavour to furnish such help within forty-eight (48) hours. Such help furnished by the Union shall be given at least one clay's trial. If the Union shall fail to furnish the desired help, the Employer may secure help through any other medium or channel, provided however, that after four (4) weeks' trial any help so secured shall become members of the Union.
(b) All help furnished by the Union shall present a working card from the Union before being taken on.
10
(c) The parties further agree that all employees working
must be in good standing with the Union. In the event of any employee not being in good standing with the Union and upon being so advised by the Union, such employee or employees within one week of such notice will be dismissed by the Employer, provided however, that the Union will endeavour to supply a worker of like ability.
/^s All workers in the shop must be members of the Union as aforesaid but this provision does not apply to the foremen.
(e)	Any worker who has been engaged on a temporary basis, shall be considered a permanent member of the staff after he has worked in the factory for four (4) consecutive weeks unless arrangements have been made in writing between the Union and the Employer.
Article 15 - Employer or Foreman in the Factory
15.01	One Employer shall be allowed to work in the factory only if the foreman does no production work. when there is more than one Employer in any one firm, then only one of such Employers shall be allowed to work in the factory and in any case not more than the hours of work allowed for the employees as set out in this Agreement.
No Employer or foreman shall be allowed to perform any work in any branch of the trade in the factory after the employees have left the premises except to prepare work for the following day.
Article 16 - Shop Chairperson
16.01(a) The Union shall have the right to designate or elect from among the workers in the shop, one of their members who shall be recognized as the shop chairperson and as the official representative of the Union and whose duty shall be to take up all grievances pertaining to the Agreement.
(k) The Business Agent or the Manager of the Union, shall at all times upon presentation of a Union credential, have access to the factory and place of business of each Employer.
11
Article 17 - Minimum Wage Scale
17.01	Minimum wage scale shall be replaced by the wording as "Appendix "A" and read as follows:	"The parties agree
that the rates as set forth on Appendix A (as attached hereto) shall be the minimum weekly wages paid to employees."
Article 18 - Check-Off (Union Dues)
18.01	The said Employer agrees to deduct from the wages of
eligible employees, Union dues in the amount of two and one-half percen (2 1/2%) of his regular wages and overtime pay and to deduct as well all other duly levied assessments duly approved at a meeting called for this purpose by the members of the Union. All monies so deducted shall be remitted by the Employer to the Union monthly, by the fifteenth (15th) of the month following together with a list of such deductions.
Article 19 - Sick Benefit, Hospitalization & Death Fund
19.01	The Employer agrees that he will continue to contribute to a Sick Benefit, Hospitalization and Death Fund, to be administered by a Joint Committee of the Union and the Employers, with equal representation from both parties. The Employer shall contribute to such a Fund an amount equal to two percent (2%) of the total weekly payroll. All said contributions for the Fund shall be remitted to the Administrator monthly, by the fifteenth (15th) of the month following.
Article 20 - Pension Fund
20.01(a) Commencing March 1 1988, the Employer agrees to pay
into the Pension Fund which is jointly administered by the Union and the Associated Fur Industries of Toronto Inc., four and one-half percent (4.5%) of gross payroll of all employees covered by this contract.
(b) All such amounts are to be remitted to the Union monthly, by the fifteenth (15th) of the month following.
Article 21 - Bereavement
21.01	An employee is to be granted three (3) clays'
Bereavement Leave with pay, in the event of death of father, mother, husband, wife, children.
12
Article 22 - Working Methods	W X
2 2,01	Any proposed changes in the working methods mu
discussed an agreed upon by both parties before/'being initiated.	st be
Article 23 - Control Plan
23.01	The Employer agrees to have all garments cleaned in
Union cleaning plants only.
Article 24 - Duration of Agreement
24.01	This Agreement shall come into full force and effect as of February 29j_15132 and shall remain in force until_ the 28th day of February 1934-. Ninety (90) days prior to tKe” termination ot this Agreement, the parties will through their respective representatives, make every effort to negotiate any Agreement for the future needs of the industry as the occasion may then require.
Dated at Toronto this 21st day of January 1993
KB/lm opeiu 343 FUR92-94
13
For the Union
For the Employers Alamode Fashion Group Alex Furs
House of Appel 1985 Bender, Goodman and Shear Green Bros. Fur Mfg.
High Fashion Furs H. Krehm Furs Jordan and Schenker Kuretsky Fur L. Bender Fur Company Leslie Wise Fur New York Fur Company Paul Magder Fur Sunrise Fur Top Fur World Canada
14
APPENDIX A MINIMUM WAGE SCALE
(a) The Employer and the Union agree to the following weekly minimun wage scale.
Effective Effective Effective Effective Mar. 1/86 Mar. 1/87 Mar. 1/88 Mar. 1/89
Cutters 1st class Cutters 2nd class Cutters Apprentice
Operators 1st class Operators 2nd class
Trimmers 1st class Trimmers 2nd class
Blockers 1st class Blockers 2nd class
Finishers 1st class Finishers 2nd class
$491.00	$516.00
479.77	504.77
474.16	499.16
479.77	504.77
466.29	491.29
474.16	499.16
466.29	491.29
474.16	499.16
461.80	486.80
473.03	498.03
462.92	487.92
$531.00	$551.00
519.77	539.77
514.16	534.16
519.77	539.77
506.29	526.29
514.16	534.16
506.29	526-29
514.16	534.16
501.80	521.80
513.03	533.03
502.92	522.92
Lining Cutters
(those who cut & sew)	458.43
Lining Operators	452.82
Examiners	470.79
483.43
477.82
495.79
498.43
492.82
510.79
518.43
512.82
530.79
(b) All closers, whether working on first of second class work, shall receive a salary of first class operator.
-15-
APPENDIX B
(a) Letter of Understanding - Re: Article 19
Sick Benefit, Hospitalization and Death Fund
This letter will serve to confirm the understanding reached by the parties during negotiations, "That the Joint Committee of the Union and Employers which administers the Sick Benefit, Hospitalization and Death Fund shall undertake to review the amount of the Employer contribution under Article 19 to reflect the elimination of double coverage as well as the rebate of OHIP premiums to non-contributing Union Member".
<*>) Letter of Understanding - Re: Article 19
Sick Benefit, Hospitalization and Death Fund and Re:	Article 20 - Pension Fund
"This letter will service to confirm the understanding reached by the parties during negotiations that subject to actuarial survey, the parties agree to work towards improving the benefits provided by the above noted funds".
(c) Letter of Understanding -Pension Fund
Re: Article 20
It is further agreed that the Association advise its member to remit to the Pension Fund five percent (5%,) of the gross payroll of all employees covered by this Agreement from March 1st, 1984 to May 19th, 1984,
16
Letter of Understanding
"This Letter is to confirm agreement reached by both parties during negotiations that Appendix "A" Minimum Wage Scale may be adjusted by the individual Employers should circumstances so require".
Contract to be dated March 1st, 1984
-17-
Letter of Understanding Re: Toronto Fur Workers Pension Fund
This letter is to confirm agreement reached by both parties during negotiations that, in the event the Trustees of the Toronto Fur Workers Pension Fund should so determine it beneficial and prudent to merge and/or otherwise affect the herein mentioned fund, it is hereby agreed that each employer shall accept the direction proposed by the Funds Trustees and comply with any and all requirements in so doing inducing signing any participation documents and making usual and/or necessary changes to relevant articles of the Collective Agreement. (examples of same attached)
Dated at Toronto this 21st day of January 1993.
For the Union	____________________
For the Employers
PAI
IE CANADIAN COMMERCIAL WORKERS INDUSTRY PENSION PLAN TRUST FUND
PARTICIPATION AGREEMENT
BETWEEN:
(hereinafter called “the Employer”)
OF THE FIRST PART
and
THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE CANADIAN COMMERCIAL WORKERS INDUSTRY PENSION PLAN TRUST FUND
(hereinafter called “the Trustees”)
OF THE SECOND PART
WHEREAS the Canadian Commercial Workers Industry Pension Plan Trust Fund, also known as la Caisse de fiducie du Regime de retraite des employes de commerce du Canada (“the Fund”) was established pursuant to an Agreement and Declaration of Trust effective as of January 5th, 1976, between the Retail Clerks’ Union, Local 397, Calgary, Alberta and the Retail Clerks’ Union, Local 401, Edmonton, Alberta, and Canada Safeway Limited and Westfair Foods Ltd. — Loblaws (Alberta) Division;
AND WHEREAS the above agreement was amended and restated by means of a Restated Agreement and Declaration of Trust effective as of the 17th day of March, 1986 (“the Trust Agreement”);
AND WHEREAS the Trustees, pursuant to the Trust Agreement, administer the Canadian Commercial Workers Industry Pension Plan (“the Plan”);
AND WHEREAS the Employer is party to or bound by a Collective Agreement requiring, among other things, contributions to be made to the Fund;
AND WHEREAS the Collective Agreement is applicable to specific employees in positions covered by the Collective Agreement;
AND WHEREAS the Employer wishes to become a party to the Trust Agreement and have such employees participate in the Plan;
NOW THEREFORE IN CONSIDERATION OF THE PREMISES, and of the agreements herein contained, and of other good and valuable consideration, it is hereby agreed as follows:
1.	The parties hereto acknowledge and agree that the recitals contained herein are true in substance and in fact.
2.	The Employer agTees to be bound by all of the terms, conditions and obligations of the Trust Agreement and amendments thereto, as if an original party thereto.
3.	The Employer agrees to pay contributions to the Fund in accordance with the provisions of the Collective Agreement and any successive agreements thereto and further agrees to pay such damages, interest and late remittance charges as may be provided for in the Trust Agreement or in any Contributions Control Programme as may be duly adopted from time to time by the Trustees of the Fund.
4. Where the Collective Agreement provides for contributions to be made in respect cf past service of employees, the Employer acknowledges and agrees that its liability to the Fund in respect of past serviceof such employees shall be as determined from time to time in writing by the actuary duly appointed by the Trustees of the Fund, subject to the Employer’s right to validate the accuracy of the information.
63
5.	The Employer agrees to provide the Trustees with such further and other documents and information as they may reasonably require and which are necessary from time to time with respect to the administration of the Fund and Plan.
6.	For the employer, the effective date under the Plan shall be
7.	This Participation Agreement shall be in full force as of	•
8.	This Participation Agreement shall remain in farce and effect only so long as the Employer is party to a
Collective Agreement requiring contributions to be made to the Fund or until the Employer has discharged in full its liability to the Fund in respect of past service, whichever last occurs.	•
9.	This Participation Agreement shall enure to the benefit of and be binding upon the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns.
10.	The parties hereto agree that the obligations incurred pursuant to this agreement are enforceableeither through arbitration cr by legal action in a court of law having competent jurisdiction.	“
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have duly executed this Participation Agreement.
(Authorized Signature)			(Witness)
(Authorized Signature)			(Witness)
EXECUTED AT THE CITY OF	.THIS	DAY OF	, 19 •
THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE CANADIAN COMMERCIAL WORKERS INDUSTRY PENSION PLAN TRUST FUND
(Chairman)			(Witness)
(Secretary)			(Witness)
			•
EXECUTED AT THE CITY OF	.THIS	DAY OF	, 19
EXAMPLE T
(a)	The Employer agrees to participate in and contribute to
.	the CANADIAN COMMERCIAL WORKERS INDUSTRY PENSION PLAN,
(b)	"The Employer agrees to contribute to the Trust Fund of the Canadian Commercial Workers Industry Pension Plan
as of ________ date	&	amount	0	per	hour	paid;
as of ________ date	a	amount	  $	per	hour	paid;
as of ________ date	&	amount	  $	per	hour	paid:
as of	date	6	amount	  d	per	hour	paid:
for all employees in the bargaining unit.
(c)	For purposes of paragraph (b) above, heurs paid means all hours paid to all employees.
The maximum number of hours paid per week is the number of hours of the normal week of a full-time employee in the bargaining unit.
The said hours paid shall include hours worked, hours paid by the Employer Cor the time not worked because of illness or accident, vacations, statutory holidays, -bereavement leave, jury duty, paid time for negotiations or grievance meetings, etc.
(d)	The Employer agrees to sign the "Participation Agreement" and to supply any other documents, forms, reports or information requasted/required by the Trustees of the Pension Plan.
(e)	.The Employer shall forward all contributions, supported by a, report in a format to be designated by the Trustees, together with a list of all employees and the number of hours paid for each employee in each month. Contributions shall be made within 15 days following the end of each month.
The Employer agrees to comply with all requests of the Board of Trustees in regard to entry into the Plan, to abide by all the rules and ■ decisions of the Board of Trustees as decided from time to time and, specifically, to pay late remittance penalties and any costs incurred by the Board of Trustees because tho Employer failed to remit contributions in the form or on the date required by the Trustees.