AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
INC.
NAIRN CENTRE SAWMILL
(hereinafter referredto as the 'Company')
AND
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS' UNION AND ITS LOCAL 31-X
(hereinafter referred to as the 'Union')
Coveringthe Period September 1, 2005 to August 31, 2010
AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
DOMTAR INC. NAIRN CENTRE SAWMILL
(hereinafter referred to as the 'Company')
AND
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGYAND PAPERWORKERS' UNION AND ITSLOCAL31-X
(hereinafter referredto as the 'Union')
Covering the Period September 1, 2005 to August 31, 2010
CONTENTS
Article I	-
Article II	-
Article III -Article IV -Article V -Article VI -Article VII -Article VIII -Article IX -Article X -Article XI -Article XU -Article XIII-
Purpose............................1
Period.............................1
Recognitionand Jurisdiction........2
Ratesand Classifications.,....-....6
Union Membership...................7
Vacations With Pay,.,.............10
Holidays With Pay.................14
Adjustment of Grievances,.......• 19
No Strike- No Lockout.............26
Working Conditions................26
HoursofWDrk...... ................32
Seniority.........................48
Bulletin Boards.,,................02
Article XIV	-	Health and Welfare................62
14:01 Weekly Indemnity............62
14:02 LongTerm Disability.........63
14:03 Group Life Insurance........69
14:04 Medical. Surgical Drug
& HospitalCare Plans........71
14:05 Dental Care Plan............72
14:06 Vision Care Plan............74
14:07 Benefitsat LayOff...........74
14:08 DisputedWSIB Claims.........74
14:09 Health and Dental Cost Sharing ..................................75
Article XV	-	Pension Plan......................76
Article XVI -Article XVII-Article XVIII Article XIX -Article XX -Article XXI -
Bereavement Pay................83
Jury Duty......................84
Leave of Absence...............85
Severance F^r..................85
Apprenticeship Plan............87
Automation and
Technological Change...........92
Scheduled"	Trades Training - ScheduleofV\&ge Rates			91
Schedule"B"	Occupation Codes, Rates, Dates			94
Scheduled"	Union Seniority List			99
Schedule"D"	Letters of Understanding 1. Wteekly Indemnity.			103
2.	Four Crew Maintenance Schedule .................................104
3.	Job Groupings,,...............108
4.	Contractors...................112
5.	Call List.....................114
Schedule" E General Information 117
INDEX
Article
Adjustment of Grievances Apprenticeship Plan Automation Automation and
Technological Change Benefits at LayCff Bereavement Leave Bulletin Board call outs Climatic Controls Compassionate Leave Contracting Out Covera Is Dental Plan DisputedWSIB Claims Education Fund Electrical Maintenance Exchange of Shifts Floating Holidays Grievance Procedure Hours of Work Job Postings Joint Health&
Safety Committee Joint Health^
Safety Conference
VIII
XX
xn
XXI XIV XVI XIII XI X
XVI
III
X
XN
XN
X III
XI VII
vra
XI
xu
X
X
Pass
19
87
60
92
74
83
62
39
31
a3
4
31 72 74
32
5
35
17
19
32
50
26
27
INDEX
Article
Jurisdiction
Jury Duty, Crown Witness, Subpoenaed Witness Leaves of Absence Lettersof Understanding Life Insurance Long Term Disability Lumber Graders Meals
Membership New Job Classifications Overtime Pension Plan Period of Agreement Posted Back Up Positions Probationary Period Purpose of Agreement Recognition Safety Equipmentand Apparel
Semi-Private Hospital Care Seniority Seniority Ranking Severance Pay Shift Differential Shift Workers Schedule
III ML
XVII
XVIII
XIV
XIV xn
XI
V
IV XI
XV II
xn
xn
i
iii
x
XIV
xn
XIX XI XI
Page
2
84
84
85 102
69
63
55
45
7
6
40
76
1
58
48
1
2
28
72
48
99
85
34
32
INDEX
P
Statutory Holidays	VII	14
Trades Tods	X	28
Trades Training		91
Schedule of Trade Rates		94
Union Membership	V	7
Vacations With Pay	VI	10
Vision Care Plan	XIV	74
Wage Schedule		94
Weekend Maintenance	XI	36
Weekly Indemnity	XIV	62
ARTICLE I - PURPOSE
The purpose of this Agreement is for the Company and the Union the full orderly and legal collective bargaining is hours, wages and working conditions as specified in Articles of this Agreement and to secure to the utmost extent possible, the safety and physical welfare of the employees, economy of operations, quality and quantity of output and protection of property. This Agreement moreover seeks to pro peaceful adjustments of all disputes t< between the parties. It is recognized ; parties hereto and of all employees t < individually and collectively, for the advancement cf the conditions set forth herein.
Throughout this Agreement, use of the masculine gender shall be considered also to include the feminine.
ARTICLE II- PERIOD
The Company and the Union agree one with the other that they will abide by the Articles of this Agreement from September 1st, 2005 to August 31st, 2010 inclusive, and from year to year thereafter unless either party desires to change or terminate the Agreement, in which case,the party desiring the
i
change or termination shall notify the other party, in writing, within ninety (90) days priorto August 31st of the particular year that such is its desire. Either party opening the Agreement in the manner provided above shall notifythe other patty, in writing, as to the changes desired.
NAIRN CENTRE SAWMILI START-UP
PROTOCOL
It is understoodthat the potentialstart date for the Nairn Centre Sawmillwill be betweenApril 1st, 2008 and August 31st, 2008.
Should the mill not start during this period, the Memorandum of Agreement will become null and void.
RECOGNITIONAND
JURISDICTION
(a) The Company recognizesthe Union as the sole collective bargaining agent for all its employees employed by the Company on its operations in Naim Township.
Forthe purposecf this Article, employeesshall be all those employed on thejob classificationssef out on the \Nage Schedule attached to and forming partcf
2 ,0
theAgreement, includingthosewho areengagedonjob classificationswhich may be established and become part of the Wage Schedule during the term of the Agreement. This provision excludes: Shift Supervisor, persons above the rank of Shift Supervisor, Scalers, Office Staff and Security Personnel.
3:01 (b) The employees of contractors engaged on operations of the Company in Nairn Township shall be considered employees within the terms of this Agreement, save and except the employees of contractors and/or contractors who are engaged to perform occasional special services not commonly performedby employees covered by the terms of this Agreement, employees of contractors where such contractors are engaged for the purpose of erecting structures and where such contractor is bound by an Agreement with a Union or Unions affiliated with a central labour body covering such work. The Union will beadvisedat leasttwo (2) weeks inadvance of any Company plans to "contract outwork" except in the case of a genuine emergency. Upon requestof the Union, the Company shall provide certificates of qualificationto the Union of any contractor enteringthe property.
3:02 (a) Supervisory personnel, Relief Production Supervisor while replacing Production Shift Supervisors, which includes contractors, whose
3
employees are considered to be employees under this Agreement, shall not perform work which would normally be a function of an employee in the job classifications covered by this Agreement, except when instructing employees and in cases of emergency which involve physical danger to employees or danger to property. The Company further agrees that the Relief Production Supervisor will not be allowed to administer disciplinary action as per Article 8:11.
3:02 (b) The Company will not contract out repair and mairtenancework which is normally performedby the maintenancecrew, for which the mill is equipped, for which crews are available and which employees are capable of performing. The Company agrees to pay the defined Union dues for all contractors who performwork normally performedby membersof the bargaining unit as well as capitalwork projects on this site. Any contractors employingthe following trades; millwrights, mechanics, electricians, carpenters and/ or welders will be included in this payment of Union dues.
When the Company contemplates the need for contractor services, they shall meet with the Union to discuss manpower needs and the availability of bargaining unit employees for such work. The mandate for these
4
meetings will be to discuss and identify the opportunities to use bargaining unit employees before using contract services as a means to improve cost saving initiatives and employment opportunities for Nairn Centre employees. This clause is for pro-active discussion purposes only.
3.02	(c ) Electrical Maintenance 11 i s the policy of the Company to have no one but Electriciansperform maintenancework on electrical equipment.
Only trained electrical personnelare permitted to resetinsidean electrical panel.
3:03 It is agreed that Company operations shall not be interrupted as the result cf any jurisdictional dispute that may arise between the Union and any other Union affiliated with the C.L.C. Questions of jurisdiction shall conform to the regulations covering such matters as fixed fcytheC.L.C and the Company will notbeaskedto act uponany matteroljurisdiction between organizations of the C, L.C.
s
ARTICLE IV- RATES AND CLASSIFICATIONS
The Wage Schedule is attached hereto and forms a part of this Agreement.
4:02 I£ during the life of this Agreement, a significantchange inthejob contentoccurs i n anyjob classificationlisted i nthe attached Wage Schedule, the rate thereto shall be adjusted by negotiationsbetween the patties. Upon failure to reach agreement, the matter may be referredto Stage III of the Grievance Procedure.
listed inthe attached Wage Schedule, the Company shall set a temporary wage rate. Where the Company has prior knowledge ofthe necessityforestablishinga newjob classification, the Company will notifythe Union, in writing, at least two (2) weeks in advance, and ifthe Union requests, the Company will discuss the applicable rates and conditions prior to the commencement of the new job. Where circumstances require immediate and unforeseen establishment of a newjob classification, the Company will notify the Union, in writing, immediately.
Any such rates will be based on comparison with the prevailing rate for similar and/or related occupationsin the attached Wage Schedule.
6
After a thirty (30) day trial period any such rate or rates shall be negotiated with the Union and, after such agreement is reached, it shall then become a partofthe \Nage Scheduleand beattached thereto. It is understood that the thirty (30) day period can be extended by mutual consent of parties. Uponfailureto reach agreement on a rate or rates, the matter may be referred to Stage lllof the Grievance Procedure. Rates when established shall be retroactiveto the date of establishment of the newjob classifications.
The Company when combining job classifications covered by the CollectiveAgreement agree that the senior employee(s) of thejobs which have been combined shall receivefirst consideration and shall receive a training period as described in Article 12:07(e).
ARTICLE V - UNION MEMBERSHIP
Any employee who is now a who becomesor
memberofthe Unionshall, as a condition of continued employment, maintain such membership in good standing throughout the term of this Agreement. The Unionshall be the solejudge as to whether an employee is a member in good standing and shall notify the Company promptly of any change in the standing of any such employee.
(a) When hiring new employees, subject to the skill and ability of the applicantsto performthe work requiredof them, the Company will give preference to Union members.
If Union members do not apply the Company shall have the right to employ non-Union help.
The Company agrees to advise the Unionfrom time to time of its labour requirements.
5:02 (b) New employees shall make application to join the Union when first approached to do so by a duly authorized Union official. The Company shall upon hiring, advise all new employees to report to the Financial Secretary within ten (10) days of commencing work. Failure of an employee to comply with the conditions herein shall be cause for immediate termination of employment.
5:03 (a) The Companywill deductfrom all employees covered by the Labour Agreement from monies due them and remit to the Union, initiation fees and/or weekly membershipdues but not fines, assessments or other levies.
5:03 (b) Deductions so made will be remitted to the Unionweekly, said remittanceto be accompanied
$
by itemized lists in alphabetical order, in duplicate, of names with Christian names as payrolled. A copy of the listwill be given by the Company to the Financial Secretary of the Union or his representative.
5:03 (c) Yearly Union dues deductionswill be shown ontheT-4 slips.
Union representatives shall have the right to visit the operation in connection with Union business. Such representatives shall report to the Personnel Supervisor or Operations Manager on arrival.
The Union shall furnish the listing of local Union officers and shall amend these lists promptly as changes occur. Failure to advise the Company of such changes will not in any way affecl the authority of the Union officers.
5:06 The Company will furnish a list of supervisory personnel to the Union office at the start of the contractyear and amend it, if required, at the end of each month. The amended listwill show the effective date of the changes. Failure to advise the Union of such changes will not in any way affect the authority of Company supervisors.
9
5.07	The Company agrees to participate in the CEP Humanity Fund and will match upto a maximumof $10,000 peryear.
ARTICLE V I -VACATIONS WITH PAY
6:01 (a) Vacation pay shall be paid to each employee by cheque to be issued at the time of termination or when the vacation is taken. Vacation pay shall be paid to each employee by separate cheque.
6:01 (b) Vacation pay credits shall be paid to each employee on the following basis:
(IF>jr percent (4%) of gross earnings for employeeswho haveworked lessthanfour (4) years in one period of employmentwith the Company.
(2)	Six percent (6%) of gross earnings for employees who have worked more than four (4) years, but less than ten (10) years in one period of employmentwith the Company.
(3)	Eight percent (8%) of gross earnings for employeeswho haveworked morethanten (10) years, but less than eighteen (18) years in one period of employment.
10
, (4) Ten percent (10%) of gross earnings for employees who haveworkedmoretnan eighteen (18) years but less than twenty-five (25) years in any one period of employment.
(5)	Twelve percent (12%) of gross earnings for employees who have worked more than twenty-five (25) years.
(6)	i nthe case of employeeswhose period of employment dates backto Junel, 1963, theiryearscf service shall be calculated as from June 1st, 1963. I n the case of employeeswhose period of employment started after June 1st, 1963, years of service shall be calculated from date of hiring. Status of present employees is as shown on Schedule "C" attached.
(7)	Employeeswill be paid one normalweeks earnings at their regular rate of pay for each week of vacation or 2% of gross earnings in the previous calendaryears, whichever is greater. Employeesmust haveworked at Ieast750 hours during each calendar year. Time off due to compensable accidents shall be considered as time worked.
Weekly Indemnity
I n t he event that not enough time remains in the corresponding calendar year to
u
accommodate the equivalent time off, or any portion thereof, such employee will be permittedto carry over any unused vacation to the followingyear.
A periodof employmentis defined for purpose cf this Agreement as:
(a)	In the case of an employee who has established seniority as a period during which he maintains his accrued seniority.
In the case of a probationaryemployee as a period not broken by a leave or an absence of more than three (3) working days, excepting layoff.
An employee who has been continually employed for one year shall take vacation time off at a time which is satisfactoryto the employee and the Company. Each two percent (2%) of vacation pay credit shall entitle an employee to one (w)ek cf time off each year.
6.04 Vacation requests made after April 15th will beconfirmedand posted by May 15th. This clause isfor the vacation periodfrom April 15th to Decembers!*1.
12
6:05 Vacation requests made after April 15thwill be confirmed as soon as possible but in no case later than one month after the request. Vacation shall be allotted by seniority. Total vacation allotment at onetime will be 15% per department.
6:06 All employees will be instructed on August 15 to schedule any outstanding vacations at a time satisfactory to him and his supervisor. Employees who have notscheduledtheir outstanding vacation by SeptemberlS will have it assigned by the Company.
6.07	When economically feasible a plant vacation shutdown of oneweek will bescheduled each year at Christmas. The Company will advisethe Union on March 1st of each year of the proposed vacation shutdown, where applicable.
The Company reserves shutdown its operations for consecutiveweeks duringthe summer months in July and/or August. The Company must notify the Union by April 14th of each year the dates of shutdown. For clarification purposes, employees will be expected to take vacation duringthe shutdown. Maintenance employees will beexpectedtowork duringthe shutdown. Article 6,05 will apply to employees in the Maintenance Department.
Should the Company decide to operate parts of the mil Iduringthe summer shutdown, a list will be posted plantwide by seniority for volunteer employees to register.
ARTICLE VII - HOLIDAYSWITH PAY
Employees who have acquired seniority status by having completed their probationary period shall be qualified to be paid without the performance of work for the following holidays:
New Years Day Labour Day GOod Friday	Thanksgiving Day
Victoria Day	Remembrance Day
Canada Day	Christmas Day
Civic Holiday	Boxing Day
When any c£ the above holidays fall on Saturday, it shall be observed on the preceding Friday, and if the holiday falls on Sunday, itwill be observed on the following Monday.
Canada Day and Remembrance Day may be observed on Fridayor Monday with mutual agreement between parties.
Remembrance Day (November 11th) holiday will be observed during Christmas and New Year's period. The shutdown day will be mutually agreed no later than September 1st each year. If agreement of
*
the date is not reached by September 1st, the holiday will be observed on November 11th.
I n addition, employees who have accumulated three (3) months seniority will be granted two (2) floating holidays per contractyear (September 1 st to August31st) to betaken at atime satisfactory to the employee and his supervisor. Floating holidays not taken priorto July 1st in each year will bescheduled.
An employee who, by reason of layoff, is prevented from taking his floating holiday(s) shall receive pay in lieu of such holiday(s).
7:02 (a) Ai employeewho has established seniority in accordance with Article ME, is eligible for holiday pay provided:
He works his last scheduled shift prior to the holiday and first scheduled shift following the holiday, unless prevented by circumstances beyond his control, or
f an employee h
available work days within the thirty (30) days immediately priorto the holiday, is on authorized leave of absence when the holiday occurs, he shall receive holiday pay for the first holiday that occurs during his absence, or
(iii) An employee who is obliged to cease
15
work due to layoff during the thirty (30) day period immediately prior to the holiday, shall receive holiday pay for the holiday(s) within such thirty (30) day period, or
(iv) An employee who S obliged to cease work due to sickness or accident certified by a licensed practitioner during the thirty (30) day period immediately prior to the holiday shall receive holiday pay for the holiday(s) within such thirty (30) day period.
7:02 (b) i) Hourly paid employeeswill receive eight
(8)	times their hourly rate.
ii) Employeewill receive the equivalent amount of his regular shift's pay.
7:02 (c) I fan employee who qualifies under Article XII is recalled and works anytime during the fourteen (14) calendar day period immediately following the holiday(s), he shall receive holiday pay for the precedingholiday(s).
7:03 An employeewho is requestedto work on any of the holidays in Section 7:01 shall be paid for all time worked at one and one-half times his regular rate up to eight (8) hours worked, and double time after eight (8) hours and shall have the option
16
of receiving eight (8) hours off work with pay at a time mutually agreeable between the parties or receive eight (8) hours pay as per Article 7.02(b).
7:04 An employee on regular vacation during a week in which a statutory holiday tails, shall have the option of having a day off with pay at a time mutually convenierrtto the employee and his supervisor within the following 180 days or havingthe holiday pay added to his regular vacation pay. If the employee elects not to defer his holiday payment, he must advise Managementnot later than ten (10) days prior to the commencement of hisvacation period. Furtherthe payment of overtime will not be a reason to deny floaters or stats,
In an attempt to distribute floating holidays as fairly as possible, the following has been agreed to as a minimum.
On any given day, floaters will be allocated by Company wide seniority butwithin operational areas. All requests must be on the Personnel Supervisor's desk at least three (3) days previousto the requested floater.
There will be no distinction between floaters andstats.
17
will be allocated in the operationalareas as follows:
3 Shift Operation	2 ShiftQperation
Planer	Six intotal two per shift	Five intotal two per shift
Woodyard	Six in total two pershift	Fiveintotaltwo per shift
Debarker &
Large Log Mill
Chip& Hog	One pershift/total of three
Fueldrivers
Electricians One intotal
Millwrights 2 pershift/total of Four Set-up men
Mechanics	One in total
Filers	Oneintotal
22
One per shift total of two One intotal
2 pershift/total of Four
One intotal
One intotal 19
The Company shall continueto allow 15% of employees off on floaters and/or stats on a two-shift operation per day plant-wide and 18% of employees allowed off on floaters and /or stats on a three-shift operation per day plantwide.
18
This has been agreed to in the bes
of all personnel involved; however, it in no
way is intendedto changethe existing Labour
Agreement.
The cooperation of all employees and
supervisory personnel is requested to make this system work.
ARTICLE VIII - ADJUSTMENT OF GRIEVANCES
It i s the mutual desire of the parties that complaints of an employee be adjust? quickly as possible. Itis generally understoodthat an employee has no grievance until he has given his shift supervisor an opportunity to adjust his complaint. Prior to reducing a complaintto a grievance as per Article 8:03 the employee may request his Shop Steward to be present at any further discussion with his shift supervisor.
(a)	The Company shall recognizethe Grievance Committee which shall consist of the President, two executiveofficersand atthediscretion ofthe Grievance Committeethe Steward involved.
It i s understood that the Stewards anc Union officers shall not be absent from their regular duties in order to deal with a grievance without
19
obtaining priorauthorizationfrom theirshiftsupervisor. This permissionwill not be unreasonablywithheld.
The Company agrees to pay members of the GrievanceCommitteefor loss of wages for authorized time lost for handling of grievances.
The shop Stewards recognized by this Agreement shall be as follows:
a) Planer Mill	(indudemobte equpment operators)
b)	Large Log Mill (indude mobie equipment operators)
c)	Smal Log Mill (indude mobieequpment operators)
d)	Processor& Yard (includemobie equipment operators
.	& garage)
e) Maintenance	(indude electrical cib/v)
When the operating schedules for (a) to (d) consists of more than one shift there will be one Steward on each shift.
It is agreed that there shall be no discrimination exercised in any manner towards the Stewards or Union Grievance Committee members or other Union members.
A grievance under the provision of this Agreement is defined to be any difference between
20
the parties or between the Company and employees covered bythisAgreementinvolvingthe interpretation, application, administrationor alleged violation of any of the provisionsof this Agreement.
8:04 STEP I ■ Grievances as defined above shall be taken by the employee together with the Union Steward havingjurisdiction directly to the employee's
immediate shift supervisor for adjustment. Any grievances submitted to the shift supervisor in accordance with this procedureshall be inwriting and will be disposed of by the shift supervisor in writing. Failing a satisfactory adjustment within forty-eight (48) hours, then;
STEP II - The matter shall betaken up by a memberofthe GrievanceCommitteeandthe Steward havingjurisdiction with the Area Superintendent and the Human Resources Supervisor. This procedure shall be in writing and will be disposed of by the Area Superintendentand the Human ResourcesSupervisor within five (5) days, then;
STEP III - Within ten (10) days the matter shall betaken up bythe GrievanceCommitteewiththe General Managerofthe Company or his representative. Failing a satisfactory adjustment then;
21
STEP IV • Within fifteen (15) days the matter shall be presentedto the Company by the Grievance Committeeand the National Representative. Failing a settlementwithin fifteen (15) days, then;
STEP V - Eitherparty may within the following fifteen (15) days, referthe matter to Arbitration.
In Arbitration, the Company and the Union shall each select one man; these two (2) shall select a third party who shall act as Chairman. Either party shall appoint its nominee not later than five (5) days after receipt of written notice of the other party's nomination. The Arbitration Board's decision shall be final and bindingon both partiesto this Agreement. In the event of the failure of the two (2) people selected by the respective parties to select a third party as provided above, they shall ask the Provincial Minister of Labour to appoint a third party.
All time limits mentioned in the grievance procedure may be extended by mutualconsent of the Company and the Union. If a grievance is processed throughto arbitrationthe Arbitration Board shall have the power to relieve against noncompliance of time limits.
Nothing herein shall prevent the parties from mutually agreeing on a sole arbitrator to arbitrate grievances arising out of this Agreement.
22
8:05 It is understood that the function of the Arbitration Board shall be to interpret and apply this Agreement and that it shall deal only with the specific questions as submitted and shall have no power to alter, add to, or amend this Agreement. However, the function of the Arbitration Board shall includethe power to consider adjustmentsto individualjob classifications under Section 4:02 and rates for job classifications under Section 4:03 and to revise the rates therefore. The Arbitration Board shall have no power to decide questions involving generalwage adjustments.
8:06 Sundays, Statutory and Legal Holidays shall not be included in any time limits in this Article of the Agreement.
a claim by anemployee that his discharge or suspension by the Company was unjust or contrary to the terms of this Agreement, must be dealt with, in writing, by both patties and must be presentedto the Company not laterthan ten
(10)	days after the discharge or suspension becomes effective. Grievances dealing with suspension shall be processed from the second step. In suspension by the Company, the Company notify the employee, in writing, of the reasonfor such suspension.
23
Discharge grievances will be processed beginningat StepIII of the grievance procedure. The Company shall notify the employee, in writing, the reason for discharge.
I n the event that an employee is found by an Arbitration Board to have been unfairly discharged or suspended by the Company, the Company agrees that the employeewill be reinstatedon hisjob underterms and conditionsdecided by the Arbitration Board.
8:08 Each party to this Agreement shall pay all expenses cf the member cf the Arbitration Board selected by it or by the Minister of Labour and shall share equally in the fees and expenses of the third member of the board.
Grievances which involve Company policy in respect to the interpretation, application, administrationor alleged violation cf the Agreement may be processed commencing at Step III of this Grievance Procedure.
8:10 If the Company has a grievance as defined in Section 8:03, it shall commence at Step III of this Grievance Procedure by the General Manager or his representativepresentingthe matter, inwriting, to the officers of the Union.
24
8:11 Employees to be disciplined (including reprimand) by the Company will be provided with Union representation. When an employee has been indefinitely suspended from work, the parties will endeavour to meet before the employee's next regular scheduled shift or at a time agreeable to both parties. The Companywill copy the Unionon allverbal warnings issued.
The disciplinary record of an employee shall not be used for the purposes of establishing progressive disciplineafter a periodoftwelve (12) monthsofwork has lapsed without any other disciplinary infraction occurring.
In cases involving theft or sabotage, this disci: shall remain active for a period of three (3) y: work from the date cf the infraction.
8.12 Grievances which involve Article XIV (to include WSIB claims) in respect to interpretation, application, administration or alleged violation of this Agreement shall be processed commencing at Step III of this grievance procedure.
25
ARTICLEIX- NOSTRIKE- NO LOCKOUT
strike caused, called, or supported by the Union or its members, nor lockouts by the Company duringthe life of this Agreement.
ARTICLE X- WORKING CONDITIONS
(a)	It is agreed that the Company and the Union shall cooperate collectively in improving safety and first aid practices. The Company and the Union agree to set up and maintain a Joint Health & Safety Committee to promote safe working conditions and practices. There will be at least two (2) meetingsof the Safety Committee each calendar quarter. The position of the Chairman shall alternate between a Company Co-chairman and a Union Co-chairman.
The Chairman of each meeting shall make a report in triplicate, copies going to the Company office, the Union office, and the bulletin boards.
A member of the Committee is entitled to such time off from his work as is necessary to attend meetings of the Committee, and the time so spent shall be deemed to be work time for which he shall be paid straight time while on shift or time and one half if off shift for all hours in attendance at the safety meetings (call out time not applicable).
26
All required safety equipment (excluding safety boots) is provided at the employee's induction, and on-the-job familiarization and safety training is provided by immediatesupervisor.
The Company agreesto establish a new classification called Union Health &. Safety Representative. This personwill be excused from his/her normal duties for a maximum of eight (8) hours per week (to exclude any overtime that may result in the performance of their duties in this position or as a Health and Safety Committee Representative). The nature of this position is to assist the Company in their compliance with ■ and their internal Health and Safet1 The Union Health and Safety Co-chair will be the individual to fill this position. The Company shall be responsiblefor maintaining the employee's current wage rate, and any benefits related to his / her employment.
10:01 (b) The Company agrees that Local 31-X representatives will attend all future E B. Eddy Forest Products Ltd./Communications, Energy and Paperworkers Union Safety Conferences. Six (6) delegates from Local 31-X may attend the conference. These delegates will be compensated for any loss of wages incurred as a result of attending the Conference.
27
10:02 Itisagreed thatthereshall bepropeiiyequipped first-aid kitssufficientfor normal requirements, located on the operation.
10:03 The Company agrees to provide a statement for each weekly pay periodto all employees, showing all credits, deductions, hours of work and the rate per hour, all hoursworked at premium rate, and the type of work performed by the employee during such pay period.
10:04 All handtoolsandequipmentrequiredonthejob will bemadeavailabletoall employeeson loan. VWien an operator of equipments requiredbythe Companytodo a mechanicalrepairjob, hewill befumished suchtoolsas are required. All tools and equipment not returned will bechargedfor in full. Worn out or brokentoolswill be replacedwith serviceabletools free of charge provided that the worn out or broken tools are returned. The Company will provide free insurance against damage by fire or theft of tradesmen's tools normally required by tradesmen to the full replacement value of such tools. Employees will be required to furnish the same tools which were required in the past. Tradesmen, to be eligible for above insurance, must provide the Companywitha listoftheirtools. Employees'damaged or brokentools must be reportedto the supervisor and arrangements are made for replacement. The same
28
policy applies to tools lost by fire or theft. However, there may be some delay in the replacement as we must investigate the circumstances.
The Company will place an order to replace tools within seven (7) working days.
10:05 The Company agrees that it will furnish on loan, all mandatory safety equipment and personal safety apparel save and except safety boots.
The Company further agrees to sell to employees safety boots at ninety-five dollars ($95.00) below invoice price to the Company.
The Company will provide, at no cost to the employee, one (1)pair of chainsaw pants (summer or winter) to all employees who regularly operate chainsaws within the course of their normal duties. I n addition, the Company shall pay to a maximum of twenty ($20) dollars towards the purchaseof a second pair of chainsaw pantseach year. Upon request the Company will replace any worn at, or damaged chainsaw pants.
The wearing of safety equipment and apparel will not become a condition of employment unless it has been agreed to by the Company and the Union a is mandatory under Government legislation.
29
The Company will providequality work gloves for all employees.
10:06 With a mill-wide compulsory safety eyeglass policy, the company, will provide all safety glasses, including industrial prescriptionsafety glasses.
10:07 The Company agrees to supply on loan, raincoats and oilers aprons, however, this shall not apply to normal personal items, such as shoes, pants, etc.
10:08 The Company and the Unionagreethat Labour Management Consultation Meetings could be held on a monthly basis, unless circumstances arise that would necessitateimmediate meetings or discussions on matters involved. The purpose of these meetings will be to discuss with the Unionways and means of improvingconditionsforall employeescovered bythis Agreement, the interpretationof this Agreement and to provide information and discuss issues related to the Company operations.
A committee member is entitled to such time off from his work as necessary to attend meetings of the committee. Such time spent shall be deemed to be work time for which he shall be paid straight time while on shift or cff shift for all hours in attendanceof a meeting.
30
10.09	Coveralls
The Company will supply tradesmen, that is, carpenters, millwrights, mechanics, electricians, filers and utility operators with suitablecoverallsas madeavailableby a supply serviceof Company choice. Fifty percent(50%) of the cost of the laundering will be borne by the employee.
Each employee would have a set of five (5) coveralls for his personal use. He would be issueda clean pair of coveralls eachweek upon return of this soiled pair. The Company will pay the full cost of laundering one <lpair of coveralls.
The individual employeewill be responsible for loss or damagetothe coverallsfor normal wear and tear; however, coveralls damaged by unforeseen circumstances beyond his controlw ill be replaced by the Company after inspection.
Insulated coveralls will be supplied by the Companywhen required, the cost of laundering will be paid by the Company.
10.10	The Company shall ensure any mobile
31
equipment (new or existing), operator's cabs, rentalequipment, washrooms and lunchrooms are equipped with climatic controls so as to providethenecessaryheatand airconditioning for employee's hea Ith.
10:11 The Company provides first aid arrangements as required by Provincial laws.
10:12 Effectivethe first date of the contract renewal the Company will contribute by monthly cheque to the Financial Secretary of the local union $0.04 per hour per employee for all compensated hours for the purpose of providing paid education leave.
Said paid leave will be for the purpose of upgrading the employee's skill in all aspects of health and safety and trade union education.
Employees on paid education leave of absence will continue to accrue seniority and benefits during such leave.
ARTICLEXI- HOURSOFWORK
11:01 (a) The week for operations shall be six (6) days per week Monday to Saturday inclusive. The work week for day or shiftworkers shall beforty (40) hours, eight (8) hours per day, Monday to Friday
32
inclusive, or Tuesday to Saturday inclusive or the workweek for day or shift workers shall be forty-four (44) hours, nine (9) hours per day Monday to Thursday inclusive and eight (8) hours Friday. For clarification, the start time shall be between 6:00 a.m. and 7:00 am. The second shift shall immediately follow the first shift.
It is agreed that day work or shift work employees may be requiredto work in excess of their regularwork day or shift or work week, and will be paid in accordance with Section 11:05 for such time worked. I fan employee requests to be excused from working overtime, permissionwill not be unreasonably withheld.
11:01 (b) Forthe purposeofthisAgreement, Sunday shall begin at 7:00 a.m. on Sunday and end at 7:00 a.m. Monday.
A holiday shall begin at 7:00 am. the day of the holiday and end at 7:00 a.m. the day following the holiday. An employee's "sixth day" (Saturday or Monday) shall begin at 7:00 am. of that day and end at7;00 am. the day following.
11.02	On two-shift operations, the first shift shall consist of eight (8) consecutive hours, meal time
33
excepted, and shall commence at 7:00 am. and end at 3:30 p.m.. The second shift shall consist of eight (8) consecutivehours, meal time excepted, and shall commence at 3:30 p.m. and end at 12:00 a.m. and shall carry a shift differential of the second shift. There will be a one (1) hour gap between shift schedules for Chip Truck Drivers
11:03 (a) On a three-shift operation, the shifts shall be eight (8) consecutive hours. The starting and stopping times for the three (3) shifts and the shift differentialsto be paid, shall be as follows:
Starting Time (betweenthehoursof) 1st shift 7:00 a.m.-8:00 a.m. 2nd shift 3:00 p.m.- 4:00 p.m. 3rdshift ' 11:00 p.m, ■ 12:00 am.
StoppingTime (betweenthehourof) 3:00 p.m.-4:00 p.m.
11:00 p.m, * 12:00 am. 7:00 am. - 8:00 am.
Shift Differential:
1st shift- nil;
2nd shift - $0.52 per hour; 3rd shift- $0.62 per hour.
11.03(b) The hours of work and the “sixth day” for day workers and shiftworkers shall be posted by 3:00 p.m. seven (7) days in advance of the work week taking effect. However, the Company reserves the right to revise the schedule when necessary up to twelve (12) Thursday noon previous to the work
34
week. The starting and stopping times shall remain constant and fixed during the weekly period subject to the following:
An employee may not change shifts during the week except when his shift schedule is changed by the Company. When an employee's shift schedule is changed by the Company he will be paid at one and one-half times his regular rate for the first shift worked after the change. When the employee reverts to his original shift, heshall bepaidathisregularstraighttime rate providedthat there is a break of at least eight (8) hours between shifts worked.
When an agreement for a change of shift by employees is requested, forms for this shift change will be made available by the Supervisorfor signature by the employees concerned and their Supervisors.
The Company will post by the 15th of each month, the operating schedule (not the work schedule) for the following month for the Sawmill and the Planer.
11:03 (c) If an employee, who has completed his scheduled work week, is required for work on his "sixth day” or Sunday, such overtime shall be posted by the preceding Friday noon. If he is available for the posted overtimework at regular startingtime and is unable to commence work for reasons beyond his
35
control he shall receive four (4) hours pay at time and one-half provided he remain available for the four (4) hour period if so requested by the Company.
11:04 (a) A day or shiftworkerwho isunableto work or shift for reasons beyond his control, for the full day or shift.
To qualify for the above the employee must stay on the job until told by the Shift Supelvisor that he may leave and must accept other than his normal work if it is offered.
11:04 (b) If, during his scheduled work week, a day or shiftworker reportsforwork at his scheduled starting time and is unable to commence work for reasons beyond his control, and if no reasonable efforts have been made to notify him not to report, he shall receive four (4) hours pay for reporting, provided he remains available for the four (4) hour period if so requested by the Company.
Notification procedures shall be established
locally.
11.04(c )Weekend MaintenanceSchedule
PermanentVacancies:
1)	Whenpermanentvacandesoccurintheregularwork
force the maintenanceemployees working the weekend schedule will be allowed to bid on those vacancies (as per Article 12:07).
3$
Pay Cheques:
2)	Employeesworking theweekend maintenance schedule will be allowed to pick-up their pay cheques earlier on Thursday, when available.
Vacation, Sickness or Accidents:
3)	Weekend maintenanceemployeeswill be used to supplement regular crews for vacations, sickness or accidentsonly when necessary.
Statutory Holiday Pay:
4)	Weekendmaintenanceemployeesrequiredtowork on a Statutory Holiday could be paid the followingways:
a)	Receive timeandone-halfonlyfortimeworked and banktwelve (12) hours or one day. It isto beunderstoodthat banktime taken must be taken at a time agreeable to both parties and that whole days must be used.
b)	ReceivepayfordayworkedasperArtic!e7:03.
5)	Weekend maintenance schedule employee’s vacations will be scheduled by weekends.
Work Schedule:
6)	Itistobeunderstoodthatthehoursofworkwould
be as follows:
a)	Friday, 7 a.m. to 7:00 p.m., mealtime deluded.
37
Saturday,7a.m.t»7:00p.m.,mealtjmeinduded
first 8 hours.
Sunday, 7a.m.to7:00p.m.,mealtimeincluded
first 8 hours.
b)Saturday,7a.m.ts7:00p.mYmeattimeinduded
first 8 hours.
Sunday, 7a.m.to7:00p.m.,mealtimeexcepted
first 8 hours.
Monday,7a.m.7:00p.m.,mealtimeinduded.
It isfurther understoodthat the Iast4 hours of work on Saturday and Sunday will include a 20 minute paid lunch period.
Fridayor Mondayand Saturdayshall be paidat straight time for the firsttwelve hoursworked and time and one half for all hoursworked after twelve hours. Time worked on Sunday shall be paid at time and one half for the first eight hoursworked and double time will be paidfor a II hoursworked after eight hours.
8) Statutory Holidays and Floaters shall be compensated at twelve (12) hour the employee's regular rate of pay for the day.
38
11:05 Time worked in excess of eight (8) hours per day or shift (after nine hours for employees covered by Article 11.01(a), all hours worked on Sunday and all hours worked by an employee on his designated “sixth day” (Saturday or Monday) or outside his scheduledshift shall be paidfor at the rate of time and one-half.
For calculating overtime pay shift differentials shall not be considered as part cf an employee’s applicable hourly rate.
When an employee is called out for overtime work, after completing his shift or when called out on his day off, he shall be guaranteed four (4) hours pay at time and one-half if he works lessthan four (4) hours, and eight (8) hours at time and one-half for employees who work more than four (4) hours but are unable to work the full eight (8) hours.
An employee previously requested to work overtime before the start of his regular day or shift will be paid time and one-halffor hours worked prior to the commencement of his regular day or shift.
39
Overtime----------------
A Distribution
An overtime opportunity will first be offered to those employees scheduled on that piece of equipment on the opposite shift(s) with the lowestovertime.
If unable to obtain an employee, then the overtime opportunity will be offered to those employees within the classification but on a different piece of equipment.
The offerwill be madeto theemployee(s) with the skill and ability to perform the work (not requiring any training or orientation) with the lowest amount of accumulatedovertime. The exception to this general rule is the Loader and Millwrightoccupations.
If still unable to secure an employee to work the overtime needed, then the Supervisorwill canvass the general departmental workforce who possesstheskill andabilityto performthe work(notrequiringtrainingor orientation). The offerwill be madeto the senioremployee(s) with the lowest accumulatedovertime.
Where the Company has avoided overtime by
40
assigning labourers to meet its need and an insufficient number of labourers are available therebynecessitatinganovertimerequirement, the overtime in such circumstances shall be offered to employees in the classification with the least number of overtime hours worked monthto date.
Equalization of overtime as described in i) above shall be effected daily; shall be based on time actually agreed to work (not on the basis of time earned or offered) and shall occur amongst employees in the classification in which the need for overtime arises.
B. Classifications
i) As used throughout this document a classification means fne job encompassed by the specific occupation code and rate established therefore as set out in Schedule '.1BK to the collective agreement and such additional classifications as may mutually agreed to by the Union and the Company.
For the purpose of this document, an employee's classification is the classificationto which he has been scheduled to work for the
week
41
For the purpose of this document an employee who has been transferred at the Company’s requestto anotherclassificationfor themajorityof hisworkday, shall beconsidered to fall within the classification to which he was transferred and not the classification from which he was transferred for the purpose of overtime distribution as providedfor above.
C. Wend Overtime Lists
A sign upsheetwill be posted in the Security Office each Monday at noon.
Employees wishing to be considered for any weekend overtime must sign this list. Employees may indicatewhetherthey wish to be considered only for opportunities in their department and/or plant-wide. They may also indicatetheir desire to be scheduled for 8 or 12 hour shifts.
The listwill betaken down each Thursday at 7:00 A.M.
Those employees shown on this list will have their accumulated overtime hours added beside their name. The overtime hours to be used for each employee will be those in the Company’s payrollsystemasofnoon on Thursday.
42
Based uponthe relative accumulated overtime for each employeeany '
available will be assigned to those employees listed. This overtime will be work falling
week to be performedon the weekend. 11 is further understood that theseovertime lists are for the sole purposeofdeterminingavailability of employees for weekend overtime and for providingthe equalization of such overtime.
Assignments will be based upon each employee's skill, efficiency and ability to perform the requiredassignment The finalized list will be posted by 2:00 P.M. Thursday at the Security Office.
Departments will also be sent a copy of the assignment sheet for posting. If the company's requirementsfor overtime change, an amended overtime schedule will be posted by noon on Friday. I f an employee is affected by a schedule change after the list is posted on Thursday s/he will be notified. An employee scheduled to work on the weekend will be chargedthe correspondingt time for the purpose of additional overtime distribution,
Any employee shown on this posted list must
a given
43
obtain the supervisor's permission before the shift starting time, if they are unable to attend work. When such is not possible, the employee may use the established practice of absence reporting through the Security department. Employeesnotreportingforwork asscheduledwill bechargedthe corresponding number of overtime hours except when the Company cancels the overtime that had been scheduled.
Any overtimeworked by those employees on the list after midnightofeachV\fednesdaythat was not known at noon on Thursday will not be considered in the distribution of overtime for that weekend.
The overtime hours in the Company's payroll system will be deemed to be accurate for the purpose of this procedure. In addition any overtime assignments that have been accepted but not yet worked by an employee will be added to their accumulated overtime shown on the Payroll system.
The Company will record overtimeworked by each employee for each week and post in a visible location.
44
11:06 (a) A ten minute "quarter time" on Company time shall be allowed twice each shift.
Meals
Arrangements have been made with a restaurant to deliver meals to the Sawmill. The mealswill be in a Styrofoam container and transported ina thermal box.
TheCompanyagreesthat, unlessnotified the previous day, an i to work a minimum i
his regular hours will be provided with a meal at the Company’s expense. After the provision of the first meal, underthis Section a hot meal will be providedeveryfour (4) hoursthereafter at the Company's expense.
Employees who agree to work for at least twelve (12) hours in a day (excluding weekend scheduled mai ntenance crews) will be provided with a meal after eight (8) hours. If an employee continues to work after twelve (12) hours, he will receive a meal every four (4) hours after the first one.
45
The Company will provide refrigerators and microwave ovens in the following recognized lunchrooms:
l>argeLogI\/III 4) Electrical Shop
2)	Filing Room 5) Small Log Mill
3)	Planer	6)	ProcessorArea West
7) Garage
Note; ProcessorArea East lunch room will be inthe Small Log area.
11,07	The parties agree that the following shift scheduling options shall only apply to the current department known as the Filing Department and the employees who work in this department on what is referred to as a three (3) shift schedule. There shall be no expansion or modification of the shift schedulingordepartmentswithout agreement bytheUnion. TheCompanyshall postoneofthe following three shift schedulingoptions listed below in this clauseand the selected schedule shall apply, unchanged for the entire work week, Monday to Friday for all the employees who work the three shift schedule.
Optionl -Three shift schedule Days7:00 a,m. to 3:00 p.m. (assetoutin 11.03) Aftemoon3:00 pm-11:00 pm (mealtimeincluded)	Nights 11:00 pm - 7:00 am
46
OR
Option 2 -Threeshift schedule Days7:00 am-3:00 pm
(Filing Roomonly) Afternoons3:00pm-11:00pm (mealtimeincluded) Nights7:30pm-3:30 am
11.08	I n case of a break down in the Planer or Sawmill Departments, lunch can be advanced by thirty (30) minutes and coffee breaks by fifteen (15) minutes and shall apply to normal departmental breaks for all classifications. It is understood that this modification of the departmental breaksshall impact the entire Department in which the breakdownoccurred.
47
ARTICLEXII - SENIORITY
12:01 The Company recognizes the principle of seniority. Seniority will govern, subject to reasonable considerationofskill, efficiency and ability, in promotions, transfers, layoffs, and recalls after layoffs.
As of September 1, 2005, the seniority ranking of employees is as set in Schedule"C" attached.
12:02 Employment of any new employees shall be considered as probationary until he has completed thirty (30) days of work in one periodof employment. Uponcompletionofthis probationary period he shall be classed as a qualified employee with seniority ranking dating back to his date of hire. A discharge, quit or absence without leave, shall break any accumulation of qualifying days.
12:03 I n the case of layoff due to a shortage of work the Company will notify the men intended to be laid off at least two (2) work days in advance, unless the shortage of work is beyond the Company's control. The Union Grievance Committee will receive a list of the men affected, prior to the intended layoff.
Onthe secondworkingday of each month the Company agrees to providethe Unionwith a report indicating the up-to-date working
48
status of each employeeforthe previousmonth (WSIB/LTD/WI/Active/ Layoff/ Resignation/ Termination).
the approximate time of the recall is known at the time of layoff employees leaving will be informed of such approximate dates at that time. But in any case, notice in writing will be sent to an employee at his given address at leastfourteen (14) days before he is required to report for work. Employeeswill be required to acknowledge receipt of such notice and reportfor work on the date specified unless other arrangementshave been ms__________
12:05 An employeewhohasestablishedseniorityand who returns to work in time shall retain his seniority ranking during absences due to:
(a)	sickness or injury, certified by a licensed physician, dentist, or licensed chiropractor.
(b)	i) layoff for lack of work not exceeding twenty-four (24) months.
ii) In the event of a permanent closure of the mill, be it total or partial, the duration of the right of recall is increased from twenty-four (24) months to thirty-six (36) months provided that the employee
49
hasten (IO) years of seniority on the layoffdate.
(c)	leaves-of-absence granted at the employee's request not exceeding ten (10) months.
(d)	employmentwith the Union not exceeding twelve (12) months. Such leave may be renewed upon request.
(e)	employment with the Company outside the bargaining unit not exceeding eleven
(1)	months.
An employee who quits of his own accord or is discharged and not reinstated, or fails to report to work following recall as provided in Section 12:04 shall automatically lose all seniority. An employeewho fails to return from leave-of-absenceon the date specified, shall lose hisseniority unless his returnto work on time is prevented by circumstances beyond his control. All absences from work must be covered by leaves-of-absence the issue of which is discretionary but which will not be withheld unreasonably.
12:06 When employeesapply/bid or istransferred from onejo b classificationto another, senior employees with the necessary qualifications shall receive first consideration. I nsuch cases an employeeshall receive the rate for the job to which he istransferred. V\hen, dueto shortageofwork, in hisbidded classification an
50
employee isassignedto a lower paidjob classification, the employee shall receive the rate for his new job classification as of the date of assignment. In of a temporary change to a lowerjob classn the Company's request, the employee shall rate of his previousjob classification,
Tradespeoplewi 11 not be permitted to apply/bid outsidetheirclassificationuntilthey have worked inthe specific trade as a licensed tradesperson fn of time equal to their apprenticeship. An employee hired on directly as a licensed tradesperson will not be permittedto apply/bid outside his classification for a period of one year. I n a lay off situation, laid off tradespeople will exercise mill seniority.
The Company, when filling postec will do so from within the bargainingunitinaccordance with Article 12:01. Noticeof impendingvacancies will be posted on the bulletin boards for five days and will be mailed to employees offwork on WI, LTD orWSIB.
Temporary appointments may be made without posting for filling vacancies of less than six (6) calendar weeks duration.
51
12:07(c) Newly createdjobs will be posted on the bulletin boards by the Company for five (5) working days prior to any appointments to such jobs, stating normal job requirements. A newly created position can, at the Company’s discretion, be considered temporaryfor not morethan twelve (12) consecutive months. Should it be decided during this 12 month periodto makethe position permanent, thenthejob will be posted as per Article 12:07 (a).
12:07(d) Employees shall not be considered for posted jobs unless they apply in writing within a five (5) day period. An employee absent from work for a period of more than thirty days (vacation time accepted), shall automatically be listed as an applicant on all postings that occurred within the ninety (90) day period immediately prior to his return to work. Immediately upon his return he will be so advised by the Company and must signify forthwith that he is allowingthe applicationto stand. Failureto so signify will renderthe application nulland void. The Company shall post notices showing the names of successful applicants for posted vacancies and newly created jobs.
12:07(e) The job will be filled from among the qualified applicants on the basis of Section 12:01 of this Agreement.
52
An employee who subsequently accepts a | shall be allowed (5) work days in which to further time as may be mutually agreed to but will not be unreasonably withheld). Ai employee may forfeit an accepted bid within the qualifying period no more than once in any twelve month period. Failure of an employeeto qualify or hiselectionto forfeit shall entitle him to return to his formerjob without loss of seniority or benefits.
It isagreed that for permanent > successful, senior employee of the applicants to fill the vacancy, as per existing clause 12:01, referencet o anyj uni <
provided that:
(a)	He had occupiedthatjob previouslyand is qualified to meetthejob requirements, or,
(b)	Shouldtraining berequiredto meetthejob requirement, he will be allowed the necessary timeoftraining, or
(c ) Hehasqualifiedto dothejob.
Ai employee who is contracted to accept a posted vacancy will be allowed up to eight (8) hours of paid time to observe the incumbent perform the posted occupation
An employee who subsequently accepts a posted job shall beallowedfive (5) work days in which to qualify (or further time as may be mutually agreed to but
S3
will not be unreasonably withheld). A? employee may forfeit an accepted bid within the qualifying period no more than onoe in any twelve (12) month period. Failure of an employee to qualify or his election to forfeit shall entitle him to return to his former job without loss of seniority or benefits.
I n addition, the following conditions shall apply:
(1)	There will be no limitation on upward mobility.
(2)	Lateralordown bidswith referencetojob postings will be limited to one successful bid pereight month period.
When an employee bids down, prior to acceptance of the bid, discussions with the Union may take place to reflect the effect on the operation.
If the effectof lateralor down biddingseriously affectsthe operationof the plant, the Company and the local Unionagreeto meet immediately and solve the problem.
The local Union committee will be advised of the successful applicant prior to placing the employeeonthejob.
54
qualified employee may fill a vacancy temporarily while another employee is being trained.
Lumber Graders
ForDomtar to retainpermissionbyC.L.A. to use their license, grading practices must be incompliancetotheirrulesandguidelines- loss of the licensewould eliminateopportunitiesto marketour lumber.
The grader classification cannot be compromised for any reason and in order to ensure consistent quality and customer satisfaction this Article states:
Terms agreed upon inthis Article pertain to gradersfinly and are not applicable in any way to any other operation.
For the purpose of this Article, C.L.A. license relates to Class A & B without distinction. 1
1,	Only licensed graders will hold a permanent bid; other openings will be filled from the reeognized"Back-up"bid by seniority. Licensed a raders will have priority in Grading;
55
as of the date of this letter of understanding. The licensed grader rate will only be paid after a.C.LA, license is obtained and training complete.
a)	I n a lay off situation when more senior (non graders) employees would be laid off, senior non-bid licensed graders will be considered to fill grader requirements (by way of a temporary bid) providing such individualscanfulfill the training requirements in the agreed-to designated time; training to be conductedas stated below.
b)	When a lay off is deemed to be longer than 10 weeks (equal tothetraining period), the more senior non graders who would otherwise be laid off will begiven an opportunity to train and work as a graderfor the duration of that lay off (similarto temporary bid in2 a), above).
3.	Training for nsw grader bidswill be:
week one - study C.L.A, grading rules regulationswith minimalon-linetraining weektwo- sameasweekonewith increased time on the table
weekthree- ontable mostoftime as extra
56
graderto view proceduresand practice rules week four - week long C.L.A. training with theC.L.A. test
C.L.A. Test: Ifunsuccessful, repeatweek one through four prior to C.L.A. testing and if unsuccessful again then the person is returned to previousjob and may apply for the grader bid only uponthe next posting.
4.	"B" licensed graders will be required to write each C.L.A. test until the "A" license is obtained. A permanent bid grader within the classification will remain on the table until after 2 consecutive failures of the C.L.A. tests - training will besuppliedto ensure individuals are properly prepared.
5.	A QUALITY/GRADING COMMITTEE
will beestablishedto managethetraining program and any quality concerns ongoing; the class "A" licenserecognitionwill bea high priority project.
12:07 (9 A job that becomes vacant because the incumbent has had to vacate it due to sickness or injury, vacation, bereavement leave, jury duty and/ or a leave of absence not exceeding thirty (30) work
57
days, shall be classified as a temporary vacancy and shall be filled according to the provisionsof Section 12:07 (a) and the job postingwill note that it is of a temporary nature.
The employeewho had occupied thejob, upon his returnto work shall once again occupy thejob that he had filled prior to vacating for any cf the reasons set forth above, provided however,that thejob is still in effect and is notfilled by a senior aiployeevJro, for reasonsof notice of layoff from hisformerjob has exercised his seniority on this particularjob.
An employee can hold only one Permanent and/or a temporary or backup position (as per current practice).
12.07(g) Posted Back-up Positions
The Company agrees, for employees who have accepted agreed to posted back-up positions, when a permanentvacancy occurs inthat position, the senior back-upemployee will be promotedto fill the vacancy.
The following positionsare agreed to Back-up
Positions: ,	,
• Lumber/Grader
• LogLoader/Crane Operator
58
*	Filers
•	Kiln Operator
12.07(h) Lay off and Recall After Layoff
(-1) People retain the right to their last successful bid uponjob classificationduring a layoff situation. This becomestheir "regular" classification.
(2) Whileawaiting returntotheir "regular"job classificationthey may bid, and ifsuccessfulfill another vacancy. When a permanent position in their "regular" classification comes open, due to recall and their seniority allows it, they will be offered the onetime chance to return. If rejected, their new classification becomes their "regular"classification.
(3)	Any job classification which requires an additional employee will not be post« vacancy unlessthere are no people remaining that have been displaced from their "regular" classification due to layoff. If there are no people as above, thejob classificationwillthen be posted as a permanentvacancy.
(4)	Should an employee leave a job he had successfully bid upon, to returnto his"regular"
59
classification, that job will be posted as a vacancy unless people inthat classification are also available due to layoff.
12:08 Lists showing the seniority ranking of employees will be prepared and posted on Company bulletin boards, available for the information of all employees and will be updated and revised every month. A copy of this listingwill be forwarded to the Union.
12:09 The management and the operation of the plant, and the direction and the promotion of the working forces is vested exclusively inthe management of the Company subject only to the seniority Article herein and provided, however, that this will not be used for discrimination against employees.
12:10 When jobs are discontinued due to the introduction of new methods, automation and technological change or due to curtailment of operations(exdu'ding normalfluctuationsin production levels) affected employeesshall be offered alternative employment on remainingjobs in accordance with ArticleXII, to meetthe Company's labour requirement and if such employees require training to perform the alternative employment effectively, they shall be trained by the Company.
60
Technological Change
The Company and the Union recognize that technological change, while necessary to the industry, may have an impact on manpower and employment levels. I n order to address these concerns, the parties agree to the following guidelines in addressing technological changes.
Technological change means the introduction by the employer in its operations of equipment different in nature, type or quantity from that previously utilized by the employee, a change in the operation related to the introduction of that equipment or a modification of existing equipment currently in use in the workplace which affects one or more employees.
Any disagreement as to whether or not a manpower reduction is attributable to technological change shall be subject to the grievance procedure. I tisunderstoodthat any grievances of this nature will be dealt with in the same fashion as a discharge case.
61
ARTICLEXIII ■ BULLETIN BOARDS
The Union shall have the right to post notices dealing with Union affairs upon the bulletin boards of the Company providing such notices have been approved by the Personnel Supervisor or Manager.
The Company will provide four Union notice boards in the following locations:
- one ineach lunchroom, andoneatthe office of Ted Bell.
ARTICLE XIV- HEALTH AND WELFARE
14:01 WEEKLY INDEMNITY - The Company will maintain and pay the premium cost of a Weekly Indemnity insurance plan and will administer the insurance plan as outlined in Schedule'E". The plan will provide seventy percent(70%) of the employee's regular straight-time rate up to the maximum noted belowortheE.I, maximum, whicheverthe greater. The Companywill reimburseanemployeeupto a maximum of $40.00 for all medical documents (including Supplemental Reports) and medical exams requested by the Companyfor such claims upon presentationof a receiptfrom the attending physician.
Effective first of the month following date of ratification for all employees actively at work, the
62
maximumweekly indemnity benefitwill be increased to $520/week or the E.I. maximum, whichever the greater effective September 1, 2000. Effective September 1, 2002 the maximum weekly indemnity benefitwill be increasedto $540/week and effective September 1, 2004, the maximumweekly indemnity benefitwill be increasedto $560/week.
14:02 LONG TERM DISABILITY - The company shall pay the monthly premium cost of the Long Term Disability Benefit Plan.
The Long Term Disability Benefit Plan shall be administered in accordance with the terms of an insurance policy.
1.	Eligibility- The Lorg Term Disability Benefit Plan shall be compulsory
have accumulated two Company.
2.	Effective Date of Coverage - An eligible employee is entitledt
at work on the first day the Long Term Disability Plan becomes effective. The plan becomes effective February 1, 1979.
An eligible employee absent from work due to sickness or accident at the effective date of the Plan, shall only be eligible for Long Term Disability Plan benefitsuponthe returnto continuous activefull-time employmentfora periodof morethan four consecutive weeks.
63
An eligible employee absent from work due to effective date of the Plan shall be entitled Term Disability Benefitplan benefitsupon on reportingto work.
The Company shall have the rightto give medical examinationsto employees returningfrom such layoff to determinetheir eligibility under the Plan.
3.	Qualifying Period - An insured employee be eligible to receive an amount of Long Term
Disability Plan Benefitafter fifty-two weeks of benefit entitlement for the Same disability under the Vteekly Indemnity Plan. Benefit payment shall not commence during a strike untilthe terminationof the strike.
4.	Definitionof Disability- "Disability" shall mean an insured employee who has received fifty-two (52) weeks of benefits for the same disability under the Weekly Indemnity Plan and is thereafter unable because of disease or injury to work at any available occupation inthe Company for which he is reasonably fitted by education, training or experience.
5.	Amount of Benefit
Effectivefirst ofthe monthfollowina ratification for those employees actively at work increase the maximum monthly benefit to 55% of monthly earnings as defined in
(5)(b) up to a maximum monthly payment of$2100.
64
(b)	"Monthly Earnings" means, in the casecf a day or shift worker, 173 x his regular hourly rate.
(c)	"Hourly Rate" means the regular rate of the employee effective immediately prior to the date on which the disability occurred, excluding overtime.
(d)	The benefits payable under this Plan are reducedbyany primarydisability payments made under tne Canada Pension Plan, or any Company group disability income plan. Benefitsare not affected by War Pensions, Workplace Ss
Pensions, or may have purchased
6.	Durationof Benefits
(a)	Benefits will be paid for one month, for each completed month of service prior to commencement of the LongTerm Disability Benefits, while the employee is disabled.
(b)	Service for purposes of the plan will be basedontheseniorityrankingof employees as is set in Schedule"C" attached.
(c)	Disability benefitswill be paid one month in arrears.
65
7.	Termination of Benefits - Benefits shall cease upon the occurrence of any one of the following:
(a)	On the date the employee ceases to be disabled. (If there is a recurrence of the same disability within six (6) months of return to wok, a new qualifying period will not be required, and the disabled employee will be eligible for any balance of Long Term Disability Benefit payments. This provision shall take precedence over any recurrent disability provision under the Weekly Indemnity Plan), or
(b)	On exhaustion of the benefit period, or
(c)	Up to normal retirementage, or
(d)	On death.
8.	Exclusion-
(a)	An employee receivingLongTerm Disability Benefitswill not be eligiblefor vacation or statutory holiday pay.
(b)	Benefits under the Long Term Disability Plan will not be payablefor claims resulting from:
(i)	Any injury arising out of or sustained 66
while doing any act or thing pertaining to any occupation or employment for remunerationor profit, or
(ii)	Any injury or illness entitling the employee to compensation under Worker's Safety and Insurance or sir legislation, or
(iii)	Self-destruction or any self-inflicted injury, while sane or insane, or
Disability for which the employee is not under the treatment of a physician, or
Alcoholism or drug addition, unless the employee is undergoing a recognized course of treatment by a specialist in the care and treatment of alcoholism and drug addiction or the employee is undergoing regular rehabilitative treatment approved by the insurer and a licensed physician.
(vi) Disability or loss (1) whiletheemployee is on, or could be placed on Pregnancy/ Maternity Leave, or (2) if employee fails to qualify fir Pregnancy/Maternity Leave because of failure to meet the length of service neqiirerrents, during the period of Pregnancy/Maternity Lease that the
67
employee could be on if she qualified for such leave, in accordancewiththe current Employment Standards Act, Ontario or any other relevant provincial statutes.
9.	Rehabilitation- An employee receiving an amount of Long Term Disability Benefit may be asked to undergo reasonable rehabilitation measureswhich have been the subject of prior consultation with the employee's doctor, at no cost to the employee. If such employee refuses to undertake such rehabilitation, he may be declared not eligible for an amount cf disability benefits.
10.	Physical Examinations- The Company and/or insurer reserves the right to require periodical physical examinations throughout the duration of the employee's absence due to disability. Such examinations shall be conducted by a physician or physicians designated by the Company and/or insurer.
Cost of physical examinations, transportation and reasonable out-ofpocket expenses related thereto will be paid by the insurer.
Any dispute arising betweenthe Company and/or the insurer's physician and the
68
employee's physicianwill be resolved by a physician (preferably a specialist) chosen by the Company and the Union.
11.	Effectivefirst of the month following date of ratification, the Company is | extend Medical, Surgical, Drugar Care Plan Coverage to all employees on LongTerm Disability for a periocl of their disability.
14:03 GROUP LIFE INSURANCE- The London Life InsuranceCompany, E.B. Eddy Forest Products Ltd., Group Policy No. 11706 will remain in effect during the life of this Agreement.
The above plan bener
life insurance with twenty-four (24) hour Accidental Death and Dismemberment(A.D. &D.) coverage for each active employee.
Effective September 1, 2001, the Company will increasethe amount of life insuranceto $60,000. Effective September 1, 2001, the Company will increasethe amount of A.D. & Dto $60,000.
The Company agrees to pay one hundred percent (100%) of the premium cost of Life Insurance.
69
It is understood that the 5/12th rebate to employees underE.I. will be retained by the Company.
Spouse and Children
Effective first of month following date of ratification, the Company will provide dependent Life Insurance on the following basis:
1)	Employee pays 100% of cost.
2)	Spouse$5,000.00.
3)	Each unmarried child
a)	14 days but lessthan 1 year of age $400.00
b)	1 year but lessthan 19 years or 25 years when a student full time, wholly dependent on the employee for support$2,000.00
c)	The spouse's Life Insurance will be reduced to $500.00 upon the employee's retirement and cancelled on his death.
70
Paid-Up Life Retirees
The Company will issue a cheque for $2,500 to retirees upon date of retirement for acquiring life insurance.
14:04 MEDICAU SURGICAL, DRUG AND HOSPITAL CARE PLANS - The Companywill pay the premiumfor the Liberty Health DrugPlan and Semi-Private Hospital Care Plancoveragefor all activeemployeesduring the term of this Agreement.
Effective September 1, 2000, the Company is prepared to extend the provisions of the drug plan coverage for all employees retiring between the ages of 60 and 65 until they attain age 65. it is understood and agreed that this coverage will be madeavailableto employees retiring before August 31,2010.
The Company contributionto employees who are off work due to a Workers Safety and Insurance claim or a Weekly Indemnity claim will be continued for a period of up to twenty-four(24) months.
The Company contrioution to employeeswno are off work due to a Long Term Disability claim will be continued for the period of the disability.
71
14:05 DENTALCARE PIAN
1.	Eligibility- Participation in the Plan is limitedto employees who have accumulated three months of seniority with the Company from date of employment.
2.	Plan Design-
a)	Service and benefits as provided in Blue Cross No. 7 Basic Plan and RiderNo. 1. (100%)
b)	Services and benefits as provided in Blue Cross Rider No. 2. (50%) Maximum $1,000.00 per calendar year per person.
c)	Services and benefitsas provided i n Blue Cross RiderNo. 3. (50% co-insurance). The maximum lifetime benefit for orthodontic service covered expenses$l,000.00 per insuredfamily member.
Effective first of the month following date of ratification amend plan to provide for the 1997
O.D.A. Schedule of Dental Fees.
Effective September 1, 2001 amend the plan to provide for the current dental coverage increase to $1,500 per calendar year per insured person with a one year lag on the O.D.A. Schedule of Fees.
72
It is understood and agreed that the Plan will provide for the continuation of cover period an employee is off work due to layoff or leave of absence, but in no case beyond the end of the month following the month in which such absence commenced.
3.	Administration- The Planwill be administered in accordance with an appropriate contract or set of procedures reflecting the Plan design outlined in Item 2 above. The decision as to the choice of administrativevehiclefrom amongservice carriers, insurance companies or ser made by the Company on the basis of appropriate study of these alternatives.
Premiums-The premium cost of this Plan shall be paid by the Company.
5. Integration- The Planwill not provide like benefits where such are currently being provided by federal or provincial legislation.
If during the life of this Agreement Federalor Provincial government shall introduce legislation to provide benefits already covered by this Plan, the Plan shall be amended so as to eliminate said benefits.
73
14:06 VISION CARE PLAN ■ Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, E. B, Eddy Forest ProductsLtd., Group Policy60526will remain in effectduringthe life Df this Agreement.
Fffective first of the month following_the date of ratification increasethe vision care maximum benefitto $150.00 every two(2) calendar years. The benefitwill be equivalent to Blue Cross Vision Care Plan (Basic) for all employees and their dependents.
14:07 BENEFrrSATLAYOFFS-Thefollowina benefits shall be paid to the end of the month following lay
Off
a)	Life Insurance
b)	Medical, Surgical, Drug and Hospital Care Plan,
c)	Dental Care Plan
d)	Vision Care Plan
14.08 Disputed w-----------------
It is understood that when delays in excess <±fifteen (15) days occur in Workers' Compensation payments due to a dispute, the Company is preparedto advance an employee two weeks benefits to be repaid when payment is received. It i s understood that the two weeks payment will be equivalent to
74
two weeks of Weekly Indemnity benefits. 11 is further understood that every two weeks after the first advance a further two week advance will be issued until such time as the dispute is settled and the compensation payments begin.
I fa Workers'Safety and Insurance Board claim isdenied, repaymentto the Companywill be made when the employee receives payment through Weekly Indemnity.
Thefifteen (15) day periodwill beginfromthe last day worked.
14.09	Effectivedate of ratification, the health and dental plan premium costs will be shared at a rate of eighty-five percent (85%) by the Company and fifteen percent (15%) by the employee.
As of August 31, 2010, the Company resumes full payment of premiumsatwhich pointthis Article becomes null and void on this date.
75
ARTICLE XV- PENSION PLAN
15:01 FLAT BENEFIT PLAN - The Company will establish and administer a non-contributory pension plan for all hourly-rated employees with one year of service or more effective Septemberl, 1984. Normal retirementwill be first day of the month following attainment of age 65. An employee with ten (10) years of continuous Company service can elect to retire after age 55, however, the monthly payments will be actuarially reduced. The cost of the plan will be paid by the Company.
Effective September 1, 2001, the Flat Benefit Pension Ran is increased from $32.00 per year of pensionable service to $38.00 per year of pensionable service for employees who are accruing service in the Flat Benefit Pension Planafter Septemberl, 2001.
Itisunderstoodthatthis increaseof$6.00 per year of pensionable service will not apply to retirees covered underthe Letterof UnderstandingRe: Special Downsizing RetirementWindow. I twill also not apply to employees who will receive a severance payment under the Letter of Understanding Re Severance Pay.
To offset the cost of the pension formula increase for past service and for current service, the Company and the Union agree to reduce the Hourly
76
Wage Rate increases granted under the term of this Agreement by 3.95%, during a period of three (3) years and six (6) months.
A temporary adjustment to the Hourly Rate of all positions will subsequently be made to reflect this hourly wage increase reduction effective September 1, 2001. A special rate adjustment will be made effective March 2005, to increase individual ratesto99.5% of their original projectedlevel, taking intoaccountthe permanentcostof0.50% for current service cost increase.
I n addition, employees will be allowed to transfer their 2000 Domtar Profit Sharing payment intothe Money Purchase Plan on a pre-tax basis.
Guaranteed Payments- If a retiredemployees death occurs before he has receivedsixty (60) monthly payments of retirement income under the plan, his retirement income paymentswill continue to be paid to his beneficiary until the remainder of the sixty (60) monthly payments has been paid from the trust fund.
Surviving Spouse Pension - If a married employeewith 10 years of continuous service with the Company, who qualifies for early retirementafter age 55 and before age 65, dies before his retirement date
77
the employee’s survivingspouse will receive60% of the earned pension allowance for the life of the surviving spouse, commencing on the first day of the month following date of death. I fthe survivingspouse is more than 10 years younger than the deceased employee, the monthly pensionwould be actuarially reduced.
Disability Benefit- An employee with at least 10 years of continuous service who has attained age 55, has qualified for disability benefits under the CPP/QPP and is totally and permanently disabled will be eligible for a monthly disability pension without actuarial reduction.
(0 Effective September 1, 1995 the Flat Pension Ran is amended to provide for $32.00 per month per year of pensionable service for both past and future service.
(II) Effective September 1.1995, any member in service who elects to retire early upon his/her attainment of age 60 or after, provided he has accumulated at least ten (10) years of continuous service, will receive, commencing on his/her early retirement date, a retirement income benefit equal to the retirement income benefit he/she had accumulated to such early retirement date without actuarial reductionsubjectto the minimum reductions required by Revenue Canada.
78
any member
who has attained age sixty (60) and has accumulated a minimum of ten (IO) years of continuous service shall be eligible to the following bridgingsupplement.
Those employeesretiringearly on or after age 60 with at leastten (10) years of continuous service shall receive a bridging supplement of fifteen dollars ($15.00) per month per year of continuous service to a maximum of thirty (30) years. The bridging supplement will reduce to zero on the first day of the month following the member's sixty-fifth (65th) birthday or on his/her death, whichever occurs first.
Employeesoff work on Long Term Disability benefits shall continue to accrue Flat Benefit Pension credits at no cost. This provision is to be applied to those employees currently receiving Long Term Disability benefits.
15:02 MONEYPURCHASEPLAN-EffectiveJanuary 1, 1993, in addition to the current Flat Benefit Flan noted above, a mandatory Money Purchase Flanwill be introducedandwill be applicableto all employees after one (l)r of service.
79
This new Money Purchase Plan will be contributedto by boththe Company andtheemployee. The level of monthly contributions will be $55.00 by both the Company and the employee. Effective September 1, 1998, at the option of the employee, the monthly contribution level by boththe employee and employer will increasefrom $60.00 to $70,00.
at the option of
the employee, the monthly contribution level by both the employee and the employer will further increase to $90.00.
Effectivedateofratification,attheoption ofthe employee, the monthly contributionlevel by the employee will increaseto one hundred andten ($110) dollarswith no match from the employer after seventy ($70) dollars.
EffectiveAugust 31st, 2010, the pension plan will revertbackto $90.00/$90.00.
In addition to those options noted above, employeeswill be offered the opportunity to transfer monies generated from the ProductionBonusintothe MoneyPurchasePlanattheiroption.Theadministrative costs associated with the Money Purchase Plan are to be paid for by the Company. Any investmentfees will be the responsibilityof the employee.
80
Employees off work on Long Term Disability shall beentitledtocontinuecontributingintothe Money Purchase Plan while off on disability. The Company agrees to make their contribution for as long as the employee continuesto makehis/her contributions.
Those employees on W.S.I.B. can continue to contribute into the Money Purchase Plan for up to twenty-four (24) months. I ft he employees elect to continue contributing, the Company will continue to make their requiredcontributions.
Employeeswho are off work due to a Weekly Indemnity claim cm,for a period of up to twelve
(12)	months continue to contribute into the Money Purchase Plan. If the employees elect to continue contributing, the Company will continueto make their requiredcontributions.
15.03	DEFINED CONTRIBUTION PLAN - All
employees hired after January 1, 2008, will participateinthefollowing plan. Theywill not be allowed to participate in the two existing planswhich are available only to employees hired before January 1, 2008. The actual pension planswi II be replaced (for new hires only) by a defined contribution plan. Within the defined contribution plan, the employer
81
will match employee contributions up to a maximum of 4%. The employeewi II havethe option of contributing more than 4%. The plan text will be available at the start of the plan.
15.04	Pension Committee
Upon ratification, the Company and the Union will implement a Pension committee.
The Pension Committee:
The Company agrees to meetwitn tne union on an annual basisto reviewailofthe pension plan activities for the previous year. During the course of this meeting the Company will discuss and provide to the Union data pertaining to the operation of the plans such as:	total contributions made in the plans,
number of participants in the plan, number of employees retiring from the plan, the rate of return on investments, audited financial statements, actuarial valuations, annual information on returns and plan amendments available.
82
The Union Committee shall consist of CEP local 31-X Presidentandtwo other members.
The Company will pay all of the costs.
ARTICLE XVI - BEREAVEMENT PAY
16:01 When death occurs to an employee's spouse or children, the employee will be granted leave to attend the funeral and shall be paid for eight (8) hours at his regular straight time rate for time lost up to a maximum of five (5) days in the eight (8) day period beginningwith the day of death. When death occurs to an employee's father, mother, father-in-law, mother-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, brother, sister, grandparents, grandchild, the employee will be granted leave to attendthe funeral and shall be paidfor eight (8) hours at his regular straight time rate for time lost up to a maximum of three (3) days in the eight (8) day period beginning with the day of death. The intent of this clause is to allow the employee to attend the funeral without loss of earnings. Pay will be granted for the regular scheduled work days lost during the period. Any claim for bereavement pay must be submitted by the employee inwriting along with proof of bereavement in the employee's immediatefamily. If the employee does not attend the funeral, he shall
83
receiveone (1) days compassionateleavewith pay.
An employee must have thirty(30) or more days of service to qualify for payment. The five day funeral leave will be granted over an eight day period for scheduledwork days lost beginningwith day death occurs.
An employee absent on scheduled vacation will be granted the usual number of days applicable to funeral leave in addition to his vacation at a time mutuallyconvenientto the employeeandthe Company within sixty (60) days.
ARTICLE XVII - JURY DUTY
17:01 I n the case of an employee who is called for jury service, subpoenaed witness or crown witness, the Company shall pay, for each day of such service, an allowance equal to the difference between eight (8) hours of pay based on his regular straight time hourly rate and the payment he received for jury service. The employee will present proof of service and of pay received therefore when making his claim for such allowance.
The employee will be excused from his shift if he is required to work anytime in the calendar day he is requiredfor jury duty.
84
ARTICLE XVIII- LEAVE OF ABSENCE
18:01 The Company agrees to pay regular straight time wages to employees on temporary leave of absence forty (40) hours in one pay period for Union business. The local Union shall be billed for straight time wages paid. The Company will make all normal deductionsfor income tax, C.P.P., etc. A request in writingfor aleaveof absencefor official Union business will besubmittedtothe Human Resources Supervisor at leastten days in advance and the requestwill be granted subject to availability of employees to cover the vacancy. Requests in writing received less than ten days in advance will be granted provided the granting of the requestwill not affect operations. The payment of overtime premium will not be considered as affecting mill operations subject to availability of employeesto cover the vacancy.
SEVERANCE PAY
19:01 A permanent employee with at least two years' continuous service who is laid off due to job elimination by Management decision for such causes as more efficient operation, change or elimination of a proress, lack of orders, shall be paid severance pay if no job is available. Severancepay shall not be paid due to job elimination for such causes as fire, flood, explosion or "Act of God".
85
Severance pay shall be paid in accordance with the following:
a) Severance pay shall be2% of an employee's total earnings for his last full period of service without interruption due to lack of work. Severance pay will not be paid to employees who resign or are discharged. One-half of this severance pay is payable after the employee has been laid off due to job elimination for a period of twelve (12) weeks. The second half of the severance pay is payable after the employee has been laid off a total of six (6) months. It shall be the responsibilityof the employee to make applicationfor such severance pay.
If recalled to work before the severance payment is payable, no such payment will be made. Any employee refusinga recall shall forfeit his right to severance pay.
If an employee is recalled after having received all of the severance pay due him, he will, as of the day of return, commence a new period of accumulationwhich will be creditedtoward any future layoff.
(d) I fan employee is recalled after having received half of the severance pay due him, he will, upon return to work, retain the right to the unpaid portionwhich will be added to any new accumulation of severance pay.
86
ARTICLE XX- APPRENTICESHIP PLAN
20:01 An Ontario Government approved apprenticeship program will be established in the following trades:
Millwright
Heavy Duty Equipment Mechanic
Electrician
Sawfiler
Others may be added as required.
The lengthof the apprenticeshipprogramswill be four work periods of 2000 hours plus all mandatory school periods.
Thenumberofemployeesintheapprenticeship program in each trade will be governed by the future manpower requirements in the trade.
1.	The programwill be based on the Ontario Government's Apprenticeship and Tradesmen's Qualification Act. The Company shall provide, to the employee any Academic Upgrading needed to meet the minimum qualifications to apply for the apprenticeship program.
2.	Applicants must have a minimum of grade 10 education or equivalent as required for a certified program. They will berequiredto submit to a series of aptitude tests to determinetheir suitability
87
for the apprenticeship program. When more than the required number of applicants pass the aptitude tests the senior employee(s) shall be awarded the apprenticeship.
3.	The formal training program will be completed and the certificates of qualification, both Government and Company, will be issued.
4.	Straight time overtime hours will apply towardstherequired accumulatedtime. The Personnel Departmentwill keep records of accumulatedtime for each apprentice.
5.	Some of the regulated trades programs will require modification to ensure that apprentices learn tasks required in the Nairn operation
6.	Apprentices must acquire a complete set of trade related tools before 4800 work hours have been accumulated.
7.	There will be a sixty (60) day probationary period for all employees entering the apprenticeship program. Duringthis period, if the employee does not display the necessary aptitude for the particulartrade he may be returnedto hisformerjob without loss of seniority. The apprentice must be successful at the in-schoolapprenticeshipprogram in order to continue
88
inthe program. Two successive failures at school will constitute a dissolution of any contract between the Company and employee. Similarlythe contractwill be dissolved if the Advisory Committee recommendsthe withholding of two successive pay increases.
8.	The Company agrees to provideapprentices the difference between forty (40) hours at his regular rate and any Government subsidies available while at the in-school program. All benefits will continue during the period the apprentice is at school. The Companywill provideonehundred($100) perweek for room and board in addition to the Government compensation. The Company will further supply all books or materials on loan to the apprentice in order to complete the requiredcourse.
The Company is prepared to reimburse an employeefor mileage in accordancewith our divisional travel policy that states mileage is calculated from an employee's home or the mill, whichever is closer.
9.	The progress of each apprentice will be recorded and kept on file in the Personnel Department.
10.	V\fegeswill be in accordancewith Schedule "A" attached.
89
11.	The program will be supervised by the Trades Training Advisory Committee, which will consist of two members of Local31-X, two members of Management, and a Chairman. The Chairman's position will be filled by the Director cf Human Resources, Wood Products.
12.	It is understood that the rate for the second, third or fourth periodwill not be paid untilthe apprentice completes the mandatory schooling at the end of each period. If the apprenticesschool results are successful, all hoursworked betweenthe end cf a period, the time an apprentice goes to school, will be paid rates retroactiveto the start cf the period.
13.	I n a lay off situation, those still on the propertydueto seniority will continueinor be recalled to the Apprenticeship Program based on progress (accumulated hours) to date.
90
SCHEDULE "A" SCHEDULEOF WAGE RATES FOR
TRADESTRAINING PROGRAM
Millwrights
Heavy Duty EquipmentMechanics
Electricians
Sawfflers
Four periods of 2000 hours
1st Period 1-2000 hours 2nd Period 2001-4000 hours 3rd Period 4001-6000 hours 4th Period 6001-8000 hours Completion of Program
Apprentice 1 Apprentice 2 Apprentice 3 Apprentice 4 Licensed
91
ARTICLE XX ■- AUTOMATION AND.
TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE
The Company proposedthis introductionof an Article aimed at addressing automation and technological change:
The Company is concerned about the impact 'A' on employees and conditions of employment resultingfrom technologicalchange, automation and change or eliminationof a process.
(B)	A Joint Committee on Automation and/or Technological Change will be established consisting of six persons, three selected by Managementandthree selected by the Union. The function of the Joint Committee shall be advisory to Management and it will study the effects on employees, their employment status and their working conditions in the mill, of changes resulting from automation and/or technologies I change.
The Joint Committee, among other things will consider early retirement, retraining, transfers to other jobs, as well as the availability of assistance from thevarious levelsof Government as a means of assisting employees displaced by changes resulting from automation and/or technologicalchange.
92
(C)	Havingconcem forthe impactof such changes which may result in job elimination, the Company undertakes to advisethe Unionasfar in advance as is feasible (not less than ninety (90) days) of such changes which the Company has decided to introduce, which will result in significant change in the employment status of employees. The Company will indicate, when notificationofthis technologicalchange is made, which position(s) will be affected.
(D)	At such time, the Company will supply the Joint Committee, for its use, such information as may be required.
(E)	All persons who are employed with
years continuousservicewho are set backto a lowerpaidjob duetojob elimination under conditions set forth above, his rate shall be maintained for a period of six (6) months from date of set back.
For an additional period of six (6) months, an adjusted rate will be established midway between his previous rate at time of set back and the rate of his new job for each work week, which depends upon the operating schedule. At the end of one (1) year, the rate of the job to which he is assigned will apply.
93
Scheduled” Occupation Codes, Rates and Dates
JDE	Description	Present	Date of	Day after	Aug
Code					Ratification	Ratification	31,2010
701	Carpenter-Apprentice2	$22.20	$22.20	$18,87	$22.20
701	Carpenter-Apprentice3	$22.96	$22,96	$19.52	$22.96
701	Carpenter-Apprentice4	$23.66	$23,66	$20.11	$23.66
701	Carpenter	$26,42	$26.42	$22,46	$26.42
702	Electrician-Apprenticel	$21.48	$21.91	$18.62	$21.91
702	Electridan-Apprentice2	$22.20	$22,64	$19.25	$22.64
702	Electrician-Apprentice3	$22.96	$23,42	$19,91	$23.42
702	Electrician-Apprentice4	$23,65	$24.12	$20.50	$24,12
702	Electrician	$26.42	$26.95	$22.91	$26,95
703	Filer-Apprentice I	$21,48	$21.91	$18.62	$21.91
703	Filer—Apprentice2	$22.21	$22.65	$19.26	$22.65
703	Filer—Apprentices	$22.96	$23,42	$19.91	$23.42
703	Filer—Apprentice4	$23.65	$24.12	$20.50	$24.12
703	Filer- Licenced	$26.42	$26.95	$22,91	$26.95
704	Filer Assistant	$23.66	$24.13	$20,51	$24.13
705	Fitter	$22,96	$23.42	$19.91	$23.42
706	Millwright-Apprenticel	$21,48	$21.91	$18.62	$21,91
706 Millwright-Apprentice2	$22,21	$22.65	$19.26	$22.65
706 Millwright-Apprentice3	$22.96	$23,42	$19,91	$23.42
706 Millwright-Apprentice4	$23.66	$24,13	$20.51	$24.13
94
706	Millwright-Licenced $26.42
707	Millwright-Unlicensed $26.42
708	Sawftler — Unlicensed $26.42
710	Crewleader—Millwright $27.39
711	Crewleader-Electrical $27.39
712	ReliefProductionSuper $27.39
713	BattenMillOperator $21.48 717Crewleader- Filing $27.39
720	Cherry PickerOperator $22.27
721	Chip Truck Driver $22,81
722	Poclain Operator $22.75
723	Stationary LoaderOper. $22.27
724	Truck Driver-S/L $22.27
725	Heede Crane Operator $25.40 740 General Labourer $21.48
750	LumberRecoveryOper. $22.43
751	Bin Man	$21.67
752	Butt Saw Operator $21.72
753	Chipper Canter	$24.05
754	BfiipperOperator $21.72
755	Clean Up Person $21.48
756	Slab Recovery Operator $22.52
757	Dry Kiln Operator $22,70
758	Re-entry Operator $23.04
$26.95
$26.95
$26,95
$27.94
$27.94
$27,39
$21.48
$27.39
$22,27
$22,81
$22.75
$22.27
$22.27
$25,40
$21.48
$22.43
$21.67
$21.72
$24.05
$21.72
$21,48
$22.52
$22.70
$23.04
$22.91 $26.95 $22.91 $26.95 $22.91 $26.95 $23.75 $27.94 $23.75 $27.94 $23.28 $27.39 $18.26 $21.48 $23.28 $27.39 $18.93 $22.27 $19.39 $22.81 $19.34 $22.75 $18.93 $22.27 $18.93 $22.27 $21.59 $25.40 $18.26 $21.48 $19.07 $22.43 $18.42 $21.67 $18.46 $21.72 $20.44 $24.05
$18.46 $21.72 $18.26 $21.48 $19.14 $22.52 $19.30 $22.70 $19.58 $23.04
95
759	Framerlnfeed Man $21.48
760	FramerOperator $22.75
761	FramerOutfeed Man $21.55
762	Greenchain Man $21,58
763	Hood Slasher Operator $22.75
764	Descanner Operator $22.63
765	LicensedGrader/ $24.86 Trimmerman
766	LiftOperator(Train1-30) $21.78
767	Lift Operat.(Train31 -60)	$22.03
768	LiftOperat.-Lumber Hdl. $22.27
769	LogProcessorOperator $24.35
770	Markll Operator $23,05
771	PlanerMilllnfeed Man $24.35
772	Reman Operator	$22,42
773	Stacker Man	$21.95
774	Sticker Placer	$21.58
775	Trimmerman - L.L.M.	$23,43
776	Debarker Operator	$22.28
777	Twin Resaw Operator	$23,81
778	UnlicensedGrader	$21,95
779	UtiliOperator	$22.55
780	FHighSpeed StudOper.	$23.05
781	V\fedge Mill Bundler	$21.60
782	Wedge Mill Operator	$21.98
96
$21.48
$22,75
$21.55
$21.58
$22.75
$22.63
$24.86
$21.78
$22.03
$22,27
$24,35
$23.05
$24.35
$22.42
$21.95
$21.58
$23.90
$22.28
$23.81
$21.95
$22.55
$23.05
$21.60
$21,98
$18.26 $21,48 $19,34 $22,75 $18.32 $21,55 $18.34 $21.58 $19.34 $22.75 $19.24 $22.63 $21.13 $24.86
$18.51 $21.78 $18.73 $22.03 $18.93 $22.27 $20.70 $24.35 $19,59 $23.05 $20.70 $24.35 $19.06 $22.42 $18.66 $21,95 $18.34 $21.58 $20.31 $23.90 $18.94 $22.28 $20.24 $23,81 $18.66 $21.95 $19.17 $22.55 $19.59 $23.05 $18.36 $21.60 $18.68 $21.98
783	Tilt HoistOperator
784	Strapper Operator
785	PackageMaker/ Operator
786	Assist. Processor Operat.
787	Lift Operat-Log
788	^i=ls?Scanner Operator 790 Utility Operator-Olivine
792	Flow Person
793	Primary Sorter
794	Lmbr. Strapper/Wrapper 798 LumberWrapper
797	ProcessorTiuck Driver
798	Handpuil Loader
799	8fyfi?fn Lead* Licensed“B" Grader
800	Day Worker (Maintenance)
801	Chaser- Sawmill
$21.48
$22.11
$22.40
$22,75
$22.27
$22.34
$23.04
$23.84
$22,43
$22.34
$21.99
$21.48
$22.42
$23.64
$24.08
$26.42
$24.05
JOB GROUPINGS
741	Sawyer	$24.05
742	Mobile Equipment	$22,57
743	Machine Operator	$22.57
744	Log Preparation	$22,57
745	MachineOperator2	$24,36
97
$21.48
$22.11
$22.40
$22.75
$22.27
$22,34
$23.04
$23.84
$22.43
$22.34
$21.99
$21,48
$22,42
$23.64
$24.08
$26.95
$24.05
$24.05
$22.57
$22.57
$22.57
$24.36
$18.26 $21.48 $18.79 $22.11 $19.04 $22.40 $19.34 $22.75
$18.93 $22.27
$18.99 $22.34 $19.58 $23,04 $20.26 $23.84 $19.07 $22,43 $18.99 $22.34 $18.69 $21.99 $18.26 $21,48 $19.06 $22.42
$20.09 $23.64 $20.47 $24.08 $22.91 $26.95
$20.44 $24.05
$20.44 $24.05 $19.18 $22,57 $19.18 $22.57 $19.18 $22.57 $20.71 $24.36
746	La bo urer—Jo b Rotation	$22.57
747	Licensed Grader-Job	$24.86
Rot
748	Stacker/Bin Person	$22-57
749	Crane/Log Loader	$25.40
$22.57
$24.86
$22.57
$25.40
$19.18 $22.57 $21.13 $24.86
$19.18 $22.57 $21.59 $25.40
WAGE RATE INCREASES
Effective date of ratificationa 2% wage increasewill be offered to Trimmer Operator and Maintenance classifications
EffectiveSeptember 12010 EffectiveSeptemberl, 2011 EffectiveSeptember 1^012
2.0% wage increase 2.0% wage increase 2.0% wage increase
98
SCHEDULED" NAIRN CENTRESAWMILL SENIORITY LIST
Employee Ranking	Seniority	Telephone
Number	Numher Name	Date	Number
20	1
22	2
23	3
30	4
39	5
57	6
97	7
115	8
125	9
128	10
139	11
174	12
205	13
219	14
226	15
232	16
243	17
244	18
258	19
248	20
301	21
314	22
332	23
340	24
355	25
353	26
361	27
379	28
399	29
Labrecque, Jacques02/02/68 Landry, George 21/08AS8 Beaudry, Ronald	20/09/68
Moores, Ralph 18/12/70 Thibeault, Richard 15/01/73 St Pierre, Gerard 16/04/73 Richer, Roland	10/07/73
Legrow, Richard 08/08/73 Simonds, Phillip 04/09/73 Fairbaim, Lloyd 04/09/73 Newton, Eric	02/10/73
Beaudiy,Aime	02/04/74
Goodchild, Remmie 19/08/74 Legrow, Ken	07/04/75
Bouillon, Marcel	07/04/75
Dupuis, Donald	21/04/75
Boomhower, Calvin 12/05/75 Thaxter, Fred	12/05/75
Gibson, Ronald	12/05/75
Simon, Jean	20/05/75
Thibodeau, Maurice 21/07/75 Mandamin,lvan	18/08/75
Gagne, John	02/09/75
Noble,William	02/09/75
Karvonen, John	22/10/75
Varey, Robert	24/10/75
St. Michel, Ken	05/11/75
Green, Floyd	23/02/76
Joyce, Robert	10/03/76
869-1288
869-4178
869-2970
869-1067
869-4943
869-2409
869-1762
869-3160
869-4336
869-5941
869-2557
522-3763
869-2292
869-6135
869-2200
522-6748
869-4923
869-3709
869-0419
692-5325
869-2659
859-2365
869-4617
869-1074
869-2769
368-3039
869-2084
862-7070
862-8312
99
404
411
446
451
467
481
225
527
559
562
574
585
600
608
613
619
640
650
651
664
666
679
695
709
731
748
728
757
759
768
769
781
786
803
811
812
814
818
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
46
47
48
49
50
51
52
53
54
55
56
57
58
59
60 61 62
63
64
65
66 67
Totman, Charles	15/03/76
Jordan, James	15/03/76
Simon, Edward	23/03/76
Owl, Mervyn	26/04/76
Robert	13/05/76
McDonald, Roger	07/06/76
Lamothe, Jean Paul	10/06/76
Kaiser, Klaus	17/02/77
Massicotle, Allen	21/02/77
Ellis, Robert 21/02/77 Lemieux, Ronald	28/02/77
Bouchard, Arthur	08/03/77
Lingenfelter, William	25/04/77
Lagrandeur,Andre 27/06/77 Lalonde, Michel	08/08/77
Elliott, Howard	18/08/77
Dougan, Brian	13/09/77
Volpel, Martin 11/10/77 McAllister, Jack 11/10/77 Salo, Robert 02/11/77 Pleuna, Larry 07/11/77 Martell, Phillip 20/02/78 Evelegh, Brian 30/05/78 Minor, Claude 29/06/78 Larocque, Roland 06/11/78 Recollet, Ronald 06/06/79 Toulouse, Melvin 11/06/79 Mclvor, David 04/09/79 Toulouse, Donald	17/09/79
Fairbaim, Bruce	15/10/79
Kozachanko, Mike 15/10/79 Gignac, Ronald 28/01/80 Shank,Alcide 13/02/80 Bouchard, Robert	05/08/80
Larocque, Leon	10/09/80
blonde, Real 10/09/80 Ducharme, Richard 15/09/80 Brimicombe, Paul 18/11/80 100
8694431
368-0387
368-3151
865-2516
869-2736
282-2113
869-2424
3774736
869-1750
869-1767
869-1595
865-3154
676-2016
869-0251
869-6169
869-2923
869-0438
692-9186
865-2980
869-6165
692-1514
865-2368
522-7072
855-8131
855-3871
859-2788
865-3484
368-3108
865-2984
8690299
869-3786
692-1672
6900827
865-3085
855-9812
8694032
8694026
8694091
822
823
826
828
844
851
857
858
861
865
867
870
873
877
902
924
1031
1153
68	Varey, Michael	05/02/81
69	Vallee, Kevin	05/02/81
70	Robinson, James	18/02/81
71	Rancourt, Raymond 11/05/81
72	Killer, David	30/03/83
73	Fensom, Joseph	25/05/83
74	Moroz, Wiliam	13/02/84
Leonard, Roy	13/02/84
76	Antonio, David	14/02/84
77	Gaudreau, Richard	19/03/84
78	Lajeunesse, Ronald 20/03/84
79	Campbell, James	17/04/84
80	Lacasse, Daniel	18/04/84
81	Fenton, Dan	23/04/84
82	Roy, Marc	22/10/84
83	Bolduc, George	29/05/85
84	Spry,Allan	08/09/87
85	Bentley, Sheldon	17/10/89
101
368-3667
670-9257
368-1872
285-0889
869-5222
8694427
869-0648
869-5720
869-3682
862-0095
869-3306
6734801
869-0659
368-3688
692-0861
285-0512
368-3134
869-3083
SCHEDULE"D"
LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING
1.	Weekly Indemnity
2.	Four Crew Maintenance Schedule
3.	Job Groupings
4.	Contractors
5	Call List
102
INC.
NAIRN CENTRE SAWMILL OPERATIONS AND
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGYAND PAPERWORKERS' UNION AND ITS LOCAL 31-X NAIRN CENTRE, ONTARIO
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING RE
WEEKLY INDEMNITY
It is understood and agreed that any employee placed under a quarantinedue to either contact with or suffering from a communicable disease will be covered by Weekly Indemnity. It is also understood and agreed that any employee who is off work for treatment due to alcohol or drug addiction and is underthe care of a licensed physicianwill becovered under Weekly Indemnity. The normal three day waiting period will apply.
For the Company
For the Union
103
INC.
NAIRN CENTRE SAWMILL OPERATIONS AND
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGYAND PAPERWORKERS UNION
AND ITS LOCAL31-x NAIRN CENTRE, ONTARIO
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
RE:
FOURCREW MAINTENANCESCHEDULE
The Partiesagreethatthis Letterof Understandingand specific provisionscited belowshallidentify, amendand supersedetheCollectiveAgreement as itrelatesto the Four Crew Maintenance Schedule. The parties agree that the provisions of this Letterof Understandingcan be amended by mutual agreement. 1
1.	The maintenancescheduleshallhavefour crews; a day crewwill be scheduled from 7:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m., mealtime included. An afternoon crewwill be scheduled from 12:00 p.m. to 12:00 a.m., mealtime included and shall carry a shift differential of $0.57 as perthe attached work schedule. A night crew will be scheduled
104
from 7:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m., mealtimeincluded and shall carry a shift differential of $0.57 per hour as per the attached work schedule.
2.	Article7.02(b) will bedeemedto beamendedto read:
(8) times their hourly rate for the day cf the Statutory Holiday if they are work that day. If the employee was scheduled to work on a Statutory Holiday he will receive the equivalent amount of his pay. if he was requiredto work on a Statutory Holiday he will receive pay for the day worked as per Article 7.03 or receive time and one-half only for time worked and bank eight hours or one day. 11 is understood that the banked time taken must betaken at atime agreeable to both parties and that whole days must be used.”
3.	This Letter of Understanding shall supersede the provisions of Article 11.01(a).
4.	The first paragraph of Article 11.05 will be deemed to be amended to read:
"Time worked outside an employee’s scheduled shift or work week and the first eight (8) hours
105
on Sunday shall be paid for at the rate of time and one-half. Double time will be paid after eight (8) hours of work on Sunday except as provided in #1 above."
5.	Article 16.01 will be deemed amended to read that the provisions of this Article will provide for payments as stipulated provided that they do not exceed forty (40) hours per week for an immediatefamily memberandtwenty-four (24) hours per week for the remaining individuals cited."
6.	Article 17.01 will be deemed amended to read that in case of an employeewho is calledforjury service, subpoenaed witness or crown witness, the Company shall pay for each day of service, an allowance equal to the difference between the employees scheduled hours of work for that day basedon his regularstraighttime hourly rate and the payment he received for jury service up to a maximum total of forty (40) hours of work for the week.
7.	Floating holidays as stipulated in Article 7.01 will be deemed to equal eight (8) times the employees regular straighttime wage.
106
8.	The parties agree that there shall be a twenty (20) minute paid lunch break and two ten (10) minute coffee breaks on the twelve (12) hour schedule.
Forthe Company
For the Union
For the Union
DOMTAR INC.
107
NAIRN CENTRE SAWMILL OPERATIONS AND
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS'
UNION
AND IT LOCAL 31-X NAIRN CENTRE, ONTARIO
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
RE
JOB GROUPINGS
The parties agree to the following provisions in order to facilitate the implementation of the New Job Groupings. The parties agree that if at any time during the duration of the current Collective Agreement a significant problemor concern arises or a new position is created, the parties agree to meet and discuss the issuefully. Where mutuallyagreeable, the parties can amend the Job Groupings detailed within the Letter of Understanding. 1
1.	All employeeswithin a particular Job Grouping will fully participate in the job rotation unless a particular employee has provided the Company acceptable documentation confirming his inabilityto perform a particular task(s). Such employees will not receive the VWge Rate for the Job Grouping but would rather be paid in accordance with the previous classificationstructure.
108
2.	The Company will ensure that all employees are fully trained under the currenttraining mechanisms, including health and safety prior to being deemed as qualified on each and every formerjob classification in a particularJob Grouping. Employees shall receivethe Job Grouping Wage Rate immediately.
3.	At the time of posting a vacancy within a particular Job Grouping, the posting will reference the specific vacancy from the formerjob classification structure and the particular job classifications contained within the Job Grouping.
4.	The rotation schedule within a particularJob Grouping will be determined by the employees within that Job Grouping and as agreed with the respective supervisor.
As a general principle such rotations shall occur once per quarter shift.
5.	The Job Groupings will be as presented by the Company. The 'New1 Log PreparationArea requires four positions per shift. The Company is prepared to recognize the skills and transferability of the incumbents inthe former Debarker and Utility Operator classifications in order that they may assume two of the newly created positions per shift. The remainingtwo positions per shift will be posted in accordance with the provisions of Article 12.
6.	The current incumbents in the Trimmerman position shall maintain their existing wage rate and will receive any increases negotiated by the Union until such time as they vacate the position or retire.
109
JOB GROUPINGS;
The employees will rotate within the following job groupings.'
SAWMILL
Current Position	Job Groups
ChipperCanter	Sawyer
Flow Person	Sawyer
Current New Rate Rate"
$21.48 $21.48 $21.28 $21,48
Lift Operator-Log
Handling	Mobile Equipment $19.89 $20.15
Lift Operator-Lumber Mobile Equipment $19.89 $20,15
Trimmerman Esterer Operator
Operator UtilityOperator Step Feeder Chaser
Clean up
Stacker Man Sticker Placer
Machine Operator Machine Operator
Log Preparation Log Preparation Log Preparation Log Preparation
Labourer
Labourer
Labourer
$20.92 $20.15 $20.02 $20.15
$19.90 $20.15 $20.13 $20.15 n/a	$20.15
n/a	$20.15
$19.17 $20.15
$19.59 $20.15 $19.27 $20.15
no
PLANER
Current New
Current Position Job Groups Bate, Rate!* Licensed Grader	Licensed trader	$22.18	$22.20
Infeed Operator	Machine Operator	$21.74	$21.75
Tilt Hoist Operator	Machine Operator	$21.74	$21.75
Lift Operator-Lurrw Mobile Equipment	$19.89	$20.15
Handpull Loader	Mobile Equipment	$20,01	$20.15
PackageMaker	Labourer	$20.00	$20.15
Strapper Operator	Labourer	$19.74	$20.15
Cleanup	Labourer	$19.17	$20.15
Heede CraneOperatorHeede Crane Operator $22.68 $22.68 Dry Kiln Lead	Dry Kiln Lead	$21.10	$21.10
ChipTtuck Driver	ChipTruck Driver	$20.36	$20.36
LicensedTrades	LicensedTrades	$23.58	$23.58
** Wage rates shall be as per Schedule "B"
For the Company
in
DOMTAR INC.
NAIRN CENTRE SAWMILL OPERATIONS \ND
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGYAND PAPERWORKERS' UNION AND ITS LOCAL 31-X NAIRN CENTRE, ONTARIO
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
RE
CONTRACTORS
The parties agree that this Letter of Understanding and the specific provisions cited below shall identify, amend and supersede the CollectiveAgreement as it relatesto contractors.
The employees of contractors engaged in the loading and hauling of wood chips and bark will not be considered employees within the term of this agreement.
It i s also agreed that this letter is non-negotiable for two (2) terms of the CollectiveAgreement, with the first CollectiveAgreement ending August 31, 2010.
112
113
INC.
NAIRN CENTRE SAWMILL OPERATIONS AND
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGYAND PAPERWORKERS' UNION AND ITS LOCAL31-X NAIRN CENTRE, ONTARIO
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING RE
CALL LIST
It is agreed betweenthe Union and the Company that therewill beaCaB in list inwhich these employeeswill be called in by seniority.
All work will count towards seniority and once the employee has completed the required probationary period, his/her seniority will start from their date of hire.
These employees must submit to the Company their availability seven (7) days prior to the schedule being posted.
A copy of the availability sheets will be forwarded to the Localweekly.
114
Phone records will be given to the Local upon request.
of bargaining unit memberswill be
on the Call list.
115
Signed this 20* day of Here* mo 2007, in Naim Centre, Ontario.
FOR THE COMPANY FQR.THE UNION
Domtar V\food Products Communications, Energyand NairnCentreSawmill	Papeiworkers' Unionandlts
Operations	Local 31-X
. !	•-----4.
D. Drouin General Manager NairnCentre
__ -	v
—	*^>7 :iZ. Vr^NoX^v
R, Mihalick" NationalRepresentative Sawmill Operations
S. Blanchette	R. Gibson
Director	President-Local 31-X
Healthand Safety Manager
D. Swanson Human Resources HealthandSafety Manager
R, Thibeault Chief Steward
116
SCHEDULE "E"
GENERAL INFORMATION
PLAN EFFECTIVE DATE
The benefits described in this bookletare in effect as of Septemberl, 2000.
ELIGIBILITY
All full-time hourly employees who are members of the Communications, Energy and Papetworkersllnion and its Local 31-X are eligible to participate in this plan.
If you have dependents you may insure them as well. Your spouse is eligible and your unmarried children (including adopted, foster and stepchildren). Dependentchildren are insuredupto age21.
Any mentally retarded or physically handicapped children may remain insured past the maximum age provided the child is incapable of self-sustaining employment and is wholly dependent on you for support and maintenance.
117
EFFECTIVE DATE OF COVERAGE
You become eligible for Life Insurance after having completed 30 work days of continuous active full-time employmentand LongTerm Disability immediately upon becoming insuredfor \AfeeWy Indemnity benefits.
Your Weekly Indemnity coverage, and that of your dependents, is effective after having completed 30 work days of continuous active full-time employment. Your Dental coverage, as well as your dependents', is effectiveon the date you complete awaiting periodof 90 work days or service for full-time employment.
Your Medical, Surgical, Drug and HospitalCare plans, and that of your dependents, is effective on the first day of the fourth month following the date you were employed for full time and full pay.
If you are actively insured for personal coverage and later acquire a dependent, you may enroll your dependent in the Health plan by notifying the PersonnelOffice.
If you are not actively at work on the date your V\feekly Indemnity, Medical, Dental or Vision coverage would normally become effective, coveragewill commence on your returnto work for full time and full pay.
118
If one of your dependents is hospitalizedon the date Medical coverage would normally become effective,
from the hospital.
HOWTO OBTAIN THE INSURANCE
To obtain the insurance described inthis booklet, you should complete and sign all necessary application cards. No medical examination is required for you if you apply for the insurance within the times stated.
IFYOU LEAVE OUR EMPLOY
Your group insurance will terminate if y( our employ. You have the right to change your Life Insuranceto an individual policy as available by the carrier.
LIFE INSURANCE
DEATH BENEFIT
In the event of your death from any cause, your Life Insurance under the Planwill bepaidtothe beneficiary you have named. Ifyou have named more ' beneficiary and one of those beneficiaries should die beforeyou, his or her share ofthe insurance will be paid to the surviving beneficiariesor ifthere is none, itwill be paidto your estate.
119
The amount of your Life Insuranceis $60,000.00. I n no event shall your insurance continue beyond your date of retirement.
ACCIDENTAL DEATH AND DISMEMBERMENT
BENEFIT
H, as the result of an accident, you suffer any of the losses listed below within 90 days of the accident, paymentwill be made as indicated. The principal amount of your Accident Death and Dismemberment Insurance is an amount of your Group Life Insurance.
LOSSCST:
-	Life.
-	Total and irrecoverablelossof sight of both eyes.
-	Both hands by severance at or abovewristjoints.
-	Bothfeet by severance at or above ankle joints.
-	One hand or one foot by severance at or abovewrist or anklejoints respectively, togetherwith the total and irrecoverablelosscf sight of one eye.
-	Loss of one hand and one foot by severance at or above wrist and anklejoints respectively.
120
One-half of the PrincipalAmount shall be payable for:
■ Loss of one hand by severance at or above wrist joint.
-	Lossof one foot by Severance at or above anklejoint.
-	Total and irrecoverable loss of sight of one eye.
1.	I f more than one of the losses specified in the Schedulecf Losses and Indemnitiesshown above shall be sustained by the employee as a result of any one accident, paymentshallnotexceedthePrincipalAmount of Accidental Deathand Dismembermentlnsuranceon the employee at the date of such accident.
2.	I f an employee has suffered prior to the date of becoming insuredhereunder, or does thereafter suffer, the lossof one hand by severanceat or abovethe wrist joint or one foot by severance at or above the ankle joint, or the total and irrecoverableloss of the sight of one eye, the Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insuranceon the Scheduleof Insuranceprovidedthat the amount of Insurance payable for the loss of one hand, one foot, or the sight of one eye shall be one-half the principal amount of the Insurance.
3.	The Insurance shall not cover accident, injury, death or other loss which shall result either directly or indirectly, from any one of the following:
(a) self-destructionor self-inflictedinjurieswhile sane • insane;
121
attemptingto commit an assault or
criminal offence;
riot, civilcommotion, insurrection, war or hostilities of any kind, or any act incident thereto;
bodily or mental infirmity or illness or disease of any kind;
(e)	the inhalation of gas of any kind, voluntarily or otherwise, resulting in poisoning, asphyxiation or any other condition causina death:
poisoning or infection, other than infections occurring simultaneously with and inconsequence of an accidental cut or wound;
(g) injuries of which there is no visible contusion or wound on the exterior ofthe body, unless drowning or internal injuries are revealed by autopsy;
participating! naeronauticsotherthanas permitted e carriers policy.
CONVERSIONPRIVILEGE
your insurance terminates because of termination of your employment, you will have the privilege of converting your Life Insurance, within the next 31 days without medical examination, to a new policy on any of the carriers regular plansfor an
122
amount not exceedingthe amount of your Group Life Insurance.
If you die during the 31 day period in which you might have exercised this conversion privilege, your beneficiary will be paid the amount of Life Insurance which you would have beenentitledto convert.
LONGTERM DISABILITY INSURANCE
DISABILITY
During the first year of income payments your disability must prevent you from performing any and every duty relating to your regularjob or engaging in any occupation or performing any work in the sawmill. After that time you will be considered totally disabled ifyou are unableto engage in any occupation or perform in any work in the sawmill for which the carrier considers you
education, training or experience. However, if you are working or engage in any occupation for wage or profitother than rehabilitative employment approved by the carrier, you will not be considered to be totally disabled.
BASIC MONTHLY EARNINGS
Your regular monthly earnings on will be based will exclude overtime other special compensation as at the disabled.
123
BENEFIT
If you become totally disabled beforeyou are 65 and your disability lasts longer than 52 weeks of benefits under the employer's Weekly IndemnityPlan, you will be paid a monthly income which is payable at the end of each month of disability as long as you are disabled but not beyond age 65 and in no event for more than the number of completed months equalto the employee's service. You must be undertreatment by a licensed physicianto receive benefits.
The amount of income for which you are eligible will be reduced as follows:
1.	By any payment for loss of time to which you are entitled from the Workplace Safety and Insurance Board and Canada or Quebec Pension Plan, excluding any payment in respect of your children.
2.	Further reductions will be made so that the amount you would receive from the carrier and from any other sources (any other group, association and governmental insurance, sick leave or retirementplan ofyour employer) does notexceed85% of your basic monthly earnings.
C3eneraiiy, your monthly benefit is considered taxable income. Ifitisnottaxable, the85% limitwould apply
124
to your basic earnings after deductions have been madefor income tax and pension plan.
Estimates of disability income from any of these sources will be used until the actual benefits have been established.
FA DISABILITY RECURS
Ifyou becometotallydisabledagainwithin six months duetothe same or related cause and notreceivingany income disability benefits, paymentswill commence again without the necessity of completing the 52 weeks. Disabilitiesoccurring afterthe six month period will be treated as if no prior disability had occurred and the 52 week period must be completed again.
GENERAL
The group insurance policy must be in force when your disabilitycommences but paymentswill continue even if the policy is terminated as long as you remain disabled.
LIMITATIONS
Coverage is made as broad as possible. However, exclusions include self-inflicted injury; disabilities
125
resultingfrom riot, civil commotion, insurrection, war or hostilitiesof any kind, or active duty in any armed service during a time of war.
WEEKLY INDEMNITY BENEFIT
I f you are totally dsabled, unable to work, and under
the continuing care of a physician, you will receive a weekly income not exceeding 70% of your weekly earnings. Your benefitswill commence on the earlier of:
1.	The fourth day of disability caused by sickness.
2.	The first day of a disability due to an accident.
3.	The first day of hospitalization.
During any one period of disability your benefitswill continue until you recover or for a maximum of 52 weeks, whichever is earlier.
The Company and/or the insurer reserve the right to require an independent medical examination to confirm the employee's absence due to disability. Such an examinationshall be conductedby a physician or physicians agreeable to the employee and the Company.
Any dispute arising between the Company and/or the insurer's physician and the employee's physician will be resolved by a physician (preferably a specialist) chosen by the Company and the Union.
126
Costofsuchphysicalexaminations, medicaldocuments, transportation and reasonable out-of-pocket expenses related thereto will be paid by the Company and/or insurer. An employee will continue to receive W.I. benefits or the equivalent from the Company while he/she is awaiting such examination(s).
EXCEPTIONSAN D LI MITATIO NS
Disability benefitsare not payablefor the following:
1.	A disability caused by self-inflicted injuries or illness.
2.	A disability resulting from insurrection, war, service in the armed forces of any country, or participationina riot.
3.	A disability due to any cause at any time when you are on pregnancy leave of absence or could be placed on such leave by your employer in accordance with the relevant Provincial Statues or that agreed upon by you and your employer.
4.	For any disability for which you are entitled to benefits under any Workplace Safety and InsuranceAct..
5.	At any time when you are on vacation and receivingfull pay.
127
HEALTH CARE BENEFITS
DRUG COVERAGE
Your drug plan coverage, and that of your dependents, is effective on the first day of the second month following the date you were employedfor full time and full pay. Drugs, serum, and injectibles purchasedon a prescription of a medical doctor, except for vitamins and vitamin preparations (unless injected) and patent or proprietary medicines are eligible for coverage by this drug plan and available by presentingyour personal identification card supplied by the carrier and a 35$ deductible fee per prescription.
HOSPITAL COVERAGE
Your Provincial Health Plan providesward coveragefor in-hospital accommodation. This additional coverage allows you, and your dependents, semi-private inhospital accommodation. This semi-private hospital coverage is effective on the first day of the fourth month following the date you were employed for fulltime and full pay.
DENTAL BENEFIT
On behalf of each covered individual in your family, the Dental Benefit will reimburse you for dental expenses based on the percentages indicated by the carrier. The maximum amount payable per individual
128
for services is $1,000.00. Effective September 1, 2001, the maximum amount payable per individual for services is$1,500.00
TREATMENT PIAN
In order for you and your dentist to learn in advance how much the carrier will pay and how much must be paid by you, it is recommendedthat a Treatment Plan be filed with the carrier whenever the total cost of the proposed dental work is expected to exceed $200.00. TheTreatment Plan identifies coverage and limitations for specific services and clarifies insurance percentages, specific limits and Dental Fee Guide allowance before dental treatment commences. The Treatment Plan is not intended to limit you in your choice of dentist, to tell you or your dentist what treatment should be performed or to tell the dentist what fee to charge.
A Treatment Plan is a plan of dental treatment (including x-rays if required) showing the patient's dental needs, a written description of the proposed treatment necessary in the professionaljudgementof the dentist, and the cost of the proposed treatment.
ELIGIBLE EXPENSES
Eligibleexpenses are those which are recommended as necessary by a physician or dentist that are not in
129
excess of the fee specifiedfor general practitionersin the 1987 Dental or Denturist FeeGuideofthe Province of Ontario. Fees for specialists will be considered if the patient was referred by a physician or another dentist. There are several dental procedures which are covered by Provincial Health Plans up to certain maximums. I ft he dentist or dental surgeon chooses to charge more than that payable by the Provincial Flan, legislation in some provinces does not permit the excess charges to be eligible under this Plan.
Situations may arise where alternate methods of treatment may be available. It i s solely for you and your dentist to decide which method will be employed. The carrier reserves the right to use the least expensive method of treatment that would provide a professionally adequate result as the basis for determining their liability.
Only those treatments listed are eligible.
The following treatments are payable at 100%:
EXAMINATIONS:
Initial examination of a new patient
(onceevery3 years).............OHIO, 01120, 01130
Re-examination of a previous patient
(onceeveryS months)..........................01200
Specific examination.........................01400
130
Emergency examinationand/or consultation
01300, 94400 94100,94200
CONSULTATIONS:
Treatment planning- per unit of time
With patient.....................
Another dentist..................
05100
05200
93100
SPECIFIC DIAGNOSTICPF50CEDURES: Bacteriologiccultunesfor determination
of pathologicagents.................................04100
Dental caries susceptibility test...................04200
Biopsy, soft-hard tissue....................04300, 04310
Cytologicalexamination..............................04330
Pulpvitality tests..................................04400
RADIOGRAPHIC EXAMINATIONAND INTERPRETATION
(X-FAY):
Intraoral periapical films, complete series.............02100
Intraoral periapical films.
-one to ten films..................02111,	02120	ind.
Ocdusal films......................02131,	02134	ind.
Posterior bitewingfilms............02141,	02144	ind.
Extraoral films....................02201,	02204	ind.
Sinusexamination.................................02304
Sialography......................................02400
Lfe of radiopaque dyes to demonstrate lesions....02430
Temporomandibularjoint films.........02504,02505
Panoramic film...................................02600
Cephalometric films................02701,02705 incl.
131
Interpretationofnadiognaphsfrom
another source- per unitof time................02800
Tomography,...............................  ...02920
Handand wrist
(asdiagnosticaidfor dental treatment)..........02930
PREVENTIVE SERVICES:
Scaling and polishing............. 11100, 11200, 11300
Topica. fluoride treatment........................12400
Oral hygiene instruction....................13200,13210
Occlusal eqi ilibration...........................43310
TREATMENT OF DENTAL CARIES (FILLINGS)
Sedative (palliative) dressing.................39930
AMALGAM RESTORATIONS:
Primaryteeth........................21101, 21105 incl.
Permanentanterior and bicuspid teeth. ..21211, 21215 incl.
Permanent molarteeth................21221, 21225 incl.
Pin reinforcement....................21301, 21305 incl.
Silicate restorations...................22101 22102
Acrylic or composite restorations...23101, 23223 incl.
SURGICAL SERVICES- REMOVAL OF TEETH;
(REMOVAL OF ERUPTED TOOTH - UNCOMPUCA7ED)
Single tooth...................................71101
Each additional tooth in same surgical site....71111
SURGICAL REMOVALS:
Removalof eruptedtooth (complicated)..........72100
Removal of impactedtocth................72210, 72220
..............................72230, 72240
132
REMOVAL OF RESIDUAL ROOTS
Soft tissue coverage.........
Bonetissue coverage..........
Anaesthesia..................
.............72310
.............72320
92110, 92120, 92201 92202, 92215, 92251 92252, 92310, 92311 ......92330, 92340
PERIODONTAL SERVICES
(DIAGNOSIS AND TREATMENT OF GUM TISSUE)
NON-SURGICALSERVICES ■ PER UNIT OF TIME
Application of displacement dressing..........41100
Managementof acute infectionsand
other oral lesions.,..........................41200
Desensitizationof tooth surface...............41300
SURGICAL SERVICES
Gingivalcurettage,.................................42001
Gingivoplasty..,,..................................42002
Gingivectomy.......................................42003
Osseous surgery....................................42100
Osseous grafts- single, multiplesite..,....42103,42104
Soft tissue grafts.........................42200, 42300
Vestibuloplasty....................................42310
Postsurgicaltreatment- periodontal,
per unit of time...................................42500
ADJUNCTIVE PERIODONTAL SERVICES;
Provisional splinting - intracononal, extra coronal-
per unit of time.......................43200,43210
Periodontalscalingand root planning
per unit of time.............................43400
Special periodontalappliances (including
occlusalguards)..................................43600
ENDODONTIC SERVICES:
Pulp capping.........................31100, 31110
Vital pulpotomy.........32201,32202,32210,32211
Rootcanaltherapy........33100,33120,33200,33220
.............33300,33320,33400,33420
Apexification...........33501,33502, 33503,33504
.............33511,33512,33513, 33514
Periapical Services.....34101, 34102, 34103,34104
.............34111, 34112, 34114, 34115
.............34201, 34202, 34203, 34212
Rootamputation- amputation
at one root- two roots...............34401,34402
OTTER ENDODONTIC PROCEDURES (PREPARATION OF TOOTH FOR TREATMENT)
Gingival curettaga..........................39100
Alveolectomy................................39110
Banding of tooth to maintain sterile
operating field........................39120
Hemisection..............39210,39220,39230,39300
Chemical bleachingonly
per unit of time.......................39400
Intentional removal, apical filling
and reimplantation-......39501,39502,39503,39600
Emergency procedures.....39901,39902,39903,39904
............39910, 39940, 39960, 39970
..........................39980,39985
SURGICAL SERVICES:
134
Surgical exposure of tooth......72410,72411,72412
Transplantation of a tooth....................72430
Surgical repositioning of a tooth.............72440
Enucleationofan uneruptedtooth
and follicle..................................72450
Alveoplasty ■ per unit of time.........73100,73110
Gingivoplasty and/or stomatoplasty.....73119,73120
Osteoplasty- per unitof time....73133,73134,73135
.........................73140, 73141
Surgical excision.,.......74108,74109,74408,74409
Surgical incision......................75100,75110
Fractures.................76198,76210,76250, 76310
................76350,76910,76950,76951
Frenectomy......................77800,77810,78110
Miscellaneoussurgical services
................79104,79301,79302,79303
................79304,	79305,79306, 79307
................79308,	39401,79601,79602
...........................79603,79604
Adjunctive generalservices-
drugs (injections).....................96100,96101
The following treatments are payable at 50%:
SERVICES:
Complete maxillary denture
(once every 3 years)..........................51100
Complete mandibulardenture
(once every3 years)...........................51110
Complete maxillary and mandibular
135
dentures (once every 3 years)
...............51120, 51300, 51310, 51320
.........................51500,51610,51620
Removable partialdentunes... 52120, 52121, 52220, 52221
..............52230,	52231, 52320, 52321
..............52400,	52410, 52500, 52510
..............52520,	52525, 52530, 52531
..............52535,	52600, 52610, 52630
..................................52800
Denture adjustments........54250, 54300, 54301, 54302
Denture repairs............55101, 55102, 55103, 55104
..............55201,	55202, 55203, 55204
..................... 55520, 55530, 55700
Denture rebasing, relining.... 56200, 56201,56210, 56211
..............56220,	56221, 56230, 56231
..............56260,	56261, 56262, 56263
..............56270,	56271, 56272, 56273
ORTHODONTIC SERVICES:
PRE-TREATMENT DIAGNOSTICSEFMCES:
DiagnosticModels. X-Rays........ 4530, 2701, 2702
......................2703, 2704,2705
Cephalometricwork-up........................2750
PREVENTIVE & INTERCEFWEORTIHODONTiCS:
Habit Inhibiting........82101, 82102, 82201, 82202
Space regaining.................81105,81106, 81201
.........................	81202,	81251, 81252
Space Maintenance........15100,15110,	15120,15400
Cross Bite Correction etc.......81261,	81203, 81204
.........................81205, 81206
136
CORRECTIVEORTHODONTICS:
Removables Fixed Appliance Therapy
.....................81115,81116,	81120
....................  81125,81126,81130
.................... 81131,81140,81207
.................... 81208,81209, 81210
....................81211,81212, 81213
...............................   83214
Retention..........................83111,83112
137
VISION CARE BENEFIT
If, while insured, you incur Vision Care expenses for yourself or for a ocvered dependent you will be paid benefits in an amount equal to such Vision Care servioes, subject to thefollcwing provisions.
The following servioes when prescribed by a licensed physician cr licensed optometrist shall be covered, but not to exceed $150.00, inany24 month period effective the first of the month following date of ratification.
1.	Lenses and frames for eyeglasses, sunglasses and
2.	Contact lenses
3.	Services and materials in connection with vision training and orthopics.
4.	Services and materials in connection with medical or surgical treatment.
lost, stolen or broken eyeglass lenses or eyeglass frames.
No benefits are payable for amounts charged for any of the following services:
1.	Services rendered before the insurance on account of the person who receives such services became effective.
2.	Services received because of any injury arising out of or in the course of any employment for wage or profit or sickness entitling the covered person
138
to benefits under any Workers' Compensation or Occupational Disease Law.
3.	Services for examinations for the purpose of prescribing or fitting cf eyeglasses, sunglasses or safety glasses.
Services to the
benefits for such services are available under any plan or program established pursuant to the laws or regulations or any Gc the extent that any Government insurance benefitstherefore.
5.	Servicesto the extentthatthey or benefitstherefore are provided under any other group insurance plan or prepayment plan or for which benefits are otherwise provided underthe group policy.
Services for which the person receiving them is not required to make payment, or where payment is received as a result of legal action or settlement.
IF YOU LEAVE OUR EMPLOY
Your Vision Care Benefit will cease 31 days after leaving our employ if you have received Vision Care services as specified, as a direct result of a complete eye examination.
139
Proposed MaintenanceSchedule"U"
Week	Week	Week	Week
1_________________2__________________3	_______4
Crew	S	M	r	w	T	F	s	S	M	T	W	T	F	S	S	M	T	W	T	F	s	S	M	T	W	T	F	s
1		O	D			A	A	A			D	D				N	N			D	D	D			N	N		
2		N	N			D	0	D			N	N				0	0			A	A	A			D	D		
3	A			O	D				N	N			D	D	D			N	N				D	O			A	A
4	O			N	N				D	D			A	A	A			D	D				N	N			D	D
The foregoing schedulewill result inthe following cyde of worked days:
Worked	Off
2	2
3	2
2	3
All shiftswill beof 12 hoursduration
Mondayto Saturday will be paidat straighttime for the first twelve hoursand time and one halffor all hours worked after twelve hours
Timeworkedon Sunday shall be paidattime and one halffor the first twelve hoursworked and
double time for all hoursworked after twelve
Dayshiftwill befrom7:00a.m to 7:00 p.m. mealtime included
Nightshrft will befrom7:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. mealtimeinduded
Afternoon shift Will be from 12:00 p.m. to 12:00 a.m. mealtimeinduded