between
TEMBEC FOREST PRODUCTS (1990) INC. HUNTSVILLE DIVISION
(hereinafter referred to as the "Company'?
and
IWA-CANADA
(hereinafter referred to as the "Union")
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Article	Page Number
08	- Arbitration..............................10
27	- Benefits.................................34
17	- Bereavement Leave & Bereavement Pay.... 27
23	- Bulletin Board...........................30
21	- Call-In Pay..............................30
09	- Discipline...............................11
04	- Discrimination........................... 5
28	- Duration of Agreement....................36
07 - Grievance Procedure........................7
25	- Health and Safety....................... 31
13- Hours of Work, & Overtime..................21
11	- Job Postings............................ 16
18	- Jury Duty................................28
16 - Leave of Absence..........................26
03 - Management Rights....................... 3
22	- Minimum Recompense.......................30
24	- Notices..................................30
15 - Paid Holidays.............................24
01	- Purpose................................ 1
20 - Reporting Allowance.......................29
Schedule" A"	37
Schedule "A-1"	38
02	- Scope and Recognition.....................1
10	- Seniority................................12
19- Stand-By Pay...............................29
12	- Temporary Transfers......................19
06 - Union Committees...........................6
05	- Union Security............................5
14 - Vacations.................................22
26	- Wages....................................33
ARTICLE 1 - PURPOSE
1.01	The purpose of this Agreement is to secure for the company, the union and the employees, the full benefitsof orderly collective bargaining. Itisthe intent of the company and the union to operate under methods which will furthertothefullest possible extentthesafety, welfare and health of the employees, the economy of operation, the quality and quantity of output, cleanliness and protectionof property, andto providef air wage rates and working conditions.
1.02	It is recognized by this Agreement to be the duty of the company, the union, and the employees to co-operate fully, individualy and collectively for the advancement of said conditions.
1.03	This Agreement provides a procedure for the prompt and orderly settlement of disputes.
ARTICLE 2 • SCOPE AND RECOGNITION
2.01	This Agreement shall applyto all employees of Tembec Forest Products (1990) Inc., Huntsville Division, Huntsville, Ontario, save and except supervisors, persons above the rank of supervisor, off ice and sales staff, Forestry ,Flooring and sawmill clerical assistants, head log scalers, head lumber inspectors, head shippers, contractors and contractors' employees, and persons regularly employed for less than five days per month, students employed during school vacation period, except students performing a classified job.
1
2.02	The company recognizes the IWA - Canada,
Local 1-1000 as the sole collective bargaining agent for all employees of the company in the bargaining unit defined in Article 2.01.
2.03	No employee outside the bargaining unit shall perform work normally performed by employees in the bargaining unit except in cases of emergency, instructing employees on the job, experimentation, testing of machinery or in the absence of an employee. In the case of an absence of an employee, a prompt replacement shall be found, usually within four (4) hours. In the event of absence extending beyond four (4) hours, the time limit may be extended by mutual consent. The Company will inform any available steward of the union as soon as possible of the circumstances. (within three (3) hours).
2.04	While this Agreement is in effect, neither the union nor any employee shalltake part in or encourage 'directly, or indirectly, any strike, sitdown, slowdown, or any interference with work or production, either wholly or partially against the company.
2.05	While this agreement is in effect, the company shall not engage in any lockout.
2.06	The union agreesthat itwill notsolicit membership norengage inany union activities during the regular working hours except as outlined in this Agreement.
2
2.07	ThisAgreement supersedesall previousAgree-ments, amendments to Agreements, and Letters of Understanding.
2.08	In this agreement, words using the masculine gender include the feminine; the singular includes the plural, and the plural, singular where the text so indicates.
2.09	Inthe event of any strike or work stoppage, it is agreed by the union that the engineers are to perform essential work necessary to avoid damage to the Company's equipment, specifically the boilers and fire protection system.
2.10	The company agrees not to contract out work which is regularly performed by its bargaining unit employees and for which the operation is equipped. If circumstances necessitatethat the Company deviates from this clause and is in a situation where it was to hire contractors for specific work, it shall be discussed with the union executivepriorto the occurrence and shall not exceed a period of one month unlessthe parties mutally agree to an extension.
ARTICLE 3 - MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
3.01	The management and administration of the operation andthedirectionofthe working force arefixed by the company. The union recognizes that certain
3
rights belong solely to the company, prominent among which, but by no means wholly inclusivearethe rights to:
(a)	maintain order and efficiency;
(b)	hire, discharge, classify, transfer, promote, demote, retire, select, lay-off, re-call, establish new positions, direct, suspend, discipline and assign;
(c)	make, alter, and enforce rules, regulations, policies and practices to be observed by employees;
(d)	determine location, expansion, curtailmentorcessa-tion of operations, productsto be manufactured, methods, processes and means of manufacturing;
(e)	have sole and exclusive jurisdiction over all operations, employees, buildings, machinery and equipment;
(f)	establish number of employees required at any time, schedule production, number of hours to be worked, starting and quitting times for all employees, and overtime:
(g)	establishjob content, quality and quantity standards, qualifications necessary to perform any particular job.
3.02	The Company agrees that none of the rights in Article 3.01 shall be exercised in a manner inconsistent with the terms of this Agreement andthe performance of such rights are subject to the Grievance Procedure as
4
outlined in Article 7.
ARTICLE 4- DISCRIMINATION
4.01	There shall be no discrimination by the company or the union or its members against any employee becauseof race, ancestry, place of origin, colour, ethnic origin, citizenship, creed, sex, age, record of offences, marital status, family status or handicap as outlined in the Human Rights Code, 1981.
ARTICLE 5 - UNION SECURITY
5.01	Eachemployeeshall.asacondition ofemploy-ment maintain his membership in the Union. Each new employee shall a a condition of employment, following the completion of his probationary period, acquire and maintain membership in the Union.
5.02	Employees will pay their Union initiation fees, dues, monies and assessmentsthrough payroll deductions which will be made by the Company and remitted to the FinancialSecretaryofthe Local Union bythe end ofthemonthfollowingthe month inwhich deductions are made. With each remittance, the Company will include an itemizedstatement showing each employee's name infull, (listedinalphabeticalorder, if possible), individual amounts and totals, with a copy to the sub-local Secretary Treasurer.
5.03	(a) Union dues will be deducted monthly and
5
any deduction which is missed will be mads in the next pay period, or upon notification.
(b)	The Union will inform the Company in writing of the particulars regarding all applicable deductions and any change in amounts.
(c)	The Company will insert the total amount cf Union dues on each employee's T-4 slip.
5.04	Education Fund. The Company will contribute to the Union Education Fund two cents ($0.02) per monthly payroll hour per employee. Such contributions shall be made monthly by separate cheque and statement, along with the checkoff remittance.
Effective March 11,1996 the contributin will increase to three centts ($0.03) per monthly pay roll hour per employee.
5.05	Goodwill Fund. To compensate the unionforits goodwill in allowing the Company flexibility in its controlled use of contractors, the company agrees to pay one cent ($0.01) per monthly payroll hour per employee, to the union sub-local
ARTICLE 6- UNION COMMITTEE 6.01 Union Negotiating Committee: The Union negotiating committee will consist of not more than four (4) employees.
UnionGrievance Committee: The union grievance committee shall consist of not more than three (3) employ-
6
ees.
(a)	It is clearly understoodthat stewardsand other union officials will not absent themselves from their regular duties to deal with grievances of employees, or with other union business, without approvalfrom their supervisor.
(b)	The Union will notify the Company in writing of the names of all stewards and committee members, and any changes that may occur.
(c)	The Company will compensate such comittees for fulfilling their functions, payment will beat employee's regular rate of pay and will not apply on such matters outside regular working hours.
ARTICLE 7 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
7.01	A grievance is defined to be any difference between the parties or between an employee and the Company, relating to the interpretation, application, administrationor alleged violation of this agreement.
7.02	a) To be considered, a grievance must be presentedwithinseven(7)daysoftheincidentoccurance. Saturdays, Sundays and paid holidays as perarticle15 are excluded from the time limits in this article.
b) Complaints deriving from the interpretationor application of the terms of this Agreement shall be discussed betweenthe employees and the immediate supervisor. The employees may be accompanied by their steward. The time constraints outlined in Article 7.03 will not be affected by this process.
7
7.03 The time limits of the grievance procedure referred to below may be modified by mutual consent cf the parties. Formal grievances shall be handled in the following manner:
STEP 1 The aggrieved employee and the steward shall take the matter to the immediate supervisor in writing within seven (7) days of the incident occurrence. The written grievance shall refer to the specific Article(s) of this Agreementthat are in question. The supervisor shall render a decision in writing within two (2) days from the date of the initiation of the formal grievance procedure.
STEP 2 If a satisfactory settlement is not reached, the union chairperson and the steward shall present the matter in writing within two (2) days to the aggrieved employee's supervisor. A decision shall be rendered within three (3) days of receiving the written grievance.
STEP 3 If a satisfactory settlement is not reached at STEP 2, the matter shall be referred by the union grievance committee to the managerofthe company in writing within five (5) daysof the decision inSTEP2. The matter will be discussed at a meeting involving the union grievance committee, and/or the supervisor, and/or the manager, and/or the personnel representative. The aggrieved employee may be present at this meeting if both parties agree.
A written decision shall be rendered within five (5) days following the date of such meeting.
8
7.04	The union representative and company labour relations manager or delegate may be present, or provide direction, at any step of the grievance procedure if requested by either party.
7.05	Group Grievance: A grievance on behalf of more than one employee may be presented directly at Step 1 Listing the names of the grievors.
Policy Grievance; A policy grievance will confineitselfto matters relatingto the interpretation, administration application or alleged violation ofthe agreement, which are inappropriatefor an employeegrievancesingleor group. Such grievances shall be submitted in writing by the chairpersonor secretary treasurer ofthe union at Step 3 of the grievance procedure, within fifteen (15) days from where the circumstances giving rise to it occurred or originated. The time li mits may beextendedby mutual agreement.
7.06	The Company itself may file a grievance with the chairperson of the union grievance committee and sh allforward a copy ofthe grievancetotheoff ice of Local 1-1000. Said grievance shall be entered bythe manager or general manager of the operation. If a satisfactory settlement has not been reached within five (5) days of receivingthe grievance,the matter shall bediscussedat a meeting arranged mutually between the union griev-ancecommittee andthe manager. The union representative and the company labour relations manager or
9
designate may be present at this meeting. If a satisfactory settlementisnot reachedwithinthree (3) days of the meeting, the grievance maybe referredto arbitration as outlined in Aritcle 8.
ARTICLE 8 • ARBITRATION
8.01	Where a grievance is referredto arbitrationthe party making the referral will notify the other party in writing within thirty (30) calendar days of it's election of proceedingwith a single arbitrator "arbitrator"or a tripartite arbitration board "board".
8.02	Where election is made for an arbitrator, the party makingthe referral will name one or more persons to act as an arbitrator in it's notice of referral. The other party will respond in writing within five (5) days naming it's choice of arbitrator. Upon failure by the party receiving notice to name an arbitrator or failure by the parties to agree upon an arbitrator within the time limited, either party may request that an arbitrator be appointedby the Minister of Labour for Ontario.
8.03	Where election is made for a board, the party makingthe referralwill name it's appointeeto such board in the notice of referral. The other party will respond in writing within five (5) days by naming it's appointee.
The two appointeesso selected will, within five (5) days of the appointment of the second of them, appoint a third person who shall chair the board.
Upon failure by the party receiving notice to name its 10
appointeeor uponfailure bythetwo appointeesto agree onachairpersonwithinthetime limited, either party may request that the Minister of Labour for Ontario appoint one or both persons as required.
8.04	Thearbitratorortheboardwil have noauthority to alter, change or modify any of the terms and conditions of this agreement. Any question as to arbitrability will be determined by the arbitrator or board.
8.05	The decision of the arbitrator or of the board, shall be final and binding.
8.06	Each party to this agreement will pay the fees and expenses of the member of the board selected by it or by the Minister and will share equally in paying the fees and expenses of the chairperson of the board or of the arbitrator.
8.07	No person may be appointed as an arbitrator who has been involved in an attempt to negotiate or settle the grievance.
ARTICLE 9 - DISCIPLINE
9.01	In all cases of disciplinary measures, except offences that warrant immediatedischarge, or suspension, corrective discipline may follow this procedure:
STEP 1 Verbal Warning: Recordof this occurrence will be made in the employee's personnelfile.
11
STEP 2 Written Warning: The second offense requiring disciplinary measure may warrant a written reprimand.
STEP 3 Written Warning and Suspension: The third offense requiring disciplinary measures may warrant a written reprimand and a suspension from work to a maximum of five (5) working days without pay.
STEP 4 Dismissal: The fourth offense requiring disciplinary measures may warrant dismissal.
The appropriate steward shall be present at the time said warnings are given.
9.02	Employees who are suspended or dismissed by the company asoutlined in Article9.01 shallhavethe right to submit the circumstancesto their steward and/or union chairperson within thirty-six (36) hours, and the matter will be dealt with immediately at STEP 2 of the grievance procedure.
9.03	The union shall be entitled to copies of written reprimands.
9.04	For the purposes of disciplinary action, any warnings on file will be backed down one (1) step after a period of seven (7) calendar months worked by the employee from the date of the last reprimand.
ARTICLE 10-SENIORITY
10.01	The company recognizes the principle of se-12
niority in the bargaining unit, and agrees to grant preference to senior employees in the areas of promotion, transfer, (excepttemporarytransfers), lay-off and recall, subject to the articles below.
10.02	New employees will serve a probationary period of thirty (30) worked days, to a maximum of 240 regulars hoursofwork beforeacquiring seniority rights. Seniority will date back thirty (30) working days, to a maximum of 240 regular hours of work prior to the completion of this probationary period, and shall continue except as outlined in Article 10.03. Probationary employees may be dismissed with cause, and without entitlement to recourseto thegrievance procedure. The union will be notified of the cause of the discharge. These time limits may be extended by mutual consent of both parties.
10.03	Senioity shall cease and employment shall be terminated for any employee under any of the following conditions:
(a)	if the employee voluntarily quits;
(b)	ifthe employee is dischargedfor just cause and is not reinstated in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement;
(c)	during a lay-offof morethantwenty-four (24) months;
(d)	during a leave due to illness for more than twenty-
13
four (24) months;
(e)	if an employee with seniority is off work and receiving Workers' Compensation benefits for a period of more than twenty-four (24) months;
(f)	if an employee fails, after a lay-off, to return to work within five (5) working days after the company has given the employee notice of recall by registered mail at the employee's last known address, or within five (5) working days when the employee has been successfully notified by the company by telephone or in person.
10.04	Employees who are promoted out of the bargaining unit shall maintainseniorityfor a period of up to six (6) months. If such employees returntothe bargaining unit after six (6) months, they will return as probationary employees as per Article 10.02.
Such employees shall maintain but not accumulate. seniority after six (6Jmonthsand as long asthey remain out of the bargaining unit.
Suchemployees may returnto their previousposition in the bargaining unit for the period of up to six (^months. After the six (6) month period, such employees may return to the bargaining unit in accordance with Article 10.
The time limits outlined above may be extended by mutual consent of the parties.
14
If such employees are discharged from their position outside of the bargaining unit, they shall be deemed discharged from the bargaining unit.
10.05	In cases of lay-off and recall after lay-off, promotions, work during slowdown periods, the following factors shall be considered:
(a)	requirements and efficiency of operations, knowledge,training, skill and ability of the employeeto perform the requiredwork;
Any training obtained through a temporary transfer would not count as skill and ability for Job Posting purposes. Skill and ability would be acquired through temporaryjob postings or training postings.
(b)	seniority.
Whenq ualificationsinfactor (a) are equal, factor (b) shall govern.
10.06	Revised seniority lists will be posted by the company every four (4) months.
10.07	(a) The following will be recognized as separate and distinct seniority groups for purposes of this Article:
(I)	Sawmill and Forestry Department (li) Flooring Department
15
(b) Article 10.05 (a)does not apply in thefollowing areas:
(I) Vacations as outlined in Article 22
(ii) Benefits as outlined in Article 24
(III) Postings as outlined in Article 11 or bumping into
base rate jobs
10.08	When jobs are discontinued due to the introduction of new methods and /or equipment or the permanent reduction of operations, affected employees shall be offered employment in accordance with Article 10.05 Employee's who require minimal training to perform the alternate employment shall be trained by the company.
ARTICLE 11 - JOB POSTINGS
11.01	(a) In the event that vacancies for positions of
more than thirty (30) working days duration occur and new positions are created, the company will post such newjobs or vacancies for a period of three (3)working days. Applications for such postings will be made in writing to the company official designated on the job posting notice with aduplicate copy to the union chairperson. Classifications of base rate jobs will not be posted.
(b) In the event a vacancy or training position is not filled from within the seniority group from which the vacancy exists, applications from the other seniority groups will be considered. The successful applicants full seniority will be recognized into the seniority group.
16
Training positions for apprentices shall be posted division wide.
11.02	In the event that two (2) or more employees apply, the company will considerthe factors outlined in Article 10.05 (a)and(b). Probationemployeescan apply forjob postings, butpreferenceshallbegivento employees with seniority.
11.03	If the job is not filled as result of the posting, or if no suitable applications are received, the company reserves the right to hire.
11.04	Three (3)jobpostings includingthe originaljob posting will be posted in accordance with the terms of this Agreement. Thereafter, any vacancy will befilled by the company with considerationto Article 10.05 (a) and (b).
(a)	Posted positions will be filled within five (5) working days after the three (3) working day job posting period. The company will post the name of the successful applicant no later than five (5)working days after the decision has been made.
11.05	The company may, within a trial periodof up to ten (10) working days, remove an employee from the job, who, in the opinioin of the company, does not possessthe necessary skill, or ability, or qualifications , to performthe job available atthe company's standard
17
of efficiency.The trial period may be extended by mutual consent of the union and the company.
11.06	Successfulapplicantsforaposted jobwill have uptoten (10) working days to returnto their originaljob, which will be classed as temporary for that period. This procedure isconsidered one jobpostingforthepuposes of Article 11.08.
11.07	Nothing provided herein shall preclude the company from making a temporary appointment to any such position until the vacancy or new job is filled.
11.08	It is agreed that the successful applicant of the job postingprocedure will not be permittedto reapplyfor another job posting for a period of three (3) months. No employees shall be allowed to apply for more than two
(2)	job postings during any twelve (12) month period unlessthejob posting is of higher pay orthe employee is transferred by mutual consent.
11.09	The company agrees to continue the training programfor specifiedciassfications. These positionswill be posted by the company on bulletin boards for three
(3)	working days in order that all interested employees may apply. Trainees will be chosen according to the following factors: seniority, ability, attendance, work performance.The successful applicant cannot sign another Job Training posting for a period of three (3) months, nor more often than two (2) times during any twelve (12) month period. A training period may be from
18
one (1) to a maximum of thirty (30) working days. The training period may be extended by mutual consent of the parties.
11.10	A vacancy due to illness, injury or leave of absence for more than thirty (30) working days shall be posted and awarded as per Article 11. These positions will remain in effect untilthe absent employee returnsto work, or the employees eligibility to return to work expires as per Article 10 afterwhich the vacancy will be posted as a permanent position.
11.11	Where the Company intendsto do major modifications of an existing occupation or introduce a new occupation, the company will notify the union in writing and meetforthe purposeof negotiatinga rateforthe new or modified occupation prior to implementation. At the end of a thirty (30) day trial period following implementation, the parties will meet again to review the matter andthe new or modifiedoccupation will become part of the scheduleof wages. If a rate increase isjustified, the parties agree to retroactive.
11.12	In the event that a shift, either in whole or in part, isadded to any plant or operation,the company will formulate one (1) posting for all new positions to allow existing employees to apply for a maximum of three (3) openings.
ARTICLE 12 - TEMPORARY TRANSFERS
12.01	Forth© purposesofthis Agreement, temporary
19
transfers shall mean a transfer not exceeding thirty (30) working days unless mutually agreed upon by the company and the unionfo extend the length of the temporary position.
12.02	Any employee who, for the convenience of the company, is temporarily transferred to another job shall be paid as follows:
(a)	if the rate of pay for the job to which the employee is transferred is lessthanthe rate of payforthe employee's regularjob, the employee shall receivethe higher rateof pay;
(b)	if the rate of pay for the job to which the employee is transferred is higher than the employee's regular rate of pay, the employee shall receive the higher rate of pay.
12.03	Employees who, at their own request, are temporarily transferred to anotherjob, shall receive the rate for the job to which they are transferred.
12.04	Any employee, who, fortheconvenienceof the company, is transferred from the second shift on one (1) calendar day to the first shift on the next calendar day immediately following, shall be paidthe full normal hours perdayforthat shift asoutlined in Article 13. Thisclause will only apply under the following conditions:
(a) the employee, must work a minimumcffive (5) hours of the second shift.
20
(b) the employee must report for the first shift at the normal starting time for that shift.
ARTICLE 13 ■ HOURS OF WORK & OVERTIME
13.01	The normal work week shall not exceed forty (40) hours.
13.02	One ten minute rest period with pay during each half ofeach shift will beprovidedforal employees. Aone half(1/2) hourlunchbreakwillbeprovidedwithout pay, for all employees.
13.03	AI hours worked in excess of the normal work week or the normal hours per day shall be paid as follows:
a)	time and one-half
b)	double tim for Sunday unless regularly scheduled
13.04	When overtimework is required, it will first be offered on a voluntary basis to the employees who normally perform the work, then to qualified employees on the basis of seniority.
It is agreed that assigned overtime will be divided as equally as possible among the employeeswho normally perform the work and qualified employees.
13.05	If the work week is reduced due to a statutory holiday outlined in Article 15, itshallbedeemedastime worked in Computation of overtime hours.
21
13.06	For employees inthe Forestry operatons, the company will pay employees travel time one (1) way from the Company’s designated base gathering placeto the place of work at the employee's regular rate of pay. Such hours will not be considered as overtime hours in the computation cf overtime pay. A travel time bonus of four dollars ($4.00) per day will be paid in lieu of return travel time for days worked for Forestry employees.
ARTICLE 14 - VACATIONS
14.01	Every employee of the company shall be entitled to and shall be required to take, an annual vacation of at least two (2) weeks.
In the event the company decides to shut down plant operation, in whole or in part, the company will notify the employees to be affected of its decision by May 31st of each year. Such shutdown may occur in July or August. Any vacation entitlement shall be taken at this time except as otherwise provided for in this Agreement.
14.02	Vacations will not .be permitted to interrupt normal plant operations. The union recognizes the right of the company to stagger vacations for maintenance personnel.
14.03	The Company agrees to pay the following vacation pay allowances:
(a)	to employees who have completed less than one (1) year of continuous service with the company as of May
22
31st, a vacation allowance of four percent (4%) of their total yearly earnings overthe twelve (12) month period immediately preceding May 31st;
(b)	to employees who havecompletedmorethan one (1) year but less than five (5Jyears of continuous service with the Company as of May 31 st, a vacation allowance offourpercent(4%) of theirtotal yearly earningsoverthe twelve (12) month period immediately preceding May 31 st and two (2) weeks vacation:
(c)	to employees who havecompleted morethan five (5) years but less than twelve (12) years of continuous service with the Company as of May 31st, a vacation allowance of six percent (6%) of their total yearly earnings over the twelve (12) month period immediately preceding May 31st, and three (3) weeks vacation,
(d)	to employees who have completed morethan twelve (12) years of continuous service with the Company as of May 31 st, a vacation allowance of eight percent (8%)of their total yearly earnings over the twelve (12) month period immediately preceding May 31st, and four (4) weeks vacation.
(e)	Effective June 1, 1994, to employees who have completed more than twenty-five (25) years of continuous service with the company as of May 31st a vacation allowance of ten percent, (10%) of their total yearly earnings overthe twelve (12) month period imediately
23
preceding May 31 st and four (4) weeks vacation. EffectiveJune 1st,1996, five (5)weeks vacation.
14.04	The vacation pay allowanceshall be paid on or about June 30th.
14.05	Where an employee is entitled to a period of vacation longer than the annual shut down, the additional vacation may be taken at a time agreed upon by the company and the employee. In the event of conflicting requests for vacation time, preference will be given to the most senior employee, providing their written request is received before May 1st.
14.06	If the day of observance of a statutory holiday as defined in Article 15 fallswithinthe period of approved vacationof any employee, the employeeshall bepaidfor such holiday or the vacation may be extended one (1) day, upon the approval by the employee's supervisor.
ARTICLE 15 - PAID HOLIDAYS
15.01	Thefollowing holidaysshall be paidto employees at their regular rate of pay if not worked, and if worked, employees shall be paid atlhe rate of two and one-half (2 1/2) times the regular rate of pay:
New Years' Day Good Friday Victoria Day Canada Day Civic Holiday
Labour Day ThanksgivingDay The day before Christmas Christmas Day Boxing Day
24
15.02	Employees must have completed their probationary period to qualify for payment for the holidays.
15.03	Paymentfortheaforesaidholidays shall not be made if an employee does notworktheir last full regular scheduled shift on the day immediately priorto, and the first regular scheduled shift immediatelyfollowing paid holidays as outlined in Article 15.01.
15.04	Where a holiday fails on a working day, the parties agree to substitue another working day for the holiday. The substituted day shall not be later than two (2) weeks from the date of the holiday, and the day so substituted shall be deemed to be the holiday.
15.05	Minute of Mourning: In recognition of workers who have been killed in the workplace, the company agrees to observe aone (1) minute of silenceat approximate^ 1:00 a.m. and lowerany flags uponthe property to a position of "half mast" on the date of April 28th of each year.
15.06	For the purpose of payment for the holidays outlined in Article 15.01, employees will be paid their regularrateof payforthe number of straighttime hours they would normally work on that day.
15.07	Article 15.03 will not apply underthe following conditions:
25
(a)	absence approved by the supervisor
(b)	where an employee was laid-off prior to the holiday and had earned wages on at least twelve (12) days during the four (4) weeks immediately preceding the holiday.
ARTICLE 16- LEAVE OF ABSENCE
16.01	Thecompany, in its sole descretion, may grant leaves of absence, or extensionsthereof, to employees for personal reasons. Such leaves of absence will not exceedthree (3) months. The request shall be provided in writing to the employee's immediate supervisor at least two (2) weeks in advance, if possible, and the reasonsfor the leave of absence stated. Such leave of absence shall be without pay.
16.02	Leaves of absence, without pay, will begranted to employeeswho are requiredto attend Unionbusiness for a period of up to one (1) year or longer if mutually agreed.
16.03	Leave of absence will not be granted for reasons of self employment or seeking alternate employment. If at any time, it is found that employees on leave have accepted employment elsewhere, either temporary or for trial purpose, they will be considered as havingquit their job as of that time, and will have lost all of their seniority.
26
16.04	Extensions to leaves of absence will be considered by the company if the employee provides:
(a)	written notice five (5) working days prior to the expiration date if the leave of absence is less than three (3) months in duration;
(b)	written notice two (2) weeks prior to the expiration date if the leave of absence is more than three (3) months.
16.05	Employees not returning uponthe expiration of leave ofabsence, or extensions thereof, shall be considered to have quit voluntarily.
ARTICLE 17 - BEREAVEMENT LEAVE & BEREAVEMENTPAY
17.01	When a deathoccursinthe employee's immediate family, the company shall grant the following time off with pay:
(a)	in the case of mother, father, current spouse, children, sister, brother, grandparents, grandchildren, mother-in-law, father-in-law, current step-parents and current step-children, three (3) consecutive days, the last of which must be the day of the funeral;
(b)	in the case of a current spouse's grandparents, current brother in-law, current sister-in-law one (1) day which must be the day of the funeral.
27
17.02	Employees will be paid only for the actual working day(s) they will have missed. Employees must have completed their probationary period to qualify for payment of bereavement leave.
17.03	Where it is necessary because of distance, the employee may apply for a personal leave of absence in addition to the bereavement leave. The additional leave will be without pay. Permission for such leave shall not be unreasonably withheld.
ARTICLE 18-JURY DUN
18.01	Upon completion of the probationary period, the company will pay employees who are required to perform jury service, or are subpoenaed as a witness, the difference between their regular hourly rate for the number of hours normally worked in their regular shift, and the payment received for the above service. Employees will present proof of service and the amount of pay received.
18.02	Payment for jury duty or witness will not be provided underthe following conditions:
(a)	for Saturdays, Sundays and holidays;
(b)	during an employee's vacation if notice for jury duty or subpoenaed as a witness is received during the vacation. If notice is received prior to the vacation, the company shall reschedule the vacation time and grant
28
jury duty or witness pay according to the provisions of this Agreement;
(c)	during a lay-off;
(d)	for more than the number of hours regularly scheduled for the employee's job;
(e)	in the eventthatjury or witness service on any one (1) day is one-half (1/2) day or less, employees will be required to devote the remainder of the day to their regular duties with the company;
(f)	for a period in excess of ten (10) days of jury service or witness duty for any one (1) case.
ARTICLE 19 ■ STAND-BY PAY
19.01	In the event that employeees are required to stand-by for any reason, such employee shall be paid their regular rate of pay for such hours or two (2) hours pay, whichever is greater.
ARTICLE 20- REPORTING ALLOWANCE
20.01	Employees reporting for work on a regularshift without having been notifiedby telephone previously not to report,shallbe given lour (4) hours pay at their regular rate. This clause will not apply in cases of power failure, fire, flood, or other conditions outside of the control of the company.
20.02	f requiredby the company, employees may be asked to perform work during the said four (4) hours, in
29
any part of the operation at their regular rate of pay.
ARTICLE 21 ■ CALL-IN PAY
21.01	Employees who are called back to work, after having left the company premises at the end of their regular shift, shall receive three (3) hours pay at their regular rate of pay, or time and one-half for hours worked, whichever is greater.
21.02	Call-in pay shall only apply if such call in was not pre-arranged beforethe employee leftthe company premises.
ARTICLE 22 - MINIMUM RECOMPENSE
22.01	If employees commence work on their shift, and the operation stops prior to the completion of their shift, the employees shall receive a minimum of three (3) hours pay at regular rates. To qualify, the employee must accept alternative work if available.
ARTICLE 23 - BULLETIN BOARDS
23.01	The employees shall have the use of bulletin boards in the plant premises for the purpose of posting notices of union activity. All such notices must be signed by the proper officers of the union and approved by the company before being posted.
ARTICLE 24 - NOTICES
24.01	Any notices requiredto be madeto one party or the other shall be addressed as follows:
(a) To the Company: General Manager
30
Tembec Forest Products (1990) Inc. Huntsville Division Box 367,
. Huntsville,Ontario POA 1 KO
With a Copy to:	Human Resources Representative
Tembec Forest Products (1990) Inc. Box367 Huntsville, Ontario POA 1 KO
(b)	To the Union: Union RepresentativelWA - Canada 589 Wellington Street West Sault Ste. Marie, Ontario P6C 3T8
With a Copy to:	IWA - Canada
2088 Weston Road Weston, Ontario M9N 1X4
ARTICLE 25 - HEALTH & SAFETY
25.01	The Company shall make all reasonable provisions for the safety and health of its employees. The safety committee, consisting of equal representation from the union andthe company shall have the rightto make recommendations to the company respectingthe safety and health of the employees.
25.02	The union agrees to co-operate with the company in the enforcement of the approved and posted safety rules.
31
25.03	The company may require a medical examination of an employee, at any time, at the company's expense. The employee will be compensated for any regular scheduled hours lost while attending such an examination.
25.04	The company will supply employees with ear protection, hard hats, eye protection, dust masks and work gloves. The company will supply aprons and rubber boots to employees who require them to perform their jobs. Upon returning any of the above mentioned safety apparel that has been damaged or worn out during regular duties, the employee shall receive new apparel from the company at no cost.
25.05	New employees shall sign for the safety apparel outlined in 25.04. If the safety apparel is not returned upon termination of employment, the cost will be deducted from the employee's final pay.
25.06	The company will provide a safety boot allowance of fifty dollars ($50.00) to all active employeeswho have six (,6J)monthsseniority at November30. The boot allowance will be paid annually on or about December 1st.
25.07	The company agrees to allow employees to purchase safety footwear by a maximum of two (2) payroll deductions.
32
ARTICLE 26-WAGES
26.01
Thescheduleofwage rates, Schedule"A"and schedule "A-1 " are attached here to and form pari of this Agreement.
26.02	Shift differentialsshall be paidto all employees on shift work as follows:
(a)	Second (2nd) shift-as long as rotating shifts remain, a shift premium of twenty five cents ($0.25) per hour.
if not- rotating shifts occur, a shift premium cf forty cents ($ 0.40) per hour.
(b)	Third (3rd) shift: as long as rotating shifts, a shift premium of thirty five cents ($0.35) per hour.
if non-rotating shifts occur, a shift premiumof fifty cents ($0.50) per hour.
26.03	Employees intrainingwill receivethe rate one
Y1J level helow the ph ssifi d rata except employees training in level one (1J	wno snail receive the
classified rate.
26.04	Employeeswill be readily availableto work when on pager duty and will be compensated as follows:
One (1) hour at their regular rate per weekday
Four (4) hours at their regular rate per weekend Two (2) hours at their regular rateon a statuary holiday.
For the purpose of this article, a weekday will be:
33
Monday to Thursday 4:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. of the following day
Friday 1:20 p.m., 12:00 midnight A weekend will be :
Friday 12:00 midnightto Monday 7:00 a.m.
26.05To compensate Forestry employees for the use of their personal chain saw, the company will pay a chain saw and chain saw pant allowance of seventeen dollars ($17.00) per day. If requested by the Company to make the chainsaw available at the worksite, but not used, a standby allowance of five dollars ($5.00) per day will be paid.
ARTICLE 27- BENEFITS
27.01	The company agrees to provide the following benefits as outlined in the benefit booklets:
(a)	one hundred percent (100%) of the cost of OHIP premiums, semi-private coverage;
(b)	one hundred percent (100%) of the premium cost of Group Life Insurance of $15,000.00. One hundred percent (100%) of the premium cost of AD & D (accidental death and dismeberment).
Effective March 11, 1995, $17,500.00,
(c)	one hundred percent (100%) of the premium cost of Drug Plan withtwenty-five dollars ($25.00) deductible for family coverage, fifteen dollars ($15.00) for single coverage.
34
(d)	seventy-five percent (75%) of the premium cost of Weekly Indemnity Plan consisting of two hundred and forty dollars ($240.00)per week integratedwithU.I.C.for illness and accident.
(e)	50% of the premiumcostof Dental Plan#7, with plan # 9 coverage (two year lag).
(f)	one hundred percent (100%)ofthe premiumcostof a Vision Care Plan ($100.00 per family member per 24 month period) (Deductibleto be included inthe drug plan deductible) Effective March 11,1994 ( 125.00 per family
member per 24 month period)
27.02	The coverage outlined above will be administered in accordance with the terms and conditions established by the respective carrier.
27.03	(a) group R.R.S.P- The company agrees to contribute ten cents (.10) per employee per hourworked into a group Registered Retirement Savings Plan.
(b) A second R.R.S.P. plan will be introduced at one percent (1%) of gross earnings employee contribution,. The company will contribute thirty percent (30%) of the employees one percent (1%) contribution.
27.04	(a) ToolAllowance:thecomoanvwill provideatool allowance of one hundred and sixty- five dollars ($165.00) per contract year, paidonthe anniversary ofthe contract,to all employees required by the company to supply their own tools.
(b) Tools brokenonthejob may be replacedatthe 35
supervisor's discretion.

ARTICLE 28 - DURATION OFAGREEMENT 28.01 This agreement shall be in effect from March 11. 1.993to March 1Q, 1996 inclusively andthereafterfromyear to year unlesseitherparty desires to amendthis Agreement.
The party desiring the change will notify the other party in writing within the period of ninety (90) days before the expiry date of the agreement or before any subsequent anniversary.
Where notice is given as provided herein the parties will meet within the following fifteen (15) days or within such further time as the parties agree upon.
In witness whereof each of the parties has caused this Agreement to be signed by duly authorized officers or representatives this 13th day of September 1993.
36
LEVEL1 LEVEL2 LEVEL 3 LEVEL4 LEVEL5
SCHEDULE"A" WAGE RATES
MAR 11/93 MAR 11/94
"A"
"B"
”C"
"D"
'E
"F"
"G"
"H”
"I"
"J"
"K"
"L"
$11.05
11.35
11.62
12.43
12.70
13.06 13.12
13.20 13.52
13.70 13.79 13.98
14.7	0
15.20
15.70
18.70
$11.35
11.65
11.92
12.73
13.00 13.36 13.42
13.50 13.82
14.00 14.09 14.28
15.00
15.50
16.00 19.00
37
MAR 11/95 $11.80 12.12 12.40 13.24
13.60 13.90 13.96
14.10 14.38
14.60 14.66 14.86
15.60
16.10 16.60
19.60
JOB CLASSIFICATIONS
Level 1
FORESTRY/SAWMILL
General Labour BulledgerTail (non rotating) Green Chain Filer Lumber Handier Resaw Tail Stacker Pickets Tally Person
Level 2
FORESTRY SAWMILL
D4 operator Bulledgfer Tail (rotating) Bulledger Operator Chipper Operator/Clean Up Filer Helper Resaw Feed Stacker Operator Security
Level 3
FORESTRY/SAWMILL
D6 Operator-trail Grader Operator Loader Operator Debarker Operator Edgar Operator Kiln Operator
38
FLOORING
Generel Labour
Packager
Pickets
Rip Saw Hoist
Strapper
Warehouse Labour Cart Hoist
FLOORING
Feed matcher Grader (less than 3 mths) Knot Sawyer-Finish Knot Sawyer -Rough Racker/ Grader Residue Shipper security Cut up Sawyer
FLOORING
End Matcher Operator Grader (after3 Months) Lift Truck Operator Matcher Operator (less than 3 months)
Quality Control! 1 (less than 3 months Rip Saw Operator
JOB CLASSIFICATIONS
Mobile Equipment Operator Resaw Operatorw/oant turner Resaw Operatorw/o turner helper Trimmer Grader Trimmer 1
Truck Driver'' D License"
Level 4
FORESTRY/SAWMILL
D7 Operator-trail D6 Operator-roads Log Scaler Utility
Engineer 4th class Green Chain Grader ResawOperator w/o turner & helper Lumber Grader-uncertified Sawyer (less than 6 mths)
FLOORING
Utility
Engineer 4th class MatcherOperatorfafter 3 mth Quality Control(after 3 mths) Shipper
39
Job Classifications Con't
L«««l tt
A Industrial Millwright Uncertified Industrial Heavy Doty Mechanic Uncertified Industrial Electrfan
B Filler / Grinder* Flooring
C Sawyer! less than 2 yrs)
D Industrial Millwright Enrollment in Apprenticeship Industrial Heavy Duty Mechanic ( C mths after enrollment
Industrial Electrician ( 6 mths after enrollment)
E D 7 Operator-roads • Forestry/Sawmill
F Industrial Millwright { 6 mths after enrollment)
Industrial Heavy Duly Mechanic (6mths after enrollment) Industrial Electrician (6mths after enrollment}
G Sawyer
H Flier {less than 2 yrs)
I IndustzialMillwrlght Certified Industrial Heavy duty Mechanic Certified IndustrialElectrldan Certified Filer
Industrial Millwright Electrician Uncertified
J Industrial Millwright Electrician Enrollment In Apprenticeship
K Industrial Mlllwight Electrician (6mtha after enrollment)
L Industrial Millwright Electrician Citified.
40