DUBREUIL BROTHERS LIMITED
and
DUBREUIL BROTHERS EMPLOYEE ASSOCIATION
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ARTICLE 1 ARTICLE 2 ARTICLE 3 ARTICLE 4 ARTICLES ARTICLE 6 ARTICLE 7 ARTICLE 8 ARTICLE 9 ARTICLE 10 ARTICLE 11 ARTICLE 12 ARTICLE 13 ARTICLE 14 ARTICLE 15 ARTICLE 16 ARTICLE 17 ARTICLE 18 ARTICLE 19 ARTICLE 20 ARTICLE 21 ARTICLE 22
ARTICLE 23 ARTICLE 24 ARTICLE 25 ARTICLE 26 ARTICLE 27
ARTICLE 28 ARTICLE 29 ARTICLE 30
PURPOSE .............................. 1
RECOGNITION OF THE ASSOCIATION ....... 1
UNION SECURITY........................ 3
MANAGEMENT RIGHTS .................... 4
ASSOCIATION COMMITTEE .......
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE..........
ARBITRATION .................
DISCIPLINARY MEASURES .......
CONTINUITY OF WORK ..........
HEALTH AND SAFETY AT WORK ...
SENIORITY....................
STAFF CHANGES ...............
JOB TRAINING PROGRAM ........
ABSENCES ....................
WAGES & CLASSIFICATIONS .....
HOLIDAYS ....................
PUBLIC HOLIDAYS..............
WORK SCHEDULE & OVERTIME.....
REPORTING PAY ...............
EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE .......
GROUP INSURANCE - PENSION PLAN PREMIUM PAY & COMPENSATION
WHILE ON TRAINING ...........
MATERIAL SUPPLY .............
MEALS .......................
TRADE CLASSIFICATION EXAMS...
WORK LIMITATIONS ............
BENEFITS OF FORESTRY
WORKERS AND TRADESMEN .......
TRAVELING TIME ..............
OFFICIAL LANGUAGE............
TERM OF THE AGREEMENT........
4
5 7
7
8 8 9
11
15
15
16 18
19
20
23
24 24
26
26
26
27
27
28 29 29 29
Wawa Print E Litho, Inc
ARTICLE 1 - PURPOSE
The general purpose of this agreement is to provide lor the Company and the Association all the benefits of legal and regulated collective bargaining in reference to hours, salaries, working and living conditions as specified in the articles of this agreement and to insure as much as possible the safety and well-being of employees, good working management, quality and quantity of production and protection of the property Furthermore, this agreement aims at settling peacefully and equitably all disagreements wnich could arise between the parties It is understood that the duty of the parties present. as well as that of all employees, is to cooperate fully, individually and collectively in order to achieve the conditions stipulated in this agreement
ARTICLE 2 - RECOGNITION OF THE ASSOCIATION
2:01 WITH RESPECT TO WORKERS - The Company recognizes the Association as the Sole Collective Bargaining Agency of all employees of Dubreuil Brothers Limited. This agreement is aimed at all the employees of Dubreuil Brothers Limited working in the sawmill, planing mill, yard, boiler room, woodworking, maintenance, cutting operations, lumber transport and Stockroom personnel.
Excluded from the agreement are the following employees: foremen and persons above the rank of foreman, office staff (i.e. clerical workers), sales staff. students employed after school hours and during summer holidays. scalers, forestry technicians. security guards, quality controllers and any employee who holds a confidential position and/or representstheemployerto other employees.
2:02 WITH RESPECT TO CONTRACTORS - It isagreed that ifthe Company hires contractors to perform work usually performed by employees with in this collective agreement as described in Article 2:01, the employees of these contractors shall be considered employees within the terms of thisagreement save and except:
•	Contractors and their employees hired to perform work presently done by a contractor, i.e. hauling lumber and chips, as well as poplar, from the yard to destination. When it will no longer be necessary to bring the popular in the mill's yard, the contractor can pick it up in the woods and transport it to the user. If it becomes possible to ship poplar directly from the woods on a regular basis for a long period of time, the owner-operators will be favoured with a comparative price
- Contractors and their employees hired for the purpose of cutting poplar veneer or birch;
•	Contractors and their employees hired to provide services to the townsite;
•	Contractors and their employees hired to erect structures,
-	Contractors and their employees hired to perform work on cutting limits or future operations of the Company;
Contractors and their employees who are covered by the terms of existing collective agreements;
-	Contractors and their employees hired for uncontrollable situations that could affect the good working order of the Company's operations and for the transportation of surplus seasonal wood.
(The following conditions apply to contractors and their employees hired for uncontrollable situations only.)
However, these contractors and their employees must not cause a reductionof union employees or affect the duration of the regular operations of the department so affected,except for uncontrollable situations in the spring. In the event that there is not enough work available due to the hiring of the said contractors and their employees, the Company must provide other work for its employees affected by the lack of work and, if an employee refuses this work, he will not be paid for the hours of work missed.
When contractors are hired for hauling round wood and there is a mechanical disruption in thetransportationdepartment of two or moredays, the Company shall provide other work for the employees affected by the lack of work, and if an employee refuses the work provided by the Company, he will not be paid for the hours of work missed.
The Company will pay a work permit for each Contractor for every month or part thereof. these permits will be forwarded to the local Association office
2:02 b) CUTTING OF POPLAR-When poplar is cut for the construction of primary and secondary roads, the Company will pay 15% less than soft delimbed wood for the delimbed poplar (without separating bonus)
For the remaining poplar, except for the five (5) townships mentioned hereafter, as soon as an opening for poplar sale is possible, the Compnay will offer the possibility of cutting to its employees according toseniority, ata rate of 32% less than soft delimbed wood for the delimbed poplar.
These employees will each have a month or more to decide if they will go on cutting this poplar.
If the Company cannot sell its poplar in this same territory at the rate above mentioned. the Company reserves the right to hire contractors after meeting with the Association.
This or those contractors can cut this poplar only after the union employees have cut the softwood.
2
Within the following five townships: Bernst, Carmody, Chenard, Dumas and Dunphy, the contractor(s) can cut the poplar and the softwood in the Hardwood Working Groups only
Within these five townships, only the softwood will be cut in the Hardwood Cutting Groups by union employees unless these employees have always been willing to cut poplar.
Furthermore. the or these contractors will stop cutting softwood in these five townships, if union employees are laid-off in the remaining F.M.A. territory.
2:02 c) MECHANIZED CUTTING-If the Companywastochangepartofits traditional cutting procedure to a mechanized cutting procedure. the Company would give priority to its employees affected by this change ( those included on the October 1st 1986 seniority list) to become the newowner-operators
2:02 d) TRANSPORTATION OF ROUNDWOOD AND GRAVEL
1)	WOOD TRANSPORTATION -The Company can only hire contractors after it has used all available equipment to do the work, whether its company equipment or that of the union owner-operators and that all personnel from the department is working.
Themaximumduration to be three (3) months, butinnoinstancecantheyhaul from the stockpile to the sawmill.
2)	GRAVEL TRUCKS - Same conditions stipulated in above-mentioned first paragraph. However, the maximum duration will be five (5) months.
It is understood that a contractor will not be working more than five (5) months per year (roundwood and gravel).
ARTICLE 3 - UNION SECURITY
3:01 Any employee for who the Association has negotiating rights must be a union member to maintain his employment. Any new employee or any other employee who lost his union status must become a union member when hired (as defined in Article 11:02).
3:02 The Company shall deduct from the pay of each union employee the dues as set forth by the by-laws of the Association and shall remit such sum once a month to the Association Secretary. The Company shall provide. every three (3) months, a list showing names and totals deducted on behalf of each member. Such deductions shall not be made when there are insufficientfunds due to the employee in question.
3:03 A membership form for the Association (supplied by the Association) shall be signed at time of enrolment of each new employee. This will constitute his initiation as a member of the Association at the cost established by the Association, said cost to be deducted from the pay of the employee, equally over two pay periods A copy of the said signed form shall be mailed on the same day to the Association.
3
3:04 Any employee who is a member in good standing of the Association must keep his status in good standing until termination of this agreement. When it is the intention of the Association to suspend a member, the Company will be notified in writing seven (7) days before the suspension takes effect.
ARTICLE 4 - MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
4:01 The Association recognizes and acknowledgesthat the management of the operations and direction of the working force are fixed exclusively in the Company and without restricting the generality of the foregoing, the Association acknowledges that itisthe exclusive function of the Companyto.
a)	maintain order and efficiency;
b)	hire, promote. demote, classify, transfer, suspend, rehire and retire employees, and to discipline or discharge any employee for just cause provided that a claim by an employee who has acquired seniority that he has been discharged or disciplined without just cause may be the subject of a grievance and dealt with as hereinafter provided.
c)	make, enforce and alter, from time to time, rules and regulations, to be observed by the employees but before altering any such rules the Company will discusssame with the Association and give them an opportunity of making representation with regard to such proposed alterations
d)	determine the nature and kind of business conducted by the Company, the type and locations of operations. equipment and materials to be used, the control of materials and parts, the methods and techniques of work, the content of jobs, the schedules of production, the number of employees to be
employed,	the extension, limitation. curtailment or cessation of operations or any part thereof and to determine and exercise all other functions and prerogatives which shall remain solely with the Company except as specifically limited by the expressed provisions of this agreement.
4:02 Without limiting the generality of the foregoing provisions. it is expressly understood that a breach to any of the Company rules as well as the general disciplinary rules or of any of the provisionsofthisagreementshall be conclusively deemed to be sufficient cause for discipline or dismissal of an
employee,	provided that nothing herein shall prevent an employee from going through the grievance procedure to determine whether or not such breach actually took place.
ARTICLE 5 - ASSOCIATION COMMITTEE
5:01 The Company acknowledges the right of the Association to appoint or otherwise select an Association Committee which shall be composed of one (1) representative from five of the following departments:
1.	Sawmill	6.	Special Services
2.	Planer	7.	Tradesmen
3.	Garage	8.	Heavy Equipment
4,	Trucking	9.	Sawmill Trades
5.	Logging		
4
Representatives shall be regular employees of the Company during their time of office. The name and department of each representative from time to time selected shall be given to the Company in writing. All representatives must wear an identifying marker on their safety hats to identify them as Association representatives.
5:02 The Company undertakes to instruct all membersof its supervisory staff to cooperate with the representatives in the carrying out of the terms and requirements of this agreement.
5:03 The Association undertakes to secure from its officers. representatives and members, their cooperation with the Company and with all persons representing the Company in a supervisory capacity
5:04 A grievance Committee shall be formed and made up ofthe Association Executive (President, Vice-president and Secretary-Treasurer) as well as the representative from which the grievance originated The remaining two representatives may attend the grievance discussions so long as there is no cost involved for the Company and that it does not affect the smooth running of thje operations.
5:05 The privilege of representativesto leave their work without loss of basic pay to attend Association business is granted on the following conditions:
a)	Such business must be between the Association and the Mangement;
b)	Employees having grievances cannot discuss these with their representatives during working hours, except in the case of a discharged employee. The representative concerned shall then obtain the permission of his foreman before leaving his work. Such permission shall not be unreasonably withheld.
c)	Any representative shall receive a pass from the Company to visit all departments as long as it is done outside his working hours and that it is not detrimental to operations. The grievance Committee can make inquiries during working hours, but with the same restrictions.
d)	The Company will allow more time-off without pay for union representatives. so they may keep informed as to developments which could help them in their union work.
ARTICLE 6 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
6:01 The parties to this agreement agree it is of utmost importance that grievances be resolved as quickly as possible
6:02 No grievance shall be considered where the circumstances giving rise to it occured or originated more than eight (8) working days beforethe filing of the grievance, except in the case of recall after lay-off where an employee is not immediately aware of the circumstances, he will be allowed to present his grievance within the eight (8)full working days from the day he first learned or reasonably ought to have learned of the circumstances giving rise to his grievance
5
6:03 The Company recognizes the right of every employee to file grievances according to the established procedure. In order to facilitate the exercise Of the said right, the Company must ensure that no employee is unduly interfered with in the filing of a grievance.
6:04 The periods provided for in the different steps of the grievance procedure may be extended upon mutual agreement in writing between the parties.
6:05 As long as a grievance shall be under consideration incompliance with the mentioned procedure or if any change brought about by the Company is the cause of the dispute, any new working conditions shall remain in effect until a final decision pursuant to this agreement has been reached.
6:06 Grievances relative to the application of this agreement shall be adjusted and settled as follows:
Step 1: In order for a grievance to be valid, the plaintiff must have first dicussed the matter with his immediate supervisor. If an agreement is not reached, the plaintiff must proceed to Step 2.
Step 2: The aggrieved employee shall present his grievance in writing to his foreman. He shall have the assistance of his department representative if he so desires. The foreman shall give his decision within four (4) working days following the presentation of the grievanceto him. Ifthe foreman's decision is not satisfactory to the employee concerned, then the grievance may be presented as follows:
Step 3: Within four (4) working days after the decision is given at Step 2, the aggrieved employee may, with or without his departmental representative, present the grievance in writing to the superintendent or manager of the department who shall consider it in the presence of the person or persons presenting the same and the foreman, and render his decision in writing within four (4) working days following the presentation of the grievance to him. If a settlement satisfactory to the employee concerned is not reached, then the grievance may be presented as follows:
Step 4; Within five (5) working days after the decision is given under Step 3, the aggrieved employee, or upon his request, a representative of the Association. may submit his grievance to the grievance Committee in writing and the said Committee shall, as promptly as possible, call a meeting between thegrievanceCommitleeof the Association and such personsas Management may desire to considerthegrievanceand to obtain a solution satisfactory to all parties concerned. The said Committee shall render its decision in writing within five (5) working days following such meeting, if final Settlement of the grievance is not reached in Step 4, then the grievance may be referred in writing by either party to arbitration as provided for in Article 7 below, at any time withinten (10)calendardaysafter thedecision is given under Step 4 and if no such written request for arbitration is received within the time limit, the grievance shall be deemed to have been abandoned.
6:07 By reversing roles, the Company may present a grievance to the Association. It shall be treated ai Step 4
6
6:08 A grievance under the provisions of this agreement is defined as being any difference between the parties or between the Company and employees covered by this agreement involving the interpretation. application or alleged violation of any of the provisions of this agreement.
ARTICLE 7 - ARBITRATION
7:01 Any grievance carried through the grievance procedure outlined above and which has not been settled will be referred to a single arbitrator on the written request of either of the interested parties.
7:02 Should the Company and the Association fail to agree on a single arbitrator within fourteen (14) days of the notification referred to in Step 4 above, then the Minister of Labour for the Province of Ontario will be asked to nominate the single arbitrator.
7:03 The decision of the single arbitrator shall be binding on both parties.
7 04 The single arbitrator shall not have power to alter or change any of the provisions of this agreement or to substitute any new provisions for any existing provisions nor to give any decision inconsistent with the terms and provisions of this agreement
7:05 Each of the parties to this agreement will bear half the expenses of the single arbitrator.
7:06 I nail cases of grievances, the personnel record of the employee affected shall be presented to the President of the Association upon the written authorization of the employee concerned
ARTICLE 8 - DISCIPLINARY MEASURES
8:01 When it is a matter of written rebuke, a suspension or a discharge, the employer delivers a sanction notice to the employee within five (5) working days after learning of the infraction with a copy to the Association Committee. Days of suspension given following a warning shall be consecutiveand shall follow immediately the notice date. If the employee disagrees with the sanction, he can start grievance proceedings
Any minor warning shall be kept in an employee's file lor a period of one year and shall then be destroyed.
8:02 A claim by a regular employee (having completed the probationary period) to the effect that he has been discharged without just cause, shall be treated as a grievance if a written statement of such grievance is lodged with the manager of the department within three (3) working days after the employee ceases working for the Company
8:03 An employee must inform his employer as soon as he will be away without previous authorization or he will incur disciplinary sanctions. unless he can prove he was physically incapable of doing so
7
ARTICLE 9 • CONTINUITY OF WORK
9:01 In view of the orderly procedure established by this agreement for the settling of disputes and the handling of grievances, the Association agrees that. during the life of this agreement, it shall not cause. call or support any strike, picketing, slowdown or stoppage of work, either complete or partial. and the Company agrees that there will be no lock-out as defined in the Ontario Labour Relations Act.
9:02 The Company shall have the right to discharge or otherwise discipline employees who take part in or originate any strike as defined in the Ontario Labour Relations Act. picketing. slowdown or stoppage of work, either complete or partial, but a claim of unjust discharge or treatment may be the subject of a grievance and should be dealt with as provided in Article 6 above.
9:03 Should the Association claim that a cessation of work constitutes a lock-out, it may take thematter up with the Employer at Step 4 of the grievance procedure
ARTICLE 10 - HEALTH AND SAFETY AT WORK
10:01 Employer and employees cooperate fully to the program of Industrial Safety set forward by the employer. the Ministry of Labour and the Safety Association. It is hereby agreed that it shall be the duty of the employee to make use of all protective devices and equipment required. To further these aims, the Company will schedule monthly meetings of the Security Committee lo exchange ideas on improvements to be made.
10:02 Each employee must supply and use (pursuant to established standards) the following security equipment: boots. hat, gloves, knee pads, hair net, ear plugs. Each employee with one (1) year seniority on April 1st of each yearshall beentitled to a voucher valued at $17.00 by presenting his sales slip from the purchase of safety boots, except for employees whose name are preceeded with an asterisk and who will beentitled to two vouchers per year.
Safety gloves or mitts will be supplied to some employees who require them Employees in classifications identified with two (2) asterisks will be allowed one (1) pair per month worked & those identified with three (3) asterisks will be allowed two (2) pairs per month worked. The Company will determinethe time and place where employees entitled can obtain these gloves, once or twice a month as the case may be.
The Company will furnish ear plugs (plastic ones) at the rate of one set per month lor each employee requiring them.
10:03 The Company shall supply all other special equipment it requires an employee to use. If an employee negligently damages or fails to return such equipment upon leaving his employment with the Company, he shall be assessed for the damages to the equipment. The Company intends to keep better control over its equipment.
6
10 04 Raincoats and rubber boots will be loaned to employees working with tar Raincoats and aprons will also be loaned to hourly employees whose work requires it The employee is accountable for this equipment at all times (does not apply to piece workers)
10:05 Each temporary employee shall submit himself to a medical examination after three (3) weeks of regular work at a time and place Stipulated by the Company The cost of such examination shall be borne by the Company but the employee shall pay the cost of transportation to and from the place of examination Any employee whoisfound physically unfitfor work shall cease to be an employee
b)	The Company can request a medical examination beforean employee returns to work when the said employee has been off on disability
c)	The Company can requesta medical»’ amination for an employee who was laid off If the employee is found unfit io resume his usual work Article 12 08 can come into effect except in the case of an accident sustained in the employ of someone else while laid off
10 06 Buses used for employee transportation shall be equipped with radio transmitters as well as stretchers
10 07 All heavy equipment shall have first-aid kits except for yard loaders There must also be kits in pieceworkers camps
ARTICLE 11 - SENIORITY
11:01 a) The Company recognizes the principle of seniority. seniority will be the decisive element in dealing with promotions, transfers, lay-offs, as long as the employee has the knowledge, skill and qualifications required for the job, or to be trained.
b)	Seniority as referred to in this agreement shall mean the length of continuous service in the employment of the Company and shall be on a Company-wide basis (overtime worked is not to be regarded as accumulated seniority).
Company seniority consists of the number of work days credited to an employee from the date he is hired on a permanent basis with the Company.
Departmental seniority consists of the number of work days credited to an employee from the date of his permanent transfer to his department.
c)	Seniority lists will be revised every six (6) months(theCompanysystem of badge numbers shall be used for employee identification and payroll purposes only). A copy of the seniority list will be posted on the bulletin boards throughout the operations and a copy will be given to the Association. Seniority lists shall contain the following information:
a)	Hiring date
b)	Badge number
c)	Employees name
d)	Departmental seniority in days worked
e)	Company Seniority in days worked
If an employee does not challenge the positionof his name on the seniority list within one month from the date his name appears on the said list he shall be deemed to have proper seniority standing
However an employee shall have a period of one year in which to have an overlooked printing error rectified
1102 An employee shall be hired op a permanent basis once he has completed thirty (30) days of work within a period of sixty (60) working days His seniority will begin at the start of his qualification period Prior to permanent hiring the employee is considered on probation and has no seniority rights The dismissal, lay-off or failure to recall after lay-off of a probationary employee shall not be the Subject of a grievance
In the case of skilled trades, and for heavy equipment operators, an employee must complete forty (40) days of work instead of thirty (30) prior to receiving permanent status
11:03 Departmental seniority consists of the following categories:
1)	Conventional cutting
2)	Hauling - all trucks
3)	Loader - Tractor - Grader - Excavator
4)	Feller Buncher-grapple skidder-cableskidder, delimber-clamp bunk
5)	Sawmill: all production including'loaders
6)	Planers' all production including loaders
7)	Boiler Room
8)	Electrical
9)	Carpenter and painter
10)	Plumbing
11)	Filer
12)	Welders - Sawmill
13)	Millwrights
14)	Mechanics, float drivers and helpers
15)	Welders - Garage
16)	Stockroom
17)	Shipping in Sault Ste. Marie 10) Machinist
11:04 Seniority shall accumulate in the following circumstances only:
a)	When actually at work for the Company
b)	When absent on vacation or on plant holidays
c) When off the payroll due to lay-off, sickness or accident, an employee's seniority will continue to accumulate for a period of timeequal to twelve (12) months if circumstances are unrelated to work & for a period of time equal to twenty-four (24) months if causes are work-related. However the period of time cannot be lengthier than the employee's seniority with the Company.
10
d)	When off the payroll due to personal leave Of absence, employee seniority will continue to accumulate for one (1) month
11:05 Seniority shall terminate and an employee shall cease to be employed by the Company when he'
a)	voluntarily quits his employment with the Company
d)	is discharged and s not reinstated through the grievance procedure or arbitration.
C) if off the payroll for a period of twenty-four (24) months following an illness or accident outside of work It is agreed and understood that an employee's seniority shall be cancelled if conclusive proof shows he could have performed his regular work while absent for medical reason; or If he I sin possession of a medical certificate slating he will not be returning to work.
d)	fails to reportto work withinthree (3)workingdaysafternoticefromthe Company following a lay-off.
e)	fails to return to work upon the termination of an authorized leave of absence, or medical leave unless an acceptable reason has been given to the Company
f)	accepts gainful employment while on a leave of absence without first obtaining the consent of the Company.
11:06 In the event that an employee covered by this agreement should be promoted to a supervisory or confidential position beyond the scope of this agreement and is later placed in a position within the scope of this agreement, he shall retainthe departmental seniority accumulated while serving in such supervisory or confidential capacity for a period of six (6) months, after which time, his departmental seniority shall be frozen but retained He shall return to his previous department and will bump the employee with the least seniority.
11:07 In the event that an employee covered by this agreement should be promoted to a supervisory or confidential position beyond the scope of this agreement, he shall have a period of six months to decide if he will keep the new position or return to his old one After that interval, this privilege is withdrawn.
ARTICLE 12 • STAFF CHANGES
12:01 JOE OPENINGS AND POSTINGS
a)	In the event of a jobopening orthecreation of a now post, theemployer shall post the opening in the designated places, for a period of seven (7) consecutive days along with the following information (not applicable to contract work):
1)	Title or classification of opening
11
2)	Summary description of the duty to assume
3)	Demands and qualifications to fill the post
4)	Location
5)	Salary
b)	Employees must apply in writing during the posting period in a designated area
C) The candidate with the most departmental seniority shall beselected as long as he can show through practical and theoretical tests that he can adequately fill ail requirements of the position The Company shall have ten (10) working days after posting ends to announce its choice.
d)	The Company shall advise the Association in writing of its choice of candidate and also of the names of other employees who applied. This notice must take place within five (5) working days after the vacancy is filled. When selecting an employee with less seniority than the other candidates, the Company will endeavour to inform the unsuccessful candidates of the reason for itschoice. If this is not done, employees with moreseniority may request an interview with the superintendent within ten (10) working days following the choice of candidate, to determine the reasons for such choice.
e)	The fourth position brought about by the same posting shall be filled at will by the Company.
f)	Within the next two years, the Company will establish a posting system with standard forms.
g)	Nothing herein shall prevent the Company from hiring persons from outside the bargaining unit when no qualified employee applies.
12:02 PROBATIONARY PERIOD - The employee selected to fill a vacancy as
per Article 12:01 (cjl shall be subject to a probationary period of five (5) consecutive working days in his new position. The probationary period may be extended by five days if the employer advises the Association Committee in writing. During the probationary period, the employer may return the employee to his previous position. After this interval, the employee shall be considered permanent in this position.
12:03 LIMITATION OF APPLICATION RIGHT-An employee granted a new
position following a job posting, cannot bid for another vacancy before completing six (6) consecutive months in the new position obtained, unless he changes to a superior category.
12:04 PROMOTION REFUSAL - ifwithin a year an employee rejects two (2) positions after practical attempts, the department manager will inform the Association of the fact. The latter will meet with the employee concerned and inform him that another refusal (after trials) will result in his being excluded from the posting for a period of one year.
The same procedure will be used towards a person who applies four (4) times but refuses practical attempts.
12
12:05 TEMPORARY REPLACEMENT
a)	At the time of an authorized temporary leave or following a disability exlending Over a period of twenty (20) days, the position will be posted for a period of three (3) days as a temporary position. The employee whose position becomes temporarily vacant hasa right, upon his return, to resume hiswork as long as he is capable of doing the required work. For a temporary leave of less than twenty (20) days, the position may be filled by temporary appointment and priority shall be given to theemployeeof equal skill having most seniority.
b)	The employee transferred temporarily to a position with a higher rate of pay than his own. shall receive immediately the higher salary for the duration of his transfer.
c)	The employee, transferred at the request of the Company, to a position with a lower rate of pay than his own shall keep his regular rate of pay during that period
d)	The employee transferred at his own request, shall be immediately remunerated at the rate of pay of his new occupation.
12:06 LAY-OFF
a)	in all cases of lay-off exceeding five (5) working days and cases of call back after lay-off, the Company will proceed as follows
1)	Departmental seniority
2)	Skill, ability, competence and efficiency
b)	In case of lay-off involving five or more employees, the Company will inform the Association and those employees involved in writing, at least a week in advance, except in cases out of the Company's control.
c)	At the time of temporary lay-off. an employee may accept a transfer in an available occupation at a different rate from his regular occupation
d} In case of a lay-off and call back, the members of the executive shall have preference of jobs over all Other employees provided they have the normal demands required to accomplish the job available
For purposes of this article, executive shall mean
-	President
*	Vice-president
•	Secretary-Treasurer
-	Stewards (5)
e)	in the event of lay-off in a department caused by a technical technological or mechanical change, the Company shall advise !he Association at least one (1) month before the incident Theemployeeaffected shall then'
1)	Bump the employee with the least seniority in his department, should there be one, and have a trial period (Article 12 02) or the training program as described in Article 13, if applicable
13
2)	The employee thus affected or the employee bumped may then bump the employee with the least Company seniority under the same conditions aforementioned The employee affected or bumped may transfer his seniority to his new department
If the employee affected or bumped cannot bump the employee with the least Company Seniority because he is unable to do that type of work he may then bump the next employee with least seniority and so on as long as the employees bumped have less than a year seniority
3)	This or these employees accepting a new position following technical technological or mechanical changes shall not suffer a reduction insalary for a period of three (3) months or until they successfully bid on ajob posting whichever is less
4)	The employee may return to his previous department without loss of seniority if he successfully bids on a job posting within a period of six (6) months
5)	Starting the first of September 1988 anemployeewiththree (3) years or more of seniority for whom no work can be found due to mechanization technological changes or automation shall be entitled to receive at the termination of his employement a severance pay equal to a week's wages for each year worked during his last continuous work period
This pay shall be calculated according to his regular working time and shall not exceed thirty (30) weeks
It is understood that an employeechoosing to receive hisseverance pay will be leaving his position forfeiting his call back right
12	07 It shall be the duty of each employee to notify the Company promptly of any change in address If an employee fails to do this the Company will not be responsible for failure of a notice to reach such employee
12 08 In the case of an employee who is injured or due to illness can no longer perform his former job (subject to confirmation by a mutually agreed medical specialist Chiropractor not included) his departmental seniority will be credited in full for the purpose of a successful original job posting He may bump the employee with the least departmental or Company seniority provided he has the requirements to do the job
The Company shall send a copy of the medical specialists report to the Association
12 09 NEW POSITION
In the case ot the acquisition of mechanical equipment of which operation or function is new to the Company or is on a trial basis it is understood that the Company can appoint for this equipment hourly rated employees on a trial basis and those said hourly rated employees without losing their seniority shall be able to returntotheiroriginalclassificationaslongasthesysfem does not operate in total in excess of three (3) months
14
12 10 If lay-off were to occur in the woodworking electrical and plumbing departments, employees hired in these departments previous to April 1983 affected by these lay-offswould not be remunerated in their new position at a rate less than their normal salary rate, and this for a period of four (4) months or until successful bidding on a job posting, whichever is less After the maximum of four months, the employee shall be renumerated attherateofhis new occupation
ARTICLE 13 • JOB TRAINING PROGRAM
13	01 a) The employer is setting up an employment training system and shall maintain it for the duration of this agreement
b) As much as possible. the employer shall choose the candidates invited to participate in a job training program taking into account the following criteria
1)	Workdays seniority
2)	Preliminary medical examination results
3)	Discipline file
4)	Qualifications requirements and basic skills required and determined by the employer after consultation with the Negotiating Committee
5)	Experience acquired on a specific production line This criterion will be a determining factor when the first four (4) are equal
cj A copy of the job training program description will he given to the Negotiating Committee
d)	Notwithstanding the dispositions of Article 12 01 the candidate successfully completing the job training program will have first choice for a job posting for which he has been trained This clause (d) shall not come into effect before September 1st. 1989
e)	When a post is temporarily vacant theemployee having been trained for that position must fill this post when requested by his foreman
ARTICLE 14 - ABSENCES
14	01 JURY PAY
In the case of an employee who is called for jury service or subpoenaed as a witness for the Crown the Company shall pay for each day of such service and allowance equal to the difference between his regular straight time salary and the amount received for the jury duty The employee shall present proof of service and of pay received when making his claim for said allowance The employee shall report to work as soon as he is relieved from his jury duty
14 02 The Company may grant a leave of absence ifan employee requests such leave provided it *s for a good reason and it does not interfere with the operations of the Company Such leave shall be without pay and may be signed by the foreman superintendent or manager
15
14:03 Maternity leaves shall be dealt with according to the rules and regulations of the "Employment Standards Act", sections 35,36,37,38 and 39, These leaves shall be considered as absences without pay and theemployees concerned shall exercise their rights under the Unemployment Insurance Act
14:04 In theeventof the death of a spouse or child ol an employee, the latter shall be entitled to a leave of absence for a period of one (1) week
In the event of the death of father, mother, brothers, sister, parents-in-law. brother-in-law. sister-in-law. son-in-law and daughter-in-law. the employee shall be entitled to a leave of absence of three (3)calendar days (3 work shifts) between the death and the funeral day inclusively. If justified by the distance, those work shifts can be postponed until after the funerals. conditional on funeral attendance
In the event of the death of grandparents, the employee shall be entitled to a day off only to attend the funeral However, if justified by the distance, the employee may be granted one or two days without pay for the travel
While on these leaves, the employee shall receive a daily remuneration equivalent to his wage had he worked - regular schedule, excluding bonus and allowances
ARTICLE 15 • WAGES AND CLASSIFICATIONS
15:01 The salary schedules A and E attached hereto are hereby made a part of this agreement.
Since the basic principle is to follow the Salaries paid in the following three companies (United Sawmill, Malette, Lecours Lumber) and since the aforementioned operate from September 1 of each year to August 31 of the following year. we shall use the same base of salaries
The negotiated salaries for schedule A Shall be for the period starting September 1, 1987 and ending August 30, 1990.
The negotiated salaries for schedule E shall be for the period starting September 1, 1986 and ending August 30, 1989.
increases or cuts in wages for hourly-rated employees, effectiveSeptember 1, 1989, will be determined by a percentage equal to the average percentage increase or cut (based on hourly wages in effect immediately prior to the increase or cuts) negotiated by the following employers United Sawmill. Malette Lumber and Lecours Lumber. This hourly percentage increase or cut will apply to the wages in effect on August 31, 1989, for each of the classifications described in schedule E
If a wage cut is put in effect in the other companies, before cutting employees' salaries, the Company will meet with the Association to discuss the situation and steps will be taken jointly
16
1502 The logs will be measured each pay period and a copy of the scale measure will be provided within the next two (2) days, if possible, forthe piece workers
15:03 The pay slip shall be given or mailed to each employee at the end of each pay period. Ifchanges occur, they will be explained by the Company
15'04 NEW CLASSIFICATION
When there is significant change in job content, the Company and the Association will mutually agree to the reclassification of jobs and the proper adjustment to wages in regard thereto within a 20 working day period Any such new rates will be based on a comparison with prevaling rates for similar ’and/or related occupations in the wage schedule, and shall be effective20 working days from the date of significant change in job content
15:05 STOCKROOM CLASSIFICATION
1 Storage of parts:	Starting with Category D or better, according to
experience acquired- D to C - automatically after three (3) months; C to B -after twelve (12) months following a written examination (English or French), B to A -after twelve (12) months following a written examination (English or French).
2. Receiving and Shipping: starting with the basic category, Basicto D-after three (3) months, noexamination; Dto C- after six ("ejmonths following a written examination (English or French); C to B - after six (6) months following a written examination (English or French), B to A - after acquiring experience in stocking parts - same conditions apply.
N.B. An employee requesting a transfer I o Stockroom must first undergo an examination to determine if he is suited for the vacancy
The Stockroom classification will be used only to establish a salary scale, and for no other use (i.e. for work description or work schedule)
A - The parts storage examination remains unchanged and contains questions dealing with various Stockroom operations.
B - The receiving and shipping examination must contain questions dealing with receiving and shipping of parts and cargo:
C- Examination for the maintenance department mustcontainonlyquestions relating to that department:
D - All employees having Class A qualifications before the signing of the present agreement, will keep their Class A and present salary and will receive the wage increase negotiated in the present agreement:
E - Same requirements as outlined in Article 25:02
- 17
15	06 From now on when the boilers are in operation the punching duties of the security guards will be performed by the Boiler Operator(s) for all punching stations Situated at the bottom of the hill
Since the guards regular work will be lessened because cf that as well as the second full work shift they can do other work such as cleaning aslongasits not taking away the worK of union employees
ARTICLE 16 - HOLIDAYS
Holidays will be taken during summer months between the termination of the school year andtheend oft he mo nth of August The Companywill makeevery effort for these holidays to coincide with the Quebec construction holidays (last two full weeks of July)
16:01 a) Employees who have acquired three (3) years seniority or less shall receive 4% of their earnings lor the time worked and will beentitled to one day of vacation lor each month worked to a maximum oftwo (2) weeks per year
b)	Employees who have acquired more than three (3) years shall receive three (3) weeks vacation and shall receive5% of such employees earnings lor the time worked since last payment of vacation pay
C) Employees who have acquired more than six (6) years shall receive three (3) weeks vacation and shall receive 6% of such employee s earnings for the time worked since last payment of vacation pay
Employees who have acquired more than eight (8) years shall receive four (4) weeks vacation and shall receive 7% of such employee's earnings for the time worked since last payment of vacation pay
e)	Employees who have acquired more than ten (10) years shall receive four (4) weeks vacation and shall receive 8% of such employees earnings for the time worked since last payment of vacation pay
Employees who have acquired more than fifteen (15) years seniority shall receive five (5) weeks vacation and shall receive 10% of theirearningsfor the time worked since last payment of vacation pay
g)	Employees who have acquired more than twenty (20) years seniority shall receive six (6) weeks vacation and shall receive12% oftheir earnings lor the time worked since last payment of vacation pay
h)	Employees who have twenty-two (22) years of seniority or more lor the Company shall receive the following additional vacation with pay in the calendar year in which they attain
Age 60 - 1 week (2% of gross earnings)
Age 61-2 weeks (4% cf gross earnings)
Age 62 - 3 weeks (6% of gross earnings)
Age 63 4 weeks (8% of gross earnings)
Age 64 - 5 weeks (10% of gross earnings)
18
For the purpose of the abovesupplementary vacation, the duration andtiming will be determined by mutual agreement between the employees and the employer
ARTICLE 17 - PAID HOLIDAYS
17 01 The following paid holidays, regardless of when they fall, will be granted with pay to all employees who have completed their probationary period
New Year's Day	Civic Holiday
Day after New Year's Day	Labour Day
Good Friday	Thanksgiving	Day
Easter Monday	Christmas Day
Victoria Day	Boxing Day
Dominion Day
Payment lor such holidays shall be based on the employee's regular hourly rate multiplied by the number of regular hours he would normally have worked on such a day When any of the said holidays fall on other than a regular working day. then the Company may either designate some other days as the day upon which the said holiday will be celebrated, or pay the employees who qualify for payment for the said holiday as though it had fallen on a regular working day, whichever the Company prefers
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions, it is agreed and understood that, effective from the ratification date, all pieceworkers will receive a flat payment for holidays at the rate of $144 60 per day. This amount will be subject to the future increase according lo Article 15 01
17:02 a) In order to be entitled to payment for a plant holiday, an employee must have worked the full working day immediately preceding theholidayand the full working day immediately following the holiday, provided that an employee who fails to work due to lay-off or illness which is verified to the satisfaction of the Company, shall not thereby be disqualified from receiving holiday pay provided he has worked on one or more of the twenty-one (21) working days prior lothe holiday and/or returnsto work on anyofthe twenty-one (21) working days following the holidays
b)	There shall be no duplication of holiday pay between the Company, Workers Compensation Board or Unemployment Insurance. The Company shall complete the difference in the amount paid by the Insurance if applicable.
17:03 If an employee wo rkson on eoftheabove-named paid holidays, except Christmas or New Year's, he shall receive payment at the time and one-half (1'/?) his regular rate & in the case of Christmas and New Year's, double (2X) time, for the hours actually worked by him in addition lo receiving his holiday pay
17:04 Where one of the above-named paid holidays falls during an employee's approved vacation period, he shall have a choice between the pay for an extra day or an extra vacation day.
19
ARTICLE 18 - WORK SCHEDULE AND OVERTIME
18:01 a) The following paragraphs and sections are intendedto definethe normal hours of work and shall not be constructed as a guarantee of hours of work per day or per week, or of days of work per week.
b)	There shall be a fifteen (15) minute coffee break in the morning and afternoon at the time presently in effect. The same to apply on second and third shifts. The Company reserves the right to advance or delay this break by thirty (30) minutes. If. intheopinionof the Association, this right isabused. the Company will be advised.
c)	The Company shall continue to supply tea and coffee daily to the employees.
d)	It is understood that the Company could start a third work shift in certain aspects of production, such as slasher or planer for example. It is understoodthatschedules will bediscussedbyboth partiesin theeventsucha thing happens.
18:02 The standard pay period for each department is defined in the following schedule.
18:03 WORK SCHEDULE
a)	CONTRACT WORKERS- Five (5) days a week, Monday through Friday. An employee who has worked every day of the two weeks pay period may requestto be excused from work on the Friday of the short week. Iftherequest is made two (2) days in advance, it will not be unduly refused.
b)	Sawmill workers and Planers
Five (5) days of nine (9) hours: First week: Four (4) days of nine (9) hours: Second week; 7:00 hrs to 12:00 hrs and 13:00 hrs to 17:00 hrs for day shift; 19:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs and 1:00 hr to 5:00 hrs for night shift.
c)	ALL TRADES - Including Stockroom, helpers and loader operators.
Five (5) days of nine (9) hours: First week; Four (4) days of nine (9) hours: Second week. •
The short week and the long week may be altered for someemployees so that the department operates five (5) days every week, especially i n the Stockroom,
Carpentry, Plumbing and Electrical.
The normal hours are 7:00 hrs to 18:00 hrs as well as 19:00 hrs to 6:00 hrs.
Upon mutual agreement, some employees may start their shift at a different time.
4) BOILER ROOM-		D/O: Days Off, Net: Cleaning					
Fire Grid	SUN	MON	TUE	WED	THUR	FRI	SAT
Stocker No. 1	D/O	1 net	1	1	1 net	1	1
Stocker No. 2	1 net	D/O	D/O	3 net	3	3	3 net
Stocker No. 3	3	3	3 net *	D/O	D/O	2 net	2
Stocker No. 4	2 net	2 net	2 net	2 net	2 net	D/O	D/O
20
Stocker No. 1 Stocker No. 2 Stocker No. 3 Stocker No. 4
Stocker No. 1 Stocker No 2 Stocker No. 3 Stocker No. 4
Stocker No. 1
Stocker No. 2 Stocker No. 3 Stocker No. 4
1 net O/O 3	3
2	2 net
0/0 net 1 net
3
2
D/0 1 net
2
D/0
1
3 net
3
2 net
1	net D/0
2	net 1 net D/0
3	net
D/0 3 net 2
1 net
3 net 2 1
D/O
2
1
D/0 net 3 net
3 net D/0 2
1 net
D/O
2
1
3 net
2
1
3
D/0
3
D/0 2 net
1	net
D/O
2	net
1	net
3	net
2	net 1 net
3
D/O
3
2 net D/0
1	net
2	net D/0
1
3	net
D/0
1
3
2 net
3 net 2
D/O
1	net
2
D/O
1
3 net
D/0
1
3 net
2	net
HOURS: 1. 24'00hrs to 8:00 hrs; 2. 8:00 hrs to 16:00 hrs: 3. 16:00 hrs to 24'00 hrs.
CLEANING: Stocker No. 1 - Boiler No. 1; Stocker No. 2- Boiler No 2; Stocker No 3 - Boiler No. 3; Stocker No. 4 - Clean under bin and behind boilers.
e)	SAULT STE MARIE - Same as previous contract
f)	Graveltruck, heavy equipment, mechanicalcutting-Five (5)days. First week; Four (4) days: Second week. Leave from gas station: 6:30 hrs. Return to gas station: 18:00 hrs.
g)	Logging truck and loading equipment, sanders and graders - Five (5) days of nine (9) hours' First week; Four (4) days of nine (9) hours Second week. Same for night shift. Leave between 6'30 hrs and 7:30 hrs and return after completing nine (9) hours of production
h)	SPECIAL SCHEDULES
Clean Up	1, 12:00 hrs to 16:00 hrs
17:00 hrs to 22:00 hrs.
1. 1:00 hr. to 5:00 hrs 6:00 hrs to 11:00 hrs
Filer	1. 7:00 hrs to 12:00 hrs
13:00 hrs to 16:00 hrs
Electrician	1:00 hr. lo23:00 hrs.
i)	MILLWRIGHTS AND WELDERS
Millwrights 7:00 hrs. to 16:00 hrs.; 15:30 hrs to 00:30 hrs ; 22:00 hrs to 7:00 hrs.; Welders: Two (2) welders (days) 7 00 hrs. to 16 00 hrs , One (1) welder 15 30 hrs. to 00:30 hrs., One (1) welder 22:00 hrs to 7 00 hrs.
18:04 OVERTIME
a)	Overtimeat the rate of time & one-half (1'/?) the emplyee's regular hourly rate of pay shall be paid for all hours worked in excess of his regularly scheduled hours in any given day or any given week All hours, except regular scheduled hours, worked between 00:00 to 23 59 midnights on Sunday shall
21
be paid at double time
b)	Overtime premiums shall not be paid more than once lor any hour worked, and there shall be no pyramiding of overtime.
c)	Overtime shall be distributed to all employees within a department or job classification on an as equitable basis as possible, provided theemployee is capable, qualified and available when called or advised. If an employee refuses overtime work, for the purpose of equalization hereunder, he shall be deemed to have worked the overtime in question
d)	In the case of the cancellation of a shift or a part thereof for any reason, the Company shall endeavour when possible to advise the employee ten (10) hours in advance of such said cancellation, when the mill is operating one work shift If the mill is operating two (2) work shifts, the employees should be advised at least one (1) hour before the start of their shift, not to show up lor work. It is the employee's responsibility to supply the Company with a telephone number where he can be reached. In the case of heavy equipment operators and drivers in the bush they should be advised between 5'00 and 5:30 not to show u p for work in the event a shift is cancelled.
e)	Notwithstanding any of the other provisions of this Article, it is agreed that the minimum work period for filers over a two week period of timeshall be eighty (80) hours, and the maximum work period lor filers over a two week period of time shall beeighty-one (81) hours. Furthermore, for the purposes of calculating overtime, the by-weekly wages of afiler shall bedividedbyeighty-one(81)andthe resulting figure shall bemulti plied by one and one-half (1 v&) in order to arriveattheapplicableovertime rate. The memorandumofagreement on hours of work and premium to filers shall prevail all other clauses.
1) Employees may be required to work in excess of their regular day, shift or week. Except in a case of emergency or where specific overtime work arrangements have been mutually agreed upon between the Company and the Union, an employee will, upon his reasonable request. be excused from working overtime.
gj For the purpose of this agreement, a paid holiday shall begin at 7:00 hrs of that day and end at 7:00 hrs of the following day. However, in the departments where the regular schedule differs, a paid holiday shall begin and end according to the regular working hours of the department concerned.
h)	For calculating overtime pay, shift differential shall not beconsidered as part of an employee's applicable hourly rate.
i)	The shift of an employee may be changed upon request from the Company as long as he is paid time and a half his regular rate of payforthefirst work shift alter the change. Upon his return to his usual shift, the employee shall be paid his regular rate of pay, as long as there is a span of eight (8) hours between the shifts worked. These measures will not apply to call back alter
22
partial or general lay-off or to employees with less than thirty (30) days seniority.
j)	Rotation for ail employees on shift work shall be done by successive rotation.
ARTICLE 19 • REPORTING PAY
19:01 a) If an employee reports to work and is unable to commencework lor reasons within the Company’s control (it is understood that power failure is not within the Company's control) he shall be paid for one half (V6) day if he works less than one half day andafulldayifhe works more than one half day. To qualify for this payment, the employee must remain on the job until told by a foreman that he may leave and may accept other than his normal work if it is offered. The employee may refuse this work, in which case he must punchout and will be disqualified for this reporting day's pay.
b)	If a cutler. truck driver or heavy equipment operator in the Woods department (except tor owner-operators) reports to work and is unable to commence work or to complete his day's work due to a breakdown arising from normal use of the machine he operates. and the Company is unable io provide himwith a spare machine, he must accept other work if it is offered. If no other work is offered, hewill be paid a maximum equal to four (4) hours. The middle of a working day is considered to be after five (5) hours of work.
If the said breakdownexceeds two working days, the said employee will bump the employee with the least seniority in the department provided he has the requirements to do the job. The employee who has been bumped will be laid-off for the duration of the breakdown.
c)	If an employee reports forovertime previously scheduled, and is refused work for any other reason than power failure, he shall be entitled to be paid a sum equal to four (4) hours regular time. but under no circumstances can this amount exceed what he would have earned if he had worked.
19:02 An employee called out to work after his normal hours or on Sundays in case of emergency shall receive time and one-half (1%)his regular rate of pay, but in no cases shall he receive less than theequivalentoftwo (2) hours of pay if cal led to the townsite and the equivalent of four (4) hours of pay if called to the industrial site at his straight time rate of pay The highest amount shall prevail All call out time begins when an employee punches in and ends when an employee punches out of the department lo which he was called.
NOTE:	a) Generator considered townsite; b) 2400 volt lines considered
industry,
An employee shall be deemed to be working overtime if he agrees to start his shift at an earlier time or stays past the end of his shift or comes back at an appointed time. If at all possible, the foreman should inform hisemployees at least one (1) hour before the end of their shift, if he wants them to remain or come back to work
The employeecoming in weekends for the dry kiln shall receivethree (3) hours of pay at the regular rate If work unrelated to the dry kiln is asked of him, it will be considered as another call
23
19:03 Stand-by pay shall be paid to those trades mentioned below and under the following conditions only: An employee selected by his supervisor for stand-by shall be paid for such stand-by at a rate of two (2) hours per day (regular). In addition to this, he shall receive call out pay in accordance with Article 19:02.
An employee appointed for stand-by must advise the Boiler Room as to his whereabouts in case he may be needed.
The stand-by pay mentioned in this article shall apply to those employees employed as Electricians and Plumbers only.
ARTICLE 20 - EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE
20:01 a) Inthe industrial area, the Company will perform the maintenance on its mobile equipment, except for minor maintenance. where the operator, if asked, will help the mechanic perform said minor maintenance at his regular rate of pay if it is during his normal working hours. At the end of each shift he will perform an inspection of his machine and issue a reportto his foreman.
m inthe bush operation, the Company will performthe maintenance on its moDile equipment, except for some greasing and minor breakdowns such as loose fan belts, hydraulic hose and fittings which will be performed by the operator (as long as they areaccessible). At the end of each shift, theoperator will perform an inspection of his machine and issue a report to his foreman
c)	AH equipment operators thoughout the Company will verify their fire extinguisher daily and obtain replacements when necessary.
ARTICLE21 - GROUP INSURANCE- PENSION PLAN
GROUP INSURANCE
21:01 a) The Company agrees to pay, for the term of this agreement, the full
cost of the premiums in regards to the group insurance plan (No. 04536). Details of this olan are to be supplied to all employees. The life insurance policy shall be for twenty-two thousand five hundred dollars ($22,500 00) and shall be increased to twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000 00) on September 1, 1988
5)	The Company shall maintain & bear the cost of a Weekly indemnity plan. Beginning on the date of signing of this agreement, the maximum amount shall be equal to that of Unemployment Insurance and will be subject to the same increases.
For employees in the Woods department, the maximum shall be the same as that negotiated by the companies Lecours, Unitedand Malette. This maximum is presently $330.00 a week.
24
21 02 The Company shall cover the full cost ofO.H I P to all employees who have established three (3) months seniority
21:03 The Companyshall maintain and beartnecost of a Dental plansimilar to the one now in effect. Relevant rates to be as follows.
From the signing of the agreement, the rates of O.D.A. 1906 will apply, From September 1, 1988 to September 1, 1989, O.D.A 1987 rates will apply; From September 1, 1989 till the end of this agreement. O D A. 1988 will apply.
21 04 Subject to Group Health Insurance Plan GD 04536, the Company shall continue to maintain and bear the cost if a Vision plan
21:05 a) If any employee is on L.T.D. or W.C B., he shall make application for premium assistance for government medical benefits available to him The Company will assist in these application- where necessary and provide whatever supplementary coverage is requir&d to provide the said employee with continuation of all medical benefits entitled to h i mat the time he became disabled.
Forthe purposeof this article, the terrrT'Medical Benefits" shall meanO.H.I.P , Visioncare Plan, Dental Plan, Healthguard sections and Life
b) In order to better control costs and preserve steady income to its members, the Association encourages its members to change position on a temporary basis, so as to permit the early return of an injured employee This processus will enable an employee temporarily handicapped by injury to find work more easily. In all cases thereshould be previousagreement between the Association and the Company. Example. An employee with an arm in a cast could take a position sitting in front of a console.
21:06 Subject to Group Policy GF 04536 A. the Long Term Disability plan is 50% of earnings up to a maximum of $1,100 per month and shall be increased effective September 1, 1988 to a maximum of $1,150 per month. For forestry employees this amount is of $1,200 per mo nth from the date this agreement is signed (or the acceptance date by the insurer).
21:07 The following benefitswillbe paid during the month of a lay-off and the following month.
-	life insurance
-	OH.IP.
-	Dental insurance
-	Vision insurance
-	Health Insurance polyclinic
21 08 The Company shall pay benefit premiums for a maximum period of twelve (12) months for employees off work due to a claim to Workers' Compensation Board or the indemnity insurance After that time, an employee can choose to keep his life insurance in force by paying the premiums in advance to the Company.
Before ending benefits. the Company shall discuss each individual case with the Association.
25
21:09 PENSION PLAN
It is agreed and understood that the contributory pension pian implemented in May 1973 shall continue throughout the duration of this agreement.
ARTICLE 22 - PREMIUM PAY & COMPENSATION WHILE ON TRAINING
22:01 a) SHIFT PREMIUM
A shift premium of .34 cents per hour will be paid for all work performed on a regularly scheduled second shift, to be increased to .35 cents effective September 1, 1987 and to ,36 cents effective September 1, 1988.
This premium will be ,36 cents for employees on the third shift, to be increased to .37 cents effective September 1,1987 and I o ,38 cents effectiveSeptember 1, 1988.
b)	LEAD HAND PREMIUM
The lead hand shall receive a special premium for the time worked in that capacity.
This premium will be of .25 cents from the date this agreement is signed,
-	of .35 cents effective September 1, 1987 to August 31, 1988;
-	of .40 cents effective September 1, 1988 I o the ending of this agreement.
c)	TRAINING COURSE
Should an employee need to follow a training course to qualify for a position (i.e. maintenance mechanic and lumber graders), the Company shall makeup the difference between the candidate's salary and the amount paid by Unemployment Insurance. The Company reserves the right to do so for any course found I o be of importance for its employees. In ail events, progress reports on the success and seriousness of the candidates shall delermine if these courses will go on.
ARTICLE 23 - MATERIAL SUPPLY
23:01 COVERALLS
Coveralls shall be supplied to employee classifications presently wearing them. These coveralls shall be washed by the Company free of charge once a week or when required. If lost, the employee will pay cost of replacement.
23:02 PORTABLE CAMPS
A portable camp with stove shall be furnished to each team of conventional cuttersand such camp shall follow the team as closely as possible. In the event that a team should be transferred for any reason on a temporary basis, two teams could share a camp but only on a temporary basis when a camp cannot be immediately supplied.
ARTICLE 24 - MEALS
24:01 If an employee is requested to continue working past his normal schedule and this decision causes him to be working between 12:00 hrs. (noon) and 13:00 hrs or from 17:00 hrs. to 18:00 hrs., he shall beentitledto have his meal reimbursed up to a maximum of $6.50 per meal.
26 -
This payment shall also apply to an employee sent to work in a location such that it is impossible for him to eat at home (i.e. A mechanic sent in the woods in mid-morning with no possibility of return before 13:00 hrs.).
ARTICLE 25 - TRADE CLASSIFICATION EXAMS
25:01 Bargaining unit employees wishing to become apprentices intrades mentioned in Article 25:03 shall be subjected to an aptitude test prior to being accepted as apprentice in the trade being applied for. He would then start at Class 3, base rates of attached schedule, except filers and lumber graders.
25:02 The use of Company exams mentioned inthe attached schedule shall determine the degree of competence. Successful passing of said trade exams shall be required to change classification in said trade. Exams shall be standard and the employee shall be entitled to viewthe answers at the end of the test, so he can correct himself. Should an emplyeefail said exam, he shall be obligated to wait three (3) calendar months prior to becoming eligible to rewrite said exam. I ti s the responsibility of theemployee to advise his foreman in writing when he is eligible for writing said classification exam. If the Company fails to provide him with such an exam at that time and he successfully passed said exam the first time, he shall be paid retroactivetothe date of becoming eligible lo write or the date he advised his foreman, whichever is shorter.
25'03 .Trades which will be subjected to and included in the above-mentioned examination of trades and classifications:
1.	Millwright (Sawmill)
2.	Welder
3.	Filers
4.	Electricians
5.	Lumber Graders (Planer)
6.	Carpenters
7.	Painters
8.	Plumbers
9.	Machinists
10.	Mechanics
11.	Boiler operator
25:04 No employee shall qualify for Class 1,ADB orADL rates unless he has accumulated the required time in this trade as set forth in the attached schedule or unless already classified by the Company upon arrival.
ARTICLE 26 • WORK LIMITATIONS
26:01 Supervisory personnel shall not perform work which would normally be a function of an employee in the job classification covered by this agreement, except when instructing employees in cases of emergency or to replace an employee (who is off work for any reason when no replacements are immediately available), also except in trade classifications where all supervisors are classified as working supervisors, and when bargaining unit employees are not willing or available I o perform such said work. Bargaining unit employees will receive preference for standby, call out and overtime.
27
Notwithstanding the foregoing, some foremen are authorized to perform work in their supervisory trade. These are foremen in carpentry, plumbing, electricity, welding and the planers. However, this special privilege will be withdrawn within a year to the foreman of welding and to the two foremen of planing at the time of the construction of the two planers under one roof. The existing privilege in the planer should disappear within a maximum of two years.
The loss of these privileges will be calculated from the date this agreement IS signed.
ARTICLE 27 - BENEFITS OF FORESTRY WORKERS & TRADESMEN
27:01 Transportation of forestry workers shall be by bus or truck, except for owner-operators and workers who have their own vehicle.
27:02 a) The Company shall provide free insurance coverage against loss by fire or theft of employee power saws to a maximum of $1,400.00. The Company will provide additional free insurance coverage against loss by fire or theft of tradesman's tools normally required by tradesmen, to the full value of such tools while on Company property, or worksite. An inventory of tools will be done once a year.
Each tradesman must provide a complete list of his tools. The woodcutter must supply the serial number of his chain saw. The employee shall have to pay a $26.00 deductible for each occurance.
b) Tradesmen who must supply their own tools, shall receive a yearly compensation equal to 2% of the value of the tools deemed necessaryfor the type of work, in excess of three thousand ($3,000.00)dollars. This amountto be paid at the end of each year of the contract
27:03 Long moves shall bepaidto pieceworkersonthe hourly basis specified in Article 17:01, provide such said moves entail a loss of workingtimeinexcess of one (1) hour under normal circumstances. I n thecaseof long moves from a winter cut to a summer cut, all hours actually worked (in moving) shall be paid in accordance with Article 17:01 ($144.60 divided by 10 ~ $14.46/hrat the time of signing).
27:04 To help offset the cost of operation and special safety apparel for the cutter/skidder team, the Company will pay, in mid-December of each calendar year, one and one-half (1 ’/») percent of each cutter's gross earnings from cutting. The Company further agrees to sell to its cutting employees, files, chain oil, chainbars and up to ten (10) chains per year per employee at the Company's cost plus ten percent FOB Dubreuilville
To qualify for the above payment, an employee will have to beemployed by the Company on December 1st of each year
27:05 If necessary, the busses may be used in the woods during lunch hour
27:06 The inner parts of the ear protectors will be supplied to employees in the cutting department.
26
ARTICLE 28 -TRAVELING TIME
28:01 A pieceworker (contract) and/or any equipment operator who walks and/or is driven and/or drives a small truck to work, will be paid traveling time if such time exceeds half an hour each way.
For machine operators the rate of pay will be their usual hourly rate and pieceworkers will be paid according to article 17:01. It is understood that walking or traveling time shall not be considered as working time.
The Company will make efforts to lessen thewalking ti me forcon tract workers and to insurethatthe said walking time be equally divided among the different teams.
ARTICLE 29 - OFFICIAL LANGUAGE
29:01 It is understood that, during the period of this collective agreement. In case of interpretation problemsor problemsarising from clerical or translation error(s), the French version shall always prevail at all times Since the said collective agreement was negotiated in French, and since French is to be regarded as the official language of this agreement.
ARTICLE 30 - TERM OF THE AGREEMENT
The ComDanv and the Association agree that they will abide bv the articles of this agreement from April 1, 1987 to March 30, 1990
Both parties concerned, if they agree, shall be able to change one or more articles of this present agreement
INWITN ESS WHEREOF each of the parties hereto havesignedthisagreement by its duly authorized representatives as of the date and year first above written.
SIGNED AT DUBREUILVILLE, ONTARIO THIS 29th DAY OF JUNE, 1987.
June 29, 1987
FOR THE COMPANY	FOR THE ASSOCIATION
Lorrent Gaudet (Chairman) Jean-Paul Dubreuil Roger Hudebine
Jean-Yves Levesque (Chairman) Gerald Bertrand Richard Gauthier Gerald Pelletier Dany Vallieres Michel Belanger
29
SCHEDULE "A" PIECEWORKERS RATES (with limbs)
DIAMETER
5”
6”
7"
8"
9"
10"
ir
12" 13" 14" 15" 16' 17" 18" 19" 20" 21" 22" 23'
September 1, 1986
.506
.663
.993
1.152
1.498
I.	911 2.338 2,683 2.873 3.396 3.949 4.641 5.272 6.159 7.231 7.863 9.001
10.106
II.	228
Poplar with limbs: 32% less than the above schedule.
Sorting of balsam with limbs: 10Vo more than above schedule.
PIECEWORKERS RATES
(without limbs)
SEE SCHEDULE "A"
gJAMETER
6"
7"
8"
10”
11"
12"
13"
14'
15"
16"
17"
18"
19"
20"
21"
22"
23"
September 1,1986
.674
.884
1.326
1.535
1.998
2.547
3.117
3.577
3.831
4.528
5,265
6.188
7,029
8.211
9.641
10.484
12,000
13.475
14.971
30
Delimbed poplar will be paid at 32% less than the above schedule Delimbed balsam sorting will be paid at 10% more than the above schedule
1)	When there is more than 5% balsam in a Section the foreman may request the crews to pile it in a separate skidway Upon such a request, the crews will not be paid if some balsams remain unsorted
2)	Scaling will be done according to the Government of Ontario Scale Rules The diameter will be written on the butt-end of each tree
3)	When work is done by the crew to clear skidway sites on constructed roads a bonus of 5% of earnings will be paid for conifers on the aforementioned skidway Site If site needs no clearing or the Site work is done by tractor or other machinery. no bonus shall be paid
SCHEDULE"B”
HOURLY RATED CLASSIFICATIONS
WAGES
* Truck Driver Gravel
Ease (1 month) C (2nd month) B (3rd month) A
Sept. 1, 1986
13.42
13.53
13.66
13.79
Sept. 1, 1987
13.82
13.93
14.06
14.19
Sept. 1, 1986
14.12
14,23
14,36
14.49
• Logging Base (1 month) A
13,79	14.19	14.49
13.96	14,36	14.66
* Loader (Wood) B (3 months)
A
13.98	14.80	15.52
14.28	15.10	15.82
■ Grader Base (1 month) B (3 months)
A
12.71	13.56	14.31
13,43	14.28	15.03
13.80	14.65	15 40
' Bulldozer TD 15 and TD 20
TD 25, D8 and D9 Base (1 month)
B (2 months)
A
Loader (Gravel)
1 Shovel Operator
Dynamite helper Base (6 months)
A
13.67
13.86
15.03
13.80
14 51
12,59 12 94
1428
14	47
15	64
14	71
15	28
1299 13 34
15 63
14 79
14	98 16 15
15	52 15 95
13 29 13 64
31
* Driller
/Dynamiter	13.77	14.17	14,47
MECHANICAL LOGGING
Sept. 1, 1986
Conventional Skidder
Base (3 months)	13,67
A	13.91
Sept. 1, 1987
14.07
14,31
Sept 1, 1988
14.37
14,61
* Clam Bunk Skidder Base (1 month)
B (1 month)
A
13,67	14.07
13.80	14.20
14.03	14.43
14.37
14.50
14,73
* Feller, delimber,
* Feller-forwarder Base (1 month) B (1 month)
A
13.67	14,07	14.37
13.80	14,20	14,50
14.03	14.43	14.73
A production bonusofoneanda half (116) cents per tree 5” or more in diametei shall be paid to all operators of delimbers. All bonuses paid shall be suject to actual Counts when logs are placed on skidway and determined by actual tally.
* Spareman (Woods)
Base (1 month)	12 71
B (3 months)	13,46
A	13.91
13.86	15.00
14,33	15,19
15.14	16.36
With the intent of adjusting ratesfor heavy equipment operators inthe bush with the average paid bytheotherthree employers,the following raises whi be made effective Sept. 1. 1989:
Loader (Tanguay and Koehring)
Grader
BulldozerTDl5 and TD20 Bulldozer TD25, D8 and D9 Loader (Gravel)
Shovel operator Spareman
0,42
0.45
0.47
0.21
0.51
0.37
0.26
POSITIONS • SAWING
POSITIONS
CLASS ”A’
-	Swecan No. 1 operator (Canter)
-	Swecan No. 2 operator (Canter)
-	Forano operator (Twin Bandsaw)
-	Hardy operator (Twin Bandaw)
-	CMNE No. 1 operator
-	CMNE No. 2 operator
32
CLASS "B1'
-	Edger Feeder - Small mill (Edger)
-	Forano No. 1 Taller (Twin)
-	Forano No 2 Tailer (Twin)
-Trimmer operator left and right - Big mill
-	Sorting Table - Big mill
CLASS “C"
-	Slasher No.1 operator
-	Slasher No. 2 operator
-	Slasher No. 3 operator
-	Spoutnik operator (fixed loader)
-	Chipper operator
-	Operator at the Small Pond
-	New Stacker operator
-	Beloit No. 1 operator (fixed loader)
-	Beloit No. 3 operator (fixed loader)
-	Small Trimmer operator
-	Sorter, Big Sorting Table (Boardway)
-	Delimber Tailer - Small mill
-	Small Swecan feeder (Canter)
-	Big Sorting Table Stacker operator (Boardway)
*	Feeder of the two 66 Debarkers (25” and 26")
-	Bull Edger operator - Big mill (Edger)
*	Small Sorting Table Stacker operator (Boardway)
-	New 35 Debarker Feeder (14”)
-	0 Id 35 Debarker Feeder (14)
-	Debarker 16 Feeder
CLASS “D"
-Labourer
-	Sorter. SlasherNo.3
-	Hardy Tailer (Twin)
-	Top Trimmer operator
-	Men working on both sorting tables (Boardways)
-	Cleaning of big & small mills
*	Tunnel operator
WAGES - SAWMILL
CLASS "A"	Sept 1, 1986	Sept 1, 1987	Sept 1, 1986
.Based month)	13.29	13.69	13.99
A	13.41	13.81	14.11
CLASS "B"			
Base	13.01	13,41	13,71
A	13.13	13.53	13.83
CLASS"C"			
Base	12 89	13 29	13 59
A	13.00	13 40	13 70
33
CLASS "O'
12 59	12 99
Spareman	
Ease (1 month)	12 83
C	13 11
B	13 39
A	13 67
13 23 13 51
13	79
14	07
Loader
Base (1 month) C B A
Filers
CLASS “C"
Base (3 months) C (3 months)
B (3 months)
A (3 months)
CLASS "B"
Base (3 months) C (3 months)
B (3 months)
A (3 months)
CLASS "A"
Base (3 months) C (3 months)
B (3 months)
A (3 months)
12	71 13.06
13	43 13.80
1,130,68
1,141.19
1,151.71
1,163,17
1,163,17
1,173.68
1,185.15
1,195.67
1,244.40
1,254.92
1,266.38
1,276.89
13 11 13 46
13	83
14	20
1,163.08
1,173.59 1,184 11 1,195.57
1,195.57
1,206.08
1,217.55
1,228.07
1,276 80 1,287.32 1,298.78 1,309.29
WAGES - PLANERS
Big Planer Feeder	Sept. 1, 1986	Sept. 1, 1987
Base (1 month)	12 89	13 29
A	13.00	13 40
Trimmer		
Base (1 month)	13.25	13.65
A	13.38	13.78
Grader		
Base (3 months)	12,95	13,35
C E (Licenced	13.35	13 75
O.L.M.A.) A (Licenced	13,77	14,17
O.L.M.A )	14,76	15,16
Stacker		
Ease (1 month)	12.71	13.11
A	12.92	13.32
34
13 29
13 53
13	81 14.09
14	37
13 41
13	76
14	13
14 50
1,187 38 1,197.89
1,208.41 1,219.87
1,219.87 1,230.38 1,241 85 1,252.37
1,301.10
1,311.62
1,323.08
1,333.59
Sept. 1, 1988
13,59 13 70
13.95
14.08
12.65
14,05
14.47
15.46
13.41
13.62
Press	
Base (1 month)	12.71
A	12.83
Stacker &	
Lathe workers	12.59
Yardman	
Base (1 month)	12.59
A	12.71
Spareman	
Base(l month)	12.71
C (2 months)	12.77
All jobs except graders	13.00
All jobs	13.37
Small Planer
13 11 1323
12.99
12 99 13.11
13.11
13.17
13.40
13.77
13.41
13.53
13.29
13.29 13.41
13.41
13,47
13,70
14.07
Base (1 month)	12.69	13.29	13.59
A	13.00	13.40	13.70
Trimmer	12.59	12.99	13.29
Grader			
Base (3 months)	12.95	13.35	13.65
C	13.35	13.75	14.05
B (Licenced O.L.M.A.)	13.77	14.17	14.47
A (Licenced O.L.M.A.)	14.76	15.16	15.46
Stacker			
Base (1 month)	12.89	13.29	13.59
A	13.00	13.40	13.70
Sorting - Lathes			
Labourer	12.59	12.99	13.29
Feeder
Loader operators		
both planers		
Base	12.89	13.29
C	13.24	13.64
B	13.60	14.00
A	13.98	14.38
Stockroom		
Base	12.59	12.99
D	12.83	13.23
C	13.06	13.46
B	13.43	13.83
A	13.80	14.20
13.59
13.94
14.30
14.68
13.29
13.53
13.76
14,13
14.50
35
BOILER ROOM
4th Boiler operalor (withoutcert.)	12.69	13.09	13.39
4th Boiler operator (with cert.)	13.19	13.59	13.89
3rd Boiler operator (with cert.)	13.69	14.09	14.39
MISCELLANEOUS Millwright helper, Carpenter/Plumber helper, Tireman,			Greaser;
Base (3 months)	12.59	12.99	13.29
A	13.38	13.76	14.08
TRADES
*	Mechanics' Electricians* Painter ’ Plumber
*	Millwright	* Machinist
*	Welder
’ Carpenter
Sept. 1, 1988Sept. 1,1986Sept. 1,1986Sept. 1,1966
CLASS 3 Ease (6 months)
A (6 months) with exam
CLASS 2 Ease (8 months)
A (8 months) with exam
13.38
13 56
13.38 13 70
13.78
13.98
14.06
14.44
13.38
13 55
13.38 13 66
13.73
13,90
13.98
14.26
CLASS 1		
Ease (10 months)	14.19	14.76
E (22 months) with exam	14.65	15.24
ADB	15.17	16.09
ADL	15.70	16.61
14.09
14.56
15.06
15.59
14.57
15.05
15.78
16.32
CLASS 3 Ease 14.04 A
Sept. 1, 1967Sept, 1,1987Sept. 1,1987Sept. 1,1987
13.78	13.78	13.78	13.78
13.96	14.10	13 95	14.06
CLASS 2
Ease
A
14,18	14.46	14.13	14.38
14.38	14.84	14.30	14.66
CLASS 1
Base
B
ADB
ADL
14.59
15.05
15,57
16.10
15.16
15.64
16.49
17.01
14.49
14.96
15.46
15.99
14.97 15.45 16 18 1672
36
Sept, 1,1988Sept, 1,1988Sept. 1, 1988Sept. 1,1988
CLASS 3				
B	14.08	14,08	14.08	14.08
A	14.26	1440	14.25	14 36
CLASS 2				
E	14.48	14.76	14.43	14.68
A	14.68	15.14	14.60	14.96
CLASS 1				
Base	14.89	15.46	14.79	15.27
E	15.35	1594	15.26	15.75
ADB	15.87	16.79	15.76	16.48
ADL	16.40	17.31	16.29	17.02
Following are agreements effective for the life ,pf this agreement which terminates March 30, 1990,
a)	Diabetics will go on working day shift on the advice of a physician,
b)	There will be no favoritism in the choosing of work locations for the cullers' teams.
c)	If distance permits and by mutual agreement, heavy equipment operators may work nine (9) production hours
d)	Maximum distance for skidders is 900 feet
e)	Filers' hours are as negotiated
f)	Welders and millwrights are permitted lo exchange their work temporarily up to a maximum of six (6) months on Company approval.
g)	If the Trimmer on the large planer holds a Class A grader card, he will receiveO.50 cents an hour more than negotiatedforthe position. However, he agrees not to change wages for any work period less than a full day in the position of grader. It is understood that in the event he repiacesthegrader on a regular basis, he will receive grader wages for those periods worked in that capacity.
h)	Present chipper Operators as well as the new stacker operators will maintain their old wages for a period of three months after the signing of this agreement before receiving Class C wages.
i)	In the filling of an opening in the Stockroom at the sawmill, priority will be given lo an injured millwright if applicable, followed by other Stockroom workers and finally any other employee of the millwright team as per memorandum agreement of March 19^7
37
F.M.A. CONSTRUCTION OF ROADS
It is agreed that where it is necessary to increase the work force and machinery or equipment to fulfill the requirements fortheconstruction of roads UNDER THE FOREST.MANAGEMENT AGREEMENT (F.M.A.) the Company may hire additional contractors and their employees to perform the said work load. It is understood that these contractors and their employees will not be covered by the collective agreement.
However, the hiring of thesecontractors and theiremployees will not cause a reduction in union employees or affect the duration cf the regular operations of the department affected.
In the event that there is not enough work availableduetothehiring of the said contractors, the Company must provideother work for the employees affected by the lack of work, and if an employee refuses this work, hewillnotbeentitled to wages for the hours not worked.
The Company shall pay a work permit to the Union for each contractor, for every month or part thereof; these permits will beforwardedtothe local Union office.
F.M.A. SYLVICULTURE
It is agreed that where it is necessary to increase the workforce and machinery or equipment for the sole purpose of carrying out seasonal sylviculture work under the Forest Management Agreement (F.M.A.), the Company may hire additional temporary employees, and contractors and their employees to perform the Said workload. It is understood that these temporary employees and contractors and their employees will not be covered by the collective agreement However, the employee(s) operating the D7H or similar bulldozer are covered by the agreement. The Company will also install a security cab and a radio-receiver to this tractor.
CARPENTER AGREEMENT
Michel Belanger will continue to accomplish the same work as previously. However, the Company and the Association agree that Michel Belanger will not be laid-off when the Carpentry department is affected by a lay-off following Article 12:06 as long as he fulfills the demands required to accomplish the work available in the said department.
THE CHILDREN OF THE FOUR DUBREUIL BROTHERS
Being the second and third generations in direct line, they will receive priority on all jobs during the summer season. between June 1st and September 1st. on the condition that they will not replace a union worker They will not be affected by Article 12'06 e)
JOB TRAINING PROGRAM
1	PURPOSE
The purpose of the training Program is lo form in a short and long term, a candidate for each working position enumerated hereafter A minimum
38
number of hours has been established to successfully complete the program The purpose of this training is also to assure continuous production during some workers absences by replacing them with persons having successfully completed the program cr doing so
2	That explains why training must be done by work shift and at the production mill (sawmill or planing mill) except for heavy equipment inthe mill yard (I n the case of logging equipment, the possibility can be studied for mill employees to train on the Friday of the short week but this must in no way replace regular bush training )
3	Jobs requiring training will be posted and interested personscanapply Candidates for each position will be chosen according to the following criteria
1)	Seniority in work days
2)	Preliminary medical exam results,
3)	Disciplinary file
4)	Qualifications requirements basicskills needed and determined bythe employer after consultation with the Negotiating Committee
5)	Acquired experience on a Specific production line This criteria shall be the determining factor when the first four (4) are equal
4	A candidate who secures a training post must work for six (6) months in the said post before applying for another one
5	A candidate cannot obtain more than one training post at a time However in the event no one applies fora posted position. an employee may be authorized lo hold 2 or 3 training posts Themanagement reservesthe right to have final choice of candidate
6	Notwithstanding clause 5 a candidate who successfully completes a training program (with his foreman's evaluation) earns the right to apply for a new training program up to a maximum of three (3) and the lob training program benefits of his previous training posts still apply It is to be noted that an employee who regularly holds a position for which he has been trained maintains all rights which pertain I o that position and may apply for other training programs as stipulated in clause 5
7	A trained candidate within a department where a job is posted automatically loses his training as well as the rights derived from it if he does not apply for the job and can no longer apply for a training program for a period of two years
8	A successful training candidate can be called on lo replace a missing regular employee and must accept *his temporary replacement
9	A candidate cannot apply for a training program m a lesser category unless due lo medical reason
10	Training will proceed as follows hours at atime except on moving equipment which will take place three Consecutive hours per week
39
11,	The foreman will forward a memo for all successful training to.
-	head of personnel,
-	main foreman,
-	Employee's Committee
A list of the successful training programs to date may be drawn periodically.
12.	The foreman's evaluation report shall contain the following
1)	Name of position
2)	Name of candidate
3)	Number of hours of training
4)	Learning capability (weak - medium - good)
5)	Has the upkeep and starting of the machine been explained to the trainee by his foreman?
6)	Can the trainee replace the regular employee for a complete shift without significant disruption to the production?
7)	Foreman's evaluation.
a)	Clearly unsatisfactory
b)	Below average but improving
c)	Average
d)	Above average
e)	Excellent
f)	Successfully trained
8)	Theoretical knowledge
9)	Working methods
14 There will be three evaluations done by the foremen
1)	After 10 hours of training
2)	Minimum required hours
3)	Final successful training
40