CANADIAN Fuvrcsr PRODUCTS LTD.
Alberta Operations Lumber Division Qrande Prairie, Alberta
and
ASSOCIATION OF EMPLOYEES OF
NORTH CANADIAN FOREST INDUSTRIES LIMITED
LUMBER DIVISION Grande Prairie, Alberta
March 1*1,1989 to February 29,1992
00 9i 1-03
4
4
4
5
5
6
6
6
6
6
6
7
7
7
8
9
9
9
9
9
9
10
10
10
10
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT GRANDE PRAIRIE LUMBER DIVISION INDEX
BARGAINING AGENCY MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
ASSXIATION EXECUTIVE HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
Section I Section 2
Section	3
Section	4
Section	5
Section	6
Section	7
Section	8
Section	9
Section	10
Section	11
section 12	
Continuous operation Millwrights, Maintenance, Repair & Construction Employees and Watchmen Casual employees Sunday Work
Double Straight-Time Rates Completion of Shifts Designation of Shifts Three Shift Operation Lunch Break Rest Periods Hours of Work Alternate Shift schedules
STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
PERSONAL AND	FLOATING	HOLIDAYS
Section	1	-	Floating	Holiday
Section	2	-	Floating	Holiday
Section	3	-	Personal	Floating Holiday
VACATIONS WITH PAY
section
Section
section
Section
section
section
Section
Section
section
1	- One or Two Years' Service
2	- Two or More
3	- Seven or More
4	- Fifteen or More
5	- Twenty Four or More
6	- Thirty or More
7	- Statutory Holiday
8	- Scheduling
9	- W.C.B. or Illness
INDEX
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT Page Two____________
IX
X
XI
XII
XIII
XIV
SENIORITY
Section	1	-	Probation	Period
Section	2	-	Principle	c£ Seniority
Section	3	-	Reduction	of Forces
Section 4 - Reduction of Forces Call Back
Section 5 - Seasonal Shutdown/Reduction of Forces
Section	6	-	seniority	- Layoffs
Section	7	-	seniority	lists
Section 8 - Transfers of Supervisory Positions Section 9 - Job Elimination Section 18 - Seniority Clarification Section 11 - Jcfc Posting and Training Program
MAGES
Section 1 - Rate Increases Section 2 - Job Classifications Section 3 - Rate Protection Section 4 - Pay Days Section 5 - Differential Section 6 - Call Time Section 7 - Maintenance Call-In Section 8 - Starting Mage Rates Section 9 - Weekend Clean-Up Rates
ACCIDENT PREVENTION COMMITTEE
Section 1 - safe Working Methods Section 2 - Accident Prevention Committee Section 3 - Cownittee Meetings Section a - Investigations
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
Section 1 - Grievance Committee Section 2 - Grievance Procedure
ARBITRATION
Section 1 - Procedures
Section 2 - Expenses
section 3 - Location for Arbitration
INTERPRETATIONS
NO STRIKES OR LOCKOUTS
PAGE
10
10
11
n
n
11
12 22 12 12 23 14
18
16
16
16
17
17
17
18 18 18
18
18
28
19
19
19
19 29
20
20
21
21
21
21
INDEX
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT Page Three__________
ARTICLE
XV	LEAVE OF	ABSENCE
	section	1 - Procedure
	Section	2 - Injury or Illness
	Section	3 - Others
	Section	4 “ Vacation
	Section	5 - Educational Leave
	Section	6 - Compassionate leave
XVI	BEREAVEMENT LEAVE
XVII	MATERNITY LEAVE
XVIII	JURY DUTY
XIX	HEALTH AND WELFARE
XX	DENTAL PLAN
XXI	SAFETY EQUIPMENT
XXII	PENSION PLAN
XXIII	TOOL INSURANCE
XXIV	GENERAL PROVISIONS
XXV	PERMANENT PLANT CLOSURE
XXVI	DURATION OF AGREEMENT SUPPLEMENT II WAGE SCHEDULE LETTERS OF AGREEMENT
APPRENTICESHIP AGREEMENT LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING
FIRE/TRADESMENS' TOOLS APPRENTICES' TOOLS
ARTICLE IV - HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME - PLANERMILL
ARTICLE IX - REVIEW OF JOB GROUPS
METRIC TOOLS
COMPETENCY
ARTICLE XXII - PENSION PLAN CHARGEHANDS
PAGE
21
21
22
22
22
23
23
23
23
23
24
25 25
25
26 26
AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT entered into this 1st day of March, 1989 between
CANADIAN WREST PRODUCTS LTD. ALBERTA OPERATIONS GRANDE PRAIRIE LUMBER DIVISION
(hereinafter referred to as the "Conpany* of the FIRST PART)
and
ASSOCIATION OF EMPLOYEES OF NORTH CANADIAN FOREST INDUSTRIES LIMITS)
GRANDE PRAIRIE LUMBER DIVISION
(hereinafter referred to as the "Association" of the SECOND PART)
PREAMBLE:
The purpose of this Agreement la to secure for the Company, the Association and the employees the full benefits of orderly and legal collective bargaining and to ensure to the utmost extent possible the safety and physical welfare of the Employees, economy of operation, quality and quantity of output and protection of property. It is recognized by this Agreement to be the duty of the Cotrpany, and the Association, and the Enployeee to cooperate fully, individually and collectively, for the advancement of said conditions.
The Company and the Association agree to abide by the terras set art in this Agreement* The Association further agrees that it will at all times instruct its members to act in accordance with the terms contained in this Agreement. The Company agrees, in the exercise cf the functions of Management, that the provisions of this Agreement will be carried out.
ARTICLE I - BARGAINING AGENCY
Section 1:
The Company recognizes the Association as the only bargaining agent representing all eaployees as defined in this Agreement.
section 2:
The Company and the Association rill meat at such time and place as may be mutually agreed upon for the purpose of discussing any matters within the confines of this Agreement which come within the scope of collective bargaining between the employer end employee.
section 3:
The term "employee" as used for the purpose of this Agreement shall include all persons employed by the Company on whose behalf the Association has been Certified as Bargaining Agent except and excluding office, credit and secretarial staff, sales staff, security guards, employees engaged in logging operations in Grande Prairie and those persons performing managerial or industrial relations functions as defined by the Alberta Labour Relations Act.
section 4:
The Company will cooperate vit. the Association in obtaining and retaining as members the employees as defined in this Agreement, and to this end will present to new employees, and to all supervisors and foremen, the policy herein expressed,
section 5?
All employees who entered the employment of the Company on or after the 1st day of April A.D. 1974 and all new employees hired thereafter by the Company and all reinstated employees shall within thirty (30) calendar days after entering the employment of the Company, whichever date last occurs, becorae members of the Association and maintain membership therein throughout the term of this Agreement a6 a condition of employment.
section 6:
Any employee who falls to maintain his membership in the Association as prescribed herein by reason of refusal to pay dues and assessments, shall be subject to discharge after seven (7) days mitten notice to the Company of the said employee's refusal to maintain his membership.
Section 7:
The Company shall require all new employees, at the time of hiring, to execute an assignment of wages for Association dues in duplicate, the forms to be supplied by the Association, and will forward one copy to the Association within fifteen (15) days of execution.
Section 8:
This assignment in the case of employees already members of the Association shall be effective i/rsoediately, and for those employees not previously members Cf the Association, it shall became affective thirty (30) calendar days from the date of execution.
2
Section 9:
The Company shall remit the dues deducted pursuant to such assignment (until and unless said assignment is revoked in writing by the employee) to the Association named therein not lass than once each month with a written statement of names of employees for whom the deductions were made and the amount of each deduction.
Section 10;
(a]	Ho employee shall be subject to any penalties against his application for membership or reinstatement, except as m^ be provided for in the constitution of the Association, a copy of which haa been deposited with the Ccnpany is certified as being correct as of February 1, 1972.
(b) Any employee who applies to join the Association pursuant to the provisions herein and whose application is rejected by the Association shall not be subject to discharge from employment.
Section 11:
Official Association representatives shall be allowed access to the Company's operation by written permission which shall be granted by the Conpany on request and subject to such terms and conditions as may be prescribed by the Company.
Section 12:
Employees shall have the right to review their personal files and request photocopies of the material contained therein. Arrangements to view files are to be mads through the Personnel Office.
ARTICLE II - MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
Section 1:
The management of the operation and the direction and promotion of the employees are vested exclusively in the Management, provided however, that thin will not be used for the purpose cf discrimination against employees.
Section 2:
The Cbmpary shall have the right to select its employees and to discipline them or discharge them for proper cause.
Section 3:
The Company shall have the right to maintain a list and copy of warnings on the fils of each employee PROVIDED HOWEVER that once an employee with one verbal warning cn his/her file has gone a period of twelve (12) months without accumulating * further warning and in the case of a written warning a period of twelve (12) months without a further verbal or written warning recorded on his/her file, the previous warning shall be destroyed by the Company and removed from the employee's file.
section 4:
An employee shall be advised ty the Company that he/she has the right to be represented ty a member of the Association's Grievance Committee before the Company disciplines or discharges him/her.
ARTICLE III - ASSOCIATION EXECUTIVE
Section 1:
For the purposes of this Agreement when the word "Association1 is used it shall mean Association Executive at Grande Prairie Division, members of which are appointed by the Association. It is understood that the Association Executive shall not exceed six (6) employees of the Ccogjany with coexisted probationary period of employment, and wherever possible they shall be selected on a departmental basis.
Section 2:
The Association shall, within thirty (30) calendar days from the date of this Agreement, notify the Company in writing of the members of the Association Executive at the Lumber Division. The Association or Association Executive will inform the Company in writing when any member change takes place on the said Executive. Ho member of the Executive will be recognized by the Company unless the above procedure is carried out.
section 3;
The provisions of Sections 1 and 2 will not apply in reference to Article X -Accident Prevention Committee, where the members are designated according to the provisions of The Occupational Health and Safety Act.
ARTICLE 1ST - HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
Section 1:	Continuous Operation
(a)	The regular hours of work shall be eight (8) hours per day and forty (40) hours per week at rate and one-half for any hours worked over eight (8) hours per day or forty (40) hours per week. Regular production employees shall be paid rate and one-half for Sunday work.
(b)	The Parties to this Agreement agree that the Ccnpany has the right to operate its plant or plants or any part thereof on a continuous seven-day schedule.
(c)	All work performed on Sunday except for casual labour shall be paid at rate and one-half.
Section 2:	Mil
Cc n
nd Wat hi
Tfc a regular hours of work ahall be eight <8) houra per day. i L :] two (2) days of rest ea< * e sk, n thro igh Sunday.	; days o:	t will be
consecutive days, \ n Les it Lly eg *eed tc be e:	between the
empl<	c the Coapany,
O shall be o eight (8) hour d Lgnated days of
1 at rate and	f for all hours > Li
r -, on Sunday if worked, and on the employee's two t i f worked
set 1 y i 3:	Cae-ual Employees
t sual ejr^loyee* will be a id straight time for Saturday and Sunday if 5 Section 4:	Sunday Work
Wat]	t or ny p t	>f operates on a	ay bas: , a ll k
p fo:i on Sunday, exce for 2	fc shall be paid for at rate and
o -hi f
Section 5:	Double Straight-Time R<
ig the	c double straight-time rates will be p f
(a) All hours rarked in excess of eleven (11) j day.
E fli h worked five (5) shifts
■b) A iuz
d ij ii ti-
ed cn und bj di sLx (6) iyj
For the pu: shift worked.
of (b) herein, a Statutory Holiday will be <
who * k Sunday as a regu
>1<
(d) 3t <b) above shall not apply to scheduled day.
Section 6:	Completion of Shifts
11 is agreed between the parties-that if tl <e {3} hours or * t issary at	i ildnight Friday or aft t Inight j c i tg t Statutory Holiday in order
to e ij L the vift lie i conctenced i f Ida] afternoon or the aftc rnoon prec€ Li ) the Statutory tol „cU j time 1« aft r mi 3 ighi to complete the shift would be »id at tt Lgh : time.
Section 7:
L
of Shifts
(a) The first hl1 which ray vary fr i time to time as determined by the y si all 3<	a	jm a the Da	Shift, the (see d	shift, following
the Day Shift, si	l	designated th	Afternoon Shift.	The third shift,
■wing the Aft	x	Shift, shall	be designated the	Graveyard Shift.
;s shall be	at	1 on a basis mutually agreeable t<	the Company and
the ciatic
(b)	the	Cospany shall	post
and	ending	t Lee	f
day	i notice	of	j s
It	r tii g details of starting
L t 1 give m less than >ne Cull	g
a
Section 8:	Three-shift operation
(a)	The Company shall have the right to operate its plant or any part thereof on a three-shift basis, and all employees working under this arrangement shall receive eight (8) hours' pay upon completion of the full hours established as their regular shift. Details of shifts shall be varied at the company’s option.
(b)	It is agreed that Clause (a) above shall apply to only those employees actually working on a three-shift basis.
(c)	The	Company shall have the	right to determine	the	number of shifts
operated in any unit or department of the operation.
(d)	Where less than three shifts are worked, Clause (a) shall not apply.
(e)	The	foregoing provisions of	this Article shall	not	be construed as
guaranteeing to any employee any number of hours of work per day or per week.
Section 9; Lunch Break
All employees will be allowed one (1) thirty (30) minute lunch break for a meal as designated during each regular shift.
Section 10:	Rest Periods
All employees shall be entitled to two (2) ten (10) minute rest periods during each regular shift. However, an the short third shift there shall be only one
(1)	ten (10) minute rest period.
Section 11:	Hours of Work
When an employee is unavoidably prevented from reporting for his scheduled shift, if reasonably passible he must give notice to his foreman, or at the Company office, at least two (2) hours before the shift coamences.
Section 12 - Alternate Shift Schedules
The Association and the Company shall have the right under the terms of the Agreement to mutually agree upon and implement alternate shift schedules, which may include Sundays without overtime, provided the principle of the 40-hour work week is maintained over an averaging period not to exceed eight (8) reeks.
ARTICLE V - STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
(a)	in the event that a statutory Holiday falls on a Saturday or Sunday, the following Monday or any other day that may be designated ty either the Provincial csr Federal Government shall be observed a6 the Holiday.
(i>) If another day is substituted by statute or decree for the observance f any of the holidays listed below, the day of observance shall be deemed to be the holiday. If a Statutory Holiday falls on an employee's normal day off, the employes shall be granted one other day in lieu of the holiday.
- 6 -
(c)	All work performed on the Statutory Holidays below shall be paid for at rate and one-half:
(d)	An employee who qualifies for the above holidays under the conditions set out below in Paragraph (e) shall be paid for the holiday at his regular rate of pay for his regular work schedule. It is agreed that the hours so paid for the statutory Holiday rill be included in the weekly work schedule. An employee working on a paid holiday shall be paid the overtime rate for hours worked in addition to receiving the straight time holiday pay for which he m^ qualify.
(e)	An employee, to qualify for Statutory Holiday Pay, mast have been on the payroll thirty (30) days during the twelve (12) months preceding, and met have worked his last regularly scheduled shift before, and his first regularly scheduled after the holiday, unless his absence is due to ccsnpensabLe injury or illness or due to authorized leave of absence. In the case of injury or illness, the employer shall have the right to reguest a certificate from a qualified medical practitioner.
(f)	notwithstanding any of the foregoing provisions, if an employee fails to work within thirty (30) calendar days immediately prior to the hoLiday, and within thirty {30) calendar days ircroediately after the holiday, the employee shall not be entitled to be paid for any Statutory Holiday within that period,
(g) It is agreed that Casual Labour shall not qualify for Statutory Holiday pay.
(h) In the event of a Statutory Holiday falling on a Tuesday, Wednesday, or Thursday, and when the company and Association Cotn&ittee mutually agree, the said holiday	be observed the preceding Monday or the following Friday respectively.
ARTICLE V I - PERSONAL AND FLOATING HOLIDAYS
Section 1:	Floating Holiday
(a) There shall be granted annually one floating holiday, during each year of the Agreement, with pay to regular full-time eigployeea, such floating holiday to be arranged at a time suitable to the employee and the Company, so that there w i 11 be no loss of production.
Section 2:	Floating Holiday
(a) An empLoyee must have worked for the company one hundred eighty (ISO) calendar days to qualify for the floating holiday.
New Year's Day Good Friday victoria Day
Canada Day Labour Day Thanksgiving Day
7
(b)	Employees will not qualify for the floating holiday ifon leave of absence for more than six (6) months in the contract year except In the case of sickness or injury.
(c)	Wh=n the floating holiday is taken, an employee w i 11 be granted eight (8) hours' pay on the straight time rate of the employee's regular job subject to the foregoing.
(d)	Wh=n the employee requests his floating holiday, he shall receive written notice of the disposition cf his request a minimum of seventy-two (72) hours prior to the requested floating holiday.
(e)	Wh=n an employee is required to work on his floating holiday, he will be paid rate and one-half plus his regular job rate, An employee requested to work on his/her flouting holiday, will have the option to work the originally scheduled floating holiday at time and one-half and to reschedule the floating holiday with pay at a later date.
Section 3:	Personal Floating Holiday
This Personal Floating Holiday is in lieu of the proposed Heritage Day, but
this Section shall ccme into operation on its effective date even if Heritage
Day has or has not been proclaimed.
(a)	Regular full-time employees w i 11 be granted one Personal Floating Holiday during each contract year of the Agreement to be arranged at a time suitable to the employee and the Company, so that there will be no loss in production.
(b)	An employee must have worked for the Company one hundred and eighty (180) calendar days to qualify for the Personal Floating Holiday.
(c)	Employees	will not	qualify for the Personal Floating Holiday	if on leave
of absence for more	than six (6) months in the contract year except in the
case of sickness or injury.
(d)	Wh=n the Personal Floating Holiday is taken. M employee will be granted eight (8) hours pay on the straight time rate of the employee's regular job subject to the foregoing.
(e)	When the employee requests his Personal Floating Holiday, he shall receive written notice of the disposition of hi* request a minimum of seventy-two (72) hours prior to the requested Personal Floating Holiday.
(f)	Wh=n an	employee is	required to work on his Personal Floating	Holiday, he
will be	paid rate	and one-half plus his regular job rate.	An employee
requested to work on his/her floating holiday will have the option to work the originally scheduled floating holiday at time and one-half and to reschedule the floating holiday with pay at a later date.
(g)	Personal Floating Holiday not taken or scheduled by November 15th of each contract year will be scheduled by management. All Personal Floating Holidays shall be completed by February 15th following.
6
ARTICLE VII - VACATIONS KITH PAY
Section 1:
(a)	A Vacation with Pay will be granted to employees in accordance with the provisions of the Employment Standards Act - Governing Vacations with Pay and any amendment* thereto, except that vacation pay for employees with less than or (1) year's service will be calculated in accordance with Section 34 of such Act.
(b) Employees with one to two years' service will receive two (2) weeks vacation with vacation pay calculated at five percent (5%) of the employee's total earning*.
section 2:
(a)	The Company further agrees to grant all employees with two (2) or more years of continuous service, three (3) weeks vacation based on seven percent (7%)of total earnings.
(b)	The third week, of vacation ae in (a) above does not have to be consecutive with the vacation period provided for in the above Section but at a tine
convenient to the Coopany.
section 3:
(a) An employee with seven (7) or more years continuous service shall receive four (4) weeks vacation with pay bared on nine percent (9%)of total earnings.
{b> The additional one week, will be taken when convenient for the Company but does not have to be consecutive with the vacation period provided for in Sections 1 and 2 herein.
section 4:
{a) An employee with fifteen (15) or more years of continuous service shall receive five (-5) weeks vacation with pay based on eleven percent (11%) of total earning*.
(b) The additional one week rill be taken when convenient for the Ccsnpany, but does not have to be consecutive with the vacation period provided for in Sections 1, 2 and 3.
Section 5:
(a)	An employee with twenty-four (24) or sore years of continuous service shall receive six (6) weeks vacation with pay bared on thirteen percent (13%) of total earnings.
(b)	The additional one week will be taken when convenient to the Company, but does not have to be consecutive with the vacation period provided for in Sections 1, 2, 3 and 4.
9
Section 6:
(a)	An employee with thirty (30) or more years of continuous service shall receive seven (7) weeks vacation with pay based on fifteen percent (15%) of total earnings.
<b) The additional one week will be taken when convenient to the conqsany, but does not have to be consecutive with the vacation period provided for in Sections 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5.
section 7:
If a statutory Holiday falls during an employee's vacation, such employee shall
be entitled to one (1) additional day off.
Section 8:
Vacations for Association employees shall be taken at such time as mutually agreed upon by the Association and the Cccpany, when quantity and regularity of production shall not be impaired. Date car dates for annual vacations rill be pasted two (2) months in advance if possible, but not less then one (1) month in advance.
Section 9;
The following shall be considered as days actually worked for determining vacations with pay for an employee after one (1) continuous year of employment:
(a)	Absence on Workers' Ccctpensatlon up to a period of one (1) year, provided the enq>loyee returns to his employment.
(b) Absence due to illness up to a period of one (1) year, provided the employee returns to his employment. The eoployer shall have the right to require a certificate frcn a qualified medical practitioner.
ARTICLE VIII - SENIORITY
Section I:
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, it shall be mutually agreed that all employees are hired an probation, the probationary period to continue until thirty (30) days have been worked, during which time they are to be considered temporary workers only, and Airing this same period no seniority rights shall be r,©cognized.
Upon completion of thirty (30) days worked, they shall be regarded as regular employees, and shall then be entitled to seniority dating from the day on which they entered the Company's employ, provided however, that the probationary period of thirty (30) days worked shall only be cumulative within the three (3) calendar months following the date of entering employment.
10
Section 2:
(a)	The Company recognises the principle of seniority, competency considered.
(b)	Where the Cctrpany operates more than cne plant, each such plant rill be considered separately for seniority purposes, except where the Association and the Cctnpeny agree upon some different arrangement.
section 3:
(a)	When malting promotions, the Company agrees to give due consideration to length of service.
(b)	In the event of a reduction of forces, the last person hired shall be the
first released subject to the provisions of Section 2	(a) of this
Article. Prior to a reduction of forces, the company and the Association will meet to discuss the application of seniority of those employees who remain on the job, but whose jobs hare been eliminated as a result of the reduction of the work force.
Senior employees will be given the opportunity in line with seniority to perform jobs which they have previously held or jobs for which they are competent.
Section 4:
(a)	It is agreed that when employees are to be rehired after lay-off, it shall be done on the basis of the last person released shall be the first parson re-employed. subject to provisions of Section 2(a). It is agreed that in cases ,a£emergency the application of plant seniority my be postponed for such period as may be necessary, but not exceeding three (3) days. If the Company decides to exercise its rights under this provision, it shall notify the Association immediately.
(b) Where a reduction of forces is caused by emergency conditions, the application of seniority nay be postponed for such period as my be necessary but not exceeding five (S) working days. If the Company decides to exercise ita rights under this provision, it shall notify the Association as soon as possible.
Section 5:
(a)	It is agreed that when rehiring in accordance with Section 4, all efl^loyees laid off due to a seasonal shutdown or reduction of the working forces will be notified in order of plant seniority by ccarmmication to their last known address, prior to starting of operations,
(b) It shall be the Ccanpany's responsibility to maintain an address file of employees and it shall be the on^Ioyee's responsibility to keep the company informed in writing of any change of address.
Section 6:
It is agreed between the Parties that seniority during lay-offs shall be retained on the following basis:
(a)	Employees with less than one (1) year's service will retain their seniority for a period of six (6) months.
(b)	Employees with one (1) or more years' service shall retain their seniority for one (1) year, plus one (1) additional month for each year’s service, up to an additional six (6) months.
(c)	A laid-off employee's seniority retention shall be reinstated on the completion of four (4) consecutive working days.
Section 7:
It is agreed that upon the request of the Association a list will ti supplied by the Company setting out the name and the starting date with the Company of each regular employee on a plant basis.
The Company will advise the Association once each month of changes to the said list.
section 8:
In the case where an employee has been transferred by the Ccanpany to a supervisory position, he/she will continue to accumulate seniority for a period of ninety (90) calendar days, fit any time during this ninety (90) calendar Cay period, the individual shall have the right to return to the bargaining unit in the job which he/she previously held.
fit the expiration of the period mentioned above, his/her seniority will be frozen. Thus, if at a later date, he/she ceases to be a supervisor and the Company desires	to retain his/her services, it is hereby agreed that
reinstatement can be made within the bargaining unit, provided however, that any employee so reinstated must return to an entry level job.
For seniority purposes, he/she shall carry their frozen seniority plus his/her newly accumulated seniority.
An employee shall	only be	entitled to	one	(1) such ninety (90)	calendar	day
period within a twelve (12) month period.
section 9:
Where the Company has exercised its right to eliminate a job or jobs through automation or the installation a£ new e<quipss«nt, tho employees affected shall have the right to exercise their seniority in accordance with the seniority provisions of the	Agreement	and such	ea^lcyees' rates of pay	shall be	red
circled for a period of three	(3) months,	and	for a further period	of three	(3)
months, the employee will be paid an adjusted rate which rill be midway between the rate cf his regular job at the time of the setback and the rate of his new regular job. fit	the end	of this six	(6)	month period, the rate of his	new
regular job will apply.
Section 10:	Seniority Clarification
1.	Application
(a)	The application of seniority shall be based first on department and second on plant seniority.
(b)	Promotions within a department w i 11 be based on plant seniority; competency considered.
2.	Departments
Departments for seniority purposes shall be:
(a) Maintenance and Miscellaneous.
{b) Production.
3.	When an employee bids into a department and is confirmed in the department, his/her plant and department seniority will be equal.
4.	Reduction of Force6
Department:
In the event of a reduction of forces within a department, the employee with the last plant seniority will be the first out of the department. The employees affected by the reduction may apply seniority in accordance with Article VIZI, Section 3 (b) of the Agreement or the employees may, by request, revert to their previously held jobs within the department, providing they have the plant seoiority to renain in the department.
In the event of a reduction of the work forces, the Association and the Company will meet prior to the layoff to discuss the length of the layoff and the redistribution of the work force.
For the purpose of this Agreement, temporary reductions shall mean a period not to exceed thirty (30) calendar days, subject to review and extension by the parties prior to the end of each thirty-day period.
5.	Plant:
In the event of a reduction of forces, total plant seniority will be applied as follows:	The last person hired shall be the first released,
according to plant seniority, competency considered.
Either party may give the other party six (6) months notice for the purpose of reviewing and discussing any matter regarding the above procedure.
- 33
Section 11:	Job Posting and Training Program
Purpose of the Job Porting and Training Program, is to select senior persons for training in the Production Department and thereby afford the® the opportunity to become competent to perform other jobs in the operation.
It is agreed that employees who have commenced training prior to the date of
signing this program shall be recognized and complete their training.
Job Posting, Training Procedure and seniority Clarification
1.	The Cocpany shall have the right to temporarily fi 11 the job vacancy subject to the job posting procedure and seniority clarification.
2.	(a) All vacancies with the exception of basic-rate jobs shall be
posted.
(b)	Temporary vacancies c£ longer duration than three (3) weeks will be posted as soon a_s possible. This does not Include those vacancies under point 19.
3.	Vacancies will be posted oc job posting bulletin board for a period of three (3) working days (excluding Saturday and Sunday).
4.	Only written bids will be accepted. Forms will be provided and must be
used and placed in the container in the lunch------:
5.	Name of successful candidate rill be written on original posting and will remain for 46 working hours.
B. All bids wi11 be filed.
Naras of applicants will be listed on the file copy of the posting.
9.	The Association shall receive a list of the bids.
9.	Successful bidders for perswient vacancies involving lateral or downward
bids rill be limited to two (2) every six (6) month*. It i* agreed that bids far higher paid jobs will not be limited, with the exception of
frivol  bidding for which the Company and the Association shall agree to
limitations.
10.	Successful bidder. shall be placed on the Job as soon as possible but not later than tea (10) working day. from the date c£ declaring the successful bidder. In the event of problems arising regarding this section, the Company and the Association will rest to discuss the application.
11.	If the successful bidder has previously qualified on the job far which he is bidding, the fifteen (IS) working day trial period will not apply. The parties agree if an employee ha. been selected and the job for which he/she has been selected requires a longer trial period than fifteeo (IS) working days, the trial period can be extended but not to exceed twenty (20) working days. Extension of the fifteen (15) working day trial period shall be by mutual agreement between the Cc*npany and the Aesocietion.
14
12.	Cmrin-5 the above trial peeled, the Company can, for good and sufficient
Cause, return the employee to hie original job. Hie employee m^:	during
the above trial period, voluntarily return to hi* original j±>.
13.	If an employee la declared Incompetent in a certain job:
(a)	He cannot again Apply for that vacancy far one (1)
(b)	He goes back to hie original position and the vacancy Shall be re-posted.
14.	When a vacancy lias been posted and the successful applicant it chosen and
the easts jab becccoes vacant, it Is agreed that the next senior cocp-ecect bidder rill be given the opportunity to fill the Job, provided the time lisdt does not exceed a ten (10) working day period from the time of the original bid being awarded.
15.	Mhen a job vacancy occurs, the vacancy will be parted and the Job will be awarded on the following basis:
(a) First priority in order of seniority to those ibo have previously lost the position as a result of reduction of fcrosr. This right to continue for one (1) year.
(b)	General plant seniority, competency considered.
16.	Newly created job* shall be pasted at "interim" rates until Hanageaent and the Association agree on the final raga rate.
17.	The Job Posting fora shall include:
1.	Date.
2.	Recognised narte of the jeto.
3.	Department involved.
4 . Hourly rate.
5.	The place where the applications are to be submitted and expiry time.
6.	Any specifLc qualifications.
7.	Space for the applicant** name.
8.	Shift identification.
It Is understood that employees absent from work due to vacation, sickness or Injury, or approved leave of absence by the Company shall have the right to an absentee bid. Such bid rill be placed by a meaber of the Association on the posting on the instruction of the absent esployee.
Job posting shall not apply to teep-srary replacements of three (3) weeks or less necessitated by illness, injury, or other leave of absence ad tesporary replacements of longer duration for employee* on vacation but In filling vacancies senior es^loyees. competency considered, rill be given preference.
20.	It is agreed Maintenance, Apprentices, Trade Utility. Saw Tiler* and Miscellaneous Categorise shall be ported on a plant-wide basis.
21.	(a)	When	an	esployee	successfully bid* into	a job group category which
involve# rotation and training, the ei^loyee will be paid the rate <£ the job group bid until he completes his training on the job in the higher paid group, the employee shall then receive the higher group rata as long as rotation is in effect.
(b)	When	an	employee	has, a# a result of	job rotation, coexisted
training, he will be so advised in writing by Management.
ARTICLE IX - WAGES
Section!:
(a) The wage scale for the terra of this Agreement shall be as set forth in Supplement lb. 1 cf this Agreement.
(b)	Effective the first day of March 1989, the wage rates rill be increased by eighty-five cents (8S/} per hour.
Effective the first day of March, 1990, the wage rates rill be Increased by five and one halt per cent {S 1/2%).
Effective the first day of March, 1991, the wage rates rill be increased by five and one half per cent {S 1/2X).
Effective the first day of Septecb-er, 1991, the wage rate* rill be increased to re-establish the differential between the Uarber Division rate5 and the Company's northern Interior Sawmill rector rates in existence prior to the above increases and corresponding increases in the Northern Interior.
Section 2:
The Company reserves the right to establish or revise job classifications as well as the new hourly rate for the job classificatioo so established car revised during the life of this Agreement. The Coepany agree# to notify the Association upon the establiabsent of such job claaslficatioo and wage rate and the Association shall have thirty (30) day* after such notification within which to request that the rate ao established be cade the subject of collective bargaining.	In the event no request 1* received by the Coopany within such
period, the rate shall be deemed acceptable and shall become part c£ this Agreement. In the event that the rets Is aede the subject of collective bargaining, the Company and the Association «hall Deet as soon as may be convenient to commence bargaining regarding the new rate.
Section 3:	Rate Protection
(a) Employees who are directed by the Company to work on a higher paid job if their regular job is available rill receive the rate for the higher paid job.
Ifc
(b) taploy*** who ax* directed by tb* Conpeny to work on a lower paid job If their regular jct» i* available will be paid their regular job rat.
Section 4t
Tha Company shall provide far Pay Days every second week and each employee shall b* furoiahed with an itaaized statement of earnings and Ssoathly deductions. Whenever possible# employees shall receive. their paycheques and statements in sealed envelopes.
Section 5:
The first shift# which say vary in Individual operations# is the recognized day
shift. Bouts worked outside tb* recognized day shift will be regarded as the second and third shifts. Premium, rate of thirty-on* cents (51/) per hour will be paid for the second and third shifts. Day shift eaqployees working in excess of light (8) hours will be paid rate and one-half without the differential. Persons *sq>loyed other than on regular shifts shall be paid the applicable per hour premium rate as specified in this Section for a 11 hour* worked outside tb* recognized day shift.
Section fe:	Call Time
(a) If employees present themselves for work and, due to any conditions beyond their coctroi there is no work available, they shall receive two (2) hour** pay unless sufficient warning has bees given cancelling tho work
call for that day.
It shall b* deemed that sufficient notice has been given cancelling the work call for the first or day shift provided notice hac been given over radio stations C.T.G.P. and C.J.X.X. not later than one and one-half (1-1/2) hours before shift commences with two (2) broadcasts within a half hour period.
It shall be deemed that sufficient notice has been given cancelling the call for work for aftemoov shift, when notice has been given over radio stations C.F.G.P. and C.J.X.X. not later than one and one-half (1-1/2) hours before shift caomnces with two (2) broadcasts within a half hour period.
It shall be deemed that sufficient notice hes been given cancelling the call for work for the graveyard shift, when notice has b*-en given over radio stations C.F.G.P. and C.J.X.X. not later than one and one-half (1-1/2) hours before shift ccemences with two (2) broadcasts within a half hour period.
<b) When an employee is called for work and starts work, he shall receive four (4) hours* pay at his regular rate unless his ark is suspended because of incleaent weather, or other reasons conqpletely beyond the control of the Company. If work is suspended tor reasons ccsrrpietely beyond tha control of the Cospany, tha employee will be paid for time actually worked.
17
section 7:
(a)	Any <enployea called to work on his designated day off. oo Sunday, on a Statutory Holiday, or after having left the plant after working his regular shift, will be paid a minimum of three (3) hour* at rata and one-half.
(b} If ha is then required to perform any other work than that which necessitated the call-in, he will be paid at rate and one-half for all time worked.
Section 8 - Starting Wage Rates
All newly hired full-time production employees will receive an adjusted wage rate of seventy-five percent (75%) c£ job rate until they have cocpleted thirty (30) working days and established seniority in the operation. This does not apply to employees working in trades that fall under the Apprenticeship Agreement or former employees who have previously established seniority in the operation and who are re-hired within twelve (12) months of their date of termination.
Section 9 - Weekend Clean-up Rates
All newly hired weekend clean-up employees will receive seventy-five percent (75%) of job rate.
ARTICLE X - ACCIDENT PREVENTION COMMITTEE
section 1:
(a) The company and the employees will cooperate to assure safe working methods and conditions and devise plans for furtherance of safety measures.
(b)	The company and the employees agree to comply with the Occupational Health and Safety Act Regulations, and to carry out instructions as directed from time to tine by representatives of the Board in the furtherance of safety measures.
(c)	The enpioyees and the Accident Prevention Conmittee members are expected to immediately report any unsafe conditions to Management.
Section 2:
(a)	The company shall maintain an Accident Prevention Committee consisting of not more than twelve (12) members nor less than four (4) members.
(b)	Members of the Coamittee shall be designated and shall consist of an equal number of representatives of the Conpany and the Association. Association representatives shall be regular employee* in the operation with at least one year's experience.
(c)	The general duties of the Accident Prevention Ceemittee shall be governed by the rules and regulations laid down from tins to tins under the Occupational Health and Safety Act.
- 18 -
(d) Accident Prevention Cocsaittee Baitings will be bald during working hour* where possible. Enployeea* time will not be deducted for Attending such Beatings or invest Lgatioo* into accidents.
section 3:
Committee meetings held outside regular working hours will be paid at
ec^loyees1 regular straight-tis* hourly rate affective data of signing of
Agreement*
Section 4:
{a) In the case of a fatal accident the Accident Prevention Connnlttee in the operation shall. within 43 hours, conduct aa investigation into such fatal accident and report its findings to the Parties.
(b)	Ary one or all employees working in the iamediate area when a fatal accident has occurred nay without loss of pay refrain frcss working the balance of the shift.
ARTICLE XI - GRIEVANCE PROCESORB
Section 1:
(a) The Association shall select a maximum of four (4) employees to serve as a Grievance Committee, names of whom shall be supplied to the Company,
Section 2:
Tfaa Company and the Association mutually agree that v\hen a grievance arises in the plant ccoing under the tarms of this Agreement, it shall be taken up in the manner set Out below:
(a)	The individual eaployee involved shall first take up the Batter with the foreman directly in charge of the work within fourteen (14) days cf the date of tho said grievance,
(b)	If the question is not satisfactorily settled In this way, the s------------
individual, with the Ccsmittee, shall taka up the problem with either the foreman or Superintendent, or both, as designated by the Coopany.
(c)	If a satisfactory settlement is not than reached, the Cowait tee shall take up the problem with either the Superintendent or Plant Manager, or both, as designated by the Company. A statement in writing cf the alleged grievance, together with « statement in writing by the Foreman shall be exchanged by the parties concerned.
(d)	If the problem is not then satisfactorily solved, it shall be referred to the Association end the Management.
(e)	If a satisfactory sett 1 eatent is not then reached, it shall be dealt with ty arbitration as set forth in Article XII.
(f) If a grievance has not advanced to the next stage under (b), (c), (d) or (e), within fourteen (14) days after ccapletion of the preceding stage, then the grievance shall be derated to be abandoned, and all right* of
recourse to the grievance procedure shall be at an erri. When tho Association is unable to observe the specified tine limit by reason of the absence of the aggrieved employee from the plant for causes beyond his control the said time limit shall not apply, but the Association shall be bound to proceed in such a case as quickly as may be reasonably possible.
ARTICLE XII - ARBITRATION * (i)
section 1:
In case of any dispute arising regarding the application of this Agreement, which the Parties hereto are unable to settle between themselves as provided for under Grievance Procedure Article XI, the matter shall be determined by arbitration in the following manner:
(a)	Either Party may notify the other Party in writing by registered mail c£ the question or questions to be arbitrated and the name and address Of its chosen representative for the Arbitration Board. After receiving such notice and statement, the other Party shall within seven (7) days, appoint an Arbitrator, and give notice in writing of such appointment and the name end address of its Arbitrator. If tho two Arbitrators appointed by the Parties fail to agree upon a Chairman within three (3) days, they shall forthwith request the Honorable Minister of labour of the Province of Alberta to appoint a Chairman.
(b)	No one shall serve as a member of an Arbitration Board who:
(i)	either directly or indirectly has interest in the subject of Arbitration
(ii)	has participated in the grievance procedure preceding the Arbitration
(iii) is or has been within a period of Bix (6) months preceding ths initiation	of the Arbitration e&ployed by the Employees’
Association car a company directly engaged in the forest products industry.
(c)	The decision of the Arbitration Board shall be by majority vote and shall be final and binding upon the Parties of the First and Second Parts.
(d) If any Arbitration Board finds that an employee has been unjustly suspended or discharged, that employee shall be reinstated by the Company without loss of pay and with all his rights and privileges preserved under the terms of this Agrement, provided always that if It is shorn to the Board that the employee has been in receipt of wages during the period between discharge [or suspension) and reinstatement, or date of failure to re-hire and re-hiring, the amount so received shall be deducted from wages payable by the Company pursuant to this Section.
(e)	The Arbitration Board shall be required to hand down its decision within fourteen (14) days following completion of the hearing.
- 20 -
section 2:
The P&rti**. of the First arid Second Parts will each bear the expense and charge* of its representatives on any Arbitration Board, and shall bear in equal proportions tho expenses of the allowances of the Chairman, and stenographic and secretarial expense, and rent.
Section 3:
Any arbitratioo to be held hereunder shall be held at the City of Grands Prairie or at such other place a* ray be decided by the Board.
ARTICLE XIII - IHTERFRBTATIOHS
(a)	la case of any dispute arising regarding the interpretation <£ this Agreement, which the Parties hereto are unable to settle between themselves, the matter shall be determined by Arbitration in tho following Banner.
(b) Either Party may notify the other Party in writing by registered nail, of the question or questions to be Interpreted. Within five (5) days of receipt of such notice and statement, each Party shall refer the matter to an Arbitrator.
(c)	The Partie* agree to jointly seek an Arbitrator to be mutually agreed
(d)	All decisions will be final and binding upon the Parties of the First Part and Second Part.
In the went that the Parties are unable to agree on an interpreter or that the interpreter as provided for in <c) herein is not available to preside as interpreter under this section, the Parties agree that they will request the Bonorable Minister cf Labour to appoint a Judge either c£ the Supreme Court of Alberta car the Court of Appeal of the Province to preside as an interpreter for the dispute then pending.
ARTICLE XIV - NO STRIKE OR LOCKOUTS
There shall be no strike* or lockout* ty the Parties with respect to any matter arising out of this Agreement, for which arbitration is provided for herein.
ARTICLE XV - LEAVE OF ABSENCE
Section I.
(a) Any employee desiring leave of absence for any reason other than
those set out In Sections 2 and 3 of this Article must obtain same in writing from the Company, a copy of such leave to be forwarded lo the Local Association.
21
(b) Where any employee is granted a leave of absence under this section for a period of longer than thirty (30) calendar days, the Company agrees to notify a member of the Association as to the circumstances for the granting of such per led of leave.
section 2:
The campany will grant leave of absence to employees suffering injury or illness, subject to a medical certificate if re<juested ty the Employer.
Section 3:
(a)	The Company shall grant leave of absence to employees who are appointed or
elected to Association office for a period of up to and including one year.	Further leave of absence my be granted by mutual consent. Any
employee 'who obtains such leave of absence shall return to the Company within thirty	(30)	calendar	days after	completion	of his term of
employment with the Association.
(b) The Association will make every effort in requesting such leaves of absence to avoid requests that will unduly deplete the crew in any one department 'which will impair production or inhibit the normal functioning of the operation. In such cases, the Association will cooperate with the Company in making substitute employees available or select alternate delegates to attend Association functions.
(c)	The Company will grant leave of absence to employees who are elected as
representatives to attend	Association	meetings	and Association
conventions, or members of any Association Negotiating Ccetnittee in order that they may carry out their duties on behalf of the Association.
(d)	It is agreed that before the employee receives this leave of absence as set forth in Clauses [a) and (c) above, the employer will be given due notice in writing by the Association in order to replace the employee with a competent substitute.
section 4:
The company will grant leave for extended vacation where a bona fide reason is
advanced ty the applicant on tho following terms:
(a)	The employee shall disclose the reasons for such application.
(b)	employee making application for absence for "Extended Vacations' shall apply at least one (1) month in advance.
(c)	It is agreed that upon employees requesting leave of absence for extended vacations, such leaves shall only be granted once every three (3) years and that a record be kept for the purpose of rotating such leaves to the most senior applicant.
(d)	That applicants for extended vacations may be postponed where a suitable replacement is not available.
22
Section 5
The	Company will grant	leave	of absence to	a maximum c£	six	(6) months without
pay	to employees for	educational or training purposes,	conditional on the
following terms:
(a)	That the eayloye* has at least (1) one year seniority with the Ccopany.
(b)	That the enployee apply at least one month in advance unless the grounds for such application could not reasonably be foreseen.
<c) That the aoployee shall disclose the grounds for application.
<d>	That the Company	shall	grant such	leave where a bona fide reason is
advanced by the applicant, or may postpone leave for educational or training purposes where a suitable replacement is not available.
{•)	That the Company	shall	be required to notify	the	Association of its
decision in respect to any application for leave under this section.
(f)	That -the employee is only entitled to one leave of absence for educational or training purposes par calendar year.
Section 6
By mutual agreement, the Company rill grant a reasonable period of leave for compassionate reasons.
ARTICLE XVI - BEREAVEMENT LEAVE
(a)	When death occurs to a member of a regular, full-time employee's Immediate
family, the Cocpany will grant Leave c£ Absence for a reasonable period of time to employees for the purpose of attending or making funeral arrangements. Members c£ the employee's imnediate family are defined as the spouse, mother, father, brothers, sisters, sons, daughters, mother-in-law,	father-in-law,	step-parents,	grandparents,
grandparents-in-law,	grandchildren, sisters-in-law, brothers-in-law,
step-children, legal guardian.
(b)	The Ccopany will pay a maximum of three (3) days pay lost time at the employee's regular rate of pay for funeral leave, provided the employee attends the funeral of any of the relatives specified in (a) above.
ARTICLE XVII - MATERNITY LEAVE
The Company will grant a reasonable period of leave without pay to female employees in accordance with the Employment Standards Act.
23
ARTICLE :o/in • JURY DUTY
(a)	Any' regular full-time employee who is required to perform Jury Duty, Coroner* 1 2 8 Duty, or a* a Crown Witness or Coroner's Witness on a day which he would normally have worked will be reimbursed by the Conpany for the difference between the pay received for Jury Duty and his regular straight time hourly ret* of pay for his regularly scheduled hours of work. It is understood that pay will not b-e in access of eight {3) per day or forty (40) per week, less statutory pay received for Jury Duty. The employs* will be required to furnish proof of Jury serviceand Jury Duty pay received.
(b)	Hours paid for Jury Duty will be counted aa hours worked for the purpose of qualifying for vacations and for recognized paid holidays, but will not be counted as hours worked for the purpose of computing overtire.
ARTICLE XIX - HEATH AND WELFARE
I The following coverage will be provided:
(a) Participation in the plan is to be a condition of employment for new employees, effective date of signing of Agreement.
(b) Group Life Insurance for each qualified employee:
Effective March	1 ,	1939	-	$35,000.00
Effective March	1,	1990	-	$40,000.00
Effective March	1,	1991	•	$45,000,00
(c) Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance for each qualified employee: Effective March	1,	1989	-	$35,000.00
Effective March	1,	1990	-	$40,000.00
Effective March	1,	1991	-	$45,000.00
(d)	Weekly Indemnity for each qualified employee:
Effective May	S,	1939	*	$365.00 per	week
Effective March	1,	1990	-	$376.00 per	week
Effective March	1,	1991	-	$396.00 per	week
(e)	Eurployees will be covered by Extended Health Benefits in accordance with the Candor Plan (Crown Life).
(f)	Premium cost of providing coverage under thio Article will be borne by the Company.
(9) A Cong Term Disability Plan will be provided, based on the following general principles:
(1) The Plan will become effective March 1, 1990.
(2)	The Plan to be funded on a 50/SQ cost sharing basis.
That the terms of the Plan will be based on a five ysar maximum, to age sixty (60), fifty percent (50%) earnings benefit level with a fifteen hundred dollars (51500.00) per month maxLnum.
That there will be a moratorium on negotiating changes to the Plan during the negotiations for the renewal of the 1989 - 1992 Collective Agreement,
ARTICLE XX ♦ DENTAL FLAN
A Cental Plan will be provided, based on the following general principles:
(a)	Basic dental services (Plan A) - Plan pays eighty percent (80%) of approved Alberta schedule.
(b)	Prosthetics, crown, and bridges (Plan B) - Plan pays fifty Percent (50%) of approved Alberta schedule of fees.
(c) Orthodontic (Plan C) - Plan pays fifty percent (50%) of approved Alberta schedule of fees (Lifetime paxitnua two thousand dollars ($2,000).
(d)	Premium cost for providing coverage under this Article w i 11 be borne by the Company.
(e) Eligibility shall be the first of the month following data of completion of the probationary period.
(f)	Participation in the Plan is to be a condition of employment.
ARTICLE XXI - SAFETY EQ0I7KENT
(a)	The Company shall replace the following equipment at no cost to the employee when these articles are presented wcm or damaged beyond repair and 'when they are required by the Company or the Occupational Health and Safety act.
1. Aprons.
2 . Hard Hats and Liners
3.	Eye. Ear and Nose Protective Equipment.
4.	Safety Pants (yard buckers).
(b)	Where the Company has been supplying safety equipment and clothing at no cost to the employee on the effective date cf this Agreement, it will continue to do so at no cost to the employee.
(c)	The Company will provide aprons as required at no charge to Stacker. Resaw and Reman Operators.
ARTICLE XXII - PENSION PLAN
The Company agrees to actuarily fund the Pension Plan in accordance with the provisions of the Letter of Understanding signed the seventh day c£ June, 1984, It is further agreed that pension contributions will be placed in trust.
ARTICLE XXIII - TOOL INSURANCE
(a)	The Company at ita own expense, shall insure for damage car loss caused byfire or flood, the tools of its employee. which are required in the performance of their work. This provision for tool insurance shall also apply to loss by theft where the tool, are stored in a designated secure place supplied by the Cccnpany and there is forcible breaking and entering. The insurance coverage provided shall be subject to a deductible of fifty dollars ($50.00) in respect of each employee's claim. In order to be eligible to claim for loss an employee Bust have supplied the Company with a written list of tools required in the performance of work and stored with the Company.
(b)	The Cccpany will repair or replace those tradesmen's tools that are damaged, broken, or lost in the performance of regular duties with tool* that are of equal or better quality, whenever possible.
(c)	Metric Tools
When Tradesmen exrployed by the company purchase metric tools required for use on the job, the Ccoipany agrees to certify eligibility for a subsidy froa Metric Consrdssion Canada.
ARTICLE XXIV - GENERAL PROVISIONS
[a) It is agreed that Memoranda of Agreement such as "Apprentice Training Program", "Apprentices Tools", Letter on "Tradesman's Tool Insurance". Letter on "Pension Plan", "Nine Hour Shifts", "Metric Tools", and other attachments shall form part of this Agreement, except where they have been
modified by the parties or si Agreement.
(b) The Company will make available for use on Company property to:
Tradesmen
Apprentice.
Trade Utility Mill Handyman *2 Planerman Planerman (Maintenance) Crane Operators Crone Maintenance
by other provisions in this
and maintain three (3) pairs of coveralls
Peeler Truck Drivers Oilers
Kiln Attendants Incinerator Attendant* Cleanup Glue Mixers Crowder Feeders
Coveralls will be made available and provided upon request to employees working in abnormally dirty area*.
26
(c)	Tho Company agrees that employees working in the categories listed balow who have completed two (2) scaths' service with the Company and, provided . the enployee Am been confirmed in the position after the fifteen (IS) day trial period, on and after March 1,	shall receive annually a
thirty-five dollar ($35.00) glove allowance.
Cleanup
Warebouse/Cleanup
Planar reader
Lumbar Grader
Planenaan
Millwrights
Incinerator
Reman Edger Optimizer
Sawfiler
Trimmer Optimizer Sawmill Stacker Operator Kiln Operator Oilers
Serviceman S/M
Tilt Boist strip Attendant Chip Area Attendant Band Resaw P/*H
Rubber gloves shall be provided and replaced to tradesmen at no cost
(d) The Cempany shall pay forall eoployee medical examinations not covered by Alberta Medicare, if such medical examination is a prerequisite for the Job of that employee or a prerequisite of the licensing requirements of tho Job of that employee.
(e) where an anployee is notified hiring his normal shift that be will be required to work two (2) or more hours overtime beyond that shift, the Company shall provide a teal.
ARTICLE XXV - PERMANENT PLANT CLOSURE
In the event of a permanent plant closure of the Company's operation in Grande Prairie, eaployees shall be entitled to severance pay equal to one (1) week's Pay for each year of continuous service provided the employees involved have not been offered employment by the Company in another manufacturing operation of the Company in tho Grand- Prairie area.
In the event the plant is relocated within a radius of eighty (&C> kilceieters and the employee* involved are not required to relocate their place of residence and are not terminated by the Company as a result c£ the plant relocation, they shall not be entitled to severance pay.
27

The parties hereto mtually. agree that thliL j after the l»t day . of March, 1989, toj*
iS9jft and'" thereafter from veer to"~vaar> unless 60 day*4 written sou coomdc* collective bargaining for aneodoeat* is given by either Tarty* The notice required hereunder shall be validly end sufficiently sarved at tha office of the Ccopeny, and the Local Office of the Association at least sixty (60) deye prior to the expiry date of ths Agreement,
If no agreement ia reached at the expiration of this Agreeoeot, and notice to comance eoliectiva bargaining has been served, tha existing Agreaaent shall raxiain In affect until * nav Agreaaent la reached or until thirty (30) days after ths Minister notifies ths partita of tha gacoatndationa of tha depute a Inquiry Board under tha Alberta Labour Act, and to continue there altar until dleeontinued la writing by either party*

.1989.
CANADIAN FORES? PRODUCTS LTD.
ALBERTA OPERATIONS
GRANDE PRAIRIE LUMBER DIVISION
ASSOCIATION OP EMPLOYEES OP NORTH CANADIAN FOREST INDUSTRIES LIMITED GRANDE PRAIRIE LUMBER DIVISION
t C O E
- 28
SUPPLEMENT HO. 1 - WAGE SCHEDULE CAKADIAS FOREST PRODUCTS LTD., ALBERTA OPERATIONS GRANDE PRAIRIE LUMBER DIVISION
CATEGORY
March 1/89 March 1/90 March 1/91 Sept. 1/91
GROUP 1
Cleanup	14.60
Warehouse Cleanup	14.60
GROUP 2
Strip Attendant	14.68
Serviceman .	14.68
GROUP 3
Chip &ea Attendant	14.76
Paper Wrap	14.76
GROUP 4
J-Bar Attendant SM	14.87
3-Bar Attendant Hi	14.67
GROUP 5
Tilt Moist Operator/Trirsner 14.96 GROUP 6
Band Resaw PM	IS.08
GROUP 7
Strapper/Endprese	IS.19
15.40	16.25	16.34
15.40	16.25	16.34
15.49	16.34	16.42
15.49	16.34	16.42
15.57	16.43	16.51
15.57	16.43	16.SI
15.69	16.55	16.64
15.69	16.55	16.64
15.78	16.65	16.73
15.91	16.78	16.87
16.03	16.91	16.99
SUPPLEMENT NO. 1 - MAGS SCHEDULE (continued)
CATEGORY
March 1/89 March 1/90 March 1/91 Sept, 1/91
GROUP 8
Planer Feeder Stacker Operator PH
15.35	16.19	17.06
15.35	16.19	17.08
i.
17.17
17.17
GROUP 9
Stacker Operator SM
GROUP 10
Trissaer Optimizer
GROUP 11
Debarker Operator	15.80
FcodcLiftOperator SM/PH/SHIP 15.60
16.67	17.59	17.67
16.67	17.59	17.67
GROUP 12
Yard Equipment Operator
/Cleanup	15.98	16.86	17.79	17.87
GROUP 13
Merchandiser
Reman Edger-Optimizer
Cutoff Saw*
Peeler Truck Driver Log Scaler
16.15	17.04
16.15	17.04
16.15	17.04
16.15	17.04
16.15	17.04
17.98	18.06
17.98	18.06
17.96	18.06
17.98	18.06
17.96	18.06
GROUP 14
Chlp-H-Saw 14" Operator	16.31
Chip-N-Sow 28" Operator
/Twin Band	16.31
Single Band Resaw	16.31
Kiln Operator/Forklift	16.31
17.20	18.15	18.24
17.20	18.15	18.24
17.20	18.15	18.24
17.20	18.15	18.24
SUPPLEMENT IP. 1 - WAGE SCHEDULE [continued)
CATEGORY____________________March 1/89 March 1/90 March 1/91 Sept. 1/31
GROUP IS CROUP 16
Log Loe<3*r/Cat 980	16.71	17.63	18.60	18.69
GROUP 17
Xnclnerator/Fire Prevention	16.91	17.84	18.82	18.91
GROUP 18 GROUP 19 GROUP 20
Planer Grader/Triinner CROOP 21
Portal Crane operator
17.49	18.45	19.47	19.56
17.71	18.60	19.71	19.79
SUPPLEMENT HQ. 1 - WAGE SCHEDULE (continued)
CATEGORY
Kerch 1/89 March 1/90 March 1/91
MISCELLANEOUS CATEGORIES
Planeroan/PM/FJ (Maintenance) 13.06	19,05	20.09
Mill Handyxan (Maintenance) 19.00	20.04	21.14
MAINTENANCE DEPARTMENT
Electrician Certified Electrician Apprentices
-	4th year
-	3rd year
-	2nd year
-	1st year
Mechanic Certified Mechanic Apprentices
4th year
-	3rd year
-	2nd year
-	1st year
Millwright Certified
Millwright
Apprentices - 4th year
-	3rd year
-	2nd year
-	1st year
Welder - B Pressure Ticket
Welder Certified
Welder
Apprentices - 3rd year
-	2nd year
-	1st year
Partsman (with Ticket)
Part----
Apprentices * 3rd year
-	2nd year
-	1st year
19.52
19.19
17.02
16.53
16.13 IS. 89
19.52
19.19
17.02
16.53
16.13
15.89
19.52
19.19
17.02
16.53
16.13
15.89
19.36
19.31
13.96
17.02
16.53
15.89
19.31 10.98
17.02
16.53
15.89
20.59
20.25
17.96
17.44
17.02
16.76
20.59
20.25
17.96
17.44
17.02
16.76
20.59
20.25
17.96
17.44
27.02
16.76
20.42
20.37
20.02
17.96
17.44
16.76
20.37
20.02
17.96
17.44
16.76
21-73
21.36
18.94
13.40
17.95
17.63
21.73
21.36
18.94
18.40
17.95
17.68
21.73
21.36
18.94
18.40	-
17.95
17.63
21.S<
21.49
21.13
10.94
18.40
17.69
21.49
21.13
18.94
18.40
17.69
Sett. 1/91
20.18
21.23
21.76
21.43
19.00
18.45
18.00
17.74
21.78
21.43
19.00
18.45
ia.oo
17.74
21.78
21.43
19.00
18.45
18.00
17.74
21.60 21. SS
21.19
19.00
18.45
17.75
21.5S
21.19
19.00
16.45
17.75
SUPPLEMENT NO. 1 - MACE SCHEDULE (continued)
CATEGORY_____________________March 1/B9 March 1/90 March 1/91 Sept. 1/91
Filer
Sawfiler
Apprentices - 4th year
-	3rd year
-	2nd year
-	1st year
Machinist Certified Machinist
Apprentices - 4th year
-	3rd year
-	2nd year - - 1 st year
Grinderaan
Trade Utility *1 Trade Utility *2
19.52
19.19
17.02 16. S3
16.13
15.89
19.52
19.19
17.02
16.53
16.13
15.89
16.67
16.67 IS.98
20.59
20.25
17.96
17.44
17.02
16.76
20.59
20.25
17.96
17.44
17.02
16.76
17. S9
17.59 17.04
Crane Maintenance	19.19	20.25
Welder Millwright	19.S2	20.59
Chargehand:	Job rate plus 22 Cents per hour.
MULTIPLE TRADE QUALIFICATIONS
21.73	21.78
21.36	21.43
18.94	19.00
18.40	18.45
17.95	18.00
17.68	17.74
21.73	21.78
21.36	21.43
18.94	19.00
18.40	18.4S
17.95	18.00
17.68	17.74
18.55	18.64
18.55	18.64
IS.09	18.18
21.36	21.45
21.73	21.78
It is agreed that a Tradesman employed by the Cocpany who holds more than one ***de ticket and, as pert of his regular job reguired by the Cocpany, applies the knowledge of his ticketed tredse as part of his regular duties, will be paid an additional Thirty Cents (30tr) per hour above his regular job rate.
It is further agreed that a Tradesman employed by the Company who holds more than two tickets end, ee pert of his regular job as required by tho Cosqwny, applies the knowledge 01’ his ticketed trades as pert of his regular duties, will be paid the highest trade rate as designated In tho wage supplement for the trade tickets plus an additional Forty Cents (4Qpr) per hour.
An employee who la in possession of a valid Grader's Certificate shall receive e premium of five (5*r) per hour for ail hours worked while not performing the grading function. This premium shall not apply to any position where the premium has already been recognized in the rate.
APPRENTICESHIP AGREEMENT
between
CANADIAN FOREST PRODUCTS LTD. ALBERTA OPERATIONS GRANDE PRAIRIE LUMBER DIVISION
and
ASSOCIATION OF EMPLOYEES OF NORTH CANADIAN FOREST INDUSTRIES LIMITED GRANDE PRAIRIE LUMBER DIVISION
Subject to the provisions of the Apprenticeship Act, the Government of the Province of Alberta, and the regulations made pursuant thereto respecting the following trades:
1.	Construction Electrician
2.	Motor Mechanic
3.	Heavy Duty Mechanic
4.	Millwright
5.	Welder
it is agreed as follows:
Training time for Apprentices shall be in accordance with the scheduling for each trade as specified by the Apprenticeship Act as listed herein.
TRADE
LENGTH OF
APPRENTICESHIP	AT VOCATIONAL SCHOOL
Construction Electrician	4 years
Motor Mechanic
4 years
Heavy Duty Mechanic
4 years
Millwright
4 years
Welder
3 years
1st
2nd
3rd
4th
Ut
2nd
3rd
4th
1st
2nd
3rd
4th
1st
2nd
3rd
4th
1st
2nd
3rd
year -	8	weeks
year -	8	weeks
year -	8	weeks
year -	12	weeks
year -	8	weeks
year -	8	weeks
year -	8	weeks
year -	8	weeks
year *	8	weeks
year -	6	weeks
year -	8	weeks
year -	8	weeks
year -	8	weeks
year -	8	reeks
year -	8	weeks
year -	8	weeks
year -	$	weeks
year -	6	weeks
year -	8	weeks
1,	Wags Rates for Apprentices
Wag^ rates for Apprentices (who pass required tests) shall not be lees than the percentage cf the prevailing wages of Journeyman as specified for each trade by the Manpower Development Act with respect to the trade. (Journeymen's rates are set forth in rage supplement #1 cf the Collective Agreement between the parties.)
2.	Expenses
The Company shall pay Apprentices while attending vocational school the difference between the subsidy granted by the appropriate Government authorities and the regular wages cf the employee concerned.
since persons shall receive the rages less the sum paid to them by the appropriate Government authorities, married parsons shall receive their wages less the sum paid to single parsons by the appropriate Government authorities. The provisions of the Collective Agreement shall be applicable to Apprentices in this program.
3.	selection of Apprentices
When the Ccmpany requires Apprentices for any cf the above-named trades, the vacancy will be posted in the operation and applicants selected in accordance with Article VIII of the Collective Agreement.
4. Successful Applicants
Successful applicants will be assigned for a three-month probationary period, prior to being apprentices,
S.	Right to Continue
Once started in the Apprenticeship Program, subject, however, to the provisions cf the Collective Agreement, the apprentice shall have the right to continue, providing he passes all the prescribed tests and work is available for him.
6.	Tests
In the event the Apprentice fails to pass the required tests, he will be given a second opportunity, but in the event of failure to pass on the occasion of the second test in any period during hi. tarn as an Apprentice he shall be required to withdraw free the program, It is understood, however, that he will continue to be employed in whatever job is available for him in the operation.
7.	fools
(a) Journeyman
All Journeymen shall be required to have, and shell not qualify for Journeymen's Bate* unless they have a full kit of band tools necessary to perform the job for which they are hired.
(b) Apprentices
All Apprentices shall be required to have and maintain a tool kit to perform the job for which they are hired.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
between
CANADIAN FOREST PRODUCTS LTD. ALBERTA OPERATIONS GRANDE PRAIRIE LUMBER DIVISION
and
ASSOCIATION OF EMPLOY22S OP . NORTH CANADIAN FOREST INDUSTRIES LIMITED GRANDE PRAIRIE LUMBER DIVISION
The Cortpany agree8 that in the event of a fire which results in the loss of tradesmen'* tools, the fifty dollars ($50.00) deductible as provided for under the Agreement will not apply when tools are in the care and custody of the Company.
CANADIAN FOREST PRODUCTS LTD.
ALBERTA OPERATIONS
GRANDE PRAIRIE LUMBER DIVISION
ASSOCIATION OF EMPLOYEES OF NORTH CANADIAN FOREST INDUSTRIES LIMITED GRANDE PRAIRIE LUMBER DIVISION
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
between
CANADIAN FOREST FRODUCIS LTD. ALBERTA OPERATIONS GRANDE PRAIRIE LUMBER DIVISION
and
ASSOCIATION OF EMPLOYEES OF HORTH CANADIAN FOREST INDUSTRIES LIMITED GRANDE PRAIRIE LUMBER DIVISION
APPRENTICES' TOOLS
The Company agrees that it will replace or repair those apprentices' tools that are damaged or broken in the performance of regular duties. In addition, the Company rill make available for use at no cost to apprentices tools required upon the introduction of the metric system.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
between
CANADIAN FOREST PRODUCTS LTD- ALBERTA OPERATIONS GRANDE PRAIRIE M E R DIVISION
and
ASSOCIATION OF EMPLOYEES OF NORTH CANADIAN FOREST INDUSTRIES LIMITED GRANDE PRAIRIE M E R DIVISION
ARTICLE IV - HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
The Parties to the Agreement agree that the Ccapany has the right to operate its plant or plants or any parts thereof for nine (9) hours per shift, said nine (9) hours to constitute the regular hours c£ work per day. The Conqsany shall retain the right to determine shift length up to nine (9) hours per shift in any unit or department of the operation. Rate and one-half shall be paid for any hours worked over eight (8) hours per day or forty (40) hours per week.
The Canpany agrees to give at least ten (10) working days notice of change from an eight (8) hour shift schedule to a nine (9) hour shift schedule and at least three (3) working days notice of a change fro® a nine (9) hour shift schedule to an eight (8) hour shift schedule. The change in shift schedule frcm an eight (8) hour shift to a nine (9) hour shift will be implemented at the beginning of a work week.
This Letter of Understanding shall apply to all areas of the Limber Division except the planermill.
CANADIAN FOREST PRODUCTS LTD.
ALBERTA OPERATIONS
GRANDE PRAIRIE LUMBER DIVISION
ASSOCIATION OF EMPLOYEES OF NORTH CANADIAN FOREST INDUSTRIES LIMITED GRANDE PRAIRIE LUMBER DIVISION
LETTER OF LNCERSENCING-
between
CANADIAN FOREST PRODUCTS LTD. ALBERTA OPERATIONS GRANDE PRAIRIE LUK3ER DIVISION
and
ASSDOAIOSr OF EMPLOYEES OF NORTH CANADIAN FOREST INDUSTRIES LIMITED GRANDE PRAIRIE LUMBER DIVISION
ARTICLE IV • HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
PIANZRMILL
It is understood that when a nine (9) hour shift is required in the planemill for a period of up to one (1) month. the Executive of the Association of Employees of North Canadian Forest Industries Limited agrees to cooperate with the Company and to reccromend to the employees affected that they work the nine (9) hour shift for the above period.
The Association Executive will advise the Company iffifty-one per cent (51%} of those voting have approved. When such notice is received, the company will make arrangements to institute the nine (9) hour shift in the planenrdll.
SIGNED THIS

DAY OF
1969
CANADIAN FOREST PRODUCTS LTD.
ALBERTA OPERATIONS
GRANDE PRAIRIE LUMBER DIVISION
ASSDOATOSr CF EMPLOYEES OF NORTH CANADIAN FOREST INDUSTRIES LIMITED GRANDE PRAIRIE LUMBER DIVISION
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
between
CANADIAN FOREST PRODUCTS LTD., ALBERTA OPERATIONS
GRANDE PRAIRIE LUMBER DIVISION
and
ASSOCIATION OF EMPLOYEES OF	•
NORTH CANADIAN FOREST INDUSTRIES LTD.
GRANDE PRAIRIE LUMBER DIVISION
ARTICLE IX (a~) - REVIEW OF JOB GROUPS
The Parties agree that, during the first year of the Agreement, there will be a joint review of the jcto groupings as listed in supplement! - Wqgp Schedule. Tbe purpose of the review will be to standardize the Grande Prairie Lumber Division groupings relative to the job groupings in the Company's other Alberta Operations and Northern B.C. Operations.
CANADIAN FOREST PRODUCTS LTD.
ALBERTA OPERATIONS
GRANDE PRAIRIE LUMBER DIVISION
ASSOCIATION OF EMPLOYEES OF NORTH CANADIAN FOREST INDUSTRIES LIMITED GRANDE PRAIRIE LUMBER DIVISION
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
between
CANADIAN FOREST PRODUCTS LTD. ALBERTA OPERATIONS GRANDE PRAIRIE LUKBER DIVISION
and
ASSOCIATION OF EMPLOYEES OF NORTH CANADIAN FOREST INDUSTRIES LIMITED GRANDE PRAIRIE LUMBER DIVISION
METRIC TOOLS
The Company agrees to share half the net cost to the employee of metric tools required and purchased for use on the job and for which the employee has received a subsidy from Metric Conanisslon Canada, as covered under Article XXIII of the Agreement.
SIGNED THIS

DAY OF
1989
CANADIAN FOREST PRODUCTS LTD.
ALBERTA OPERATIONS
GRANDE PRAIRIE LUMBER DIVISION
ASSOCIATION OF EMPLOYEES OF NORTH CANADIAN FOREST INDUSTRIES LIMITED GRANDE PRAIRIE LUMBER DIVISION


LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
between
CANADIAN FOREST PRODUCTS LTD, ALBERTA OPERATIONS
GRANDE PRAIRIE LUMBER DIVISION
and
ASSOCIATION OF EMPLOYEES OF NORTH CANADIAN FOREST INDUSTRIES LIMITED GRANDE PRAIRIE LUMBER DIVISION
COMPETENCY
$
The Parties hereby agree that if an employee becomes unable to perform his/her normal job duties for any reason, such einployee rill be placed in another fob category for which the employee has sufficient seniority, in accordance with Article VIII - Seniority, Section 2 (a).
SIGNED THIS
DAY OF
CANADIAN FOREST PR<	LTD
ALBERTA OPERATIONS
ASSOCIATION OF EMPLOYEES 0 NORTH CANADIAN FOREST INDUSTRIES LIMITED GRANDE PRAIRIE LUMBER DIVISION
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
between
and
NORTH	IMITED
SION
ARTICLE XXII - PENSION PLAN
The parties agree that the following guidelines will be used in the
administration of the Pension Plan.
(1)	All employee members of the Association of Employees of North Canadian Forest Industries will be members of the Plan subject to the provision of Point 5 below.
(2) The parties agree that effective the first day of March, 1989, the benefit level6 shall be thirty-two ($32.00) dllars per month for each year of future service with the company for eligible employees, and thirty-two ($32.00) dollars per month for each year cf past service for eligible employees.
(3)	Normal retirement shall be at the age of sixty-five (65)years.
(4)	A vested employee member may elect early retirement with no reduction in earned pension after he/she has passed his/her sixtieth (60th) birthday. A vested employee member may elect early retirement with an actuarily reduced pension after he/she has passed his/her fifty-fifth
(55th) birthday.
(5)	Subject to the provisions of Point 8 below, an employee will be vested when he/she has eight (8) years of continuous service or in accordance with the Province of Alberta legislated requirements, whichever is less.
(6)	For the purpose of this plan, service is considered to be continuous until a member falls to work six hundred and forty (640) hours in two
(2) consecutive calendar years. Banked hours will not extend continuous service.
(7)	If an employee who is vested has a break in service prior to retirement,
that employee will receive a deferred vested pension when that employee retires.	The pension will be based on the employee's service before the
break in service and at the benefit levels in effect at the time °f the employee's break in service.
If that employee should later return to employment with the Company, that employee will also receive credit for all service after the break. The amount of pension that the employee will receive rill be based on the rate in effect each time that there was a break in service.
(8) To receive a full year's credit, an employee must accumulate fifteen hundred (1,500) pensionable hours in a calendar year. Pensionable hours shall include:
(a)	Worked hours, including overtime hours. Overtime hours are credited at straight time.
(b)	Pirefighting hours ip to a maximum of eight (8) in a day and forty (40) in a week.
(c)	Apprenticeship hours spent attending school on an apprenticeship program.
(d)	Short shifts. Employees who, because of their work schedule, work less than eight (8) hours per day but are paid eight (8) hours per day shall be credited eight (8) hours par day.
In any year where an employee accumulates more than fifteen hundred
(1.500)	pensionable hours as described in Parts (a), (b), (c) and (d) above, hours in excess of fifteen hundred (1,500) will be banked. In years in which an employee does not work fifteen hundred (1,500) hours, the banked hours be used to bring the total hours worked during that year up to fifteen hundred (1.500) hours. Banked hours will also be used when an employee retires if he has not accumulated fifteen hundred
(1.500)	hours in his last year of work. Banked hours cannot be used to delay a break in service.
The following shall also be considered as pensionable hours. These hours may not be banked, but be used when an employee has used all of his/her banked hours:
(a)	Layoffs. If a full-time employee is laid off for one (1) or more full weeks, he/she will receive forty (40) hours credit for each week up to a maximum of two hundred (200) hours per year.
(b)	Illness or Injury. If an employee is in receipt of wage loss benefits from the Workers4 Compensation Board or Weekly Indemnity benefits for a disability that occurred off the job, he/she will receive a credit of eight (8) hours for each day he/she receives benefits. The maximum credit shall be fifteen hundred (1,500) hours per year.
(c)	Total and Permanent Disability. If an empLoyee is totally and permanently disabled, he/she will be credited with one hundred and twenty-five (125) pensionable hours per month upon providing proof of the disability. These credits will continue until the employee recovers or begins to receive a pension, whichever happens first. If an eaployee in disabled and cannot continue to work at the Grande Prairie Lunfcer Mill but is capable of working elsewhere, he/she will not receive any further pension credits after his/her Workers’ Ccrapensation or Weekly Indemnity benefits atop.
(<3) Vacation. If /w ^pioyea is eligible for crore than five (5) reeks annual vacation, he/she will receive forty (40) hours credit for each week after the fifth (5th) week.
9.	The following shall apply to those plan members rho made contributions to the plan at its inception.
(a) If a participant's employment is terminated with the Company prior to the employee's retirement date, the employee will be entitled to a refund of his/her contributions with interest in accordance with the established interest tables of the plan. If the employee has completed five (5) or more years of credited service with the Company, he/she way elect to leave his/her contributions in the plan and receive on his/her normal retirement date under the plan a deferred pension in accordance with the pension benefit levels in effect at the time of the employee's termination.
10-	All	other re>priragents of	the	administration of the	plan rill be
determined in accordance with the applicable pension legislation of the Province of MJoerta or the Government of Canada.
11.	The	Company will provide	each	plan	member with a statement of the
employee's standing within	the	plan	once each year.	This statement
shall include a record of the hours accumulated during the past year and a sumary of credits from previous years.
12.	The	Parties agree that this Letter	of Understanding	replaces all
previous Letters of Understanding regarding the Pension Plan and that all previous Letters of Understanding regarding the Pension Plan are hereby cancelled.
SIGNED THIS
DAY OF
3
LETTER OP UNDERSTANDING
between
CANADIAN FOREST PRODUCTS LTD., AUERTA OPERATIONS
, GRANDE PRAIRIE LUMBER DIVISION
and	.
ASSOCIATION OF EMPLOYEES OF NORTH CANADIAN FOREST INDUSTRIES LTD. GRANDE PRAIRIE LUMBER DIVISION
CHARCBIANPS
A Chargehand is on Association neobejr who, under the direction of Hanagenent, has been aseigned tha duties of relaying instructions, advising Manage—nt of the progress of . the eoric and assisting Managsamt and crew in the ccweon effort . of. maintaining. the highest standards of aafaty, quality and quantity of production.	'
A Chargehand dots riot have the authority to hire, discipline, or discharge another Association member.
SIGNED THIS
jftgl
DW OF	■ 1989.
CANADIAN FOREST PRODUCTS LTD.
ALBERTA OPERATIONS
GRANDE PRAIRIE LUtSER DIVISION
aM*.Li2.
ASSOCIATION OF EMPLOYEES OF NORTH CANADIAN FOREST INDUSTRIES LIMITED GRANDE PRAIRIE LUMBER DIVISION
51