AGR
NAIRN CENTRE
E. B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD.
A division of Domtar Inc.
(hereinafter referred to as the ‘Company’)
AND
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION AND ITS LOCAL 31-X
(hereinafter referred to as the 'Union')
Covering the Period September I, 1998 to August 31, 2000
INDEX
Article
Page
Adjustment of Grievances .......... VIII......8
Apprenticeship Plan................. XX .
Automation.......................... XII..
32
19
Automation and Technological Change.. XXI....... 36
Benefits at Lay Off.................. XIV........ 27
Bereavement Leave.................... XVI....... 30
Bulletin Board....................... XIII........21
Call Outs ........................... XI......... 16
Climatic Controls.................................63
Compassionate Leave.................. XVI....... 30
Contracting Out......................Ill........ I
Coveralls............................ X.......... 12
Dental Plan.......................... XIV....... 26
Disputed WSIB Claims..............................57
Education Lund....................... X.......... 12
Electrical Maintenance........................... 61
Exchange of Shifts................... XI......... 16
Floating Holidays....................VII........54
Grievance Procedure.................. Vlll...... 9
Hours of Work........................ XI......... 14
JobPostings ......................... XII....... 51
Joint Health & Safety Committee .....X........... 13
Joint Health & Safety Conference.....X........... 13
Jurisdiction......................... Ill....... I
Jury Duty. Crown Witness......................... 31
Subpoenaed Witness................... XVII...... 31
Leaves of Absence.................... XVIII.....31
Letters of Understanding..........................48
Life Insurance....................... XIV....... 25
Long Term Disability ................ XIV....... 21
Meals............................................ 23
Membership........................... V......... 3
New Job Classifications ............. IV........3
Pension Plan ........................ XV........ 28
Article
INDEX
Page
Period of Agreement.................. II......... 1
Posted Pack Up Positions......................... 62
Probationary Period.................. XII........ 19
Purpose of Agreement.................I........... I
Recognition.......................... Ill........ I
Safety [equipment and Apparel........ X.......... 13
Scmi-Pri\ate Hospital Care........... XIV........ 23
Seniority............................ XN......... 17
Seniority Ranking................................. 45
Severance Pay........................ XIX........ 3 !
Shift Differential...................XI.......... 16
Shift Workers Schedule............... XI.........16
Statutory Holidays................... VII........6
Trades Tools ........................ X.......... 13
Trades Training - Schedule of Hates.............. 35
Union Membership..................... V.......... 3
Vacations With Pay................... VI......... 5
Vision Care Plan .................... XIV........ 27
Wage Schedule..................................... 37
Weekend Maintenance............................... 49
Weekly Indemnity..................... XIV........ 21
Contents
Article 1-	Purpose	 1
Article II -	Period	 1
Article III -	Recognition and Jurisdiction	 1
Article IV -	Rates and Classifications	2
Article V -	Union Membership	3
Article VI -	Vacations With Pay	5
Article VII -	Holidays With Pay	6
Article VIII -	Adjustment of Grievances	8
Article IX -	No Strike - No Lockout	 12
Article X -	Working Conditions	 12
Article XI -	HoursofWork	 14
Article XII -	Seniority	17
Article XIII -	Bulletin Boards	21
Article XIV -	Health and Welfare	 21 14:01 Weekly Indemnity	 21 14:02 Long Term Disability	21 14:03 Group Life Insurance	25 14:04 Medical, Surgical. Drug & Hospital Care Plans	26 14:05 Dental Care Plan	26 14:06 Vision Care Plan	27 14:07 Benefits at Lay Off.	 27
Article XV	Pension Plan	 28
Contents
Article XVI -	Bereavement Pay......................30
Article XVII -	Jury Duty........................... 31
Article XVIII - Leave of Absence.......................31
Article XIX -
Article XX -Article XXI -Schedule “A”
Severance Pay............................31
Apprenticeship Plan......................32
Automation and Technological	Change......36
Trades Training - Schedule	of Wage	Rates.35
Schedule “B' Schedule “C Schedule ”D‘
Occupation Codes, Rates, Dates.......... 37
Union Seniority List.....................40
Letters of Understanding................48
1.	Weekend Maintenance Schedule......
2.	Filling Job Postings re Article 12:07.
3.	Lay Off and Recall After Lay Off.....
4.	Floating Holidays.................
5.	Coveralls.........................
6.	Disputed W.S.LB. Claims...........
7.	Weekly Indemnity...................
8.	Meals.............................
9.	Electrical Maintenance............
10.	Posted Back-Up Positions..........
11.	Climatic Controls.................
12.	Hours of Work.....................
13.	Overtime Distribution.............
14.	Overtime Welding..................
15.	Lumber Graders....................
16.	Management of the LabourPool......
17.	Management of Technological Change..
49
51
53
54
56
57
58
59 61 62
63
64
65 68 70
72
73
Schedule “E” General Information
75
-*
ARTICLE I - PURPOSE
1:01 Till! purpose of this Agreement is In secure for the Company and the Union the full benefits of orderly anti legal eolleelivc bargaining in respect to hours, wages and working conditions its specified in Articles ol this Agreement and to secure lo the utmost extent possible, the safety and physical welfare of the employees, economy of operations, quality and quantity of output ami protection of properly. This Agreement moreover seeks to provide for fair and peaceful adjustments of all disputes that may arise between the parlies. It is recognUed as a duty of the parties hereto and of all employees to cooperate fully, individually and collectively, lor the advancement oi die conditions set torlh herein.
1:<)2 Throughout this Agreement, use of the masculine gender shall be considered also to include the leminine.
ARTICLE II ■ PERIOD
2:01 The Company and the Union agree one with the oilier that they wilt abide by the Articles of this Agreement from September 1st, 1998 to August 31st, 2000 inclusive, anti from year to year thereafter unless either party desires to change or terminate the Agreement, in which case, the party desiring the change or termination shall notify (he other party, in writing, within ninety (90) days prior to August 31 si of the particular year that such is its desire. Either party opening die Agreement in the manner provided above shall notify the other party, in writing, as to the changes desired.
ARTICLE III - RECOGNITION AND JURISDICTION
3:01 (a) The Company recognizes the Union as the sole collective bargaining agent for all its employees employed by the Company on its operations in Nairn Township.
Tor die purpose of this Articie. employees shall be all those employed on Cite jot) classifications set out on the Wage Schedule attached to and forming part of the Agreement, inoiuding those who are engaged on job classifications which may be established and become part ot the Wage Schedule during tire term of the Agreement. This provision excludes: Shill Supervisor, persons above the rank o! Shift .Supervisor Scaieis, Office Staff and Security Personnel.
1
3:01 (b) The employees of contractors engaged on operations of the Company in Nairn Township shall be considered employees within the terms of this Agreement, save and except the employees of contractors and/or contractors who are engaged to perform occasional special services not commonly performed by employees covered by the terms of this Agreement, employees of contractors where such contractors are engaged for the purpose of erecting structures and where such contractor is bound by an Agreement with a Union or Unions affiliated with a central labour body covering such work. The Union will be advised at least two (2) weeks in advance of any Company plans to ■'contract out work” except in the case of a genuine emergency.
3:02 (a) .Supervisory personnel. Relief Production Supervisor while replacing Production Shift Supervisors, which includes contractors, whose employees are considered to be employees under this Agreement, shall not perform work which would normally he a function of an employee in the job classifications covered by this Agreement, except when instructing employees and in cases of emergency which involve physical danger to employees or danger to property.
3:02 (b) The Company will not contract out repair and maintenance work which is normally performed by the maintenance crew, for which the mill is equipped, for which crews are available and which employees are capable of performing. The Company agrees to pay the defined Union dues for all contractors who perform work normally performed by members of the bargaining unit as well as capital work projects on this site. Any contractors employing the following trades; millwrights, mechanics, electricians, carpenters and/or welders will be included in this payment of Union dues.
3:03	It is agreed that Company operations shall not be interrupted
as the result of any jurisdictional dispute that may arise between the Union and any other Union affiliated with the C.L.C. Questions of jurisdiction shall conform to the regulations covering such matters as fixed by the C.L.C. and the Company will not be asked to act upon any matter of jurisdiction between organizations of the C.L.C.
ARTICLE IV - RATES AND CLASSIFICATIONS
4:01	The Wage Schedule is attached hereto and forms a part of this
Agreement.
2
4:02 If. during the life of this Agreement, a significant change in the job content occurs in any job classification listed in the attached Wage Schedule, the rate thereto shall be adjusted by negotiations between the parties. Upon failure to reach agreement, the matter may be referred to Stage HI of the Grievance Procedure.
4:03	[-'or job classifications not listed in the attached Wage Schedule,
the Company shall set a temporary wage rate. Where the Company has prior knowledge of the necessity for establishing a new job classification, the Company will notify the Union, in writing, at least two (2) weeks in advance, and if the Union requests, the Company will discuss the applicable rates and conditions prior to the commencement of the new job. Where circumstances require immediate and unforeseen establishment of a new job classification, the Company will notify the Union, in writing, immediately.
Any such rates will be based on comparison with the prevailing rale for similar and/or related occupations in the attached Wage Schedule.
After a thirty 130} day trial period any such rale or rates shall be negotiated with the Union and, after such agreement is reached, it shall then become a part of the Wage Schedule and be attached thereto. It is understood that the thirty (30) day period can be extended by mutual consent of the parties. Upon failure to reach agreement on a rale or rates, the matter may be referred to Stage III of the Grievance Procedure. Rates when established shall be retroactive to the dale of establishment of the new job classifications.
ARTICLE V - UNION MEMBERSHIP
5:0 I	Any employee who is now a member in good standing or who
becomes or is reinstated as a member of the Union shall, as a condition of continued employment, maintain such membership m good standing throughout the term of this Agreement. The Union shall be the sole judge as to whether an employee is a member in good standing and shall notify the Company promptly of any change in the standing of any such employee.
5:02 (a) When hiring new employees, subject to the skill and ability of the applicants to perform the work required of them, the Company will give preference to Union members.
3
If Union members do not apply the Company shall have the right to employ ion-Union help.
The Company agrees to advise the Union from time to time of its la bom requirements.
5:02 (b) New employees shall make application to join the Union when first approached to do so by a duly authorized Union official. The Company shall upon hiring, advise all new employees lo report to the Financial Secretary within ten (10) days of commencing work. Failure of an employee to comply with the conditions herein shall be cause for immediate term ination of employment.
5:03 (a) The Company will deduct from all employees covered hy the Labour Agreement from monies due them and remit to (he Union, initiation fees and/or weekly membership dues hut not fines, assessments or other levies.
5:03 (b) Deductions so made will he remitted lo the Union weekly, said remittance to be accompanied by itemized lists m alphabetical order, in duplicate, of names with Christian names as payrolled. A copy ol the list will he given hy the Company to the Financial S icretary of the Union or his representative.
5:03 (c) Yearly Union dues deductions will he shown on the T-4 slips.
5:04	Union representatives shall have the right to visit the operation
in connection with Union business. Such representatives shall report to the Personnel Superv isor or Operations Manager on arrival
5:05	The Union shall furnish the Company with the listing of local
Union officers and shall amend these lists promptly as changes occur. Failure to advise the Company of such changes will not in any way affect the authority of the Union officers.
5:06	The Company will furnish a list of supervisory personnel to
the Union office at the start of the contract year and amend it, if required, at the end of each month. The amended list will show the effective date of the changes. Failure to advise the Union of such changes will not in any way affect the authority of Company supervisors.
ARTICLE VI - VACATIONS WITH PAY
6:01 (a) Vacation pay shall he paid to each employee hv cheque to he issued at the time of termination or when the vacation is taken. Vacation pay shall he paid to each employee by separate cheque,
6:01 (b) Vacation pay credits shall he paid to each employee on the following basis:
(I > hour percent {4CA) of gross earnings for employees who have worked less than four (4) years in one period of employment with the Company.
(2)	Six percent (6*£) of gross earnings for employees who have worked more than four (4) years, hut less than ten (10) years in one period of employment with the Company.
(3)	bight percent (8CO of gross earnings for employees who have worked more than ten {10) years, hut less than eighteen (185 years in one period of employment,
(4)	Ten percent (IOCO of gross earnings for employees who have worked more than eighteen (18) years but less than twenty-five (23) years in any one period of employment,
(5)	Twelve percent (129f) of gross earnings for employees who have worked more than twenty-five (25) years.
(6)	In the case of employees whose period of employment dates hack to June 1, 1963. their years of service shall he calculated as from June 1st. 1963. In the ease of employees whose period of employment started after June 1st. 1963. years of service shall he calculated from date of hiring.
Status of present employees is as shown on Schedule "C" attached.
(7)	Employees will he paid one normal weeks earnings at their regular rate of pay for each week of vacation or 2t>< of gross earnings in (he previous calendar years, whichever is greater. Employees must have worked at least 750 hours during each calendar year. Time off due to compensable accidents shall he considered as time worked.
6:02 A period of employment is defined for purpose of this Agreement
(a) In the case of an employee who has established seniority as a period during which he maintains his accrued seniority.
(h) In the case of a probationary employee as a period not broken by a leave or an absence ol more than three (3) working days, excepting layoff.
6:03	An employee who has been continually employed lorone year
shall take vacation time off at a time which is satisfactory to the employee and the Company, Each two percent (2%) of vacation pay credit shall enlilie an employee to one (I) week of time off each year.
6:04	Vacation schedules will he completed by March 15tli and
vacations will he confirmed and posted by April 15th of each year.
6:05	Vacation requests made after March 15th will be confirmed
as soon as possible hut in no ease later than one month after the request.
6:06	All employees will he instructed on August 15 to schedule
any outstanding \ aeattons at a time satisfactory to him and his supervisor. Employees who have mot scheduled their outstanding vacation hy September 15 will have it assigned by the Company.
ARTICLE VII - HOLIDAYS WITH PAY
7:01	Employees who have acquired seniority status hy having
completed their probationary period shall he qualified to be paid without the performance of work lor the lollowing holidays:
New Years Day	Labour Day
Good Friday	Thanksgiving Day
Victoria Day	Remembrance Day
(yanada Day	Christmas Day
Civic Holiday	Boxing Day
When any of the above holidays fall on Saturday, it shall he observed on the preceding Friday, and if the holiday falls on Sunday, it will he observed on the lollowing Monday.
Canada Day and Remembrance Day may he observed on Friday or Monday with mutual agreement between parties.
Remembrance Day (November • 1 ill) holiday will he observed
timing Christinas and New Year's period. The shutdown day will be mutually agreed no later than September I st each year. If agreement oft lie date is not reached hv September 1st. the holiday will be observed on November 11th.
In addition, employees who have accumulated three (3) months seniority will be granted two (2) floating holidays per contract year (September 1st to August 31sl) to be taken at a time satisfactory to the employee and his supervisor. Moating holidays not taken prior to July 1st in each year will ho scheduled.
An employee who. by reason of layoff, is prevailed from taking his floating holiday(s) shall receive pay in lieu of such holiday(s).
7:02 (a) An employee who has established seniority in accordance with Article XII. is eligible for holiday pay provided:
(i)	He works his Iasi scheduled shift prior to the holiday and first scheduled shift following the holiday, unless prevented by circumstances beyond his control, or
(ii)	If an employee has worked any of the available work days within the thirty (30) days immediately prior to the holiday, is on authorized leave of absence when the holiday occurs, he shall receive holiday pay for the first holiday that occurs during his absence, or
(iii)	An employee who is obliged to cease work due to layoff during the thirty (30) day period immediately prior to the holiday, shall receive holiday pay for the holiday(s) within such thirty (30) day period, or
(iv)	An employee who is obliged to cease work due to sickness or accident certified by a licensed practitioner during the thirty (30) day period immediately prior to the holiday shall receive holiday pay for the liohday(s) within such thirty (30) day period.
7:02(b) Hourly paid employees will receive eight (8) times their hourly rate.
7:02(c) If an employee who qualifies under Article XII is recalled and
7
works anytime during the fourteen (14) calendar day period immediately following the holiday(s). he shall receive holiday pay for the preceding holiday(s).
7:03	An employee who is requested to work on any of the holidays
in Section 7:0 I shall be paid for all time worked at one and one-halftimes his regular rate up to eight (8) hours worked, and double lime after eight
(8)	hours.
7:04	An employee on regular vacation during a week in which a
statutory holiday falls, shall have (he option of having a day off with pay at a time mutually convenient to the employee and his supervisor within the following 180 days orhaving the holiday pay added to his regular vacation pay. If the employee elects not to defer his holiday payment, he must advise Management not later than ten (10) days prior to the commencement of his vacation period.
ARTICLE VIII - ADJUSTMENT OF GRIEVANCES
8:01	It is the mutual desire of the parties hereto that complaints of
an employee be adjusted as quickly as possible. It is generally understood that an employee has no grievance until he has given his shift supervisor an opportunity to adjust his complaint. Prior to reducing a complaint to a grievance as per Article 8:03 the employee may request his Shop Steward to be present at any further discussion with his shift supervisor.
8:02 (a) The Company shall recognize the Grievance Committee which shall consist of the President, two executive offi :ers and at the discretion of (he Grievance Committee the Steward involved.
it is understood that the Stewards and other Union officers shall not be absent from their regulardiuies in order to deal with a grievance without obtaining prior authorization from their shift supervisor. This permission will not be unreasonably withheld.
The Company agrees to pay members of the Grievance Committee for loss of wages lor authorized time lost for handling of grievances.
The shop Stewards recognized by this Agreement shall be as
8
follows:
a)	Planer Mill (include mobile equipment operators)
b) Large Log Mill	(include mobile equipment operators)
c) Small Log Mill	(include mobile equipment operators)
d)	Processor & Yard (include mobile equipment operators & garage)
e)	Mainte nance (include electrical crew)
When the operating schedule for (a) to (d) consists of more than one shift there will be one Steward on each shift.
8:02 (b) It is agreed that there shall be no discrimination exercised in any manner towards the Stewards or Union Grievance Committee members or other Union members.
8:03	A grievance under the provision of this Agreement is defined
to he any difference between the parties or between the Company and employees covered by this Agreement involving the interpretation, application, administration or alleged violation of any of the pros isions of this Agreement.
8:04	STFP I - Grievances as defined above shall be taken by the
employee together with the Union Steward having jurisdiction directly to the employee’s immediate shift supervisor lor adjustment. Any grievances submitted to the shift supervisor in accordance with this procedure shall he in writing and will be disposed of by the shift supervisor in writing. Failing a satisfactory adjustment within forty-eight (48) hours, then;
STFP II - The matter shall he taken up by a member of the Grievance Committee and the Steward having jurisdiction with the Area Superintendent and the Human Resources Supervisor. This procedure shall be in writing and will be disposed of by the Area Superintendent and the Human Resources Supervisor within five (5) days, then;
STEP HI - Within ten (10) days the matter shall be taken tip by the Grievance Committee with the General Manager of the Company or his representative. Failing a satisfactory adjustment then;
STEP IV - Within fifteen (15) days the matter shall be presented to the Company by the Grievance Committee and the National Representative. Failing a settlement within fifteen (15) days, then;
STEP V - Either party may within the following fifteen (15) days, refer the matter to Arbitration.
In Arbitration, the Company and (he Union shall each select one man; these two (2) shallselecta third party who shall act as Chairman. Either party shall appoint its nominee not later than five (5) days after receipt of written notice of the other party’s nomination. The Arbitration Board's decision shall be final and binding on both parties to this Agreement. I n the event of the failure of the two (2) people selected by the respective parties to select a third party as providedabove, they shall ask the Provincial Ministerof Labour to appoint a third party.
All time limits mentioned in the grievance procedure may he extended by mutual consent of the Company and the Union. If a grievance is processed through to arbitration the Arbitration Board shall have the power to relieve against noncompliance of time limits.
Nothing herein shall prevent the parties from mutually agreeing on a sole arbitrator to arbitrate grievancesarising out of this Agreement.
8:05	It is understood that the function of the Arbitration Board shall
be to interpret and apply this Agreement and that it shall deal only with the specific questionsas submitted and shall have no power to alter, add to, or amend this Agreement. However, the function cf the Arbitration Board shall include the power to consider adjustments to individual job classifications under Section 4:02 and rates for job classifications tinder Section 4:03 and to revise the rates therefore. TheArbitration Board shaft have no power to decide questions involving general wage adjustments.
8:06	Sundays. Statutory and Legal Holidays shall not be included
in any time limits in this Article of the Agreement.
8:07	A grievance arising from a claim by an employee that his
discharge or suspension by the Company was unjust or contrary to the terms of this Agreement, mustbedealtwith, inwriting, by both partiesand must be presented to the Company not later than ten (10) days after the discharge or suspension becomes effective. Grievances dealing with suspension shall he processed from the second step. In the case of suspension by the Company, the Company shall notify the employee, in writing, of the reason for such suspension.
10
Discharge grievances will he processed beginning at Step III of the grievance procedure. The Company shall notify the employee, m writing, the reason lor discharge.
In the event that an employee isfound by an Arbitration Board to have been unfairly discharged or suspended by the Company, the Company agrees that the employee will be reinstated on his job under termsand conditions decided by the Arbitration Board.
8:08	1-ach party to this Agreement shall pay all expenses of the
member of the Arbitration Board selected by it or by the Ministerof Labour and shall share equally in the fees and expenses of the third member of the board.
8:09	Grievances which involve Company policy in respect to the
interpretation, application, administration or alleged violation of the Agreement may be processed commencing at Step III of this Grievance Procedure.
8:10	If the Company has a grievance as defined in Section 8:03. it
shall commence at Step III of this Grievance Procedure by the General Manager or his representative presenting the matter, in writing, to the officers of the Union.
8: II	Employees to be disciplined (written warning, suspension or
discharge) by the Company will be provided with Union representation. When an employee has been indefinitely suspended from work, the parties will endeavour to meet before the employee's next regular scheduled shift or at a time agreeable to both parties. The Company will copy the Union on all verbal warnings issued.
The disciplinary record ofan employee shall not he used for the purposes of establishing progressive discipline after a period of twelve(l2) monthsof work has lapsed without any other disciplinary infractionoccurring.
In cases involving theft or sabotage, this discipline shall remain active for a period of three (3) years of work from the date of the infraction.
11
ARTICLE IX - NO STRIKE • NO LOCKOUT
There shall he no strike caused, called, or supported by the Union or its members, nor lockouts by the Company during the life of this Agreement.
ARTICLE X - WORKING CONDITIONS
10:01 (a) It is agreed that (he Company and the Union shall cooperate collectively in improving safety and first aid practices. The Company and the Union agree to sd: upand maintain a Joint Health & Safety Committee to promote safe working conditions and practices. There will be at least two (2) meetings of the Safety Committee each calendar quarter. The position of the Chairman shall alternate between a Company Co-chairman and a Union Co-chairman.
The Chairman of each meeting shall make a report in triplicate, copies going to the Company office, the Union office, and the bulletin boards.
A member of the Committee is entitled to such time off from his work as is necessary to attend meetings of the Committee, and the time so spent shall be deemed to be work time for which he shall be paid straight time while on shift or time and one half if off shift for all hours in attendance at the safety meetings (call out time not applicable).
All required safety equipment (excluding safety hoots) is provided at the employee’s induction, and on-the-job familiarization and safety training is provided by immediate supervisor.
10:01 (b) The Company agrees that Local 31-X representatives will attend all future E. B. Eddy Forest Products Lld./Communications. Energy and Paperworkers Union Safety Conferences. Six (6) delegates from Local 31-X may attend the conference. These delegates will he compensated for any loss of wages incurred as a result of attending the Conference.
10:02 It is agreed that there shall he properly equipped first-aid kits sufficient lor norma! requirements, located on the operation.
10:03 The Company agrees to provide a statement for each weekly pay period to all employees, showing all credits, deductions, hours of work
12
and the rate per hour, all hours worked at premium rate, and the type of
work performed by the employee during such pay period.
10:04 All hand tools and equipment required on the job will he made available to all employees on loan. When an operator of equipment is required by the Company to do a mechanical repair job. he will be furnished such tools as are required. All tools and equipment not returned will be charged for in lull. Worn out or broken tools will he replaced with serviceable tools free of charge provided that the worn out or broken tools are returned. The Company will provide free insurance against damage by fire or theft of tradesmen's tools normally required by tradesmen to the full replacement value of such tools. Employees will be required to furnish the same tools which were required in the past. Tradesmen, to be eligible for above insurance, must provide the Company with a list of their tools. [Employees' damaged or broken tools must be reported to the supervisor and arrangements are made /orreplacement. The same policy applies to tools lost by fire or theft. However, there may be some delay in the replacement as we must investigate the circumstances.
10:05 The Company agrees that it will furnish on loan, all mandatory safety equipment and personal safety apparel save and except safety boots.
The Company further agrees to sell to employees safety hoots at eighty dollars ($80.00) below invoice price to the Company effective September I, 1998.
The Company will subsidize all Debarker Operators $12.00 per pair lor chainsaw safely pants purdiased.
The wearing of safety equipment and apparel will not become a condition of employment unless it has been agreed to by the Company and the Union or is mandatory under Government legislation.
The Company will provide quality work gloves for all
employees.
10:06 With a mill-wide compulsory safety eyeglass policy, the company, will provide all safety glasses, including industrial prescription safely glasses.
10:07 The Company agrees to supply on loan, raincoats and oilers aprons, however, this shall not apply to normal personal items, such as shoes, pants, etc.
13
10:08 The Company and the Union agree that Labour Management Consultation Meetings could he held on a monthly basis, unlesscircunistanccs arise that would necessitate immediate meetings or discussions on matters involved. The purpose of these meetings will be to discuss with the Union ways and means of improving conditions for all employees covered by this Agreement, the interpretation of this Agreement and to provide information and discuss issues related to the Company operations.
A committee member is entitled to such time off from his work as necessary to attend meetings of the committee. Such time spent shall be deemed to be work time for w hich he shall he paid straight time while on shift or off shift for all hours in attendance of a meeting.
10:09 As per the attached Letter of Understanding re Coveralls, the Company agrees to the addition of one (I) pair of coveralls making available five (5) pair of coveralls io all tradesmen.
10:10 The Company will ensure that adequate temperatures are provided in lunch and washrooms.
10:11 The Company provides first aid arrangements as required by Provincial laws.
10:12	Effective the first date of the contract renewal the Company
will contribute by monthly cheque to the Financial Secretary of the local union$0.03 per hour per employee for all compensated hoursfor the purpose of providing paid education leave.
Said paid leavewill be Forthe purpose of tip-gradingthe employee's skill in all aspectsof health and safety and trade union education.
Employeeson paid education leaveof absence will continue to aeruc seniority and benefits during such leave.
ARTICLE XI - HOURS OFWORK
11:01 (a)	The week for operations shall be six (6) days per week Monday
to Saturday inclusive. The work week for day or shift workers shall he forty (40) hours, eight (8) hours per day. Monday to Friday inclusive, or Tuesday to Saturday inclusive.
14
It is agreed that day work or shift work employees may he required to work in excess of their regular work day or shift or work week, and will be paid in accordance with Section I l:0S lor such time worked. If an employee requeststo heexcused from working overtime, permission will nor be unreasonably withheld.
11:01 (b) For the purposeofthis Agreement. Sunday shall begin at 7:00 a.m. on Sunday and end at 7:00 a.m. Monday.
A holiday shall hegin at 7:00 a.m. the clay of the holiday and end ;it 7:00 a.m. the day following the holiday. An employee’s "sixth day" (Saturday or Monday) shall begin at 7:00 a.m. of that day and end at 7:00 a.m. the day following.
11:02 (a) The work day or shift shall consist of eight (8) consecutive hours hetween the hoursof 7:00 a.m. and 3:30 p.m., meal lime excepted. There will he it 1/2 hour unpaid lunch period.
11:02 (b) The night shift shall consist of eight (8) consecutive hours hetween the hoursof 4:00 p.m. and J 2:30 a.m., meal time excepted. There will hea 1/2 hour unpaid lunch period.
11:03 (a) On other two-shift operations, the first shift shall consist of eight (8) consecutive hours, meal time excepted, and shall commence at 7:00 a.m. or after. The second shift shall consist of eight (8) consecutive hours, meal time excepted, and shall commence prior to 7:00 p.m. and shall carry a shift differential of the second shift.
11:03 (b) On a three-shift operation, the shifts shall be eight (8) consecutive hours. The starting and stopping times for the three (3) shifts and the shift differentials to he paid, shall be as follows:
Starting Time (hetween the hours of) 1st shift	7:00 a.m. - 8:00 a.m.
2nd shift	3:00 p.m, - 4:00 p.m.
3rd shift 11:00 p.m.- 12:00 a.m.
Stopping Time (hetween the hour of) 3:00 p.m. - 4:00 p.m.
11:00 p.m. - 12:00 a.m. 7:00 a.m. -8:00 a.m.
15
Effective September I. 1998:
Shill Differential:
1st shift -nil;
2nd shift - $0.52 per hour;
3rd shift - $0.62 per hour.
11:03 (c) The hours of work and the “sixth day" for day workers and shift workers shall he posted by 3:00 p.m. Thursday of the previous week. However, the Company reserves the right to revise the schedules when necessary up to 12:00 noon Friday previous to work week. Th* starting and stopping times shall remain constant and fixed during the weekly period subject to the following:
An employee may not change shifts during the week except when hisshift schedule is changed by the Company. When an employee's shift schedule is changed by the Company he will be paid at one and one-half times his regular rate for the first shift worked after the change. When the employee reverts to his original shift, he shall be paid at his regular straight time rate provided that there isa break of at least eight (8) hours between shifts worked.
When an agreement for a change of shift by employees is requested, forms for this shift change will he made available by the Supervisor for signature by the employeesconcemcd and their Supervisors.
11:03 (d) If an employee, who has completed his scheduled work week, is required for work on his “sixth day” or Sunday, such overtime shall be posted by the preceding Friday noon. If he is available for the posted overtime work at regular starting time and is unable to commence work for reasons beyond his control he shall receive four (4) hours pay at time end one-half provided lie remain available for the four (4) hour period if so requested by the Company.
11:04 (a) A day or shift worker who is unable to work the full day or shift for reasons beyond his control, shall he paid for the full day or shift.
To qualify for the above the employee must stay on the job until told by the Shift Supervisor that he may leave and must accept other than his normal work if it is offered.
I i:04 (b) If, during his scheduled work week, a day or shift worker reports lor work at his scheduled starting time and is unable to commence 16
work for reasons beyond his control, and if no reasonable efforts have been made to notify him not to report, he shall receive four (4inours pay for reporting, provided he remains available for the fom (4) hour period if so requested by the Company.
Notification procedures shall be established locally
11:05 Time worked in excess of eight (8) hours per clay or shift, all hours worked on Sunday and all hours worked by an employee on his designated " sixth clay“ (Saturday or Monday) or outside his scheduled shift shall he paid for at the rate of time and one-half. Double time will he paid after eight (8) hours of work on a Sunday. Overtime work required will be distributed in accordance with the Letter of Understanding Re: Overtime Distribution.
for calculating overtime pay shift differentials shall not he considered as part of an employee's applicable hourly rate.
When an employee is called out for overtime work, after completing his shift or when called out on his day off. tic shall he guaranteed four (4)hours pay at time and otic-tiall ifhe works less than four(4)hours, and eight (8) hours at time and one-half ifhe is unable to work the full eight (8) hours.
The Company will record overtime worked by each employee for each week and post in a visible location.
11:06 A ten minute “quarter time** on Company time shall heallowed twice each shift.
ARTICLE XII - SENIORITY
12:01 The Company recognizes the principle of seniority. Seniority will govern, subject to reasonable consideration of skill, efficiency and ability, in promotions, transfers, layoffs, and recalls after layoffs.
As of September I. 1998, the seniority ranking of employees is as set in Schedule "C" attached.
12:02 Employment of any new employees shall be considered as
17
probationary until he has completed thirty (30) days of work in one period ofemployment. Upon completion of this probationary period he shall be classed as a qualified employee with seniority ranking dating back to his date of hire. A discharge, quit or absence without leave, shall break any accumulation of qualifying days.
12:03 In the case of layoff due to a shortage of work the Company will notify the men intended to be laid off at least two (21 work days in advance, unless the shortage of work is beyond the Company's control. The Union Grievance Committee will receive a list of the men affected, priorto the intended layoff,
12:04 When the approximate time of the recall is known at the time of layoff employees leaving will be informed of such approximate dates at that time. But in any case, notice in writing will he sent to an employee at his given address at least fourteen (14) days before he is required to report for work. Employees will be required to acknowledge receipt of such notice and report for work on the date .specified unless other arrangements have been made in writing.
12:05 An employee who has established seniority and who returns to work in time shall retain his seniority ranking during absences due to:
(a)	sicknessor injury, certified by a licensed physician, dentist, or licensed chiropractor.
(b)	layoff for lack of work not exceeding twenty- four (24) months.
(c)	lcaves-of-abseiiee granted at the employee's request not exceeding ten (10) months.
(d)	employmcnt with the Union not exceeding twelve (12) months.
Such leave may be renewed upon request.
(e)	employment with the Company outside the bargaining unit not exceeding eleven (II) months.
An employee who quits of his own accord or is discharged and not reinstated, or fails to report to work following recall as provided in Section 12:04 shall automatically loseall seniority. An employee who fails to return from lea vc-of-absence on the date specified, shall lose his seniority unless his return to work on time is prevented by circumstances beyond his control. All absences from work must hecovered by leaves-of-absence the issue of which is discretionary but which will not he withheld unreasonably.
18
12:06 When employees apply/bid from one job classification to another, senior employees with the necessary qualifications shall receive first consideration. In such cases an employee shall recen e the rate for the job to which he is transferred. When, due to shortage of work, in his bidded classification an employee is assigned to a lowei paid job classification, the employee shall receive the rate for his new job cl«issification as of the date of assignment. In the case of a temporary change to a lower job classification at the Company's request, the employee shall retain the rate of his previous joh Russification.
Tradespeople will not be permitted to apply/bid outside their classification until they have worked in the specific trade as a licensed tradesperson fora period of time equal to their apprenticeship. An employee hired on directly as a licensed tradesperson will not he permitted to apply/ bid outside his classification fora period of one year. In a lay off situation, laid off tradespeople will exercise mill seniority.
I2:07(a) The Company, when filling posted vacancies, will do so from within the bargaining unit in accordance with Article 12:01. Notice of impending vacancies will be posted on the bulletin boards for five (5) working days and will be mailed to employees off work on Wl, LTD or WSIIJ.
!2:07(b) Temporary appointments may be made without posting for filling vacancies of less than two (2)calendar weeks duration.
I2:07(c) Newly created jobs will be posted on the bulletin boards by the Company for five (5) working days prior to any appointments to such jobs, stating normal job requirements. A newly created position can, at the Company's discretion, he considered temporary for not more than tweh c (12) consecutive months. Should it be decided during this 12 month period to make the position permanent, then the job will be posted as pet Article 12:07 (a).
I2:07(d) F.mployees shall not be considered for posted jobs unless they apply in writing within a five (5) clay period. An employee absent from work for a period of more than thirty days (vacation time accepted), shall automatically he listed as an applicant on all postings that occurred within thethirty thy period immediately priorto his return to work. Immediately upon his return he will he so advised by the Company and must signify forthwith that he is allowing the application
19
to stand. Failure to so signify Mill render the application null and void. The Company shall post notices showing the names of successful applicants for posted vacancies and newly created jobs.
12.07(e) The job will he filled from among the qualified applicants on the basis of Section 12:01 of this Agreement. An employee who is contacted to accept a posted vacancy will be allowed up tu eight(8) hours of paid time to observe the incumbent perform the posted occupation.
An employee who subsequently accepts a posted job shall be allowed (5) work days i n which to qualify(or further time as may he m utually agreed to but will no! be unreasonably withheld). An employee may forfeit an accepted bid within the qualifying period nu more than once in any twelve month period. Failure of an employee to qualify or his election to forfeit shall entitle him to return to hisformer job without lossof seniority or benefits.
12:07 (f) A job that becomes vacant because the incumbent has had to vacate it due to sickness or injury, vacation, bereavement leave, jury duty and/or a leave of absence not exceeding thirty (30) work days, shall be classified as a temporary vacancy and shall he filled according to the provisions of Section 12:07 (a)andthejob posting will note that it i s of a temporary nature.
The employee who had occupied the job, upon his return to work shall once again occupy the job that lie had filled prior to vacating for any of the reasons set forth above, provided however, that thejob is still in effect and is not filled by a senior employee who, for reasons of notice of layoff from his former job has exercised his seniority on this particularjob.
12:08 Lists showing the seniority ranking of employees will be prepared and posted on Company bulletin hoards, available for the information ofall employeesand will be updated and revised every month. A copy of this listing will be forwarded to the Union.
12:09 The management and the operation of the plant, and the direction and the promotion of the working forces i s vested exclusively in the management of the Company subjectonly to the seniority Article herein and provided, however, that this will not be usedfor discrimination against employees.
I?t0 When jobs are discontinued due to the introduction ol new methods, automation and technological change or due til curtailment of operations (excluding normal fluctuations in production levels) affected employees shall be offered alternative employment on remaining jobs it) accordance with Article XII. to meet the Company’s labour requirement and if such employees require training to perform the alternative employment effectively, they shall be trained by the Company.
ARTICLE XIII - BULLETIN BOARDS
13:01 The Union shall have the right to post notices dealing with Union affairs upon the bulletin boards of the Company providing such notices have been approved by the Personnel Supervisor or Manager.
The Company will provide four Union notice boards in the following locations:
- one in each lunch room and one in the waiting room for Small Log Mill and Processor
ARTICLE XIV - HEALTH ANI) WELFARE
14:01 WEEKLY INDEMNITY - The Company will maintain and pay the premium cost of a Weekly Indemnity insurance plan and will administer the insurance plan as outlined in Schedule “E”. The plan will provide seventy percent (104)of the employee's regular straighttime rate upt~thc maximum noted below oi the E.l. maximum, whichever the greater. The Company will reimburse an employee up to a maximum of $20.00 for all medical documents(includingSupplemental Reports) and medical exams requested by the Company/orsuch claims upon presentation of a receipt from the attending physician.
Effective first of the month following dale of ratification for all employees actively at work, the maximum weekly indemnity benefit will be increased to$510/wcek or the E.l. maximum, whichever the greater.
14:02 LONG TERM DISABILITY - The Company shall pay the monthly premium cost of the Long Term Disability Benefit Plan.
21
The Long Term Disability Benefit Plan shall be administered in accordance with the terms of an insurance policy.
1.	legibility - The Long Term Disability Benefit Plan shall be compulsory for all employees who hav: accumulated two months seniority with the Company.
2.	Effective Dale of Coverage -Aneligible employee i s entitled to benefits provided he is actively at work on the first day the Long Term Disability Plan becomes effective. The plan becomes effective February
I.	1979.
An eligible employee absent froin work due to sickness or accident at the effective date of the Plan, shall only be eligible lor Long Term Disability Plan benefits upon the return to continuous active full-time employment for a period of more than four consecutive weeks.
An eligible employee absent from work due to layoff at the effective date of the Plan shall be entitled to the Long Term Disability Benefit plan benefits upon recall on reporting to work.
The Company shall have the right to give medical examinations to employees returning from such layoff to determine their eligibility undei the Plan.
3.	Qualifying Period - An insured employee shall he eligible to receive an amount of Long Term Disability Plan Benefit after fifty-two weeks of benefit entitlement for the same disability under the Weekly Indemnity Plan. Benefit payment shall not commence during a strike until the termination of the strike.
4.	Definition of Disability - “Disability” shall mean an insured employee who has received fifty-two (52) weeks of benefits for the same disability under the Weekly Indemnity Plan and is thereafter unable because of disease or injury to work at any available occupation in the Company for which he is reasonably fitted by education, training or experience.
5.	Amount of Benefit
Effective first of the month following ratification for those employees actively at work increase the maximum monthly benefit to 55% of monthly earnings as defined in (5)(b) up to a maximum monthly payment of $2100.
22
(h) ''Monthly Turnings” means, in the ease of a day or shift worker. 173 x his regular hourly rate.
(e) “Hourly Rale” means the regular rate ol the employee effective immediately prior to the date on which the disability occurred, excluding overtime.
(d)	The benefits payable under this Plan are reduced by any primary disability payments made under the Canada Pension Plan, or any Company group disability income plan. Benefits are not affected by War Pensions. Workplace Safety and Insurance Disability Pensions, or by any insurance policies be may have purchased himself.
6.	Duration of Benefit -
(a)	Benefits will be paid for one month, for each completed month of service prior to commencement of the Pong Term Disability Benefits, while the employee is disabled.
(b)	Service for purposes of the plan will he based on the seniority ranking of employees as is set in Schedule "C" attached.
(e)	Disability benefits will be paid one month in arrears.
7.	Termination of Benefits - Benefits shall cease upon the occurrence of any one of the following:
(a)	On the date the employee ceases to be disabled. (If there is a recurrence of the same disability within six (6) months of return to work, a new qualifying period will not he required, and the disabled employee will be eligible for any balance of Long Term Disability Benefit payments. This provision shall lake precedence over any recurrent disability provision under the Weekly Indemnity Plan), or
(b)	On exhaustion of the benefit period, or
(e) Up to normal retirement age. or
(d) On death.
23
8.	(Exclusion-
(a)	An employee receiving Long Term Disability Benefits will not he eligible for vacation or statutory holiday pay.
(b)	Benefits under the Long Term Disability Plan will not be payable for claims resulting from:
(i) Any injury arising out of or sustained while doing any act or thing pertaining to any occupation or employment for remuneration or profit, or
(it) Any injury or illness entitling (be employee to compensation under any Worker's Safety and Insurance or similar legislation, or
{iii) Self-destruction or any self-inflicted injury, while sane or insane, or
(iv) Disability for which the employee is not under the treatment of a physician, or
tv) Alcoholism or drug addition, unless the employee is undergoing a recognized course of treatment by u specialist in the care and treatment of alcoholism and drug addiction or the employee is undergoing regular rehabilitative treatment approved hy the insurer and a licensed physician.
(vi) Disability or loss CI) while the employee is on, or could be placed on Pregnancy/Maternity Leave, or (2) if employee fails to qualify for Pregnancy/Maternity Leave because of failure to meet the length of service requirements, during the period of Pregnancy/Maternity Leave that the employee could be on if she qualified for such leave, in accordance with the [Employment Standards Act 1974. Ontario or any other relevant provincial .statutes.
9.	Rehabilitation - An employee receiving an amount of Long Term Disability Benefit may be asked to undergo reasonable rehabilitation measures which have been the subject of prior consultation with the employee's doctor, at no cost to the employee. If such employee refuses to undertake such rehabilitation, he may he declared not eligible for an amount of disability benefits.
24
10.	Physical Examinations -The Company and/or insurer reser\ es the right to require periodical physical examinations throughout the duration of lhe employee’s absence due to disability Such examinations shall he conducted by a physician or physicians designated by the Company and/ or insurer.
Cost of physical examinations, transportation and reasonable out-of-pocket expenses related thereto will be paid by the insurer
Any dispute arising between the Company and/or die insurer's physician and the employee's physician will be resolved by a physician (preferably a specialist) chosen by the Company and the Union.
I I .Effective first of the month following date of ratification, the Company is prepared to extend Medical. Surgical. Drug and Hospital Care Plan Coverage to all employees on Long Term Disability for a period of their disability.
14:03 GROUP LIFE INSURANCE - The London Life Insurance Company, E.B. Eddy Forest Products Ltd.. Group Policy No. 11706 will remain m effect during the life of this Agreement
The above plan benefit will be $45,000.00 life insurance with tweniy-fout (24) hour Accidental Death and Dismemberment (A.D & I).) coverage for each acti\c employee.
The Company agrees to pay one hundred percent {100# ) of the premium cost of Life Insurance.
It is understood that the 5/12th rehate to employees under E.I.. will he retained by the Company.
Soouse and Children
Effective first of month following date of ratification, the Company will provide dependent Life Insurance on the following basis: 1 2 3
1)	Employee pays 100# of cost
2)	Spouse $5,000.00.
3)	Each unmarried child
25
a)	14days hut less than I year of age $400.(X)
b)	I year bill less than ll) years or 25 years when a student full time, wholly dependent on the employee for support $2,000.00
c)	The spouse’s Life Insurance will be reduced to$500.00 upon the employee's retirement and cancelled on his death,
Paid-Un Life Retirees
The Company will provide a paid-up Life Insurance policy at age 65 of $2,5(H).00. Company will pay premium cost of this benefit.
14:04 MEDICAL. SURGICAL, DRUG AND HOSPITAL CARE PLANS - The Company will pay the premium for the Liberty Health Drug Plan and Semi-Private Hospital Care Plan coverage for all active employees during the term of this Agreement.
The Company contribution to employees who are off work due io a Worker's Safety and Insurance claim or a Weekly Indemnity claim will be continued for a periodol up tu twenty-four (24) months.
The Company contribution to employees who are off work due to a Long Term Disability claim will be continued for the period of the disability.
14:05 DENTAL CARL PLAN
1.	eligibility - Participation in the Plan is limited to employees who have accumulated three months of seniority with the Company from date of employment.
2.	Plan Design -
a)	Service and benefits as provided in Blue Cross No. 7 Basic Plan and Rider No. I. (100%)
b)	Services and benefits as provided in Blue Cross Rider No. 2. (50%) Maximum $ i ,000.00 per calendar year per person.
c)	Services and benefits as provided in Blue Cross Rider No. 3. (50% co-insurance). The maximum lifetime benefit for orthodontic service covered expenses $1,000.00 per insured family member.
Effectivefirstofthe month following date of ratification amend plan to provide lor the 1997 O.D.A. Schedule of Dental Res.
26
KlTet-tin; September I, 1999 amend plan to provide lor the 1998
O.D.A. Schedule of Denial Pees.
It is understood and agreed that die Plan will provide lor the continuation of coverage for the period an employee is off work due lo layoff or leave of absence, but in no case beyond the end of the month following the month in which such absence commenced.
3.	Administration - The Plan will be administered in accordance with an appropriate contract or set of procedures reflecting the Plan design outlined in Item 2 above. The decision as to the choice of administrative vehicle from among service carriers, insurance companies or selfadministration will be made by the Company on the basis of appropriate study of these alternatives.
4.	Premiums - The premium cost of this Plan shall be paid by the Company.
5.	Integration - The Plan will not provide like benefits where such are currently being provided by federal or provincial legislation.
If during the life of this Agreement Federal or Provincial government shall introduce legislation to provide benefits already covered by this Plan, the Plan shall be amended so as to eliminate said benefits.
14:06 VISION CARP PLAN - Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, L. B. Hddy Forest Products Ltd.. Group Policy 60526 will remain in effect during the life of this Agreement.
Effective first of the month following the date of ratification increase the vision care maximum benefit to $150.00 every two(2) calendar years. The benefit will be equivalent to Blue Cross Vision Care Plan (Basic) for all employees and their dependents.
14:07 BENEFITS AT LAY OPTS - The following benefits shall be paid to the end of the month following lay off:
a)	Life Insurance
27
b)	Medical. Surgical. Drug and Hospital Care Plan.
c)	Dental Care Plan cl) Vision Care Plan
ARTICLE XV ■ PENSION PLAN
15:01 FLAT BENEFIT PLAN - The Company will establish and administer a non-contributory pension plan for all hourly-rated employees with one year of service or more effective September I. 1984. Normal retirement will he first day of the monlh following allainment of age 65. An employee with ten (10) years of continuous Company service can elect to retire after age 55. however, the monthly payments will be acluarially reduced. The cost of the plan will be paid by the Company.
Guaranteed Payments - If a retired employee's death occurs before he hiJS received .sixty (60) monthly payments of retirement income under the plan, his retirement income payments will continue to be paid to his beneficiary until the remainder of the sixty (60) monthly payments has
been paid from the trust fund.
Surviving Spouse Pension- I fa married employee with lOycars of continuous ser\ ice with the Company, who qualilics for early retirement after age 55 and before age 65. dies before his retirement date the employee’s surviving spouse will receive 60% of the earned pension allowance for the life of the surviving spouse, commencing on the first day of the month following date of death. If the surviving spouse is more than 10 years younger than the deceased employee, the monthly pension would be aetuarially reduced.
Disability Benefit - An employee with at least 10 years of continuous service who has attained age 55, has qualified for disability benefits uiulei the CPP/QPP and is totally and permanently disabled will be eligible for a monthly disability pension without actuarial reduction. (i)
(i)	EffectiveSentemher 1.1995 the Flat Pension Planisamcnded to provide for $32.00 per month per year of pensionable service lor both past and future seiv'’\
28
(ii)	Effective September I. 1995. any member in service who elects to retire early upon his/her attainment of age 60 or alter, provided he has accumulated at least ten (10) years of continuous service, will receive, commencing on his/her early retirement dale, a retirement income benefit equal to the retirement income benefit he/she had accumulated to such early retirement date without actuarial reduction subject to the minimum reductions required by Revenue Canada.
(iii)	Hlfcctivc September 1. 1995. any member who has attained age sixty (60) and has accumulated a minimum of ten (10) years of continuous service shall be eligible to the following bridging supplement.
Those employees retiring curly on or alter age 60 with at least ten (10) years of continuous service shall receive a bridging supplement of fifteen dollars ($15.00) per month per year of continuous service to a maximum of thirty (30) years. The bridging supplement will reduce to zero on the first day of the month follow ing the member’s sixty-fifth (65th) birthday or on his/her death, whichever occurs first.
Employees off work on Kong Term Disability benefits shall continue to accrue l;lat Benefit Pension credits at no cost. This provision is to be applied to those employees currently receiving Long Term Disability benefits.
15:02 MONEY PURCHASE PI.AN - Effective January 1. 1903, in addition to the current Flat Benefit Plan noted above, a mandatory Money Purchase Plan will be introduced and will be applicable to all employees after one (I) year of service.
This new Money Purchase Plan will be contributed to by both the Company and the employee. The level of monthly contributions will be $55.00 by both the Company and the employee. Effective September 1. 1998. at the option of the employee, the monthly contribution level by both the employee and employer will increase from $60.00 to $70.00.
Effective September 1. 1999. at the option of the employee, the monthly contribution level by both the employee and the employer will further increase to $90.00.
In addition to those options noted above, employees will be offered the opportunity to transfer monies generated from the Production Bonus
29
into the Money Purchase Plan at their option. The administrative costs associated with the Money Purchase Plan are to be paid lor by the Company. Any investment fees will he the responsibility of the employee.
Umployees off work on Long Term Disability shall be entitled to continue contributing into the Money Purchase Plan while off on disability. The Company agrees to make their contribution for as longas the employee continues to make his/her contributions.
Those employees on W.S.I.B. can continue Io contribute into the Money Purchase Plan for up to twenty-four (24) months. If the employees elect to continue contributing, the Company will continue to make their required contributions.
Employees who are off work due to a Weekly Indemnity claim can. for a period of up to twelve (12) months continue to contribute into the Money Purchase Plan, lithe employeeselectfoconfinuecomributing, the Company will continue to make their required contributions.
ARTICLE XVI - BEREAVEMENT PAY
16:01 When death o rcun to an employee's spouse or children, the employee will be granted have to attend the funeral and shall be paid for eight (8)hoursat his regular straight time rate for time lost up to a maximum of five (5) days in the eight (8) day period beginning with the day of death. When death occurs to an employee’s father, mother, father-in-law. mother-in-law, sun-ill-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, brother, sister, grandparents, the employee will be granted leave to attend the funeral and shall be paid for eight (8) hours at his regular straight time rate for time lost up to a maximum of three (3) days in the eight (8) day period beginning with the day of death. The intent of this clause is to allow the employee to attend the funeral without loss of earnings. Pay will hegranted for the regular scheduled work days lost during the period. Any claim for bereavement pay must he submitted by the employee in writingalong with proof of bereavement in the employee’s immediate family. If the employee docs not attend the funeral, he shall receive one(l) days compassionate leave with pay.
An employee must have thirty (30) or more days of service to qualify for payment. The five day funeral leave will be granted over an eight clay period for scheduled work days lost beginning with day death
30
(ii)	HITtfdivc Sepieinher.j, IW5. any member in service who
elects lo retire early upon his/her uUammem of age 60 or after. provided he Inis accumulated at leas! ten (101 years of continuous service, will receive, commencing on his/her early retirement date, a retirement income benefit equal to the retirement income benefit he/she bad accumulated to such early retirement date without actuarial reduction subject to the minimum reductions required by Revenue Canada.
(iii)	Kflective September I. 1995. any memher who has attained age sixty (60) and has accumulated a minimum of ten (10) years of continuous service shall he eligible to the following bridging supplement.
Those employees retiring early on or alter age 60 with tit least ten 110) years of continuous service shall receive a bridging supplement of fifteen dollars ($13.00) per month per year of continuous serv ice to a maximum of thirty (30) years. The bridging supplement will teduce to zero on the first day of the month following the member's sixty-fifth i65th) birthday or on his/her death, whichever occurs first.
Hmployees off work on Long Term Disability benefits shall continue to accrue Ida! Benefit Pension credits at no cost This provision is to he applied to those employees currently receiving Long Term Disability benefits.
13:02 MONLY PURCHASE PLAN - Hllecfive January L 1993, in addition to the current Plat Benefit Plan noted above, a mandatory Money Purchase Plan will be introduced and wall be applicable to all employees after one (1) year of service.
This new Money Purchase Plan will be contributed to by both the Company and the employee. The level of monthly contributions will be $55.00 by both the Company and the employee. Lffocthe September L 1998. at the option of the employee, the monthly contribution level by both the employee and employer will increase from $60.00 to $70,00.
1.1999. at the option of the employee, the monthly contribution level by both the employee and the employer will further increase to $90.00,
hi addition to those options noted above, employees will be offered the opportunity to transfer monies generated from the Production Bonus
29
into the Money Purchase Plan at their option. The administrative costs associated with the Money Purchase Plan are to be paid for by the Company. Any investment fees will be the responsibility of the employee.
Employees oft' work on Long Term Disability shall be entitled to continue contributing into the Money Purchase Plan while off on disability. The Company agrees to make their contribution for as long as the employee continues to make his/her contributions.
Those employeeson W.S.I.B. can continue to contribute into the
Money Purchase Plan for up to twenty-four (24) months. If the employees elect to continue contributing, the Company will continue to make their required contributions.
Employees who are off work due to a Weekly Indemnity claim can, fora period of up to twelve (12) months continue to contribute into the Money Purchase Plan. If the employees elect to continue contributing, the Company will continue to make their required contributions.
ARTICLE XVI - BEREAVEMENT PAY
16:0 I When death occurs to an employee’s spouse or children, the employee will be granted leave to attend the funeral and shall be paid for eight (8) hours at his regular straight time rate fortime lost up to a maximum of five (5) clays in the eight (8) day period beginning with the day of death. When death occurs to an employee’s father, mother, father-in-law. mother-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law. sister-in-law, brother, sister, grandparents, the employee will be granted leave to attend the funeral and shall be paid for eight (8) hours at his regular straight time rate lor time lost up to a maximum of three (3) days in the eight (8) clay period beginning with the day of death. The intent of this clause is to allow the employee to attend the funeral without loss of earnings. Paywill he granted for the regular scheduled work days lost during the period. Any claim for bereavementpay must be submitted by the employee in writingalong with proof of bereavement in the employee’s immediate family. If the employee docs not attend the funeral, he shall receive one CD days compassionate leave with pay.
An employee must have thirty (30) or more days of service to qualify for payment. The five day funeral leave will be granted over an eight day period for scheduled work days lost beginning with day death occurs.
30
An employee absent on scheduled vacation will be granted the usual number of days applicable to funeral leave in addition to his vacation at a time mutually convenient to the employee and the Company within sixty (60) days.
ARTICLE XVII - JURY DUTY
17:01 In the case of an employee who is called for jury service, subpoenaed witness or crown witness, the Company shall pay. for each day of such service, an allowance equal to the difference between eight (8) hours of pay hased on his regular straight time hourly rate and the payment he received for jury service. The employee will present proof of service and of pay received therefore when making his claim for such allowance.
The employee will be excused from his shift if he is required to work anytime in the calendar day he is required fur gu y duty.
ARTICLE XVIII - LEAVE OF ABSENCE
18:01 The Company agrees to pay regular straight lime wages to employees on temporary leave of absence forty (40) hours in one period lor Union business. The local Union shall he billed for straight time wages paid. The Company will make all normal deductions fur income tax. C’.P.P.. etc. A request in writing fora leave of absence for official Union business will be submitted to the Human Resources Supervisor at least ten days in advance and the request will be granted subject to availability of employees to cover the vacancy. Requests in writing received less than ten days in advance will he granted provided the granting of the request will not affect operations. The payment of overtime premium will not he considered as affecting mill operations subject to availability of employees to cover the vacancy.
ARTICLE XIX-SEVERANCE M Y
|9:0I A permanent employee with at least two years’ continuous service who is laid off due to job elimination by Management decision for such causes as moreefficienl operation, change or elimination of a process, lack of orders, shall he paid severance pay if no job is available. Severance pay shall not be paid due to job elimination for such causes us fire, Hood, explosion or "Act of God".
31
Severance pay shall he paid in accordance with the following:
(a)	Severancepay shall he 2r/c of an employee's total earnings for his last full period of service without interruption due to lack of work. Severance pay will not he paid to employees who resign or are discharged. One-half of this severance pay is payable after the employee has been laid off due to job elimination for a period of twelve (12) weeks. The second half of the severance pay is payable after the employee has been laid off a total of six (6) months. It shall he the responsibility of the employee to make application for such severance pay.
(b)	If recalled to work before the severance payment is payable, nosuch payment wi II he made. Any employee refusing a recall shall forfeit his right to severance pay.
(c)	If an employee is recalled after having received all of the severance pay due him. he will, as ofthe day of return, commence a new period of accumulation which will he credited toward any future layoff.
(d)	If an employee is recalled after having received half ofthe severancepay due him. he will, upon return to work, retain the right to the unpaid portion which will be added to any new accumulation of severance pay.
ARTICLE XX - APPRENTICESHIPPLAN
20:01 An Ontario Government approved apprenticeshipprogram will he established in the following trades:
Millwright
Heavy Duty Equipment Mechanic
Electrician
Sawfiler
Others may be added as required.
The length ofthe apprenticeship programs will he four work periods of 2000 hours plus all mandatory school periods.
The number of employees i n the apprenticeship program i n each trade will be governed by the future manpower requirements in the trade.
1. The program will be based on the Ontario Government's Apprenticeship and Tradesmen's Qualification Act.
32
2.	Applicants must have it minimum of grade 10 education or equivalent as required for it certified program. They will be required to
.submit to it series of aptitude tests to determine their suitability for the
apprenticeship program. When more than the required numherof applicants pass the aptitude tests the senior employee(s) shall be awarded the apprenticeship.
3.	The tests will he administered by the Director of Human Resources, Wood Products and the results will be kept in strict confidence. When an employee is informed that he has failed the aptitude tests he shall be given, upon request, the results of the testing indicating tests passed and failed.
4. Once a person lias been successfully tested foi a particular trade he does not have to be tested again. If he is not selected upon his first application he may apply again in the future, If he applies for a different trade which requires additional tests he will have to lake the additional test.
5.	The formal training program will be completed and the certificates of qualification, both Government and Company, will he issued.
6.	Straight time overtime hours will apply towards the required accumulated time. The Personnel Department will keep records of accumulated time for each apprentice.
7.	Some of the regulated trades programs will require modification to ensure that apprentices learn tasks required in the Nairn operation
8.	Apprentices must acquire a complete set of trade related tools before 4800 work hours have been accumulated. 9
9.	There will be it sixty (60) day probationary period for all employees entering the apprenticeship program. During this period, if the employee does not display the necessary aptitude for the particular trade he may be returned to his former job without loss of seniority. The apprentice must he successful at the in- school apprenticeship program in order to continue i n the program. Two successive failures at school will constitute a dissolution ofany contract between the Company and employee. Similarly the contract will he dissolved if the Advisory Committee recommends the withholding of two successive pay increases.
33
10. The Company agrees to provide apprentices the difference between forty (40) hours at his regular rate and any Government subsidies available while at the in-school program. All benefits will continue during the period the apprentice is at school. TheCompany will provid j seventy-five dollars ($75.00) per week for room and board in addition to the Government compensation. The Company will further supply all hooks or materials on loan to the apprentice in order to complete the required course.
The Company is prepared to reimburse an employee for mileage in accordance with our divisional travel policy that states mileage is calculated from an employee’s home or the mill, whichever is closer,
11 .The progress of each apprentice will be recorded and kept on file in the Personnel Department.
12.	Wages will he in accordance with Schedule “A” attached.
13.	The program will be supervised by the Trades Training Advisory Committee, which will consist of two members of Local 3 l-X, two members of Management, and a Chairman. The Chairman’s position will he filled by the Directorof Human Resources, Wood Products.
14.	It is understood that the rate for the second, third or fourth period will noi be paid until the apprentice completes the mandatory schooling at the end of each period. If the apprentices school results are successful, all hours worked between the end of a period, the time an apprentice goes to school, will he paid rates retroactive to the start of the period.
15.	In a lay off situation, those still on the property due to seniority will continue in or he recalled to the Apprenticeship Program based on progress (accumulated hours) to date.
34
SCHEDULE “A” SCHEDULE OF WAGE RATES FOR
TRADES TRAINING PROGRAM
Millwrights
Heavy Duty equipment Mechanics
Electricians
Sawfilers
Four periods of 2000 hours
Sept 1/98
1st Period	I-2000 hours	$18.70
2nd Period	2001-4000 hours	$19 2.7
3rd Period	4001-6000 hours	$20.00
4th Period 6001 - 8000 hours	$20.60
Completion of Program	$23.00
35
Sept 1/99
$19.17 $19.81 $20.30 $21.12 $23 38
ARTICLE XXI - AUTOMATION AND TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE
The Company proposed this introduction of an Article aimed at addressing automation and technological change:
(A)	The Company is concerned about the impact on employees and conditions of employment resulting from technologicalchange, automation and change or elimination of a process.
(B)	A Joint Committee on Automation and/or Technological Change will he established consisting of six persons, three ;eleeted by Management and three selected by the Union. The function of the Joint Committee shall he advisory to Management and it will study the effects on employees, their employment status and their working conditions in the mill, of changes resulting from automation and/or technological change. The Joint Committee, among other things will consider early retirement, retraining, transfers to other jobs, as well as the availability of assistance from the various levels of Government as a means of assisting employees displaced by changes resulting from automation and /or technological change.
(C)	Having concern for the impact of such changes which may result in job elimination, the Company undertakes to advise the Union as far in advance as is feasible (riot less than ninety (90) days) of such changes which the Company has decided to introduce, which will result in significant change in .the employment status of employees. The Company will indicate, when notification ol this technological change is made, which position(s) will be affected.
(D)	At such time, the Company will supply the Joint Committee, for its use, such information as may he required.
(E)	All persons who are employed with one (1) years continuous service who are set back to a lower paid job due to job elimination under conditions set forth above, his rate shall be maintained for a period of six (6) months from date of sd: back. For an additional period of six (6) months, an adjusted rate will he established midway between his previous rate at time of set back and the rate of hisnewjob for each work week, which depends upon the operating schedule. At the end of one (1) year, the rate of the job to which he is assigned will apply.
36
JDF.
Code
750
751
752 701 70 I 701 701
701
720
753
754
721
755
756
757
702 702 702 702
702
703 703 703 703
703
704
705
758
759
760
761 740
762
763
764
765
766
Occ
Schedule “H”
Occupation Codes, Rates and Dates
Code Description	Present
020	Lumber Recovery Operator $19.05
040	Bin Man	$18.42
060	Butt Saw Operator	$18.46
070	Carpenter - Apprentice I	$18.24
080	Carpenter - Apprentice 2	$18.86
090	Carpenter - Apprentice 3	$19.5 1
100	Carpenter - Apprentice 4	$20.10
110 Carpenter	$22.44
120 Cherry Picker Operator	$18.93
130 Chipper Canter Operator	$20.45
140 Chipper Operator	$18.46
150 Chip Truck Driver	$ 19.38
160 Clean Up Person	$18.24
170 Slab Recovery Operator	$19.14
180 Dry Kiln Operator	$19.29
210 Flectrician - Apprentice I	$18.24
220 Flectrician - Apprentice 2	$18.86
230	Hleetrician - Apprentice 3	$19.5	1
240	electrician - Apprentice 4	$20.10
250	electrician - Licensed	$22.44
260	Filer - Apprentice 1	$18.24
270	Filer - Apprentice 2	$18.86
2x0	Filer-Apprentice 3	$19.51
290	Filer-Apprentice 4	$20.10
300 Filer - Licensed	$22.44
310 Filer Assistant	$20.10
320 Fitter	$19.51
330 Kc-entry Operator	$19.58
340 Framer Infeed Man	$18.24
350	Framer Operator	$19.33
360	Framer Outfeed Man	$18.31
370 General Labourer	$18.24
3x0 Greenchain Man	$ 18.34
390 Hood Slasher Operator	$19.33
400 Descanner Operator	$19.24
410 Licensed Grader/Trinnnennun	$2I.II
420 Fill Opcralnr -Trainee (1-30 Days) $ 18.5 I
Sept 1/98 $19.53 $18.88 $18.92 $18 70 $19.33 $20.00 $20.60 $23.(X) $19.40 $20.96 $18.92 $19.86 $18.70 $19.62 $19.77 $18.70 $19.33 $20.00 $20.60 $23.00 $ 18.70 $19.33 $20.00 $20.60 $23.00 $20.60 $20.(X) $20.07 $18.70 $19.81 $18.77 $18.70 $18.80 $19.81 $19.72 $2 1.64 $18.97
37
Sept 1/99 $20.02 $19.35 $19.39 $19.17 $19.81 $20.50 $21.12 $23.58 $19.89 $2 1.48 $19.39 $20.36 $19.17 $20. I I $20.26 $19.17 $19.81 $20.50 $21.12 $23.58 $19.17 $19.82 $20.50 $21.12 $23.58 $21.12 $20.50 $20.57 $19.17 $20.3 I $19.24 $19.17 $19.27 $20.3 I $20.2 I $22.1 8 $19.44
JUIC
Code
767
768
769
770 700 700 700 700 707 706 706 706 706
706 798
771 796
722
723
772
773
774
775
724
776
777
778
779
780
781
782
783
784
707
708
725
785
786
Occ
Code	Description	I’rescnt
430	Lilt Operator - Trainee (31 -60 Days) $18.72
440	Lift Operator - Lumber Handling $18.93
450	Log Processor Operator	$20.69
460	Licensed "‘B” Grader	$20.47
470	Mark II Operator	$19.59
480	Mechanic - Apprentice 1	$18.24
490	Mechanic-Apprentice 2	$18.86
500	Mechanic - Apprentice 3	$19.51
510	Mechanic-Apprentice 4	$20.10
520	Mechanic - Licensed	$22.44
550	Millwright - Apprentice 1	$18.24
560 Millwright-Apprentice 2	$18.86
570	Millwright - Apprentice 3	$19.51
580	Millwright-Apprentice 4	$20.10
590	Millwright-Licensed	$22.44
600	Handpull Loader Operator	$19.04
610	Planer Mill Infeed Man	$20.69
620	Lumber Wrapper	$18.68
640	Poclain Operator	$19.33
650	Stationary Loader Operator	$18.93
660	Reman Operator	$19.04
680	Stacker Man	$18.64
690	Sticker Placer	$18.34
710	Trimmerman - LLM	$19.91
720	Truck Driver - S/L	$18.93
730	Debarker Operator	$18.94
740	Twin Resaw Operator	$20.23
750	Unlicensed Grader	$18.64
760	Utility Operator	$19.16
770	High Speed Stud Operator	$19.59
780	Wedge Mill Bundler	$18.35
790	Wedge Mill Operator	$18.67
810	Tilt Hoist Operator	$18.24
820	Strapper Operator	$18.79
830	Millwright- Unlicensed	$22.44
840	Sawfiler -Unlicensed	$22.44
850	Hcede Crane Operator	$21.59
860	Package Maker/Operntor	$19.03
870	Assistant Processor Operator	$19.33
38
Sept 1/98
$19.19 $19.40 $2 1.2 I $20.98 $20.08 $18.70 $19.33 $20.00 $20.60 $23.00 $18.70 $19.33 $20.00 $20.60 $23.00 $19.52 $2 1.2 I $19.15 $19.81 $19.40 $19.52 $19.11 $18.80 $20.4 I $19.40 $19.41 $20.74 $19.11 $19.64 $20.08 $18.81 $19.14 $18.70 $19.26 $23.00 $23.00 $22.13 $19.51 $19.81
Sept 1/99
$19.67 $19.89 $2 1.74 $2 1.50 $20.58 $19.16 $19.82 $20.50 $2 1.12 $23.58 $19.16 $19.82 $20.50 $21.12 $23.58 $20.01 $2 1.74 $19.63 $20.31 $19.89 $20.01 $19.59 $19.27 $20.92 $19.89 $19.90 $2 1.26 $19.59 $20.1 3 $20.58 $19.28 $19.62 $19.17 $19.74 $23.58 $23.58 $22.68 $20.00 $20.31
JOE
Code
787
710 7 I I
712 7 I 3 790
788 717
792
793 799
Occ
Code Description
800 I.ill Operator - Log Handling
910 Crewlcadcr - Millwright 920 Crcwleader - Electrical 970 Relief Production Supervisor 940 Batten Mill Operator 950 Utility Operator - Olivine 980 East Scanner Operator 990 Crcwleader - Piling Flow Person Primary Sorter Dry Kiln Lead*
Lumber Strapper/Wrapper
Present Sept 1/98 Sept 1/99
$18 07	$10.40	$10.80
$23.27	$23.85	$24.45
$23.27	$23.85	$24.45
$23.27	$23.85	$24.45
$18.24	$18.70	$19.17
$19.58	$20.07	$20.57
$18.98	$19.45	$19.94
$23.27	$23.85	$24.45
$20.25	$20.76	$21,28
$19.05	$19.5.7	$20.02
$20.09	$20.59	$21 10
$18.99	$19.46	$19.95
* M. Bouillon & A. Collin
39
NAIRN CENTRE SAWMILL OPERATIONS
NAIRN CENTRE, ONTARIO
SENORITY LIST
EMPLOYEE NUMBER	EMPLOYEE FULL NAME	SENIORITY DATE
5		01/06/63
13		07/01/64
15		11/02/67
17		31/05/67
20		02/02/68
22		21/08/68
23		20/09/68
24		04/11/68
26		06/01/70
27		14/09/70
30		18/12/70
31		18/03/71
34		18/01/72
39		15/01/73
42		19/01/73
43		22/01/73
44		07/02/73
46		01/03/73
49		10/04/73
50		10/04/73
57		16/04/73
77		03/05/73
86		18/06/73
91		22/06/73
93		29/06/73
97		10/07/73
114		31/07/73
EMPLOYEE
PHONE
40
NAIRN CENTRE SAWMILL OPERATIONS
NAIRN CENTRE, ONTARIO
SENIORITY LIST
EMPLOYEE NUMBER	EMPLOYEE FULL NAME	SENIORITY DATE
115		08/08/73
125		04/09/73
128		04/09/73
138		01/10/73
139		02/10/73
144		07/01/74
159		08/03/74
170		18/03/74
174		02/04/74
191		24/06/74
198		11/07/74
205		19/08/74
213		16/09/74
219		07/04/75
226		07/04/75
232		21/04/75
247		06/05/75
243		12/05/75
244		12/05/75
258		12/05/75
248		20/05/75
260		20/05/75
301		21/07/75
303		05/08/75
305		05/08/75
314		18/08/75
329		02/09/75
332		02/09/75
340		02/09/75
349		22/09/75
355		22/10/75
353		24/10/75
351		27/10/75
EMPLOYEE
PHONE
41
NAIRN CENTRE SAWMILL OPERATIONS
NAIRN CENTRE, ONTARIO
SENORITY LIST
EMPLOYEE NUMBER	EMPLOYEE FULL NAME	SENIORITY DATE
358		03/11/75
361		05/11/75
375		23/02/76
378		23/02/76
379		23/02/76
385		01/03/76
399		10/03/76
404		15/03/76
411		15/03/76
419		15/03/76
431		23/03/76
446		23/03/76
451		26/04/76
401		29/04/76
467		13/05/76
481		07/06/76
225		10/06/76
485		15/06/76
494		21/06/76
496		21/06/76
502		28/06/76
516		19/07/76
521		29/07/76
527		17/02/77
559		21/02/77
562		21/02/77
574		28/02/77
582		08/03/77
585		08/03/77
193		10/03/77
600		25/04/77
EMPLOYEE
PHONE
42
NAIRN CENTRIC SAWMILL OPERATIONS
NAIRN CENTRE, ONTARIO
SENORITY LIST
EMPLOYEE NUMBER	EMPLOYEE FULL NAME	SENIORITY DATE
601		09/05/77
608		27/06/77
611		03/08/77
613		08/08/77
615		15/08/77
619		18/08/77
621		24/08/77
623		29/08/77
625		06/09/77
628		06/09/77
629		12/09/77
640		13/09/77
650		11/10/77
651		11/10/77
664		02/11/77
66$		07/11/77
679		20/02/78
685		10/04/78
695		30/05/78
699		02/06/78
700		05/06/78
709		29/06/78
731		06/11/78
732		10/11/78
739		25/04/79
744		23/05/79
747		04/06/79
748		06/06/79
728		11/06/79
751		11/06/79
757		04/09/79
759		17/09/79
768		15/10/79
769		15/10/79
EMPLOYEE
PHONE
NAIRN CENTRE SAWMILL OPERATIONS
NAIRN CENTRE, ONTARIO
SKNORITY LIST
EMPLOYEE NUMBER	EMPLOYEE FULLNAME	SENIORITY DATE
770		15/10/79
779		04/01/80
780		07/01/80
781		28/0U80
786		13/02/80
789		20/02/80
790		21/02/80
791		25/02/80
793		04/03/80
597		09/06/80
724		16/06/80
802		04/08/80
803		05/08/80
811		10/09/80
812		10/09/80
814		15/09/80
816		20/10/80
818		18/11/80
820		02/02/81
821		05/02/81
822		05/02/81
823		05/02/81
826		18/02/81
828		11/05/81
829		19/05/81
838		06/07/81
839		15/07/81
842		30/03/83
844		30/03/83
845		30/03/83
848		16/05/83
851		25/05/83
853		06/02/84
854		06/02/84
EMPLOYEE
PHONE
NAIRN CENTRE SAWMILL OPERATIONS NAIRN CENTRE, ONTARIO
SENORITY LIST
EMPLOYEE NUMBER	EMPLOYEE FULL NAME	SENIORITY DATE
857		13/02/84
858		13/02/84
861		14/02/84
862		27/02/84
865		19/03/84
867		20/03/84
868		17/04/84
870		17/04/84
871		17/04/84
873		18/04/84
874		18/04/84
875		23/04/84
876		23/04/84
877		23/04/84
878		23/04/84
886		18/06/84
896		20/07/84
897		23/07/84
901		15/10/84
902		22/10/84
904		19/11/84
907		20/11/84
910		27/11/84
911		27/11/84
914		15/04/85
924		29/05/85
947		03/07/85
949		08/04/86
983		08/09/86
989		08/09/86
990		08/09/86
992		09/09/86
993		24/09/86
996		29/09/86
EMPLOYEE
PHONE
NAIRN CENTRE SAWMILL OPERATIONS
NAIRN CENTRE, ONTARIO
SENORITY LIST
EMPLOYEE EMPLOYEE	SENIORITY	EMPLOYEE
NUMBER	FULL NAME	DATE	PHONE
998	12/03/87
997	16/03/87
1034	03/09/87
1035	03/09/87
1030	04/09/87
1027	08/09/87
1031	08/09/87
1036	10/09/87
1039	10/09/87
1040	10/09/87
1041	14/09/87
1042	10/12/87
1029	15/03/88
1048	18/03/88
1049	21/03/88
1094	28/10/88
1097	14/11/88
1098	14/11/88
1099	14/11/88
1102	28/11/88
1103	2 8/11/88
1104	28/11/88
1140	06/09/89
1149	13/10/89
1150	13/10/89
1153	17/10/89
1159	19/03/90
1184	15/02/93
1185	15/02/93
1188	25/02/93
46
NAIRN CENTRE SAWMIIX OPERATIONS
NAIRN CENTRE, ONTARIO
SENORITY LIST
EMPLOYEE NUMBER	EMPLOYEE FULLNAME	SENIORITY DATE
1189		26/02/93
1190		26/02/93
1193		03/03/93
1194		16/03/93
1207		07/06/93
1233		04/10/93
1235		05/10/93
1236		05/10/93
1238		14/10/93
1240		31/01/94
1241		31/01/94
1242		31/01/94
1243		31/01/94
1244		31/04/94
1245		31/01/94
1246		31/01/94
1247		31/01/94
1248		31/01/94
1252		08/02/94
1253		18/02094
1254		03/03/94
1273		21/10/94
1274		23/02/95
1276		23/02/95
1278		23/02/95
1327		13/01/97
1328		03/03/97
1329		31/03/97
1359		09/06/97
1360		02/07/97
EMPLOYEE
PHONE
47
SCHEDULE“D”
LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING
1.	Weekend Maintenance Schedule
2.	Filling Job Postings re Article 12:07
3.	Layoff & Recall after Layoff
4.	Floating Holidays
5.	Coveralls
6.	Disputed Workers’ Compensation Board Claims
7.	Weekly Indemnity.
8.	Meals
9.	Electrical Maintenance.
10.	Posted Back-Up Positions.
11.	Climatic Controls.
12.	Hoursof W ok
13.	Overtime Distribution
14.	Overtime Welding
15.	Lumber Graders
16.	Management of the Labour Pool
17.	Management of Technological Change
48
E.B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD.
NAIRN CENTRE SAWMILL OPERATIONS
AND
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY ANI) PAPERWOKKERS’ UNION
AND ITS LOCAL 3I-X NAIRN CENTRE, ONTARIO
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING RE
WEEKEND MAINTENANCE SCHEDULE Permanent Vacancies:
1)	When permanent vacancies occur in the regular work force the maintenance employees working the weekend schedule will he allowed to bid on those vacancies (as per Article 12:07).
Pay Cheques:
2)	Employees working the weekend maintenance schedule will he allowed to pick-up their pay cheques earlier on Thursday, when available.
Vacation. Sickness or Accidents:
3)	Weekend maintenance employees will he used to supplement regular crews for vacations, sickness or accidents only when necessary.
Statutory Holiday Pay:
4)	Weekend maintenance employees required to work on a Statutory Holiday could be paid the following ways:
a)	Receive time and one-half only for time worked and hank eight hours or one day. It is to be understood that bank time taken must he taken at a time agreeable to both panics and that whole days must he used.
b)	Receive pay for day worked as per Article 7:03.
5)	Weekend maintenance schedule employee's vacations will be scheduled by weekends.
Work Schedule:
6)	It is to be understood that the hours of work would be as follows:
a)	Friday. 7 a.m. to 3:30 p.m.. mealtime excepted.
Saturday. 7 a.m. to 7:30 p.m., mealtime excepted first 8 hours. Sunday. 7 a.m. to 7:30p.m., mealtime excepted first 8 hours.
b)	Saturday, 7 a.m. to 7:30 p.m.. mealtime excepted first 8 hours.
49
Sunday. 7 a.m. to 7:30 p.m., mealtime excepted first 8 hours. Monday. 7 a.m. to 3:30 p.m.. mealtime excepted.
It is further understood that the last 4 hours of work on Saturday and Sunday will include a 20 minute paid lunch period.
7)	The Company and the Union accept the principal that the intent
of the maintenance seven day schedule is to eliminate outside contractors doing normal maintenance work. The Company will strive to uphold this principal during the life of this agreement.
J. Phillips-General Manager Nairn Centre Sawmill Operations
P Bond
President. Local 31- X Communications. Energy and Papermakers’ Union
J. Mclnncs
National Representative
and Safety Supervisor
Qcitkr
Dated
J. Rennie
Human Resources/Health
50
E. I!. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD.
NAIRN CENTRE SAWMILL OPERATIONS ANI)
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKKRS’UNION AND ITS LOCAL M-X NAIRN CENTRE, ONTARIO
LETTER OE UNDERSTANDING RE
FILLING JOB POSTINGS RE ARTICLE 12:07
it is agreed that for permanent vacancies, the successful, senior employee of the applicants to fill the vacancy, as per existing clause 12:01, will he given preference to any junior employee provided that:
(a)	He had occupied that job previously and is qualified to meet the job requirements, or.
(b)	Should training be required to meet the job requirement, he will be allowed the necessary time of training, or
(c)	He has qualified to do the job.
(1)	There will be no limitation on upward mobility.
(2)	Lateral or down bids with reference to job postings will be limited to one successful bid per six month period.
When an employee bids down, prior to acceptance of the bid, discussions with the Union may take place to reflect the effect on the operation.
If the effect of lateral or down bidding seriously affects the operation of the plant, the Company and the local Union agree to meet immediately and solve the problem.
The local Union committee will be advised of the successful applicant prior to placing the employee on the job.
A junior qualified employee may fill a vacancy temporarily while another employee is being trained.
51
J.	------
{JcJfWHPWafagci^^
Nairn CentreSawmill Operations
President, Local 31 - X Communications, Energy and Papcrmakers' Union
J. Rennie
Human Resources/Health and Safety Supervisor
J, Mclnnes
National Representative
Dated
52
E. 15. EI)I)Y FOREST PRODUCTS LTD.
NAIRN CENTRE SAWMILL OPERATIONS
AND
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS’UNION AND ITS LOCAL Jl-X NAIRN CENTRE, ONTARIO
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING RE
FILLING JOB POSTINGS RE ARTICLE 12:07
It is agreed that for permanent vacancies, the successful, senior employee of the applicants to fill the vacancy, as per existing clause 12:01, will be given preference to any junior employee provided that:
(a)	He had occupied that job previously and is qualified to meet the job requirements, or.
(b)	Should training be required to meet the job requirement, he will be allowed the necessary time of training, or
(c)	He has qualified to do the job.
(1)	There will be no limitation on upward mobility.
(2)	Lateral or down bids with reference to job postings will be limited to one successful bid per six month period.
When an employee bids down, prior to acceptance of the bid. discussions with the Union may take place to reflect the effect on the operation.
If the effect of lateral or down bidding seriously affects the operation of the plant, the Company and the local Union agree to meet immediately and solve the problem.
The local Union committee will be advised of the successful applicant prior to placing the employee on the job.
A junior qualified employee may fill a vacancy temporarily while .mother employee is being trained.
51
Nairn Centre Sawmill Operations
President, Local 31 - X
Communications, Energy and Papermakers’ Union
J. Rennie	J. Mclnnes
Human Resourccs/Health	National Representative
and Safety Supervisor
Dated
52
E. B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD.
NAIRN CENTRE SAWMILL OPERATIONS ANI)
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY ANI) PAPERWORKERS UNION
ANI) ITS LOCAL 31-X NAIRN CENTRE, ONTARIO
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING RE
LAYOFF & RECALL AFTER LAYOFF
(1)	People retain the right to their last successful bid upon job classification during a layoff situation. This becomes their "regular” classification.
(2)	While awaiting return to their “regular” job classification they may bid. and ifsuccessful fill anothervacancy. When a position in their "regular" classification comes open, due to recall and their seniority allows it, they will be offered the one time chance to return. If rejected, their new classification becomes their "regular"classification
(3)	Any job classification which requires an additional employee will not be posted as a vacancy unless there are no people remaining that have been displaced from their “regular” classification due to layoff. If there are no people as above, the job classification will then be posted as a permanent vacancy.
(4)	Should an employee leave a job lie had successfully bid upon, to return to his “regular" classification, that job will be posted as a vacancy unless people in that classification are also available due to layoff.

J. Phillips f General Manager Nairn Centre Sawmill Operations Papennakers' Union
t'.Rond
President. Local 3 I - X Communications. Energy and
J. Rennie
Human Resources/
Health and Safety Supervisor
J. Mclnnes
National Representative

Dated
53
E. U. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD.
NAIRN CENTRE SAWMILLOPERATIONS
AND
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS’ UNION
AND ITS LOCAL 31-X NAIRN CENTRE. ONTARIO
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING RE: FLOATING HOLIDAYS
In attempt to distribute floating holidays as fairly and as numerous at one time as possible, the following has been agreed to:
On any given day, floaters will be allocated by Company wide seniority but within operational areas. All requests must be on the Personnel Supervisor’s desk at least three fijdays previous to the requested floater.
Floaters will he allocated in the operational areas as follows:
Woodyard, Processor & Small Log Mill
Planer
Debarker & Large Log
Mill
Chip & Hog Fuel Drivers Electricians Millwrights & Set-Up Men
Mechanics
Filers
3 Shift Oneration Six in total-one per shift. two off after 4 pm-8 ani
Three in total one per shift
Two in total one per shift
One
One
Two plant wide
One
One
2 Shift Operation Four in total-one per shift. two off after 4 pm- 8 ani
Two in total one per shift
Two in total one per shift
One
One
Two plant wide
One
One
Seventeen
Fourteen
54
TOTAL
This has been agreed to in the best interest of all personnel involved, however, it in no way is intended to change the existing Labour Agreement.
The cooperation of all employees and supervisory personnel is requested to make this system work.
General Manager
Nairn Centre Sawmill Operations
F. Bond
President. Local 31- X Communications, Ifnergy and Papcrmakers’ Union
J. Rennie
Human Resources/
Health and Safety Supervisor
J. Mclnnes
National Representative
55
E.B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS ITD.
NAIRN CENTRE SAWMILL, OPERATIONS ANI)
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPKRWORKERS’
UNION
AND ITS LOCAL 31-X NAIRN CENTRE, ONTARIO
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING RE
COVERALLS
The Company will supply tradesmen, tha( is. carpenters, millwrights, mechanics, electricians, filers and utility operators with suitable coveralls as made available by it supply service of Company choice. Fifty percent (50%) of the cost of the laundering will he borne by the employee.
Each employee would have a set of five (5) coveralls for his personal use. He would be issued it clean pair of coveralls each week upon return of this soiled pair. The Company will pay the full cost of laundering one (!) pair of coveralls.
The individual employee will be responsible for loss or damage to the coveralls for normal wear and tear: however, coveralls damaged by unforeseen circumstances beyond his control will be replaced by llie Company after inspection.
Insulated coveralls will be supplied by the Company when required, the cost of launderine will be paid by the Company.
E. B. EDDY PORES 1 PRODUCTS LTD.
NAIRN CENTRE SAWMILL OPERATIONS
AND
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY ANI) PAPERWORKERS’ UNION
AND ITS LOCAL 31-X NAIRN CENTRE, ONTARIO
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING RE
DISPUTED W.S.LIJ. CLAIMS
It is understood that when delays in excess of fifteen (15) days occur in Workers' Compensation payments due til a dispute, the Company is prepared to advance an employee two weeks benefits to be repaid when payment is received, 11 i s understood that the two w ;eks payment will be equivalent to two weeks of Weekly Indemnity benefits. It is further understood that every two weeks after the first advance a further two week advance will he issued until such time as the dispute is settled and the compensation payments begin.
If a Workers’ Safety and Insurance Board claim is denied, repayment to the Company will be made when the employee receives payment through Weekly Indemnity.
The fifteen (15) day period will begin from the last day worked.

. Plffttip;
J. Phillips General Manager Nairn Centre Sawmill Operations
F. Bond
President, Local 3 I- X
Communications, Energy and Papermakers' Union
E . B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD.
NAIRN CENTRE SAWM ILL OPERATIONS
AND
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY ANI) PAPERWORKERS’ UNION
AND ITS LOCAL 31-X NAIRN CENTRE, ONTARIO
LETTER OFUNDERSTANDINC RE
WEEKLY INDEMNITY
It is understood and agreed that tiny employee placed under a quarantine due to either contact with or suffering from a communicable disease will be covered by Weekly Indemnity. It is also understood and agreed that any employee who is off work for treatment due to alcohol or drug addiction and is under the care of a licensed physician will be covered under Weekly Indemnity. The normal three day waiting period will apply.
j. Phillips C
General Manager
Nairn Centre Sawmill Operations
F. Bond
President, Local 3 I- X Communications, Energy and Papermakers' Union
J, Rennie
Human Resources/
Health and Safety Supervisor
J. Mclnnes
National Representative
E. B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD.
NAIRN CENTRE SAWMILLOPERATIONS
AND
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPLRWOKKKRS’ UNION
AND ITS LOCAL 31-X NAIRN CENTRE, ONTARIO
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING RE
MEALS
Arrangements have been made with a restaurant to deliver meals to the Sawmill. The mealswill he in a styrofoam container and transported ina thermal box.
The Company agrees that, unless notified the previous day, an employee who is required to work a minimum of two (2) hours beyond his regular hours will be provided with a meal at the Company’s expense. After the provision cf the first meal, under this Section a hot meal will be provided every four (4) hours thereafter at the Company's expense.
Employees who agree to work for at least twelve (12) hours in a day (excluding weekend scheduled maintenance crews) will he provided with a meal after eight (8)hours. I fan employeecontinues to work after twelve (12) hours, he will receivea meal every four (4) hoursafter the first one.
The Company will make arrangements to have a voucher available for a meal on the same day that it was earned for those employees so requesting.
The Company will provide refrigerators and microwave ovens in the following recognized lunch rooms; 1 2 3 4 5 6
1)	Large Log Mill
2)	Filing Room
3)	Planer
4)	Electrical Shop
5)	Small Log Mill
6)	Processor Area V\fest 7 JGarage
59
Note: Processor Area Hast lunch room will be in the Small Log area.
Naim Centre Sawmill Operations Papermakers’ Union
President, Local 31 - X Communications. Energy and
J. Rennie	J. Mclnnes
Human Resources/	National Representative
Health and Safety Supervisor
60
E. If. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD.
NAIRN CENTRE SAWMILL OPERATIONS
AND
COMMUNICATIONS. ENERGY AND PAPER WORKERS’ UNION
ANI) ITS LOCAL 31 - X NAIRN CENTRE, ONTARIO
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING RE
ELECTRICAL MAINTENANCE
It is the policy of the Comptiny to have no one hut electricians perform maintenance work on electrical equipment.
Only trained electrical personnel arc permitted to reset inside an electrical panel.


J, Phillips Genera] Manager Nairn Centre Sawmill Operations
F. Rond
President. Local 31- X Communications, Energy and
Papermakers’ Union
J. Mclnnes
Human Resources/	National Representative
Health and Safety Supervisoi
61
E. U. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD.
NAIRN CENTRE SAWMILL OPERATIONS
AND
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS’ UNION
AND ITS LOCAL 31-X NAIRN CENTRE, ONTARIO
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING RE
POSTEDHACK-UP POSITIONS
The Company agrees, for employees who have accepted agreed to posted back-uppositions. when a permanent vacancy occurs in that position, the senior back-up employee will be promoted to fill the vacancy.
J. Phillips
General Manager
Nairn Centre Sawmill Operations
J, Rennie
Human Resources/
Health and Safety Supervisor
E. Rond
President. Local 31 - X Communications, Energy and Papermakers' Union
J, Mclnnes
National Representative
62
I-:. H. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD.
NAIRN CENTRE SAWM ILLOPER ATIONS ANI)
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY ANI) PAPKRWORKERS’ UNION
AND ITS LOCAL31-X NAIRN CENTRE, ONTARIO
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING RE
CLIMATIC CONTROLS
The Company agrees to install “Climatic Controls” in the following vehicles: #814, 817, 821,832, 839 and 845 by June 1. 1989. Furthermore, the Company agrees that new mobile equipment purchased m the future, where feasible, will be equipped with “climatic controls”.

J. PlriiSlips General Manager Nairn Centre Sawmill Operations
F. Bond
President. Local 3 I-X Communications. Energy and Papcrmakers' Union
63
E. U. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTI).
NAIRN CENTRE SAWMILLOPERATIONS
AND
COMMUNICATIONS,ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS’ UNION
AND ITS LOCAL3I-X NAIRN CENTRE, ONTARIO
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING RE
HOURS OF WORK
Thefollowing is the Company's interpretation of 11:05, 3rd paragraph:
An employee called out for overtimework will be paid a minimum offour hoursat time and one-half or eight hoursat time and one-half for employees working more than four hours.
An employee previously requestedto work overtime before the start of his regular day or shift will be paid time and one-half for hours worked prior to the commencement of his regular dayorshift.
J. Rennie
Human Resources/
Health and Safety Supervisor
President. Local 3 I- X Communications. Energy and Papermakers' Union
J, Mcfnncs
National Representative
QciiW'
Dated
64
E.B. EDDY FORKS!' PRODUCTS LTD.
NAIRN CENTRE SAWMILL OPERATIONS
AND
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS’ UNION
ANI) ITS LOCAL 31-X NAIRN CENTRE, ONTARIO
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING RE
OVERTIME DISTRIBUTION
A. Distribution
i)	An overtime opportunity will first be offered to those employees scheduled on that piece of equipment on the opposite shift(s) with the lowest overtime.
ii)	If unable to obtain an employee, then the overtime opportunity will he offered to those employees within the classification hut ona different piece of equipment. The offer will be made to the employee(s) with the skill and ability to perform the work (not requiring any training or orientation) with the lowest amount of accumulated overtime. The exception to this general rule is the Loader and Millwright occupations.
iii)	If still unable to secure an employee to work the overtime needed, then the supervisor will canvass the general dcpui(mental workforce who possess the skill and ability to perform the work (not requiring training or orientation). The offer will be made to the senior employee(s) with the lowest accumulated overtime.
iv)	Where the Company has avoided overtime by assigning labourers to meet its need and an insufficient number of labourers are available thereby necessitating an overtime requirement, the overtime in such circumstances shall he offered to employees in th: classification with the least number o f overtime hours worked month to date.
\) Equalization ofovcrlime as described in i) above shall he effected daily; shall he based on time actually agreed to work (not on the basis of time earned or offered) and shall occur amongst employees in the classification in which the need for overtime arises.
B. Classifications
i) As used throughout this document a classification means the job encompassed by the specific occupation codeand rate established therefore
65
as scl out m Schedule “ET to the collective agreement and such additional classifications as may mutually agreed to by the Union and the Company.
ii)	l-or the purpose of this document, an employee's classification is the classification to which he has been scheduled to work for the week.
iii)	For the purpose of this document an employee who has been transferred at the Company's request to another clussifieation for the majority of his workday, shall heconsidcrcd to fall within the classification to which he was transferred and not the classification from which he was transferred for the purpose of overtime distribution as provided for above.
C. Weekend Overtime Lists
i)	A sign up sheet will he posted in the Security Office each Monday at noon. Employees wishing to he considered for any weekend overtime must sign this list. Employees may indicate whether they wish to he considered only for opportunities in their department and/or plant- wide. They may also indicate their desire to be scheduled for 8 or 12 hour shifts.
ii)	The list will he taken down each Thursday at 7:00 A.M
iii)	Those employees shown on this list will have their accumulated overtime hours added beside their name. The overtime hours to be used lor each employee will be those in the Company's payroll system as of noon on Thursday.
iv)	Based upon the relative accumulated overtime for each employee any weekend o vet time work available will he assigned to those employees listed. This overtime will be work falling outside of a classification scheduled for a given week to he performed on the weekend. Il is further understood that these overtime lists are for the sole purpose of determining availability of employees for weekend overtime and for providing the equalization of such overtime.
v)	Assignments will be based upon each employee's shill, efficiency and ability to perform the required assignments
vi) The finalized list will be posted by 2:00 P.M. Thursday at the Security Office. Departments will also he sent a copy of the assignment sheet for posting. I fthe Company's requirements for overtime change, an amended overtime schedule will be posted by noon on Friday. Ifan employee is affected by a schedule change after the list is posted on Thursday s/he will he notified. An employee scheduled to work on the
66
weekend will he charged {he corresponding hours al the lime for ihe purpose of additional overtime distribution,
vii)	Any employee shown on this posted list must obtain the supervisor’s permission before the shift starting time, if they are unable to attend work. When such is not possible, the employee may use the established practice of absence reporting through the Security department. Employees not reporting for work as scheduled will he charge the corresponding number of overtime hours except when the Company cancels the overtime that had been scheduled.
viii)	Any overtime worked by those employees on the list after midnight of each Wednesday that was not known at noon on Thursday will not be considered in the distribution of overtime for that weekend.
ix)	The overtime hours in the Company's payroll system will be deemed to be accurate for the purpose of this procedure, in addition any overtime assignments that have been accepted but not yet worked by an employee will he added to their accumulated overtime shown on the Payroll system.
Nairn Centre Sawmill Operations Communications. Energy and
!• Bond
President. Local 31- X
General Manager
Papermakers' Union
j Rennie
Human Resources/
Health and Safety Supervisor
J. Melnnes
National Representative
GcitLr <l\im
Dated
67
E.B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD.
NAIRN CENTRE SAWMILL OPERATIONS
AND
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS’ UNION
AND ITS LOCAL 3I-X NAIRN CENTRE, ONTARIO
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING RE: OVERTIME WELDING
It is agreed and understood that when there is non-,structural, ic. straight flat welding required such that contractors would otherwise he utilized (as per article 3:01 (b) and 3:02 (b) then our employees would he eligible for that work under the following conditions:
To he eligible
1. the position(s) will be posted as re: article 12:07
2. the employee must not be on their regular shift
3. the overtime would have to have been offered first to people within the following groups, provided that they are also not on their regular shift:
1.	tradespeople
2.	apprentice tradespeople
Based on anticipated requirements, this group will be limited to a maximum of five (5) people ~ distribution of overtime welding within this group will be based on equalization.
While the employee is performing welding, hc/shc will be paid at the 3rd year apprentice rate.
The employee will receive the reasonable on site training necessary to perform these duties.
68
When an apprentice tradcsncrson is performing welding, they will receive the higher welding rate for unscheduled overtime.
Nairn Centre Sawmill Operations Communications, Hnergy and Papcrmakers' Union
Human Resources	National Representative
/Health and Safely Supervisor
Dated
69
E.B. EDDY FOREST PRODUC TS LTD.
NAIRN CENTRESAWMILL OPERATIONS
AND
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGYANI) PAPERWORKERS' UNION
AND ITS LOCAL 31-X NAIRN CENTRE, ONTARIO
LETTER OFUNDERSTANDING RE: LUMBER GRADERS
For E.B. Eddy to retain permission by C.L.A. to use their license, grading practices must be in compliance to their rules and guidelines - loss of the license would eliminate opportunities to market our lumber.
The grader classification cannot be compromised for any reason and in orderto ensure consistent quality and customer satisfaction this letter of understanding states:
Terms agreed upon in this letter pertain to graders only and are not applicable in any way to any other operation.
For the purpose ofthis letter. C.L.A. license relates to Class A & B without distinction.
1.	Only licensed graders will hold a permanent bid; other openings will he filled from the recognized “Back-Up” bid by seniority. Licensed graders will have priority in Grading: as of the date of this letter of understanding. The licensed grader rate will only he paid after a C.L.A. license is obtained and training complete.
2.	a) In a lay off situation when more senior (non graders) employees would be laid off. senior non-hid licensed graders will be considered to fill grader requirements (by way of a temporary bid) providingsuch indi\ iduals can fulfill the training requirements in the agreed-to designated time; training to be conducted as stated below. (3)
b) When a lay off is deemed to he longer than 10 weeks (equal to the training period), the more senior non graders who would otherwise be laid
70
off will hegivcn an opportunity to train and work as a grader lor the duration of that lay off (similar to temporary hid in 2 a), above).
3.	Training for new grader bids will be:
week one - study C.L.A. grading rules regulations with minimal online training
week two - .same as week one with increased time on the table
week three - on table most of time as extra grader to view procedures and practice rules
week four - week long C.L.A. training with the C.L.A. test
C.L.A. Tesi: If unsuccessful, repeal week one through four prior to C.L.A. testing and it' unsuccessful again then the person is returned to previous job and may apply forlhe grader bid only upon the next posting
4.	"B" licensed graders will be required to write each C.L.A. test until the "A" license isobtained. A permanent hidgrader within the dassification will remain on the table until after 2 consecutive failures of the C.L.A. tests- training will be supplied to ensure individuals are properly prepared.
5. A QUALITY/GRADING COMMITTLL will he established to manage the training program and any quality concerns ongoing; the class "A'license recognition will be a high priority project.
E. B. EDDY PORES?’ PRODUCTS' LTD.
NAIRN CENTRE SAWMILL OPERATIONS
AND
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPER WORKERS’ UNION
ANI) ITS LOCAL 31-X
NAIRN CENTRE, ONTARIO
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING RE
MANAGEMENT OFTHE LABOUR POOL
Once the manning schedule has been completed Wednesday and all planned vacancies of a week’s duration for (he following week have been filled, five additional employees will be assigned into the schedule based on the following terms and conditions:
i)	two employees will ho assigned on days, two employees will be assigned on afternoons and one additional employee will be assigned on graveyard,
ii)	these employees will be available for work assignments
plantwide.
iii)	if fewer than five (5) employees are left in the labour pool after the planned vacancies have heen filled, there is no requirement to hire cn additional employees.
iv)	this understanding does not apply to students.
Once the following steps have been completed and there are still employees in the labour pool who have not been scheduled, they will he given their notice of layoff as per1 Article 12:03.
J. Phillips
General Manager
[sjau:n Centre Sawmill Operations
F. Bond
President, Local 31-X Communications, Energy and
Papermakers' Union
J. Rennie Human Resources Health and Safety Supervisor
QjtUr <^.ma
Dated
J. Mclnnes
National Representative
72
K.B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD.
NAIRN CENTRIC SAWMILL OPERATIONS
AND
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY ANI) PAPER WORKERS'
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING RE: MANAGEMENT OF TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE
The Company and the Union recognize that technological change, while necessary to the industry, may have an impact on manpower and employment levels. In order to address these concerns, the parties agree to the following guidelines in addressing technological changes.
Technological change means the introduction hy the employer in its operations of equipment different in nature, type or quantity from that previously utilized by the employee, a change in the operation related to the introduction of that equipment or a modification of existing equipment currently in use in the workplace which affects one or more employees.
Any disagreement as to whether or not a manpower reduction is attributable to technological change shall be subject to the griev ance procedure. It is understood that any grievances of this nature will be dealt with in the same fashion as a discharge case.
Nairn Centre Sawmill Operations Communications. Energy and
UNION
AND
NAIRN	UO
F. Bond
President. Local 31- X
General Manager

Papennakei>' Union
J. Rcnihe-----
Human Resources Health and Safely Supervisor
Rcninc r
J. Mclnnes
National Representative
Qcitkr
Dated
73
Signed this__30_____day of____ October-----1998, in Espanola, Ontario.
FOR THE COMPANY
FOR THE UNION
F.B. Eddy Forest Products Ltd. Communications. Energy and Naim Centre Sawmill Operations Paperworkcrs Union and Its Local 31-X
J. Phillips (	1	J. Mclnnes
General Manager	National Representative
Naim Centre Sawmill Operations
J. Rennie
Human Resources Health and Safety Supervisoi
F. Bond
’resident - Local 3 l-X
). Kajnsay . Direcferif+tafnan Resources Forestry and Wood Products
B. Lloyd
Ministry of Labour
74
SCHEDULE "E” GENERAL INFORMATION
11A N EFFECTIVE DATE
The benefits described in this booklet arc in e fleet as of September I, 1998. ELIGIBILITY
All full-time hourly employees who are members of the Communications, Energy and Paperworkers Union and its Local 31-X are eligible to participate in this plan
If you have dependents you may insurethem as well. Your spouse is eligible and your unmarried children {including adopted, foster and stepchildren). Dependent children are insured up to age 21.
Any mentally retarded or physically handicapped children may remain insured past the maximum age provided the child is incapable of self-sustammg employment and is wholly dependent on you for support and maintenance.
I FFECiTVE DATE OF COVERAGE
You become eligible for Life Insurance after having completed 30 work days of continuous active full-time employment and Long Term Disability immediately upon becoming insured for Weekly Indemnity benefits.
Your Weekly Indemnity coverage, and that of your dependents, is effective after having completed 30 work days of continuous active full-time employment. Your Dental coverage, as well as your dependents’, is effective on the date you complete a waiting period of 90 work days or service for full-time employment.
Your Medical. Surgical. Drug and Hospital Care plans, and that of your dependents, is effective on the first day of the fourth month following the date you were employed for full time and full pay.
If you are actively insured for personal coverage and later acquire a
75
dependent, you may enroll your dependent in the Health plan by notifying the Personnel Office.
If you are not actively at work on the date your Weekly Indemnity. Medical, Dental or Vision coverage would normally become effective, coverage will commence on your return io work for full time and full pay.
If one of your dependents is hospitalized on the date Medical coverage would normally become effective, coverage will commence on the day following discharge from the hospital.
HOW TOOBTAIN THE INSURANCE
Toobtain the insurance described in this hooklet. you should complete and sign all necessary application cards. No medical examination is required for you if you apply for the insurance within the times stated.
IF YOU LEAVE OUR EMPLOY
Your group insurance will terminate ifyou leaveouremploy. You have the right to change your Life Insurance to an individual policy as available by the carrier.
LIFE INSURANCE
DEATHBENEFIT
I n the event of your death from any cause, your Life Insurance under the Plan will he paid to the beneficiary you have named. Ifyou have named more than one beneficiary and one of those beneficiaries should die before you. his or her share of the insurance will he paid to the surviving beneficiaries or if there is none, it will he paid to your estate.
The amount of your Life Insurance is $45,000.00. In no event shell your insurance continue beyond your date of retirement.
76
ACCIDENTAL DEATH AND DISMEMBERMENT BENEFIT
If. as [lie result of an accident, you suffei any ot the losses listed below within 90 days of the accident, payment will he made as indicated. The principal amount of your Accident Death and Dismemberment Insurance i s an amount of your Group Life Insurance.
LOSS OF:
-	Life.
-	Total and irrecoverable loss of sight of both eyes.
-	Both hands by severance al or above wrist joints.
-	Both feet by severance at or above ankle joints.
-	One hand or one foot by severance al or above wrist or ankle joints respectively, together with the total and irrecoverable loss of sight cf one eye.
-	Loss of one hand and one foot by severance at or above wrist and ankle joints respectively.
One-half of the Principal Amount shall he payable for:
-	Loss of one hand by severance at or above wrist joint
-	Loss of one foot by severance al or above ankle joint.
-	Total and irrecoverable loss of sight of one eye.
1.	If more than one of the losses specified in the Schedule of Losses and Indemnities shown above shall he sustained by the employee as a result of any one accident, payment shall not exceed the Principal Amount of Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance on the employee at the date of such accident,
2.	If an employee has suffered prior to the dale of becoming insured hereunder, or does thereafter suffer, the loss of one hand by severance at or above the wrist joint or one foot by severance at or above the ankle joint, or the total and irrecoverable loss of the sight of one eye, the Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance on the Schedule of Insurance provided that the amount of Insurance payable for the loss of one hand, one foot, or the sight of one eye shall be one-half the principal amount of the Insurance.
3.	The Insurance shall not cover accident, injury, death or other loss which
77
shall result either directly or indirectly, from any one of the following:
(a)	self-destruction or self-inflicted injuries while sane or insane:
(b)	committing or attempting to commit an assault or criminal offence:
(c)	riot, civil commotion, insurrection, war or hostilities of any kind, or any act incident thereto:
(d)	bodily or mental infirmity or illness or disease of any kind;
(c) the inhalation of gas of any kind, voluntarily or otherwise, resulting in poisoning, asphyxiation or any other condition causing death;
(0 poisoning or infection, otherthan infections occurring simultaneously with and in consequence of an accidental cut or wound;
(g) injuries of which there is no visible contusion or wound on the exterior of the hotly, unless drowning or internal injuries are mealed by autopsy;
(h) participating in aeronautics other than as permitted under the carriers policy.
CONVERSION PRIVILEGE
When your insurance terminates hecause of termination of your employment, you will have the privilege of converting your Ufe Insurance, within the next 31 days without medical examination, to a new policy on any of the carriers regular plans for an amount not exceeding the amount of your Group Life Insurance.
If you die during the 31 day period in which you might have exercised this conversion privilege, your beneficiary will he paid the amount of Life Insurance which you would have been entitled to convert.
LONG TERM DISABILITY INSURANCE
DISABILITY
During the first year of income payments your disability must prevent you from performing any and every duty relating to your regular job or engaging in any occupation or performing any work in the sawmill. After that time
78
you will be considered totally disabled if you are unable to engage in any occupation or perform in any work in the sawmill lor which the carnei considers you to he reasonably qualified by education, training or experience. However, if you are working or engage in any occupation for wage or profit other than rehabilitative employment approved by the carrier, you will not he considered to be totally disabled.
BASIC MONTHLY EARNINGS
Your regular monthly earnings on which your benefit will he based will exclude overtime pay, bonuses and other special compensation as at the date you become disabled.
BENEFIT
If you become totally disabled before you are 65 and your disability lasts longer than 52 weeks of benefits under the employer’s Weekly Indemnity Plan, you will be paid a monthly income which is payable at the end of each month of disability as long as you are disabled but not beyond age 65 and in no event for more than the number of completed months equal to the employee’s service. You must be under treatment by a licensed physician to receive benefits.
The amount of income for which you are eligible will be reduced as follows:
I.	By any payment for loss of time to which you are entitled from the Workplace Safety and Insurance Board and Canada or Quebec Pension Plan, excluding any payment in respect of your children.
2.	Further reductions will he made lo that the amount you would receive from the carrier and from any other sources (any other group, association and governmental insurance, sick leave or retirement plan of your employer) does not exceed 85# of your basic monthly earnings.
Generally, your monthly benefit isconsidered taxable income. I fit is not taxable, the 85# limit would apply to your basic earnings after deductions have been made for income lax and pension plan.
Estimates of disability income from any of these sources will be used until the actual benefits have been established.
79
IP'A DISABILITY RECURS
If you become totally disabled again within six months clue to the same or related cause and not receiving any income disability benefits, payments will commence again without the necessity of completing the 52 weeks. Disabilities occurring after the six month period will he treated as if no prior disability had occurred and the 52 week period must be completed again.
GENERAL
The group insurance policy must be in force when your disability commences but payments will continue even if the policy is terminated as long as you remain disabled.
LIMITATIONS
Coverage is made as broad as possible. However, exclusions include self-inflicted injury; disabilities resulting from riot, civil commotion, insurrection, war or hostilities of any kind, or active duty in any armed service during a time of war.
WEEKLY INDEMNITY BENEFIT
If you are totally disabled, unable to work, and under the continuing care of a physician, you will receive a weekly income not exceeding 70% of your weekly earnings. Your benefits will commence on the earlierof:
1.	The fourth day of disability caused by sickness
2.	The first day of a disability due to an accident.
3.	The first day of hospitalization.
During any one period of disability your benefits will continue until you recover or for a maximum of 52 weeks, whichever is earlier.
The Company and/or the insurer reserve the right to require an independent medical examination to confirm the employee's absence due to disability. Such an examination shall he conducted by a physician or physicians agreeable to the employee and the Company.
Any disputearisingbetween the Company and/or the insurer's physician
80
ind the employee’s physician will be resolved by a physician (preferably l specialist) chosen by the Company and the Union.
Jost ofsuch physical examinations, medicaldocumcnts, transportation ind reasonable out-of-pocket expenses related thereto a ill be paid by he Company and/or insurer. An employee will continue to receive <V.I. benefits or the equivalent from the Company while hc/she is waiting such cxamination(s).
•XCEPTIONS AND LIMITATIONS
Usability benefits ate not payable for the following:
A disability caused by self-inflicted injuries or illness.
. A disability resulting from insurrection, war, service in the armed forces f any country, or participation in a riot.
A disability due to any cause at any time when you are on pregnancy ‘ave of absence or could be placed on such leave by your employer in ccordance with the relevant Provincial Statues or that agreed upon by ou and your employer.
. Lor any disability for which you arc entitled to benefits under any Vorkplace Safety and Insurance Act.
At any time when you are on vacation and receiving full pay.
IEALTH CARE BENEFITS
>RUG COVERAGE
our drug plan coverage, and that of your dependents, is effective on the rst day of (he second month following the date you were employed for ill time and full pay. Drugs, serum, and injecliblcs purchased on a rcscription of a medical doctor, except for vitamins and vitamin reparations (unless injected) and patent or proprietary medicines arc ligible for coverage hy this drug plan and available by presenting your jrsonal identification card supplied by the carrier and a deductible ■e per prescription.
OSPITAL COVERAGE
our Provincial Health Plan provides ward coverage for in- hospital •commodation. This additional coverage allows you. and your dependents,
81
semi- private in-hospital accommodation. This semi-private hospital coverage is effective on the first day of the fourth month following the date you were employed for full-time and full pay.
DENTAL BENEFIT
On behalf of each covered individual in your family, the Dental Benefit will reimburse you for dental expensesbased on the percentages indicated by the carrier. The maximum amount payable per individual for services is $1,000.00.
TREATMENT PLAN
In order for you and your dentist to learn in advance how much the carrier will pay and how much must be paid by you, it is recoinmended that a Treatment Plan be filed with the carrier whenever the total cost of the proposed dental work is expected to exceed $200.00. The Treatment Plan identifies coverage and limitations for specific services and clarifies insurance percentages, specific limits and Dental Fee Guide allowance before dental treatment commences. The Treatment Plan is not intended to limit you in your choice of dentist, to tell you or your dentist what treatment should he performed or to tell the dentist what fee to charge.
A Treatment Plan isa plan cf dental treatment(includingx-rays if required) showing the patient’s dental needs, a written description of the proposed treatment necessary in the professional judgement of the dentist, and the costofthe proposed treatment.
ELIGIBLE EXPENSES
Eligible expenses are those which are recommended as necessary by a physician or dentist that are not in excess of the fee specified for general practitioners in the 1987 Dental orDenturist Fee Guide of the Province cf Ontario. Fees for specialists will he considered if the patient was referred by a physician or another dentist. Thereare several dental procedures which are covered by Provincial Health Plans up to certain maximums. If the dentist or dental surgeonchooses to charge more than that payable by the Provincial Plan, legislation in some provinces does not permit the excess charges to be eligible under this Plan.
Situationsmayari.se where alternate methods of treatment may heavailable.
82
is solely for you and your dentist to decide which method will he mployed. Thecarrier reserves the right to use the least expensive method f treatment that would provide a professionally adequate result as the asis for determining their liability.
>nly those treatments listed are eligible.
'he following treatments are payable at 1009f-:
LAMINATIONS:
litial examination of a new patient
once every 3 years)...........................01110, 01120, 01130
^-examination of a previous patient
once every 6 months)......................................01200
pecific examination.......................................01400
imergency examination and/or consolation............01300, 94400
^	....................................94100, 94200
CONSULTATIONS:
reutment planning- per unit of time.......................05100
^ilh patient..............................................05200
mother dentist............................................93100
PECIEIC DIAGNOSTIC PROCEDURES: iacteriologic cultures for determination
f pathologic agents.......................................04100
)ental caries susceptibility test.........................04200
liopsy. sort-hard tissue............................04300. 04310
ytological examination.................................... 04330
ulp vitality testa........................................ 04400
ADIOGRAPHIC EXAMINATION AND INTERPRETATION (X-RAY):
itraoral periapical films, complete series................02100
itraoial periapical films,
inc to ten films.............................. 021 II, 02120 incl.
ieclusul films................................02131,02134 incl.
ostenor bite wing films....................... 02141,02144 incl.
Cxtraoral films...............................02201,02204 incl.
inus examination.......................................... 02304
ialography................................................ 02400
Ise of radiopaque dyes to demonstrate lesions.............02430
emporomandibular joint films........................02504. 02505
83
Panoramic film......................
Cephalometric films.................
Interpretation of radiographs from
another source - per unit of time...
Tomography..........................
Hand and wrist
fas diagnostic aid for dental treatment)
........... 02600
02701, 02705 inch
02800
02920
02930
PREVENTIVE SERVICES: Scaling and polishing., . . . . Topical fluoride treatment.. Oral hygiene instruction . . . Occlusal equilibration........
III00. 11200, 11300
.............12400
......13200, 13210
.............43310
TREATMENT OF DENTAL CARIES (FILLINGS)
Sedative (palliative) dressing.................
AMALGAM RESTORATIONS:
Primary teeth..................................
Permanent anterior and bicuspid teeth..........
Permanent molar teeth..........................
Pin reinforcement..............................
Silicate restorations..........................
Acrylic or composite restorations..............
.......... 39930
. .21101,21105 incl. 21211,212 IS incl. 2 1221, 21225 incl. 21301,21305 incl.
.....22101 22102
,23101.23223 incl.
SURGICAL SERVICES - REMOVALOFTEETH:
(REMOVAL OF ERUPTED TOOTH - UNCOMPLICATED)
Single tooth......................................71101
Each additional tooth in same surgical site.......7 1111
SURGICAL REMOVALS:
Removal of erupted tooth (complicated)............72100
Removal of impacted tooth....................72210. 72220
............................................. 72230, 72240
REMOVALOF RESIDUAL ROOTS:
Soft tissue coverage.................................72310
Bone tissue coverage................................. 72320
Anaesthesia,.............................. 92110,92120,92201
.................................92202.92215,92251
..................................92252.92310,92311
...................................... 92330,	92340
84
PERIODONTAL SERVICES DIAGNOSIS AND TREATMENT OF GUM TISSUE) MON-SURGICAL SERVICES - PER UNITOE TIME
Application ofdisplaccmem dressing.............
Management of acute infections and
other oral lesions.............................
Desensitizalion of tooth surface...............
.4 1100
41200
41300
SURGICAL SERVICES:
Gingival curettage............................
Gingivoplasty.................................
Gingivectorny..........._.....................
Osseous surgery...............................
Osseous grafts - single, multiple site........
Soft tissue grafts............................
Vestibuloplasty...............................
Post surgical treatment - periodontal,
per unit of time..............................
ADJUNCTIVE PERIODONTAL SERVICES: Provisional splinting - ultra coronal, extra coronal
pei uml of time................................
Periodontal scaling and root planning
per unit of time..............................
Special periodontal appliances (including occlusal guards)..............................
.42001
.42002
42003
..... 42100
.42103,42104 .42200, 42300 .......42310
42500
.43200.43210
..... 43400
.... 43600
ENDODONTIC SERVICES:
Pulp capping..........
Vital pulpotomy.......
Root canal therapy....
Apexification
Periapical Ser\ ices.
...............3 1100. 3 1110
, .32201.32202, 32210, 32211 .33100. 33120. 33200. 33220 .33300.33320. 33400, 33420 . .33501.33502. 33503, 33504 .335 11. 33512. 33513. 335 14 . 34101.34102. 34103. 34104 .341 11.341 1734114.34115 . 3420 1.34202. 34203. 34212
Root amputation - amputation
ai one rool - two rools...	.34401.34402
a5
OTHER ENDODONTIC PROCEDURES:
(PREPARATION OFTOOTH FOR TREATMENT)
Gingival curettage......................................39100
Alveolectomy............................................39110
Banding of tooth to maintain sterile
operating field.........................................39120
Hemisection......................... 39210, 39220, 39230, 39300
Chemical bleaching only
per unit of time............................................. 39400
Intentional removal, apical filling
and reimplantation...................... 39501,39502, 39503, 39600
Emergency procedures....................39901.	39902, 39903, 39904
............................. 39910,39940,39960,39970
........................................ 39980. 39985
SURGICAL SERVICES:
Surgical exposure of tooth...................... 72410, 72411. 72412
Transplantation of a tooth...................................... 72430
Surgical repositioning of a tooth............................... 72440
Enucleation of an unerupted tooth
and follicle.................................................... 72450
Alveoplasty - per unit of time......................... 73100, 73110
Gingivopiasty and/or stomatoplasty.....................73119, 73120
Osteoplasty - per unit of time.................. 73133, 73134, 73135
.............................................73140,73141
Surgical excision........................74108, 74109, 74408, 74409
Surgical incision...................................... 75100, 75 110
Fractures................................ 76198, 76210,	76250,	76310
............................... 76350, 76910,	76950,	76951
Erenectomy...................................... 77800, 77810, 78110
Miscellaneous surgical services.......... 79104, 79301,79302,	79303
.............................. 79304, 79305,	79306,	79307
.............................. 79308,39401.	79601.	79602
........................................... 79603, 79604
Adjunctive general services-
drugs (injections).....................................96100, 96101
The following treatments are payable at 50%:
86
}rosthi;tic:si:rvicks:
L'omplete maxillary denture
once every 3 years).............
Complete mandibular demure
once every 3 years).............
Complete maxillary and mandibular ienturcs (once every 3 years)...
Removable partial dentures
Venture adjustments. Venture repairs.....
Venture rehttsing. relining
..................51 too
.	. . 51110
5 1120, 51300, 51310, 51320
..... 51600,51610.51620
52 120,52 121.52220,52221 52230,52231. 52320,5232 I 52400.52410,52500,52510 52520, 52525, 52530, 52531 52535.52600,52610,52630
.................. 52800
54250, 54300. 54301,54302 55101,55102,55103,55104 55201,55202. 55203, 55204
..... 55520, 55530, 55700
56200. 56201.56210. 56211 56220,56221. 56230, 56231 56260. 56261.56262,56263 56270, 56271. 56272, 56273
The following treatments arc payable at 5057:
ORTHODONTIC SERVICES:
’RE-TREATMENT DIAGNOSTIC SERVICES:
Diagnostic Models. X-Rays...................4530, 2701, 2702
................................. 2703,2704.2705
2'ephalomelric work-up............................... 2750
'REVENTIVE & INTERCEPTIVE ORTHODONTICS:
Habit Inhibiting.................. 82101.82102. 82201.82202
space regaining......................... 81105. 81106, 81201
............................. 81202.81251.81252
space Maintenance.......................15100. 151 10.15120, 15400
Cross nits Correction, etc.....................81261, X 1203. 81204
.......................................... 81205. 81206
87
{lOKKFICII VR ORTHODONTICS: Reinnvnlile & E'ixod Appliance Therapy.
Retention
, All IS. 81116, 81 120 . .81125. 81126, 81130 . .811.11, 81140, 81207 . 81208, 81206, 81210 ..81211,81212,8(211
.............. 83214
......81111,83112
88
ISION CARE BENEFIT
while insured, you incur Vision Care expenses for yourself or for it *vered dependent you will he paid benefits in an amount equal to such ;ion Care services, subject to the following provisions
e following services when prescribed by a licensed physician or licensed ometrist shall be covered, hut not to exceed $150.00, tn any 24 month iod effective the first of the month following date of ratificiation.
Lenses and frames for eyeglasses, sunglasses and safety glasses.
Contact lenses
Servicesand materials in connection with vision training and orthopics.
Services and materials in connection with medical or surgical treatment.
Replacement of lost, stolen or broken eyeglass lenses or eyeglass frames.
i benefits are payable for amounts charged for any of the following V ices:
Services rendered before the insurance on account of the person who cives such services became effective.
Services received because of any injury arising out of or in the course any employment for wage or profit or sickness entitling the covered son to benefits under any W.S.I.B. or Occupational Disease Law.
Services foi examinations for the purpose of prescribing or fitting of ^glasses. sunglasses or safety glasses.
Services to the extent that such services or benefits for such services are tilable under any plan or program established pursuant to the laws or filiations or any Government and any services to the extent that any ivernment prohibits payment of insurance benefits therefore.
89
5.	Services to the extent that they or benefits therefore are provided under any other group insurance plan or prepayment plan or for which benefits are otherwise provided under the group policy.
6.	Services for which the person receiving them is not required to make payment, or where payment is received its a result of legal action or settlement.
IF YOU LEAVE OUR EMPLOY
Your Vision Care Benefit will cease 31 days after leaving our employ if you have received Vision Care services as specified, as a direct result of a complete eye examination.
90