COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION, Local 446
Mucb 1, 1992 to February 22,199$
OOSblO^f
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ARTICLE I • GENERAL............................................................... I
Section 1 - Purpose........................................................ 1
Section 2 - Mutual Responsibilities........................................ 1
ARTICLE II • DEFINITIONS
Section I • Employee............
Section 2 - Employment Categories . Section 3 - Casual Employees’ Work
Section 4 • Grievance...........
Section 5 • Gender Reference....
2
2
2
2
3
3
ARTICLE III - MANAGEMENT ................................................ 3
Section 1 • Direction of Work..................................... 3
Section 2 - Employee Selection and Discipline ..... .............. 3
ARTICLE IV ■ BARGAINING AGENCY Section 1 - Recognition .................
4
4
ARTICLE V • UNION SECURITY..................................
Section 1 • Cooperation ......,......................
Section 2 - Union Shop ..............................
Section 3 • Discharge of Non-Members (Constitutional) .
Section 4 - Application for Membership...............
Section 5 - Check-off................................
Section 6 - Dues Payment ............................
4
4
4
4
4
5
ARTICLE VI - WAGES.................................
Section I - Wage Scale......................
Section 2 - Wage Rate Determination ........
Section 3 - Rate Protection.................
Section 4 - Pay Days........................
Section 5 - Premium Rates...................
Section 6 • Notice of Cancellation..........
Section 7 - Call Time ......................
Section 8 - Casual Employee Rates...........
Section 9 - Welders.........................
Section 10 - Lumber Graders and Log Scalers
5
5
5
6 6 6 7 7
7
8 8
ARTICLE VII • HOURS OF WORK...................................
Section 1 - Production Employees.......................
Section 2 • Millwrights, Maintenance.
Repair and Construction Employees and Watchmen
Section 3 - Casual Employees...........................
Section 4 • Double Straight-TimeRates..................
Section5 • Completion ofShifts.........................
Section6 • Designation of Shifts.......................
Section 7 - Three-Shift operation......................
Section 8 • Lunch Sc RestEteriods......................
Senion 9 - Notification of Absence.....................
Section 10 - Meals ....................................
Section 11 - Advance Notification of Return to Wodc ....
8
8
8
9
9 9
9
10
10 10 11 11
ARTICLE VUI • ALTERNATE SHIFT SCHEDULES
11
ARTICLE IX - SENIORITY....................
Section 1 ■ Probation Period........
Section2 - principle................
Senion 3 - Length of Service ......
Section 4 - Recall .................
Section5 - Rehire...................
Section6 - Retention of Seniority . • ■ Section7 • Seniority Lists .......
Section 8 • Transfer Seniority......
Section9 • Seniority Clarification ... Section ID • Job Posting and Training
12
12
12
12
13
13
13
14 14
14
15
ARTICLE X • LEAVE OF ABSENCE Senion 1 - General Principle-s . . Section2 - Injury or illness . . Section3 • rimm Business . . . Section 4 - Bereavement Leave
Section 5 - Jury Duty...........
Section 6 • Maternity Leave . . Section7 - Paternity Leave . . . Section 8 - Public nffina , , , Section 9 * Extended Vacations Senion 10 • Other...............
18
18
19
19
20 20 21 21 21 21 22
ARTICLE XI - STATUTORY HOLIDAYS ........................ 22
ARTICLE XII ■ PERSONAL AND FLOATING HOLIDAYS.................................... 23
Section 1 - Floating Holiday............................................ 23
Section 2 - Floating Holiday Entitlement ............................... 23
Section 3 - Personal Floating Holiday .................................. 24
ARTICLE XEI • VACATIONS WEOH PAY................................................ 25
Section 1 - One to Two Years Service..................................... , , 25
Section 2 - Two Years Service .......................................... 25
Section 3 - Seven Years' Service........................................ 25
Section 4 - Fifteen Years’ Service...................................... 25
Section 5 • Twenty-Four Years' Service.................................. 26
Section 6 - Thirty Years' Service ...................................... 26
Section 7 • Additional Day.............................................. 26
Section 8 - Vacation Scheduling ........................................ 26
Section 9 - Time Included for Vacation Entitlement...................... 27
ARTICLE XIV • SAFETY AND OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH ................................... 27
Section 1 - Principles.................................................. 27
Section 2 - Joint Safety Committee Section 3 - Compensation .
Section 4 • Fatal Accident
ARTICLE XV - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE Section 1 • Committee Section 2 - Procedure
ARTICLE XVI • ARBITRATION................................................. 29
Section 1 • Principles............................................. 29
Section 2 - Expenses .............................................. 30
Section 3 - Location .............................................. 30
ARTICLE XVE - HEALTH AND WELFARE.......................................... 31
ARTICLE XVIII • LONG TERM DISABILITY ..................................... 31
ARTICLE XIX • DENTAL PLAN.,................................. 31
ARTICLE XX • SAFETY EQUIPMENT............................... 32
ARTICLE XXI • PENSION PLAN....................................... 33
ARTICLE XXII-TOOL INSURANCE....................................... 33
ARTICLE XXIII • GENERAL PROVISIONS................................ 33
Section 1 - Letters of Understanding ...................... 33
Section 2 - Coveralls...................................... 34
Section 3 - Medical Examinations........................... 34
Section 4 - Bulletin Boards................................ 34
Section 5 • Alternate Employment........................... 34
ARTICLE XXIV • PERMANENT PLANT CLOSURE ........................... 35
ARTICLE XXV • TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE................................ 35
Section 1 • Advance Notification........................... 35
Section 2 • Severance Pay ................................. 36
Section 3 - Rate Adjustment................................ 36
ARTICLE XXVI - DURATION OF AGREMENT .............................. 37
WAGESCHEDULE ..................................................... 38
ARTICLE XXI • PENSION PLAN ....................................... 44
TRADESMEN'S TOOLS................................................. 48
APPRENTICE’S TOOLS................................................ 49
APPRENTICESHIP AGREEMENT.......................................... 50
ARTICLE VII • HOURS OF WORK....................................... 54
ARTICLE VH • HOURS OF WORK........................................ 55
COMPETENCY ....................................................... 56
CHARGEHANDS....................................................... 57
GRAVEYARDS AS A UNIQUE SHIFT...................................... 58
SEASONAL JOB POSTING POLICY............................... 59
SAWMILL AND PLANER UTILITY POSITIONS...................... 61
CASUALEMPLOYEES .......................................... 64
COMPRESSED WORK WEEK SCHEDULE ■ MAINTENANCE............... 67
INTERMITTENT PLANER GRAVEYARD SHIFT....................... 72
AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT entered into this 1st day of March, 1992.
BETWEEN:
CANADIAN FOREST PRODUCTS LTD. Grande Prairie Operations (hereinafter known as the "Company")
OF THE FIRST PART
AND COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION,
ARTICLE I • GENERAL Section 1 • Purpose
The general purpose of this Agreement is, m the mutual interest of the employer and the employee, to provide for the operation of the Plant (or Plants) hereinafter mentioned under methods which will further, to the fullest extent possible, the safety and physical welfare of the employees, economy of operation, quality and quantity of output, Cleanliness of Plant and protection of property. It is recognized by this Agreement to be the duty of the Company and the Union to cooperate fully for the advancement of said conditions.
Section 2 • Mutual Responsibilities
It is recognized by this Agreement to be the duty of the Company to explain fully the terms of this Agreement to all its officers, foremen, and others engaged in a supervisory capacity and it is recognized to be the duty of the Union to explain fully to its members their responsibilities and obligations under this Agreement.
OF THE SECOND PART
ARTICLE TT - DEFINITIONS
Wherever used in this Agreement, including exhibits:
Section 1 - Employee
The word "employe" means any person on the payroll of the Company at the location (or locations) named in this Agreement excepting: ofEke^redit and secretarial staff, sales staff, security guards employees engaged in logging operations in Grande Prairie and those persons performing managerial or industrial relations Sanctions as defined by the Alberta Labour Relations Act.
Section 2 ■ Employment Categories
a.	’Casual" employees are students, 17 years cr older, in full-time attendance at a school, college, university, etc., hired for the purpose of weekend cleanup. They are not eligible to become regular employees or perform the duties of regular employees unless they terminate the casual workforce and are re-hired into the permanent full-time workforce.
b.	"Probationary" employees are employees who have not completed thirty (30) working days within ninety (90) calendar days following the date of entering employment,
c.	''Regular'1 employees are employees who have completed their thirty (30)-day probationary period.
Section 3 - Casual Employees’ Work
Casual employees shall only be permitted to do the following work
Mill Areas - general cleanup
Yard	-generalcleanup including piling spilled loads
Shop	• general cleanup of vehicles, including steam cleaning
and cleanup of shops
ii.	Maintenance Helpers Fir^watch
3
Section 4 - Grievance
’Grievance", "dispute", cr "complaint" means any difference between the persons bound by this Agreement concerning its interpretation, application, operation, or any alleged violation thereof, and "Party" means either one of the parties IV this Agreement.
Section 5 • Gender Reference
U is understood that references to masculine gender shall be interchangeable with feminine gender throughout this Agreement.
ARTICLE in ■ MANAGEMENT flart-im 1 - Direcflonof Work
me management of the operation and direction and promotion of the employees vested exclusively in the management, provided, however, that this will not be used for the purpose of discrimination against employees.
Section 2 • Employee Selection and Discipline
The company shall have the right to select its employees and discipline or discharge them forjust cause.
a.	An employee shall be advised by the Company that he has the right to have a Union Shop Steward or Executive Officer present before the Company disciplines or discharger him.
b.	The company shall have the right to maintain a copy of warnings in the tile of each employee PROVIDED HOWEVER that once an employee has gone a period of twelve (12) months without accumulating a further warning, the previous warnings will be removed from the employee's tile and destroyed by the company.
c.	Employees shall have the right to review their personnel files and request photocopies of material contained therein. Arrangements to view files are to be made through the Personnel Office.
ARTICLE N • BARGAINING AGENCY
4
Section 1 - Recognition
The company recognizes the Communications, Energy and Paperworkers TBxkn of Canada and the Union as the only agencies representing all employees as defined in this Agreement for the purpose of collective bargaining
ARTICLE V - UNION SECURITY Section 1 - Cooperation
The Company will cooperate with the Union in obtaining and retaining as liaTbeats the employees as defined in this Agreement, and to this end will present to new employees and to all supervisors and foremen the policy herein expressed.
Any employee who is now a maifcea: in good standing or who becomes or is reinstated as a member of the Union, shall a$ a condition of continued employment, maintain membership in good standing in the Union throughout the term of this Agreement aod without limiting the foregoing, all employees hired during the term of this Agreement shall, as a condition of employment, become a member of the Union thirty (30) calendar days after becoming employed by the company.
Section 3 - Discharge of Non-Members (Constitntiftnah
Any employee who fails to maintain membership in good standing in the Union shall be discharged after seven (7)days’ written notice to the Company by the Union of the employee's failure to maintain membership in good standing.
Section 4 - Application for Membership
No employee shall be subject to any penalties against his application for membership or reinstatement, except as may be provided for in the Constitution and By-Laws of the National Union and Local Union. A copy of such Constitution and By-Laws and any changes thereto, shall be transmitted to the Company.
Section 5 - Check-off
5
The Company shall require all new employees at the time of hiring to execute an assignment of wages in duplicate, the forms to be supplied by the Union. All the check-off forms are to be forwarded to the Local Union within fifteen (15) days of hiring.
Section 6 • Dues Payment
This assignment in the case of the employees already members of the Union shall be effective immediately, and for those employees not previously members of the Union, it shall become effective thirty (30) calendar days from the date of execution. The Company shall remit the dues deducted pursuant to such assignment (until and unless said assignment is revoked in writingby the employee) to the Union named therein not less than once each month with a written statement of the names of employees for whom the deductions were made and the amount of each deduction.
ARTICLE VI- WAGES
Section 1 - Wage scale
a.	The wage scale for the term of this Agreement shall be as set forth in Supplement No. 1 of this Agreement.
b.	Effective March 1, 1994, the wage rates will be Increased by $0.85 (85 cents) per hour.
c.	Effective September 1, 1994, the wage rates will be increased by $0.25 (25 cents) per hour.
Section 2 • Wage Rate Determination
The company reserves the right to establish or revisejob classifications as well as the new hourly rate for the job classification so established or revised during the life of this Agreement. The Company agrees to notify the Union upon the establishment of suchjob Classification and wage rate and the Union shall have thirty (30) days after such notification within which to request that the rate so established be made the subject of collective bargaining. In the event no request is received by the Company within such period, the rate shall be deemed acceptable and shall becate pan of this Agreement. In the event that the rate is made the subject of collective bargaining, the Company and the Union shall meet as Soon as may be convenient to commence bargaining regarding the new rate.
6
Section 3 - Rate Protection
a Employees who ae directed by the Company to work on a higher paid job, if their regularjob is available, will receive the rate for the higher paid job.
b. Employees who are directed by the Company to work on alowerpaidjob, if their regular job is available, will be paid their regularjob rate.
Section 4 - Pay Days
The Company shall provide for pay days every second week and each employee shall be furnished with an itemized statement of earnings andmonthly deductions. Whenever possible, employees shall receive their pay cheques and statements in sealed envelopes.
Section 5 - Preminm Rates
a.	The first shift, which may vary in individual operations, is the recognized day shift. Hours worked outside the recognized day shift will be regarded as the second and third shifts. Premium rate of thirty-one carts ($.31) per hour will be paid for the second and third shifts. Day shift employees working in excess of eight (8) hours vill be paid rate and one-half without the differential. Persons employed other than on regularshifts shall be paid the applicable per hour premium rate as specified in this Section for all hours worked outside the recognized day shift
b.	An employee who is in possession of a valid Grader's certificate shall receive a premium of five (5) cents per hour for all hours worked while not performing the grading function. This premium shall not apply to any position where the premium has already been recognized inthejob rate.
c.	It is agreed that a Tradesman employed ty the Company who holds more than one tra± ticket and, as part of his regularjob required by the Company, applies the knowledgeof his ticketed trades as pan of his regular duties, will be paid an additional Thirty (30)cents per hour above his regularjob rate.
d.	It is further agreed that a Tradesmanemployedby the Company who holdsmore than two tickets and, as part of his regularjob as required by the Company, applies the knowledge of his ticketed trades as part of his regular duties, will be paid the highest trade rate as designated in the wage supplement forthetradetickets plus an additional forty (40) cents per hour.
Section 6 - Notice of Cancellation
a If employees present themselves for work and, due to any conditions beyond their control there is no work available, they shall receive two (2) hours pay unless sufficient warning has been given cancelling the work call f a the day.
It shall be deemed that sufficient notice has been given cancelling the work call for the first or day shift provided notice has been given over radio stations C.F.G.P. and C.J.X.X. not later than one and one-half (1 1/2) hours before the shift commences with two (2) broadcasts within a half-hour period.
U shall be deemed that sufficient notice has been given cancelling the work call for afternoon shift when notice has been given over the radio stationsC.F.G.P. and CJ.X.X. not later than one and one-half (1 1/2) hours before the shift commences with two (2) broadcasts within a half-hour period.
It shall be deemed that sufficient notice has been given cancelling the work call for the graveyard shift when notice has been given over the radio stations C.F.G.P. and C.J.X.X. not later than one and one-half (1 1/2) hours before the shift commences with two (2) broadcasts within a half-hour period.
b.	When an employee is called for work and starts work, he shall receive four (4) hours pay at his regular rate unless his work is suspended because of inclement weather or other reasons completely beyond the control of the Company. If work is suspended for reasons completely beyond the control of the Company, the employee will be paid f a time actually worked.
Section 7 - Call Time
a.	Any employee called to work on his designated day off, on Sunday, on a Statutory holiday, or after having left the plant after working his regular shift, will be paid a minimum of three (3)hours at rate and one-half (1 1/2).
b.	If he is then required to perform any other work than which necessitated the call-in, he will be paid at rate and one-half (1 1/2) for all time worked.
Section 8 - Casual Employee Rates
All casual employees will be paid at sevenly-five percent (75%) of base rate.
8
Section 9 - Welders
Employees employed as welders and who are required by the Company to renew or upgrade their welding qualifications shall ba granted up to five (5) days paid leave of absence to attend school far instruction- The Company shall pay the cost of instruction and examination.
Section 10 - Lumber Graders and Log Scalers
Employees of the Company who, by mutual agreement, train or retrain for lumber grading and log scaling certificates will be compensated in the following manner:
a.	The Company will pay the cost of materials required to those employeeswho take the courses.
b.	The Company will pay lost time wages to employees who take the courses.
ARTICLE VP - HOURS OF WORK
Section 1 - Production Employees
a.	The regular hours of work shall be eight (8) hours per day and forty (40) hours per week at rate and one-half for any hours worked over eight (8) hours per day or forty (40) hours per week.
b.	The Parties to this Agreement agree that the Company has tteright to operate its plant or plants or any part thereof ona continuous seven-day schedule.
c.	All work performed on Sunday except for work performed by casual employees shall be paid at rate and one-half provided the regular employee has worked at least one shift in the preceding week.
Section 2 - Millwrights. Maintenance.
Repair and Construction Employees and Watrhmen
a The regular hours of work shall be eight (8) hours per day, with two (2) days of rest each week, Monday through Sunday. Such days of rest wil] be consecutive days, unless mutually agreedto be otherwise, between the employee and the -Company.
9
b.	Overtime shall be paid at rate and one-half for all hours worked in excess of eight (8) hours per day, on Sunday if worked, and on the employee’s two designated days of rest if worked.
Section 3 - Casual Employees
Casual employees will be paid straight time for Saturday and Sunday if worked Section 4 - Double Straiphf.Timt; Rates
Notwithstanding the foregoing, double straight-timerates will be paid for:
a.	All hours worked in excess of eleven (11) per day.
b.	All hours worked on Sundayby employees who have worked five (5) shifts during the preceding six (6) days.
c.	For the purpose of (b) herein, a Statutory Holiday will be considered a shift worked.
d.	Item (b) above shall not apply to employees who work Sunday as a regularly scheduled day.
section 5 - Completion of Shifts
It is agreed between the parties that if three (3) hours or less is necessary after midnight Friday cr after midnight preceding a Statutory Holiday in order to complete the shift which commenced cn Friday afternoon or the afternoon preceding the Statutory Holiday, the time worked after midnight to complete the shift would be paid at straight rime.
Section 6 - Designation of Shifts
a The first shift, which may vary from time to time as determined by the Company, shall be designated the Day Shift. The second shift, following the Day Shift, shall be designated the Afternoon Shift. The third shift, following the Afternoon Shift, shall be designated the Graveyard Shift. Shifts shall be rotated on a basis mutually agreeable to the Company and the Union.
10
b. The Company shall post notices in the plant stating details of starting and ending time of shifts, and shall give no less than one full working day‘s notice of changes thereof.
Section 7 - Three-Shift Operation
a.	The Company shall have the right to operate its plantar any pan thereof on a three-shift basis, and all employeesworkingunder this arrangement shallreceiveeight(8) hours’ pay upon completion of the full hours establishedas their regularshift. Details of shifts shall be varied at the Company’s option
b.	It is agreed that (a) above shall apply to only those employees actually working on a three-shift basis.
c.	The Company shall have the right to determine the number of shiffsoperated in any unit or department of the operation.
d.	Where less than three shifts are worked, Clause (a) shall not apply.
e.	The foregoing provisions of this Article shall not be construed as guaranteeing to any employee any number of hours of work per day or per week.
Section 8 - Lunch & Rest Periods
Employees shall have two(2) ten (10) minute paid rest periods during each shift, coe within each half of a shift at a time designated by tie company, which shallnot be earlier than one (1) hour into each half shift nor later than one (1) hour before the end of each half shift.
During the graveyard short shift there shall be one (1) ten (10) minute paid rest period. Employees will be allowed cne (1) thirty (30) minute lunch break as designated during each regular shift.
When an employee is unavoidablyprevented from reporting for his scheduledshift, if reasonably possible, he must give notice to his foreman, or at the Company office, at least two (2) hours before the shift commences.
• 11
Section 10 - Meals
When an employee is notified during his normal shift that he will be required to work two (2) or more hours overtime beyond that shift, the Company shall provide a hot meal, such meal to be consumed on Company time.
Where the employee declines the meal, the Company will provide the employee with a meal voucher that can be redeemed for a hot meal, to be eaten during the lunch break on the employee's normal shift. The voucher will be dated to expire two (2) weeks fconthe date of issue.
The foregoing shall not apply m overtime which is scheduled prior to the commencement of the normal shift, provided that a minimum of three (3) hours notice prior to the commencement of the normal shift is given.
Section 11 - Advance Notification <£ Retain to Work
Where an employee has been off work due to illness or injury for more than two (2) days, he must advise the Company at least twenty-four (24) hours in advance regarding his ability to return to work.
In the case of shorter absences, notice must be given by 12:00 noon for Afternoon shift and prior to the end of the working day previous for Day shift.
ARTICLE Vm -ALTERNATE SHIFT SCHEDULES
The Union and the Company shall have the right under the terms of the agreement to mutually agree upon and implement alternate shift schedules of different lengths from those covered in Article VU • Hours of Wark, which may include Sundays without overtime, provided the principle of the forty (40) hour workweek is maintained over an averaging period not to exceed eight (8) weeks.
12
ARTICLE IX ■ SENIORITY
Section 1 - Probation Period
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreements shall be mutually agreed that all employees are hired on probation, the probationary period to continue until thirty (30) days have been worked, during which time they are to be considered probationary employees only, and during this same period, no Seniority rights shall be recognized,
Upon completion of thirty (30) days worked, they shall be regarded as regular employees, and shall then be entitled to seniority dating from the day on which they entered the Company’s employ, provided however, that the probationary period of thirty (30) days waded shall only be cumulative within the ninety (90) calendar days following the date of entering employment.
a The Companyrecognizes the principle of seniority, competency considered.
b. Where the Company operates more than one plant, each plant will be considered separately for seniority purposes, except where the Union and the Company agree upon some different arrangement.
Section 3 - Length csf Service
a When making promotions, the Company agrees to give due consideration to length of service.
b. hi the event of a reduction of forces, the last person hired shall be the first released subject to the provisions of Section 2(a) of this Article. Prior to a reduction of forces, the Company and the Union will meet to discuss the application of seniority of those employees who remain on the job, but whose jobs have been eliminated as a result of the reduction of the work force.
Senior employees will be given the opportunity in line with saiiority to perform jobs which they have previously held or jobs for which they are competent.
13
Section 4 - Recall
a.	It is agreed that when employees are IV be re-hired after lay-off, it shall be done on the basis of the last person released shall be the first person re-employed, subject to the provisions of Section 2(a). It is agreed that in cases of emergency the application of plant seniority may be postponed for such period as may be necessary, but not exceeding three (3) days. If the Company decides to exercise its rights underthis provision, it shall notify the Union immediately.
b.	Where a reduction of forces is caused by emergency conditions, the application of seniority may be postponed far such p=H>yi as may be necessary but not exceeding five (5) working days. If the Company decides to exercise its rights under this provision, it shall notify the Union as soon as possible
Section 5 - Rehire
a.	It is acjeed that when re-hiring in accordance with Section 4, all employees laid off due to seasonal shutdown or reduction of the working forceswiU be notified in order of plant seniority by communication to their last known address, prior to starting of operations.
b.	It shall be the Company’s responsibility to maintain an address file of employees and it shall be the employee’s responsibility to keep the Company informed in writing of any change of address.
Section 6 • Retention of Seniority
It is agreed between the parties that seniority during layoffs shall be retained on the following
basis:
a.	Employees with less than one (I) year’s service will retain their seniority for a period of six (6) months.
b.	Employees with one (1) or more years of service shall retain their seniority for one year plus one (3) additional month for each year of service, up to an additional six (6)months.
c.	A laid-off employee’s seniority retention shall be reinstated on the completion of fox (4) consecutive working days.
14
Section 7 « SpnlftHty Lists
It is agreed that upon the request of the Urri.cn, a list will be supphedby the Company setting out the name and the starting date with the Company of each regular employee on a plant basis, The Company will advise the Union once each month of changes to the said list.
Section 8 - Transfer Seniority
In the case where an employee has been transferred by the Company to a supervisory position, he will continue to accumulate seniority for a period of ninety (90) calendar days. At anytime during the ninety (90) calendar-day period, the individual shall have the right to return to the bargaining unit in the job which he previously held.
At the expiration of the periodmentioned above, his seniority will be frozen. Thus, if at a later date, he ceases to be a supervisor and the Company desires to retain his services, it is hereby agreed that reinstatement can be made within the bargaining init, provided however, that any employee so reinstated must return to an entry leveljob.
For seniority purposes, he shall have his frozen seniority plus his newly accumulatedseniority.
An employee shall only be entitled to one (1) such ninety (90) calendar day period within a twelve-month period.
Section 9 - Seniority Clarification
1.	Application
a.	The application cf seniorityshall be based first on department and second onplant seniority.
b.	Promotions within a department will be based on plant seniority, competency considered.
2.	Departments
Departments for seniority purposes shall be:
a.	Maintenance and Miscellaneous
b.	Production.
3.	When an employee bids into a department and is confirmed in the department, his plant and department seniority will be equal.
15
4.	Reduction of Forces:
Department:
In the event of a reduction of forces within a department, the employee with last plant seniority will be the first out of the department. The employees affectedby the reduction may apply seniority in accordance with Article EX, S. 3(b) of the Agreement or the employee may, by request, revert to their previously held jobs within the department, providing they have plant seniority to remain in the department.
In the event of a reduction of the work forces, the Union and the Company will meet prior to the layoff to discuss the length of the layoff and the redistribution of the work force
For the purpose of this Agreement, temporary reductions shall mean a period not to exceed thirty (30) calendar days, subject to review and extension by the parties prior to the end of each thirty (30) day period.
5.	Plant
In the event of a reduction of forces, total plant seniority will be applied as follows: The last person hired shall be the first released, according to plant seniority, competency considered.
Either party may give the otherparty six ((^months notice for the purpose of reviewing and discussing any matter regarding the above procedure.
Section 10 - Job Posting and Training
The purpose of the Job Posting and Training Progran is to select senior persons for training in the Production Department and thereby afford them the opportunity W become competent to perform otherjobs in the operation.
16
lob Posting, Training Procedure and Seniority Clarification
1- The Company shall have therightto temporarilyfill thejob vacancy subjectto thejob posting procedure and seniority clarification.
2.	a. All permanent vacancies shall be posted
b.	Temporary vacancies of less than three (3) weeks shall not be posted.
c.	In filling the non-posted temporary vacancies, senior employees, competency considered, will be given preference.
d.	Ninety (90) calendar days after a temporary j ob posting has been closed, it will become a permanent job and will be re-posted as permanent.
e.	Employees fillingthe vacancies created in (d) abovewill return to their previously held bid positions on the return of the employee causing the vacancy.
f.	The Company will consult with the Unicn and may mutually agree that if an employeebecomesunableto performhis nomaljob duties for anyreason, such employee will be placed in another job category for which the employee has sufficient seniority, competency considered.
3.	Vacancies will be posted on job postingbulletinboard for a period of three (3) working days (excluding Saturday and Sunday).
4.	Only written bids will be accepted. Formswill beprovidedandmustbe used and placed in the container in the lunch rooms.
5.	The name of the successful candidatewill be written on original posting and be re-posted for a period of two (2) working days.
6.	Al I bid refusals must be in writing on the forms provided.
7.	All bids will be filed.
8.	Names of applicants will be fisted on the file copy of the pcstirg.
9.	The Union shall receive a list of the bids
17
10.	Successful bidders for permanent vacancies involving lateral or downward bids will be limited to two (2) every six (6) months. It is agreed that bids for higher paid jobs will not be limited, with the exception of frivolous bidding for which the Company and the Union shall agree to limitations.
11.	Successful bidden shall be placed on the jobs as soon as possible, but not later than ten (10) working days from the date of declaring the successful bidder. In the event of problems arising from this Section, the Company and the Union will meet to discuss the application.
12.	If the successful bidder has previously qualified on the job for which he is bidding, the fifteen (15)woridng day nri. period will not apply. The parties agree if an employee has been selected and the job for which he has been selected requires a longer vial period than fifteen (15) working days, the trial period can be extendedbut not to exceedtwenty (20) working days. Extension of the fifteen (15) working day vial period shall be by mutual agreement between the Company and the Union.
13.	During the above trial period, the Company can, for good and sufficient cause, return the employee to his original job. The employee may, during the above mal period, voluntarily return to his original job.
14.	If an employee is declared incompetent in a certain job
a.	He cannot again apply for that vacancy for one (I) year.
b.	He goes back to his original position, and the vacancy shall he re-posted
15.	When a vacancy has been posted and the successful applicant is chosen and the same job becomes vacant, it is agreed that the next senior competent bidder will be given the opportunity to fill thejob, provided the time limit does not exceed a ten (10) working day period from the time of the original bid being awarded
16.	When ajob vacancy occurs, the vacancy will be posted and thejob will be awarded on the following basis:
a First priority in order of seniority to those who have previously lost the position as a result of a reduction of forces. This right to continue for one (l)year. b. General plant seniority, competency considered.
18
17.	Newly created jobs shall be posted at "interim" rates until Management and the Union agree on the final wage rate.
18.	The job posting fiormshall include:
1.	Date
2.	Recognized name of the job
3.	Department involved.
4.	Hourly rate.
5.	The place where the applications are to be submitted and the expiry time.
6-	Any specific qualifications,
7.	Space for the applicant's name
8.	Shift identification.
19.	It is understood that employees absent from work due lo vacation, sickness or injury, a: approved leave of absence by the Company shall have the right to an absentee bid. Such a bid will be placed by a lnaibea: ofthe Union on the posting on the instruction of the absent employee.
20.	It is agreed Maintenance, Apprentices, Trade Utility, Saw Filers and Miscellaneous Categories shall be posted on a plant-wide basis.
21.	a. When an employee successfully bids into ajob group category which involves
rotation and training, the employee will be paid the rate ofthe jcb group bid until he completes his training on the job m the higher paid group. The employee shall then receive the higher group rate as long as rotation is in effect, b. When an employee has, as a result ofjob rotation, completed, training, he will be so advised in writing by Management
ARTICLE X • LEAVE OF ABSENCE
a.	Any employee desiring leave of absence for any reason other than those set out in Sections 2 and 3 of this Article nust obtain same in writing from the company, a copy of such leave to be forwarded to the Local Union.
19
b.	Where any employee is granted a leave of absence under this section for a period of no
longer than thirty (30) calendar days, the Company agrees to notify a member of the
Union as to the circumstances forthe granting afsuch a period of leave.
c.	The Company will gram leave of absence to a maximum of six (6) months without pay
to employees for educational or training purposes, conditional on the following terms:
i)	That the employee has at least one (1) year seniority with the company.
ii)	That the employee apply at least one (I) month in advanceunless the grounds for such an application could not reasonably be foreseen.
iii)	That the employee shall disclose the grounds for application.
jv)	That the Company shall grant such leave where a bona fide reason is advanced
by the applicant, or may postpone leave for educational or training purposes where a suitable replacement is not available.
v)	Thatthe Company shallbe required to notify the Union ofits decision in respect to any application for leave under this section.
vi)	That the employee is only entitled to one leave of absence for educational cr training purposes per calendar year.
Section 2 - Injury or Illness
The Company will grant leave of absence to employees suffering injury or illness, subject to a medical certificate if requested by the employer.
Section 3 - Union Business
a.	The Company shall grant leave of absence to employees who are appointed or elected to the Union office for a period of up to and including one year. Further leave cf absence may be granted by mutual consent, Any employee who obtains such leave of absence shall return to the Company within thirty (30) calendar days after completion of his term of employment with the Union
20
b.	The Union will make every effort in requesting such leaves of absence to avoid requests that will unduly deplete the crew in any one departmentwhichwill inpair productionor inhibit the normal functioning of the operation. In such cases, the Umm will cooperate with the Company in making substitute employees available or select alternate delegates to attend Union functions.
c.	The Company will grant leave of absence to any employees who are elected as representatives to attend Union meetings and Union conventions, or members of any Union Negotiating Committee m order that they may carry out their duties on behalf of the Union.
d.	It is agreed that before the employeereceivesthis leave of absenceas set forth in Clauses (a) and(c) above, the employer will be given due rotice in writing by the Union in order to replace the employee with a competent substitute.
Section 4 - Bereavement Leave
a.	When death occurs to amember of aregular, full-timeemployee’s immediate family, the Company will grant a Leave of Absence for a reasonable period of time to employees forthe purpose of attending or making funeral arrangements. Membersofthe employee’s immediate family are defined as the spouse, mother, father, brothers, sisters, sons, daughters, sons-in-law, daughters-in-law, mother-in-law, father-in-law, step-parents, grandparents, grandparents-in-law,grandchildren, sisters-in-law, brothers-in-law, step children or legal guardian.
b.	The Company will pay a maximum of three (3) days pay lost time at the employee’s regular rate of pay for bereavementleave.
Section 5 - .Tuty Duty
a Any regular full-time employee who is required to perform Jury Duty, Coroner’s Duty, or as a Crown Witness or Cforcner's Witness on a day which he would normally have worked will be reimbursed ty the Company forthe difference between the pay received for Jury Duty and his regular straight-time hourly rate cf pay for his regular scheduled
hours of work. It is understoodthat such reimbursementshall not be for hours in ex--
of eight @)per day or forty (40) per week, less statutory pay received for Jury Duty. The employee will be required to furnish proof of Jury Service and Jury Duty pay received.
21
b.	Hours paid for Jury D.±y will be counted as hours worked for the purpose of qualifying for vacation and for recognized paid holidays, but will not be counted as hours worked for the purpose of computing overtime.
Section 6 • Maternity Leave
Toprovide for a reasonable period of time for extendedMatemity Leave without pay iofemale employees where there is a valid medical reason, and in accordance with the Employment Standards Act.
Section 7 • Paternity Leave
The Company will grant Paternity Leave without pay to male employees up to a maximum of six (6) weeks.
Section 8 • Public Office
a.	The Company will grant leave of absence for campaign purposes to candidates for Federal, Provincial or Municipal elective public office for periods up to and including eight (8) week, provided the Company is given due rotice in writing twenty (20) calendar days, unless the need for such application could not reasonably be foreseen.
b.	Employees elected or appointed to Federal, Provincial or Municipal office shall he granted as much leave as is necessary during the term of office. Municipal office holden, where the term of public office is served intermittently, shall give the Company reasonable notice far absences from work for conducting Municipal business.
c.	The employee who obtains this leave of absence shallretum to his company within thirty (30) calendar days after completion of public office.
Section 9 . Extended Vacations
The Company will grant leave for extended vacation where a bona fide reason is advanced by the applicant on the following terms:
a.	The employee shall disclose the reasons for such application.
b.	Employees making application for absence for "Extended Vacations” shall apply at least one (1) month in advance.
22
c.	It is agreed that upon employee’s request for leave of abesros for extended vacations, such leaves shall only be granted once every three (3) years and that a recoid be kept for the purpose of rotating such Leave io the most senior applicant
d.	That applications for extended vacationsmay be postponed wherea suitable replacement is not available.
Section 10 - Other
By mutual agreement, the Company will grant a reasonable period of leave for compassionate reasons.
ARTICLE XI- STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
a In the eventthat a Statutory Holiday fells on aSaturdaycr Sunday, the following Monday or any other day that may be designated by either the Provincial or Federal Government shall be observed as the holiday.
b. Ifanotherdayissubstitutedby statute or decree for the observance of any of ths holidays listed below, the day of the observance shall be deemed to be the holiday. If a Statutory Holiday fells on an employee’s normal day cff, the employee shallbe granted one other day in liai of the holiday.
c.	All work performed on the Statutory Holidays below shall be paid for at rate and one-half:
New Year's Day	Canada Day	Remembrance Day
Good Friday	Labour Day	Christmas Day
Victoria Day	Thanksgiving Day	Boxing Day
Family Day
d.	An employee who qualifies for the above holidays under the conditions set out below in Paragraph (e) shall be paid for the holiday ai his regular rate of pay far his regular work schedule. It is agreed that the hours so paid for the Statutory Holiday will be included in the weekly work schedule. An employee working on a paid holiday shallbe paid the overtime rate for hours worked in addition to receiving the straight time holidaypay for which he may qualify.
23
e.	Any employee, to qualify for Statutory Holiday pay, must have been on the payroll thirty (30) days during the twelve (12) months preceding, and must have wodced his last regularly scheduled shift before, and his first regularly schedjledafter the holiday, unless his absence is due to compensableinjuryor illness or due to authorized leave of absence. In the case of injury or illness, the employer shall have the right to request a certificate from a qualified medical practitioner.
f.	Notwithstanding any cf the foregoing provisions, if an employee fails to work within thirty (30) calendar days immediately prior to the holiday, and within thirty (30) calendar days immediately after the holiday, the employee shall not be entitled to be paid for any Statutory Holiday within that period.
g.	It is agreed that Casual employees shall not qualify for Statutory Holiday pay.
h.	In the event of a Statutory Holiday falling on a Tuesday, Wednesday, or Thursday, and when the Company and Union Committee mutually agree, the said holiday may be observed the preceding Monday or the following Friday respectively.
l. At the qu e st Cf the Local vith thirty (30)days notice, the Company agrees to exchange Heritage Day for Family Day as the down Statutory Holiday.
ARTICLE xn - PERSONAL AND FLOATING HOLIDAYS
Section 1 - Floating Holiday
a.	There shall be granted annually one floating holiday, during each year of the Agreement, with pay to regular full-rime employees, such floating holiday to be arranged at a time suitable to the employee and the Company, so that there will be no loss of production.
Section 2 - Floating Holiday Entitlement
a An employee must have worked for the Company one hundred eighty (ISO) calendar days to qualify for the floating holiday.
b.	Employees will not qualify for the floating holiday if on leave of absence fiarmore than six (6) months in the contract year except in the case of sickness or injury.
24
c When the floating holiday is taken, an employee will be granted eight (8) hours' pay on the straight time rate of die employee’s regular job subject to the foregoing.
d When the employee requests his floating holiday, he shall receive written notice of the disposition of his request a minimum of seventy-two (72) hours prior to the requested floating holiday
e.	When an employee is required to work on his floating holiday, he will be paid rate and one-halfplus his regular job rate. An employee requested to work on his floating holiday will have the option to work the originally scheduledmating holiday at tiffi and one-half and to reschedule the floating holiday with pay at a later date.
Section 3 - Personal Floating Holiday
This Personal Floating Holiday is in lieu of the proposed Heritage Day, but this Section shall
come into operation on its effective date even if Heritage Day has or has not been proclaimed.
a.	Regular full-time employees will be granted one Personal Floating Holiday during each Contract year of the Agreement to be arranged at a time suitable to the employee and the Company, so that there will be no lass in production.
b.	An employee must have worked for the Company one hundred eighty (180) calendar days to qualify for the Personal Floating Holiday.
c.	Employees will not qualify for the Personal Floating Holiday if on leave of absence for more that nine (9) months in the contract year except in the case of sickness or injury.
d.	When the Personal FloatingHoliday is taken, an employee will be granted eight (8) hours pay at the straight time rate of the employee's regular jcto subject to the foregoing.
e.	When the employee requests his Personal FloatingHoliday, he shallreceive written notice of the disposition of his request a minimum of seventy-two (72) hours prior to the requested Personal Floating Holiday.
f.	When an employee is required to work on his Personal Floating Holiday, he will be paid rate and one-half plus his regular job rate. An employee requested to work on his floating holiday will have the option to work the originally scheduled floating holiday at time and one-half and to re-schedule the Floating Holiday with pay at a later date.
25
g.	PersonalFloating Holidays not taken or scheduledby November 15 of each contract year will be scheduled by Management. All Personal Floating Holidays shall be completed by February 15 following.
aTyrTrr.fi! ym . VACATIONS WITH PAY
Section 1 - One to Two Years Service
a.	A Vacation with Pay will be granted to employees in accordance with the provisions of the Employment Standards Act governing Vacations with Pay and amendments thereto, except that vacation pay for employees with less than one (1) year’s service will be calculated in accordance with Section 34 of such Act.
b.	Employees with one to two years' service will receive two (2) weeks vacation with vacation pay calculated at five percent (5%) of the employee’s total earnings.
Sfert-im 2 - TvoYears Service
a.	The Company further agrees to grant all employees with two (2) of more years of continuous service three (3) weeks vacation based on Seven percent (7%) of total earnings.
b.	The third week of vacation as in (a) above does not have to be consecutive with the vacation period provided for in the above Section but at a time convenient to the Company.
Section 3 - Seven Years’ Service
a An employee with seven (7) or litre years' continuous service shall receive four (4) weeks vacation with pay based on nine percent 9%)of total earnings.
b, The additional one week will be taken when convenient for the Company, but does not have to be consecutive with the vacation period provided for in Sections 1 and 2 herein.
Section4 • Pifhpai Years’ Service
a An employee with fifteen (15) or more years of continuous service shall receive five (5) weeks vacation with pay based on eleven percent (11 %) of total earnings.
b. Tile additional one week will be taken when convenient for the Company, but does not have to be consecutive with the vacation period provided for in Sections 1, 2 and 3.
26
Section 5 ■ Twenty-Four Years* Service
a.	An employee with twenty-four (24) or mas years of continuous service shall receive six
(6) vssti® vacation with pay based on thirteen percent (13%) of total earnings.
b.	The additional ore week will be taken when convenient for the Company, but does not have io be consecutive with the vacation period providedfcamSections 1,2,3 and 4.
Section 6 - Thirty Years' Service
a	An employee with thirty (30) or more years of continuous service shall receive seven (7)
weeks vacation with pay based on fifteen percent (15%) oftotal earnings.
b. The additional one week vdll be taken when convenient for ffe Company, but does not have to be consecutive with the vacation period provided for in Sections 1, 2, 3,4 and
5.
Section 7 - Additional Pay
If a Statutory Holiday falls during an employee's vacation, suchemployeeshallbe entitled io one (1) additional day off
Vacations for Union employees shall be taken ai such time as is mutually agreed upon by the Union and the Company, -wfosi quantity and regularity of production shall not be impaired Date or dates for annual vacations will be posted two (2) months in advance, if possible, or not less than one (1) month m advance
Employees shall have the following options and will make their wishes known on the forms supplied
a	Receiving vacation pay ai the time vacations are taken
b.	Receiving vacation pay in a lump sum and taking earned time of filming the vacation
year.
27
Section 9 - Time Included for Vacation Entitlement
Tlie following shall be considered as days actually worked for determining vacations with pay
for an employee after one (1) year of continuous employment:
a Absence on TCites' Compensation up to a period of one (1) year, provided the employee returns to his employment.
b. Absence due to illness up to a period of one (1) year, provided the employee returns to his employment. The employer shall have the right to require a certificate frana qualified nwtiral practitioner.
ARTICLE XIV - SAFETY AND OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH
Section 1 - Principles
a The Company and the employees vaH. cooperate to assure safe working methods a d conditions and devise plans for furtherance of safety measures.
b.	The Company and the employees agree to comply with the Occupational HsQfli and Safety Act Regulations, and to carry out instructions as directed firm time to rime by representatives of the Board in the furtherance of safety ireasiiEES.
c.	The employees and AccidentRevention Committee members are expected to immediately report any unsafe conditions to Management.
Section 2 • Joint Safety Committee
a.	The Company shall maintain an Accident Revention Committee consisting of not mote than twelve (12) members not less than four (4-) members.
b.	Members of the Committee shall be designated and shall consist of an equal number of representatives of the Company and the Union. Union representatives shall be regular employees in the operation with at least one year's experience.
c.	The general duties ofthe AccidentPrevention Committee shallbe governed by the rules and regulations laid down frcntime to rime under the Occupational Health and Safety Act.
28
d.	Accident Revention Committee meetings shall be held during working hours where possible. Employees' time will rot be deducted for attending such meetings or investigations into accidents.
Section 3 - Compensation
Committee nreHny held outside regular working hours will be paid at employees’ regular
straight-rime hourly rate.
Sfriftn 4 ■ Fatal arriricnt.
a.	In the case cf a fatal accident, the Accident ReventionCommittee in the operation shall, within forty-eight (48) hours conduct an mvestigationand report its findings to the parries.
b.	Any or all employees working in the immediate area when a fatal accident has occnrred may, without loss <£ pay, refrain from working the balance of the shift.
ARTICLE XV - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
Section 1 - Committee
a.	The Union shall selected a maximum of four (4) employees to serve as a Grievance Committee, names ofwhom shall be suppliedto the Company
Section 2 - Procedure
The Company and the llrim mutually agree that when a grievance arises in the plant coming
under the terms of this Agreement, it shall be taken up in the manner set out beQav:
a	Hie individual errplqyee involved shall first take up the matter with the foreman directly
in chargeof the workwithin fourteen (14) days of the date of said grievance.
b.	If the question is not satisfactorily settled in this way, the same individual, with the committee, shall take up the problem with either the Foreman or Superintendent, or both, as designated by the Company.
29
c.	If a satisfactory settlement is not then reached, the Committee shall take up the problem with either the superintendent or Plant manager, or both, as designated by the Company, A Statement in writing of the alleged grievance, together with a statement in writing by the Foreman shall be exchanged by the parties concerned.
d.	If the problem is not then satisfactorily solved, it shall be referred to the Union and the Management.
e.	If a satisfactory settlement is not then reached, it shall be dealt with by arbitration, as set fatfi in Article XVI,
f.	If a grievance has not advanced to the next stage under (b), (c), (d) or (e) within fourteen (14) days after completion of the preceding stage, then the grievance shall be deemed to be abandoned, and all rights of recourse to the grievance procedure shall be at an end. When the Uhion is unable W observe the specified time limit by reason of the absence of the aggrieved employee from the plant for causes beyond his control the Said time limit shall not apply, but the Union shall be bound to proceed in such case as quickly as possible.
ARTICLE XVI» ARBITRATION Section 1 - Principles
In case of any dispute arising regarding the application of this Agreement, which the Parties hereto are unable to settle between themselves as provided for under the Grievance procedure Article XV, the matter shall be determined by arbitration in the following manner:
a. Either Party may notify the other Pady in writing by registered mail of the question or questions to be arbitrated and the name and address of its chosen representative for the Arbitration Board. After receiving suchnotice and statement, the other Party shall within (7) days, appoint an Arbitrator and give notice in writing of such appointment and the name and address of its Arbitrator. If the two arbitrators appointed by the Parties fail to agree upon a Chairman within three (3) days, they shall forthwith request the Honourable Minister of Labour of the Province of Alberta to appoint a Chairman.
30
b.	No one shall serve as a member of an Arbitration Board who.
j) either directly or indirectly has an interest in the subject of the Arbitration
ii) has participated in the grievance procedure preceding the Arbitration
hi) is or has been within the period of six (6) moDths preceding the initiation of the Arbitration, been employed by the Employees' Onion or a company directly engaged in the forest products industry.
c.	The decision of the Arbitration Board shall be by majority vote and shall be final and binding upon the Parties of the First and Second Pans.
d.	If any Arbitration Board finds that an employee has been unjustly suspended or discharged, that employee shall be reinstated by the Company without lass of pay and with all his rights and privileges preserved under the terms of this Agreement, provided always that if it is shown to the Board that the employee has been in receipt of wages during the period during the discharge (or suspensionjand reinstatement, or date of failure tore-hire and re-hiring, the mountso received shall be deducted from wages payable by the Company pursuant to this Section.
e.	The Arbitration Board shall be required to hand down its decision within fourteen (14) days following completion of the hearing.
Section 2 - Expenses
The Parties of the Fist and Second Park will each bear the expense and charges of its representatives on any Arbitration Board, and shall bear in equal portions the expenses and allowances of the Chairman, and stenographic and secretarial expense, and rent.
Section 3 - Location
Any arbitration to be held hereunder shall be held at the City of Grande Prairie or at such other place as may be decided by the Board.
31
ARTICLE XVII - HEALTH AND WELFARE
m e following coverage will be provided:
a.	Participation in the plan is to be a condition of employment for new employees
b.	Group life Insurance for each qualified employee: $45,000.00
c.	Accidental Death andDismembermentlnsurance for each qualified employee: $45,000.00
d.	Weekly Indemnity for each qualified employee:
Effective January I, 1992: $426.00 per week.
e.	Employees will be covered by Extended Health Benefits in accordancewith the Canfor Plan (MSA).
f.	Premium cost of providing coverage under this Article will be borne by the Company.
ARTICLE XVIII • LONG TERM DISABILITY
A Long Term Disability Pian will be provided, based on the following general principles:
i)	The plan will become effective March I, 1990
ii)	The Plan to be funded on a 50/50 cost sharing basis.
That the terms of the Plan will be based on a five-yearmaximum, to age sixty (60), fifty' percent (50%) earnings benefit level with a fifteen hundred dollar ($l,500.00)per month maximum.
ARTICLE XIX ■ DENTAL PIAN
A Dental Plan will be provided, based on the following general principles:
a. Basic dental services (E3ai A) • Pian pays eighty percent (80%) of approved Alberta Schedule.
32
b.	Prosthetics, crowns and bridges (planB) - Plan pays fifty percent (50%) of approved Alberta schedule of fees.
c.	Orthodontic (Plan Q - Hanpays fiftypercent (50% )>f approved Alberta scheduleof fees (Lifetime maximum oftwo thousand dollars ($2,000.00)
d.	Premium cost for providing coverage irtder this Article will be borne by the Company.
e.	Eligibility shall be the first of the month following die date of completion of die probationary period.
t Participation in die Plan is to be a condition of employment.
ARTTCLF.XX - SAFETY EQUIPMENT
a.	The Company shall replace die following equipment at no con to die employee when those articles are presented worn or damaged beyond repair and when they are required by die Company or the Occupational Health and Safety Act.
V
1.	Hard Hats and Liners
3.	Eye, Ear and Ifcee Protective Equipment
4	Safety Pants (yard buckets)
b.	xi the Company has been supplying safety equipment and clothing at no cost to the employee on the effective date of this Agreement, it will continue to do so at no cost to ti mploy
c.	The Company will provide aprons as required at no charge to Stacker, Resaw and Reman Operators.
d.	Rain suits will be provided as j lired fo employees rkin on di h< or water lines
E < tii; cl , 1993, employees will be reimbursed up to Sixty dollars ($60.00) pa-year upon presentation of a receipt for C.S A approved safety-toed footwear.
El tii March 1994, ip j es will be reimbursed up to Seventy-five dollars ($75.00) per year upon presentation of a receipt for C.S A. approved safety-toed footwear.
33
f.	The Company will provide one (I) only pair of safety prescription eyewear per employee at Company expense provided that the lenses and frames meet current C.S.A. standards for safety eyewear.
g.	Gloves will be supplied at no cost to the employee and will be replaced at no cost when
e >1 ii i ?se: tec worn or iged; >t a*	:er it will k a t the pense
'the employee.
ARTICLE XXI - PENSION PLAIT
The	y agr to actuarily fund the Pension Plan in accordance with the provisions of
Supplement *2 attached to this agreei It is further agreed that pension contributions will be
placed m st.
ARTICLE XXII • TOOL INSURANCE
a.	The Company at its own expense shall insure for damage or less caused by fire or flocd, the teds of its employees which are required in the performance of their work. This provision for tool insurance shall also apply to loss by theft where tools are stored in a designated secure place supplied by the Company and there is forcible breaking and entering. The insurancecoverage provided shall be subject to a deductible of fifty dollars ($50.00) in respect of each employee’s claim. In order to be eligible for less, an employee must have supplied the Company with a written list of tools required in the performance of work and stored with the Company.
b.	The Company viHrepair or replace those tradesmen's tools that are damaged, broken or lost in the performance of regular duties with tools that are of equal or better quality whenever possible.
ARTICLE XXin - GENERAL PROVISIONS Section 1 • Letters of Understanding
It is agreedthat Memoranda of Agreement such as “PensionHaf, “ApprenticeTraining Program, “Apprentices' Tbols",letter on "Tradesmen's Tool Insurance”. "Nine-Hour Shifts' and other attachments shall form part of this Agreement, except where they have .been modified by the parties or substituted by other provisions in this agreement.
34
Section 2 - rnwralk
The Company will make available and maintain three (3) pairs cf coveralls for use on company property to regular employees m the following categories:
Tradesmen	Truck Drivers
Apprentices	Oilers
Trade Utility	Kiln Attendants
Mill Handyman	Planerman (Maintenance)
CrdfieOperators	Cleanup
Glue Mixers	Crowder Feeders
Coveralls will be made available and provided upon request to all employees working in abnormally dirty areas.
Section 3 - Medical TCramlnatjops
The Company shall pay for all employee medical examinations not covered by Alberts Medicare, if such medical examination is a prerequisite for the jcto of that employee or a prerequisite of the licensingrequirements of the job of that employee.
Section 4 - Bulletin Boards
The Company shall supply adequately enclosed official bulletin boards for the use of the Union in posting of official signed bulletins.
Section 5 - Alternate Employment
1.	Whenever and wherever possible, the Company will provide alternate employment for workers injured on or off the job.
2.	The alternate employment must be suitable for the worker, his injury and where necessary co-ordinated with the worker’s physician.
3.	Such employment will be on a short term basis
35
4.	In some cases workers will be required to change jobs to accommodate an injured worker. Workers required to change jobs will be paid their regular, or the new job rate, whichever is higher. No one viD.be laid off to accommodate the injured worker.
5.	Any alternate employment must be productive
6.	The pay rate for such alternate employment will be at the worker’s regular job rate or the alternatejob rate, whichever is higher,
7.	Any alternate employmentwill be on a voluntary basis; the Company, however, does not promise there will be alternate employment available.
8.	Any workers on alternate employment must be made aware of any operating conditions such as help available and Safe work instructions for the job they are performing.
Mrey LE XXIV - PERMANENT PLANT CLOSURE
In the event of a permanent plant closure of the Company’s operation in Grande Prairie, the employees shall be entitled to severance pay equal to one (1) week's pay for each year of continuous service provided the employees involved have not been offered employment by the Company in another manufacturing operation of the Company in the Grande Prairie area.
In the event the plant is relocated within a radius of eighty (80) kilometres and the employees involved are not required to relocate their place of residence and are not terminated by the Company as a result of the plant relocation, they shall not be entitled to severance pay.
ARTICLE XXV . TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE Section 1 - Advance NotiGcatioo
The Company shall notify the Plant Committee and the Union not less than three (3) months in advance of intent to institute material changes in working methods or facilities which would involve the discharge or layoff of employees.
36
Section 2 - Severance Pay
Employees discharged or laid off directly because of mechanization, technological change or automation shall be entitled to severancepay of one (1) week'spayfor each year cf servicewilh the Company, The amount calculated under such entitlementshall not exceed a maximum of thirty (30) weeks’ pay.
Section 3 - Rate Adjustment
Where the Company has exercised its right to eliminate a job orjobs through automation cr the installation of new equipment, the employees affected shall have the right to exercise their seniorityin accordance with the seniority provisions of the Agreement, and suchemployees1 rates of pay shall be red circled for a paled of three (3) months, and for a further period of three (3) months, the employee will be paid an adjustedrate which will be midway between the rate of his regular job at the time of the setback and the rate of his new regular job. At the end of this six (6) month period, the rate of his new regularj ob will apply.
-37-
ARTICLE XXVI - DURATION OF AGREEMENT
The parties hereto mutually agree that this Agreement shall be effective cn and after tiiedst-day* of March, 1992. to and including the last day of February. A.D11995 .and thereafter from year to year, unless sixty (60) days' written notice to commence collective bargaining for amendments is given by either Party. The notice required hereunder shall be validly and sufficiently served at die office of die Company, and the Local QEHoarf die Union at least sixty (60) days prior to the expiry date of the Agreement.
If no agreement is reached at die expiration of this Agreement, and notice to commence collective bargaining has been served, the existing Agreement shallremain in effect until anew Agreement is reached or until thirty (30) days after the Minister notifies the Parties of die recommendations of the Disputes inquiry Board under the Alberta Labour Act, and to continue thereafter util discontinued in writing by either Party.
DATED THIS.
/?#-

D. I9j?3
DAY OF
CANADIAN FOREST PRODUCTS LTD.	COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND
GRANDE PRAIRIE OPERATIONS	PAPERWORKERS UNION, LOCAL 446
GROUP 1
Cleanup
Warehouse Cleanup
GROUP 2
Strip Attendant Serviceman
GROUP 3
Papenvrap Attendant
GROUP 4
J-Bar Attendant SM J-Bar AttendantPM Trim Block Attendant
GROUP 5
Tilt Hoist Op/Trimmer Unscrambler Operator Firewatch/Cleanup
38
SUPPLEMENT #1 WAGE SCHEDULE
CANADIAN FOREST PRODUCTS LTD.
GRANDE PRAIRIE OPERATIONS
MAR 1/92 MAR 1/93 MAR 1/94 SEPT 1/94
16.34	17.19	17.44
16.34	17.19	17.44
16.42	17.27	17.52
16.42	17.27	17.52
26.51
17.36	17.61
16.64	17.49	17.74
16.64	17.49	17.74
16.64	17.49	17.74
16.73	17.58	17.83
16.73	17.58	17.83
16.73	17.58	17.83
Supplement#! - Wage Schedule
MAR 1/92
Band Resaw PM	16.87
GROUP 7	
Strapper/Endpress	16.99
GROUP 8	
Planer Eteerier Weigh .^Ip Operator Stacker Operator PM	17.17 17.17 17.17
GROUP 9	
Stacker Operator SM Stacks: Qps^n: PM	17.33
GROUP 10	
Trimmer Optimizer Reman Edger Optimizer	17.49 17.49
GROUP a	
Forklift Op SM Forklift Op PM Infeed	17.67 17.67
MAR 1/94 SEPT 1/94
17.72
17.84
18.02
18.02
18.18
18.18
1834
18.34
18-52
1832
17.97
18.09
1837
18.27
18.43
18.43
18.59
1839
18.77
18.77
Supplement#! - Wage Schedule
Supplement#! - Wage Schedule
MAR 1/92
GROUP 12	
Oiler	17.87
Lumber Yard Cleanup	17.87
Debarker Operator	17.87
Sawmill Utility	17.87
cutoff Saw operator	17.87
Forklift Op-Shiroine	17.87
Forklift Op-PM Outfeed	17.87
PlanerUtility	17.87
GROUP n	
Merchandiser Operator	17.87
GROUP 14	
20” CNS Operator	18.24
Single Band Resaw SM	18.24
Kiln Forklift operator	18.24
GROUP 15	
Lag Scaler	18.44
GROUP 16	
Log Loader/980 Op	18.69
28' CNS operator	18.69
Log Yard Cleanup	18.69
-40-
MAR 1/93 MAR 1/94 SEPT 1/94
18.72	18.97
18.72	18.97
18.72	18.97
18.72	18.97
18.72	18.97
18.72	18.97
18.72	18.97
18.72	18.97
18.91	19.16
19.09	1934
19.09	1934
194)9	19.34
19.29	1934
1954	19.79
1954	19.79
1954	19.79
Supplerent#! - Wage Schedule	- 41
Supplement #1 - Wage Schedule
MAR 1/92 MAR 1/93 MAR 1/94 SEPT 1/94
GROUP 20
Planer Grader/Trimmer	19.56	20.41	20.66
GROUP 21
Quality Control Asst.	19.79	20.64	20.89
GROUP 22
Portal Crane Operator	2003	20 88	21.13
Supplement#! - Wage Schedule
- 42
Supplement#! • Wage Schedule
MTSCF.UANF.OUS CATEGORIES	MARCH 1/92
Planerman/PM/FJ	20.18
Mill Handyman (Maint)	21.23
MAINTENANCE DEPARTMENT	
Electrician Cert	21.78
Electrician	21.43
Apprentices • 4th year	19.00
- 3rd year	18.45
• 2nd year	18.00
- 1st year	17.74
MechanicCertified	21.78
Mechanic	21.43
Apprentices - 4th year	19.00
- 3rd year	18.45
- 2nd year	18.00
- 1st year	17.74
Millwright Certified	21.78
Millwricht	21.43
Apprentices - 4th year	19.00
- 3rd year	18.45
- 2nd year	18.00
1st year	17.74
Welder • B Pressure Ticket	21.60
Welder Gadifisd	21.43
Welder	21.19
Apprentices - 3rd year	19.00
• 2nd year	18.45
• 1st year	17.75
MARCH 1/94 SEPT 1/94
21.03	21.28
22.08	22.33
22.63	22.88
22.28	22.53
19.85	20.10
19.30	19.55
18.85	19.10
1859	18.84
22.63	22.88
22.28	22.53
19.85	20.10
19.30	19.55
18.85	19.10
18.59	18.84
22.63	22.88
22.28	22.53
19.85	20.10
19.30	19.55
18.85	19.10
18.59	18.84
22.45	22.70
22.28	22.53
22.04	22.29
19.85	20.10
19.30	19.55
18.60	18.85
Supplement #1 - Wage Schedule	- 43
Supplement#! - Wage Schedule
Partsman (with Ticket) Partstnan
Apprentices	-	3rd year ■ 2nd year -	1st year
Filer Sawfiler Apprentices	-	4th year -	3rd year -	2nd year -	1st year
Machinist Certified	
Machinist Apprentices	-	4th year -	3rd year -	2nd year -	1st year
Grinderman	
MARCH 1/92 MARCH 1/94
21.55	22.40
21.19	22.04
19.00	19.85
18.45	19.30
17.75	1859
21.78	22.63
21.43	22.28
19.00	19.85
18.45	19.30
18.00	18.85
17.74	1859
21.78	22.63
21.43	22.28
19.00	19.85
18.45	19.30
18.00	18.85
17.74	1859
18.64	19.49
Trade Utility #1 Trade Utility #2
18.64	19.49
18.18	19.03
Crane Maintenance
21.45	22.30
Welder Millwright
21.78	22.63
Chargehand: Job rate plus $0.22 (22cents) per hour.
SEPT 1/94
22.65
22.29
20.10
1955
18.84
22.88
2253
20.10
1955
19.10
18.84
22.88
22.53
20.10
19.55 19.10
18.84
19.74
19.74 19.28
22.55 22.88
SUPPLEMENT #2 ARTICLE XXI - PENSION PLAN
BETWEEN: CANADIAN FOREST PRODUCTS LTD,
Grande PrairieOperatlons
AND	COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION OF
CANADA
Local 446
The parlies agree that the following guidelines will be used in the administration ofthe Pension
Plan.
1.	All employee members of the Union will be members of the Plzn subject to provision 5 below.
2.	The parties agree that effective the first day of Lfirch,1993, the benefit levels shall be thirty-five dollars ($35.00) per month for each year of past service for eligible employees.
Effective the first day of September, 1994, the benefit levels shall be forty dollars ($40.00) per month for each year of past service for eligible employees.
3.	Normal retirement shall be at the age of sixty-five (65) years
4.	A vested employee member may elect early retirement with no reduction in earned pension after he/she has passed his/her sixtieth (60th) birthday. A vested employee member may elect early retirement with an actuarily reduced pension after he/she has passed his/her fifty-fifth (55th) birthday.
5.	Subject to provision 8 below, an employee will be vested when he/she has five (5) years of continuous service or in accordance with the Province of Alberta legislated requirements, whichever is less.
E.&O.E
Supplement U2 ■ Pa12d.cn Plan	- 45
6.	For the purpose of this plan, service is considered to be continuous until a member fails to work six hundred forty (640) hours in two (2)consecutive calendar years. Banked hours will not extend continuous service.
7.	If an employee who is vested has a break in service prior to retirement, that employee will receive a deferred vested pension when that employee retires. The pension will be based on the employee’s service before the break in service and at the benefit levels in effect at ffe time of the employee’s break in service.
If that employee should later return to employment with the Company, that employee will also receive credit for all service after the break. The amount of pension that the employee will receive will be based on the rate in effect each time that there was a break in service.
$. To receive a full year’s credit, an employee must accumulate fifteen hundred (1,500) pensionable hours in a calendar year. Pensionable hours shall include:
a.	Worked hours, including overtime hours. Overtime hours are credited at straight time.
b.	Firefighting hours up to a maximum of eight (8) hours in a day and forty (40) in a week
c.	Apprenticeship hours spent attending school on an apprenticeship program.
d.	Short shifts. Employees who, because of their work schedule, work less than eight (8) hours per day but are paid eight (8) hours per day shall be credited eight (8) hours per day.
In any year where an employee accumulatesmore than fifteen hundred (1,500) pensionable hours as described in pans (a),(b),(c) and (d) able, hours in excess of fifteen hundred (1,500) will be banked. In years in which an employee does not work fifteen hundred (1,500) hours, the banked hours may be used to bring the total hours worked during that year up to fifteen hundred (1,500) hours. Banked hours will also be. used when an employee retires if he has not accumulated fifteen hundred (1,500) hours in his last year of work. Banked hours cannot be. used to delay a break in service.
E.&O.E
Supplement#2 - Pension Plan
46
The following shall also be considered as pensionable hours. These hours may not be
banked, but may be used when an employee has used all of hisher banked hours:
a.	Layoffs. If a full-time employee is laid off for one(l) or more full weeks, he/she will receive forty (40) hours credit for each week up to a maximum of two hundred (200) hours per year.
b.	Illness or injury. If an employee is in receipt of wage loss benefits foatthe Workers' Compensation Board or Weekly Indemnity benefits for a disability that occurred off the jcb,he/she will receive a credit of eight (8) hours for each day he/she receivesbenefits. The maximum credit shall be fifteen hundred (1,500) hours per year.
c.	Total and Permanent Disability. If an employee is totally and permanently disabled, he/she will be credited with one hundred twenty-five (125) pensionable hours per month upon providing proof of the disability. These credits will continue until the employee recovers or begins to receive a pension, whichever happens first. If an employee is disabled and cannot continue to work at the Grande Prairie lumber mill but is capable of working elsewhere, he/she will not receive any further pension credits after hisher Workers’ Compensation or Long Term Disability benefits step
d.	Vacation. If an employee is eligible formore than five (5)weeks annual vacation, he/she will receive forty (40) hours credit for each week after the fifth(5th) week.
9- The fo llowing shall apply to tho se plan members who made contributions to the plan at its
inception:
a. ]f a participant's employment is terminated with the Company prior to the employee's retirement date, the employee will be entitled to a refund of hisher contributions with interest in accordance with the established interest tablesofthe plan. If the employee has completed five (5)or more years of credited service with the Company, he/she may elect to leave his/her contributions in the plan and receive on hisher normal retirement date under the plan a deferred pension in accordance with the pension benefit levels in effect at the time of the employee's termination.
E.& O.E.
Supplement #2 • Pension Plan
47
10.	All other requirements of the adninistrationof the plan will be determined in accordance
with the applicablepension legislation of the Province of Alberta or the Government of Canada.
11.	The Company will provide each plan member with a statement of the employee’s standing within the plan cnce each year. This statement shall include a record of the hours accumulated during the past year and a summary cf credits from previous years.
12.	The Parties agree that this Supplement replaces all previous Letters of Understanding regardi ng the Pension Plan and that all previous Letters of Undemanding regarding the Pension Plan are hereby cancelled.
CANADIAN FOREST PRODUCTS LTD. GRANDE PRAIRIE OPERATIONS	COMMUNICATIONS,ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION OF CANADA, Local 446/
	
///. ’ 	 / - rfcftfxt JifbuJ'	/OX i/XX
- 		
E.&O.E.
-48-
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING TRADESMEN’S TOOLS
BETWEEN: CANADIAN FOREST PRODUCTS LTD.
Grande Prairie Operations
AND:	COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION OF
CANADA Local 446
The Company agrees that in the event a£ a fire which results in the loss oftradesmen’s tools, the fiftydollar ($50.00)deductible as provided for under the Agreement will not apply when tools are in the care and custody of the Company.
CANADIAN FOREST PRODUCTS LTD. GRANDE PRAIRIE OPERATIONS
COMMUNICATIONS,ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNIONOFCANADA Local 446
E.&O.E
49
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
APPRENTICE’S TOOLS
BETWEEN: CANADIAN FOREST PRODUCTS LTD.
Grande Prairie Operations
AND:	COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION OF
CANADA Local 446
The Company acfees that it will replace or repair those apprentices’ tools that are damaged or broken in the performance of regular duties hi addition, the Company will make available for use, at no cost to apprentices, tools required up on the introduction <£ the metric system.
CANADIAN FOREST PRODUCTS LTD. COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND GRANDE PRAIRIE OPERATIONS	PAPERWORKERS UNIONOFCANADA
Local 446
/ (CjGpDrAM./____________ ft?.
E.& O.E
-50
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING APPRENTICESHIP AGREEMENT
BETWEEN: CANADIAN FOREST PRODUCTS LTD.
Grande Prairie Operations
AND:	COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION OF
CANADA
Local 446
Subject to the provisions ofthe Apprenticeship Act, the Government of the Province of Alberta, and the regulations made pursuant thereto respecting the following trades:
1.	Electrician
2.	Motor Mechanic
3.	Heavy Duty Mechanic
4.	Millwright
5.	Welder
6.	Machinist
it is agreed as follows:
Training time for Apprentices shall be in accordance with the scheduling for each trade as specified by the Apprenticeship Act as listed herein
TRADE
Electrician
Motor Mechanic
LENGTH OF
APPRENTICESHIP AT VOCATIONAL SCHOOL
4 years	1st year • 8 weeks
2nd year • 8 weeks 3rd year • 8 wed«s 4th year - 12 weeks
4 years	1st year - 8 weeks
2nd year - 8 wesks 3rd year • 8 weeks 4hyear • 8 weeks
E.& O.E.
Apprenticeship Agreement
51
Heavy Duty Mechanic	4 years	1st year • 8 wedcs 2nd year - 8 weeks 3rd year - 8 wedcs 4th year • 8 weeks
Millwright	4 years	1st year • 8 weds 2nd year • 8 vsed<s 3rd year-8 weeks 4th year - 8 weeks
Welder	3 years	1st year - 6 weeks 2nd year - 6 weeks 3rd year - 8 weeks
Machinist	4 years	1st year • 8 weeks 2nd year - 8 weds
		3rd year • 8 weeks 4th year - 8 weeks
1.	Wage Rates for Apprentices
Wage rates for Apprentices (who pass required tests) shall not be less than the percentage of the prevailing wages of Journeyman as specified for each trade by the Apprenticeship and Industry Training Act with respect to the trade. (Journeymen’s rates are set forth in Wage Supplement#! to the Collective Agreement between the parties.)
2. Expenses
The Company shall pay Apprentices while attending vocational school tte difference between the subsidy granted by the appropriate Government authorities and the regular wages cf tbs. employee concerned
E& O.E.
Apprenticeship Agreement
52
Since persons shall receive the wages less the sum paid to them by the appropriate Government authorities, married persons shallreceive their wages less the sum paid to single persons by the appropriate Government authorities. The provisions of the Collective Agreement shall be applicable to Apprentices in this program.
3.	felpH-innof Apprentices
When the Company requires Apprentices far any of the above-named trades, the vacancy will be posted in the operation and applicants selected in accordance with Article IX of the Collective Agreement.
4.	Successful Applicants
Successful applicants will be assigned for a three-month probationary period prior \N being apprentices.
5.	Right to Continue
Once started in the Apprenticeship Program subject, however, to the provisions of the Collective Agreement, the Apprentice shall have the right to continue, providing he passes all the prescribed tests and work is available for him.
6.	Tests
In the event the Apprentice fails to pass the required tests, he will be given a second opportunity, but in the event of failure to pass on the occasion of the second test in any period during his term as an Apprentice, he shall be required to withdraw from the program. It is understood, however, that he will continue to be employed in whateverjob is available for him in the operation.
E.& O.E.
Apprenticeship Agreement
7. Toots
(a)	Journeyman
All Journeymen shall be required to have, and shall not qualify for Journeyman rates unless they have a full kit of hand tools necessary to perform the job for which they are hired.
(b)	Apprentices
All Apprentices shall be requiredto have and maintain a tool kit to perform the job for which they are hired
day of -lujpi-
_A.D. 1992.
CANADIAN FOREST PRODUCTS LTD.	[UNI ITONS, ENERGY ANT
GRANDE PRAIRIEOPERATIONS	WOF RSUNIONO]
E.&O.E.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING ARTICLE Vn - HOURS OF WORK
BETWEEN: CANADIAN FOREST PRODUCTS LTD.
Grande Prairie Operations
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION OF CANADA
Local 446
The parties of this Agreement agree that the Company has the right to operate its plant or plants or any parts thereof far nine (9) hours per shift, said nine (9) hours to constitute the regular hours of work per day. The Company shall retain the right to determine shift length up to nine (9) hours per shift in any unit or department of the operation. Rate and one-half shall be paid for any hours worked over eight (8) hours per day of forty (40) hours per week.
The Company agrees to give at least ten (10) working days notice of change from an eight (8) hour shift schedule to a nine (9) hour shift schedule and at least three (3) working days notice of a change ftnn a nine (9) hour shift schedule lo an eight (8) hour shift schedule. The change in shift schedule from an eight (8) hour shift to a nine (9)hour shift will be implemented at the beginning of a work week
This Letter of Understanding shall apply to all areas of the Lumber Division except the planermill.
/'ft-'
day of.

A
_ad. mz.
CANADIAN FOREST PRODUCTS LTD.	COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND
AND
Dated this
E.& O.E.
-55-
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
ARTICLE VII - HOURS OF WORK PLANERMILL
BETWEEN: CANADIAN FOREST PRODUCTS LTD.
Grande prairie Operations
AND:	COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION OF
CANADA
Local 446
It is understood that when a nine (9) hour shift is required in the planermili for a period of up to cne (1) north, the Executive of the Communications, Energy and Paperworkers Union of Canada, Local 446, agrees to cooperate with the Company and to recommend to the employees affected that they work the nine (9) hour shift for the above period
The Union Executive will advise the Company if fifty-one percent (51%) of those voting have approved. When such notice i s received, the Company will make arrangements to institute the nine (9) hour shift in the planermili.
Dated this /7^ day of Ihfif,. AD. 19S2.W
CANADIANFOREST PRODUCTS LTD.	COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND
GRANDE PRAIRIE OPERATIONS	PAPERWORKERS UNION OFCANADA
E.& O.E
-56-
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING COMPETENCY
BETWEEN: CANADIAN FOREST PRODUCTS LTD.
Grande Prairie Operations
AND	COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION OF
CANADA
Local 446
The parties hereby agree that if an employee becomes unable to perform his/her normaljob duties for any reason, such employee will be placed in another job category for which the employee has sufficient seniority, in accordance with Article IX - Seniority, S.2(a)
CANSDZANFORESTPRODUCrS LTD.	COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND
GRANDE PRAIRIE OPERATIONS	PAPERWORKERS UNION OF CANADA
E.& O.E.
-57-
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING CHARGEHANDS
BETWEEN: CANADIAN FOREST PRODUCTS LTD.
Grande Prairie Operations
AND:	COMMUNICATIONS , ENERGY AND PAPERWORKSRS UNION OF
CANADA
Local 446
A Chargehand is a Union member, who under die direction of Management, has teen assigned the duties of relaying instructions, advising Management^ the progress of thewoikand assisting Management and crew in the common effort, of maintaining the highest standards of safety, quality and quantity of production.
A Chargehand does not have the authority to hire, discipline, or discharge another Dnloi member.
E.& O.E
-58-
LETTEROF UNDERSTANDING GRAVEYARDS AS A UNIQUE SHIFT
BETWEEN: CANADIAN FORESTPRODUCTSLTD.
Grande Prairie Operations
AND:	COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION OF
CANADA
Local 446
It is agreed between the parties that production and labour positions on a non-rotating graveyard shift will be recognized as unique from the same position on a rotating shift.
Under the terms of this agreement, futurejob postings will specify whether the position js for graveyard cr rotating shift.
CANADIAN FDRESTPR.ODUCTS LTD	COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND
E.& O.E.
SeasonalJob Posting Policy
59
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING SEASONALJOB POSTING POLICY
BETWEEN CANADIANFOREST PRODUCTS LTD.
Grande Prairie Operations
AND:	COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AMD PAPERWORKERS UNION OF
CANADA
Local 446
In order to maintain an efficient, well-trained workforce in seasonal positions, the following criteria wiU be used to award seasonal bids:
1-	Smirnty,competency considered.
2.	Competency to be defined as having previously held the job or having successfully completed training forthat job.
Jobs currently considered as seasonal are:
1.	Scale Operator
2.	Log Scaler
3.	980 Operator (additional)
4.	Portal Crane Operator (additional)
In order to ensure reasonable opportunity for personnel to enter into the seasonaljob group, ongoingtraining in thesejobs will be provided. Trainingwill be provided for aminimum oftwo (2) of the above positions per year until lune 26, 1994, at which time tie requirements will be reviewed. The positions mined will depend on the anticipatedneeds in future log haul seasons.
E.&O.E.
Seasonal lob Posting Policy
60
To be eligible to train for the log scaler position, trainees most have valid Alberta Forest Service log scaling qualifications. Opportunities will be made available to acquire AFS qualifications.
CANADIAN FOREST PRODUCTS LTD.	COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND
E.& O.E
-61 -
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING SAWMILL AMD PLANER UTILITY POSITIONS
BETWEEN CANADIAN FOREST PRODUCTS LTD.
Grande Prairie Operations
AND:	COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION OF
CANADA
LOCAL 446
The following terms and conditions will apply to the positions of Sawmill Utility and Planer Utility in regards to the starting wage group and the manner in which successful applicants must progress through the multiple positions involved
1.	SAWMILL UTILITY
(a)	Starting rate is based on the debarker group. If the Debarker group should change, the Sawmill Utility starting rate would change accordingly.
(b)	Ttfilm three months the successful applicantmust have qualifiedfor the following key sawmill pusitions:
-	Trimmer
-	Bin Sorter
*	slacker
-	Board edger
-	Debarker
-	Resaw
-	20" Chip-N-Saw
E.&O.E.
Sawmill/Planer Utility	- 62
Qualifications for other positions may be pursued over an indefinite period of time, but are not required to continue in the Sawmill Utility position.
1(c)	Qualification forjobs with a higher group than the Debarker will not be recognized until
all lower group jobs have been learned- As soon as qualification is achieved for lower group jobs training will begin on higher group jobs.
As qualification for higher group jobs is achieved the higher group will become the full time pay rate for this individual in the Sawmill Utilityjob. Qualification in positions such as Merchandiser, Cutoff Saw, and 28" CNS will be recognized in pay rate even though these qualifications are not required to qualify for the Utility position.
(d) Positions not considered the pan of the Sawmill Utilityjob:
•	Crane operator.
-	980 operator.
2.	PLANER UTILITY
(a) Starting Group rate, and the highest group available, for the Planer Utility position will be consistent with the forklift positions, currently Group #12. If the group for the planer infeed forklift or outfeed forklift should change then the Planer Utility group rate would change accordingly.
(b) Within three months the successful applicant would be required to train and qualify for the following positions :
-	Tilt hoist.
-	Planer feeder.
-	Bin attendant.
-	Planer stacker.
-	Bander.
(c)	Positions not considered part of the Planer Utility position:
-	Kiln attendant.
•	Lumber Grader.
E.& O.E
SawmiU/Planer Utility	- 63
3. GENERAL NOTES
(a)	If an operator m either the Sawmill Utility or Planer Utility positions is required to work in a capacity which has a higher group than that which is recognized in the Utility position, then the higher pup would be paid only for the duration of such work.
(b)	U during the initial three month training period an individual is unable to qualify for a position which is required in the Utility jct> then that individual would return to his/her previously held tad job.
Dated this. /700 day of	. 1	■
CANADIAN FOREST PRODUCTS LTD,	COMMUNICATIONS ENERGY AND
GRANDE PRAIRIE OPERATIONS
PAPERWORKERS UNION OF
CANADA
Local 446
E& O.E.
-64-
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING CASUAL EMPLOYEES
BETWEEN CANADIAN FOREST PRODUCTS LTD.
Grande Prairie Operations
AND:	COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION OF
CANADA
Local 446
The following terms and conditions constitute a supplemental set of guidelines governing the Casual employees:
1.	'Casual' employees aze students, 1? years or older, in full-time attendance at a school, college, university, etc., hired forthe purpose of weekend cleanup. They are not eligible to become regular employees or perform the duties of regular employees unless they terminate the casual workforce and are re-hired into the permanent full-time workforce.
2.	"Casual work" shall be defined as follows:
Cleanup
Mill Areas - general cleanup
Yard	• general cleanup including piling spilled loads
Shop	- general cleanup of vehicles, including Steam cleaning
and cleanup of shops
Maintenance
Helpers
Firewatch
E. & O.E.
casual Employees
65
3,	Casual employees will not be guaranteed any number of hours per week. Hours of work available to casual employees will be allocated on the basis of seniority within the casual group
Casual employees will be responsible for knowing what work is available to them on a weekly basis. This can be confirmed by phoning oir officeor discussing future work availability with the cleanup supervisor.
In the event of a change in ccrriiticns or followirga curtailment period, the Company will make every effort to contact all casual employees.
4.	Casual workers are rot entitled to benefits except as follows:
- Vacation pay calculated at four percent (4%) of gross earnings.
Coveralls will be supplied, at Company expense, to all casual employees with the
understanding that:
a.	The coveralls will be the sole responsibility Cf the employee, including periodic cleaning.
b.	If the employee is not with the company for a period of six (6) months or more, the coveralls must be returned in goad condition. If this is not done, the employee will be charged for the coveralls (based on a six (6) month depreciation of the coverall).
C. New coveralls will be issued to casual employees as required, but replacement will not be made for lost or stolen coveralls.
E. & O.E.
Casual Employees
66
It is agreed between the parties that Casual Employees, upon termination of their position as Casual, will he given first consideration for hiring to a regular position. This consideration does not constitute a guarantee for hiring and is contingent on the employee having satisfied the basic criteria used in hiring all new regular employees.
Dated this
/'7’gC day of
CANADIAN FOREST PRODUCTS LTD GRANDE PRAIRIE OPERATIONS
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION OF CANADA Local 446
K & O.E
-67-
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING COMPRESSED WORK WEEK SCHEDULE - MAINTENANCE
BETWEEN: CANADIAN FOREST PRODUCTS LTD.
Grande Prairie Operations
AND:	COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION OF
CANADA
Local 446
1 PREAMBLE
The purpose oflhis Agreement is to provide a weekend maintenance shift that will allow the Company to perform maintenance during periods when the production facility is not operating.
Except and unless specifically varied herein, all of the terms and conditions of the 1992 Collective Agreement between the parties shall apply.
The parties agree that the implementation and continued operation of this schedule will not result in any reduction of the present maintenance workforce.
2. HOURS OF WORK
The established hours of work shall be:
Friday:	Eight and one-half (8 1/2) hours - 7:00 am. to 3:30 p.m.
Eight and one-half (8 1/2) hours paid at ten (10) hours straight time.
Saturday: Twelve (12) hours • 6:00 am. to 6:00 pun.
Twelve (12) hours paid at straight time rate.
Sunday:	Twelve (12) hours • 6:00 a.m. to 6:00 pun.
Twelve (12) hours paid at rate and one-half.
E.& O.E.
Compressed Work Week
68 -
3.	OVERTIME
Rate and one-half shall be paid for any hours worked in excess of eight and one-half (8 1/2) hours per day cn Friday.
Double straight ume rates shall be paid for any hours worked in excess of eleven (11) hours per day on Friday.
Double straight time rates shall be paid for any hours worked in excess of twelve (12) hours per day on Saturday or Sunday.
4.	OVERTIME MEALS
Overtime meals shall be provided when required in accordance with Article VII, Section 11 of the Collective Agreement.
5.	SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL
All hours worked are considered as Day Shift if scheduled between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m.
All hours worked outside the recognized Day Shift will be considered as the Second or Third Shifts, and the premium rate of thirty-one cents (5.31) per hour will be pad for all such hours.
6.	LUNCH PERIODS
Lunch periods shall be a£one-half (1/2) hour duration and shall be taken at a time suitable to the employee and the company.
7.	REST PERIODS
There shall be two (2) ten (10) minute rest periods on Friday and three (3) ten (10) minute rest periods on Saturday and Sunday, to be taken at a time suitable to the employee and the company.
E.& O.E.
Compressed Work Week
69
8.	STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
In the event that a Statutory Holiday falls on a scheduled work day, it may be moved to the Friday as selected by the employee. The employee shall receive eight (8) hours pay for his regular hours of work missed due to the Statutory Holiday.
In the event that a Statutory Holiday falls on art employee’s scheduled day off, he shall be paid eight (8)hours at his regular straight-time rate of pay or shall have the option of taking a scheduled work day cff in lieu paid at eight (8) hours straight time pay.
In the event an employee is called in to work on his designated Statutory, Floating or Personal Floating Holiday, he shall be paid at the premium rates in accordance with the Collective Agreement for all hours worked on that day.
9.	VACATIONS WITH PAY
Vacation pay shall be calculated as per the Collective Agreement.
An employee who is scheduled to work in any week and who is cn vacation shall be treated as having taken one (1) week's vacation entitlement for each one (1) week's scheduledwork.
10.	HEALTH AND WELFARE, MEDICAL, DENTAL, ETC.
An employee who is scheduled to work under this schedule shall continue to be classified as a regular, full-timeemployee for all Health and Welfare, Medical, Dental, etc., eligibility purposes.
The word "day" or "days" where it appears to stipulate any period shall be considered as multiples of eight (8) hour units (i.e. one (I) day equals eight (8)hours and four (4) days equals thirty-two (32) hairs).
11.	PENSION PLAN, LONG TERM DISABILITY PLAN
The Company contribution to the Pension Plan and the Long Term Disability Plan for any employee who works the established hours under this schedule shall be a minimum of forty (40) hours per week or one (1) hour for each hour or pan thereof worked, whichever is greater.
E.& O.E.
Compressed Work Week
70-
The employee who works the established hours under this schedule shall contribute to the Pension Plan cr the Long Term Disability Plan on the basis <£ forty (40) hours per week.
12.	LEAVE OF ABSENCE, FUNERAL LEAVE, JURY DUTY
Leaves of Absence shall be in accordance with the provisions Of the Collective Agreement.
Funeral Leave under this schedule shall be paid at the maximum of twenty-four (24) hours pay at the employee’s regular straight-timerate of pay.
Jury Duty reimbursement under this schedule shall be based on hours that otherwise would have been paid under this schedule.
13.	SCHEDULING
The Company will draw up a list of ail employees who would wish to work on the above schedule, and employees will be scheduled on the basis of seniority.
Employees on this list will rotate through the above schedule every four (4) months.
Employees shall have the option of adding or removing their name from this list no more than two (2) times each calendar year. When names are added to the list, they will appear after the name of the i.odjviduai who was the last on the original list.
Only those trades specifically mentioned in this agreement will utilize this schedule: Millwrights, Welders, Electricians, Oilers.
14,	REVIEW, AMENDMENT OR TERMINATION
This Agreement shall be subject to review, amendment, or termination upon thirty (3 todays written notice by either party.
E.& O.E.
compressed Work Week
71
The terms and conditions of ai employee’s shift schedule upon termination of this Agreement shall be governed by the terms and conditionsof the Collective Agreement
CANADIAN FOREST PRODUCTS LTD GRANDE PRAIRIE OPERATIONS

COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND
PAPERWORKERS UNION OF
CANADA
Local 446

E.& O.E.
Intermittent Planer Graveyard Shift	- 72 -
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING INTERMITTENT PLANER GRAVEYARD SHIFT
BETWEEN CANADIAN FOREST PRODUCTS LTD.
Grande Prairie Operations
AND:	COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION OF
CANADA
Local 446
Due to the intermittent nature of the third shift in the planer, the following job posting policy will
be used to minimize disruptions in scheduling:
L lobs will be posted as intermittent. When a third shift goes on in the planer, the successful bidder will automatically be placed on that shift for the duration of the bid.
2.	lobs will be posted every six (6)months for a six (6) month term (May 1 to October 31 and November I to April 30)
3.	Persons awarded these bids must be prepared to commit themselves to completing a scheduled run of graveyards, except for health reasons or extraordinary circumstances, in which case every effort will be made to remove the person as soon as practicable.
4.	Persons wishing to return to their previous bid jobs and go off intermittent graveyards must give one week's notice in writing prior to the start of a scheduled run of graveyards.
5.	If a scheduled run of graveyard shifts extends past the October 31 or April 30 cutoff, then the incumbent would complete that run, and the new postings would be effective upon completion
6.	Replacements for the intermittent graveyard incumbents will be the senior competent person where possible.
E.& O.E
Intermittent Planer Graveyard Shift	- 73 -
7,	Employee* will be eligible to hold a permanent, a temporary, aad an intermittent bid concurrently, Seasonal and intermittent graveyard bids may not be held concurrently.
It should be noted that there is no guarantee of any graveyard shifts, trot the intermittent shift run will not exceed three <31 consecutive weeks.
Thia agreement shall be subject .to review, amendment or termination upon thirty <30) days written notice by either party.
CANADIAN FOREST PRODUCTS LTD. GRANDE PRAIRIE OPERATIONS
('

COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION OF CANADA Local m
B.& O.E