COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
This Agreement made this 4th Day of August, 2004 BETWEEN:
WEYERHAEUSER SASKATCHEWAN LTD. HUDSON BAY “OSB 2000” OPERATION (Hereinafter called the “Company”)
and
INDUSTRIAL, WOOD & ALLIED WORKERS OF CANADA LOCAL 1-184
(Hereinafter called the “UNION”)
PREAMBLE
This preamble states the reason and purpose of the agreement that follows.
The Company and Union have entered into this Agreement at Hudson Bay, Saskatchewan to record terms and conditions of employment, including hours of work and rates of pay and working conditions resulting from collective bargaining, which are to be observed by the Parties hereto. It is their desire to maintain a harmonious relationship between the Company and its employees, to settle all differences pertaining to matters within the confines of this Agreement in an amicable manner as herein provided and to work together to achieve the most efficient operation of the Plant and to promote the safety and health of the employees.
The Parties shall cooperate in the enforcement of plant rules and regulations to maintain order, discipline and efficiency and to promote measures necessary to ensure the maximum safety and health of all employees.
The Parties desire each employee to be familiar with the provisions of the Agreement and his/her rights and duties under it. For this reason the Company will have the Agreement printed in booklet form and a copy will be provided to each employee.
PARTNERSHIP AGREEMENT
The parties are committed to jointly support the development of a partnership between labour and the corporation. In doing so, Weyerhaeuser and I.W.A. Canada will strive for strategic alliances at all levels in pursuit of business growth, employee health and safety, customer satisfaction, employee education and development, increased profitability, maximized shareholder return, growth of employment and enhanced wages and benefits for all employees.
Consistent with the above the parties have developed a Work System Agreement which embodies the principles, systems and processes which will guide the implementation, operation and continuous improvement of the new work system within the Hudson Bay OSB 2000 operation.
ARTICLE 1 - Scope
nays 1
1:01 This Agreement shall apply to all employees employed by Weyerhaeuser at the OSB 2000 OPERATION and its successors in, or in connection with its place or places of business located in the town of Hudson Bay, in the Province of Saskatchewan except for the following classifications of employees which are herein excluded from the bargaining unit.
(a)	All office staff including executive, managerial, sales, engineering, accounting and clerical.
(b)	Salaried employees above and including the rank of Team Manager.
1:02 If any provision of this Agreement or any collective agreement made in pursuance thereof, is found to be contrary to the provisions of any law, now or hereafter enacted, this Agreement will not be abrogated, but is subject to such amendments as may be necessary to bring into conformity with the law.
ARTICLE 2 - Company Rights
2:01 The management and the operation of, and the direction and promotion of the working forces is vested exclusively in the Management; provided, however, that this will not be used for purposes of discrimination against employees.
2:02 The Company shall have the right to select its employees and to discipline or discharge them for proper cause.
ARTICLE 3 - Union Recognition
3:01 The Company recognizes the Union, during the term of this Agreement or any renewal thereof, as the exclusive representative of the employees for the purpose of collective bargaining with respect to hours of work, rates of pay and other conditions of employment contained in this Agreement.
3:02 It shall be a continued condition of employment that all present employees shall be members of the Union for the duration of this Agreement and that all employees who hereafter are employed by the Company shall within thirty (30) days of the commencement of their employment and as a condition of their employment, become members of the Union and shall maintain their membership in the Union during the term of this Agreement.
3:03 Any employee who is a member in good standing, or is reinstated as a member of the Union shall as a condition of continued employment maintain such membership in good standing throughout the term of this Agreement.
3:04 Any employee who fails to maintain his/her membership in the Union as prescribed herein by reason of refusal to pay dues and assessments shall be subject to discharge after seven (7) days written notice to the Company of the said employee’s refusal to maintain his/her membership.
3:05 The Company shall require all new employees at the time of hiring to execute an assignment of wages in duplicate, on signed authorization forms to be supplied by the Union.
This assignment in the case of employees already members of the Union shall be effective immediately and for those employees not previously members of the Union, it shall become effective thirty (30) calendar days from the date of execution. The Local Union shall notify the Company by letter of the amount of back dues owed by new employees and copies of such letter shall be furnished to the employee and the Plant Committee.
3:06 The Company shall remit the dues deducted pursuant to such assignment to the Union not less than once each month, with a written statement of names of the employees for whom the deductions were made and the amount of each deduction.
nage 2
3:07 Official Union Representatives shall obtain access to the Plant for the purpose of this Agreement under such reasonable terms and conditions as may be mutually agreed to between the local Union and the Company.
3:08 The Company agrees that the Union may post notices on a Notice Board supplied by the Company for Union Business.
ARTICLE 4 - Employee Security
4:01 There shall be no discrimination, coercion, interference or restraint by the Company or by the Union or by representatives of either party against any employee because of race, creed, colour, sex, national origin, religion or criminal record.
4:02 Employees whose regular jobs are not in the bargaining unit shall not work on any jobs which are included in the bargaining unit except for work necessary to prevent injury, loss or damage to material or equipment, for the purposes of training, and for research and development.
4:03 Bargaining unit employees who volunteer for Relief Salaried Staff positions up to ninety (90) days in each calendar year will not suffer any loss of seniority.
4:04 In an effort to provide continuous work, the Company shall give its employees and the Union advance information of employment opportunities at any new operation the Company may build in the Province of Saskatchewan.
4:05 In the event of a permanent plant closure, the company and the union will meet immediately after notification. A joint committee will be formed to deal with and secure alternative employment for all employees who are affected by the permanent plant closure. Employment opportunities in newly constructed or acquired company operations, in the Province of Saskatchewan, will be governed by the application of the company policy on interdivisional transfers.
ARTICLE 5 - Seniority
5:01 (a) The Company recognizes the principle of seniority, competency being sufficient to perform the duties required. In the application of seniority, it shall be determined by plant seniority. The employee’s seniority shall be dated from the time of hire.
(b)	The Company agrees to notify employees of positions outside the jurisdiction of this Agreement as such positions are created or become vacant at the operation.
(c)	We believe in the principle of promotion from within, provided the employee has the skills and ability to meet the requirements of salaried positions that become available. Accordingly, employees in the bargaining unit shall be given due consideration for selection to salaried positions.
5:02 In the event of a reduction of the forces the last person hired shall be the first released subject to the competency of the person involved and the provisions of 5:01. However, seniority shall not apply in a lay-off of less than one week’s duration.
5:03 Seniority during lay-offs shall be retained on the following basis:
03/07/05
3
nays 3
(a)	Employees with less than one (1) year’s service shall retain their seniority for a period of six (6) months.
(b)	Employees with one (1) or more year’s service shall retain their seniority for one (1) year, plus one additional month for each year’s service, up to an additional twelve (12) months.
It shall be the Employer’s responsibility to maintain an address file on employees and it shall be the employee’s responsibility to notify the Employer in writing of any change of address and telephone number.
ARTICLE 6 - Job Posting
6:01 Vacancies in Work Teams (Yard Team, Log Process Team, Finishing Team, Process Control Team, Heat Energy Team and Maintenance Team which includes Apprentices) will be posted for a period of eight (8) days, inviting applications, and will be filled in accordance with the criteria identified within the Work System Agreement.
Applications will need to be made on the forms provided to be accepted.
6:02 In the Skill Based pay system employees will not be reduced to a lower Pay Level unless, they choose to relinquish skill and associated responsibilities or they fail to maintain and use skills at a Pay Level. Management has the responsibility to ensure that employees are provided the opportunity to maintain skills within their career path. Rotations will be used as appropriate to maintain skills.
Maintenance employees who bid into production will receive the highest production rate for the team that they bid into. Should they fail to qualify within the qualification period their wage will revert to the highest production qualification achieved.
6:03 An employee posting to another Work Team is not viewed as an employee choosing to relinquish skills and associated responsibilities, provided they continue to maintain and use skills they have developed while they are in transition to the new career path. This clause does not apply to maintenance bidding into production.
6:04 The successful applicant posting to a Work Team will begin training as soon as practical thereafter. In the event that it will take longer than sixteen (16) days to begin training, the employee and plant committee will be advised when the training will begin. When a position is posted, an interested employee may request to have an information tour on the employee’s current shift, to review the tasks and work entailed.
6:05 Employees must qualify within the applicable time periods shown in the Work System Agreement. If they fail to qualify within the applicable time period to any Pay Level they will stay at the Pay Level they are qualified to, provided they continue to maintain and use the skills required at that Pay Level.
6:06 Employees shall be entitled to bid for such positions or vacancies by means of written applications in duplicate, one copy of which shall be submitted to the office of the Company and the other to the Union. No applications from employees received later than the posted closing date will be considered. Employees who are absent for any reason, which absence does not constitute a break in service under the terms of this Agreement, shall have the right to bid for such permanent positions preserved, provided that such employees avail themselves to such right within forty-eight (48) hours of their return to work and that the posting they are bidding on closed no more than six (6) months prior to the date of their return.
ARTICLE 7 - Increasing and Decreasing the Work Force
nage 4
7:01 When increasing the work force, employees on lay-off shall be returned to service in order of seniority, competency being sufficient to perform the duties required for the position to be filled. Notification of rehiring of those who cannot be contacted by normal methods shall be by Registered Mail addressed to the last address which the employee shall have registered with the Company.
7:02 During a reduction in forces where an employee’s seniority is such that they cannot remain in their posted Work Team he/she may elect whether or not to apply his/her seniority to move to another Work Team provided they possess the necessary skills to perform the role, or accept a lay-off until work within their Work Team becomes available, provided however:
i.	If during the lay-off period the employee wishes to return to work and so notifies the Company, he/she shall be called back to work as soon as his/her seniority and skills entitles them to a job.
ii.	The application of this provision shall not result in an employee, in the exercise of his rights, bumping an employee with less seniority.
7:03 The Company agrees to give as much notice as possible of a lay-off of six days or less and agrees to give forty-eight (48) hours notice in the even such lay-off is due to cut-back in orders.
ARTICLE 8 - New Employees
8.01	New hire Operations Technicians must qualify within their Work Team to Pay Level 1 (Pay Level 8 for new hire Maintenance Technicians) within the time limits specified in order to continue as an employee. If at any time during this training and qualification period an employee’s performance has given cause to believe that they will not meet the qualification requirements then this shall be considered proper cause for discharge.
Prior to reaching the decision the facts surrounding the decision will be reviewed with the Union. In the event that both the Union and the employee disagree with the decision, then the matter may be referred to arbitration. For the arbitrator to reinstate the employee, the Union must prove that management’s action towards the employee prevented qualification within the specified time requirements.
8.02	When hiring new employees, those applicants with previous seniority with the Company, will be considered prior to considering other applicants. To be considered applications must be on file meeting Company requirements.
8.03	In the case where an employee has been transferred by the Company to a management position and at a later date ceases to be a manager, it is agreed that reinstatement can be made within the Bargaining Unit, provided however, that the manager reinstated to the Bargaining Unit must accept an available Career Path and return within one (1) year of promotion. The employee will not accumulate seniority while a member of management.
The Company may use Bargaining Unit employees who volunteer for Relief Staff positions up to ninety (90) days in a calendar year without the employee suffering any loss of seniority.
ARTICLE 9 - Apprenticeship Program
9:01 The Company will hire only certified maintenance people or else indenture employees into an apprenticeship program. The parties agree to utilize the same selection process that is standard within other Company operations within Hudson Bay.
The purpose of this process is to establish an equitable criteria which will give reasonable assurance that the apprentice, upon completion of his/her indentureship, will become a proficient trades person and to assure the Union and its members that the senior competent applicant, who meets the criteria, will become an apprentice.
nays 5
ARTICLE 10 - Contractors and Sub-Contractors
The parties to this Agreement hereby agree that: In regard to sub-contracting relating to the plant Collective Agreement, the Company will make every effort to employ an IWA contractor first and unionized contractor second.
In regard to work in the plant, the following is the order of preference:
1st Preference - Plant Personnel
2nd Preference - IWA Contractor
3Id Preference - Union Contractor Other than IWA
4th Preference - Non-union Contractor
However, the need to manage costs is paramount and contracts for work in the plant will be awarded on the basis of competitiveness, reliability and quality of work. If an IWA or another union contractor fails to meet the above conditions the successful contractor(s) will pay the same union dues uniformly required of members of the IWA, directly to the IWA.
When a contractor is selected, the Company will advise the Plant Committee who is the successful contractor.
Should there be any concern the Company is prepared to discuss these concerns with the Plant Committee and/or local union.
ARTICLE 11 - Technological Change
11:01 Advance Notification
The Company shall notify the plant committee and the Union six (6) months in advance of the intent to institute
changes to working methods or facilities which will cause layoffs or substantial changes to the work employees
perform.
11:02 Severance Pay
(a)	Employees discharged or laid off because of technological change or automation shall be entitled to severance pay of seven (7) days’ pay at eight (8) hours straight time job rate for each fifty-two (52) weeks of continuous service with the Company. The amount paid under such entitlement shall not exceed a maximum of thirty (30) weeks.
(b)	Employees terminated because of a permanent or permanent partial plant closure shall be entitled to severance pay equal to seven (7) days’ pay at eight (8) hours straight time job rate for each fifty-two (52) weeks of continuous service with the Company. The amount paid under such entitlement shall not exceed a maximum of thirty (30) weeks.
(c)	Employees offered severance pay for permanent or permanent partial plant closure may elect to receive severance immediately or elect to waive severance until seniority runs out under Article 5.
11:03 Technological Changes
When technological changes are implemented, every reasonable effort will be made by the Company to retrain its
employees to satisfactorily perform the new duties required of them.
nays 6
11:04 An employee who is set back to a lower paid job because of mechanization, technological change or automation will receive the rate of his/her regular job at the time of the set-back for a period of three (3) months and for a further period of three (3) months he/she will be paid an adjusted rate which will be mid-way between the rate of his/her regular job at the time of the set-back and the rate of his/her new regular job. At the end of this six (6) month period, the rate of his/her new regular job will apply. However, such employee will have the option of terminating his/her employment and accepting the severance pay as outlined in 9:02, providing he/she exercises this option within the above referred to six (6) month period.
ARTICLE 12 - Performance Management
12:01 It is recognized that employees are accountable for their actions and that the Company is accountable to ensure that employees have regular and constructive feedback regarding their performance. The concept of open two-way communications between the parties will enhance this feedback process. The design of the process will be to focus on helping all employees succeed and to work with them to ensure their performance is at an acceptable level through coaching and counseling efforts. The parties will work co-operatively for the early identification and resolution of performance issues as they arise.
12:02 Should the Company consider that an employee’s conduct warrants any form of discipline, the practice shall be to warn or issue more severe discipline to the employee in the presence of a job steward at which time the employee will be given the opportunity to be heard.
12:03 Should an employee be dismissed, suspended, laid off or demoted and it is later established that such dismissal, suspension, lay-off or demotion was unfair or not in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement, he/she shall immediately be returned to his/her former status in all respects and shall be compensated for his/her net loss in earnings suffered by reason of such dismissal, suspension, lay-off or demotion.
ARTICLE 13 - Leave of Absence
13:01 The Company will grant Leave of Absence to employees suffering injury or illness for the term of this Agreement, subject to a medical certificate if requested by the employer. The employee shall report or cause to have reported the injury or illness which requires his/her absence to the Company as soon as may be reasonably possible.
13:02 Any employee desiring Leave of Absence must obtain permission in writing from the Company for such leave.
13:03 Leaves of Absence for Union Business
(a)	The Company will grant Leave of Absence to employees who are appointed or elected to Union Office or Union representatives for their term of office or length of hire. The employee who obtains this Leave shall return to his/her Company within thirty (30) calendar days after the completion of his/her term of employment with the Union.
(b)	The Company will grant Leave of Absence to employees who are elected as representatives to attend Union Meetings and Union Conventions or as members of any Negotiating Committee or I.W.A. Canada in order that they may carry out their duties on behalf of the Union.
(c)	In order for the employer to replace the employee with a competent substitute, it is agreed that before the employee receives his/her Leave of Absence, as set for in Clauses (a) and (b) above, the employer will be given due notice in writing; in the case of (a) twenty (20) calendar days; and in the case of (b), five (5) calendar days.
nays 7
13:04 Bereavement Leave
(a)	In the event of the death of a father, mother, brother, sister, husband, wife, son, daughter, father-in-law, mother-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, legal guardian, ward, step parent, grandparent or grandchildren of an employee, or the death of a grandparent of his/her spouse, the employee shall receive three (3) consecutive work days Leave, these days to follow immediately after the date of death. Only one spouse is recognized, not both, where reference is to the “Spouse’s next of kin.” Recognition of Common-Law Spouse will be that as defined in the Canada Pension Plan.
Example:
Mother-in-law or Spouse’s Grandparents, it shall mean the current Spouse’s Mother or Grandparents whether the current Spouse is a legal Spouse or a Common-Law Spouse. Bereavement Leave will also apply to the current Common-Law Spouse’s children who are dependent on the employee.
(b)	The employee will be paid based on his / her regular scheduled hours (i.e. 8, 10, 12 hours) at his / her regular straight time rate for each day.
(c)	If an employee is fatally injured at work, the Company shall meet with the Plant Committee to discuss an appropriate course of action in respect of the deceased.
13:05 Compassionate Leave
Employees will be granted a Leave of Absence, without pay, up to a maximum period of three (3) months after consideration of the employee’s grounds for such Leave.
13:06 Extended Vacations
The Company may grant Leave of Absence up to a maximum of three (3) months for extended vacation purposes provided that the employee applies in writing to the Company at least one (1) month in advance of departure date. The said Leave of Absence shall be without pay and shall be for the purpose issued only.
13:07 Maternity Leave
The Company will grant a reasonable period of extended Maternity Leave without pay to female employees. The Company will grant Parental Leave as per Saskatchewan legislation.
13:08 Public Office Leave
Employees will be granted Leave of Absence in order to fill positions in Federal, Provincial, Civic or Municipal Office for the duration of their term.
13:09 Education Leave
Employees will be granted Leave of Absence for Educational purposes, without pay, for a maximum period of ten (10) months, conditional on the following terms:
(a)	Training must be relative to the Industry.
(b)	Employees must apply at least one (1) month in advance, unless there are unusual circumstances.
(c)	The Company may postpone such Leave where a suitable replacement is not available.
03/07/05
8
nage 8
(d)	Upon return to work employees will return to their previously held position when the education leave is less than six (6) months. If the return to work is greater than 6 months, the employee must accept any job available until such time as he/she exercises his/her seniority for bidding purposes.
13:10 Jury Duty
Any regular full-time employee who is required to perform jury duty, including being subpoenaed as a witness on a day on which he would normally have worked will be reimbursed by the Company at his / her regular straight time hourly rate of pay for his / her regular scheduled hours of work.
13:11 All Leave of Absences granted will be communicated to the Plant Committee by the Company in writing. ARTICLE 14 - Plant. Committees
14:01 For the purposes of this Agreement, when the words “Plant Committee” is used it shall mean plant committee, members of which are appointed by the Union.
14:02 The Union shall be entitled to have one (1) employee on each production crew (there are four crews) and two (2) employees from maintenance career paths serve as Union Stewards/Officers.
14:03 The Union shall be entitled to a Plant Committee of employees which shall include Union Stewards as covered in 14.02 above and local Union officers not to exceed a total of seven (7) employees. The purpose of the Standing Committee shall be to negotiate with the Company, to handle grievances as appropriate in the procedure set forth in this Collective Agreement, and to resolve issues consistent with the Preamble of this Agreement. The Union will furnish the names of the Plant Committee members to the Company in writing.
14:04 Plant Committee members may meet with the Company during their working hours without loss of regular pay for time lost. Reasonable time will not be denied to Plant Committee members to leave their work to investigate and adjust grievances, but may be deferred if it will interfere with production or safe operations.
14:05 (a) A negotiating committee not to exceed three (3) employees in number, selected by the Union, shall be recognized as the authorized negotiation representatives of the Union. The Company shall deal with the said committee with respect to proposals for modification of the agreement as outlined in Article 31. Accredited officials of the I.W.A. Canada may participate in any such negotiations.
(b) For purposes of Negotiating Collective Agreements the Company shall pay for such time lost up to a maximum of ten (10) hours per member, and the Union shall pay for any time lost in excess of ten (10) hours per member.
ARTICLE 15-Adjustment of Grievances
In the event that a grievance should arise concerning any difference between the Parties or persons bound by this Agreement regarding the interpretation, application, operation, administration or any alleged violation of this Agreement it shall be dealt with in the following manner, without stoppage of work.
Step 1 - The individual employee involved with or without a union representative shall first take up the matter with his/her immediate manager within fourteen (14) days of the date of the said incident giving rise to the difference. Management will be provided a minimum of five (5) days to respond to the employee following a meeting with the employee.
03/07/05
9
nage 9
Step 2 - If the difference is not satisfactorily settled in this way then the employee, with representatives of the Plant Committee (not to exceed four members), shall take up the problem with the employee’s manager and the manager’s manager. The Human Resources manager for the operation is optional in this meeting.
Step 3 - If the difference is not resolved at the second step, the Union shall take the matter to the Plant Manager. The Plant Committee, an I.W.A. Canada Representative and the Plant Manager will meet to consider the grievance within thirty (30) days. Both parties will have the right to bring such persons to the meeting as they deem appropriate.
Step 4 - If a satisfactory settlement is not reached, it shall be dealt with through arbitration or right of reference as hereinafter provided.
If a grievance has not advanced to the next stage under Steps 1, 2 and 3 within fourteen (14) days after completion of the preceding stage, then the Grievance shall be deemed abandoned and all rights of recourse to the Grievance procedure shall be at an end. The time limits provided in the grievance process may be extended by mutual consent of both parties.
Management will provide a written response to grievances within fourteen (14) days of the conclusion of the second and third step grievance meetings. If an answer is not provided within this fourteen (14) day period the Union’s last requested resolution shall be adopted.
Where the Union or Company choose to submit a grievance, the grievance would be initiated at Step 3 of the Grievance Procedure.
ARTICLE 16 - Arbitration
16:01 If the Parties are unable to resolve the difference through the grievance procedure, either party may notify the other, in writing, of it’s desire to submit the difference to arbitration or right of reference.
16:02 The notice referred to in the above shall contain a brief statement of the difference and specify a name or list of names of the person or persons it is willing to accept as single arbitrator.
16:03 On receipt of a notice referred to above, the party receiving the notice may select one of the suggested arbitrators or make counter proposals on acceptable arbitrators. The parties will seek to find an acceptable arbitrator. Once an acceptable arbitrator is selected the difference shall be submitted to the arbitrator.
16:04 If the parties are unable to reach agreement on an acceptable arbitrator within fourteen (14) days of notice provided under 16:02 above either party may request the Minister of Labour for the Province of Saskatchewan to appoint an arbitrator.
16:05 The arbitrator shall inquire into the differences and issue an award in writing and the award is final and binding on the parties and on every employee effected by it. The arbitrator shall not be authorized to make nor shall they make, any decision or recommendation inconsistent with the provisions of the Agreement, nor alter, add to, modify or amend any part of the Agreement, or make any general changes, such as changes in wage rates, nor deal with any matter not covered by this Agreement.
16:06 Each party will bear in equal proportion the expenses and allowances of the arbitrator.
16:07 In the case of an employee who has been discharged or otherwise disciplined, if the arbitrator finds that there was no cause for such discharge or discipline, such employee shall be reinstated with full back pay and all other rights and privileges preserved under this Agreement, provided always that if it is shown to the Arbitrator
03/07/05
10
nays 10
that the employee has been in receipt of wages during the period between discharge or suspension and reinstatement, or date of failure to rehire and rehiring, the amount so received shall be deducted from wages payable by the Company pursuant to this section.
ARTICLE 17 - Right of Reference
17:01 Right to Refer
If the two parties fail to agree upon an interpretation of the Agreement, either Party shall have the right to refer the matter to the Right of Reference Committee hereinafter provided, and if either Party does make such reference, the other Party must accept the reference.
17:02 Committee Composition
The Right of Reference Committee shall consist of three (3) representatives selected by the I.W.A. Canada, Local 1-184, and three (3) representatives selected by the Company.
17:03 Agreement
When an interpretation of the Agreement has been referred to the Right of Reference Committee, this reference shall be for a period of forty-eight (48) hours or longer by mutual consent of the Parties to this Agreement. Where the Right of Reference Committee agree upon an interpretation, this shall be furnished in writing by the Company to the Union.
17:04 Disagreement
In the event that the Right of Reference Committee members disagree, all the facts in the case as found by the Union and the Union members of the said Committee shall be placed in writing by the Union representatives and submitted to the Company and to the Union members involved. The facts in the case, as found by the Company and the Company members of the said Committee, shall be placed in writing and given to the Union-member employees for their information.
17:05 Interpretation
If a satisfactory interpretation of the point in question is not reached, the matter shall be determined by interpretation in the following manner:
(a)	Either Party may notify the other Party in writing, of the question or questions to be interpreted.
(b)	All decisions will be final and binding upon the Parties of the First and Second parts.
(c)	The Parties agree to jointly seek a permanent interpreter to be mutually agreed upon.
(d) In the event that the interpreter as provided for in (c) herein is not available to preside as interpreter under this Article, the Parties agree that they will request the Honourable Minister of Labour of the Province of Saskatchewan to appoint an interpreter for the dispute, then pending.
ARTICLE 18 - Health and Safety
03/07/05
11
nays 11
The parties support the fundamental belief that our products can be made in a healthy and injury free environment. The parties recognize the Saskatchewan Occupational Health Act as the minimum standard for operation of the plant. Our vision of world class health and safety performance is supported by the following foundations, beliefs and actions:
_	“0” recordable incidents and lost time accidents is achievable
_	The entire organization works together to eliminate hazards and to role model healthy and safe behaviour
_	There will be a Joint Health and Safety Committee; with clear Roles, Relationships, and Responsibilities
_	Timely investigation of all health and safety incidents will occur, including near misses
_ Effective follow-up occurs to prevent reoccurrence of near misses and injuries _ Ongoing effective safety record keeping is practiced
_	Health and Safety audits are used to eliminate unsafe conditions and unsafe acts
_	There are regular monthly health and safety meetings for employees
_ At a minimum, there will be monthly site health and safety inspections.
_ Providing a safe and healthy place to work is the responsibility of the Company _ Providing necessary training to ensure people have the needed skills is a responsibility of the Company _ Following established health and safety operating procedures and practices is the responsibility of every employee - working in a healthy and safe manner is a condition of employment _ Helping each other is the way we conduct our business _ NOTHING WE DO IS WORTH GETTING HURT FOR!
ARTICLE 19 - Health and Safety Equipment
19:01 Where the following articles of equipment are required to be used by the Company or by the Worker’s Compensation Board, the Company shall, at no cost to the employee:
(a)	Supply new employees with the articles of equipment as required.
(b)	Supply employees moving to another Department with the articles of equipment they require and that they do not have at the time of the move, or
(c)	Replace articles of equipment as required when they are presented worn or damaged beyond repair by an employee at no cost to the employee:
i.	Aprons
ii.	Hard Hats and Liners
iii.	Welding Goggles
iv.	Dust Protection
v.	Eye Protection
vi.	Ear Protection
vii.	Gloves
(d)	The Company shall make coveralls available and maintain same for all employees.
(e)	Where vision correction is required, the Company will supply a pair of prescription safety eye glasses to employees who require corrective lenses. The usual and customary cost of eye exams will be paid by the company when obtaining these corrective lenses. Safety glasses will be repaired or replaced by the Company as required.
03/07/05
12	nays 12
(f)	The Company will provide payment of one hundred and fifty dollars ($150.00) per calendar year for the purchase of one or more pairs of CSA approved safety boots that are ankle height or above. This payment will be added onto the employees regular pay during the month of January and will be subject to withholding tax. Replacement safety footwear will be provided by the Company on a “like for like” basis when they are presented damaged beyond repair within the first ten (10) months from date of purchase.
ARTICLE 20 - Hours of Work and Overtime
20:01 The Union recognizes that the Company has the right to schedule hours of work and depending on the requirements of the Business, the right to alternate and vary shift schedules. For the purposes of scheduling, the Company may schedule employees to work twenty-one (21) shifts in a twenty-eight (28) day period.
For the purposes of this Clause a “Week” is defined as the period from midnight on Saturday to midnight on the following Saturday.
20:02 Regular Work Schedule
The regular hours for day shift employees shall be forty (40) work per week, with either five (5) days per week at eight (8) hours worked per day or four (4) days per week at ten (10) hours worked per day. Overtime shall be paid for employees working this schedule as follows:
(a)	Rate and one-half will be paid for:
i.	Hours worked in excess of the regularly scheduled hours of work on that day (over ten (10) or over eight (8) using the above examples).
ii.	Hours worked in excess of forty (40) hours per week.
iii.	Hours worked on Sunday.
iv.	Hours worked on a scheduled rest day. This clause does not apply when a change is made at the request of the employee.
Hours worked in excess of regularly scheduled hours identified in (i) above or hours paid for work performed on scheduled rest days, shall not be duplicated in calculating the forty (40) hours per week.
(b)	Double straight time rates will be paid for:
i.	Hours worked in excess of twelve (12) in a day.
ii.	Hours worked on Sunday by employees who have worked five (5) shifts during the preceding six (6) days. Applies to employees on a five (5) days per week eight (8) hours worked per day schedule. This does not apply to employees regularly scheduled to work on Sundays.
iii.	Hours worked on Sunday by employees who have worked four (4) shifts during the preceding six (6) days. Applies to employees on a four (4) days per week ten (10) hours worked per day schedule. This does not apply to employees regular scheduled to work on Sundays.
20:03 Seven Day Operating Schedules
For employees working on a seven day alternate shift schedule, the following shall apply:
(a)	Rate and one-half will be paid for:
i.	Hours worked on a scheduled rest day by the employee.
ii.	Hours worked on a Sunday (premium time).
nays 13
Hours worked in excess of regularly scheduled hours, shall not be duplicated in calculating weekly overtime based on regular hours worked.
(b)	Double straight time rates will be paid for:
i.	Hours worked in excess of twelve (12) in a day.
ii.	Hours worked on a Sunday, when it is a scheduled day of rest (this includes premium time pay).
20:04 Employees shall not be required to suspend work during their normal working hours for the purposes of absorbing overtime.
20:05 Time worked in excess of the scheduled daily hours of work by reason of a change of shift, or by an exchange of shift hours by mutual agreement concerned and with the approval of a manager, shall be paid for at the straight time rate.
20:06 When considered absolutely necessary by the Company, employees shall be required to perform overtime work in excess of their regularly scheduled hours. The Company shall determine when overtime shall be worked and when an employee shall report for duty. The Company shall consider any legitimate reason why an employee does not wish to work overtime and shall endeavour to find a replacement for such an employee. Failing this, the employee shall be required to work overtime. Overtime work shall be distributed as evenly as practical among the competent employees normally performing such work, as per the agreed upon call-in procedure.
20:07 Employees working twelve (12) hour shifts shall receive a thirty (30) minute paid lunch break within a two (2) hour time period from the middle of their shift. All other employees, regardless of the length of shifts being worked, shall receive a thirty (30) minute unpaid lunch within a two (2) hour time period from the middle of their shift.
20:08 Overtime Meals
If any employee is required to work more than one unscheduled hour immediately preceding or following his/her shift, he/she will be provided with a hot meal or at his/her option an allowance of ten dollars ($10.00) plus one half (1/2) hour at time and one-half (1 V£) times his/her regular straight time rate of pay. If an employee works in excess of thirteen (13) continuous hours, he/she will be provided with a second hot meal.
20:09 Maximum Hours
Employees will not be allowed to work more than twelve (12) hours per day unless an accident occurs, urgent work is necessary to a plant or machinery, or other unforeseeable or other unpreventable circumstances occur, in which case the hours of work shall be increased only to the extent necessary to avoid serious interference with the ordinary working of a business, undertaking or other activity.
When an employee works continuously for more than sixteen (16) hours, lunch periods included, and he/she is scheduled to work the next day, he/she will be given a rest period of eight (8) hours. He/she will not be required to report for work until the end of the eight (8) hour rest period. He/she will be paid straight time for any time lost from his/her regular shift as a result of the rest period.
20:10 The Company will pay for Company approved meetings, training or courses as if they were regular hours worked, including overtime if applicable.
20:11 Any portion of an overtime half-hour shall be considered as a half-hour.
nays 14
20:12 This Article is only for the purpose of establishing hours of work and of calculating overtime and shall not be construed as a guarantee of hours of work per day or per week.
ARTICLE 21 - Rates of Pay
21:01 The rates of pay (paylevels), as set forth in the attached Schedule “A” shall form part of this Agreement and shall continue in effect for the duration of this Agreement.
21:02 Employees shall be paid at the pay level they are qualified to perform.
21:03 When new career paths are created or when substantial changes are made in the skill and responsibility associated with an existing skill level during the life of this agreement, it is understood that the Company will set the rate of pay for the new or changed skill level, taking into consideration the current wage schedule. The Company and Union will meet to discuss the rates, and to negotiate a new rate. If a new rate cannot be agreed to within sixty (60) days of commencement of negotiations, then either party may submit the issue to the IWA National Office and IFLRA for evaluation and the establishment of a rate. The rate set for new or substantially changed skill levels must fall within the range of rates established within the existing wage schedule. A new rate will be paid retroactive to the date the change was made.
In the event that the rate for the skill level being challenged is already at the top of the present wage schedule, the evaluators are not prohibited from setting a higher wage rate if it is justified in their opinion. Justification must be based on practical comparisons to other rates in the current wage schedule.
21:04 On each pay day the Company shall provide to each employee an itemized statement setting forth the total number of hours worked by the employee concerned during the immediate preceding pay period, the rate of wages applicable to him/her, all deductions made from his/her wages whatsoever, the purposes for which such deductions were made, the total amount actually payable to him/her, and such other information as may from time to time be agreed upon by the parties.
21:05 An employee hurt in an industrial accident shall be paid for all scheduled time lost on the day he/she was injured at his/her applicable rate of earnings.
21:06 The Company shall pay employees for lost time and cost incurred on writing Trades Qualification Examination and the renewal of any trade’s ticket and license which is required by the Company. If an employee is required to travel on his/her day off for this purpose, they shall be paid for hours traveled at their regular straight time rate of pay.
21:07 Employees will be paid their scheduled rate of pay for all floating holidays, bereavement leave and statutory holidays. This will include shift differential pay, first aid premiums and emergency response team (ERT) premiums only.
21:08 The Company will pay for all designated first aid attendants actual shifts lost due to attendance at first aid training. Payment will also include books and tuition fees.
21:09 Apprentices required to cover a shift without a Trades person on duty shall receive the Level 6 Rate (trades technician).
21:10 An employee moving from the Production Department to the Maintenance Department as an Apprentice shall remain at his/her production rate at the time of the move if said rate is higher than the rate under the Apprenticeship Schedule. However, when his/her Production rate becomes less than the appropriate Apprenticeship rate he/she shall receive the appropriate rate as per the Apprenticeship Schedule.
03/07/05
15	nays 15
ARTICLE 22 - Call Time
22:01 Any employee who normally is required to report to work and on reporting finds no work available, shall be entitled to two (2) hours pay at his/her regular rate. However, in the event the employee commences work and the operation closes, he/she shall be entitled to a minimum of four (4) hours at his/her regular rate of pay, unless the closure is beyond the employer’s control.
22:02 Any employee who, because of emergency is called out for duty any time before or after his/her regular hours of work, shall be free when the emergency is over, but shall nevertheless be paid four (4) hours minimum at overtime rates.
ARTICLE 23 - Statutory Holidays
23:01 The following days shall be observed as paid holidays:
New Year’s Day	Thanksgiving Day
Good Friday	Remembrance Day
Canada Day	Christmas Day
Labour Day	December 26th
It is understood that at the Company’s option operations may be scheduled to continue on these days and that employees normally scheduled to work on these days are expected to report to work as scheduled, unless informed otherwise.
The observance of the above holidays may be made on days other than the calendar date when so proclaimed by Province of Saskatchewan Proclamation or upon mutual agreement between the Company and the Union. An employee shall be entitled to payment from any of the above holidays provided that the employee qualifies as outlined in 23.07.
23:02 All time worked on Holiday as specified in 23:01 of the Article, shall be paid at one and one-half (1 IT) times the employee’s regular rate in addition to pay for the full holiday at the employee’s regular rate of pay if he/she qualifies.
23:03 If a statutory holiday falls on a Sunday and the employee works that day, they will be paid at double straight time rate for all hours worked.
23:04 If a statutory holiday falls on an employee’s regular scheduled day off, they will be paid eight (8) hours statutory holiday pay.
23:05 If a statutory holiday falls on an employee’s regular scheduled day of work, they will be paid statutory holiday pay based on their regular scheduled hours (i.e. 8 hour shift - 8 hours stat. pay, 10 hour shift - 10 hours stat. pay, 12 hour shift - 12 hour stat. pay)
23:06 Statutory holiday pay for shift workers will commence with the beginning of the first day shift on the statutory holiday and continue for a 24-hour period (will not be broken up to cover partial shifts).
23:07 Qualifying Conditions:
(a)	An employee, to qualify for Statutory Holiday pay must comply with each of the following three conditions:
03/07/05
16
nage 16
(i)	Have been on the payroll one (1) calendar day immediately preceding the holiday.
(ii)	Have worked his/her last regularly scheduled work day before and his/her first regularly scheduled work day after the holiday, unless his/her absence is due to illness, compensable occupational injury or is otherwise authorized by the Employer.
(iii)	Notwithstanding (ii) above, the Employees must have worked one day before and one day after the holiday, both of which must fall within a period of sixty (60) calendar days.
(b)	In case of injury or illness in (ii) above, the Employer shall have the right to request a medical certificate.
(b)	Employees while on Leave of Absence for Union business, except the Plant Negotiating Committee, shall not qualify for paid Statutory Holidays.
23:08 Personal Floating Holidays
(a)	In addition to the Statutory Holidays as outlined in 23:01, each regular employee shall be entitled to five (5) Personal Floating Holidays in each calendar year with pay at eight (8) hours at his/her regular straight time job rate.
Scheduling of Personal Floating Holidays shall be subject to the following conditions:
(i) Requests for Personal Floating Holidays must be submitted in writing seven (7) days in advance and Management will confirm the status of the employee’s request within forty-eight (48) hours. If practical, Management may grant Personal Floating Holidays with less advance notice.
23:09 (a) For the remaining Floating Holidays owed above that have not been taken, payment will be made on the employee’s first pay day in December.
(b)	Two Personal Floating Holiday entitlements are in lieu of the Victoria Day and Saskatchewan Day
Statutory Holidays.
ARTICLE 24 - Annual Vacations
24:01 With respect to annual vacation and vacation pay, the following provisions will apply:
(a)	The annual vacation period follows the calendar year, January 1, to December 31. December 31 shall be the
cut-off date for the purpose of computing vacation entitlement in the subsequent vacation year.
(b)	For employee vacation time, vacation pay shall be paid to an employee on the employee’s next scheduled pay
day following commencement of the vacation. This vacation payment will be forty (40) hours of pay per week of vacation taken, at the employee’s posted rate at the time the vacation is taken.
(c)	For the remaining annual vacation pay owed above that already provided, payment will be made on the employee’s first pay day in December.
24:02 Vacation Year, Vacation Entitlement and Vacation Pay calculations shall be as follows:
(a)	An employee who has completed one (1) year of continuous service with the Company shall be entitled to an annual vacation of three (3) weeks and shall be paid seven percent (7%) of his/her total wages earned in the prior vacation year.
03/07/05
17
nays 17
The three week vacation entitlement may be taken consecutively at the employee’s option.
(b)	An employee who has completed nine (9) years of continuous service with the Company shall be entitled to an annual vacation of four (4) weeks and shall be paid nine percent (9%) of his/her total wages earned in the prior vacation year. The additional one (1) week may be taken when convenient for the Company, but does not have to be consecutive with the vacation period provided in Subsection (a) above.
(c)	An employee who has completed seventeen (17) years of continuous service with the Company shall be entitled to an annual vacation of five (5) weeks and shall be paid eleven percent (11%) of his/her total wages earned in the prior vacation year. The additional two (2) weeks may be taken when convenient for the Company, but does not have to be consecutive with the vacation period provided in subsection (a) above.
(d)	An employee who has completed twenty-five (25) years of continuous service with the Company shall be entitled to an annual vacation of six (6) weeks and shall be paid thirteen percent (13%) of his/her total wages earned in the prior vacation year. The additional three (3) weeks may be taken when convenient for the Company, but does not have to be consecutive with the vacation period provided in sub-section (a) above.
24:03 An employee shall be entitled to the above vacations only when his/her service has been continuous. Continuous service shall terminate by reason of:
(a)	Dismissed for just cause
(b)	Terminates and is not an employee of the Company for a continuous period of 180 days or more.
(c)	Is laid-off due to lack of work more than the length of time as outlined in Article 5, 5:03, (a) and (b).
(d)	Fails to return to work ten (10) days after being notified to return after a lay-off.
(e)	Is absent for any other reason for more than the length of time outlined in Article 5, 5:03 (a) and (b). It is understood that the provision outlined in 24:03 (e) will not supersede the provisions outline in Article 13 - Leave of Absence.
24:04 Upon termination of employment, an employee shall be paid seven percent (7%), nine percent (9%), eleven percent (11%) or thirteen percent (13%), as the case may be of the total wages earned for the period of employment not compensated by a vacation.
24:05 Where a Statutory Holiday falls within an employee’s annual vacation period, such employee shall be granted one additional day’s vacation or pay in lieu of the additional day.
24:06 (a) For the purposes of vacation, a week’s vacation shall be considered as (7) calendar days for employees working shifts of less than twelve (12) hours duration. Further, the employee may start his/her vacation on the first normal working day following his/her days of rest.
(b) Employees shall take vacations at times scheduled by the Company in order to cause the least disturbance to the efficient operation of the plant. Vacations shall be scheduled between May 1st and November 30th. Requests for vacations outside the scheduled period shall be considered by the Company.
(c)	If the Company anticipates a vacation shutdown, the Union and Plant Committee shall be consulted as to time and terms prior to making a final decision.
03/07/05
18	nays 18
24:07 Supplementary Vacations:
(a) After completing five (5) or more years of service with the Company, an employee shall, in addition to the regular vacation to which he/she is entitled, become eligible to receive a Supplementary Vacation with pay for each five (5) years as set forth:
Years of Completed Service
Amount of Vacation
After 5 years After 10 years After 15 years After 20 years After 25 years After 30 years After 35 years
1	week
2	weeks
3	weeks
4	weeks
4	weeks
5	weeks 5 weeks
(b)	The pay shall be equal to forty (40) hours at the straight time hourly rate of the employee’s regular rate of
pay.
(c)	Upon termination, an employee who has served five (5) years or more, shall receive the proportion of the supplementary vacation for which he/she is entitled.
(d)	The supplementary vacation cannot be taken during the months of July or August.
(e)	The supplementary vacation shall be taken prior to the next earned period of supplementary vacation. One week of the supplementary vacation can be carried over into the next qualifying period, but must be taken in the first year of the new qualifying period.
ARTICLE 25 - Health and Welfare
25:01 The Company will provide to its employees the Extended Health Benefit Plan as described in Schedule “B” herein.
25:02 New employees shall be eligible to join the plan upon the first day of the month following completion of thirty (30) calendar days with the Company.
25:03 Eligible employees shall participate in the plan as a condition of employment.
25:04 If in any of the Sections in Schedule “B”, Legislation is passed preventing insurance carriers from underwriting the coverage, then the Company will not be responsible for providing employees with the coverage.
25:05 Employees electing to work beyond age 65 (if legislation requires a change in Company Policy) will continue to receive the same level of benefit coverage as employees under 65 with the following exceptions:
1.	Life Insurance: reduces to $25,000 and will terminate at age 70 or when employee’s membership in the plan terminates, if earlier.
2.	Dependent Life Insurance: terminates when spouse turns 70 or when the employee’s membership in the plan terminates, if earlier.
03/07/05
19
nage 19
3.	Long Term Disability terminates at age 65.
4.	Waiver of Premium under Group Life terminates at age 65.
ARTICLE 26 - Pension Plan
26:01 The Company will continue to fund the plan in accordance with applicable pension legislation.
(a)	Defined Benefit Plan.
(b)	100% Company funded.
(c)	Effective January 1, 1993, the pension will provide a benefit of fifty-seven dollars and fifty-cents ($57.50) per month per year of service for future service.
(d)	There will be a joint pension board.
ARTICLE 27 - Trades Tools
27:01 Tool Allowance
(a)	The Company shall, upon the signing of this Agreement, at its expense, insure for damage or loss caused by fire or flood, the tools of its employees which are required to be used in the performance of their work.
(b)	The Company shall, upon the signing of this Agreement, at its expense, insure the tools of its employees which are required to be used in the performance of their work, for loss by theft where tools are stored in a designated place of safety within the control of the Company and there is forcible breaking and entering.
27:02 Damaged or Broken Tools
The Company will repair or replace tools damaged or broken in the performance of regular duties.
27:03 Metric Tools
The Company will also make available to trades people Company owned tools required upon the introduction of the metric system at no cost to the employee.
ARTICLE 28 - Education Trust Fund
The fund to be structured so as to comply with all requirements of a trust as specified by Revenue Canada.
The Company will contribute to the Education Trust Fund and will continue such contributions throughout the period of the Collective Agreement. The contributions will be four cents ($.04) per hour worked per employee effective April 1, 2003.
The contributions will be based on all hours worked and submitted monthly to the Local Union, I.W.A. -Canada, Local 1-184.
Upon request by the Company (not more than once annually) the Union will provide information regarding total hours of training provided to employees covered by this agreement.
nays 20
ARTICLE 29 - Strikes and Lockouts
There shall be no strikes and Lockouts by the parties to this agreement with respect to any matter arising out of the Agreement for which arbitration is provided under the terms of the Agreement.
ARTICLE 30 - Maintenance and Protection During Suspension of Work
30:01 During any general suspension of work at any time and for any cause whatsoever, the Company’s property shall be protected, and the Company’s equipment shall be left in good condition by the employees. All safety provisions shall be full complied with by all employees prior to any cessation of work.
30:02 Those employees who are required to remain at work under the provisions of Clause 30:01 above, shall be available for such work during the suspension of work. Production, or shipping work shall be done at such time only with agreement between the Company and the Union.
30:03 The employees referred to in Clause 30:02 above shall be paid at the wage rates in effect at the time of the general suspension of work.
ARTICLE 31 - Duration of Agreement
This Agreement shall be in effect from April 1, 2004 to March 31, 2008 and from year to year thereafter unless changed through mutual consent. At the end of the Agreement expiring March 31, 2008 or in any year to year agreement thereafter, either party may, not less than thirty (30) days or greater than sixty (60) days before the expiry date of the Agreement, give notice to the other party to negotiate revisions to the Agreement, and thereupon the parties shall forthwith bargain collectively with a view to the renewal or revision of the Agreement or the conclusion of a new Agreement.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company and the Union have caused these presents to be executed by their duly authorized representatives on the date given below, to take effect the 1st Day of April, 2004 and ends on the Thirty First Day of March, 2008.
Dated at Hudson Bay, Saskatchewan, this______Day of___________________, 2004.
I.W.A. - CANADA	WEYERHAEUSER SASKATCHEWAN LTD.
LOCAL 1-184	HUDSON BAY
SCHEDULE “A” WAGE SCALE
This wage scale should be used in conjunction with the Work System Agreement documents to apply skill based
pay.
03/07/05
21
nays 21
SKILL BASED PAY RATES	April 1, 2004 2%	April 1, 2005 2.0%	April 1, 2006 2.0%	April 1, 2007 2.%
Student (1)	$18.97	$19.35	$19.74	$20.13
New Hire Rate	$22.08	$22.53	$22.98	$23.44
Level 1 Rate	$22.63	$23.09	$23.55	$24.02
Level 2 Rate	$23.55	$24.02	$24.50	$24.99
Level 3 Rate	$24.48	$24.97	$25.47	$25.98
Level 4 Rate	$25.72	$26.24	$26.77	$27.30
Level 5 Rate	$26.95	$27.49	$28.04	$28.60
Level 6 Rate	$28.07	$28.63	$29.20	$29.79
Level 7 Rate	$29.18	$29.77	$30.36	$30.97
Level 8 Rate	$29.74	$30.34	$30.95	$31.56
Apprentice - 1st Year Level 2 Rate, Apprentice - 2nd Year Level 3 Rate, Apprentice - 3rd Year Level 4 Rate, Apprentice -4th Year Level 5 Rate.
(1)	Employees designated by the Company as “Student” may be hired for one hundred and twenty (120) days in order to provide summer vacation relief and for fourteen (14) days during the Christmas Season. During this period they will be considered temporary workers only, and no seniority rights shall be recognized. In addition they shall not be eligible or qualify for any Long Term Disability (LTD) benefits, nor weekly indemnity (WI) after the date of their agreed upon term of employment. The policy jointly developed by the Company and Union will be used for administration of student hiring.
(2)	The Shift Differential which is added for hours worked on the designated afternoon shift will be thirty-three cents ($.33) per hour.
(3)	The Shift Differential which is added for hours worked on the designated night shift will be thirty-three cents ($.33) per hour.
(4)	The Shift Differential which is added for hours worked on the designated night shift for employees working a twelve (12) hour shift shall be fifty ($.50) cents per hour.
(5)	OPPORTUNITY BLOCKS:
Standard First Aid	$.10/hour
03/07/05
22
nage 22
Other Opportunity Blocks
$.50/hour (Minimum)
SCHEDULE“B”
EXTENDED HEALTH BENEFIT PLAN
A.	The Company will provide at no cost to the employee:
1.	GROUP LIFE INSURANCE
Group Life Insurance for each qualified employee will be two (2) times an employees base annual income (2 x the posted hourly rate x 2080).
Employee’s Spouse -	$10,000
Eligible Dependents -	5,000
2.	ACCIDENTAL DEATH AND DISMEMBERMENT (A.D.&D.)
Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance for each qualified employee will be two (2) times an employees base annual income (2 x the posted hourly rate x 2080).
3.	WEEKLY INDEMNITY
Weekly indemnity payments are payable from the first day in the case of an accident, hospitalization, laser or outpatient surgery and from the fourth day in the case of illness.
Note: The above is intended to cover treatment for medical reasons, not for cosmetic purposes.
Weekly Benefits:
Seventy percent (70%) of their normal weekly earnings. Weekly earnings will be calculated by taking the straight time rate of pay multiplied by forty (40) hours per week. Duration - 52 weeks.
Any E.I. rebate will be to the Company’s benefit.
B.	Dental Plan
A Dental Plan will be provided based on the following general principles:
i)	Basic dental services (Plan A) - Plan pays ninety percent (90%) of approved schedule of fees.
ii)	Prosthetics, crowns and bridges (Plan B) - Plan pays seventy-five percent (75%) of approved schedule of fees.
iii)	Orthodontic (Plan C) - Plan pays fifty percent (50%) of approved schedule of fees [(Lifetime maximum - Three Thousand Dollars ($3,000.00)].
iv)	Premium cost to be paid by the Company.
C.	The Company will provide at no cost to employees:
03/07/05
23
nays 23
1.	An Extended Health Plan covered in Supplement Number 3.
2.	Long Term Disability Insurance:
A long term disability plan based on Seventy Percent (70%) of an employee’s normal annual earnings, less offsets, from the date of expiration of weekly indemnity coverage to age sixty-five (65). “Normal annual earnings” is defined as an employee’s regular straight time hourly rate multiplied by 2,080 hours.
D.	Vision Care
Vision care expenses for the following supplies prescribed by a legally qualified Opthamologist or
Optometrist every 24 months per person (12 months for individuals under 18 years of age):
1.	One set of single vision, bifocals, trifocals or contact lenses. In cases where special circumstances arise due to eye disease or illness, the Company may waive the twenty-four (24) month restriction subject to medical approval.
Eye examination (including infractions) will be a covered expense. Benefits for these expenses are limited to Sixty Dollars ($60.00) per person in any twenty-four (24) month period for the employee and his or her dependents as defined in the Plan Text excluding dependent children under eighteen (18) years of age.
2.	Frames as required to accommodate the lenses but any charges in excess of $100.00 will be disregarded.
No benefits payable for:
1.	Replacement or stolen or broken lenses or frames (when it occurs within 24 months or 12 months if under the age of 18) from the date of purchase of the previous pair.
2.	Duplicate or spare lenses, sunglasses or tinted glasses with a tint other than number 1.
3.	Anti-reflective coatings.
03/07/05
24
nage 24
SUPPLEMENT NO. 1
LETTER OF INTENT - JURY DUTY
The parties to the current Collective Agreement agree that the following shall constitute mutual understanding and agreement on the intent of Article 13:10 “Jury Duty”:
1.	Payment for Jury Duty or Subpoenaed Witness for all matters arising in Hudson Bay, will be based on the employee taking time off from his/her regular shift to appear and then returning to his/her regular shift with reasonable time to change clothes or attend to matters arising out of his/her appearance.
(Example: Shift is 7:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. -
Court appearance is at 10:00 a.m. and concludes at 12:00 noon. Employee would attend court at 10:00 a.m., go home, eat lunch, change clothes and report at 1:30 p.m. with no loss in pay.)
2.	Payment for Jury Duty or Subpoenaed Witness for all matters arising outside of Hudson Bay, will be based on the employee taking time off from his/her regular shift to appear and then returning to work on his/her next regular shift.
(Example: Shift starts Monday, 7:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. and concludes Friday at 7:00 a.m.-Employee is subpoenaed witness in Melfort 10:00 a.m. Monday or Jury Duty 10:00 a.m. Monday. Reports as required and stays as directed. Upon conclusion of his/her Testimony or Jury Serving comes home and reports for work on his/her next regular day with no loss in pay.)
It is further agreed that all hours paid for attending, will be at the employee’s regular straight time rate of pay and any moneys received for attending will be for the employee’s personal use - with the intent being to help cover expenses associated with travel.
SUPPLEMENT NO. 2
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - MEDICAL TRAVEL ALLOWANCE
This benefit will be administered by the Company.
This benefit is intended to provide a medical travel allowance for necessary medical travel from remote areas when regular employees or their dependents (as defined in the plan text for the Group Insurance Benefits Program) are referred by their attending physicians to medical specialists where the necessary travel is in excess of 500 km on a round trip basis from the patient’s residence.
Effective Date
This benefit is effective April 1, 2004 Maximum Allowance
The maximum allowance payable on behalf of any regular employee and his or her eligible dependents is a total of $1,050 over the four year term of the agreement, with a maximum of $400 in any one year.
nays 25
Expenses Covered
Eligible expenses include the following:
1)	hotel accommodation (see condition 3 below)
2)	travel by private automobile at 42 cents per kilometer
Some Conditions That Apply to Medical Travel Allowance
1)	All medical referrals must be in writing on the approved form.
2)	For reimbursement under this provision, medical travel must take place within two months of the physician’s referral unless the earliest possible date of availability of the specialist is beyond two months from the date of the referral.
3)	Entitlement to hotel expenses will be based on the reasonableness of the employee or dependent being unable to return home on the day of the referral.
4)	Accommodation costs incurred at public facilities, such as Ronald MacDonald House, will be eligible for reimbursement under “hotel accommodation”.
5)	Reimbursement for hotel accommodation will be on the cost of reasonably priced hotels and motels in the area of the Specialist’s appointment. The Company will provide a list of acceptable accommodation facilities in major cities.
6)	Where the patient stays at the private home of family or friends during the medical travel trip, no accommodation allowance is payable; however, the patient will be entitled to the 30 cents/kilometer private automobile travel rate for the distance between the private home and the location of the Specialist.
7)	Medical Specialists are doctors or surgeons who are Doctors of Medicine (M.D.) duly licensed to practice medicine and who also hold a Specialist degree. Chiropractors, Naturopaths, Physiotherapists, Podiatrists, Massage Therapists, Occupational Therapists, Dentists, and Orthodontists are not Medical Specialists for the purpose of this travel allowance.
8)	A claim form including the original medical referral together with the original receipts must be filed by the employee within 90 days of the date eligible expenses are incurred.
9)	Expenses which are payable under Worker’s Compensation Act, the Saskatchewan Health Services Plan, Saskatchewan Government Insurance or any other government agency or insurance plan will not be eligible for reimbursement from this plan.
10)	The 500 km round trip minimum is to be interpreted as land or surface distance from the patient’s residence to the Specialist’s office.
03/07/05
26
nage 26
SUPPLEMENT NO. 3
EXTENDED HEALTH PLAN
1.	Membership Eligibility ‘Dependents’ include:
(a)	legal spouse or common-law spouse.
(b)	Dependent children to their twenty-first birthday if unmarried and not working, and to attainment of their twenty-fifth birthday, if attending a recognized school or university or mentally or physically handicapped.
2.	Termination of Coverage
Plan coverage will cease at the end of the month in which the employee’s service with the company terminates. In the event of a ‘lay-off’ coverage will be continued in accordance with Article 5, 5:03 (a) and (b)
3.	Plan Deductible
Effective 1/1/2005 $25.00 per individual or member per calendar year. Effective 1/1/2007 $50.00 per individual or member per calendar year. In the event that expenses for a year do not exceed the deductible, those expenses incurred in the last three months of that year can be applied against the deductible feature of the next year.
4.	Financial Limits
A maximum of $7,500 per member and each eligible dependent every 2 years. This maximum can be reinstated after the plan has paid at least $1,000 in benefits on account of one disability. The reinstatement will be subject to approval by the carrier’s Medical Director when, in his/her opinion, the member has furnished satisfactory medical evidence of good health.
There is no annual maximum claim amount.
In addition to the above general maximum, there will be a special ‘out-of-province emergency treatment benefit’ of $2,500 per member or eligible dependent. This will be available only once every 36 months.
5.	Plan Reimbursement Level
Eligible claims will be reimbursed at 80% for all expenses in excess of plan deductible with the exception of the following benefits which will paid at 100%.
(a)	After $1,000 has been paid to any individual during a calendar year, future expenses for the remainder of that year will be paid at 100%.
(b)	Out-of-Province - Emergency Medical Treatment: In the event that a member or eligible dependent requires emergency medical treatment by a physician, surgeon, or anesthesiologist or in the event of confinement in a certified acute care general hospital while temporarily absent from Saskatchewan, expenses will be reimbursed at 100% to plan limits. Benefit payments will be limited to the ‘usual and customary’ charges for the services rendered in that year. In Canada, the applicable provincial fee schedule will be the plan base. In the case of the United States, the Blue Cross/Blue Shield fee guides will form the basis for the assessment of usual and customary fees.
‘Temporary absence’ for the purpose of this benefit will not extend beyond 12 months and is applicable to travel or vacation purposes.
03/07/05
27
nage 27
(c)	Special ‘Out-of-Province’ Benefit:
In the event that a member or dependent exhausts the general $7,500 maximum for a claim eligible under V(b), then a further $2,500 will be made available for medical and hospitalization costs based on 100% of eligible expenses. This special benefit is available to a member only once every 36 months. In addition to medical and hospitalization costs, this special benefit can be used to cover:
-	Cost of one round trip economy air fare for medical attendant to accompany a disabled member or dependent to his/her place of residence in Saskatchewan. This benefit is subject to the approval of the carrier’s Medical Director and only applies in those instances where the attending physician satisfies the Medical Director of the carrier of the necessity of the presence of an attendant. The attendant must not be a friend, relative or associate who was travelling with the disabled member during the trip or vacation in which the emergency arose.
-	100% of the cost associated with the repatriation of the body of a deceased member or dependent, to their place of residence in Saskatchewan.
(d)	100% of prescription drugs not covered by the Saskatchewan Prescription Drug Program. Dispensing fees will also be covered at 100%. Oral contraceptives, fertility drugs, vitamin supplements, patent medicines, life-style drugs (“non-life sustaining” such as hair restoration and sexual enhancement drugs) and over the counter drugs are not covered items.
6.	Extended Health Benefit Coverage
The following items will be eligible claim items for reimbursement at 80%.
-	Differential charge for semi-private or private hospital room accommodation over standard ward in a certified acute care general hospital or extended care unit associated with an acute care general hospital. Hospital charges for out-patient emergency ward will be included (exclusive of any coinsurance charge of the S.H.S.P.)
-	Charges for treatment by a licensed chiropractor, naturopath, pediatrist or physiotherapist. This benefit is limited to $200 per person or $500 per family, per calendar year for each of the above specialties. X-rays ordered by these practitioners will not be covered by the plan. Payments will be based on a fee schedule established by the carrier.
-	Fees for a private duty nurse registered with the “Registered Nurses’ Association of Saskatchewan” when ordered by the attending physician or surgeon in the management of an acutely ill patient. Specifically excluded is the cost of nursing care rendered in a nursing home or the services of a nurse who is a member of the immediate family.
-	Charges for oxygen, prosthetic appliances*, crutches, splints, casts, trusses, braces, wheel chairs, hospital beds, iron lung or necessary equipment for therapeutic treatment when ordered by a physician or surgeon. Reimbursement will be made on the basis of the monthly rental fee and in no case exceed the total purchase price. The replacement of the above articles in not covered by the plan.
* Prosthetic appliances do not include dentures. Artificial breast prosthesis will be limited to $75 once in every 12 month period for mastectomy patients. This benefit will not be included where provided by the Saskatchewan ‘Aids to Independent Living Program.’
-	The cost of ambulance service for a member or dependent in an emergency, (including emergency transportation by rail, boat, or scheduled airline) to the nearest hospital where adequate treatment facilities are available. In an emergency, the expense of an air ambulance may be approved by the Medical Director of the carrier. These instance will only be reviewed where medical substantiation from the attending physician is provided by the claimant.
nays 28
-	The plan will cover the cost of medical treatment by X-ray therapy, radium therapy, radioactive isotope therapy, blood transfusions including the cost of blood and blood plasma when not supplied as a free service. This benefit will not include the cost of travel to or accommodation at the treatment centre.
-	Charges for hearing aids for employees and dependents when prescribed by a specialist. The maximum benefit is $300 per person, in a 60 month period. This benefit will not duplicate any benefit provided under the Saskatchewan Hearing Aid Plan. It does not include the costs for repairs, maintenance, batteries or recharging devices.
-	Cost of a specially designed and constructed orthopaedic shoe when prescribed by an orthopaedic surgeon for treatment of congenital or post-traumatic foot problems. The approval of this benefit resides with the carriers’ Medical Director.
7.	Physician’s Accounts
-	The plan will assist members by facilitating payment of physician’s charges. The carrier will accept medical accounts from participating physicians who agree to accept the payment made by the carrier as payment in full, except for certain specialist fees.
-	Where the physician has selected alternate billing, the carrier will assist the member in receiving reimbursement from the Medical Care Insurance Commission. The unpaid balance is the responsibility of the member and not the plan.
-	Medical accounts for services rendered outside of Saskatchewan will, at the members’ request, be checked and submitted by the carrier to the M.C.I.C. and the ‘out-of-province’ benefit under the
E.H.B. plan coordinated accordingly.
8.	Plan Exclusions
Oral contraceptives, fertility drugs, patent medicines, contraceptive devices, vitamin preparations, diet foods, mineral supplements, elastic support stockings, mastectomy bras, arch supports, humidifiers, air conditioners, hospital co-insurance, rest cures, eye glasses, hearing aids except as specifically provided, dental treatment or dental prosthetics, safety shoes,
AND
benefit provided by: The Workers’ Compensation Board, Auto Insurance Act, Hospital Services Plan, Saskatchewan Medical Care Insurance Commission, Saskatchewan Aids to Independent Living Program, or any other government agency.
nays 29
Memorandum to the Agreement
1.	Apprenticeship Program Training Allowance:	Both Parties agree to the following payment schedule for
apprenticeship employees attending training in recognized facilities covered by the Trades Apprenticeship Agreements at the Company operations.
1)	Apprentices attending classes shall be paid 8 hours straight time at their regular hourly rate for each day the apprentice attends.
2)	A daily subsistence allowance of $20.00 to a maximum of $100.00 per week will be paid for out of town attendance at scheduled classes.
3)	For each scheduled period of classes or once per month, the apprentice will be paid an allowance of $.42 per km for operating own personal vehicle. This payment shall be equivalent to one round trip from the mill to the training facility.
4)	Costs for text books and required materials (i.e. drafting kit, industrial mechanic’s manual) specifically related to the Trades Class the apprentice is taking will be reimbursed.
This agreement will be effective April 1, 2004
2.	Saturday Overtime for Seven Day Operation: Practices currently used within the OSB 1000 mill Twelve Hour Shift Agreement, used for the twenty-eight (28) day cycle, shall be continued within the OSB 2000 mill covered by this collective agreement, when this work schedule is used.
3.	Board Sale Policy: The Weyerhaeuser OSB Employee Board Sale Policy reviewed with the union during these negotiations shall be continued for employees covered by this agreement for the life of this agreement.
4.	Extended Health Benefit Coverage:
Extended Health Benefit coverage, for retirees, will be provided by the Company, for existing OSB Division employees on the payroll December 31, 1995 and continuing employment with the Company to their retirement.
5.	Christmas Statutory Holiday Shutdown
The Company shall give 30 days notice if they are not going to operate during the Christmas period. For the life of this agreement only, if there are no volunteers, the Company will provide a fourteen (14) hour shut down for Christmas Day (7:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m.). Hours worked between 7:00 p.m. December 24th through 7:00 a.m. December 26th will be paid as per the collective agreement with a $200 cash payment per shift.
For night shift on December 24 th and 25th we will post for volunteers. Should we not get sufficient volunteers we will require the junior, qualified, scheduled employees to work to achieve the minimum staffing required.
The Company will approve as many requests for vacations or floating holidays on these shifts as feasible.
nays 30
6.	Statutory Holiday
The Company will take steps to minimize the number of employees required to work on statutory holidays and to be as flexible as practical while continuing to operate on statutory holidays.
(a)	On statutory holidays, the company will schedule the minimum staffing required to operate and maintain the mill. The minimum staffing l evels will be finalized once the mill completes the commissioning and ramp-up phase.
(b)	A process will be developed that will provide options to team members who do not want to work a scheduled statutory holiday. Each team will post lists to identify who does not want to work the holiday and qualified technicians who are not scheduled to work the holiday (or adjacent shifts) may apply to work in their place. Senior qualified technicians from within the team will be given priority to work the shift before senior qualified technicians from outside the team. In the event the minimum staffing levels are not met using this process, the junior qualified technician(s) originally scheduled to work the shift, will be required to work.
This option will be made available to employees based on the principle of no additional cost to the company (i.e. employee working will be paid at OT rates for the shift). It will be the team’s responsibility to manage this process and obtain the appropriate approvals from their team managers.
03/07/05
31
nage 31