LABOUR AGREEMENT
BY AND BETWEEN FRASER PAPERS INC., (hereinafter referred to as the
"Company"), of one Part,
AND	NEW BRUNSWICK REGIONAL COUNCIL OF CARPEN-TERS,
MILLWRIGHTS AND ALLIED WORKERS, LOCAL 2450, (hereinafter referred to as the "Union"), of the other part.
ARTICLE 1 - PURPOSE OF AGREEMENT
1:01 The general purpose of this Agreement is, in the mutual interest of the employer and the employees, to provide for the operation of the mills of Fraser Papers Inc. at Plaster Rock, N.B., under methods which will further to the fullest extent possible, the safety of the employees, economy of operation, quantity and quality of output, cleanliness of plant and protection of property. It is recognized by this Agreement to be the duty of the Company and its employees to cooperate fully, individually and collectively for the advancement of said conditions.
ARTICLE 2 - RECOGNITION
2:01 The Company recognizes the Union as the sole and exclusive bargaining agency for all regular employees in the Plaster Rock mills and mill yards and any employees working in any new additions to the mill (such as but not limited to, debarkers and slashers) other than the Plant Manager, Production Superintendent, Personnel Supervisor, Maintenance Superintendent, supervisors, Shipping Co-ordinator, office staff, clerks, scalers, security personnel, Fraser Papers (Local 114-2 employees) who may be associated with trucking, garage, loading, unloading and piling down of logs, reclaiming logs from piles, and all short-term jobs, such as grading, bulldozing.
ARTICLE 3 - MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
3:01 It is agreed that it is the exclusive function and right of the Company to operate and manage all aspects of its business, including the limitation, curtailment and cessation of any or all operations, except where any right to do so has been specifically restricted by the terms of this Agreement.
3:02 The Company reserves the right to adjust all or any of its crews arising out of any change in manufacturing process or in a change of equipment.
3:03 The Company agrees to review with the Union pertinent details and reasons for any major cutbacks or lumbermill shutdowns. The Company will have such review with the Union not less than two (2) weeks in advance of such contemplated change unless an emergency situation arises on short notice. Emergency situations should generally be considered as events beyond the control of local mill management.
3:04 Technological Change
a)	Technological change for the purposes of this agreement is defined as changes in the operation resulting from the introduction of new and different equipment which will reduce labour requirements.
1
00976 (08)
b)	The Company agrees to give the Union as much advance notice as possible from the decision to make a technological change and the start-up of the new equipment. If there will be a reduction of two or more regular jobs, the advance notice will be at least six weeks in advance of start-up.
c)	The notice to the Union will advise of the new equipment and the earliest anticipated start-up date together with information as to the number of jobs to be eliminated and an offer to sit down with the Union executives to discuss the coming changes and other jobs which may be affected or training to be undertaken.
ARTICLE 4 - HIRING, SERVICE, PROMOTION, DEMOTION, TRANSFER, ETC.
4:01 When hiring new employees, the Company shall, in the first place, take into consideration the ability, both present and potential, of the prospective employees.
4:02 Recognising its obligation to help solve community problems when hiring new employees, the Management of the Company will give preference to residents of Plaster Rock, N.B., and surrounding area, provided qualifications and abilities are relatively equal to other applicants.
4:03
a)	In cases of promotion, demotion, transfer, lay-off and recall, length of service will prevail when skill and experience are relatively equal.
b)	When a permanent vacancy on a classification occurs, the job will be posted for bid unless there is a regular spare assigned to the classification who has been appointed to a regular spare status on that classification as the result of job bid award. If there is a permanent vacancy and there is a regular spare appointed by job bid, then the senior regular spare by job classification for that job will be the individual transferred to that classification.
An employee holding spare seniority to a classification as the result of a regular spare job bid award as indicated above will still retain seniority on his regular classification. The Company has the right to establish one or more spares for all regular classifications that require advance training and will post job bids for all classifications for which it determines a need for regular spares.
Temporary spare assignments on a classification may be made as necessary but will not exceed one (1) week in duration unless there is currently no available classified spare for the position. Individuals so appointed without a job bid award will gain no seniority or rights in that classification and their experience as the result of a temporary spare assignment will not be used to give them precedence in a later job bid award. Temporary assignments will not exceed two (2) calendar months.
In the event of a prolonged absence (other than vacation) exceeding two (2) weeks in duration, the resultant vacancy will be filled by the senior classified spare for the position starting no later than the first complete calendar week following notice of absence.
c)	All applicants will be advised as to the disposition of their application and in the event senior employees are to be bypassed on a job bid selection, a Company representative will meet with the Union to review the skill, qualifications and other factors, where applicable, upon which the award is to be based.
2
d)	In the event of job reduction or elimination caused by lay-offs, changes in mill equipment or operating methods and/or procedures, the following will apply:
The selection of the employees to be laid off from active mill employment will be made on inverse order of mill seniority except that the company will have the right to retain more junior employees in place of more senior employees, where the junior employees retained have special skills or licenses that the Company determines are necessary to its operations. Special skills are those skills required to meet qualifications required to fill the most recent job posting. Such requirements will also be used for bumping to another position when a reduction occurs.
In determining who will fill remaining jobs after a lay-off as covered above, the Company will:
1)	In continuing classifications give preference for retention to the senior (on the basis of mill seniority) of the employees who have indicated to the Personnel Department, at least 24 working hours in advance, of their desire to continue working and who have been regularly assigned to that classification. The retained senior employee may be subject to bumping as indicated in 2) below.
2)	Reassign, on the basis of mill seniority, employees laid-off from their regular classification and who have indicated to the Personnel Department, at least twenty-four (24) working hours in advance, of their desire to continue working to a parallel or the nearest lower rated classification for which they have the experience and/or the skill and ability to fill to the Company's satisfaction without extensive training or break in. If there is no lower rated classification for which they have the experience and/or skill and ability to fill, they will be reassigned to the nearest higher rated classification for which they do have the experience and/or the ability to fill to the Company's satisfaction without extensive training or break-in. Extensive Training shall mean that employees bumping to Groups (0) through (3) will be allowed one (1) week training and Groups (4) through (8) will be allowed two (2) weeks training.
In case of emergency chipping operations, the company will assign employees on the basis of skills and ability, for up to two (2) weeks without providing training. If emergency chipping is scheduled for three (3) or more weeks, employees’ will be reassigned as per Article 4:03 d (2).
For employees displaced as a result of technological change as described in Article 3:04 above, the training and/or break-in period may be extended to thirty (30) days as required.
3)	In repositioning employees as the result of a job reduction or lay-off as described above, the Company agrees to accept mill seniority and the Union agrees to accept the Company's evaluation of the special skills required in the mill and those possessed by individual employees.
4)	If work is not available in a given area due to unforeseen interruptions or schedule changes that involve short-term situations, employees working in the affected area in the lumbermill, at the start of their next scheduled shift, will be allowed to bump junior employees working elsewhere in the lumbermill complex provided they:
-	Report to work
-	Make their intentions clear to mill management
-	Have the necessary skills and abilities to exercise bumping rights
Mill management will be responsible to ensure that the appropriate procedures are followed in a
3
timely and effective manner.
All employees reporting for work at the start of their shift will, if they can exercise bumping rights or if alternative work is available, be assigned to the proper work area. If no work is available, employees will be sent home without pay. If employees are bumped after the shift has started, they will be paid only for time worked.
Employees not wishing to exercise bumping rights in the event of such interruptions or schedule changes will be required to notify management, on an annual basis, of their preference. Such employees, as well as junior employees with no bumping rights, will be contacted as per Article 13:03.
Give preference to senior employees without a valid M.L.B. License, who otherwise have the necessary skills and qualifications, for the positions of stacker operator, tallyman, strapping machine operator or stockman. Such employees will not be bumped by junior employees holding a valid M.L.B.License.
e)	Employees selected on a job bid will be subject to a maximum thirty (30) training days probationary period during which time they will be assessed for continued assignment in the department and during such period they may elect to return to their former job. Seniority on a classification will be established on the date of the job bid award. Employees being removed or withdrawing from the classification within the thirty (30)training day period will return to their previous classification without loss of seniority and will lose all seniority in the classification from which they were removed or withdrew.
An employee who meets the necessary requirements for a job bid (spare or regular) will participate in a review with Management and Union representatives. Purpose of this review will be to fully explain all aspects of the position to ensure the employee is completely informed prior to making a final decision.
Within the training period for groups zero (0) through three (3) an employee will have the opportunity to withdraw from the position within forty-five (45) hours actual training time, without penalty, and bid on future job postings. For groups four (4) through eight (8) the allowable retractable time will be extended to ninety (90) hours of actual training time.
An employee removed by the Company from a job for which he/she had been selected, will be allowed to immediately bid on another spare or regular job posting. Upon accepting a job bid award, an employee will not be eligible to bid on any (spare or regular) jobs for a period of one (1) year complete year.
(f)	If the Union should question the application by the Company of this provision, representatives of the Company will meet with Union representatives to discuss and review all the factors involved in the Company's selection of individuals affected.
(g)	A Labour/Management Committee will be established which will meet every month to discuss matters of mutual interest. The committee will consist of three (3) representatives each from the Company and the Union. A Business Representative from the Union and the Manager of Human Resources (or designated representative) from the Company may also attend these meetings.
4
(h)	Bumping rights when mill is running normal operation;
1.	Bumping in Group 1 will only be permitted providing the mill is not running a normal operation defined as - double shift sawmill and three lines at planermill.
2.	The Company and Union agreed that senior employees wishing to bump the classification “Labour” Group 1 can choose to bump the junior labourer of their choice at either the sawmill or planermill.
3.	The Company and Union agree to the following with regards to bumping rights;
■	Union employees are to make their intentions known to the Company with regards to bumping rights covered in Article 4:03 of the Labour Agreement.
■	These employees will be permitted to bump any classified job within the group they are bumping into providing they have skills & abilities and have seniority over the employee they wish to bump.
■	The employee shall notify the Company which classified job he wants to bump within the group. The Company will then notify the employee in the classification of the group who is to be displaced, when there are two or more employees with the same classification the junior employee will be displaced first. The employee bumping the least senior employee in this case will follow the assigned shift of the displaced employee.
■	Union employees wishing to bump a “Labour” classification in Group 1 (i.e. Labour Sawmill or Labour Planermill), will notify the Company of where (planermill or sawmill) they wish to bump. The Company will inform the least senior labourer who is to be displaced by bumping. The employee bumping the least senior employee in this case will follow the assigned shift of the displaced employee.
■	Employees who are bumped will be required to exercise their bumping rights and notify the Company accordingly.
4:04 When it becomes necessary to fill any open classified positions, preference will be given to present employees in the bargaining unit, provided they have the ability to fulfill the requirements of the job, before recruiting from outside the unit.
4:05
a)	Service or mill seniority shall mean time from last date of hire as a regular employee.
b)	Temporary or part time student employees for vacation relief will start service or mill seniority if they become available for work on a normal basis and will immediately become eligible for Union membership if they have already worked in excess of forty-five (45) days.
c)	The effective hiring date for a student will be the date on which he/she becomes a regular employee.
d)	The normal work season for students will end on the Saturday of the weekend following the Labour Day holiday.
e)	Student’s who are retained for regular employment with the Company, shall start their probationary period on their first scheduled day of work following the Saturday after Labour Day holiday.
4:06 Service will be broken by discharge for cause, voluntary separation or refusal of an offer of employment or absence due to lay-off, sickness or accident, in excess of the following maximum periods:
5
a)	Service will be broken by discharge for cause, voluntary separation or refusal of an offer of employment.
b)	Failure to report to work within two (2) weeks upon written notice to return to work while on layoff.
c)	In the event of absence due to lay-off, sickness or accident the following schedule will apply; (Note: A return to work of less than five (5) days after being absent for any such reason shall not be considered a return to work).
Employee Service	Maximum Period
1 to 12 months	1 month for each full month of service with a maximum of 12 months
1 year to 5 years	12 months
5 years to 10 years	24 months
10 years or more	36 months
4:07 Employees hired for vacation or other relief will retain seniority for only thirty (30) days after last
day worked. Subsequent re-employment will be as a new employee without consecutive service.
4:08
a)	An employee is considered a new employee until he/she has completed forty-five (45) days of work. During this period he/she will be considered probationary and will have full recourse to normal Union representation and the grievance procedure. During an employee's probationary period, the Company has, however, full and uncontestable right to terminate such employee if the Company decides, for any reason that the probationary employee is or will prove to be unsatisfactory.
b)	Should a probationary employee be laid off before completing forty-five (45) days of employment and subsequently be rehired by the Company within ninety (90) days, his/her unbroken service with the Company prior to layoff will be counted in computing the probationary period. The employee's seniority date will be forty-five (45) calendar days prior to the date of completion of the probationary period.
c)	An employee’s seniority date will be the date of hire.
4:09
a)	List of service records will be prepared and posted at the Mill and Planer Mill twice a year (April 1st and October 1st) and a copy will be forwarded to the Union. Such list will indicate each employee’s regular classification and effective date and also spare classification and effective date, if any. Job award updates will be provided monthly and will list the successful applicant and the effective date.
b)	If an employee disagrees with his/her service credit, such employee must apply for a review within forty-five (45) days of such posting.
4:10 An employee's service normally terminates upon reaching the age of sixty-five (65). (An
6
extension of up to three (3) months can be allowed by the Company, after reaching the age limit).
4:11 Third Line at Planer - When the planer operates on three (3) shifts, the following classifications will be awarded to the Senior (Mill Seniority) employee: Mobile Equipment Operator, Tilt Hoist, Graders (Planermill graders only) and Feed Planer. Note: it is understood and agreed to by both parties that this language is applicable to the current (2005) Planermill operation configuration, and subject to change with any future Planermill modernization projects.
4:12 Severance Allowance - will follow Government Regulations.
ARTICLE 5 - TERM OF AGREEMENT
5:01 This Agreement shall be in effect from the first day of February 1, 2009 to and including January 31, 2013. Either party desiring to amend this agreement shall give to the other party not less than sixty (60) days written notice prior to the termination date requesting that the Agreement renewal be negotiated with amendments, and specifying the nature of the amendments no later than thirty (30) days prior to the termination of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 6 - WAGES
6:01 It is mutually agreed that the rates of pay, as per attached schedule, form part of this Agreement and shall not be changed unless mutually agreed by the official representatives of the Union and the Plant Manager and Manager, Human Resources for the Company.
6:02 When a job undergoes major change or when a new classification becomes necessary, the Company and the Union will jointly review the rate for such job. If agreement is not reached, the Company will establish a provisional rate which shall be subject to negotiation upon renewal of the Agreement in force at the time.
ARTICLE 7 - INTERRUPTION OF WORK
7:01 It is agreed that there shall be no strikes, slow-downs, lockouts or other similar interruptions of work during the life of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 8 - UNION SECURITY
8:01 Any employee who is a member of the Union on the effective date of this Agreement and any employee who becomes a member or is reinstated as a member of the Union subsequent to the effective date of this Agreement shall, as a condition of continued employment, maintain such membership in good standing.
8:02 An employee within the Union's jurisdiction, who is not a member of the Union, shall join the Union thirty (30) calendar days after his/her employment begins. Effective January 1, 2002, Union dues will apply to students (Initiation fees will not apply).
8:03 In the event of the Union having to suspend a member, the Company shall be notified by the Union in writing at least seven (7) days before such suspension and the Company will not be asked to take any action in respect to such suspension if it is in any way contrary to the provisions of the Industrial
7
Relations Act.
8:04 The employer will deduct from the wages owing and payable to each employee within the Union jurisdiction, the regular membership dues of such employee. The Company shall remit such dues on a weekly to monthly basis to the Union.
8:05 The Company will deduct standard Union initiation fee from the wages owing and payable to employees and remit the same to the duly designated official of the Union.
8:06 The Union shall advise the Company in writing of the uniform amount of the deductions for Initiation Fees and Dues to apply to each employee within its jurisdiction. If there should be any change in the amount of such deductions, the Company shall be advised of such change by the Union two (2) weeks prior to its effective date.
In the event Union requests monthly rather than weekly dues deductions, such change will start at the beginning of the next month, with a minimum of two (2) weeks notice.
8:07 With the weekly remittance of the Union dues, the Company shall furnish the Union with a duplicate statement showing the total amount deducted and the names, personnel and Social Insurance Numbers of those employees from whom such deductions were made.
8:08 The Company shall not be responsible for collecting any past or future arrears in Union dues, but shall be obliged only to check off weekly a fixed amount as long as the wages owing and payable to an employee within Union jurisdiction are sufficient to cover this deduction.
8:09 Non-Union supervisory personnel shall not perform routine bargaining unit work which would normally be a function of an employee listed in the job classifications covered by this agreement, including new job classifications involving production or maintenance work, except for the purpose of instructions, or in case of emergency.
ARTICLE 9 - ADJUSTMENT OF COMPLAINTS
9:01 If a complaint arises which an employee wishes to take up the Company, the employee involved will first discuss the difference with the Shift Supervisor. Such matter must be brought to the attention of the Shift Supervisor within four (4) working days of occurrence. While the employee has the right to be accompanied by his/her Shop Steward or local Union representative, the employee must be present at this initial stage of the grievance procedure. If the employee is not satisfied with the decision of the Shift Supervisor or fails to receive an answer from the Supervisor within a further four (4) working days, the matter may, within a further two (2) working days be presented to the Plant Manager by the employee and/or the departmental union representative.
9:02 If within a further five (5) working days, the matter is not satisfactorily resolved by the Plant Manager or designated representative, then, within a further four (4) working days, the Union Grievance Committee may present the grievance in writing to the General Manager, Lumbermills. A meeting at this step of the grievance procedure will include the General Manager, and the Business Representative and/or the Business Agent of the Union.
Within ten (10) working days of such meeting, the General Manager or designated representative, shall make a reply, in writing, stating the adjustment, if any, to the grievance.
8
9:03 If the matter is not satisfactorily resolved within thirty (30) days, and if it is an alleged violation of the Labour Agreement, it may be referred to a Board of Arbitration composed of three members, one of whom shall be appointed by the Company, one by the Union and the two so appointed shall select the third, who shall be Chairman. If the selection of a Chairman is not agreed upon within five (5) days, the Minister of Labour for the Province of New Brunswick shall be requested to name the Chairman. It is understood that the function of the Board of Arbitration shall be restricted to the interpretation and application of the provisions of this Agreement. It shall deal only with the specific questions submitted to it and shall not attempt to add to, subtract from or alter in any way the provisions of this Agreement. The Board's decision shall be final and binding on both parties.
Each of the parties hereto will bear the expense of the arbitrator appointed by it and the parties will jointly bear the expense of the Chairman and the Board as a whole.
9:04 The time required for any procedure under the provisions of this Article may be changed by mutual agreement between the Company and the Union.
9:05 If an employee is thought to have been unjustly discharged or suspended, his/her case shall be reported in writing to the Plant Manager within forty-eight (48) hours, and, if on investigation he/she is found to have been unjustly discharged or suspended, the employee shall be reinstated without loss in
pay.
ARTICLE 10 - MILL RULES
10:01 Mill rules, as listed hereunder, form part of this Agreement and shall be enforced by the parties hereto.
10:02 The parties to this Agreement agree to abide by all Federal and Provincial laws now in force or that may hereafter come in force during the term of this Agreement.
MILL RULES - PLASTER ROCK LUMBERMILL
ARTICLE 11 - MILL OPERATION - WEEKLY SCHEDULE
11:01 The normal operating schedule of the sawmill and planing mills will be on a five (5) day per week basis which will normally be Monday - Friday.
1:02
The Company maintains the right to schedule operations as deemed necessary.
As such, the parties agree that management may, with 30 days written notice to Local 2450, change any applicable schedule(s) identified in current Article 11 and Article 12 to a seven day and/or 24 hour schedule or any other schedule that would effectively adjust the weekly scheduled mill operating hours.”
9
Any revisions to operating schedules that would result in reducing/increasing the average weekly hours for regular scheduled employees by more than 2.5 hours per week will be subject to the mutual consent of both parties.
In the event of a schedule change, the company will make every effort possible to ensure the current cycle is completed, (prior to implementation of a revised schedule), so that the average hours/week per crew will not be negatively impacted.
11:03:
a)	Maintenance Schedule
When mill is operating one shift, Monday to Friday:
Day shift 7:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. - 'A hour lunch
Night shift (Monday to Thursday) 4:30 p.m. to 3:00 a.m. - A hour lunch Night shift (Friday) 4:30 p.m. to 9:30 p.m.
When mill is operating two (2) shifts:
Rotation 1
Crew #1 - Monday - Thursday (days):	7:00 a.m. - 7:00	p.m.
Crew #2 - Monday - Thursday (nights):	7:00 p.m. - 7:00	a.m.
Crew #3 - Wednesday - Saturday (days):	7:00 a.m. - 7:00	p.m.
Lubrication Technician - Monday - Thursday: 6:00 a.m. - 6:00 p.m.
Rotation 2
Crew #2 - Monday - Thursday (days):	7:00 a.m. - 7:00 p.m.
Crew #3 - Monday - Thursday (nights):	7:00 p.m. - 7:00 a.m.
Crew #1 - Wednesday - Saturday (days): 7:00 a.m. - 7:00 p.m.
Lubrication Technician - Monday - Thursday: 6:00 a.m.- 6:00 p.m.
Rotation 3
Crew #3 - Monday - Thursday (days):	7:00 a.m. - 7:00 p.m.
Crew #1 - Monday - Thursday (nights): 7:00 p.m. - 7:00 a.m.
Crew #2 - Wednesday - Saturday (days): 7:00 a.m. - 7:00 p.m.
Lubrication Technician - Wednesday - Saturday: 6:00 a.m. - 6:00 p.m.
Plant Electrician - Monday - Friday 6:00 a.m. - 3:30 p.m. - A hour lunch.
Monday - Thursday day and night shift - work 11-A hours straight time with A hour lunch.
Wednesday - Saturday shift - Wednesday and Thursday - work 11 A hours straight time with A hour lunch; Friday - 12 hours straight time; Saturday - 9 hours (6:00 am to 3:30 pm)
Crews will rotate on a weekly basis.
Lunch break and mid-shift breaks will be staggered to allow half of crew to break and supply continuous coverage during shift.
10
The previous negotiated shift premiums of $0.20 and $0.60 (Feb 1, 2005 to Jan 31, 2009) will be paid to all maintenance employees for existing/revised shifts.
b)	Planermill Maintenance Schedule - The Planermill Maintenance Tradesman will be scheduled every third week from Tuesday through Saturday.
c)	Filing Schedule - Chief Filer - 6:00 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. Other filers rotate on a weekly basis with one filer working from 8:00 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. The remaining filers work from 7:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.
ARTICLE 12 - HOURS OF WORK
12:01 Working hours for mill operations
a)	Working hours for mill operations:
Days: Monday to Friday inclusive	7:00 a.m. to 12:00 noon
12:30 p.m. to 4:30 p.m.
Nights: Monday to Thursday inclusive 7:00 p.m. to 12:00 midnight
12:30 a.m. to 5:30 a.m.
The Company will make every effort to see that employees do not work more than two (2) consecutive weeks on night shifts.
b)	Time of the 30-minute lunch break may be advanced by up to 40 minutes, if required, to avoid lost time for mill breakdown.
12:02 Regular starting hours of shifts may be adjusted by mutual agreement between the Company and Union.
12:03 There shall be a ten (10) minute break at the middle of each half of each shift.
The Company can, in the event of breakdown, reschedule the break to fall within the following time periods:
Day shift	9:00 a.m.
Day shift Night shift Night shift
- 9:50 a.m.
2:00 p.m. - 2:50 p.m. 9:00 p.m. - 9:50 p.m. 2:30 a.m. - 3:20 a.m
12:04 Steam Boiler Room - Compressed work week
a)	It is agreed that the employees working at the boiler room shall work twelve (12) hour shifts (compressed work week) on a rotating basis as described under paragraph b) below.
b) Work schedule:	6:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. (day shift)
6:00 p.m. to 6:00 a.m. (night shift)
Two days, day shift Two days, night shift Four days off
11
12:05
a)	Employees assigned as mill clean-up personnel will work the following schedule:
Day shift - Monday to Friday 5:15 a.m. to 10:00 a.m.; 10:30 a.m. to 2:45 p.m. Night shift - Monday to Friday 4:15 p.m. to 10:00 p.m.; 10:30 p.m. to 2:45 a.m.
ARTICLE 13 - STARTING AND STOPPING TIME
13:01 The employees shall be in their respective working places ready to begin work at the designated starting time for their department and shall remain at their places of work until the designated stopping time for their department.
13:02
a)	It is the duty of all employees to report as scheduled to their usual department unless they have made arrangements for a leave of absence. If, through some unavoidable reason, an employee cannot report for work, he/she should advise the Security Office (356-4125), before 6:30 a.m. if he/she is on the day shift and before 4:00 p.m. if he/she is on the night shift.
b)	It is the responsibility of all employees not scheduled to work (spare list) to be available for call in as follows:
1)	6:00 am to 8:00 am during day shift
2)	5:00 pm to 7:00 pm for night shift
Employees who can’t be reached at these set out times shall be considered absent from work.
c)	The Company shall provide to the Union a copy of the monthly call-in report.
13:03 Employees who are instructed to report at a certain time and when, on reporting, no work is available because of a change in plans or an emergency situation, no time will be paid provided mill supervision has made a reasonable effort to advise the employee of such situation, at least two hours prior to the start of this shift. The time of the phone calls to employees will be documented by the shift supervisor and/or lumbermill security. If mill supervision/security has not made a reasonable effort to contact the employee, and if no work is available during his/her scheduled shift, the employee will be paid two (2) hours' time.
13:04 In the event of a breakdown or emergency shutdown during the course of a shift, employees will be provided useful work until the lunch break or the end of the shift, whichever first occurs.
13:05 In the event of a breakdown or emergency shutdown before lunch, and if repairs are not completed and the employees are not released from work by 12:00 o'clock, they will be paid after lunch until released by their supervisor, with a minimum of four (4) hours. No bumping will be permitted until the start of the next scheduled shift (i.e. employees can only bump the next shift, relative to the shift he/she is working on during the week of the breakdown or emergency.
13:06 Call Ins:
Employees who are called in for emergency repair work will be paid at time and one half for hours worked on the call-in with a minimum payment equivalent to three (3) hours straight time.
12
ARTICLE 14 - EMPLOYEES WTSHTNG TIME OFF
14:01 Employees wishing time off must make arrangements with their Supervisor or designated
replacement.
Boiler room engineers must make arrangements with the Steam Plant Foreman or the Maintenance
Supervisor. .
14:02 Leave of Absence
a)	An employee with two (2) or more years of service may be granted a leave of absence, up to a maximum of one (1) year, for the purpose of attending a recognized educational institution on a full time basis in connection with Company job related studies. The request for such leave of absence must be submitted to the Lumbermill Manager, in writing, at least one (1) month prior to the requested starting date.
b)	An employee elected as a member of the Federal or Provincial Legislature may be granted a leave of absence without pay covering his/her first term in office. An employee accepting full time employment with the Regional Council of Carpenters, Millwrights and Allied Workers may be granted a leave of absence without pay for a period not to exceed two (2) years.
c)	During a leave of absence, an employee will continue to accumulate seniority.
d)	An employee wishing to terminate a leave of absence prior to its scheduled date must give thirty (30) days advance written notice of desire for early return to work.
e)	An employee who has been promoted or transferred to a job outside the bargaining unit on a regular basis, will retain for a period of nine (9) months all the rights he/she had while in the bargaining unit.
The nine (9) month period will commence on the day the employee assumed the permanent vacancy.
f)	Should circumstances make an employee’s return to the bargaining unit necessary during the nine (9) month period, such employee will be reinstated on the job he/she would have performed if there had been no departure from the bargaining unit.
ARTICLE 15 - EMPLOYEES RETURNING TO WORK FOLLOWING TIME OFF
15:01 When an employee has been absent from scheduled work, he/she shall notify the Security Office 6 hours prior to the start of the night shift and 9 hours prior to the start of the day shift in which the employee intends to return to work.
15:02 Whenever possible employees absent from work due to illness or accident for periods exceeding one (1) week should advise the Personnel Office by Thursday of the week preceding their return to work.
ARTICLE 16 - SUNDAYS, HOLIDAYS AND VACATIONS
16:01 Sundays - Sundays are defined as the twenty-four (24) hour period between 7:00 a.m. Sunday and 7:00 a.m. Monday.
13
16:02 Christmas Shutdowns:
2009	from 7:00 p.m. - December 23 to 7:00 a.m. December 28, 2009
2010	from 7:00 a.m. - December 22 to 7:00 a.m. December 27, 2010
2011	from 7:00 p.m. - December 23 to 7:00 a.m. December 28, 2011
2012	from 7:00 p.m. - December 24 to 7:00 p.m. December 26, 2012
16:04 New Year’s Shutdown
2009	from 7:00 p.m. - December 31 to 7:00 a.m. January 4, 2010
2010	from 7:00 p.m. - December 30 to 7:00 a.m. January 3, 2011
2011	from 7:00 p.m. - December 30 to 7:00 a.m. January 3, 2012
2012	from 7:00 p.m. - December 31 to 7:00 p.m. January 1, 2013
a)	Some of the above holidays may be changed to co-incide with the generally accepted observance of such holiday by public services (ie. schools and/or banks and/or government offices). If a Holiday falls on Friday the normal Friday schedule for that week will be moved back to Thursday.
b)	Employees who meet the work and service requirements will receive holiday pay equal to the number of hours they would have been scheduled to work if the holidays fall on scheduled work days or nine (9) hours holiday pay if the holiday falls on a non-scheduled work day.
16:05
i)	Steam Plant, Kiln and essential maintenance employees will work, as required, on all holidays.
ii)	Employees working on a holiday will retain their entitlement to holiday pay in accordance with Article 17.
16:06 Vacations - Vacations with pay will be granted in accordance with rules governing Vacations, as attached hereto.
ARTICLE 17 - HOLIDAYS WITH PAY
17:01 Paid Holidays - During the term of this Agreement, the Company will recognize as paid shut down holidays the following days:
New Year's Day Good Friday Canada Day New Brunswick Day Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Remembrance Day
One-half working day before Christmas Christmas Day
One-half working day after Christmas
17:02 Holiday pay for paid holidays will be paid at the individual's regular straight time rate excluding any premium or shift differential. Hours applicable to holiday pay will be equal to the straight time hours
14
the employee would have worked had the day not been a holiday. In the event the employee's scheduled day off coincides with a holiday, the applicable number of hours will be the straight time hours of his/her last scheduled work day preceding the holiday at the same hourly rate of pay as for that day.
Statutory Holiday dates will not change for employees who are not scheduled to work.
Maintenance employees not scheduled to work on the holiday may request to take the first day or last day of their scheduled shift off during the same week depending on where the holiday falls, providing the Company is able to grant the request. In the event the employee comes in and works on the actual holiday after taking a scheduled day off for the holiday, no banking of the holiday will be permitted.
Pay for the holiday will apply to all qualified employees whether or not they would have been scheduled to work on the holiday in question.
If, through some circumstance, a qualified employee works on one of the above holidays, he/she will receive time and one half for hours worked in addition to the holiday allowance. A non-qualified employee working on one of the above holidays will still receive time and one half for hours worked on such holiday.
If a holiday falls in a scheduled vacation week, the employee shall be allowed to bank such holiday for a six (6) month period, to be taken when mutually agreed.
17:03 To qualify for holiday pay on any of the listed paid holidays, employees must have worked their scheduled hours on the last scheduled work day preceding and first scheduled work day following such holiday, unless absence is due to provable illness or unless permission for absence has been granted in writing by the Plant Manager or designated representative. Provable illness shall mean illness supported by a medical certificate on the day the employee reports back to work.
17:04 An employee does not qualify for a paid holiday if the employee:
i)	has worked for less than sixty (60) days during the previous twelve (12) calendar months prior to the holiday.
ii)	has not earned wages for part or all of at least four (4) shifts out of the last thirty (30) calendar days prior to the Holiday.
iii)	having agreed to work on a paid holiday, does not report for and perform the work without reasonable cause.
17:05 Employees who meet the work and service requirements will receive holiday pay equal to nine (9) hours.
17:06 Steam Plant, Kiln and essential maintenance employees will work, as required and/or scheduled, on all holidays.
17:07
Steam Boiler Room - Compressed work week
Statutory holidays - Crews that would normally work on a statutory holiday will receive holiday pay equal to twelve (12) hours pay. Crews that would not normally work on a statutory holiday will receive holiday pay equal to nine (9) hours pay. Statutory holidays do not change date for employees
15
working at the Boiler Room.
ARTICLE 18 - FLOATING HOLIDAY
18:01 Regular employees with less than one (1) year's service will become eligible for one (1) floating holiday if they have worked the thirty (30) consecutive scheduled days preceding the arranged date for such holiday.
18:02
a)	Regular employees who have had one (1) or more continuous years of service will be entitled to two
(2)	floating holidays with pay each year providing they have worked at least thirty (30) days in the previous year.
b)	Regular employees who have had one (1) or more continuous years of service, but having worked less than thirty (30) days in the previous year, will be eligible for one (1) floating holiday after having completed fifteen (15) days of work during the current year, and will be eligible for a second floating holiday after having completed thirty (30) days of work during the current year.
18:03
a)	Regular employees who have had two (2) or more continuous years of service will be entitled to three
(3)	floating holidays with pay each year providing they have worked at least forty-five (45) days in the previous year.
b)	Regular employees who have had two (2) or more continuous years of service but having worked less than forty-five (45) days in the previous year will be eligible for one (1) floating holiday after having completed fifteen (15) days of work during the current year. They will be eligible for a second floating holiday after having completed thirty (30) days of work during the current year and they will be eligible for a third floating holiday after having completed forty-five (45) days of work during the current year.
18:04
i)	Floating holiday(s) will be taken at a time mutually convenient to the employees and to Mill Management.
ii)	The Company will grant floating holidays on short notice if they can be taken without detriment to
effective mill operations and a suitable replacement is available at straight time. The Company will also endeavour to promptly grant requests for floating holidays which are requested well in advance.
iii)	In the event more holidays are requested for a specific day than can be granted, those to be granted will be those first requested.
iv)	Employees making written application for floating holidays, will receive an answer from the Company, in writing, within 2 working days.
v)	Floating holidays may be taken by employees during the period of January 1 to December 31. Floaters not taken by December 31st will be added to pay of last week of calendar year, or the first
16
pay period of the next year, which ever applies.
vi)	Employees who so prefer may elect to be paid for floating holidays without taking time off.
vii)	Employees will receive pay for floating holidays equal to their scheduled time lost if the holiday is taken on a scheduled work day or nine (9) hours of pay if taken on a scheduled day off.
18:05
Floating holidays - The boiler room employees will be eligible for floating holidays as per Articles 18:01, 18:02 a) and 18:03 a). Such floating holidays for boiler room employees will be paid on the basis of 12 hours if taken on a scheduled work day or 9 hours if taken on a scheduled day off.
ARTICLE 19 - FUNERAL LEAVE AND JURY AND CROWN WITNESS
19:01
a)	Upon the death of a member of the immediate family, as indicated below, an employee will be entitled to a paid leave of absence of not more than five (5) days with pay equal to the number of scheduled hours lost.
spouse
children (natural or adopted) stepson (son of second spouse) stepdaughter (daughter of second spouse) father and mother (natural or adoptive)
b)	Upon the death of one of the following members of the family, an employee will be entitled to a paid leave of absence of not more than three (3) days with pay equal to number of scheduled hours lost.
brother
sister
father-in-law
mother-in-law
stepfather (mother's spouse by second marriage)
stepmother (father's spouse by second marriage)
grandfather
grandmother
son-in-law
daughter-in-law
grandchildren
c)	These three (3) or five (5) days must be taken within seven (7) calendar days of the day of the funeral.
d)	Employees shall be paid for their regular hours at the regular straight time rate for each of the three (3) or five (5) scheduled working days lost.
e)	Pay will be at straight time even though one or more of the days of funeral leave occur on Sunday or a paid holiday. The regular straight time rate means the straight time rate of the job at which the employee would have worked had he/she not been on funeral leave.
17
f)	To be entitled to such paid leave of absence, an employee must be actively on the payroll and must have worked thirty (30) days.
19:02 The Company agrees to grant to an employee a leave of absence without pay to attend funerals of other members of his/her immediate family not listed above.
19:03 The Company agrees to grant an unpaid leave of absence to employees not eligible for paid leave of absence under 19:01 f) to attend funerals of members of the immediate family listed under 19:01 a) or
b).
19:04 Jury Duty and Crown Witness
Employees required to be absent from work by reason of jury duty or subpoenaed as a Crown witness shall be paid the difference between jury pay or Crown witness pay and their regular straight time hourly rate for the regular scheduled hours on that day or those days.
ARTICLE 20 - WAGE RATES
20:01 The job classification of each employee shall be fixed by the supervisor in charge of the department and shall be reported each day under his/her authority.
20:02 The hourly rate that will be paid on any job will be the rate established on the standard rate schedule for that job.
20:03 Employees temporarily transferred by supervision to fill a vacancy on another job will receive the rate of the job to which transferred, or their regular hourly rate if it is higher and if their own job is continuing, however:
i)	Employees relieving other employees on a shift for a period totalling one (1) hour or more will receive the rate of the job to which they are relieving, or their regular hourly rate if it is higher.
ii)	Employees assigned to train on another occupation will train at their regular hourly rate for hours actually worked if their own job is continuing.
iii)	In the event employees are transferred due to their regular job being eliminated or temporarily not operating or when they have been laid off from their prior job, such employee will receive the rate of the job to which they are transferred or assigned, except in cases where the Company requires an operator to do or assist maintenance work on the equipment which they normally operate, in which case they will be paid the rate of their classification while doing such work.
20:04 Regular daily maintenance activities will be paid as follows:
1.	Regular operator will be paid at the operator’s classified rate;
2.	Maintenance by an employee whose classification is lower than the regular operator’s rate will be paid at that employee’s regular rate (i.e. Board Puller servicing edger will be paid at Board Puller rate).
3.	The rate paid will not exceed the regular operator rate (i.e. servicing debarker will not exceed the debarker operator rate).
18
ARTICLE 21 - TIME OFFICE REGULATIONS
21:01 Punching Clock
a)	Each employee, except those exempt by management, shall punch “in” each time he/she reports for duty and shall punch “out” at the completion of his/her working period.
b)	Employees leaving the mill site at any time shall be required to punch “out”.
c)	Each employee shall punch his/her own number only.
21:02 Calculation of Pay Time
a)	When an employee punches "In" at any time after the exact hour of the regular starting time, the pay time may be calculated from the nearest minute.
b)	When an employee punches "Out" at any time other than the exact hour of the regular quitting time, the pay time may be calculated to the nearest minute.
Note: Times will be rounded to nearest 1/100 hour for data processing purposes.
c)	An employee shall not be remunerated for work performed during lunch hour or outside regular scheduled hours unless such work has been authorized or approved by his/her immediate Supervisor.
d)	Employees may request verification of hours credited to their account during each pay period. ARTICLE 22 - PAY CHEQUES
22:01 The regular pay day will be on Thursday of each week, by direct deposit. Pay stubs will be mailed to employees.
ARTICLE 23 - OVERTIME PRACTICE
23:01
Overtime at the rate of time and one-half will be paid for all authorized hours worked in excess of the regular scheduled daily hours of the employee affected.
23:02
a)	Hours worked on Sundays and holidays will be paid for at the rate of time and one-half.
b)	Any employee required to work on a holiday will be permitted equivalent time off with pay in lieu of the paid holiday, if requested, and at a time mutually convenient to the Company. This compensating time off will have to be taken within the following twelve (12) month period.
23:03 Overtime at the rate of time and one half will be paid for all authorized hours of required work by a regular employee on any of his/her regular days off. If an employee requests compensating time on Saturday for time lost during the week and there is useful work to be done without creating work specifically for this purpose, this work may be provided at the discretion of the Company and will be paid at straight time.
Employees who do not work all regular scheduled work days in a work week because of Company
19
approved absences for floating or regular holidays, funeral leaves, compensable accidents, Union business or training courses will remain eligible for time and one-half on Saturday.
23:04 The Company may schedule Saturday clean-up work to be done at straight time if there are employees available who have not worked the full scheduled work week, Monday to Friday inclusive.
This work may be assigned in the following order of priority:
a)	September 1 - May 31
1.	Regular employees who have not worked the full week, at their request;
2.	Regular spare list employees who have not worked 45 hours in the week at straight time;
3.	Regular employees at overtime rate;
4.	Students.
b)	June 1 - August 31
1.	Regular employees who have not worked the full week, at their request;
2.	Regular spare list employees who have not worked 45 hours in the week at straight time;
3.	Students;
4.	Regular employees at overtime rate.
ARTICLE 24 - CAUSES FOR SUSPENSION OR DISCHARGE
24:01 An employee may be suspended or discharged for any of the following reasons:
a)	Refusal to comply with Company's rules
b)	Neglect of duty
c)	Incompetence
d)	Sleeping on duty
e)	Bringing, using or possessing intoxicants on the Company's premises
f)	Reporting for duty under the influence of liquor
g)	Reporting for work under the influence of drugs or using drugs on Company premises except as prescribed by a licensed physician
h)	Smoking upon the Company's premises except in designated places
i)	Giving or taking a bribe of any nature as an inducement to obtaining work or retaining a position
j)	Destruction of Company's property
k)	Dishonesty
l)	The punching of any payroll number other than his/her own
m)	Disorderly conduct
n)	Disobedience
o)	Failure to report accidents at time of occurrence
p)	Theft
q)	Any action considered being detrimental to the operation of the mill or actions which might affect the welfare or safety of a fellow employee.
20
24:02 Nothing contained in these rules shall be deemed to restrain or limit the Company's rights to discharge an employee for just cause.
ARTICLE 25 - APPLICATION OF DISCIPLINE
25:01 Shift Supervisors shall have the authority to temporarily suspend from service an employee under their supervision who violates the rules of the Company or the laws of the land while such employee is on duty or on the Company's premises.
25:02 Whenever Shift Supervisors exercise such authority, they shall inform the employee concerned of the reasons for such suspension and explain to the employee the right of appeal to the Plant Manager or designated representative. A Union representative may be present if the employee so requests.
25:03 The Plant Manager or designated representative shall advise a Union Representative and notify the employee concerned to be present at the Mill Office at a stated time in order that the cause of suspension may be investigated and properly disposed of so far as the discipline to be administered is concerned.
The Plant Manager or designated representative shall decide on the discipline to be inflicted after a full investigation of the circumstances connected with each case.
The time period for a final decision on discipline will not exceed ten (10) working days following the initial application of the disciplinary process. (Working days defined as those falling from Monday through Friday excluding any holidays that fall on such days.)
ARTICLE 26 - DISCIPLINE OF MILL EMPLOYEES AND RECORD OF SAME
26:01 There shall be four distinct penalties applied where it is necessary to inflict discipline on any of
the employees of the Company consisting of:
a)	Verbal warning by the Shift Supervisor. A verbal warning will be administered in the office and an opportunity will be given to a shop steward or other Union official to be present during the interview, if requested by the employee concerned.
To be applied in the case of minor offences when the shift supervisor is satisfied by the offending employee that the offence will not be repeated.
b)	A written warning by the Plant Manager or designated representative. To be applied in the case of repeated minor offences. Copy of action to the Union.
c)	Suspension from work without pay from one (1) to fifteen (15) days according to the gravity of the offence and the previous record of the employee concerned. To be applied in case of first serious offence or continued or repeated minor ones when, in the judgement of the Plant Manager, or designated representative, proper conduct and discipline on the part of such employee can be assured without resorting to the penalty of dismissal. Copy of action to the Union.
d)	Extreme penalty of dismissal from service to be applied to all cases of flagrant or wilful violation of rules of the Company or of the laws of the land. It may also be necessary to inflict this penalty in the case of an employee who persists in continued and repeated minor violations of the Company's rules as shown by the discipline record of this employee. Copy of action to the Union.
e)	All written discipline slips will be presented by a supervisor to the employee in person.
21
26:02 An employee's record will be cleared of discipline slips after one (1) year if there has been no further infraction. When an employee has been disciplined for an issue from the list in Article 24:01, the one (1) year starts when the employee is reinstated.
ARTICLE 27 - SAFETY
27:01 Safety Practices
A safety organization for the prevention of industrial accidents and improvements in the Mill Safety, Sanitation and Administration of First Aid will be maintained at the plant. This organization will include a safety committee which will be set up and function in compliance with the Occupational Health and Safety Act, Section 14.
27:02 Procedure in Case of Accidents
Accidents no matter how slight shall be reported at once by the employee to his/her foreman who shall send the injured employee to the clerk or person responsible for rendering First Aid.
In the event of an accident on the weekend when no supervision is on site, the employee must notify security in person, except in the case of injury requiring immediate medical attention. Security will document the incident and forward (email/voice mail) to the appropriate staff personnel.
In addition, the employee will notify his/her direct supervisor, as soon as possible, and advise of the nature and details of the accident.
27:03 Procedure in Case of Sickness
Employees unable through sickness to complete their tour of duty shall report their condition to the appropriate supervisor.
27:04 Treatment of Injuries
Except in emergency, treatment to injured employee shall only be administered by a qualified First Aid attendant.
27:05 Unsafe or Unsanitary Conditions
Any unsafe or unsanitary working conditions, whether of equipment or process, shall be reported to the supervisor and to a member of the Joint Health and Safety Committee.
27:06 Safeguards
Safeguards are for protection from injuries and should not be removed except to make adjustments or repairs and on the completion of such work must be replaced.
27:07 Knowledge of Work
Employees are expected to study their job and adopt the safest method of performing it.
27:08 Clothing
a)	For their own safety, employees are expected to wear clothing suitable to their job, avoiding the use of knitted jackets, flowing ties, loose sleeves, long hair, etc., when such might become entangled in moving equipment.
b)	Whenever necessary due to special circumstances, the Company will supply safety rubber boots or
22
a raincoat. These articles will be charged to the employee's account by the Company when they are issued. An employee who returns these boots and/or raincoat on completion of the job will receive a credit.
c)	All gloves, aprons and protective clothing will be supplied at no cost to employees, provided that all worn out articles are returned.
d)	The Company will supply rainwear to employees working in the elements. Such rainwear will be charged to the employee's account by the Company when issued. Wornout rainwear will be replaced at no cost. The employees will receive a credit upon leaving this job classification if they return the rainwear in a satisfactory condition.
e)	Coveralls Coveralls - will be distributed by March 1st.
I. The Company will supply three (3) pairs of coveralls to regular millwrights, steam power foreman and regular planerman.
II.	Two (2) pairs coveralls or lab coats for filers.
III.	Electricians can choose three (3) pair of fire retardant coveralls or five (5) fire retardant shirt/pant combos. Electricians will receive one pair insulated coveralls and or insulated coat (arc flash rated) throughout the life of contract.
IV.	Steam plant engineers, spare filers, spare planerman and employees who service debarkers will receive one (1) pair coveralls.
V.	Spare Planer Maintenance and Spare Lube Tech - Oiler will receive two (2) pair coveralls.
VI.	The company will supply one (1) pair of insulated coveralls throughout the life of the contract to regular millwrights, regular stockman and regular yard labourer.
VII.	Other employees that may require coveralls will be granted upon approval by the plant manager. 27:09 Eye Protection
Eye protection is provided for protection against eye injury. They must be used by an employee when engaged on work that presents an eye injury hazard. Eye protection is mandatory throughout the Lumbermill site.
27:10 Hearing Protection
Ear-muff protectors are provided for protection of the employees working in areas of high noise levels. They must be used by the employees working in such areas.
One set of custom ear plugs will be supplied to employees every five (5) years, or sooner, if the Company determines that replacement ear plugs are necessary. Any other replacements will be charged to employees at cost price.
27:11 Occupational Health and Safety
It is understood that the Company and the employees will abide by the New Brunswick Occupational Health and Safety Act and Regulations.
ARTICLE 28 - HOUSEKEEPING
23
28:01 Employees shall cooperate in keeping the department in which they are working neat and clean and are expected to do their share towards keeping the plant in general neat and clean.
ARTICLE 29 - WORKMEN’S COMPENSATION
29:01 The Company operates under the rules and regulations laid down by the New Brunswick Workplace Health, Safety and Compensation Commission.
ARTICLE 30 - FIRE SERVICES
30:01 For the protection of Company's property, employees are expected to:
a) report to their foreman or supervisor any conditions presenting a fire hazard;
b) report to their foreman or supervisor the location of a fire should he/she discover one;
30:02 Fire equipment shall not be removed from its place or be used except in case of fire or by order from the Fire Chief or assistant.
ARTICLE 31 - GENERAL
31:01 Materials which are Company's property shall not be removed from the premises unless permission has been granted in writing by the Plant Manager or designated representative.
ARTICLE 32 - POSTING OF NOTICES
32:01 Notices shall not be posted in the mill or dressing mills except upon the official bulletin boards and after permission for doing so has been obtained from the Personnel Supervisor's office.
ARTICLE 33 - LIFE INSURANCE
33:01 Employees who have been working continuously for over a six month period are entitled to participate in our Group Assurance Policy and it is hoped that all those eligible will take advantage of this. (See "Appendix A")
Life insurance coverage will cease on the first day of the month following nine (9) months of layoff for an employee who has been laid-off nine (9) consecutive months.
ARTICLE 34 - BLUE CROSS MEDICAL AND DENTAL PLAN
34:01
a)	The company will provide Blue Cross medical and dental coverage to eligible employees. All employees become eligible after six (6) months of continuous service. The plan will be called 6406-010.
b)	All premiums will be on a cost share basis. Effective January 01, 2009, the company will contribute 65% and the employees 35% of the premium cost. (The required employee premium in 2009 will be $78.14/month for family coverage and $33.44/month for single coverage).
24
c)	All future premium increases/decreases will be shared on a 50/50 basis”, effective January 1st of each year.
34:02
a)	Employees may maintain Blue Cross coverage during periods of temporary lay-off providing the employee pays in advance the premium cost from the first of the month following lay-off to the first of the month following recall. Blue Cross coverage will cease the first month after an employee on temporary layoff fails to pay the premiums or the first day of the month following six (6) months of consecutive lay-off.
b)	Eyeglass coverage allows for $250.00 of eligible expense every two (2) years for adults and $200.00 of eligible expense every twelve (12) months for children up to 18 years of age, with no restriction of the amount applicable to refractions, lenses or frames. These amounts are payable at 80% in accordance with the Blue Cross contract.
c)	Coverage will include payments of 80% of the usual fee of licensed chiropractors to a maximum of $500.00 per calendar year.
d)	Dental coverage will provide for payment of 90% of the dentist’s usual and customary fee of the
previous year N.B. Dental Society Fee Guide. Additional dental care benefits will also be provided covering endodontic services, periodontic services, dentures and orthodontic services. Payment for these additional benefits shall be limited to 50% of the dentist’s usual	and
customary fee(s) of the N.B. Dental Society Fee Guide. Total payment for any benefit or combination of benefits listed under additional benefits of the Blue Cross contract shall be limited to a maximum of $750 per participant per calendar year. Orthodontic benefits are limited to a lifetime maximum of $1500 per participant.
e)	No benefit shall be provided for any denture replacement made less than five (5) years after a denture placement or replacement, which was covered under this contract. No benefit shall be payable for any denture replacement due to loss or theft.
f)	Blue Cross medical and dental coverage is mandatory for all eligible employees.
g)	A child shall not be classed as dependent after the year the child turns 19 unless the child is enrolled in a recognized educational program or the child is mentally or physically impaired. Children enrolled in an educational program may be covered until age 25 unless married.
h)	Effective January 1, 2006, employees who retire may maintain enrolment in the medical and/or dental plan providing such employees pay the full premium costs for the coverage. Premiums must be paid by the first of each month to retain coverage. Any retiree who falls two months in arrears will be terminated from the plan. Retired employee’s coverage will commence on the first day of the month following retirement and will cease on the first day of the month following the month that the retiree reaches age 65. All coverage ceases at age 65 or death of the retiree, which ever occurs first.
ARTICLE 35 - WEEKLY INDEMNITY INSURANCE PLAN
35:01 (The following is a brief summary of some of the benefits for which you may be eligible. All
25
rights with respect to benefits will be governed solely by the Group Master Policy issued by the Insurance Company, details of which may be obtained from the Personnel Department).
Effective February 1, 1981, the Company shall provide, at no premium cost to the employees, a Weekly Indemnity Insurance Program administered in accordance with the term of the Insurance Policy and containing the following governing provisions:
35:02 Participation
a)	Participation in this Plan is limited to regular employees who have completed six (6) months of continuous employment.
b)	Eligible employees are entitled to coverage under this plan, provided they are actively at work on the first day the plan becomes effective.
c)	Eligible employees absent from work due to sickness or accident at the effective date of the Plan, shall become covered under this plan following their return to continuous active full-time employment for a period of thirty (30) calendar days at their normal occupation.
d)	An eligible employee absent from work due to lay-off at the effective date of the Plan, shall upon recall be entitled to coverage under the Plan, on reporting to work.
35:03 Amount of Disability Benefits
For disabilities commencing on/or after the date of ratification:
a)	The amount of eligibility benefit shall be seventy percent (70%) of an employee's wage subject to the maximum E.I. benefit
b)	"Wages" mean an employee's regular scheduled straight time weekly earnings, based on 45 times his/her regular straight time classified rate.
c)	The benefit structure for individuals will be up-dated and adjusted to the individual's new regular rate, twice annually, on March 1 and September 1, for employees then actively at work.
35:04 Eligibility for Payment
a)	The Weekly Indemnity for disability from non-occupational injuries, sickness or disease shall commence at the beginning of the eighteenth week of the disability.
b)	The Weekly Indemnity shall be paid for a period not exceeding thirty-five (35) weeks for any one period of disability.
c)	Employees aged 65 and over will not be entitled to receive Weekly Indemnity benefits.
d)	Employees shall not be entitled to receive Weekly Indemnity benefits for any week for which they receive vacation pay from the Company.
ARTICLE 36 - SIDE AGREEMENTS
26
36:01 All agreements between the Company and the Union are contained in this Labour Agreement
36:02 No future side or interpretative agreements will be recognized or effective unless signed by the President of the Union Local 2450, or designated representative, and the Local Union on one part, and by the Plant Manager and the Manager, Human Resources, or designated representative, on the other part.
ARTICLE 37 - CONTRACTING OUT
37:01
The Company will meet with the Union to review and discuss work on mill premises before being contracted out to assure the fullest possible understanding. It is the Company’s desire to do work with its own crews. However, the Company reserves the right to contract out such work as it deems necessary.
It is understood that if there is an overload of work for mill equipment the Company and the Union will meet to review the need for outside equipment as is the practice on outside contractors.
27
FRASER PAPERS INC.
"RULES GOVERNING VACATIONS WITH PAY FOR PLASTER ROCK LUMBERMILL EMPLOYEES"
Vacations with pay will be granted in accordance with the provisions of the New Brunswick Vacations with Pay Act, as amended.
Without prejudice of the rights of an employee under the Vacations with Pay Act, as amended, vacations with pay will be granted to the employees at the Plaster Rock Lumbermill, under the following rules and conditions:
1.	Eligibility
The following class of employees will be eligible for vacation with pay:
Regular Employees
"Regular Employees" shall mean all employees who are employed in occupations, as listed on the Wage Schedule, which require their services on a year-round basis.
2.	Length of Vacation and Vacation Pay
a)	Effective upon ratification regular employees eligible for vacation as outlined above, will receive vacations and vacation pay based on the number of consecutive years of service as of April 1st of the calendar year in which such vacation applies, as follows:
Consecutive years of service	Number of weeks of vacation	Percent of gross earnings of previous calendar year to be paid as Vacation Pay
less than 1 year	1 day for each month of service (maximum 10 days)	4%
1 to 3 years	2	4%
4 to 8 years	3	6%
9 to 19 years	4	8%
20 to 24 years	5	10%
25 and more	6	12%
b)	Employees eligible for more than two (2) weeks' vacation may, at their option, forego such additional weeks of vacation in any year without reducing the vacation pay due them in that year, or their right to take full vacation in subsequent years.
Employees having worked less than 225 days in the previous calendar year may forego paid vacation leave and elect to draw their vacation pay in up to four (4) installments during their active working period. Employees making this election will not reduce their vacation pay due them in that year, or their right to take full vacation in subsequent years.
28
c)	Effective upon ratification newly hired employees eligible for vacation as outlined above (excluding Article 2 a), will receive vacations and vacation pay based on the number of consecutive years of service as of April 1st of the calendar year in which such vacation applies, as follows:
Consecutive years of service	Number of weeks of vacation	Percent of gross earnings of previous calendar year to be paid as Vacation Pay
less than 1 year	1 day for each month of service dmaxi mum 10	4%
1 to 3 years	2	4%
4 to 8 years	3	6%
9 to 17 years	4	7%
18 to 24 years	4	9%
25 and more	5	11%
3.	Schedule of Vacations
All vacation schedules will be subject to the approval of the Plant Manager, but in no case must they interfere with mill operations.
Scheduling Procedure
a)	Vacation eligibility list will be posted within 7 days following April 1.
b)	Vacations may be scheduled as approved from January 1 through December 31.
c)	Employees desiring choice of vacation on a seniority basis must submit their vacation requests in writing before May 1. Requests received after May 1 will be honored in the order received.
d)	In order to permit a fair distribution of vacation periods no employee will be permitted to schedule more than two weeks of vacation during the period June 15 to September 15.
e)	Vacation scheduling will normally be considered on a shift basis and the Plant Manager or Representative will determine the maximum number of vacations that can be scheduled at any one time, and the number of employees with special skills that can be out so as to provide for vacations without adverse effect to operations.
f)	Vacations that have not been scheduled by October 1 will be scheduled by Plant Manager or Representative.
g)	Vacations will be paid on schedule (weekly, no lump sum). To receive advanced vacation pay, a request in writing must be submitted to payroll two (2) weeks in advance of payment date.
29
h)	One (1) week of vacation may be designated as “vacation days” by an employee. This
designation must occur by no later than May 1st of each year. Such days may be utilized as individual days and/or groups of days. These days must be used before any time off without pay occurs.
4.	General
a)	Vacations cannot be accumulated for future years.
The Company shall make rules and regulations governing the administration of the Vacation with Pay Plan and may make such revisions therein as may be deemed necessary. The decision of the Company shall be final on all questions arising out of the administration of the plan.
b)	The Company may close any part of its operations for vacation purposes during the months of July to November of each year. Such closure will be determined on a year-to-year basis and notice of such closure will be posted by May of each year. Employees affected by such a closure will be permitted to exercise seniority rights to bump into continuing jobs as per paragraph 4:03 d) and those employees not working will be required to use one (1) week of vacation entitlement for each week of closure. In cases of closure for vacation purposes employees will be granted a two (2) week period following the posting of such closure in which they may schedule or reschedule their vacations based on seniority.
30
PENSION PLAN
The Pension Plan will be amended as follows:
The Company agrees to the following pension changes subject to the approval of Revenue Canada and provincial regulatory authorities and to all applicable federal and provincial laws.
1.	Conversion
With effect from January 1, 1997, the Pension Plan will be converted from a defined benefit pension plan to a defined contribution pension plan.
2.	Existing Plan Maintained - Age + Continuous Service Total 70
a)	Each Member whose combined age and Continuous Service at December 31, 1996 totals 70 or more points may elect to continue contributions to and participation in the existing career average defined benefit plan, (and not be eligible to participate in the defined contribution pension plan), with the early retirement benefits and bridging supplement described in the collective agreement which expired on January 31, 1995. Members who continue participation in the existing plan who retire on or after January 1, 1997 will receive a pension calculated according to the following formula:
The future service normal pension accrued to January 1, 1988, including the pension accrued as a result of benefit adjustments made before 1988;
plus
50% of the member’s required contributions made from January 1, 1988
Employee Required Contributions:	-5% of scheduled earnings minus C/QPP
contributions, “Scheduled Earnings” means the employee’s classified rate multiplied by his/her scheduled hours.
b)	Effective January 1, 1999 or May 1, 1999 (as per election of employees in this plan):
Employee Required Contributions: - 3.5% of contributory earnings up to the YMPE* and 5.0% of the excess, if any, of the contributory earnings above the YMPE”.
*YMPE = Yearly Maximum Pensionable Earnings for Canada Pension Plan Contributions ($37,400 in 1999).
“Contributory earnings” for this purpose shall be an employee’s wages including gain sharing and production bonus, but excluding overtime, taxable benefits or indemnities and reimbursement of expenses.
c)	Employees whose combined age and continuous service totals 80 or more as of December 31, 1998 will be eligible to receive a minimum benefit equal to the following:
31
-1.65% of the employee’s average annual earnings during the five (5) years prior to his/her retirement for which earnings were the highest multiplied by the number of years (including fractions) of continuous contributory service prior to retirement;
Less
-1/35 of the C/QPP benefits in effect in the calendar year of retirement, multiplied by the number of years (including fractions) of continuous contributory service, with this number not to exceed 21 years.
For the purpose of the minimum benefit, the definition of “Earnings” shall mean an employee’s wages, but excluding overtime, gain sharing, and production bonus, taxable benefits, special payments or indemnities and reimbursement of expenses.
Employees in this group will receive pension benefits based on the greater of the minimum benefit calculation (above) or the regular pension benefit as per 2 a) and b).
3.	Defined Contributions Pension Plan
The primary features of the defined contribution plan are:
Employee Required Contributions: - 3.5% of Earnings. Deposited to each employee’s account each pay period. Note: The employee may choose to make additional contributions to the plan by increasing the personal contribution rate up to the Revenue Canada permissible maximum. Such election should be made on/or before January 1 of the year to which it applies.
Company Required Contributions - 2% of Earnings, plus an additional 1% of Earnings for each employee at January 1, 1997 whose combined age and Continuous Service totals 70 or over as of January 1, 1997. Deposited to each employee’s account each pay period.
Earnings - wages and other remuneration for services including production bonuses, night shift premiums, vacation pay, overtime, but excluding taxable benefits, special payments or indemnities and reimbursement for expenses.
Vesting - Immediate Locking-In - Immediate
Investment - Investment options for defined contribution plans for salaried employees of Fraser Papers Inc. (Canada).
Payments Options - Upon termination of employment or retirement, at the employee’s election, a transfer to another registered pension plan, a locked-in registered retirement savings plan, a life income fund, or the purchase of a deferred or immediate annuity.
4.	Retain Pension Accrued Before 1997
a) Each employee who is a Member will be given the choice of retaining rights to pension benefits accrued under the defined benefit plan as of December 31, 1996, based on the greater of formula (A) or (B) below:
32
A)	1.65% of the Member’s average annual earnings during the five (5) years prior to 1997 for which earnings were the highest, multiplied by the Member’s Continuous Contributory Service to December 31, 1996;
less
1/35th of the C/QPP benefits in effect in 1996, multiplied by the Member’s Continuous Contributory Service from January 1, 1996 to December 31, 1996, not exceeding 21 years.
Earnings for this purpose shall be the employee’s classified rate multiplied by his/her normal scheduled hours. However, in the event that an employee’s scheduled earnings in any of the five 12-month periods immediately preceding retirement do not reflect a normal annual schedule of hours for that period for reasons other than a leave of absence, the employee’s earnings for that period will be adjusted to reflect his/her normal annual schedule of hours, provided the employee has been actively at work for at least 3 months during that 12-month period. For a disabled employee, the classified rate to be used for this adjustment shall be the classified rate in effect immediately preceding the onset of the disability.
B)	The future service normal pension accrued to the Member to January 1, 1988, including the pension accrued as a result of benefit adjustments made before 1988;
plus
50% of the Member’s Required Contributions made from January 1, 1988 to December 31, 1996
b) Employees who are Members, who have twenty (20) years of Continuous Service at December 31, 1996 and who are 55 years of age on that date, who elect to retain their defined benefit pensions will also retain their rights to receive their accrued defined benefit pensions upon retirement from Continuous Service subject to the reductions specified in the following table, but always subject to compliance with the Income Tax Act (Canada):
Age at Retirement
Entitlement Factor
58 to 65 57 56 55
100%
92%
84%
76%
c)	Employees who are Members, who have twenty (20) years of Continuous Service and are age 58 at December 31, 1996, and who elect to retain their defined benefit pensions will also retain their rights to receive the Bridging Supplement described in Section 6.05 of the Pension Plan.
d)	Members who have less than twenty (20) years of Continuous Service at December 31, 1996 and who elect to retain their defined benefit pensions will receive pensions after attaining vesting status (5 years of Continuous Service) reduced in accordance with Section 6.04(b) of the Pension Plan.
33
e)	Effective October 31, 2009, the Defined Benefit Pension (DB) will be « frozen » for all employees in this plan. Employees will retain their accumulated credited service under the DB Plan as of October 31, 2009. Pension service calculations, including bridging (as described in 5. below) will include all Continuous Contributory Service prior to November 01, 2009.
Effective November 01, 2009, these employees will move to the existing Group RRSP as explained in 7. below.
5.	Conversion Values - Pensions Accrued Before 1997
Each employee who is a Member will be permitted to elect before January 1, 1997 to convert the pension accrued to December 31, 1996 and to have the conversion value deposited to his account as of January 1, 1997 in the defined contribution pension plan. Each Member electing this conversion option shall have the commuted value of his/her pension accrued to December 31, 1996 calculated according to the following assumptions:
a)	CIA Minimum Transfer Value Guideline rates in effect for December 31, 1996;
b)	Accrued pensions calculated according to the formula in Paragraph 4 a) above:
c)	Early retirement reductions calculated according to Paragraphs 4 b) and 4 d) above:
d)	Each Member whose combined age and Continuous Service at December 31, 1996 totals 60 or more points, will receive the Bridging Supplement provided in Section 6:05 of the Pension Plan from the date he/she would have reached both age 58 and twenty (20) years of Continuous Service. Upon ratification of the 2005 Labour Agreement, Article 6:05 of the Pension Plan (Plan #2 registered in the Province of New Brunswick under registration number 0251264) Bridging Supplement shall be amended to change the formula for determining the Bridging Supplement:
•	If the Member’s Normal Early Retirement Date is prior to age 60, the Member shall receive $27 per
month reducing to $18 per month on the first of the month following his/her attainment of age 60 to age 65 or death, which ever occurs first; or
•	If the Member’s Normal Retirement Date is on/or after his/her attainment of age 60, $18 per month to
age 65 or death, whichever occurs first;
multiplied by the sum of the Member’s years of Continuous Contributory Service plus Continuous Service from date of hire to date of entry in the Pension Plan, including partial years, to a maximum of 30 years.
All other provisions of Section 6:05 shall remain unchanged.
6.	Information For Elections
The Company will prepare and provide to each Member sufficient explanations and benefit estimates for the Members to make informed decisions by December 16, 1996 about whether or not to participate in the conversion with respect to future and past service benefits.
7.	Group RRSP
34
Effective January 1, 2001, the Defined Contribution Plan will be replaced by a new Group RRSP. Funds accumulated up to December 31, 2000 in the Defined Contribution Plan will continue to be managed by individual employees and subject to government regulations for this type of Plan.
Movement to the new Group RRSP will be mandatory for all employees.
Employee required contributions:	4%
Company required contributions:	2.5% effective February 1, 2005 plus an additional 1.0% of earnings
for each employee at January 1, 1997 whose combined age and continuous services totals 70 or over as of January 1, 1997.
Employee and Company contributions will be deposited to each employee’s account each pay period.
Earnings - wages and other remuneration for services including production bonuses, night shift premiums, vacation pay, overtime, but excluding taxable benefits, special payments or indemnities and reimbursement for expenses.
Withdrawal from the Group RRSP will only be allowed by individuals who are no longer employed by the Company.
8.	Miscellaneous
It is the intention of Fraser Papers Inc. (Canada) to see to the administration of the funds. However, the Company would consider a request from the Union to have the administration of the funds transferred to their responsibility.
35
MAINTENANCE TRADES PROGRESSION LUMBERMILL
1.	Management will determine the number of Tradesmen and Tradesmen Helpers necessary to satisfy maintenance requirements and adjust maintenance complement as it may find necessary to meet changing conditions.
2.	a) There shall be four (4) classes of Tradesmen, progression to be from first class through second, through third to fourth class.
b) There will be only one level in the classification of helper.
3.	Because this is an apprenticeship program education requirements must be supported by experience (Time in Trade).
An employee entering the trade at helper level may progress in the following manner:
Classification	Minimum Education Requirements	Time in Trade
Helper	Level required by N.B. Dept. of Labour or Education for entry in the trade as apprentice	
Tradesman 1st Class	Successful completion of 1st Division of N.B. Dept. of Labour course	1 year completed
Tradesman 2nd Class	Successful completion of 2nd Division of N.B. Dept. of Labour course	2 years completed
Tradesman 3rd Class	Successful completion of 3rd Division of N.B. Dept. of Labour course	3 years completed
Tradesman 4th Class	Must have earned journeyman’s ticket in the TRADE	4 years completed
In all cases pertaining to claims of educational status, it will be necessary to have available formal documentary proof of alleged status.
Tradesmen are defined as employees in the apprenticeship program (Industrial Millwright, Industrial Electrician, Machinist, Welding and Power Engineer).
Regular employees who require courses so as to advance in their line of promotion can only be obtained through Block Release training.
Employees will be selected for the apprenticeship program through job postings, the successful applicant(s) will enter in the program with the understanding the first Block Release will be the employee’s full financial responsibility, the Company will not grant any financial assistance. Employees attending future Block Release training (defined as Block 2 or higher) will receive a weekly allowance equal to (ninety-five) 95% of their regular classified rate (-) minus their Employment Insurance and/or other Training Allowances, excluding mileage and living expenses. The weekly allowance will only be paid providing the employee attending Block Release training would be scheduled to work at the beginning of their course.
36
Supplemental income will only be paid to employees who are attending Tradesman Block Release through the Apprenticeship Program.
In the absence of government funded assistance for future Block Release training (defined as Block 2 or higher), the Company will pay (fifty-five) 55% of the employee’s classified hourly rate, in addition to travel and living allowance providing the employee would be scheduled to work at the start of their course.
If applicable employees in the SUB Plan program must submit proof of employment insurance benefits to the Human Resources Superintendent prior to starting payments for their weekly training allowance.
In order to qualify for this allowance, advance permission must be obtained from the employee's superintendent and the Personnel Supervisor. Such permission may be withheld temporarily if the total number of absences would be such as to adversely affect efficiency. Opportunity will be given in order of job seniority. In no case will an employee be eligible for more than one Block Release allowance in any one year.
TIME IN TRADE will be granted for experience in the trade on comparable equipment.
Classification granted will not be greater than the level of educational status and minimum time in trade indicated.
It will be the employee's responsibility to advise his/her supervisor of any change in status. It will also be the employee's responsibility to request permission from the Mill Manager at least one (1) month ahead of time when planning to attend a Block Release course.
The Company will cover the cost of renewal fees for tradesman licenses when required for work.
Documentation relating to employees progressing within their trade will be forwarded to the Union, upon the receipt of written approval from the specific employee.
37
PLASTER ROCK LUMBERMILL BASE RATE SCHEDULE
OCCUPATION
CLASSIFICATION	FEB. 1/ 2009	FEB. 1/ 2010	FEB. 1/ 2011	FEB. 1/ 2012	AUG. 1/ 2012
GROUP 00	12.90	12.96	13.09	13.22	13.35
Students - (applies to students in jobs below Group 2)
Group 0
Probationers (First forty-five (45)	14.32	14.39	14.53	14.68	14.83
days of work)
GROUP 1	15.29	15.37	15.52	15.68	15.84
Mill Cleaning Tilt Hoist Operator Labour Yard labourer Janitor
GROUP 2	15.49	15.57	15.73	15.89	16.05
Drum Debarker Operator Chipper Utility Feed Planer
Stacker Operator (Planer & Sawmill) Tallyman
Strapping Machine Operator Log Deck Handler
GROUP 3
Chipperman	15.76	15.84	16.00	16.16	16.32
Board Puller Stockman
SM Trimmer Oper./Species Sort Grader (Finished Lumber)
Yard Grader
Dry Kiln Floor (Kiln #2)
Mill Feed Operator
38
OCCUPATION
CLASSIFICATION	FEB. 1/ 2009	FEB. 1/ 2010	FEB. 1/ 2011	FEB. 1/ 2012	AUG. 1/ 2012
GROUP 4	16.15	16.23	16.39	16.55	16.72
Ring Debarker Operator					
GROUP 5	16.48	16.56	16.73	16.90	17.07
Edger Optimizer Operator 10 “ Bull Edger Operator Barko Operator Slasher Operator Mobile Equipment Operator Dry Kiln Mobile (Kiln #2)
GROUP 6
16.63	16.71	16.88	17.05	17.22
Canter Twin Operator Planerman
GROUP 7	17.27	17.36	17.53	17.71	17.89
Planermill Maint. Lube Tech./Oiler (Non-ticketed) GROUP 8	18.88	18.97	19.16	19.35	19.54
Working Foreman					
GROUP 9	19.18	19.28	19.47	19.66	19.86
Relief Supervisor
Note: Future vacancies for Group 8 and Group 9 positions will be posted. The Company will select from among the applications and the Company decision will be final. Group 9 rate will be paid when the Working Foreman is replacing a Management Supervisor.
(Group 7) Regular or spare classified Planer Maintenance and Lube Tech./Oiler with no Block release tickets will be paid at Tradesman 2nd level.
39
PLASTER ROCK LUMBERMILL BASE RATE SCHEDULE
OCCUPATION
CLASSIFICATION	FEB. 1/	FEB. 1/	FEB. 1/	FEB. 1/	AUG. 1/
FILING ROOM	2009	2010	2011	2012	2012
Chief Filer	18.53	18.62	18.81	19.00	19.19
Filing Foreman	17.76	17.85	18.03	18.21	18.39
Filer - After two years	16.77	16.85	17.02	17.19	17.36
Filer - After one year	16.28	16.36	16.52	16.69	16.86
Filer Apprentice	15.73	15.81	15.97	16.13	16.29
STEAM POWER					
Foreman (2nd Class)	19.61	19.71	19.91	20.11	20.31
Fireman (2nd Class)	19.08	19.18	19.37	19.56	19.76
Fireman (3rd Class)	18.12	18.21	18.39	18.57	18.76
Fireman (4th Class)	17.56	17.65	17.83	18.01	18.19
Apprentice after 6 months experience	16.78	16.86	17.03	17.20	17.37
MAINTENANCE					
DEPARTMENT					
Head Industrial Mechanic	19.64	19.74	19.94	20.14	20.34
Plant Electrician	19.71	19.81	20.01	20.21	20.41
Tradesman 4th Class	19.11	19.21	19.40	19.59	19.79
Tradesman 3rd Class	18.10	18.19	18.37	18.55	18.74
Tradesman 2nd Class	17.27	17.36	17.53	17.71	17.89
Tradesman 1st Class	16.67	16.75	16.92	17.09	17.26
Tradesman - Helper	15.93	16.01	16.17	16.33	16.49
Millwrights who currently hold or apply for the positions of (Regular or spare Planer Maintenance or Lube Tech./Oiler) will be paid at Tradesman 2nd class or their present tradesman classification if higher.
The Company may make adjustments to trade wage rates for new employees due to recruiting difficulties in the labour market. In such cases, current trade wage rates will also be adjusted for employees with the equivalent qualifications and competency. The Company agrees to provide to the Union details regarding pay rates and qualifications.
Eric Sullivan is grandfathered into the Filing Foreman Classification. In the event that Mr. Sullivan moves to another position, retracts, or is no longer employed by the Company, the Filing Foreman’s classification will cease to exist in the Occupation Classification of the Filing Room.
Tradesmen will supply their own tools as per agreed lists. Wage rates for tradesmen supplying their own tools will receive an adjustment of $0.40 per hour.
40
Lead Hand
A tradesman will be classified as a lead hand and receive the contractual bonus rate of twenty five cents ($0.25) per hour only during such time as he/she directs the work of three or more employees. The payment of lead hand rate is not to be interpreted as establishing seniority or promotional precedence.
Tool replacement
The Company will agree to replace tools lost to fire or explosion. A listing of approved tools shall be provided twice a year to the Maintenance Superintendent.
Planerman’s Maintenance Allowance
$0.30/hour when working alone on Monday or nights. MLB License
Planermill graders will receive the combined MLB and finished lumber premiums of $0.65 on top of their hourly rate. Effective upon ratification employees classified as regular or spare (strapper operator, stacker operator, tallyman, stockman, SM trimmer oper/species sort, yard grader) and holding a valid MLB tickets will receive the MLB premium of $0.50/hour on top of their rate. Employees who are awarded any of these job classifications in the future will not receive the MLB premium.
Fire Chief/Assistant
Employee acting as Fire Chief, in addition to regular duties, will receive an added compensation of $115.00 per month.
Employee acting as Assistant Fire Chief, in addition to regular duties, will receive an added compensation of $60.00 per month.
Night Shift Premium
Effective February 1, 2000, a premium of fifty-three cents ($0.53) per hour shall be paid for all night shift work.
This premium shall not enter into the calculation of overtime.
Welder Tickets
Industrial Mechanics having successfully completed one or more Block Releases as per the Maintenance Trades Progression will be eligible for the following allowances if in possession of valid Welding Tickets.
Qualified Welding Ticket	-	$0.20 per hour
Approved Welding Ticket	-	$0.10 per hour
MISCELLANEOUS
41
1.	The Company will see that a booster unit is available for starting employee vehicles, when required.
2.	The Company agrees to provide twenty (20) plug-ins, in the employee parking lot.
3.	The Company will reimburse 20% of the cost of safety boots (purchased for work purposes only) upon
the submission of a valid proof of purchase.
4.	The Company agrees to reimburse Local 2450 employees 25% discount for Acadia Timber Limited
Season Land Use Passes from 2009 to 2012.
42
PLASTER ROCK LUMBERMILL BONUS INCENTIVE PLAN
Changes to the Bonus Incentive Plan, as a result of the 2009 negotiations, will become effective upon ratification of the new Labour Agreement.
Bonus is payable to all employees of the Plaster Rock Lumbermill on regular scheduled hours.
Bonus is to be calculated on a per shift basis and paid weekly to all employees. Shift production will be calculated as the average of the two shifts when the mill is operating on a two-shift per day basis.
In the event of mill modernization projects that result in increased productivity, the Bonus Incentive Plan will be restructured to coincide with the increased productivity capacity of the mill. The revised system will not have a lower payout plan than the average of the previous twelve (12) accounting periods, on a double shift basis, prior to modernization.
(Note: Accounting period defined as the Lumbermill operation running double shift for the entire period). All bonuses will be calculated on a 9 hour shift. Any shift less than or in excess of 9 hours will be calculated to represent productivity for a 9 hour shift.
The production bonus (as per the Labour Agreement) will apply when “a full operation” occurs beyond regular scheduled hours. Full operation means a minimum of one planer line or the entire sawmill operation for a full shift or part of a shift.
The bonus plan will be applicable to Sawmill and Planermill basis as follows:
Sawmill
Bonus is to be calculated on gross production per shift basis (average to two shifts when mill is operating on two shift basis). Bonus will be paid in 1,000 fbm increments. Gross production will be calculated with 6% trim loss that will be reflected in the rate per 1,000 fbm.
Kiln operators, boiler room employees, sawmill maintenance, stockman, yard grader and yard labourer will be attached to the Sawmill production bonus along with regular production employees assigned to the Sawmill.
Planermill
Bonus is applicable to all employees assigned to the Planermill or associated with the Planermill operation (i.e. machines handling dressed lumber and/or for shipment).
Bonus is based on production per shift at the Planermill on the basis on saleable output from the Planermill.
Bonus will be calculated daily. The hourly bonus to be paid for each day will be paid by applying the appropriate hourly bonus from the following tables for each planer in operation on that day and averaging the two (e.g. Specialty operates on 1” x 6” lumber and produces 100,000 fbm. Resulting in an hourly bonus of $1.95; the dimension operates on 2” x 6” lumber and produces 250,000 fbm. Resulting in an
43
hourly bonus of $1.63. The hourly bonus to be paid to all employees working in the Planermill for this day is $1.79/hr. ($1.95 + $1.63)/2 = $1.79. If the Planermill is on two shifts per day basis, then the hourly bonus will be the average of the two.
In the event that either line operates for less than nine (9) hours in a shift for reasons other than equipment breakdown, the production for the line(s) in question will be adjusted to reflect a full nine (9) hours of production.
Seven Day Scheduled / Scheduled Weekends
Employees scheduled to work weekends or days that the Lumbermill does not operate will receive the average hourly bonus paid during the week in which the non-operating day occurs for scheduled hours on that shift. i.e. Saturday bonus is to be based on the past week and Sunday bonus on the following week.
Bonus Incentive Plan - (2) Shift Operation
Sawmill	0.0064 mfbm
Specialty Planer Pattern	0.0312 mfbm
Dimension or Specialty Planer Reman - Studs	0.0143 mfbm
Specialty Planer 1 x 4/5	0.0227 mfbm
Specialty Planer 1 x 2/3	0.0381 mfbm
Specialty Planer 1 x 6/7/8	0.0195 mfbm
Specialty Planer 1 x 10/12	0.0214 mfbm
Specialty Planer 2” Stock including Studs	0.0136 mfbm
Dimension Planer 2”	0.0065 mfbm
Bonus Incentive Plan - (1) Shift Operation
Sawmill	0.0060 mfbm
Specialty Planer Pattern	0.0293 mfbm
Dimension or Specialty Planer Reman Studs	0.0134 mfbm
Specialty Planer 1 x 4/5	0.0213 mfbm
Specialty Planer 1 x 2/3	0.0358 mfbm
Specialty Planer 1 x 6/7/8	0.0183 mfbm
Specialty Planer 1 x 10/12	0.0201 mfbm
Specialty Planer 2” Stock including Studs	0.0128 mfbm
Dimension Planer 2”	0.0061 mfbm
44
Profit/EBIDTA Sharing
1.	Company must generate $6.0 Million Annual EBITDA.
a)	Above this amount (up to a maximum of $300,000), Company will pay 20% or a maximum of $60,000 to employees, in a lump sum; will not impact on base rates.
b)	In addition, for EBITDA between $6.3 and $7.8 Million the Company will pay 10% to a maximum of $150,000 to employees, in a lump sum; will not impact on base rates.
c)	In addition, for EBITDA between $7.8 and $9.3 Million the Company will pay 6% to a maximum of $90,000 to employees, in a lump sum; will not impact on base rates.
2.	Will apply to the last (3) calendar years of the contract (2010,2011,2012)
3.	The minimum $ 6.0 Million annual hurdle will be adjusted in the event of additional major strategic capital projects that are implemented during the life of this agreement.
Adjustments will be made for strategic projects that have capital spending in excess of $500,000 and are undertaken for return on investment purposes. The adjustment to the $6.0 Million hurdle will be based on the forecasted return on investment of the project.
Example:
Assume a strategic capital project at the planermill is implemented at a capital cost of $5.0 Million with a forecasted return on investment of 20%.
$5.0 Million capital cost
X 20% return on investment
=$ 1.0 Million annual required EBITDA improvement
Therefore, the $6.0 Million hurdle would be adjusted to $7.0 Million ($6.0 Million + $1.0 Million) and the payout formula after implementation of the project would be:
Company must generate $7million Annual EBITDA.
a.	) above this amount (up to a maximum of $300,000), Company will pay 20% or a
maximum of $60,000 to employees, in a lump sum; will not impact on base rates.
b.	) B.) In addition, for EBITDA between $7.3 and $8.8 Million the Company will pay
10% to a maximum of $150,000 to employees, in a lump sum; will not impact on base rates
c.	) C.) In addition, for EBITDA between $8.8 and $10.3 Million the Company will pay
6% to a maximum of $90,000 to employees, in a lump sum; will not impact on base rates
45
DATED at Plaster Rock, New Brunswick, this	day of , 2009.
NEW BRUNSWICK REGIONAL COUNCIL OF CARPENTERS, MILLWRIGHTS AND ALLIED WORKERS, LOCAL 2450	FRASER PAPERS INC.
President, Local 2450	General Manager Lumbermills
Business Representative	Manager, Human Resources
Member	Lumbermill Manager
Member Member Member Member	Human Resources Superintendent Lumbermill
Member	
46
APPENDIX "A" GROUP LIFE INSURANCE
Life insurance provides coverage of $40,000 for all employees enrolled throughout the contract.
Insurance coverage reduces to 10% of the value of the full coverage at early or normal retirement. The Company will be responsible for the cost of premiums.
Life insurance coverage is mandatory for all employees after completing six (6) months of continuous service.
No benefit shall be payable in the event of permanent and total disability. However, insurance premiums shall be waived after twelve (12) months of disability and such waiver shall continue so long as the employee remains disabled.
Employees covered by Insurance Plan “B” shall be covered, while in the active employ of the Company, for $30,000 accidental death and dismemberment insurance. Increases in AD&D coverage will follow the scheduled increases for Life Insurance.
The Company will pay the total premium costs for basic Life Insurance and AD&D Insurance.
OVERTIME PROCEDURE
47
WEEKDAYS
Employees in regular classification will be asked first to work.
Upon regular employees declining, preference will be given to the senior (Mill Seniority) employees from the overtime list, providing they have the necessary skills and abilities.
Employees required to work at sawmill will be selected from the sawmill list; same approach applies to Planermill.
Deadline for weekday overtime - 3:00 a.m. (night shift) or 3:00 p.m. (day shift). WEEKENDS
Overtime work will be scheduled from the employees on the weekend Lumbermill overtime list, which combines the Planer and Sawmill weekend overtime lists.
For weekend fuel (biomass) the senior mobile equipment operator on the weekend overtime list will be selected.
If a Holiday falls during the regular workweek, the weekend procedures will apply. In the event of a holiday falling on Monday, Tuesday or Wednesday, the overtime list of the previous weekend will be the list used.
In the event that employees on the weekend overtime list are not contacted after Friday’s day shift, such employees will not be required to report to work if they are subsequently contacted (i.e. voluntary basis).
The only time seniority will be by-passed for weekends is stated on Article 23:05 of the Labour Agreement.
Deadline for weekend overtime list will be noon on Wednesday. If a Holiday falls on Thursday or Friday, the deadline will be noon on Tuesday.
COMPRESSED WORKWEEK
Employees on a compressed workweek schedule can include their names on either the weekend or weekday overtime list and must specify the days and times for which they would be available to work.
MAINTENANCE DEPARTMENT
Employees requesting daily overtime shall sign the overtime sheet for the particular day prior to 3:00 p.m.
Employees wishing to work on weekends will be required to include their names on a maintenance weekend overtime list.
48