Between
HOUSTONFOREST PRODUCTS CO. BABINE FOREST PRODUCTS CO.
and
I.W.A . CANADA, LOCAL 1-424
'5 (06)
INDEX
APPRENTICESHIP TRAINING PROGRAM BARGAINING AGENCY B.C. NORTHERN INTERIOR SAWMILL AND POLEYARD JOB EVALUATION PLAN CONTRACTING OUT DEFINITION
DURATION OF AGREEMENT EDUCATION TRUST FUND FIRE FIGHTING AGREEMENT FORESTRY ENVIRONMENTAL COMMITTEE 28 GENERAL PROVISIONS	27
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE	24
HEALTH AND WELFARE	29
HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME	8
INTERPRETATION AND ARBITRATION 26 JOB TRAINING	35
LEAVE OF ABSENCE	15
LONG TERM DISABILITY	33
MANAGEMENT	5
PAY DAYS	8
PENSION PLAN	34
RIGHT OF REFERENCE	25
SAFETY AND HEALTH	23
SAFE " EQUIPMENT	36
SENIORITY	12
STATUTORY HOLIDAYS	21
TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE	35
TOOL INSURANCE	37
UNION SECURITY	5
VACATIONS WITH PAY	17
WAGES	7
ARTICLE
XXII
I
XXVII
XXIX
II
xxx
XXVIII
XXV!
XVII XVI
XIII
XVIII
VII x v xxi
IX
XIX
III VI x x
XIV XII
XXIV
VIII XI
XXIII
XXV
IV
X
V
SUPPLEMENTS
ADJUSTMENTS AND INTERPRETATIONS	49
ALTERNATE SHIFT SCHEDULING	72
APPRENTICESHIP TRAINING PROGRAM	50
CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTING	70
FIRE FIGHTING AGREEMENT	62
SAWMILL JOB EVALUATION PLAN	64
SELECTION OF APPRENTICE PROCEDURE	70
WAGE SCALES	42
NEW AND EVOLVING WORK	74
AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT entered into thl$ Iith day of August, 1997,
BETWEEN:	HOUSTON FOREST PRODUCTS CO.
and
babinE forest products ca
(heretnafler known as the “Company”)
OP THE HIRST PART
AND:	l.W.A.-CkNADAJ,OCAI. 1-424. C.I..C.
(hereinafter known as the “Union”)
OF THE SECOND PART
1.	WHEREAS it is the intent and purpose of the parties hereto that this Agreement will promote and improve industrial and economic relationships between the employees and the Company, and to set forth herein the basic Agreement between the parties hereto, AND
2.	WHEREAS the Company accepts responsibility to observe each and all provisions and conditions of this Agreement and to promote orderly and peaceful relations with the Employees, AND
3.	WHEREAS the Union accepts responsibility to observe each and all provisions and conditions of this Agreement and to promote orderly and peaceful relations with the Company,
NOW THEREFORE the Parties hereto mutually agree as follows: ARTICLE I - BARGAINING AGENCY Section 1
The Company agrees to recognize and bargain with the duly elected bargaining representative on behalf of its Employees properly and duly certified under the appropriate regulations in effect from time to time.
Section 2
The Party of the First Part agrees that the bargaining authority of the Party of the Second Part shall not be impaired during the term of this new Collective Agreement. The Party of the First Part agrees that the only certification they will recognize during the term of this new Agreement is that of the Party of the Second Part unless ordered by due process of law to recognize some other
Page4
bargaining authority ARTTCT.F, II -DEFINITION
'Hie term "Employee” as used and for the purpose of this Agreement shall include all persons employed by the Company on whose behalf the Industrial Wood and Allied Worker’s of Canada, Local I -424, has been certified as bargaining agents, except and excluding foremen and others having authority to hire and fire, office workers, supervisory officials and salesmen.
ARTICLE III -MANAGEMENT
Section
Tlie management of the operation and the direction and promotion of the Employees are vested exclusively in the management, provided however that this will not be used for the purpose of discrimination against employees.
Section 2
’Ihc Company shall have the right to select its employees and to discipline them or discharge them for proper cause.
ARTICLE IV -UNION SECURITY
Section 1
The Company will co-operate with the Union in obtaining and retaining as members the employees as defined in Ihis Agreement, and to this end will present to new employees, and to all Supervisors and Foremen, the Policy herein expressed.
Section 2
a)	All employees of Babinc Ixtrcsl Products Ltd. who entered the employment oi the Company on or after the 24th day of February, 1975, and all new Employees, shall, within 30 calendar days after the execution of this Agreement, or 30 calendar days after entering employment, whichever date last occurs, become members oflhe Union and maintain membership therein throughout the term of this Agreement as a condition of continued employment.
b)	All employees of Houston Forest Products Co. who entered the employment of the Company oil or after the 9th day of March, 1978, and all new Employees, shall, within 30 calendar days after the execution of this Agreement, or 30 calendar days after entering employment, whichever date last occurs, become members of the Union and maintain membership therein throughout the term of this Agreement, as a condition of continued employment.
Section 3
Any employee who is a member in good standing, or is re-instated as a member of the Union, shall, as acondition of continued employment, maintain such membership in good standing throughout the term of this Agreement.
Paged
Section 4
Any employee who falls to maintain his membership in the Union as prescribed herein by reason of refusal to pay dues and assessments, shall be subject to discharge after seven (7) days written notice to the Company of the said Employee’s refusal to maintain his membership.
Section S	......................
a)	No employee shall be subject to any penalties against his application for
membership or reinstatement, except as may be provided for in the 1WA-CANADA Constitution, as revised 1979, and in accordance with the Bylaws of Local 1 -424, which the Local Union certified as being correct as of April 1981.	"
b)	Any employee who applies to join the LInion pursuant to the provisions herein and whose application is rejected by the Union, shall not be subject to discharge from employment
faction
‘The Company shall require all new Employees at the time of hiring, to execute the following assignment of wages in duplicate, the forms to be supplied by the Union. All check-off forms to be forwarded to the Local LInion within fifteen (15) days of hiring.
Section 7
This assignment in the case of Employees already members of the Union shall be effective immediately and for those Employees not previously members of the LInion, it shall become effective thirty (30) calendar days from the date of execution,
The Company shall remit the dues deducted pursuant to such assignment (until and unless said assignment is revoked by the employee) to the Local Union named therein, no later than the 15th day of the month following the month in which the deduction was made from the employee, with a written statement of names of employees for whom the deductions were made and the amount of sa± deduction.
Section 8
The Company shall furnish the Union with the Social Security number of each employee on its payroll on the first occasion when dues are forwarded to the LInion after the execution of this Agreement or after the Employee enters the employment of the Company, whichever chits last occurs.
Section 9
The Parties agree that the Company shall deduct from an employee’s wages and shall remit to the appropriate employee benefit plan, tie employee’s contribution which is specified in any benefit plan agreed to by the patties to the Coast IVLr Agreement.
Fhge6
ARTICLE V • WAGES
Section I
a)	The Parties hereby agree that wages of all hourly rated employees covered by the Agreement shall he increased by one percent (I %) per hour, effective the first day of July, 1037, a further two percent (2%)per hour effective, the first day of July, 1998, and by two percent (2%) effective the first day of July 1, 1999.	'	'	'	'
h) The Parties agree that the minimum rate for common labour shall be:
i)	$19.86 per hour effective July 1st, 1997,
ii)	$20.26 per hour effective July 1st, 1998.
iii)	$20,67 per hour effective July 1st, 1999,
c)	The Company agrees to pay a Power Saw Allowance of ten dollars ($10.00) per day to designated employees who supply and maintain their own saws.
WELDERS:
Effective July 1st, 1981 the following shall be the classificationof welders in manufacturing conditional on the welders being qualified as required under the Standard Forest Industry Welding Specifications and either having completed die three (3) year apprenticeship program or having worked in the trade for six thousand (6,000) hours as a welder.
Group I -Welder (FI-101, PI-102)
Group 2-Welder(ri-J03,DPWl,DPW2)
Group 3 -Welder (Uncertified)
Employees employed as Welders who are required to renew their Welding Ticket shall be granted up to five(5) days paid Leave of Absence to attend school for instruction, The Company shall pay the cost or instruction and examination.
flection 2 GrmUniCIMcls
a)	Lumber Graders -All Certified Lumber Graders shall receive the premium set out below, in addition to the Job Evaluation rate
Class A Grading Certificate -twenty five cents (251) per hour Class B Grading Certificate - twenty cents (20tf) per hour Provided that these premiums shall be paid only when xtually engaged as Lumber Graders.
b)	Lumber Grading Certificates -Any employee holding a Class A or Class B Lumber Grading Certificate shall receive a premium of fifteen cmts(l 5 p) per hour for all hours worked. There shall be no stacking or pyramiding of premiums,
c)	Grading Tickets shall be permanent and valid certificates, hut Graders shall remain subject to theregulations of I.L.M.A., C.L.M.A., C.O.F.I.,
C.O.N.I.F.K.R., P.L.I.D. and otherregulatory bodies.
All Lumber Graders holding grading mtifjrrfes shall attend upgrading classes as required
c) Lumber Graders who are required to attend upgrading classes (grading rule changes) shall receive their regular sftaighfjob rate fix time spent in
Page 7
attending SUch classes.
BAitrob 3Aid Attendants
Designated First Aid Attendants shall receive their job rate of pay plus the ticket premiumrate.
All other employees holding valid First Aid Tickets shall receive a premium of five cents (5 0) per hour over and above their job rate. There shall be no stacking or pyramiding of premiums.
Section
The Wage Scale attached hereto as Supplement No. 1, effective July 1,1997, is approved by both Parties and may, subject to mutual consent of both Parties, be revised once annually, or amended through implementation of the Job Evaluation Program.
Section
It is agreed that employees engaged on contract or piece work shall not receive less money than the equivalent of the hourly rate specified in the wage schedule for the number of hours worked in each pay period.
ScctionJi
The first (1 st) shift which may vary in individual operations is the recognized day shift. Flours worked outside the recognized day shift shall be regarded as the second (2nd) and third (3rd) shifts.
Premium rateof thirty-one cents (31 cents) per hour will be paid for second (2nd) and third (3rd) shifts. A day shift employee working in excess of his regular shift will be paid rate and one-half without the differential.
Any employee on 1he second (2nd) or third (3rd) shift, working in excess of his/ her regular shift shall receive rate and one-half. For the purposes of the last sentence, rates shall be rate plus thirty-one cents (3 I cents).
Persons employed on other than regular shifts shall be paid thirty-one cents (31 cents) premium rate for all hours worked outside the recognized day shift,
Section 7
In the event that job conditions change, or new machinery is installed, or anew category is established, the Union and the representatives of the Company agree to meet to evaluate and implement the wage rate(s) in accordance with the Job Evaluation Program
ARTICLE VI - PAY PAYS
a)	The Company shall provide for pay days every second week.
b)	Each employee shah be furnished with an itemized statement of earnings and monthly deductions.
ARTICLE VII - HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME Section
a)	The regular hours of work shall be eight (8) hours per day and forty (40)
Page 8
hours per week, Monday to Friday inclusive.
b)	Overtime will be paid at rate and one-half for all hours worked in excess of eight (8) in a day. and for Saturday and/or Sunday, with the following exceptions.
c)	Double straight time rates shall be paid for the following:
i)	Hours worked in excess of eleven (11) hours per day.
ii)	Hours worked on Sunday by employees who have worked five (5) shifts during the preceding six (6) days.
iii)	Item (ii) above shall not apply to employees who work on Sunday as a tegular s±edted day.
iv)	For purposes of this provision, a Statutory Holiday shall be considered as a shift worked.
d)	If a Statutory Holiday occurs during the work week, the employees shall only be required to work on Saturday and/or Sunday for the time lost due to the Statutory Holiday by mutual consent. For such work the Employee shall he paid rate and one-half.
Section 2 Millwrights. Maintenance. Repair. Construction Employees and Watchmen.
a)	The regular hours of workshall be five eight-hour days with two days of rust each week Monday through Sunday. Such days of rest will be consecutive days unless mutually agreed lo be otherwise between the employee and the Company.
b)	Overtime shall be paid at rate and one-half for all hours worked in excess of eight (8) hours per day, on Sundays anduponithe employee's two designated rest days, if worked, with the following exceptions:
c)	Double straight time rates shall be paid for tb|e following:
i)	Hours worked in excess of eleven (11) hours per day.
ii)	Hours worked on Sunday by employ ees who have worked five (5) shifts during the preceding six (6) ditys.
iii)	Item (ii) above shall not apply to employees who work on Sunday as a regular scheduled cky.
iv)	For purposes of this provision, a Statutory Holiday shall be considered as a shift worked.
Section 3 Firefighters. First Aid Men. Coo and Bunkhouse Employee
The weekly and daily hours shall be in accordance with theHxns of Work Act of British Columbia.
Time worked by cookhouse and bunkhouse employees shall be computed on a
daily basis provided, however, that rate andonq-half shall applytohours worked in excess of eight (8) per day and forty (40) pcrlweek.
Section 4i Qpree-Shift a) Tlie employer shall have die right to operate
three-shift basis and all employees working under this arrangement shall
receive eight (8) hours pay upon completion their regular shift. Details of shifts shall be
his plant or any part thereof on a
of the full hours established as aried atthclimployer'soption.
Pap 9
b)	It is agreed that Clause (a) above shall only apply to those employees actually working on a three-shift basis.
c)	The Employers shall have the right to determine the number of shifts operated in any unit or department of the option
Section S; Al.TF.RNATE SHIFT SCHEDULING
a)	Management, Plant or Camp Committees and the Local Union shall have the right under the terms of the Collective Agreement to agree upon and implement other schedules which, except for production shifts in manufacturing operations, may include Sundays, without overtime penalty, provided the principle of the forty (40)hour week is maintained over an averaging period, Rato and one-half shall be paid for hours worked on Sunday.
b)	Any variation(s) to the preceding Sections denoting normal hours of work shall be implemented only upon completion of the Following steps:
i)	Negotiated agreement between the Local Union and Local Management.
ii)	Majority approval by the employees involved in the proposed variations.
c)	When alternative shift schedules have been implemented in accordance with (a) and (b) above, the following overtime provisions will apply:
A.	Kate and one-half shall be paid for the following:
i)	The first three (3) hours worked in a day in excess of the normal daily hours of the established schedule.
ii)	Hours worked in excess of forty (40)hours per week or forty (40)hours average when there is an averaging period.
iii)	All hours worked on an employee’s scheduled rest day, unless a change in rest day has been agreed to between the employee aid the Company.
iv)	All hours worked on Sunday except those excluded in the casual section.
B.	Double straight-time rates shall be paid for the following:
i)	All hours worked in excess of A(i) above.
ii)	All hours worked on u Sunday when Sunday is also an employee’s scheduler) rest day, if the employee has worked forty (40) straight-tin e hours in the preceding six (6) days, unless a change In res t day has been agreed to between the employee and the Cor tpany.
C.	Supplement No. 8 - Alternate SI lift Scheduling, contains the agreed upon general principles and paramctc a for the establishment, implementation or discontinuance of alternate shift schedules.
Section 6:
It is agreed between the Parties that if three (3) hours or less are necessary after midnight Friday, or on a Statutory Holl lay, to complete the shift which commenced on Friday afternoon, or the aiiemoon preceding the Statutory Holiday, time worked after midnight to complete this shit will be paid at straight
time.
Page 10
action
The forgoing provisions of this Article shall not be construed SS guaranteeing to any employee any number of hours of work per < ay or per week.
Any employee called for work and finding no work available due to reasons beyond his or her control shall be entitled to two|(2) hours pay at the usual rate. This shall apply unless the Company gives noticj1 cancelling the said call. Such notice shall be considered to be given by an annt>Mncement over Radio Station B.V.I,.D./C.1;.I..D. priortothe commencementOlthe shift in accordance with(b) ofSupplemenlNo. 2.
Action____
When an employee is called for work and starts tyOrk, he shall receive four (4) hours pay at his regular rate unless his work is suspended because of inclement weather, or other reasons completely beyond the Ipomrol of the Company.
Section 10;	Call Back Time
Employees called back to work after completionitflheir regular scheduled shill shall be paid a minimum of three (3) hours atMli and one-half,
Section I li
All employees in manufacturing plants shall be ejpUtled to two (2) ten (10) minute rest periods during each regular shift
Section 12:	Casual Work
a)	The term "Casual Work" as used in this Agrec|ment shall apply only to work performed on Saturday and/or Sunday by either laid-off regular employees or other persons hereinafter referred to as “Casual Employees".
b)	Casual employees on maintenance, repair or preparatory work shall be paid straight-time rates, and those on production sl)all he paid rale and one-half for all work performed on Saturday and Sunday.
c)	Casual work on maintenance, repair and preparatory work will be paid al straight-time job rate.
d)	Regular laid-off employees shall not be classified as Casual employees, and shall have preference for available work over the said casual employees.
c)	The employer agrees lo keep a separate seniority list of casual employees who have worked at least ten (10) working days, exclusively for recall purposes and, subject to clause(d), further agrees to recall casual employees in accordance with their seniority as set forth in this list.
When an employee is unavoidably prevented from reporting for his scheduled shift, if reasonably possible, he must give notice to his foreman, or at the Company office, at least two (2) hours before the shift commences.
Page II
Section 14:
That a Committee be established withlWA Locall-424duringthetermof the 1977-1979 Agreement toclarify the provisions of Article VII - Hours of Work.
section 15;	Pot Meals
Where maintenance, repair and construction employees are required to work twr (2) hours or more overtime beyond thejrnormal shift, the Company shall providi a hot meal. Such hot meal to be consumed by the employees on Company time
before beginning the overtime work
ARTICLE VIII -SENIORITY
Section It
i)	Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, it shal be mutually agreed that all employe es are hired on probation, the probationary period to continue until thirty (3 3) days have been worked, during which time they are to be considered temp rrary workers only, and during this same period no seniority rights shall be recognized.
il) Upon completion of thirty (30) days worked, they shall be regarded as regular employees, and shall then be entitled to seniority dating from die day on which they entered the Company's c mploy, provided however, that the probationary period of thirty (30) dr ys worked shall only be cumulative within the three (3 j calendar month:) following the dale of entering employment
iii)	ll is agreed that probationary employees will have preference over Casual employees for any work performed during the normal work week, subject to competency.
iv)	Il is further agreed that in the application of (iii) above, probationary employees will be called il for work in accordance with their hiring date, unless such call-in is beyond the control of the employer, and is subject to the employee being competent to perform the work. This obligation does not apply where the employee cannot be readily contacted or where the employee has worked one shift in the 24 how period.
Section
a)	The Company recognizes the principle of seniority, competency considered.
b)	Where the Company operates more than one plant, each such plant will be considered separately for seniority purposes; except where the Union and Company agree upon some different arrangement
Section
a)	When making promotions, the Company agrees to give due consideration lo length of service.
b)	In the event of a reduction of the forces, the last person hired shall be the first released, subject to the provisions of Section (2) of this Article.
Page 12
c)	During a reduction of forces where an employee’s seniority is such that he/she will not be able to keep his/her regularjob he/she may elect whether or not to apply his/her seniority to obtain a lower paid job or a job paying the same rate of pay or accept a layoff until his/her regularjob becomes available, provided however:
1.	If during the layoff period the employee wishes to return to work and so notifies the Company, he/she shall be called back to work as soon as his/ her seniority entitles hinVher to ajob,
2,	The application of this provision shall not result in an employee, in the exercise of his/her rights, bumping an employee with less seniority.
d)	During a reduction of forces where an employee’s seniority is such that he/ she will not be able to keep his/her regularjob heishe may elect to apply his/ her seniority to obtain ajob paying a higher rate, subject to the compenlency of the person involved and the provisions of Section 1, Details to be worked out between the I-ocal Union and the Company.
Section 4;
a)	It is agreed that when employees are to be rc-cal led after a lay-off. it shall be done on the basis of the last person released shall be the first person recalled, subject to provisions ofSection 2(a).
It is agreed that in cases of emergency the application of plant seniority may be postponed for such period as may be necessary, but not exceeding three (3) days. If the Company decides to exercise its rights under this provision it shall notify the Committee or the Local Union immediately.
b)	Where a reduction of forces is caused by emergency conditions, the application of seniority may be postponed for such period as may be necessary but not exceeding five (5)working days. If the Company decides to exercise its rights under this provision, it shall notify the Shop Committee as soon as possible.
Section 5:
a)	When re-calling employees, in accordance with Section 4, after seasonal shut-do w', all employees shall be notified by telegram or registered letter at least seven(7)daysbeforerc-startlngof operation, The employees must reply by telegram or registered letter in the affirmative within ninety-six (96)hours of the telegram or registered letter being sent out by the Company, and appear for work not later than the above stated seven (7) day period.
b)	Employees resident in the Province of Alberta or the Yukon Territories shall be entitled to one (I) additional day to report and employees resident in any other Canadian Province or the United States shall be entitled to two (2) additional days to report,
c)	It shall be the employee's responsibility to keep the Company infonned of his address during the period of shutdown.
d)	It is agreed that all employees shalt, upon reluming to employment, in accordance with this Section, retain all seniority rights.
Page n
faction___
It is agreed that upon the request of the Union a list will be supplied by the Company setting out the name and the starting day with the Company of each regular employee; however, such request shall not be granted more than twice during each year of the term of this Agreement.
The Company will advise the Union once each monlh of changes to the said list Section 7;
It is agreed that companies signatory to this agreement shall give preference in hiring, competency considered, on the following basis, ii the following order:
1,	previous employees of the Division who have both previous seniority and an application on file
2,	previous employees of the company who have previous company seniority and are seeking employment as a result of operational closures or crew redudions in other operations of the oomparty
3,	laid off employees of other forest industry companies in the communities, who are seeking employment as a result of operational closures or crew reduction in excess of ninety (90) days
4,	laid off forest industry IWA members of Local 1 -424 and 1-425 who arc seeking employment as a result of operational closures or crew reduction in excess of ninety (90) days
5,	persons who qualify for preference, and wish to exercise their rights to preference, must make application within six months of the operational closure or the ninety day lay off period.
Applications will be kept on file as active forfiO days. After which time, applications must be renewed by the person seeking employment, or no preference shall be considered.
Section
It is agreed between the Parties that seniority during lay-offs shall be retained on the following basis:
a)	Employees with less than one (1) year service will retain their seniority for a
period of eight (B) months.
b)	Employees with one (1) or moreyears service shall retain their seniority for one (1) year, plus one (1) additional month for each year of service, up to an additional six (^months.
c)	It shall be die employee’s responsibility to keep the Company Informed of his or her address during a lay-off
d)	A laid-off employee’s seniority retention is reinstituted on the completion of one day of Vicrk.
Section 9;
It is agreed that when an employee has been transferred by the Company to a supervisory or staff position: he will continue to accumulate seniority for a period of ninety (90)days. At any time during this ninety (90)day period the individual shall have the right to return to the bargaining unit in the job which he would have held if he had not left the bargaining unit. (In special cases this ninety (90) day period may be extended for up to a further ninety (90) days by
Page H
mutual agreement between the Company and the Shop Committee.) At the expiration of the period mentioned above, his seniority will be frozen. Hitts, if al a later date, he ceases to be a supervisor or stall' worker and me Company desires to retain his services, it is hereby agreed that reinstatement can be made within the bargaining unit provided however, that any employee so reinstated must return to the job held at the time of his or her promotion to the supervisory orstafT position.
ARTICLEIX- LEAVE OF ABSENCE
a)	Any employee desiring leave of absence for any reason other than those set out in Section 2 and 3 of this Article must obtain same in writing from the Company a copy of such leave to be forwarded to the Local Union.
b)	Where any employee is granted a leave of absence under this Section for a period of longer than thirty (30) calendar days, the Company agrees to notify the Job Steward and the Union as to the circumstances for the granting of such period of leave.
Section 2
The Company will grant leave of absence to employees suffering illness or injury, subject to a medical certificate if requested by the Company. The employee shah report, or cause to have reported, to the Company the injury or illness which requires his absence from the operation The employee shall have a reasonable period of time to present a medical certificate if requested by the company.
Unction
a)	The Company will grant leave of absence to employees who are appointed or elected to Union office. The employee who obtains such leave of absence shall return to the Company within thirty (30) calendar days after completion of his tenn of employment with the Union
b)	The Union will make every effort in requesting such leaves of absence to avoid requests that will unduly deplete the crew in any one department which will impair production or inhibit the normal functioning of the operation. In such cases, the Union will co-operate with the Company in making substitute employees available orselectaltematc dele ates to attend Union functions.
c)	The Company will grant leave of absence u employees who are elected as representatives to attend Union meetings ar I Union Conventions, or members of any Union Negotiating Commi lee in order that they may carry out their duties on behalf of the Union.
d)	It is agreed that before the employee rcceiv «this Leave of Absence as set forth in clauses (a) and (c) above, the emplt rer will be given notice in writing (inthe case of (a)- fifteen (15) calendar da s, in the case of(c)-five(5) calendar days) by the Union in order to repl ce the employee with a competent substitute.
Page15
Section 4: G-
By mutual agreement leave of absence will be granted to a maximum of six (6) months without pay to the employees for compassionate reasons or for educational or training or extended vacation purposes, conditional on the following terms:
a)	That the employee apply at least one (1) month in advance unless the grounds for suchapplication could not reasonably be foreseen. bj That the employee shall disclose the grounds for application,
c)	The Company shall grant such leave where a bona fide reason is advanced by me applicant or may postpone leave where a suitable replacement is not available.
d)	That the Company will consult with the Shop Committee in respect of any application for leave under this section.
e)	The Company will only be obliged to grant leave of absence for educational and training purposes to employees who intend to take training that will assist the individual in obtaining skills related to the industry,
Q Employees granted leave of absence pursuant to this section shall be required to pay the appropriate premiums for health and welfare, dental and medical coverage.
g)	It is agreed that employees requesting leave of absence for the purpose of extended vacations, shall only be granted such leave once every three (3) years, and that a record shall be kept for the purpose of ensuring that such leaves are properly rotated.
h)	The Union agrees it will provide a letter regarding problems which arise from extended vacation applications.
Section 5: Maternity Leave
To provide for a reasonable period of time for extended maternity leave without pay to female employees where there is a valid medical reason.
Rp>*tinnr6r p m p n t l.pavp
a)	When death occurs to a member of a regular full time employee’s immediate family, the employee will be granted an appropriate leave of absence for which ho shall be compensated at his regular straight time hourly rate of pay for hours lost from his regular work schedule for a maximum of three (3) days.
b)	Piece workers who are entitled to bereavement leave shall be compensated in accordance with the principles established in Article XI, Section 2(b).
c)	Members of the employee's immediate family are defined as the employee's spouse, mother, father, brothers, sisters, sons, daughters, mother-in-law, father-in-law, grandpatents-in-law, step-parents, grandparents, grandchildren, step-children, sons-in-law, and daughlers-m-law,
d)	Compensable hours under the terms of this Section will be counted as hours worked for the purpose of qualifying for vacations and for recognized paid holidays, but will not be counted as hours worked for the purpose of computing overtime.
Page 16
Section 7;
a)	Any regular full-time employee who is required to perform Jury Duty,
Coroner’s Duty, or as a Crown Witness or Coroner’s Witness on a dav which he would normally have worked will be reimbursed by the Company for the difference between me pay received for Jury Duty and his regular straight time hourly rate of pay for his regularly scheduled hours of work. it is understood that such reimbursement shall not be for hours in excess of eight (8) per day or forty (40) per week, less statutory pay received for Jury Duty. The employee will be required to furnish proof of Jury Service and Jury Duty pay received.
b)	Any piece-worker who is required to perform Jury Duty shall be compensated for the difference between Statutory pay received for Jury Duty and his job rate in accordance with the principle established in Article XI, Section 2(b).
c)	Hours paid for Jury Duty will be counted as hours worked for the purpose of qualifying for vacation and for recognized paid holidays, but will not be counted as hours worked for the purpose ofcomputingovertime.
a)	The Company will grant leave of absence without pay for campaign purposes to candidates for Federal, Provincial or Municipal elective public office for periods up to andincluding eight (8) weeks, provided the Company is given due notice in writing of twenty (20) calendar days, unless the need for such application could not reasonably be foreseen
b)	Employees elected or appointed to Federal, Provincial, or Municipal office shall be granted as much leave without pay as is necessary during the term of such office. Municipal office holders, where the term of public office is served intermittently, shall give the Company reasonable notice for absences from work for conducting Municipal business.
c)	The employee who obtains this leave of absence shall return to his/her Company within thirty (30) calendar days after completion of public office.
ARTICLE X - VACATIONS WITH PAY
With respect to annual vacations and vacation pay the following provisions will apply.
Section 1: One to Two Years Service
The annual vacation for employees with one (I) or two (2) years of service covered by this Agreement shall be two (2) weeks, and the pay therefor shall be based upon five percent ($%) of the total wages or salary earned by the employee during the period of entitlement, or eighty (80) hours at the hourly rale of the employee’s regular job, whichever is greater,
Section 2: TWo to Seven Years Service
a)	The annual vacation for employees with two (2) to seven (7) years of service covered by this Agreement shall be three (3) weeks, and the pay therefor shall be based upon seven percent (7%) of the total wages or salary earned by the employee during the period of entitlement, or one hundred and twenty (120) hours at the hourly rate ofthe employee’s regular job, whichever is greater,
’	’	'	“■ Page 17
b)	The additional one(l) week vacation provided for in this Section may be taken when convenient for the Company but does not have to be consecutive with the vacation period provided for in Section I herein.
Section 3: Seven to Fifteen Years of Service
a)	The annual vacation for employees with seven (7) to fifteen (15) years of service covered by this Agreement shall be four (4) weeks, and the pay therefor shall be based upon nine percent (9%)of the total wages or salary earned by the employee during the period of entitlement, or one hundred and sixty (160) hours at the hourly rate of the employee’s regularjob, whichever is greater.
b)	The additional one (l)week vacation provided for in this Section may be taken when convenient for the Company but does not have lo be consecutive with the vacation periods provided for in Sections I and 2 herein.
Section 4t Fifteen to Twenty-four Years Service
a)	The annual vacation for employees with fifteen (15) to twenty-four years of service covered by this Agreement shall be five (5) weeks, and the pay therefor shah be based upon eleven percent (1 1 %) of the total wages or salary earned by the employee during the period of entitlement, or two hundred (200) hours at the hourly rate of the employee’s regular job, whichever is greater.
b)	Subject to theprovisions of Section 8 herein, the additional one (l)week vacation provided for in this Section may be taken consecutively with the vacation periods provided for in Sections 1,2, or 3.
Section 5i Twenty-four to Thirty Years Service
a)	The annual vacation for employees with twenty-four (24)to thirty (30)years of service covered by this Agreement shah be six (6)weeks, and the pay therefor shall be based upon thirteen percent (13%) of the total wages or salary earned by the employee during the period ofentitlement, or two hundred and forty (240) hours at the hourly rate of the employee’s regular job, whichever is greater.
b)	Subject to the provisions of Section 8 herein, the additional one (1) week vacation provided for in this Sectionmay be taken consecutively with the vacation periods provided for in Sections 1,2,3, or 4.
Thirty Years Service
a)	The annual vacation for employees with thirty (30)years of service covered by this Agreement shall be seven (7) weeks, and the pay therefor shall be based upon fifteen percent (15%) of the total wages or salary earned by the employee during the period of entitlement, or two hundred and eighty (280) hours at the hourly rate of the employee’s regular job, whichever is greater.
b)	Subject to the provisions of Section 8 herein, the additional one (1) week vacation provided for in this Section may be taken consecutively with the vacation periods provided for in Sections 1,2,3,4 or 5.
Section 7: Vacation Pay on Termination
Page 18
An employee whose employment is tenninated si iail receive vacation pay ai the appropriate percentage of the wages or salary eai ted during the period of entitlement in accordance with the employee’sytffifs of service.
a)	Vacations lor employees shall be taken at suctjtime as mutually agreed upon by the ShopCommitlee and the Company whdfi quantity and regularity of production shall not be impaired.
b)	All earned vacation shall be taken.
Section 9: Payment of Vacation Pnv
a)	The calculation and comparison of die vacatidj1 pay amounts developed by the percentage of gross wages method and the hoMR times the regularjob rate method will be completedand the greateramd 'hi paid to theemployee within fourteen (14) days of the common vacation ctl 'faff date or the employee’s anniversary date. The Company’s present cut] % or anniversary date method shall be continued unless a change is agreed ujlrn between the Company and the Local Union
b)	Hor the purposes cf this Article, the rate of the :rnployec's regularjob will be the rate of the employee’s regularjob at the da e ofthe common vacation cul-off date or the employee’s anniversary date, as the case may be.
c)	In the case of a pieceworker, the rale of the employee's regularjob will be detennined by computing the employee's hour y average earnings for the days actually worked during the pay period immedit lely preceding Ihc common vacation cut-off date or the employee’s annive sary date, as the case may be.
d)	On the date when an employee completes one 1), two (2), seven (7), fifteen (16). twenty-four (24), or thirty (30)ycars of S trvice and where there is a common cut-off dale for all employees in the operation, the employee will receive:
i)	In thecase of one (l)year, onepcrcenlf \T l>f his gross earnings between the dale of employment and the date of the * st common cut-off date;
ii)	In the case of two (2), seven (7), fifteen (1^ • Iwenty-four (24), or thirty (30)years, two percent (2%)of his gross eajnings between the date of his last anniversary date and the dale ofthe laslr,fammon cut-off date.
Section 10: Vacation Pay - Perrentaue uf Wnibes Method The following shall be considered as days actually worked for determining vacations with pay for an employee after one (1) qpntinuous year of employ' ment:
a)	Absence on Workers’ Compensation up ioapejlod of one (1) year, provided that the employee rciums to his employment.
b)	Absence due to illness up to a period of one (linear, provided that the employee returns lo his employment. The emlroyer shall have the right to require a certificate from a qualified medical jJ%*ctUloner.
Page 19
c)	Absence due lo bereavement leave iti accordance with the terms and conditions of Article IX, Section 6. [
d)	Absence due to time served on jury - luty, including Coroner’s Jury, or time served as a Crown witness or Coron ;r's witness in accordance with the terms and conditions of Article IX, Section 7.
e)	Any other absence duly approved by the employer in writing shall be credited towards entitlement for annual vacation, but time spent on suchleavesof absence shall not be counted in computing vacation pay.
Section 11; Qualifications for Vac|tlon Pay Regular .lob Rate Method
a)	i) In order for an employee to quauiy iur the amount generated by the hours
times theregularjob rate methc p, the employee must have worked a minimum of fifteen hundred (1 pOO) hours In the employee'sfrrsl year of service and a minimum of one t lousand (1,000) hours during the employee's succeeding years of entitlement,
ii)	i	Where there is a common
vacation pay cut-off date, forth? purposes of calculating minimum hours asln(l)above,thecalculation period shall be from the cut-off date in one year to the cut-off date in ll b succeeding year, i i i) Where there is no common vac ition pay cut-off date, for the purposes of calculating minimum hours as n (i) above, the calculation period shall be from the employee’s anniversa [y date in one year to his anniversary date the succeeding year
b)	For the purposes of computing therkmisite hours the following will be included:
i)	All hours worked;
ii)	Statutory Holiday hours;
iii)	Jury and Crown Witness duty;
iv)	Bereavement leave;
v)	Vacation hours
Time not exceeding one (1) year, tost as the result of au accident recognized as compensable by he Worker’s Compensation Board and sufferedduring the course of ei iployment, shall be considered as time worked for the purpose of qual fying for vacation, provided that the employee returns lo his employ nent;
result of a non-occupational accidentorillness, shall be cot pidered as time worked for the purpose of qualifying forvacatlon, provid ;d that at the time of tte accident or illness the employee has been on the i ayrotl for not less than one (1) year and that he returns to his employm nL It is understood that the employer may require that the employee prov deacertificalefromaquatifiedmedical practitioner;
viii)Time lost as aresultoflayoff) hall not be considered as lime worked for the purpose of qualifying for requisite hours;
Rage20
ix)	Employees who report for work ana wnqreceive call time payment shall be credited with eight (8) hours for any: uch shift for purposes of computing requisite hours under this Set lion. Any employee who qualifies for call time in a day shall rece ve credit under this Section for eight (8) hours or credit for the hours fo which wages were paid, whichever is greater.
x)	All hours worked in more than one(l) di|rision of the parent company as a result of transfer or layoff
Section 12: Employment Standards Act
Part 4 - Annual Vacation of the Employment St Mards Act, S.B.C., 1980, C. 10, and amendments thereto, except where varied o! modified by the provisions herein, shall become part of this Agreement
ARTICLE XI • STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
v Year's Day, Good Friday,
Day, Labour Day, Thanksgiving Boxing Day shall be paid rate
tys falls on a Sunday, the
previous Friday or the following Monday slujll be observed as the Holiday.
In the event that one of the within named Stattjitory Holidays falls on Saturday it shall be observed on the preceding Friday cr succeeding Monday as agreed between the Company and the Shop Commitllc. cl In the case of a maintenance employee wherejone of the Statutory Holidays is observed on his rest day, he shall have a day |ff without pay in lieu thereof at a mutually agreeable time.
1 section
a)	All hourly-rated employees who work on Nej Victoria Day, Canada Day, British Columbia Day, Remembrance Day, Christmas Day and and one-half for all hours soworked.
b)	In the event one of die above Statutory llol id
Section 2:
a)	All hourly-rated and piece-work employees tjjho qualify for the paid holiday under theconditions set out below shall bepijdforthe holiday at their regular j ob rate of pay for their regular work schedlul|.
The Parties hereto agree that the paid Statiitfilv Holidays shah be	as follows:
New Year's Day	CanadaDay
Remembrance Day	Gtxxl Friday
British Columbia Day	ChristmasDay
Victoria Day	Labour Day
Boxing Day	ThanksgivingDay
b)	Piece work employees shall receive pay for tlftStatutory Holidays for which they qualify, based on the daily average cami gs for the days actually worked during the previous thirty (30) working days.
c)	All hourly rated employees working on a paic holiday shall receive rate and one-half for hours worked on such day in addition to the holiday pay to which he may be entitled.
Page 21
d)	Cook and bunkhouse employees wnc work on a statutory holiday shall receive at the end of their regular wo Ik schedule, an additional day off with pay to be added to their leave and vat ation allowance accumulated in accordance with Article VU, Section 3.
e)	To qualify for statutory holidays, an i mployee must have been on the Company payroll for the thirty calen ar days immediately preceding the
statutory holiday and must hi before, and his first regularly schedu
:ed his last regularly scheduled work day 1 ed work day after the holiday, unless his absence is due to a compensable occi pational injury or illness, which occurred within six (6) months of tht holiday, or the employee is on authorized leave of absence in accor lance with Section 2 or 3 of Article IX.
0	In the case of illness or injury, the Ci mpany shall have the right to request a certificate from a qualified medical f ractitioncr.
g)	Notwithstanding any of the foregoin; provisions, the employee must have worked one day before and one day; fter the holiday, both of which must fall -within a period of ninety (90) calendar days,
Section 3:
a)	In die event of a Statutory Holiday filling ona Tuesday, Wednesday, or Thursday, and where the Company sjjid Shop Committee mutually agree, the said holiday may be observed the pflccding Monday or following Friday respectively.
b)	At the Option ofthe Company, but vflhencvcr possible by mutual agreement with the Shop Committee, either Go |>d Friday or Easter Monday shall become the designated Easter Holiday and tl: Company shall notify its employees of the designation at least one (1) weel prior to the said holiday.
c)	When a Statutory Holiday falls on F iday, employees working on a Tuesday to Saturday work week by mutual a; reement between the Company and the Plant Committee may work on the F iday statutory holiday at the straight time job rates and substitute Saturday as the statutory holiday.
Personal Floating
Holiday Is in lieu of the proposed Herb ige Day but this Section shall come into
age Day has or has not been
proclaimed.
a)	Personal Floating Holiday - Regula | full time employees w i 11 be granted one Personal Floating Holiday during e;fch contract year of the Agreement, to be arrangedata[lmesuitabletotheEn||ployeeandlhe Company, so that there will be no loss of production,
b)	Qualifying Conditions - When the tjersonal Floating Holiday is taken, an employee shall be paid for the said holiday at his/her regular job rate of pay for his/her regular work schedule, s ibjectto the following conditions:
i)	A new employee must have beer on the payroll for not less than 90 consecutive calendar days to qut ify for the Personal Floating Holiday.
ii) An employee will not qualify fo: of absence for more than nine (9
case of sickness or injury.
the Personal Floating Holiday if on leave months in the contract year, except in the
Page 22
iii)	An employee shall apply on an approveatorm, ai least seven (7) days in advance, for his/her Personal Floating H( liday. The employee shall receive notice of the disposition of his/her reques a minimum of 72 hours prior to the requested Personal Floating Holiday.
iv)	lf an employee is required to work on his her Personal Floating Holiday after a definite date has been designated t >rsuch holiday, the employee shall be paid overtime for such work at tt s rate of time and one-half. The employee will then be entitled to take the holiday with pay at a later date to he mutually agreed upon.
v)	Personal Floating Holiday not taken orsmeduled by April 30th of each contract year will be scheduled hy management.
vi)	A Personal Floating Holiday shall not be scheduled on an employee's regular rest day.
vii)	Where an employee chooses Saturday and/or Sunday as a Personal Floating Holiday straight time rates will iippiy.
ARTICT.F, XII -SAFF.TY AND HEALTH
Section It
The Company and Employees will co-operate1l| 'assure safe working methods and conditions and devise plans for h e lurlhera ice of safely measures. Equipment and devices mutually agreed uponwl be provided by the Company.
Section 2:
"Ihe Management of every operation shall maini Cummitlee of four io six members according td Members of the Committee shall be designated Employees and the Employer. Employee repres employees inlhc operation withut least oneyea
I sun an Accident Prevention Ihesizeof the operation, o equal number by Ihe 'nlativcs shall be regular "experience.
Section 3:
Safety meetings will heheld during working hoars wnerc possible. Employee's time will not be deducted for attending such meltings or investigations into accidents. It isrecognlzcd that in multi-shift operations, meetings will occur outside of working hours for certain employees
When meetings take place outside of an employee's working hours, he will be compensated at his regular hourly straight time rate of pay for the lime spent attending such meetings, investigations and insflpetions up to a maximum of two
hours per week,
The Company will require all Cookhuuse employees to nave a health card from a recognized doctor within ten (10) days of emp4 Tent and shall renew same every six ftfjmonths. cost ofmedical examina In is lobe borne by the Employer iftho Employee slays on ihe job thirl F301 days. This requirements is subject lo medical servicebeiig available
Section Si
Effective July 1,1989, an IWA - t-orest lOOUStrysatcty andHealthResearch Program be established on the following general principles:
The Plan will be jointly trusteed.
The Plan is lo be funded on the basis of ah Industry contribution of one-half cent (fi 1) per hour per employee per hour wc fked, effective July 1,1989.
The trustees will be appointed in the first ^ear of the Agreement and will meet during the first year to establish objective s and operating and administrative procedures.
(a.) When funds in the Plan reach $100000.00, the Employer will contribute an additional lA( per hour for a tota! of one-cent (lc) per hour.
(b.) When funds In the Plan reach $200,000.00, the additional one-half cent ('Ac) provided for in (a) above will pc discontinueduntil the fund level is again reduced lo the $100,000.00 bvel.
ARTICLE XI11 - (GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
Section 1:
A Grievance Committee shall be elected to consist of two to four employees elected by the Unicmmembers employedln the operation covered ly this Agreement. Members ofthls Grievand&pominiltee shall have completed their probationary perwd with the Company TO shall have at least one year's experience in the type of operation. Wherever possible members sliall be selected on a departmental basis. Meetings of the Grievance Committee shall, except i n cases of emergency, and wherever possible, be held outside of working hours. In the event that agrievance shdald arise it shall be dealt with in the following manner, without stoppageof "Kirk.
Step 1.
The individual employee involved wi'fi or without the Shop Steward ttiall fust take up thematter with theForemar JFectly in charge of the work within Softhe event orevents giving rise to frployee has knowledge or may be
fourteen (14) days from the occurre the grievance or from time when the
reasonably presumed to have knowl Jge of such event cr events.
Step 2.
If a satisfactory settlementis not Uk by both Parties when the same empl Grievance with the Plant Superintei desired, the Union Business Agent s Step 3.
If a grievance is not then satisfactor ] y solved, it shall be referred to the Local
(reached, it shall be reduced to writing yee and the Committee shall take up the pnt and/or Personnel Manager. If Ull accompany the Committee.
uribn and the Management.
Step 4.
If a satisfactory settlement is not thi cached, it shall be dealt with by arbitration as hereinafter provided.
Page 24
Section 2;
a.' If a grievance has not advanced to the next stKc under bieps 2, .1, or 4, within fourteen (14) days after completion of the pre ^ding stage, then the grievance shall be deemed iobe abandoned, and all rig! of recourse to the grievance procedure shall be at an end, The fourteen (lr) days limit may be extended by mutual consent of both Parties,
b)	The Parlies agree thatthe operation <£ Secliol 96, Subsection 1, of the Labour Code of British Columbia Act. 1973, Is specifically excluded from this Agreement.
ARTICLE XIV -RIGHT OF REFERENCE
If the two Parties fail Inagrec uponaninterpretalionof the Agreement, either Party shall have die right to refer the matter to thf Joint Industry Committee, hereinafter provided, and if either Parly docs mafe such reference, the other Party must accept the reference
Section 2
The Joint Industry Committee shall consist of dube representatives selcclcd by the IWA-CANADA, Negotiating Committee anc three representativessclcclcd by the Company represented in the negotiations "f this Agreement, and the two committees may he represented by one or more 1 arties selected by them.
When an interpretation of (he Agreement has be Committee, this reference shall be for the period longer by mutual consent of the Parties to this Committees agree upon a recommendationorint furnished in writing to the Union involved and to
n referred to the Joint of forty-eight (48) hours or reement. In can the Joint irprclation, this shall be the Company.
Section 4i
In the event the Joint Committee members dtsafl It, all the fads in the case as found by the Union and Union members oftheJ< ifit Committee shall he placed in writing by the Union representatives and subn ilied to the Employer and to the Union member involved The facts in the case H found by the Employer and the employer members of the Joint Committeeshall p placed in writing and given to the Union member employees for their informatifa
Section 5:
if a satisfactory interpretation of the point in qucjjlion i s not reached either Party may refer the question io arbitration as hcrcinatW provided.
Page 25
ARTICLE XV - INTERPRETATION AND ARBITRATION
Section 1; Interpretation
a)	In case of any dispute arising regar ng the interpretationof this Agreement, which the Parties hereto are unable o settle belwecn themselves, the matter shall be detennined ty interpretatic l in the following manner.
b)	Either Party may notify the other P 1y in writing ty Registered mail on the question or questions to be Interpr fyi. A fter receiving such notice and statement, each of the parties will Jien refer the matter to the Interpreter selected by the Parties.
c)	The Parties agree to as the Interpreter for the duration of this Agreement.
d)	In the event the Interpreter named i t (c) above is unable through illness or absence from the Province of Britisfi Columbia for ary reason whatsoever, to act as Interpreter, the Parties agree that shall act in his place.
c)	The decision of the Interpreter shal I he final and binding upon the parties of the First and Second Part,
Section 2: Arbitration
a)	In the case of a dispute arising unddr this Agreement, except as to Interpretations of this Agreement, which the j*arlies are unable io settle themselves, set out in Article XIII, the matter sH^ll be determined by Arbitration in the following manner:
b)	Either Partymay notify the othefF^y in writing ty Registered mail of the question IO be arbitrated. After (Ivlng such notice and statement, each of the Parties will then refer the mallsltlh writing to the Arbitrator who has been selected by the Parlies.
c)	The decision of the Arbitrator shaltse tinal and binding upon the Parties of the First and Second Part
d)	The Parties agree that shall be the Arbitrator for the ouration of this Agreement. If the Arbitrator named above is unable to go throughillness or absence from the Province ofBritisIiColumbiafor any mason whatsoever to act as Arbitrator, the Parties agree (hat
will be appointed in his place.
c)	If both of the Arbitrators named ab we are unable to act because of reasons set out above, the parties agree to n eet and attempt to select a mutually sat! sfaclory Arbitrator. If unable to select one which is satisfactory, the parties further agree to request the Honour tble Minister of Labour of the Province of British Columbia to appoint an Art itrator.
0 if the Arbitrator finds that an etnpk yce has been unjustly suspended or discharged, such employee shall be Ireinslated with all his rights and privileges preserved under the terms of this A treement. The Arbitrator shall further make the determinations on the amlunt of lost pay to be paid to the employee.
Section 3r
The Parties of the First and Seconu rwia will each bear one-half of the expenses of interpretations or arbitrationsincl u ling the salary of the Interpreter or Arbitrator plus ary stenographic, seer ttarlai and rent expenses which may he incurred in respect to such proceeding
Page 2 6
Section 4:
Any Arbitration to be held hereunder shall be held in the City of Prince Geoige
or such other place as may be decided by Hie Arhiiraior.
Section___
A Committee shall be established to develop ails implement a system of expedited arbitration of grievances. Hie chairman of this Committee will be H. Allan Hope, Q.C, The Committee shallreporlw the parties not later than December 3 I. 1984.
"ICI F. XVI • GENERA I, PROVISION!
Section 1;
a)	The Union will, within sixty (60) days from the date of this Agreement, notify the Company in writing of the members of tnp Shop Committee. The Union or Shop Committee will inform the Company in writing when any member change lakes place on the said Committee. No member of the Shop Committee will be recognized by the Comoaliy unless the above procedure is carried oui.
b)	l:or the purpose of this Agreement, when theKvord “Committed is used it shall mean Shop, Mill or Plant Committee, ir tmbersof which are appointed
by the Union.
c)	Official Union representatives shall obtain at :ess to the Company’s operations for the purpose of this Agreement >y written permission which will he granted by the Company on request and subject to such terms and conditions as may be laid down by the Coinpjjny.
Section Z\
The Company agrees that the rate for Board andJLodging shall be $2.35 per day.
and its employee until all provisions of this Agret arbitration procedure have been complied with, u such procedure is due to any act or refusal to act < the Union or its employees.
Page 21
Section St Working Foremen
Employees outside the bargaining unit will npt perform work chat is normally done by employees in the bargaining unit.
However, nothing in this Agreement shall bdeonstrued as prohibiting foremen from doing work for purpose of instruction, irovlded by so doing a lay-off of bargaining unit employees does not result, o' in the case of an emergency when regular employees are not available, provided that every reasonable effort is ira& LO find a replacement.
Section 6i Permanent Plant Closure - Se
Company because of nt shall be entitled to severance pay of continuous service and thereafter
a)	Effecdvc July 1 st, 1997, employees term permanent closure of a manufacturing pi equal to seven (7) day’s pay for each yea;
In increments of completed months of servl
b)	Where a plant is relocated and ttie emplo yi relocate thei r place of residence or are n< result of the Plant relocation, they shall this Article.
c)	Effective July 1st, 1982, sixty (60) days ^otice of closure will be provided.
erance Pay
reesinvolved are not required to lit terminated by the employer as a rptbe entitled to severance pay under
Section 2l Planerman Training
ll is agreed that the Parties to the Agreement will meet jointly to discuss and implements Plancrman’s Training Program.
Section 6: I___a
a)	The Company will repair or replace tho: c iradesmen's tools that are damaged or broken in the performance of regularities.
b)	The Company will make availableTrad ksmen’s tools required upon the introducuon of the metric system.
c)	During the introduction of equipment w jilch requires the use of metric tools, the Company will make metric tools avKii'.ablc, at no cost, for use by Tradesmen.
Employees of the Company who, by muiuai ay cement, train or retrain for Industrial First Aid Certificates, will be coUpensated in the following manner
a)	The Company w ill pay the cost of the epurse tuition and material required to those employees who pass the course.
b)	The Company will pay lost time wages Jo designated First Aid Attendants
ARTICLE XVII - FORESTRY ENVIRONMENTAL COMMITTEE
Forestry Environmental CommitteesshallbeestablishedbytlieCompanyand the Local Union.
Thedetails concerning the structure, opeiklon and terms of reference must be agreed to by the Company and the Local llnion prior to implementation.
Page 28
ARTICLE Xvni - HEALTH & WELFARflg
Section 1: Medical
Medicalcoverageincluding Extended HealthPenefit coverage shall he provided ty the Company at no cost to the employee. Tyfe Extended Health Benefit Coverage shall include hospitalization coveralfe up to a maximum of eight dollars and fifty cents ($8.50) per day.
Effective July 1st, 1982, a Vision Care Program be instituted to provide for payment up toamaximum of one hundred douars ($100.00) per person in any twenty-four (24) consecutive month period fo charges incurred relative to the purchase of lenses and frames or contact lense; when prescribed by a person Icgallyqualificdtomakcsuchaprescription. iffcctiveJuly 1,1997,the maximum will be increased to two hundred dr liars ($200.00) per member or dependant. Effective July 1,1999, the maxim im will be increased to two hundred and fifty dollars ($250.00) per merob r or dependent.
Effective July 1,1997, the Physiotherapist /W vssage practitioners’ limit will increased by fifty dollars ($50.00) per calends ■ year to a total limit of five hundred and fifty dollars ($550.00) per memh r or dependant per calendar year. Effective July 1,1998, the Chiropractors / Natkopathis Physicians' limit will increase by two hundred dollars ($200,00) perpemher or dependant per calendar year to a total limit of six hundred dollars($600.00) per member or dependant per calendarycar.
Participation in such a plan shah be compulsory upon all employees.
Dependent Coverage: That the appropriate policies for medical and dental coverage be amended to provide coverage for dependents over the age of twenty-one (21) years but not over the age of twenty-five (25) years, provided that the dependents arc attending a recognized educatirf Effective July 1,1998, establish coverage for pi maxiinumtimit oftwohundred dollars ($200) { calendar year.
Effective Jut y 1,1998, increase the OrthopcdiciShoes limit by one hundred dollars ($100) from four hundred dollars ($40() to five hundred dollars ($500) (adults), and from two hundred dollars ($200); a three hundred dollars ($300) (child) per calendar year.
Effective July 1,1999, increase the Hearing Ai is limit by one hundred and fifty dollars ($150) from four hundred dollars every five years for children to five hundred and fifty dollars ($550) every five yea s. Effective July 1,1999, establish the same live hundred and fifty dollarj($550) limit per member or dependent, every five years, unless there is attejnate coverage provided for.
|ial institution, jrescribed orthoties with a per member or dependent per
Section 2; Institution
It is agreed that a Health and Welfare Plan be itjitltuled with the principles hereinafterset out.
Brofcbrriftial Board of Trustees Houston Forest Products Co. and Babine Forest Weldwood of Canada Limited, Forest Industrial^elationsLimi led, Interior Forest Labour Relations Association, Council o
Products Ltd. togetbej-with
Northern Interior Forest
Employee Relations, Norlhwood Pulp and limner Ltd., Canadian Forests Products Limited, and IWA-CANADA agree [to establish a set of trustees for the purpose of developing a common text, a comi [ton trust agreement, and a common employee booklet for the six Health and Well tre Plans, covering Life Insurance, Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurt nee, and Weekly Indemnity,
The Parties agree that a Joint Committee, rep esenting Forest Industrial Relations Limited, the Interior Forest Labour Relations Association, the Council on Northern Interior Forest Employee Relalh ns, Canadian Forest Products Limited, Northwood Pulp and Umber Ltd., V feldwood of Canada Limited, and the IWA will be established to study the most effective method of administration of the Plans,reporting to the Parties no later|han July 1,1984.
Section 4r Honston/Babine • IWA Board |f Trustees
The Board of Trustees,composed of two (2) members representing IWA-
CANADA and two (2) members representing the Company, are responsible for
the administration of the lWA-Weldwood Health arid Welfare Plan. The
Trustees are also responsible for the sclectio [ of carrier, funding, adjudicationof
compassionate appeals, and Health and Welfantnrohlems directly related to the
Plan.
Section 5; Insurance Coverage
The following coverage will be instituted w [h coverage as set out below:
(iroup Life Insurance for each qualified emj loyee as follows:
effective July 1,199'	$	70,000.00
effective July 1,199!	$	80,000.00
Accidental Death and Dismemberment insu ance for each qualified employee as follows:
effectivejuly 1,199	$	70,000.00
effective July 1,1998	$	80,000.00
Effective July 1,1994, the plan will providalfor coverage for accidents occurring at work.
Weekly Indemnity as follows:
i y oenem level be increased by ten level is four hundred thirty-nine
level be increased by ten [level is four hundred forty-nine
ovision be introduced so that the
Effective July 1,1995, the Weekly Indemm; dollars ($10.00) per week so that the beneli dollars ($439.00) per week for 52 weeks.
Effective July 1,1996, the Weekly Indemn dollars ($10.00) per week so that the henefij dollars ($449.00) per week for 52 weeks.
Effective January 1,1995, a “No Downs" ] four hundred twenty nine dollar ($429.00)1per week rate will not be reduced by further reductions by U.I.C. of the maxlmuj l insurable earnings ntitbei:. Inthecaseofdlsabilitycausedbynon-occu lational Illness, Weekly Indemnity benefits will be payable commencing the fi st day cf any such absence vtena the illness results in the claimant beingftospitj lized as a bed patient mid In cases where surgery Is performed which necessit ites loss of time from work.
Absences due to the same or related causes will be considered one continuous absenceunless the employee returns loful|timeworkforatleastfour(4) continuous weeks between absences.
Page30
The Union agrees that if the Company maintains weekly plan benefits which will meet the standard requirements for full premium reduction for "wage loss replacement plan under the Unemployment Insurance Act:"the employees' 5/
12th share of the premium reduction is retained as payment in kind in the provisions of the Weekly Indemnity Plan benefits.
Third Party Subrogation
The parties agree to recommend to the Trustees of the Health and Welfare Plan that effective on the date of ratification of this memorandum a third party subrogation clause be adopted so that the Weekly Indemnity Plan can be reimbursed from damages recovered from aliable'lhird party for illness, injury or income loss. The Plan will be entitled to recover the full amount of benefits paid to the member which exceeds 100% of the member's pre-disability gross income. Gross income will be calculated by using the member's regular hourly job rate times (x) 40 hours. Trustees to work out the application und details, including the deduction of legal fees from the settlement and the execution of a reimbursement agreement.	,
The Trustees of the I.W.A.-Weldwood Industry Health and Welfare Plan will be directed to amend the Plan Text to permit laser surgery (except where such laser surgery is for cosmetic purposes rather than for a medical reason) to qualify the member for a Weekly Benefit Commencement Date from his/her first day of disability.
The Trustees ofthe I.W.A.-Wcldwood Health and Welfare Plan will be directed to make the necessary changes in procedures to allow weekly indemnity cheques to be sent directly to the employee's residence, if requested by the employee.
Section 6: Dental Plan
A Dental Plan will be provided based on the following general principles:
Basic dental services Plan “A" - Plan pays 80% of approved schedule of fees. Prosthetics, crowns and bridges Plan "B" -Plan pays 60% of approved schedule of fees.
Orthodontic Plan “C" Plan pays 60% of approved schedule of fees. (Lifetime maximum = $2,500.00). There shall be no waiting period for this benefit, Effective July 1,1998, increase the lifetime maximum limit for Plan C (Orth odontic) from $2,500 to$T,000 for ehiklrdnonly.
Bactiom 7tt r a I Principles
a)	Premium cost for insurance shall be paid by (he Company.
b)	Participation in the plan is lo be a condition of employment
c)	Any new employee who has not worked in covered employment in the last eighteen (18) months will be eligible to become acovered employee on the first day ofthe month following completion of the probationary period. However, for such employee, coverage for the Medical Services Plan and for the Extended Health Benefit will apply on the first day ofthe month following the dale of employment.
Page 31
d)	Coverage will be portable in all units covered by Collective Agreements between members of Forest Industrial Relations Limited, the Interior Forest Labour Relations Association, the Council on Northern Interior Forest Employee Relations, CanadianForestProductsLimited, Northwood Pulp& Timber Ltd,, Weldwood of Canada Limited, Houston Forest Products Co., Babine Forest Products Limbed and IWA-CANADA, and there shall be no waiting period for qualified employees changing employers within the Industry.
e)	Coverage during lay-off will be provided as follows:
1) Employees with one (1) or more years seniority - six fddmonths.
it) Employees with more than three (3) months of seniority - three (3) months.
iii)	In order for reinstatement of lay-off coverage to occur there must be a return to regular full-time employment, An employee returns to regular full-time employment when he is employed for ten (10) working days within a floating period of thirty (30) consecutive days. In addition, an employee who returns to work for at least one (1) working day and less than ten (10) working days will be covered for that month, in addition to any lay-off coverage to which he was entitled, if the recall occurred during the period of lay-off coverage.
1) Weekly Indemnity coverage will be eliminated for an employee on an
extended leave of absence under Leave of Absence, Section 4, Compassionate Leave, provided however, that such employee is eligible for Weekly Indemnity coverage on the agreed-upon day of return to work. In order to qualify for this coverage the employee must have returned to his place of residence in British Columbia unless his disability required him to be hospitalized and satisfies the requirements of the claims adjudication carrier.
In the case of a compassionate appeal dealing with disability incurred during an extended Leave of Absence, the Thrs'lees have the right to review certain circumstances.
Employees on extended Leave of Absence under Leave of Absence, Article IX -Section 4: Compassionate Leave will pay their own premiums for the Medical Services Plan, Extended Health Benefit, and Daital Plan, while the premiums for Group Life Insurance and Accidental Death and Dismemberment insurance will be paid by the employer during such extended Leave of Absence.
Effective January 1,1998, the existing Extended Health Benefits Plan will be extended to incorporate a medical travel plan allowance for necessary medical travel from remote areas when members or their dependents are referred by their attending physician to medical specialists in B.C. and such referrals require travel from the patient's community of employment in excess of 500 kilometers round trip. The maximum allowance payable on behalf of any one member or dependent is $600 over the terms of the agreement. A Weldwood- LW. A, committee will work out all of the details prior to implementation.
Page 32
ARTICLE XIX • l.ONO TERM DISABILITY PLAN
The Han will become effective July 1 si, 1982, j
Effective July I. 1993, the Plan lo be funded on a SO/SO cost sharing basis with contributions of twenty-two cents (220) per hour per employee per hour worked, of which the Industry will contribute eleven cents (110) and the employee will contribute eleven cents (110).
Effective January 1,1995, contributions from both the Industry and the employees will be increased ty six cen Is (60) per hour worked so that contributionswill be thirty-four cents (340) per hour per employee per hour worked of which the Industry will contribute seventeen cats (170) and the employee will contributeseventeen cents (170),
Effective July 1,1995, contributions from both the Industry and the employees will be increased ty a further two and one-half cents (2 Vi 0) per hour worked so that contributionswill be thirty-nine cents (39 0) per hour per employee per hour worked of which the Industry will contribute nineteen and one-half cents (19 H0) and the employee will contribute nineteen and one-half cents (19 He). A Board of Trustees will be constituted with equal representation from the Union and the Industry, to be responsible for establishingthe tenns of the Plan and lire on-going administration.
The Tmstees will select a qualified actuary to assist them and lo ensure the establishment of actuarially soimd reserves to fund the benefits provided ly Hoc Plan.
The Tmstees will enter into a Trust Agreernem wucn will include provision for a procedure to settle any major dispute that may an se with regard to the provisions of the Han
Protection Against Withdrawals • withdrawing tmployer lo be assessed for both the employer and employee share of the unfunded liability in cases of negotiated withdrawal, decertification or relocation closufd Unfunded liability fonnula to be unifonn and based on Han Unfunded Liability divided ty the total number of Plan members (at the time of most recent Plan Valuation) multiplied ty the number of Plan members affected ty the withdrawal, 'trustees to be directed to amend the participation agreement accordingly.
Houston F.P., Dablnc P.P. and l.W.A, Canada vJ! ^jointly considerplan modifications that will improve the delivery of Rehabilitation within the Long Term Disability Plan, and will encourage Sod facilitate the development and establishment of Disability' Management systems in participating employers'operalions.The 'Tmstees are directed to develop Plan inodifica-lionsthat will:
Improve the timeliness, effectiveness and quality of Rehabilitation from the Plan, Provide incentives to Employers and Local LTnions to establish Disability' Management systems at the operations level.
In the event that there are saving to the Long Term Disability Plan as a result of cither Disability' Management Systems, or amendments to Rehabilitation, consideration can be given to dispersal of these hinds for further improvements in either of the above areas.
Where the Tmstees reach agreement on modifications in the above areas, implementation can occur at the direction of the Trustees, Should additional
Page 33
funding be required to implement the Trustees recommendations, their recommendations will be forwarded to the respective Negotiating Committees to be dealt with.
ARTICLE XX - PENSION ELAN
The Parties agree to establish a Pension Plan In accordance with the terms and conditions of the Memorandum of Agreement of thePension Sub-Committee dated August 17,1977.
Section 2;
a) The Industry contribution to the Pension Plan of one dollar seventy cents ($1.70) per hour per employee per hour worked, which became effective July 1,1988, will be increased by seventy cents (700) per hour, effective July 1, 1992, to two dollars forty cents ($2.40) per hour per employee per hour worked. Effective July 1,1993, employee contributions of ten cents (100) per hour per employee per hour worked will be added to the above contribution rate.
h)	Unfunded Liability:
Address the Plan’s Unfunded Liability Issue by providing a one-time contribution of forty-four cents (440) pejr hour on November L 1994, and an additional one-time contribution of fortjf-four cents (440) per hour on July 1, 1995. These contributions will be based on all IWA-Forcst Industry Pension Plan hours worked by each of the parties of the first part during the 1993 and 1994 calendar years respectively and require no change to the ongoing shared $2.50/hour contribution rate for the term of this agreement.
These contributions, if matched by other Pension Plan Participating Employers, will result in the following projections of the unfunded actuarial liability based on contributory hours of 47,3 million hours in 1994, declining to 46 million hours in 1995, and declining by one million hours per year in each succeeding year to 2001, using an 8% interest assumption for solvency purposes, the Revised Mortality Basis, and Triennial Valuations:
1/1/1994	$553.9	million
1/1/1995	$461.6	million
1/1/1996	$370.3	million
1/1/1997	$283,7	million
1/1/1998	$228.8	million
1/1/1999	$171.2	million
1/1/2000	$111.0	million
These contributions will allow the unfunded actuarial liability to be fully amortizedin7.7 years from 1/1/94. (The amortization period in the Preliminary Actuarial Valuation of December 31,1993 is 9.1 years from that date).
Revised Plan
A revised plan will be developed during the life of the agreement, based on the $2.50 contribution rate during the life of the Agreement in accordance with Appendix til of the August 11,1997 Memorandum.
Page 34
Bridging Funds
The I.W, A. - Forest Industry Pension Plan Trustees will he directed to Investigate the feasibility and implications of amending the Plan to allow Company paid bridging funds to “flow through” the Pian so as to enhance legal tax effectiveness.
ARTICLE XXI -JOB TRAINING
Covered by separate Local Agreement signed at each operation
ARTICLE XXII • APPRENTICESHIP TRAINING PROGRAM
Apprenticeship Training Programs will be in accordance with Supplement No. 3A & 3D or as revised hereafter.
When implemented the Apprenticeship Training Program shall provide that single persons undergoing training shall receive their wages, less any sum paid to them by the appropriate government authorities. Married persons shall receive their wages, less the amount paid by the Provincial Government authorities to single persons, the intent being, that the greater amount paid by the Provincial Government to married persons shall not become a benefit to the Company.
In cases where the Apprentice is in receipt of a subsidy granted by the appropriate Federal Government authorities, the employer will pay the Apprentice while attending vocational school, the dilTcrence between the subsidy granted by the appropriate Federal Government authorities and the regular wages of the employee.
That a Committee will be established to review and upgrade the Apprenticeship Training Program
Apprenticeship Selection Tests be amended to provide improved selection criteria as in place in the Southern Interior.
Selection of Apprentices shall be governed by Supplement No. 3A, 3B, and 8. ARTICLE XXIII • TECHNOLOGICAL CHANCE Section 1; Advance Notification
The Company shall notify the Shop Committee and die Union not less than six (6) months in advance of intent to institute material changes in working methods or facilities which would involve the discharge or laying-off of employees.
Page 35
Severance___________to
Employees discharged, laid off or displaced from their regular job because of mechanization, technological change or automation shall be entitled to severance pay of seven (7) day’s pay for each year of service with the Company. The amount calculated under such entitlement shall not exceed a maximum of 210 days pay. Employees have the option to terminate their employment and accept severance pay either (a) at the time of layoff, or (b) at the point of seniority retention expires. This section shall not apply lo employees covered by Section 3(b) below.
Section 3; Rate Adjustment
a)	An employee who is set back to a lower paid job because of mechanization, technological change or automation will receive the rate of his/her regular job at the time of the setback for a period of three (3) months and for a further period of three (3) months heishe will be paid an adjusted rate which will be midway between the rate of his/her regularjob at the time of the setback and the rate of his/her new regular job. At the end of this six (6) month period the rate of his/her new regular job will apply. However, such employee will have the option of terminating his/her employment and accepting severance pay as outlined in Section 2 above, providing he/she exercises this option within the above referred to six frymonth period.
b)	Following an application of (a) above, where an employee is set back to a lower paid job because of an application of Article VIII Seniority brought on by mechanization, technological change or automation heishe will receive the rate of his/her regular job at the time of the setback for a period of three (3) months and for a further period of three (3) months he/she will be paid an adjustedrate which will be midway between the rate of his/her regularjob at the time of the setback and the rate of his/her new regular job. AI the end of this six (6) month period the rate of his/her new regular job will apply.
ARTICLE XXIV -SAFETY EQUIPMENT
a)	Where the following articles of equipment are required to Be used ay the Company or the Worker’s Compensation Board, the Company shall, at no cost to the employee:
I) Supply employees with the articles of equipment as required.
ii)	Replace articles of equipment when those articles arc presented worn or damaged beyond repair, that is to say:
1.	Aprons
2.	Hard Hats and Liners
3.	Eye, Ear and Nose Protective Equipment
4.	Gloves
iii)	Notwithstanding the foregoing, all articles of equipment to be replaced only when they are presented worn or damaged beyond repair; otherwise the replacement will be at the expense of the employee.
b)	Where a Company has been supplying safety equipment and clothing at no cost to the employee on the effective date of this Agreement, it will continue
to do so at no cost to the employee.
Page 36
c)	The employer shall make coveralls available and maintain same for use by
End Sprayers, Panel Sprayers, Oilers, Filer-Grindermcil, Power House employees and Tradesmen,
d)	Caulk Boot Allowance • An employee who istrequired to wear caulk boots by the Workers' Compensation Board shall receive annually a caulk boot allowance.
Effective July 1st, 1994 of one hundred and twenty dollars ($120.00).
1) If he has six (6)months or more seniority, or
ii)	Upon obtaining six fdjmonths seniority,
iii)	Seasonal lay-off shall not interferewith the qualifying period herein, ARTTCT.F, XXV-TOOT, INSURANCE
Upon the signing of the 1979 -1981 Agreement, [rach Company at its own expense shall insure for damage or loss caused b fire or Hood, the tools of its employees which are required in the performanetj of then work. This provision for tool insurance shall also apply to loss by theft where the lools are stored in a designated place of safety within the control of thfe Company and there is forcible breaking and entering. The insurance coverage provided shall be subject to a deductible of $50,00 in respect to eac|t employee's claim.
ARTTCT.F, XXVI ■ FIRE FIGHTING AfIRF. MENT
The Fire Fighting Agreement will be in accordamfe with SupplementNo. 4.
ARTICLE XXVII -B.C. NORTHERN INTERIOR SAWMILL AND POLEYARD JOB EVALUATION PLAN
Section li
The Parlies lo this Agreement mutually agree to implement one .lob 1 ivaluatiot] Program for the sawmilling section, effective Sep ember 1,1979 in accordance with the principles and procedures set out in a mai mal dated December, 1971 and entitled “Interior Sawmill Job Evaluation Ma rual" as amended July, 1973 and as further amended July, 1974; (but hereafter referred to as the 11.C. Northern Interior Sawmill and Poteyard Job Evali lalton Manual) and to exclude any categories not affected by Sawmill Job Evalui ition.
The attached Supplement Jsla fi, .which .provides jfir the administration of the program between the Parties to this Agreement shgll form part of the Collective Agreement effective Septemberl, 1979.
The process of job evaluation will be conducted lri accordance with the provisions of the B.C. Northern Interior Sawmill t nd Poleyard Job Evaluation Plan which shall include the wage curve as set oul in Section 2 below, the present manual, present guidelines for manual inte pretation, existing and/or new benchmarks, and existing gradings on record serv jng as a basis for subsequent evaluation unless amended as provided for in Supplement No. 6.
All categories and records shall stand as presemlyfrate matched (’job analysis)
Page 37
and/or evaluated in the Northern fnicrior C Derations involved in the B C. Northern Interior Sawmill and Poleyard JO’Evaluation Plan, exceptwherc requests are submitted for evaluation or r0- evaluation consistent with the principles and procedures of the Northern tnfenor Sawmill and Poleyard Job Evaluation Plan
The Parties agree to work towards implementation of the revised B.C. Northern Interior Sawmill and Poleyard Job Evaluation Plan by July 1,1993.
section 2
The point range and increments for the twenty-eight (28) groups in the Sawmill and Poleyard Wage Curve are as follows:
Effective
Effective
Effective
Group July 1,1997 I.evelPolnts Increment Rates
1	0-60
2	61-70
3	71-80
4	81-95
5	96-115
6	116-140
7	141-165
8	166-195
9	196-230
10	231-270
11	271-320
12	321-370
13	371-420
14	421-470
15	471-520
16	521-570
17	571-620
18	621-670
19	671-730
20	731-790
21	791-850
22	851-910
23	911-970
24	971-1030
25	1031-1090
26	1091-1150
27	1151-1210
28	1211-1270
-----$19.86
0.08	19.94
0.11	20.05
0.13	20,18
0.10	20.28
0.17	20.45
0.12	20.57
0.22	20.79
0.18	20.97
0.18	21,15
0.20	21.35
0.22	21,57
0.21	21.78
0.21	21.99
0.24	22,23
0.27	22.50
0,23	22,73
0.24	22.97
0.23	23.20
0.27	23.47
0.25	23.72
0.28	24.00
0.28	24.28
0.27	24.55
0.58	25,13
0.58	25,71
0.63	26.34
0.64	26.98
July 1. 1998
Increment Raisa
-----$20.26
25,63 26.22 0.6	26,87
0,6	27.52
July 1,1999 Increment Rates
______$20.67
0.08	20.75
0.11 20.86 0.13	20.99
0.11 21.10 0.18 21.28 0.12	21.40
0.23	21.63
0.19	21.82
0.18 22.00 0.22 22.22 0.22	22.44
0.22 22.66 0,22 22.88 0.24	23.12
0.29	23.41
0.23	23.64
0.26	23,90
0.23	24.13
0.29	24.42
0.25	24.67
0.30	24.97
0.30	25.27
0.27	25.54
0.60	26.14
0.60	26,74
0.67	27.41
0.66	28.07
Section
a)	The base rate in all Wage Supplement: shall be that set out in Section 1 (a) of Article V - Wages, and shall be the mil limum rate.
b)	Incumbents Injobcategoriesfot which the wage rate is reduced as a result of Job Evaluation (hereinafter referred tq as “red circle jobs”) shall continue at
the original rate.
Page 38
c)	i. The Parlies agree lo amend the ts.u Noirnem interior Sawmill and
Polcyard Job Evaluation Plan in accordance with Appendix No I of the October 9,1994 Memorandum of Agreement. The amendments are to completed by March 31,1995. If the amendments are not resolved by March 31,1995 by the Evaluators and lit B.C. Northern Interior Job Evaluation Standing Committee, Ihcremjiining work to be completed will be referred to a Third Party for resolution, ii) The Plan will he amended at sufficient cast It) effectively implement the provisions of Appendix No. 1 of the Oclopcr 9,1994 Memorandum of Agreement at between five cents (0.05#iand ten cents (0.10(() per hour averaged over the total number of employees in all categories covered by the Plan.
ARTICLE XXV111 -EDUCATION TRUS'ft'llND (THE FUND!
The Parties agree to establish a Fund based on lljc following pararatte:
'The Fund to be structured so as to comply with dll requirements of a trust as specified by Revenue Canada
The Industry will contribute io the Fund and will continue such contributions throughout the period of the Collective Agreemept, The contributions will be one cent (I <t) per hour per employee per hour wqrkcd effective January 1,1998; and,one cent (Id) per hour per employee per hoi r worked effective July 1, 1998; and, one cent (1C) per hour per employee per hour worked effective July 1,1999.
The Funds will be collected by the lWA-Porcsl Industry pension plan Office and directed to the Education Trust Fund.
The J:und will be jointly trusteed by representatives as appointed by the 1WA-Canada and the industry.
The Fund will be subject to annual audits by an independent public accounting firm selected by the Trustees.
The Fund will provide funding for the purpose as'dcfincd by the following: Education Fund Policy Statement
The strength of the IWA Canada relies on the conjinued commitment of the membership to effect positive change There is aji increasing need for our leaders and membership to understand and respond to emerging issues affectinj the forest industry and/or our membership. Wc n(tcd to renew and build upon the historic principles of the IWA Canada through a comprehensive education program which will enrich union membership and enhance the objectives of the IWA Canada as a proud and progressive union.
Page 3!)
To this end, the union will develop and ae"' w n ^nge of programs which may include:
Grievance Handling CollectiveBargaimng Issues
Land Use Issues Stewards Training
Parliamentary Procedure &Public Speaking
Communication Skills
Leadership Training
Economic Issues
Benefits Training
Health and Safety
Union History
Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Fund will be used to develop and deliver programs, and to pay for administration costs, time lost from work to attend education and training, travel, accommodation and such other reasonable costs as the Working committee determines appropriate regarding the operation and administration of the Fund.
The Working Committee will be comprised of representatives of each participating Local Union who would have responsibility for me development and delivery of Education and Training and Administration of Funds consistent with the purpose stated in point 6 above.
ARTtn .ff. XXIX -CIONTH ACTING OUT
a)	The Company will not contract out any work that is performed by employees in the Bargaining Unit at the effective date of the agreement.
b)	Current practices in operations shall be agreed on with the Local Union in writing. Until such time as agreement is reached the above Clause (A) only willapply.
Page 40
ARTICLE XXX • DURATION OF AGREEMENT
The Parties hereto mutually agree that this Agreement shall be effective from and after the first (1st) day of July, 1997 to the thirtieth (30th) day of June, 2000, ana Inereaner, irom year to year unless tour (4) IHOIlUlS WIllieiMIUIlu: 1)1 contrary intention is given by the Parties. The no/ice required hereunder shall be validly and sufficiently served at the Head Ol'fictj of the Party of the First Part or at the Local Office on the Local Officers of the Union, Party of die Second Part, at least four (4Jmonths prior to the expiry of any yearly period. if no agreement is reached at the expiration of this contract and negotiations arc continued, the Agreement shall remain in force up to the lime thit a subsequent Agreement is reached, or until negotiations are discontinued by either Party.
Section 2:
The Parties hereto agree that the operation of Secicn 6fi (2) of the Labour Code of British Columbia Act, 1973, is excluded from Ipe Master Agreement.
DATED this	day of	, 199S,
FOR
BABINIi FOREST PRODUCTS CO BURNS LAKE, B C
FOR
I.W.A.-CANADA LOCAL 1-424,
FOR
HOUSTON FOREST PRODUCTS CO HOUSTON, B C
■OR:
CANADA
LOCAL 1-424,
K. &. O. E.
Page 4 1
GROUP 1 Clean-up S.M. Clean-up/PM. Clean-up Yard
GROUP2
$19.5(4
$20.34
Strip Layer/Stackcr
CROUP3	$2045	$20.45
Strip filer
Kiln Swamper
StripCutter/PM
‘J' Bar Bin Attendant
Dig Deck Chaser
Chipper Attendant/S.M.
GROUP	$7n 1r	$20.58
Watchman
Planer Chain Puller
Greenchain Puller
Planer Hoist Operator/PM
Trimmer Tailor
1	.og Strapper
PtROUP	$20.28	$20,69
Car Blocker
Clcan-up/Yard/Truek
TriimnerTailer / Pre-Sorter
I ,og Checker
1 .umber Wrapper / Recording
GROUP 6	$20145	$20.86
Bander Operator/PM
r.ROtJP	$20157	$20.98
Chip Car Attendant Sample Bucker
C1RQUP8	$201179	$21.21
Planer Feeder
Planer Stacker Operator
Drop Sorter' B1
Trimmer Feeder
Page 4 2
■lulv 1/99
$20.67
$20.75
$20,86
$20.99
$21.10
$21,28
$21.40
$21.63
MUL22 July 1/98 July 1/99 SRCLP	$20.97	$21.39	$21.82
Stacker Operator/Kiln
GROT TP ]ft	$21.15	$21.57
D5 Cat Operator
Butt Reducer /Log Deck Chaser
GROUP ll	$21.35	$21.78
Planer Feeder Setup/PM
OR 01 TP 12	$21.57	$22.00
Forklift Operator/Cat 966/Kiln Gang Sawyer/Circular&M L og Cul-olT/Circular/# 1 L og Cut-off/Circular/#2 Log Cut-ofT/Circul ar/#3 LogCul-off/Circular/#4 Forklift Operator /Plant
GROUP-J3
Edger Optimizer 1 EdgerOptimizer#2
GROUP is
Log Loader/Cat 966/Yard Log Loader/Cat 966/S.M.
Kiln Operator/Forklift
GROUP 16 Cliip’n’Saw Oporator/Barker/18'7#1 Chip'u’Saw Operator/Barkcr/187#2''
GROUP 17	$22.73	$23,18
Canter/Twin Band/Barker 27" Operator
GROUP 20	$23.47	$23.94
Log LoaderAVagner LI30
GROUP 21	$23.72	$24.19
#2 Planennan/PM
Planer Grader
GROUP 23	$24.28	$24.77
#1 Planerman/PM
$21.78	$22.22
$22.13	$22.67
$22.50	$22.95
$22.00
$22.22
$22.44
$22.66
$23.12
$23.41
$23.64
$24,42
$24.67
$25.27
E&OE
Page 43
SUPPLEMENT NO. 1 HOUSTON FOREST PRODUCTS CO. EVALUATED WAGE SCALE
GRQUE—1
CIcan-up/SM
gjROUP
Strip Layer/Stacker Watchman Strip Pilcr Kiln Swatnper
Attendant
Trimspotter
"J” Bar Bin Attendant
GROUP4
Lumber Wrapper Log Deck Chaser Planer Chain Puller Planer Hoist Operator ChipperAttcndant/S.M.
GROUPS
Log sorter Chip Or Attendant Car Blocker Log Strapper
fiROUPfi
Log Strapper
GROUP 8 Bander Operator Planer Feeder Planer Stacker Operator
GROUP 9 Planer Feeder/Hoist stacker Operator/Kiln
GROUP 11
TrackmobilcOperator BarkerOperator/187#1 BarkerOperator/18'V#2 Forklift/Cat 930/Car Loading Forklift/Cat930/Planer
July m inborn
$19.86	$20.26
$20.03	$20.45
$20.18	$20.58
$20.28	$20.69
$20,45	$20.86
$20.79	$21.21
$20.97	$21.39
$21.35	$21.78
MxM22
$20.67
$20.86
$20.99
$21.10
$21.28
$21.63
$21.82
$22.22
Rage 44
•Tnlvl/97
GROUP 12	$21.57
Auto Trimmer/S.M. #1 &#2
Forklift/Cat950/SM
Porklift/Cal 966/Planer
Gang Sawyer/Circular
LogCut-o£f/Circular/#l
LogCut-off/Circular/#2
LogCut-off/Circular/#3
LogCul-of£/Circular/#4
GROUP 13	$21.78
Barker Opcrator/30"
D7 Cal Operator Ed ger Optimizer
GROUP 14	$21.99
Chip'n'Saw Operator Chip'n’Saw Operalor/#2
Band
Yard Cleanup/Equipment #2 Sc I up Man
GROUP-15	$22.23
Kiln Operator/Forklift Uogl,oader/Cat966
GROUP 16	$22.50
Canter/Quad Band Op
GROUP 17	$22.73
Log Yard Quality Control
GROUP ift	$22.97
Yard Equipment/Kiln Operator
GROUP 20	$23.47
Log Loader/Wagner L120
GROUP 21	$23.72
Planer Grader
GROUP 2.3	$24.28
#1 Planennan
■lulv 1/98
$22.00
$22.22
$22.43
$22.67
$22.95
$23.18
$23.43
$23.94
$24.19
$24.77
Mjil/22
$22.44
$22.66
$22.88
$23.12
$23.41
$23.64
$23.90
$24.42
$24.67
$25.27
Page 45
SUPPLEMENT NO. 1
BABINE FOREST PRODUCTS CO. HOUSTON FOREST PRODUCTS CO.
NON-EVALUATE|) CATEGORIES
lulv 1/97 .Tilly 1/98
Auto Mechanic Helper, 1st year Auto Mechanic Helper, 2nd Year AutoMcchanlc Improver, IstYear Auto Mechanic Improver, 2nd year (1st six months)
Auto Mechanic Improver, 2nd year (2nd six months) AutoMcchanlc Auto Mechanic ■ Certified
S71 .1)6'
: i.35 : 1.875
22.48
ft.345
5.165
15.665
$21,485
21.775
22.315
22.93
23.81
25.68
26.18
Carpenter Helper, 1st year Carpenter Helper, 2nd year Carpenlerlmprover, lstyear Carpenter Improver, 2nd year (lut sixmonths)
Carpenter Improver, 2nd year (2nd six months)
Carpenter
Carpenter -Certified
21.065	21.485
21.35	21.775
21.875	22.315
22.93
23,81
25.66
26.18
Electrician Helper, lstyear	|2I.065	21.485
Electrician Helper, 2nd year	121.35	21,775
Electrician Improver, I st year Filecirician Improver, 2nd year (1st six months)
Electrician Improver, 2nd year (2nd six months) Electrician
Electrician -Certified
21.875	22.315
22.48	22.93
23.52	23.99
25,36	25.875
25.86	26.375
July 1/99
$21,915
22.21
22.76
2.3.39
24.285 26,105
26.705
21.915 22.21
22.76
23.39
24.285
26.18
26.705
21.915 22,21
'22.76
23.39
24,47
26.405
26,905
Page 46
Heavy Duty Mechanic Helper, 1st year
Heavy Duty Mechanic Helper, 2nd year
Heavy Duty Mechanic Improver, 1st year
Heavy Duty Mechanic Improver, 2nd year (I St six months) Heavy Duty Mechanic Improver, 2nd year (2nd six months) Heavy Duty Mechanic Heavy Duty Mechanic Certified
Machinist Helper, 1 st year Machinist Helper, 2nd year Machinist Improver, I si year Machinist Improver, 2nd year (1st six months)
Machinist Improver, 2nd year (second six months)
Machinist Machinist Certified
Millwright Helper, 1st year Millwight Helper, 2nd year Millwight Improver, I si year Millwight Improver, 2nd year (I st six months)
Millwight Improver, 2nd year (2nd six months)
Millwright
Millwright-Certified
Sleamfitler/PipefillerHel per,
lstyear
Steamfittcr/PipcfHterHel per,
2nd year
Steamlittcr/Pipeniterlmprover,
lstyear
Stcamfitter/Hipefitterlmprover, 2nd year (1 si six months) Sleainfitter/Pipefitlerlmprover, 2nd year (2nd six months) Steamfitter/Pipefittcr Steamfitter/Pipcfitter Certified
Jubl/97	MUM	July 1/99
21.065	21,485	21,915
21.35	775	22,21
21,87.'	315	22,76
22.48	h3	23.39
23.52	99	24,47
25.36	875	26,405
25.86	375	26,905
21,16:	59	22,02
21,445	875	22,31,5
21,97	41	22.86
22,585	23.035	23.495
23.52	23,99	24.47
25.36	25,875	26.405
25.86	26,37 5	26,905
21.065	21,485	21,915
21.35	21,775	22,21
21,875	22,315	22.76
22.48	22,93	23,39
23.52	23.99	24,47
25.36	25.875	26.405
25.86	26,375	26.905
21.065	21,485	21,915
21.35	21,775	22,21
21,875	,315	22,76
22,48	.93	23,39
23,52	,99	24,47
25.36	.875	26,405
25,86	,375	26,905
Pago 47
Welder
Group 3 (Uncertified)
Group 2 (F1 -103, DPW1, DPW2) **Groupl (FI-101,Fl-102)
July.1/99 .Tnlv 1/98
25.16	25.665	26.18
25.66	26.175	26.70
2p.86	26.375	26.905
** Welders in this group must be qualified Industry Specifications and either have ship or have worked in the trade for six
as required under the Standard Forest completed the three year apprentice-thousand (6000) hours as a welder.
Grinderman
Oiler
Labourer
MISCELLANEOUS! CATEGORIES
■T|ulv 1/97 July 1/98 Jujv 1/99
22.375
22.40
19.86
22.825
22.85
20.26
23.285
23.305
20.67
PlanermillMaintenancc Technician
2	Ifear Apprenticeship for Plancrinill Maintenance Technician II
Fielper (During first 6 months) Fielper (First 6 months completed) Improver (First Year completed) Non-Ccrtiflcd Certified
A further I year Apprenticeship for a
Improver
Non-Certified
Certified
$21,065	$21,485	$21,915
1.73	22.165	22.61
|2.355	22.80	23.255
13.765	24.24	24.725
[4.27	24.755	25.25
Planermill Maintenance Technician I
; ,24.27	$24,755	$25.25
; 5.355	25.86	26.375
' 5 86	26.375	26.90
First Aid Man Job Rate Plus:
Ixvel 2 certificate	JOd per hour
Level 3 certificate	®5d per hour
filing room|categqries
Saw Filter, Helper
Saw Fitter, 1 st year completed
Saw Fitter
Saw Fitter (with certificate)
11/97	July 1/98		m
621.065	$21,485	$21,915
11.88	22.32	22.765
64.975	25.475	25.995
65.475	25.985	26.505
Page 48
Circular Saw Filer Helper Circular Saw Filer Circular Saw Filer (with certificate)
■Lilly...m July 1/98 July 1/99
25.475	'	25.985	26.505
25.36	25.875	26.405
25.86	26.375	26.905
Denclunan Helper Benchman
Benchman (with Certificate)
25.86	26.375	26.90
26.10	26.62	27.16
26.61	27.14	27.685
COOK AND BUNKHOU^C
Baker (board supplied)	$21.26
Bull Cook (pays board)	20.10
Flunky (pays board)	20.10
Head Cook (board supplied)	
(over thirty men)	22.34
Cook (board supplied)	
(under thirty men)	21.735
Second Cook (board supplied)	21.27
REWS
$21,685
20.50
20.50
22.785
22.17
21.695
$22.12
2091
20.91
23.24
22.615
22.13
SUPPLEMENT NO. 2.
adjustments wn interpretations
In connection with the interpretation of certain ciJuses of the 1981-1983
Contract between the international Woodworkers of America and certain Interior
Operators, the following interpretations of the Go itract have been agreed upon:
a)	With respect to call-time as covered in Article Nil. Section 7 or Section 8, the following understanding has beenreached:
If the workers present themselves for work andldue to any conditions beyond their control, there is no work available, they shall receive two hours pay unless sufficient warning has been given cancc ling the work call for that day. However, if there is a possibility that work ma; be available within two hours of the regular starting time, the employer mayr;qucst employees to stay at their place of employment during the call time] criod.
b)	It shall be deemed that sufficient notice has bee i given cancelling the work call for the first or day shift, provided notice ha i been given over Radio Station BVLD/CFLD, wherever possible the pr ;vious evening but not later than one and one-half (IVi) hours before shift'''',r,mences with two (2) broadcasts within a half-hour period
Page 49
c)	It shall be deemed sufficient notice cancelling the call for work for nightshirt when notice has been given over Radio Station BVLD/CF1.13 during the hours 12:00 noon to 1:00 p.m., but not later than three hours before shift commences with two (2) broadcasts within a half-hour period, The above shall apply only within a fifty mile radius of Burns I .akc or Houston as applicable.
E&OE
SUPPLLMJ NT NO. 3A APPRENTICESHIP it 1A1N1NO PROGRAM bell sen
BADINE FORESt PRODUCTS LTD.
HOUSTON FORE* f PRODUCTS CO
a| 1
I WA-Cl NADA LOCA 1-424
in co-operation with
DIRECTOR OF APPRENTICESlHIP&INDUSTRlAL TRAINING PROVINCE OF IBRilTISH COLUMBIA
ARTICLE I - PURPOSE
The purpose of this Program is to impfeke the knowledge and skill of persons employed by the Company as JoumeyhMi, Improvers, or Helpers in respect to the trades named in Article II herein.
Page 50
4 year program 4 year program 4 year program 4 year program 4 year program to be established
ARTICLE III -GENERAL PRINCIPLES Section It Collective. Agreement
All provisions of Hie Collective Agreement shall he applicableto Apprentices in this program.
Section 2: Right to Continue
Once started in the Program, subject however If Ihe provisions of the Collective Agreement, the Apprentice shall have the right continue, providing he passes all of the prescribed tests and work is available lb him.
Section . Tbsts
Upon completion of each period of training in tile Wrcational School, an
Apprentice will be required lo pass a test. In lh| event of failure to pass such a test, the Apprentice will be given a second oppcpunily, but in the event of failure to pass on the occasion of the second such test, qc shall be required to withdraw from the Program.
Section 4: Meaning f________ “Year”
Wherever reference is made to a year as a Helper or Improver it shall mean a period of not less ttsi two hundred (Zoo)workifig days; the said period lo include time spent at the Vocational School.
Section 5: Training Time Entbieim-nt
Subjectto theprovisions herein, an Apprentice rfho is hired by the Company and who has had training in another apprenticeship plan will be given recognition of such training time.
Section 6: On-the-Job-Training
The Company will ensure that the Apprentices wjll be given the necessary on. the-job practical training.
ARTICLE IV. SELECTION OF APPRENTICES
Section 1: Seniority
When the Company requires Apprentices, it is adjregd that ihe vacancy will be posted in the operation, and applicants selected ii| accordance with the provisions of Article VIII of the Collective Agreement.
Page 51
Successful applicants will be assigned as helpers for a three 0) month probationary period, unless the applicant's previous experience renders such assignment unnecessary.
Section 3; Entrance Standards
Entrance to the Program will in all cases bf subject to the applicant meeting the standards required for acceptance by the Apprenticeship and Industrial Training Branch.
Section^); Compulsory Entrance
All present Helpers and Improvers employed by the Company must enter the Program. Helpers and improvers who camyol qualify in the Program will be reclassified as Labourers with no reduction in rate of pay, until such time as they have an opportunity to apply their seniority to obtain ajob with equal or a higher rate of pay.
Suction	....
Labourers will not be employed in a. manjicr that will interfere with the application of the Program.
Limit
There will be no age limit for applicants.
APTTCT.F, V ■ TRAINING, SCHEDULES
Section 1: Assignment as Helper All successful applicants, except Wclde^ appendix), w ill be registered as Appref i
eleven (11) month period, prior to attent applicant's previous experience renders
Apprentices,(sceappropriate ces and assigned as Helpers for an
i)g Vocational School, unless tlie tluch assignment unnecessary.
A program for the aforementioned Welt) Jr Apprentices will be established by June 1st, 196X.
Section 2:	S Year	
	Rating	At Operation
First Year	Helper	first Il months
Second Year	Helper	first 11 months
Third Year	Improver	first 11 months
Fourth Year	Improver	first 11 months
Fifth Year	Improver	first 11 months
StectiorV 3i.e	J	r	Schedule	
First Year	Helper	first 11 months
Second Year	Helper	first 11 months
Third Year	Improver	first 11 months
Fourth Year Page 52	Improver	first 1! months
At School last 4 weeks last4 weeks lasUweeks last 4 weeks last 4 weeks
last4 weeks last 4 weeks last 4 weeks last4 weeks
Le
First Year	Helper
Second Year	Improver
Third Year	Improver
tirsf 11 months
flfif 11 months flJW 11 months
last 4 weeks last 4 weeks last 4 weeks
Not withstanding the provisions of Section2,4: ibid 4 herein, the Electrician Apprentices shall be required to take eight (8) Weeks at school during each year of the Program instead of four (4), with thepefPdinlhe operation reduced accordingly.
The Apprentice must successfully pass the prescribed test before promotion from Helper to Improver.
Subject to the conditions of this Section as listdl below, it is agreed that
following completion of the period of required raining and upon becoming
certified, the journeyman shall receive the certifiedjoumeyman’s rate of pay.
Conditions under which the above will apply:
a)	Only to a Journeyman who has gone through] the indentured apprenticeship training program under the sponsorship of UK Company for which he is working.
b)	That he is working in the maintenance depar Iftent,
c)	That all work nonnally done ty the malnten1 ^cedepartment is being perfonned ty the persons employed in the in fihlenance department.
d)	That nothing in this clause shall prohibit the siying off ofjourneymen, helpers or apprentices if they are not required.
c)	That a journeyman may. when facing lay-ofljehoose to exercise his seniority into categories outside of Hie maintenance 4ea at thej ob rate if Iris seniority and ability entitle him to do so.
Section 8: Vocational School Delay
If any of the periods provided for in Section 2, F, t, ui j herein are exceeded by reason of Vocational School facilities being un£ bailable, such period tf excess shall be credited to the Apprentice in succeedirtt training requirements.
ARTICLE Yl- WAGE RATES
Section 1:
a)	Wage Rates for Helpers in the fist term shall be that specified in the Wage Supplement,
b)	An Apprentice who passes his test shall rece hw an increment agreed to between the Company and the Union during nis second term year as a Helper.
c)	The Wage Rate for an Improver shall be that las specified in the Wage Supplement.
Page 53
d)	An Apprentice who passes a test in the jjourth period of vocational training shall receive an increment agreed to between the Company and the Union during his second tenn as ai Improver.
e)	Persons employed as Journeymen, and vho are certified as such, shall receive the certified rate for the trade, as agree to between the Company and the Union.
Expenses; __________
Pares, Lost Time Pay and School Expenses are to be paid by the appropriate Government authorities as part of the cost if the Apprenticeship Han, with the exception that the Company shall pay the single Apprentice while attending Vocational School, the difference between the subsidy granted by the appropriate Government authorities and the regular W£ ges of the employee concerned. Married persons shall receive their wages, less the amount paid by the Provincial Government authorities to single persons. The Intent being, that the greater amount paid by the Provincial Government authorities lo married persons shall not become a benefit to the Company.
In cases where the Apprentice is in receiptlof a subsidy granted by the appropriate Federal Government authorities the Company will pay the Apprentice while altending Vocational School the difference between the subsidy granted by the appropriate Federal Govern ment authorities and the regular
wages of the employee concerned.
A Joint Committee will be established to review and update the November 28, 1967 Apprenticeship Agreement in accordance with Appendix No. 3 of this Memorandum of Agreement
under this Program, prejudice his right to wage
increments provided for in Section 1 herci j.
ARTICLE VII - ADVISORY BOARD
1: ' '
There shall be an Advisory Board for each trade covered by the Apprenticeship Agreement, consisting of two representatives of the Industry, two from the Union, one representing the Vocational School, and one from the Apprenticeship
and Industrial Training Branch.
RffVhum^iillttv__________
The Board shall be responsible foradvi Apprenticeship and industrial Training standards of marking, and the school ct Apprentices, The Board shall not be re marking of tests,
g the Department of Labour, anch, regarding die content of tests, culum with respect to registered insible for the actual setting or
Page 54
ARTICLE VHI-GENERAL PROVISIO S Section I;
Persons presently employed as Journeymen, jvho do not wish to become certified, shall continue to be employed as Journeymen.
gltJlgP
Persons employed as Journeymen, who take the Tradesman Qualification Bam and fail, shah continue to be arployed as Journeymen,
Section 3:
If a present Journeyman fails to pass the test far a voluntary Tradesmen’s Qualifications Certificate, he i	indentured as an Apprentice at no
reduction in rate of pay.
Section 4:
There will be a three (3)man committee established to process applicants who make application to be tested under the volunliary Tradesmen’s Qualification, or who become indentured under the Apprenticeship and Tradesmen’s Qualification Act. The Committee will also determine what vocational training is necessary foi persons indentured as Apprentices. Represent|llon on the committee shall consist of the following
a One Representative from the Union.
b.	One Representative from the industry
c.	One Representative from the Apprenticeship Branch.
Vocational training will be conducted during day courses. Textbooks and study material will be made available when required/!
ARTICLE IX -TOOLS
Section 1:
All Journeymen tradesmen shall be
Journeyman rate, unless they have a full kit of >and tools necessary to perform the job for which they are hired, with the exception of machinery or tools which shall not be deemed to fall within the responsitilitv of the Journeyman.
Section 2:
The Improver shall be required to have and majntaln a basic tool kit and to be in the general process of building up the necessary tools to equip himself for the job
Section
The Helper generally shah not be required to oil n tools and shah use those designated to him. However, in his own interest he should commence the process of building up a tool kit.
Page 55
SUPPLEMENT NO. 3 R AGREEMENT
APPRENTICESHIP TRAINING PROGRAM in respectito the
TRADES OF FILING AND FITTING
BETWEEN:
BABtNE FOREST PRODUCTS LTD. HOUSTON FORES'! PRODUCTS CO
AND:
i.w.a.-cAnada
LOCAL 1-424, A.FJL.. C.I.O., C.L.C,
GENERAL PRINCIPLES
1 ■ Plan “A" • Sawfitter’s Apprenticeship TralnlnaPruirraffl
iefincd as follows:
rcular saws, band saws, gang saws,
To cover the trade of a Sawfitter which Is To be competent to fit all types of saws, q chain saws, etc.
a)	Operate, repair and adjust all saw Sharpening equipment and tools.
b)	Basictechniquesinweldlngofsa k'S,
Maintain guides and water lines
d)	Basic techniques in benching ofc rcular saws, slashers and trim saws.. NOTH:	It is agreed that the Parties w It not use the training program to
change the job content of the Hobs of the present Sawfittcrs.
Plan “B” - Circular Saw Filer Apprenticeship Training Program
To cover the trade of a Circular Saw File f which is defined as follows:
Must be a qualified Saw Fitter and be co npetent to bench all circular and gang saws (tensioning, weld cracks and weld in teeth): be able to repair and maintain all filing room equipment; also must havfc a working knowledge of allied mill equipment, only as it applies lo his job.
----“C” - Bttmchman Apprentlceshlri Training Program,
To cover the trade of a Bcnchman which is defined as follows:
Must be a qualified Saw Fitter and Circular Saw Filer, in addition be able to bench circular and band saws. Must have a working knowledge of all allied sawmill machinery including the linine pp of head rigs and grinding of band wheels.
Page 56
2.	The Parties agree that the object of the above Hans is to improve the
knowledge and skill of persons employed as filers and filters in the industry,
3.	The normal period of training will be:
SAFETY is an important part of the training program as outlined below; as such it forms an integral part of each phrase ot the program.
a)	Saw Fitters:
Pre-apprenticeship Training - In plant three months
1st term:	3 weeks at school, depending on size of class, - then writes an
examination. II months in-plant (raining.
2nd term: 3 weeks at school • then writes an examination. 8 months inplant training.
3rd term:	3 weeks at school -then writes tai examination. If he passes
the test, he becomes certified9 a Saw Fitter.
b)	Circular Saw Filers:
Must spend a minimum of three (3) months ijn-plant training as an apprenticecircular Saw Filer.
1 st term:	4 weeks at school, then writes tin examination. 8 months In-
plant training.
2ndlerm: 2 weeks at school then writes an examination. If he passes Uic test, he becomes a Certified Cincular Saw Filer.
c)	Benchman:
Must spend a minimum of three (3) months in/plant training as an apprentice Benchman.
1st term:	3 weeks at school, then writes an examination. 11 months in-plant
training.
2nd term: 2 weeks at school, then writes an examination. If he passes, becomes a certified Benchman.
NOTE: The above periods of in-school training may be altered by mutual
agreement subject to the experience ill the Industry and in consultation with the Apprenticeship Branch of thiEjcpartmcnt of Education.
4.	All provisions of the Collective Agreement wjl be applicable to apprentices in this Plan.
5.	Once started in this Plan, the apprentice, subjdcl however to the provisions of the Collective Agreement, will have the right io continue in any one program providing he passes all of the prescribed tests jand work being available lo
h i .
6.	a) Upon completion of each period of training in the Vocational School, an
apprentice Saw Fitter will be required to p: as a test. In the event of failure to pass such a test, the apprentice Saw Fitti r will be given a second opportunity, but in the event of failure to pt ss on the occasion of the second such test he will be required to witf draw from the Plan. Any Saw Fitter apprentice who fails to qualify at anj stage in the Program will be allowed to apply his seniority as it Is applie d in a lay-off. On completion of the third period of Iraining in Vocational School an apprentice Saw Filter will be required to pass a test. On parsing the test he will become a cert'iTl ecTSaw Titter.
Page 57
b)	On completion of the first period oft raining in Vocational School an apprenticeCircular Saw Filer will be required to passatest. Inthe event of failure to pass such atest the apprenticeCircular Saw Filer will be given a second opportunity, but in the event of failure lo pass on the occasion of the second such test he will be required to withdraw from the program and returnto the positionof a Saw Fitter.
On completion ofthe second period of training in Vocational School an apprenticeCircular Saw Filer will be required to pass atest. On passing the test he will become a Certified Circular Saw filer. In theovent that he fails to passthe lest, he will be given a second opportunity. If he passes the test on the second occasion he becomes a Certified Circular Saw Filer. Should he fail to pass the test on the second occasion he will he required to withdraw from the program and returnto the position previously held, that of a Saw Fitter.
c)	Upon completion of the first period of training in Vocational School an apprenticeBenchmanwill be required lo pass a lest. In the event of failure to pass such atest the apprentice Benchman will he given a second opportunity, but in the event of failure to pass on the Occasion ofthe second such test, he will he required to withdraw from the program and return to the position ofa Circular Saw Filer.
On completion ofthe second period of training in Vocational School an apprentice Flenchman will he required to pass a test. On passing the test he will become a Certified Benchman. Inthe event that he fails to passthe test, he will he given a second opportunity. I f he passes the test on ihc second occasion he becomes a Certified Benchman. Should he fail lo pass the test on the second occasion he jwill be required to withdraw from the program and return to the position previously held, that ofa Circular Saw
Filer.
7.	Wherever reference i s made to ayea as an Apprentice, it will mean a period of not less than 200 working days, th: said period to include time spent at the Vocational School. I n the event a par icipanl works less than 200 days and has attended Vocational Schoolwithin ilip year, lie may he given an opportunity to take therequired test.
8.	Subject to the provisions herein, an a’ prentice will he entitled to recognition of training time in the plan in the eve t of his moving from one Company in the Industry to another.
SEI.F-CTION OF APPRENTICES
1.	a) Present trainees who are emplqyea M-time Mill be indentured it the program
b)	Uponentering the filing room. RP arcs will be indentured into the apprenticeship program, subjFni to the limitations of General Principles Point Five (5) contained hereinl
c)	Subject to General Principles, pint Five (5), trainees will he allowed to complete their program to mfc I the requirements ofthe operation in which they wcrk.
d)	Saw Fitter Apprentices -It is agreed that the vacancy will be posted in
Fhge58
tbs operation and applicants selected in accordance with the provisions of Article VUl-Seniority.
c) ClrcularSawFiler Apprentices- It is agreed that the vacancy will be posted in the operation and applicants selected in accordance with Article VH1 Seniority. Applicants must be Certified Saw Fitters,
f)	Henchman Apprentices- it is agreed that the vacancy will be posted in the operation and applicants selected in accordance with Article VIII Seniority. Applicants must be Certified Saw Filers.
CERTIFICATION OF PRF.SHNT TRADF.SMFN
Present Saw Fitters, Circular Saw Filers and Bcnchmcn employed in the Industry who donot wish lo become certified shall not have their seniority rights prejudicedthrough lack of certification,
Present Saw Fitters, Circular Saw Filers ana uenchmcn will have the right to write a qualifying examination in their rcspcci ivc classification. If they pass the examination they shall receive the appropriate certified rate. If they fail the examination they shall be slotted into the appr ipriate apprenticeship program with the view to upgrading and eventually bee iming certified. Should they fail as per the steps outlined in Point Six (a), (b) o (c) they will be subject to thq provisions outlined therein. Present Tradesme i who write the Tradesmen Qualification Examination will be tested on the basis of the job content of the present jobs in the filing room in which they wjork.
ADVISORY BOARl
There will be an Advisory Board consisting oil two representatives of the Industry, two from the Union, one representingthe Vocational School and one from the Apprenticeship Branch
2.	The Board will be responsible for advising the appropriate school authorities, Department of Education and Department of I-abour regardingthc content of tests, standards of maiking and the school curriculum.
3,	The Board will not be responsible for the actual setting or marking of tests.
OUTLINE OFTHE FILER'S AND FITTER’S TRAINING PROGRAM
FITTER'S; APPRF.NTirRSHHPPRnr.RAM Instruction Breakdown .WCfikS Work Involved 1" Term:	I
Fitting handsaws and gangs
Reasons for swage.
Iiwage and shaper adjustment. Reasons for crumble, et cetera. 1'oothprofile.
'(Tooth alignment,
operation.
Page 59
Tngtrui-tinrt Breakdown Fitting Circular Saws
Weeks Wnikn I v e d
Setting and sharpening of cut off
saws.
Automatic and hand gumming. Swaging,shaping and sharpening circular, and rip saws.
Automatic and hand sharpening. Spring set circular rip saws. Sharpening and rctoothing. Inserted tooth cut off and rip.
Grinding wheels
Instruction of types, dressing, etc. 2"'1 Tern:
Review of I”’year	3
school training
Repair and adjust equipment used by a fitter
All phases of filing room welding (acetylene)
Theory and practical
All phases of chainsaw filing Carbide (tipping and dressing only)
3"1 Term:
Review 2,,dtenn	3
Preliminary circular saw tensioning anvil instruction Capable of hammering slashers, trim saws
Guide maintenance on bandsaws straight and pressure.
Sheer board setting Wheel scrapers Water lines
Welding
As ("year
Gauge setting Flame adjustment Tip size Torch handling Penetration Welding cracks
Preparing scats Brazing in carbide ‘Teeth-dressing
Leveling,
plumbing
Theory
Point build up
Toolh replacement Benching of welds
Page SO
Weeks Work Involved
CIRCULAR SAW FTT.F.K'S APPRF.NTTrF.SHTP PROGR AA/f
InstructioiBreakdown
Teno:
To become proficient in hammering all circular saws, rip and cut-off used in sawmill and planer
Level and tension, plumb All circular saws, including hollow ground.
(theory 108 cutoff),
‘Thin edges Carbide double arbour Review of Basic Shop Mathematics
V* Term:
Benching gang saws	2
Stretcher roll and heat
Filing room machine maintenance Be able to maintain and repair all filing roomequipment,
Trouble shooting of Circular Saw machinery
Leveling tension and back.
Check tabs
Theory
HENCHMAN APPRENTICESHIP PROGRAM Ist Term:
Complete bandsaw	3	Bench bandsaws in entirety
Bench work (roll stretcher and heat)	Stretcher roll and heat.
Strain calculations Welding
Further training.
Learn alignment of mill machines	Theory
Head rig, edger, resaws, trim, cut-off, etc.
Band mill Wheel Grinding
2"1 Term:
Saw Capacity Study	2	Theory
Feeds, tooth bite, gullet capacity saw speeds,
Tooth spacing (Circular and Band)
Trouble shooting.
Page 61
SUPPLEMENT NO. 4
The following lerms and conditions shall be applicable for the duration of the current Collective Agreement during "Company Responsibility Fires".
It is understood that the terms of this Agreement only apply to the employees in the employ of the Company at the time the fire started. Any person hired for firefighting after the start of the fire will work under the rates and conditions as required by the B.C. Forest Service.
1.	DFFTNTTTONS
a)	Accidental Fire:
Any fire not deliberately ignited by the Company to dispose of slash or waste, and which required active measures to extinguish.
b)	Slash Escape Fire:
Any slash fire ignited by the Company which has escaped the predetermined boundaries and requires active measures to extinguish.
c)	Slash Control Fire:
Any slash fire ignited by the Company which is contained within the predetermined boundaries, or alternatively, any slash fire which has escaped such boundaries but is not considered out of control does not require active measures as contemplated in (a) and(b) above.
d)	Company Responsibility Fire:
Any fire which the Company is responsible for taking measures to extinguish pursuant to the provisions of the Forest Act.
e)	Forest Service Fire:
Any fire in respect of which the B. C, Forest Service accepts responsibility for direction of measures to extinguish.
0 Fire Fighting Rates:
The rates of pay for fighting Company Responsibility Fires hereinafter set out in this Agreement.
g)	Regular Job Rates:
Rates of pay to employees for the performance of their regular jobs, as set out in the Wage Supplement of the Collective Agreement.
h)	Statutory Rates:
Rates of pay established by B.C. Forest Service for fire lighting.
2.	COMPANY CONTROLLED TIMBER
a)	Notwithstanding the foregoing, when the Company directs Company employees to fight fire on Company controlled timber, or to fight fires on property adjacent to Company controlled timber which is threatening Company controlled timber, the Company will pay those employees at the fire fighting rates set out in Section 3 of this Supplement.
b)	Where the B.C. Forest Service directs the Company to provide its employees for fighting fires in circumstances other than those set out in (a) above, those employees will be paid at the statutory rate.
Page 62
2, FIRE FIGHTING RATFS
a) The basic rate shall be the base rate shown in the Collective Agreement and
shall apply to all employees engaged in fighting Company Responsibility Fires except those performing one of the following fire fighting jobs:
CATEGORY
Crew Boss Cat Operators Skidder Operators Power Saw Operators Mechanics Regular Job Rate Slip-on Tank and/or Trailer Tanks with Pump/Driver Operator Water Tank Truck with Ihrlp/Driver Operator
ServiceTrucks/Bus Drivers Ihimpman
July 1797	July 1/98	July. 1/29
$21,535	$21,965	$22,405
21.735	22.17	22.615
21.31	21.735	22.17
20.79	21.205	21.63
21.055	21.475	21.905
20.57	20.98	21.40
20.49	20.90	21.32
20.54	20.95	21.37
b)	Straight time rates will apply Loall employees throughout the period during which the said employees are engaged in fire fighting. ‘Thisshallnolinclude cook and bunkhouse personnel, tradesmen, mechanics, or other categories servicing, feeding or supplying fire fighters from areas removed from the area of the fire or fires, unless the duties performed during any day i question arc exclusively related to fire fighting operations.
c)	Regular job rates will apply only for the duration of the regular production shift in which the fire started.
d)	Where employees are working in job classifications during fire fighting, other than those set out herein, job rates will apply.
4,	BOARD AND LODGING (WHTT.F, FIGHTING COMPANY RF.SPONSTBTT,TTY FIRES!
a)	Employees who commute from home to camp are expected to “cany a lunch”. Additional meals where required will be at Company expense.
b)	Employees required to live away from their private residence will receive board and lodging at Company expense.
c)	Employees living in fly-in camps will receive hoard and lodging at Company expense.
5.	TRAVELTIME
Travel time for employees engaged in fire fighting will he paid in accordance with the Collective Agreement.
L------------------
All employees engaged in patrolling or controlling slash fires whichhave been set by the Company will be paid their regularjob rate and overtime conditions will apply.
Page 63
NOTES
a)	When active fire fighting ceases to be necessary, rates and overtime conditions for fire patrol will revert to the normal conditions provided for in the Collective Agreement.
b)	The meaning of the word "extinguish as used in this Agreement shall Include the act or process of suppression to the point when the fire requires fire patrolmen only.
c)	All provisions of the Collective Agreement except as amended or modified shall continu: to apply.
E. & O. E.
SUPPLEMENT NO. 5 R.C. NORTHERN INTERIOR SAWMILL AND POl.EYARD .1QB EVAI NATION PLAN
ARTICLE I • PRINCIPLES AND PROCEDURES
The Parties to this Agreement mutually agree to implement and administer a Job Evaluation Program for the Northern Interior Sawmilling Section, erective September 1,1979, in accordance with the principles and procedures adopted in the BritishCoIumblaNorthenilnterior Sawmill and Poleyard Job Evaluation Manual (herein referred to as the "Manual”). Guidelines for nanual interpretation and gradings on record will serve as the basis for subsequent evaluation consistent with any future decisions rendered by the industry Standing committee.
ARTICLE 2--HBUSm&Y STANDfb ” " ITTEF,
There shall be a Standing Committee constituted and named the B.C. Northern Interior Industry Standing Committee to consist of one (1) designated representative of theC.O.N.I.EE.R, Group,one (I) designated representative of Northwood Group, one (1) designated representative of Canadian Forest Products Limited, one(l) designated representative of the Bablne/Houslon Group, and two (2) or more designated representatives of Regional Council No. 1 of the Industrial, Wood and Allied Workers of Canada.
Page 64
ARTTPT.E 3 - FllNOTmiM THE INDUSTRY STANDTNC,
COMMITTEE
The B,C, Northern Interior Industry Standing Committee shall provide general oversight of the operation of the Plan with responsibility of:
a)	Resolving all job evaluation problems referred by the Sawmill Evaluation
b)	Kcsolving any other job evaluation matters 'involving the Job Evaluation Plan which fall within its jurisdiction.
ARTICLE 4 - INDUSTRY .TOB EVALUATION COMMITTEE
a)	Mach Company participating in the B.C. Northern Interior Sawmill and l’oleyard Job Evaluation Plan shall designate and evaluator to be its member representative to its Industry Job Evaluation Committee (hereinafter referred to as the Sawmill Job Evaluation Committee) and the IWA Regional Council No. 1 shall designate one(l) member representative.
b)	Wherever possible the efforts by the members of the Sawmill Job Evaluation Committee may be consolidated for practical purposes.
ARTICLE 5 -FUNCTION OF SAWMILL EVALUATION COMMITTEE
a)	The Sawmill Evaluation Committee shall assume general responsibility for the uniform administration of the Job Evaluation Programin accordance with Article 3 of this Supplement
b)	The unanimous decision of the said Committee shall be final and binding on the Parties hereto.
ARTICLE 6 - PLANT ,I()D REVIEW COMMITTEE
a)	There shall be a Committee constituted in each Sawmill Plan named the Plant Job Review Committee (herein referred to as “Review Committee'') to consist of two (2) members representative of Management and two (2) members representative of the employees. At least one (1) representative of Management must be a member of the Plant's salaried staff or Management, a d at least one (1) representative of the employees must he an employee of the Plant whosejob is subject lo Sawmill Job Evaluation. Management may choose their second representative from amongst persons not employed at the plant and the Union may do likewise except that neither party may choose as its representative a member of tile Sawmill Evaluation Committee or any person who is employed as ajob evaluator by the Company or by the Regional Council No. 1 of the IWA.
b)	The Company shall reimburse any of its hourly-paid employees for time lost from his regular work schedule while acting as a member of the Review Committee or while presenting infonnation, regarding his own job, before a regularly convened meeting of the Review Committee. The Company .shall not be responsible for remunerating employee representatives who are not its hourly-paidemployee.
Page 65
ARTICLE 7 -FUNCTION OF REVIEW COMMITTEE
a)	The Review Committee will be responsible for seeing that all requests for evaluation or m-evalualion ofjobs are adequately and accurately documented before being passed to the Sawmill Evaluation Committee for further action. The documents required will include a "Request for Job Evaluation" form submitted either by an individual employee or by local Management, and a fully completed "Job Study Record fonn which provides sufficient information for the subsequent work of 1he Sawmill Evaluation Committee. The fonn of the documents, the procedures for submitting and handling them and the time limits for completion may be amended as required by the Sawmill Evaluation Committee in accordance with Article 5 of this Supplement.
b)	Decisions of the Review Committee respecting the appropriateness of a request for evaluation or re- evaluation, or respecting the adequacy of documents, shall be by unanimous agreement. Failing such agreement within the established time limit, the Review Committee shall at the request of any one of its members, immediately forward the Request for Job Evaluation, together with any other documents on which there is unanimous agreement to the Sawmill Evaluation Committee and shall then have no further responsibility for documenting that request.
c)	When the Sawmill Evaluation Committee has made a decision respecting Ihe evaluation of ajob, it shall communicate that decision to the appropriate Review Committee. The Review Committee will be responsible for informing Management and the employees concerned, giving reasons for the outcome where these are available. A decision of the Review Committee that an Application for Job Evaluation should not be forwarded to the Sawmill Evaluation Committee will, similarly, be communicated with reasons to those concerned.
d)	Nothing in this Article limits the right of the Sawmill Evaluation Committee to determine the facts about anyjob, by direct observation or otherwise, or to amend any job descriptions or grading sheet submitted to Ihemin support of a Request for Job Evaluation fonn.
ARTICLE 8 ■ APPLICATION OF PROGRAM
The Job Evaluation Program shall apply to all hourly paid employees in the I).
C, Northern Interior Sawmill Industry except those categories listed below:
Millwright Machinist Blacksmith Welder Sprinklerman Mechanics Electrician Painter Carpenter
Oilers and Improvers and Helpers to the above trades
Bricklayer Steam Fitter Boilermaker
Saw Filers, Fitters,Bench man &
Engineers (Boiler House) Firemen (Boiler House) Grinderman
Pipefitter - including Helpers
Page 66
ARTICLE 9 -DIRECTION OF WORK I
Job Evaluation descriptions are written wi duties and requirements of the job and shall restriction on the right of the Company to cn employees other than those specifically menl always that if the assignment of such duties to justify a review of the evaluation the Sawin make such a review in accordance with the d:
.111 the intent to set forth the general
be construed as imposing any rate a newjob or to assign duties to it oncd in job descriptions, provided c ranges the job content sufficiently ill Evaluation Committee shall ihcedure set out herein.
ARTICLE 10 • RE-EVALUATION
a)	When a job has moved to a higher group as a result of re- evaluation, the resulting rate shall be retroactive from the date that Management or the employee has applied to the Review Comnjiittce forrc-evalualion.
b)	When ajob moved to a lower grade as a rejsull of rc- evaluation, the
incumbent shall maintain his j ob rate as a :_________________
provisions of Article 12 herein.
ARTICLE II- NEW JOBS CREATED
Where the Company has exercised its right tbcreate a newjob, a temporary rate
shall be set by Management.
a)	When the evaluatedrate for a new job is higher than the temporary rate, the resulting rate shall be retroactive from the date that the job was installed.
b)	When the evaluated rate for a new job is lower than the temporary rate, the incumbent (s) shall continue the temporary rate.
ARTICLE 12 RED CIRCLE PROTECTION
a)	The Company shall supply the Union with <j list of employees holding red circlejobs, the said list to include the name Df the employee, nameof thejob category filled, the evaluated rate for the job, and the actual rate paid.
b)	Employees on red circle rates who are prorhoted to a higher rate shall regain the red circle raie if subsequently found incompetent to continue in the higher grade.
c)	Employees holding red circlejobs who are demoted during areduction of forces, shall be paid only the evaluated rate for the job to which they are assigned. If at a later date, an employee is reassigned to his formerjob, he shall regain his red circle rate.
d)	When the Company terminates ajob, or a job is not occupied during a period of one (1) year, a record as to the cancellation of the applicable job description and classification shall be established.
e)	1 f an employee is temporarily transferred at the request of the Company, he shall retain his existing rate or receive the rate for the new job, whichever is higher. On return to his regular job, the said jcmployee shall regain his red circlerate.
Page 67
ARTIC
reasons for the decision, should indicate the criteria used in suff the request was given adequate attentlcn c) An evaluation done by the Sawmill E’v if binding on the parties, but at any time evaluation or re-evaluation of ajob, M may submit a request for re-cvalualioi:
The stalemeniishould not go into great detail, but cicnt depth to show the applicant that
Eva!
d) If die Sawmill Evaluation Committee the disposition of a Request for Job E the Job Evaluation Program which fall shall be referred to theU.C.'Northern h
luaflon Committee shall be final and tfter five (5) years since the last I inagement or an individual employee of that job and no other reason than
unable to reach agreement regarding duation or any other matter regarding , js within their Jurisdiction the matter nterior Industry Standing Committee
representative will be addressed car of the IWA and the Employer repres Company. The Employer represent: regarding the disposition of any rcqi
ARTICI.E IS-TRAINING PROGF A program of training for members oft be instituted, the details of which shall and the IWA Regional Council in the B
the offices of Regional Council No. I itative care of the offices of the ve will then designate their evaluator si forjob evaluation.
iM
; Review Committee in each plant shall : arranged by those companies included 1 Northern Interior Sawmill and
PagefiS
APPENDIX ff 0.1
NORTHERN INTERIOR SAWMILL & POLE YARD JOB EVALUATION PLAN
1.	TNTENT AND P----------
To modify the existing thirteen (13) factor British Columbia Northern Interior Sawmill and Poleyard Job Evaluation Plan byiproviding additional recognition where appropriate to recognizethe impact ofAutoination and Technological change
2.	METHOD
Job Grading Criteria,
Grading Rule Guidelines and Benchmark Jobi
Modification to the number of Factors and the/degree of points credited in those Factors will be considered in order to meet theTollowing objectives.
3.	OBJECTIVES
To recognize IlieoveraJl impact on ProduclIomFlow and the responsibility to maintain and/or increase the Recovery, Grade land Quality of the product.
When additional production processing machiijies are simultaneously controlled by the operator or are optimized to affect the product, the Plan will include criteria to appropriately reflect the operator’s responsibilities.
4.	I,IMITATIONS
Without limiting the ability of the British Columbia Northern Interior Job Evaluation Committee in the application of the r general responsibilities, the criteria as outlined above shall not result in the comnounding oferedits as outlined in the guidelines contained therein.
& IMPLEMENTATION
The British Columbia Northern Interior Industrj Job Evaluation Committee will develop appropriate Evaluation documents to support its objectives.
Page 69
SUPPLEMENT NO. 6 CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTING
Section 1:
It is agreed that Plant Tradesmen who arc assigned by the Company to carry out work directly related lo “new” construction with tradesmen employed by an outside contractor, plant tradesmen will bo Daid the “outside” contractor(s) rate(s).
Action
Tor thepurposcoi' this Agreement“new” Construction shall be defined as meaning;
(a)	The construction of major new bunaipgs and major additions to existing buildings.
(b)	The addition tf newor used majorppjiduction machinery and related equipment not previously in existence.
Section 3:
(a) “Tradesmen” shall mean joumeymeniami anprentices in the following trades:
Machinist	Millwright
Steamfitter/Pipefitter	Wfelder
Electrician	Carpenter
(b)
(c)
“Contractor’s rate” shall only meanfpfe hourly wage paid by that contractor andnot any other paymentorworkirtSConditiotu.
“Contractor’s Rate” will not exceed iterates for similar trades paid by IWA construction companies.
SELECTION OF APPRENTICE PROCEDURE
1.	PURPOSE
The purpose of this agreement is to esta lish an equitable criteria which will give management reasonable assurance t at the apprentice, upon completion of his indentureship, will become a profici nt tradesman and to assure the Union and its members that the senior applican who meets the criteria will become at apprentice.
Page 70
is Grade 10 or equivalent and
is APTITUDE TESTING
Applicants will be tested in accordance with the hank of tests as recommended
by the Apprenticeship Branch of Hie Ministryjof Labour. Testing procedure will
be as follows:
a)	A standard set of testing instructions and procedures will be developed and authorized by the parties to this agreement |knd communicated to appropriate management and union personnel.
b)	The passing grade for Hie tests will be established by the Apprenticeship Branch of the Ministry of labour.
c)	The passing marks for Hie Mechanical Trades and Electrical tests are established as being a combined requireinc nt of, firstly, seventy percent (70%) in the Mechanical Aptitude and Spa :e Relations segments of the tests, and, secondly, seventy percent (70%) in th: overall final scoring of the tests.
d)	All scoring computations of percentages in each section and overall scores of She tests are recorded as being rounded off o the next highest percentage point where any fraction of a percentage pr int exists.
e)	Tests will be conducted on plant property cr near the plant by Management; a Union representative will be present when he tests are given and marked.
0 Tests recommended for the self-evaluation will be made available and may be taken by an interested employee. Failure to take such tests shall not jeopardize an employee's applicationfor ary apprenticeship,
4.	RE-TESTING
a)	it is agreed that where an applicant has failed lo pass the Mechanical Aptitude and Space Relations Section of either the Mechanical or Electrical tests, the employee will be allowed to bid and be re-t|csted one (1) additional lime for
each test.
b)	Results of all tests will be retained on file in the company’s office. An applicant who has met the criteria and successfully passed the requisite test and is the senior for any future apprentices! tip posting within a three (3) year period, will be considered the successful applicant.
c)	An applicant who qualifies and has passed (he Mechanical Aptitude and Space Relations section of any of the avail hie tests, but fai led the overall test, will be eligible to bid and be re-lested4or any future apprenticeship posting.
d)	A master copy of the tests will be made available to IWA Regional Council No. I on request
5.	MAINTENANCE. MONITORING. ANf>DISTRIBUTION OF TESTS
a)	Sufficient copies of file tests, answer sheets, and marking overlays will be
maintained by Weldwood of Canada Umitejd, Vancouver Office and/or the
Apprenticeship Branch of
Columbia.
Page 71
b)	Test materials will be supplied on requ si to those operations requiring same and will be returned immediately after se.
c)	Use of the tests will be monitored by ldwood of Canada, Vancouver Office and/or the Apprenticeship Branch of th Ministry of Labour of the Province of British Columbia. Such monitoring ill maintain a record ofapplicant’s tests, successful applicant’s scores rec tded, seniority applied, and provide a follow-up of the successful applicant’s rogress throughout training and an appropriate post training period. Othe infonnation as deemed necessary by the parties to this agreement will be m de available as agreed.
6.	PROBATIONARY PERIOD
The successful applicant will be given a p oballonary period up to ninety (90) calendar days.
7.	SEI F.CTION RF.VIF.W
Where a dispute arises out of the selection ot an apprentice, that cannot be resolved at Ihe plant level, the matter willIbc discussed by Management and the Locai Union
S,	TRIAL PERIOD
This agreement is for a twelve (12) month trial period, from the date of this agreement. Hither party may terminate th s agreement upon one (1) month’s written notice after the completion of the 'eleventh month.
SUPPLEM_____10,8
ALTERNATE SHIFT SCHEDULING
A. FLEXIBILITY OF HOURS OF. WORK
The Parties recognize the need for flexibi lity of hours other than those outlined in the Hours of Work Article, for theexrsfess numose of better utilization of manpower and capital such as:
Balancing of production Maintenance Market requirements Even flow production
Emergency or unexpected harvesting programs Continuous scheduling (eg. Eoggng,Engineers, Firemen, Maintenance, Watch nen)
Page 72
IL SHtET.SCH EPUJ JNG
The parties agree that the following shift schedules will provide the flexibility required to meet the needs expressed above.
1.	Logging
i)	compressed schedules consistingpflD hours per day, 4 days per week;
ii)	non-continuous schedules such as JO days on, 4 days off.
2,	Manufacturing
i)	2 crews working 4 days, 10 hours per shift;
ii)	up to 3 crews working Monday to Saturday, 10 hours a shift not exceeding 40 hours per week;
iii)	employees working in continuous operations may be scheduled to work shifts other than (i) or (ii) atlove.
3,	Maintenance
i)	shifts of up to 10 hours per day, 4f hours per week, Monday to Sunday inclusive;
ii)	three shifts per week, not exeneriH s> 12 hours per day.
4.	Other Shifts
It is undersUjod the parties can establisn oiner shifts by mutual consent to meet local conditions.
^implementation
Any variation(s) to the Hours of Work Article (shall be implemented only upon completion of the following steps:
1,	The Company and the Local LInion will miefcl to discuss proposed shift schedules within the terms of the Hours f Work Article. It is anticipated that the Local LInion will make sincere attempldjto assist the Company wishing to introduce alternate shift schedules. The Dailies must mutually agree on resolution of issues such as:
a)	Detailsofshifl
b)	Details of Statutory Holidays, Floating Holiday, Bereavement Leave, and Jiny Duty.
c)	Maximum length of shifts for physically demanding work. Accident prevention is a factor to be taken irio account in determining shift
lengths.
d)	‘The loss of hourslemployment as ajdircet result of the implementation of alternate shift schedules.
e)	The use of employees for supplementary production work.
2, The Camp or Plant Committee and the crew will be actively consulted by the Parties during the process.
D. GENERAL PRINCIPLES
When an alternate shift schedule is in effect other provisions of the Collective Agreement will be administered on the principle that an employee will not lose or gain any benefits over his normal five-day schedule.
I.	The Company agrees that alternate shift schedules will not be introduced where the intention is to increase the use of casual employees in place of regular employees.
Page 73
2.	Different parts of an operation may be scheduled on different shifts.
3.	The principle of the forty (40) hour weqk is to be maintained over an
avcraglngperiod.	,
4.	This Article shallnotchangc existing alternate shin agreements, unless agreed to by bothparties.
5.	Earned vacations will be scheduled on the same basis as days and hours worked under the alternate shift schedule.
6.	Other Articles of the Collective Agreement which provide benefits after eight (8) hours are extended by the amount tile regular hours of work have been increased beyond the eight (8) hours pep day.
7.	An employee’s rest days may vary from week lo week under an alternate shift schedule. Employees shall not be paid premium pay for changes in their rest days in these circumstances.
8.	An employee whose rest days are changed by the Company under an established alternate shift schedule shall receive rate and onc-half for work performed on his rest days unless a change in rest day results from the application of seniority or has been aarced to between the employee and the company.
9.	There shall be no premium pay paid iu any employee whose rest days are changed because of the implementatioi|i of an alternate shift schedule.
SUPPLEMENT NO 9
November 4,1994 LETTER OF U^ERSTANDING
New and Evolving Work
Preamble
Weldwood of Canada Limited and IWA-Canada agree lo process which seeks to balance the economic concerns of the member companies with the needs of their employees to have access to New and Evolving Work within die Northern Interior Forest Industry This process is intended to deal with:
1,	employment for regular company employees who are displaced by reductions in Annual Allowable Cuts or other land use decisions.
2,	additional opportunities for bargaining unit employment in new work that may be created in the forest industry
3,	replacement bargaining unit employment in new or evolved work which may develop in future,
Pago 74
Process
1,	This Letter established a process for the Company and the Local Union to discuss opportunities for having company employees perform new and evolving work within the forest industry in:
•Value Added -KC-manufacturing
-Opportunities created through B.C. Forest Renewal funding.
2,	Companies and Local Unions are committed to working together towards making new work opportunities available to company employees. It is understood to accomplish these goals the parties must achieve:
-efficiency and cost effectiveness on a fair and reasonable basis -quality objectives -safety objectives
3,	'Che parties recognize that they cannot reasonably anticipate all circumstances and situations which may arise so cannot prescribe comprehensive solutions in advance,
4,	The parties agree that early joint preparation is an important contributor to the successful implementation and administration of the New and Evolving Work Letter. To this end, the respective negotiation committees will be jointly available to clarify this agreement, and to assist parlies on a case by case basis.
5,	Issues must be resolved in a timely fashion.
6,	‘This Letter will expire on June 30,2000, unless specifically renewed by both parties.
Dispute Resolution Process:
In order to assist member companies and Local Unions in resolving diputes which may arise as a result of this Letter. Wcldwood ofCanada Limited and I.W.A.-Canadaagreeto:
a) Establish a joint Dispute Resolution Commitlee comprised of three (3) representatives from management and three (3) representatives from the Union to fact find and assist the company and Local Union in reaching a solution.
bj Management or the Local Union can request the assistant of the Dispute Resolution Committee,
c)	The Dispute Resolution Committee may utilize the services of facilitators, mediators, or whatever means in order to reach a final recommended resolution.
The parties agree to:
Activate the Task Force provided for in Letters of Understanding by June 30,1998,
In the event there are unresolved issues related to the implementation of the N.E.W, process the company or local union concerned will seek the assistance of the Dispute Resolution Committee in resolving the issues.
Appendix No. 9 contains the agreed-upon general principles and parameters concerning New and Evolving Work, including Dispute Resolution and Task Force.
Agreed to on behalf:
I.W.A.-CANADA	WELDWOOD OF CANADA LIMITED
Page 75
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING Task Ehrce
Wcldwood of Canada Limited andTWA-CANADA have agreed to a Task Force, comprised of three (J) representatives from management and three (3) representatives of the Union, with co-chairman from each party. The Task Force will examine the changes and trends in the forest industry.
The terms of reference for the Task Force will be as follows, but may include other matter the parties wish to explore.
1.	To examine the change(s) taking place within the Industry and the impact on Unlon/Management relations.
2.	To identify any procedure, policy, agreement, workschedules, method, working environment, people utilization. and company practice which contributes to efficient, safe production performance while expanding die current workforce.
3.	To identify what changes are appropriate to improve the overall Industry’s ability to harvest and manufacture the timber in a safe, economical manner.
4.	To Identify opportunities for employees to leam new skills and to train company employees to operate the equipment and perform the other jobs associated with the evolving jobs within the B.C. Forest Industry.
5.	The Task Force will submit reports with recommendations to Ihc Union and Management Negotiating Committee on a regular basis on measures that will address the changes needed within the Forest Industry.
6.	This Letter will expire on .Tune 30,2000, unless specifically renewed by both parties.
Agreed to on behalf:
IWA-CANADA	WELDWOOD OF CANADA LIMITED
Page 76
November 4,1994
Weldwood of Canada Limited P.O. Box2179
Vancouver, BC VfiB3V8
Attention: Gordon Gray Dear Sir:
Fte: Agreement on New and Evolving Work
This letter is intended to clarify IWA-Canada's intent with regard to the tenns and conditions of the letter ofUnderstandinginl994 negotiations on New and Evolving Work
During discussions on this, the Industry raised concerns that we answer as follows:
1,	It is not the intentions of IWA-Canada to use this agrrcment to replace existing logging contractors with IWA members or crews.
2,	It is IWA-Canada's desire to have opportunities to discuss with employers the possibility of either using IWA company crews, or IWA contractors, to perforin work under Forest Renewal, but it is not our intent to cause companies to purchase equipment wliot having the costs of such equipment considered as pari of the efficiency and cost effectivenessthat IWA agrees to address under the New and Evolving Work agreement.
3,	It is IWA-Canada's intentiona that discussion concemingnew operations under the agreement may lead to voluntary recognition andcertilication ■ it is not our intentions to achieve certificationlirst and enter into discussions later unless certificationoccurs as a direct result on an IWA organizing drive.
As stated earlier, this letter is to clari fy our intentions concerning our agreement. It is not intended to fonn part of the agreement,as is not arbitrable by either party.
Sincerely,
Harvey Arcand 4th Vice president IWA-Canada
HA/jg
Page 77
ATTACHMENT: R E ARTICLE IX PAYMENT OF STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
As a result of 1977 negotiations between Habine Forest Products Limited, and Houston Forest Products Co. and the IWA Local 1-424, ai Agreement has been reached which will change the present method of payment to employees as follows:
EXAMPLE:
If an employee who regularly receives overtime pay as part of his/her nonnal daily earnings for his/her regular work schedule, this would be included for purposes of payment of Statutory Holiday pay.
An equipment operator whose regular hourly rate of pay is S7.9S is and who regularly works one-half hour overtime per day would receive-:
8 hours at $7.98	=$63.84
30 minutes at I14	=$5.98
Total	=$69.82
It is understood the new method of payment will apply to the Personal Floating Holiday when it becomes effective in 1978.
It is further understood that Shift Differential and Travel Time payment is not included in the new method of paying Statutory Holidays and Personal Floating Holiday.