COLLECTIVEAGREEMENT
BETWEEN
IWA CANADA- LOCAL1-2995
From September 1st, 1992 to August 31-1995
OCT 111993	.
0G 'ffl'
INDEX
Article
Page
I
II
III
IV
V
VI
VII
VIII
IX
X
XI
XII
XIII
XIV
XV
XVI
Purpose....................................  ^
Recognition......................-..........3
Period.....................................  4
Wage Schedule..............................  4
Union Membership____________________________ 5
Vacations with Pay. ..................-.....7
Holidayswith Pay...........................  8
Adjustmentof grievances.....................-10
No Strike- No Lockout.......................12
Working Conditions......................-...12
Hours ofWor...............................  15
Seniority ............................—.....18
Bulletin Boards.............................24
Healthand Welfare_________________________  24
BereavementPay.............................—31
Jury Duty Allowance.......................  31
OCT 1 ? 1993
1
XVII	Dental Care Plan............—......................31
XVIII	Management Rights......________________________    33
XIX	Pension Plan..—------------------——---------------—33
XX	PaidEducatlon Leave............................   .34
Wage Schedule......____________________________    35
Job Descriptionlbr Trades and Helpers..—..™..... 36
T rades Apprentice P rog ra m._____________________42
MaintenanceTrades Annual Review____________________43
Letter <£ Understanding..........-................44
2
COLLETIVE AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
NORMICK PERRONINC.(COCHRANE DIVISION) Sawmilland Planing mill
(hereinafterreferredto as the "Company")
and
I.WA CANADA- LOCALl-2995
(hereinafterreferredto as the "Union")
ARTICLE I - PURPOSE
1.01	The purposeofthisAgreement isto secure for the Company
and the Union, the full benefits of orderly and legal collective bargainingin respectto hours, wages working conditions, and to ensure to the utmost extentpossible, the safety and physicalwelfare of the employees, economy of operation,quality and quantity cf output and the protection of property. This Agreement moreover, seeksto provideforfairandpeacefuladjustmentsto alldisputesthat may arise betweenthe parties. It is recognized as a duty of theparties hereto and of all employeesto cooperate fully, individually and collectively, for the advancement of the conditions set forth herein.
ARTICLE II - RECOGNITION
2.01	(a) The Company recognizesthe Union as the sole collec-
tive bargainingagent of al I employeesof the Sawmill and Planing Mill only, of Normick Perron Inc. (Cochrane Division)at Cochrane saveand except foremen, persons above the rankof foreman, office staff and scalers.
(b) The employeesof contractorsengagedoy the Company int/jeplantsandyardofthe Company shallbeconsidered employees with in thetermsofthisAgreement; saveand exceptthe employeesofcontractorsand/orthe contractors who areengagedto performoccasionalspedalservices
3
not :	I; f< by employees covered /the
r thisAgreement,employeesofcontractorswhere i ;h contractors s engaged fcr t n > of re structures and where such a contractor is boundby an 't itt a Ji ic jr k n	11
labour	Hing d. v 1<
personnel, which includescontractors whose employees areconsideredto be employees underthis agreement, shall not performwork which would normally be a function of an employee in the job classifications covered by this Agreement, exceptwhen instructingemployeesandi n cases of emergencywhich involvesphysicaldangerto employees or dangerto property. Itisagreedthatthe Company operations shall not be interruptedas aresultofanyjurisdictionaldispute that may arise betweenthe Union and any othertrade Union.
ARTICLE III - PERIOD
3.01	The Company andthe Union agree one with the otherthat they will abide bytheArticlesofthisAgreementfrom Septemberl, 1992toAugust31,1995, inclusive, andfrom year to year thereafter, unlesseitherparty desirestochangeorterminatethisAgreement, in which case the party desiringthe change orterminationshallnotify theotherpartyinwriting, atleastsixty(60)dayspriortoAugust31 of that particularyearthatsuch is itsdesire. Eitherpartyopeningthe Agreement inthe mannerprovidedabove shall notifytheother party inwriting, as to the changes desired.
ARTICLEIV > WAGE SCHEDULE
The wage scheduleisattachedheretoandformsapartofthis Agreement
4.02	If during the life of this Agreement, asignificantchangeinjob
content in physicalor mental requirements occurs in anyjob classi-ficationlistedintheattachedwage scheduletheratethereto shall be adjusted by negotiationsbetweentheparties. Uponfailureto reach
4
agreement, the matter may be referred to section 8.05 of the grievance procedure.
4.03	For classifiedjobs not listed in this wage schedule, the Company may setestimatedortemporary rates. Any such rateswill be based on comparisonwith prevailing rates for a similar and/or related occupation in the attachedwage schedule. After a trial period of thirty (30)daysany such ratesshall be negotiatedwith the Local Unionand upon Agreement shall become part of the wage schedule, and paymentmaderetroactive, and afterthe thirty (30)day trial and following negotiationsforsuch rates with the Local Union, if no agreement, is reached, the mattershall become subject to the grievance procedurebeginningat section8.05.
ARTICLEV - UNION MEMBERSHIP
5.01	All presentemployeeswho are membersofthe Unionand those who may become membersofthe Unionshall maintainsuch membershipingoodstandingasaconditionofcontinuedemployment.
5.02	All new employees shall become membersofthe Union within fifteen (15)daysfromtheday they start to work at the plant. A list of newemployeeshired be suppliedto the stewardevery month.
5.03	Foreach individualemployeewhoi samemberofthe Union orappliesto becomea member, the Companyagreesthatitwill, on hisbehalfand upon hiswritten requestorupon written noticeby the Union, pay Union initiation fees and/or weekly membership dues from monies due him.
The Company shall putemployeeson checkoff at time of hire or retumto workand deducttheUnion'sweekly membershipduesfrom moniesdue him.
5.04	RemittancesofalldeductionsshallbesenUothe LocalUnion monthly, said remittances to be accompanied by itemized lists in alphabeticalorder, induplicate,showing payrollnumbers,full names ratesandamountofhours. The Companyshalldelivertheabovenot
5
laterthanthe end of the following month. A copy of the listwill be given by the Company to the Union Steward.
5.05	The LocalUnionshallfurnishthe CompanywithalistofLocal Officersand representatives,andshallamendtheselistsaschanges occur.
5.06	The Companywill furnish a listcf supervisory personnel to the Union office at the start cf the contractyear and amend it, if required,attheendof each month. Theamendedlistwill showthe effective date of the changes. Failureto advise the Union of such changeswill not inany way affectthe authority of supervisors.
The Company will also maintain an up-to-date listing of spare supervisors. Such listingwillbepostedon the bulletin boardsanda copy will be providedtothe Union.
5.07	When hiringemployeestheCompanywillgivepreferenceto Union members providedthey apply for work or that the Union appliesontheirbehalfandprovidedthey arecapableto perform the work required.
5.08	Representativesof theUnioncarryingacertificate ofauthority signed by the PresidentandSecretary of the Unionshall havethe rightto visitthe plantibrthe following purposes:
1)	Evaluationofjobsandtimestudiesconnected therewith.
2)	The investigationcf alleged violation ofthisAgreement
3)	Investigationofgrievances.
4)	To postnoticeson Union bulletinboard
Priorto hisvisit, the Union representativeshallreportto the PI ant Office to request permission for hisvisit, and to allow the Companytoappointarepresentativeto accompany him. The Union representativeshall conduct himself in a manner which will not interfere with the normaloperationof the plantduring his visit.
6
ARTICLE VI • VACATIONS WTTH PAY
6,01	Forthe purpose of this Article seniority will beacquiredand maintained as defined in Article XII of this Agreement and the vacation year shall begin with the first pay of June each year.
Vacation pay creditsshallbepaid on the following basisandeach2% incremented vacation pay entitles an employeeto one week of time Off.
a)	4% ofgross earnings for employees Who havelessthan four (<f) years servicewithtrie Company.
b)	6% of gross earningsfor employeeswho havefour (4) yearsormore butlessthannine(9)years servicewithtrie Company.
c)	8% of gross earnings for employees who have nine (9) years or more but less than eighteen (18) years service with the Company.
d)	10% ofgrossearningsforemployeeswho haveeighteen (18)years or more service with the Company.
e)	Supplementary Vacation with Pay
Employees who have worked more than twenty (20) years for the Company, shall receive the following additional vacation in the calendar year in which they attain:
Age 60 - 1 week (2% of gross earnings)
Age 61-2 weeks (4% of gross earnings)
Age 62 - 3 weeks (6%of gross earnings)
Age 63-4 weeks (8% of gross earnings)
Age 64 - 5 weeks (10% of gross earnings)
6.02	Anemployeewho hasbeencontinously employedforone(1) year, shall take vacation time offatatimethat is satisfactory to the employee and his supervisor.
6.03	Accrued vacation with payshallbepaidtoeachemployeeby separatechequeto be issuedatthe time of layoff or at the time vacation is taken Where the employee is dischargedfor cause or quits, he shall be paid his accrued vacation with pay on the next regularpay day but in no case laterthan the last pay in June each year.
6.04	Ifa plant vacation shutdown of two (2) weeks duration, or any further period as maybe mutuallyagreedto betweenthe Company andthe Union, itwill be scheduled each year during July and/or August TheCompanywill notifythe Unionatleastthree(3)months in advance of a proposedvacation shutdown in orderto allow for consultation betweentheCompanyandthe Union as todurationand timing of such said shutdown.
An employee who works during the vacation shutdown and/or is entitled to vacation time off in excess to the duration of the vacation shutdown, will beallowedto take such time off upon noticeinwriting tohissupervisor Incasetoomanyemployeesshouldseekadditional time off therebyjeopardizingeffidency of operation, time offwill be scheduled in accordance with seniority
Ifa plantvacation shutdown is not scheduled, theCompanywill grant vacationattimesrequestedbytheemployeesfrom Junel to May31 ofthefollowingyeargivenpreferencetosenioremployees, provided that they make knowntheirvacation preferencetothe Company on the form provided, one monthaftervacationschedulesare requested. A minimum of six (6)employeespershift atthe Sawmillandfour (4) atthe PlaningMillwill bepermittedto taketheirvacationatany one time as Iona as the proper andorderlv operation of the plants are ensured.
ARTICLE VII • HOLIDAYS WITH PAY
7.01	I) Employees shall be paidwithouttheperformanceofwork for the following holidays, at their regular rateof pay:
NewYear's Day	Civic Holiday (1st Monday inAug.)
January 2nd	Labour Day
a
Good Friday	Thanksgiving Day
Victoria Day	Christmas Day
Dominion Day	Boxing Day
ll» In addition, employees who have accumulated one hundred and twenty (1 20) worked days, will be granted two (2) floating holidays per year. A minimumoftwo (2) employees pershift will be permitted to take a floater at atime satisfactiontotheemployee and his supervisor. If anemployeehasnottaken hisfloating holidaybytheend of Marcheach year and has not signified his intentionof taking it, such floating holiday will be scheduled by the Company before May31 st of each year.
Ill) Request for floaters are to be submitted in writing on forms supplied by the Company at least three working days in advance of the floater with the exception of emergencysituations. Managementwill respondwithin twenty-four (24) hours of receiving the request.
When any of the above Holidays occur on a Saturday or Sunday, the observance of the holiday shall be on the following Monday except for July the 1sl which will betaken on the proceeding Friday, or such other day that is celebrated as such,
Forthe purpose of this Agreement, a Saturday or a Sunday, or a Holidayshall begin at 12:00 hour of that day and end at 12:00 hour the day following.
7.03	An employeewho has established seniority in accordance with Article XII, andwhoworksany of theavailableworkdayswithin the thirty (30) day period prior to the holiday, and who works the last scheduled shift prior to the holiday and the first scheduled shift following the holiday, unless prevented by reasons beyond his control and the employee takes the necessary steps to advise his immediate supervisor, shall receive pay for the holidays.
during the course of an allowed vacation period shall not be included as part of that allowance.
9
An employeewho is qualified underArticle XII and who works any oftheavailableworkdayswithinthethirty(30)day periodimmediately priorto the holiday, fe on authorized leave of absence when the holidayoccurs, heshall receive holiday payforthefirst holidaythat occursduring hisabsence.
7.05	An employee who is qualified underArticle XU and who ceasesworkduefolayoffduringthe thirty (30)day period immediately priorto the holiday, shall receive holiday pay for all holidays within suchthirty (30) day period.
7.06	An employee, who qualifies under Section 12.02 (a)and 7.03, who isobligedto ceaseworkdueto sickness, pregnancyor accident certified by a licensed practitionerduring the twenty-one (21) day period immediately prior to the holiday, shall receive holiday pay lor the first holiday within such twenty-one (21) day period.
7.07	Ifanemployeewhohasestablishedseniority inaccordance with Article XII is recalledand works anytime during the fourteen (4)calendardayperiodimmediatelyfollowingthe holiday,heshall receive holiday pay forthe preceding holiday.
ARTICLEVIII - ADJUSTMENTOF GRIEVANCES
8.01	Alldisputesbetweenemployeesandthe Companyshallbe settledby the followingprocedures.and there shall be no stoppage cfwork becausecf differences.
8.02	The Union shall arrange for the election from itsworking membershipofa UnionCommitteeofthree(3)headedbya Union Steward. The Companyshallbe notifiedinwritingastothe names of the UnionCommitteeand Steward.
8.03	A grievance under the provision of thisAgreementisdefined to beany difference betweenthe parties cr betweenthe Company and employees covered by this Agreement involving the interpretation,application,administrationoralleged violation of any of the provisions of this Agreement.
10
Stage 1
Any grievancearisingduringthe term of this Agreement must be presented for adjustmentwithin fourteen (14) days after the grievance has occurred. A grievance of an employee shall be taken by the employee singly or togetherwiththeStewardand/or UnionRepresentative directlyto the employee's immediate supervisor and a decision thereon shall be renderedwithin two (2) days from the presentationofthe grievance.
8.04	a) Stage II
If this decision is not satisfactory to the aggrieved employee, the grievanceshallbe made in writing, and signed by the aggrievedemployeeand/or a Steward, and shall be presented to the Company by himself or together with the Union Steward and/or Union Representative,within seven (7) days from the date of the decision underparagraph8.03 above, and shall be dealtwith atameetingof the Steward'scommitteeand Management, and such decision shall be rendered within seven (7) daysor within suchfurthertime as may be mutually agreed.
b)	I ncaseof dischargeorsuspensionby the Company, the Companywill, within two (2) days, notify theemployees inwriting of the reasonfbrthe discharge or suspension. A copy of such noticeshall be submittedto the Union Steward within two (2) days. A grievance arising from a claim by an employee that hisdischargeor suspension bythe Companywasunjustorcontraryto the terms of this Agreementmustbe dealt with inwriting by both partiesandmustbepresentedto the Companyno later thanten(10)days afterthewrittennotice of lhedischarge or suspension. The grievance shall be introduced at this stage.
c)	Grievanceswhich involveCompanywide interpretation, administration or alleged violation of the Agreement, shall be made inwriting, anddeliveredto theopposite party within ten (10)days of the occurence on which the
1 4
grievance is based, and shall be dealt with by Representativesof the Company and Representatives ofthe Union. Ifthematterisnotsetded within thirty (30) days of notice being receivedby the opposite party, it may forthwith be referredto arbitration.
8.05	Stage III
Intheeventthatthegrievanceis notsettledintheabove matter, itshall be referredto arbitration in accordance with the LabourRelationsAct, andNoticeof Processing to Arbitrationsh all be made on the opposite party within thirty (30)daysofthe decisionrenderedundersection
8.04	above
Nothingcontainedinthisarticleshallpreventtheparties from mutuallyagreeingto a single arbitrator.
8.06 Saturdays, Sundays and holidays shall notbe included in anytime limits in this article of the Agreement The time limits mentionedinthisarticlemaybeextentedby mutualagreementbut otherwisetime shall beofessence. Failureonthepartof thegrievor to comply with time limitsshall bedeemedto be an abandonment of the grievance.
ARTICLE IX • NO STRIKE- NO LOCKOUT
9.01	There shall be no strikescalledor supportedbythe Union or its members, and no lockoutscausedby the Companyduring the life of thisAgreementor any renewalthereof.
ARTICLE X - WORKING CONDITIONS
10.01	a) It i s agreed that the Company and the Union will cooperate collectively in improving safely and first aid practices. The Company and the Unionfurtheragreeto setupand maintainajoint safety committee to promote safeworkingconditionsand practices.
12
A complete safety inspection shall be carried out at regularintervals, by a minimum of six membersof a Healthand Safety committee. (onefrom the Union and one from Management in their respectivedepartment). Time spent by employeesonsuch safety activities shall be consideredastime worked.
There shall beadequateFirstAid Stations supplied and maintainedby the Companyateach Plant. Suchstation to meetthe standards of the WorkercompensationAct and the provisions of the Industrial Safety Act
Adequate FirstAid Kitsshalbe supplied and maintained by the Company at suitable locationsthroughoutthe Operations
Adequate transpo rta tion facilitiesand/or arrangements shall be provided by the Company for sick or injured employees.
The Company is responsibletosee that a qualified First Aid person be available at all times during working hours.
I)	All mobile equipment to be equipped with fire extinguishers, and it will be the responsibility of the operatorto make sure that they are kept full at all time.
II)	The Company agrees that itwill providetradesmen fire insurance coverage against loss by fire or damage of the tools and tool chestrequiredby such tradesmen, to the full value of such tools on Company property. To qualify for the above, tradesmenwillsupply an itemized list of tools and amend itas needed.
b)	The Company will providefree cf chargethe following safety apparel and equipment, gloves, rain suits, coveralls for all maintenance work, welding shields, apronsand hardhatswhere required. The Company
13
will ensure that adequatesafety switches are installed as requiredonmachinery throughout the plant.
TheCompanyagreesto supply glovesindifferentsizes as required.
The wearing of safely equipmentandapparelwill not become a conditionof employmentunless it has been agreedtobythe Company and the Unionorismandatory undergovernment legislation.
TheCompanyagreesto payafl at allowanceof forty-two ($42,00) toeach employees, eachyearwiththefirstpay of June, as a compensationfor safety boots.
c)	The Company agreesto pay an allowance of $90.00 maximum per year for the employees who require PrescriptionSafaty Glasses (lens, frames or both)for the workplace.
10.02	ItisagreedthatduringthelifeofthisAgreement.thereshall be no reduction in existing privileges.
10.03	a) The Companywill provideadequatel unchroomspace
andventilation, andwill installa low heat oven.
Adequate hot water supply for hot beverages and telephonewithboothforlocatalls will beprovidedinthe lunchroom.
b) Car plug-ins, shall be providedfor employees'cars at the Company'sparkinglot
c) The Company will endeavour to provide adequate vacuum cleanersfor employees' clothes.
d)	Adequate lockers will beprovidedforallemployeesby the Company.
10.04	The Company will, in consultation with the Union, takesuch
14
measures as required to improve ventilation, heating and dust control in the plantand lunchroom.
10.05	Employeeswill be paid every Thursday morning by direct deposit. Employeeworkingthe evening shiftwill receivetheirpay slip at the end of their shift Wednesday evening and employees workingthenightshiftwillreceivetheirpayslipattheendoftheir shift on Thursday morning. Employees worthing the day shiftwill receive their pay slip during the lunchbreakon Thursday. The payslipswill bedistributedinseparateandsealedenvelopes. TheCompanywiU includeoneachemployee'sincometaxT-4 sliptheamountof union duesdeducted inthe calendaryear.
ARTICLE XI - HOURS OF WORK
11.01	a) The Workweek shallconsistof 40 hours
On a three (3)shift production, the work week shall consist of forty (40) hours, eight (8) hours per day beginning at midnight Sunday to midnight Friday, in accordance with the following schedule:
No. 1 shift- 0:00 hourto 8:00 hour No. 2 shift- 8:00 hourto 16:00 hour No.3 shift-16:00 hourto 0:00 hour
b) Ontwo(2)shift productiontheworkweekshallconsists of forty (40) hours, eightfSJhours perday beginningat 7:00a.m. Mondayto 1:30 a.m. Saturday, inaccordance with the following schedule:
Sawmill
No1 shift-7:00 a.m.to 4:00 p.m. - 1 hourlunch No2 shift-5:00 p.m. to 1:30 a.m.- 1/2 hourlunch
Planer- production& maintenance
No1 shift-7:00a.m. to3:30p.m. -1/2 hourlunch
15
No2 shift- 4:00 p.m. to12:30 a.m. -1/2 hourlunch
Thecarry liftoperatorassignedto shippingwillbefrom 3:30 p.m. to midnight
c) On a one (l)shiftproductionschedule theworkweek shallconsistofforty (40)hours,eight(8)hoursperday, beginningat8:00 hourMondayto 17:00 hour Friday, in accordance with the following schedule.
No1 shiftffom8:00 hourto 17:00 hour
All employees working steady day shiftwiilfinishat 4:30 houron Friday. Theywill bealloweda 1/2 hourofffor lunchnot paid. The work day for tradesmanon steady days (day shift) shall consist of eight (8) consecutive hoursbetweenthe hoursof7:00 hourand17:00 hour mealtime excepted.
11.02	a) Employeeson one shift productionas described in Section 11.01 (c) will be allowed one (1) hourofffor lunch, not paid, at noon. Steady days employees, not on productionwillbepermittedto take thirty (30) minutes lunch break, not paid.
b)	Employeeson a three (3)shiftproductionschedule,as describedinsection11.01 (a)will beallowedone-half (1/2) hourofffor lunch, on Company time, to betaken between the fourth and the fifth hour.
c)	Allemployeesonathree (3)shiftrotationschedule,will be allowed one (1) ten (10) minute coffee break on Companylime. to betaken atthe midpointofeach half shift.
All employeesontwo (2) shift rotationscheduleand all employeesonstraightday shift, will beallowedone (1) fifteen (15) minutecoffee breakatthe midpointofeach half shift
16
At the request of the company, the coffee breaksmay beadvancedby a full 15 minutesbeforethe scheduled coffee breaks.
d) individual employees can elect to spend their lunch
breakeitherinthelunchroomoroutsIdeoftheCompany premises, butif they electto go outthey will be required to punchtheircardswhen goingandwhen retumingto work.
11.03	a) Ifanemployeereportsforworkandnoworkisavailable
hewill receivefour(4) hourspayfor reportingtowork, if hecommences work and nowork isavailableforhim to completehisshift, he shall be paid for eight (Sjhours pay at his regular rate.
To qualify for the above, the employee mustremain on the job untiltold bytheforemanthathe mayleaveand must acceptotherthan his normal work if it is offered.
b) The hours of work of all employeesshall bescheduled and posted on Fridaybefore3:00 p.m. ofthe previous week. The starting and stopping times shall remain constantandfixedduringtheweekly period, subject to the following:
An employee'sscheduledshift may bechangedatthe Company'srequest, provided he is paidone and one halftimes hisregularrateforthefirst shiftworkedafter the change. When the employee revertsto his original shift, he shall be paid at his regularstraighttime rate providedthatthere isa breakof atleasteightf8jhours betweenthe shifts worked".
11.04	a) Timeworkedinexcessofeight(8)hoursperdayorshift,
all hours worked on Saturday and all hours worked by an employee outside his scheduled shift shall be paid for at the rate cf time and one-half, exceptas specified inArticie 11.01.
17
b) Time worked on gunaayor any of the Holidays specified
double
time.
are willing to work overtime, will be required to signify by giving their names to their supervisorseachweek. Overtimerequirementswillbe distributedas equally as possible among employees who make themselves available and who normally performtheworkrequiringthe overtime. Maintenance employees may bescheduledto work on Saturday and Sunday and shall be paid at the prevailing overtime rates for such work.
The replacementforeman will not be allowed to do overtimeonthedayheisassignedasforeman. Qi any otherevent,hewill bepermittedtoworkovertimeas per theweekly overtime list
After two (2) or more hours cf overtime consecutive to a regularlyscheduledshiftthe Company will allow a lunchperiodof thirty (30) minutestoan employeeand providea lunch free of charge or allow the necessary time with pay to the employee to go home for lunch.
d)	Anemployeewhois calledbackforworkaftercompleting his day cr shiftshall be paidtime and one-half for the hours worked butin nocaseshallhe receivelessthan four (4) hourspay at straighttime rate.
11.05	All employeesscheduledto rotateon two (2)andthree (3) shift operationsshall receiveeffectiveSeptemberl, 1992- $0,23 perhourin additiontotheirregularrate. Effective April 1,1994-$0,24 perhour. EffectiveSeptemberl, 1994-$0,25 perhour.
ARTICLEXII - SENIORITY
12.01 a) The Company recognizesthe principled seniority.
Seniority shallgovem in promotions,transfers, layoffs andrecallsafter layoff, providedthe employeehasthe
18
necessaryqualification ofknowledge, skill and ability to performthework required.
An employee's seniority shall be hislenght of service withthe Companydating back to hisoriginalhiringdate or incase his service was brokenas defined in Section
12.03	his hiring date after his last breakin service.
Employees must make all reasonable effort to notify their foreman if they are to be late for a regularly scheduled shift. The Company may require that an absence due to sickness or accident, be certifiedby a licensedphysician, dentist or chiropractor.
An employee who has accrued seniority and is on authorized leave of absence on Union Business shall accrue seniority while on such leave.
An employee who has accrued seniority and is then employed by the Union shall continue to accrue and retain seniority for a period notexceedingone (1) year, unlessotherwisemutuallyagreedto. Anemployeewho has accrued seniority and is then employed by the Company in a position beyond the scope of this Agreementshallcontinuetoaccrueand retainseniority fora period not exceedingone(1)yearunlessotherwise mutuallyagreedto. Suchemployeesmay uponproofof Union membership in good standing, exercise his seniority to returnto the bargainingunit.
An employeewhoanticipatesnotto beableto reportfor work for reasons beyond his control, must notify the Company at the earliest possible time prior to his scheduled shift. (At least one (1) hour). The Company may require that an absence due to sickness or accident be certified by a licensed physician, dentist or chiropractor.
Before returning to work after an excusedabsence, an employee mustadvise his foreman one (1) week prior
19
to date of returnifabsentforthirty (30)working days or more, and one (1) day if lessthan thirty (30) working days.
becomeexpectantmothersshall beallowedsuchtimeoff asismedicallyrequiredby their conditionwithout loss of seniority.
c) An employeewho has been absent from work due to accident, sickness, pregnancy or authorizedleavecf absencehasthe right to returnto thejob classification he held prior to such absence, providing all other conditionsofthisArticlearemetbysuchsaidemployee.
12.02	a) A newemployeeoftheCompanyshallbeconsidereda
probationary employee until he has completedthirty (30) daysofwork inone periodof employment, except incaseof lay-off,orany othertimelimitmutually agreed to bythe Companyandthe Unionwithina ninety (90) day period, afterwhich his seniority shalldatefrom his original hiring date. In all cases where the employee ceasesto work for the Company, for reasonsbeyond his control after he hascompleted fifteen (15)days of employmentthe Company shall advise the Union in writing within two (2) days of such separation and give reasonsforthe separation.
b)	Grievancesmay not be presented in connectionwith thedischargeorlayoffolprobationaryemployeesunless the discharge or layoffisdaimed to be discriminatory.
12.03	An employeeshallloseal seniority if he:
a)	Quitsor is discharged and notreinstated.
b)	Failsto reportfirwork following recallas providedin Section 12.04 (b) or fails to return from an authorized absenceonthedatespecifiedunlessineithercase/iis return to work on time is preventedby circumstances beyond his control, and he has taken the necessary,
20
steps to advise the foreman.
c)	If absentwithout permission for two (2) consecutive days unlesssuch absence is for reasonsbeyondhis controlandhehas taken the necessary stepsto advise the Company.
12.04	a) Incaseof layoff, the Company will notify in writing the employees intended to be laid off and the Union Stewardatleastfive (5)days in advance or pay inlieu thereof.
In cases of layoff due to breakdownthe employees affectedwill be paid inaccordancewithArticlel 1,03 and will be permittedto exercise their seniority rights to anotherjob the same day and for the following day on their scheduled shifts. Shouldthe breakdown last morethantheabovementionedperiod (48)hoursthe employeeswillbepermittedto exercise theirseniority rightsfor anotherjob on any shift in accordancewith Article 12,01 (a).
b)	When the date of recall is known or anticipated at the time of layoff, employees leaving will be Informed accordingly. In allothercases, noticeinwritingwillbe mailedtoanemployeeat hisgivenaddresswih acopy to the Unionoffice,atleastten (10) days before he is requiredto reportto work. Employeeswill be required to acknowledge receiptcf such noticewithinfour (4) daysand reportfor work on the date specified, unless otherarrangementshave been made in writing.
c)	Forlayoffsof lessthan three (3)months, employees affectedwill betransfered to vacant positionsas per seniority and qualificationsand in accordancewith Article 12,05 (a) of the CollectiveAgreement It is understoodthatsenioremployeesshallnotbe subject to any loss of employment Once normaloperations resume, employeeswill revertbacktotheiroriginaljob
21
Forlayoffsof morethan three (3)months,employees will be transfered as per preference, seniority and qualifications. Employeesnotqualifiedwill betrained by the Company for five (5) working days inorderto meetthejob requirements.
12.05	a) Whenanemployeeistransfered atthe requestofthe
Companyto meetproductionrequirementsto a lower payingjob, theemployeewillbepaidatthe rateofthe job from which he has beenso transfered.
it is understood that such transfers will be made in conformity to Article 12.01 (a).
b) Foratransferattherequestoftheemployee, payment from the dateoftransferwill bemadeatfhe rateofthe new occupation or classification
For all other transfers (including. but not limited to transferduetoi nefficiency, inability, health, safety and demotionsfor cause), paymentshall be made at the ratefor thejob to which the transfer is effected.
mean advancementto a job which carries a higher rateof pay or steady daysjob.
12.06	1) Where a vacancy occurs immediatenoticethereofwill
bepostedon the bulletinboardfor a periodcf five (5) working days for which the Company may make a temporary appointmenttosuchvacantjob. Flowever, incase replacementisrequiredfor a vacancy of less than fifteen (15) consecutiveworking days, such vacancy rca/ be VAted ly temporary appointment with outposting.
2) Employeeswill not be considered for a vacantjob, unless they apply in writing during the five (5) day periodon forms to be suppliedby the Company. A copy of such forms will beretainedbytheapplicant. All possible effort will bemadeto advise absentemployees
22
of such vacancy.
A copy of the notice of vacancies, along with the names of applicants, will begiven to the Union Steward.
3) The permanent vacancy will be filled by the senior applicant provided he hasthe necessary skill, ability andefficiencyto meetorto betrainedto meetthejob requirements. An employee accepting thepostedjob shall be allowed five (5) working days in which to qualify or any further time as maybe mutually agreed to. Failureof an employeeto qualify shall entitle him to return to hisformerjob.
Whena vacancy iscaused by anemployee’sabsence due to disability or authorized leave of absence, the original vacancy will be considered and posted as 'Temporary"in which case boththe employee whose positionhas been dealtwith as ’’Temporary” and the employee who hasfilledthe temporary vacancy are entitled upon his returnto resume their former positions provided they are capable of performing its requirements.
Incasesof posting permanent vacancies, openings arisingfromthe postingofthe originalvacancywill be postedupto and includingthe Istbase ratedjob. In addition, when a permanent base ratedjob vacancy occurs, only the originalvacancywill be posted.
An employeewhoappliesforanyjob vacancy must, if hisseniority and qualificationspermit, fill the vacancy he has applied for.
12.07	An employeewho has successfully claimed and filled a job, shall beinelligible to further bidfor anothervacancy before three (3) months have elapsed unless such vacancy isa promotion, or the employee is holdings temporary position.
12.08	A seniority listshallbepreparedandpostedmonthlyon the
23
bulletinboard by the Company, showingeachemployee'sname with Christiannames, dock number andeffectivedatecf hiring. Copies of such list shall be mailed to the Union Steward and the Unionoffice.
Sickness certified by a licensed physician, dentist or licensedchiropractor, authorized leave of absence or disabling injuryshall notaffectan employee'ssenionty. An employeewho has established seniority i n accordance with Section 12.00 of this articleshallretainsuchseniority for twenty-four(24)monthsduring layoff.
12.10 An employeewith three (3)or more years of continuous service forwhom nojob is available becauseof lay-offcan upon termination elect to receive a severance allowance of one (1) weeks pay for each year of employmentduringhislastperiodof continuousservice(uptothedateoftermination)computedonthe basisofforty(40)straighttimehoursattheemployeesregularrate. The maximum severance allowance payable being thirty (30) weeks. It isunderstoodthatanemployeewhochoosesto receive hisseveranceallowancewill beterminatedfrom hisemployment waiving his recallrights pursuant to this agreement
ARTICLE XIII - BULLETIN BOARDS
13.01	The Unionshallhavetherightto postnoticesdealingwith Unionaffairsuponbulletinboardsofthe Company, such notices to have the approval of Company management before such posting.
ARTICLE XIV - HEALTHAND WELFARE
14.01	Each employee who has established seniority in accordance with Article XII shall be entitled to the following benefitsand the premiumwill be paid in full by the Company.
a)	A group life insurance benefit in the amount of $30,000and an accidental death anddismemberment
24
benefit for up to a maximum of $30,000. Effective Septemberl, 1993 - $35,000 and A.D. & D.
An employeewho islaidcff will continueto receive life insurance coverage until the end of the current insurance policy month during which he is laid off
b)	A weekly benefit providing seventy (70) percent of weekly earnings (forty hours times an employee's regularrate) up to U.I.C. maximum benefitsto commence on thefirstday incasesofa noncompensable accident and/or hospitalization and on the fourth continuousdayfrom the commencementofadisability due to sickness and will continue for the period of disability up to a maximum of fifty-two (52) weeks. In considerationofthe above theCompany will retainthe 5/12th portionofthe premium reduction.
c)	A drug benefit plan whereby an employee or his dependent having a prescribed drug ordered covered by insurance company must pay the druggistand be reimbursedbythe insurancecompany. There shallbe athirty-five($0,35) centsdeductible per prescription.
d)	A semi-private hospitalizationbenefit
e)	The full costofO.H.I.P. premiums, marriedorsingle rates.
f)	The Company's contributionto employeeswho are off work due to a Worker's Compensationclaim or short term disability claim will be continued fora period of up to twelve (12) months.
g)	LongTerm Disability plan.
The Companyshall paythe monthly premiumcostof the LongTerm Disability Benefit Plan.
The Long Term Disability Benefit Plan shall be
25
administered in accordance with the terms of an Insurancepolicy.
1.	Eligibility
The Long Term Disability Benefit Plan shall be compulsoryfor allemployees who haveaccumulated 45 working days senioritywith the Company.
2.	Effective date <f coverage
An eligibleemployeeisentitledto benefitsprovided he
is actively at work on the first day the Long Term Disability BenefitPlan becomeseffective.
An eligibleemployeeabsentfrom workduetosickness
or accident attheeffectivedateof the Plan, shall only beeligibleforLongTerm Disability Plan Benefitsupon the returnto continuous active full-time employment for a periodof morethan four consecutive weeks.
The Company shall have the right to give medical examinations to employees returningfrom such lay-offto determine their eligibility underthe plan.
3.	Qualifying Period
An insuredemployee shall be eligibleto receivean amountof LongTerm Disability Benefitafterfifiy-two (52)weeks of benefitentitlementforthe samedisability under the Wfeekly Indemnity Plan. Benefit payment shallnotcommenceduringastrikeuntilthetermination of the strike.
4.	Definitionof Disability
"Disability"shallmeanan insuredemployeewhohas receivedfifty-two (52) weeks of benefitsfor the same disability underthe Weekly Indemnity Plan and is thereafterunablebecauseofdiseaseorinjurytowork
26
at any occupation in the Company for which he is reasonablyfitted by education,training or experience.
5.	Amount of Benefit
a)	Thedisabilitybenefitshallbe50% ofmonthlyearnings as defined in (5b), upto a maximum monthly payment of $1,400.00. EffectiveSeptemberlst, 1993 increase fo$1450.00. EffectiveSeptemberlst, 1994 increase fo$ 1550.00.
b)	"Monthly Earnings" means, inthecaseofaday or shift worker, 173 X his regularhourly rate.
c)	"HourlyRate"means,theregularrateoftheemployee effective immediately prior to the date on which the disability occured, excluding overtime or shift bonus.
d)	The benefits payable underthis Planare reducedby any primary disability paymentsmade underthe Canada Pension Plan, or any Company group disability income plan. Benefitsare not affected by War Pensions, W.C, Disability Pensions, cr by any insurance policieshe may have purchasedhimself.
6.	Duration of Benefit
a)	Benefitswilbe paidfor one month, for eachcompleted monfhof service priorto commencement of the Long Term DisabilityBenefits.whiletheemployeeisdisabled.
b)	Disability benefits will be paid one month in arrear.
7.	Termination of Benefits
Benefits shall cease upon theoccurenceof any one of the following:
a) Onthedatetheemployeeceasesto bedisabled. (if there is a recurrence of the same disability within six
27
(6J months of returnto work, a newqualifyingperiod willnot be required, andthedisabledemployee will be eligibleforany balanceof LongTerm Disability Benefit Payments. This provisionshalltake precedenceover any recurrent disability provision under the Weekly Indemnity Plan), or
b)	On exhaustion of the benefitperiod. cr
c)	Upb normal retirementage, a-
d)	On death
8.	Exclusion
a)	An employeereceiving LongTerm Disability Benefits will notbeeligibleforvacanon orstatutory holiday pay.
b)	Benefitsunderthe LongTerm Disability Planwill not bepayabie for claimsresultingfrom:
i)	Any injury arisingout of or sustainedwhile doing any act or thing pertaining to any occupation or employement for remunerationor profit, or
ii)	Any injury or illnessentitlingthe employee to compensation underany Worker's Compensationor similar legislation, or
iii)	Self-destructionor any self-inflictedi njurywhile sane or insane, or
Disability for which the employee is not under the treatment of a physician, or
v) Alcoholism or drug addiction, unlessthe employee is undergoing recognized course cf treatment by a specialist inthecaieandtreatmentofalcoholismand drug addiction or the employee is undergoingregular rehabilitativetreatment approved bythe insureranda licensedphysician.
28
vi) Disabilityor loss (1) while the employee is on or could be placed on Pregnancy/Maternity Leave, or employeefailstoqualifyforPregnancy/Matemity Leave because of failure to meet the length of service requirements,during the periodcf Pregnancy/Maternity leavethattheemployeecouldbeon if shequalifiedfor such leave, inaccordancewith the Employment Standards Ad 1^7A, Ontarioor any other relevant provincial statutes.
9.	Rehabilitation
An employee receiving an amount of Long Term Disability Benefitmaybeasked to undergo reasonable rehabilitationmeasureswhich have beenthe subject of priorconsultation which the employee's doctor, at nocostto the employee. Ifsuchemployeerefusesto undertake such rehabilitation,he may bedeclarednot eligiblefor an amount of disability benefits.
10.	Physical Examinations
The Company and/or insurer reservesthe right to require periodical physical examinations throughout thedurationoftheemployee'sabsence due to disability. Such examinations shall be conductedby a physician orphysiciandesignatedby the Companyand/orinsurer.
Cost of physical examinations, transportation and reasonable out-of-pocket expenses related thereto will be paid by the insurer.
h)	DisputedW.C.B. Claims
If an employee covered by the Company's present Weekly Indemnity Plan suffers a disability for which paymentisindisputewiththeW.C.B., Weekly Indemnity paymentwill be made retroactiveif requestedby the employeeand providedhe has been off work for at
29
leastone(1) monthduetothedisabilitywithoutW.C.B. having acceptedthe cl ai mand providing the employee is subject to the tules and regulations coveringthe Weekly Indemnity Plan.
IftheW.C.B. daim is subsequently established, the employee will then repay the Weekly Indemnity paymentsreceivedto the appropriate fund.
Onlayoff,the Company will continuetopaythemonthly premiumcost of the following plans to the end of the month which the employee is laid off and for the succeedingmonth:
Drug Plan
Semi-Private Hospitalization
O.H.I.P.
DentalPlan Vision Care
i)	Injurywhile atWork
For employees who qualify under Article XII, the Companyagreesthatanemployeeshallbepaidatthe regularrateforthe balanceofhisshiftlostbecauseof injurywhileatwork. Itisalsoagreedand understood thatwhereanemployeeisunableto retumtowork he will berequiredtoshowprooftoqualifyfor the above.
j)	Vision Care
Equivalent Blue Cross60/24. Effective August 1, 1990 change read80/24.
k)	U the use of an ambulance is medically necessary. The Companywill paytheOHIP deductible.
30
ARTICLEXV - BEREAVEMENTPAY
For an employee who has established seniority, when death occurs to a member of his immediate family, that is the employee's spouse or children, father, mother, father-in-law, mother-in-law, brother, sister, daughter-in-law, son-in-law and grandparents, the employee will be granted paid leaveto attend the funeral. The intentof this clause isto allowthe employee to attendthefuneral without loss ofearnings. The day ofthefuneral must be one of the days granted. Forthe employee'sspouse or children.he shall bepaidforeighthoursathisregularstraighttime ratefortime lostuptoa maximum of five (5) consecutive days. For all others, the maximumshall bethree (3)consecutivedays.
Any claims for bereavement pay must be submitted by the employee to the Company in writing, along with proof of bereavement n the employee's immediatefamily.
Itisunderstoodthatfor purposes of this article step-relativeswill be consideredthe same as blood relatives, as listed above.
ARTICLE XVI ■ JURY DUTY ALLOWANCE
16.01	Inthe case of an employee who has established seniority and iscalledfor Jury serviceorsubpoenaedas awitness by the Crown, the Company shall pay for each day of such service, an allowanceequalto the difference betweeneightfSJhours of pay basedon hisregularstraighttimehourlyrateandthe paymenthe receivedfor jury service or Crown witness. The employee will present proof of service and of pay received therefore when makinghis claim for such allowance. An employee who iscalled for jury service or subpoenaed as a witness by the Crown must notify the Company immediately.
ARTICLE XVII • DENTALCARE PI AN
17.01	A dental care plan with participationcompulsory for all employeeson the following basis:
31
1.	Eligibility
Participation inthis plan is limitedto employees who haveaccu mulatedsixty-fiveworking days of seniority with the Company.
Itisunderstoodandagreedthatthe Planwill provide for the continuation of coverage for the period an employeeiscffwork duetolayofforleaveof absence, but inno case beyond the end of the monthfollowing the month inwhich such absence commences.
2.	Plan Design
a)	Servicesandbenefitsasprovidedin BlueCrossno7 BasicPlan and Riderno 1.
b)	Services and benefits as providedinBlue Cross Rider no2 (50%). The Plan providesforthe applicationof the 1991 O.D.AScheduleof Fees. Effective September 1st, 1993-19920,D.A. EffectiveSeptemberl, 1994 -1993 O.D.A..
Maximum of $1,000.00 percalendaryear perperson.
The Companyagreesto providethe Unionwitha copy of Rules and Regulations relatingto the Plan.
3,	Administration
The Planwill beadministeredinaccordancewith an appropriatecontractorsetofproceduresreflectingthe plandesign outlined in Item 2 above. Thedecisionas to the choice of administrativevehicle from among service carriers, insurancecompanies or self-administration will bemadebythe Company on the basis of appropriate study of these alternatives.
32
4.	Premiums
The premium cost of this plan shall be paid by the Company.
5.	Integration
The Planwill notprovidelikebenefitswhere such are currently being provided by federal or provincial legislation.
If duringthelifeof this Agreement federal or provincial governments shall introduce legislation to provide benefitsalreadycovered by this plan,the planshallbe amended so as to eliminate said benefits.
ARTICLE XVIII - MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
18.01	The Unionagrees thatthe Company has the exclusive right and powerto managethe plant,to directthework force, and to hire, promote,transferor layoffemployeesandto suspendor dischargeorotherwisedisciplineemployeesforjust cause,provided thatthe Companyagreesthat any exercise of these rights and powersshallbe subject totheexpressprovisionofthisAgreement.
ARTICLE XIX - PENSION PLAN
19.01	The Company will provide a Pension Planto become effective Septembert, 1988, subject to the following and to the conditions included in the document: "Pension Plan for the employee of Normick Perron Inc. (Cochrane division) sawmill, planing mill and yard", signed betweenthe parties, which document is pan of the present agreement.
The Pension Planwillbe in the form of three(3) equal unitsof forty-five ($45.00)foramonthlycontributionof$ 135.00 to bedeposited withatrusteetothecreditofindividualpensionaccountsunderthe plan. EffectiveSeptember 1st. 1993, changeto read: three (3) equal units of fifty (550.00) for a total monthly contribution of $150.00. EffectiveSeptemberl st, 1994, changetoread:three(3)
33
equal units of fifty-five ($55.00) for a total monthlycontribution of $165.00.
The Company agreesto contribute, during each month, on and aftertheeffectivedate.thefirstunittothepensionaccountofeach memberofthepianwhoisonthe Company’s active payrollin the month. For any memberwho elects to make a voluntary contribution by payroll deduction, cf the second unit, the Company will match this monthly contribution and pay the third unit to his account.
ARTICLEXX • PAID EDUCATION LEAVE
Effectiveonthedateofratification3ttheunion'sdiscretion, the company agreesto pay during the term of this collective agreement. a total of twelve (12) days education leave at the affectedemployee's regular rate.
SIGNED IN COCHRANE. ONTARIO,THIS 18 DAY OF FEBRUARY. 1993.
FOR THE COMPANY
FOR THE UNION
34
WAGE SCHEDULE
CanterTwin Operator....
Clean-up- Labour.......
Chipper Operator.......
Debarker Operator......
DebarkerHelper.........
EdgerOperator..........
Edger "Reman- Operator..
EdgerRetum.............
Loader (Front End).....
Loader (Tanguay).......
Lumber Sorter..........
Log Classifier.........
Log Handler............
Log Sorter.............
Log Unscrambler........
Slasher Operator.......
Spareman...............
Stacker................
Trimmer (1st Saw)......
Trimmer (2nd Saw)......
Oiler- Millwright......
Tradesmen "Lead".......
Tradesmen "A"..........
Tradesmen 'I"..........
Tradesmen'll"..........
Tradesmen "III"........
Tradesmen “IV".........
T radesmen "Helper"....
Filer(Lead)............
Filer(5yeans)..........
FilerfT)...............
Filer(Apprentice2years).. Filer (Apprentice 1 year)....
Carylift Operator......
Downgrade Puller.......
Forklift Operator......
92/09/01	93/09/01
3%
16.12	16.60
15.29	15.75
15.70	16.17
15.82	16.29
15.41	15.87
16.12	16.60
16.00	16.48
15.41	16.29
16.12	16.60
16.12	16.60
15.41	16.29
15.53	16.00
15.29	15.75
15.29	15.75
15.34	15.80
15.53	16.00
16.12	16.60
15.53	16.00
15.65	16.12
15.77	16.24
16.71	17.21
18.20	18.75
17.60	18.13
17.23	17.75
16.71	17.21
16.28	16.77
16.05	16.53
15.70	16,17
18.67	19.23
18,22	18.77
16.84	17.35
16.01	16.49
15.66	16.13
16.12	16.60
15.29	15.75
15.53	16.00
35
940901 3.5 %
17.18
16.30
16.74 16.86
16.43
17.18
17.06 16.86
17.18
17.18 16.86
16.56
16.30
16.30
16.35
16.56
17.18
16.56 16.68 16.81
17.81 19.41 18.76 18.37
17.81
17.36 17.11
16.74 19.90
19.43 17.96
17.07 16.69
17.18
16.30
15.56
Gen. & Cross Pieces Planer FeederOperator Stacker Operator Planner Strapping MachineOperator Tilt Hoist Operator Trim Saw Operator Yard Labour Yard LoaderOp. Trainee Grader (Licenced) Grader(Unlicenced)
Grader (Apprentice)
P.H.L. return Tanguay MobileOperator
JOB DESCRIPTION FOR TRADES AND HELPERS 1. MILLWRITHT TRADE
Millwright Helper
Works as a trades helper, will be assigned to and take necessary directionfron a Millwright'", T, "A" or 'Lead'.
A helpermustbe capableofperforming independently wash jobs, greasingand oiling.
Shall be up-grated priorto or atthe end of one (1)year periodto Millwright'IV".
Millwright If
Shall be qualified to assist and work under the direction and instructions of Millwright "II",“I", MA"or"Lead'. Hewill work alone attimesperformingassignmentsinkeepingwith histraining.
Duringthe course of hisyear, trainee mustbecomeproficientin goodmillwrighting practcesintteareas of fitting, aligning, lubricating andthe operationofallshoptoolsandmachines. Inadditiontothe foregoing, hewill beexposedtoandbeginthe process of learning techniques requiredintroubleshootingkeyproductionmachinery, pipefitting, basicweldingandmachinings, butwill notbeexpected
36
to display a high degree of proficiencyin these areas at this point. Millwright 111"
Mustbecapableofperformingthe tasks of fitting, aligning. lubricatingand able to operate all shop tools and machines.
Must under direction become proficient in basic welding and pipefittingaswellasdismantlingand reassembly ofplantequipment. Underdirection,will continue to developskillsin troubleshooting allplantequipmentand improvehisskill at machiningparts and be exposedto basicprinciplescf hydraulicsand pneumatics.
He may work alone occasionnally but will require direction and instructionsfrom Millwright'll", “l”,“A”and “Lead”.
Millwright “II”
Must becapable, without direction, of fitting, aligning and lubricating,and taking apartand reassembling plantequipment. Inaddition, isexpectedtobeable to weld, operate shop toolsand do pipefitting as required.
Must under direction, become proficient at effective methodscf trouble shootingandrepairinghydraulic.pneumaticandmechanical faults in plant machinery.
Must under supervision, become proficient at reading and understandingblue prints, all phases of installing newequipment, laying out hydraulicand mechanicaldrivesand meet speed and power requirementscorrectly.
Millwright “I”
Mustbecapablewithoutdirectioncfperformingallp radices underMIHwright'll',"III",“IV”. Musttakefullresponsibilityforwork done by himself or his assistant.
Millwright “ A
Must be i n possession of a Millwright Certificate. Millwright “Lead”
A millwrightTead”, mustpossessthequalificationssetout
37
under Millwright“A”
2.	ELECTRICIANTRADE Electrician Helper
Will obtain practical experience at the plant level by working as an assistanttothe Electrician as assigned.
Shall under the direction and supervision of the Electricianand Supervisorsperformwork common to the electricaltrade on all types of machines and equipment used in the production of Plywood.
Shall be up-graded priortoorattheendofone (1) year period to Electrician "IV”.
Electrician “IV’
Shall have successfully passed exams follow'ng his 1st year of apprenticeshipintheelectrical trade,orshallhave completed one year in the classificationofelectricianhelper.
Shall under direction from the electrician or supervisor obtain practicalexperienceattheplantlevelatliedto the 2nd year theory taughtatthe ProvincialschoolandwiU be expectedto perform workcommontothe ElectricalTradeon all types of machinesand equipmentusedintheproductioncf Plywood.
Electrician “111”
Shall havesuccessfully passedexams following his2nd yearcf apprenticeshipintheelectricaltrade, or shall be-capable:
Underthedirectionofan Electrician”IT. T,”A”and 'Lead' to install and maintainallelectrical equipmentinthe plant
Shall gainpracticalexperience allied to the thirdyear theory taught in the Provincialschool
Electrician “II”
Shall have successfully passed exams following his 3rd yearcf apprenticeshipintheelectricaltrade, or shall becapable
Of assuming responsibilityfor the installation andmaintenanceof all electricalequipment in the plant
38
Shallcontinueto gain practicalexperiencealliedto subjectmaterial taught in the fourth year of apprenticeship.
Electrician “I”
Shall be proficientinthe installationandmaintenanceofall electrical equipment in the plantand assume responsibilityfor all work done by himself and his assistants.
NOTE: Providinghehascompleted the time inthetrade necessary to write for a provincial trade certificate, he may write for such certificate and receive the “A” rate immediately following successfully passing the examinations.
Providing he has worked one (1) year in this classification and works on computers he will be paid at the rate of tradesman A.
Electrician “A”
Must be in possession of a Provincialjourneyman trade certificate.
Electrician“Lead”
An electrician “Lead” must possessthe qualifications set out under electrician ”A. Shall becapable of leading.
3.	MECHANIC TRADE
Mechanic Helper
Work as a trades helper, will be assigned to and take necessarydirectionfrom Mechanic'll”“I", “A”or“Lead”.
Must be capable of performing independently, wash jobs, oil changes, greasing and tire repairs.
Shall be up-graded prior to or at the end of one (1) year period to Mechanic "IV".
Mechanic “IV”
Shall be qualified to assist and work under the direction and instructions of Mechanic“Lead, “A,T. oril". Duringthe course of his year training, hewill beexposed to and beginthe
39
processor learning techniques required in trouble shooting key producitonequipment, butwill not be expectedto displays high degree of proficiency at this point. A Mechanic Class "IV" will commence to accumulate common mechanicaltools.
Mechanic“lll”
He shall be capable underdirectionof performingalljobs assigned to him in an efficient manneron gasoline andior diesel powered equipment and other equipment generally used in Company operations.
Mechanic'll"
He shall becapablewithouldirectionofperformingaljobs assignedto him in an efficient manneron gasoline andior diesel poweredequipment generally used in Company operationsand will berequiredto directassistantsworkingunderhim.
Mechanic""!”
Mustbe Qualifiedto carry out the responsibilities of the trade as outlinedby the Act. Hemust assume full responsibilityfor allwork performedby himselfor hisassistants.
Mechanic “ A
Mustbein possessionofa ProvincialTrade Certificates recognized by the Ministry of Labourof Ontario.
Mechanic "Lead"
A mechanic“Lead”mustpossessthequalificationssetout underMechanic“A”.
4.	OILER
Shallbecapableto perform independently wash jobs, greasingandoiling. Requiredtoworkas anassistanttoMillwrights asassigned. Shallbegiventheopportunityto enter into acontract of apprenticeship inthe Millwrighttrade if he so desires.
5. WELDER TRADE Welder Helper
40
Requiredto work as an assistantto welders or Millwright as assigned. He shall be upgradedpriorto oratend of one year periodto Welder Class "IV". Intheeventthat hefailstodisplaythe necessary aptitude for furthertraining, he may atany time during this period be placed in other suitable employment.
Welder "IV"
He shall be capable under direction of performing the following:
1-	Oxyacetylene and electricalwelding in flat positionwith opportunity to work in other positions.
2-	Cutting, soldering and brazing.
He may beassignedtoworkas anassistanttoMillwrightsir.T, "A" or "Lead" as the need may arise.
Welder "111"
Heshall be capable underdirection of performingaljobs assigned to him in an efficient manner in both oxyacetylene and electrical welding in any position. He shall also have an understandingof types of flames, xidizing and carbonizing.
He may be assigned to perform under direction of MillwrightT, -L, .W or “Lead ,Tasks normally assigned to tne trade of Millwright.
Welder "II"
Shall be capable without direction of performingalljobs assignedto him in an efficient manner in both oxyacetylene and electricalwelding in any position.
He shall be capable of performing both types of welding in all positions with all metals used in the Company operations.
He may be assignedto performunderdinection of MillwrightT, “ A and "Lead", tasks normally assignedto the trade of Millwright.
Welder "I"
He shallbecapablewithoutdirectionofperformingalljobs
41
assignedto him in an efficient manner in both oxyacetyleneand electricatweldingin any position. Heshallhavean understanding cf types of flames, oxidizing and carbonizing.
Heshallbeproficientinbothtypes ofwelding in all positions with all metals used in the Company operations.
He must be able to fabricate from a blueprint.
He mustassume responsibility for all work performedby himself cr his assistants.
He maybe assignedto performtasks normally assignedto the Trade of Millwright
Welder "A"
MustbeinpossessionofawelderH.P. certificate. Hemay be assignedto performtasks normally assignedto the trade of millwrights.
Welder "Lead"
A welder "Lead" mustpossessthe qualificationsset out underWelder "A".
TRADES APPRENTICE PROGRAM
1)	Apprenticeship and Lead openings will be filled in accordancewith the provisionsof Section 12,06 (job postings). Applicant will be advised that they will requiregradelO or equivalent
2)	There will be a probationary period of upto three (3) months pnor to entering into an apprenticeship agreementduring which timethe employee mayreturn cr failing to display the necessary mechanical aptitude, be returned to his former department without loss of Seniority.
42
3)	Any helper who fails his first year exams shall be requiredto be reexamined within 12 months but not earlier than 6 months. Failure to pass the re-examinationwill result inthe apprentice beingdropped fromtheprogramandretumedtohisformerdepartment without loss of Seniority. The above will not apply to thepersonscurrentlyemployedinanyofthecategories of Tradesintheevent that they shall becomeindentured in the future or are currently indentured.
4)	Onceanemployeeentersanapprenticeshipcontract.it
is expected he will continue to fulfill the obligations of the contract, including necessarytraining periods ina vocational school.
5)	The Company will makeupthe difference betweenthe CanadaManpowerTraining Programallowancesand the employee's normalearnings based on his regular straighttime rate, multiplied by 40hours per week. For purposes of calculation the Canada Manpower at home allowance shall be used.
6)	Providingajourneyman hascompleted the time inthe trade necessary to write for a Provincial Trade Certificate, he may write for such Certificate and receivethe" A rateimmediatelyfollowing completion of his course of studies.
MAINTENANCE TRADES ANNUAL REVIEW
Annually in the month of September, an evaluation committee consisting of the Plant Manager or his representative and the MaintenanceSupervisor.togetherwith aqualified UnionMember and a Union Representative,will evaluate the performance and progressofeach HelperandTradesmanbelowthe category of "A, with a view to upgrading personnelwho qualify.
If upgrading is necessary in the interim it will be done by the Plant Managerand the MaintenanceSupervisor.
43
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING between
NORMICK PERRONINC. (COCHRANE DIVISION) (hereinaftercalledthe "Company")
and
I.W.A. CANADA- LOCAL1-2995 (hereinaftercalledthe "Union")
RE: ARTICLE XII • SENIORITY
Senioritywill beset up andmaintainedfor all employees of the Sawmill and Planing Mill.
Inter-Departmenttransferwill be allowed only when thejobvacancy represents a promotion, ormust be filled by hiring. Temporaryvacancywill befilledwithinthedepartmentandwill not be postedinthe otherdepartment
Tradeapprenticeprogramopenings.exdudinggraders apprentice, will be posted in both sawmill and planning mills.
When a permanentvacancyoccursatthe Sawmillor atthe Planing Mill,thevacancy will bepostedat bothdepartments andtheseniorapplicantwho. providedhehasthe aptitudeofskill, efficiency and ability, also providedthe permanentvacancyis a promotionifheisfromtheotherdepartmentwill betrainedbythe Company inordertomeetthejob requirementsinaccordancewith clause 12.06 (3).
Itis understood that these interdepartmenttransfers will be done with full senionty rights.
It isalsounderstoodthat seniority will notbetransferable to other agreements of the Company.
Employeesthathavebeentransfered atthe Sawmill
44
andthe PlaningMillfromthe PlywoodPlant,willforthe purposeof fringe benefits, retain all their seniority already accrued, butforthe purposeof actual exercising of seniority such said employees’ seniority will beginaccruingonthedatethetransferwaseffected.
Tradesmen from the sawmill will be permitted to perform workatthe planingmillwhen requiredby the company.
SIGNED IN COCHRANE, ONTARIO. THIS 18 DAY OF FEBRUARY, 1993
FOR THE COMPANY	FOR THE UNION
45
ADDENDUM
between
NORMICK PERRONINC. (COCHRANE DMSION)
(hereinaftercalledthe "Company") and
I.WA CANADA - LOCAL 1-2995
(hereinaftercalledthe "Union")
Machinery and Operators of the Sawmill and Planing Mill willbe allowed to work from the sawmill yard and planingmillyard to the plywood plantyard for the purpose of transferring logs, lumber andthe deaning-up of yards.
Machineshop -Garage- Building maintenance
The personnel in that departmentwill beassignedto supplementandassistwiththerequirementsoftheirtradesatthe sawmill and the planing mill. Machinery and equipment from sawmill and planing mill will be allowed to be repaired or manufacturedon the site of this said third department
It is agreed that operation shall not be interruptedas a result of a dispute at either one of the plants or jurisdictional disputebetweenUnionand othertrade Union. The buildingand facilities of said third departmentwillremain available for repair andthe maintenanceofall machinery of sawmilland planingmill even if operation atthe plywood plantand third department-are interrupted forwhatever reasons.
SIGNED 3N COCHRANE. ONTARIO, THIS IS DAY OF FEBRUARY. 1993.
FOR THE COMPANY	FOR THE UNION
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
between
NORMICK PERRON INC. (COCHRANE DIVISION) (hereinaftercalledthe “Company”)
and
I.W.A. CANADA- LOCAL 1-2995 (hereinafter called the ’’Union”)
It is agreed between the Company and the Union, that before an employeecan bid on the job classificationof “Loader Operator“hemusthavepreviouslybeenqualifiedas“Yard Labour & LoaderOperatorTrainee”, and havespenta minimumofthree (3)months in that classification.
It is also understood that if the candidate fails to qualify himself as “Loader Operator” in the above maner, he will be returned to his former job classification he held prior to his appointmentto “YardLabour& LoaderOperatorTrainee".
SIGNED IN COCHRANE .ONTARIO. THIS 18 DAY OF FEBRUARY, lfTSS FOR THE COMPANY	FOR THE UNION
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
between
NORMICK PERRONINC. (COCHRANE DIVISION)
(hereinaftercalledthe "Company")
and
I.WA CANADA- LOCAL1-2995
(hereinaftercalledthe "Union")
RE ARTICLE XII - SENIORITY
Forshutdownsor lay-offs of lessthan three (3)months, inter-department applicationofsenioritywill beatthe optionofthe employee whether to transfer or to accept a lay-off and such transfer will be done in accordancewith Article 12.04(c) of the Collective Agreement.
SIGNED INCOCHRANE, ONTARIO,MIS 18 DAY OF FEBRUARY. 1993 FOR THE COMPANY	FOR THE UNION
48
ADDENDUM TO THE COLLECTIVEAGREEMENT
between
NORMICK PERRON INC. (COCHRANE DIVISION)
(hereinaftercalledthe "Company”) and
I.W.A. CANADA. LOCAL1-2995 (hereinaftercalled the “Union”)
It has beenagreed betweenthe Companyand the Union that therewill be a newjob classification added.
“Oiler-Millwright'
The job description is as follows:
a)	Oil and grease sawmill machinery as per schedule established by the mill superintendant from time to time;
b)	Mustgualifvas MillwriqhtClass Mas he will be asked to perform MillwrightjoDS underthe supervisor of the MillwrightClassI for part of his shift.
SIGNED IN COCHRANE , ONTARIO. THIS IS DAY OF FEBRUARY, 199;
FOR THE COMPANY	FOR THE UNION
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
between
NORMICK PERRON INC. (COCHRANE DIVISION)
(hereinaftercalledthe "Company”)
and
I.W.A. CANADA-LOCAL 1-2995
(hereinaftercalledthe “Union”)
Itis agreed betweenthe Company andthe Union, that weekendclean-upwillbegiven by preferencetoemployeesfrom thebargainingunitwhen available, by students if necessary and by contractorsasa lastresort. Employeeswho arewillingtowork will be requiredto signifytheir interestby givingtheir names to their supervisorby Thursday t noon.
SIGNED INCOCHRM®. ONTARIO. THIS 18 DAY OF FEBRUARY. 1993
FOR THE COMPANY	FOR THE UNION
50
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
between
NORMICK PERRONINC. (COCHRANE DIVISION)
(hereinaftercalledthe "Company")
and
I.W.A. CANADA- LOCAL1-2995
(hereinaftercalledthe "Union")
RE 3RD DEPARTMENT OF NORBORD
In the event that the 3rd departmentof Norbord, (re: machineshop, garage, buildingmaintenance)ceasesfoservice company equipment, the company will meet with the union to discuss ways and means of doing the servicingand maintenance cf company equipment.
SIGNED IN COCHRANE, ONTARIO. THIS 18 DAY OF FEBRUARY. 1993.
FORTHE COMPANY	FOR THE UNION
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
between
NORMICK PERRONINC. (COCHRANEDIVISION)
(hereinaftercaXed the “Company’)
and
I.WJL CANADA- LOCAL 1-M9S
(hereinaftereajled the “Union’?
RE: CONTRACTORS DUES
The company agrees that contractors work permits and or union dues collected will be remittedto the union by thecompany and included on the uniondues monthly check-off fisting.
SIGNED IN COCHRANE, ONTARIO. THIS It DAYCF FEBRUARY. 1993.
52