, SOURCE{
1 EFF..	
! 7EC5M. .	
Mo'. OF e m p u o. y c e s
t. ;	‘
MOMD'RE | tvtuoi nvcol ■ i •
MEMORANDi®i D. F
AG R BE MM5#lF
BETWEEN
MacmLmmmEDELKwiTm
■add
imWANAMr:L00$IMi3M
PLANT AGREEMENT
INDEX
Artlcla
I	Purpose.,
II	Recognition..
III	Period.
IV	\Nags Schedule.
V	Union Membership..
VI	Vacation with Pay..
VII	Holidayswith Pay.............................
VIII	Adjustment tf Grievances.....................
IX	No Strike • No Lockout.......................
X	Wforking Conditions..........................
XI	Hours of Work................................
Ml	Seniority.....................:..............
IVI1	Leave <f Absence.............................
XIV	Bulletin Boards..............................
XV	Medical,Surgical, Drug and HospitalCare Plans,,
XVI	Wfeekly Indemnity...
XVII	Group Life Insurance, andA.D.&D..
XVIII	Bereavement Pay.,
XIX	Jury Duty Allowance...................
XX	Payment cfWfeges......................
XXI	Dental Care Plan......................
XXII	Pension Plan..........................
XXIII	Paid Education Leave..................
XXIV	Vision Care...........................
Tradesmen'sTools- Supplement.........
\Nags Schedule.......................
Trades Apprentice Program............
Job Descriptionsfor Trades and Helpers ..

Ontario Woodworkers DisabilityBenefit Plan..
Appendix “B” - Long Term Disability Plan.
Lettered Understanding (Cost Incentive Plan). Letter of Understanding (Profit Sharing Plan)..
Letter of Understanding (Vacation Pay)...
Letter of Understanding (12 Hour Shifts).
Letter of Understanding (Core Composer)...
Addendum.................................
Retirement Income Plan...................
26
32
36
37
37
38
40
42
43
-1-
MEMORANDUMOFAGREEMENT between
MacMILLAN BLOEDEL UMITEO NIPIGONDI VISION
(hereinafter referred to as the “Company”) of fhe First Part
■ and
IWA-CANADA, LOCAL2693 (hereinafter referred to as fhe “Union”) of fhe Second Part
Article I-Purpose
f .Of The purpose of this Agreement is to secure for the Company and the Union, the full benefits of orderly and legal collective bargaining in respectto hours, wages, working conditions, and to ensure to the utmost extent possible the safety and physical welfare of the employees, economy of operation, quality and quantity of output, and the protection of property. This Agreement, moreover seeks to provide for fair and peaceful adjustments of all disputes that may arise between the parties. It is recognized as a duty of the parties hereto and of all employees to co-operate fully, individually and collectively, for advancementof the conditions set forth herein.
Article II ■ Recognition
2.01	(a) The Company recognizes the Union as the sole collective bar-
gaining agent of the employees engaged in the plant and yard of the Company‘s operations at Nipigon, save and except, fore man, supervisors, those above the rank of foreman, and office staff.
(b)	The employees of contractors engaged by the Company in the plants and yard of the Company, shall be considered employees within the terms of this Agreement, save and except the employees of contractors and/or the contractor who are engaged to perform occasional special services not commonly performed by employees covered by the terms of this Agreement, employees of contractors where such contractors are engaged for the purpose of erecting structures and where
-2-
such a contractor is bound by an Agreement with a Union or Union affiliated with a Central Labour Body covering such work.
2.02	Supervisory personnel, which includes contractors whose employees are considered to be employees under this Agreement, shall not perform work which would normally be a function of an employee in the job classifications covered by this Agreement, except when instructing employees and in cases of emergency which involves physical dangerto employeesor dangerto property.
Article III ■ Period
3.01	The Company and the Union agree one with the otherthat they will abide by the articles of this Agreement from June 1st. 1994 to May 31 St 19S7, inclusive, and from year to year thereafter, unless either party desires to change or terminate this Agreement, in which case, the party desiring the change or termination shall notify the other party in writing at least sixty (60) dayspriorto May 31st, of that particular year that such is its desire. Either party opening the Agreement in the manner provided above shall notify the other party, in writing, as to the changes desired.
Article IV - Wage Schedule
4.01	The wage schedule is attached hereto and forms a part of this Agreement.
4.02	For classified jobs not listed in the V\fege Schedule, the Company may set estimated or temporary rates. Any such rates will be based on comparison with prevailing rates for similar and/or related xjzi pations in the attached Wage Schedule. After a trial period of thirty (30) days, any such rate or rates shall be negotiated with the Local Union, and upon agreement, shall become a part of the Wage Schedule and payment made retroactive, and after the thirty (30) day trial period the following negotiations for such rates with the Local Union, and if no agreement is reached on the rate, the matter shall become subject to the grievance procedure.
If, during the term of this agreement, a significant change in the job content occurs involving skills, responsibility, and working conditions for any production job dassifination listed in the attached wage schedule, the rate thereto may be opened to review by either party. Inthe event that parties are unableto agree to any final disposition of the rate, the question may be referredto Article VIII - Adjustment of Grievances, commencing at step 8,05 within seven (7) working days from the date of the decision underthis Sedion (4.02).
■3-
Article V-Union Membership
5.01	(a) All employees who are not members of the Union, shall
become members within fifteen (15) days of the signing date of this Agreement.
(b) All employees who are membersof the Union, and Ihose who become members of the Union shall maintain such member-shpingood standing as a condition of continued employment.
5.02	(a) The Company shall put employees on check off at the time of
hire or return to work and deduct the Unbn's monthly membership dues from monies due them.
The Company shall include on each employee's income tax 0-4) slip, the amount of union dues deducted in the calendar year,
(b) All new employees shall become members of the Union not later than fifteen (15) continuous working days or fifteen (15) days accumulatedwithin thirty (30)working days.
At the time of signing a new employee on the payroll, manage mentwill advise the probationary employee of the provisionsof this Article, The new employee will sign a form to the effect he or she has been so notified, A weekly list of terminations and hires will be given to the Union Steward.
5.03	if an Individual employee v\ho is a member of the Union and/or who obtains membership so desires, the Company agrees that it will, on his or her behalf, and upon his or her written request, deduct Union initiation fees and/or monthly membership dues, from monies due such employee.
5.04	Remittanceof all dedudionsshall be sent to the Local Union, and remittances to be accompanied by itemized lists in alphabetical order, in triplicate, showing payroll numbers, full names and amounts. The Company shall deliver the above not later than the end of the following month.
A copy of the list will be given by the Company to the Union Steward.
5.05	The Local Union shall furnish the Company with a list of local Om-cers and representatives, and shall amend these lists as changes occur.
5.06	When hiring employees the Company will after complying with Article XII of this Agreement, give preferenceto Union members in the Immediate area who apply and are capable of doing the work required of them.
-4-
5.07	The Company will furnish a list of supervisory personnel attached to its plant to the Union Office at the start of the contract year and amend it, if required, at the end of each month. The amended lists will show the effective date of the changes. Failure to advise the Union of such changes will not in any way affect the authority of Companysupervisors.
5.08	Representativesof the Union carrying a certificate of authority signed by the President and the Secretary of the Union shall have the rightto visit the plant in connection with Union business.
Prior to his visit, the Union Representative shall report lo the Plant Office to request permissionfor his visit, and to allowthe Company to appoint a representative to accompany him during his visit. The Union Representative shall conduct himself in a manner which will not interferewiththe normaloperationof the plant duringhis visil,
Article Vi - Vacation with Pay
6.01	Every employee shall receive vacation credits on the following basis:
(a)	Uptofour (4) years’service time • 4% of his gross annual pay.
(b)	Fromfour (4) years to eleven (II) years’ service time ■ 6% of Hb gross annual pay.
(c)	From eleven (11) years to eighteen (18) years’ service time -8% of he gross annual pay.
(d)	More than eighteen (18) years’ service time ■ 10% of his gross annual pay.
(e)	More than thirty (30) years’ service time • 12% of his gross annual pay.
6.02	An employeewho has been continuously employedfor one (1) year shall take vacation time off at a time that is satisfactory to the employee and his Supervisor.
6.03	Each two percent (2%) increment of vacation pay credit shall entitle an employee lo one week of time off.
6.04	Vacation pay shall be paidto each employee at the time of termina tion of employment or at the employee’s option at the time of lay-off, or when vacation is taken.
Article VII - Holidayswith Pay
7.01	Employees shall be paid without the performance of work for the following Holidays at their regular rate of pay:
- 5 -
New Year's Day
Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Christmas Day Boxing Day
Good Friday Victoria Day Canada Day
Civic Holiday
When the holiday occurs on an employee's scheduled day off, he shall be paid for the holiday and he shall be permitted to take a day off from his scheduled work week in lieu of the holiday, at a time that is satisfactoryto the employee and his supervisor. Employeeswho have accumulated a minimum of 120 working days' seniority, will be granted three (3)floating holidays per year in addition to the above holidays. Request for floaters are to be submitted in writing three (3) working days in advance of the floater with the exception of emergency situations. Managementwill confirm within twenty-four hours of receivingthe request.
All floaters not taken prior to November 1st in each year will be scheduled. An employee who by reason of lay-off not exceeding 21 working days, is prevented from taking an earned floating holiday, shall be paid for the holiday if it cannot be otherwise scheduled during the calendar year.
7.02	When the above Holidays occur on a Saturday or Sunday, the observance of the Holidays shall be on the following Monday, unless changed by mutual agreement.
When July 1 falls on a Tuesday, Wfednesday, Thursday, Canada Day will be observed on the following Friday.
7.03	An employee who has established seniority in accordance with Article XII, and who works any of the available work days within the thirty (SO)day period priorto the Holidays, and who works the last scheduled shift priorto the Holiday and the first scheduled shift following the Holiday, unless his returnto work is prevented by circumstances beyond his control, shall receivepay for the Holiday
7.04	Holidays occurring during the course of an allowed vacation period shall not be included as part of that allowance.
Article VIII - Adjustment of Grievances
8.01	All disputes between employees and the Company shall be settled by the following procedures and there shall be no stoppage of work baause of the differences.
8.02	The Union shall arrange for the election or temporary appointment from its working membershiptherein, of a Union Committee of three
-6-
(3), headed by a Union Steward. The Company shall be notified in writing as to the names of the Union Committee.
8.03	Step 1 ■ Any grievance arising during the term of this Agreement must be presented for adjustment not later than thirty (30) days after the grievance occurred. A grievance of an employee shall be taken by the employee singly or together with the Steward and/or Union Representative directly to the employee's immediate supervisor and a decision thereon shall be rendered within forty-eight (48) hours from the presentation of the grievance. Any grievance arising during the term of this Agreement must be presented for adjustment prior to the termination of thisAgreement.
8.04	Step 2 ■ If this decision is not satisfactory to the aggrieved employee the grievance shall be made in writing and signed by the aggrieved employee and/or a Steward and shall be presented to the Plant Superintendent by the Union Steward and/or Union Representative within seven (7) working days from the date of the decision under paragraph 8,03 above. A decision shall be rendered within ninety-six (96) hoursfromthe presentation of the grievance.
8.05	Step 3 - If the decision is not satisfactory to the aggrieved employee the grievance shall be presented to the Plant Manager by the Union Representative within seven (7) working days from the date of the decisiin under paragraph 8.04 above and shall be dealt with at a meetingof the Union Committee headed by a Union Representative and Management and such decision shall be rendered within seven (7) days or within such further time as may be mutually agreed upon.
8.06	Step 4 ■ In the event that the grievance is not settled in the above manner, it shall be referredto arbitrationand notice of processingto arbitration shall be made on the opposite party within thirty (30) days of the decision rendered under Section 8.05 above.
8.07	in arbitration, the Company and the Union shall each select one man. These two shall select a third party who shall act as Chairman. Eitherparty shall appoint its nominees not later than five (5) days after receipt of written notice of the other party's nomination. The arbitration boards decision shall be final and binding on both parties to this Agreement. In the event of a failure of the two men selected by the respective partiesto select a third party as provided above, they shall ask the Provincial Minister of Labour to appoint a third party.
•7-
Nothing contained in this article shall prevent the parties from mutually agreeing to a single arbitrator.
8.08	It is understood that the function of the Arbitration Board shall be to interpret and apply this Agreement and it shall deal only with the specific question as submitted and shall have no powerto aller, add to, or amend this Agreement. However, the function of the Arbitration Board shall includethe powerto consider rates for non-listed classifications under Section 4.02 and to revise the rates therefore. The Arbitration Board shall have no power to decide questions involving general wage adjustments.
8.09	Eachparty of this Agreement shall pay all expenses of the member of the Arbitration Board selected by it or by the Minister of Labour and shall share equally in the fees and expenses of the third member of the Board.
8.10	Agrievancearisingfromadaimbyanemployeethathis discharge or Suspensbn by the Company was unjust or contrary to the terms of this Agreement, must be dealt with in writing by both parties and must be presented to the Company no later than ten (10) days after the discharge or suspension becomes effective. The grievance shall be processed starting at Stage 2 of the grievance procedure as per Section 8,04, In case of discharge or suspension by the Company, the Company will immediately notify the employee of the reason for the discharge or suspension and will confirm in writing within twelve (12) hours the reason for the discharge or suspension. A copy of such notice shall be submitted to the Union Steward within twenty-four (24) hours. In the event that an employee is found by an Arbitration Board to have been unfairly discharged or suspended by the Company, the Company agrees that the employee will be reinstated on his job under terms and conditions decided by the Arbitration Board.
8.11	Grievances which involve a Company-wide interpretation, administration or alleged violation of the Agreement shall be made in writing and delivered to the opposite party within ten (10) days of the occurrence on which the grievance is based and shall be dealt with by representatives of the Company and representativesof the Union. If the matter is not settled within thirty (30) days of notice being received by the opposite party, it shall forthwith be referredto arbitration.
8.12	Sundaysand Holidays shall not be included in any time limits in this Article of the Agreement.
■ 8 ■
Article IX ■ No Strike ■ No Lockout
9.01	There shall be no strikes called a- supported by the Union or its members, and no lockout caused by the Company during the life of this Agreement or any renewal thereof.
Article X • Working Conditions
10.01	It is agreed that the Company and the Union will co-operate collectively in improving safety and first aid practices. The Company and the Union further agree to set up and maintain under rotatingjoirrt chairmanship, a joint safety committee to promote safe working conditions and practices. The Company will endeavour to have a qualified first-aid man on each shift.
Safetylnspectlons
A complete safety inspection shall be carried out at regular intervals, at least once a month, by a minimum of four members of the joint safety committee, (two from the Union and two from Management). Time spent by employees on such safety activities shall be considered as time worked. Such inspections will not interfere with normal milloperationand production.
Adequate First-Aid Kits shall be supplied and maintained by the Company at suitable locations throughout the operations. Inspection of these kits shall be included in the monthly joint safety tour.
Adequate transportation facilitiesand/or arrangementsshall be provided by the Company for sick or injured employees.
10.02	1. Hard hats to be supplied on loan with no charge made by the
Company if the hard hat is returned,
2.	Company to supply at no cost to the employee, gloves to the glue mixer, spreader feeder, core layer, trim saw operator, press crew, jointer crew and dryer crew. For all other classifications, the Company will supply gloves as required.
3.	Company to make available at the spreaders, aprons for the use of the core layer.
4.	Company to make available at the outfeed end of the dryers, suitable aprons for the use by the dryer.
5.	Company to make available to maintenance personnel using welding machines - welding shields, asbestos gloves, leather aprons and coats.
6.	Company to supply proper eye protection, goggles for cutting and grinding free of charge, but not prescription glasses.
-9-
7.	Company to make available sanitized raincoats, rubber boots and hip waders, for the occasional use of maintenance and production personnel.
8.	Company to supply the glue mixer, sander operator, glue cleaner, trim saw operator, debarker operator, clean up man, chipper operator, and all maintenance employees with suitable coveralls and provide for the laundering of same, once per week, at no cost to employees.
9.	Effective date of ratification the allowance for safety footwear will be forty-five dollars ($45.00), paid once annually, upon presentation of a receipt for the purchase of approved safety footwear.
10.03	It is agreed that during the life of this Agreement, there shall be no reduction in exiting privileges.
Article XI - Hours of Work
11.01	The regularwork week shall consist of forty (40) hours.
11.02	One, two and three shift produdion:The regularwork shifts shall consist of eight (8) consecutive hours, mealtime included.
11.03	For the purpose of this Agreement, the shifts shall commence at 11:00 p.m. Sunday, and end on Saturday, at 3:00 p.m.
For employees on the dryer and patchers only, the shifts shall commence at 11:00 p.m. Sunday, and end on Saturday at 11:00 p.m, Formaintenance employees only, the day shift, upon mutual agreement, can commence at 8:00 am, and end at 4:00 p.m,
11.04	The following shift schedule is to be enforced unless altered by agreement of the parties:
No. 1 Shift -11:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. No. 2 Shift - 3:00 p,m. to 11:00 p.m. No. 3 Shift - 7:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m,
11,05	(a) Employees requested to work in excess of their scheduled shift
shall be paid al the rate of lime and one-hatf for all work performed before or after their scheduled hours of work with the following exceptions:
1,	Wien required to work a second shift within a twenty-four (24) hour period due to change of shift required by the normal scheduling of mill operations providedthat there is a break of at least eight (8) hours between shifts worked and provided that the re-scheduling does not occur more than once a work week.
-10
2.	When required to replace an employee for tardiness, time and one-half shall be paid for all hours worked in excess of his scheduledshift,
11.05	(b) All time worked in excess of their scheduledshift and from 3:00
p.m, Saturdayto 11:00 p.m. Sunday, (employeeson dryersand patchers -11:00 p.m. Saturdayto 11:00 p.m. Sunday) and on the sixth (sui) day and Holidays, shall be paid for at the rate of time and one-half his or her regular rate.
Senior employees in accordance with their seniority older, who normally perform the jobs to be performed on a Saturday (6th day), ancVor on a Sunday and on Holidays, will be given first opportunity for the required overtime. The scheduling of overtime shall not interfere Or be a part of the work week. The senior employee may exercise his or her rights underthis provision for no morethan eight (EE) hours overtime per day.
All time worked on Sunday and Holidays in excess of eight (EE) hours, shall be paid for at double time his regular straight time rate.
11.05	(o) Inthe event of an emergency an employee may be requiredto
work on his scheduled or designated day off (sixth day), for which he will be paid straight time rate, providing he has been given advance notice and assigned another day off as mutually agreed for which he will be paidthe overtime rate, if requiredto work on this day.
11.05	(d) An employee, who is called out for emergency work after com-
pleting his day or shift, and at least one (I jiour before the stalling of his scheduled day or shift, shall receive time and one-half for the hours worked, but in no case shall he receive less than four (4) hours' pay at the straight time rate. Wien the call out for emergency work is within the one (1) hour period prior to the start of his scheduled day or shift, he shall be paid time and one-half for the actual time worked in that one (I) hour period, Where the employee continues to work into his scheduled day or shift, the provisions of Article 11,05 (a) shall apply after he has completed eight (8) hours of work exclusive of the time worked prior to his scheduledstarting time.
11.06	Wien an employee reports for work on his or her scheduled shift, and no work is available on his or her regular job and if he or she was not notified, at least two (2) hours prior to his or her scheduled starting time, at the telephone number he or she supplied to the
-11-
11.07
11.08
Company, he or she shall be paid a minimum of four (4) hours' pay if he or she does not work or note less than four (4) hours and eight (8) hours' pay at his or her regular rate if he or she works four (4) hours or more.
To qualify for the above, the employee must remain on the job until told by the foreman that he or she may leave and must accept other than his or her normalwork if ilisoffered.
In addition to the regular rates for all hours worked, a shift differential of:
Effective the date of ratification:
(a)	ThMy-two cents (326)per hour shall be paid on the No. 3 shift 3:00 p.m. to 11:00 p.m.
(b)	Thirty-six cents (360) per hour shall be paidon the No. 1 shift 11:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m.
EffeotiveJunel, 1995
(a)	Thirty-four cents (340) per hour shall be paid on the No. 3 shift 3:00 p.m, to 11:00 p.m.
(b)	Thirty-eight cents (380) per hourshall be paidon the No. 1 shift 11:00 p.m, to 7:00 a. m,
Effective June 1,1996
(a)	Thirty-six cents (360) per hour shall be paid on the No. 3 shift -3:00 p.m, to 11:00 p.m.
(b)	Forty cents (401) per hour shall be paid on the No. 1 shift -11:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m.
Ail employees shall be entitled to two (2) ten (10) minute rest periods during each regular shift. A break Of twenty (20) minutes wil be allowed not later than the end of the fifth (5th) consecutive hourfor lunch.
11.09 The Company will provide a meal to all employees who are requested to work two (2) hour or more of overtime before or after their regular hours of work.
At the request of the employee, and providedthere is sufficient lead time, the supervisor will try to arrange for the overtime meal to be delivered prior to the commencement of the overtimework, otherwise the mealwill be providedafter two (2) hours of overtime.
On a scheduled overtime if the notice is less than two (2) hours a meal will be provided.
■ 12
Article XII - Seniority
12.01	(a) A new employee of the Company shall be considered a proba-
tionary employee, until he or she has worked thirty (30) days for the Company, after which his or her seniority shall date from his or her original hiring date.
12.01	(b) Grievance may not be presented in connection with the dis-
charge or lay-off of probationary employees unless the discharge or lay-off is claimed to be a discrimination for Union activity.
12.02	Fundamentally,the rules of this Agreement respecting seniority rights are designed to give employees an equitable measure of security based on their length of senioritywith the Company.
12.03	An employee shall lose all seniority rights and his name will be removedfrom the seniority list if:
1.	He quits or isdischarged and not reinstated.
2.	He fails to report within three working days from the date that he had been so notifiedto report for work.
3.	He is absent from work for more than a period of two years for any reason other than illness or injury certified by a licensed physician.
12.04	The Company recognizes the principle of seniority. Seniority shall govern in promotions, transfers, lay-offs, and recalls after lay-offs, provided the employee has the necessary qualifications of knowledge, skill and ability to performthe work required.
12.05	Promotionsshall mean advancements a job which carries a higher rate of pay.
12.06	When a vacancy occurs with respectto a permanentjob, immediate notice thereof will be posted on the bulletin board of the Company for a period of forty-eight (48) hours prior to any appointment to such job. An employee shall not be entitledto claim such job unless he does so by written noticeto the Managerwithin the said period of forty-eight (48) hours. Nothing herein shall preclude the Company from making a temporary appointments such job. A temporary appointment shall not exceed fifteen (15) days or thirty (30) days where such vacancies are created by an authorized leave of absence.
The Company shall post notices on the Bulletin Board, showing the names of successful applicants for all postedvacancies.
-13-
12.07	Employees accepting promotions shall be allowed one week in which to qualify (or other lime as may be mutually agreed), and failing, shall be returnedto theirformer position without loss of seniority. Employeesdedining promotions shall not lose their seniority.
12.08	Any employee promoted or transferred to a position with the Company outside the bargaining unit, shall continue to accrue seniority for a period not exceeding thirty (30) days, and will retain the total accrued seniority for a period not exceeding twelve (12) months from the date of promotion or transfer and shall have the right to exercise his seniority in accordance with all the provisions of the Articles dealing with seniority upon proof of Union membership in good standing.
12.09	In lay-offs, seniority shall come in force at the beginning of the work week followingthe lay-off.
12.10	An employee who is laid-off may request a transfer to a dassifica-tion filled by an employee with less seniority provided that the Company considers that the employee has the necessary knowledge, skill and ability to meet the requirement of the Job within a two-day probationary period (or such other period as may be mutually agreed).
12.11	If an employee mentioned in 12,10 fails to meet the requiremerrtsof the job within this probationary period, he shall then be eligible for one further transfer to ajob held by an employee with less seniority provided he can performthe work without a probationary period.
12.12 An employee on lay-off shall be given four (4) days' notice of the date he is to return to work, such notice to begin from the date of mailingof this noticeto the employee's last known address.
12.13	When an employee is transferred at the request of the Company (for a period of not more than ten days) to meet production require ments, to a lower paying job, the employee will be paid at the rate of the job from which he has been so transferred.
12.14	For a transfer at the request of the employee, payment from the date of transfer will be made at the rate of the new occupation or classification.
12.15	For all other transfers (including but not limited to transfers due to inefficiency, inability, health, safety and demotions for causes), payment shall be made at the rate for the job which the transfer is effected.
12.16	Employeesterminated because of a permanent plant closure shall be entitledto severance pay equal to one week's pay for each year
-14-
of continuous service and thereafter in increments of completed service up to a maximum of thirty (30) weeks.
Article XIII - Leave of Absence
13.01	The Company will grant leave of absence to employees who are elected or appointed as representatives to attend Union meetings and Union conventions or as members of any negotiating committee of IWA-CANADA in order that they may carry out their duties on behalf of the Union.
Article XIV - Bulletin Boards
14.01	The Company will erect a bulletin board in the plant which may be used by Ihe Union for posting notices approved by the Company management and restrictedto:
(a)	Notices of Union recreational and social affairs.
(b)	Notices of Union elections.
(c)	Notices of Union appointments and resultsof Union elections.
(d)	Notices of Union meetings.
(e)	Other notices concerning bona-fide Union activity such as: cooperatives, credit unions, and unemployment compensation information.
14.02	There shall be no other general distribution or posting by employees of pamphlets,advertising or pollical matter, notices, or any kind of literature upon Company properly other than as herein provided.
Article XV - Drug and Hospital Care Plane
15.01	Effective the first of the month following date of ratification:
For each employee who has established seniority in accordance with Article XII, the Company will contribute $46,00 per month for a family and $20.00 for a single employee toward the cost of a Blue Cross Drug Plan and Semi-Private Hospital Care Plan and Extended Health paid for by monthly payrolldeduction.
Effective June 1, 1995 the premium in effect on that date will be paid by the employerfor the balance of the agreement.
The Company contribution to employees who are off work due to Workmen's Compensation claim, or short term disability claims, will be continued for a period of up to twelve (I2) months.
If there should be a net reduction in the premium charged for drug and hospital care plans, the Company's contribution to employees will not be reduced fromthe amounts set out in thisArticle.
19
If Me Company's contribution exceeds the premiums required for drug and hospital care plans, the balance will be applied to such other employee benefits as may be agreed upon between the Company and the Union.
Pending agreement betweenthe Company and the Union as to the application of contributions over and above the premiums required, such additionalmonies will be paid direct to the employee.
On layoff, the Company will continue to pay the monthly premium cost ofthe Plans to the end of the monthwtlich theemployeeis laid off. ‘
Article XVI ■ Weekly Indemnity
16.01	The Company will maintain and pay the premium casts of a Weekly Indemnity Insurance Plan. The Plan will provide seventy percent (70%) of weekly earnings, forty (40) hours times an employee's regular rate up to a weekly maximum, to commence on the first day in case of a non-compensable accident and after three (3) continuous days from the commencement of a disability due to a sickness and will continue for the period of disability up to a maximum of fifty-two (52) weeks,
Effective first of the month following the date of ratification, the maximum weekly benefitwill be $450,00,
EffectiveJune 1.1995, the maximum benefit will be $465,00,
The 5/12 of the U.I.G. premium reduction will be retained by the Company.
Disputed W.C.B, Claim
Ian employee covered bytheWfeekly Indemnity Plan suffers ads-ability for which payment is in dispute with the W.C.B., Weekly Indemnity payment will be made retroactively if requested by the employee and provided he has been off work for at least one (1) month due to the disability without W.C.B. having accepted the claim and providing the employee is subject to the rules and regulations covering the Weekly Indemnity Plan. If the W.C.B, claim is subsequently established, the employee will then repay the Wfeekly Indemnity payments) receivedto the appropriate fund or insurance company.
16.02	Effective January 1,1981, a new "Long Term Disability Plan" will be introduced as follows:
The Company will instituteand maintaina Long Term Disability Plan which will provide benefits of 50% of monthly earnings up to a maxi-
16
mum monthly payment of one thousand three hundred and fifty dollars ($1,350.00).
Effective first of the month following the date of ratification, the
maximum benefit will be one thousand, four hundred dollars ($1,400.00).
Effective June 1, 1995, one thousand, four hundred dollars ($1,400.00) to be increased to one thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500.00).
Other terms and conditions of the plan and conditions pertaining to its implementation are provided in the attachedAppendix “B”.
The premium cost of this plan shall be paid by the Company.
Article XVII • GroupLIfe Insurance,and AD. & D.
17.01	Effective the first of the month following the date of ratification: The Company will maintain a Group Life Insurance Plan to provide $42,000 life insurance, and $42,000 A.D. & D, insurance, for each employee while actively employed who has a minimum of 120 days'seniority,
Effective June 1, 1995, change $42,000 to read $45,000 for both life insuranceand A.D. & D, insurance.
The cost to the employee will be 360 per$1,000.00.
Article XVIII ■ Bereavement Pay
18.01	When death occurs to an employee's spouse or children, the employee will be granted leave to attend the funeral and shall be paid for eight (8) hours at his regular, straight time rate for time lost up to a maximum of five (5) consecutive days. When death occurs to other members of an employee's immediate family, that is, an employee'sfather, mother, mother-in-law, father-in-law, brother, sister, grandparents, grandchild, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law or sister-in-law, the maximum time lost paid for will be for three (3)consecutive days,
The intent of this clause is to allow the employee to attend the funeral without loss of earnings. The day of the funeral must be one of the five (5) days or three (3)days. Pay will be granted for the reg. ular scheduledwork days lost during this period.
Any claims for bereavement pay must be submitted by the employee to the Company in writing, along with proof of bereavement in the employee's immediatefamily.
17
Article XIX ■ Jury Duty Allowance
19.01	In the case of an employee who is called for Jury service and/or as a witness subpoenaed by the Crown, the Company shall pay, for each day of such service, an allowance equal to the difference between eight (8) hours' of pay based on his regular straight time hourly rate, and the payment he received for jury service. The employee will present proof of service and of pay received therefore, when making his claim for such allowance.
Article XX ■ Payment of Wages
20.01	All employees shall be paid every second Friday, in cash or cheque at par, with full statements of earnings and deductionsattached. EffectiveJanuary 1,1995, all employeesshall be paid every second Thursday by bank deposit, with full statements of earnings and deductions available for pick upfromthe office,
Article XXI • Dental Care Plan
21.01	Effective June 1st, 1979, the Company will institute a dental care plan with participation compulsory for all employees on the following basis:
1.	Eligibility
Participation in this plan is limited to employees who have accumulatedsixty-five (65) days tf seniority with the Company.
2.	Plan Design
(a)	Services and benefits as provided in Blue Cross No. 7 Basic Plan and RiderNo. 1.
(b)	Servicesand benefitsas provided in BlueCross Rider No. 2.
(c)	Co-Insurance
•	20% - Plan No. 7 and Rider No. 1
•	50% • RiderNo. 2.
The plan provides for the application of the 1992 Ontario DentalAssociation Schedule of Fees.
Effective the first of the month following date of ratification, amend plan to provide for the application of the 1993 O.D.A. Scheduleof Fees.
Effective June 1st, 1995, amend plan to provide for the application of the 1994 O.D.A. Scheduleof Fees.
Effective June 1, 1996 amend plan to provide for the application of the 1995 O.D .A. Schedule of Fees.
-18
Maximum$1 ,WQrer calendaryear per person.
The Company agrees to provide the Union with a copy of Rules and Regulations relatingto the Plan.
3.	Administration
The plan will be administered in accordance with an appropriate contract or set of procedures reflectingthe plan design outlined in Item 2 above. The decision as to the choice of administrative vehicle from .among service carriers, insurance companies or self-administration will be made by the Company on the basis of appropriate study of these alternatives.
4.	Premiums
The premiumcost of this plan shall be paid by the Company.
5.	Integration
The plan will not provide like benefits where such are currently being provided by federal or provincial legislation. injuring the life of this Agreement federal or provincial governments shall introduce legislationto provide benefts already covered by this Plan, the Plan shall be amended so as to eliminate said benefits.
Article XXII • Pension Plan
22,01	The Company agrees to meet the Union during the term of this agreementto discuss the installationof a plan to provide pensions at retirement, to become effective on January 1,1986.
This plan will be in the form of three equal units totalling $120.00 per month of defined contributions to be deposited to trustee to the credit of individual pension accounts under the plan. The Company will be responsiblefor and pay the cost of administeringthe plan. Effective the first of the month following date of ratification, change$120.00 to $135,00.
EffectiveJune I J995, change$135,00 to $150,00.
The Company agreesto contribute, during each month on and after the effective date, the first $40.00 unit to the pension account of each member of the plan who is on the Company's active payroll in the month. For any member who elects to make a voluntary contribution by payroll deduction at the rate of $40.00 per month, the Company will match this with a further $40.00 of monthly contribution. Full-timeemployeeswill join the plan after completing one year of continuous service.
-19-
Effective first of the month following date of ratification, change $40 to $45.00,
EffectiveJunel, 1995, change $45,00 to $50,00,
Tradesman's Toots • Supplement
Tradesmen will furnish all hand tools common to the trade, this includes spanners up to and including 1-1/4" opening, adjustable wrenches upto 18" in length, sockets up to and including 1/2" drive and 1-1/4’ opening, hammeis, chisels, punches and screwdrivers. The Company agrees to replaceany tools broken in service, provided that such brokentools are returned to the MasterTradesman. The Company agrees to provide toolsto tradesmen at cost.
The Company will provide on loan any special tools, including power-driven tools, testing and measuring instruments and gauges, pullers, sockets over 1/2" drive, spanners over 1 -1/4" opening, and tools in metric measurement.
The Company shall, at its expense, insure for damage or loss caused by fire, the tools of its employees which are required to be used in the performance of their work.
The Company shall, at ils expense, insure the tools of its employ, ees which are requiredto be used in the performance of their work, for loss by theft where tools are stored in a designated place of safety within the control of the Company and there is forcible breaking and entering.
Properequipment and tools for use by the maintenance crews shall be supplied by the Company.
Article XXIII - Paid Education Leave
23.01	Effective date of ratification the Company to pay twelve (12) days for education leave at the employee's regular rate to be used during the term of this agreement for educational purposes.
Article XXIV • Vision Care
24.01	EffectiveJanuary 1,1995
The Company shall introduce and pay the cost of a Vision Care Plan equivalent to the Blue Cross $90/24 covering all Employees and their dependents.
20
Dated at Thunder Bay, Ontario,this 30th day <f November,1994.
COMPANY L.K Lacey
H.	W. Schnellhardt T. T. Meservia
G.	S. Vida
UNION Wilt McIntyre J. Lorenowich Rodnie Wright John Paakkunainen Shirley Nelson Gordie Belanger
■21 ■
Classified Jobs
Electrician Lead Millwright Lead Electrician Class "A" Electrician I Electrician ll Electrician III Electrician IV Electrician Helper Mechanic Class "A"
Millwright Class "A"
Millwight I Millwright II Millwright III Millwright IV Millwright Helper Carpenter Maintenance Lathe Operator Carry-Lift Operator Lay-Up Man Trim Sawyer Debarker Operator Clipper Operator Press Operator Sander Operator CoreComposer TakTruck Operator- dryend RikTruck Operator- wetend Tongue & Groove Slasher Operator Clipper Sorter Gang Saw Operator Jointer-Crew Chipper Feeder Press helper Clean-Up Man Spreader-Feeder Patchers Dryer Feeder
WAGESCHEDULE
June 1 June 1 1994	1993
23.95	24,31
23.95	24,31
21.70	22.03
17.78	18.23
16.70	17.11
16.46	16.87
16.20	16.60
16.01	16.41
21.70	22.03
21.70	22.03
17.70	18.14
16.65	17.06
16.36	16.77
16.14	16.55
15.89	16.28
16,41	16.82
16.03	16.43
15,98	16.38
15.86	16.25
15.56	15.95
15.68	16.07
15.56	15.95
15.56	15,95
15.56	15,95
15.56	15.95
15.68	16.07
15.79	16.18
15.50	15.89
15.52	15.91
15.44	15.82
15.39	15.77
15.39	15.77
15.56	15.95
15.44	15.82
15.39	15.77
15.39	15.77
15.39	15.77
15.39	15.77
Junel
1996
N/A
NIA
NIA
18,68
17.54
17.29 17,01 16.82 NIA NIA 18.60 17.49 17,19 16,96 16.69 17.24 16.84 16.79 16,66
16.35
16.47
16.35
16.35
16.35
16.35
16.48 16.58 16.28
16.30 16.22 16.16 16.16
16.35 16,22 16.16 16,16 16.16 16.16
-22-
Veneer Grader Patcher Operator Splicer Crew Re-ClipperCrew Knife Grinder/Set-Up Oiler
Tongue &‘t3roove Helper Gang Saw Crew
15.39
15.39
15.39
15.39 16,41 16.23
15.39
15.39
15.77
15.77
15.77
15.77 16.82 16.63
15.77
15.77
16,16
16.16
16,16
16,16
17.24
17,05
16,16
16.16
Wage rates for Millwright Lead, Electrician Lead, Electrician Class A", Mechanic Class 'W and Millwright Class H' will be in accordance with the Letter of Understandingdated October26,1988 signed by the parties.
LEAD WORKERS shall receive twenty-five cents (250) per hour above his rate or the rate of the highest rated job classification which he is leading, which ever is the highest, for the period he is leading other workers. Employees presently employed on a monthly rated basis who are receiving a higher rate of pay than the listed rates on their classifications, calculated on the basis of one hundred and seventy-three (173) hours per month, shall cm tinue to remain on the monthly rated basis if so desired.
I n the event the amount of earnings per month, including overtime work calculated at the rate of time and one-half for all hours in excess of forty-eight (48) hours per week, exceeds the monthly rate, the employee shall receive the greater earnings for that particular month.
For classified jobs not listed in this wage schedule, the Company may set estimated or temporary rates. Any such rates will be based on comparison with prevailing rates for similar and/or related occupations in the attached wage schedule. After a trial period of thirty (30) days, any such rate or rates shall be negotiated With the Local Union and upon agreement, shall become part of the wage schedule, and payment made retroactive, and after the thirty (30) day trial period and following negotiations for such rates with the Local Union and if no agreement is reached on the rate, the matter shall become subjectto the grievance procedure.
Wage ScheduleAdjustments Effectivetho date of ratification:
Core Composer rate will be adjusted to $15.18 plus the general wage increase.
Forktruck operator ■ dryend raie will be adjusted to $15.30 plus general wage increase.
Forktruck operator-wetend rate will be adjusted to $15.40 plus general wage increase
-23-
TRADESAPPRENTICE PROGRAM
1.	Apprenticeship openings will be filled in accordance with the provisions of Section 12,06 (]ob postings). Employees who meet the educational level specified by the ApprenticeshipAct, will qualify.
2.	There will be a probationary period of up to twenty (20) working days prior to entering into an apprenticeship agreement during which time the employee may return or failing to display the necessary mechanical aptitude, be returned to his former departmentwithout loss of seniority,
3.	Any helper who fails his first year exams shall be required to be reexamined within t2 months but not earlier than 6 months. Failure to pass the re-examination will result in the apprentice being dropped from the program and returned to his former department without loss of Seniority.The above will not apply to the persons currently employed in any of the categories of Trades in the event that they shall become indentured in the future or are currentlyindentured.
4.	Once an employee enters an apprenticeship contract, it is expected he will continue to fulfill the obligations of the contract, including necessary training periods in a vocational school.
5.	The Company will make up the difference between the Canada Manpower Training Program allowances and the employee's normal earnings based on his regular straight time rate, multiplied by 40 hours perweek.
For purposes of calculation the Canada Manpower at home allowance shall be used.
6.	Where a present Millwright or a person subsequently hired and rated as a Millwright “3" in his general proficiency, but has a recognized certificate of competency as welder, mechanic or pipefitter, he will automatically be rated as a Millwright “I".
7.	Providing a journeyman has completed the time in the trade necessary to write for a Provincial Trade Certificate, he may write for such Certificate and receive the "A" rate immediately following completion of his course of studies.
MAINTENANCETRADESANNUAL REVIEW
Annually in the month of November, an evaluation committee consisting of the Plant Manager or his representative, and the Maintenance Supervisor in the respective Plant, together with a qualified Union Member and a Union representative, will evaluate the performance and progress of each Helper and Tradesman below the category of ""A", with a view to upgrading personnel who qualify.
24
If upgrading is necessary in the interim, it will be done by the Fiant Manager and the MaintenanceSupervisor.
JOB DESCRIPTIONS FOR TRADES AND HELPERS 1. MILLWRIGHT (TRADE)
Millwright Helper
Works as a trades helper, will be assigned to and take necessary direction fromaMillwrighnir, "II",T, or "A".
A helper must be capable of performing independently wash jobs, greasing and oiling, and must be in the process of accumulating a basic tool kit required for the work he is asked to perform,
Millwright "IV"
Shall be qualified to assist and work under the direction and instructions of Millwright "III", "II", "I", or "A". He will work alone at times performing assignmentsin keepingwith histraining.
During the course of his year, trainee must become proficient in good millwrighting practices in the areas of fitting, aligning, lubricating and the operation of all shop tools and machines. In addition to the foregoing, he will beexposedto and begin the process of learningtechniques required in trouble shooting key production machinery, pipefitting, basic welding and machining, but will not be expected to display a high degree of proficiency in these areas at this point.
Millwright '111"
Must be capable of performing the tasks of fitting, aligning, lubricating and able to operate all shop tools and machines.
Must under direction become proficient in basic welding and pipefitting as well as dismantling and reassembly of plant equipment.
Under direction, will continue to develop skills in trouble shooting all plant equipment and improve his skills at machining parts and be exposed to basic principles of hydraulics and pneumatics.
He may work alone frequently, but occasionally will require direction and instructions from Millwright'll", “I", or "A".
Millwright "11"
Must be capable, without direction, of fitting, aligning and lubricating, and taking apart and reassembling plant equipment. In addition, is expected to be able to weld, operate shop tools and do pipefittingas required.
Must under direction, become proficient at effective methods of trouble shooting and repairing hydraulic, pneumatic and mechanical faults in plant machinery.
25-
Mlllwright "I"
Must be capable, without direction, of performing all practices under Millwight “II”, “III", and “IV", Must, under direction, become proficient at reading and understanding blueprints, all phases of installing new equip ment, laying out hydraulic and mechanical drives and meet speed and power requirementscorrectly.
Millwright "A"
Must be capable, without direction, of performing all practices under Millwright “1", “II", “111", and“IV", Must take full responsibility for work done by himself or his assistant.
Must be in possession of a Millwright Certificateor a Machinist Certificate or Wslder H.P. Certificate,
Millwright Lead
Must possess the qualifications set out under the Millwright "A' and in addition, shallbe capable of leading other millwrights.
A lead has no authority to discipline or discharge other workers.
2.	ELECTRICIAN (TRADE)
Electrician Helper
Required to enter into and continue in an apprenticeship program leading to a certified trade of maintenanceeledrician.
Will obtain practical experience at the plant level by working as an assis tantio the Electrician as assigned.
Shall, under the direction and supervision of the Electrician and Supervisors, perform work common to the electrical trade on all types of machines and equipment used in the production of Plywood.
Electrician "IV
Will be enrolled in and have successfully passed exams following his 1 st year of apprenticeship in the Electrical Trade.
Shall, under direction from the Electrician or supervisor, obtain practical experience at the plant level allied to the 2nd year theory taught at the Provincial School and will be expected to performwork common to the ElectricalTrade on all types of machines and equipmentused in the production of Plywood.
Electrician “III"
Must have successfully completed the second year of apprenticeship in the Electrical Trade.
Under the direction of an Electrician "A', must be proficient in the installation and maintenance of all electrical equipment in the plant.
26-
Will gain practical experience allied to the 3rd year theory taught in the Provincial School.
Elactrldan "II'
Must have successfully completed the 3rd year of apprenticeship in the ElectricalTiade.
VMII continueto gain practical experienceallied to subject materialtaught in the 4th year of apprenticeship and be responsible for all work performed by himself upto his present level of training.
Electrician "I"
Will have successfully completed the full course for the trade of Maintenance Electrician and receiveda Certificate of Apprenticeship. Electrician "A"
Shall be in possession of a Provincial Journeyman Trade Certificate in the installation and maintenanceof all electrical equipment in the plant and assume responsibilityfor all wortc done by himselfand his assistants. Note: Providing a journeyman has completed the time in the trade neo-essary to write for a ProvincialTrade Certificate, he may write for such certificate and receive the "A" rate immediatelyfollowing completion of his course of studies.
General: Any referenceto the requirement for attendance at trade school will not apply to employees hired in the future at the grade of Electrician III and above if they do not have the educational qualifications^ permit entry into the apprenticeshipplan.
ONTARIOWDODWDRKERS DISABILITY BENEFIT PLAN
1.	Definitions
Inthis Plan, unless otheiwisespecifically provided,
(a)	“Accident" is a bodily injury caused by external violent means;
(b)	"Disability" isa disability preventingan employee from pursuingany gainful occupation arising from any mental infirmity, bodily disorder, or bodily injury, verified tp the satisfaction of the company and/or insurer, and no! otherwise excluded by this Plan;
(c)	"Employee" means an employee in the active employment of the company,'who come6 under the jurisdiction of the Labour Agreement by and between MacMillan Bloedel Limited and Local 2693, IWA-CANADA.
(d)	'Insurer" means the insurance company or carrier appointed by the company;
(e)	"Plan" meansthe Crterio Woodworkers DisabilityBeneflt Plan;
27
(9 'Company" meansMacMillanBloedel Limited;
(g)	Weekly Earnings" means, in the case of a day or shift worker, 40 hours x his regular rate;
(h)	'Medical Practitioner' means registeredphysician or surgeon, regia tered dentist, or registered chiropractor.
2.	Participation
(a)	All employeesof the company shall be eligibleto participate h this Plan, n accordance with the provisions listed herein.
(b)	Participation in this Plan is limited to the employees who have accu-mulated45 days of seniority with the Company.
3.	Amount of Disability Benefits
The mount of disability benefit shall be 70% of an employee's weekly earnings, as defined in Section t (g) immediately preceding the date of disability.
Effective the first of the month following the date of ratification, the
maximumweekly benefit will be $450,
Effective Junel, 1995, the maximum benefit will be $464,00,
The 5/12 of the U.I.C, premium reduction will be retained by the Company.
4.	Eligibility for Payment
(a)	i) Except in the case of a disability arising out of an accident, an
employee shall be eligible to receive an amount of disability benefit in accordance with Section 3 hereof, for a period not exceeding 52 weeks for any one illness, beginning after 3 continuous days from the commencement of the disability,
ii)	Inthe case tfa disability arising out of an accident, an employee shall be eligibleto receive an amount <f disability benefit in accordance with Section 3 hereof, for a period not exceeding 52 weeks for any one accident, commencing from the date of the accident.
(b)	An employee absent from work and in receipt of an amount of dfc-abHity benefit under this Plan, shall continue to receive such beneft, even though a work shortage develops which would have resulted m his being laid off had he been at work, providedthat the employee remains disabled and continues to furnish evidence satisfactory to the company and/or insurer, and verifies the continuance of disability.
(c)	An employee shall not be eligible for an amount of disability benefit underthis Plan unless he is actively employed by the company at
-28-
the date that he becomes eligible or until he subsequently returnsto active employment.
(d)	An employee making a claimfor an amount of disability benefit after lay-off or termination of employment,for disability establishedtothe satisfaction of the company and/or insureras having occurred prior to his lay-off or termination, shall be eligible for an amount of disability benefit provided such disability was accompanied by a cow tinuance of absencethat commenced priorto actual lay-off or termination.
(e)	An employee shall be considered as eligible to submit a claim for benefit if he is requested to return to work within seven calendar days after the date of lay-off and is unable to return to work because of disability. Disability will be considered as starting from the date he is required to return to work.
(f)	Successiveperiodsof disability separated by lessthan four consecutive weeks shall be considered on one period of disability, unless the subsequent disability is due to an accident or illness entirely unrelated to the previous disability and commences after return to active employment on full time.
(g)	An amount of disability benefit under this Plan shall not be paid in the event the absence is a result of,
i)	Any injury arising out of or sustained while doing any act or thing pertaining to any occupation or employment for remuneration or profit, or
ii)	Pregnancy,miscarriage, childbirth, or any complicationsthere of, or
iii)	Any injury or illness entitling the employee to compensation under any Wbrkmen's Compensation or similar legislation, or
iv) Self-destruction or any self-inflicting injury, while sane or insane, or
v)	Any injury or illness resultingfrom insurrection or war, whether war be declared or not, or from participation in a riot, or civil commotion, or
vi)	Disability for which the employee is not underthe treatment of a medical practitioner, or
vii)	For a period of disability in excess of four weeks where treatment is rendered solely by a chiropractor. Ii the case of chiropractors, certification^ disability will only be accepted for payment of benefit for up to a maximum of four weeks per insured person per calendar year, or
so
viii)	Alcoholism or drug addiction, unless the employee is confined in the hospitalor institutions licensed to provide care and treatment incident thereto, or unless the employee is undergoing a regular rehabilitativetreatment approved by the insurer, and a physician.
(h)	An amount of disability benefit will not be payable for those which the employee receives holiday pay, vacation pay, or more than one-half day's regular pay, from the Company.
(I) An amount of disability beneft will not be payable following the normal retirement date of an employee, other than retirement under the total and permanent disability provision of the company pension plan.
0) An amount of disability benefit will not be payable following the early retirement date of an employee, if early retirement was approved prior to the onset of disability.
(k) The amount of disability benefit under this plan will be reduced by the amount of pension for which the employee is eligible under the total and permanent disability provision for the company pension plan.
5.	Payment of Benefits
(a)	In computing the amount of disability benefits, disability will be considered as starting from the first day of disability; however, an employee must be certified by a medical practitioner for the disability within the first three days of disability. In the event that the employee is not certified withinthe first three days,disability will be considered as starting two complete days prior to the day that the employee is actually certified by a medical practitioner.
(b)	A daily rate of payment for each calendar day of absence that qualifies for payment shall be one-seventh the weekly amount of disability benefit under Section 3 hereof.
(c)	The amount of disability payments will be paid every week. Such benefits on account of short periodsofdisabilitywillbepaidassoon as the amount is ascertained.
6.	Miscellaneous Provisions
(a)	An employee absent on an authorized leave of absence on the date he was to become eligible under this Plan, as set out in Section 4, shall, upon the date of his return to active employment, be eligible to participate in this plan.
(b)	If an employee who has been covered underthe terms of this plan is granted an authorized leave of absence such employee shall ho
-30-
considered as still covered underthe terms of tis plan up to a maximum of 31 days, or up to the date he would have been laid off should lay-offoccur during this period.
7.	GovernmentDIsabllity Plans
(a)	The amount of disability benefit under toe plan will be reduced by the amount for which the employee and/or the employee's dependent is eligible and receives underthe disability benefit provisions of the Canada or Quebec Pension Plan, or similar provisions in any other Government Plans for disability, for which the employee is receiving an amount of disability benefit underthis Plan, except for war disability pensions and Workmen's Compensation disability pensions.
(b)	The company and/or insurer may require certification or verification of the amount of income from the Canada/Quebec Pension Plan or such otherGovemment Plans.
(o) The amount of disability benefit in excess of the amount which should have been paid may be deducted from the amount of any future disability benefit, or repaid by the employee to the company and/or Insurer, as the case may be, through some mutually satisfactory arrangement.
8.	Physical Examinations
The company and/or insurer reserves the right to require periodic physical examinations throughout the duration of the employee's absence due to disability. Such examinations shall be conducted by a medical practitioner, designated by the company and/or insurer.
Cost of the physical examinations, transportation and reasonable out-ofpocket expenses relatedthereto will be paid by the insurer.
9.	Administration
(a)	It shall be the obligation of the employee to notify immediatelythe company of his absence due to disability, following which the com-panywill issue the necessary initial daimformsto him.
(b)	Completed claim forms will be checked by the company to determine whether or not an employee is a participant in the Plan and the company may then forward the claim forms to the insurer as its agent for further processing.
(c)	The company will meet with representatives of the Union from time to time, for purposes of discussing the administration of the plan and any problemswhich may arise.
(d)	Should any employee of the Union have any complaint concerning entitlementsto benefits underthe plan, the matter maybe taken up
-31-
as a grievance and processed to arbitration as provided for under Article VIII of the Collective Agreement, commencing at Stage 3. The arbitration board shall have powers to adjudicate on the merits of the grievance.
Dateda/Thunder Bay, Ontario, this 12tbdayof December, 1980.
Sigied on behalf of the Union by its Representatives:
Witness:
LA. Dulacka	T. M i r
K. McLeod	D. Dumont
G. Ruth K. McLeod
on behalf of the Company by its Representatives:
Witness
P. Elliott	R. A. Bickford
F. DeCicco
32-
APPENDIX “B"
LONG TERM DISABILITY PLAN MULTIPLY PLYWOODS U MITED (PLANT)
1.	Eligibility
The Long Term Disability Benefit Plan shall be compulsory for all employees who have accumulated 45 days seniority with the Company
2.	Effective Date of Coverage
An eligible employee is entitled to benefits provided he is actively at work on the first day the Long Term Disability Benefit Plan becomes effective.
An eligible employee absent from work due to sickness or accident at the effective date of the plan, shall only be eligible for Long Term Disability Plan benefits upon the return to continuous active full-time employmentfor a period of more than four consecutiveweeks.
The Company shall have the right to require medical examinations of employees returning from such lay-off to determine their eligibility under the Plan.
3.	Qualifying Period
An insured employee shall be eligible to receive an amount of Long Teim Disability Benefit after fifty-two weeks of benefit entitlement for the same disability underthe Weekly Indemnity Plan. Benefit payment shall not commence during a strike until the termination of the strike.
4.	Definition of Disability
“Disability" shall mean an insured employee, who has receivedfifty-two (52) weds of benefits for the same disability under the Weekly Indemnity Plan and is thereafter unable because of disease or injury to work at any occupation in the Company, for which he is reasonably lilted by education, training or experience.
5.	Amount of Benefit
(a)	The disability benefit shall be 50% of monthly earnings as defined In 5(b), upio a maximum monthly payment of $1,200,00 Effective first of the month following the date of ratification, increase$t ,350,00 to $f ,400.00.
Effective Junel, 1985, increase$1,400.00to$1,500.00,
(b)	"Monthly Earnings' means, in the case of a day or shift \toka-173 x his regular hourly rate.
(c)	"Hourly rate" means the regular rate of the employee effective immediately prior to the date on which the disability occurred, excluding overtime and shift bonus.
■ 33
(d)	The amount of disability benefit under this Plan will be reduced by the amount for which the employee is eligible and receives under the disability benefit provision of the Canada or Quebec Pension Pians, or similar provisions In any other Government Plans for d is ability for which the employee Is receiving an amount of disability benefit under this Plan, except for war disability pensions and Workmen's Compensation disability pensions.
6,	Duration of Benefit
(a)	Benefits will be paid for one month, for each completed month of service prior to commencement of the Long Term Disability Benefits, while the employeeis disabled.
(b)	200 days of accrued seniority will be considered as 12 months of service.
(c)	Disablity benefits will bepaidonemonthinarrears,
7,	Termination of Benefits
Benefits shall cease upon the occurrence of any one of the following:
(a)	On the date the employee ceases to be disabled. (If there is a recurrence of the same disability within six (6) months of return to work, a new qualifying period will not be required, and the disabled employee will be eligible for any balance of Long Term Disability Benefit payments. This provision shall take precedence over any recurrent disability provision underthe Weekly IndemnityPlan), or
(b)	On exhaustion of the benefit period, cr
(o) On retirementor attainment of age 65, or
(d)	On death.
8.	Continuation of Group Life InsuranceDurlng Disability
(a) An Insured employee receiving Long Term Disability Benefits, who was a participant in the Company Group Life Insurance Plan at the commencement of his disability, will continue to enjoy the Group Life Insurance coverage in effect on the date of his disability at no premium cost to him subject to the Termination of Benefits (clause 7).
9.	Exclusions
(a)	An employee receiving Long Term Disability Benefitswill not be eligible forvacationor statutoryholiday pay.
(b)	Benefits underthe LongTerm Disability Plan will not be payable for daims resultingfrom:
-34
i)	Any injury arising out of or sustained while doing any act or thing pertainingto any occupation or employment for remuneration or profit, or
ii)	Any injury or illness entitling the employee to compensation under any Workmen's Compensation or similar legislation, or
Hi) Self-destruction or any self-inflicted injury, while sane or insane, or
iv)	Disability for which the employee is not under the treatment of a physician, or
v)	Alcoholism or drug addiction, unless the employee is under going a recognized course of treatment by a specialist in the care and treatment of alcoholism and drug addiction or the employee is undergoing regular rehabilitation treatment approved by the insurer and a licensed physician.
vi)	Disability or loss (1) while the employee is on or could be placed on Pregnancy/Maternity Leave or 0 if an employee fails to qualify for Pregnancy/Maternity Leave because of failure to meet the length of service requirements, during the periodof Pregnancy/Maternity leave that the employee could be on if she qualified for such leave, in accordance with the Employment Standards Act 1874, Ontario, or any other relevant provincial statutes.
10.	Rehabilitation
An employee receiving an amount of Long Term Disability Benefit may be asked to undergo reasonable rehabilitation measures which have been the subject of prior consultationwith the employee's doctor, at no cost to the employee. If such employee refuses to undertake such rehabilitation, he may be declared not eligible for an amount of disability benefits.
11.	Physical Examinations
The Company and/or insurerreservesthe rightto requireperiodicphysi-cal examinations throughout the duration of the employee's absence due to disability. Such examinations shall be conducted by a physician or physicians designated by the Company and/or insurer.
Cost of physical examinations, transportation and reasonable out-ofpocket expenses related thereto will be paid by the insurer,
35-
Signed at ThunderBay, Ontario, this 12th day of December, 1980.
FOR THE COMPANY J. S. Perry R.A. Word F. DeCicco P. Elliott
FOR THE UNION T.Mior D. Dumont G. Ruth
K.	McLeod
L.	A. Dulacka
36-
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING between
MacMILLAN BLOEDEL LIMITED, NIPIGON DIVISION
and
IWA-CANADA, LOCAL2693
It is agreed and understoodthat a Joint committee of equal representation from the Union and the Company will meet to develop a Cost Improvement Incentive Plan I o be implemented by October 1,1983,
This committeewill be comprised of three representativesfrom the Company and three representativesfromthe Union as follows:
-	one representativefrom the Local Union
-	one member of the Plant Committee
-	one Union Steward
A further administrative committee will be formed after the implementation of the Cost Improvement Incentive Pian to be comprised of two representatives from the Company and two representatives from the Union as follows:
■ one representativeof the Local Union
-	one Union Steward
it is also agreed and understood by both partiesthat the first $65,000,00 generated under the Cost Improvement Incentive Plan will be retained by the Company in order to offset the cost of retroadivepayfor the period June 1, 1982 to December 31,1982,
Signed at Thunder Bay, on the 9th day of June, 1983,
COMPANY	UNION
R, A. Dines	F, Miron
G, A. Slocombe	K, McLeod
J.A Robillard	T. Harper
L, A. Dulacka D, Dumont T, Mior
•37-
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING between
MaoMILLAN BLOEDEL LIMITED, NIPIGON DIVISION and
IWA-CANADA, LOCAL 2693
It is agreed and understood that during the term of this Agreement a Joint committeeof equal representationfromthe Union and the Company will meet to develop a Profit Sharing Plan.
This committee will be comprised of three representativesfrom the Company and three representativesfrom the Union as follows:
-	one representativefrom the Local Union
-	one member of the Plant Committee • one Union Steward
Once a plan is developed and agreed to by both parties it will be implemented during the term of this Agreement.
Signed at Thunder Bay, on the 9th day of January, 1987.
COMPANY R, A. Dines J.A Stevenson Gall Tolmonen FrankDeCicco
UNION Fred Miron J, Lorenowloh Don Dumont Josephine Kadzielawa DavidSimmons
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING between
MacMILLAN BLOEDEL LIMITED, NIPIGON DIVISION and
IWA-CANADA, LOCAL 2693
The Company agrees that vacation pay will be paid to each employee by separate cheques when the Company installs Its own payroll system. In the Interim period, the Company will continuethe present practice regardingthe payment of vacation pay cheques.
The employees shall havethe option of taking all their vacation pay credits at one time or £ 10% Increments.
38
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING between
MacMILLAN BLOEDEL LIMITED, NIPIGON DIVISION and
IWA-CANADA, LOCAL2693
The Company and the Union agree to the implementation of a twelve (12) hour shift schedule for employees on a five (5) day Monday to Friday schedule in certain job classifications, upon agreement of the parties involved,
Any questions on this Agreement will be resolved to fit the principle of no additional cost to the Company over what would be experienced on an eight (8) hour shift schedule.
The partiesagree to the following terms and conditions:
1.	The introduction of a twelve (12) hour shift schedule shall be on a trial basisfor a period of three (3) months which may be extended by mutual agreement, providingthat over 75% of the participatingemployees are in favour of the extension.
2.	The agreementoan be terminated by either party within thirty (30) days written notice.
3.	The implementation or discontinuing of the twelve (12) hour shift schedule will not involve premiums paid to any employee. Shift scheduling will continue until the completion of a pay period, In cases of layoff due to breakdown,Article 12,09 will apply.
4.	Employeeswill give as much notice as they possibly canon requestsfor leave, so that they can be replaced at straight lime. Otherwise the necessity to work employees on their day off will effectively negate the benefits gained from the additional days free from work.
5.	The work day shall be twelve (12) hours, for which straight time will apply, Hours of work shall be mutually agreed upon by department or mill area.
6.	Ail time worked in excess of employee's scheduled shift and on their scheduled day(s) off shall be paidforatthe rate of time and one half.
7.	When an employee reportsfor work on his/her scheduled shift and no wok is available on his/her regular job and if he/she was not notified at least two (2) hours prior to his/her scheduled starling time, at the telephone number he/she supplied to the Company, shall be paid a minimum of four (4) hours pay if he/she does not work or works less than four (4) hours, eight (8) hours pay at his/her regular rate if he/she works four (4) hoursbut less than eight (8) hours, and twelve (12) hours pay at his/her regular rate if he/she works (8) hours or more.
39
To qualify for the above,the employee must remain on the job until told by the foreman that he/she may leave and must accept other than his/her normalwork if it is offered.
8.	Employeesshall be paid eight (8) hours pay at straighttime at their reg ular job rate for all Statutory Holidays for which they quality.
9.	Employees onthe twelve (12) hourwork schedulewill be entitled to two (2) Floating Holidays per year. When a Floating Holiday is taken an employee shall be paid at regular job rate for twelve (12) straight time hours. The scheduling and qualifying conditions will be outlined in the Collective Agreement.
10.	Wrn a death occurs to a member of a regularfull time employee's immediate family, the applicable five (5) or three (3) day Funeral Leave shall be five (E) or three (3) consecutive days (to include day of funeral) for which a maximum of forty (40) hours for five days or 24 hours for three days will be paid at straight time.
11.	Jury Duty Allowance will not be paid for days when an employee is not scheduled to work. Jury Dutywillbepaidatthe rate of twelve (12) hours at straight time.
12.	Vacation will be cn a weekly basts only. A week will be seven (7) consecutive days including both working days and scheduled days off.
13.	The rest periods during the regulartwelve (12) hour shift will not exceed a total of sixty (60) minutes.
14.	Shift differential will be paid on night shift.
15.	Weekly Indemnity wil be paid as at present cn the basis that a loss of income has occurred, i.e. Forty (40) hours pay divided by seven (7) days to equal the daiy rate.
16.	Theattached twelve (12) hour schedule will beinelfect.
17.	Overtime Agreement:
In case of overtime, the person(s) who normally performfs) the job will be called in for twelve (12) hoursattimeandone halt for the twelve (12) hour shift. If not available, the senior employee who can perform the job and who has sgped the overtime list will be paid at the rate of time and one halfforthe twelve (12) hour shift
-40-
Signedat ThunderBay, on the 25th dayofAugust, 1994,
COMPANY L, K. Lacey H, W, Schnellhardt T, T. Meservia Q, S, Vida
UNION Wilt McIntyre J, Lorenowlch Shirley Nelson John Paakkunainen Gordie Belanger R. Wright
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING CORECOMPOSER WEEKEND SCHEDULE between
MacMILLAN BLOEDEL LIMITED, NIPIGON DIVISION and
IWA-CANADA, LOCAL2693
1,	Jobs posted ■ vacancies shall be posted as they occur and jobs shall be tilled on the basis of Article XII ■ Seniority,
2,	Work Schedule	Worked	Paid
Friday or Monday	8	8
Saturday	12	12
Sunday	12	20
It is understoodlhat the hours of work shall be as follows:
Night Shift:	Friday 11:00 p,m, to 11:00 a.m,
Saturday11:00 p.m, to 11:00 a.m.
Day Shift	Saturday 11:00 a.m, to 11 ;00 p,m,
Sunday11:00 a.m.to 11:00 p.m.
Monday and Friday, employees will be schedule for eight hours on a rotating day basis.
3,	Overtime • All hours worked in excess of the regular work day or in excess of the 32 regularhours per week will be paid at the rate of time and one half.
The first eight (e) hours worked on Sunday or a Statutory Holiday will be paid at the rate of time and one half of the employees regular rate. Hoursworked in excess of this will be paid at the rate of double time.
4.	Vacation ■ for vacation time-off entitlement, one week will be Friday, Saturday, Sunday or Saturday, Sunday, Monday.
5.	Statutory or FloatingHoliday pay shall be calculated at the hours of the day lost.
6.	If a holiday falls on a day which the employee is scheduled off, they shall have the following scheduled Monday or Friday off.
7.	Sick leave shall be paid after losing 24 hours of pay
8.	Bereavement pay shall be calculated at the hours of the day lost up to a maximum of forty (40) hours for five days and twenty-four (24) hours for three days.
9.	On 12 hour shift an employee shall be entitled io four (4) ten minute rest periods during each regular shift. A break of 20 minutes will be allowed for lunch.
Signed at Thunder Bay, on the 25th day of August, 1994.
COMPANY	UNION
L. K. Lacey	Wilf McIntyre
H,	W. Schnellhardt	J, Lorenowich
T. T. Meservia	Shirley Nelson
G, S. Vida	John Paakkunainen
Gordie Belanger R. Wright
-42-
ADDENDUMTO THEAGREEMENT between
MacMILLAN BLOEDEL LIMITED, NIPIGON DIVISION and
IWA-CANADA, LOCAL2693
The following sets out the terms and conditions regardingthe employment of students in the plant.
1.	The Company will supply the Unionwitha list of studentswho are being employed in the plant.
2.	The number of students being employed will be limited io twenty-one (21).
3.	As far as possible, working time to be equally distributed among the students. A refusal to work counts as a day worked.
4.	From May 1st to Labour Day, students to work on a regular basis. Students hiredfor summer employment on a regular basis will be terminated on or before Labour Day.
5.	FromLabour Day to April 30th to work only as replacements on the 3-11 shift.
6.	Wien used as a replacement, they should start in the Dryer/Patcher area if poatim is available.
7.	A student should have preference to a fidUbne position when an open-\nqoccurs providedhe/she has completed Grade 12 and is 18 years <f age.
8.	Studentswill have no seniority rightsand will not be entitled to benefits.
9.	Notwithstanding the above, the present arrangements for staffing the Dryer/Patcher area on the 7:00 a.m. - 3:00 p.m. shift on Saturdays with studentswill continue.
-43-
RETIREMENTINCOME PLAN FOR EMPLOYEESOF
MacMILLAN BLOEDEL UMITED, NIPIGONDIVISION
1.	Definitions
(a)	"Company" means MacMillan Bloedel Limned, Nipigon Division,
(b)	"One Year of Continuous Service' means service on the payroll of the Company totalling 1,600 work hours or more from the last date of hire.
(c)	'Employee means a personwho
i)	isempbyedinafull-timeregularposition;
ii)	isontheCompany's hourly payroll; and Hi) is a memberof Local2693, IWA-CANADA,
(d)	'Member' means an Employee who has fulfilled the eligibility and enrollment requiremerrtsof &±toi4.
(e)	"Member'sAccount’ means all contributionsby the Memberandthe Company on behalf of the Member, plus investmenteamings,
(f)	'Retirement Plan' means this Plan to provide retirement income benefits for employees of the Company.
(g)	'Plan Trustee' means the trustee and/or insurance company appointed by the Company to be the administrator of the Plan and custodian of the Man's assets.
2.	The parties to this Agreement agree that there will be no charge, suspension or discontinuance of the Retirement Plan for the life of this Agreement, except through mutual agreement by the parties to this Agreement or through government legislation. If, at anytime, it shall be necessary or appropriate to make any revisions in the Retirement Plan to obtain or retain any acceptance or approval by tax authorities or to comply with any applicable law, the Company will amend the Plan accordingly to comply.
3.	The conditions and provisions of this Retirement Plan will be embodied in the text of the Retirement Income Man.
4.	Eligibility and Enrollment
Each employee in active service and each Employee who is on authorized leave for vacation, jury duty or bereavement on January 9, 1986, shall join Part A of the Retirement Pian on that date provided he has completedat least One Year of Continuous Service.
Each other Employee at January 9, 1986, and each Employee hired thereafter, shall join Part ofA of the Pian on the January 1st coincident
-44
with or next following the completion of One Year of Continuous Service, provided he is then an active Employee or is on authorized leave for vacation, jury duty or bereavement.
5.	Contributions
(a)	Part A- Mandatory
The Company will contribute $40.00 for each calendar month, to a maximum of $480,00 in a year, for which the Member receives pay for time worked, or is on weekly Indemnity, long term disability, Worker's Compensation (first 12 months only), vacation, jury duty, bereavement, maternity or is on temporary leave of absence on Union businessor off-thejobtraining. Contributionswtll commence for the pay period which ends the later of January 9, 1986 or the dale the Employee becomes a Member.
Effective first of the month following date of ratification, increase $40,00 to $45,00 and $480,00 to 1540.00,
Effective June 1,1995, increase$45.00 to $50,00 and $540,00 to $600.00.
(b)	Part B-Voluntary
i)	EmployesContrlbutlons
A Member may elect to contribute to the Pian, at the rate of $40,00 for each calendar month, to a maximumof $480,00 in a year. The dedudion will be made only if the Member qualifies for the Company basic contribution under Pari A for the pay period and has sufficient net earnings from the Company during such periodfrom which the deduclion may be made. Effective first of the month following date of ratification, increase$40.00 to $45.00 and $480.00 to $540,00,
Effective June 1, 1995, Increase $45.00 to $50.00 and $540,00 to $600,00.
Once the Member beg ins to contribute, payroll dedudions will automatically continue until the Member's Normal Retirement Date unless the Member files an election lo stop contributions. Member contributions may be stopped tr started on any January 1st.
ii)	Company Match
The Company will contribute $40,00 for each calendar month that the Member makes a contribution under paragraph (b) (I) above.
45-
Effectlve first of the month following date of ratification, increase$40,00 to $45,00,
Effective Junel, 1995, lncrease$45,00 to $50.00.
Company and Member contributions may not be withdrawn from the Plan while the Member is employed with the Company.
6,	Retirement Dates
(a)	Normal Retirement ■ The Normal Retirement Date is the first day of the month nextfollowingthe Member's65th birthday.
(b)	Early Retirement ■ Early Retirementwll be permitted at the election of the Member on or afterthe first day of any month following attainment of age 55,
7,	Retirement Benefits
At retirement, the Member's Account will be used to provide a pension payable monthly for life, The amount of annual retirement benefit payable to the Member will depend on the value of the Member's Account, the Member's age, the form of payment chosen, and the prevailing Interest rates at retirement. Prior to retirement, the Member may elect one of the following forms of pension depending on which one best suits his situation:
(a)	Lite only
(b)	Ufe guaranteed 5,10 or 15 years
(c)	Joint and 50% Survivor
(d)	Joint and 100% Survivor
Pensions will normally be provided through the purchase of a life annuity from a life insurance company licensed to transact business In Canada.
8,	Termination of Employment
Company contributions are immediately vested in each Member. Thus, when a Memberterminates employment the Member remains entitled to. the full value of the Member'sAccount.
The Member'sAccount £ locked-in and must be used for the provision of retirement Income, Upon termination of employment for reason other than death or retirement, the Member'sAccount must be transferred fromthis Plan to one of the following, as elected by the Member:
(a) the pension plan of a subsequent employer, provided that such employer accepts the transfer and agrees to administer it on a 'locked-in' basis; or
• 46-
(b) a personal "locked-ln* negisteredrellrementsavingspian.
'LockecUn' means that the funds and interest earnings thereon must eventually be used to purchases pension, payablelor life, from a I ie Insuranee company.
As an exception, the Member's Account will be paid in a fomp sum cash settlement if such Member has less than 2 years participation in the Plan at the date of termination.
6. TTanafaraln
A person who beoomes an Employee of the Company may elect to mwe single lump stm transfer of monies to t-fe Pian from a tax-sheltered pension plan of his prior employer. The amount transferred to this Ptenwill be administeredin aooordanoewith the rules of this Pian.
Such Employee will be considered a new hire for purposes of enrolP menth the Plan and eligibility for Company contributions.
10. DeatMn Service
Each Memberwill be required to designate a beneficiary at enrollment date. If the Member dies while employed by the Company, the Members Account w* be paid in a lump sum to his named beneficiary or, In the absence of a valid benefidary designation, iohis estate, tl. Administration
The Company wll be responsiblefor all aspectsof the Plan admlnistra-Iton and will pay the cost of administering the Ran. Contributions will be remitted monthly to the Plan Trustee. IndMdual employee statements will be prepared and distributed annually by the Pian Trustee shaving the Members position in the Plan.
It Is agreed that the foregoing terms of the Retirementlncome Plan shal be considered part of, and included in, the terms of the Collective Agreement In effect from June 1,1904 to May 31,1997.
Signed at Thunder Ba/, Ontario, this 30th day of November, 1994.
FCRM ECCMPANT H. W. Sohnellhardt T. T, Meservla G, S. Vida
FOR THE UMON
WVf McIntyre J. Ljorenowtch Rodnle Wright John Paakkunalnen Shirley Ncten Gordie Belanger