5=3
Si
m
(LO
S§
L!
G
g§3
©
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
MALETTE INC. (COCHRANE DIVISION) (Sawmill and Planing mill)
AND
I.W.A. CANADA - LOCAL 1-2995
SEPTEMBER 1,1995 TO AUGUST 31,1998
, i 1 1997
INDEX
Article
Page
I
II
III
IV
V
VI
VII
VIII
IX
X
XI
XII
XIII
XIV
XV
Purpose...........
Recognition.......
Period............
Wage Schedule . .. . Union Membership
Vacations with Pay....
Holidays with Pay......
Adjustment of grievances No Strike - No Lockout . Working Conditions . . . . Hours of Work .........
Seniority.......
Bulletin Boards
Health and Welfare Bereavement Pay
3
4
6
9
11
14
14
18
22
29
29
37
XVI	Jury Diy Allowance ........
XVII	Dental Care Plan...........
XVIII	Management Rights .........
XIX	Pension Plan...............
XX	Paid Education Leave.......
Printing of Collective Agreement...
Wage Schedule .....................
Job Description for Trades and Helpers
Trades Apprentice Program .........
Maintenance Trades Annual Review. . . Letter of Understanding............
38
39
40
41
42
42
44
47
57
58
59
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
between
MALETTE INC. (COCHRANE DIVISION)
Sawmill and Planing mill (hereinafter referred to as the "Company")
and
I.W.A. CANADA - LOCAL 1-2995 (hereinafter referred to as the "Union")
ARTICLE1 - PURPOSE
1.01	The purpose of this Agreement is to secure for the Company and the Union, the full benefits of orderly and legal collective bargaining in respect to hours, wages working conditions, and to ensure to the utmost extent possible, the safety and physical welfare of the employees, economy of operation, quality and quantity of output and the protection of property. This Agreement moreover, seeks to provide for fair and peaceful adjustments to all disputes that may arise between the parties. It is recognized as a duty of the parties hereto and of all employees to co-operate fully, individually and collectively, for the advancement of the conditions set forth herein.
ARTICLE11 - RECOGNITION
2.01	(a) The Company recognizes the Union as the
2
sole collectivebargaining agent of all employees of the Sawmill and Planing Mill only, of Malette Inc. (Cochrane Division) at Cochrane save and except foremen, persons above the rank of foreman, office staff and scalers.
(b) The employees of contractors engaged by the Company in the plants and yard of the Company shall be considered employees within the terms of this Agreement; save and except the employees of contractorsand/or the contractors who are engaged to perform occasional special services not commonly performed by employees covered by the terms of this Agreement, employees of contractors where such contractors are engaged for the purpose of erecting structures and where such a contractor is bound by an agreement with a Union or Unions affiliated with a central labour body covering such work.
2.02	Supervisory personnel, which includes contractors whose employees are considered to be employees under this agreement, shall not perform work which would normally be a function of an employee in the job classifications covered by this Agreement,except when instructing employees and in cases of emergency which involves physical danger to employees or danger to property.
It is agreed that the Company operations shall not be interrupted as a result of any jurisdictional dispute that may arise between the Union and any other trade Union.
3
ARTICLE m - PERIOD
3.01	The Company and the Union agree one with the other that they will abide by the Articles of this
unless either party desires to change or terminate this Agreement, in which case the party desiring the change or termination shall notify the other party in writing, at least sixty (60) days prior to August 31 of that particularyear that such is its desire. Either party opening the Agreement in the manner provided above shall notify the other party in writing, as to the changes desired.
Agreement from September 1, 1995 to August 31, 1998, inclusive, and from year to year thereafter,
ARTICLE IV - WAGE SCHEDULE
4.01	The wage schedule is attached hereto and forms a part of this Agreement.
4.02	If during the life of this Agreement, a significant change in job content in physical or mental requirements occurs in any job classification listed in the attached wage schedule the rate thereto shall be adjusted by negotiations between the parties. Upon failure to reach agreement, the matter may be referred to section8.05 of the grievance procedure.
4.03	For classified jobs not listed in this wage schedule, the Company may set estimated or temporary rates. Any such rates will be based on comparison with prevailing rates for a similar and/or related occupation in the attached wage schedule.
4
After a trial period of thirty (30) days any such rates shall be negotiated with the Local Union and upon Agreement shall become part of the wage schedule, and payment made retroactive, and after the thirty (30) day triai and following negotiations for such rates with the Local Union, if no agreement, is reached, the matter shall become subject to the grievance procedure beginning at section8,05.
ARTICLE V - UNION MEMBERSHIP
5.01	All present employees who are members of the Union and those who may become members of the Union shall maintain such membership in good standing as a condition of continued employment.
5.02	All new employees shall become members of the Union within fifteen (15) days from the day they start to work at the plant. A list of new employees hired shall be supplied to the steward every month.
5.03	For each individual employee who is a member of the Union or applies to become a member, the Company agrees that it will, on his behalf and upon his written request or upon written notice by the Union, pay Union initiation fees and/or weekly membership dues from monies due him.
The Company shall put employeeson check off at time of hire or return to work and deduct the Union's weekly membership dues from monies due horn.
5
5.04	Etenittarres of ail deductions shall be sent to the Local Union monthly, said remittances to be accompanied by itemized lists in alphabetical order, in duplicate, showing payroll numbers, full names rates and amount of hours. The Company shall deliver the above not later thanthe end of the followingmonth. A copy of the list will be given by the Company to the Union Steward.
5.05	The Local Union shall furnish the Company with a list of Local Officers and representatives, and shall amend these lists as changes occur.
5.06	The Company will furnish a list of supervisory personnel to the Union office at the start of the contract year and amend it, if required, at the end of each month. The amended list will show the effective date of the changes. Failure to advise the Union of such changes will not in any way affect the authority of supervisors.
The Company will also maintain an up-to-date listing of spare supervisors. Such listing will be posted on the bulletin boards and a copy will be provided to the Union.
5.07	When hiring employees the Company will give preference to Union members provided they apply for work or that the Union applies on their behalf1 and provided they are capable to perform the work required.
5.08	Representatives of the Union carrying a certificate of authority signed by the President and
6
Secretary of the Union shall have the right to visit the plant for the followingpurposes:
1)	Evaluation of jobs and times studies connected therewith.
2)	The investigation of alleged violation of this Agreement.
3)	Investigation of grievances.
4)	To post notices on Union bulletin board.
Prior to his visit, the Union representative shall report to the Plant Office to request permission for his visit, and to allow the Company to appoint a representative to accompany ham. The Union representative shall conduct himself in a manner which will not interfere vitti the normal operation of the plant during his visit.
ARTICLE VI-VACATIONS W ITH PAY
6.01	For the purpose of this Article seniority will
be acquired and maintained as defined in Article XII of this Agreement and the vacation year shall begin with the first pay of June each year.
Vacation pay credits shall be paid on the following basis and each 2% increment of vacation pay entitles an employee to one week of time off.
a)	4% of gross earnings for employees who
7
have less than four (4) years service with the Company.
b)	6% of gross earnings for employees who have four (4) years or more but less than nine (9) years service with the Company.
c)	8°/o of gross earnings for employees who have nine (9) years car more but less than eighteen (18) years service with the Company.
d)	10% of gross earnings for employees who have eighteen (18) years or more, but less than twenty-five (25) years service with the Company.
e)	12% of gross earnings for employees who have twenty-five (25) years or more service with the Company.
0	Supplementary Vacation with Pay.
Employees who have worked more than twenty (20) years for the Company, shall receive the following additional vacation in the calendar year in which they attain:
Age 60 - 1 week (2% of gross earnings) Age 61-2 weeks (4%of gross earnings) Age 62 - 3 weeks (6% of gross earnings) Age 63 - 4 weeks (8%of gross earnings) Age 64 - 5 weeks (10% of gross earnings)
6.02	An employee who has been continuously employedfor one (1) year, shall take vacation time off
8
at a time that is satisfactory to the employee and his supervisor.
6.03	Accrued vacation with pay shall be paid to each employee on every pay period.
6.04	If a plant vacation shutdown of two (2) weeks duration, or any further period as may be mutually agreed to between the Company and the Union, itwill be scheduled each year during July and/or August. The Company will notify the Union at least three (3) months in advance of a proposed vacation shutdown in order to allow for consultation between the Company and the Union as to duration and timing of such said shutdown.
The Company will provide vacation form to each employee by March 1 stl of each year and each employee will be required to fill and submit their vacahonrequest no later than April 30th of eachyear.
An employee who works during the vacation shutdown and/or is entitled to vacation time off in excess to the duration of the vacation shutdown, will be allowed to take such time off upon notice in writing to his supervisor. In case too many employees should seek additional time off, thereby jeopardizing efficiency of operation, time off will be scheduled in accordance with seniority.
If a plant vacation shutdown is not scheduled, the Company will grant vacation at times requested by the employees from June 1 to May 31 of the following year given preference to senior employees. A
9
minimumofsix (6) employeesper shift at the Sawmill and four (4) at the Planing Mill will be permitted to take their vacation at any one time as long as the proper and orderly operation of the plants are ensured
ARTICLE VH - HOLIDAYS WITH PAY
7.01	1) Employees shall be paid without the
performance of work for the following holidays, at their regular rate of pay:
New Year's Day January 2nd Good Friday Victoria Day Dominion Day
Civic Holiday (1st Monday in Aug.) Labour Day ThanksgivingDay Christmas day Boxing Day
11)	In addition, employees who have accumulated one hundred and twenty (120) worked days, will be granted two (2) floating holidays per year. A minimum of two (2) employeesper shift will be permitted to take a floater at a time satisfactory to the employee and his supervisor. If an employee has not taken his floating hohday by the end of March each year and has not signified his intention of taking it, such floating holiday will be scheduled by the Company before May 31 st of each year.
III)	Request for floaters are to be submitted in writing on forms supplied by the Compary at least three working days in advance of the floater with the exception of emergency situations.
10
Management will respond within twenty-four (24) hours of receiving the request.
7.02	When any of the above Holidays occur on a Saturday or Sunday, the observance of the holiday shall be on the following Monday except for July the 1” which will be taken on the preceding Friday, or such other day that is celebrated as such.
For the purpose of this Agreement, a Saturday or a Sunday, or a Holiday shall begin at 12:00 hour of that day and end at 12:00 hour the day following.
7.03	An employee who has established seniority in accordance with Article XII, and who works any of the available work days within the thirty (30) day period prior to the holiday, and who works the last scheduled shift prior to the holiday and the first scheduledshiftfoilowingthe holiday, unless prevented by reasons beyond his control and the employee takes the necessary steps to advise his immediate supervisor, shall receive pay for the holidays.
7.04	Holidays occurring during the course of an allowed vacation period shall not be included as part of that allowance.
An employee who is qualified under Article XII and who works any of the available work days within the thirty (30) day period immediately prior to the holiday, is on authorized leave of absence when the holiday occurs, he shall receive holiday pay for the first holiday that occurs during his absence.
11
7.05	An employee who is qualified under Article XII and who ceases work due to layoff during the thirty (30) day period immediately prior to the holiday, shall receive holiday pay for all holidays within such thirty (30) day period.
7.06	An employee, who qualifies under Section 12.02 (a) and7.03, who is obliged to cease work due to sickness, pregnancy or accident certified by a licensed practitioner during the twenty-one (21) day period immediately prior to the holiday, shall receive holiday pay forthe first holiday within such twenty-one (2 1) day period.
7.07	If an employee who has established seniority in accordance with Article XII is recalled and works anytime during the fourteen (14) calendar day period immediately following the holiday, he shall receive holiday pay for the preceding holiday.
ARTICLE Vm - ADJUSTMENT OF GRIEVANCES
8.01	All disputes between employees and the Company shall be settled by the following procedures, and there shall be no stoppage of work because of differences.
8.02	The Union shall arrange for the electionff om its working membership of a Union Committee of three (3) headed by a Union Steward. The Company shall be notified in writing as to the names of the Union Committee and Steward.
12
8.03	A grievance under the provision of this Agreement is defined to be any difference between the parties or between the Company and employees covered by this Agreement involving the interpretation, application, administration or alleged violation of any of the provisions of this Agreement.
Stage 1
Any grievance arising dining the term of this Agreement must be presented for adjustment within fourteen (14) days after the grievance has occurred. A grievance of an employee shall be taken by the employee singly or together with the Steward and/or Union Representative directly to the employee's immediate supervisor and a decision thereon shall be rendered within two (2) days from the presentation of the grievance.
8.04	a) Stage U
If this decision is not satisfactory to the aggrieved employee, the grievance shall be made in writing, and signed by the aggrieved employee and/or a Steward, and shall be presented to the Company by himself or together with the Union Steward and/or Union Representative, within seven (7) days from the date of the decision under paragraph 8,03 above, and shall be dealt with at a meeting of the Steward's committee and Management, and such decision shall be rendered within seven (7) days or within such further time as may be mutually agreed.
b)	In case of discharge or suspension by the
13
Company, the Company will, within two (2) days, notify the employees in writing of the reason for the discharge or suspension. A copy of such notice shall be submitted to the Union Steward within two (2) days. A grievance arising from a claim by an employee that his discharge or suspension by the Company was unjust or contrary to the terms of this Agreement must be dealt with in writing by both parties and must be presented to the Company no later than ten (10) days after the written notice of the discharge or suspension. The grievance shall be introduced at this stage.
c)	Grievances which involve Company wide
interpretation, administration or alleged violation of the Agreement, shall be made in writing, and delivered to the opposite party within ten (10) days of the occurrence on which the grievance is based, and shall be dealt with by Representatives of the Company and Representatives of the Union. If the matter is not settled within thirty (30) days of notice being received by the opposite party, it may forthwith be referred to arbitration.
8.05	Stage III
In the event that the grievance is not settled in the above matter, it shall be referred to arbitration in accordance vifti the Labour Relations Act, and Notice of Processing to Arbitration shall be made on the opposite party within thirty (30) days of the decision rendered under section 8.04 above.
Nothing containedin this article shall prevent
14
the parties from mutually agreeing to a single arbitrator.
8.06	Saturdays, Sundays and holidays shall not be included in any time limits in this article of the Agreement. The time limits mentioned in this article may be extended by mutual agreement, but otherwise time shall be of essence. Failure on the part of the grievor to comply with time limits shall be deemed to be an abandonment of the grievance.
ARTICLE IX - NO STRIKE - NO LOCKOUT
9.01	There shall be no strikes called or
supported by the Union or its members, and no lockouts caused by the Company during the life of this Agreement or any renewal thereof.
ARTICLE X-WORKING CONDITIONS
10.01	a) There shall be at least one (1) meeting of the Safety Committee very month.
It is agreed that the Company and the Union will co-operate collectively in improving safety and first aid practices. The Company and the Union further agree to set up and maintain a joint safety committee to promote safe working conditions and practices.
A complete safety inspection shall be carried out at regular intervals, by a minimum of six members
15
of a Health and Safely committee, (one from the Union and one from Management in their respective department). Time spent by employees on such safety activities shall be considered as time worked.
There shall be adequate First Aid Stations supplied and maintained by the Company at each Plant. Such station to meet the standards of the Ttrtrrrf Compensation Act and the provisions of the Industrial Safety Act.
Adequate First Aid fits shall be supplied and maintained by the Company at suitable locations throughout the Operations.
Adequate transportation facilities and/or arrangements shall be provided by the Company for sick or injured employees.
The Company is responsible to see that a qualified First Aid person be available at all times dining working hours.
I)	All mobile equipment to be equipped with fire extinguishers, and it will be the responsibility of the operator to make sure that they are kept full at all time.
II)	The Company agrees that it will provide iradesmen fire insurance coverage against loss by fire or damage of the tools and tool chest required by such iradesmen, to the full value of such tools on Company property. To quality for the above, tradesmen will supply an itemized list of tools and amend it as needed.
16
b)	The Company will provide free of charge the following safety apparel and equipment, gloves, rain suits, coveralls for all maintenance work, welding shields, aprons and hard hats where required. The Company will ensure that adequate safety switches are installed as required on machinery throughout the plant.
The Company agrees to supply gloves in different sizes as required.
The wearing of safety equipment and apparel will not become a condition of employment unless it has been agreed to by the Company and the Union or is mandatory under government legislation.
The Company agrees to pay a flat allowance of fifty-two ($52,00) to each employees, each year with the first pay of June, as a compensationfor safety boots.
c)	The Company agrees to pay an allowance of $ 110.00 maximum per year for the employees who require Prescription Safety Glasses (lens, fi-ames or both) for the workplace.
10.02	It is agreed that during the life of this Agreement, there shall be no reduction in existing privileges.
10.03	a) The Company will provide adequate lunchroom space and ventilation, and will install a low heat oven.
17
Adequate hot water supply for hot beverages and telephone with booth for local calls will be provided in the lunchroom.
b)	Car plug-ins, shall be provided for employees' cars at the Company's parking lot.
c)	The Company will endeavour to provide adequate vacuum cleaners for employees' clothes.
d)	Adequate lockers will be provided for all employees by the Company.
10.04	The Company will, in consultation with the Union, take such measures as required to improve ventilation, heating and dust control in the plant and lunchroom.
10.05	Employees will be paid every Thursday morning by direct deposit. Employee working the evening shift will receive 'their pay slip at the end of their shift Wednesday evening and employees working the night shift will receive their pay slip at the end of their shift on Thursday morning. Employees working the day shift will receive their pay slip during the lunch break on Thursday. The pay slips will be distributed in separate and sealed envelopes. The Company will include on each employee's income tax T-4 slip the amount of union dues deducted in the calendar year.
10.06	Upon proof of purchase, the Company shall pay $300.00 per year as tool allowance to trades person. This includes voltage tester.
18
ARTICLE XT - HOURS OF WORK
11.01	a) The Work week shall consist of 40 hours.
On a three (3) shift production, the work week shall consist of forty (40) hours, eight (8) hours per day beginning at midnight Sunday to midnight Friday, in accordancewith the following schedule:
No. 1 shift - 0:00 hour to 8:00 hour No. 2 shift - 8:00 hour to 16:00 hour No. 3 shift - 16:00 hour to 0:00 hour
b)	On two (2) shift production the work week shall consists of forty (40) hours, eight (8) hours per day beginning at 7:00 a.m. Monday to 1:30 a.m. Saturday, in accordancewith the following schedule:
Sawmill
No 1 shift - 7:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. - 1 hour lunch No 2 shift- 5:00 p.m. to 1:30 a.m. - 'A hour lunch
Planer - production & maintenance
No 1 shift - 7:00 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. - Vi hour lunch No 2 shift - 4:00 p.m. to 12:30 a.m. - 'A hour lunch
The carry lift operator assigned to shipping will be from 3:30 p.m. to midnight
c)	On a one (1) shift production schedule, the work week shall consist of forty (40) hours, eight (8) hours per day, beginning at 8:00 hour Monday to
19
17:00 hour Friday, in accordance with the following schedule.
No 1 shift from 8:00 hour to 17:00 hour
All employees working steady day shift will finish at 4:30 hour on Friday. They will be allowed a 14 hour off for lunch not paid. The work day for tradesman on steady days (day shift) shall consist of eight (8) consecutive hours between the hours of 7:00 hour and 17:00 hour meal time excepted.
11.02	a) Employees on one (1) and two (2) shift production as described in Section 11.01 (b) and
11.01	© w i 11 be allowed one (1) hour off for lunch, not paid, at noon. Steady days employees, not on production will be permitted to take thirty (30) minutes lunch break, not paid.
b)	Employees on a three (3) shift production schedule, as described in section 11.01 (a) will be allowed one-half (14) hour off for lunch, on Company time, to be taken between the fourth and the fifth hour.
c)	All employees on a three (3) shift rotation schedule, will be allowed one (1) ten (10) minute coffee break on Company time, to be taken at the midpoint of each half shift.
All employees on two (2) shift rotation schedule and all employees on straight day shift, will be allowed one (1) fifteen (15) minute coffee break at the midpoint of each half shift.
20
At the request of the company, the coffee breaks maybe advanced by a full 15 minutes before the scheduled coffee breaks.
d)	Individual employees can elect to spend their lunch break either in the lunchroom or outside of the Company premises, but if they elect to go out they will be required to punch their cards when going and when returning to work.
11.03	a) If an employee reports for work and no work is availablehe will receive four (4) hours pay for reportingto work, if he commences work and no work is available for him to complete his shift, he shall be paid for eight (8) hours pay at his regular rate.
To quality for the above, the employee must remain on thejob until told by the foreman that he may leave and must accept other than his normal work if it is offered.
b) The hours of work of all employees shall be scheduled and posted on Friday before 3:00 p.m, of the previous week. The starting and stopping times shall remain constant and fixed during the weekly period, subjectto the following:
"An employee's scheduled shift may be changed at the Company's request, provided he is paid one and one half times his regular rate for the first shift worked after the change. When the employee reverts to his original shift, he shall be paid at his regular straight time rate provided that there is a break of at least eight (8) hours between the shifts worked".
21
11.04	a) Time worked in excess of eight (8) hours per day or shift, all hours worked on Saturday and all hours worked by an employee outside his scheduled shift shall be paid for at the rate of time and one-half, except as specified in Article 11.01.
b)	Time worked on Sunday or any of the Holidays specified in this Agreement shall be paid for at the rate of double time.
c)	Employees who are willing to work overtime, will be required to signify by giving their names to their supervisors each week. Overtime requirements will be distributed as equally as possible among employees who make themselves available and who normally perform the work requiring the overtime. Maintenance employees may be scheduled to work on Saturday and Sunday and shall be paid at the prevailing overtime rates for such work.
The replacement foreman will not be allowed to do overtime on the day he is assigned as foreman. On any other event, he will be permitted to work overtime as per the weekly overtime list.
After two (2) or more hours of overtime consecutive to a regularly scheduled shift the Company will allow a lunch period of thirty (30) minutes to an employee and provide a lunch free of charge or allow the necessary time with pay to the employee to go home for lunch.
d)	An employee who is called back for work after completing his day or shift shall be paid time and
22
one-half for the hours worked but in no case shall he receive less than four (4) hours pay at straight time rate.
11.05	All employees scheduled to rotate on two (2) and three (3) shift operations shall receive effective September 1,1995- $0.28 per hour in addition to then-regular rate. Effective September 1,1996 - $0.29 per hour. Effective September 1, 1997 - $0.30 per hour.
ARTICLE XH - SENIORITY
12.01	a) The Company recognizes the principle of seniority. Seniority shall govern in promotions, transfers, layoffs and recalls after layoff, provided the employee has the necessary qualification of knowledge, skill and ability to perform the work required.
An employee's seniority shall be his length of service with the Company dating back to his original hiring date or in case his service was broken as defined in Section 12.03 his hiring date after his last break in service.
An employee who has accrued seniority and is on authorized leave of absence on Union Business shall accrue seniority while on such leave.
An employee who has accrued seniority and is then employed by the Union shall continue to accrue and retain seniority for a period not exceeding one (1) year, unless otherwise mutually agreed to. An employee who has accrued seniority and is then
23
employed by the Company in a position beyond the scope of this Agreement shall continue to accrue and retain seniority for a period not exceeding one (1) year unless otherwise mutually agreed to. Such employees may upon proof of Union membership in good standing, exercise his seniority to return to the bargaining unit.
An employee who anticipatesnot to be able to report for work for reasons beyond his control, must notify the Company at the earliest possible time prior to his scheduled shift (At least one (1) hour). The Company may require that an absence due to sickness or accidentbe certified by a licensed physician, dentist or chiropractor.
Before returning to work after an excused absence, an employee must advise his foreman one (1) week prior to date of return if absent for thirty (30) working days or more, and one (1) day if less than thirty (30) working days.
b)	Employees who are or become expectant mothers shall be allowed such time off as is medically required by their condition without loss of seniority.
c)	An employee who has been absent fi-om work due to accident, sickness, pregnancy or authorized leave of absence has the right to return to the job classification he held prior to such absence, providing all other ccnditicns cf this Article are met by such said employee.
12.02	a) Anew employee of the Company shall be
24
considered a probationary employee until he has completed thirty (30) days of work in one period of employment, except in case of lay-off, or any other time limit mutually agreed to by the Company and the Lfricn within a ninety (90) day period, after which his seniority shall date from his original hiring date. In all cases where the employee ceases to work for the Company, for reasons beyond his control after he has completed fifteen (15) days of employment the Company shall advise the Union in writing within two (2) days of such separation and give reasons for the separation.
b) Grievances may not be presented in connectionwith the discharge or layoff of probationary employees unless the discharge or layoff is claimed to be discriminatory.
12.03	An employee shall lose all seniority if he:
a)	Quits or is discharged and not reinstated.
b)	Fails to report for work following recall as provided in Section 12.04 (b) or fails to return from an authorized absence on the date specifiedunless in either case, his return to work on time is prevented by circumstancesbeyond his control, and he has taken the necessary steps to advise the foreman.
c)	If absent without permission for two (2) consecutive days unless such absence is for reasons beyond his control and he his taken the necessary steps to advise the Company.
25
12.04	a) In case of layoff the Company will notify in writing the employees intended to be laid off and the Union Steward at least five (5) days in advance or pay in lieu thereof.
In cases of layoff due to breakdown the employees affected will be paid in accordance with Article 11.03 and will be permitted to exercise their seniority rights to anotherjob the same day and for the following day on their scheduled shifts. Should the breakdown last more than the above mentioned period (48) hours the employeeswill be permitted to exercise their seniority rights for anotherjob on ary shift in accordance with Article 12.01 (a).
b)	When the date of recall is known or anticipated at the time of layoff, employees leaving will be informed accordingly. In all other cases, notice in writing will be mailed to an employee at his given address with a copy to the Union office, at least ten (10) days before he is required to report to work. Employeeswill be required to acknowledgereceipt of such notice within four (4) days and report for work on the date specified, unless other arrangements have been made in writing.
c)	For layoffs of less than three (3) months, employees affected will be transferred to vacant positions as per seniority and qualifications and in accordance with Article 12.05 (a) of the Collective Agreement. It is understood that senior employees shall not be subject to any loss of employment. Once normal operationsresume, employeeswill revert back to their originaljob.
26
For layoffs of more than three (3) months, employees will be transferred as per preference, seniority and qualifications. Employees not qualified will be trained by the Company for five (5) working days in order to meet thej ob requirements.
12.05	a) When an employee is transferred at the
request of the Company to meet production requirements to a low er payirg job. the employee will be paid at the rate of thej ob from which he has been so transferred.
It is understood th^t such transfers will be made in conformity to Article 12.01 (a).
b)	For a transfer at the request of the employee, payment from the date of transfer will be made at the rate of the new occupation or classification.
c)	For all other transfers (including, but not IMtBdto transfer due to inefficiency, inability, health, safety and demotions for cause), payment shall be made at the rate for the job to which the transfer is effected.
Promotions shall mean advancement i cames a higher r|rte of pay or steady da1
pay i
nt to
ays
job.
12.06	1) Where a vacancy thereof will be posted on period of five (5) workin Company may make a temporary
occurs immediate notice (he bulletin board for a g days for which the appointment to such
27
vacantjob. However, in case replacementis required for a vacancy of less than fifteen (15) consecutive working days, such vacancy may be filled by temporary appointment without posting.
2)	Employees will not be consideredfor a vacantjob, unless they apply in writing during the five (5) day period on forms to be supplied by the Company. A copy of such forms will be retained by the applicant. All possible effort will be made to advise absent employees of such vacancy.
A copy of the notice of vacancies, along with the names of applicants, will be given to the Union Steward.
3)	The permanent vacancy will be filled by the senior applicant provided he has the necessary skill, ability and efficiency to meet or to be trained to meet the job requirements. An employee accepting the postedjob shall be allowedfive (5) working days in which to qualify or any further time as maybe mutually agreed to. Failure of an employee to qualify shall entitle him to return to his formerjob.
When a vacancy is caused by an employee's absence due to disability or authorized leave of absence, the original vacancy will be considered and posted as "Temporary" in which case both the employee whose position has been dealt with as "Temporary" and the employee who has filled the temporary vacancy are entitled upon his return to resume their former positions provided they are capable of performing its requirements.
28
in cases of posting permanent vacancies, openings arising from the posting of the original vacancy will be posted up to and including the 1 st base rated job. in addition, when a permanent base rated job vacancy occurs, only the original vacancy will be posted.
An employee who applies for any job vacancy must, if his seniority and qualifications permit, fill the vacancy he has applied for.
12.07	An employee who has successfully claimed and filled ajob, shall be ineligible to further bid for another vacancy before three (3) months have elapsed unless such vacancy is a promotion, or the employee is holding a temporary position.
12.08	A seniority list shall be prepared and posted monthly on the bulletin board by the Company, showing each employee's name with Christian names, clock number and effective date of hiring. Copies of such list shall be mailed to the Union Steward and the Union office.
12.09	Sickness certified by a licensed physician, dentist or licensed chiropractor, authorized leave cf absence or disabling injury shall not affect an employee's seniority. An employee who has established seniority in accordance with Section 12,00 of this article shall retain such seniority for thirty-six (36) months during layoff.
12.10	An employee with three (3) or more years of continuous service for whom no job is available
29
because of lay-off can upon termination elect to receive a severance allowance of one (1) week's pay for each year of employment during his last period of continuous service (up to the date of termination) computed on the basis of forty (40) straight time hours at the employees regular rate. The maximum severance allowance payable being thirty (30) weeks. It is understood that an employee who chooses to receive his severance allowance will be terminated from his employment waiving his recall rights pursuant to this agreement.
ARTICLE Xm - BULLETIN BOARDS
13.01	The Union shall have the right to post notices
dealing with Union affairs upon bulletin boards of the Company, such notices to have the approval of Company management before such posting.
ARTICLE XIV - HEALTH AND WELFARE
14.01	Each employee who has established seniority
in accordance with Article XII shall be entitled to the following benefits and the premium will be paid in full by the Company.
a)	A group life insurance benefit in the amount of $37,000 and an accidental death and dismemberment benefit for up to a maximum of $37,000.
An employee who is laid off will continue to
30
receive life insurance coverage until the end of the current insuranaepolicy month during which he is laid
Off.
b)	A weekly benefit providing seventy (70) percent of weekly earnings (forty hours times an employee's regular rate) up to a maximum of $500.00 from date of ratification, September 1, 1996 $510,00 and September 1, 1997 $525,00 to commence on the first day in case of a non-compensable accident and/or hospitalization and on the fourth continuous day from the commencement of a disability due to sickness and will continue for the period of disability up to a maximum of fifty-two (52) weeks. In consideration of the above the Company will retain the 5/12th portion of the premium reduction.
All cost of medical report requested by the Company or Insurance Carrier will be paid by the Company.
c)	A drug benefit plan whereby an employee or his dependent having a prescribed drug ordered covered by insurance company must pay the druggist and be reimbursed by the insurance company. There shall be a thirty-five ($0,35) cents deductible per prescription.
d)	A semi-private hospitalization benefit.
e)	The full cost of O.H.I.P, premiums, married or single rates.
31
0	The Company‘s contribution to employees
who are off work due to a Workers’ Compensation claim or short term disability claim will be continued for a period of up to twelve (12) months.
g)	Long Term Disability plan.
The Compary shall pay the monthly premium cost of the Long Term Disability Benefit Plan,
The Long Term Disability Benefit Plan shall be administered in accordance with the terms of an Insurance policy.
The Compary will provide an L. T.D. benefit as per Appendix “B”
1.	Eligibility
The Long Term Disability Benefit Plan shall be compulsory for all employees who have accumulated 45 working days seniority with the Company.
2.	Effective date of coverage
An eligible employee is entitled to benefits provided he is actively at work on the first day the LongTerm Disability Benefit Plan becomes effective.
An eligible employee absent from work due to sicknessor accident at the effectivedate of the Plan, shall only be eligible for Long Term Disability Plan Benefits upon the return to continuous active full-time
32
employmentfor a period of more than four consecutive weeks.
The Company shah have the right to give medical examinations to eniployees returning from such lay-off to determine thjeir eligibility under the plan.
3.	Qualifying Period
An insured employee shall be eligible to receive an amount of Long Term Disability Benefit after fifly-two (52) weeks of benefit entitlementfor the same disability under the Weekly Indemnity Plan. Benefit payment shall not commence during a strike until the termination of the strike.
4.	Definition of Disability
"Disability" shall mean an insured employee who has received fifty-two (52) weeks of benefits for the same disability under the Weekly Indemnity Plan and is thereafter unable because of disease or injury to work at any occupation in the Company for which he is reasonably fitted by education, training or experience.
5.	Amount of Benefit
a)	The disability benefit shall be 50% of monthly earnings as defined in (5b), up to a maximum monthly payment of $1,600.00 effective date of ratification. Effective September 1, 1997 increase to $1,650.00.
33
b)	"Monthly Earnings" means, in the case of a day or shift worker, 17 3 X his regular hourly rate.
c)	"Hourly Rate" means, the regular rate of the employee effective immediately prior to the date on which the disability occurred, excluding overtime or shift bonus.
d)	The benefits payable under this Plan are reduced by any primary disability payments made under the Canada Pension Plan, or any Company group disability income plan. Benefits are not affected by War Pensions, W.C. Disability Pensions, or by any insurance policies he may have purchased himself.
6.	Duration of Benefit
a)	Benefitswill be paid for one month, for each completed month of serie prior to commencement of the Long Term Disability Benefits, while the employee is disabled.
b)	Disability benefits will be paid one month in arrear.
7.	Termination of Benefits
Benefits shall cease upon the occurrence of any one of the following:
a) On the date the employee ceases to be disabled. (if there is a recurrence of the same disability within six (6) months of return to work, a
34
new qualifying period will not be required, and the disabled employee will be eligible for any balance of Long Term Disability Benefit Payments. This provision shall take precedence over any recurrent disability provision under the Weekly Indemnity Plan), or
b)	On exhaustion of the benefit period, or
c)	Up to normal retirement age, or
4)	On death.
8.	Exclusion
a)	An employee receiving Long Term Disability Benefits will not be eligible for vacation or statutory holiday pay.
b)	Benefits under the Long Term Disability Plan will not be payable for claims resulting fi-om:
i)	Any injury arising out of or sustained while doing any act or thing pertaining to any occupation or employment for remuneration or profit, or
ii)	Any injury or illness entitling the employee to compensation under any Workers’ Compensation or similar legislation, or
iii)	Self-destruction or any self-inflicted injury while sane or insane, or
35
iv)	Disability for which the employee is not under the treatment of a physician, or
v)	Alcoholism or drug addiction, unless the employee is undergoing recognized course of treatment by a specialist in the care and treatment of alcoholism and drug addiction or the employee is undergoing regular rehabilitative treatment approved by the insurer and a licensed physician.
vi)	Disability or loss (1) while the employee is on or could be placed on Pregnancy/Matemity Leave, or (2) if employee fails to quality for Pregnancy/Matemity Leave because of failure to meet the length of service requirements, during the period of Pregnancy/Matemity leave that the employee could be on if she qualified for such leave, in accordance vittithe Employment Standards Act 1974, Ontario or any other relevant provincial statutes.
9.	Rehabilitation
An employee receiving an amount of Long Term Disability Benefit may be asked to undergo reasonable rehabilitation measures which have been the subject of prior consultation which the employee's doctor, at no cost to the employee. If such employee refuses to undertake such rehabilitation, he may be declared not eligible for an amount of disability benefits.
10.	Physical Examinations
The Company and/or insurer reserves the
36
right to require periodical physical examinations throughoutthe duration of the employee's absence due to disability. Such examinations shall be conducted by a physician or physician designated by the Company and/or insurer.
Cost of physical examinations, transportation and reasonable out-of-pocket expenses related thereto will be paid by the insurer.
h) Disputed W.C.B, Claims
If an employee covered by the Company's present Weekly indemnity Plan suffers a disability for which payment is in dispute with the W.C.B., Weekly Indemnity payment will be made retroactive if requested by the employee and provided he has been off work for at least one (1) month due to the disability without W.C.B. having accepted the claim and providing the employee is subject to the rules and regulations covering the Weekly Indemnity Plan.
If the W.C.B. claim is subsequently established, the employee will then repay the Weekly Indemnity payments received to the appropriate fund,
On layoff, the Company will continue to pay the monthly prardun cost of the following plans to the end of the month which the employee is laid off and for the succeeding month:
Drug Plan
Semi-Private Hospitalization
O.H.I.P.
37
Dental Plan Vision Care
0	Injury while at Work
For employees who qualify under Article XII, the Company agrees that an employee shall be paid at the regular rate forthe balance of his shift lost because of injury while at work. It is also agreed and understood that where an employee is unable to return to work he will be required to show proof to qualify for the above.
j)	Vision Care
Equivalent Blue Cross - date of ratification $90.00/24. Effective September 1, 1996 increase to $125.00/24.
k)	If the use of an ambulance is medically necessary. The Company will pay the OHIP deductible.
ARTICLE XV - BEREAVEMENT PAY
15.01	For an employee who has established seniority, when death occurs to a member of his immediate family, that is the employee's spouse or children, father-in-law, mother-in-law,brother, sister, daughter-in-law, son-in-law and grandparents, the employee will be granted paid leave to attend the funeral. The intent of this clause is to allow the employee to attend the funeral without loss of
38
earnings. The day of the funeral must be one of the days granted. For the employee's spouse , children, mother and father he shall be paid for eight hours at his regular straight time rate for time lost up to a maximum of five (5) consecutive days. For all others, the maximum shall be three (3) consecutive days.
Any claims for bereavement pay must be submitted by the employee to the Company in writing, along with proof of bereavement in the employee's immediate family.
It is understood that for purposes of this article step-relatives will be considered the same as blood relatives, as listed above.
ARTICLE XVI - JURY DUTY ALLOWANCE
16,01	In the case of an employee who has established seniority and is called for Jury service or subpoenaed as a witness, except for arbitration, the Company shall pay for each day of such service, an allowance equal to the difference between eight (8) hours of pay based on his regular straight time hourly rate and the payment he received for jury service or Crown witness. The employee will present proof of service and of pay received therefore when making his claim for such allowance. An employee who is called for jury service or subpoenaed as a witness by the Crown must notify the Company immediately.
ARTICLE XVn - DENTAL CARE PLAN
39
17.01	A dental care plan with participation compulsory for all employees on the following basis:
1.	Eligibility
Participation	in	this	plan	is	limited	to
employees who have accumulated sixty-five working days of seniority with the Company.
It is understood and agreed that the Plan will provide for the continuation of coverage for the period an employee is off work due to layoff or leave of absence, but in no case beyond the end of the month following the month in which such absence commences.
2.	Plan Design
a)	Services and	benefits	as	provided	in Blue
Cross no 7 Basic Plan and Rider no 1.
b)	Services and benefits as provided in Blue Cross Rider no 2 (50%). The Plan provides for the application of the 1994 O.D.A Schedule of Fees. Effective September 1st, 1996 - 1995 O.D.A. Effective September I, 1997 - 1996 O.D.A,.
Maximum of $ 1,000.00 per calendar year per
person.
The Company agrees to provide the Union with a copy of Rules and Regulations relating to the Plan.
40
3.	Administration
The Plan will be administered in accordance with an appropriate contract or set of procedures reflecting the plan design outlined in Item 2 above. The decision as to the choice of administrativevehicle from among service carriers, insurance companies or self-administration will be made by the Company on the basis of appropriate study of these alternatives.
4.	Premiums
The premium cost of this plan shall be paid by the Company.
5.	integration
The Plan will not provide like benefits where such are currently being provided by federal or provincial legislation.
If during the life of this Agreement federal or provincial governments shall introduce legislation to provide benefits already covered by this plan, the plan shall be amended so as to eliminate said benefits,
ARTICLE XVm - MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
18.01	The Union agrees that the Company has the exclusive right and power to manage tie plant, to direct the work force, and to hire, promote, transfer or layoff employees and to suspend or discharge or otherwise discipline employees for just cause,
41
provided that the Company agrees that any exercise of these rights and powers shall be subject to the express provision of this Agreement.
ARTICLE XIX - PENSION PLAN
19,01	The Company will provide a Pension Plan to become effective September 1, 1988, subject to the following and to the conditions included in the document: "Pension Plan for the employee of Malette Inc. (Cochrane Division) sawmill, planing mill and yard", signed between the parlies, which document is part of the present agreement.
The Pension Plan will be in the form of three (3) equal units of sixty ($60.00) for a monthly contribution of $ 180.00 to be deposited with a trustee to the credit of individual pension accounts under the plan, effective September 1, 1995. Effective September 1 st, 1996, change to read: ttsss (3) equal units of sixty-five ($65.00) for a total monthly contribution of $ 19 5,00,
The Company agrees to contribute, during each month, on and after the effective date, the first
who is on the Company's active payroll in the month. For any member who elects to make a voluntary contribution by payroll deduction, of the second unit, the Company will match this monthly contribution and pay the third unit to his account.
Committee to be established with equal
42
representation from both the (Companyand the Union as trustees into the plan.
ARTICLE XX - PAID EDUCATION LEAVE
the torn of this collective agreement, a total of fifteen (15) days education leave at the affected employee's regular rate.
PRINTING OF COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
The Company agrees to pay full cost and have sufficient amount of books printed within three (3) months of ratification.
Union will assume responsibility to make the necessary changes into the Agreement.
43
SIGNED IN COCHRANE , ONTARIO, THIS
DAY OF________, 1996.
For the Company	For the Union
GilleSMalette	Norman Rivard
Leopold Gregoire	Roland Laurin
Herman Radeschi	Daniel Touchette
Regent Tousignant	
WAGES SCHEDULE
	95/09/01	96/09/01	97/09/01
Canter Twin Operator	$17.70	$18.23	$18.78
Clean-up Labour	$16.79	$17.29	$17.81
Chipper Operator	$17.24	$17.76	$18.29
Debarker Operator	$17.37	$17.89	$18.43
Edger Operator	$17.70	$18.23	$18.78
Edger “Reman” Operator	$17.57	$18.10	$18.64
Edger Return	$16.92	$17.43	$17.95
Loader (Front End)	$17.70	$18.23	$18.78
Loader (Tanguay)	$17.70	$18.23	$18.78
Lumber sorter	$16.92	$17.43	$17,95
Inside Slasher Operator	$17.06	$17.57	$18.10
Log sorter	$16.79	$17.29	$17.81
Log Unscrambler	$16.84	$17.35	$17.87
Outside Slasher Operator	$17.06	$17.57	$18.10
Spareman	$17.70	$18.23	$18.78
Stacker	$17.06	$17.57	$18.10
	95/09/01	96/09/01	97/09/01
Trimmer (1st Saw)	$17.18	$17.70	$18.23
Trimmer (2nd Saw)	$17.31	$17.83	$18.36
oiler - Millwright	$18.34	$18.89	$19.46
Tradesmen "Lead"	$19.99	$20.59	$21.21
Tradesmen “A”	$19.32	$19.90	$20.50
Tradesmen “I”	$18.92	$19.49	$20.07
Tradesmen “II”	$18.34	$18.89	$19.46
Tradesmen “in”	$17.88	$18.42	$18.97
Tradesmen “IV”	$17.62	$18.15	$18.69
Tradesmen “Helper”	$17.24	$17.76	$18.29
Filer (Lead)	$20.50	$21.12	$21.75
Filer (5 years)	$20.01	$20.61	$21.23
Filer (“H”)	$18.50	$19.06	$19.63
Filer (Apprentice 2 years)	$17.58	$18.11	$18.65
Filer (Apprentice 1 year)	$17.19	$17.71	$18.24
Cary lift Operator	$17.70	$18.23	$18.78
Forklift Operator	$17.06	$17.57	$18.10
	95/09/01	96/09/01	97/09/01
Gen. & QjCss Pieces	$16.79	$17.29	$17.81
Planer Feeder Operator	$17.06	$17.57	$18.10
Strapping Machine Operator	$17.06	$17.57	$18.10
Tilt Hoist Operator	$16.79	$17.29	$17.81
Trim Saw Operator	$17.06	$17.57	$18.10
Iferd Labour	$16.79	$17.29	$17.81
Iferri Loader Cp. Trainee	$17.24	$17.76	$18.29
Grader (Licenced)	$18.33	$18.88	$19.45
Grader (Unlicensed)	$17.24	$17.76	$18.29
Grader (Apprentice)	$16.79	$17.29	$17.81
P.H.L. Return	$16.84	$17.35	$17.87
Tanguay Mobile Operator	$17.73	$18,26	$18.81
StackerHelper	$16.79	$17.29	$17.81
Paper Wrap	$16.79	$17.29	$17.81
Stacker Grader	$18.33	$18.88	$19.45
Log Unscrambler Helper	$16.79	$17.29	$17.81
Wig Wag Tfeiri Labour	$16.80	$17.30	$17.82
47
JOB DESCRIPTION FOR TRADES AND
HELPERS
1. MILLWRIGHT TRADE Millwright Helper
Works as a trades helper, will be assigned to and take necessary direction from a Millwright "II", "I", "A" or "Lead".
A helper must be capable of performing independently washjobs, greasing and oiling.
Shall be up-grated prior to or at the end of one (1) year period to Millwright "IV".
Millwright "IV"
Shall be qualified to assist and work under the direction and instructions of Millwright "II", "I"," A or "Lead". He will work alone at times performing assignments in keeping with his training.
During the course of his year, trainee must become proficient in good millwrighting practices in the areas of fitting, aligning, lubricating and the operation of all shop tools and machines. In addition to the foregoing, he will be exposed to andbegin the process of learning tB±miqEsrequired in trouble shooting key production machinery, pipefitting, basic welding andnachiriing, but will not be expected to display a high degree of proficiency in these areas at this point.
48
Millwright "HI"
Must be capable of performing the tasks of fitting, aligning, lubricating and able to operate all shop tools and machines.
Must under direction become proficient in basic welding and pipefitting as well as dismantling and reassembly of plant equipment.
Under direction, will continue to develop skills in trouble shooting all plant equipment and improve his skill at machining parts and be exposed to basic principles of hydraulics and pneumatics.
He may work alone occasionally but will require direction and instructions from Millwright "II", "I", "A" and "lead".
Millwright "II"
Mfit be capable, without direction, of fitting, aligning and lubricating, and taking apart and reassembling plant equipment, in addition, is expected to be able to weld, operate shop tools and do pipefitting as required.
Must under direction, become proficient at effective methods of trouble shooting and repairing hydraulic, pneumatic and mechanical faults in plant machinery.
Must under supervision, become proficient at reading and understanding blue prints, all phases of installing new equipment, laying out hydraulic and mechanical drives and meet speed and power requirements
49
correctly.
Millwright "I"
Must be capable without direction, of performing all practices under millwright "II", "III", "IV". Must take full responsibility for work done by himself or his assistant.
Millwright "A"
Must be in possession of a Millwright Certificate. Millwright "Lead"
A millwright "Lead", must possess the qualifications set out under Millwright "A".
2. ELECTRICIAN TRADE
Electrician Helper
Will obtain practical experience at the plant level by working as an assistant to the Electrician as assigned.
Shall under the direction and supervision of the Electrician and Supervisors perform work common to the electrical trade on all types of machines and equipment used in the production of lumber.
Shall be up-graded prior to or at the end of one (1) year period to Electrician "IV".
50
Electrician "IV"
Shall have successfully passed exams following his 1 st year of apprenticeship in the electrical trade, or shall have completed one year in the classification of electrician helper.
Shall under direction from the electrician or supervisor obtain practical experience at the plant level allied to the 2nd year thacry taught at the Provincial school and will be expected to perform work common to the Electrical Trade on all types of machines and equipment used in the production of Lumber.
Electrician "HI"
Shall have successfully passed exams following his 2nd year of apprenticeship in the electrical trade, or shall be capable:
tfrferthe direction of an Electrician "II", "I"," A and "Lead" to install and maintain all electrical equipment in the plant.
Shall gain practical experience allied to the third year theory taught in the Provincial school.
Electrician "II"
Shall have successfully passed exams following his 3rd year of apprenticeship in the electrical trade, or shall be capable:
Of assuming responsibility for the installation and
51
maintenance of all electrical equipment in the plant.
Shall continue to gain practical experience allied to subject material taught in the fourth year of apprenticeship.
Electrician "I"
Shall be proficient in the installation and maintenance of all electrical equipment in the plant and assume responsibility for all work done by himself and his assistants.
NOTE: Providing he has completed the time in the trade necessary to write for a provincial trade certificate, he may write for such certificate and receive the "A" rate immediately following successfully passing the examinations.
Providing he has worked one (1) year in this classification and works on computers he will be paid at the rate cf tradesman A.
Electrician "A"
Must be in possession of a Provincial journeyman trade certificate.
Electrician "Lead"
An electrician "Lead" must possess the qualifications set out under electrician "A". Shall be capable of leading.
52
3. MECHANIC TRADE Mechanic Helper
Work as a trades helper, will be assigned to and take necessary direction from Mechanic "II", "I", "A" or "Lead".
Must be capable of performing independently, wash jobs, oil changes, greasing and tire repairs.
Shall be up-graded prior to or at the end of one (1) year period to Mechanic "IV".
Mechanic "IV"
Shall be qualified to assist and work under the direction and instructions of Mechanic "Lead", "A, "I”, or "II", Duringthe course of his year training, he will be exposed to and begin the process or learning techniques requiredin trouble shooting key production equipment, but will not be expected to display a high degree of proficiency at this point. A Mechanic Class "IV" will commence to accumulate common mechanical tools.
Mechanic "in"
He shall be capable under direction of performing all jobs assigned to him in an efficient manner on gasoline and/or diesel powered equipment and other equipment generally used in Company operations.
Mechanic "II"
53
He shall be capable without direction of performing all jobs assigned to him in an efficient manner on gasoline and/or diesel powered equipment generally used in Company operations and will be required to direct assistants working under him
Mechanic "I"
Must be qualified to carry out the responsibilities of the trade as outlined by the Act. He must assume full responsibilityfor ail work performed by himself or his assistants.
Mechanic "A"
Must be in possession of a Provincial Trade Certificate as recognized by the Ministry of Labour of Ontario.
Mechanic "Lead"
A mechanic "Lead" must possess the qualifications set out under Mechanic " A.
4. OILER
Shall be capable to perform independently washjobs, greasing and oiling. Required to work as an assistant to Millwrights as assigned. Shall be given the opportunity to enter into a contract of apprenticeship in the Millwright trade if he so desires.
54
5. WELDER TRADE Welder Helper
Required to work as an assistant to welders or Millwright as assigned. He shall be upgraded prior to or at end of one year period to Welder Class "IV". In the event that he fails to display the necessary aptitude for further training, he may at any time during this period be placed in other suitable employment.
Welder "IV"
He shall be capable under direction of performing the following:
1	- Oxyacetylene and electrical welding in flat position with opportunity to work in other positions.
2	- Cutting, soldering and brazing.
He may be assigned to work as an assistant to Millwrights "II", "I", "A" or "Lead as the need may arise.
Welder "HI"
He shall be capable under direction of performing all jobs assigned to him in an efficient manner in both oxyacetylene and electrical welding in any position. He shall also have an understanding of types of flames, oxidizing and carbonising.
He may be assigned to perform under direction of
55
Millwright "II", "I", "A or "Lead", tasks normally
assigned to the trade of Millwright.
Welder "IF
Shall be capable without direction of performing all jobs assigned to hrim in an efficient manner in both oxyacetylene and electrical welding in any position.
He shall be capable of performing both types of welding in all positions with all metals used in the Company operations.
He may be assigned to perform under direction of Millwright "I", "A" and "Lead, tasks normally assigned to the trade of Millwright.
Welder "I"
He shall be capable without direction of performing all jobs assigned to him in an efficient manner in both oxyacetylene and electrical welding in any position. He shall have an understanding of types of flames, oxidizing and carbonising.
He shall be proficient in both types of welding in all positions with ail metals used in the Company operations.
He must be able to fabricate from a blue-print.
He ntBt assume responsibility for all work performed by himself or his assistants.
56
He may be assigned to perform tasks normally assigned to the Trade of Millwright.
Welder "A"
Mustbe in possession of a welder H.P. certificate. He maybe assigned to perform tasiks normally assigned to the trade of millwrights.
Welder "Lead"
A welder "lead." must possess the qualifications set out under Welder "A".
57
TRADES APPRENTICE PROGRAM
0 Apprenticeship and lead openings will be filled in accordance with the provisions of Section 12,06 (job postings). Applicant will be advised that they will require grade 10 or equivalent.
2)	There will be a probationary period of up to three (3) months prior to entering into an apprenticeship agreement during which time the employee may return or failing to display the necessary mechanical aptitude, be returned to his former department without loss of Seniority.
3)	Any helper who fails his first year exams shall be required to be re-examined within 12 months but not earlier than 6 months. Failure to pass the reexamination will result in the apprentice being droppedfrom the program and returned to his former department without loss of Seniority. The above will not apply to the persons currently employed in any of the categories of Trades in the event that they shall become indentured in the future or are currently indentured.
4)	Once an employee enters an apprenticeship contract, it is expected he will continue to fulfill the obligations of the contract, including necessary training periods in a vocational school.
5)	The Company will make up the difference between the Canada Manpower Training Program allowances and the employee's normal earnings based
58
on his regular straight time rate, multiplied bv 40 hours per week. For purposes of calculation the Canada Manpower at home allowance shall be used.
6)	Providing a journeyman has completed the time in the trade necessary to write for a Provincial Trade Certificate, he may write for such Certificate and receive the "A" rate immediately following completion of his course of studies.
MAINTENANCE TRADES ANNUAL REVIEW
Annually in the month of September, an evaluation committee consisting of the Plant Manager or his representative and the Maintenance Supervisor, together with a qualified Union Member and a Union Representative, will evaluate the performance and progress of each Helper and Tradesman below the category of "A", with a view to upgrading personnel who quality.
If upgrading is necessary in the interim it will be done by the Plant Manager and the Maintenance Supervisor.
59
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
between
MALETTE INC. (COCHRANEDIVISION) (hereinafter called the "Company") and
I.W.A. CANADA - LOCAL 1-2995 (hereinafter called the "Union")
RE: ARTICLE XU - SENIORITY
Seniority will be set up and maintained for all employees of the Sawmill and Planing Mill.
inter-Department transfer will be allowed only when the job vacancy represents a promotion, or must be filled by hiring. Temporary vacancy will be filled within the department and will not be posted in the other department.
Trade apprentice program openings, excluding graders apprentice, will be posted in both sawmill and planing mills.
When a permanent vacancy occurs at the Sawmill or t the Planing Mill, the vacancy will be posted at both departments and the senior applicant who, provided he has the aptitude of skill, efficiency and ability, also provided the permanent vacancy is a promotion if he is from the other department, will be trained by the Company in order to meet the job requirements in accordance with clause 12.06 (3).
60
It is understood that these inter-department transfers will be done with full seniority rights.
It is also understood that seniority will not be transferable to other agreements of the Company.
Employees that have been transferred at the Sawmill and the Planing Mill from the Plywood Plant, will for the purpose of fringe benefits, retain all their seniority already accrued, but for the purpose of actual exercising of seniority such said employees' seniority will begin accruing on the date the transfer vas effected.
Tradesmen fem the sawmill will be permitted to perform work at the planing mill when required by the Company.
SIGNED UN COCHRANE, ONTARIO, THIS _ DAY OF_______,1996.
For the Company
Gilles Malette
Leopold Gregoire
Herman Radeschi
For the Union
Norman Rivard
Roland Laurin
Daniel Touchette
Regent Tousignant
61
ADDENDUM
between

(COCHRANE DIVISION) (hereinafter called the 
and
I.W.A. CANADA - LOCAL 1-2995 (hereinafter called the "Union")
Machinery and Operators of the Sawmill and Planing Mill will be allowed to work from the sawmill yard and planing mill yard to the plywood plant yard for the purpose of transferring logs, lumber and the cleaning-up of yards.
Machine shop - Garage- Building maintenance
The personnel in that department will be assigned to supplement and assist with the requirements of their
trades at the sawmill and the planing mill. Machinery and equipment from sawmill and planing mill will be allowed to be repaired or manufactured on the site of this said third department.
It is agreed that operation shall not be interrupted as a result of a dispute at either one of the plants or jurisdictional dispute between Union and other trade Union. The building and facilities of said third department will remain available for repair and the
62
maintenance of all machinery of sawmill and planing mill even if operation at the plywood plant and third department are interrupted for whatever reasons.
SIGNED IN COCHRANE, ONTARIO, TfflS DAY OF_____, 1996.
For the Company	For the Union
GillesMalette
Leopold Gregoire
Herman Radeschi
Norman Rivard
Roland Laurin
Daniel Touchette
Regent Tousign ant
63
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING between
MALETTE INC.
(COCHRANEDIVISION)
(hereinaftercalled the "Company") and
LW.A. CANADA - LOCAL 1-2995 (hereinaftercalled the "Union")
It is agreed between the Company and the Union, that before an employee can bid on the job classification of "Loader Operator" he must have previously been qualified as "Yard Labour & Loader Operator Trainee", and have spent a minimum of three (3) months in that classification.
It is also understood that if the candidate fails to qualify himself as "Loader Operator" in the above manner, he will be returned to his former job classification he held priorto his appointmentto "Yard Labour & Loader OperatorTrainee".
SIGNED IN COCHRANE, ONTARIO ,THIS _ DAY OF_________, 1996.
For the Company
Gilles Malette
Leopold Gregoire
Herman Radeschi
For the Union
Norman Rivard
Roland Laurin
Daniel Touchette
Regent Tousignant
64
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING between
MALETTE INC. (COCHRANE DIVISION) (hereinafter called the "Company") and
LW.A. CANADA - LOCAL 1-2995 (hereinafter called the "Union")
RE: ARTICLE XH - SENIORITY
For shutdowns or lay-offs of less than three (3) months, inter-department application of seniority will be ± the option of the employee whether to transfer or to accept a lay-off and such transfer will be done in accordance with Article 12.04(c) of the Collective Agreement.
SIGNED IN COCHRANE, ONTARIO, THIS _ DAY OF__________, 1996.
For the Company
Gilles Malette
Leopold Gregoire
Herman Radeschi
For the Union
Norman Rivard
Roland Laurin
Daniel Touchette
Regent Tousignant
65
ADDENDUM
TO THE COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT between
MALETTE INC. (COCHRANE DIVISION)
and
I.W.A. CANADA - LOCAL 1-2995
It has been agreed between the Company andthe Union that there will be a newj ob classification added.
"Oiler-Millwright" Thejob description is as follows:
a)	Oil and grease sawmill machinery as per schedule established by the mill superintendent from time to time;
b)	Must qualify as Millwright Class II as he will be asked to perform Millwrightjobs under the supervisor of the Millwright Class I for part of his shift.
SIGNED IN COCHRANE, ONTARIO, THIS _ DAY OF___________, 1996.
For the Company For the Union
GillesMalette	Norman Rivard
Leopold Gregoire	Roland Laurin
Herman Radeschi	Daniel T ouchette
Regent Tousign ant
66
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING between
MALETTE INC. (COCHRANE DIVISION) and
I.W.A. CANADA - LOCAL 1-2995
It is agreed between the Company and the Union, that week-end clean-up will be given by preference to cmployccsfrom ihe bargaining unit when available, by students if necessary and by contractors as a last resort. Employees who are willing to work will be required to signify their interest by giving their names to their supervisor by Thursday at noon.
SIGNED IN COCHRANE, ONTARIO, THIS _ DAY OF________, 1996.
For the Company
GillesMalette
Leopold Gregoire
Herman Radeschi
For the Union
Norman Rivard
Roland Laurin
Daniel Touchette
Regent Tousign ant
67
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING between
MALETTE INC. (COCHRANE DIVISION) (hereinaftercalledthe"Company") and
I.W.A. CANADA - LOCAL 1-2995 (hereinafter called the "Union")
RE: 3rd Department of Norbord
In the event that the 3rd department of Norbord, (re: machine shop, garage, building maintenance) ceases to serie company equipment, the company will meet vafh the union to discuss ways and means of doing the servicing and maintenance of company equipment.
SIGNED UN COCHRANE, ONTARIO, THIS _ DAY OF________,1996.
For the Company
Gilles Malette
Leopold Grdgoire
Herman Radeschi
For the Union
Norman Rivard
Roland Laurin
Daniel Touchette
Regent Tousignant
68
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING between
MALETTE INC. (COCHRANE DIVISION) (hereinafter called the "Company") and
LW.A. CANADA - LOCAL 1-2995 (hereinaftercalled the "Union")
RE: CONTRACTORS DUES
The company agrees that contractors work permits and or union dues collected will be remitted to the union by the company and included on the union dues monthly check-off listing.
SIGNED IN COCHRANE, ONTARIO, THIS _ DAY OF_________,1996.
For the Company
Gilles Malette
Leopold Gregoire
Herman Radeschi
For the Union
Norman Rivard
Roland Laurin
Daniel Touchette
RegentTousignant
69
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING between
MALETTE INC. (COCHRANE DIVISION) (hereinafter called the "Company") and
I.VV.A. CANADA - LOCAL 1-2995 (hereinafter called the "Union")
Re: Week-end maintenance schedule for classifications in maintenance group.
1)	Vacancies shall be posted as they occur and will be filled in accordance with the job posting procedure.
2)
HreofworkWk Paid Schedule
Friday	8	8	7:00 a.m. to 3:30	p,m.
Saturday	12	14	7:00 a.m. to 7:30	p,m,
Sunday	12 JJ8 7:00 a.m. to 7:30 p.m,
Total	32	40
3) Overtime:
Ail hours worked in excess of the regular work day, or in excess of the 32 hours worked per ve^c will be paid at the rate of time and one half.
Hours voted, in excess of the twelve (12) on Sundays will be paid at the rate of double time.
Vacation:
70
4)
For the purpose of vacation entitlement, one (1) week will be Friday, Saturday and Sunday.
5) Holidays:
Statutory or Floating Holidays shallbe paid the same amount of hours as if the employee had worked.
Note:	No employeeswill loose or gain any money
as a result of the above.
If a Statutory Holiday falls on a Saturday or Sunday it shall be observed on that day.
If a Statutory Holiday falls on a Monday, or any other days during the week, it shall be observed on the following Friday.
7)	Should a person be off on a Sunday due to sickness, he will be allowed to work two (2) eight (8) hours shifts through the week to make up eighteen (18) hours missed for Sunday.
8)	Scheduling to remain constant, except when Christmas Day and boxing day falls on a Sunday.
Week-end shift employees will go back to five (5) days scheduling that week.
71
SIGNED IN COCHRANE, ONTARIO, THIS DAY OF_____, 1996.
For the Company	For the Union
GillesMalette	Norman Rivard
Leopold Gregoire	Roland Laurin
Herman Radeschi	Daniel Touchette
Regent Tousignant	