WELDWOOD OF CANADA LIMITED
(Williams Lake Division)
and
IWA-CANADA LOCAL 1-425, C.L.C.
JULY 1,1991 - JUNE 30,1994
MAR -1 1093
OiQOVA^
INDEX
ARTICLE
I	Bargaining Agency
n	Definition
m	Management
N	Union Security
V	Wages
VI	Pay Days
vn	Hours of Work and Overtime
vm	Seniority
DC	Leave of Absence
X	Vacations with Pay
XI	Statutory Holidays
xn	Safety and Health
xm	Grievance Procedure
XIV	Risht of Reference
XV	x n; ti
XVI	ii vi:
xvn	r vii it
xvm	Health and Welfare
XIX	Long Term Disability Plan
XX	IWA • Forest Industry Pension
XXI	Job Training
xxn	Apprenticeship Saining Progra
xxm	Technological Giangs
xxrv	Plywood Job Evaluation Elan
XXV	Safety Equipment
XXVI	Tool Insurance
xxvn	Firefighting Agreement
xxvm	Sawmill Rate Determination
XXIX	Contracting Out
XXX	Duration of Agreement
SUPPLEMENT
No. 1 No. 2 No. 3A No. 3B
No. 4 No. 5 No. 6
No. 7 No. 8 No. 9
Wage Scales
Job Ttennirg Programs
Apprenticeship Hcdrdng Program Apprenticeship Training Program • Filing and Fining Trades Plywood Jot) Evaluation Firefighting Agreement Pension Plan Construction Contracting Alternate Shift Scheduling Letters of Understanding
PAGE
1
2
2
2
4
6
6
11
14
17
21
24
24
25
26 27 30 30
33
34 34 34
34
35
36 38 38 38
40
41
42
50
52
60
68
72
75
80
81
84
agreement
THIS AGREEMENT entered into tUis 19th day of February, 1992.
BETWEEN:
AND:
WELDWOOD OF CANADA LIMITED (WILLIAMS LAKE DIVISION)
(hereinafter known as the 'Company") OF THE ETRST PART
rWA CANADA, Local 1-425, C.L.C
(hereinafter known as the 'Union') OF THE SECOND PART
1.	WHEREAS it is the intent and purpose of the Parties hereto that this Agreement will promote and improve industrial and economic relationships between the employees and the Company, and to set forth herein the basic Agreement between the Parties hereto, AND
2.	WHEREAS the Company accepts responsibility to observe each and all provisions and conditions of this Agreement, and to promote orderly and peaceful relations with the Employees, AND
3.	WHEREAS the Union accepts responsibility to observe each and all provisions and conditions of this Agreement, and to promote orderly and peaceful relations with the Company.
NOW THEREFORE the Parties hereto mutually agree as follows:
ARTICLE I. BARGAINING AGENCY
Section 1;
The Company agrees to recognize and bargain with the duly elected bargaining representative on behalf of its Employees properly and duly certified under the appropriate regulations in effect ftm time D time.
Section Z:
The Party of the First pan agrees that the bargaining authority of the Party of the Second Pan shall not be impaired during the term of this new collective agreement. The Party (f the First Pan agrees that the only certification they will recognize during the term cf this new Agreement is that of the Party of the Second pan unless ordered by due process of law to recognize sane other bargaining authority.
ARTICLE n - DEFINITION
The term ‘Employee’ as used and for the purpose cf this Agreement shall include all persons employed by the Company on which behalf the rWA CAN At) A, Local I -425, C L C , has been certified as bargaining agents, except aid excluding foremen and others having authority to hire aid fire, office workers, supervisory officials aid salesmen
ARTICLE m - MANAGEMENT
The Management cf the operation and the direction and promotion cf the Employees are vested exclusively in the Management, provided, however, that this will not be used for the purpose cf discrimination against employees
ARTICLE IV - UNION SECURITY
Section Is
The Company will co-operate with the Union in obtaining aid retaining as members, he employees as defined in this Agreement, and to this end will present to new employees aid io all Supervisors aid Foremen, the Policy herein expressed
Section 2:

All employees who entered the employment ofthe Company’s Veneer Plant on or after the 8th of June, 1965, and all new employees, shall within thirty (30) calendardays after the /execution of this Agreement, or thirty (30) calendar days after entering employment, whichever date last occurs, become lumbers of the Union and maintain membership therein throughout the term cf this Agreement, as a condition of continued employment
All employees cf the Sawmill, EQaarMill, l&iri and Shop who eued the employment of
the company on or after the I n day of October, 1964, aid all new employees, shall, within thirty (30) calendar days after the execution of this Agreement, or thirty (30)calendar days after entering employment, whichever date Last occurs, become members cf the Union and maintain membersbp therein throughout the term of this agreement, as a condition of continued employment.
Section 3:
Any employee who is a member m good standing, or is reinstated as a member ofthe Union, shall, as a condition of continued employment, maintain such membership in good standing throughout the term of this Agreement
Section^
a]	Any employee who fails to maintain his membership in the Union as prescribed
herein by reason of refusal to pay dues and assssaraits,shall be Subjectto discharge after seven (7) days written notice to the company of the said Employee’s refusal to maintain his/her membership
2
5) It is agreed that the application of this Section means that when an employee fails to nambadn hidher membership in good standing by refusing to pay dues and assessments, and provided proper notice has been given in accordance with the Agreement, the employee will be discharged for such refusal.
Section 5:
a)	No employee shall be subject to any penalties against his/her application for membership or reinstatement, except as may be provided for in the IWA National Qaostituhm, as revised 1988 and in accordance with the By-Laws of Local 1-425, which the Local Urim Certified as being correct as of July, 1982.
b)	Any employee who applies tojoin the Urim pursuant to the provisions herein and whose application is rejected by the Uiim, shall not be subject to discharge from employment
Section 6:
The Company shall quire all not employees, at the time cf hiring to execute the following
assignment of wages m duplicate, the forms to be supplied by the Utim. All checkoff forms
to be forwarded lo the Local Uhim within fifteen (15) days of hiring.
%
Starting Date _
Name of Employer
Name of Employee
Address
Postal Code
Phone:________________
(please Print)
Operation	Social Insurance Number
Are you a Member of the IWA? ________________________________________
In what IWA qperatimwere you last employed?__________________________
3
local Union __________________________________________________________
I HEREBY AUTHORIZE AND INSTRUCT YOU TO DEDUCT FROM MY WAGES AND
REMIT TO LOCAL 1-_____THE FOLLOWING IN PAYMENT OF THE AMOUNT SET
OUT BELOW
1.	Union Mtdatim fees in the amount of	$__________________
2.	ltdi Back Dues in the amount of	$__________________
3.	Union Dues S _________per month, commencing_______19	.
4 Union Assessments in the amount aid at the time stated m nonce received by you franthe Local Union designatedabove
Clock No _____________
APPLICATION FOR MEMBERSHIP
I hereby request and accept membership in the fWA CANADA Local 1-	. and agree to
abide by the constitution aid by-laws of the organization ]n case of misstatement of qualifications for membership I agree to forfeit all rights, privileges and monies pad
Signature of Applicant-Employee
Section 7:
This assignment, m the case of Employees already members of the Urim shall be effective immediately and for those Employees not previously matbers of the Union, it shall become effective thirty (30) calendar days from the dale of execution.
The Carpany shall remit the dues deducted pursuant to such assignment (until and unless said assignment is revoked by the employee)to the Local Union named therein, no later than the 15th day cf the month following the mcnth in which the deduction was made from the employee, vzUh a written statement of names of employees for whom the deductions wen made aid the amount of each deduction.
Section 8:
The Carpany shall furnish the Orion with Social Insurance Number cf each employee on its payroll cn the first occasion when dues are forwarded to the Union after the execution of this Agreement or after the EhpLqyee enters the employmentof the Company, whichever date last occurs.
ARTICLE V-WAGES Section 1:
a)	The Parties agree that effective the fifteenth day of June 1993, the wages of all hourly rated employees vaH be increased by eighty-five cents (85 cents) per hour.
4
b) Employees who have left the employ of the Company must apply within thirty (30) days of ratification to be eligible for retroactive pay flowing from this Agreement.
c)
The Parties agree that the minimum rate in the win for coxnnon labour shall be:
i)
$17.07 per hour effective June 15th, 1991. $17.07 per hour effective June I5th> 1997. j $17.97 per hour effective June 15th, 1993.	/
Section 2:	Grading Tickets
a) Lumber Graders
.Ail certified lumber graders shall receive tiie premiums set out below, in addition to the Job Evaluation Rate.
b)
c)
d)
e)
f)
GasA Grading Certificate - fifteen cents (15 cents) per hour.
Class B Grading Certificate • ten cents (10 cents) per hour.
Provided that these premiums shall be paid only when actually engaged as limber graden.
Lumber Grading Certificates
Any employee holding a Gas A or B Limber Grading Certificate shall receive a premium of five cents (5 cents) per hour for all hours worked. There shall be no stacking or pyramiding of premiums.
Grading Tickets shall be permanent and valid certificates, but graders shall retain subject to the regulations of I.L.M.A., C.L.M.A., C.O.F.I., N.I.L.A., P.L.I.B., and
other regulatory bodies,
Ail limber graden holding grading certificates shall attend upgrading classes as required.
Limber graders who are required to attend upgrading classes (grading rule changes) shall receive their regular straight time rate for time spent attending such classes.
Where a company is paying a bonus or premium(s) greater than set out below, it shall keep such Policy in effect.
Section 3:	First Aid Attendant?
a)	Designated First Aid Attendants shall receive their job rate of pay plus the Ticket premium rate. All other employees holding valid First Aid Tickets shall receive a premium of five cents (5 cents) per hour over and above theirjob rate. There shall be not stacking or pyramiding of premiums.
b)	Where a Company is paying a bonus or prermuoi(s) greater than set out above, it shall keep such policy in effect.
5
Section 4:
It is agreed tat employees engaged cn contract or piecework shall not receive less money than the equivalent of the hourly rate specified in the w^e schedule for the nurber of hours
worked in each pay period	__
^__
Section 5:_Shift Differential
' (l
The first shift is the recognized day shift Hus worked outside the recognized day stun shall be regarded as the second and third stuns A shift differential of thirty-one cents (31 cents) per hour shall be paid for second and thud shifts , A day shift employee working in excess of his/her regular shift shall be paid rate and one-half without the differential Any employee on the second or thud shift working m excess of his/her regular shift shall receive rate and one half Bar the purpose of the last sentence, me shall be rate plus thirty-one (31 cents) Persons employed other than on regular shifts shall be paid the thirty-one cents ^31 cents) Persons employed other than on regular shifts shall be paid the thirty-one (31 cents) shift differential for all hours worked outside the recognized day stun
Section 6;
In the event that Job conditions changeor new machinery p installed, a* a new category is
established, the Uoioo and the Company agree to met to discuss designation and wage rates to be paid to the employees concerned
Section 7:
Effective June 15, 1981, the Company agrees to pay a Power Saw allowance of fifteen dollars ($15 00) per day to Mill Buckets who maintain and operate their own Power Saws Effective June 15, 1982 the allowance is increased to eighteen dollars ($18 00) per day
ARTICLE VI- PAYDAYS
a)	The Company shall provide for pay days every second week
b)	Each employee shall be furnished with an itemized statement of deductions.
ARTICLE Vn - HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
Section 1:
a)	The regular hours of work shall be eight (8) hours per day and forty (40) hours per week, Monday to Friday inclusive, subject to the exceptions contained in Sections 2 and 3 of this Article
b)	Overtime for production workers will be paid at rate and one-half for all hours worked in excess cf eight (8) in a day aid for Saturday and/or Sunday work, with the following excepuons;
6
Double straighc-ume rates shall be paid for the following;
i)
u)
ui)
iv)
Hours worked in excess <£eleven(l I) hours per day.
Hours worked on Sunday by employees who have worked f shins during the preceding six (6) days.
Item ii) above shall not apply to employees who work on Sunday as a regular scheduled day.
For the purpose c£ these provisions, a Statutory Holiday shall be considered as a shift worked.

c)	If a Statutory Holiday occurs during the work week, the employees shall only be
required to work on Saturday and/or Sunday for the time lost due to the Statutory Holiday by murual consent. Ear such work the employee shall be paid rate aid one half.
Section 2:
a)	Those employeeswho, of necessity, regularly work on Saturday aid Sunday shall take two (2) other days of the week off to be mutually agreed between the employees aid the Company. In such event, Saturday aid Sunday shall be considered working days aid overtime rates shall not apply on Saturday. However, these Employees shall be paid rare and one half for work perfonned csi Sunday. Overtime rates shall apply when the regular daily or weekly work limit has been exceeded. Overtime rates shall apply on the rest days ofthese Employees, if worked, unless a change in rest days has been agreed upon between the Employees and the Company.
b)	For the purpose of this Section only, employees shall be Engineers, Firemen, Operating Millwrights, Maintenance Workers and Watchmen.
c)	Maintenance, Repair and Construction Employees can be employed on a Tuesday to Saturday work week, for which they shall be paid straight time for Saturdaywork. In such event, Sunday and Monday shall be recognised as their rest days and any work performed on their rest days shall be paid for at rate and one half. The rest day, Monday, may be changed by mutual consent between the Employee and the Company. In such event, work perfonned on Monday shall be paid for at straight time. If the Employee works on Monday at the request of the Coxrpany ,the rate of pay will be rate and one half. However, if the employee requests a temporary change from his/her rest day on Monday, work perfonned on Monday snail be paid for at straight time.
dl If a Statutory Holiday occurs on the Employee's regular day off, he/she shall be entitled to take his/her next regular work day off without pay.
Section 3:
The weekly and daily hours shall be in accordance with the Hours of Work let cf British Columbia.
7
Section 4:_____Alternate Shift Scheduliog
a)	Management, Plant or Camp Committees and the Local union shall have the right under the terms of the Collective Agreement to agree upon and implement other schedules which, except for production shifts in manufacturing operations, may include Sundays, without overtime penalty, provided the principle of the forty (40) hour week is maintained oyer an averaging period. Rate aid one-half shall he paid for hours worked on Sunday.
b)	Any variations) to the preceding Sections denoting normal hours of work shall be implemented only upon completion of the following-steps;
i)	Negotiated agreement between the Local Union and Local Management.
ii)	Majority approval by the employees involved in the proposed variations.
c)	When alternative shift schedules have been implemented in accordance with (a) and b) above, the following overtime provisions will apply:
A.	i) The first three (3) hours worked in a day in excess of the normal daily
hours of the established schedule.
Etus worked in excess offoity (40) hours per week or forty (40) hours average when there is an avenging period,
iii)	All hours worked an an employee’s scheduled rest day, unless a change in rest day has been agreed to between the employee aid the Company.
(iv) All hours worked an Sunday except those excluded in the casual section.
B.	Double straight-time rates shall be paid for the following:
i)	.All hours worked in excess of A(i) above.
ii)
All
worked on a Sunday when iday is also an employee’s i rest day, if the employee has worked forty (40) straight-time hours i the preceding stx (6)days,	ss a change in rest day has
been agreed to between the employee aid the Company.
SupplementNo 8 • Alternate Shift Scheduling, contains the agreed upon general principles and parameters for the establishment, implementation or discontinuance of alternate shift schedules
C
8
0 rtion S:	Three Shift Operation
) The Company shall have the right to operate the plant or any part thereof on a three-shift basis and all employees working under this arrangement shall receive eight (8) hours' pay upon completion of the full hours established as their regular shift, retails: of shifts shall be varied at the Company's option.
b)	Section a) above shall only apply to those employees actually working on a three-shift basis.
Section 6:
It is agreed between the Parties that if three (3) hours or less are necessary after midnight or on a Statutory Holiday, to complete the shift which commenced work on Friday ^ in, or the afternoon preceding the Statutory Holiday, time worked after midnight to complete this shift valL be paid at straight time.
Section 7;
any
Section 8;
Any employee called for work and finding no work available due to reasons beyond his or her control shall be entitled to two (2) hours pay at the usual rate. This shall apply unless the Company gives notice cancelling the Said call.
Section 9:
The foregoing provisions ol this Article shall not be construed as guaranteeing to ' ^ 1- any number of hours of work per day or per week.
When an employee is called for work and starts work be/she shall receive four (4) hours pay at his/her regular rate unless his/her work is suspended because of inclement weather, or other reasons completely beyond the
Section 10:	Call-BackTime
Employees called back to work after completion of their regular scheduled shift shall be paid a minimum of three (3) hours at rate and one half.
Section 11:
All employees in manufacturing plants shall be entitled to two (2) ten (10) minute rest periods during each regular shift; provided always that the Company shall have the right to use relief employees in implementing this provision.
control of the Company.
9
Section 12:
a)
b)
c)
d>
e)
The term "Casual Work" as used m this Agreement shall apply only to work performed on Saturday and/or Sunday by either laid cff regular employees or other persons hereinafter referred to as 'Casual Employees"
Casual employeeson maintenance, repair or preparatory work shall be paid a straight-time Job rates, and those on production shall be paid rate and one half for all work performed on Saturday or Sunday
Casual work on maintenance, repair and preparatory work will be paid a straighttime job rate
Regular laid-off employees shall not be classified as Casual Employees, and shall have preference for available work over the said casual employees
The employer agrees to keep a separate seruonty list of casual employeeswho have worked at least ten (10) working days, exclusively for recall purposes and, subject to claused), further agrees to recall castalemployees in accordance with their seruonty as set forth in this list
Section 13;
When an employee is unavoidably prevented from reporting to his/her scheduled shift, if reasonably possible, he/she mast give nonce to his/her foreman, or at the Company office, a least two (2) hours before the shift commences
Section I4l
The Company agrees to discontinue the use of time clocks subject to the following
a)	The general U9e cf clocks to be discontinued for a trial period of three (3) months
b)	New employees are to punch the clock for he first three (3) months of employment
c)	Casual employees are to punch the clock
d)	Employees who report late must punch the clock aid have the card initialled by their Foreman
e)	Employees may make arrangements with employees on the same jobs on their following shift to relieve them a maximum of ten (10) minutes prior to their regular quitting time providing they have permission ofboth Faranen involved
f)	Employees may enter or leave their place of work by the Main Entrance only
g)	Employees who work overtime must punch the clock
h)	Employees who have been absent aid return to work must report to their depanmen! foreman at the commencement of the shift.
j) Employees who abuse the system shall be required to punch the clock for a three (3) month period.
Employees abusing the honour system will still be subj ect to Article HI of the J Collective Agreement.
Section 15
Where maintenance, repair aid construction employees are required to work two (2) hours or more overtime beyond their normal shift, the compaiy shall provide a hot meal, such hot meal to be consumed by the employees on compaiy time before beginning the overtime work.
ARTICLE VID ■ SENIORITY Section *1:
a)
b)
c)
d)
All employees hired shall be on a probation for thirty (30) days worked, aid during such period no seniority rights shall be recognized.
tjpcn completion of thirty (30) days worked they shall be regarded as regular employees, aid shall then be entitled to seniority dating from the day on which they entered the Company's employ, provided however that the probationay period of thirty (30) days worked shall only be cumulative within the three (3) calenda months following the date of entering employment.
It is agreed that probationay employees will have preference over Casual employees for any work performed during the normal work week, subject to competency.
It is further agreed that in the application of (c) above, probationay employees will be called in for work in accordaice with their hire date, unless such call-in is beyond the control of the employer, aid is subject to the employee being competent to perform the work. This obligation does not apply where the employee cannot be readily contacted or where the employee has worked one shift in the 24 hour period.
Section 2:
It is agreed that upon the request of the Uiim, a List will be supplied by the Company setting out the nane aid the starting date with the Company of each regular employee. However, such request shall not be granted more thai twice during each year of the term of :his Agreement. The Company shall advise the Union once each month of chaiges to the said List
11
Section 3:
a)	The Company recognizes the principle of seniority, competency considered.
b)	The applicationof seniority shall be determined by Division as set out below:
1.	Plywood Division
2.	Sawmill Division
3.	Open Division
c)	The seniority provisions of this Agreement shall apply separately to each division Employeeswho have been laid cff shall, in the event of job Openings occurring in another Division, be given preferential hiring on the basis of seniority entitlement.
Section 4:
a) The Company shall have the right to select its employees and to discipline them or dischaige them for proper cause.
Promotions shall be entirely a matter for the Company’s decision, likewisethe selection of supervisoryofficials, but in making promotions, other things being equal, the company agrees to give due considerationfothe length of continuous service,
Section S:
a)	It is mutually agreed that when hiring new employees, consideration for preference shall, subject to the same conditions as in Section 3a), be given to those employees of the company having had previous seniority and who have application on file,
b)	The Company signatory to this Agreement undertakes to give preference in hiring to former employees having previous company seniority seeking employment as a result of operational closures or crew reduction in other operationsof the Company.
Section 6;
a)
It is agreed that when employees are to be re-hired after a lay-off it shall be done csi the basis of the last person released shall be tte. first person re-employed, subject to provisions cf Sectim 3a), It is agreed that in case of emergency the application of plant seniority may be postponed for such period as may be necessary, but not exceeding three (5) days. If the Company decides to exercise its rights under these provisions it shall notify the Committeeor the Local Union immediately
b) Where a reduction cf forces is caused by emergency conditions, the applicationof seniority may be postponed for such period as may be necessary,but not exceeding five (5) working days.. If the Company decides to exercise its rights underthese provisions, it shall notify the Shop Committee as soon as possible.
12
C)
d)
During a reduction of forces where an employee’s seniority is such that heishe will not be able to keep hisfher regular job, heishe may elect to apply his/her seniority to obtain ajob paying a higher rate if he/she has previously held thejob in the operation on a regular basis.
During a reduction of forces where an employee’s seniority is such that heishe will not be able to keep his/her regular job, heishe may elect whether or not to apply hisfher seniority to obtain a lower paidjob or ajofc paying the same rate of pay or accept a lay-off until hisfher regular job becomes available, provided however:
i)	If during the lay-off period the employee wishes to return to work and so notifies the Company, he/she shall be called back to work as soon as his/her seniority entitles him/her to ajob.
ii)	The application of this provision shall not result in an employee, in the exercise of hidher rights, bumping an employee with less seniority.
Section 7:
In the event of a reduction of the forces, the last person hired shall be the first released, subj ect to tile competency cf the person involved and the provisions of Section 3 a).
Section 8:
It is agreed that when employees are to be re-employed after a lay-off it shall be done on the basis of the last pencil released shall be the first person re-employed, subject to the provisions cf Section3 a).
Section 9:
a)	When re-employing in accordancewith Section S, after a shutdown all employees shall be notified by telegram or registered letter at least seven (7) days before restart of operations. The employees must reply by telegram or registered fetter in the affirmative within ninety-six (96) hours of tfie telegram or registered letter being sent out by the Company, and appear for work not later than the end of the above slated seven (7) day period.
b)	Employees resident in the Province of Alberta or the Yukon Territoiy shall be entitled to one (I) additional day to report and employees resident in any other Canadian province or the United States shall be entitled to two (2) additional days to report.
c)	It shall be the employees’ responsibility to keep the Company informed of theii addresses during the period of the shutdown.
d) It is agreed that all employees shall, upon returning to employmentin accordance with this Section, retain all seniority rights.
13
Section 10;
It is agreed between the Parties that seniority during layoffs shall be retained on the following basis:
aj Employees with less than one (1) year’s service shall r period cf eight (8) ircnths.
i their seniority for a
Employees with one (1) or more year’s service shall retain their seniority for one (1) year, plus one (1) additional six (6)n
A laid-off employee’s seniority retention under a) aid b) above is reinstated on the compiedoo ofone (1) day’s work.
b)
c)
Section 11:
It is agreed that when an employee has been transferred by the Company to a supervisory or staff position, he or she vail continue to accumulate seniority fora period of ninety (90) days. At any time during this ninety (90) day period the individual shall have the right to return to the bargaining unit in the job which he/she would have held if he/she had not left the bargainingunit. (In special cases this ninety (90) day period may be extended for up to a further ninety (90) days by mitual agreement between the Company and the Shop Committee.) At the expiration of the period mentioned above, his/her seniority will be frozen. Thus, if at a later date he or she ceases to be a supervisory or staff worker and the Compaity desires to retain his or her services, it is hereby agreed that reinstatement can be made within the bargaining unit, provided however that any employee so reinstated must re rum to the job held at the time of his or her promotion to the supervisory or staff position.
ARTICLE IX - LEAVE OF ABSENCE
Section 1:
Any employee desiring leave of absence for any reason other than those set out m Sections 2 and 3 of this Article must obtain same in writing from the Company, a Ccpy of such leave to be forwarded to the Local Union
Where any employee is granted a leave of absence under this Section foraperiod of longer than thirty (30) calendar days, the Company agrees to notify the Job Steward ancTthe Union as to the circumstances for the granting of such period of leave
Section 2:
a)
The Company will grant leave of absence to employees suffering illness or injury, subject to
a medical certificate if requested by the employer "The employee shall report, or cause to have reported, to die Company the injury or illness which r^uires hi$ or her absence frnn the operation The employee shall have a reasonableperiod of ume to present a medical certificate if requested by the Company
14
Section 3:
a)
b)

The company shall grant leave of absence to employees who are appointed or elected to Union office for a period of up to and including one (I) year. Further leave of absence may he granted by mutual consent. Any employee who obtains such leave of absence shall return to the Company within thirty (30)calendar days after completion of his/her term of employment with the Union.	\	.
( s
The Company will grant leave of absence to employees who are elected as	^
representatives to attend Union meetings and Umon conventions, or members of an Union Negotiating Committee, in order that they may cany out their duties on behalf / of the Umon.
c)	It is agreed that before the employee receiver this Leave of Absence as set forth in clauses a) and b) above, the Company be given notice in writing (in the case of a) • fifteen (15) calendar days, in the case of b) - five (5) calendar days) by the Union in order to replace the employee with a competent substitute.
d)	The Union will make every effort in requesting such leaves of absence to avoid requests that will unduly deplete the crew in any one department which will inpyir production or inhibit the normal functioning of the operation. In such cases, the Union will cooperate with the Company in making such subsutute employees available or select alternate delegates to attend Union functions.
Section 4:	Compassionate Leave
By mutual agreement leave of absence will be granted to a maximum of six (6) months without pay ttvthe employees for compassionate reasons or for education or training or extended vacation purposes, conditional on the following terms:
a)	That the employee apply at least one (1) month in advance unless the grounds for such application could not reasonably be foreseen.
b)	That the employee shall disclose the grounds for application
c)	The Company shall grant such leave where a bona fide reason is advanced by the applicant or may postpone leave where a suitable replacement is not available.
d)	That the Company will consult with the Shop Committee in respect of any applic; for leave under this Section.
e)	The Company will only be obliged to grant leave of absence for educational and training purposes to employees who intend to take training that will assist the individual in obtaining skills related to the industry.
f)	It is agreed that employees questing leave of absence for extended vacation during the months June 15 to September 15, shall only be granted such leave once every three (3) years, and that a record be kept for the purpose of routing such leaves.
15
The Union agrees it will provide a letter regarding problems which arise frrni extended vacation applications.
Sect»on_5:
To provide for a reasonable period of time for extended maternity leave without pay o female employees where there is a valid medical reason.
Section 6:	&
■T1 death occurs to a member of a regular full-time employee’s immediate family, the employee will be granted an appropriate leave of absence for which he/she shall be compensated at hiaher regular stnight-time hourly rate of pay for hours lost ftm his/her regular work schedule for a maximum of three consecutive days.
Piece workers who art entitled to bereavement leave shallbe compensated in accordance with the principle established in Article DC, Sectimb).
C)	Members of the employee's 'immediate family are defined as the employee's spouse,
mother, father, brothers, sisters, Hons, daughters, motber-in-law, father-in-law, stepparents, grandparents, grandparents-in-law, grand-children, step-children, sons-in-law
and daughter-in-law.
d)	Compensable hours under the terms of this section will be counted as hours worked for the purpose of qualifying for vacations and for recognized paid holidays, but will not be counted as hours worked for the purpose of oatputing overtime.
b)
Ary regular fullctdireemployee who is required to perform Juiy Duty,Coroner's
Duty, or as a Crown Witness or coroner’s Witness, on a day which he or she would normally have worked, will be reimbursed by the Company for the difference between the pay received for Juiy Duty and his/her regular straight-timehourly rate of pay for his/her regularly scheduled hours of work. It is understood that such reimbursement shall not be for hours in excess of eight (8) per day or forty (40) per week, less statutory pay received for Jury Duty. The employee will be required to furnish proof of Juiy Service and Jury Duty pay received.
Any piece worker wbo is required to perform Juiy Lilly shallbe crapaisatad for the difference between statutory pay received for Juiy Duty and lisjob rate in accordance with the principle established in Article XI, Section 2 6).
Hours paid for Juiy Duty will be counted as hours worked for the purpose of qualifying for vacation and for recognized paid holidays, but will not be counted as hours worked for the purpose of computing overtime,
- 16-
/
Section 8:
a)	The Company will grant leave of absence for campaign purposes to candidates for Federal, Provincial or Municipal elective public office, for periods up to and including eight (8) weeks, provided the Company is given due notice in writing of twenty (20) calendar days, unless the need for such application could nor reasonably be foreseen.
b)	Employees elected or appointed to Federal, Provincial or Municipal office shall be granted as much leave as is necessary during the term of such office. Municipal office holders, where the term of public office is served intermittently, shall give the Company reasonable notice for absences from work for conducting Municipal business.
The employee who obtains this leave of absence shall return to his/her Company within thirty (30) calendar days after completion of public office.
ARTTCT.E X - VACATIONS WITH PAY
With respect to annual vacations and vacation pay the following provisions will apply:
j ' — Q *7^
Section L-__One to Two Yean;’ Service

The annual vacatim for employees with one (1) to two (2) year's service covered by this Agreement shall be two (2) weeks, and the pay therefore shall be based upon five per cent (5 %) of the total wages or salary earned by the employee during the period of entitlement, or eighty (80) hours at the hourly rate of the employee's regular job, whichever is the greater.
A ~
Section 2:	Two to Seven Years' Service ’V~--	~
a) The annual vacation for employees with two (2) to seven (7) years' service covered by this Agreement shall be three (3)weeks, and the pay therefore shall be based upon seven per cent (7%) of the total wages or salary earned by the employee during the period of entitlement, or one hundred and twenty (120) hours at the hourly rate of the employee's regular job, whichever is greater.
The additional one (1) week vacation provided for in this Section may be taken when convenient for the company but docs not have to be consecutive with the vacation period provided for in Section 1 herein.
u ~7-*y
Seven to Fifteen Years* Service
a) The annual vacation for employee with seven (7) to fifteen (15) years' service covered by this Agreement shall be four (4) weeks, and the pay therefore shall be based upon nine per cent (9%) of the total wages or salary earned by the employee during the period of entitlement, or one hundred and sixty (160) hours at the hourly rate of the employee's regular job, whichever is greater.
17
b)	The additional one (1) week vacation provided for in this Section may be taken when convenient for the Company but does not have to be consecutive witfi the vacation periods provided for in Sections I and 2 herein.
Section 4:	Fifteen to Twentv-four Years’ Service
a)
b)
The annual vacation for employees with fifteen (15) to twenty-four (24) years‘ service covered by this Agreement shall kfive weete, ana the pay therefore shall be based upon eleven per cent (11%) of the total wages or salary earned by the employee during the period of entitlement, or two hundred (200) hours at the hourly rate of the employee’s regular job, whichever is greater.
Subject io the provisions of Section 8 herein, the additional one (1) week vacauon provided for in this Section may be taken consecutively with the vacauon periods provided for in Sections l, 2, or 3
* Service	'~'Ol &
Section Twentv-fnur I o Thirty Years_____________
a)	The annual vacauon for employees with twenty-four (24) to thirty (30) years’ service covered by this Agreement shall be six (6) weeks, and the pay ttyreftyp* shall be based upon thirteen percent (13 %) of the total wages car salary earned by the employee during the period of entitlement, or two hundred and foity (240) hours the hourly rate of the employee’s regular Job, whichever is greater.
b)	Subject to the provisions of Section 8 herein, the additional cne (1) week vacation provided for in this Sectim may be taken consecutively with the vacauon periods provided for in Sectim 1, 2, 3, or 4.
Section 6:	Thirty Year>z gcrr|
a)	The annual vacauon for employees with thirty (30)) yoazs'semce covered by this Agreement shall be seven weeks, aid the pay therefore shall be based upon fifteen percent (15%) of the total wages or salary earned by the employee during the period of entitlement, or two hundred” and eighty (280) hours at the hourly rate of the employee’s regular job, whichever is greater
b)	Subject IO the provisions of Section 8 herein, the additional one (1) week vacation provided form this Section may be taken consecutivelywith the vacauon periods provided form Sections 1, 2, 5, 4, or 5
Section 7:	Vacation Pav on Termination
An employee whose employment! s terminated shall receive vacation pay at the appropriate percentage of the wages or salary earned during the period of entitlement in accordance with the employee’s years of service
18
Section 8; Vacation Time
a)	Vacations for employees shall be taken at suchth e as mutually agreed upon by the Shop Committee aid the company when quantity and regularity of production shall not be impaired.
b)	All earned vacation must be taken.
Section 9:	Payment of Vacation Pav
a)	The calculation and comparison of the vacation pay amounts developed by the percentage of gross wages method aid the hours times the regularjob rate method will be completed aid fie greater amount paid to the employee within fourteen (14) days of the common vacation pay cut-off or the employee’s anniversaiy date. Tlie Compaiy’s present cut-off or anniversary date methods hall be continued unless a chaige is agreed upon between the Compaiy aid the Local Union.
b)	For the purposes of this Article, the rate of the employee’sregularjob will be the rate of tne employee’sregularjob at the date of tie common vacation cut-off date or the employee’s anniversary date, as the case may be.
c)	In the case of a	>r ;i r, the rate of the employee’s regular j ib will be
determined by i ig t ie employee's hourly average earnings for the days actually wc rkec during the pay period immediately preceding the common cut-off date
or the employee’s anniversary date, as the case may be
d)	Cta the date when an employee completes one (1, two (2), seven (7), fifteen (15), twenty-four (24). or thirty (50) years’ service aid where there is a common cut-off date for all employees io the operation, the employee will receive:
i)	In the case of one (I) year, one per cent (1 %) of his/her gross earnings between the date of employment aid the date of the last common cutoff date;
ii)	In the case of two (2), seven (7), fifteen (IS) ,twenty-four(24), or thirty (30) years, two per cent (2 %) of his/her gross earnings between the date of his/her last anniversary date aid the date of the last common cut-off date.
1fl:	Vacation Pav - Percentage of Wages Method
The following shall be considered as days actually worked for determining vacations with pay for an employee after one (1) continuous year of employment:
a)	Absence on Workers' Compensation up to a period of one (I) year, provided that the employee returns to his or her employment.
19
b)	Absence due to illness up to a period cf one (1) year, provided that the employee returns to his or her employment. The employer shall have the right W require a certificate from a qualified medical practitioner.
c)	Absence due to bereavement leave in accordance with the terms and conditions of Article IX, Section 6.
d)	Absence due to time served cn jury duty, including Coroner’s jury, or time served as a crown witness or Coroner's witness in accordance with the terms and conditions of Article DC, Section 7.
e)	Any other absence duly approved by the employer in writing shall be credited towards entitlement for annual vacation, but time spent on such leaves of absence shall not be counted in computing vacation pay.
Section 11s Qualifications for Vacation Pav - Regular lob Rate Method
a)
i)	In order for an employee, to qualify for the amount generated by the hours times the legizlar job rate method, the employee must have worked a minimum (f fifteen hundred (1,500) hours in the employee's first year of service and a minimum cf one thousand (1,000) hours during the employee's succeeding years cf entitlement.
ii)	When then is a common vacation pay cut-of? date, for purposes of calculating minimum hours as in i) above, the calculation period shall be from tKe cut-off date in one year to the cut-off date in the succeeding year.
iii)	Where then is no common vacation pay cut-off date, for purposes of calculating minimum hours as in i) above, the calculation period shall be from the employee's anniversary date in one year.to his/her anniversary date in the succeeding year.
b) For purposes of computingthe requisite hours, the following will be included
i)	AH hours worked,
ii)	Statutory Holiday hours;
iii)	Jury and Crown witness duty;
iv)	Bereavement leave;
v)	Vacation hours;
20-
vi)	Time not exceeding one (1) year, lost as the result of an accident recognized as compensable by the Workers Compensation Board aid suffered during the course of employment, shall be considered as time worked for the purpose of qualifying for vacation, provided that the employee returns to his/her employment.
vii)	Time not exceeding one (1) year, lost as the result of a nonoccupational accident or illness, shall be considered as time worked for the purpose of qualifying for vacation, provided that at the time of the accident or illness the employee bas been on the payroll for not less than one (I) yea- and that he/she returns to his/her employment. It is understood tliat the employer rmy quire that the employee provide a certificate from a qualified medical practitioner.
viii)	Time lost as a result of layoff shall not be considered as time worked for the purpose of qualifyingfor requisite hours;
ix)	Employees who report to work aid who receive call time payment shall be credited with eight (8) hours for any such shift for purposes of computing requisite hours under this Sectim. Ary employee who qualifies for call time in a day shall receive credit under this Section for eight (8) hours or credit for the hours for which wages were paid, whichever is the greater,
x)	All hours worked in more than one (1) division of the parent company as a result of transfer or layoff.
Section II; Employment Standards.Act
Pan4 - Annual Vacation of the Employment Standards Act. S.B.C., 1980, c. 10, and amendments thereto, except where varied or modified ty the provisions herein, shall become a pan of this Agreement.
ARTICLE XI - STATUTORY HOT.TDAYS
Section 1:
a)	All hourly-rated employees who work on New Year's Day, Good Friday, Victoria
Day, Canada Day, British Columbia Day, Labour Day, Thanksgiving Day, Remembrance Day, Christmas Day and Boxing Day shall be paid rate and one half for all hours so worked.
5) In the event one of the above Statutory Holidays falls on a Sunday, the previous
Friday or the followingMonday shall be observed as the Holiday. In the event that one of the within nameti Statutory Holidays falls on a Saturday it shall be observed on the preceding Friday or succeeding Monday as agreed between the Company mid the Shop Committee.
21
c)	In case of a maintenance employee where one of the Statutory Holidays is observed on his or her rest day. he or she shall have a day off without pay in lieu thereof at a mutually agreeable me.
Section 2:
a)
b)
c)
All Hourly rated aid piece work employees who qualify for the paid holiday under the conditions set out below shall be paid for the holiday at their regular job rate of pay for their paid regular work schedule. The Parties' '	’	’’
Statutory Holidays shall be as follows:
New 'JfeBr'sDay Good Friday VictoriaDay Canada Day Christmas Day
British Columbia Day Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Remembrance Day Boxing Day
.	riot
agree that the paid
%
Piece work employees shall receive pay for the Statutory Holidays for which they qualify, based csi the daily average earnings for the days actually worked during the previous thirty (30) working days.
All hourly-rated employees working on a paid holiday shall receive rate and one-half for hours worked on such day in a5dition to the holiday pay to which they may be entitled
d)	To qualify for Statutory Holidays, an employee must have beeo on the company
payroll for the thirty (50) calendar days immediately preceding the Statutory Holiday and must have worked his/her last regularly scheduled work day after the holiday, unless his or her absence is due to a compensable occupational injury or illness, viridi occurred within six (6) months of the holiday, or the employee is on authorized leave of absence in accordance with section 2 or 3 of Article IX.
e)	In the case of illness or injury, the Company shall have the right to request a certificate from a qualified medical practitioner.
f)	Notwithstanding any of the foregoing provisions, the employee must have worked one (1) day before aid one (1) day after the holiday, both of which must fall within a period of sixty (60) calendar days.
Section 3:
a)	In the event cf a Statutory Holiday falling an a Tuesday, Wednesday, or Thursday,
aid where the Company aid Shop committee mutually agree, the said holiday may be Observed the preceding	or following Friday respectively.
b)	At the option of the Company, but whenever possible by mutual agreement with the Shop committee, either Good Friday or Easter Monday shall become the designated Easter holiday, aid the Company shall notify its employees of the designation at least one (1) week prior to the said holiday.
22
When a Statutory Holiday falls < n a Fr , employe orking ; i Ti <U Saturday work week t y nut lal agreen :j between t ,ompa ly u c ti PI Committee, may )	3 th Friday S: aft :o 3 Holiday at the straight ti	i<
1 ib i i Saturday as the Statutory Holiday
Section 4:	Personal Floating Holiday
TI >e:ti	ss e e iSepemoeri 1978
lieu of the proposed Heritage Day, but this section h date even if Herii Day has or h not be :! ii
a) ersonal Floating Holiday
itii g ili ati< m on i
y i! effi
i
Regular full-time employees will be granted one (1) Personal latii »li ch contract year of this Agreement, to be arranged at a time suit tl to the np and the company, so there will be no loss of production.
shall be paid fur the said schedule subject to the
When the Personal Fh	aliday is taker an e ipl<
i ay at 1 is reg il Job rate of pay for his L • w< following conditions:
i)	A new employee must have been on the payroll for not less than ninety (90) nsecuti' lendar days to qualify for the Personal Floating
Holiday
ii)	An employee will not qualify for the Personal Floating ) iday if on 1 a of absence for more than nine (9) mom n the contract year,
(X i h the case of sickness or injury.
iii)	An mployee shall apply an an approved form at le; seven (7) days m advance, for his/her Personal Floating Holiday, rh smployee shaii receive notice of the disposition of his/her request a linimum of
1 seventy u o (’2) hot rs prior to be requested Persoi l Floating Holida
')
vi)
1 Floating uch a holiday 1 rate of time and ith
If an employ e is required to work on his/her n Hi ay aftei a d< finite date has been designa c en yi e sht U be paid overtime for such * 3t at t one ii. The employee will then t tl< d to take the holi<fc pay at a later date to 1	11 agreed ip
Personal Floating Holiday not taken or scheduled by April 15th of each intract y ar will t; sche 1 by management.
A j	i i shall not be scheduled on an employee’s
regular rest day
to
rates
vu) Where an employee chooses Saturday or Sunday as a Personal Floating Holiday, straight time rates will apply.
ARTICLE Xn - SAFETY AND HEALTH
Section 1:
The Compaiw aid Employees will co-operate to assure safe working methods aid conditions aid devise plans for the furtherance of safety measures. Equipment aid devices mutually agreed upon to be provided by the Company.
Section 2:
The Management of every operation shall maintain an Accident Prevention committee of four (4) to six (6) members according to the sue of the operation. Members c£ t±e Committee shall be designatedto equal number by the Employees aid the Employer. Employee representatives shall be regular employees in the cperati.cn with at least cne (1) yea’s experience.	’
Section 3:	*—V*
least o
A
v
Safety meetings will be held during working hours where possible Employee’s time will not be deducted for attending such meetings or investigations into accidents. It is recognized that in multishift and in logging operations, msdrings win occur outside of working hours for certain employees. When meetings take place outside cf an employee’s working hours, he or she will be compensated at his os her tegular hourly straight time rate of pay for the time spent attending such meetings; two (2) hour limit.
SwtiQQ 4;
Effective July 1, 1989, an FWA-Foresi Industry Safety and Health Reseach Program will be established on the following general principles:
a)	The Han will be jointly trusteed,
b)	The Plan is to be funded on J e basis of an Industry contribution <f one-half cent ('A
cent) per hour per employee i e ■ horn worked, effective July 1, ]	>
c)
ARTICLE XHI - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
The trustees /ill lx appointed in the first year of the Agreement and will meet during the first year to est objectives nd op< iti aid administrative procedures.
Section 1:
A Grievance Committee shall be elected to consist of two (2) to seven (7) employees elected by the Union members employedin the operation covered by this Agreement Members of this Grievance Committee shall have completed their probationary period with the Company and shall have at least one (I) yea’s experience in the type ofoperatton
24
1 etings of the Grievance Committee shall, except in cases of emergency, and wherever 1 sible, be held outside of working hours. In the event that a grievance should arise it shall be dealt with in following manner, ^ /it! it stoppage of work:
ep 1:
Step 2:
Step 3:
Section 2:
If a ri< days ifi i
The individual employee involved with or without the Job Steward shall first take > 13e matter with the Fc reman dii 1 in cl : of the k withi i (14) days of the said grievance.
If a satisfactory settlement is not then by I tl P ies when th & e ploy Grit uk 5 with the Plant Superintendent, shall accompany the Committee.
5 f rieva	is not then fa
1	Lfnion	and the	nt
settlement is not then reinafi	ovided
, i si « k id i itii n< the Committee shall take up the [f desi 1 th Ur it Bi ;ii > gent
solved, it shall be referred to the
< it s be dt
»nh b>
has lot i nee to the next stage	under	sps 2, 3 or 4 withi i	fourteen	(14)
ie con pletion of the prece li	je,	tl	the grievance shall be deemed tc	be
and all rights of recourse to the	rie	cedure shall be at an	end. T
) day limit may be extended by	up	t of both Parties
er (
ARTICLE XTV - RIGHT OF Section 1;
If the two Parties fail to agree upon an	:<	reta h of the igi
have the right to refer th:: ai r t tl	i	Industry f	itti
if either party does make such reference, the other Pa must
l_______&
The Joint Industry Committee shall consist of three (3) reprej CANADA d three (3] representatives	i by the Employers
negotiations of this Agr	and the two ni	ay be
Parti* Li	i by them.
Section 3:
Wh an m erpi at of the reference shall be for the period off
3	, either Party sh;
hereinafter provided, and rot the refere
rwA-
to this Agreement. I n 1 :taii< this shall b<
een referred o the J y t ig it (48) hours or longer 0;
tl e loint Committee agrees upon 2 i writi:	to the Union involved and to t
:ted by t ited in th i by one or ncre
Committee, this
1 ns« of the th or
25
Section 4:
In the event the Joint Committee members disagree, all the facts m the case as found by the Union and the Union members of the Joint Committee shall be placed m wnUng by the Union representauves and submitted to the Employer and to the Union members involved The facts in the case as found by the Employer and the employer members of the Joint Committee shall be placed in wnung and given to the Union member employees for their information
Section 5:
If a satisfactory interpretation of the point in quesuon is not reached, either Party, may refer the quesuon to arbitration as hereinafter provided
ARTICLE XV - INTERPRETATION AND ARBITRATION
Section 1:	Interpretation
a)	In case of any dispute ansmg regarding the interpretauon of this Agreement, which the Parties hereto are unable to settle between themselves, the matter shall be determined by interpretaUOD in the following manner
b)	Either Party may be notify the other Party in wnung by Registered Mad on the
question or questions to be interpreted After receiving such notice and statement, each of the Parties will then refer the matter to the Interpreter selected by the Parues
c)	The Parties agree to_____________________________as the Interpreter for the duration
of this Agreement
d)	In the event the Interpreter named in c) above is unable through illness or absence
from the Province of British Columbia for any reason whatsoever, to act as Interpreter, the Parues agree that______________________shall act in his place
e)	The decision of the Interpreter shall be final aid binding upon the Parues of the First and second Pans
Section 2:	Arbitration
a)	In the case of a dispute arising under this Agreement, except as to Interpretations of this Agreement, which the parties are unable to settle themselves, as set out in Article >333, the matter shall be determined by Arbitration m the following manner
b)	Either Party may notify the other Party in writing by Registered Mail of the question to be arbitrated After receiving such notice ana statement, each of the Parues will then refer the matter in wnung to the arbitrator who has been selected by the Parties
c)	The decision of the .Arbitrator shall be final aid binding upon the Parues of the First aid Second Ffens
26
d)	The Parlies agree to mutually select a panel of Chairmen for single Arbitration who will act for the duration of this Agreement.
e)	If the Arbitrators selected by the Parties are unable through illness or absence from the Province of British Columbia for any reason whatsoever to act as Arbitrators, the Parties agree to meet and attempt to select a mutually satisfactory Arbitrator, if unable to select one which is mutually satisfactory, the Parties funher agree to request the Honourable Minister of Labour of the Province British Columbia to appoint an Arbitrator.
f)	If the Arbitrator finds that an employee has been unjustly suspended or discharged, such employee will be reinstated with all his or her rights and privileges preserved under the terms of this Agreement. The Arbitrator shall further make the determination on the amount of lost pay to be paid to the employee.
g)	The Parties of the First and Second Parts will each bearone-half (one-half) of the expenses of interpretations or arbitrations including the salary of the Interpreter or Arbitrator plus any stenographic, secretarial and rent expenses which may be incurred in respect of such proceeding
h)	Any Arbitration to be held hereunder shall be held in the City of William's Lake or such other place as may be decided by the Arbitrator.
i)	A Committee shall be established to develop and implement a system of expedited arbitration of grievances. The chairman ofthis Committee will be H. Allan Hope, Q. C, The Committee shall report to the parties not later than December 31, 1984.
ARTICLE XVI - GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section J
a)	The Urim will, within sixty (60) days from the date of this Agreement, notify the Company in writing of the members of the Shop Committee, The Union or Shop Committee will inform the Company in writing when any member change takes place on the said Committee. No member of the Shop Committee will be recognized by the Company unless the above procedure is ran-wi out.
b)	For the purposes of this Agreement, when the word "Committee" is used'it shall itean Shop, Camp, Mill or Plant Committee, members of which are appointed by the Union.
c)	Official Union representatives shall obtain access to the Company's operations for the purposes of this Agreement by written permission which will be granted by the Company on quest and subjectto such terms and conditions as may be laid down by the Company.
27
Section 2:	No Strike Pending Grievance and Arbitration Procedure
The Umon agrees that it will not cause, promote, sanction or authorize any strike, sitdown, sympathetic strike, or other interference with work by the employees except according to the Labour Relations Act (British Columbia)
Section 3:	No Lockout Pending Grievance and Arbitration Procedure
The Company agrees it will not create or institute any lockout of the employees with respect to any dispute between the Company aid the Union or the Company and its employees except according to the Labour Relations Act (Bridsh Columbia)
Section 4;
a)	It is agreed that the Union may refuse to handle materials produced by a strike bound firm.
b)	The Union shall have the right to respect another Union's legal picket line.
Section 5:	Working Foremen
Employees outside the bargaining unit will not perform work that is normally done by employees in .the bargaining unit. However, nothing in this Agreement shall be construed as prohibiting foremen from doing work for purposes of instruction, provided by so doing a layoff cf bargaining unit employees does not result, or in the case of an emergency when regular employees an not available, provided that every reasonable effort is made to find a replacement.
Section 6:	Permanent Plant Closure - Severance Pav
>fS>
a)
*
Effective July 1, 1982, employees terminated by the company because of permanent closure of a manufacturing plant shall be entitled to severance pay equal to one (1) week’s pay for each year of continuous service and thereafter in increments of
completed months cf service.	7
b)	Where a plant is ,ieloaabadand the employees involved an not required to relccat
their place of residence or are not terminated by the employer as a result of the Plant relocation, they shall not be entitled to severance pay under this Article.
C) Effective July 1, 1982, sixty (60) days notice of closure will be provided.
Section ______Logging Contractors
a)	The Company will not enter into any logging cbntract which would have the effect of
discontinuing the employment of any regular logging employee with the Company.
b)	The Parties hereto share a mutual interest in the elimination cf unfair labour practices as defined in the labour Code cf British Columbia Act.
28
It is acknowledged that the majority of logging is performed by contractors and subcontractors. It is therefore agreed that a Joint Standing Committee be established to review reports of unfair labour practices whenever they may occur in our area of operations. The Committee will consist of three (3) representatives of the IWA and three (3) representatives of Industry.
It shall be the responsibility of the Committee to discuss any instances of an unfair labour practice, as defined under the Labour Code of British Columbia, with the parties involved and attempt to discourage continuation of such practices.
The company agrees it will not enter into a contract with a contractor or subcontractor who continues to commit unfair labour practicer as defined under the Labour Code c£British Columbia Act for which the contractor or sub-contractor has been found in contravention of said Act by the Department of labour.
Section 8:	Welders
Employees employed as Welders who are required to renew thadr Welding Ticket shall be granted up to five (5) day's paid Leave of Absence to attend school for instruction. The Company shall pay tne coy of instruction and examination.
Section 9:	Balancing of Production
The Urim agrees to provide a letter to the Companies setting forth the same wording as agreed to at the Coast.
Section 10:	Planerman Training
It is agreed that the parties to the Agreement will meet jointly to discuss and implement a Planerroan’s Training Program.
Section 11:	Too4
a)	The Company will repair or replace those Tradesmen’s tools that are damaged or broken in the performance of regular duties.
b)	The Company will make available Tradesmen’s tools required upon the introduction cf the metric system.
c)	During the introduction of equipment which requires the use cf metric tools, the Company will make metric tools available at no cost, for use by Tradesmen.
Section L2:	First Aid Training
Employees of the Company who, by mutual agreement, train or retrain for Industrial First Aid Certificates, will be compensated in the following manner:
29
a)	The Company wili pay the cost of the course tuition and materials required ty those
employees who pass the course,
5) The Company will pay lost time wages to designated First Aid Attendants
ARTTHTiF. XVH - FORESTRY ENVIRONMENTAL COMMITTEE
Forestry Environmental Committees shall be established by the Company aid the local Union
The details concerning the structure, operation aid terms of reference must be agreed to by the Company and the focal Union pnor to implementation
ARTICLE XVm - HEALTH AND WELFARE
Section 1:	Provincial Board of Trustees
Weldwood of Canada Limited, together with Forest Industrial Relations Limited, the Intenor Forest Labour Relations Association, the Council on Northern Interior Forest Employee Relations, Northwood Pulp and Timber Ltd,, Canfor Limited and the rWA-CANADA, agree to establish one set of trustees for the purpose of developing a common text, a ccmnon trust agreement, and a commoo employee booklet for the six Health and Welfare Plans, covering life Insurance, Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance, and Weekly Indemnity
The Parties agree that a Joint Committee, representing Forest Industrial Relations Limited, the Interior Forest Labour Relations Association, the Council on Northern Interior Forest
Employee Relations, Canfor Limited, Northwood Pulp and Timber Lid , Weldwoodof Canada Limited, aid the IW A-CANADA, will be established to study the most effective method of administration of the Elans,reporting to the Parties no later than July I, 1984
Section 2; Weldwood - IWA Board of Trustees
The Board cf Trustees, composed of two (2) members representing IWA Regional Council No 1 and two (2) members representing the Company,are responsible for the administration of the TWA - WeldwoodHealtn aid Welfare Elan The Trustees are also responsible for the selection of earner, funding, adjudication of compassionate appeals, and Health and Welfare problems directly related to the Elan
Section 3; Medical
a)	The Company agrees D provide medical coverage for its employees by participating in the Medical Services Elan of British Columbia.
The Company agrees to provide ExtendedIfcatfti Benefits, including Hospitalization •x .	coverage up to a maximum cf $8,50 per day, to its employees by participating in a
rt\r	plan entered into between the Company and an appropriate earner
?V9
c)	Effective July 1, 1982, a_ Vision Care program will be Instituted to provide payment up to a maximum of one hundred dollars ($100.00) per person in any twenty-four (24) consecutive month period for charges incurred relative to the purchase of lenses and frames or contact lenses when prescribed by a person legally qualified to make such prescription.
Section 4:	Insurance Coverage
The following coverage will be provided by the Company on an industry-wide basis with a common earner	—nr f~t .	'
/ d cr
Grajp Life Insurance for each qualified employee as follows.
effective July 1, 1991, $45,000 00	^
effective July 1, 1992, $45,000 00 O YJ> effective July 1, 1993,545,000 00
Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance for each qualified employee as follows:
Effective January 1, 1992, in the amount of four hundred and twenty-six dollars ($426.00) per week for fifty-two weeks.	indemnity to commence from the
first day of accident and the sixth day of illness; the first day where illness results in hospitalization as a bed patient and where work time is lost due to surgery. Absences due to the same ct related causes will be considered one continuous absence unless the employee returns to full-time work for a four week period.
The Union agrees that if the Company maintains Weekly Indemnity Plan benefits which will meet the standard requirements for full premium reduction for 'wage loss replacement plan under the Unemployment Insurance Acf, the employees' 5/l2th share of the premium reduction is retained as payment in kind in the provisions of the Weekly Indemnity Elan benefits.
a)
i) Third party Subrogation
The parties agree to recommend to the Trustees <£ the Health and WSiaiePlan that effective an the date of ratificatiai of this memorandum a third party subrogation clause be adopted so that the Weekly Indemnity Han can be reimbursed from damages recovered from a liable third party for illness, injury or income loss. The Plan will be entitled to recover the full amount of benefits paid to the
31
member which exceeds 100% of the member’spre-disability gross income. Ores income will be calculated by using the member’s regular hourly job rate times (x) 40 hours. Trustees to work out the applicationand details, including the deduction of legal fees from the settlement and the execution of a reimbursement agreement.
A Dental Plan will be provided on the following general principles:
Basic Daital Services (Plan A) - Plan pays 80% of approved schedule of fees.
ii) / Prosthetics, crowns and bridges (EQanB) - Plan pays 50% of approved schedule of fees.
M
iii)/^^6rthodontic (Plan C) - Plaiyjays 50% of approved schedule of fees
tS (lifetime maximum $2,000.
Section 6:	General Principles
a)	Premium cost for insurance shall be paid by the Company.
b)	Participation in the plan is to be a condition of employment.
c)	Any new employee who bas not worked in covered employment in the last eighteen months will be eligible to become a covered employee on the first day of the month followingcompletion of the probationary period. However, for such employee coverage for the Medical Services Plan and for the Extended Health Benefit will apply on the first day of the month following the date of employment
d)	Cbrecage wi 11 be portable in all units covered by collective agreements between
members cf Forest Industrial Relations Limited, the Interior Forest Labour Relations Association, the Cbirdl on Northern Interior Forest Employee Relations, Cantor Limited, Noithwood Mp and Timber Ltd., Weldwood of Canada Limited, and the
FWA, and there shall be no waiting period for qualified employees changing employers within die Industry.
e)	Coverage during lay-offwill be provided as follows:
Employees with more than three (3) months’ seniority but less than one (1) year’s sarinrity will he three (3) months.
Employees with one (1) or mars year’s seniority will be six (6)
months.
32
f)	In order for reinstatement of lay-off coverage to occur there must be a return io regular full-time employment. An employee returns to regular full-time employment when he/she is employed for 10 working days within a flcating period ofthirty (30) consecutive days.
AJso, an employee who returns to work for at least one working day and less than 10 working days will be covered for that month, in addition to any layoff coverage to which he/she was entitled, if the recall occurred during the period of lay-off coverage.
g)	There will be no duplication of Weekly Indemnity and Pension Plan payments.
h)	Weekly Indemnity coverage will be eliminated for an employee on an extended leave of absence under Leave of Absence, Section 4: Compassionate Leave, provided however that such employee is eligible for Weekly Indemnity coverage on the agreed-upon day of return to work. In order to qualify for this coverage the employee must have returned to hisfher place of residence in British Columbia unless higher disability required him/her to be hospitalized and satisfies the requirements of the claims adjudication carrier. In such case of a compassionate appeal dealing with disability incurred during extended leave of absence, the Trustees have the right to review certain circumstances.
i)	Employees on extended leave of absence under Leave of Absence, Section 4:
Compassionate Leave will pay their own premiums for the Modi* a I S '	'
E :nd(dHialthB t ft, and D al Plan, wl ill t premiums for G Insurance and Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance will t employer during such extended leave of absence.
ARTICLE m • LONG TERM DISflKTT.TTY PL
The Plan will become effective July 1, 1982
The Plan is to be funded on a 50/50 cost sharing basis with contributions of 20 cents per hour per employee per hour worked, of which the Industry will contribute 10 cents and the employee will contribute 10 cents commencing July 1, 1988.
Effective July 1, 1993, the Pian to be funded on a 50/50 cost sharing basis with contributions cf twenty-two cents (22C) per hour per employee per hour worked, of which the Industry will contribute eleven cents (IK) and the employee will contribute eleven cents (IK).
A Board of Trustees will be constituted with equal representation from the Union and the Industry, to be responsible for establishing the terms of the Plan and the on-going administration,
The Trustees will select a qualified actuary to assist them and to ensure the establishment of actuarially sound reserves to fund the benefits provided by the Plan.
a)
33
The Trustees will enter into a Trust Agreement which will include provisionfor a procedure to settle any major dispute tEiat msy arise with regard to the provisions of
ARTICLE XX • rWA - FOREST INDUSTRY PENSION PLAN _ . Section 1:	i-

e)
The Parties agree to establish a Pension Plan m accordance with the terms aid conditionsof the Memorandum of Agreement of the Pension Sub<jc«xinitteedated August 17th. 1977
Section 2;
The Industry contribution to the Pension Plan of one dollar seventy cents ($ l 70) per hour per employee per hour worked, which became effective July l, 1988, will be increased by seventy cents (70C) per hour, effective July l, 1992, to two dollars forty cents (52 40) per hour per employee per hour worked Effective July l, 1993, employee contributions of ten cents (IOC) per hour per employee per hour work eel will be added to the above contribution rate

iSt a-
(
ARTICLE XXI . JOB TRAINING
Job Training Program will be in accordance with Supplement No 2 which is attached hereto aid forms pan of this Agreement
___	C?____
ARTICLE XXH ■ APPRENTICESHIP TRAINING PROGRAM ^ _---------------
Apprenticeship Training Programs will be m accordance with Supplements No 3A and 3B which are attached hereto and form part of this Agreement	^ ^
a)
b)	When Implemented the Apprenticeship Training Programs shall provide that single persons undergoing training shall receive their wages, less any sum paid to thenTby the appropriate Govemmentauthorities. Married persons shall receive their wages, less the amount paid by the Provincial Government authorities to single persons; the intent being that the greater amount paid by the Provincial Govemmentauthorities to married persons shall not become a benefit to the Company
c)	In cases where the apprentice is in receipt of a subsidy granted by the appropriate
Federal Govemmentauthorities, the employerwill pay the apprentice, while attending Vocational School, the difference between the subsidy grant^i by the appropriate Federal Government authorities aid the regular wages of the employee concerned
ARTICLE XXm - TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE Section 1:-Advance N
The Company shall notify the Shop Committee and the Union not less than six (6) months m advanceof intent to institute material changes in working methods or facilities which would involve the discharge or laying*off of employees
34
Section 2; Severance Pay
Employees discharged, laid-off, or displaced from their regularjob because of mechanization, technological change or automation shall be entitled to severancepay of one (1) week's pay -fof each year of service with the Company. The amount calculated under such entitlement shall not exceed a maximum of thirty (30)weeks' pay. This section shall not apply to employees covered ty Section 3 b) below.
Section 3:	Rate Adjustment
a) An employee who is set back to a lowerpaid job because of mechanization,
technological change or automation will receive the rate of hidher regularjob at the time of the setback for a period of three (3) months and for a further period of three (3) months he/she will be paid an adjusted rate which will be midway between the rate of his/her regularjob at the time of the setback and the rate of his/her new regularjob. At the end of this six (6) month period the rate of his/her new regular job will apply. However, such employees will have the option of terminating their employment and accepting severance pay as outlined in Section2 above, providing they exercise this option within the above referred to six (6) month period.
b)	Following an application cf a) above, where an employee is set back to a lower paid job because of an applicationof Article VH1 • Seniority brought on by mechanization, technological change or automation, he/she will receive the rate of his/her regularjob at the time of the setback for a period of three (3) months and for a further period of three (3) months he/she will be paid an adjusted rate which will be midway between the rate of his/her regularjob at the time of the setback and the rate of his/her new regularjob. At the end cf this six (6) month period, the rate of his/her new regular job will apply.
ARTICLE XXIV . PLYWOOD JOB EVALUATION FT AN
Section 1;___Implementation
The Plywood Job Evaluation program for the Plywood Plant at Merrill & Wagner Division shall be conducted in accordance with the provisions of SupplementNo. 3 which is attached hereto and forms part of this Agreement.
Section 2:	Point Ranee and Increment
All jobs in Grade Ctos,the point range cf which is 0 to 81, shall be paid the minimum rate for common labour as provided in Article V, Section 1 d). The point range for subsequent grades shall be ten (10, i.e. Grade Two (82-91), Glade Three (92-101), etc. The wage increment curve for the plywood industry is as follows:
35
Effective
Grade	June 15, 1991
Per Hour
Effective	Effective
June 15, 1992	June 15, 1993
Per Hour	Per Hour
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8 9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20 21 22
23
24
25
26 27
517.07
17.18 17.31
17.42
17.60 17.73 17.92 18.08 18,25
18.43
18.61
18.77 18.96 19.17 19.35
19.56
19.77 19.98
20.19 20.46 20,75 21,02 21.29
21.56 21.84 22.11 22.39
$17.07
17.18 17.31
17.42
17.60 17.73 17.92 18.08 18.25
18.43
18.61
18.77 18.96 19.17 19.35 19 56
19.77 19.98
20.19 20.46 20.75 21.02 21.29 21,56 21.84 22.11 22.39
517.92
18.03 18.16
18.27
18.45 18.58 18.77 18.93 19,10
19.28
19.46
19.62 19.81 20.02 20.20
20.41
20.62 20,83
21.04 21.31 21.60 21.87 22.14
22.41 22.69 22.96 23.24
The general wage increase provided for in Article V, ferf.-im 1 has been incorporated into these rates.
Section 3; Rad Circle Jobs
Incumbents in job categories for which the rate is reduced as a result cf job evaluation (hereinafter referred to as "Red Circle Jets') shall continuaat the nriqinal rate subject to the provisionsof the appropriate supplement (Plywood lob Evaluation, Sectim 10 - Red Circle Jobs).
ARTICLE XXV - SAFETY EQUIPMENT StCtiMLli
The Company shall replace such equipment at no cost to the employee when these articles are presented worn or damaged beyond repair aid when they are required by the company or the Workers’ Compensation Beard:
36
i)	Aprons
u)	Hard Hats and Linen
iii)	Eye, Ear and Nbse Protective Equipment
Section 2:
Where the following articles of equipment are required to be used ty the Company or ty the Workers' Compensation Board, the Company shall, at no cost to the employee:
i) Supply new employees with the articles of equipment as required
U)	Supply employees moving to another department with the articles of equipment
they require and they do not have at the time of the move, and
iii)	Replace articles of equipment when those articles are presented worn or damaged beyond repair.
That is to say:
i)	Aprons
ii)	Ifind. Hats and Liners
ju)	Eye, Ear and	Nose Protective Equipment
iv)	Gloves
Notwithstanding the foregoing, ail articles of equipment to be replaced only when they are presented worn or damaged beyond repair; otherwise the replacement will be at the expense of the employee.
Section 3;
Where the Company has been supplying safely equipment and clothing at no cost to the employee on the effective date Cl this Agreement it will continue to do so at no cost to the employee.
Section 4
The employer shall make coveralls available and maintain same for use by End Sprayers, Panel Sprayers. Oilers, Filer-Grindemen. Power House employees, and Tradesmen.
Section 5:
An employee who is required to wear caulk boots by the Workers’ Compensation Board shall receive annually a one hundred dollar ($100.00) caulk boot allowance.
j)	if he/she has six (6) months or more smioi±ty,or ii) upon obtaining six (6) months seniority.
jij)	Seasonal lay-offs shall not interfere with the qualifying period herein
37
ARTICLE XXVI • TOO r.INSURANCE
The Company ai ns own expense shall insure for damage or loss caused by fire, a* flood, the tools of its employees which an required m the performance of their work This provision for tool insurance shall also apply to loss by theft where the tools an stored m a designated place of safety within the control of the Company and then is forcible breaking aid entering The insurance coverage provided shall be subject to a deductible cf $50 00 in respect of each employee’s claim
ARTICLE XXVD - FIREFIGHTING AGREEMENT
Firefighting Agreement will be in accordance wLfti Supplement No 4- which is attached hereto aid forms part cf this Agreement
ARTICLE XXVm - SAWMILL RATE DETERMINATION PROGRAM Section 1:	Responsibility. Implementation. Continuity and
The IWA-CANADA and Forest Industrial Relations Limited agree to Implementand continue the provisions of this Article of the Coast blaster Agreement aid any related Supplements to the Coast Master Agreement as administered by Regional Council No 1 cf the International Woodworkers of America mid Forest Industrial Relations Limited shall be responsible for ail aspects cf the program
Section 2:	Purpose and Method
The purpose cf the Program shall be the ranking cf applicable hourly-paid categories and placing them in groups according to their relative value within the B C Coast Sawmill Industry by using a method of agreed-upon benchmark categories mid related job descriptions
Where new or significantly changed jobs do not tit an existing benchmark job description, the Parties agree to group such jobs by comparison to existing jobs where possible. ia order to keep benchmark job descriptions to a minimum
Tbe Parties agree that the Details of Agreement as per Appendix No I of the Memorandum cf Agreement dated February 19, 1992 in respect cf Mechanization, Technological Change or Automation will fee implemented Rate increases, if any, will be effective June 15, 1992 No incumbent’s rate shall be reduced as a result of the implementation of this Agreement
Section 3:	Application
a) Sawmill Rate Determination shall be carried out sb the Local Union - Local
Management level in accordancewith the provisions of this Article and the provisions of any related Supplements to the Coast Master Agreement
38
b)	Sawmill Rate Determination shall apply to all hourly paid categories in the sawmill industry except for those categories which have been excludedTy mutual agreement between the IWA Coast Negotiating Committee and Forest Industrial Relations Limited.
c)	Sawmill Rate Determination shall not supersede existing in-plant agreements, signed on or before November 3, 1976, at the Local Union - Local Management level.
Section 4:	Development. Uniformity and Co-ordination
In order to ensure uniform application, the Program shall he developed and co-ordinated by the B.C, Coast Sawmill Job Analysis Board, consisting of an equal number of representatives from the Union and the Industry as follows:
For the Union:
One (1) Officer representing rWA-CANADA and three (3) Officers representing the rWA Coast Local Unions, assisted by one (1) TfednkaL Advisor in the field of Job Analysis employed by Regional Council No. 1 of the IWA.
For :he Industry:
Cne (1) representative of Forest Industrial Relations Limited and three (3) representatives of the B.C. Coast Sawmill Industry, assisted by one (1) HtH-i-riml Advisor in the field of Job Analysis employed by Forest Industrial Relations Limited.
Section 5:	Procedures
a)	The Sawmill Rate Determination Program shall be administered jointly on a day-today basis by the respective TJadrricaL Advisors, subject to the approval of the B. C. Coast Sawmill Job Analysis Board.
b)	Any agreement reached in this manner regarding the disposition of a category rate clearance application received ftnn the Local Union - Local Management level shall be final and binding on the Parties
c)	If no agreement can be reached iithis manner regarding the disposition of a category rate clearance application received from the Locaf Union - Local Management level, the matter shall be referred to the Board.
If the Board is unable to reach agreement regarding the disposition cf a category rate clearance application received from the Local TTnim • Local Management level, the matter shall be referred to the IWA Coast Negotiating Committee and Forest Industrial Relations Limited in accordance with Section 1 of this Article,
39
Section <:____.loh Analysis Wage Curve
Group
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20 21 22 23
Effective lune 15, 1991 Per Hour
$17.07
17.20 17.37 17.51 17.67 17.94
18.20 18 44 18.71 19.03 19.40 19.74 20.08
20.44 20.77 21.11 21.47 21.82 22.14 22.59 23.01
23.44 23.87
Effective lune 15, 1992 Per Hour
$17.07
17.20 17.37 17.51 17.67 17.94
18.20
18.44 18.71 19.03 19.40 19.74 20.08
20.44
20.n
21.11
21.47
21.82
22.14
22.59
23.01
23.44 23.87
Effective lune 15, 1993 Per Hour
$17.92
18.05 18.22 18.36 18.52 18.79
19.05
19.29 19.56 19.88 20.25 20,59 20.93
21.29 21.62 21.96 22.32 22.67 22.99 23.44 23.86
24.29 24.72
Die general wage increase provided form Article V, Section 1 bas been incorporated into ttese rates
Section 7:	Incumbent’s Rate
No incumbent’s rate shall be reduced as a result of die implementation and/or continued application of the Program
The Parties further agree that details of die’Sawmill Rate Determination Program may be subject to amendment at die written request of either Party at die end of each three (3) mcuth period from the date of this Agreement
ARTTCXEXXIX - CONTRACTING OUT
a)	The Caipany will not contract out any work that is performed by employees in the - Bargaining Unit at the effective date of this agreement.
b)	Current practices ii operations shall be agreed on with the Local Union in writing TH-ii such time as agreement is reached the above clause (A) only will apply.
40
ARTICLE XXX - DURATION OF AGREEMENT Section 1;
The Parties hereto agree that this Agreement shall be effective from and after the first day of Jtdfry 1991 tn the 3ftth dALL.j-if4n«ri .1594 and thereafter, from year to year unless four (4j months'"written ooUce of contrary intention is given by the Forties. The notice required hereunder shall be validly and sufficientlyserved at the Head	of the Party of the First
Part or at the Local Office of the Local Officers of the Uiim, Party of the Second Part, at least four (4) months prior to the expiry of any yearly period. If no agreement is reached at the expiration of this contract and negotiations are continued, the Agreement shall remain in force up to the time that a subsequent Agreement is reached, or util negotiations are discontinued ty either Party
Section 2:
The Parties hereto agree that the qperatim of Section 66 (2) of the Labour Code of British Columbia Act 1973 is excluded from the Master Agreement.
Dated this t f ^ day of	. 19$&g
FOR
Weldwood of Canada Limited (Williams Lake Division)
IWA CANADA, local 1-425, C.L.C
41
SUPPLEMENT NO. 1
WAGE SCALES	^
CATEGORIES IN PLYWOOD EVALUATION
Grade 1	.Tune 1S/91
Clean-up	$17 07
Grade}	i7 ig
Dunnage - Saw operator Dryer Feeder
Grade 3	17.31
Car Shorer Spreader Washer Strapper
Clean-UpLathe Charger Relief
Grade 4	17.42
Green Chain Operator Lathe Grazer Attendant Chipper Attendant
Grade S	17 60
Patchline Patcber Greencbain Offbearer/
Clipper Anendant Greenchain Offbearer/
Stacker Attendant Dryer Grader Offbearer Steam Chest Attendant Strapping Machine Operator/
Plywood
Grade 6	17 73
Patch Line Patcher (Synthetic Patch)
Sheet Feeder - Lay-up-Line
Grade 7	17 92
June 15/92 $17 07 17 18
17 31
17.42
17.60
17.73
17.92
June 15/93 $17.92 18.03
18.16
18.27
18.45
18.58
18.77
42
June 15/91
June 15/92
June 15/93
Grade 8	$18 08
Core Feeder/Layup Line Forklift operator - Finish End Forklift Shipping #9 Sheet Feeder
Grade 9	18 25
Forklift Operator- Veneer Processing
Forklift Operator- Green End Forklift Operator - Finish End and Shipping
Chip-N-Saw operator - (Coremill)
Grade 10	18.43
Glue Mixer Barker operator Assistant Lathe operator Log Saw operator VK #2 Warehouseman
Grade 11	18.61
Forklift Operator/Block Supply Log Saw operator VK #1
Grade 12	18.77
Core Layer - Auto SpreaderLLne Sizing Unit & Grade Line Operator Forklift Operator/Block Supply (Graveyard)
Grade 13	18.96
Log & Barker operation
Grade 14	19 17
Hot Press Operator Dryer Operator Sander/T & G/Forklift
$18 08 18.25
18.43
18.61
18.77
18.96
19.17
$18 93 19.10
19.28
19.46 19 62
19.81
20.02
43
June 15/91	June 15/92	June 15/93
Grade 18	$19.98	$19.98	$20.83
Auto Spread Line Operator			
Grade 26	22.11	22.11	22.96
Lathe Operator			
44
WAGE SCALE B
C!ATEGORTESIN SAWAfTLL RATE DETERMINATION
June 15/91	June 15/92	----June 15/93
Group 1	$17.07	$17.07
Clean-up PiJer
Group 2	17.20	17.20
Chip Bill Attendant Soner Stacker Stick Layer (Some Controls)
17.37	17.37
Plana: Chain Puller Barker Deck Chaser (Start/stop controls)
Group 4	17.51	17.51
Planer Chain PuUer/Retrim Strip Sc La tie Machine operator Chipper Feeder
End Loader Operator/PlanermQJ
Car Loader
Log Yard Strapper
Group 5	17.67	17.67
Package Unit Assistant/Recordmg (Sawmill Drop Soner)
ffl-imirntrir
Soner Bin operator
Group 6	17.94	17.94
S18.92
18.05
18.22
18.36
18.52
18.79
Breakdown Hoist/Trimsaw/Planermill Soner Stacker operator #1 & #2 Trimmer (Rotating)
45
June 15/91	June 15/92
group 7	$18 20	$18 20
Tailsawyer
Double End Trimmer/
Select/Planermill Log Sorter (BandmiU Side)
Planer Feeder
Automatic Barker Attendant/
24' Cambio
Automatic Barker Attendant/
IT Nicholson
Auto Package Press Operator
Group?	18 44	1 8.44
Forklift Operator
group?	18 71	18.71
Planner Feeder-Setup Multiple Log Saw Cut-Off Forklift Operator/Kiln Can
group IQ	19.03	19.03
Log Scaler/Weighman/
Licensed
Chipping Edger/Circular Gang Saw Attendant
group 11	19 40	19.40
Equipment Operator-jstd. bfeiixs'Hxe Chip’n’Saw Operation
QrffPP 13	19 74	19.74
Log Loader Operator/Cat 966 Log Loader Operator/Cat 980
Orwp 14	20 44	20.44
Planertnan # 1
Log Loader/Letoumeau (L-20)
46
June 15/93
$19 OS
19.29 19,56
19.88
20.25
20.59
21.29
June 15/91	June 15/92
Group 15	$20.77	$20.77
G.S L.A. Grader/Grade Reader Qzne Operator/Repair &
Maintenance Responsibility
GroMP 2Q	22.59	22.59
Band Headrig Sawyer
June 15/93 $21.62
23.44
47
WAGE SCALE C
NON-EVALUATEDCATEGORIES
June 15/91 June 15/92 June 15/93
I.	Trades • Manufacturing
Carpenter
Electrician
Heavy Duty tfefenic
Millwright
ft pe ft tie r/ S team ft ft e r
Journeyman (with certificate)	$22,275
Journeyman	22.065
Improver (3rd Ifea: complete)	19.47
Improver (2nd Ifear complete)	18.92
Helper (laYeax complete)	18.435
Helper	18,17
$22,275
22.065
19.47
18.92
18.435
18.17
$23,125
22.915
20.32
19.77
19.285
19.02
Machinist
Journeyman (with certificate) Journeyman
Improver (3rd Tfcar complete) Improver (2nd Year complete) Helper (1st Year complete) Helper
$22,275	$22,275
22.065	22.065
19.56	19.56
19.00	19,00
18.525	18.525
18.265	18.265
$23,125
22.915
20.41
19.85
19.375
19.115
wadfe? (Weidwood 101)* Welder (DPW n or #2)
22.275	22.275	23,125
22.09	22.09	22.94
•NOTE: MuS be gniifiaH under the Weldwood 101 standard welding specification and
either having completed ths three year apprenticeship program or have worked in the trade for six thousand (6,000) hours.
U. Filing Room
Benchmac (with certificate) Benchrnan Benchman Helper Circular Saw Filer (with certificate)
Circular Saw Filer Saw Filer Helper
$22.96
22.75
22.275
22.275
22.065 21.92
$22.96
22.75
22.275
22.275
22.065 21.92
$23.81
23.60
23.125
23.125 22.915 22.765
Saw Fitter	(with certificate)	21.92
Saw Fitter	21.71
SawFitter	(isYsarcomplete)	18.66
Saw Fitter	Helper	18,17
21.92 22,77 21.71 22.56 18 66 19,51 18,17 19.02
48
June 15/91 June 15/92
HI. Engineers & Firemen
2nd class Engineer
3rd Class Engineer 4th Class Engineer Fimtan (4t£ Class Ticket) Fireman
S23.38	$23.38
22.275	22.275
21.02	21.02
19.485	19.485
18.065	18.065
IV. Miscellaneous
Grioderman Ifed. Oiler oiler
Yfead Bucker
19.69	19.69
18.84	18.84
18.595	18.595
19.68	19.68
First Aid Job Rate Hus:
"C"	Ticket	$	0,30/hr.
"B"	Ticket	$	0.40/hr.
"A1	Ticket	S	0.50/hr.
'AA'	Ticket	$	0.60/hr.
49
June 15/92
$24.23
23.125
21.87
20.335
18.915
20,54
19.69
19.445
20.53
SUPPLEMENT NO. 2
JOB TRAINING PROGRAMS
A.
1.
B.
2.
3.
C,
4.
5.
6.
D.
7.
E.
8.
9.
Application
The following principles are intended as a guide and basis for negotiations of training programs at the operatio lal 1 :ll n th C	I tl Local Union.
Posting
Tjajrnig positions to be posted for a minimum period of two (2) consecutive working days.
An employee absent on approved leave of absence, lay-off. illness or accident at the time a Trainee Position is posted will be allowed to make application within three (3) working days of his or her return, but in no event later than fourteen (14) calendar days of the posting of such Trainee Position. However, such employee may make application through a Job Steward or by written notice to the Company while he or she is away an leave of absence.
Selection of trainees to be on the basis of seniority, as provided for in Article VIE of the Collective Agreement.
The Company should select a qualified person to provide the training with due regard to ability to communicate effectively,
The Company to notify the Plant Committee in writing when a trainee is judged to be qualified, or if he/she is removed from the training program because cf incompetence.
Rates of Pav
Rates of pay to apply to trainees during the training period to be their regularjob rate, except that they shall not receive more than the established rate forthejob for which they an being trained, aid subject to appropriate exceptions for piece work employees.
Seniority
Seniority to follow the general principles of Article VTH of the Collective Agreement, vith special provisions where necessaiy to deal with special problems cf the operation
If, during the training period, the trainee wishes to discontinue training, or fails to qualify, lie or she should return to the job previously held by him/her.
50
F, Revisions and Termination
10. Nothing in this Agreement is intended to vary, cancel, or otherwise affect existing
training agreement.
51
SUPPLEMENT NO. 3A APPRENTICESHIP TRAJN1NG PROGRAM between
» OF CANADA LIMITED (MERRILL & WAGNER DIVISION)
and
IWA CANADA. Local 1-42S. C.L.C.
m co-operation with
DIRECTOR OF APPRENTICESHIP & INDUSTRIALTRAINING PROVINCE OF BRITISH COLUMBIA
ARTICLE T ■ PURPOSE
The purpose of this Program is to irapro e the knowledge and skill of persons e np oyed by the Company a Joi meyman Improvers and Helpers in respect of trades named in Article II b
ARTICLE n - TRADES
1.	Millwright	4	Year Program
2.	Heavy Duty Mechanic	4	Year Program
3.	Steamfitter-Pipefitter	5	Year Program
4.	Machinist	5	Year Program
5.	Electrician	4	Year Program
6.	Welder	To be established
ARTICLE m - GENERAL PRINCIPLES Section It Collective Agreement
All provisions of the Collective Agreement to be applicableto Apprentices in this Program. Section 2:	Right to Continue
Once started ii toe Program, subject however to the provisions of the Collective Agreement, the Apprentice shall have the right W continue, providing he or she passes all of the prescribed tests and woric i s available for him/her.
52
Section 3:	Tests
UpOQ completion of each period of training in the vocational school, an Apprentice will be required to pass a test. In the event of failure to pass such a test, the Apprentice will be given a second opportunity, but in the event of failure to pass on the occasion of the second such test, he/sbe will be requiredto withdraw from the Program.
Section 4; Meaning of "Year"
Wherever reference is made to a year as a Helper or Improver, it shall mean a period of not less than two hundred (200) working days; the said period to include time spent at the vocational school.
Section 5:	Training Time Entitlement
Subject to the provisions herein, an Apprentice who is hired by the Company aid who has had training in another apprenticeshipplan will be given recognition of such training tune.
Section 6:	On-The-Job Training
The Company will ensure that Apprentices will be given the necessary on-the-jobpractical training.
Section 7:___Select -------------
The Parties will meet aid develop appropriate tests aid selection standards for trades aid planerman categories. This will include, an opportunity for an employee self-appraisal.
ARTICLE IV - SELECTION OF APPRENTICES
Section 1:	Seniority
When the Company requires Apprentices, it is agreed that the vacancy will be posted in the operation, aid applicants selected in accordance with the provisions of Article vm of the Collective Agreement.
Section 2:	Successful Applicants
Successful applicants will be assigned as Helpers for a three (3) month probationary period, unless the applicant's previous experience renders such assignment unnecessary.
a)	Purpose: The purpose of this Agreement is to establish an equitable criteria which will give management reasonable assurance that the Apprentice, upon completion of his or her indentures hip, vail become a proficient tradesman, aid to assure the Union aid its members that tne senior applicant who meets the criteria will become an apprentice.
53
Educational Prerequisites; T ie educational requirement for general trades is Grade 10 »! ui ale it ind Grade 12 or equivalent for the electrical trades.
tude Testh
nmended b .. procedures will be as fofit
iplicant:
Vppi iti
; test in a	/ith the : of test as
0 rf tl Ministry of Labour. Testing
iii)
iv)
A. s ( set of testing instructions and procedures will be de> slopes and	red t the laities to this A reement and :ommunicated to
app	Min ;em:nt and U Lion y onn:1
The passing grade for the tests will be established by the Appn iticeship Bi :h of the } IL i ry of Laboi
;	s tark for the Mechanical Tr 3 Ele	s are
e il	she	as beu g ; c mbined requireme	t of, firstly,:	e f	)
in the Mechanical Aptitude and Space Relations ents f the ti
Iand!	dl s ®t> per cei 7056) i tie overall inal c of the
tests.
All scoring computations of percentages in each section and overall scores of the tests are recorded as being rounded off to the next highest percentage point where any fr :th fa	t i is
Tests will be conducted on plant property or near the plant by Management; a Union i tpi tentative will be present when the tests are given and marked.
Tc	r le for the self-evaluation will be made available and
may be ta r y an interested employee. Failure to take such tests shall not jeopardize an r ee’s application for any a tticeshij
d)	Re-Testing
i)	It is agreed that where an Applicant has foiled to pass the MrLmiraL Aptitude and Space Relations section of either the hfe±aiicaL or Electrical tests, the employee will be allowed to bid and be ze-tested
one (1) additional time for each test
ii)	Results c£ al tests will be retained on file in the company' s office. An
applicant who has mu the criteria and successfully passed the requisite test and is the senior for any future apprenticeship posting within a three (3) year period, will be considered the successful applicant,
iii)	An applicant who qualifies and has passed the Mechanical Aptitude and Space Relations sectimof any ofthe available tests, but failed the overall test vail be eligible to bid and be re-tested for any future apprenticeship posting.
54
iv)
A master copy of the tests will be made available to rWA-CANADA on request.
Maintenance. Monitoring, and Distribution of T&tcs
i)
Sufficientcopies of the tests, answer sheets, and martdng overlays will be maintained ty Weldwood of Canada Limited, Vancouver office and/or the Apprenticeship Branch of the Ministry of Labour of the Province of British Columbia.
il) Test materials will be supplied on request to those operations requiring same and will be returned immediately after use.
iii)	Use of the tests will be monitored ty Weldwood of Canada, Vancouver office and/or the Apprenticeship Branch of the Ministry of Labour of the Province of British Columbia. Such monitoring will maintain a record of applicants’ tests, successful applicant’s scores recorded, seniority applied, and provide a follow-upof the successful applicant’s progress throughout training and an appropriate post training period. Other information as deemed necessary by tie Parties to this Agreement will be made available as agreed.
f) Probationary Period; The successful applicant will be given a probationary period up to ninety (90) calendar days.
gj Selection Review: Where a dispute arises out of the selection of in apprentice that cannot be resolved at the plant level, the matter will be discussed ty Management and the Local Union.
ft) Trial Period: This agreement is for a twelve (12) month trial period, fcan the date of this agreement. Either Party may terminate this agreement upon one (I) month’s written notice after the completion of the eleventh month
Section4:	Compulsory Entrance
All present Helpers and Improvers employed ty the Company must enter the Program Helpers and Improvers who cannot qualify in this Program will be reclassified as labourers with no reduction in rate of pay until such time as they have an opportunity to apply their seniority to obtain ajob with an equal or a higher rate of pay
Labourers will not be employed in a manner that will interfere with the application of the Program.
Section 5/ Age Limit
There wQl be no age limit for applicants
e)
55
ARTICLE V - TRAINING SCHEDULES Section 1:	Assignment as Helper
All successful applicants, except Tfekfer Apprentices (see appropriate appendix), will be registered as Apprentices and be assigned as Helpers for an eleven (11) month period, prior to attending vocational school, unless the applicant's previous experience renders such assignment unnecessary.
A program for the aforementioned Welder Apprentices will be established by June 1st, 1968,
Sect»Qn..2t_5 Year Schedule
ELtTfea: Second Year Third Year Eburth Year Eifth year
Rating At Operation At Sfhwl
Helper	First	11
Helper	F i t	11
Improver	First	11
Improver	First	i 1
Improver	First	11
months Last 4 weds months Last 4 weeks months Last4 weeks
months	Last 4 weeks
months	Last 4 weeks
Section 3;	4 Year Schedule
Rating
First Year	Helper
Second Year	Helper
Third Year	Improver
Eburth Year	Improver
Sfirtton 4»__3 Yean Ssheduig
At Operation
First 11 months
First 11 months First 11 months First 11 norths
At School
Last 4 weeks Last 4 weeks
Last4 weeks Last 4 weeks
First Year Second Year Third Year
Section S:____Electricians
Bating At Operation At School
Helper	First	11	months	last 4	weeks
Improver	Fit	11	months	Last 4	weeks
Improver	First	11	months	Last 4	weeks
Notwithstanding the provisions <£ Sections 2, 3 and 4 herein, the Electrician Apprentices shallbe required to take eight (8) weeks at school during each year of the Program instead of four (4), with the period in the operation reduced accordingly.
Section 6:	Passing Test
The Apprentice must successfully pass the prescribed test before promotion fison Helper to Improver.
56
Section 7:____.lournevman Qualification
'"Subject to the conditions of this section as listed below, it is agreed that following completion of the period of required training and upon becoming certified, the journeyman shall receive the certified journeyman's rate of pay."
Conditions under which the above will apply:
a)	Only to a journeyman vho has gone through the i	ceship tr
program under the spo isor of the Company c which be/she is working
b)	That he/she is working in the MaintenanceDepartment.
c)	That all work normally done by the maintenance department is being performed by the persons employed in the maintenance department.
d)	That nothingin this clause shall prohibit the laying off of journeymen, helpers or apprentices if they are not required
e)	That ajoumeyman may, when facing lay-off, choose to exercise his/her seniority into categories outside of the nainbaence area at thejob rate if his/her seniority ancT ability entitle him or her to do so.
Section 8:	Vocational School Delay
If any of the periods provided for in Sections 2, 3, 4 or 5 herein are exceeded by reason of vocational school facilities being unavailable, such period of excess shall be credited to the Apprentice in succeeding training requirements,
ARTICLE VT - WAflF, RATES
Section 1:	Rates and Increments
a)	Wage Rates for Helpers in the first term shall be that specified in the Wage Supplement.
b)	An Apprentice who passes his or her test shall receive an increment agreed to between the Company and the Union during this second term year as a Helper.
C) The Wage Rate for an Improver shall be that as spH-Picri in the Wage Supplement.
d)	An Apprentice who passes a test in the fourth period of vocational training shall receive an increment agreed to between the Company and the Union during his/her second term as an Improver.
e)	Persons employed as Journeymen, and who are certified as such, shall receive the certified rate for the trade as agreed to between the Company and the Union.
57
Section 2:	Expenses
Fares, Lost Tune Pay aid School Expenses are io be paid by the appropriate Government authorities as part of the co« of the Apprenticeship Plan, with the exception that the employer shall pay the Apprentice while attending Vocational School the difference between the subsidy granted by the appropriate Government authorities aid the regular wages cf the employee concerned
Married persons shall receive their wages, less the amount pad by the Provincial Government authorities to single persons the intent being that the greater amount paid by the Provincial Government authorities to married persons shall not become a benefit to the Company In cases where the Apprentice is in receipt cf a subsidy granted by the appropriate Federal Government authorities, the employerwill pay the Apprentice while attending Vocational School the difference between the subsidy granted by the appropriate Federal Government authorities and the regular wages of the employee concerned
Section 3:___Rstol.inJtetiSg
Where an employee incurs delay in taking one of the tests under this Program, through no fault of his/her own, the delay shall not prejudice his/her right towage increments provided for in Section 1 herein
ARTICLE VP ■ ADVISORY BOARD
Section t____Constitution;
There shall be an Advisory Board for each trade covered by the Apprenticeship Agreement, consisting of two (2) representauyes of the Industry, two (2) from the Union, one (1) representing the Vocational School and one (1) from the Apprenticeship and Industrial Training Branch
The Board shall be responsible for advising the Department of Labour, Apprenticeship and Industrial Training Branch, regarding the content <£ tests, standards of marking and the school curriculum with respect to the registered Apprentices The Board shall not be responsible for the actual setting or marking oftests
ARTICLE Vm - GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section 1;
Persons presently employed as Journeymen, who do not wish to become certified, shall continue to be employecfas Journeymen
Section 2:
Persons employed as Journeymen, who take the Tradesmen Qualification Exam and fail, shall continue to be employed as Journeymen
- 58 *
Section 3:
If a present Journeyman fails to pass the test for a voluntary Tradesmen's Qualification Certificate, he/she can then become indentured as an Apprentice at no reduction in rate of pay.
Section 4:
There till be a three person committee established to process applicants who make application to be tested under the voluntary Tradesmen's Qualification, or who become indentured under the Apprenticeship and Tradesmen's Qualification Act. The committee will also determine what vocational training is necessaiy for persons indentured as Apprentices. Representation on the committee shall consist of the following:
a)	One (1) representative	from	the	Union.
b)	One (1) representative	from	the	Industry.
c)	One (1) representative	from	the	Apprenticeship	Branch
Vocational training will be conducted during day courses. Textbooks and study material will be made available when required.
ARTICLE K • TOOLS
All Journeyman Tradesmen shall be required to have, and shall not qualify for the Journeyman rate unless they have, a full kit of hand tools necessary to perform thejob for which they are hired, with the exception of machinery or tools which shall not be deemed to fall within the responsibility of the Journeyman.
Section 2:
The Improver shall be required to have and imint-ain a basic tool kit and to be in the general process of building_up the necessary tools to equip him/herself for thejob.
Section 3:
The Helper generally shall not be required to own tools, and shall use those designated to him/her. However, in his/her own interest, he/she should commence the process of building up a tool kit.
59
SUPPLEMENT NO. 3B
^APPRENTICESHIP TRAINING PROGRAM
in respect lo the
Trader of Filing and Fitting
WELDYVOOD OF CANADA LIMITED (MERRILL & WAGNER DIVISION)
And:
DVA CANADA,
Local 142$, C.L.C,
GENERAL PRINCIPLES 1. Flan "A"—Saw-Fitter’s i
TO cover the trade of Saw Finer which is defined as follows:
Tb be competent to fit all types of saws, circular saws, band saws, gang saws, chain saws, etc.
a)	Operate, repair aid adjust all saw sharpening equipment and tools.
b)	Basic techniques in welding of saws.
c)	Maintain guides and water lines
d)	. Basic techniques in benching of circular saws, slashers aid trim saws.
Note; It is agreed that the parties will not use the training program to change thejob content of the jobs of the present saw fitters.
Plan WB" - Circular Saw Filer Apprenticeship Training FrpgEaW
To cover the trade of a circular Saw Filer which is defined as follows:
Must be qualified Saw Finer and be competent to tench all circular aid gang saws (tensioning, weld cracks and weld on teeth); be able to repair aid maintain all filing room equipment; also must have a working knowledge of alliedra]l equipment,only as it applies to his/her job.
Plan "C" - Rpnrhman Apprenticeship Training Program
To cover the trade of a Benchman which is defined as follows:
Must be a qualified Saw Fitter and Circular Saw Filer, in addition be able to bench circular ana baid saws. Must have working knowledge of all allied sawmill machinery including the lining up of bead rigs and grinding of band wheels.
60
2.
3
The Parties agree that the object of the above Plans is to improve the knowledge and skill of persons employed as filers and fitters in the industry.
The normal period of training will be:
Safety is an important part of the training program as outlined below; as such, it forms an integral pan of each phase of the Program.
a) Saw Fitters
Pre-Apprenticeship Uzrirriig,‘ In Plant three (3) months 1st term:
(a)	3 weeks at school, depending on size class - then writes an examination.
(b)	11 months implant training
2nd term:
(a)	3 weeks at school - then writes an examination
(b)	8 months in-plant training.
3rd term:
(a)	3 weeks at school • then writes an examination • if he/she passes the
test, he/she becomes certified as a Saw Fitter.
b)	Circular Saw Filers
Must spend a minimum of three (3) months in-plant training as an Apprentice Circular Saw Filer.
1st terra:
(a)	4 weeks at school - then writes an examination
(b)	8 months implant training 2nd term:
(a)	2 weeks at school - then writes an examination • if he/she passes the
test, he/she becomes a Certified Circular Saw Filer.
c)	Benchman
Must spend a minimum of three (3) months implant training as an Apprentice Benchman.
61
1st term
(a)	3 weeks at school then wntes an examination
(b)	11 itmttis in plant training 2nd term
(a)	2 weeks at school • then wntes an examination • if he/she passes,
he/she becomes a Certified Benchman
Note: The above periods of in-school training may be altered by wnh-wi agreement, subject to the experience in the Industry and in consultationwith the Apprenticeship Branch of the Department of Education
4.	AH provisionsof the Collective Agreement will be applicable to Apprentices in the Elan.
5.	Once started in this Hsrv.the Apprentice, subject however to the provisions of the Collective Agreement, will have the right to continue in any one program providing be/she passes all cf the prescribed tests and work being available D him/her,
6.	a) Ijpcn completion of each period of training in the Vxatdcpal School, an
Apprentice Saw Fitter will be required to pass a test. In the event of a failure to pass such a test, the Apprentice Saw Fitter will be given a second opportunity, but in the event of failureto pass csi the occasionof the second such test, be/she will be required to withdraw from the ELsn. Any Saw Finer Apprentice who fails to qualify at any stage cf the Program will be allowed to apply his/her seniority as it is applied in a la^cff. On completioncf the third period cf training in Vocational School, an J^pmfcice Saw Finer will be required to pas a test. Onpassing the test, he/she will became a Certified Saw Fitter.
b)	On completion of the first period of training in Vocational School, an
Apprentice Circular Saw Filer will be required to pass the test. In the event of a failure to pass the test, the Apprentice Circular Saw Filer will be given a second opportunity, but in the event of failure to pass an the occasion of the second such test, he/she will be required to withdraw from the Program aid return to the position of a Saw Fitter.
Cn completion of the second period c£training in tfccaticaial School, an Apprentice Circular Saw Filer will be required to pass a test. Cn passing the test he/she will become a certified Circular Saw Filer. In the event that he/she fails to pas the test, he/she will be given a second opportunity. If he/she passes the test on the second occasion, he/she becomes a Certified Circular Saw Filer. Should he/she fail to pass the test on the second occasion, he/she wJl be required to withdraw from the program and return to the position previously held, that cf a Saw Finer.
62*
c) Upon completion of the first period of training in VxatdoHl School, an
Apprentice Benchman will be required to pass a test. In die event of failure to pass such a test, the Apprentice Benchman will be given a second opportunity, hut in the event of a failure to pass on the occasion of the second test, he or she will be required to withdraw from the program and return to the position of Circular Saw Filer.
Cti completion of the second period of training jn Wcathnal School, an Apprentice Benchman will be required to pass a test. On passing the test he/she will become a Certified Benchman In the went that he/sbe fails to pass the test, he/she will be given a second opportunity. If be/she passes the lest on the second occasion, he/she becomes a Certified Benchman. Should he/she fail to pass the test on the second occasion, he/she will be required to withdraw from the program and return to the position previously held, that of a Circular Saw Filer.
7.	Wherever reference, is made lo a year as an Apprentice, it will mean a period cf not less than two hundred (200) working days, the said period to include time spent at the Vocational School. In the event a participant works less than two hundred (200) days and has attended Vocational School within the year, he/she may be given the opportunity to take the required test
8.	Subject to the provisions herein, an Apprentice will be entitled to recognition of training time in the Plan in the event of his/her moving from one employer in the Industry to another.
SELECTION OF APPRENTICES
a)	Present trainees who are employed full-time will be indentured in the Program.
b)	Upon entering the fding roan, spares will be indentured into the Apprenticeship Program subjectto the Limitationsof General Principles, Point 5 contained herein.
c)	Subject lo General Principles, Point 5, trainees will be allowed to complete their program to neet the requirements of the Operation in which they work.
d)	Saw Fitter Apprentices It is agreed that the vacancy will be posted in the operation and applicants selected in accordance with Article VtQ • Seniority.
e)	Circular Saw Filer Apprentices; It is agreed that the vacancy will be posted in the operation and applicants selected in accordance with the provisions of Article VTH • Seniority. Applicants must be Certified Saw Fitters,
f)	Benchman Apprentices; It is agreed that the vacancy will be posted in the operation and applicants selected in accordance with Article Vm • Seniority. Applicants must be Certified Circular Saw Filers.
63
CERTIFICATION OF PRESENT TRADESMEN
Present Saw Fitters, Circular Saw Filers, and Benchmen employed in the Industry who do not wish to became certified shall not have their seniority rights prejudiced through lack of certification.
Present Saw Fitters, Circular Saw Filers and Benchmeo will have the right to write a qualifying examination in their respective classification. If they pass the examination, the snail receive the appropriate certified rate. If they fail the examination, they shall k slotted into the appropriate apprenticeship program with the view to upgrading and eventually becoming certified, Shouldtbey fad as per the steps outlined in 6a), 6) ore), they will be subject W the provisions outlined therein.
Present tndesmeo who write the Tradesmen Qualification Examination will be tested on the basis of the job content of the present jobs in the filing room in which they work.
1.	There will be an Advisory Board consisting cf two (2) representatives of the Industry, two (2) from the Urim, one (1) representing the Vocational School and one (1) frem the Apprenticeship Branch.
2.	The Board will be responsible for advising the appropriate school authorities, Department of Education an Department a Labour regarding the content cf tests, standards of maHring sed the school curriculum.
3.	The Board will not be responsible for the actual setting or marking cf teas.
ADVISORY BOARD
FITTER S  1st Term;
Instruction Breakdown VVfig]
and gangs 3
SKtttte	Wrtrfc Involved
3
-64-
2nd Term
Review of 1st year school training.
Repair and adjust equipment used by a finer.
All phases of filing room welding (acetylene)
Theory and practical
All phases of chainsaw filing.
Carbide (tipping and dressing only)
3	As last year
Gauge setting Flame adjustment Tip &2£
Torch handling Penetration Welding cracks.
Preparing seats
Brazing in carbide Teeth • dressing
3rd Term;
Review 2nd Term	3
Preliminary circular saw instructions
Capable of hammering slashers, trim saws
Guide maintenance on bandsaws. Straight and pressure. Shear board setting.
Wheel scrapers.
Welding
Levelling, anvil tensioning, plumbing
Theory.
Water lines.
Point build up. Tooth replacement.
Benching of welds.
65
1st Term:
To become proficient in hammering all circular saws, np and cut cff. used in sawmill planer
2nd Term:
Benching gang saws stretcher 2
roll and heat
Filing mom machine
maintenance
Be able to maintain and
repair all filing room
equipment.
Trouble shooting of circular raw machinery
Level and tension, plumbing All circular saws and including hollow ground (theory 108 cut off)
Thin Edgers
Carbide Double arbour
Review of Basic Shop Mathematics
Levelling tension Check tabs
Theory
Tfcadc Involved
BENCHMAN APPRENTICESHIP PROGRAM
1st Term:
Instruction Breakdown Weeks
CIRCULAR SAW FILER'S APPRENTICESHIP PROGRAM
4
Complete bandsaw - bench 3	Bench bandsaws in entirety
work (rdl stretcher and
heat)	Stretcher roll and heat
Strain calculations
Welding	Further training
Learn alignment of mill	Theory
••machines; bead ng, edger, resaws, tnra, cut-off, etc
Band mill wheel grinding
66
2nd Term;
Saw Capacity Study	2	Theory
Feeds, tooth bit*
Gullet capacity Saw speeds Tooth spacing (circular and band)
Trouble shooting
67
SUPPLEMENT NO. 4
PLYWOOD JOB EVALUATION
1.	PRINCIPLES AND PROCEDURES
The implementation and administration of thejob evaluation program shall be in accordance with the principles aid procedures set out in a Manual dated Septenber, 1955 and entitled Mb Evaluation Manual for Operational Hourly Paid Jobs in the Plywood Industry of British Columbia" as amended July, 1966 and as further amended April, 1971 (herein referred io as the 'Manual").
2.	INDUSTRY JOB EVALUATION COMMITTEE
There shall be a committee constituted and named the Industry Job Evaluation committee (herein referred to as the 'Plywood Evaluation Committee") to consist of one (I) member representativeof Forest Industrial Relations Limited and one (1) member representative of Regional Council No. 1, International Woodworkers of America.
3.	FUNCTION OF PLYWOOD EVALUATION COMMITTEE
a)	The PlywoodEvaluationComminee shall assune general responsibility for the administration of thejob evaluation program.
b)	The unanimous decision of the said Committee shall be final and binding on the Parties hereto.
4.	PLANT JOB REVIEW COMMITTEE
a)	There shall be a committee constituted in each plywood plant named the Plant Job Review Committee (herein referred to as 'Review Committee") to consist cf two (2) members representative of the employees, At least one (1) representativeof Management must be a msrtaer of the plait's salaried staff or Management, and at least one (1) representative of the employees must be an employeeof the plait whose job is subjectto Plywood Job Evaluation. Managementmay choose their second representative from amongst persons not employed st the plant, aid Union may do liJcwise. except that neither Party may choose as its representative a member of the Plywood EvaluationCommittee, or any person who is employed as aiob evaluator by Forest Industrial Relations Limited or "by Regional CouncilNb. 1 of the International woodworkers of America.
b)	The Company shall reimburse any of its hourly paid employees for time lost while acting as a member of the Review Committee or while presenting information, regarding his or her own job, before a regularly convened meeting of the Review Committee. The Company shall not be responsible for remunerating employee representatives who are not its hourly paid employees.
68
5. FUNCTION OF REVIEW COMMITTEE
a)	rhe Review Coi a lit ee will be responsible for seeing that a] requests for evaluation ar re evaluation c j< bs a a lequately and accurately doo a nted before being pass [i the PI; x>d Evaluation Committee for further action. Hie documents required
ill ii a	a "Request for Job E li tii " f<	;1 j ed :i her by an individ i J
iploy or by Ljxal Management, la I	d X A Description which
provides ifflcii i f nation for the si »se	< ; f the Plywood Evaluation
Committee h form >f the documents the procedures for submitting and handli them, and the i	$ for completion may be amended as required by the Plyv <
Evaluation a	o 1 J u tl iu given them by Article 3 of this Supplement.
b)	3t of the v / C it * resp< t g tl ippropriateness c F a request for evaluation 3t re e aluation, or e meeting he adequacy and accuracy of documents, shall be by unanin ous agre> il Failing such agreement within the established time limits, the Review Committee 111, at the request of anyone of its ibei
• immediately forward the Request for Job E iliiti) ti gethei ith any oth :i
Id	t 'hi l there is unanimous agreement, to the Plywood Evaluation
C	i, and ;1 hen I no further:	;il Llitv for doci met! request
Wh t Iv :va	.	.
evaluation of a job, it shall communicate its decision to the appropriate Review C ommittee. The Review Committee will be responsible for informing Management a id the employees concerned, giving reasons for the outcome where these are i bli A decision of the Review C mi nittee that an applicatic fc r J >1 E lit 5 sh ild n 3t be foi ^ai 1 i to the Plywood Evaluation Committee, will,
:I] be communicated with reasons ti th<	i
Nothing i i th s Article limits the right of the Plywood Evaluation 0 □ tee to determine the facts about any job, by din ct obse ration or otherwisi, r o ; ner a job description or specification submitted to then in support >f a Request for Job Evaluation Form.
APPLICATION OF PROGRAM
The b Evaluation Program shall apply to all employees in the Plywood Industry except Joumeyme Trade Improve and Helpers id Poi 'erf B< Cn Oilers and Grindermen.
DIRECTION0F WORK
Job Evaluation Descriptions are written with the intent to set forth the general duties and requirements of the job and shall not be construed as imposing any restriction on the right of the Company to assign duties to employees other than those specifically mentioned in job descriptions, provided always that is the assignment of such duties changes the jab content sufficiently tojustify a review of the evaluation, the Plywood Evaluation Committee shall make such a review in accordance with the procedure sei out herein.
69
REEVALUATION
When ajob has moved to another grade as a result of re-evaluation, the wage rate for the new grade shall be effective csi the date that Management or the employee has applied to the Review Committee for re-evaluation
When a Job is moved to a lower grade as a result of re-evaluation, the incumbent shall main tarn his job rate as a red circle rate subject to the provisions of Paragraph 10 herein.
9, NEW JOBS CREATED
•e 51 ip ny h	* c	ed its i	it i t e	. n w j jb, a temporary rate :
be t by ft	i ge nent	ie p	manen	ue fo t	tid job as determined by the
Plywood Evaluation Committee shall be effective as of th< d it the job was installed. If tie rili d & f< a new job is lower than the temporary rate, the incumbent(s) ;] be allowed to continue at the temporary rate.
10.
a)
RED CIRCLE JOBS
The company shall supply the Union with a list of employees holding red circle jobs, the said list to include the name of th ipl	name of job category filled, the
evaluated rate for the job and 1 actual ate-p
Employees on red c
circle rate is 3
ites who are promoted to a higher grade 11 regair the red found incompetent to continue in the higher grade.
or a job is not occupied during a period of cne of the applicable job desciiptk and
11. SENIORITY
a)	Subject to the provisions here set, Article VH1 • Seniority shall continue to apply.
b)	Promotions shall be made only where a vacancy exists
70
12. REFERRAL PROCEDURE
a)	When the Plywood Evaluation Committee has decided the outcome of a Request for Job Evaluation, it shall transmit its decision to the appropriate Plant Job Review Comminee.
b)	When an employee's request for re-evaluation results in no change being made in the job grade, or in a reduction, or when a Management request results in no change, or in an increase, the Plywood Evaluation committee shall give io the appropriate Review committee a short statement of the reasons for the decision The statement should not go into great detail, but should indicate the criteria used in sufficient depth to show the applicant that the request was given adequateartention,
c)	An evaluation &ne by the Plywood Evaluation Committee shall be final and binding on the Parties, but at any time after five (5) years since the last evaluation or reevaluation of ajob, Management or an individual employee may submit a request for re-evaluation of that job and no other reason than the elapsed time shall be necessary.
d)	If the Plywood Evaluation Committee is unable to reach agreement regarding the disposition of a Request for lob Evaluation or any other matter regarding the Job Evaluation Program which falls within their jurisdiction, the matter shall be referred to Forest Industrial Relations and to the rW A Regional Council for settlement.
e)	All communication between the Plant Review Committee and the Plywood Evaluation Committee referred to above shall be effected by sarling one copy to the Union representative or representatives on the Committee and one copy to the Employer representative or representatives. In the case of communications to a Plant Review Committee, the Union representatives will he addressed can of the office of the appropriate Union Local, and the Employer representative can of the Company's Offices at the Plant. In the case of communications to the Plywood Evaluation Committee, the Union representatives will be addressed care of the Offices of Regional Council No. 1 ofthefWA, Vancouver, and Forest Industrial Relations Limited
13. TRAINING
A program of training for members of the Review Committee in each plant shall be instituted, the details of which shall be arranged by Forest Industrial Relations Limited and the fWA Regional Council.
71
ST IPPT vEMENT NO. 5 FIREFIGHTING AGREEMENT
The following terms and conditions shall be applicable for the duration of the current Collective Agreement during "Company Responsibility Fires'
It is understood that the tenns of this Agreement only apply to the employees in the employ of the Company at the time the fire started Ary person hired for firefighting after the start of the fire will work under the rates aid conditions as required by the B C Forest Service
1.
a)
b)
c)
d>
e)
0
DEFINITIONS
Accidental Eire
Ary fire not deliberately ignited by the Company to dispose of slash or waste, aid which requires active measures to extinguish,
Slash Escape Fire
Ary slash fire ignited by the Company which has escaped the pre-determined boundaries and requires active measures to extinguish
Slash Control Eire
Any slash fire ignited by the Company which is contained within the pre-determined boundaries, or alternatively, any slash fire which has escaped such boundaries but is not considered out of control and does not require active measures as contemplated in a) and b) above.
Company Res pons'
Ary fire which the Company is responsible for taking measures to extinguish pursuant to tiie provisions cf the Forest Act.
Forest Service Fire
Any fire in respect of which the B.C. Forest Service accepts responsibility for direction cf measures to extinguish.
The rates cf pay for fighting Company Responsibility Fires hereinafter set out in this Agreement.
g)	Regular Job Rates
Rates of pay to employees for the performance of their regular jobs, as set out in the Wage Supplement cf the Collective Agreement,
72
h)	Statutory Rates
Rates of pay established by B. C. Forest Service for fire fighting.
2.	COMPANY CONTROLLED	TIMER
a)	Notwithstanding the foregoing,	when	the Company directs Company employees to
fight fire on Company controlled limber, or to fight fires on property adjacent to Company controlled limber which is threatening Company controlled timber, the Company will pay those employees at the fire fighting rates set out in Section 3 of this Supplement.
b)	Where the B.C. Forest Service directs the Company to provide its employeesfor fighting fires in circumstances otherthan those set out in a) above, those employees will be paid at the statutory rate.
3.	FIRE FIGHTING RAZES
a) The basic rate shall be $17,76 per hour effective June 15, 1991, and $17.76 per hour effective June 15, 1992, and S18.61 per houreffectiveJune 15, 1993 and shall apply to all employees engaged in fighting Accidental or Slash Escape furs, except those performing one of the following fire fighting jobs.
Caweory	June 15/91	fans ..15/92	June 15/93
b)
c)
Crew Boss	$19.93
Cat Operators	L9.38
Skddder Operators	20,81
Power saw Operator (own saw)	21.13
Mechanics/Heavy Duly Mechanics Regular Joo Rate Slip-on Tank and/or Ttailey Hferte with Pump-Driver/ Operator	19.38
Water Terk Truck with Pump Driver/Operator	18,62
ServiceTruck/Bus Driver	17.75
Pumpman	18.10
$19.93
19.38
20.81
21.13
19.38
18.62
17.75
18.10
$20,78
20.23
21.66
21.98
20.23
19.47
18.60
18.95
Straight time rates will apply to all employees throughout the period during which the said employees are engaged in fire fighting. This shall not include cook and bunkbouse personnel, tradesmen, mechanics or other categories servicing, feeding or supplying fire tighten from areas removed from the atm of the fire or fires, unless the duties performed during any day in question are exclusively related to fire fighting qperatdms.
Regular job rates will apply only for the duration of the regular production shift in which the fire started.
73
d)
4.
a)
b)
c)
5.
6.
9}
b)
S.
9.
Where employees are working in Jobclassifi cations during fire fighting, other than those set out herein, job rates will apply
BOARD AND LQnr.INO (While Fighting Company Responsibility Firesi
Employees who ccmnitefrom hone or camp are expected to * carry a lunch" Additional meals Wiere required will be at Company expense
Employees required to live away frrni their private residence will receive board and lodging at Company expense
Employees living in fly camps will receive board aid lodging at Company expense
TRAVEL TIME
Travel time for employees engaged in fire fighting will be paid in accordance with the Collective Agreement.
SLASH BURNING
All employees engaged in patrolling or controlling slash fires which have been set by the Company will be paid their regular job rate and overtime conditions will apply.
INTERPRETIVE NOTES
When active fire fighting ceases to be necessary, rates and overtime conditions for
fixe patrol will revert to the rranal conditions provided for inthe Collective Agreement.
The meaning of the wort "extinguish" as used in tills Agreement shall include the act or process of suppressionto the point when the fire requires fire patrolman only.
All provisions of the Collective Agreement except as amended or modified herein shall continue to apply.
The Company and the Union are prepared to participate in joint submissions to the Provincial Government on statutory fire fighting rates.
74
SUPPLEMENT NO, 6 PENSION PLAN
The parties agree that they will recommend to their representatives on the Board of Trustees of the IWA-Forest Industry Pension Plan that the Plan be amended as follows:
Five Year Vesting

Effective July 1, 1992, when a Member attains five years of Continuous Employment, (as currently defined in the IWA-Forest Industry Pension Plan), or attains age 60, he will be vested for ali his Credited Service (including his Credited Service earned prior to July 1, 1992).
2. Pre-Retirement Death Benefit
Effective July 1, 1992, the Hai will pay 60% of the Commuted Value of the vested Member's or Former Member's total accrued pension.
The Commuted Value for those Members who were eligible to retire under the plan on their date of death will reflect the value of the pension they would have received had they istiisri on their date of death.
A pension having a Commuted Value equal to 60% of the Commuted Value of the Member's vested pension will be paid to the Spouse or, if no Spouse, 60% of the Commuted Value will be paid to the designated beneficiary or estate. Spouses may transfer the cash value of their pension on a locked-inbasis to another pension plan, an RRSP, or an annuity purchase from an Insurance company.
Any charges for elected coverage accrued up to July 1, 1992 will stay in place and will be based only on the level of benefits in effect on June 30, 1991 and the period of tune that the elected coverage was in place.
This provision replaces all pre-retirement dsatii benefits provided for in the Plan up to July 1, 1992.
3.	Break In Service
(a) Basic Requirement:
Effective July I, 1992, a Member will break service when he has received less than 350 credited hours in a two consecutive calendar year period.
For the purposes of this section, credited hours will include lay-off credits ret to exceed 200 hours, hours worked and disability credits.
75
Favourable Retirement Discount/Benefit Upgrade For Members Who Return to Active Status After Involuntary lob Loss.
Members who are acuve an or after July 1, 1992 whose service was broken in 1983 or later due to an involuntary job loss (which excludes termination foi cause) and who return to employment with a Participating Employer within three (3) years cf their Break in Service will be treated as follows:
-	the two most recent vested deferred calendaryears prior to the BcsEk in Service that was caused by the involuntary job Jess will be unfrozen for each calendar year after their Break in Service in which 1500 hours are worked or otherwise credited (i.e., layoff, permanent closure, disability, vacation), but excluding banked hours.
• unfrozen years will be upgraded to the current employer funded benefit level.
-	unfrozen yean will be includedas eligible years for the Active Members early retirement discounts providing a later Break in Service does not occur.
-	the intent of this provision is to unfreeze periods of Continuous Employment that ended solely due to an involuntary] ob less.
(c)	Favourable RetirementDiscount For Members ages 50-54 years eleven
months affectedly Involuntary Job Loss.
Members who are active on or after July I, 1992 who are aged SO to 54 years eleven months when involuntary job las occurs (which excludes termination for cause) who do not return to employment with a Participating Employer and who elect to leave their deferred pension in the Elan will be treated as follows:
-	the most recent period of unbroken, ContinuousEmployment will be eligible for the Active Members early retirement discounts commencing at age 55,
NOTE. • Members affected by this provision will break their service under the Elan rules.
•	This provision will continue to apply to periods of employment which ended with an involuntaryjob loss regardless of the subsequent employment of the Member.
•	Banked hours vail be credited up to their Break in Service date but will not prevent the Break in Service.
76
•	Employer-funded benefit level increases that occur subsequent to their involuntary job loss date but prior to their Break in Service date wUl apply if their last Participating Empl<) contributes at the Full Rate Employing Company rate
•	1	on will not apply if the Member elects io
t his Commuted Value out o the Plan
30 and 3(c) above will not apply to >p i co ibution i is less than $2.40 per hour.
'h the employer
Effective July 1, 1992 but retroactive to July l, 1991, all Credited Service earned prior to July 1, 1991 (continuous and unbroken) to which the $32 benefit level applied will be increased to $35 providing that the Full Rate Employing Company rate is paid effective July 1, 1992 and that the Member is active on June 3d, 1991.
Future Service - Employer Funded
Effective July 1, 1992 but retroactive lo July 1, 1991, all Credited Service earned will accrue at the $35 benefit level, providing that the Full Rate Employing Company rate is paid effective July 1, 1992.
Future Service Benefit - Employee Funded
Effective July 1, 1993, all employees covered by the IWA-FIPP whose future service has been accruing at the $35 benefit level shall commence contributing to the Pension Plan from July 1, 1993 and credited service will accrue at $40 per month per year cf service.
It is agreed that IWA-Canada shall have the option during the term of this Agreement to increase the employee contribution to up to 20c to fund the future service benefit level up to $45 per month per year of service.
Payment of employee contributions will be treated in the same way as employer contributions.
Benefit Level Application
The increase in the benefit levels listed above will nflt apply to:
(h Former Plan Members who became Former Plan Members prior to July 1, 1991.
(jj) Retired Plan Members who retired prior lo July 1, 1991.
77
-	The applicability (paragraph Li; above on employees affected by 2(c)
of the 1986 Men rai dt m >f t	i th : il r l y; vk
decision is subjei to i i by the
-	gi >h (iii) >ve does not a upl] to totally and permanently disabled it s who : worked for a pei tanently dosed operatic which
was contributing at the then full rate at its dat f dost
Any active Plan Member who was pi by an pi ;r \
itributed le tl $1.' p« urprit IO y ,	>9 However, f
on tbe effective date of the first collective agreement subsequent to the d e of ratificati of this Memorandum, or such later date as is prc ic I b the application of Article HI (6) of the Pension Plan text to their ci lective agreement, the employing company contracts to c mtributi at the full rate of $2.40 per hour immediately, th the increase to the >31 (a l i ft. h	s i*bi fit level shall apply to all activePlan
Members 5 p iye< y in; aployinf o pany who were active on June
.	.	.	.	.	not
30, 1991, retroactive to July 1, 1991. If the employing company d< contract to contribute under the conditions set fonh in the precedinf sentence, then the increase to the $35 past and future service level: apply only to active Plan Members currently employed on the date $2.40 per hour contribution rate becomes effective and shall not be retroacti .
W re a company does not contribute at the Full Rate Employing Company rate of $2.40 per hour, Plan Members e uplo> d by thai company cann )t contribute the employee funded h ture « rvice
tril utic , nor are they entitled to the future service benefit of $40.
pi j :c	m o lb made and employee funded future
service credits cannot be d	1 Ej i >1<	: funded fi e
i dit at the ! rate ri start io accrue on the effective date that
e a ice lov contributions commence.
y Hours Assumption
5 Plan’s	>tic for
;ti	I w th-ye
figure.
Calculation Formula for I
•ry
tic
rs ui 1992 is to be 50 million hi
ill be based on the 50 million hi
Contributory Hours k
After 1992, a Calculation Formula will be used to Hours Assumption, th fi uh ilb
it the a ui al Co
78
The sum of	the previous year‘s actual hours, the current year’s annualized hours (determined in the 3rd or 4th quarter) and the estimated hours for the following year,
divided by 3.	
Examnle:	Calculation for the December 31, 1993 Actuarial Valuation
The sum of:	-	1992’$ actual hours -	1993’s annualized hours, and -	1994’s estimated hours,
divided by 3.	
7.	Automatic Be-Betixsnent Survivor Coverage Extension
The automatic pre-retirement survivor coverage currently provided for in the EOai for active Members who have attained age 55, will be extended to those active Members who die within the period of June l£ 1990 and lune 30, 1992 inclusive with all payments commencing on July 1, 1992 (or later).
79
SUPPLEMENT NO. 7 CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTING
Section 1:
It is agreed that Plant Tradesmen who are assigned by the Company to carry out work directly related to *new' construction with tradesmen employeaby an outside contractor, plant tradesmen will be paid the "outside" comractor(s) rate(s).
Section 2;
For the purpose of this Agreement "new" construction shall be defined as meaning:
a) The construction of major new buildings aid major additdms to existing buildings.
5)	The addition of new or used major production machinery aid related equipment not
previously in existence.
Section 3:
a)	"Tradesmen' shall meanjoumeymanand apprendces in the following trades:
Machinist	Millwright
SteamfitterfPipefitter	tfekfer
Electrician	Carpenter
b)	"Contractor’s Rate" shall oily mean the hourly wage paid by that contractor and not any other payment or working conditions.
c)	"Contractor's Rate" will not exceed the rates for similar trades paid by rWA Construction companies.
80
SUPPLEMENT NO. 8
ALTERNATE SHIFT SCHEDULING
A.	FT FATRTT TTY OF HOURS OF WORK
The Parlies recognize the need for flexibility of hours other than those outlined in the Hj.ies of Work Article, for the express purpose of better utilization of manpower and capital such as:
Balancing of production Maintenance Market THTpiieents
Even flow production
Emergency or unexpected harvesting programs Continuous scheduling (eg. Logging, Engineers,
Firemen, Maintenance. Watchmen)
B.	SHIFT SCHEDULING
The Parties agree that the following shift schedules will provide the flexibility required to meet the needs expressed above.
1.	Logging
(j) compressed schedules consisting of 10 hours per day, 4 days per week;
(ij) non-continuous schedules such as 10 days on, 4 days off.
2.	Manufacturing
(i)	2 crews working 4 days, 10 hours per shift;
(ii)	UP t° 3 crews working Monday to Saturday, 10 hours a shift not exceeding 40 hours per week;
(ill)	employees working in continuous operations may be scheduled
to work shifts other than (i) or (ii) above.
3	Maintenance
(i)	shifts of up to 10 hours per day, 40 hours per week, Monday to Sunday inclusive;
(ii)	three shifts per week, not exceeding 12 hours per day
81
c.
D.
4. Other Shifts
It is understood the parties can establish other shifts by mutual consent to meet local conditions.
IMPLEMENTATION
Any variation^) top the Hours of Work Article shall be implemented only upon completion of the following steps:
I	b C oi iparty and the Loc il Union will m to discuss oposed shift
schedules within the terms of the Hours of Work Article, It is anticipated that the Local Unit ill make sit ttempt to assist the Company ishing to introduce alternate shift schedules. The parties must mutually agree on
resolution cf issues such as:
a)	Details of shift.
b)	Details of Statutory Holidays, Floating Holiday, Bereavement Leave, and Jury Duty.
c)	Maximum length of shifts for physically demanding work. Accident prevention is a factor to be taken into account in determining shift lengths.
d)	The loss of hours/emplovmem as a direct result of the implementation cf alternate shift schedules.
e)	The use (f employees for supplementary production work.
2. The Cam p or Plan t Committee aid the crew wi 11 be activ ely consulted by the
Parties during the process,
GENERAL PRINCIPLES
When an alternate shift schedule is in effect other provisions of the Collective Agreement will be adriirisbaedon the principle that an employee will not less or gain any benefits over his nonral five-day schedule.
1.	The Company agrees that alternate shift schedules will not be introduced
when the intention is to increase the use of casual employees in place cf regular employees.
2.	Different parts cf an operation may be scheduled on different shifts.
3.	The principle ofthe forty (40) hour week is io be maintained over an averaging period.
- a2
4.	This Article shall not change existing alternate shift agreements, unless agreed to by both parties.
5.	Earned vacations will be scheduled on the same basis as days and hours worked under the alternate shift schedule.
6.	Other Articles of the Collective Agreement which provide benefits after eight (8) hours are. extended by the amount the regular hours of work have been increased beyond the eight (8) hours per day.
7.	An employee’s rest days may vary from week to week under an alternate shift schedule. Employees shall not be paid premium pay for changes in their rest days in these circumstances.
8.	An employee whose rest days are changed by the Company under an established alternate shift schedule shall receive rate and one-half for work performed on his rest days unless a change in rest day results from the application c£ saiicrity or has been agreed to between the employee and the Company.
9.	There shall be no premium pay paid to any employee whose rest days are changed because of the implementation of an alternate shift schedule.
83
SUPPLEMENT NO. 9
LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING
Between	WELDWOOD OF CANADA LIMITED
MERRILL & WAGNER DIVISION
And!	INTERNATIONAL WOODWORKERS OF AMERICA,
LOCAL 1-425
Rs:	Divisions for the Purpose of Seniority in the
Sawmill. Planer MiU and Plywood Plant Complex.
The Parties agree that the application of Article Vm, Section 3 b) will be as follows: awmill Divisio •
Comprised of SawraiH and Planer Mill employees (including Barken).
Plywood Division:
All Plywood Plait employees (including Barkers).
Open Division
Includes Maintenance employees, aid Log Yairl employees.
However, if an employee ftm the Plywood Plant wished to go into the Open Division, he/she would do so wiiii his/her seniority in the Plywood Plant but would have to either remain in the Open Division car go back into the Plywood Plant. The same would apply in the Sawmill Division with employees moving,
Those employees hired directly into the Open Division will have one right to successfully bid into either die SawmillDivision or the Plywood Division. Following which, they would have to remain in the division into which they successfully bid, or return to the 6pen Division.
- 84
Dated this 28th day of August, 1981
For:
Weldwood of Canada Limited Merrill &Wagner Division
For:
International Woodworkers of America, Local 1-425 A.F.L., C.I.O., C.L.C.
A. COOMB ES__________ HARVEY ARCANP
R. NORMAN
NOEL T. GOODING
85
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
The Parties agree that in the application of Article IX, Leave of Absence, Section 4,	'
Compassionate Leave, tbe following criteria shall be used in determining the employee’s
eligibility.	.
1.	Leave of Absence without pay for extended vacation purposes shall be limited to those employees with more (ban two (2) year's continuous service.
2.	Leave of Absence without pay for extended vacation purposes shall be granted based on one (0 month leave of absence for each year of continuous service to a maximum of six (6) months.
3.	Leave of Absence without pay for extended vacation purposes shall be limited to a maximum of one (!) leave in a three (3) calendar year period.
4.	Leave of Absence for extended vacation purposes will be limited to three (3) employees off on leave at any one time in tbe Plywood Division, two (2) employees off os leave at any one time in the Sawmill Division, and two (2) employees off on leave at any one time in the Open Division.
5.	Leave of Absence for extended vacation purposes will be granted on a first come/fin served basis.
SIGNED this 28th day of August, 1981.
For
WeJdwood of Canada Limited Merrill & Wagner Division
For:
International Woodworkers of
America, A.P.L., C.I.O., C.LC.
R. NORMAN
NOELJ. GOODING
$6 *