WELWOODD OF CANADA LIMITED
I.W.A. CANADA LOCAL 1-425
01001 (07)
I N D E X
ARTICLE		PAGE
I	Bargaining Agency	2
II	Definition	2
III	Management	2
IV	Union Security	2
V	Wages	7
VI	Pay Days	9
VII	Hours of Work and Overtime	10
VIII	Seniority	14
IX	Leave of Absence	18
X	Vacations with Pay	21
XI	Statutory Holidays	26
XII	Safety and Health	28
XIII	Grievance Procedure	29
XIV	Right of Reference	30
XV	Interpretation and Arbitration	31
XVI	General Provisions	32
XVII	Forestry Environmental Committee	35
XVIII	Health and Welfare	35
XIX	Long Term Disability Plan	40
XX	IWA - Forest Industry Pension Plan	42
XXI	Job Training	43
XXII	Apprenticeship Training Program	43
XXIII	Technological Change	43
XXIV	Plywood Job Evaluation Plan	44
XXV	Safety Equipment	46
XXVI	Tool Insurance	47
XXVII	Firefighting Agreement	47
XXVIII	Sawmill Rate Determination	47
XXIX	Contracting Out	50
XXX	Education Trust Fund	50
XXXI	Duration of Agreement	51
SUPPLEMENT		
No. 1	Wage Scales	53
No. 2	Job Training Programs	61
No. 3A	Apprenticeship Training Program	63
No. 3B	Apprenticeship Training Program - Filing	
	and Fitting Trades	72
No. 4	Plywood Job Evaluation	81
No. 5	Firefighting Agreement	86
No. 6	Pension Plan	89
No. 7	Construction Contracting	94
No. 8	Alternate Shift Scheduling	95
No. 9	Seniority - Plant	98
No. 10	New and Evolving Work	101
A G R E E M E N T
THIS AGREEMENT entered into this 2nd day of July, 2000.
BETWEEN:
WELDWOOD OF CANADA LIMITED (WILLIAMS LAKE DIVISION)
(hereinafter known as the "Company") OF THE FIRST PART
AND:
I.W.A. CANADA, Local 1-425, C.L.C.
(hereinafter known as the "Union") OF THE SECOND PART
1.	WHEREAS it is the intent and purpose of the Parties hereto that this Agreement will promote and improve industrial and economic relationships between the employees and the Company, and to set forth herein the basic Agreement between the Parties hereto, AND
2.	WHEREAS the Company accepts responsibility to observe each and all provisions and conditions of this Agreement, and to promote orderly and peaceful relations with the Employees, AND
3.	WHEREAS the Union accepts responsibility to observe each and all provisions and conditions of this Agreement, and to promote orderly and peaceful relations with the Company,
NOW THEREFORE the Parties hereto mutually agree as follows:
ARTICLE I - BARGAINING AGENCY
Section 1:
The Company agrees to recognize and bargain with the duly elected bargaining representative on behalf of its Employees properly and duly certified under the appropriate regulations in effect from time to time.
Section 2:
The Party of the First Part agrees that the bargaining authority of the Party of the Second Part shall not be impaired during the term of this new collective agreement. The Party of the First Part agrees that the only certification they will recognize during the term of this new Agreement is that of the Party of the Second part unless ordered by due process of law to recognize some other bargaining authority.
ARTICLE II - DEFINITION
The term "Employee" as used and for the purpose of this Agreement shall include all persons employed by the Company on which behalf the IWA CANADA, Local 1-425, C.L.C., has been certified as bargaining agents, except and excluding foremen and others having authority to hire and fire, office workers, supervisory officials and salesmen.
ARTICLE III - MANAGEMENT
The Management of the operation and the direction and promotion of the Employees are vested exclusively in the Management, provided, however, that this will not be used for the purpose of discrimination against employees.
ARTICLE IV - UNION SECURITY
Section 1:
The Company will co-operate with the Union in obtaining and retaining as members, the employees as defined in this Agreement, and to this end will present to new employees and to all Supervisors and Foremen, the Policy herein expressed.
- 3 -
Section 2:
All employees who entered the employment of the Company's Veneer Plant on or after the 8th of June, 1965, and all new employees, shall within thirty (30) calendar days after the execution of this Agreement, or thirty (30) calendar days after entering employment, whichever date last occurs, become members of the Union and maintain membership therein throughout the term of this Agreement, as a condition of continued employment.
All employees of the Sawmill, Planer Mill, Yard and Shop who entered the employment of the company on or after the 1st day of October, 1964, and all new employees, shall, within thirty (30) calendar days after the execution of this Agreement, or thirty (30) calendar days after entering employment, whichever date last occurs, become members of the Union and maintain membership therein throughout the term of this agreement, as a condition of continued employment.
Section 3:
Any employee who is a member in good standing, or is reinstated as a member of the Union, shall, as a condition of continued employment, maintain such membership in good standing throughout the term of this Agreement.
Section 4:
a)	Any employee who fails to maintain his membership in the Union as prescribed herein by reason of refusal to pay dues and assessments, shall be subject to discharge after seven (7) days written notice to the company of the said Employee's refusal to maintain his/her membership.
b)	It is agreed that the application of this Section means that when an employee fails to maintain his/her membership in good standing by refusing to pay dues and assessments, and provided proper notice has been given in accordance with the Agreement, the employee will be discharged for such refusal.
Section 5:
a)	No employee shall be subject to any penalties against his/her application for membership or reinstatement, except as may be provided for in the IWA National Constitution, as revised 1988 and in accordance with the By-Laws of Local 1-425, which the Local Union Certified as being correct as of July, 1982.
b)	Any employee who applies to join the Union pursuant to the provisions herein and whose application is rejected by the Union, shall not be subject to discharge from employment.
- 4 -
Section 6:
The Company shall require all new employees, at the time of hiring to execute the following assignment of wages in duplicate, the forms to be supplied by the Union. All checkoff forms to be forwarded to the Local Union within fifteen (15) days of hiring.
- 5 -
IWA CANADA
CHECK - OFF
Starting Date 19
Name of Employer	Name of Employee
Address
Postal Code
Phone:
(Please Print)
Operation	Social Insurance Number
Are you a Member of the IWA?
In what IWA operation were you last employed?
Local Union
I HEREBY AUTHORIZE AND INSTRUCT YOU TO DEDUCT FROM MY WAGES AND
REMIT TO LOCAL 1-______THE FOLLOWING IN PAYMENT OF THE AMOUNT SET
OUT BELOW:
1.	Union Initiation fees in the amount of	$
2.	Union Back Dues in the amount of	$
3.	Union Dues $	per month, commencing	19
4.	Union Assessments in the amount and at the time stated in notice received by you from the Local Union designated above.
Clock No.	.
- 6 -
APPLICATION FOR MEMBERSHIP
I hereby request and accept membership in the IWA CANADA Local 1-______________, and
agree to abide by the constitution and by-laws of the organization. In case of misstatement of qualifications for membership I agree to forfeit all rights, privileges and monies paid.
Signature of Applicant-Employee
Section 7:
This assignment, in the case of Employees already members of the Union shall be effective immediately and for those Employees not previously members of the Union, it shall become effective thirty (30) calendar days from the date of execution.
The Company shall remit the dues deducted pursuant to such assignment (until and unless said assignment is revoked by the employee) to the Local Union named therein, no later than the 15th day of the month following the month in which the deduction was made from the employee, with a written statement of names of employees for whom the deductions were made and the amount of each deduction.
Section 8:
The Company shall furnish the Union with Social Insurance Number of each employee on its payroll on the first occasion when dues are forwarded to the Union after the execution of this Agreement or after the Employee enters the employment of the Company, whichever date last occurs.
Section 9:
Employer Deductions From Wages - Employee Benefit Plans - The Parties agree that the Company shall deduct from an employee's wages and shall remit to the appropriate employee benefit plan, the employee's contribution which is specified in any benefit plan agreed to by the parties to the Coast Master Agreement.
ARTICLE V - WAGES
Section 1:
a)	The Parties hereby agree that wages of all hourly rated employees covered by the Agreement shall be increased by two percent (2%) per hour effective June 15, 2000; a further two percent (2%) effective June 15, 2001, and by two percent (2%) effective June 15, 2002.
- 7 -
b)
Employees who have left the employ of the Company must apply within thirty (30) days of ratification to be eligible for retroactive pay flowing from this Agreement.
c)	The Parties agree that the minimum rate in the mill for common labour shall be:
i)	$21.07 per hour effective June 15th, 2000.
ii)	$21.49 per hour effective June 15th, 2001.
iii)	$21.92 per hour effective June 15th, 2002.
Section 2:	Grading Tickets
a)	Lumber Graders
All certified lumber graders shall receive the premiums set out below, in addition to the Job Evaluation Rate.
Class A Grading Certificate - fifteen cents (150) per hour.
Class B Grading Certificate - ten cents (100) per hour.
Provided that these premiums shall be paid only when actually engaged as lumber graders.
b)	Lumber Grading Certificates
Any employee holding a Class A or B Lumber Grading Certificate shall receive a premium of five cents (50) per hour for all hours worked. There shall be no stacking or pyramiding of premiums.
c)	Grading Tickets shall be permanent and valid certificates, but graders shall remain subject to the regulations of I.L.M.A., C.L.M.A., C.O.F.I., N.I.L.A., P.L.I.B., and other regulatory bodies.
d)	All lumber graders holding grading certificates shall attend upgrading classes as required.
e)	Lumber graders who are required to attend upgrading classes (grading rule changes) shall receive their regular straight time rate for time spent attending such classes.
f)	Where a company is paying a bonus or premium(s) greater than set out above, it shall keep such Policy in effect.
Section 3:	First Aid Attendants
a)	Designated First Aid Attendants shall receive their job rate of pay plus the Ticket
- 8 -
premium rate. All other employees holding valid First Aid Tickets shall receive a premium of five cents (5 cents) per hour over and above their job rate. There shall be not stacking or pyramiding of premiums.
b)	Where a Company is paying a bonus or premium(s) greater than set out above, it shall keep such policy in effect.
Section 4:
It is agreed that employees engaged on contract or piecework shall not receive less money than the equivalent of the hourly rate specified in the wage schedule for the number of hours worked in each pay period.
Section 5:	Shift Differential
The first shift is the recognized day shift. Hours worked outside the recognized day shift shall be regarded as the second and third shifts. A shift differential of thirty-one cents (31 cents) per hour shall be paid for second and third shifts. A day shift employee working in excess of his/her regular shift shall be paid rate and one-half without the differential. Any employee on the second or third shift working in excess of his/her regular shift shall receive rate and one-half. For the purpose of the last sentence, rate shall be rate plus thirty-one (31 cents). Persons employed other than on regular shifts shall be paid the thirty-one cents (31 cents). Persons employed other than on regular shifts shall be paid the thirty-one (31 cents) shift differential for all hours worked outside the recognized day shift.
Section 6:
In the event that job conditions change or new machinery is installed, or a new category is established, the Union and the Company agree to meet to discuss designation and wage rates to be paid to the employees concerned.
Section 7:
Effective June 15, 1981, the Company agrees to pay a Power Saw allowance of fifteen dollars ($15.00) per day to Mill Buckers who maintain and operate their own Power Saws. Effective June 15, 1982 the allowance is increased to eighteen dollars ($18.00) per day.
ARTICLE VI - PAY DAYS
a)	The Company shall provide for pay days every second week.
b)	Each employee shall be furnished with an itemized statement of earnings and monthly deductions.
- 9 -
ARTICLE VII - HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
Section 1:
a)	The regular hours of work shall be eight (8) hours per day and forty (40) hours per week, Monday to Friday inclusive, subject to the exceptions contained in Sections 2 and 3 of this Article.
b)	Overtime for production workers will be paid at rate and one-half for all hours worked in excess of eight (8) in a day and for Saturday and/or Sunday work, with the following exceptions:
Double straight-time rates shall be paid for the following;
i)	Hours worked in excess of eleven (11) hours per day.
ii)	Hours worked on Sunday by employees who have worked five (5) shift during the preceding six (6) days.
iii)	Item ii) above shall not apply to employees who work on Sunday as a regular scheduled day.
iv)	For the purpose of these provisions, a Statutory Holiday shall be considered as a shift worked.
c)	If a Statutory Holiday occurs during the work week, the employees shall only be required to work on Saturday and/or Sunday for the time lost due to the Statutory Holiday by mutual consent. For such work the employee shall be paid rate and one half.
Section 2:
a)	Those employees who, of necessity, regularly work on Saturday and Sunday shall take two (2) other days of the week off to be mutually agreed between the employees and the Company. In such event, Saturday and Sunday shall be considered working days and overtime rates shall not apply on Saturday. However, these Employees shall be paid rate and one half for work performed on Sunday. Overtime rates shall apply when the regular daily or weekly work limit has been exceeded. Overtime rates shall apply on the rest days of these Employees, if worked, unless a change in rest days has been agreed upon between the Employees and the Company.
b)	For the purpose of this Section only, employees shall be Engineers, Firefighters, Operating Millwrights, Maintenance Workers and Watchmen.
c)	Maintenance, Repair and Construction Employees can be employed on a Tuesday to Saturday work week, for which they shall be paid straight time for Saturday work. In such event, Sunday and Monday shall be recognized as their rest days and any work performed on their rest days shall be paid for at rate and
- 10 -
one half. The rest day, Monday, may be changed by mutual consent between the Employee and the Company. In such event, work performed on Monday shall be paid for at straight time. If the Employee works on Monday at the request of the Company, the rate of pay will be rate and one half. However, if the employee requests a temporary change from his/her rest day on Monday, work performed on Monday shall be paid for at straight time.
d)	If a Statutory Holiday occurs on the Employee's regular day off, he/she shall be entitled to take his/her next regular work day off without pay.
Section 3:
The weekly and daily hours shall be in accordance with the Hours of Work Act of British Columbia.
Section 4:	Alternate Shift Scheduling
a)	Management, Plant or Camp Committees and the Local union shall have the right under the terms of the Collective Agreement to agree upon and implement other schedules which, except for production shifts in manufacturing operations, may include Sundays, without overtime penalty, provided the principle of the forty (40) hour week is maintained over an averaging period. Rate and one-half shall be paid for hours worked on Sunday.
b)	Any variation(s) to the preceding Sections denoting normal hours of work shall be implemented only upon completion of the following steps:
i.	Negotiated agreement between the Local Union and Local Management.
ii.	Majority approval by the employees involved in the proposed variations.
c)	When alternative shift schedules have been implemented in accordance with (a) and b) above, the following overtime provisions will apply:
A.	i) The first three (3) hours worked in a day in excess of the normal daily hours of the established schedule.
ii)	Hours worked in excess of forty (40) hours per week or forty (40) hours average when there is an averaging period.
iii)	All hours worked on an employee's scheduled rest day, unless a change in rest day as been agreed to between the employee and the Company.
iv)	All hours worked on Sunday except those excluded in the casual section.
- 11 -
B.	Double straight-time rates shall be paid for the following:
i)	All hours worked in excess of A(i) above.
ii)	All hours worked on a Sunday when Sunday is also an employee's scheduled rest day, if the employee has worked forty (40) straight-time hours in the preceding six (6) days, unless a change in rest day has been agreed to between the employee and the Company.
C.	Supplement No. 8 - Alternate Shift Scheduling, contains the agreed upon general principles and parameters for the establishment,
implementation or discontinuance of alternate shift
schedules.
Section 5:	Three Shift Operation
a)	The Company shall have the right to operate the plant or any part thereof on a three-shift basis and all employees working under this arrangement shall receive eight (8) hours' pay upon completion of the full hours established as their regular shift. Details of shifts shall be varied at the Company's option.
b)	Section a) above shall only apply to those employees actually working on a three-shift basis.
Section 6:
It is agreed between the Parties that if three (3) hours or less are necessary after midnight Friday, or on a Statutory Holiday, to complete the shift which commenced work on Friday afternoon, or the afternoon preceding the Statutory Holiday, time worked after midnight to complete this shift will be paid at straight time.
Section 7:
The foregoing provisions of this Article shall not be construed as guaranteeing to any employee any number of hours of work per day or per week.
Section 8:
Any employee called for work and finding no work available due to reasons beyond his or her control shall be entitled to two (2) hours pay at the usual rate. This shall apply unless the Company gives notice cancelling the said call.
Section 9:
When an employee is called for work and starts work he/she shall receive four (4) hours pay at his/her regular rate unless his/her work is suspended because of inclement
- 12 -
weather, or other reasons completely beyond the control of the Company.
Section 10: Call-Back Time
Employees called back to work after completion of their regular scheduled shift shall be paid a minimum of three (3) hours at rate and one half.
Section 11:
All employees in manufacturing plants shall be entitled to two (2) ten (10) minute rest periods during each regular shift; provided always that the Company shall have the right to use relief employees in implementing this provision.
Section 12:
a)	The term "Casual Work” as used in this Agreement shall apply only to work performed on Saturday and/or Sunday by either laid-off regular employees or other persons hereinafter referred to as "Casual Employees".
b)	Casual employees on maintenance, repair or preparatory work shall be paid at straight-time job rates, and those on production shall be paid rate and one half for all work performed on Saturday or Sunday.
c)	Casual work on maintenance, repair and preparatory work will be paid at straight-time job rate.
d)	Regular laid-off employees shall not be classified as Casual Employees, and shall have preference for available work over the said casual employees.
e)	The employer agrees to keep a separate seniority list of casual employees who have worked at least ten (10) working days, exclusively for recall purposes and, subject to clause d), further agrees to recall casual employees in accordance with their seniority as set forth in this list.
Section 13:
When an employee is unavoidably prevented from reporting to his/her scheduled shift, if reasonably possible, he/she must give notice to his/her foreman, or at the Company office, at least two (2) hours before the shift commences.
Section 14:
The Company agrees to discontinue the use of time clocks subject to the following:
a)	The general use of clocks to be discontinued for a trial period of three (3) months.
- 13 -
b)
New employees are to punch the clock for the first three (3) months of employment.
c)	Casual employees are to punch the clock.
d)	Employees who report late must punch the clock and have the card initialed by their Foreman.
e)	Employees may make arrangements with employees on the same jobs on their following shift to relieve them a maximum of ten (10) minutes prior to their regular quitting time providing they have permission of both Foremen involved.
f)	Employees may enter or leave their place of work by the Main Entrance only.
g)	Employees who work overtime must punch the clock.
h)	Employees who have been absent and return to work must report to their department foreman at the commencement of the shift.
i)	Employees who abuse the system shall be required to punch the clock for a three (3) month period.
j)	Employees abusing the honour system will still be subject to Article III of the Collective Agreement.
Section 15:
Where maintenance, repair and construction employees are required to work two (2) hours or more overtime beyond their normal shift, the company shall provide a hot meal, such hot meal to be consumed by the employees on company time before beginning the overtime work.
ARTICLE VIII - SENIORITY
Section 1:
a)	All employees hired shall be on a probation for thirty (30) days worked, and during such period no seniority rights shall be recognized.
b)	Upon completion of thirty (30) days worked they shall be regarded as regular employees, and shall then be entitled to seniority dating from the day on which they entered the Company's employ, provided however that the probationary period of thirty (30) days worked shall only be cumulative within the three (3) calendar months following the date of entering employment.
- 14 -
c)	It is agreed that probationary employees will have preference over Casual employees for any work performed during the normal work week, subject to competency.
d)	It is further agreed that in the application of (c) above, probationary employees will be called in for work in accordance with their hire date, unless such call-in is beyond the control of the employer, and is subject to the employee being competent to perform the work. This obligation does not apply where the employee cannot be readily contacted or where the employee has worked one shift in the 24 hour period.
Section 2:
It is agreed that upon the request of the Union, a list will be supplied by the Company setting out the name and the starting date with the Company of each regular employee. However, such request shall not be granted more than twice during each year of the term of this Agreement. The Company shall advise the Union once each month of changes to the said list.
Section 3:
a)	The Company recognizes the principle of seniority, competency considered.
b)	The application of seniority shall be determined by Division as set out below:
1.	Plywood Division
2.	Sawmill Division
3.	Open Division
c)	The seniority provisions of this Agreement shall apply separately to each division. Employees who have been laid off shall, in the event of job openings occurring in another Division, be given preferential hiring on the basis of seniority entitlement.
Section 4:
a)	The Company shall have the right to select its employees and to discipline them or discharge them for proper cause.
b)	Promotions shall be entirely a matter for the Company's decision, likewise the selection of supervisory officials, but in making promotions, other things being equal, the company agrees to give due consideration to the length of continuous service.
Section 5:
- 15 -
It is agreed that companies signatory to this agreement shall give preference in
hiring, competency considered, on the following basis, in the following order:
1.	previous employees of the Division who have both previous seniority and an application on file
2.	previous employees of the company who have previous company seniority and are seeking employment as a result of operational closures or crew reductions in other operations of the company.
3.	laid off employees of other forest industry companies in the communities, who are seeking employment as a result of operational closures or crew reduction in excess of ninety (90) days.
4.	laid off forest industry IWA members of Local 1-424 and 1-425 who are seeking employment as a result of operational closures or crew reduction in excess of ninety (90) days
5.	persons who qualify for preference, and wish to exercise their rights to preference, must make application within six months of the operational closure or the ninety day layoff period.
Applications will be kept on file as active for 60 days. After which time, applications must be renewed by the person seeking employment, or no preference shall be considered.
Section 6:
a)	It is agreed that when employees are to be re-hired after a lay-off it shall be done on the basis of the last person released shall be the first person re-employed, subject to provisions of Section 3a). It is agreed that in case of emergency the application of plant seniority may be postponed for such period as may be necessary, but not exceeding three (3) days. If the Company decides to exercise its rights under these provisions it shall notify the Committee or the Local Union immediately.
b)	Where a reduction of forces is caused by emergency conditions, the application of seniority may be postponed for such period as may be necessary, but not exceeding five (5) working days. If the Company decides to exercise its rights under these provisions, it shall notify the Shop Committee as soon as possible.
c)	During a reduction of forces where an employee's seniority is such that he/she will not be able to keep his/her regular job he/she may elect to apply his/her seniority to obtain a job paying a higher rate, subject to the competency of the person involved and the provisions of Section 1. Details to be worked out between the Local Union and the Company.
d)	During a reduction of forces where an employee's seniority is such that he/she will not be able to keep his/her regular job, he/she may elect whether or not to
- 16 -
apply his/her seniority to obtain a lower paid job or a job paying the same rate of pay or accept a lay-off until his/her regular job becomes available, provided however:
i)	If during the lay-off period the employee wishes to return to work and so
notifies the Company, he/she shall be called back to work as soon as his/her seniority entitles him/her to a job.
ii)	The application of this provision shall not result in an employee, in the exercise of his/her rights, bumping an employee with less seniority.
Section 7:
In the event of a reduction of the forces, the last person hired shall be the first released, subject to the competency of the person involved and the provisions of Section 3 a).
Section 8:
It is agreed that when employees are to be re-employed after a lay-off it shall be done on the basis of the last person released shall be the first person re-employed, subject to the provisions of Section 3 a).
Section 9:
a)	When re-employing in accordance with Section 8, after a shutdown all employees shall be notified by telegram or registered letter at least seven (7) days before restart of operations. The employees must reply by telegram or registered letter in the affirmative within ninety-six (96) hours of the telegram or registered letter being sent out by the Company, and appear for work not later than the end of the above stated seven (7) day period.
b)	Employees resident in the Province of Alberta or the Yukon Territory shall be entitled to one (1) additional day to report and employees resident in any other Canadian Province or the United States shall be entitled to two (2) additional days to report.
c)	It shall be the employees' responsibility to keep the Company informed of their addresses during the period of the shutdown.
d)	It is agreed that all employees shall, upon returning to employment in accordance with this Section, retain all seniority rights.
Section 10:
It is agreed between the Parties that seniority during layoffs shall be retained on the
- 17 -
following basis:
a)	Employees with less than one (1) year's service shall retain their seniority for a period of eight (8) months.
b)	Employees with one (1) or more year's service shall retain their seniority for one (1) year, plus one (1) additional month for each years service, up to an additional six (6) months.
c)	A laid-off employee's seniority retention under a) and b) above is reinstated on the completion of one (1) day's work.
Section 11:
It is agreed that when an employee has been transferred by the Company to a supervisory or staff position, he or she will continue to accumulate seniority for a period of ninety (90) days. At any time during this ninety (90) day period the individual shall have the right to return to the bargaining unit in the job which he/she would have held if he/she had not left the bargaining unit. (In special cases this ninety (90) day period may be extended for up to a further ninety (90) days by mutual agreement between the Company and the Shop Committee.) At the expiration of the period mentioned above, his/her seniority will be frozen. Thus, if at a later date he or she ceases to be a supervisory or staff worker and the Company desires to retain his or her services, it is hereby agreed that reinstatement can be made within the bargaining unit, provided however that any employee so reinstated must return to the job held at the time of his or her promotion to the supervisory or staff position.
ARTICLE IX - LEAVE OF ABSENCE
Section 1:
a)	Any employee desiring leave of absence for any reason other than those set out in Sections 2 and 3 of this Article must obtain same in writing from the Company, a copy of such leave to be forwarded to the Local Union.
b)	Where any employee is granted a leave of absence under this Section for a period of longer than thirty (30) calendar days, the Company agrees to notify the Job Steward and the Union as to the circumstances for the granting of such period of leave.
Section 2:
The Company will grant leave of absence to employees suffering illness or injury, subject to a medical certificate if requested by the employer. The employee shall report, or cause to have reported, to the Company the injury or illness which requires his or her absence from the operation. The employee shall have a reasonable period of
- 18 -
time to present a medical certificate if requested by the Company. Section 3:
a)	The company will grant leave of absence to employees who are appointed or elected to Union office. The employee who obtains this leave of absence shall return to the Company within thirty (30) calendar days after completion of his/her term of employment with the Union.
b)	The Company will grant leave of absence to employees who are elected as representatives to attend Union meetings and Union conventions, or members of any Union Negotiating Committee, in order that they may carry out their duties on behalf of the Union.
c)	It is agreed that before the employee receives this Leave of Absence as set forth in clauses a) and b) above, the Company be given notice in writing (in the case of a) - fifteen (15) calendar days, in the case of b) - five (5) calendar days) by the Union in order to replace the employee with a competent substitute.
d)	The Union will make every effort in requesting such leaves of absence to avoid requests that will unduly deplete the crew in any one department which will impair production or inhibit the normal functioning of the operation. In such cases, the Union will co-operate with the Company in making such substitute employees available or select alternate delegates to attend Union functions.
Section 4:	Compassionate Leave
By mutual agreement leave of absence will be granted to a maximum of six (6) months
without pay to the employees for compassionate reasons or for education or training or
extended vacation purposes, conditional on the following terms:
a)	That the employee apply at least one (1) month in advance unless the grounds for such application could not reasonably be foreseen.
b)	That the employee shall disclose the grounds for application.
c)	The Company shall grant such leave where a bona fide reason is advanced by the applicant or may postpone leave where a suitable replacement is not available.
d)	That the Company will consult with the Shop Committee in respect of any application for leave under this Section.
e)	The Company will only be obliged to grant leave of absence for educational and training purposes to employees who intend to take training that will assist the individual in obtaining skills related to the industry.
- 19 -
f)	It is agreed that employees requesting leave of absence for extended vacation during the months June 15 to September 15, shall only be granted such leave once every three (3) years, and that a record be kept for the purpose of rotating such leaves.
The Union agrees it will provide a letter regarding problems which arise from extended vacation applications.
Section 5:
To provide for a reasonable period of time for extended maternity leave without pay to female employees where there is a valid medical reason.
Section 6:	Bereavement Leave
a)	When death occurs to a member of a regular full-time employee's immediate family, the employee will be granted an appropriate leave of absence for which he/she shall be compensated at his/her regular straight-time hourly rate of pay for hours lost from his/her regular work schedule for a maximum of three days.
b)	Piece workers who are entitled to bereavement leave shall be compensated in accordance with the principle established in Article IX, Section b).
c)	Members of the employee's immediate family are defined as the employee's spouse, mother, father, brothers, sisters, sons, daughters, mother-in-law, father-in-law, step-parents, grandparents, grandparents-in-law, grand-children, stepchildren, sons-in-law and daughter-in-law.
d)	Compensable hours under the terms of this section will be counted as hours worked for the purpose of qualifying for vacations and for recognized paid holidays, but will not be counted as hours worked for the purpose of computing overtime.
Section 7:	Jury Duty
a) Any regular full-time employee who is required to perform Jury Duty, Coroner's Duty, or as a Crown Witness or coroner's Witness, on a day which he or she would normally have worked, will be reimbursed by the Company for the difference between the pay received for Jury Duty and his/her regular straighttime hourly rate of pay for his/her regularly scheduled hours of work. It is understood that such reimbursement shall not be for hours in excess of eight (8) per day or forty (40) per week, less statutory pay received for Jury Duty. The employee will be required to furnish proof of Jury Service and Jury Duty pay received.
- 20 -
b)	Any piece worker who is required to perform Jury Duty shall be compensated for the difference between statutory pay received for Jury Duty and his job rate in accordance with the principle established in Article XI, Section 2 b).
c)	Hours paid for Jury Duty will be counted as hours worked for the purpose of qualifying for vacation and for recognized paid holidays, but will not be counted as hours worked for the purpose of computing overtime.
Section 8:
a)	The Company will grant leave of absence for campaign purposes to candidates for Federal, Provincial or Municipal elective public office, for periods up to and including eight (8) weeks, provided the Company is given due notice in writing of twenty (20) calendar days, unless the need for such application could not reasonably be foreseen.
b)	Employees elected or appointed to Federal, Provincial or Municipal office shall be granted as much leave as is necessary during the term of such office. Municipal office holders, where the term of public office is served intermittently, shall give the Company reasonable notice for absences from work for conducting Municipal business.
c)	The employee who obtains this leave of absence shall return to his/her Company within thirty (30) calendar days after completion of public office.
ARTICLE X - VACATIONS WITH PAY
With respect to annual vacations and vacation pay the following provisions will apply: Section 1:	One to Two Years' Service
The annual vacation for employees with one (1) to two (2) year's service covered by this Agreement shall be two (2) weeks, and the pay therefore shall be based upon five per cent (5%) of the total wages or salary earned by the employee during the period of entitlement, or eighty (80) hours at the hourly rate of the employee's regular job, whichever is the greater.
Section 2:	Two to Seven Years' Service
a)	The annual vacation for employees with two (2) to seven (7) years' service covered by this Agreement shall be three (3) weeks, and the pay therefore shall be based upon seven per cent (7%) of the total wages or salary earned by the employee during the period of entitlement, or one hundred and twenty (120) hours at the hourly rate of the employee's regular job, whichever is greater.
b)	The additional one (1) week vacation provided for in this Section may be taken
- 21 -
when convenient for the company but does not have to be consecutive with the vacation period provided for in Section 1 herein.
Section 3:	Seven to Fifteen Years' Service
a)	The annual vacation for employee with seven (7) to fifteen (15) years' service covered by this Agreement shall be four (4) weeks, and the pay therefore shall be based upon nine per cent (9%) of the total wages or salary earned by the employee during the period of entitlement, or one hundred and sixty (160) hours at the hourly rate of the employee's regular job, whichever is greater.
b)	The additional one (1) week vacation provided for in this Section may be taken when convenient for the Company but does not have to be consecutive with the vacation periods provided for in Sections 1 and 2 herein.
Section 4:	Fifteen to Twenty-four Years' Service
a)	The annual vacation for employees with fifteen (15) to twenty-four (24) years' service covered by this Agreement shall be five weeks, and the pay therefore shall be based upon eleven per cent (11%) of the total wages or salary earned by the employee during the period of entitlement, or two hundred (200) hours at the hourly rate of the employee's regular job, whichever is greater.
b)	Subject to the provisions of Section 8 herein, the additional one (1) week vacation provided for in this Section may be taken consecutively with the vacation periods provided for in Sections 1,2, or 3.
Section 5:	Twenty-four to Thirty Years' Service
a)	The annual vacation for employees with twenty-four (24) to thirty (30) years' service covered by this Agreement shall be six (6) weeks, and the pay therefore shall be based upon thirteen percent (13%) of the total wages or salary earned by the employee during the period of entitlement, or two hundred and forty (240) hours at the hourly rate of the employee's regular job, whichever is greater.
b)	Subject to the provisions of Section 8 herein, the additional one (1) week vacation provided for in this Section may be taken consecutively with the vacation periods provided for in Section 1, 2, 3, or 4.
Section 6:	Thirty Year's Service
a) The annual vacation for employees with thirty (30) years' service covered by this Agreement shall be seven weeks, and the pay therefore shall be based upon fifteen percent (15%) of the total wages or salary earned by the employee during the period of entitlement, or two hundred and eighty (280) hours at the hourly rate of the employee's regular job, whichever is greater.
- 22 -
b)	Subject to the provisions of Section 8 herein, the additional one (1) week vacation provided for in this Section may be taken consecutively with the vacation periods provided for in Sections 1,2, 3, 4, or 5.
Section 7:	Vacation Pay on Termination
An employee whose employment is terminated shall receive vacation pay at the appropriate percentage of the wages or salary earned during the period of entitlement in accordance with the employee's years of service.
Section 8:	Vacation Time
a)	Vacations for employees shall be taken at such time as mutually agreed upon by the Shop Committee and the company when quantity and regularity of production shall not be impaired.
b)	All earned vacation must be taken.
Section 9:	Payment of Vacation Pay
a)	The calculation and comparison of the vacation pay amounts developed by the percentage of gross wages method and the hours times the regular job rate method will be completed and the greater amount paid to the employee within fourteen (14) days of the common vacation pay cut-off or the employee's anniversary date. The Company's present cut-off or anniversary date method shall be continued unless a change is agreed upon between the Company and the Local Union.
b)	For the purposes of this Article, the rate of the employee's regular job will be the rate of the employee's regular job at the date of the common vacation cut-off date or the employee's anniversary date, as the case may be.
c)	In the case of a pieceworker, the rate of the employee's regular job will be determined by computing the employee's hourly average earnings for the days actually worked during the pay period immediately preceding the common cut-off date or the employee's anniversary date, as the case may be.
d)	On the date when an employee completes one (1, two (2), seven (7), fifteen (15), twenty-four (24), or thirty (30) years' service and where there is a common cut-off date for all employees in the operation, the employee will receive:
i)	In the case of one (1) year, one per cent (1%) of his/her gross earnings between the date of employment and the date of the last common cut-off date;
- 23 -
ii)	In the case of two (2), seven (7), fifteen (15), twenty-four (24), or thirty (30) years, two per cent (2%) of his/her gross earnings between the date of his/her last anniversary date and the date of the last common cut-off date.
Section 10: Vacation Pay - Percentage of Wages Method
The following shall be considered as days actually worked for determining vacations
with pay for an employee after one (1) continuous year of employment:
a)	Absence on Workers' Compensation up to a period of one (1) year, provided that the employee returns to his or her employment.
b)	Absence due to illness up to a period of one (1) year, provided that the employee returns to his or her employment. The employer shall have the right to require a certificate from a qualified medical practitioner.
c)	Absence due to bereavement leave in accordance with the terms and conditions of Article IX, Section 6.
d)	Absence due to time served on jury duty, including Coroner's jury, or time served as a crown witness or Coroner's witness in accordance with the terms and conditions of Article IX, Section 7.
e)	Any other absence duly approved by the employer in writing shall be credited towards entitlement for annual vacation, but time spent on such leaves of absence shall not be counted in computing vacation pay.
Section 11: Qualifications for Vacation Pay - Regular Job Rate Method
a)	i) In order for an employee to qualify for the amount generated by the hours
times the regular job rate method, the employee must have worked a
minimum of fifteen hundred (1,500) hours in the employee's first year of service and a minimum of one thousand (1,000) hours during the employee's succeeding years of entitlement.
ii)	Where there is a common vacation pay cut-off date, for purposes of calculating minimum hours as in i) above, the calculation period shall be from the cut-off date in one year to the cut-off date in the succeeding year.
iii)	Where there is no common vacation pay cut-off date, for purposes of calculating minimum hours as in i) above, the calculation period shall be from the employee's anniversary date in one year to his/her anniversary date in the succeeding year.
b)	For purposes of computing the requisite hours, the following will be included:
- 24 -
i)	All hours worked;
ii)	Statutory Holiday hours;
iii)	Jury and Crown witness duty;
iv)	Bereavement leave;
v)	Vacation hours;
vi)	Time not exceeding one (1) year, lost as the result of an accident recognized as compensable by the Workers Compensation Board and suffered during the course of employment, shall be considered as time worked for the purpose of qualifying for vacation, provided that the employee returns to his/her employment.
vii)	Time not exceeding one (1) year, lost as the result of a nonoccupational accident or illness, shall be considered as time worked for the purpose of qualifying for vacation, provided that at the time of the accident or illness the employee has been on the payroll for not less than one (1) year and that he/she returns to his/her employment. It is understood that the employer may require that the employee provide a certificate from a qualified medical practitioner.
viii)	Time lost as a result of layoff shall not be considered as time worked for the purpose of qualifying for requisite hours;
ix)	Employees who report to work and who receive call time payment shall be credited with eight (8) hours for any such shift for purposes of computing requisite hours under this Section. Any employee who qualifies for call time in a day shall receive credit under this Section for eight (8) hours or credit for the hours for which wages were paid, whichever is the greater.
x)	All hours worked in more than one (1) division of the parent company as a result of transfer or layoff.
Section 12: Employment Standards Act
Part 4 - Annual Vacation of the Employment Standards Act, S.B.C., 1980, c. 10, and amendments thereto, except where varied or modified by the provisions herein, shall become a part of this Agreement.
- 25 -
ARTICLE XI - STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
Section 1:
a)	All hourly-rated employees who work on New Year's Day, Good Friday, Victoria Day, Canada Day, British Columbia Day, Labour Day, Thanksgiving Day, Remembrance Day, Christmas Day and Boxing Day shall be paid rate and one half for all hours so worked.
b)	In the event one of the above Statutory Holidays falls on a Sunday, the previous Friday or the following Monday shall be observed as the Holiday. In the event that one of the within named Statutory Holidays falls on a Saturday it shall be observed on the preceding Friday or succeeding Monday as agreed between the Company and the Shop Committee.
c)	In case of a maintenance employee where one of the Statutory Holidays is observed on his or her rest day, he or she shall have a day off without pay in lieu thereof at a mutually agreeable time.
Section 2:
a) All Hourly rated and piece work employees who qualify for the paid holiday under the conditions set out below shall be paid for the holiday at their regular job rate of pay for their paid regular work schedule. The Parties hereto agree that the paid Statutory Holidays shall be as follows:
New Year's Day Good Friday Victoria Day Canada Day Christmas Day
British Columbia Day Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Remembrance Day Boxing Day
b) Piece work employees shall receive pay for the Statutory Holidays for which they qualify, based on the daily average earnings for the days actually worked during the previous thirty (30) working days.
c)	All hourly-rated employees working on a paid holiday shall receive rate and one-half for hours worked on such day in addition to the holiday pay to which they may be entitled.
d)	To qualify for Statutory Holidays, an employee must have been on the company payroll for the thirty (30) calendar days immediately preceding the Statutory Holiday and must have worked his/her last regularly scheduled work day after the holiday, unless his or her absence is due to a compensable occupational injury or illness, which occurred within six (6) months of the holiday, or the
- 26 -
employee is on authorized leave of absence in accordance with section 2 or 3 of Article IX.
e)	In the case of illness or injury, the Company shall have the right to request a certificate from a qualified medical practitioner.
f)	Notwithstanding any of the foregoing provisions, the employee must have worked one (1) day before and one (1) day after the holiday, both of which must fall within a period of ninety (90) calendar days.
Section 3:
a)	In the event of a Statutory Holiday falling on a Tuesday, Wednesday, or Thursday, and where the Company and Shop committee mutually agree, the said holiday may be observed the preceding Monday or following Friday respectively.
b)	At the option of the Company, but whenever possible by mutual agreement with the Shop committee, either Good Friday or Easter Monday shall become the designated Easter holiday, and the Company shall notify its employees of the designation at least one (1) week prior to the said holiday.
c)	When a Statutory Holiday falls on a Friday, employees working on a Tuesday to Saturday work week, by mutual agreement between the Company and the Plant Committee, may work on the Friday Statutory Holiday at the straight time job rates and substitute Saturday as the Statutory Holiday.
Section 4:	Personal Floating Holiday
This section becomes effective September 1st, 1978. This Personal Floating Holiday is
in lieu of the proposed Heritage Day, but this section shall come into operation on its
effective date even if Heritage Day has or has not been proclaimed.
a)	Personal Floating Holiday
Regular full-time employees will be granted one (1) Personal Floating Holiday during each contract year of this Agreement, to be arranged at a time suitable to the employee and the company, so there will be no loss of production.
b)	Qualifying Conditions
When the Personal Floating Holiday is taken, an employee shall be paid for the said holiday at his regular job rate of pay for his regular work schedule, subject to the following conditions:
i) A new employee must have been on the payroll for not less
- 27 -
than ninety (90) consecutive calendar days to qualify for the Personal Floating Holiday.
ii)	An employee will not qualify for the Personal Floating Holiday if on leave of absence for more than nine (9) months in the contract year, except in the case of sickness or injury.
iii)	An employee shall apply on an approved form at least seven (7) days in advance, for his/her Personal Floating Holiday. The employee shall receive notice of the disposition of his/her request a minimum of seventy-two (72) hours prior to the requested Personal Floating Holiday.
iv)	If an employee is required to work on his/her Personal Floating Holiday after a definite date has been designated for such a holiday, the employee shall be paid overtime for such work at the rate of time and one-half. The employee will then be entitled to take the holiday with pay at a later date to be mutually agreed upon.
v)	Personal Floating Holiday not taken or scheduled by April 15th of each contract year will be scheduled by management.
vi)	A Personal Floating Holiday shall not be scheduled on an employee's regular rest day.
vii)	Where an employee chooses Saturday or Sunday as a Personal Floating Holiday, straight time rates will apply.
ARTICLE XII - SAFETY AND HEALTH
Section 1:
The Company and Employees will co-operate to assure safe working methods and conditions and devise plans for the furtherance of safety measures. Equipment and devices mutually agreed upon to be provided by the Company.
Section 2:
The Management of every operation shall maintain an Accident Prevention Committee of four (4) to six (6) members according to the size of the operation. Members of the Committee shall be designated to equal number by the Employees and the Employer. Employee representatives shall be regular employees in the operation with at least one (1) year's experience.
- 28 -
Section 3:
Safety meetings will be held during working hours where possible Employee's time will not be deducted for attending such meetings or investigations into accidents. It is recognized that in multishift and in logging operations, meetings will occur outside of working hours for certain employees. When meetings take place outside of an employee's working hours, he or she will be compensated at his or her regular hourly straight time rate of pay for the time spent attending such meetings; two (2) hour limit.
Section 4:
Effective July 1, 1989, an IWA-Forest Industry Safety and Health Research Program
will be established on the following general principles:
a)	The Plan will be jointly trusteed.
b)	The Plan is to be funded on the basis of an Industry contribution of one-half cent (% cent) per hour per employee per hour worked, effective July 1, 1989.
d)	The trustees will be appointed in the first year of the Agreement and will meet during the first year to establish objectives and operating and administrative procedures.
e)	In addition to the funding provided for in the Agreements, the Parties agree to the following:
j)	When funds in the Plan reach $100,000.00, the Employer will contribute an additional %r per hour for a total of one-cent (1 r) per hour.
k)	When funds in the Plan reach $200,000.00, the additional one-half cent (%r) provided for in (a) above will be discontinued until the fund level is again reduced to the $100,000.00 level.
ARTICLE XIII - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
Section 1:
A Grievance Committee shall be elected to consist of two (2) to seven (7) employees elected by the Union members employed in the operation covered by this Agreement. Members of this Grievance Committee shall have completed their probationary period with the Company and shall have at least one (1) year's experience in the type of operation.
Meetings of the Grievance Committee shall, except in cases of emergency, and wherever possible, be held outside of working hours. In the event that a grievance should arise it shall be dealt with in following manner, without stoppage of work:
- 29 -
Step 1:	The individual employee involved with or without the Job Steward shall first
take up the matter with the Foreman directly in charge of the work within fourteen (14) days of the said grievance.
Step 2:	If a satisfactory settlement is not then reached, it shall be reduced to writing
by both Parties when the same employee and the Committee shall take up the Grievance with the Plant Superintendent. If desired the Union Business Agent shall accompany the Committee.
Step 3:	If the grievance is not then satisfactorily solved, it shall be referred to the
Local Union and the Management.
Step 4:	If a satisfactory settlement is not then reached, it shall be dealt with by
arbitration as hereinafter provided.
Section 2:
If a grievance has not advanced to the next stage under Steps 2, 3 or 4 within fourteen (14) days after the completion of the preceding stage, then the grievance shall be deemed to be abandoned, and all rights of recourse to the grievance procedure shall be at an end. The fourteen (14) day limit may be extended by mutual consent of both Parties.
ARTICLE XIV - RIGHT OF REFERENCE
Section 1:
If the two Parties fail to agree upon an interpretation of the Agreement, either Party shall have the right to refer the matter to the Joint Industry Committee, hereinafter provided, and if either party does make such reference, the other Party must accept the reference.
Section 2:
The Joint Industry Committee shall consist of three (3) representatives selected by the IWA-CANADA and three (3) representatives selected by the Employers represented in the negotiations of this Agreement, and the two committees may be represented by one or more Parties selected by them.
Section 3:
When an interpretation of the Agreement has been referred to the Joint Committee, this reference shall be for the period of forty-eight (48) hours or longer by mutual consent of the Parties to this Agreement. In case the Joint Committee agrees upon a
- 30 -
recommendation or interpretation, this shall be furnished in writing to the Union involved and to the Employer.
Section 4:
In the event the Joint Committee members disagree, all the facts in the case as found by the Union and the Union members of the Joint Committee shall be placed in writing by the Union representatives and submitted to the Employer and to the Union members involved. The facts in the case as found by the Employer and the employer members of the Joint Committee shall be placed in writing and given to the Union member employees for their information.
Section 5:
If a satisfactory interpretation of the point in question is not reached, either Party may refer the question to arbitration as hereinafter provided.
ARTICLE XV - INTERPRETATION AND ARBITRATION
Section 1:	Interpretation
a)	In case of any dispute arising regarding the interpretation of this Agreement, which the Parties hereto are unable to settle between themselves, the matter shall be determined by interpretation in the following manner:
b)	Either Party may notify the other Party in writing by Registered Mail on the question or questions to be interpreted. After receiving such notice and statement, each of the Parties will then refer the matter to the Interpreter selected by the Parties.
c)	The Parties agree to	as the Interpreter for the
duration of this Agreement.
d)	In the event the Interpreter named in c) above is unable through illness or
absence from the Province of British Columbia for any reason whatsoever, to act as Interpreter, the Parties agree that	shall act in his
place.
e)	The decision of the Interpreter shall be final and binding upon the Parties of the First and Second Parts.
Section 2:	Arbitration
a)	In the case of a dispute arising under this Agreement, except as to Interpretations of this Agreement, which the parties are unable to settle themselves, as set out in Article XIII, the matter shall be determined by
- 31 -
Arbitration in the following manner:
b)	Either Party may notify the other Party in writing by Registered Mail of the question to be arbitrated. After receiving such notice and statement, each of the Parties will then refer the matter in writing to the arbitrator who has been selected by the Parties.
c)	The decision of the Arbitrator shall be final and binding upon the Parties of the First and Second Parts.
d)	The Parties agree to mutually select a panel of Chairmen for single Arbitration who will act for the duration of this Agreement.
e)	If the Arbitrators selected by the Parties are unable through illness or absence from the Province of British Columbia for any reason whatsoever to act as Arbitrators, the Parties agree to meet and attempt to select a mutually satisfactory Arbitrator. If unable to select one which is mutually satisfactory, the Parties further agree to request the Honourable Minister of Labour of the Province British Columbia to appoint an Arbitrator.
f)	If the Arbitrator finds that an employee has been unjustly suspended or discharged, such employee will be reinstated with all his or her rights and privileges preserved under the terms of this Agreement. The Arbitrator shall further make the determination on the amount of lost pay to be paid to the employee.
g)	The Parties of the First and Second Parts will each bear one-half (one-half) of the expenses of interpretations or arbitrations including the salary of the Interpreter or Arbitrator plus any stenographic, secretarial and rent expenses which may be incurred in respect of such proceeding.
h)	Any Arbitration to be held hereunder shall be held in the City of William's Lake or such other place as may be decided by the Arbitrator.
i)	A Committee shall be established to develop and implement a system of expedited arbitration of grievances. The chairman of this Committee will be H. Allan Hope, Q. C. The Committee shall report to the parties not later than December 31, 1984.
ARTICLE XVI - GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section 1:
a)	The Union will, within sixty (60) days from the date of this Agreement, notify the Company in writing of the members of the Shop Committee. The Union or Shop Committee will inform the Company in writing when any member change takes
- 32 -
place on the said Committee. No member of the Shop Committee will be recognized by the Company unless the above procedure is carried out.
b)	For the purposes of this Agreement, when the word "Committee" is used it shall mean Shop, Camp, Mill or Plant Committee, members of which are appointed by the Union.
c)	Official Union representatives shall obtain access to the Company's operations for the purposes of this Agreement by written permission which will be granted by the Company on request and subject to such terms and conditions as may be laid down by the Company.
Section 2:	No Strike Pending Grievance and Arbitration Procedure
The Union agrees that it will not cause, promote, sanction or authorize any strike, sitdown, sympathetic strike, or other interference with work by the employees except according to the Labour Relations Act (British Columbia).
Section 3:	No Lockout Pending Grievance and Arbitration Procedure
The Company agrees it will not create or institute any lockout of the employees with respect to any dispute between the Company and the Union or the Company and its employees except according to the Labour Relations Act (British Columbia).
Section 4:
a)	It is agreed that the Union may refuse to handle materials produced by a strike bound firm.
b)	The Union shall have the right to respect another Union's legal picket line.
Section 5:	Working Foremen
Employees outside the bargaining unit will not perform work that is normally done by employees in the bargaining unit. However, nothing in this Agreement shall be construed as prohibiting foremen from doing work for purposes of instruction, provided by so doing a lay-off of bargaining unit employees does not result, or in the case of an emergency when regular employees are not available, provided that every reasonable effort is made to find a replacement.
Section 6:	Permanent Plant Closure - Severance Pay
a)	Effective July 1, 1997, employees terminated by the company because of permanent closure of a manufacturing plant shall be entitled to severance pay equal to seven (7) day’s pay for each year of continuous service and thereafter in increments of completed months of service.
- 33 -
b)	Where a plant is relocated and the employees involved are not required to relocate their place of residence or are not terminated by the employer as a result of the Plant relocation, they shall not be entitled to severance pay under this Article.
c)	Effective July 1, 1982, sixty (60) days notice of closure will be provided.
Section 7:	Logging Contractors
a)	The Company will not enter into any logging contract which would have the effect of discontinuing the employment of any regular logging employee with the Company.
b)	The Parties hereto share a mutual interest in the elimination of unfair labour practices as defined in the Labour Code of British Columbia Act.
It is acknowledged that the majority of logging is performed by contractors and sub-contractors. It is therefore agreed that a Joint Standing Committee be established to review reports of unfair labour practices whenever they may occur in our area of operations. The Committee will consist of three (3) representatives of the IWA and three (3) representatives of Industry.
It shall be the responsibility of the Committee to discuss any instances of an unfair labour practice, as defined under the Labour Code of British Columbia, with the parties involved and attempt to discourage continuation of such practices.
The company agrees it will not enter into a contract with a contractor or subcontractor who continues to commit unfair labour practices as defined under the Labour Code of British Columbia Act for which the contractor or sub-contractor has been found in contravention of said Act by the Department of Labour.
Section 8:	Welders
Employees employed as Welders who are required to renew their Welding Ticket shall be granted up to five (5) day's paid Leave of Absence to attend school for instruction. The Company shall pay the cost of instruction and examination.
Section 9:	Balancing of Production
The Union agrees to provide a letter to the Companies setting forth the same wording as agreed to at the Coast.
Section 10: Planerman Training
- 34 -
It is agreed that the parties to the Agreement will meet jointly to discuss and implement
a Planerman's Training Program.
Section 11: Tools
a)	The Company will repair or replace those Tradesmen's tools that are damaged or broken in the performance of regular duties.
b)	The Company will make available Tradesmen's tools required upon the introduction of the metric system.
c)	During the introduction of equipment which requires the use of metric tools, the Company will make metric tools available at no cost, for use by Tradesmen.
Section 12: First Aid Training
Employees of the Company who, by mutual agreement, train or retrain for Industrial
First Aid Certificates, will be compensated in the following manner:
a)	The Company will pay the cost of the course tuition and materials required by those employees who pass the course;
b)	The Company will pay lost time wages to designated First Aid Attendants.
ARTICLE XVII - FORESTRY ENVIRONMENTAL COMMITTEE
Forestry Environmental Committees shall be established by the Company and the local Union.
The details concerning the structure, operation and terms of reference must be agreed to by the Company and the local Union prior to implementation.
ARTICLE XVIII - HEALTH AND WELFARE
Section 1:	Provincial Board of Trustees
Weldwood of Canada Limited, together with Forest Industrial Relations Limited, the Interior Forest Labour Relations Association, the Council on Northern Interior Forest Employee Relations, Northwood Pulp and Timber Ltd., Canfor Limited and the IWA-CANADA, agree to establish one set of trustees for the purpose of developing a common text, a common trust agreement, and a common employee booklet for the six Health and Welfare Plans, covering Life Insurance, Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance, and Weekly Indemnity.
- 35 -
The Parties agree that a Joint Committee, representing Forest Industrial Relations Limited, the Interior Forest Labour Relations Association, the Council on Northern Interior Forest Employee Relations, Canfor Limited, Northwood Pulp and Timber Ltd., Weldwood of Canada Limited, and the IWA-CANADA, will be established to study the most effective method of administration of the Plans, reporting to the Parties no later than July 1, 1984.
Section 2:	Weldwood - IWA Board of Trustees
The Board of Trustees, composed of two (2) members representing IWA Regional Council No. 1 and two (2) members representing the Company, are responsible for the administration of the IWA - Weldwood Health and Welfare Plan. The Trustees are also responsible for the selection of carrier, funding, adjudication of compassionate appeals, and Health and Welfare problems directly related to the Plan.
Section 3:	Medical
a)	The Company agrees to provide medical coverage for its employees by participating in the Medical Services Plan of British Columbia.
b)	The Company agrees to provide Extended Health Benefits, including Hospitalization coverage up to a maximum of $8.50 per day, to its employees by participating in a plan entered into between the Company and an appropriate carrier.
c)	Effective July 1, 1982, a Vision Care program will be instituted to provide payment up to a maximum of one hundred dollars ($100.00) per person in any twenty-four (24) consecutive month period for charges incurred relative to the purchase of lenses and frames or contact lenses when prescribed by a person legally qualified to make such prescription. Effective July 1, 1997, the maximum will be increased to two hundred dollars ($200.00) per member or dependant. Effective July 1, 1999, the maximum will be increased to two hundred and fifty dollars ($250.00) per member or dependent.
d)	Effective July 1, 1997, the Physiotherapist/Massage practitioners' limit will be increased by fifty dollars ($50.00) per calendar year to a total limit of five hundred and fifty dollars ($550.00) per member or dependant per calendar year.
f)	Effective July 1, 1998, the Chiropractors/Naturopathis Physicians' limit will increase by two hundred dollars ($200.00) per member or dependant per calendar year to a total limit of six hundred dollars ($600.00) per member or dependant per calendar year.
g)	Effective July 1, 1998, increase the Orthopedic Shoes limit by one hundred dollars ($100) from four hundred dollars ($400) to five hundred dollars ($500) (adults), and from two hundred dollars ($200) to three hundred dollars ($300)
- 36 -
(child) per calendar year.
h)	Effective July 1, 1998, establish coverage for prescribed orthotics with a maximum limit of two hundred dollars ($200) per member or dependent per calendar year.
i)	Effective July 1, 1999, increase the Hearing Aids limit by one hundred and fifty dollars ($150) from four hundred dollars every five years for children to five hundred and fifty dollars ($550) every five years. Effective July 1, 1999, establish the same five hundred and fifty dollar ($550) limit per member or dependent, every five years, unless there is alternate coverage provided for.
Section 4:	Insurance Coverage
The following coverage will be provided by the Company on an industry-wide basis with
a common carrier:
a)	Group Life Insurance for each qualified employee as follows:
effective July 1,2001, $90,000.00
effective July 1,2002, $100,000.00
b)	Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance for each qualified employee as follows:
effective July 1,2001, $90,000.00
effective July 1,2002, $100,000.00
Effective July 1, 1994, the plan will provide for coverage for accidents occurring at work.
c)	Weekly Indemnity as follows:
Effective July 1, 1995, the Weekly Indemnity benefit level be increased by ten dollars ($10.00) per week so that the benefit level is four hundred thirty-nine dollars ($439.00) per week for 52 weeks.
Effective July 1, 1996, the Weekly Indemnity benefit level be increased by ten dollars ($10.00) per week so that the benefit level is four hundred forty-nine dollars ($449.00) per week for 52 weeks.
Effective January 1, 1996, a "No Downs” provision be introduced so that the four hundred twenty nine dollar ($429.00) per week rate will not be reduced by further reductions by U.I.C. of the maximum insurable earnings number.
Weekly indemnity to commence from the first day of accident and the sixth day
- 37 -
of illness; the first day where illness results in hospitalization as a bed patient and where work time is lost due to surgery. Absences due to the same or related causes will be considered one continuous absence unless the employee returns to full-time work for a four week period.
The Union agrees that if the Company maintains Weekly Indemnity Plan benefits which will meet the standard requirements for full premium reduction for "wage loss replacement plan under the Unemployment Insurance Act", the employees' 5/12th share of the premium reduction is retained as payment in kind in the provisions of the Weekly Indemnity Plan benefits.
i) Third Party Subrogation
The parties agree to recommend to the Trustees of the Health and Welfare Plan that effective on the date of ratification of this memorandum a third party subrogation clause be adopted so that the Weekly Indemnity Plan can be reimbursed from damages recovered from a liable third party for illness, injury or income loss. The Plan will be entitled to recover the full amount of benefits paid to the member which exceeds 100% of the member's pre-disability gross income. Gross income will be calculated by using the member's regular hourly job rate times (x) 40 hours. Trustees to work out the application and details, including the deduction of legal fees from the settlement and the execution of a reimbursement agreement.
Section 5:	Dental Plan
A Dental Plan will be provided on the following general principles:
i)	Basic Dental Services (Plan A) - Plan pays 80% of approved schedule of fees.
ii)	Prosthetics, crowns and bridges (Plan B) - Plan pays 60% of approved schedule of fees.
iii)	Orthodontic (Plan C) - Plan pays 60% of approved schedule of fees (lifetime maximum $2,500.00). Effective July 1, 1998, increase the lifetime maximum limit for Plan C (orthodontics) from two thousand five hundred dollars ($2500) to three thousand dollars ($3000) for children only.
Section 6:	General Principles
a) Premium cost for insurance shall be paid by the Company.
- 38 -
b)	Participation in the plan is to be a condition of employment.
c)	Any new employee who has not worked in covered employment in the last eighteen months will be eligible to become a covered employee on the first day of the month following completion of the probationary period. However, for such employee coverage for the Medical Services Plan and for the Extended Health Benefit will apply on the first day of the month following the date of employment.
d)	Coverage will be portable in all units covered by collective agreements between members of Forest Industrial Relations Limited, the Interior Forest Labour Relations Association, the Council on Northern Interior Forest Employee Relations, Canfor Limited, Northwood Pulp and Timber Ltd., Weldwood of Canada Limited, and the IWA, and there shall be no waiting period for qualified employees changing employers within the Industry.
e)	Coverage during lay-off will be provided as follows:
i) Employees with more than three (3) months' seniority but less than one (1) year's seniority will be three (3) months.
ii) Employees with one (1) or more year's seniority will be six (6) months.
f)	In order for reinstatement of lay-off coverage to occur there must be a return to regular full-time employment. An employee returns to regular full-time employment when he/she is employed for 10 working days within a floating period of thirty (30) consecutive days.
Also, an employee who returns to work for at least one working day and less than 10 working days will be covered for that month, in addition to any layoff coverage to which he/she was entitled, if the recall occurred during the period of lay-off coverage.
g)	There will be no duplication of Weekly Indemnity and Pension Plan payments.
h)	Weekly Indemnity coverage will be eliminated for an employee on an extended leave of absence under Leave of Absence, Section 4: Compassionate Leave, provided however that such employee is eligible for Weekly Indemnity coverage on the agreed-upon day of return to work. In order to qualify for this coverage the employee must have returned to his/her place of residence in British Columbia unless his/her disability required him/her to be hospitalized and satisfies the requirements of the claims adjudication carrier. In such case of a compassionate appeal dealing with disability incurred during extended leave of absence, the Trustees have the right to review certain circumstances.
i)	Employees on extended leave of absence under Leave of Absence, Section 4:
- 39 -
Compassionate Leave will pay their own premiums for the Medical Services Plan, Extended Health Benefit, and Dental Plan, while the premiums for Group Life Insurance and Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance will be paid by the employer during such extended leave of absence.
j)	Effective January 1, 1998, the existing Extended Health Benefits plan will be extended to incorporate a medical travel allowance for necessary medical travel from remote areas when members or their dependents are referred by their attending physician to medical specialists in B.C. and such referrals require travel from the patients community of employment in excess of 500 kilometers. A Weldwood - I.W.A. committee will work out all of the details prior to implementation.
k)	Effective July 1,2000, the maximum allowance payable is increased to $800.00 for the term of the agreement.
l)	The parties agree to participate in a joint study during the term of the Collective Agreement to evaluate ways to:
-	More effectively integrate the short and long term disability plans
-	Improve disability management programs and return to work procedures
-	Consider ways to streamline adjudication procedures, and
-	Lower overall benefit costs.
ARTICLE XIX - LONG TERM DISABILITY PLAN
a)	The Plan will become effective July 1, 1982.
b)	Effective July 1, 1993, the Plan to be funded on a 50/50 cost sharing basis with contributions of twenty-two cents (220) per hour per employee per hour worked, of which the Industry will contribute eleven cents (110) and the employee will contribute eleven cents (110).
Effective January 1, 1995, contributions from both the Industry and the employees will be increased by six cents (60) per hour worked so that contributions will be thirty-four cents (340) per hour per employee per hour worked of which the Industry will contribute seventeen cents (170), and the employee will contribute seventeen cents (170).
Effective October 1, 2000, the contributions from both the Industry and the employee will be increased by eight cents (80)per hour per employee per hour worked, so that the contributions will be fifty-five cents (.550)per hour per employee per hour worked of which the Industry will contribute twenty-seven and one-half cents (27 % 0) and the employee will contribute twenty-seven and one-half cents (27 % 0)
Effective July 1, 1995, contributions from both the Industry and the employees
- 40 -
will be increased by a further two and one-half cents (2 % 0) PER HOUR WORKED SO THAT CONTRIBUTIONS WILL BE THIRTY-NINE CENTS (390) per hour per employee per hour worked of which the Industry will contribute nineteen and one-half cents (19%0) and the employee will contribute nineteen and one-half cents (19%0).
c)	A Board of Trustees will be constituted with equal representation from the Union and the Industry, to be responsible for establishing the terms of the Plan and the on-going administration.
d)	The Trustees will select a qualified actuary to assist them and to ensure the establishment of actuarially sound reserves to fund the benefits provided by the Plan.
e)	The Trustees will enter into a Trust Agreement which will include provision for a procedure to settle any major dispute that may arise with regard to the provisions of the Plan.
f)	Protection Against Withdrawals - Withdrawing employer to be assessed for both the employee share of the unfunded liability in cases of negotiated withdrawal, decertification or relocation closure. Unfunded liability formula to be uniform and based on Plan Unfunded Liability divided by the total number of Plan members (at the time of most recent Plan Valuation) multiplied by the number of Plan members affected by the withdrawal. Trustees to be directed to amend the participation agreement accordingly.
Weldwood of Canada and IWA Canada will jointly consider plan modifications that will both improve the delivery of Rehabilitation within the Long Term Disability Plan, and will encourage and facilitate the development and establishment of Disability Management systems in participating employers’ operations.
The Trustees are directed to develop Plan modifications that will:
1.	improve the timeliness, effectiveness and quality of Rehabilitation from the Plan.
2.	Provide incentives to Employers and local Unions to establish Disability Management systems at the operations level.
In the event that there are savings to the Long Term Disability Plan as a result of either Disability Management Systems, or amendments to Rehabilitation, consideration can be given to dispersal of these funds for further improvements in either of the above areas.
Where the Trustees reach agreement on modifications in the above areas, implementation can occur at the direction of the Trustees. Should additional funding be
- 41 -
required to implement the Trustees recommendations, their recommendations will be forwarded to the respective Negotiating Committees to be dealt with.
ARTICLE XX - IWA - FOREST INDUSTRY PENSION PLAN Section 1:
The Parties agree to establish a Pension Plan in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Memorandum of Agreement of the Pension Sub-Committee dated August 17th, 1977.
a)	The Industry contribution to the Pension Plan of one dollar seventy cents ($1.70) per hour per employee per hour worked, which became effective July 1, 1988, will be increased by seventy cents (700) per hour, effective July 1, 1992, to two dollars forty cents ($2.40) per hour per employee per hour worked. Effective July 1, 1993, employee contributions of ten cents (100) per hour per employee per hour worked will be added to the above contribution rate.
Additional contributions will be in accordance with the Memorandum of Agreement signed on July 2, 2000.
b)	Unfunded Liability - Address the Plan's Unfunded Liability Issue by providing a one-time contribution of forty-four cents (440) per hour on November 1, 1994, and an additional one-time contribution of forty-four cents (440) per hour on July 1, 1995. These contributions will be based on all IWA-Forest Industry Pension Plan hours worked by each of the parties of the first part during the 1993 and 1994 calendar years respectively and require no change to the ongoing shared $2.50/hour contribution rate for the term of this agreement.
These contributions, if matched by other Pension Plan participating Employers, will result in the following projections of the unfunded actuarial liability based on contributory hours of 47.3 million hours in 1994, declining to 46 million hours in 1995, and declining by one million hours per year in each succeeding year to 2001, using an 8% interest assumption for solvency purposes, the Revised Mortality Basis, and Triennial Valuations:
Section 2:
1/1/2000
1/1/94
1/1/95
1/1/96
1/1/97
1/1/98
1/1/99
$553.9 million $461.6 million $370.3 million $283.7 million $228.8 million $171.2 million $111.0 million
- 42 -
These contributions will allow the unfunded actuarial liability to be fully amortized in 7.7 years from 1/1/94. (The amortization period in the Preliminary Actuarial Valuation of December 31, 1993 is 9.1 years from that date).
c)	Revised Plan
A revised Plan will be developed during the life of the Agreement, based on the $2.50 Contribution Rate during the Life of the Agreement in accordance with Appendix No.1 of the August 11, 1997 Memorandum of Agreement.
d)	Bridging Funds
The IWA-Forest Industry Pension Plan Trustees will be directed to investigate the feasibility and implications of amending the Plan to allow Company-paid bridging funds to "flow through” the Plan so as to enhance legal tax effectiveness.
ARTICLE XXI - JOB TRAINING
Job Training Program will be in accordance with Supplement No. 2 which is attached hereto and forms part of this Agreement.
ARTICLE XXII - APPRENTICESHIP TRAINING PROGRAM
a)	Apprenticeship Training Programs will be in accordance with Supplements No. 3A and 3B which are attached hereto and form part of this Agreement.
b)	When implemented, the Apprenticeship Training Programs shall provide that single persons undergoing training shall receive their wages, less any sum paid to them by the appropriate Government authorities. Married persons shall receive their wages, less the amount paid by the Provincial Government authorities to single persons; the intent being that the greater amount paid by the Provincial Government authorities to married persons shall not become a benefit to the Company.
c)	In cases where the apprentice is in receipt of a subsidy granted by the appropriate Federal Government authorities, the employer will pay the apprentice, while attending Vocational School, the difference between the subsidy granted by the appropriate Federal Government authorities and the regular wages of the employee concerned.
d)	Apprenticeship Selection Tests be amended to provide improved selection criteria as in place in the Southern Interior.
ARTICLE XXIII - TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE
Section 1:	Advance Notification
- 43 -
The Company shall notify the Shop Committee and the Union not less than six (6) months in advance of intent to institute material changes in working methods or facilities which would involve the discharge or laying-off of employees.
Section 2:	Severance Pay
Employees discharged, laid-off, or displaced from their regular job because of mechanization, technological change or automation shall be entitled to severance pay of seven (7) day’s pay for each year of service with the Company. The amount calculated under such entitlement shall not exceed a maximum of thirty (30) weeks' pay. This section shall not apply to employees covered by Section 3 b) below.
Section 3:	Rate Adjustment
a)	An employee who is set back to a lower paid job because of mechanization, technological change or automation will receive the rate of his/her regular job at the time of the setback for a period of three (3) months and for a further period of three (3) months he/she will be paid an adjusted rate which will be midway between the rate of his/her regular job at the time of the setback and the rate of his/her new regular job. At the end of this six (6) month period the rate of his/her new regular job will apply. However, such employees will have the option of terminating their employment and accepting severance pay as outlined in Section 2 above, providing they exercise this option within the above referred to six (6) month period.
b)	Following an application of a) above, where an employee is set back to a lower paid job because of an application of Article VIII - Seniority brought on by mechanization, technological change or automation, he/she will receive the rate of his/her regular job at the time of the setback for a period of three (3) months and for a further period of three (3) months he/she will be paid an adjusted rate which will be midway between the rate of his/her regular job at the time of the setback and the rate of his/her new regular job. At the end of this six (6) month period, the rate of his/her new regular job will apply.
ARTICLE XXIV - PLYWOOD JOB EVALUATION PLAN
Section 1:	Implementation
The Plywood Job Evaluation program for the Plywood Plant at Merrill & Wagner Division shall be conducted in accordance with the provisions of Supplement No. 3 which is attached hereto and forms part of this Agreement.
Section 2:	Point Range and Increment
All jobs in Grade One, the point range of which is 0 to 81, shall be paid the minimum
- 44 -
rate for common labour as provided in Article V, Section 1 d). The point range for subsequent grades shall be ten (10, i.e. Grade Two (82-91), Grade Three (92-101), etc. The wage increment curve for the plywood industry is as follows:
	Effective	Effective	Effective
Grade	June 15, 2000	June 15, 2001	June 15, 2002
Level	Per Hour	Per Hour	Per Hour
1	$21.07	$21.49	$21.92
2	21.21	21.635	22.07
3	21.35	21.775	22.21
4	21.48	21.91	22.35
5	21.685	22.12	22.56
6	21.84	22.275	22.72
7	22.065	22.505	22.955
8	22.25	22.695	23.15
9	22.445	22.895	23.35
10	22.65	23.105	23.565
11	22.865	23.32	23.785
12	23.045	23.505	23.975
13	23.26	23.725	24.20
14	23.51	23.98	24.46
15	23.715	24.19	24.675
16	23.965	24.445	24.935
17	24.205	24.69	25.185
18	24.445	24.935	25.435
19	24.695	25.19	25.695
20	25.00	25.50	26.01
21	25.34	25.845	26.36
22	25.665	26.18	26.705
23	25.965	26.485	27.015
24	26.28	26.805	27.34
25	26.605	27.135	27.68
26	26.91	27.45	28.00
27	27.25	27.795	28.35
The general wage increase provided for in Article V, Section 1 has been incorporated into these rates.
Section 3:	Red Circle Jobs
Incumbents in job categories for which the rate is reduced as a result of job evaluation (hereinafter referred to as "Red Circle Jobs”) shall continue at the original rate subject to the provisions of the appropriate supplement (Plywood Job Evaluation, Section 1o -Red Circle Jobs).
- 45 -
ARTICLE XXV - SAFETY EQUIPMENT
Section 1:
The Company shall replace such equipment at no cost to the employee when these articles are presented worn or damaged beyond repair and when they are required by the company or the Workers' Compensation	Board:
i)	Aprons
ii)	Hard Hats and Liners
iii)	Eye, Ear and Nose Protective Equipment
Section 2:
Where the following articles of equipment are required to be used by the Company or by the Workers' Compensation Board, the Company shall, at no cost to the employee:
i)	Supply new employees with the articles of equipment as required.
ii)	Supply employees moving to another department with the articles of equipment they require and they do not have at the time of the move, and
iii)	Replace articles of equipment when those articles are presented worn or damaged beyond repair.
That is to say:
i)	Aprons
ii)	Hard Hats and Liners
iii)	Eye, Ear and	Nose	Protective Equipment
iv)	Gloves
Notwithstanding the foregoing, all articles of equipment to be replaced only when they are presented worn or damaged beyond repair; otherwise the replacement will be at the expense of the employee.
Section 3:
Where the Company has been supplying safety equipment and clothing at no cost to the employee on the effective date of this Agreement it will continue to do so at no cost to the employee.
Section 4:
- 46 -
The employer shall make coveralls available and maintain same for use by End Sprayers, Panel Sprayers, Oilers, Filer-Grindermen, Power House employees, and Tradesmen.
Section 5:
An employee who is required to wear caulk boots by the Workers' Compensation Board shall receive annually a one hundred and twenty dollars ($120.00) caulk boot allowance.
i)	if he/she has six (6) months or more seniority, or
ii)	upon obtaining six (6) months seniority.
iii)	Seasonal lay-offs shall not interfere with the qualifying period herein. ARTICLE XXVI - TOOL INSURANCE
The Company at its own expense shall insure for damage or loss caused by fire, or flood, the tools of its employees which are required in the performance of their work. This provision for tool insurance shall also apply to loss by theft where the tools are stored in a designated place of safety within the control of the Company and there is forcible breaking and entering. The insurance coverage provided shall be subject to a deductible of $50.00 in respect of each employee's claim.
ARTICLE XXVII - FIREFIGHTING AGREEMENT
Firefighting Agreement will be in accordance with Supplement No. 4 which is attached hereto and forms part of this Agreement.
ARTICLE XXVIII - SAWMILL RATE DETERMINATION PROGRAM
Section 1:	Responsibility, Implementation, Continuity and Administration
The IWA-CANADA and Forest Industrial Relations Limited agree to implement and continue the provisions of this Article of the Coast Master Agreement and any related Supplements to the Coast Master Agreement as administered by Regional Council No. 1 of the Industrial Wood and Allied Workers Union and Forest Industrial Relations Limited shall be responsible for all aspects of the program.
Section 2:	Purpose and Method
The purpose of the Program shall be the ranking of applicable hourly-paid categories and placing them in groups according to their relative value within the B. C. Coast Sawmill Industry by using a method of agreed-upon benchmark categories and related job descriptions.
- 47 -
Where new or significantly changed jobs do not fit an existing benchmark job description, the Parties agree to group such jobs by comparison to existing jobs where possible, in order to keep benchmark job descriptions to a minimum.
The Parties agree that the Details of Agreement as per Appendix No. 1 of the Memorandum of Agreement dated February 19, 1992 in respect of Mechanization, Technological Change or Automation will be implemented. Rate increases, if any, will be effective June 15, 1992. No incumbent's rate shall be reduced as a result of the implementation of this Agreement.
Section 3:	Application
a)	Sawmill Rate Determination shall be carried out at the Local Union - Local Management level in accordance with the provisions of this Article and the provisions of any related Supplements to the Coast Master Agreement.
b)	Sawmill Rate Determination shall apply to all hourly paid categories in the sawmill industry except for those categories which have been excluded by mutual agreement between the IWA Coast Negotiating Committee and Forest Industrial Relations Limited.
c)	Sawmill Rate Determination shall not supersede existing in-plant agreements, signed on or before November 3, 1976, at the Local Union - Local Management level.
Section 4:	Development, Uniformity and Co-ordination
In order to ensure uniform application, the Program shall be developed and coordinated by the B.C. Coast Sawmill Job Analysis Board, consisting of an equal number of representatives from the Union and the Industry as follows:
For the Union:
One (1) Officer representing IWA-CANADA and three (3) Officers representing the IWA Coast Local Unions, assisted by one (1) Technical Advisor in the field of Job Analysis employed by Regional Council No. 1 of the IWA.
For the Industry:
One (1) representative of Forest Industrial Relations Limited and three (3) representatives of the B.C. Coast Sawmill Industry, assisted by one (1) Technical Advisor in the field of Job Analysis employed by Forest Industrial Relations Limited.
Section 5:	Procedures
- 48 -
a)	The Sawmill Rate Determination Program shall be administered jointly on a day-to-day basis by the respective Technical Advisors, subject to the approval of the B. C. Coast Sawmill Job Analysis Board.
b)	Any agreement reached in this manner regarding the disposition of a category rate clearance application received from the Local Union - Local Management level shall be final and binding on the Parties.
c)	If no agreement can be reached in this manner regarding the disposition of a category rate clearance application received from the Local Union - Local Management level, the matter shall be referred to the Board.
d)	If the Board is unable to reach agreement regarding the disposition of a category rate clearance application received from the Local Union - Local Management level, the matter shall be referred to the IWA Coast Negotiating Committee and Forest Industrial Relations Limited in accordance with Section 1 of this Article.
Section 6:	Job Analysis Wage Curve
	Effective	Effective	Effective
Group	June 15, 2000	June 15, 2001	June 15, 2002
Level	Per Hour	Per Hour	Per Hour
1	$21.07	$21.49	$21.92
2	21.23	21.655	22.09
3	21.42	21.85	22.285
4	21.585	22.015	22.455
5	21.775	22.21	22.655
6	22.085	22.525	22.975
7	22.385	22.835	23.29
8	22.66	23.115	23.575
9	22.975	23.435	23.905
10	23.35	23.815	24.29
11	23.775	24.25	24.735
12	24.17	24.655	25.15
13	24.565	25.055	25.555
14	24.98	25.48	25.99
15	25.365	25.87	26.385
16	25.755	26.27	26.795
17	26.18	26.705	27.24
18	26.585	27.115	27.655
19	26.96	27.50	28.05
20	27.48	28.03	28.59
21	27.965	28.525	29.095
22	28.46	29.03	29.61
23	28.96	29.54	30.13
- 49 -
The general wage increase provided for in Article V, Section 1 has been incorporated into these rates.
Section 7:	Incumbent's Rate
No incumbent's rate shall be reduced as a result of the implementation and/or continued application of the Program.
The Parties further agree that details of the Sawmill Rate Determination Program may be subject to amendment at the written request of either Party at the end of each three (3) month period from the date of this Agreement.
ARTICLE XXIX - CONTRACTING OUT
a)	The Company will not contract out any work that is performed by employees in the Bargaining Unit at the effective date of this agreement.
b)	Current practices in operations shall be agreed on with the Local Union in writing. Until such time as agreement is reached the above clause (A) only will apply.
ARTICLE XXX - EDUCATION TRUST FUND (THE FUND)
The Parties agree to establish a Fund based on the following parameters:
1.	The Fund to be structured so as to comply with all requirements of a trust as specified by Revenue Canada.
2.	The Industry will contribute to the Fund and will continue such contributions throughout the period of the Collective Agreement. The contributions will be one cent (10) per hour per employee per hour worked effective January 1, 1998; and, one cent (10) per hour per employee per hour worked effective July 1, 1998; and, one cent (10) per hour per employee per hour worked effective July 1, 1999.
3.	The Funds will be collected by the IWA-Forest Industry pension plan Office and directed to the Education Trust Fund.
4.	The Fund will be jointly trusteed by representatives as appointed by the IWA-Canada and the industry.
5.	The Fund will be subject to annual audits by an independent public accounting firm selected by the Trustees.
6.	The Fund will provide funding for the purpose as defined by the following:
- 50 -
Education Fund Policy Statement
The strength of the IWA Canada relies on the continued commitment of the membership to effect positive change. There is an increasing need for our leaders and membership to understand and respond to emerging issues affecting the forest industry and/or our membership. We need to renew and build upon the historic principles of the IWA Canada through a comprehensive education program which will enrich union membership and enhance the objectives of the IWA Canada as a proud and progressive union.
To this end, the union will develop and deliver a wide range of programs which may include:
Grievance Handling Collective Bargaining Environmental Issues Land Use Issues Stewards Training
Parliamentary Procedure & Public Speaking
Communication Skills
Leadership Training
Economic Issues
Benefits Training
Health and Safety
Union History
Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Fund will be used to develop and deliver programs, and to pay for administration costs, time lost from work to attend education and training, travel, accommodation and such other reasonable costs as the Working Committee determines appropriate regarding the operation and administration of the Fund.
7.	The Working Committee will be comprised of representatives of each participating Local Union who would have responsibility for the development and delivery of Education and Training and Administration of Funds consistent with the purpose stated in point 6 above.
ARTICLE XXXI - DURATION OF AGREEMENT
Section 1:
The Parties hereto agree that this Agreement shall be effective from and after the first
- 51 -
day of July 2000 the 30th day of June 2003 and thereafter, from year to year unless four (4) months' written notice of contrary intention is given by the Parties. The notice required hereunder shall be validly and sufficiently served at the Head Office of the Party of the First Part or at the Local Office of the Local Officers of the Union, Party of the Second Part, at least four (4) months prior to the expiry of any yearly period. If no agreement is reached at the expiration of this contract and negotiations are continued, the Agreement shall remain in force up to the time that a subsequent Agreement is reached, or until negotiations are discontinued by either Party.
Section 2:
The Parties hereto agree that the operation of Section 66 (2) of the Labour Code of British Columbia Act 1973 is excluded from the Master Agreement.
Dated this	day of
, 20
FOR:
Weldwood of Canada Limited (Williams Lake Division)
IWA CANADA, Local 1-425, C.L.C.
- 52 -
SUPPLEMENT NO. 1
WAGE SCALES
CATEGORIES IN PLYWOOD EVALUATION
June 15/00	June 15/01	June 15/02
Grade 2	$21.21	$21.635	$22.07
Dryer Feeder Clean-up/Sweeper
Grade 3	21.35	21.775	22.21
Strapper Fin. End Utility
Grade 4	21.48	21.91	22.35
Green Chain Offbearer Chipper Attendant Bin Chaser/ Dry Stacking System #1-2 Dryer Feeder/ Vacuum Feed Raimann Operator
Grade 5	21.685	22.12	22.56
Greenchain Offbearer/
Clipper Attendant Dryer Grader Offbearer Steam Chest Attendant
Grade 6	21.84	22.275	22.72
Chip Car Attendant			
Grade 7	22.065	22.505	22.955
Patchline Patcher/Regrader
Veneer Stacker / Clipper Operator - COE
Clean-Up/ Lay up Line System
- 53 -
Strapping Machine Op/Bin Chaser
June 15/00
June 15/01
June 15/02
Grade 8
$22.25
$22.695
$23.15
Dryer/Grader/Stacker Attendant Forklift Operator - Shipping
Grade 9
22.445
22.895
23.355
#1-2 Urnner Composer Tallyman/ Car Shore Forklift Operator - Veneer Processing
Forklift Operator - Green End Forklift Operator - Finish End and Shipping
Chip-N-Saw Operator - Stud Off Bearer #3 Urnner Composer/ Dryer off Bear rotating
Grade 10	22.65	23.105	23.565
Warehouseman
Grade 11	22.865	23.32	23.785
Forklift Operator/Block Supply Log Saw Operator Glue Mixer
Barker/Log Cut-off/Rotating
Grade 12	23.045	23.505	23.975
Forklift Operator/Supply/
Steam Chest
Asst. Lathe Operator
Forklift/Block/Vats/Chip Cars
Grade 13	23.26	23.725	24.20
#1 Log Saw & Barker Operator Chip Plant Operator
- 54 -
Grade 14	23.51	23.98
Sizing Unit & Grade Line Operator Hot Press Operator Dryer Operator
Grade 15	23.715	24.19
Lay Up Line Operator
Grade 16	23.965	24.445
Sander/Tongue& Groove Operator Grade 26	26.91	27.45
Lathe Operator
24.46
24.675
24.935
28.00
- 55 -
WAGE SCALE B
CATEGORIES IN SAWMILL RATE DETERMINATION
June 15/00	June 15/01	June 15/02
Group 1	$19.855	$20.25	$20.655
Clean-up Piler
Group 2	20.005	20.405	20.815
Chip Bin Attendant Sorter Stacker Stick Layer (Some Controls)
Group 3	$20.185	$20.59	$21.00
Planer Chain Puller Barker Deck Chaser (Start/stop controls)
Group 4	20.34	20.745	21.16
Planer Chain Puller/Retrim Strip & Lathe Machine Operator Chipper Feeder
End Loader Operator/Planermill
Car Loader
Log Yard Strapper
Group 5	20.52	20.93	21.35
Package Unit Assistant/Recording (Sawmill Drop Sorter)
Eliminator Sorter Bin Operator
Group 6	20.81	21.225	21.65
Breakdown Hoist/Trimsaw/Planermill Sorter Stacker Operator #1 & #2 Trimmer (Rotating)
- 56 -
Group 7
21.095
21.515
21.945
Tailsawyer Double End Trimmer/
Select/Planermill Log Sorter (Bandmill Side)
Planer Feeder Automatic Barker Attendant/
24” Cambio
Automatic Barker Attendant/
27” Nicholson
Auto Package Press Operator
Group 8	$21.355	$21.78
Forklift Operator
Group 9	21.65	22.085
Planner Feeder-Setup Multiple Log Saw Cut-Off Forklift Operator/Kiln Cars
Group 10	22.00	22.44
Log Scaler/Weighman/
Licensed
Chipping Edger/Circular Gang Saw Attendant
Group 11	22.405	22.855
Equipment Operator -Yard Maintenance Chip'n'Saw Operation
Group 12	22.775	23.23
Log Loader Operator/Cat 966 Log Loader Operator/Cat 980
Group 14	23.54	24.01
Planerman #1
Log Loader/Letourneau (L-20)
$22.215
22.525
22.89
23.31
23.695
24.49
- 57 -
Group 15
23.90
24.38
24.87
G.S.L.A. Grader/Grade Reader Crane Operator/Repair &
Maintenance Responsibility
Group 20	25.89	26.41
Band Headrig Sawyer
26.94
- 58 -
WAGE SCALE C
NON-EVALUATED CATEGORIES
	June 15/00	June 15/01	June 15/02
Trades - Manufacturing			
Machinist Carpenter Electrician Heavy Duty Mechanic Millwright Pipefitter/Steamfitter Journeyman (with certificate)	$27.445	27.995	28.555
Journeyman	26.945	27.495	28.055
Improver (3rd Year complete)	23.86	24.335	24.82
Improver (2nd Year complete)	23.215	23.68	24.115
Helper (1st Year complete)	22.655	23.11	23.57
Helper	22.355	22.80	23.255
Welder (Weldwood 101)	27.445*	27.995*	28.555*
Welder (DPW #1 or #2)	27.345	27.89	28.45
*NOTE: Must be qualified under the Weldwood 101 standard welding specification and either having completed the three year apprenticeship program or have worked in the trade for six thousand (6,000) hours.
!L	Filing Room
Benchman (with certificate)	$28.24	$28.805	$29.38
Benchman	27.74	28.305	28.88
Benchman Helper Circular Saw Filer (with	27.44	27.99	28.55
certificate)	27.445	27.995	28.555
Circular Saw Filer	26.945	27.495	28.055
Saw Filer Helper	27.035	27.575	28.125
Saw Fitter (with certificate)	27.035	27.575	27.625
Saw Fitter	26.535	27.075	27.625
Saw Fitter (1st Year complete)	23.22	23.685	24.16
Saw Fitter Helper	22.355	22.80	23.255
	June 15/00	June 15/01	June 15/02
III. Enaineers & Firefiahters			
2nd Class Engineer	28.73	29.305	29.89
3rd Class Engineer	27.445	27.995	28.555
4th Class Engineer	25.985	26.505	27.035
Fireman (4th Class Ticket)	24.21	24.695	25.19
Fireman	22.22	22.665	23.12
IV. Miscellaneous			
Grinderman	24.115	24.595	25.085
Head Oiler #1	24.12	24.60	25.09
Oiler #1	23.775	24.25	24.735
Yard Bucker	24.09	24.57	25.06
First Aid Job Rate Plus:
Level 2 certificate Level 3 certificate
500 per hour. 850 per hour.
- 60 -
SUPPLEMENT NO. 2
JOB TRAINING PROGRAMS
A.	Application
1.	The following principles are intended as a guide and basis for negotiations of training programs at the operational level between the Company and the Local Union.
B.	Posting
2.	Training positions to be posted for a minimum period of two (2) consecutive working days.
3.	An employee absent on approved leave of absence, lay-off, illness or accident at the time a Trainee Position is posted will be allowed to make application within three (3) working days of his or her return, but in no event later than fourteen (14) calendar days of the posting of such Trainee Position. However, such employee may make application through a Job Steward or by written notice to the Company while he or she is away on leave of absence.
C.	Selection and Training
4.	Selection of trainees to be on the basis of seniority, as provided for in Article VIII of the Collective Agreement.
5.	The Company should select a qualified person to provide the training with due regard to ability to communicate effectively.
6.	The Company to notify the Plant Committee in writing when a trainee is judged to be qualified, or if he/she is removed from the training program because of incompetence.
D.	Rates of Pay
7.	Rates of pay to apply to trainees during the training period to be their regular job rate, except that they shall not receive more than the established rate for the job for which they are being trained, and subject to appropriate exceptions for piece work employees.
- 61 -
E.	Seniority
8.	Seniority to follow the general principles of Article VIII of the Collective Agreement, with special provisions where necessary to deal with special problems of the operation.
9.	If, during the training period, the trainee wishes to discontinue training, or fails to qualify, he or she should return to the job previously held by him/her.
F.	Revisions and Termination
10.	Nothing in this Agreement is intended to vary, cancel, or otherwise affect existing training agreement.
- 62 -
SUPPLEMENT NO. 3A
APPRENTICESHIP TRAINING PROGRAM
between
WELDWOOD OF CANADA LIMITED (MERRILL & WAGNER DIVISION)
and
I.W.A. CANADA, Local 1-425, C.L.C. in co-operation with
DIRECTOR OF APPRENTICESHIP & INDUSTRIAL TRAINING PROVINCE OF BRITISH COLUMBIA
ARTICLE I - PURPOSE
The purpose of this Program is to improve the knowledge and skill of persons employed by the Company as Journeyman, Improvers and Helpers in respect of trades named in
Article II herein.		
ARTICLE II	- TRADES	
1.	Millwright	4 Year Program
2.	Heavy Duty Mechanic	4 Year Program
3.	Steamfitter-Pipefitter	5 Year Program
4.	Machinist	5 Year Program
5.	Electrician	4 Year Program
6.	Welder	To be established
ARTICLE III - GENERAL PRINCIPLES
Section 1:	Collective Agreement
All provisions of the Collective Agreement to be applicable to Apprentices in this Program.
Section 2:	Right to Continue
Once started in the Program, subject however to the provisions of the Collective Agreement, the Apprentice shall have the right to continue, providing he or she passes all of the prescribed tests and work is available for him/her.
Section 3:	Tests
Upon completion of each period of training in the vocational school, an Apprentice will be required to pass a test. In the event of failure to pass such a test, the Apprentice will be given a second opportunity, but in the event of failure to pass on the occasion of the second such test, he/she will be required to withdraw from the Program.
Section 4:	Meaning of "Year"
Wherever reference is made to a year as a Helper or Improver, it shall mean a period of not less than two hundred (200) working days; the said period to include time spent at the vocational school.
Section 5:	Training Time Entitlement
Subject to the provisions herein, an Apprentice who is hired by the Company and who has had training in another apprenticeship plan will be given recognition of such training time.
Section 6:	On-The-Job Training
The Company will ensure that Apprentices will be given the necessary on-the-job practical training.
Section 7:	Selection Standards
The Parties will meet and develop appropriate tests and selection standards for trades and planerman categories. This will include an opportunity for an employee selfappraisal.
ARTICLE IV - SELECTION OF APPRENTICES
Section 1:	Seniority
When the Company requires Apprentices, it is agreed that the vacancy will be posted in the operation, and applicants selected in accordance with the provisions of Article VIII of the Collective Agreement.
Section 2:	Successful Applicants
Successful applicants will be assigned as Helpers for a three (3) month probationary period, unless the applicant's previous experience renders such assignment unnecessary.
Section 3:	Selection of Apprentice Procedure
a)	Purpose: The purpose of this Agreement is to establish an equitable criteria which will give management reasonable assurance that the Apprentice, upon completion of his or her indentureship, will become a proficient tradesman, and to assure the Union and its members that the senior applicant who meets the criteria will become an apprentice.
b)	Educational Prerequisites: The educational requirement for general trades is Grade 10 or equivalent and Grade 12 or equivalent for the electrical trades.
c)	Aptitude Testing: Applicants will be tested in accordance with the bank of tests as recommended by the Apprenticeship Branch of the Ministry of Labour. Testing procedures will be as follows:
i)	A standard set of testing instructions and procedures will be developed and authorized by the Parties to this Agreement and communicated to appropriate Management and Union personnel.
ii)	The passing grade for the tests will be established by the Apprenticeship Branch of the Ministry of Labour.
iii)	The passing marks for the Mechanical Trades and Electrical tests are established as being a combined requirement of, firstly, seventy (70%) in the Mechanical Aptitude and Space Relations segments of the tests, and secondly, seventy per cent (70%) in the overall final scoring of the tests.
iv)	All scoring computations of percentages in each section and overall scores of the tests are recorded as being rounded off to the next highest percentage point where any fraction of a percentage point exists.
v)	Tests will be conducted on plant property or near the plant by Management; a Union representative will be present when the tests are given and marked.
vi)	Tests recommended for the self-evaluation will be made available and may be taken by an interested employee. Failure to take such tests shall not jeopardize an employee's application for any apprenticeship.
- 65 -
d)	Re-Testina:
i)	It is agreed that where an Applicant has failed to pass the Mechanical Aptitude and Space Relations section of either the Mechanical or Electrical tests, the employee will be allowed to bid and be re-tested one (1) additional time for each test.
ii)	Results of all tests will be retained on file in the company's office. An applicant who has met the criteria and successfully passed the requisite test and is the senior for any future apprenticeship posting within a three (3) year period, will be considered the successful applicant.
iii)	An applicant who qualifies and has passed the Mechanical Aptitude and Space Relations section of any of the available tests, but failed the overall test will be eligible to bid and be re-tested for any future apprenticeship posting.
iv)	A master copy of the tests will be made available to IWA-CANADA on request.
e)	Maintenance, Monitoring, and Distribution of Tests
i)	Sufficient copies of the tests, answer sheets, and marking overlays will be maintained by Weldwood of Canada Limited, Vancouver office and/or the Apprenticeship Branch of the Ministry of Labour of the Province of British Columbia.
ii)	Test materials will be supplied on request to those operations requiring same and will be returned immediately after use.
iii)	Use of the tests will be monitored by Weldwood of Canada, Vancouver office and/or the Apprenticeship Branch of the Ministry of Labour of the Province of British Columbia. Such monitoring will maintain a record of applicants' tests, successful applicant's scores recorded, seniority applied, and provide a follow-up of the successful applicant's progress throughout training and an appropriate post training period. Other information as deemed necessary by the Parties to this Agreement will be made available as agreed.
f)	Probationary Period: The successful applicant will be given a probationary period up to ninety (90) calendar days.
g)	Selection Review: Where a dispute arises out of the selection of an apprentice that cannot be resolved at the plant level, the matter will be discussed by Management and the Local Union.
- 66 -
h)	Trial Period: This agreement is for a twelve (12) month trial period, from the date of this agreement. Either Party may terminate this agreement upon one (1) month's written notice after the completion of the eleventh month.
Section 4:	Compulsory Entrance
All present Helpers and Improvers employed by the Company must enter the Program. Helpers and Improvers who cannot qualify in this Program will be reclassified as labourers with no reduction in rate of pay until such time as they have an opportunity to apply their seniority to obtain a job with an equal or a higher rate of pay.
Labourers will not be employed in a manner that will interfere with the application of the Program.
Section 5:	Age Limit
There will be no age limit for applicants.
ARTICLE V - TRAINING SCHEDULES
Section 1:	Assignment as Helper
All successful applicants, except Welder Apprentices (see appropriate appendix), will be registered as Apprentices and be assigned as Helpers for an eleven (11) month period, prior to attending vocational school, unless the applicant's previous experience renders such assignment unnecessary.
A program for the aforementioned Welder Apprentices will be established by June 1st, 1968.
Section 2: 5 Year Schedule
	Rating	At Operation	At School
First Year	Helper	First 11 months	Last 4 weeks
Second Year	Helper	First 11 months	Last 4 weeks
Third Year	Improver	First 11 months	Last 4 weeks
Fourth Year	Improver	First 11 months	Last 4 weeks
Fifth year	Improver	First 11 months	Last 4 weeks
- 67 -
Section 3:	4 Year Schedule
Section 4:
	Rating	At Operation	At School
First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year	Helper Helper Improver Improver	First 11 months First 11 months First 11 months First 11 months	Last 4 weeks Last 4 weeks Last 4 weeks Last 4 weeks
3 Year Schedule			
	Rating	At Operation	At School
First Year Second Year Third Year	Helper Improver Improver	First 11 months First 11 months First 11 months	Last 4 weeks Last 4 weeks Last 4 weeks
Section 5:	Electricians
Notwithstanding the provisions of Sections 2, 3 and 4 herein, the Electrician Apprentices shall be required to take eight (8) weeks at school during each year of the Program instead of four (4), with the period in the operation reduced accordingly.
Section 6:	Passing Test
The Apprentice must successfully pass the prescribed test before promotion from Helper to Improver.
Section 7:	Journeyman Qualification
"Subject to the conditions of this section as listed below, it is agreed that following completion of the period of required training and upon becoming certified, the journeyman shall receive the certified journeyman's rate of pay."
Conditions under which the above will apply:
a)	Only to a journeyman who has gone through the indentured apprenticeship training program under the sponsorship of the Company for which he/she is working.
b)	That he/she is working in the Maintenance Department.
c)	That all work normally done by the maintenance department is being performed by the persons employed in the maintenance department.
- 68 -
d)	That nothing in this clause shall prohibit the laying off of journeymen, helpers or apprentices if they are not required.
e)	That a journeyman may, when facing lay-off, choose to exercise his/her seniority into categories outside of the maintenance area at the job rate if his/her seniority and ability entitle him or her to do so.
Section 8:	Vocational School Delay
If any of the periods provided for in Sections 2, 3, 4 or 5 herein are exceeded by reason of vocational school facilities being unavailable, such period of excess shall be credited to the Apprentice in succeeding training requirements.
ARTICLE VI - WAGE RATES
Section 1:	Rates and Increments
a)	Wage Rates for Helpers in the first term shall be that specified in the Wage Supplement.
b)	An Apprentice who passes his or her test shall receive an increment agreed to between the Company and the Union during this second term year as a Helper.
c)	The Wage Rate for an Improver shall be that as specified in the Wage Supplement.
d)	An Apprentice who passes a test in the fourth period of vocational training shall receive an increment agreed to between the Company and the Union during his/her second term as an Improver.
e)	Persons employed as Journeymen, and who are certified as such, shall receive the certified rate for the trade as agreed to between the Company and the Union.
Section 2:	Expenses
Fares, Lost Time Pay and School Expenses are to be paid by the appropriate Government authorities as part of the cost of the Apprenticeship Plan, with the exception that the employer shall pay the Apprentice while attending Vocational School the difference between the subsidy granted by the appropriate Government authorities and the regular wages of the employee concerned.
Married persons shall receive their wages, less the amount paid by the Provincial Government authorities to single persons: the intent being that the greater amount paid by the Provincial Government authorities to married persons shall not become a benefit to the Company. In cases where the Apprentice is in receipt of a subsidy granted by the appropriate Federal Government authorities, the employer will pay the Apprentice while attending Vocational School the difference between the subsidy granted by the appropriate Federal Government authorities and the regular wages of the employee
- 69 -
concerned.
The parties agree to introduce, by July 1, 1998, a plan which will offset the amounts by which the federal government has reduced the apprenticeship allowances.
The plan will be based on an update of the November, 1967 FIR-IWA apprenticeship agreement and address living away from home allowance, travel allowance and/or commuting allowance.
Changes to the November, 1967 Apprenticeship Agreement will be retroactive to July 1, 1997.
Section 3:	Delay in Testing
Where an employee incurs delay in taking one of the tests under this Program, through no fault of his/her own, the delay shall not prejudice his/her right to wage increments provided for in Section 1 herein.
ARTICLE VII - ADVISORY BOARD
Section 1:	Constitution:
There shall be an Advisory Board for each trade covered by the Apprenticeship Agreement, consisting of two (2) representatives of the Industry, two (2) from the Union, one (1) representing the Vocational School and one (1) from the Apprenticeship and Industrial Training Branch.
Section 2:	Responsibility
The Board shall be responsible for advising the Department of Labour, Apprenticeship and Industrial Training Branch, regarding the content of tests, standards of marking and the school curriculum with respect to the registered Apprentices. The Board shall not be responsible for the actual setting or marking of tests.
ARTICLE VIII - GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section 1:
Persons presently employed as Journeymen, who do not wish to become certified, shall continue to be employed as Journeymen.
Section 2:
Persons employed as Journeymen, who take the Tradesmen Qualification Exam and fail, shall continue to be employed as Journeymen.
- 70 -
Section 3:
If a present Journeyman fails to pass the test for a voluntary Tradesmen's Qualification Certificate, he/she can then become indentured as an Apprentice at no reduction in rate of pay.
Section 4:
There will be a three person committee established to process applicants who make application to be tested under the voluntary Tradesmen's Qualification, or who become indentured under the Apprenticeship and Tradesmen's Qualification Act. The committee will also determine what vocational training is necessary for persons indentured as Apprentices. Representation on the committee shall consist of the following:
a)	One	(1)	representative from the Union.
b)	One	(1)	representative from the Industry.
c)	One	(1)	representative from the Apprenticeship	Branch.
Vocational training will be conducted during day courses. Textbooks and study material will be made available when required.
ARTICLE IX - TOOLS
Section 1:
All Journeyman Tradesmen shall be required to have, and shall not qualify for the Journeyman rate unless they have, a full kit of hand tools necessary to perform the job for which they are hired, with the exception of machinery or tools which shall not be deemed to fall within the responsibility of the Journeyman.
Section 2:
The Improver shall be required to have and maintain a basic tool kit and to be in the general process of building_up the necessary tools to equip him/herself for the job.
Section 3:
The Helper generally shall not be required to own tools, and shall use those designated to him/her. However, in his/her own interest, he/she should commence the process of building up a tool kit.
- 71 -
SUPPLEMENT NO. 3B
APPRENTICESHIP TRAINING PROGRAM
in respect to the
Trades of Filing and Fitting
Between:WELDWOOD OF CANADA LIMITED (MERRILL & WAGNER DIVISION)
And:I.W.A. CANADA,
Local 1-425, C.L.C.
GENERAL PRINCIPLES
1 Plan "A" - Saw Fitter's Apprenticeship Training Program
To cover the trade of Saw Fitter which is defined as follows:
To be competent to fit all types of saws, circular saws, band saws, gang saws, chain saws, etc.
a)	Operate, repair and adjust all saw sharpening equipment and tools.
b)	Basic techniques in welding of saws.
c)	Maintain guides and water lines.
d)	Basic techniques in benching of circular saws, slashers and trim saws.
Note: It is agreed that the Parties will not use the training program to change the job content of the jobs of the present saw fitters.
Plan "B" - Circular Saw Filer Apprenticeship Training Program
To cover the trade of a circular Saw Filer which is defined as follows:
Must be qualified Saw Fitter and be competent to bench all circular and gang saws (tensioning, weld cracks and weld on teeth); be able to repair and maintain all filing room equipment; also must have a working knowledge of allied mill equipment, only as it applies to his/her job.
- 72 -
Plan "C" - Benchman Apprenticeship Training Program
To cover the trade of a Benchman which is defined as follows:
Must be a qualified Saw Fitter and Circular Saw Filer, in addition be able to bench circular and band saws. Must have working knowledge of all allied sawmill machinery including the lining up of head rigs and grinding of band wheels.
2.	The Parties agree that the object of the above Plans is to improve the knowledge and skill of persons employed as filers and fitters in the industry.
3.	The normal period of training will be:
Safety is an important part of the training program as outlined below; as such, it forms an integral part of each phase of the Program.
a)	Saw Fitters
Pre-Apprenticeship Training - In Plant three (3) months.
1st term:
(a)	3 weeks at school, depending on size class - then writes an examination.
(b)	11 months in-plant training.
2nd term:
(a)	3 weeks at school - then writes an examination.
(b)	8 months in-plant training.
3rd term:
(a)	3 weeks at school - then writes an examination - if he/she passes
the test, he/she becomes certified as a Saw Fitter.
- 73 -
b)
Circular Saw Filers
Must spend a minimum of three (3) months in-plant training as an Apprentice Circular Saw Filer.
1st term:
(a)	4 weeks at school - then writes an examination.
(b)	8 months in-plant training.
2nd term:
(a)	2 weeks at school - then writes an examination - if he/she passes
the test, he/she becomes a Certified Circular Saw Filer.
c)	Benchman
Must spend a minimum of three (3) months in-plant training as an Apprentice Benchman.
1st term:
(a)	3 weeks at school - then writes an examination.
(b)	11 months in-plant training.
2nd term:
(a)	2 weeks at school - then writes an examination - if he/she passes,
he/she becomes a Certified Benchman.
Note: The above periods of in-school training may be altered by mutual agreement, subject to the experience in the Industry and in consultation with the Apprenticeship Branch of the Department of Education.
4.	All provisions of the Collective Agreement will be applicable to Apprentices in the Plan.
5.	Once started in this Plan, the Apprentice, subject however to the provisions of the Collective Agreement, will have the right to continue in any one program providing he/she passes all of the prescribed tests and work being available to him/her.
6. a)
occasion of Plan.
b)
c)
Upon completion of each period of training in the Vocational School, an Apprentice Saw Fitter will be required to pass a test. In the event of a failure to pass such a test, the Apprentice Saw Fitter will be given a second opportunity, but in the event of failure to pass on the the second such test, he/she will be required to withdraw from the Any Saw Fitter Apprentice who fails to qualify at any stage of the Program will be allowed to apply his/her seniority as it is applied in a lay-off. On completion of the third period of training in Vocational School, an Apprentice Saw Fitter will be required to pass a test. On passing the test, he/she will become a Certified Saw Fitter.
On completion of the first period of training in Vocational School, an Apprentice Circular Saw Filer will be required to pass the test. In the event of a failure to pass the test, the Apprentice Circular Saw Filer will be given a second opportunity, but in the event of failure to pass on the occasion of the second such test, he/she will be required to withdraw from the Program and return to the position of a Saw Fitter.
On completion of the second period of training in Vocational School, an Apprentice Circular Saw Filer will be required to pass a test. On passing the test he/she will become a certified Circular Saw Filer. In the event that he/she fails to pass the test, he/she will be given a second opportunity. If he/she passes the test on the second occasion, he/she becomes a Certified Circular Saw Filer. Should he/she fail to pass the test on the second occasion, he/she will be required to withdraw from the program and return to the position previously held, that of a Saw Fitter.
Upon completion of the first period of training in Vocational School, an Apprentice Benchman will be required to pass a test. In the event of failure to pass such a test, the Apprentice Benchman will be given a second opportunity, but in the event of a failure to pass on the occasion of the second test, he or she will be required to withdraw from the program and return to the position of Circular Saw Filer.
On completion of the second period of training in Vocational School, an Apprentice Benchman will be required to pass a test. On passing the test he/she will become a Certified Benchman. In the event that he/she fails to pass the test, he/she will be given a second opportunity. If he/she passes the test on the second occasion, he/she becomes a Certified Benchman. Should he/she fail to pass the test on the second occasion, he/she will be required to withdraw from the program and return to the position previously held, that of a Circular Saw Filer.
- 75 -
7.	Wherever reference is made to a year as an Apprentice, it will mean a period of not less than two hundred (200) working days, the said period to include time spent at the Vocational School. In the event a participant works less than two hundred (200) days and has attended Vocational School within the year, he/she may be given the opportunity to take the required test.
8.	Subject to the provisions herein, an Apprentice will be entitled to recognition of training time in the Plan in the event of his/her moving from one employer in the Industry to another.
SELECTION OF APPRENTICES
a)	Present trainees who are employed full-time will be indentured in the Program.
b)	Upon entering the filing room, spares will be indentured into the Apprenticeship Program subject to the limitations of General Principles, Point 5 contained herein.
c)	Subject to General Principles, Point 5, trainees will be allowed to complete their program to meet the requirements of the Operation in which they work.
d)	Saw Fitter Apprentices It is agreed that the vacancy will be posted in the operation and applicants selected in accordance with Article VIII - Seniority.
e)	Circular Saw Filer Apprentices: It is agreed that the vacancy will be posted in the operation and applicants selected in accordance with the provisions of Article VIII - Seniority. Applicants must be Certified Saw Fitters.
f)	Benchman Apprentices: It is agreed that the vacancy will be posted in the operation and applicants selected in accordance with Article VI11 - Seniority. Applicants must be Certified Circular Saw Filers.
CERTIFICATION OF PRESENT TRADESMEN
Present Saw Fitters, Circular Saw Filers, and Benchmen employed in the Industry who do not wish to become certified shall not have their seniority rights prejudiced through lack of certification.
Present Saw Fitters, Circular Saw Filers and Benchmen will have the right to write a qualifying examination in their respective classification. If they pass the examination, they shall receive the appropriate certified rate. If they fail the examination, they shall be slotted into the appropriate apprenticeship program with the view to upgrading and eventually becoming certified. Should they fail as per the steps outlined in 6a), b) or c), they will be subject to the provisions outlined therein.
- 76 -
Present tradesmen who write the Tradesmen Qualification Examination will be tested
on the basis of the job content of the present jobs in the filing room in which they work.
ADVISORY BOARD
1.	There will be an Advisory Board consisting of two (2) representatives of the Industry, two (2) from the Union, one (1) representing the Vocational School and one (1) from the Apprenticeship Branch.
2.	The Board will be responsible for advising the appropriate school authorities, Department of Education an Department of Labour regarding the content of tests, standards of marking and the school curriculum.
3.	The Board will not be responsible for the actual setting or marking of tests.
OUTLINE OF THE FILER’S AND FITTER’S TRAINING PROGRAM
FITTER’S APPRENTICESHIP PROGRAM
1st Term:
Instruction Breakdown
Weeks Work Involved
Fitting bandsaws and gangs 3	Reasons for swage. Swage and shaper
adjustment. Reasons for crumble, etc. Tooth profile. Tooth alignment. Sharpener operation. Setting and sharpening of cut off
saws. Automatic and hand gumming. Swaging, shaping and sharpening circular, rip saws. Automatic and hand sharpening. Spring set circular rip saws. Sharpening and retoothing. Inserted tooth cut off and rip.
Grinding Wheels Instruction of types, dressing, etc.
- 77 -
2nd Term
Review of 1st year school training.
Repair and adjust equipment used by a fitter.
All phases of filing room welding (acetylene)
Theory and practical
All phases of chainsaw filing.
Carbide (tipping and dressing only)
3 As last year.
Gauge setting Flame adjustment Tip Size Torch handling Penetration Welding cracks.
Preparing seats Brazing in carbide Teeth - dressing
3rd Term:
Review 2nd Term	3
Preliminary circular saw	Levelling, anvil
instructions	tensioning, plumbing
Capable of hammering slashers, trim saws
Guide maintenance on	Theory.
bandsaws. Straight and pressure.
Shear board setting.
Wheel scrapers.	Water lines.
Point build up.
Tooth replacement.
Welding
Benching of welds.
CIRCULAR SAW FILER’S APPRENTICESHIP PROGRAM
1st Term:
To become proficient in 4 hammering all circular saws, rip and cut off, used in sawmill planer.
Level and tension, plumbing All circular saws and including hollow ground (theory 108 cut off)
Thin Edgers
Carbide Double arbour
Review of Basic Shop Mathematics.
2nd Term:
Benching gang saws stretcher2 roll and heat
Levelling tension Check tabs
Filing room machine
Theory
maintenance Be able to maintain and repair all filing room equipment.
Trouble shooting of circular saw machinery.
BENCHMAN APPRENTICESHIP PROGRAM 1st Term:
Instruction Breakdown	Weeks Work Involved
Complete bandsaw - bench 3 Bench bandsaws in entirety work (roll stretcher and
heat)	Stretcher roll and	heat
Strain calculations
Welding	Further training
Learn alignment of mill	Theory
machines; head rig, edger, resaws, trim, cut-off, etc.
Band mill wheel grinding.
- 79 -
2nd Term:
Saw Capacity Study
Feeds, tooth bite Gullet capacity Saw speeds Tooth spacing (circular and band)
Trouble shooting
2	Theory
- 80 -
SUPPLEMENT NO. 4
PLYWOOD JOB EVALUATION
1.	PRINCIPLES AND PROCEDURES
The implementation and administration of the job evaluation program shall be in accordance with the principles and procedures set out in a Manual dated September, 1955 and entitled "Job Evaluation Manual for Operational Hourly Paid Jobs in the Plywood Industry of British Columbia" as amended July, 1966 and as further amended April, 1971 (herein referred to as the "Manual").
2.	INDUSTRY JOB EVALUATION COMMITTEE
There shall be a committee constituted and named the Industry Job Evaluation committee (herein referred to as the "Plywood Evaluation Committee") to consist of one (1) member representative of Forest Industrial Relations Limited and one (1) member representative of Regional Council No. 1, International Woodworkers of America.
3.	FUNCTION OF PLYWOOD EVALUATION COMMITTEE
a)	The Plywood Evaluation Committee shall assume general responsibility for the administration of the job evaluation program.
b)	The unanimous decision of the said Committee shall be final and binding on the Parties hereto.
4.	PLANT JOB REVIEW COMMITTEE
a)	There shall be a committee constituted in each plywood plant named the Plant Job Review Committee (herein referred to as "Review Committee") to consist of two (2) members representative of the employees. At least one (1) representative of Management must be a member of the plant's salaried staff or Management, and at least one (1) representative of the employees must be an employee of the plant whose job is subject to Plywood Job Evaluation. Management may choose their second representative from amongst persons not employed at the plant, and Union may do likewise, except that neither Party may choose as its representative a member of the Plywood Evaluation Committee, or any person who is employed as a job evaluator by Forest Industrial Relations Limited or by Regional Council No. 1 of the International Woodworkers of America.
b)	The Company shall reimburse any of its hourly paid employees for time lost while acting as a member of the Review Committee or while presenting information, regarding his or her own job, before a regularly convened meeting of the Review Committee. The Company shall not be responsible for remunerating employee representatives who are not its hourly paid employees.
- 81 -
5.
FUNCTION OF REVIEW COMMITTEE
a)	The Review Committee will be responsible for seeing that all requests for evaluation or re-evaluation of jobs are adequately and accurately documented before being passed to the Plywood Evaluation Committee for further action. The documents required will include a "Request for Job Evaluation" form submitted either by an individual employee or by Local Management, and a fully completed Job Description which provides sufficient information for the subsequent work of the Plywood Evaluation Committee. The form of the documents, the procedures for submitting and handling them, and the time limits for completion may be amended as required by the Plywood Evaluation Committee under the authority given them by Article 3 of this Supplement.
b)	Decisions of the Review Committee respecting the appropriateness of a request for evaluation or re-evaluation, or respecting the adequacy and accuracy of documents, shall be by unanimous agreement. Failing such agreement within the established time limits, the Review Committee shall, at the request of anyone of its members, immediately forward the Request for Job Evaluation, together with any other documents on which there is unanimous agreement, to the Plywood Evaluation Committee, and shall then have no further responsibility for documenting that request.
c)	When the Plywood Evaluation Committee has made a decision respecting the evaluation of a job, it shall communicate its decision to the appropriate Review Committee. The Review Committee will be responsible for informing Management and the employees concerned, giving reasons for the outcome where these are available. A decision of the Review Committee that an application for Job Evaluation Committee should not be forwarded to the Plywood Evaluation Committee, will, similarly, be communicated with reasons to those concerned.
d)	Nothing in this Article limits the right of the Plywood Evaluation Committee to determine the facts about any job, by direct observation or otherwise, or to amend a job description or specification submitted to them in support of a Request for Job Evaluation Form.
6.	APPLICATION OF PROGRAM
The Job Evaluation Program shall apply to all employees in the Plywood Industry except Journeymen Tradesmen, Improvers and Helpers and Powerhouse Boom Crews, Oilers and Grindermen.
- 82 -
7.
DIRECTION OF WORK
Job Evaluation Descriptions are written with the intent to set forth the general duties and requirements of the job and shall not be construed as imposing any restriction on the right of the Company to assign duties to employees other than those specifically mentioned in job descriptions, provided always that is the assignment of such duties changes the job content sufficiently to justify a review of the evaluation, the Plywood Evaluation Committee shall make such a review in accordance with the procedure set out herein.
8.	RE-EVALUATION
a)	When a job has moved to another grade as a result of re-evaluation, the wage rate for the new grade shall be effective on the date that Management or the employee has applied to the Review Committee for re-evaluation.
b)	When a job is moved to a lower grade as a result of re-evaluation, the incumbent shall maintain his job rate as a red circle rate subject to the provisions of Paragraph 10 herein.
9.	NEW JOBS CREATED
Where the Company has exercised its right to create a new job, a temporary rate shall be set by Management. The permanent rate for the said job as determined by the Plywood Evaluation Committee shall be effective as of the date the job was installed. If the evaluated rate for a new job is lower than the temporary rate, the incumbent(s) shall be allowed to continue at the temporary rate.
10.	RED CIRCLE JOBS
a)	The company shall supply the Union with a list of employees holding red circle jobs, the said list to include the name of the employee, name of job category filled, the evaluated rate for the job and the actual rate paid.
b)	Employees on red circle rates who are promoted to a higher grade shall regain the red circle rate is subsequently found incompetent to continue in the higher grade.
c)	Employees holding red circle jobs who are demoted during a reduction of forces, shall be paid only the evaluated rate for the job to which they are assigned. If at a later date an employee is re-assigned to his or her former job, he/she shall regain his/her red circle rate.
d)	When the Company terminates a job, or a job is not occupied during a period of one (1) year, a record as to the cancellation of the applicable job description and classification shall be established.
- 83 -
e)	If an employee is temporarily transferred at the request of the Company, he/she shall retain his/her existing rate or receive the rate for the new job, whichever is higher. On return to his/her regular job, the said employee shall regain his/her red circle rate.
11.	SENIORITY
a)	Subject to the provisions here set, Article VIII - Seniority shall continue to apply.
b)	Promotions shall be made only where a vacancy exists.
12.	REFERRAL PROCEDURE
a)	When the Plywood Evaluation Committee has decided the outcome of a Request for Job Evaluation, it shall transmit its decision to the appropriate Plant Job Review Committee.
b)	When an employee's request for re-evaluation results in no change being made in the job grade, or in a reduction, or when a Management request results in no change, or in an increase, the Plywood Evaluation committee shall give to the appropriate Review committee a short statement of the reasons for the decision. The statement should not go into great detail, but should indicate the criteria used in sufficient depth to show the applicant that the request was given adequate attention.
c)	An evaluation done by the Plywood Evaluation Committee shall be final and binding on the Parties, but at any time after five (5) years since the last evaluation or reevaluation of a job, Management or an individual employee may submit a request for re-evaluation of that job and no other reason than the elapsed time shall be necessary.
d)	If the Plywood Evaluation Committee is unable to reach agreement regarding the disposition of a Request for Job Evaluation or any other matter regarding the Job Evaluation Program which falls within their jurisdiction, the matter shall be referred to Forest Industrial Relations and to the IWA Regional Council for settlement.
e)	All communication between the Plant Review Committee and the Plywood Evaluation Committee referred to above shall be effected by sending one copy to the Union representative or representatives on the Committee and one copy to the Employer representative or representatives. In the case of communications to a Plant Review Committee, the Union representatives will be addressed care of the office of the appropriate Union Local, and the Employer representative care of the Company's Offices at the Plant. In the case of communications to the Plywood Evaluation Committee, the Union representatives will be addressed care of the Offices of Regional Council No. 1 of the IWA, Vancouver, and Forest Industrial Relations Limited.
- 84 -
13.
TRAINING
A program of training for members of the Review Committee in each plant shall be instituted, the details of which shall be arranged by Forest Industrial Relations Limited and the IWA Regional Council.
- 85 -
SUPPLEMENT NO. 5
FIREFIGHTING AGREEMENT
The following terms and conditions shall be applicable for the duration of the current Collective Agreement during "Company Responsibility Fires”.
It is understood that the terms of this Agreement only apply to the employees in the employ of the Company at the time the fire started. Any person hired for firefighting after the start of the fire will work under the rates and conditions as required by the B.C. Forest Service.
1.	DEFINITIONS
a)	Accidental Fire
Any fire not deliberately ignited by the Company to dispose of slash or waste, and which requires active measures to extinguish.
b)	Slash Escape Fire
Any slash fire ignited by the Company which has escaped the pre-determined boundaries and requires active measures to extinguish.
c)	Slash Control Fire
Any slash fire ignited by the Company which is contained within the predetermined boundaries, or alternatively, any slash fire which has escaped such boundaries but is not considered out of control and does not require active measures as contemplated in a) and b) above.
d)	Company Responsibility	Fire
Any fire which the Company is responsible for taking measures to extinguish pursuant to the provisions	of the Forest Act.
e)	Forest Service Fire
Any fire in respect of which the B.C. Forest Service accepts responsibility for direction of measures to extinguish.
f)	Fire Fighting Rates
The rates of pay for fighting Company Responsibility Fires hereinafter set out in this Agreement.
g)	Regular Job Rates
Rates of pay to employees for the performance of their regular jobs, as set out in
the Wage Supplement of the Collective Agreement.
h)	Statutory Rates
Rates of pay established by B.C. Forest Service for fire fighting.
2.	COMPANY CONTROLLED TIMER
a)	Notwithstanding the foregoing, when the Company directs Company employees to fight fire on Company controlled timber, or to fight fires on property adjacent to Company controlled timber which is threatening Company controlled timber, the Company will pay those employees at the fire fighting rates set out in Section 3 of this Supplement.
b)	Where the B.C. Forest Service directs the Company to provide its employees for fighting fires in circumstances other than those set out in a) above, those employees will be paid at the statutory rate.
3.	FIRE FIGHTING RATES
a) The basic rate shall be $19.425 per hour effective June 15, 1994, and $20.01 per hour effective June 15, 1995, and $20.41 per hour effective June 15, 1996 and shall apply to all employees engaged in fighting Accidental or Slash Escape fires, except those performing one of the following fire fighting jobs.
Category	June 15/00	June 15/01	June 15/02
Crew Boss	$24.395	$24.885	$25.385
Cat Operators	23.75	24.225	24.71
Skidder Operators	25.40	25.91	26.43
Power Saw Operator (own saw)	25.775	26.29	24.71
Mechanics/Heavy Duty
Mechanics Regular Job Rate Slip-on Tank and/or Trailer Tanks with Pump-Driver/
Operator Water Tank Truck with	23.75	24.225	24.71
Pump Driver/Operator	23.995	24.475	24.965
Service Truck/Bus Driver	23.995	22.315	22.76
Pumpman	22.04	22.48	22.93
- 87 -
b)	Straight time rates will apply to all employees throughout the period during which the said employees are engaged in fire fighting. This shall not include cook and bunkhouse personnel, tradesmen, mechanics or other categories servicing, feeding or supplying fire fighters from areas removed from the area of the fire or fires, unless the duties performed during any day in question are exclusively related to fire fighting operations.
c)	Regular job rates will apply only for the duration of the regular production shift in which the fire started.
d)	Where employees are working in job classifications during fire fighting, other than those set out herein, job rates will apply.
4.	BOARD AND LODGING (While Fighting Company Responsibility Fires)
a)	Employees who commute from home or camp are expected to "carry a lunch”. Additional meals where required will be at Company expense.
b)	Employees required to live away from their private residence will receive board and lodging at Company expense.
c)	Employees living in fly-in camps will receive board and lodging at Company expense.
5.	TRAVEL TIME
Travel time for employees engaged in fire fighting will be paid in accordance with the Collective Agreement.
6.	SLASH BURNING
All employees engaged in patrolling or controlling slash fires which have been set by the Company will be paid their regular job rate and overtime conditions will apply.
7.	INTERPRETIVE NOTES
a)	When active fire fighting ceases to be necessary, rates and overtime conditions for fire patrol will revert to the normal conditions provided for in the Collective Agreement.
b)	The meaning of the work "extinguish" as used in this Agreement shall include the act or process of suppression to the point when the fire requires fire patrolman only.
8.	All provisions of the Collective Agreement except as amended or modified herein shall continue to apply.
9.	The Company and the Union are prepared to participate in joint submissions to the Provincial Government on statutory fire fighting rates.
- 88 -
SUPPLEMENT NO. 6
PENSION PLAN
The parties agree that they will recommend to their representatives on the Board of Trustees of the IWA-Forest Industry Pension Plan that the Plan be amended as follows:
1.	Five Year Vesting
Effective July 1, 1992, when a Member attains five years of Continuous Employment, (as currently defined in the IWA-Forest Industry Pension Plan), or attains age 60, he will be vested for all his Credited Service (including his Credited Service earned prior to July 1, 1992).
2.	Pre-Retirement Death Benefit
Effective July 1, 1992, the Plan will pay 60% of the Commuted Value of the vested Member's or Former Member's total accrued pension.
The Commuted Value for those Members who were eligible to retire under the plan on their date of death will reflect the value of the pension they would have received had they retired on their date of death.
A pension having a Commuted Value equal to 60% of the Commuted Value of the Member's vested pension will be paid to the Spouse or, if no Spouse, 60% of the Commuted Value will be paid to the designated beneficiary or estate. Spouses may transfer the cash value of their pension on a locked-in basis to another pension plan, an RRSP, or an annuity purchase from an insurance company.
Any charges for elected coverage accrued up to July 1, 1992 will stay in place and will be based only on the level of benefits in effect on June 30, 1991 and the period of time that the elected coverage was in place.
This provision replaces all pre-retirement death benefits provided for in the Plan up to July 1, 1992.
3.	Break In Service
(a)	Basic Requirement:
Effective July 1, 1992, a Member will break service when he has received less than 350 credited hours in a two consecutive calendar year period.
For the purposes of this section, credited hours will include lay-off credits not to exceed 200 hours, hours worked and disability credits.
- 89 -
(b)	Favourable Retirement Discount/Benefit Upgrade For Members Who Return to Active Status After Involuntary Job Loss.
Members who are active on or after July 1, 1992 whose service was broken in 1983 or later due to an involuntary job loss (which excludes termination for cause) and who return to employment with a Participating Employer within three (3) years of their Break in Service will be treated as follows:
♦	the two most recent vested deferred calendar years prior to the Break in Service that was caused by the involuntary job loss will be unfrozen for each calendar year after their Break in Service in which 1500 hours are worked or otherwise credited (i.e., layoff, permanent closure, disability, vacation), but excluding banked hours.
♦	unfrozen years will be upgraded to the current employer funded benefit level.
♦	unfrozen years will be included as eligible years for the Active Members early retirement discounts providing a later Break in Service does not occur.
♦	the intent of this provision is to unfreeze periods of Continuous Employment that ended solely due to an involuntary job loss.
(c)	Favourable Retirement Discount For Members ages 50-54 years eleven months affected by Involuntary Job Loss.
Members who are active on or after July 1, 1992 who are aged 50 to 54 years eleven months when involuntary job loss occurs (which excludes termination for cause) who do not return to employment with a Participating Employer and who elect to leave their deferred pension in the Plan will be treated as follows:
♦	the most recent period of unbroken, Continuous Employment will be eligible for the Active Members early retirement discounts commencing at age 55.
NOTE:	* Members affected by this provision will break their service
under the Plan rules.
*	This provision will continue to apply to periods of employment which ended with an involuntary job loss regardless of the subsequent employment of the Member.
*	Banked hours will be credited up to their Break in Service date but will not prevent the Break in Service.
- 90 -
*	Employer-funded benefit level increases that occur subsequent to their involuntary job loss date but prior to their Break in Service date will apply if their last Participating Employer contributes at the Full Rate Employing Company rate.
*	This provision will not apply if the Member elects to transfer his Commuted Value out of the Plan.
(c)	3(b) and 3(c) above will not apply to operations where the employer
contribution rate is less than $2.40 per hour.
4.	Benefit Levels
Past Service:
Effective July 1, 1992 but retroactive to July 1, 1991, all Credited Service earned prior to July 1, 1991 (continuous and unbroken) to which the $32 benefit level applied will be increased to $35 providing that the Full Rate Employing Company rate is paid effective July 1, 1992 and that the Member is active on June 30, 1991.
Future Service - Employer Funded
Effective July 1, 1992 but retroactive to July 1, 1991, all Credited Service earned will accrue at the $35 benefit level, providing that the Full Rate Employing Company rate is paid effective July 1, 1992.
Future Service Benefit - Employee Funded
Effective July 1, 1993, all employees covered by the IWA-FIPP whose future service has been accruing at the $35 benefit level shall commence contributing to the Pension Plan from July 1, 1993 and credited service will accrue at $40 per month per year of service.
It is agreed that IWA-Canada shall have the option during the term of this Agreement to increase the employee contribution to up to 200 to fund the future service benefit level up to $45 per month per year of service.
Payment of employee contributions will be treated in the same way as employer contributions.
Benefit Level Application
The increase in the benefit levels listed above will not apply to:
(i)	Former Plan Members who became Former Plan Members prior to July 1, 1991.
- 91 -
(ii)	Retired Plan Members who retired prior to July 1, 1991.
(iii)	Any active Plan Member who is employed by an employing company which effective July 1, 1992 contributes less than $2.40 per hour.
♦	The applicability of paragraph (iii) above on employees affected by 2(c) of the 1986 Memorandum of Agreement and the subsequent Lysyk decision is subject to resolution by the Trustees.
♦	Paragraph (iii) above does not apply to totally and permanently disabled Members who last worked for a permanently closed operation which was contributing at the then full rate at its date of closure.
(iv)	Any active Plan Member who was employed by an employer who contributed less than $1.70 per hour prior to July 1, 1992. However, if on the effective date of the first collective agreement subsequent to the date of ratification of this Memorandum, or such later date as is provided by the application of Article III (6) of the Pension Plan text to their collective agreement, the employing company contracts to contribute at the full rate of $2.40 per hour immediately, then the increase to the $35 past and future service benefit level shall apply to all active Plan Members employed by the employing company who were active on June 30, 1991, retroactive to July 1, 1991. If the employing company does not contract to contribute under the conditions set forth in the preceding sentence, then the increase to the $35 past and future service level shall apply only to active Plan Members currently employed on the date the $2.40 per hour contribution rate becomes effective and shall not be retroactive.
Where a company does not contribute at the Full Rate Employing company rate of $2.40 per hour, Plan Members employed by that company cannot contribute the employee funded future service contribution, nor are they entitled to the future service benefit of $40.
Employee contributions cannot be made and employee funded future service credits cannot be granted retroactively. Employee funded future service credits at the $40 rate will start to accrue on the effective date that future service employee contributions commence.
5.	Contributory Hours Assumption
The Plan's assumption for Contributory Hours in 1992 is to be 50 million hours. All costings associated with these negotiations will be based on the 50 million hours figure.
6.	Calculation Formula for Future Contributory Hours Assumption
After 1992, a Calculation Formula will be used to establish the annual Contributory Hours Assumption, the formula will be:
- 92 -
The sum of:	the previous year's actual hours,
the current year's annualized hours (determined in the 3rd or 4th quarter) and the estimated hours for the following year,
divided by 3.
Example:	Calculation for the December 31, 1993
Actuarial Valuation
The sum of:	- 1992's actual hours
-	1993's annualized hours, and
-	1994's estimated hours,
divided by 3.
7.	Automatic Pre-Retirement Survivor Coverage Extension
The automatic pre-retirement survivor coverage currently provided for in the Plan for active Members who have attained age 55, will be extended to those active Members who die within the period of June 15, 1990 and June 30, 1992 inclusive with all payments commencing on July 1, 1992 (or later).
- 93 -
SUPPLEMENT NO. 7
CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTING
Section 1:
It is agreed that Plant Tradesmen who are assigned by the Company to carry out work directly related to "new" construction with tradesmen employed by an outside contractor, plant tradesmen will be paid the "outside" contractor(s) rate(s).
Section 2:
For the purpose of this Agreement "new" construction shall be defined as meaning:
a)	The construction of major new buildings and major additions to existing buildings.
b)	The addition of new or used major production machinery and related equipment not previously in existence.
Section 3:
a)	"Tradesmen" shall mean journeyman and apprentices in the following trades:
Machinist	Millwright
Steamfitter/Pipefitter	Welder
Electrician	Carpenter
b)	"Contractor's Rate" shall only mean the hourly wage paid by that contractor and not any other payment or working conditions.
c)	"Contractor's Rate" will not exceed the rates for similar trades paid by IWA Construction companies.
- 94 -
SUPPLEMENT NO. 8
ALTERNATE SHIFT SCHEDULING
A.	FLEXIBILITY OF HOURS OF WORK
The Parties recognize the need for flexibility of hours other than those outlined in the Hours of Work Article, for the express purpose of better utilization of manpower and capital such as:
Balancing of production Maintenance Market requirements Even flow production
Emergency or unexpected harvesting programs Continuous scheduling (e.g. Logging, Engineers,
Firefighter, Maintenance, Watchmen)
B.	SHIFT SCHEDULING
The Parties agree that the following shift schedules will provide the flexibility
required to meet the needs expressed above.
1.	Logging
(i)	compressed schedules consisting of 10 hours per day, 4 days per week;
(ii)	non-continuous schedules such as 10 days on, 4 days off.
2.	Manufacturing
(i)	2	crews	working	4	days,	10	hours	per	shift;
(ii)	up to 3 crews working Monday to Saturday, 10 hours a shift not exceeding 40 hours per week;
(iii)	employees working in continuous operations may be scheduled to work shifts other than (i) or (ii) above.
3.	Maintenance
(i)	shifts of up to 10 hours per day, 40 hours per week, Monday to Sunday inclusive;
(ii)	three shifts per week, not exceeding 12 hours per day.
- 95 -
4.
Other Shifts
It is understood the parties can establish other shifts by mutual consent to meet local conditions.
C.	IMPLEMENTATION
Any variation(s) top the Hours of Work Article shall be implemented only upon completion of the following steps:
1.	The Company and the Local Union will meet to discuss proposed shift schedules within the terms of the Hours of Work Article. It is anticipated that the Local Union will make sincere attempts to assist the Company wishing to introduce alternate shift schedules. The parties must mutually agree on resolution of issues such as:
a)	Details of shift.
b)	Details of Statutory Holidays, Floating Holiday, Bereavement Leave, and Jury Duty.
c)	Maximum length of shifts for physically demanding work. Accident prevention is a factor to be taken into account in determining shift lengths.
d)	The loss of hours/employment as a direct result of the implementation of alternate shift schedules.
e)	The use of employees for supplementary production work.
2.	The Camp or Plant Committee and the crew will be actively consulted by the Parties during the process,
D.	GENERAL PRINCIPLES
When an alternate shift schedule is in effect other provisions of the Collective
Agreement will be administered on the principle that an employee will not lose or
gain any benefits over his normal five-day schedule.
1.	The Company agrees that alternate shift schedules will not be introduced where the intention is to increase the use of casual employees in place of regular employees.
2.	Different parts of an operation may be scheduled on different shifts.
3.	The principle of the forty (40) hour week is to be maintained over an averaging period.
4.	This Article shall not change existing alternate shift agreements, unless
- 96 -
agreed to by both parties.
5.	Earned vacations will be scheduled on the same basis as days and hours worked under the alternate shift schedule.
6.	Other Articles of the Collective Agreement which provide benefits after eight (8) hours are extended by the amount the regular hours of work have been increased beyond the eight (8) hours per day.
7.	An employee's rest days may vary from week to week under an alternate shift schedule. Employees shall not be paid premium pay for changes in their rest days in these circumstances.
8.	An employee whose rest days are changed by the Company under an established alternate shift schedule shall receive rate and one-half for work performed on his rest days unless a change in rest day results from the application of seniority or has been agreed to between the employee and the Company.
9.	There shall be no premium pay paid to any employee whose rest days are changed because of the implementation of an alternate shift schedule.
- 97 -
SUPPLEMENT NO. 9
LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING
Between: WELDWOOD OF CANADA LIMITED MERRILL & WAGNER DIVISION
And: INTERNATIONAL WOODWORKERS OF AMERICA-
LOCAL 1-425
Re:	Divisions for the Purpose of Seniority in the
Sawmill, Planer Mill and Plywood Plant Complex.
The Parties agree that the application of Article VIII, Section 3 b) will be as follows: Sawmill Division:
Comprised of Sawmill and Planer Mill employees (including Barkers).
Plywood Division:
All Plywood Plant employees (including Barkers).
Open Division
Includes Maintenance employees, and Log Yard employees.
However, if an employee from the Plywood Plant wished to go into the Open Division, he/she would do so with his/her seniority in the Plywood Plant but would have to either remain in the Open Division or go back into the Plywood Plant. The same would apply in the Sawmill Division with employees moving.
Those employees hired directly into the Open Division will have one right to successfully bid into either the Sawmill Division or the Plywood Division. Following which, they would have to remain in the division into which they successfully bid, or return to the Open Division.
- 98 -
Dated this day of	, 20
For: Weldwood of Canada Limited Merrill & Wagner Division	For: International Woodworkers of America, Local 1-425 A.F.L., CIO., C.L.C.
- 99 -
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
The Parties agree that in the application of Article IX, Leave of Absence, Section 4,
Compassionate Leave, the following criteria shall be used in determining the
employee's eligibility.
1.	Leave of Absence without pay for extended vacation purposes shall be limited to those employees with more than two (2) year's continuous service.
2.	Leave of Absence without pay for extended vacation purposes shall be granted based on one (1) month leave of absence for each year of continuous service to a maximum of six (6) months.
3.	Leave of Absence without pay for extended vacation purposes shall be limited to a maximum of one (1) leave in a three (3) calendar year period.
4.	Leave of Absence for extended vacation purposes will be limited to three (3) employees off on leave at any one time in the Plywood Division, two (2) employees off on leave at any one time in the Sawmill Division, and two (2) employees off on leave at any one time in the Open Division.
5.	Leave of Absence for extended vacation purposes will be granted on a first come/first served basis.
SIGNED this 28th day of August, 1981.
For:
Weldwood of Canada Limited Merrill & Wagner Division
For:
International Woodworkers of America, A.F.L., C.I.O., C.L.C
SUPPLEMENT NO. 10
- 100 -
November 4, 1994
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
New and Evolving Work
Preamble
Weldwood of Canada Limited and IWA-Canada agree to process which seeks to balance the economic concerns of the member companies with the needs of their employees to have access to New and Evolving Work within the Northern Interior Forest Industry.
This process is intended to deal with:
employment for regular company employees who are displaced by reductions in Annual Allowable Cuts or other land use decisions.
additional opportunities for bargaining unit employment in new work that may be created in the forest industry
replacement bargaining unit employment in new or evolved work which may develop in future.
Process
1.	This Letter established a process for the Company and the Local Union to discuss opportunities for having company employees perform new and evolving work within the forest industry in:
■	Value Added
■	Re-manufacturing
■	Opportunities created through B.C. Forest Renewal funding.
2.	Companies and Local Unions are committed to working together towards making new work opportunities available to company employees. It is understood to accomplish these goals the parties must achieve:
■	efficiency and cost effectiveness on a fair and reasonable basis
■	quality objectives
■	safety objectives
3.	The parties recognize that they cannot reasonably anticipate all circumstances and situations which may arise so cannot prescribe comprehensive solutions in advance.
- 101 -
4.	The parties agree that early joint preparation is an important contributor to
the successful implementation and administration of the New and Evolving Work Letter. To this end, the respective negotiation committees will be jointly available to clarify this agreement, and to assist parties on a case by case basis.
5.	Issues must be resolved in a timely fashion.
6.	This Letter will expire on June 30, 2000, unless specifically renewed by both parties.
Dispute Resolution Process:
In order to assist member companies and Local Unions in resolving disputes which may arise as a result of this Letter. Weldwood of Canada Limited and IWA-Canada agree to:
a)	Establish a joint Dispute Resolution Committee comprised of three (3) representatives from management and three (3) representatives from the Union to fact find and assist the company and Local Union in reaching a solution.
b)	Management or the Local Union can request the assistant of the Dispute Resolution Committee.
c)	The Dispute Resolution Committee may utilize the services of facilitators, mediators, or whatever means in order to reach a final recommended resolution.
Agreed to on behalf:
I.W.A.-CANADA	WELDWOOD OF CANADA LIMITED
Date:
Date:
- 102 -
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
Task Force
Weldwood of Canada Limited and IWA-CANADA have agreed to a Task Force, comprised of three (3) representatives from management and three (3) representatives of the Union, with co-Chairman from each party. The Task Force will examine the changes and trends in the forest industry.
The terms of reference for the Task Force will be as follows, but may include other matter the parties wish to explore.
1.	To examine the change(s) taking place within the Industry and the impact on Union/Management relations.
2.	To identify any procedure, policy, agreement, work schedules, method, working environment, people utilization, and company practice which contributes to efficient, safe production performance while expanding the current workforce.
3.	To identify what changes are appropriate to improve the overall Industry's ability to harvest and manufacture the timber in a safe, economical manner.
4.	To identify opportunities for employees to learn new skills and to train company employees to operate the equipment and perform the other jobs associated with the evolving jobs within the B.C. Forest Industry.
5.	The Task Force will submit reports with recommendations to the Union and Management Negotiating Committee on a regular basis on measures that will address the changes needed within the Forest Industry.
6.	This Letter will expire on June 30, 2000, unless specifically renewed by both parties.
Agreed to on behalf:
IWA-CANADA	WELDWOOD OF CANADA LIMITED
Date:
Date:
- 103 -
November 4, 1994
Weldwood of Canada Limited P.O. Box 2179 Vancouver, BC V6B 3V8
Attention: Gordon Gray Dear Sir:
Re: Agreement on New and Evolving Work
This letter is intended to clarify IWA-Canada's intent with regard to the terms and conditions of the Letter of Understanding in 1994 negotiations on New and Evolving Work.
During discussions on this, the Industry raised concerns that we answer as follows:
1.	It is not the intentions of IWA-Canada to use this agreement to replace existing logging contractors with IWA members or crews.
2.	It is IWA-Canada's desire to have opportunities to discuss with employers the possibility of either using IWA company crews, or IWA contractors, to perform work under Forest Renewal, but it is not our intent to cause companies to purchase equipment without having the costs of such equipment considered as part of the efficiency and cost effectiveness that IWA agrees to address under the New and Evolving Work agreement.
3.	It is IWA-Canada's intention that discussion concerning new operations under the agreement may lead to voluntary recognition and certification - it is not our intentions to achieve certification first and enter into discussions later unless certification occurs as a direct result on an IWA organizing drive.
As stated earlier, this letter is to clarify our intentions concerning our agreement. It is not intended to form part of the agreement, as is not arbitrable by either party.
Sincerely,
V
Harvey Arcand 4th Vice President IWA-Canada
HA/jg