Collective Agreement
Between
Weldwood of Canada LTD
(Cariboo Division) and
IWA - Canada Local 1-424
Begins:
07/01/1992
Terminates:
06/30/1994
01000 (04)
INDEX
PAGE ARTICLE
APPRENTICESHIP TRAINING PROGRAM
ARBITRATION AND INTERPRETATION
BARGAINING AGENCY
CALL TIME
COMMITTEE
CONTRACTING OUT
DEFINITION
DURATION OF AGREEMENT EVALUATION
FORESTRY ENVIRONMENTAL COMMITTEE
GENERAL PROVISIONS
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
HOURS OF WORK
LEAVE OF ABSENCE
LONG TERM DISABILITY
MANAGEMENT
MEDICAL AND HEALTH AND WELFARE
PAY DAYS
PENSION PIAN
RIGHT OF REFERENCE
SAFETY AND HEALTH
SAFETY EQUIPMENT
SENIORITY
STATUTORY HQUDAYS TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE TOOL INSURANCE
TRAVEL TIME - RI VERM AN, BOATMAN, & SCALERS UNION SECURITY VACATIONS WITH PAY WAGES
34
27
1
25 6
39
2 39
36 30
29
26 7
16
33 2
30
28
34 27 22
38 12 23
37
39 37
2
18
4
xxm
XVI
i
xm
VI
XIX
n
XXX
XXIV
XIX
xvm
XIV
vn
IX XXI
m xx xvn xxn xv xc xx vn vm xn XXVI
xxvra
XXV
IV
X V
ALTERNATE SHIFT SCHEDULING
SHIP 1 RAINtt G PROGRAM BIDDING >CE1 l RE ON U 'NT
EVALUATED CA HO.	• PLYWOOD
FIRE	JG ", IE]
LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING MAINTENANCE DEPARTMENTS - ALL DIVISIONS NON-EVALUATED CATEGORIES • PLYWOOD OFFICE WAGE SUPPLEMENT PLYWOOD JOB EVALUATION SAWMILLRATE DETERMINATION PROGRAM WAGE SCALE • LOG YARD
- PLANER DIVISION • SAWMILL DIVISION
83
68
54
67
41
61
76
48
45 51 56 64 50 47
46
THIS AGREEMENT, tnade and entered into as of the 19th day of February, 1992
BETWEEN:
WELDWOOD OF CANADA LIMITED.
(CARIBOO DIVISION)
(hereinafter called the "Company")
OF THE FIRST PART.
AND:
DNA-CANADA LOCAL 1-424, C.L.C
(hereinafter called the "Union") OF THE SECOND PART.
1.	WHEREAS it is the intent and purpose of the Parties here to that this Agreement will promote and improve industrial ana economic relationships between the employees and the Company, and to set forth herein the basic Agreement covering rates of pay, hours of work. and conditions of employment to be observed between the Parties hereto:
2.	Ah" WHEREAS the Company accepts responsibility to observe each and all provisions and conditions of this Agreement and to promote orderly and peaceful relations with the employees;
3 AND WHEREAS the Union accepts responsibility to observe each and all provisions and conditions of this Agreement and to promote orderly and peaceful relations with the Company:
NOW THEREFORE, the Parties hereto mutually agree as follows:
ARTICLE I - BARGAINING AGENCY Section 1;
The Company shall recognize and bargain with the duly elected bargaining representatives on behalf of its employees properly and duly certified under the appropriate regulations in effect from time to time.
Section 2:
The bargaining authority of the Union shall not be impaired during the term of this Agreement The only certification that the Company will recognize during the term of tins Agreement is that of the Union unless ordered by due process of law to recognize some other bargaining authority.
Section 3:
The Company and the Union shall meet at such time and place as may be mutually agreed upon for the purpose of discussing wages and working conditions arnf adjusting any matters within the confines of the Agreement which come within the scope of Collective Bargaining between the employee and the Company
The term “Employee”as used and for the purpose of (his Agreement shall include all persons employed by the Company on whose behalf the [WA-CANADA, Local 1-424 have been certified as bargaining agents, exceptand excluding foranenand others having authority to hire and fire, supervisory officialsand salesmen.
ARTICLE EH - MANAGEMENT
Section 1:
The management of the operation and the direction aid promotion cf the employees are vested exclusively in the Management; provided however, that this shall not he used for the purpose of discrimination against employees.
Section 2:
The Company shall have the right to select its employees and to discipline or discharge them for proper cause,
ARTICLE IV - UNION SECURITY Section 1;
The Company shall cooperate with the Union in obtaining and retaining as members the employees as	in this Agreement, and to this end shall present to new employees and
to ail Supervisors and Foremen the policy herein expressed,
Section 2:
1
1
All employees who entered the employmentof the Company on or after the 1st day of September, i960, and all new employees, shall within thirty (30) calendar days after the execution of this Agreement, or thirty (30) calendar days afterentenng employment, whichever date last occurs, become members ofthe Lhim and maintain membership therein throughout the term of this Agreement, as a conditionof continued employment.
Section 3:
Any employee who is a member in good standing, or is reinstated as a member of the Union shall as a condition <£ continued employment, naintain such membership in good standing throughout the term of this Agreement.
Section 4
Any employee who fails to maintain his membership in the Union as prescribed herein by reason of refusal to pay dues and assessments shall be discharged forthwith after seven (7) days written notice to the Cbtpany <£ the said employee’s refusal to maintain his membership.
2
Section 5:
a)	No employee shall be subject to any penalties against his application for membership or reinstatement, except as may be provided for in the IW A-CANADA Constitution as revised 1979, and in accordance with the By-Laws of Local 1-424 as of the 1st day of April, 1981.
b)	Any employee who applies tojoin the Union pursuant to the provisions herein and whose application is rejected by the Union, shall not be subject to discharge from employment.
Section 6:	^
The Company shall require all new employees at the time of hiring to execute the following assignment of wages in duplicate, the forms to be supplied by the Union, said forms to be forwarded to the Union not later than fifteen (IS) calendar days following the date of hiring. The forms shall be substantially as follows:
IWA-CANADA
CHECK-OFF
Please Print
Starting Date.
19.
Name of Employer
Name of Employee Address_________
Postal Code________ Phone
Operation_________________
Social Insurance No.______
Are you a Member of the PWA?_______________________________________
In what IWA operation were you last employed?______________________
Local Union________________________________________________________
I HEREBY AUTHORIZE AND INSTRUCT YOU TO DEDUCT FROM MY WAGES AND
REMmO LOCAL 1-_____________________ THE FOLLOWING IN PAYMENT OF THE
AMOUNT SE T OUT BELOW
1.	Union Initiation Efees in the amount of $_________
2.	Union Back Dues in the amount of $________________
3.	Union Dues S__________per month, commencing 19
3
4 Union Assessments in the amount and at the time stated in notice received by you from the Local tfrim designated above.
Clock Kb.________________
APPLICATION FOR MEMBERSHIP
I hereby request aid accept membership in the IWA-CANADA, Local No. i-___
and agree to abide by the constitution and bylaws of the organization. In caseaF misstatementof qualifications for membership I agree to forfeit ah rights, privileges aid monies paid.
Signature of Applicant-Employee
This assignmentshall become effective immediately in the* case of employees already members of the Union, and shall become effective thirty (30) calendar days from the date of execution in the case of employees not previously members c£ the Union. Until the said assignment is revoked by the employee, the Company shall remit the dues deducted pursuant to such assignment to the Local Union named therein not less often than once each month together with a written statement of names of the employees for whom the deductions were made and the amount of each deduction.
The Company shall furnish the Union once every month with a list setting out the names of employees absent for fourteen (14) days or longer due to illnessor injury
Section fit
The Company shall furnish the Union with the Social Insurance Number of each employee on its payroll on the first occasion when dues are forwarded to the Union after the execution of this agreementor after the employee enters the employmentof the Company, whichever date last occurs.
ARTICLE V - WAGES
Section 1:
a)	The Parties agree that effective the fifteenth day of lune, 1993 the wages of all hourly employees will be increased by eighty-five cents (85 cents).
b)	The Parties agree that the	minimum rate in the mill	for common labour shall be:
i)	$17 07 per	hour effective June	15th,	1991.
ii)	$17.07 per	hour effective June	15th,	1992
iiij	$17.92 per	hour effective June	15th.	1993.
4
For Quesnel office employees the minimum hourly wage increases are:
i)	effectiveJune !5th, 1993, eightyfive cents (85 cents) per hour.
b)	Employees who have left the employ of the Company must apply within thirty (30) days of ratification to be eligible for retroactive pay flowing from this Agreement.
cl Coverall service will be made availableto Tradesmen aid Apprentices, plus Oilers, Grindermen, End Sprayers, Panel Sprayers and Crate Operators. Cost cf providing this service to be borne by the Company. T'froi coverall service is requested by the employees, the service must be used. Failure to wea coveralls after they have been proYidid will result in permanent loss of this privilege.
Section 2:	Welders
a)	Effective July 1st, 1981, the following shall be the classification of welders in maiufacturing conditional on the wel5ers being qualified as required under the Standard Forest Industry Welding Specifications and either having completed the three (3) year apprenticeshipprogram or having worked in the trade for six thousaid (6,000) hours as a welder.
Group I -Welder (FI • 101, FI • 102)
Group 2 - Welder (FI - (03, DPWI, DPW2)
Group 3 - Welder (Uncertified)
b)	Employees employed as welders and who are required by the employer to renew their welding qualificaticnshall be granted up to five (5) days paid leave of absence to attend school for instivctiot*- The Company shall pay tfie cosfof instruction and examination.
Section 3;	F!r*t Aid Attendants
i)	The Company will pay the cost of training and re-training for Industrial First Aid Certificates including lost time wages to designated duty First Aid Anendants.
ii)	Designated First Aid Anendants shall receive their job rate of pay plus the Ticket Premium rate.
iii)	All other employees holding valid First Aid Tickets shall receive a premium offive cents (5 cents) per hour over and above theirjob rate. There shall be no stacking or pyramiding of premiums.
Section 4:	Graders » Sawmill Planer
i)	Grading tickets shall be permanent and valid Certificates
5
ii)	All Graders holding grading tickets shall attend upgrading classes as required.
iii)	Gradeis who are required to attend upgrading classes (rule changes) shall receive their regular straight time job rate for time spent in attending said classes,
tv) Effective September 1st, 1975 all Certified Lumber Graders shall receive a premium cf fifteen cents (15 cants) per hour fora Grading Certificate provided that these premiums shall be paid only when actually engaged as Lumber Graders,
Section 5:
Far convenience cf reference only a Wage Scale is published in ScheduleNo. I and shall he effective, subject to correction any errors or omissions, as of July I, 1988 aid may, subject to the consent of both Parties, be revised once annually.
a)	In the event that job conditions change due to the installation of new naddiiety <r revision afwork practices cr new classifications, the Parties shall meet after the new machinery is operating properly or the new work practices have proven practical, to determine the designation and wage rate to be paid to the employee(s) affected.
b)	In the event that job condidons change in the Plywood Secfdcn as set forth in (a) above, wage rates shall be determined as set out in the wage evaluation manual.
C) In the event that job cmditicns change in the Sawmill or Planer Mill Section as set forthm (a) above, wage rates shall be determined as set out in the Sawmill Fate Determination Program
Section 7r Shi Differential
The first shift is the recognized day shift. Hours worked outside the recognized day shift shall be regarded as the second and third shifts A shift differential of thirty-one cents (31 cents) per hour shall be paid for second and third shifts. A day shift employee working in excess of his regular shift shall be. paid rate and one-half without the differential. Any employee on the second and third shift working in excess of his regular shift shall receive rate arid one-half. For the purpose of the last sentence rate shall be rate plus thirty-one cents (31 cents). Persons employed other than on regular shifts shall be paid the thirty-one (31 cents) shift differential for ail hours worked outside the recognized day shift,
ARTICLE VI - COMMITTEE
Section 1:
For the purpose ofthis Agreement, aid in Schedule 2 an bidding Procedure when the word "Committee" is used, it sKall mean Shop, Camp, or Mill Committee, members of which are appointed by the Union.
6
Section 2:
The Committee shall consist of not less than four (4) and not more than seven (7) employees Who are members of the Uilm,and whenever possible, they shall be selected on a departmental basis.
Section 3;
The Tim on shall, within sixty (60) days from the dale of this Agreement, notify the Company in writing of the members on the Committee. The Union or Committee shall inform the Company in writing when any member change takes place on the Comminee. No member of the Committee shall be recognized by the Company unless the above procedure is earned out.
Section 4:
The provisions of Section 1, 2 and 3 shall not apply in reference to:
a)	Article XE: Safety Committee, where the members are designated according to the provisions of the Workers' Compensation Act, and;
b)	Under Article XV - Joint Committee.
ARTTCT.K VTT - HOURS OF WORK Section 1:	Production and Maintenance Employees
The regular hours of work shall be:
Eight (8) hours per day and forty (40) hours per week, with rate an one-half for any hours worked in excess of eight (8) in any one day and forty (40) in any one week.
All production employees shall be paid rate and one-half for Saturday and/or Sunday
regardless of the number of hours worked during the week except that:	___>
* Y Cs £*
Double straight time rates shall be paid for the following:
Hours worked in excess of II hours per day. 3 7	^ w
i)
ii)
Hi)
iv)
Hours worked on Sunday by employees who have worked five shifts . during the preceding six days.	•—
For purpose of (b) herein a Statutory Holiday shall be considered a shift worked.
Item (ii) above shall not apply to employees who work Sunday as a regularly scheduled day.
Section 2:	Office Employees
a)
a) The regular hours of work for office employees shall be:
7
Seven (7) hours per day and thirty five (35) hours per week, with rate and one* for any hours worked in exc is of seven (7) in any one day and thirty-five (35) in any one week;
:p for tl e p j i of Draftsman, which will be seven and one-half (714) bou pei day and thirty-seven and -h ilf (37%) h n week, itt te a i < ne-fi for any hou s vorl e 1 in excess of s en and *	(7%) in any one day and
thirty-seven and one half (3714) in any one week;	‘
also :pt for the positions of Storekeeper, Assistant Storekeeper and Purchasing 3 , which will be eight (8) hours per day and forty (40) hours per week, with rate and one-half for any hours worked in excess of eight (8) in any one day and forty (40) ir a one ek
AU office emp] >5 ees s la 1 be p lid	a	ill a Sat r i) and/or Sunday
regardless of the number of hours \ k	during the week, except that:
Double straight time rates shall be paid for the following:
i)
i)
iu)
Iv)
Hours
in excess of 11 hours per day.
H worked on Sunday by employees who have worked e shins di ig ti p eceding i da)
For purposes of(ii) herein, a Statutory Holiday shall be considered a shift worked.
Item (ii) above shall not apply to employeeswho work Sunday as a regularly scheduled day.
Section 3:
a)
Casual Work
The term "Casual Work" as used in this . igreei lent sti 11 performed on Saturday and/or Sunday by eithei laid-oi r persons hereinafter referred to as "Casual Employees”
d; to work nj	or other
b)
c)
d)
e)
a work on r >di l ISU J H C n IM1
straight-time job rate.
Reg r dn
pref n	fo available
shall be paid for at one and one-halftimes job rate. , repair and a work shall be paid for at
sh not be ii as casual a >ioyees
ik over the said casual employees.
si have
« t c f v | -fon by < i a ipk>> res, laid ff g f yees and part-time employees will be paid for at straight-time job rate except as provided in (f) herein
A laid-off regular production employee shall be considered a production employee during the week he/she is laid off and will be paid rate and one half for any work he/she s “< on sill :i S it i cr Si da; e spl as	id* d i S< 1 (b)
at	’
8
g) The Company agrees to keep separate seniority lists of rasnai employees for each division, who have worked at least ten (10) working days, in a division, exclusively for recall purpose and subject to Clause (d) further agrees to recall casual employees in accordance with more seniority as set forth in these lists.
Section 4:
a)	Those employees who Cf necessity regularly work on Saturday aid Sunday shall Idee two (2) other days Cf the veek off to^be mutually agreed between the employees and the Company. In such event, Saturday and Sunday shall be considered waddng days aid overtime rates shall not apply on Saturday, However, these employees shall be paid rate and om-half for work performed on Sunday. Overtime rates shall apply when the regular daily or weekly work limit has been exceeded. Overtime rates shall apply on the rest days of these employees if worked unless a change in rest days has been agreed upon between the employees and the Company.
b)	For the purpose of this Sectim only, employees shall be Engineers, Firemen, Operating Millwrights, Maintenance Workers aid Watchmen.
Section 5:
a)	Maintenance, repair and construction employees can be employed on a Tuesday to Saturday work week for which they shall be paid straight time for Saturday work. In such event. Sunday aid Monday shall be recognized as their rest days and any work performed on their rest days shall be paid for at rate aid one-half. The rest day, Monday, may be changedTty mutual consent between the employee aid the Company. In such event, work performed on Monday shall be paid for at straight time. If the employee works on Monday at the quest of the Company, the rate cf pay will be rate and one-half. However, if the employee que s t s a temporary change from his rest day on Monday, work performed on Monday shall be paid for at straight time.
b)	If a Statutory Holiday occurs on the employee's regular day <££, he shall be entitled to lake his next regular work day off without pay.
____Alternate Shift Scheduling
a)	Management, Plant or Camp Committees aid the Local Union shall have the right under the terms of the Collecdve Agreementto agree upon and implement other schedules which, except for production shifts in manufacturing operations, may include Sundays, without overtime penalty, provided the principle of the forty (40) hour week is maintained over an averaging period. Rate aid one-half shall be paid for hours worked on Sunday.
b)	Ary variation(s) to the preceding Sections denoting normal hours of work shall be implemented only upon completion of the following steps:
j) Negotiated agreement between the Local Union aid Local Management.
y) Majority approval by the employees involved in the proposed variations.
Q
C)
When alternative shift schedules have been implemented in accordance with (a) and (b) above, the following overtime provisions will apply:
A Rate and one-half shall be paid for the following:
i)	The first three (3) hours worked in a day in excess of the normal daily hours cf die established schedule,
jj) Huts worked in excess of forty (40) hours per week or forty (40) hours avenge when there is an averaging period
tii) All hours worked on an employee’s scheduled rest day, unless a change in rest day has been agreed to between the employee and the Company
jv) All hours worked on Sunday except those excluded in the casual section.
B.	Double straight-time rates shall be paid for the following:
p Ail hours worked in excess of A(i) above.
iit All hours worked on a Sunday when Sunday is also an
employee’s scheduled rest day, if the employee has worked forty (40) straight-time hours in the preceding six (6) days, unless a change in rest day has been agreed to between the employee and the company.
C.	Schedule 7 - Alternate Sift Scheduling, contains the agreed upon general principles and parameters for the establishment, implementation cr discontinuanceof alternate shift schedules.
Section 7:
If three (3) hours or less in the Sawmill Division or Planer Division and/or one (I) hour or less in the Plywood and Logging Division, are necessary after midnight Friday or after midnight preceding a Statutory Holiday to complete a shift which commenced work on Friday afternoon or the afternoon preceding the Statutory Holiday, time worked after midnight Friday or after midnight preceding the Statutory Holiday to complete the shift shall be paid straight time rates.
Section 8;
The work week shall commence with the starting time of the first shift Monday, and shall end at the completionof the last shift which commences on the following Friday.
Section 9; Three Shift Operation
a)	The Company shall have the right to operate the plant or any part thereof on a
three-shift basis and all employees .workingunder this arrangement shall receive eight (8) hours pay upon completionof the full Sours establishedas their regular shift. Details of shifts shall be vaned at the Company’s option.
10
b)	Section (a) above shall only apply to those employees actually working on a three-shift basis.
Section 10:
The foregoing provisions of this Article shall not oe construed as guaranteeing to any employee any number of hours of work per day or per week,
Section 11:
No employee covered by this Agreement who refuses.?o work overtime shall be subject to any penalties whether the refusal be singular or in concert,
Section 12:	^
m employees in manufacturing plants shall be entitled to two ten-minute rest periods during each regular shift; provided always that the Company shall have the right to use relief employees in implementing this provision.
Section 13;
Where maintenance, repair and construction employees are required to work two (2) hours or more overtime beyond their normal shift, the Company shall provide a hot meal, such hot meal to be consumed by the employees on Company lime before beginning the overtime work. The hot neal will be made available at the Plywood Plant. X. ps^
Section _14:
The Company agrees to discontinue the use of time clocks subject to the following:
a)	The general use	of clocks be discontinued for a trial period of three (3) months.
b)	New employees	are to punch the clock for the first three (3) months of employment.
c)	Casual employees are to punch the clock.
d)	Employees who report late must punch the clock and have the card initialled by their Foreman.
e)	Employees may make arrangements with employees cn the same jobs on their following shift to relieve them a maximum of ten (10) minutes prior to their regular quitting time providing they have permission of both Foreman involved.
f)	Employees may	enter or leave their place of work by the North Entrance only.
g)	Employees who	work overtime must punch the clock.
h)	Employees who	have been absent and return to work must report to their department
foreman at the commencement of the shin.
i)	Employees who abuse the system shall be required to punch the clock for a three month period.
11
j)	Employees abusing the honour system will still be subject lo Article HI, Section 2 of the Collective Agreement,
Section 1&
That a Committee be established with IWA Local 1-424 during the term of the 1977-79 Agreement to clarify the provisions of Article VII - Hours of Work,
ARTICLE VIII - SENIORITY
Section It	Principle of Seniority
The
the
principle of seniority, competency considered, shall be recognized by the Company and Union.
SwtlffW-2;_____Divisions and Department
a)	This Agreement covers all operations of the Cariboo Division of the Company in the Quesne! area.
b)	The Cariboo Division of the Company shall be organized for seniority purposes as
follows:
1.	Plywood Division
i)	Production Department
u)	Maintenance Department
iii)	Logyard Department
2,	Sawmill Division
3.	Planermill Division
4,	Office Division
ni ri Li
The Company shall supply to the bargaining agent once every three months the following complete seniority list. TV seniority list shaft be kept up to date, particularly in the event of a reduction in forces,
1.	Plait (Company or Divisional) Seniority Lisi
a.	PlywoodDivision
b	Sawmill Division
c.	Planermill Division
d	Office Division
2.	Department Seniority Lists
a.	Production Department	of the	Plywood Section
b	Maintenance Dqaartmait	of the	Plywood Section
- 12 •
c.	Logyard Department of the Plywood Section
d.	Sawmill Division
e.	Planermiil Division
f.	Office Division	•*-?
in 4:	Promotions or .lob Openings	''/£\
Promotions shall be based on departmental seniority. Promotion into designated "Key fobs" is subject to the provisionsof the Job Training Plan as set out in the Training Programmes.
Job openings (exceptthose on base rate aid those covered by the Job Training Programmes) shall be posted for a minimum of twenty-four (24) hours.
TL.
c. Employees interested in having their bid considered although they mey be absent at the time of posting, may leave their "bid" with the Personnel Department mid their bid shall be considered in case such opening occurs, A copy of such bid shall be given to the Plant Committee for checking purposes.
Section 5; Lay-offs or Reduction of Forces
a.	In t±e event of a reduction of forces, the last person hired shall be the first released,
by PLANT SENIORITY.	^----------------
b.	Employment is maintained by department seniority if he or she has enough PLANT SENIORITY to work,
c.	Employees are retained on the payroll by their PLANT SENIORITY. Theyshall have the right to retain theirjobs according to their department seniority. Employees with insufficient department seniority to retain theirjobs shall return to thejobs Z^T\
previously held in the department and in such case replace anyone holding suchjobs --
with less depanmental seniority. Those employees with insufficient departmental iHL seniority to remain in the departmentshall take thejobs opened up by employees who
are laid off due to insufficient PLANT SENTCRITi.
d.	i) During a reduction c£ forces where an employee's department seniority
is such that he or she will not be able to keep his or her regular job he or she mey elect to apply his or her department seniority to ajob paying a higher rate if he or she has previously held thejob in the department on a regular basis.
ii)	During a reduction of forces where an employee's department seniority is such that he or she wfll not te able to keep his or her regular job he or she msy elect whether or not to apply his or her department seniority to obtain a lower paid job or ajob paying the same rate of pay or accept a layoff uitil his or her regular job becomes available, provided however:
1) If during the layoff period the employee wishes to return to work aid so notifies the Company, he or she shall be called back to work as soon as his or her plant seniority entitles him or herto ajob.
a
13
2)	The application cf this provision shall not result in an employee, in the exercise of Xus or her rights, bumping an employee with less plant seniority
e Where a reduction of forces is caused by emergency conditions the application of seniority as agreed to under subsection 5(a) may be postponed for such periods as may be necessary not exceeding three (3) working days If the Company decides to exercise its rights under this provision, it shall notify the Committee as soon as
possible
Section 6:	Seniority Retention
Seniority during lay-off shall be retained on the following basis
a)
Employees with less than one (l) year's service shall retain their seniority for a penod of eight (8) moths
Employees with one (1) or more years service shall retain their seniority for one (1) year, plus one (I) additional month foreach year of service up Io an additional six (6) month period
c)	A laid-off employee's seniority retenuon as provided for in a) or b) above will be reinstated in the event of reemployment before the expiry of seniority retention and on the completion of one day's work
Section 7:	Rehiring or Re-establishment of Forces
a)
b)
I n case of re-establishment of forces, "demoted" employees shall have first claim on their previously held jobs and m such event jobs shall not be posted
When rehuing after a reduction offerees, employees shall be notified by telegram or registered letter if residing within a 100 mile radius of Quesnel, mid they shall be rehired in order of their plant seniority, provided that they reply to the telegram (or fetter) in tne amnauve within mnety-SE (96) hours and appear rot later than seven (7) days from the tune the telegram or fetter was sent. However, employees resident in the Province cf Alberta or the Yukon Territory shall be given one (1) additional day's time for reporting aid any employees resident in any ocher Canadian province or the United States shall receive two (1) additional day's tune for reporting All employees shall, upon returning to employment within the required nurber of days of being notified by the Company, retain all seniority rights It shall be the employee's responsibility to keep the Company informed of their addresses during lay-off
SecttortiL’ Probation
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, ail employees aze hired on probation Hie probationary period shall continue for thirty (30) working days, during which tune such employees are to be considered temporary ^livoricefson^lind during this same period no seniority rights shall be recognized Upon completion of thirty (30) working days such employees shall be regarded as regular employees and shall then be entitled to seniority dating from the day cn which they entered tlie Company's employ, provided however, that the probationary period of thirty (30) working days shall only be cumulative within the three calendar months following the date cf entering employment
a)
14
b)	Clause (a) of this section does not apply to employees who move from one operation of a Company to another operation of the same Company within thirty (30) days for those laid off, and within ninety (90) days for those terminated as a result of a permanent closure.
c)	It is agreed that probationary employees will have preference over casual employees for any work performed during the normal work week, subject to competency.
d)	It is further agreed that in the efplicatim of (c) above, probationary employees will be called in for work in accordance with their hiring date, unless such call-in is beyond the control of the employer, and is subject io the employee being competent to perform the work. This obligation doe-s not apply where the employee has worked one shift in the 24 hours period.
Section 9:	Reinstatement
In any case where an employee has been transferred by the Company to a supervisory position and at a later dace ceases to be a supervisory worker and the Company desires to retain their services, reinstatement can be made within the bargaining unit provided however, that supervisory workers reinstated in the bargaining unit must return to thejob held at the time of their promotion to a supervisory position.
Section 10; Absence Without Just Causa
An employee who is absent without leave for a period of more than three (3) consecutive working days, who cannot show just Cause for such absence, shall forfeit all seniority rights.
a)	Weekend workers and others not desirous or available for regularemployment shall be regarded as casual employees, and shall not accrue any seniority.
b)	Workers who are hired for temporary employment and signify that they are available and who an in fact available for permanent employment shall be considered as relief workers as soon as they have worked thirty (30) days within the three (3) calendar month period following their date of hiring, they shall accrue seniority from their date of hiring.
Section 12:	Interdepartmental and Inter-plant Bidding
The seniority provisions of this Agreement shall apply separately to each Division and Department; ajvj there shall be no bidding between the Logging and Plywood Sections, except:
a) Employees of the Plywood Section may bid to the position of Second Class Riverman in the Logging Section in accordance with their Company Seniority and in the event an employee obtains a job such employee's Logging Department Seniority shall start from the date of his/her successful bid but their Company Seniority shall remain
unchanged.
IS
b)	Employees of the Legging Section whose jobs are permanently eliminatedor who wish to transfer permanently to the Plywood Section may bid on Jobs in the Plywood Sectim in groups 1, 2, or 3 in accordance with their Company Seniority and in the event an employee obtains the job his/her Plywood Section Seniority shall start from the dare of their successful bid, but their Company seniority shall remain unchanged
c)	Employees of the Sawmill Division, Planermill Division and the Office Division who have been laid off shall, in the eventjob openings occur in the Plywood Section or Logging Section, be given preferential hiring on the basis of saiimiy entitlement.
ARTICLE IX - T.FAVF OF ABSENCE
Section 1:	Injury or Illness
The Company will grant leave of absence to employees suffering injury or illness for the term of this Agreement, subject to a medical certificate if requested by the Company. The employee shalfinave a reasonableperiod of time to present such medical certificate. The employee shall report or cause to have reported the injury or illness which requires his/her absence to the Company as soon as may be reasonably possible.
Section 2:	Written Permission
Ary employee desiring leave of absence must obtain permission in writing from the Company for such leave, except in cases of illness or injury covered by Section I above.
Section 3;___Compassionate Leave
The Company will grant leave of absence up to a maximum of six (6) months without pay to employees for compassionate reasons or for educational or training or extended vacation purposes, conditional on the following terms:
a)	That the employee apply at least cne (I) month in advance unless the grounds for such application could not reasonably be foreseen,
b)	That the employee shall disclose the grounds for application.
c)	That the Company shall grant such leave where a bona fide reason is advanced by the applicant, or may postpone leave for educational or training purposes where a suitable replacement is rot available.
d)	That the Company shall be required to notify the Shop Committee of its decision in respect of any application for leave under this Section.
e)	It is agreed that employees questing leave of absence, for extended vacations during the period June 15th to Sept. 15th shall only be granted such leave, once every three (3) years, and that a record be kept for the purpose of rotating such leaves.
0 That employees making application for leave cf absence for "extended vacations" shall apply least one (!) month in advance.
g)	All earned vacations must be taken in conjunctionwith an "extended vacation leave".
16
h)	The Company will grant a reasonable period of extended maternity leave without pay to female employees where there is a valid reason.
a)	When death occurs to a member of a regular full-time employee’s immediate family, the employee will be granted an appropriate leave of absence for which he shall be compensated at his regular straight time hourly rate of pay for his regular work schedule for a maximum of three (3) days.
b)	Piece workers who are entitled to bereavement leave shall be compensated in accordance with the principle established in Article XU, Section 2 (b) of this Agreement.
c)	Members of the employee’s immediate family are defined as the employee’s spouse, mother, father, brothers, sisters, sons, daughters, mother-in-law, father-in-law, step-parents, grandparents, grandparents-in-law, grandchildren, stepchildren, sons-in-law and daughters-in-law.
d)	Compensable hours under the terms of this Section will be counted as hours worked for the purpose of qualifying for vacations and for recognizedpaid holidays, but will not be counted as hours worked for the purpose of computing overtime.
Section 5:	Jury Duty	C "3	r
7	*
a)	Any regular full-time employee who is required to perform jury duty, coroner’s jury, Crown Witness, or coroner’s witness on a day on which they would*normally have worked will be reimbursed by the Company for h e difference between the pay received forjury duty and their •regular straight time hourly rate of pay for their regularly scheduled hours of work. It is understood that such reimbursement shall not be for hours in excess of eight (8) per day or forty (40) per week, less statutory pay received forjury duty. The employee will be required to furnish proof ofjury service and jury duty pay received.
b)	Any pieceworker who is required to perform jury duty shall be compensated for the difference between statutory pay received forjury duty and theirjob rate in accordance with the principle established in Article XII, Section 2(b) of this Agreement.
c)	Hours paid forjury duty will be counted as hours worked for the purpose of qualifying for vacations and for recognized paid holidays, but will not be counted as
overtime.
a) The Company will grant leave of absence to employees who are appointed _or elected Union office for a period up to and including two (2)years. Further leave"of absence may be granted by mutual consent. The employee who obtains this leave of absence shall return to his/her Company within thirty (30)calendar days after the completion of their term of employment with the Union.
hours worked for the purpose of computing Section 6:	Union Business	“S " ^
17
any negotiating	uic uiicumuuiku YTwuwuifccii vi suuciiea. i
that they may carry out their di :ti » t shalf -f tl U ii m
> In order for the imp ty t i pla tl s mp oy 'it . < pi t ubsti ui , it is agreed that before the employee receives this leave of absence, as set forth in cia s (a) and (b) above, the Company will be given due notice in writing in the case of i twenty (20) calendar days, and iu thi a se of b) fi 'e (5 c ilendar da s
5
c)
The Company will grant leave of absence foi c paign purposes to candidates fo Federal, Provincial or Municipal elective public office for periods up to and including eight (8) weel i, provided the Company is given due Mice in writing of twenty (20)’ calendar days, unles: the need for such application could not reasonably t ft re le l
31 iplo elected or appointed tc Fed© al, Pi a as
< t Ice I k where the term of public office is t Com pan v reasonable notice for absences from work 1 1 sine ’
or of i
r :ern ittentl; shall give a idu ting K nicipal
The employee who obtains this leave of absence shall retom to his within thirty (30) calendar days after completion of public office.
ARTICLE VACATIONS WITH PAY With respect to annual vacations and Senior 1;_________C_ rvi
p the following provisions will tpj
with one or two	service	by
0 i '^‘"Agreement shall be two (2) weeks, d the pay therefore shall be based upon ft percent (5 %) of the total wages cr salary xne 1 by the employee during li period f ■ t (80) hours at the hourly rate	job, whichever is i
^ Section 2 : Two to Seven 1 n Sewice

-0
_IL
with
this Agreement shall be I ree (d) tsa, id th pay therefore shall be based upo i seven percent (7%) of the total wages or salary earned by the employee during the period of entitlement, or one hundred and twenty (120) hours at the hourly rate of the
employee’s regular job, whichever is greater.
The j	week	this	when
convenient for the Company but does not have to be consecutive with the vacation period provided for in Section 1 \ lin
18
Section 3:	Seven to Fifteen Years Service
a) The annual vacation for employees with seven (7) to fifteen (15) years service
covered by this Agreement shall be four (4) weeks, and the pay therefore shall be based upon nine percent (9%) of the total wages or salary earned by tie employee during the period of entitlement, or one hundred and sixty (160) hours at the hourly rate of the employee's regular jcb, Whichever is greater.
b) The additionalone (1) week vacation provided for in this Section may be taken when convenient for the Company but does not have to be consecutive witfi the vacation periods provided for in Sections 1 and 2 herein.
Section 4:	Fifteen to Twenty-Four Years Service
a) The annual vacation for employees with fifteen (15) to twenty-four (24) years service covered by this Agreement shall be five weeks, and the pay therefore shall be based upon eleven percent (11%) of the total wages or salary earned by the employee during the period of entitlement, or two hundred (200) hours at the hourly rate of the employee's regularjob, whichever is greater.
b) Subject to the provisions of Section 8 herein, the additional one (i) week vacation provided for in (his-Section may be taken consecutively with the vacation periods provided for in Sections 1, 2 and 3,
Section 5:	Twenty Four to Thirty Ifears Service
O Q
a)	The annual vacation for employees with twenty-four (24) to thirty (30) years service covered by this Agreement shall be six (6) weeks, and the pay therefore shall be based upon thirteen percent (13%) of the total wages or salary earned by the employee during the period of entitlement, or two hundred and forty (240) hours at the hourly rate of the employee's regularjob, whichever is greater.
b)	Subject to the provisions of Section8 herein, the additional one (I) week vacation provided for in this Section may be taken consecutively with the vacation periods provided for in Sections I, 2, 5, and
Section 6:	Thirty Years Service
4.
a)	The annual vacation for employees with thirty (30) years service covered by this Agreement shall be seven (7) weeks, and the pay therefore shall be based upon fifteen percent (15%) of the total wages or salary earned by the employee during the period of entitlement or two hundred and eighty (280) hours at the hourly rate of the employee's regularjob, whichever is greater
b)	Subjectto the provisions of Section 8 herein, the additional one (1) week vacation provided for in this Section may be taken consecutively with the vacation periods provided for in Sections 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5.
Section 7:	Vacation Pay on Termination
An employee whose employment is terminated shall receive vacation pay at the appropriate percentage cf the wages or salary earned during the period of entitlement in accordance with the employee's years of service
Section 8?
a) Vacations for employees shall be taken at such tune as mutually agreed upon by the Shop Committee and the Company when quantity and regularity of production shall not be impaired.
t>) All earned vacations must be taken.
Section 9:
a)
b)
d)
The calculation and comparison of the vacation pay amounts developed by the percentage of gross wages method and the hours tines the regular job rate method will be completed and the greater amount paid to the employee within fourteen (14) days of the common vacation pay cut-off date or the employee’s anniversary date The Company’s present cut-off or anniversary date method shall be continued unless a change is agreed upon between the Company and the Local Union.
For the purposes cf this Article, the rate of the employee’s regular job will be the rate cfthe employee’s regular job at the date of the common vacation cut-off date or the employee’s anniversary date, as the case may be.
In the case of /pi^worigg^the rate of the employee’s regular job will be determined by computing the employee’s hourly average earnings for the days actually worked during the pay period immediately preceding the common vacation cut-off date or the arployee' sanniyersary date, as the case may be.
On the date when an employee completes one (1), two (2), seven (7), fifteen (15), twenty-four (24,), or thirty {30) yean of service and where there is a common cut-off date for all employees in the operation, the employee will receive:
i)	In Ue case of one (I) year, om percent (1 %) of his gross earnings
between the date of employment and the date of the fast common cut-off date:
ii)	In the case of two (2), seven (7), fifteen (15), twenty-four (24), or
thirty (30)years, two per cent (2%) of his gross earnings between the date of his last anniversary date and the date of the last common cut-off date.
Section 10e Vacation Pay • Percentage of Wages Method
The following shall be considered as days actually worked for determining vacations with pay for an employee after cne (I) continuous year of employment.
a) Absence on Whiter's Compensation up to a period of one (1) year, provided that the employee returns to his employment.
5) Absence due to illness up to a period of one (I) year, provided that the employee
returns to his employment. The employer shall have the right to require a certificate from a qualified medical practitioner.
20
c)	Absence due to bereavement leave in accordance with the terms and conditions of Article DC, Section 4,
d)	Absence due to lime served on Juiy Duty, including Coroner's jury, or time served as a Crown witness or Coroner's witness in accordance with the terms and conditions of Article IX, Section 5.
e)	Any other absence duly approved by the employer in writing shall be credited towards entitlementfor annual vacation, but time spent cn such leaves of absence shall not be counted in computing vacation pay.
Section 11:	Qualifications for Vacation Pay • Regular Job Rate Method
a)
b)
i)	In order for an employee to qualify for the amount generated by the hours times the regular job rate method, the employee must have worked a minimum of fifteen hundred (l,500)hours in the employee's fust year of service and a minimum cf one thousand (1,000) hours during the employee's succeeding years of entitlement.
ii)	Where there is a common vacation pay cut-off date, for purposes of calculating minimum hours as in (i) afcove, the calculation period shall be from the cut-off date in one year to the cut-off date in the succeeding year.
iii)	Where there is no common vacation pay cut-off date, for purposes of calculating minimum hours as in (i) above, the calculation period shall be from the employee's anniversary date in one year lo his anniversary date in the succeeding year
For purposes of computing the requisite hours the following will be included:
i)	AH hours worked:
ii)	Statutory Holiday hours:
iii)	Juiy and Crown Witness duty;
iv)	Bereavement leave:
v)	Vacation hours;
vi)	Time not exceeding (1) year, lost as the result of an accident recognized as compensable by the Waders' CompensationBoaid and suffered during the course <£employment, shall be considered as lime worked for the purpose of qualifying for vacation, provided that the employee mums to his employment.
vii)	Time not exceeding one (I) year, lost as the result of a non-occupationai accident or illness, shall be considered as time worked for the purpose of qualifying for vacation, provided that at the time of the accident or illness the employee has been on the payroll for not less than one (1) year and that he returns to his employment. It is understood that the employer may require that the employee provide a certificate from a qualified medical practitioner.
7!
viji) Time lost as a result of lay-off shall not be considered as time worked for the purpose of qualifying for requisite hours.
ix)	Employees who report for work and vbo receive call time payment shall be credited with eight (8) hours for any such shift for purposes of computing requisite hours under this Section, Any employee who qualifies for call time m a day shall receive credit under this Section for eight (8) hours or credit for the hours for vhicii wages were paid, whichever is greater,
x)	All hours worked in more than one (1) division of the parent company
as a result of transfer or lay-off.	’
Section 12; Employment Standards Act
Pan 4 - Annual Vacation ofthe Employment Standards Act, S B.C., 1980, c.iO and amendments thereto, except where varied or modified by the provisions herein, shall become a pan cf this Agreement.
ARTICLE XJ - SAFETY AND HEALTH
Section 1;
The Company and employees shall co-operate to assure safe working conditions and methods and to devise plans for the furtherance of safety measures. Equipment and devices mutually agreed upon shall be provided by the CScitpany.
The management of every operation shall maintain an Accident Prevention Committee (hereinafter called 'Safety Committee”) of four (4) to twelve (1.2) markers according to the size of the operation. Markers of the Safety Committee- shall be designated in equal numbers by the employees and the Company. Employee representatives shall be regular employees in the operation with at least one (Igear’s experience,
Seetion 3;
When inspections and Safety Committee meetings are held in the same week and the total
I* /j tune spent by any employee exceeds the two hours provided for, employees are to be ^^compensated at straight time rates for all time spent on inspections and Safety Committee /Meetings ouKfdSot normal working hours	f —*---------—’
F
_	u/hn aNpnH Rafotv fninttiiltM moalinnc rtf	inu»it>o3(tnnr dUT ng WOt Sfl
suffer
employee’s orm d r< id 1 c rs nl< s u i ag e d.
uy,te,
Safety Committee members 1 meetings, Hie members
be notified at least one week in advance of the time and r ;l 11 ii the necessary arrangements so that
§ at the
22
Section 4:
Any one or all employees working in the immediate proximity when a fatal, accident has occurred may, without discrimination, refrain form working the balance of the shift.
Section 5:
Two First Aid Attendants will be in attendance in the Plywood Plant if available on all regular shifts.
Section 6:
Suitable emergency transportation will be provided for the Company's operations in the Quesnei area.
Section 7;
Effective July I, 1989, an rWA-Forest Industry Safety and Health Research Program be established on the following general principles:
a)	The Plan will be jointly trusteed.
The Plan is W be funded on the basis of an Industry contribution of one-half cent ('/z cent) per hour per employee per hour worked, effective July 1, 1989.
The trustees vail be appointed in the first year of the Agreement and will meet during the first year to establish objectives and operating and administrative procedures.
ARTICLE XU • STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
~77c)
* /
All erciblpyeesy who w affiffLpjfsaf'feDa' /.Jjood Friday. B.C. Day, Victoria Day. .'Canada Bay Labour Dayf Thanksgiving Day/Jbmemorarcce	Daydfnd
Boxing Day Aali be paid rate and one-half for all hours •	' '
) worked.
In the event one of the above statutory holidays falls on Sunday, the following Monday shall be observed as the statutory holiday.
In the event of a statutory holiday falling on a Tuesday. Wednesday or Thursday, and when tie company and the Shop Committee mutually agree, the said holiday may be observed the preceding Monday or following Friday respectively.
In the event one of the statutory holidays falls on a Sunday or Monday, the employee's regular day off, the employee shall be entitled to take his/her next regular day off. This will apply only to those regularly employed on a Tuesday to Saturday work schedule.
In the event one of the statutory holidays falls on a Saturday, it shall be observed on the preceding Friday or the succeeding Monday, or as agreed upon between the company and the Shop Committee,
23
0 When a statutory holiday falls on a Friday, employees working on a Tuesday to Saturday work week, by wnhial agreement between the Company and the Plant Committee, mm/ work on t±e Friday Statutory Holiday at the straight time job rates and substitute Saturday as the Statutory Holiday.
a)	Any hourly rated ory	ho qualifies for the following holidays,
that is: New Year’s Day, Good Friday, Victoria Day, Canada Day, B.C. Day, Labour Day, Thanksgiving Day, Remembrance Day, Christmas Day and Boxing Day, under the conditions set exit below, shall be paid for the holiday their regular job rate of pay for their regular work schedule. The hours so paid for the Statutory Holiday shall not be included in the weekly work schedule.
b)	The holiday rate of piecework employees shall be established by computing their daily avenge earnings for days actually worked during the previous thirty ($0)days.
c)	An employee working on a paid holiday shall be paid, in addition to his/her holiday pay, a rate mid one-lialf for any hours worked on a shift designated as a "Holiday Shift*,
d)	An employee, to qualify for holiday pay, must have been on the payroll thirty (30) calendar days immediately preceding the holiday, and must have worked his/her last regularly scheduled workday before, and his/her first regularly scheduled work day after the holiday, unless his/her absence was due to a compensable occupational injury car illness, which occurred vriJhin six (6) months preceding the holiday, or such employee was on authorized leave of absence. In the case of illness or injury the Company shall have the right to request a certificate from a qualified medical practitioner, Notwithstan3ingthe other requirements of this Section, an employee may only qualify for statutory holiday pay if he/ she works cne (D day before and one (l) day after the holiday providing the said two (2) days fall within a sixty (60) calendar day period. Employees while on leave of absence under Article IX Section6 (a) or any employee while a member of a negotiating committee under Section 6 (b) shall not qualify for paid statutory holidays
e)	Employees as defined under Article Vm, Section 11 shall not receive pay for Statutory Holidays.
This Sectionbecomeseffective September 1, 1978 This Personal Floating Holiday is in lieu of the proposal Heritage Day but this Sectdm shall come into qpeaatim era its effective date even if Heritage Day has or has not been proclaimed,
a) Personal Floating Holiday
Regular Ml time employees will be granted one Personal Floating Holiday during each contract year of the Agreement, to be arranged at a time suitable to the employee aid the Company, so that there will be no loss of production.
Section 2:
24
b)	Qualifying Conditions
When the Personal Floating Holiday is taken, an employee shall be paid for the said holiday at his regular job rate of pay for his regular work schedule, subject to the following conditions:
i)	A new employee must have been on the payroll for not less than ninety (90) consecutive calendar days to qualify for the Personal Floating Holiday
ii)	An employee will not qualify for the Personal Floating Holiday if on leave of absence for more than nine (9) months in the contract year, except in the case of sickness or injury.
iii)	An employee shall apply on an approved fom at l< ast seven 7) days in advance, for his Personal Floating Holiday. T! s employee shall receive notice of the disposition of his/her request a minimum of 7
hours prior to the requested EerscralFloating Holiday
jv) If an employee is required to work on his Personal Floating Holiday
after a definite date has been designated for such holiday, the employee shall be paid overtime for such work at the rate of time and one-half. The employee will then be entitled to take the holiday with pay at a later date to be mutually agreed upon.
v)	Personal Floating Holiday not taken or scheduled by April 15 of each contract year will be scheduled by Management.
vi)	A Personal Floating Holiday shall not be scheduled on an employee's regular rest day.
vii)	Where an employee chooses Saturday or Sunday as a Personal Floating Holiday straight time rates will apply.
ARTTCT.F. XIU . CAT.T, TIME
Section 1:
Any employee reporting for work on the call of the Company shall be paid his/her regular rate of pay for the entire period spent at the place of work in response to the call with a minimum of, in any one day:
a) Two hours pay at the employee's regular rate except when the employee's condition is such that he is not competent to perform his duties or he has failed to comply with the accident prevention regulations of the Worker's Compensation Board; or
If the employee commences work, four (4) hours pay at his regular rate, except where his work is suspended because of inclement weather or reasons completely beyond the control of the Company
25
Swtlon V,
Notice cancelling the work call for any Division of the Company shall be sufficient if given in the following manner
a)	First Shift - Notice cancelling the call for work shall be given the previous evening at 10:00 p.m. and at 10:30 p.m. ccr not later than one and ore-halfhours before the shift ccnmaices ,by means of two broadcasts within a half hour period,
b)	Second Shift - Notice cancelling the call for work shall be given between 12:00 noon
and l ;0C p,m., but not later than three hours before the shift commences, by neaps of two broadcasts within a half hour period.
c)	Third Shift- Notice cancelling the call for work shall be given between 5;00 p.m. and 6:00 p,m., but not later than three hours before the shift commences.
All broadcasts shall be over Station CKCQ,
ARTICLE XIV - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
When a grievance arises in the plant, underthe terms of this Agreement it shall be dealt with
in the following manner:
a)	The individual employee and the Job Steward shall first take up the matter with the foreman in charge c£ the work, within fifteen (15) days.
b)	If the grievance is not satisfactorily settled in this way, the same individual employee, with the Committee, shall take up the problem with the foreman.
c)	If a satisfactory settlement is not then reached it shall be reduced to writing by both Parties when the Committee shall take up the grievance with the Plant Superintendent If desired, the Union Business Agent shall accompany the Committee, and either party shall have the right to “quest the presence of the employee involved
d)	If the grievance is not then satisfactorilysolved. it shall be referred lo the Union and Management.
e)	If a satisfactory settlement is rot then reached, it shall be dealt with by arbitration as hereinafter provided.
f)	If a grievance has not advanced to the next stage, under b), C), d), car e). within fourteen (14) days after completion of the preceding stage, then the grievance shall be deemed to be abandoned, and all rights of recourse lo the grievance procedure shall be at an end. Where the TJfaicn is not able to observe this time limit by reason cf the absence of the aggrieved employee or the Committee from the operation, the set tune lilt shall not apply. The Union shall be bound to proceed in such a case as quickly as may be reasonably possible.
26
ARTICLE XV - RIGHT OF REFERENCE
Section 1;
If the Company and the Union fail to agree upon an interpretation of the Agreement either party shall nave the right to refer the matter to the Joint Industry Committee (hereinafter called "Joint Committee") and if either party does make such reference, the other party must accept the reference.
Section 2;
The Joint Committee shall consist of three (3) representatives selected by the IWA-CANADA, Nacptiatnag committee and three (3) representatives selected by the Company.
Section 3:
Where an interpretation of the Agreement has been referred to the Joint Committee, this reference shall be for the period of forty-eight (48) hours or longer by mutual consent of the parties to this Agreement. In case the Joint Comminee agrees upon a recommendation of interpretation, this shall be furnished ii writing to the Union and to the Company.
Section 4:
In the event the Joint Committee members disagree all the facts in the case as found by the Union and the Union members of the Joint Comminee shall be placed in writing by the Union representatives and submitted to the Company and lothe Union members involved. The facts in the case as found by the Company and the Company members of the Joint Comminee shall be placed in writing and given to the Union member employees for their information.
If a satisfactory interpretation on the point in question is not reached, either party may refer the question to arbitration as hereinafter provided.
ARTICLE XVI - ARBITRATION AND INTERPRETATION
Section 1:	Interpretation
a)	In case of any dispute arising regarding the interpretation of this Agreement which the Parties hereto are unable to settle between themselves, the matter shall be determined by interpretation in the following manner:
Either party may notify the other party, in writing, by registered mail, of the question or questions to be interpreted. After receiving such notice and statement, each of the parties will then refer the matter to the Interpreter named in this Section.
b)	She decision of the Interpreter will be finaland binding upon the Company and the Union.
c)	It is agreed that_______________________________, shall be the Interpreter for the
purpose of this Section.
27
d)	In the event said Interpreter is unable to deal with any matter under this Section, the Patties will meet and mutually agree upon a temporary replacement.
Section 2 Arbitration
a)	In the case of any dispute arising under Ibis Agreement which the Parties are unable to settle between themselves, the matter shall be determined by arbitrationin the following manner:
Either party may notify the other patty in writing, by registered mai of the question or questions to be arbitrated. Each of the parties shall, within five (o) days, refer the matter to the chosen Arbitrator.
b)	The decision of the Arbitrator will be final and binding upon the Company and the Union.
C) If any Arbitrator finds tint an employee has been unjustly suspended or discharged, tint employee shall be reinstated by the Cfcnparty without loss cf pay and with all his rights and privileges preserved under the term of this Agreement, provided always that if ± is shown to the Arbitrator that the employee has been in receipt of wages during the period betw'een discharge (or suspensionjand reinstatement, or date cf failure to rehire and re-hiring, the amount so receival shall be deducted from wages payable by this Company pursuant to this Section.
d)	"he parties agree with the principle of One-Man Arbitration. The Arbitrator will be chosen on a rotation basis from a group of Arbitrators which will be selected by the parties.
In the event either party is dissatisfied with the permanent choice of an Arbitrator, the parties agree that other choices cf Arbitrators will be considered by both Patties.
Section 3:
"he Company and the Union shall bear in equal proportions the expenses and allowances of the Arbitrator and stenographic and secretarial expense and rent.
Section 4:
Any arbitration to be held hereunder shall be held at the City cf Quesrvel or such other place as may be decided,
Section 5:	Expedited Arbitration
A Committee shall be established to develop aid implement a system of expeditedarbitration of grievances. The chairman of this Committee will be H. Allan Hope. Q.C. The committee shall report t) the patties not later than December 31, 1984.
ARTICLE XVn - PAY DAYS
Ttj Company shal provide for pay days. ery seco 1 u iy. r eipl< will be p ii during their r gular working hours, and each employee shall be famished with an
itemized statement of earnings and monthly deductions.
28
ARTICLE XVm - GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section 1:
Official Union representatives shall obtain access to the Company’s operation for the purpose of this Agreement by written permission which wiil be granted by the Company on request and subject to such reasonable terms and conditions as may be laid down by the Company.
Section 2:
The rate of Board and Lodging shall be $2.35 per day.
Section 3:	No Strike Pendine Grievance and Arbitration Procedure
The Unim shall not cause, promote, sanction or authorize any strike, sit-down, slowdown, sympathetic strike or any other interference with work by the employees for any cause whatsoever util ail provisions of this Agreement relating to grievance and arbitration procedure have been complied with, unless failure to comply with such procedure is due to any act or refusal to act or misconduct of the Company.
Section 4:	No Lockout Pendine Grievance and Arbitration Procedure
The Company shall not create or institute any lockout of the employees with respect to any dispute between the Company and the Union, or the Company and its employees until all provisions of this Agreement relating to grievance and arbitration procedure have been complied with, unless failure to comply with such procedure is due to any act or refusal to act or misconduct of the Uhiai or its employees.
Section St
a)	The Union may refuse to handle material produced by a strike bound fim
b)	The Union shall have the right to respect another Union’s picket line.

Section 6:
Die Company shall provide plug-ins (for block heaters only) in the parking lot to accommodate all employees, at no cost to the employes.
Section 7:	i- $ ' & ' '
It is agreed that the parties to the Agreement will meetjointly to discuss and implementa Planerman’s Training Program.	^	"2--— 3? 3
$4" -T -75
permanent Plant Closure
a)	Effective July 1st, 1982, sixty (60) days notice of closure will be provided.
b)	Effective July 1st, 1982, employees terminated by the Company because of permanent closure of a manufacturing plant shall be entitled to severance pay equal to one (1) week’s pay for each year ca continuous service and thereafter in increments of completed months of service.
29
ARTICLE XIX - FORESTRY ENVIRONMENTAL COMMITTEE
Forestry Environmental Committees shall be established by the Company and the Local Union.
The details concerning the structure, operation and terms of reference must be agreed to by the Company and the Local Urim prior to implementation
ARTICLE XX - MEDICAL AND HEALTH AND WELFARE
&) A i~ Mr
Section 1:	Medical Coverage ____
a) Medical coverage including Extended health Benefit coverage shall be provided by
the Company at no cost to the employee. The Extended Health Benefit coverage shall include hospitalization coverage up to a maximum of $8 50 per day.
/
I Heal'* “	~
bfaScaL coverage eligibility shall be the first of the month following date of employment.
Participation in the Plan is W be a condition of employment.
d)	Thai the appropriate policies for Medical and Dental coverage be amended to provide coverage for dependents over the age of twenty-one (21) years but not over the age of twenty-five(25) years, provided that the dependents are attendinga recognized educational institution.
Effective July 1st, 1982, a Vision Care Program be instituted to provide forpayment LgDto a maximum cf one huxted dollars ($100.00) per person in any twenty-four (24) consecutive month period for charges incurred relative W the purchase cf lenses and frames or contact lenses when prescribed by a person legally qualified to make such prescription.
Section 2:	Institution
It is agreed that a Health and Welfare Plan be Instituted with the principles hereinafter set out
Section 3:	Provincial Board of Trustees
Weldwood of Canada Limited, together with Forest Industrial Relations Limited, the Interior Forest Labour Relations Association, the Council onNorthem interior Forest Employee Relations North wood Pulp & Timber Ltd., Canadian Erast products Limited, and die rWA-CANADA agree to establish one set of trustees for the purpose of developing a common text, a common trust agreement, and a common employee bocidet for the six Health and Welfare Elans, coyenng Life Insurance, Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance, and Weekly Indemnity.
Theparties agree that a Joint Committee, representing Forest Industrial Relations Limited, the Interior wrest Labour Relations Association, the Council onNorthem Interior Forest Employee Relations, Canadian Forest Products Limited, Northwood Pulp Sc Timber Ltd., Weldwoodcf Canada Limited, and the rWA-CANADA will be established W study the most effectivenethod of administration of the ELais, reporting to the Parties no later than July I, 1984
30
Section 4:	Weldwood -IWA Board of Trustees
The Board of Trustees,catposed of two (2) members representing rWA-CANADA and two (2) members representing the Company, are responsible for the administration of the IWA • Weldwood Health and Welfare Plan. The Trustees are also responsible for the selection of earner, funding adjudication of compassionate appeals, and Health and Welfare problems directly related to the Elan.
Sections:	Insurance Coverage
The following coverage will be provided by the Company.
a)	Group Life Insurance for each qualified employee as follows:
effective June 15, 1991, $ 45,000.00 effective June 15, 1992, S 45,000.00 effective June 15, 1993, $ 45,000.00
b)
Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance for each qualified employee as follows:	"
effective June 15, 1991, $45,000.00 effective June 15, 1992, $ 45,COO.00 effective June 15, 1993, $ 45,000.00
2,1?//
Weekly Indemnity as follows: Effective January 1, 1992, in the amount of four hundred and twenty-six dollars fi426JXli oer week for fifty-two weeks; based on the furst (1st) day of accident and the sixth (6th) day of illness.
The. Union agrees that if the Company mrimtams Weekly Indemnity Elsn benefits which will m ea the standard requirements for full premium reduction for "wage loss replacement plan underthe Unemployment Insurance Act", the employees 5/l2th share of the premium reduction is retained as payment in kind in the provisions of the Weekly Indemnity Plan benefits.
d)	In the case of disability caused by non-occupational illness, Weekly Indemnity
benefits will be payable commencing the first day of any such absence where the illness results in the claimant being ^hospitalized as a bed patient and in cases where surgery is performed which necessitates loss of time from work.
e)	Absences due to the same or related causes will be considered one continuous absence unless the employee returns to full-time work for at least four (4) continuous weeks between absences.
f)	The Officers of rWA-CANADA, Local 1-424 shall, upon written request, be
permitted to examine statements of premium income, claims and disbursements of the above insurance plan. Such requests will not be granted more frequently than once every three (3) months during the term of this Agreement.
31
g)	Third Party Subrogation
The parties agrees to recommend to the Trustees of the Health and Welfare Elan that effective on the date c£ ratification cf this Memorandum a third party subreption clause be adopted so that the Weekly Indemnity Elan can be reimbursed from damages recovered from a liable third party for Illness, injury car Income loss. The Plan will be entitled to recover the full amount of benefits paid to the member which exceeds ICO# of the member's pre^dlsabliity gross Income, G ross income wiij be calculated by using the member's regular hourly job rate times (x) 40 hours. Trustees to work out the application and details, includingthe deductionc£ legal fees from the settlement and the executionof a reimbursement agreement.
Section 6:	Dental Plan
a)	A dental plan will be provided based on the following general principles:
t) Basic dental services (Plan A) - Elaipays 80% cf approvedscheduleof fees.
ii)	Prosthetics, crowns, and bridges (Plan B) - Plan pays 50% of approved scheduleof feu
iii)	Orthodontic (PlanC) - Elan pays 50% of approved schedule of fees (lifetime maximum $2,000.00), There shall be no waiting period for coverage.
Section 7:____General Principles for Health and W^fare and Dental
a)	Premium cost for insurance shah be paidby the Company.
b)	Participation in the Elan is to be a condition cf employment.
c)	Any new employee who has not worked in covered employment in the last eighteen months will be eligible to become a covered employee on the first day of the month following completion of the probationary period. However, for such employee, coverage for the Medical Services ELsnasd for the Extended Health Benefit will apply on the first day cf the month following the date of employment.
d)	Coverage will be portable in all unitscovered by collective agreements between members c£ Forest Industrial Relations Limited, the Interior Forest Labour Relations Association, the Council oo Narthan Interior Forest Employee Relations, Canfor limited, Northwood Pulp & Timber Ltd., Weldwood of Canada Ltd,, and the IWA and there shall be no waiting period for qualified employees changing employers within the Industry.
e)	Coverage during lay-off will be provided as follows:
j)	Employees with cue (l)ar more years seniority - six (6) months
ii)	Employees with more than three (3) months but less than one (I) year
seniority • three (3) months.
32
In order or reinstatement f h return to regular full-time np regular full time em ?1< n< it \ within a flo iting | < ii	>f ilr
>I<
i' ci rage to occu Jierc iu be a i em. An employe* etur i: to i he is employed for 10 working days
3)) consecutive days.
0	iso, an i >Ii t 5tur to work for at least n working day
□d le ii 1 k ,g day /ill b	1 for i il month. in
dditii to rny iy ift co ftn to c he was tl f t recall occurred (uring the period of lay-off o
Weekly Indemnity coverage will be eliminated for an employee on in exten leave of absence under Leave of At n< >, ti< 1 IX, Si ti 3, Compassionate ] provided however that such »lo < is L gible fc \ ekly Indemnity igi on the agreed upon day of return to n In order to qualify for this coverage the i| ilo u t ha c	1 to i p > of residence in Bricisi C >li ibia i lies his
ssbily:	Li sd b n to be hospitalized and satisfies the requirements of tl c cL
adjudicator : ri< . 1i the case of a compassionate appeal dealing with disability incurred during an extended leave of absence the T ustees have the right to review certain circumstances.
Employees on extended leave of absence r vi >f Absen e, ti j:,
C ft p ission; te Lea will pay their own premiums for Medical Se 'Ian, Extended Health Benefit, and E 1 Plan, while tl ,	1 or Group Life
Insurance and Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance will be >ai by the employer during such extended leave of absence
ARTICLE XXI.- LONG TERM DISABILITY PLAN	T? _________________
a)	The Plan will become effective July 1st, 1982.	£? S	^*0- ^
b)	The Plan to be funded on a 50/50 COST sharing basis with contributions cf 20 cents per hour per employee per hour worked, of which the Industry will contribute 10 cents and the employee will contribute 10 cents commencing July 1st, 1988,
Effective July l, 1993, the Plan to be funded on a 50/50 cost sharing basis with contributions of twenty-two cents (22C) per hour per employee per hour worked, of which the Industry will contribute eleven cents (lie) and the employee will contribute eleven cents {! K)
c)	A Board cf Trustees will be constituted with equal representation from the Uoim and
the Industry, to be responsible for establishing the terms of the Plan and the on-going administration.
d)	The Trustees will select a qualified actuary to assist them and to insure the establishment cf actuarially sound reserves to fund the benefits provided by the Plan
e)	The Trustees will enter into a Trust Agreement which will include provision for a procedure to settle any major dispute that may arise with regard to the provisions of the Plan.
33
ARTICLE _XXH PENSION PLAN Section 1:
The Parties agree to establish a Pension Plan in accordance with the terms and conditions cf the Memorandum of Agreement of the Pension Sub-Committee dated August 17, 1977,
Section 2;
The Industry contribution to the Pension Plan of cne cfcfldai: seventy cents ($1,70) per hour per employee per hour worked, which became effective July 1, 1988, will be increased by seventy cents (700) per hour, effective July I, 1992, to two dollars forty cents ($2,40) per hour per employee per hour watted. Effective July_L. 1993. employee contributions often cents (IOC) per hour per employee per houf'wflfkea will Wadded to the aboye contribution me.
ARTICLE XXm - APPRENTICESHIP TRAINING PROGRAM Section 1:
a)
b)
cl
d)
The Company and the Uriai agree to institute the Apprenticeship Training Program for Tradesmen as outlined in this Agreement. The following trades to be part of the Apprentice Training Program:
Carpenters
Electricians
Welders
Heavy Duty Mechanics Machinists
Millwrights Pi pefitters-Steam fitters
Forklift & Carrier Mechanics Fitters, Ettas and Benchmen
e the C u ny x^u es a p c n or p to maintain a valid pressure ii ite they will notify the Local Uni in The Company will pay the cost of the
examination fee and fare allowance a *d h si time
s for the taking of tl exam
If an official of the Department of Public Works requires welder to attend school, and the Company at their discretion still requires the pressure certificate, the Company
will pay the cost of the examination fee, fare allowance, and net lost time wages
That a Committee will be established to review and upgrade the Apprenticeship Training Program,
Section 2:_Selection of Apprentice Procedure
1) PURPOSE
The purpose rf tl mar	rea»
inde	wi
mer that the
is agr ement is to es ablish an equitable criteria which will give nable assurance that the apprentice, upon completion of his l become a proficient tradesman and to assure the Union and its senior applicant who meets the criteria will become an appre
34
2)	EDUCATIONAT, PREREQUISITES
The educational requirement for general trades in Grade 10 or equivalent and Grade 12 or equivalent for the electrical trades.
3)	APTITUDE TESTING
Applicants will be tested in accordance with the bank of tests as recommended by the Apprenticeship Branch of the Ministry of Labour. Testing procedure will be as follows:
a)	A standard set of testing instructions and procedures will be developed and authorized by tie parties to this agreement and communicated to appropriate management and union personnel.
b)	The passing grade for the tests will be established by the Apprenticeship Branch of the Ministry of Labour.
c)	The passing marks for the Mechanical Trades and Electrical tests are established as being a combined requirement of. firstly, seventy percent (70%) in the Mechanical Aptitude and Space Relations segments of the tests, and, secondly, seventy percent (70%)in the overall final scoring of the tests.
d)	All scoring computations of percentages in each section and overall scores of the tests are recorded as being rounded off to the next highest percentage point where any fraction of a percentage point exists.
e)	fete will be conducted on plant property or near the plant by Management; a Union representative will be present when the tests are given and marked.
f)	Tests recommended for the self-evaluation will be made available and may be taken by an interested employee. Failure to take such tests shall not jeopardize an employee’s application for any apprenticeship.
4) RE-TESTING
a)	It is agreed that when an applicant has failed to pass the Mechanical Aptitude and Space Relations section of either the Mechanical or Electrical tests, the employee will be allowed to bid and be re-tested one (I) additional time for each test.
b)	Results of all tests will be retained on file in the Company’s office. An applicant who has met the criteria and successfully passed the requisite lest and is the senior for any future apprenticeship posting within a three (3) year period, will be considered the successful applicant.
c)	An applicant who qualifies and has passed the Mechanical Aptitude and Space Relations section of any of the available tests, but failed the overall tests, will be eligible to bid and be re-tested for any future apprenticeship posting.
d)	A master copy of the tests will be made available to IAVA Regional Council No. I on request.
- 35
5)	MAINTENANCE. MONITORING. AND DISTRIBUTION OF TESTS
a)	Sufficient copies of the tests, answer sheets, and marking overlays will be maintained by Weldwood c£ Canada Limited, Vancouver Office and/or the Apprenticeship Branch <± the Ministry <± Labour of the Province <± British Columbia.
b)	lS±: materials will be supplied on q uest to those operations requiring same and will be returned immediately after use.
c)	Lteof the tests will be monitoredby Weldwood of Canada. Vancouver Ifead. Office and/or the Apprenticeship Branch of the Ministiy of Labour the Province of British Columbia. Such naiitraing will maintain a record of applicants’ tests, successful applicants' scores recorded, seniority applied, and provide a follow-upof the successful applicants' progress throughout training and an appropriate post training period. Ocher information as deemed necessary by the parties to this agreement will be made available as agreed.
6)	PROBATIONARY PERIOD
The successful applicant will be given a probationary period up to ninety (90) calendar days.
7)	SELECTION REVIEW
Where a dispute arises out of the selection of an apprentice, that Cannot be resolved at the plant level, the matter will be discussed by Management and the Local Union.
8)	TRIAL PERIOD
This agreement is for a twelve (12) monthtrial period, from the date of this agreement. Either party may terminate this agreement upon one (1) month's written notice after the completion of the eleventh month.
ARTICLE XXIV - EVALUATION
Section It Plywood Evaluation
a)	The Parties agree to mate joint application for the services cf the evaluators from
Forest Industrial Relations and TWA-CANADA, when these services are necessary for the purpose of evaluating or re-evaluating categories in the plywood section of the Company.	~
b)	Where Forest Industrial Relations and IWA-CANADA have agreed to changes in the present Plywood Evaluation Plan, the Company and the Local Union agree to meet to discuss the possible implementation of these changes in the Company's operations covered by this A n t No impiementatii« if :ti may be made ill o t prior agree nent b « 1 Company and tire ckal Union.
36 -
Section2:___Sawmill Rate Determination
as I
Association and International \ Dodworkers of America, will be instituted in accordance with Schedule No. 5
a)	Marshalling points to be established by mutual agreement for Rivermen, Boatmen, and Scalers.
b)	Travel time shall be paid for £. straight time rates for time in excess of eight and one-half (8'A) hours many one day between laving the designated marshalling point, and rdaiming to the said point, provided always that the said eight and one-half (8'A) hour period is based upon one-half hour for lunch and may be extended to a maximum of a further fifteen minutes where the lunch time exceeds one-half hour.
c)	Employees away from the designated marshalling point in excess cf ten (10) hours shall be paid at rate and one-half for the period in excess often (10) hours.
<j) The Company shall avoid innecessaiy delay in transporting employees from the marshalling point to the place of work and return.
ARTICLE XXVI - TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE
Section 1:	iGcati
The Company shall notify the Shop Committee and the Union six (6)months in advance of intent to institute changes in working methods or facilities which would involve the discharge or laying off cf employees.
The Company shall co-operate with the Government of British Columbia and participate in
or i
Section 3;____Rate Adjustment
a) it if )j t wh is set back >a vei p lid job because < f mech u u
technological change or automation t ill receive the rate of his/her regular job at the time of the setback for a period of three (3) months and for a further period of three (3) months be/she will be paid an djusted rate which will be midway between the rate of his/her regular job at the t ne of die setback and the rate of his/her nev	.
regular job. At the end of	this	ix (6 month period the rate of his	Ik	new regul
job will apply. However, s	cl	»plo * will 1 t 5t ption f t<	ni	iting his/1
< At i ent a d acceptin;	n< pay as outlined ii 5 Si< 4	:1c	n idi
1 ;l	:i this o tint within the above-referred-to six (	1 period.
37
b) Following an application of (a) above, where an employe is set back to a lower pad job because cf an application of Article vm - Seniority brought on by mechanization, technological change or automation be/$he will receive tbe rate cf his/her regy lar j ob it the time of the setback fora period of three (3) months and for a further period of three (3) months he/she will be paid an adjusted rate which will be midway between the rate cf hia/her regularj ob at the time of the setback and the rate of his/her new regular job, It the end of this six (6) month period the rate of his/her new regularjob will apply.
Section 4?____Severance Pav
Employees discharged, laid off or displaced from their regularjob because of mechanization, technological change <x automation shall be entitled to severance pay cf ow week's pay for each year of service with the Company. The amount calculated under such entitlement shall not exceed a maximum of thirty (30) week pay. This Section shall rot apply to employees covered by Section 3(b) above.
ARTICLE XXVII - SAFETY EQUIPMENT
Section I:
a)	Where the following articles of equipment are required to be used by the Company or by the Worker's Compensation Board, the Company shall:
1.	Supply new employees with the articles of equipment as required
2.	Supply employees moving to mother department with the articles of equipment they require and that they do not have at the time of the move, or
3.	Replace articles cf equipment as requiredwhen they are presented worn oi damaged beyond repair oy an employee at no cost to the employee
1.	Aprons
2.	Hard Hats
3.	Welding goggles, etc,
4.	Flotation equipment
5.	Dust protection
6.	Bye protection
7	Ear protection
8.	GOoves
Notwithstanding the foregoing all articles ofequipment to be replaced only when they are presented worn or damped beyond repair: otherwise the replacement will be at the expense ofthe employee,
b)	The Company shall be required to make available at cost, to those employees who are required to wear them, the following articles:
1.	Safety shoes
2.	Rain gear
3	Coveralls
38
An employee who is required to wear caulk boots by the Worker's Compensation Board shall receive annually a caulk boot allowance of
Effective July 1, 1988 - $100.00
j) If he has six (6) months or more seniority, or
ii)	Upon obtaining six (6) months seniority,
iii)	Season lay-off shall not interferewith the qualifying period herein.
c)	Companies that supplied safely equipment and clothing at no cost to the employee on the effective date or this Agreement, will continue to So so at no cost to the employe.
ARTICLE XXVm - TOOT, INSURANCE
a)	The m shall, up the signin % of the Coast Master Agreement, at its expense insure oi damage r Ic caused by fire or flood, the tools of its empl >yees which are ii to be sed in the perfoi mance of theii rk
b) The [ ty all, jp i igningoflhe >a t ;t g	, tit expense,
r u i tools of its employees which e qui:	to I e in q To i tee o
their work, for loss by theft where the tools are stored in a designated place of safer within the control of the Coi <an i and there is > cill [ e i \ 11 ni»in The insurance coverage provided ial be subject to a lecu J Ii >1 S i.) ii ei t of eacl loyee’s claim
Mj'i in i YTT . rriN-TRArTING OUT
a) The Company will not contract out any work that is performed by employees in the Bargaining Unit at tile effective dale of the agreement.
b) Current pracuces in operations shall be agreed on with the Local Union in writing Until such time as agreement is reached the above Clause (A) only will apply
ARTICLE XXX - DURATION OF AGRF.F.MF.NT
Section 1:
This Agreement is a renewal and revision of the previous Collective Agreement entered into
between the Company and the Union on July 1st, 1988
Section 2:
a) The Parties hereto mutually agree that this Agreement shall be effective from and
after the 1st day.of July, 1991, to midnight the 30th day of lune, 19§4^-and thereafter from yedr to year unless written notice of contrary Intention is given by either Party to the other party within four (4) months immediately preceding the date of expiry
39
The notice required hereunder shall be validly and sufficiently served at the Head Office of the Party of the First Part, or at the Local Office upon the Local Offit	of
th Union, Pa i of the S cond Part,	iii ft -(4) n< lttu ii r i< diately f re d
ti 1st day of J ly 1994 If no Agreement is reached at the expiration cf Eli s C ract and nego itions ire continued, the Agreei t shall remain in force up t 1 tune an Agreement is reached or until negotiations are discontinued by either ) '
The Parties hereto agrw* that thi British Columbia Art	0
) \ ^dav of
merat-im of Section 66 (2) of tie Labour Code of t the Master Agreement.
DATED this
FOR
AND:
WELDWOOD OF CANADA LTD.	IWA-CANADA
(CARIBOO DIVISION)	LOCAL 1*424, C.L.C,
E. & O.E.
Financial Secretary
40
WELD WOOD OF CANADA LIMITED. (CARIBOO DIVISION) EVALUATED CATEGORIES - PLYWOOD PLANT
GRAPE AND RATE CHART
Gr.
Lev.
Eff. July 1/91 Increment Rate
Eff. July 1/92 Increment Rate
Ell. July 1/93 Increment Rate
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8 9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16 17 IS
19
20 21 22
23
24
25
26 27
$17.07
17.18 17.31
17.42
17.60 17.73 17.92 18.08 18.25
18.43
18.61
18.77 18.96 19.17 19.35
19.56
19.77 19.98
20.19 20.46 20.75 21.02 21.29
21.56 21.84 22.11 22.39
$17.07
17.18 17.31
17.42
17.60 17.73 17.92 18.08 18.25
18.43
18.61
18.77 18.96 19.17 19.35
19.56
19.77 19.98
20.19 20.46 20.75 21.02 21.29
21.56 21.84 22.11 22.39
$17.92
18.03 18.16
18.27
18.45 18.58 18.77 18.93 19.10
19.28
19.46
19.62 19.81 20.02 20.20
20.41
20.62 20.83
21.04 21.31 21.60 21.87 22.14
22.41 22.69 22.96 23.24
EVALUATED CATEGORIES • PLYWOOD PLANT
JUNE 15/91 JUNE 15/92 JUNE 15/93
GRADE 1	$17.07	$17.07	$17.92
Diy Clipper Feeder Shipping Frame Man Dunnage Man
GRADE 2	17.18	17.18	18.03
Power Sweeper Operator Lily Pad Chipperman
41
JUNE 15/91
jure i$tn
GRADE 3	$17.31
ft Dryer Feeder Lathe Charger Attendant #1 & #2 Dryer Feeder Chr Shorer Steel Strapper cate Spiitter operator Panel Bin Attendant
GRAPE 4	n.42
Lathe Charger Attendant/Lathe Trainee Utility Man Green Chain Of/bearer ft Lathe Charger Attendant
GRADES	17.60
Sheet Turner Chip Car Loader
Dryer Grader - Offbearer Stnp Saw Operator Sheathing Grader Core Fader #2 Sc ft Lathe Charger Attendant - Lathe Trainee Sheathing Grader
GRAPE 6	17.73
Chip'n'Saw Attendant ■ Stud Offbearer Patch Line Patcher Clipper Operator
GRADE 7	17.92
Head Green Chain Man Assistant Hot Press Operator #2 Press
$17.31
17.42
17.60
17.73
17.92
-42 -
JUNE 15/93
$18.16
18.27
18.45
18.58
18.77
GRADE 8
JUNE 15/91
$18.08
Dryer Grader O.B,/Cert.
Dryer operator Glue Mixer Forklift Operator -Finish End Tallyman
Forklift operator- Shipping Oiler
---Ttacker/Strapper operator
GRADE 9	18.25
Forklift operator - Green End
Forklift Operator - Veneer & Spreader Press
GRADE 10	18.43
Log Loader- Vat Loading Log Loader - Vat Unloading Core Layer
GRADE 11	18.61
Chip Loader Operator Log Saw operator Ring Barker operator
GRADE 12	18.77
Suing Unit & Grade Line operator Standby Lather Operator/
Charger Attendant
GRADE 14	19.17
#2 Hot Press operator Sander/T & G/Forkiift Operator Grinderman
GRADE 15	19.35
Dryer operator
Dryer Operator- Weekends
GRADE 19
#1 Hot Press operator
20.19
.TUNE 15/92 JUNE 15/93
$18.08
18.25
18.43
18.61
18.77
19.17
19.35
20.19 43 -
$18.93
19.10
19.28
19.46
19.62
20.02
20.20
21.04
GRAPE 25
#2 Lathe Operator #3 Lathe Operator
GRAPE 26
#1 Lathe operator
.TUNE 15/91 JUNE l$m JUNE 1R/Q3
$21.84	$21 84	$22.69
22.11	22.1!	22.96
PLYWOOD DIVISION CATEGORIES UNDERRATE DETERMINATION’
(LOG YARD)
CATEGORY	JMEJ&31 JUNK rs/s?
Group 5;	$17.67	$17.67
Log Deck Chaser
Group«;	17 94	17 94
Short Log Deck Operator Long Log Deck operator
Gnaipft	18.71	18.71
#2 & #3 Cut Of Saw Operator/Prog ram mer
Group 10:	19.03	19.03
Licensed Scaler/Weighmaster
RI Cut-off Saw Operator/Programmer/Log S i
Group 12;	19.74	19.74
Log Loader operator
Group 14;	20.44	20 44
Wagner Operator
JUNE 15/93 $18.52
18.79
19 56 19.88
20.59
21.29
First Aid Attendant - Job Rate Flus:
"C" Ticket "B" Ticket "A1 Ticket 'AA' Ticket
.30 per hour .40 per hour .50 per hour .60 per hour
44
NON-EVAIJJATED CATEGORIES - PLYWOOD PLANT
PLYWOOD MAINTENANCE DEPARTMENT
Chargehand
Clean up
.TUNE 15/91
plus S. 11 $17.07
JUNE 15/92
$17.07
■TUNE 15/93
$17.92
2nd ClassEngineer	23.38
3rd Class Engineer	22.275
4th Class Engineer	21.02
Fireman (where the employee acting as Fireman has a '
Fourth Class Ticket)	19.485
Fireman	18.065
23.38	24.23
22.275	23.125
21.02	21.87
19.485	20.335
18.065	18.915
Fuel Bin Bunkerman	17.07
Maintenance UdJiiy Ffeon	17.13
Steam Plant Utility Ffen	17.44
Steam Plant Utility Man (has 4th Glass Ticket)	18.06
17.07	17.92
17.13	17.98
17.44	18.29
18.06	18 91
Truck Driver Plant	17.44
Truck Driver Plant (required to operate forklift parttime)	17.75
17.44	18.29
17.75	18.60
Warehouse Man Helper	17.36
Watchman	17.07
17.36	18.21
17,07	17.92
920 operator	17,75	17.75	18.60
Cat operator D8 (or smaller) 18.62	18.62	19.47
GROUP AND RATE CHART
GROUP EFFECTIVE	EFFECTIVE	EFFECTIVE
LEVEL JUNE 15/01	JUNE 15/92	JUNE 15/93
1	$17.07	$17.07
2	17.20	17,20
3	17.37	17,37
4	17.51	17.51
5	17.67	17.67
6	17,94	17.94
7	18.20	18.20
8	18.44	18.44
$17.92
18.05 18.22 18,36 18.52 18.79
19.05 39.29
45
GROUP EFFECTIVE
UtVKL JUNE 15/91
9	$18.71
10	19.03
11	19.40
12	19.74
13	20.08
34	20.44
15	20.77
16	23.11
37	21,47
18	21.82
19	22.14
20	22 59
21	23,01
22	23 44
23	23 87
EFFECTIVE
\
\
JUKE 15/92
$18.71
39,03
19.40
19.74
20,08 20,44 20.77 21.11 21.47 21.82 22 14
22,59
23.01
23,44
23,87
EFFECTIVE JUNE 15/93
$19.56
19.88 20.25 20 59 20.93
21.29 21.62 21.96 22.32 22.67 22.99 23.44 23.86
24.29 24,72
SAWMILL WAGE SCALE
ESTABLISHED BY THE SAWMILL RATE DETERMINATION PROGRAM
JUNE 15/91 JUNE 15/92 JUNE 15/93
GROUP 1
Clean-Up
GROUP3
Green Chain Puller
GROUP 4
Chipper Feeder
GROUPS
Soner Bin operator 01 Drop Soiter #3 Dtrp Sorter
GROUP6
01 and 02 Trimraer/Rotating
Sorter Stacker Operator
GRQUE.3
$17 07	$17	07	$17.92
17 37	17 37	18 22
17.51	17	51	18 36
17 67	17	67	18 52
17	94	17	94	18 79
18	20	18	20	19.05
Pocket Edger/Fixed Chipping Ifeds
46
	JUNE 15/91	JUNE 15/92	JUNE 15/93
GROUP8	$18.44	$18 44	$19.29
Log Cut-Off Saw Operator/Auto Barker Attendant Forklift Operator Circular Gang Saw operator			
GROW 11	19.40	19 40	20.25
Chip-N-Saw Operator			
GROUP 19	22.14	22.14	22.99
Circular Headrig Sawyer			
PLANER MILL WAGE SCALE
ESTABLISHED BY THE SAWMTTL RATE DETERMINATION PROGRAM
JUNE 15/91
GROUP 1	$17.07
Clean-up Strip Filer
GROUP 2	17.20
Clock Watchman Paperwrapper - End Sealer
GROUP 3	17.37
Planer Chain Puller Breakdown Hoist operator
GROUP 4	17.51
Breakdown Hoist Operator/
Strip Piler Car Loader
Receiving Tilt Hoist Operator (Planer End Loader)
Planer Chain Puller/Grade Stamper/Checker
GROW 6	17.94
JUNE 15/92 $17.07
17.20
17 37
17.51
18.05
18.22
18.36
17.94	18.79
47
Chipper Feeder/Set-Up/Swing Saw operator
JUNE 15/91
GROUP?	$18.20
Strapper Operator • Tallyman Planer Feeder
GROUP 8	18.44
Forklift Operator
GROUP 9	1871
Planer Feeder & Set Up
Auto Trinnner/Pregraded/(32* & under)
Grader #2
QROKEJU	19.40
Grader #1
GROUP n	19.74
Planerman #2
GRQUP-H4	20.44
Planerman
GROUP IS
G.S.L.A. Grader/	20.77
Grade Reader
JUNE 1S/92 $18.20
18.44
18.71
19.40
19.74
20.44
20.77
ESTABLISHED BY LOCAL AGREEMENT Grinderman	19.17	19.17
JUNE 15/93 $19.05
19.29 19.56
20.25;
20.59
21.29
21.62
20.02
MAINTENANCE DEPARTMENTS - ALL DIVISIONS TRADESMEN. APPRENTICESHIP AND MISCELLANEOUS RATES
CATEGORY	JUNE 15/91 JUNE 15/92 JUNE 15/93
(Certified)
Carpenter	$22,275	$22,275	$23,125
Electrician
Heavy Duty Mechanic Millwright
48
CATEGORY	.TUNE 15/91 .TUNE 15/92 TUNE 1V93
Steamfitter-Pipefitter
Helper	$18.17
Helper, 1st Year Completed 18,435 Improver, 2nd Year Completed 18.92 Improver, 3rd Year Completed 19.47 (1st six months)
Improver, 3rd Year Completed 20.42 (2nd six months)
Journeyman	22.065
Journeyman - Certified	22.275
$18.17	$19.02
18.435	19.285
18.92	19.77
19.47	20,32
20.42	21,27
22.065	22.915
22.275	23.125
Machinist
Helper	18.265
Helper. 1st Year Completed 18,525 Improver, 2nd Year Completed 19.00 Improver. 3rd Year Completed 19,56 (1st six months)
Improver, 3rd Ifea: Completed 20,42 (2nd six months)
Journeyman	22.065
Journeyman - Certified	22,275
Forklift & Carrier Mechanic
(8.265	19.115
18.525	19.375
19.00	19.85
19.56	20.41
20.42	21.27
22.065	22.915
22.275	23.125
Helper	18.17
Helper, 1st Year Completed 18.435 Improver, 2nd Year Completed 18,92 Improver, 3rd Year Completed 19.47 (1st six months)
Improver, 3rd Year Completed 20.26 (2nd six months)
Mechanic	21.88
Mechanic - Certified	22,09
18.17	19.02
18,435	19.285
18.92	19.77
19.47	20.32
20.26	21.11
21.88	22,73
22.09	22.94
Painter Helper	17.995
Painter Improver.	18.91
1st Year Completed
Painter	21.68
Painter - Certified	21.91
Welder - Group 3	21,88
Uncertified
Welder - Group 2	22.09
(FI-103, DPW 1, DPW 2)
Welder - Group 1	22.275
(F1-1Q1, FI -102)
17.995	18.845
18.91	19.76
21.68	22.53
21.91	22.76
21.88	22.73
22.09	22.94
22,275
Note I:	Must be qualified as required under the standard Forest Industry Welding
Specifications and either having completed the three year apprenticeship program or having worked in the trade for six thousand (6,000) hours as a Welder.
- 49 •
CATEGORY	JUNE 15/91 JUNE 15/92 JUNE 15/93
FILING ROOM TRAPES:
Saw Fitter Helper	$18.17
Saw Fitter,	18.66
1st Year Completed Saw Fitter	21.71
Saw Fitter	21.92
(with Certificate)
Circular Saw Filer Helper	21.92
Circular Saw Filer	22.065
Circular Saw Filer *	22.275
Certified
$18.17	$19.02
18.66	19.51
21.71	22.56
21.92	22.77
21.92	22.77
22.065	22.915
22.275	23.125
Benchman Helper	22.275
Benchman	22.75
Benchman (wLtiiCertificate)	22.96
22 275	23.125
22.75	23.60
22.96	23.81
Chargehand
Plus .11
First Aid Attendant • Job Bate Plus:
"C" Ticket "B* Ticket ’A’ Ticket 'AA' Ticket
.30 per hour .40 per hour .50 per hour .60 per hour
WFXDWOOn OF PANADA LTD. - T.OO YARD WAGE SCALE NON EVALUATED CATEGORIES
CATEGORY	JUNEim
Utility	$17.20
Strapper	17.369
Bucker/Marker/Scater	19.67
Crane Operator/Repair and 20.77 Maintenance Responsibilities
Charge hands	Bins. 11
$17.20
17.369
19.67
20 77
JUNE 15/93
$18 05
18 219
20.52
21 62
First Aid Attendant- Job Rate Bins:
"C’ Ticket "B" Ticket ■A" Ticket 'AA" Ticket
.30 per hour .40 per hour .50 per hour .60 per hour
- 50
WELDWOOD OF CANADA LTD. - OUESNEL OFFICE WAGE SUPPLEMENT ■ .ITINK 15. 1991 START 6 MONTHS 12.MOMHS 18 MONTHS 24 MONTHS
GROW 1	$13.90
Junior Clerk, Planer
GROUP 2	13.97
GROUP 3	14.25
Receptionist Statistics Clerk Personnel Clerk Accounts Payable Clerk
GROUP 4
Accounting Clerk Payroll Clerk
GROUP6
14.55
15.40
$13.97	$14.83	
14.20	14.55	15.26
14.63	15.13	15.98
14.96	15.49	16.05
15.82	16.41	17.00
16.34	16.94	17.61
17.20	17.95	18.66
17.94	18.66	19.42
16.71
17.64
Senior Clerk, Planer Draftsman
Mini Computer Operator
GROUP 7	15.89	16.34	16.94	17.61	18.28
Storekeepers
GROUPS	36.73
Senior Payroll Clerk Junior Accountant
GROUP 9	17 35
Purchasing Clerk
WELDWOOD OF CANADA LTD. - OUESNEL OFFICE
WAGE SUPPLEMENT- JUNE IS. 1992
START 6 MONTHS 12 MONTHS 18 MONTHS 24 MONTHS GROUP 1	$13.90	$13.97	$14.83
Junior Clerk, Planer
GROUP 2	13.97	14.20	14.55	15.26
- 51 -
START
GROUP 3	$14.25
Receptionist
Statistics Clerk Personnel Clerk Accounts Payable Clerk
GROUP 4	14.55
Accounting Clerk Payroll Clerk
GROUP 6	15.40
Senior Clerk. Planer Draftsman
Mini Computer Operator GROUP 7	15.89
Storekeepers
GROUPS	16.73
Senior Payroll Clerk Junior Accountant
GRQUE3	17.35
Purchasing Clerk
6 MONTHS 12 MONTHS 18 MONTHS 24 MONTHS $14.63	$15.13	$15.98
14.96	15.49	16.05	16.71
15.82	16.41	17.00	17.64
16.34	16.94	17.61	18.28
17.20	17.95	18.66	19.40
17.94	18.06	19.42	20.18
WELPWOOD OF CANADA LTD. - OUESNEL OFFTCF WAGE SUPPLEMENT - TUNE 15. 1993 START 6 MONTHS 12 MONTHS 18 MONTHS 24 MONTHS GROUP-!	$14.75	$14.82	$15.68
Junior Clerk. Planer
GROUP 2	14.82	15.05
GROUP 3	15.10	15.48
15.40	16.11
15.98	16.83
Receptionist Statistics Clerk
Personnel Clerk Accounts Payable Clerk
52
START
GROW 4	$15.40
Accounting Clerk Payroll Clerk
GROUP 6	16.25
Senior Clerk, Planer Draftsman
Mini Computer operator GROUP 1	16.74
Storekeepers
GROUP 8	17.58
Senior Payroll Clerk Junior Account
GROUP 9	18.20
Purchasing Clerk
jMONTHS HMQNTHS 18 MONTHS $15.81	$16.34	$16.90
16.67	17.26	17.85
17.19	17.79	18.46
18.05	18.80	19.51
18.79	19.51	20.27
53
MONTHS
$17.56
18.49
19 13 20.25
21.03
SCHEDULE NO. 2 BIDDING PROCEDURE
1 The Bid Sheet shall be posted on the plant bulletin board for a minimum of twenty-four(24) hours.
MOTE; Woods bids shall be posted.
2.	The Personnel Department shall screen bid sheets for the successful bidder csi the basis of seniority and competency.
3.	The Personnel Manager shall maintain a list of successful bidders on the plant bulletin board which list shall accumulate for three (3) months. As the successful bidden arc selected, their nates shall be entered with the date and. if possible, the date the job teyrmag effective. All bids shall be entered five (5) days after the bid sheet comes down. Successful bids shall become effective on the working day after the bid sheet comes down.
4.	A 'Successful Bid Sheet" shall be published weekly with copies given to the Department Superintendent, Foreman's Office, Payroll Section and Committee.
5.	In the event the Personnel Manager and/or Superintendent aid the employee concerned and/or Committee Chairman cannot settle on an effective date which has been delayed because of exceptional conditions., a Committee meeting shall be held to appraise the exceptional conditions. Failing settlement in this manner, grievance procedure shall be Instigated,
6.	(a) Ttasi commencing employmentat Weldwood of Canada Ltd., all employees
automatically become part of a 'labour pool'. To set out of the labour pool and acquire departmental seniority employees must bid an posted jobs or be placed on a job where no one else has bid
(b)	Alternatively, employees may find themselves in the labour pool owing to insufficient departmental semority lo remain m their department;
(«) in case of curtailment of forces; or
(ii) incase of the disappearance cf jobs owing to technical change.
(c)	In the event that senior employees in the labourpool fail to bid, the Company and the Committee shall make every effort to place such employees. In regard to employees as defined under Sub-section (b) (i) an (b) (ii) above:
(i)	Placement by the Company and the Committeeshall not interfere with the employee’s right to return automatically to the jobs which they held before reduction when the jobs are re-established,
(ii)	The ninety (90) day bidding restriction (see Article 8 below) does not apply, and;
54
(iii)	Such employees may bid within the new department until such time as their former job re-opens; at which time such employees must decide whether to return to their old job (with no loss in department seniority) or stay in the new department (seniority starling at the date of placement.
(iv)	Nothing contained in (c) (i) to (iii) above shall interfere with the applicationcf Sectim 5(d) of Article VUI.
(d)	Any employee in the labour pool who refuses ajob in line with his seniority on any given day shall relinquish his seniority rights for that day.
7.	When more than one employee bids on ajob and the successful bidder fails to qualify, all employees who "bid shall be. considered before the job is re-posted. However, if the job is not filled within six (6) weeks, it shall be re-posted.
8.	Department seniority shall start on the day on which ajob is successfully bid into the department, Successful bidders within a department may not bid for any job outside that department until ninety (90) days have elapsed unless their bid is the only bid However, a bid within a department is valid unless a junior employee in the same department who does not come under the ninety (90) day restriction bids forthejob. Successful bids for the job training have no effect on the employee's power to bid for regular jobs.
9.	The foregoing bidding procedure may be revised annually.
55
2.
SCHEDULE NO. .2
(REFERENCE: SEE ARTICLE XXIin PLYWOOD JOB EVALUATION
Principles and Procedures:
The implementation and administration of the job evaluation program shall be ii	/
accordance with the principles and procedures as sec out in a manual dated Sqatatber, 1955, and entitled "Job Evaluationtfenual for Operational Handy Paid Jobs in die Plywood Industry of "British Oolmbia" as amended July 1, 1966 and as further amended April, 1971 (herein referred to as the 'Manual')
Point Ranee and Increment:
All jobs in Group Ore, die point range of which is 0 to 81, shall be paid the minimum rate for common labour as provided in Article DC, Section 1 The point range for subsequent groups shall be ten (10), i.e Group Two (82-91), Group Three (92-101), etc. The wage increment curve for die plywood industry is as follows:
GRADE EFFECTIVE	EFFECTIVE	EFFECTIVE
LEVEL JUNE 15/91	JUNE 15/92	JUNE 1S/93
1	$17.07
2	17.18
3	17.31
4	17.42
5	17.60
6	17.73
7	17.92
8	18.08
9	18.25
10	18.43
11	18,61
12	18 77
13	18.96
14	19,17
15	19.35
16	19.56
17	19.77
18	19.98
19	20.19
20	20,46
21	20.7s
22	21.02
23	21 29
24	21.56
25	21.84
26	22.11
27	22.39
$17,07
17.18 17.31
17.42
17.60 17.73 17,92 18.08
‘ 18.25
18.43
18.61
18.77 18.96 19,17 19.35
19.56
19.77 19,98
20.19 20.46 20.75 21.02 21.29
21.56 21.84 22.11 22.39
$17.92
18.03 18.16
18.27
18.45 18.58 18.77 18.93 19.10
19.28
19.46
19.62 19.81 20.02 20,20 20.41
20.62 20,83
21.04 21.31 21.60
22.41
22.69
22.96
23.24
56
3.
4.
Industry .lob Evaluation Committee!
There shall be a committee constituted aid named the Industry lob Evaluation Committee (herein referred to as the "Plywood Evaluation Committee) to consist of one member representative of the Company, aid cue member representative of Regional Council No. 1, International Woodworkers of America.
Function of Plywood Evaluation Committee;
(a)	The Plywood Evaluation Committee shall assure general responsibility for the administration of the job evaluation program.
(b)	The unanimous decision of the sad Committee shall be final aid binding on the Parties hereto,
5.	Plant Job Review Committee
(a)	There shall be a committee constituted in each Plywood Plant named the Plant Job Review Committee (herein referred to as the "Review Committee"), to consist of two (2) members representative of Maiagement and two (2) members representative of the employees. At least one (1) representative of Maiagement must be a member cf the Plant's salaried staff or Maiagement, aid at least one representative cf the employees mud be ai employee of the Plant whose job is subject to Plywood Job Evaluation. Maiagement may choose their second representative from amongst persons not employed st the plait, and the Union may do likewise except that neither Party may choose as its representative a member of the Plywood Evaluation Committee or aiy person who is employed as a Job Evaluator by Forest Industrial Relations Limited or by Regional Council No. 1 cf the International Woodworkers of America.
(b)	The Company shall reimburse any of its hourly pad employees for time lost while acting as a member of the Review Committee or while presenting Information, regarding his/her own job, bedxsrea regularly convened meeting of the Review Committee. The Company shall not be responsible for remunerating employee representatives who annoC its hourly pad employas.
6.	Function of Review Committee
(a)	The Review Committee will be responsible for seeing that all requests for
evaluation or reevaluation of jobs an adequately and accurately documented before being passed to the ELywood Evaluation Committee for further action. The documents required will include a "Request for Job Evaluation' form grhnit-h=H either by an individual employee or by local Management, and a fully completed Job Description which provides sufficient infcanatdaifor the subsequent work of the Plywood Evaluation Committee. The form of the documents, the procedu res for submitting and handling them, and the time limits for completion may be amended as required by the Plywood Evaluation Committee under the authority given them by Article 3 of this supplement.
57 -
(b)	Decdskns of the Review Committee respecting the appropriateness of a request for evaluation or re-evaluation, or respecting the adequacy and accuracy of documents, shall be by unanimousagreement Exiling such agreement within the established lime limit, the Review Committee shall, at the request cf any one of its matters. Immediately forward the Request for lob Evaluation, together with any other documents on which there is unanimous agreement, io the Plywood Evaluation Committeeand shall then have no further responsibility for documenting that request,
(c)	When the Plywood Evaluation Committee has made a decision respecting the evaluation of a job, it shah communicate that decision to the appropriate Review Committee. The Review Committee will 1e responsible for informing Management and the employees concerned, giving reasons for the outcome where these are available. A decision of die Review Committee that an Application for Job Evaluation should not be forwarded to the Plywood Evaluation Committee will, similarly, be coni mu cheated with reasons to those concerned.
(d)	Nothing in this Article limits the right of the Plywood Evaluation Committee to determine the facts about any job. by direct observation or otherwise, or to amend any job, description cr specification, submitted rthem in support of a
Request for lob Evaluation form
7.	Application of Program:
The job evaluation program shall apply to all employees in the plywood industry except Journeymen, Tradesmen, Improvers, Helpers and Powerhouse and Boom Crew
Job Evaluation descriptions are written with the intent to set forth the general duties and requirements of rite job and shall not be construed as imposing any restriction 01 the right of the Company to assign duties to employees other than those specifically mei done d in job descriptior s provided always that if rite assignment of such duties cha tges h 5 job c intent sufl c aitly to justify a review of the evaluation rite Plywood Eva luatk Ci iitt< sh til 1! i it s vi 11 b it! th di as set out herein.
_____E______1____
(a)	When a job h is mow d to another grade as 1 n suit of re evaluation, h wage rate for the n w grad: shall be effective on the date th it Managemei < the employee has applied to the Review Committee for re-evaluation
(b)	e a job is moved to a lower grade as a result of re-evaluation, th into at liiiliuiitihii/l jot it as a 1 circle rate subject to the visions 4 P b II ) reii
58
10.	New lobs Created
Where the Company has exercised its right to create a new job, a temporary rate shall be set by Management. The permanent rate for the saidjob as determined by the Plywood Evaluation Committee shall be effective as of the date thejob was installed. If the evaluated rate for the new job is lower than the temporary rate the incumbent(s) shall be allowed to continue at the temporary rate.
11.	Bed Circle Jobs
The Company shall supply the Union with a list of employees holding red circlejobs, the said list to include the nameof the employee, name ofjob category filled, the evaluated rate for thejob, and the actual rate paid.
Employees on lsd circle rates who are promoted to a higher grade shall regain the reef circle rate if subsequently found incompetent to continue in the higher grade.
(c)	Employees holding red circlejobs who are demoted during a reduction of forces, shall be paid only the evaluated rate for thejob to which they are assigned. If at a later date an employee is reassigned to hidher former job, he/she shall regain his/her red circle rate.
(d)	When the Company terminates a job, or a job is not occupied during a period of one year, a record as to the cancellation of the applicable job description and classification shall be established.
(e)	If an employee is temporarily transferred at the request of the Company he/she shall retain his/her existing rate or receive the rate for the new job, wliichever is higher. On return to his/her regular job, the said employee shall regain his/her red circle rate.
12.	Seniority:
(a)	Subject to the provisions herein set out. Article VIH, (Seniority) shall continue to apply.
(b)	Promotions shall be made only where a vacancy exists
13.	Referral Procedure (Apneal Procedure!
(a)	When the Plywood Evaluation Committee has decided the outcome of a Request for Job Evaluation, it shall transmit its decision to the appropriate Plant lob Review Committee.
(b)	When an employee’s request for re-evaluation results i n no change being made in thejob grade, or in a reduction, or when Management requests results in no change or in an increase, the Plywood Evaluation Committee shall give to the appropriate Review Committee a short statement of the reasons for the decision. The statement should not go into gnat detail, but should indicate the criteria used in sufficient depth to show the applicant that the request was given adequate attention.
59
(c)	An evaluationdooe by the Plywood Evaluation Committee shall be final and binding on the Parties but, at any time after five years since the last evaluation or re-evaluation of a job, Management or an individual employee may submit a request for re-evaluation of that job and no other reason than the elapsed time shall be necessary
(d)	If the Plywood Evaluation Committee is unable to reach agreement regarding the disposition of a Request for lob Evaluation or any other matter regarding the job evaluation program which falls within their jurisdiction the matter shall be referred to Forest Industrial Relations Limited and to the Internationa] Woodworkers of America. Regional Ocuncil for settlement.
(e)	All communication between any Plant Review Committee and the Plywood Evaluation PnmmiHM referred to above shall be effected by sending one copy to the trim representative or representatives on the Committee and one copy to the Company Representative or representatives. In the case of communications to a Plant Review Committee, the Union representatives will be addressed care of the office of the appropriate Union Local and the Company representatives care c£ the Company’s office at the Plant. In the case of communication to the Plywood Evaluation Committee, the Union representative will be addressed care of the offices of Regional Council No 1 of the International Woodworkers of America. Vancouver, and the Company representative care of the office of Forest Industrial Relations Limited.
14.
A program of training i stituted ti detail; < 'Oil )f A
for members of the Review f at sh lib	db<
i * ilC
Committee in each plant shall t the Company and the International
60
SCHEDUEENO. 4 EIRE FIGHTING AGREEMENT
BETWEEN:
WELDWOOD OF CANADA LIMITED, (CARIBOO DIVISION)
AND:
IWA-CANADA,
LOCAL 1-424, A.F.L., C.I.O., C.L.C.
The following terms and conditions shall be applicable for the duration of the current Collective Agreement during "Company Responsibility Fires" in which the employed employee relationship exists under the said Collective Agreement.
1. Definitions
(a)	Accidental Fire: Any fire not deliberately ignited by the Company to dispose of slash or waste, and which quire s active measure to extinguish,
(b)	Slash Escape Fire: Any slash fire ignited by the Company which has escaped the pre-determined boundaries and requires active measures to extinguish.
(c)	Slash Control Fire: Any slash fire ignited by the Company which is contained within the predetermined boundaries, or alternatively, any slash fire which has escaped such boundaries but is not considered out cf control and does not require active measures as contemplated in (a) and (b) above.
(d)	Company R nsibilitv Eire; Any fire which the Company is responsible for taking measures to extinguish pursuant to the provisions of the Forest Act.
(e)	Forest S enice Fire: Any fire in respect of which the B.C, Rxsst Service accepts responsibility for direction of measures to extinguish.
(f)	Fire Fighting Rates: The rates of pay for fighting Company Responsibility Fires hereinafter set out in this Agreement.
(g)	Regular .Toh Rates: Rates of pay to employees for the performance of their regular jobs, as set out in the Wage Supplementto the Collective Agreement
(h)	Statutory Rates; Rates of pay established by B.C. Forest Service for fire fighters.
2. Company Controlled Timber
(a)	Notwithstanding the foregoing, when the Company directs Company
employees to fight fire on Company controlled timber, or to fight fires on property adjacent to Company controlled limber, which is threatening Company controlled timber, the Company will pay those employees at the fire fighting rates set out in Section 3 of tins Supplement.
6!
(b)
(<)
Where the B. C. Forest Service directs the Company o provide its employees for fighting fires in circumstances other than those set out in a) above, those em iloyees will be paid at the statutory rate.
The part ies agrt 5 to bold t between ibe IW \ and the E
:h i II parallel 1 discussions held din th	ti ofthis section.
3.	Fire lighting Rates
(a) The basic n shall be $17.7 p< hour effective June IS, 'l and $17 76 per 1 effective June 15, 1992, and $18.61 per hour effective June 15, 19 1 hall apply to all employees engaged in fighting Accidental or Slash ] >e F ires except those performing one of the following fire fighting jobs:
CATEGORY
JUNE 15/91
JUNE 15/92
Criw Boss	$19.93	$19.93
Cat Operators	19.38	19.38
Power Saw Operators
(own saw)	21.13	21.13
Mechanics/Heavy Duty	Mechanics; Regular Job Rate
Slip-On Ttrk and/or Trailer
Tanks with Pump Driver/
Operator	19.38	19.38
Water Triric Truck with Pump Driver/Operator	18.62	18.62
Service Tnick/Bus Driver 17.76	17.76
Pumpman	18.10	18.10
TUNE 1S/93
$20.78
20,23
20.23
19.47
18.61
18.95
(b)	Straight time rates will apply to all employ ees throughout the period during which the said employees are engaged ui fire fighting. This shall not include cook and bunkhousepersonnel, tradesmen, mechanics, or other categories, servicing, feeding or Supplying t i firefighters from areas removed from the area of the fire or fires, unless the duties performed during any day In question are exclusively related to fire fighting operations.
(c)	Regular jcib rates will apply only for the duratim of the regular production shift in which the fire started.
(d) When employees are waddng in job classifications during fir: fighting, other than those set out herein, job rates shall apply.
4.	Board and Lodging
(a
Employees who commute from home a: camp are expected to "cany a lunch’. Additional meals where required will be st Company expense.
62
(b)	Employees required to live away from their private residence will receive board and lodging at Company expense.
(c)	Employees living in fly camps will receive board and lodging at Company expense.
5.	Travel Time
Travel lime for employees engaged in fire fighting will be paid in accordance with the
Weldwood Agreement, except for the overtime provisions thereof.
6.	Slash Burning
(a)	All employees engaged in watching or controlling slash fires which have been set by the Company will be paid their regular job rate and overtime conditions will apply.
(b)	The arbitration award of the late Chief Justice Gordon M. G. Sloan handed down on the 23rd day of February, 1948, shall apply to (a) herein.
7.	Interpretive Notes
(a)	When active fire fighting ceases to be necessary, rates and overtime conditions for fire watchen will revert to the normal conditions provided for in the Collective Agreement.
(b)	Notwithstanding any of the conditions herein, if any equipment possessing residual value to the operation is manufactured or created, the work performed thereon shall be subject to regular rates
(c)	The meaning of the word "extinguish" as used in this Agreement shall include the act or process of suppression to the point when the fire requires fire watchen only.
8.	All provisions of the Collective Agreement except as amended or modified herein
shall continue to apply.
63
SCHEDITEENO. 5
Sect inn 1 Responsibility. Implementation, Continuity and Administration
The IW A-C AN AD A aid Rasst Industrial Relations Limited agree to implement and continue the provisions of this Article cfthe Coast Master Agreementand any reT*h=H Supplements to the Coast Master flgrasnent as administered by rWA-CANADA and Etasst Industrial Relations Limited The AY A-CANADA and forest Industrial Relations Limited. shall be responsible for all aspects of the program,
Section %\ Purpose and Method
The purpose of the Program shall be the ranking of applicable hourly-paid categories and placing them ingroups according I o their relative valuewithin the B.c. Coast Sawmill Industry by using a method cf agreed upon benchmark categories and related job descriptions.
When new or significantly changed jcfce do not fit an existing benchmark jcb description, the Panics agree m group such jets by comparison to emtingjobs where possible, m order to keep benchmark job descriptions to a minimum.
The Parties agree that the Details of Agreement as per Appendix No. 1 of the Memorandum cf Agreement dated February 11, 1992 in respect of Mechanization, Technological Change or Automation will be mptenaitedL Rate increases, if any, will be effective lune 15, 1992, No incumbent's rate shall be reduced as a result cf the implementation cf this Agreement.
Section 3:	Application
(a)	SawmillRate Determination shall be carried out at the Local Union - Local Management level in accordance with the provisions cf this Article and the provisions cf any related Supplements to the Coast Master Ajrsanait.
(b)	Sawmill Ifete Determination shall apply to all hourly paid categories in the sawmill industry except for those categories which have been excluded by mutual agreement between the IwA Coast Negotiating Committee and Fores Industrial Relations Limited.
(c)	SawmillRate Determination shall not supersede existing in-plant agreements, signed an or be&asNovember 3, 1976 at the Local Ubictrlocal Management Level.
Section 4:____Devekmment. Uniformity and Co-ordination
In orderm ensure uniform application, the Program shall be developed and co-ordinated by theB. C. Coast Sawmill lob Analysis Board, consisting cf an equal number cf representatives from the Uhim and the Industry as follows:
For the Union:
One (I) Officer representing rWA-CANADA and throe (3) Officers representing the AVA-CANADA Coast Local Unions assisted by om (I) Technical Advisor m the field of Job Analysis employed by AVA-CANADA,
64
For the Industry:
One (1) representative of Forest Industrial Relations Limited and three (3) representatives of
the B.C. Coast Sawmill Industry, assisted by one (1) TfedxricaL Advisor in the field of Job
Analysis employed by Forest Industrial Relations Limited.
Section 5:	Procedure
(a)	The Sawmill Rate Determination Program shall be administered jointly on a day-to-day basis by tfe respective TfedxricaL Advisors. subject to the approval by the B.C. Coast Sawmill Job Analysis Board.
(b)	Any agreement reached in this manner regarding the disposition of a category rate clearance agilicatim received £ran the Local Union-Local Management Level shall be £inal and binding on the E&rtdes.
(c)	If no agreement can be reached in this manner regarding the disposition of a category rate clearance application received fern the Local Union-Local Management level, the matter shall be referred to the Board.
(d)	If the Board is unable to reach agreement regarding the disposition of a category rate clearance application received fran the Local Union-Local Management level, the matter shall be referred to the rWA Coast Negotiating Committee and Forest Industrial Relations Limited in accordance with Section 1 of this Article.
Section 6:	Job Analvss Wage Curve
GRADE EFFECTIVE	EFFECTIVE	EFFECTIVE
LEVEL JUNE wn	TTTNTT. i s/91	-TUNE 15/93
1	S17.07
2	17.20
3	17.37
4	17.51
5	17.67
6	37.94
7	18.20
8	18.44
9	18.71
10	19.03
11	19.40
12	19.74
13	20.08
14	20.44
15	20.77
16	21.11
17	21.47
18	21.82
19	22.14
$17.07
17.20 17.37 17.51 17.67 17.94
18.20
18.44 18.71 19.03 19.40 19.74 20.08
20.44 20.77 21.1! 21.47 21.82 22.14
$19.92
18.05
18.22
18.36
18.52
18.79
19.05
19.29 19.56 19.88 20.25 20.59 20.93
21.29 21.62 21.96 22.32 22.67 22.99
65
GRADE EFFECTIVE	EFFECTIVE	EFFECTIVE
LEVEL JUNEJS/91	JUNE 15/92	JUNE 15/93
20	$22.59	$22.59
21	23.01	23.01
22	23.44	23.44
23	23.87	23.87
$23.44
23.86
24.29
24.72
The general wage increase provided for in Article V, Sectdm 1(a) has been incorporated into these rates.
Section 7:	tneninbent^s Rate
No incumbent’s rate shall be reduced as a result of the implementation and/or continued application of the program. The parties further agree that details ofthe Sawmill Rate Determination Program may be subject to amendment at the written request of either Party at the end of each three month period from the date of this Agreement.
66
SCHEDULE NO. 6
CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTING
Section 1:
It is agreed that Plant Tradesmen who are assigned by the Company to carry out work directly related to "new" construction with tradesmen employed by ai outside contractor, plant tradesmen will be paid the "outside" contractor(s) rale(s).
Section 2:
For the purpose of this Agreement "new" construction shall be defined as meaning:
(a)	The construction of major new buildings and major additions to existing buildings.
(b)	We addition of new or used major production machinery and related equipment not previously in existence.
Section 3:
(a)	'Tradesmen" shall mean journeymen and apprentices in the following trades:
Machinist
Millwright
Steam fl tter/Pipefitter
Welder
Electrician
Carpenter
(b)	"Convactor's Rate" shall only mean the hourly wage paid by that contractor and not any other payment or working conditions.
(c)	"Contractor’s Rate" will not exceed the rates for similar trades paid by IWA construction companies.
67
APPRENTICESHIP TRAINING PROGRAM
Between
WELDWOOD OF CANADA LIMITED (CARIBOO DIVISION)
AND
IW A-CAN ADA LOCAL 1-424
in co-operation with
DIRECTOR OF APPRENTICESHIP & INDUSTRIAL TRAINING PROVINCE OF BRITISH COLUMBIA ARTICLE I - PURPOSE
The purpose cf this Program is to improve the knowledge and skill of persons employed by the Companyas Journeymen, Improvers or Helpers in respect to the trades named in Article Q herein.
ARTICLE H - TRADES
fl.	Millwrights
2.	Heavy Duty Mechanics
3.	Stamfiner-Pipefiller
4.	Machinist
5.	Electrician
6.	Welder
7.
8.
9.
Forklift & Carrier Mechanic Filers & Fitters
-	4 Year Program
-	4 Year Program
•	4 Year Program
-	4 Year Program
-	4 Year Program
-	to be established
-	4 Year Program
•	4 Year Program
•	to be established
ARTICLE m - GENERAL PRINCIPLES
Section It Collective Agreement
Ail provisions <£the Collective Agreement shall be applicable to Apprentices in this Program.
in
Once staited in the Program, subject however to the provisions of the Collective Agreement, the Apprentice shall have the right to continue, providing he passes all of the prescribed tests and work is available to him.
68
Section 3:	Tests
Upon completion of each period of training in the vocational school, an Apprentice will be required to pass a test. In the event of failure to pass such a test, the Apprentice will be given a second opportunity, but in the event of failure to pass on the occasion of the second such test, he shall be required to withdraw from the Program.
Section 4:	Meaning of "Year"
Wherever reference is made to a year as a Helper or Improver, it shall mean a period of not less than two hundred (200) working days: the said period to include time spent at the vocational school.
Subject to the provisions herein, an Apprentice who is hired by the Company and who has had training in another apprenticeship plan will be given recognition of such training time.
The Company will ensure that the Apprentices will be given the necessary on-the-job practical training.
ARTICLE IV - SELECTION OF APPRENTICES
Section 1:	Seniority
When the Company requires Apprentices, it is agreed that the vacancy will be posted in the operation, and applicants selected in accordance with the provisions of Article XXH, Section 2, ofthe Collective Agreement.
Section 2:	Successful Applicants
Successful applicants will be assigned as Helpers for a three (3) month probationary period, unless the applicant's previous experience renders such assignment unnecessary,
Section 3:	Entrance Standards
Entrance E> the Program will in all cases be subject to the applicant meeting the standards required for acceptance by the Apprenticeship and Industrial Training Branch.
Section 4:	Compulsory Entrance
All present Helpen and Improvers employed by the Company must enter the Program. Helpen and Improvers who cannot qualify in die Program will be reclassified as Labourers with no reduction in rate of pay, until such time as they have an opportunity to apply their seniority to obtain ajob with equal or a higher rate of pay.
Labourers will not be employed in a manner that will interfere with the application of the Program.
69
Section Si Age Limit
There will be no age limit for applicants. ARTICLE V - TRAINING SCHEDULES
Section 1:	Assignment as Helper
All successfulapplicants. except Welder Apprentices ('seeappropriate Appendix), will be registered as Apprentices and be assigned as Helpers for an 11 month period, pnor to attending vocational school, unless the applicant s previous experience renders such assignment unnecessary,
A program for the aforementionedW^lcte: Apprentices will be established,
Section 2; S Year Schedule
	Rating	At Operation
First Year	Helper	Ant 11 months
Second Year	Helper	first 11 months
Third Year	Improver	first 11 months
Fourth Year	Improver	first 11 months
Fifth Year	Improver	first 11 months
Section 3:	4 Year Schedule	
	Rating	At Ooeration
First Year	Helper	first 11 months
Second Year	Helper	first 11 months
Third Year	Improver	first i I months
Fourth Year	Improver	first 11 months
	3 Year Schedule	
	Rating	At Ooeration
At School
last4 weeks last 4 vreeks last 4 weeks last 4 weeks last 4 weeks
At School
last 4 weeks last 4 weeks last 4 weeks last4 weeks
At School
First Year	Helper
Second ‘Year	Improver
Third Year	Improver
Section 5:	Electricians
first 11 months first 11 months first II months
last 4 weeks last 4 weeks last 4 weeks
Notwithstanding the provisions of Sections 2, 3, and 4 herein, the ElectricianApprentices shall be required to take 8 weeks sb school during each year of the Program instead of 4, with the period in the operation reduced accordingly
Section 6; Passing Test
The Apprentice must successfully pass the prescribed test before promotion from Helper lo Improver
70
Section 7:	Journeyman Qualification
Following completion of the period of training as required herein, and upon becoming certified, he shall receive certified Journeyman’s rate of pay if a Journeyman’s job is available. If, however, a Journeyman’s job is not available he shall be entitled to exercise his plant seniority forjob entitlement. If in the exercise of his seniority he is retained as an Improver, he shall not be required to perform a Journeyman’s work or take the place of a Journeyman.
Section 8:	Vocational School Delay
If any of the periods provided for in Sections 2, 3, 4 or 5 herein are exceeded by reason of vocational school facilities being unavailable, such period of excess shall be credited to the Apprentice in succeeding training requirements.
ARTICLE VI - WAGE RATES
a)	Wage Rates for Helpers in the first term shall be that specified in the Wage Supplement.
b)	An Apprentice who passes his test shall receive an increment agreed to between the Company and the Union during his second term year as a helper,
c)	The Wage Rate for an Improver shall be that as specified in the Wage Supplement.
d)	An Apprentice who passes a test in the fourth period of vocational training shall receive an increment agreed to between the Company and the Union during his second term as an Improver.
e)	Persons employed as Journeymen, and who are certified as such, shall receive the certified rate for the trade, as agreed to between the Company and the Union.
Section 2:	Expenses
Roes, Lost Time Pay, and School Expenses are to be paid by the appropriate Government authorities as part of the cost of the Apprenticeship Plan, with the exception that the employer shall pay the Apprentice while attending vocational school, the difference between the subsidy granted by the appropriate Government authorities and the regular wages of the employee concerned.
Single persons shall receive their wages, less the sum paid to them by the appropriate Government authorities. Married persons shall receive their wages, less the sum paid to single persons by the appropriate Government authorities.
Section 3:	Delay in Testing
Where an employee incurs delay in taking one of the tests under this Program, through no fault of his own. the delay shall not prejudice his right to wage increments provided for in Section I herein.
71
ARTICLE Vn - ADVISORY BOARD
Section 1:	Constitution
There shall be an Advisory Board for each trade covered by the Apprenticeship Agreement, consisting of two (2) representatives cfthe Industry, two (2) from the Union, oik (1) representing the T&catiaial School, and one (1) from the Apprenticeship and Industrial Training Branch,
Section 2;___Responsibility
The Board shall be responsible for advising the Department of Labour. Apprenticeship and IndustrialTraining Branch, regarding the content cff tests, standards cfraarkuig, and the school curriculum with respect to registered Apprentices. The Board shall not be responsible for the actual setting or marking of teste.
ARTICLE VP! - GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section 1:
Persons presently employed as Journeymen, who do not wish to become certified, shall continue to be employed" as Journeymen.
Persons employed as Journeymen, who take the Tradesman Qualification Exam and fail, shall continue to be employed as Journeymen.
Section 3:
If a present Journeyman failsto pass the test for a voluntary Tradesmen's QBbficatim Certificate, he can then become indentured as an Apprentice at no reduction in me of pay.
Section 4:
There will be a three-man committee established to process applicants who make application to be tested under the voluntary Tradesmen's Qualification, a* who become indentured under the Apprenticeship and Tradesmen’s Qualification Act. The committee will also determine what vocational training is necessary for persons indentured as Apprentices. Representation on the committee shall consist of the following:
a)	One (1) Representative from the Union.
b)	Qne(l) Representative £canthe Industry.
c)	One (I) Representative from the Apprenticeship Branch.
Vocational training will be conducted during day courses, Textbooks and study material will be made available when required,
72
ARTICLE IX - TOOLS
Section 1:
All Journeymen tradesmen shall be required to have, and shall not qualify for the Journeyman rate, unless they have a full kit of hand tools necessary to perform the job for which they are hired, with the exception of machinery or tools which shall not be deemed to fall within the responsibility of the Journeyman.
Section 2;
The Improver shall be required to have and maintain a basic tool kit and to be in the general process of building up the necessary tools to equip himself for thejob.
Section 3:
The Helper generally shall not be required to own tools and shall use those designated to him. However, in his own interest he should commence the process of building up a tool kit.
July 1st, 1991
rWA-CANADA
LOCAL 1-424, C.L.C.
PRINCE GEORGE, B.C
Dear sirs:
We wish to confirm our agreement originally drawn up March 25th. 1955 for the duration
of our present Agreement in regard to logging contractors employed by the Company in the
Quesnel area. 1
1 We shall hold our uncertified logging contractors responsible to abide by the relevant provisions of the present Agreement, in particular as it regards wage scale, holiday pay and seniority clauses. Dues for all employees and a list of employees for whom dues are submitted must be submitted to the Local Union once a month, without application for Union membership
2. The seniority provisions are interpreted as follows:
a)	Men working for any contractors gather seniority on that operation only.
b)	If another contractor or ourselves takes over all or pan of one operation, men whose jobs essentially continue under the new setup will retain theirjobs and go on the new contractor's seniority list as per the date they were hired by the previous contractor, If we take over the pan of the operation, such men will be transferred to the 'Seniority list" of our Woods Department in the manner described above.
73
c) If, due to layoff or reorganization of a show or for any other reason, a man's job "disappears’’, he has no claim to be transferred to any other logging show, the plywood mill or sawmill.
3 The Company will encourage logging contractors to make reasonable arrangementsto help compensate for travelling were no camp is provided.
IWA LOCAL 1-424, Prince George
July 1,1991
Page 2
4. New wage categories paid or negotiated by our convactors (i.e. categories other than or higher than a± out in our Agreement) bind us (or future contractors) only if they have been approved by an Officer of Weldwood of Canada.
5. The Company agreed to notify the IWA as regards the commencement date of new logging shows.
Ycues truly,
WELDWOOD OF CANADA LIMITED
July 1st, 1991
IWA-CANADA
LOCAL 1-424, C.L.C.,
PRINCE GEORGE. B.C,
Dear Sin:
RE:	CHARGE HAND
The normal duties of a Charge Urd are I o transmit work carters to direct the activities of a group cf workers in his charge. He may from time to tune supervisea shift an a temporary basis, but will not assume the responsibility cf a Foreman far an extended period cf time.
He may a: may not perform work within his area cf supervision. He, as‘a iibim member, is not granted the right to hire or discharge.
None of the foregoing is intended to restrict any cf the usual activities of a Charge Hand in this operation but merely loclarify the fact that the Company does not give Charge Hands the right to h i ac discharge employees.
74 -
Yours truly,
WELDWOOD OF CANADA LIMITED (CARIBOO DIVISION)
OTEU 15
WELDWOOD OF CANADA LIMITED CARIBOO DIVISION QUESNHL, B.C.
Dear sars:
This will confirm our understanding that the Union will agree to sit down and negotiate during the term of the 1991-1994 Collective Agreement a continuous production schedule.
It is understood that at such time, all aspects of hours of work and wages to be affected will also be opened far negotiation: and it be further understood that any proposed agreement on this proposal must be ratified by secret ballot vote of the members cf the IWA-CANADA, Local 1-424, employed by Weldwood of Canada Limited atQuesnel, B. C.
Yours truly,
IWA-CANADA
LOCAL 1-424,
C.L.C.
President
Financial Secretary E. & O.E.
OTEU 15
75
BETWEEN:
LETTER OF UNDERSTANUNG
WELDWOOD OF CANADA LIMITED CARIBOO DIVISION
AND:
IWA-CANADA LOCAL 1-424, C.L.C.
RE:	JOB POSTING (TEMPORARY 1QBS)
Temporaryjobs nust be posted if more than three weeks known duration, excluding vacations, with the successful bidder having the right to return to his regular job wKenthe temporaiyjob expires
To qualify for a temporary posting the bidder must be qualifiedto perform the job
Employees holding trainee positions shall not be permitted to bid an temporary jobs except onjobs in the category in which they are training.
Temporaryjobs shall be reposted as permanentjobs when it is indicated that the absent employee will not return,
RE:	OVERTIME QN DRYERS
The Local Urim agrees to overtime work on the dryers provided that:
1.	Natmal plant production be maintained on a five (5) day per week schedule.
2.	Any additional overtime required in excess cf(l) above lobe discussed by the Local
Union and the Company.
3.	This letter cf Understanding is to apply to dryer overtime only
4.	It is further undeistoodthal the general principles which have been followedon dryer
overtime will prevail as follows:
a)	Overtime will be equalized as much as possible. i,e. one man will not get two overtime shifts on a weekend if it is possible to get another man.
b)	Spares who have seniority and are on layoff will get preference an the unskilled jobs.
c)	The following jobs will be manned by experienced personnel in all cases if possible; dryer operators, jeep driver, ftxr dry er-grader of fbearers, two patchers and one reclip operator.
d)	Foremen will control and supervise the above points.
76
RE:	ATTENDANCE AT GRIEVANCE MEETINGS
The parties hereby agree that for the purpose of grievance meetings, arrangements shall be made allowing all members of the Plant Committee to attend such meetings without suffering any loss of pay.
It is funher agreed that prior to taking up any individual grievance, the Committee shall have the right to examine the employee's record with the Personnel office.
RE:	HOT DRYER CLEANING
It is mutually agreed that the members of the cleaning crew will rotate, et reasonable periods, to tile "hot spot", and, further agreed that the Company will supply some type of protective overgarment to each of the cleaning crew.
RE:	SELECTIVE EMPLOYMENT
The Company agrees that when an employee, who requires selective employment because cf accident or extended illness, returns to work the Company will, within twenty-four (24) hours after the employee has returned to work, inform the Plant Committee of the employee's name and to what work he has been assigned
Where a dispute arises about the suitability of the work to which the employee has been assigned, the Committee and the Company shall meet and attempt to resolve the matter.
RE:	MULTIPLE QUALIFICATIONS ON BID SHEETS
The Parlies agree that Multiple Qualifications shall not be used on
the Bid Sheets
RF-:	WORKING FOREMEN
Q\
It is agreed that Foremen and persons excluded from the bargaining unit shall not perform work usually performed by employees in the bargaining unit except for instruction, experiments, quality control or in an emergency where no one in the bargaining unit is either available or capable of performing the work required.
RE:	INTERPRETATION ARTICLE IX - LEAVE OF ABSENCE
Further to our discussion, during negotiations in regard to Article IX • Leave of Absence in the new Agreement, the Local Union agrees that Article IX, Section 3, as it applies to Leaves of Absence for educational and training purposes, should be clarified as to intent and propose the following interpretation:
I.
The Company will only be obliged lo grant Leaves of Absence for educational and * training purposes to employees who intend to take training that will assist the (. individual in obtaining skills related to the industry.
77
The Local Union aerees that Article EX, Section3, as it applie-s to compassionate leave be interpretea as follows:
The company will only be obliged to grant extended compassionate leave to employees in cases of'emergency such as iAhmsx nr death in the family, or in cases where the individual is designated to act as Administrator of an estate.
Requests for Leave of Absence for personal reasons other than compassionate or educational training will be subject to the provisions of Sections 2 and 3, Article IX of the Collective Agreement,
:ties agree that in the application of Article IX, Leave cf Absence, Secttim 3,
Compassionate Leave, the following criteria shall be used in determining an employee's eligibility.
1.	Leave of Absence withoutpay for extended vacation purposes shall be limited to those employees with more than two (2) years continuous service.
2.	Leave of Absence withoutpay for extended vacation purposes shall be granted based csi one (1) month leave of absence for each year cf continuous service to a maximum of six months.
3.	Leave of Absence withoutpay for extended vacation purposes shall be limitedtoa maximum cf one (I) leave in a three (3) calendar year period.
4.	Leave cf Absence for extended vacation purposes will be limited to four (4) employees off on leave at any one time in the plywood section, one (I) employee o£E on leave at any one time in the logging sectim,two (2) employees off1 on leave at any cue time in tte sawmill division one (I) employee off on leave at any one time in the planermiil division, one (1) employee cff on leave at any om time in the plywood maintenance department,
5.	Leave of Absence for extended vacation purposes will be granted on a first come/first serve basis.
RE:	WAGE REVISIONS
This is to confirm our Agreement that wage revisions negotiated cn the Coast will apply to the Weidwood operations at Quesnel. In applying such revisions it will be done on the basis cf job comparison rather than simply job title.
RE:	ESTABLISHMENT OF FORCES
The Panics agree that when forces are re-established, employees shall return to their previously held jobs as soon as possible but not later than the first shift following the first weekend.
RE:	NEW CONCEPTS COMMITTEE
, The Parties agree to establish a aanritteeto study new concepts, including industrial democracy, cf ways to improve labour management relations between ths. above named M Parties
78
RE; EMPLOYEE AND FAMILY ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
The Parties agree to establish a Joint Committee consisting of two (2) members from the rWA-CANADA and two (2) members from the Company, to study the practicability of a Troubled Employee Program. Details to be worked out between the parties.
RE:	GRADERS
The Parties agree that the grade stamp currently in use at the CbadbOO Division will be recognized as a grade stamp issued by an inspection service under a Grade Stamp License Agreement in accordance with the provisions of the B. C. Coast Sawmill Rate Determination Program.
The Lumber Grader job categories that appear in the Cariboo Wage Supplements are as follows:
Group 14 * G.S.L.S. Grader Group 11 • No. 1 Grader Group 9 - No. 2 Grader
For the purpose of establishing where Graders fit within these levels, the following procedure will apply:
1.	Graders with "A" Tickets will be paid G.S.L.A. Grader's rate.
2.	Graders with "B” Tickets will be paid No. I Grader's rate until they have repeated the complete Grader's Course and written the test in an attempt to get an '"A' Ticket. Even if they do not achieve an "A" Ticket, they will be elevated to a G.S.L.A. Grader's rate.
3.	Graders with no ticket will be paid a No. 2 Grader's rate
The Parties further agree that the resulting rate changes will be paid retroactively from September 1, 1977.
The Parties finally agree that this Letter of Understanding may be subject to amendment at the written request of either Party at the end of each three-month period from the date of this Agreement
RE: TRAINING FOR FTRKMKN. 4TH CT,ASS ENGINEER
The purpose of this Letter of Understanding is to improve the technical background ol people in tl e Boilerhouse and opt n up a line of progression in the Steam Plant and a specific agre nent re the Training Program fc th nti {osition for Fireman with Fourth Class Tick 1
1. Future Boilt ou; e Utilit vacancies will ep j as Trainee positions for F
with 4th Class Ticket. 1	u candidate will be selected on the basis of
seniority, ai d i successful completion of h A :i Selection Tests (Mechanical).
79
2.	Applicants must be High School graduates includingQacte 12 Mathematicsor B,C. equivalent.
3.	Successfulbidden will enroll in the Department of Education correspondence course for 4th Class Engineers, and should complete the course within twelve (12) ircnths. They would keep the Chief Engineer advisedc£ their progress.
4.	Tb remainin the	position, thetrainee must complete the Fourth Class
Certificate course and examination as set out lithe Leave of Absence for Stationery Engineers Training Agreement within sixteen (16) months.
5.	Trainees will be utilized as relief Elraian when the Chief Engineer feels they have became familiar with the position of Fireman.
6.	Once trainees have their 4th Class Ticket, they would qualify for bidding on the next permanent Fireman’ s position.
7.	Boilerbouse Utility Trainees on obtaining their 4th Class Ticket will be paid the Boilerbouse rate assigned to the Fireman categoiy.
8.	Present Boilerbouse Utility hid holders not h possession of a 4th Class Stationery
Engineering Certif.cate will be able to bid on future Fireman positions. On obtaining such bid, he will be required to enroll h the Department cf Education Correspondence Course fbr a 4th Class Certificate and completethe course and examination as set out in the Leave of Absence for Stationery Engineers Training Agreement, within,eighteen (18) months. If he does not pass the course cr examination, he w U1 be given a second opportunity Id do so. This must be completed within six (6) months. EhUirg a second time, he will be required to withdraw from tbe program, but will keep the bid positionof Fireman.
9.	This Agreement shall take effect of August 28th, 1981 and is subjectto review at the request of either party after two ninths written notice.
REi ARTICI.F. YT. SECTION 4 - PFBSQNAT. FI/^ATTNC. HOLIDAY
The purpose cf this Letter of Understanding is to clarify the adcdnistrahim of the Personal
Floating Holiday.
a)	The Parties agree that a lEguLar, full-timeemployee. when taking his Berscral Floating Holiday as provided for in Article XI. Section 4, must have worked his last regularly scheduled vok day before, and his first regularly scheduled work day after the holiday, unless his absence is due to illness or an occupational injury, or the employee is on authorized leave of absence (subject to Article XE, sub-section 4(b)
(iii).
b)	The Parties agree that when an employee has been on the payroll for not less than ninety (90) consecutive calendar days and terminates for whatever reason, and he has not previously taken his Personal Floating Holiday then he shall be paid his Personal Floating Holiday.
c)	'The Parties further agree that payment of the Personal Floating Holiday upon termination shall not be construed as an extension of his period of employment
-80-
FE: APPRENTICESHIP TRAINING PROGRAM
Where an employee voluntarily lea\«s the apprenticeship program, he/she shall forfeit all right to train in that trade, unless there is evidence of immaturity or poor health at die time of the bidding off the job. In such a case, Management agrees to review a new bid but one (I) year must pass from the date of the occurrence.
DATED this___day c£
1991
FOR:	FOR
WELDWOOD OF CANADA LIMITED HVA-CANADA (CARIBOO DIVISION)	LOCAL 1-424, C.L.C.
President
Financial Secretary
E. & O. E.
81
SCHEDULE NO. 7
A. FLEXIBILITY OFHOURS OF WORK
The Parties recognize the need for flexibility of hours other than those outlined in the
Hours of Work Article, for the express purpose of better utilization of manpower and capital such as:
Balancing of production Maintenance Market requirements Even flow production
Emergency or unexpected harvesting programs Continuous scheduling (eg. Logging, Engineers, Firemen,
Maintenance, Watchmen)
The parties agree that the following shift schedules will provide the flexibility required to itb^. the needs expressed above.
1.	Logging
i) compressed schedules consisting of 10 hours per day, 4 days per week;
u) non-contiiiuous schedules such as 10 days on, 4 days off.
2.	Manufacturing
i)	2 crews working4 days, 10 hours per shift;
ii)	up to 3 crews workingMonday to Saturday, 10 hours a shift not
exceeding 40 hours per week;
Hi) employees working in continuous operations may be scheduled to work shifts other than (i) or (ii) above.
3.	Maintenance
i) shifts c£ up to 10 hours per day, 40 hours per week. Monday to Sunday inclusive:
H) three shifts per week, not exceeding 12 hours per day.
4.	Other Shifts
It is understood the parties can establish other shifts by mutual consent to meet local conditions.
82
C. IMPLEMENTATION
Dj
Ary variaUon(s) top the Hours of work Article Shall be implemented only upon completion of the following steps:
1.	The Company and the Local thim will meet to discuss proposed shift schedules within the terms cf the Hours cf Work Article. It is anticipated that the Local Union will make sincere attempts to assist the Company wishing to introduce alternate shift schedules. The parties must mutually agree on resolution of issues such as:
a)	details of shin
b)	details Cf Statutory Holidays, Floating Holiday, BereavementLeave, and Jury Duly.
c)	Maximum length of shifts for physically demanding wade. Accident prevention is a factor to taken into account in determining shift lengths.
d)	The loss of hours/employment as a direct result of the implementation of alternate shift schedules.
e)	The use of employees for supplementary production work
2.	The Camp or Plant Committee and the crew will be actively consulted by the Parties during the process.
GENERAL PRINCIPLES
When an alternate shift schedule is in effect other provisions of th Co n e Agreement will be administered on the principle that an employee ill not lose or gain any benefits over his normal five-day schedule
1.	The Company agrees that alternate shift schedules will not be introduced where the intention is to increase the use of rasnal employees in place of regular employees.
2.	Different parts of an operation may be scheduled on different shifts.
3.	The principle of the forty (40) hour week is to be maintained over an averaging period.
4.	This Article shall not change existing alternate shiftagreements, unless agreed to by both parries.
5.	Famed vacations will be scheduled on the same basis as days and hours worked under the alternate shift schedule.
6.	Other Articles of the Collective Agreement which provide benefits after eight (8) hours are extended by the amount the regular hours of work have been increased beyond the eight (8) hours per day.
83
7
8.
9.
An employee’s rest days may vary from week to we under an alternate shift schedule. Employees shall ik be paid premium pay for | e is cti L >t days in these circumstances.
employee whose rest days are changed by the Company under an ablish w ill u te ;hift m shall receive a	id one-half for work
formi do	i re ; da)	ui a change in	9	n suits from the
>Ucatl hi )f	u oi ty oi	a	been agreed to	j	th s employe* a i	the
mpa
There shall be no premium pay paid to any employee whose rest days are changed because of the implementation of a Jtemate shift I edule.
84
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN:
Weldwood of Canada Limited (Cariboo Division)
(hereinafter known as the "Company") OF THE FIRST PART
AND:
IWA-CANADA Local 1-424
(hereinafter known as the "Union") OF THE SECOND PART
The Company and the Union hereby agree to abide by the following terms and conditions in respect to Leaves of Absence for Stationary Engineers Training.
1. FOURTH CLASS CERTIFICATE,
Upon successful completion of	e	tment of Education Correspon	irs
for a FOURTH CLASS	N	STEAM ENGINEERING CE]	"E
or u equivaleot .	ti	ceptable to the Vocational Sch	*iti
Powerhouse-employeeswlli be granted three (3) weeks leave of absence with pay to attend an approved Vxatkcal School to complete the course and write the examination for the Eburth Class Stationary Steam Engineering Certificate.
During his first week at the School, the employee will be evaluated by the school authorities io determine his knowledge ofthe subject, and if the evaluation is favourable, he will continue his studies at the school during the following two weeks and write the prescribed examination. In the event that the evaluation is not favourable, the school authorities will indicate to the employee those areas where further study is needed and he will return to the mill and carry out the recommended home studies. Upon completion of this additional studying, the employee will be granted three (3) weeks leave of absence, two (2) weeks with pay and one (1) without, to return to the Vocational School to complete the course, and write the prescribed Fourth Class Certificate examination.
2 THIRD CLASS CERTIFICATE
Upon successful completion ofthe Department of EducationCorrespondence Course for a THIRD CLASS STATIONARY STEAM ENGINEERING CERTIFICATE, or possessing equivalent qualifications aco it b e to t te /ocational School authorities, Powerhouse employees shall be granted i s (S) weeks leave of absence with pay tc attend an approved Vocational School to complete the course and write the examination for the Third Class Stationary Steam Engineering Ce: tifica e,
85
During his first week at the school, fe employee will be evaluated by the school authontiesto determine his knowledge of the subject, and if the evaluation is Favourable, he will continue his studies at the school during the following four weeks and write the prescribed examination. In the event that the evaluation is not favourable, the school authorities will indicate to the employee those areas where further study is needed and be will return to the win and carry out the recommended heme studies, l£cn completion of this additional studying, the employee will be granted five (5) weeks leave of absence, four (4) weeks with pay aid one (I) without, to return to the VxatdoTal School to complete the course and write the prescribed Third Class Certificate exammatim.
3. SECOND CLASS CERTIFICATE
Upon successful completion of the Department of Education Correspondence Course for a SECOND CLASS STATIONARY STEAM ENGINEERING CERTIFICATE,
or possessing equivalent qualifications acceptable to the Vxatknal School authorities, Powerhouse employees snail be granted ten (10) weeks leave of absence with pay, on the basis set forth ftereunder, to attend an approved Vocational School to complete the two-part course and write the examination for the Second Class Stationary Steam Engineering Certificate:
i) Five (5) weeks leave of absence with pay to complete Rut "A' (Mathematics and Physics)
il)	Five(5) weeks leave cf absence with pay to complete Part 'B' (Basic
During his first week at the school in each of the above-mentioned cases (i) and (il) the employee will be evaluated by the school authorities to determine his knowledge of the subject, and if the evaluation is favourable he will continue his studies at the school during the following four (4) weeks and write the examination prescribed for Part'A' or 'B*, whichever is applicable. In the event that the evaluation is not favourable, the school authorities will indicate to the employee those areas where
further study is needed and he will return to the mill and-out the recommended
home studies. Upon completion of this additional studying, the employee will be granted five (5) weeks leave of absence, four (4) weeks with pay and cne (l) without, to mumto the Vocational School to complete the course and write the examination prescribed for Rut 'A" or *B\ whichever is applicable.
4.	BASIS OF PAY
One (I) week's pay shall be egual to forty (40)hours et the straight time hourly rate of the employee's regular job.
5.	ADDITIONAL LEAVE
Leaves of absence with pay will be granted to Steam Plait personnel on the basis as set forth in I, 2, and 3 above. Any further Vocational Training required to pass each respective certificate shall be at the employee's expense and such additional leave of absence will be granted.
86
6.	BOOKS
The Company will bear fifty percent (50%) of the cost of the correspondence courses and the textbooks laid down by the Vocational Training School as a requirement for those writing for Stationary Engineering Certificates,
7.	EXAMINATION AND TUITION FEES
The Company will bear the cost of the prescribed examination and tuition fees, if any, required of candidates writing for Stationary Engineering Certificates,
S.	TRANSPORTATION ALLOWANCE
The Company will grant transportation allowance to Steam Plant personnel anending Vocational School on the same basis that transportation allowance is being granted at the time by the Apprenticeship Branch to apprentices anending an approved Vocational School..
Transportation allowance for those anending Vocational School under this agreement will be:
i)	return bus fare from the mill location to the Vocational School or
5.5c/kilometre driven firmthe mill location to the Vocational school if persona! vehicle is used
jj)	an allowance of $60.00 lo cover first night hotel expense and meals.
9.	TIMING OF LEAVE
Leaves of absence will be granted at a time suitable to the Company, bearing in mind the Vocational School curriculum.
10.	NUMBER ON LEAVE
Normally, it will not be possible to grant leave of absence to more than one Steam Plant employee at a time. However, if relief is available, this limit may, at the discretion of the Company, be exceeded.
tl.	GOVERNMENT ALLOWANCES
If at any time provision is made whereby transportation and/or other allowances are granted by the Government to Steam Plant personnel anending an approved Vocational School to write for Stationary Engineering certificates, the provisions set forth above will then be amended to take into account such Government allowances.
12, LEVEL OF CERTIFICATES
It is agreed that there shall be no liability on the pan of the Company to train an employee beyond the highest hourly paid certificate required in the plant.
87
DATED THIS 9th day of January
, 19.81.
FOR rwA-CANADA Local 1-424
FOR: WELDWOOD OF CANADA LIMITED (Cariboo Division)
88