IWA-CANADA, LOCAL 1-424
JULY 1,1994-JUNE 30,1997
jun
JUIN
211995
INDEX
ARTICLE
APPRENTICESHIP TRAINING PROGRAM ARBITRATION AND INTERPRETATION
BARGAINING AGENCY CALL TIME COMMITTEE CONTRACTING OUT DEFINITION
DURATION OF AGREEMENT EVALUATION
FORESTRY ENVIRONMENTAL COMMITTEE
GENERAL PROVISIONS
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
HOURS OF WORK
LEAVE OF ABSENCE
LONG TERM DISABILITY
MANAGEMENT
MEDICAL AND HEALTH AND WELFARE
PAY DAYS
PENSION PLAN
RIGHT OF REFERENCE
SAFETY AND HEALTH
SAFETY EQUIPMENT
SENIORITY
STATUTORY HOLIDAYS TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE TOOL INSURANCE TRAVEL TIME -SCALERS UNION SECURITY VACATIONS WITH PAY WAGES
43	XXtlK
33	XVI
1	I
31	XfJI
8	VI
49	XIX
2	II
49	XXX
45	XXIV
36	XIX
35	XVIII
32	XIV
9	VII
20	IS
41	XXI
2	III
36	XX
35	XVII
42	XXII
32	XV
27	XI
47	XXVII
15	VIII
29	XII
37	XXVI
48	XXVIII
46	XXV
2	IV
23	X
4	V
ALTERNATE SHIFT SCHEDULING	100
APPRENTICESHIP TRAINING PROGRAM	82
BIDDING PROCEDURE	67
CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTING	81
EVALUATED CATEGORIES • PLYWOOD	51
FIRE FIGHTING AGREEMENT LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING MAINTENANCE DEPARTMENTS - ALL DIVISIONS NON-EVALUATED CATEGORIES PLYWOOD OFFICE WAGE SUPPLEMENT PLYWUUU JOB EVALUATION SAWMILL RATEDETERMINATION PROGRAM WAGE SCALE * LOG YARD
*	PLANER DIVISION
•	SAWMILL DIVISION NEW AND EVOLVING WORK
75
9;
61
56
63
69
78
63
59
58
107
AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT, made and entered into as of the 9th day of November, 1994.
BETWEEN
AND
WELDWOOD OF CANADA LIMITED,
(CARIBOO DrvisroN)
(hereinaftercalled the '"Company") OF THE FIRST PART,
IWA-CANADA LOCAL 1-424, CL C
(hereinaftercalledthe 'Union")
CF THE SECONDPART.
1	Whereas it is the intent and purpose of the Parties here to that this Agreement will promote and improve industrial and economicrelationshipsbetweenthe employeesand the Company, and to set forth herein the basic Agreement covering rates o f pay, hours of work, and conditions of employment to be observedbetween the Parties hereto;
2	And Whereas the Company accepts responsibility to observe each and all provisionsand conditions ofthis Agreement and to promote orderly and peaceful relations with the employees;
3. And Whereas the Unionaccepts responsibility to observe each and all provisionsand conditions of this Agreement and to promote orderly and peaceful relations with the Company:
NOW TEEREPORE, the Panics hereto mutually agree as follows.
aRTTrr.B! T ■ BARGAINING AGENCY.
The Company shall recognizeand bargainwith the duly elected bargainingrepresentativeson behalf of its employees properly and duly certifiedunder the appropriate regulations in effect from time to time.
Pa«e I
gyctlon 2;
The bargaining authority ofthe Union shall not be impaired during the term of this Agreement The only c-ertih cation that the Company will recognize during the term of this Agreement is that of the Union unless ordered by due process of law to recognize some other bargainingauthority.
gyctlon 3:
The Company and the Union shall meet at such time and place as may be mutually agreed upon for the purpose of discus-sing wages and working conditions and adjusting any matters within the confines of the Agreement which come within the scope of CollectiveBargaining between the employee andthe Company.
ARTTCT-F. n- DF.FTNTTTON
The term "Employee"as used and for the purpose of this Agreement shall include all persons employedby the Company on whose behalfthe IWA-CANADA, Local 1-424 have been certified as bargaining agents, except and excludingforemen and others having authority to hire and fire, supervisory officials and salesmen.
ARTICLE m ■ MANAGEMENT
Section 1;
The management of the operation and the direction and promotion of the employeesare vested exclusivelyin the Management; provided however, that this shall not be used for the purpose of discriminationagainst employees
Section 2s
The Company shall have the right to select its employeesand to discipline or dischargethem for proper cause.
ARTICLE IV . UNION SECURITY Section 1:
The Company shall co-operate with the Unionin obtaining and retaining as members the employees as defined in this Agreement, and to this end shall present to new employeesand to all Supervisors and Foremen the Policy herein expressed.
£e£ftoi^:
\
All employees who entered the employment ofthe Company on or after the 1st day of September, I960, and all new employees, shall within thirty (10) calendar days after the execution of this Agreement, or thirty (30) calendar days after entering employment,whichever date last occurs, become members ofthe Union and maintain membershiptherein throughout the term of this Agreement, as a condition of continued employment.
/
Section 3;
Any employee who is amember in good standing, or is reinstated as a member ofthe Union shall as a condition ofcontinued employment, maintain such membership in good standing throughout the term of this Agreement.
$fytiQn 4;
Any employee who fails to maintain his membership in the Union as prescribed herein by reason of refusal to pay dues and assessments shallbe dischargedforthwith after seven (7) days written noticeto the Company ofthe said employee's refusal to maintain his membership.
Section 5;
a) No employee shallbe subject to any penalties against his applicationfor membership or reinstatement, except as may be provided for in the IWA-CANADA Constitution as revised 1979, and in accordance with the By-Laws of Local 1-424 as ofthe 1st day of April, 1981
b) Any employee who applies tojoin the Union pursuant to the provisions herein and whose application is rejected by the Urim,shall not be subject to discharge tom employment

The Company shall require all new employees at the time of hiring to execute the following assignmentof wages in duplicate, the forms to be suppliedby the Union, said forms to be forwarded to the Union not later than fifteen (IS) calendar days followingthe date of hiring. The forms shall be substantially as follows:
iwa-canada
CHECK-OFF
Please Print	StartingDate ________19
Name of Employer	Name of Employee
Address
Postal Code Phone Operation
Social Insurance No
Are you a Member ofthe IWA?
In what IWA operation were you last employed”
Local Union
I HEREBY AUTHORIZE AND INSTRUCT YOU TO DEDUCTFROM MY WAGES AND
REMITTOLOCAL 1-____________________ THE FOLLOWING IN PAYMENT OF THE
AMOUNT SET OUT BELOW:
I	Union Initiation Fees in the amount of$
2,	IhdmBackEuesinthe amount of$
3,	Union Dues $	per month, commencing 19
4	Tirim Assessments in the amount and at the time stated in notice received by you from
the Local Union designated above.
Clock No
APPLICATION FOR MEMBERSHIP
I	hereby request and accept membershipinthelWA-CANADA, Local No l-______, and
agreeto abide by the constitution and bylaws of the organization. In case of misstatement of qualifications for membership I agree to forfeit all rights. privileges and monies paid
Signature of Applicant-Employee
This assignment shall become effective immediatelyin the case of employees already membersof the Union, and shall becomeeffective thirty (30)calendar days from the date of execution inthe case of employees not previously membersof the Union Untilthesaidassignmentis revoked by the employee, the Company shall remit the dues deductedpursuantto such assignment to the Local Union named therein not less often than once each month together with a written statement of names oft he employees for whom the deductionswere made and the amount ofeach deduction
Section 7:
The Company shall furnish the Union once every month with a list setting out the names of employees absent for fourteen (14) days or longer due to illness or injury
The Companyshall furnish the Union with the Social InsuranceNumberof each employee on its payroll on the first occasion when dues are forwarded to the Union after the execution of this agreement or after the employee enters the employment of the Company, whicheverdate last occurs
Section 9;
Employer Deductions From Wages • EmployeeBenefit Plans ■ The Parties agree that the Company shall deduct from an employee'swages and shall remit to the appropriate employee benefit plan, the employee'scontribution which is specifiedin any benefitplan agreedto by the parties to the Agreement
ARTICLE V . WAfiFS
Section 1:
a)	The Parties hereby agree that wages of all hourly rated employeescovered by the
Agreement shall be increasedby three percent (3%) perhoureffectiveJune 15, 1994; a further three percent (3%) effective June 15, 1995, and by two percent (2%) effective June 15, 1996
Page j
The Parties agree that the minimum rate in the mill for common labour shall be:
i)	$18,715	per hour effective June 15th, 1994.
ii)	$19,275	per hour effectiveJune 15th, 1995.
iii)	$19.66	per hour effectiveJune 15th. 1996
Employeeswho have left the employ ofthe Company must apply within thirty (30) days ofratification to be eligible for retroactive pay flowingfromthis Agreement.
CashPaymenl • A one thousand dollar($l, 000.00) cash payment will be paid, within 14 days of notice ofratification ofthe 1994- 199? Memorandum of Agreement to all regular full-timeemployees, and designatedpart-time employeeswho have worked a minimum of 350 hours in the 12-monlhperiod preceding the date ofnotice of ratificationandwho are actively employed at the date of signing this Memorandum.
A fivehundreddollar($500.00) cash payment will be paid June 15,1995 to all regular full-timeemployees and designatedpan-time employeeswho have worked a minimum of 350 hours in the preceding 12-month period.
Acashpaymentmaybe paid on June 15,1996 to all regular full-time employeesand designatedpart-time employeeswho have worked a minimum of 350 hours in the preceding 12-month period, subject to the followingscale.
Based on the Price Waterhouse annual analysis ofthe B.C. Forest Industry which will be published in The Forest Industry in British ColumbiainMay of 1996, if the return on capital employedfor the Interior lumber sector in 1995 is equal to or greater than 20,0 percent, a cash payment of five hundred dollars ($500.00)will be paid; if equal to or greater than 16 1 percent,acash payment offour hundred dollars ($400.00) will be paid; if equal to or greater than 12,2 percent, acash payment of three hundred dollars ($300.00) will be paid; if equal to or greater than 9,0 percent, acash payment of two hundred dollars($200.00) will be paid if equal to or greater than 6,75 percent, a cashpayment ofonehundreddollars (5100.00)willbe paid.
e)	verall ervice i be 1 at to iesti ind	ces, plus trs,
id' rn, E 5p iyi	Sprayers and Crane Operators. Cost of providing this
service to be borne by the Company. \VI e ill vi j<	i by b
employee the service must be used 1 ailur to wear coverallsafter they a been provided ill result it	it t< i ifthi privilege
Section 2:	Welders
Effective July 1st, 1981, the following shall be the classificationofwelders m manufanuring conditional on the welders being qualifiedas required under the Standard Forest Industry Welding Specifications and either having completed the three (3) year apprenticeship program or having worked in the trade for six thousand (6,000) hours as a welder.
Group I • Welder(Fl • 101, FI • 102)
Group 2 -Welder (Fl . 103, DPW1, DPW2)
Group 3 -Welder (Uncertified)
b) Employees employed as welders and who are required by the employer to renew their
welding qualifications shallbe granted up to five (5) days paid leave ofabsence to attend school for instruction. The Company shall pay the cost of instruction and examination
Tint Aid Attendants
The Company will pay the cost of training and re-training for IndustrialFirst Aid Certificates including lost time wages to designated duty First Aid Attendants
Designated First Aid Attendants shall receive theirjob rate of pay plus the Ticket Premium rate.
All other employees holding valid First Aid Tickets shall receive a premium of five cents (5 cents) per hour over and above theirjob rate. There shall be no stacking or pyramiding of premiums.
Graders » Sawmill Planer
Grading tickets shall be permanent and valid Certificates.
All Graders holding grading tickets shall attend upgrading classes as required
Graders who are required to attend upgrading classes (rule changes) shall receive their regular straight timejob rate for time spent in attending said classes
Effective September 1st, 197$ all Certified Lumber Graders shall receives premium oftwenty-five cents (25	per hour for a Grading Certificate provided
that these premiums shall be paid only when actually engaged as Lumber Graderr
Effective lune 15, 1994, a fifteen cents (15£) premium for employees holding current and valid lumber grading certificates, but not engaged as lumber graders, SO that the total ticket premium will be fifteen cents (15f!) per hour There shall be no stacking or pyramiding of premium
Section 3;
i)
V')
iii)
Section 4:
o
ii)
iii)
lv)
Page?
Section 5:
For convenienceofreferenceonly a Wage Scale is published in ScheduleNo. 1 and shall be effective, subject to correction any errors or omissions, as of July 1, 1988 and may. subjectto the consent of both Parties, be revised once annually.
Section 6:
a)	Inthe evenlthatjob conditions change due to the installationof new machinery or revision of work practices or new classifications, the Parties shall meet after the new machinery is operating properly or the new work practices have proven practical,to determine the designation and wage rate to be paid to the employee(s) affected
b)	Inthe evenlthatjob conditions changeinthe Plywood Sectionas set forthin (a) above wage rates shall be determinedas set out inthe wage evaluationmanual.
c.) In the evenlthatjob conditions change in the Sawmill or Planer Mill Sectionas set forthin
(a)	above, wage rates shall be determinedas set out inthe Sawmill Rate Determination Program.
Section 7; Shift Differential
The first shift is the recognized day shift. Hours worked outride the recognizedday shift shall be regardedas the second and third shifts. A shift differential ofthirty-one cents (31^) per hour shall be paid for second and third shifts. A day shift employeeworking in excess of his regular shift shall be paid rate and one-halfwidout the differential. Any employeeon the second and third shiftworking m excess of his regular shift shall receive rate and one-half. Far the purpose of the last sentence, rate shall be rate plus thirty-one cents (3 U), Persons employed other than on regular shifts shall be paid the thirty-one (31(1) shift differential for all hours worked outride the recognized day shift	' - 1 / /
/ <3~	" —r—
APTTfTT.Ti! VI - COMMITTEE
Section 1;
For the purpose of this Agreement, and in Schedule 2 on bidding Procedure when the word "Committee"is used, it shall mean Shop, Camp, or Mill Committee,members of which are appointed by the Union.
Section 2:
The Committee shall consist of not less than four (4) and not more than seven (7) employees who are membersof the Union, and whenever possible, they shall be selected on a departmentalbasis
Page®
Section 3:
The Union shall, within sixty (60) days from the date of this Agreement, notify the Company in writing of the members on the Committee. The Union or Committee shall inform the Company in writing when any member change takes place on the Committee. No member of the Committee shall be recognized by the Company unless the above procedure is carriedout
The provisions of Section 1, 2 and 3 shall not apply in reference to:
a)	Article XI: Safety Committee, where the members are designated according to the provisions of the Workers’ Compensation Act, and;
b)	Under Article XV -Joint Committee.
ARTICLE YU- HOURS OF WORK
Section 1:	Production and Maintenance Employees
a)	The regular hours of work shall be
Eight (8) hours per day and forty (40) hours per week, with rate an one-halffor anv hours worked in excess of eight (8) in any one day and forty (40) in any one week All production employees shall be paid rate and one-halffor Saturday and/or Sunday regardless of the number of hours worked during the week except that:	____
k) Double straight time rates shall be paid for the following
V3
Hours worked in excess of 11 hours per day
Hours worked on Sunday by employeeswho have worked five shifts during the preceding six days.
"3 / ' S
iii)	For purpose of (b) herein a Statutory Holiday shall be considered a shift worked.
iv)	Item (ii) above shall not apply to employeeswho work Sunday as a regularlyscheduled day.
Page?
Section 2:	Office Employees
a)	The regular hours of work for office employees shall be:
Seven (7) hours per day and thirty-five (35) hours per week, with rate and one-half foi any hours worked in excess of seven (7) in any one day and thirty-five (35) in any one week;
except for the position of Draftsman, which will be seven and one-half (7%) hours per day and thirty-seven and one-half (37%) hours per week, with rate and one-half for any hours worked in excess of seven and one-half (7%) in any one day and thirty-seven and one-half (37%) in any one week;
also except for the positions of Storekeeper, Assistant Storekeeper and Purchasing Clerk. which will be eight (8) hours per day and forty (40) hours per week, with rate and one-half for any hours worked in excess of eight (8) in any one day and forty (40) in any one week
b)	All office employees shallbe paid rate and one-half for Saturday and/or Sunday regardless of the number ofhoursworked during the week, except that;
Double straight time rates shall be paid for the following:
j)	Hours worked in excess of 11 hours per day.
jj) Hours worked on Sunday by employeeswho have worked five shifts during the preceding six days.
iii) For purposes of (ii) herein, a Statutory Holiday shall be considered a shift worked.
jv) Item (ii) above shall not apply to employeeswho work Sunday as a regularly scheduled day.
Section 3; Casual Work
a) The term "Casual Work" as used in this Agreement shall apply only to work performed on Saturday and/or Sunday by either laid-offregular employees or other persons hereinafter referred to as "Casual Employees".
k)	Casualwork on production shallbe paid for at one and one-halftimes job rate
c)	Casualwork on maintenance, repair and preparatory work shallbe paid for at straight-timejob rate.
Page 10
dj Regular laid-off employees shall not be classified as casual employees, and shall have preference for available work, over the said casual employees.
C) Weekend cleanup work performed by casual employees, laid-off regular employees and part-time employees will be paid for at straight-time job rate except as provided in (f) herei
Q A laid-off regular production employee shall be considered a production employee during the week he/she is laid off and will be paid rate and one-half for any work he/she performs on either Saturday or Sunday except as provided in Section 1 (b) at i
g) The Company agrees to keep separate seniority lists of casual employees for each division vho have worked at least ten (10) \ >rl ly , i a ivi exclusively for recall purpose and subject to Clause (d) further agrees to recall casual employees in accordance with more r as set forth in these s.
Th	>;	who of t;	:1> work an ti y i ui II a two
(2) other iy: of the week off to be mutually agreed between the employees and the Company. In such ;i Saturday and Sunday shall be considered working days and overtime rates shall not apply on Saturday. Ho' r< these employees shall be p aid •; and one-half for work performed on Sunday. Overtime rates shall apply when the regular daily or weekly work limit has been exceeded. Overtime rates shall apply on the e ;t d of these employees if worked unless a change in rest days has been agreed upon between the	'eest the Company.
For the purpose of this Section only, employees shall be Engineers, Firemen, Operating l ights Maintenarce Workers and Watc
Maintenance, repair and construction employees can be employed on a Tuesday to Saturday work week for which they shall be paid straight time for Saturday work. In such nt, Sunday and Mont j shall b >gt iz d ,$ their rest i j f d ty n k p ft I on their rest days shall be paid for at rate and one-half The rest day, Monday, may be changed by mutual consent between the employee and the Company. Ins h event, work performed on Monday shall be paid for at straight time. If the employee works on Monday at the request of the Company, the rate of pay will be rate and one-half However, if the employee requests a temporary change from his rest day on Monday, work performed on Monday shall be paid for at straight time.
If a Statutory Holiday occurs on the employee's regular day off, he shall be entitled to take his next regular work day off without pay.
a)
p«j< i i
Section 6:	Alternate Shift Scheduling
a)	Management, Plant or Camp Committees and the Local Urim shall have the right under the terms ofthe CollectiveAgreement to agree upon and implementother schedules which, except for production shifts in manufacturing operations, may include Sundays, without overtime penalty, provided the principle ofthe forty (40) hour week is maintained over an averaging period Rate and one-half shall be paid for hours worked on Sunday.
Any variation (s) to the preceding Sections denoting normal hours of work shallbe implemented only upon completion ofthe following steps
j) Negotiated agreement between the Local Union and Local Management
c)
jj) Majority approval by the employees involved in the proposed variations
When alternative shift schedules have been implementedin accordance with (a) and (b) above, the followingovertimeprovisionswill apply:
A. Rate and one-half shall be paid far the following.
i)	The first three (3) hours worked in a day in excess of the normal daily hours crfthe established schedule.
jj) Hours worked in excess of forty (40) hours per week or forty (40) hours average when there is an averaging period.
iii) All hours worked on an employee's scheduled rest day, unless a
change in rest day has been agreed to between the employee and the Company
iv) All hours worked on Sunday except those excluded in the casual section.
B. Double straight-timerates shall be paid for the following:
j) All hours worked in excess of A (/) above.
ii)	All hours worked on a Sundaywhen Sundayis also an employee's scheduled rest day, if the employee has worked forty (40) straight-time hours in the preceding six (6) days, unless a change in rest day has been agreed to between the employee and the Company.
C Schedule 7 - Alternate Shift Scheduling, contains the agreed upon general
principles and parameters for the establishment. implementationor discontinuance of alternate shift schedules
If three (3) hours or less in the Sawmill Division or Planer Division and/or one (I) hourorlessin the Plywood and Logging Division, are necessary after midnight Friday or after midnight preceding a Statutory Holiday to complete a shift which commenced work on Friday aftemoonor the afternoon preceding the Statutory Holiday, time worked after midnight Friday or after midnight preceding the Statutory Holiday to complete the shift shall be paid straight time rates
Section 8:
The work week shall commence with the starting time of the first shift Monday, and shall end at the completion of the last shift which commenceson the following Friday
Section Three Shift Operation
a)	The Company shall have the right to operate the plant or any panthereofon a three-shift basis and all employees working under this arrangement shall receive eight (8) hours pay upon completionof the full hours established as their regular shift Details of shifts shall be varied at the Company's option
b)	Section (a) above shall only apply to those employeesactually working on a three-shift basis
The foregoing provisions ofthin Article shall not be construed as guaranleeingto any employee any number of hours of work per day or per week
Section 11:
No employee covered by this Agreement who refusesto workovertime shall be subject to any penalties whether the refusal be singular or in concert
Section 12:
All employeesin manufacturingplants shall be entitledto two ten-minuterest periods during each regular shift; provided always that the Company shall have the right to use relief employeesin implementing this provision
Page 13
Section 13:
Where maintenance, repair and construction employeesare required to work two (2) hours or more overtime beyond their normal shift, the Company shall provide a hot meal, such hot meal to 1 e consumed by the employees on Company time before beginning the overtime work The hot meal will be made available at the Plywood Plant.
Section 14:
The Company agrees to discontinue the use of time clocks subject to the following:
a)	The general use of clocks be discontinued for a trial period of three (3) months.
b)	New employees are to punch the clock for the first three (3) months ofemployment
c)	Casual employees are to punch the clock.
d)	Employeeswho report late must punch the clock and have the card initialedby their Foreman.
e)	Employees may make arrangements with employeeson the same jobs on their following shift to relieve them a maximum of ten (10) minutes prior to their regular quitting time providing they have permission of both Foreman involved
f)	Employees may enter or leave their place of work by the North Entrance only.
g)	Employeeswho work overtime must punch the clock
h)	Employees who have been absent and return to work must report to their department foreman at the commencement ofthe shift.
i)	Employeeswho abuse the system shallbe required to punch the clock for a three month period.
j)	Employees abusing the honour system will stillbe subject to Article III, Section 2 ofthe Collective Agreement.
Section 15;
That a Committee be establishedwith IWA Local 1*424 during the term ofthe 1977-79 Agreement to clarify the provisions of Article VTI - Hours of Work
Page 14
ARTICLE Vm • SENIORITY
Principle of Seniority
The prmcipleof seniority, competency considered, shall be recognized ty Ihe Company andlhe Union.
Divisions and Departmail
a)	This Agreementcovers all operations of the Cariboo Division ofthe Company in the Quesnd area
b)	The Cariboo Division ofthe Company shall be organized for seniority purposes as follows:
l	Plywood Division
i)	Production Department
it)	Maintenance Department
iii)	Logyard Department
2.	Sawmill Division
3.	Planermill Division
4	Office Division
Department and Plant Seniority List
The Company shall supply to the bargaining agent once every three months the following complete seniority list. The seniority list shall be kept up lo date, particularlyin the event of a reduction in forces.
1 Plant (Company or Divisional)Seniority List
a.	Plywood Division
b.	Sawmill Division
c.	Planermill Division
d.	OfficeDivision
Page 15
2. Department Seniority Lists
a Production Department of the Plywood Section
b.	Maintenance Department of the Plywood Section
c.	Logyard Department of the Plywood Section
d.	SawmillDivision
e.	Planermill Division
f.	Office Division
Section 4:	Promotions or Job Openings
a. Promotions shall be based on departmental seniority Promotion into designated "Key Jobs" is subject to the provisions ofthe Job Training Plan as set out in the Training Programmes.
Job openings (except those on base rate and those covered by the Job Training Programmes) shall be posted for a minimum oftwenty-four (24) hours.
Employees interested in having their bid considered although they may be absent at the time of posting, may leave their "bid with the Personnel Department andtheir bid shall be considered in case such opening occurs A copy of such bid shall be given to the Plant Committee for checking purposes
Section 5:	Lav-offs or Reduction of Forces
a. In the event of a reduction of forces, the last person hired shall be the first released, by PLANT SENIORITY.
b	Employment is maintained by department seniority if he or she has enough PLANT
SENIORITY to work
c
Employees are retained on the payroll by their PLANT SENIORITY. They shall have the right to retain their jobs according to their department seniority Employees with insufficientdepartment seniority to retain their jobs shall return to the jobs previously held in the department and in such case replace anyone holding such jobs with less departmental seniority. Those employeeswilh insufficient departmental seniority to remain in the department shall take the jobs opened up by employeeswho are laid offdue to insufficientPLANT SENIORITY.
d.	i) During a reduction offorces where an employee's department seniority is
such that he or she will not be able to keep his or her regularjob he or she may elect to apply his or her department seniority to a job paying a higher rate subjeettothe competencyofthe person involved and the provisions of Section 1. Details to be worked out between the Local Union and the Company
Page 16
ij) During a reduction of forces where an employee's department seniority is such that he or she will not be able to keep his or her regulaijob he or she may elect whether or not to apply his or her departmentseniorityto obtain a lower paidjob or ajob paying the same rate of pay or accept a layoff until his or her regularjob becomes available,provided however:
1)	If during the layoffperiod the employeewishes to return to work and so notifies the Company, he or she shall be called back to work as soon as his or her plant seniority entitles him or her to ajob.
2)	The applicationof this provisionshallnot result in an employee,in the exercise of his or her rights, bumping an employeewithless plant seniority.
e	Where a reduction of forces is caused ty emergency conditionsthe applicationof seniority
as agreed to under subsection5(a) maybe postponed for such periods as may be necessary not exceeding three (3) working days If the Company decidesto exerciseits rights under this provision, it shall notify the Committeeas soon as possible.
Section 6:	Seniority Retention
Seniority during lay-off shall be retained on the following basis:
a)
b)
Employees with less than one (1) yeah service shall retain their seniority for a period of eight (8) months.
Employees with one(l) or more years service shall retain their seniority for one (1) year, plus one (I) additionalmonthforeachyearof serviceup lo an additionalsix (6) month period
c)	A laid-off employee's seniorityretentionas provided for in a) orb) above will be
reinstated in the event of re-employment before the expiry of seniorityretentionand on the completion of one day's work.
Rehiring or Re-establishment of Forces
aj In case of re-establishment of forces, "demoted" employeesshall have first claim on their previouslyheldjobs and in such eventjobs shall not be posted.
Page 17
Whenrehmngafter a reduction offorces, employees shall be notified by telegram or registeredletter if residing within a 100 mile radius of Quesnel, and they shall be rehired in order of their plant seniority, provided that they reply to the telegram (or letter) in the affirmativewithin ninety-six (96) hours and appear not later than seven (7) days from the time the telegram or letter was sent. However, employees resident in the Province of Alberta orthe YukonTerritory shall be given one (I) additionalday's time for reporting and any employees resident m any other Canadian province or the United States shall receivetwo (2) additionalday'stime for reporting. All employeesshall, upon retumingto employmenlwithin the requirednumber' of days of being notifiedby the Company, retain all seniorityrights. It shalbe the employee'sresponsibility to keep the Company informed of their addresses during lay-off,
Section 8; Probation
a)	Notwithstanding anything to the contrary containedin this Agreement, all employeesare hiredonprobation. The probationaryperiodshaUconlinueforthirty (30) working days, during which time such employees are to be considered temporary workers only, and during this same period no seniorityrights shall be recognized. Upon completionofthirty (30) working days such employees shall be regardedas regular employeesand shall then be entitledto seniority dating from the day on which they enteredthe Company's employ: provided however, that the probationary period ofthirty (30)working days shall only be cumulativewithin the three calendar months following the date of entering employment.
b)	Clause (a) of this section does not apply to employeeswho move from one operation of a Companyto another operation ofthe same Company within thirty (30) days for those laid off, and within ninety (90) days for those terminatedas aresult of a permanent closure
c)	It is agreed that probationary employeeswillhavepreferenceover casual employeesfor any work performed during the normal work week, subject to competency,
It is further agreed that in the applicationof (c) above, probationary employeeswill be called in for work in accordance with their hiring date, unless such call-in is beyond the control ofthe employer, and is subject to the employee being competenlto perform the work. Thifi obligation does not apply where the employee has worked one shift in the 24 hours period.
Reinstatement
In any case where an employeehas beentransferredby the Company to a supervisoryposition and at a later date ceases to be a supervisory worker and the Company desires to retain their services, reinstatement can bemads within the bargainingunitprovidedhowever, that supervisory workers reinstatedin the bargaining unit must return to thejob held at the time of their promotion to a supervisoryposition.
Page 18
fifrina 10:	Abitnte Without Juit Came
An employeewho is absent without leave for a period of more than three (3) consecutiveworking days, who cannot showjust Cause for such absence, shall forfeit all seniorityrights This provision shall not interfere with the Company's right to discharge for proper cause
Stttian Hi
/7/
a)	Weekend workers and others not desirous Cf available for regular employment shall be
regarded as casual employees,and shall not accrue any seniority.
b)	Workers who are hired for temporary employment and signify that they are available and who are in fact available for permanent employment shalbe consideredasrehefworkers as soon as they have worked thirty (30) days within the three (3) calendarmonth period following their date ofhiring, they shall accrue seniorityfrom their date of hiring.
Section 12:	Inlerdepnrtmaitnl end intcmlant Bidding
The seniorityprovisionsof this Agreement shall apply separatelyto each Division and
Department; and there shall be no bidding betweenthe Logging and Plywood Sections, except.
a)	Employees ofthe Plywood Sectionmaybidto the position of Second ClassRiverman in the Logging Section in accordance with their Company Seniority and in the event an employee obtains a job such employee's Logging Department Seniorityshall start from the date cf his/her successful bid but their Company Seniority shall remain unchanged
b)	Employees ofthe Logging Section whore jobs are permanently eliminated or who wish to transfer permanentlyto the Plywood Sectionmaybidonjobs in the Plywood Sectionin groups 1,2, or 3 in accordance with their Company Seniorityand in the event an employee obtains the job his/her PlywoodSection Seniority shall start from the date of their successful bid, but their Company seniorityshall remain unchanged
c)	Employeesofthe Sawmill Division, Pianermill Division and the Office Division who have been laid cfE shall, in the evenljob openings occur in the Plywood Section or Logging Section, be given preferentialhiring on the basis of seniority entitlement.
Section 13:	Hiring
It is agreed that companies signatary to this agreement shall give preference in hiring. competency
considered, on the following basis, in the following order'
1.	previous employees ofthe Division who have both previous seniority and an application on file
Page 19
2.	previous employees ofthe company who have previous company seniority and are seeking employment as a result of operational closures or crew reductions in other operations of the company
3.	laid off employees of other forest industry companies in the communities.who are seeking employment as a result ofoperational closures or crew reduction in excess ofninety (90) days.
4.	laid offforest industry IWA member of Local 1*424 and 1-425 who are seeking employment as a result ofoperational closures or crew reduction in excess ofninety (90) days
5.	persons who qualifyfor preference, and wish to exercise their rights to preference, must make application within six months ofthe operational closure or the ninety day layoff period.
Applicationswillbekept on file as active for 60 days. Afterwhichtime,applicationsmustbe renewed by the person seeking employment, or no preference shall be considered.
ARTICLE IX - LEAVE OF ABSENCE
Section 1;	Iniurv or Illness
The Company will grant leave of absence to employees suffering injury or illness for the term of this Agreement, subjectto amedical certificate if requested by the Company The employeeshall have a reasonable period of time to present such medicalcertificate, The employee shall report or cause to have reported the injury or illnesswhich requires his/her absence to the Company as soon as may be reasonably possible.
Section 2:	Written Permission
Any employee desiring leave of absence must obtain permission in writing firm the Companyfor such leave, except in cases of illness or injury covered by Section 1 above.
Section 3;	Compassionate Leave
The Company will grant leave ofabsence up io a maximum of six (6) months without pay to employees for compassionate reasons or for educational or training or extended vacation purposes, conditional on the followingterms:
a) That the employee apply at least one (I) month in advance unless the grounds for such application could not reasonably be foreseen.
That the employee shall disclose the grounds for application.
c)	That the Company shall cant such leave where a bonafide reason Is advanced by the
applicant, or may postpone leave for educational or training purposes where a suitable replacement is not available.
d)	That the Company shall be required to notify the Shop Committee of its decision in respect of&ny application for leave under this Section
e)	It is agreed that employeesrequesting leave of absence, for extended vacations during the period June 15th to Sept. 15th, shall only be granted such leave, once every three (3) years, and that a record be kept for the purpose ofrotating such leaves
f)	That employees making application for leave of absence for "extended vacations" shall apply at least one (1) month in advance.
g)	All earned vacations must be taken in conjunction with an '"extended vacation leave”
h)	The Company will grant a reasonable period ofextended maternity leave without pay to female employees where there is a valid reason
Section 4:	Bereavement Leave
a) When death occurs to a member of a regular full-timeemployee's immediate family, the employee will be granted an appropriate leave ofabsence for which he shall be compensated at his regular straight time hourly rate of pay for his regular work schedule for a maximum of three (3) days
b) Piece workers who are entitled to bereavement leave shall be compensated in accordance with the principle established in Article XII, Section 2 (b) ofthis Agreement
c)	Members of the employee's immediate family are defined as the employee's spouse, mother, father, brothers, sisters, sons, daughters, mother-in-law,father-in-law, step-parents, grandparents, grandparents-in-law. grandchildren, step-children,sons-in-law and daughters-in-law.
d)	Compensable hours under the terms ofthis Section will be counted as hours worked for the purpose of qualifyingfor vacations and for recognized paid holidays, but will not be counted as hours worked for the purpose ofcomputing overtime.
Page 21
Section 5:	Jury Duty
/
a)	Any regular full-time employeewho is required to performjury duty, coroner's jury, Crown Witness, or coroner's witness on a day on which they would normally have worked vyill be reimbursed by the Company for the differencebetweenthe pay received for jury duty and theirregular straight time hourly rate of pay for their regularly scheduledhours of work. It is understood that such reimbursement shall not be for hours in excess of eight (8) per day or forty (40) per week, less statutory pay received forjury duty. The employeewiH be requiredto furnish proof of jury service and jury duty pay received.
b)	Any piece-workerwho is requiredto perform jury duty shall be compensated for the differencebetween statutory pay received forjury duty and theirjob rate in accordance with the principleestablishedin Article XII, Section2(b) of this Agreement.
Hours paid forjury duty will be counted as hours worked for the purpose of qualifyingfor vacations and for recognized paid holidays, but wil I not be counted as hours worked for the purposeofcomputingovertime. .
C
Section 6; Union Business --------------------------
a)	The Company will grant leave ofabsence to employeeswho are appoinledor elected
Unionoffice for a period up to and including two (2) years. Further leave of absencemay be granted by mutual consent. The employeewho obtainsthis leave of absenceshall return to his/her Companywithin thirty (30) calendar days after the completionof their term ofemployment with the Union.
The Company will grant leave ofabsence to employeeswho are elected as representatives to attend Union meetings and Union conventions, or as members of any negotiatin'* ^committee of the International Woodworkers of America, in order that they may carryout IfiSiFHufies on behalf of the Union.
In order for the Company to replace the employeewith a competent substitute, it is agreed that before the employeereceivesthis leave of absence, as set forth in Clauses(a) and(b) above, the Company will be given due notice in writing in the case of (a), twenty (20) calendar days; and in the case of (b), five (5) calendar days.
Section 7:	PaMlf QtPa
The Company will grant leave ofabsence for campaign purposes to candidatesfor Federal,Provincial or Municipal elective publicoffice for periods up to and including eight (8) weeks, providedthe Companyis gjvendue notice in writingof twenty (20) calendar days, unlessthe need for such applicationcould not reasonably be foreseen.
Page 22
b)	Employees elected or appointed to federal, Provincial or Municipaloftice shall be granted as much leave as is necessary during the term of such office Municipal office holders, where the term of public officeis served intermittently, shall give the Company reasonable notice for absences Brmwork for conducting Municipal business
c)	The employee who obtains this leave of absence shall return to his/her Company within thirty (30) calendar days after completion of public office
ARTICLE X ■ VACATIONS WTTff PAY
With respect to annual vacations and vacation pay the followingprovisions will apply Stella" U Oneto Two Yam Service

The annual vacation for employeeswith one (1) or two (2) years service covered by this
Agreement shall be two (2) weeks, and the pay therefore shall be based upon five percent (i%) of V-L—
the total wages or salary earned by the employee during the period ofentitlement, or eighty (SO)
hours at the hourly rate ofthe employee'sregularjob. which ever is greater	’ "
Section 2: Twoto Seven Years Service
a) The annual vacation far employeeswith two (2) to seven years service covered by this	O
Agreement shall be three (3) weeks, and the pay therefore shall be based upon seven 6 percent (7%) ofthe total wages or salary earned by the employee during the period of entitlement, or one hundred and twenty (120) hours at the hourly rate ofthe employee's regular jcb, whichever is greater
b) The additional one (1) week vacation provided for in this Section may be taken when
convenient for the Company but does not have to be consecutive with the vacation period provided for in Section 1 herein
Section 3:	Seven to Fifteen Years Service
a)	The annual vacation for employeeswith seven (7) to fifteen (I 5) years service co\ ered b\ this Agreement shall be four (4) weeks, and the pay therefore shall be based upon nine f) percent (9%) ofthe total wages or salary earned by the employee during the period of entitlement, or one hundred and sixty (160) hours at the hourly rate of the employee's regularjab, whichever is greater
b)	The additional one (1) week vacation provided for in this Section may be taken when convenient for the Company but does not have to be consecutive with the vacation periods provided for in Sections 1 and 2 herein
°'7
Page’3
/ £>~ - $
Fifteen to Twentv-Four Years Service
a)	The armualvacationforemployeeswithfifteen(15)totwenly-four(24) yearsservice covered by this Agreement shall be five weeks, and the pay therefore shall be based upon eleven percent (11%) ofthe total wages or salary eamedby the employee during the period of entitlement, or two hundred(200) hours at the hourlyrate ofthe employee's regular job, whichever is greater.
b)	Subject Io the provisions of Section 8 herein, the additionalone(l)weekvacation provided for in this Section may be taken consecutivelywith the vacation periods provided for in Sections I, 2 arid 3
Twentv-Four lo Thirty Years Service	2—	OC
a)	The annual vacation for employeeswith twenty-four (24) to thirty (30) years service
covered by this Agreement shall be six (6) weeks, and the pay therefore shall be based upon thirteen percent (13%) ofthe total wages or salary earned by the employee during the period of entitlement, or two hundred and forty (240) hours at the hourlyrate ofthe employee'sregularjob, whichever is greater.
b) Subjectto the provisionsof Section8 herein, the additional one (I) week vacation provided for in this Sectionmay be taken consecutivelywith the vacation periods provided for in Sections I, 2, 3, and 4.
yer -■& ?
Section 6:	Thirty Years Service
a) The annual vacationforemployeeswiththirty (30) years service coveredby this
Agreement shall be seven (7) weeks, and the pay therefore shall be based upon fifteen percent (15%) of the total wages or salary eamedby the employee during the period of entitlement or two hundredand eighty (280) hours at the hourlyrate ofthe employee's regularjob, whichever is greater.
Subjectto the provisionsof Sections herein, the additional one (1) week vacation providedfor in this Sectionmay be taken consecutivelywith the vacation periods provided for in Sections!, 2, '3, 4 or 5.
Section 7; Vacation Pav on Termination
An employee whose employment is terminated shall receive vacationpay at the appropriate percentage ofthe wages or salary earned during the period of entitlementin accordance with the employee's years of service.
Page 24
Swtion 8;,
a)	Vacations for employees shall be taken at such time as mutually agreed upon by the Shop Committee and the Company when quantity and regularity of production shall not be impaired.
b)	All earned vacations must be taken
SattgflS*
a) The calculation and comparison ofthe vacation pay mounts developed by the percentage of grow wages method and the hours times the regularjob rate method will be completed and the greater amount paid to the employeewithin fourteen (14) days ofthe common vacation pay cut-off date or the employee'sanniversarydate. The Company'spresent cut-off or anniversary date method shall be continued unless a change is agreed upon between the Company and the Local Thim
b)	For the purposes of this Article, the rate ofthe employee's regularjob will be the rate of
the employee'sregularjob at the date ofthe common vacation cut-off date or the employee's anniversary date, as the case may be.
Inthe case of a pieceworker, the rate ofthe employee's regularjob will be determinedby computing theffnployee's hourly average eamingsforthe days actuallyworked during the pay period immediately preceding the common vacation cut-off date or the employee's anniversary date, as the case may be
d)	On the date when an employee completesone (1), two (2), seven(7), fifteen (15),
twenty-four(24), or thirty (30) years of service and where there is a common cut-off date for all employees in the operation, the employeewill receive:
i)	In the case of one (I) year, one percent (1%) ofhis grosseamingsbetween the date ofemployment and the date ofthe last common cut-offdate,
ii)	In the case of two (2), seven (7), fifteen(15), twenty-four (24), or thirty (30) years, two per cent (2%) ofhis gross earnings between the date ofhis last anniversary date and the date of the last common cut-off date
Section 10:	Vacation Pav- Percentage of Wages Method
The following shall be considered as days actually worked for determining vacations with pay for ar. employee after one (1) continuous year of employment
a)	Absence on Worker's Compensation up to a period of one (I) year, provided that the
employee returns to his employment.
Page 25
b) Absence due to illness up to a period of one (1) year, provided that the employeereturns to his employment. The employer shall have the right to require a certificatefrom a qualified medical practitioner.
c\ Absence due to bereavement leave in accordance with the terms and conditionsof Article IX, Section 4.
d)	Absence due to time served on Jury Duty, includingCoroner'sjury, or time served as a Crown witness or Coroner's witness in accordance with the terms and conditions of Article IX, Section 5.
e)	Any other absence duly approved by the employerin writing shall be credited towards entitlementfor annual vacation, but time spent on such leaves of absence shall not be counted in computing vacation pay.
Section 11:	Qualifications for Vacation Pav - Regular Job Rate Method
a)
In order for an employee to qualifyfor the amount generated by the hours times the regular job rate method, the employee must have worked a minimum of fifteen hundred (1,500) hours in the employee's firstyear of service end a minimum done thousand (1,000) hours during the employee's succeeding years of entitlement.
ii)	Where there is a common vacation pay cut-off date, for purposes of calculating minimum hours asin(i) above, the calculation period shall be from the cut-off date in one year to the cut-off date in the succeedingyear
iii)	Where there is no common vacation pay cut-off date, for purposes of calculating minimum hours as in (i) above, the calculation period shall be from the employee's anniversarydate in one year to Ms anniversarydate in the succeeding year.
b)
For purposes of computing the requisite hours the following will be included
i)	All hours worked;
ii)	Statutory Holiday hours;
iii)	lujy and Crown Witness duty,
iv)	Bereavement leave;
v)	Vacation hours;
Page 26
vi)	Time not exceeding (1) year, lost as the result of an accident recognized as compensable by the Workers' Compensation Board and suffered during the course ofemployment, shall be considered as time worked for the purpose of qualifying for vacation, provided that the employee returns to his employment.
vii)	Time not exceeding one (I) year, lost as the result of a non-occupational accident or illness, shall be considered as time worked for the purpose of qualifyingfor vacation, provided that at the time of the accident or illness the employee has been on the payroll for not less than one (I J'ear and that he returns to his employment. It is understood that the employer may require that the employee provide a certificate from a qualifiedmedical practitioner.
viii)	Time lost asaresult of lay-offshallnot beconsideredastimeworked for the purpose of qualifyingfor requisite hours
ix)	Employees who report for work and who receive call time payment shall be credited With eight (8) hours for any such shiftfor purposes of computing requisite hours under this Section. Any employee who qualifier for call lime in a day shall receive credit under this Section for eight (8) hours or credit for the hours for which wages were paid, whichever is greater
x)	All hours worked in more than one (I) division of the parent company as a result of transfer or lay-off.
Section 11:	Employment Standards Act
Part 4 • Annual Vacation of the Employment Standards Act, S B C., 1980, c 10 and amendments thereto, except where vaned or modifiedby the provisions herein, shall become a pan of this Agreement
ARTICLE XI- SAFETY AND HEALTH
The Company and employees shall co-operate to assure safe working conditions and methods and to devise plans for the furtherance of safety measures. Equipment and devices mutually agreed upon shall be provided by the Company
Page 27
Section 2:
The management of every operation shall maintain an AccidentPrevention Committee (hereinafter called "Safety Committee") of four (4) to twelve (12) members according to the size ofthe operation. Members of the Safety Committee shall be designated in equal numbers by the employees and the Company. Employee representatives shall be regular employees in the operation with at least one (1) year's experience
Section 3:
^hen inspections and Safety Committee meetings are held in the same week and the total time
spent by any employee exceeds the two hours provided for, employees are to be g---------
straight timft ntts for all time spent on inspections and Safety Committee meetings outside of normal working hours.
Employeeswho attend SafetyCommittee meetingsor accidentinvestigationsduringworking hours shallnot suffer any loss of pay. Plant inspections for safety will be done outside ofthe employee'snormalworking hours unless otherwise agreed.
Safety Committee members shall be notified at least one week in advance of the time and place of safety meetings. The Company shall make the necessary arrangements so that Safety Committee members working at the time ofthe meeting can attend.
Section 4:
Any one or all employeesworking in the immediate proximity when a fatal accident has occurred may, without discrimination, refrain form working the balance of the shift.
Section S_:
Two F irst Aid Attendants will be in attendance in the Plywood Plant ifavailable on all regular shifts.
Section 6;
Suitable emergency transportation will be provided for the Company's operations in the Quesnel area.
Section-?;
Effective July 1, 1989, anIWA-Forest Industry Safety and Health Research Program be established on the followinggeneral principles:
a)	The Plan will bejointly trusteed.
Page 28
*>) The Plan is to be funded on the basis of an Industry contribution ofone-halfcent(i/, cent) per hour per employeeper hour worked, effective/uly I, 19S9
c)	The trustees will be appointed in the first year of the Agreement and will meet during the first year to establishobjectives and operating and administrativeprocedures
ARTICLE XII - STATUTORY HOLIDAYS Section 1:
a)	All employeeswho work on New Year's Day. Good Friday, B C Day, Victoria Day, Canada Day, Labour Day, ThanksgivingDay, Remembrance Day, ChristmasDay and Boxing Day shall be paid rate and one-halfForall hours so worked
b) In the event one ofthe above statutory holidays falls on Sunday, the following Monday shall be observed as the statutory holiday
c)	in the event of a statutory holiday falling on a Tuesday, Wednesday or Thursday, and
when the company and the Shop CommitteemutuaUy agree, the said holiday may be observed the preceding Monday or following Friday respectively.
d)	I n the event one of the statutory holidaysfalls on a Sunday or Monday, the employee's regular day off, the employee shall be entitled to take his/her next regular day off This will apply only to those regularly employed on a Tuesday to Saturday work schedule,
e)	In the event one of the statutoryholidays falls on a Saturday, it shall be observed on the preceding Friday or 1he succeedingMonday, or as agreed upon between the company and the Shop Committee
f)	When a statutoryholiday falls on a Friday, employeesworking on a Tuesday to Saturday work week, ty mutual agreement between the Company and the Plant Committee, may work on the Friday StatutoryHoliday at 1he straight time job rates and substituteSaturday as the Statutory Holiday

a)	Any hourly rated or piece-work employee who qualifiesfor the following holidays, that is. New Year's Day, Good Friday, Victoria Day, Canada Day, B.C. Day, Labour Day, ThanksgivingDay, FenEnbranceDay, Christmas Day and Boxing Day, under the conditions set out below, shall be paid for the holiday their regularjobrateofpay for their regular work schedule. The hours so paid for the StatutoryHoliday shall not be included in the weekly work schedule.
b)	The holiday rate ofpiece-work employeesshall be establishedty computing their daily averageeamings for days actually worked during the previous thirty (30) days
Page 29
it pi' working on a id holidav s be ] aid, it addition to his/her u id iy, a raf* anH fine-half for	s ' /Qrked on a shift designated as a "Holidav Shift
An emnlovee. to oualifv for holidav oav. must have been on the n— uuur k(MKiiu<u >5 i '">»	_ e xung s holid; and t ha >rk :d hisi 1 reg la
scheduled work day before, at j his/he fin 'ff l riy li d v day tft tht holiday, unless his/her absence was due to a compensable occupatio iniu or illness, whi< h c :u t i tvithi ii (6) th. p.wceding the holiday, or si :h iplo, :e was on autl; J ized leave absence. In the case of illness or injury the Compatv, :hzl! h-— *L
tn f^/inoot a /'ftrjifjgjtft frnm a nnalifiMi	nrartiliniipr Mntivithttaflrfidff *h*
o	hei su r s of this i ti an employee may only qualify for statutory holiday pay it ne/sne worKS one tij aay oefore and one (!) day after the holiday providing the said two (2) days fall rithi i lit ty (90) U< dar di period. E plo] hik on 1 f ahsence under Article IV Section 6 (a) or a i n] li !e 'hilfi a li i	dr
lit de S' 6(b)shJl t ili fw. yJ.i
Emnlovees as defined under Artie!*	I I shall not receive pay for Statutory
Section 3:
*onal Floating Holidays
O’
This Section becomes	i m*K This Personal tti	a> i: in lieu '
51	3 H' itigeD but this Section shall come into at on its iv date even if
5fi Day Y or h li	:laimed
I) Personal Floating Holiday
Regular full time employees will be granted one Personal Floating Holiday during r*:1 contract year of the Agreement, to be arranged a*»snitaM* tn th<» emnlrwee *r •
O	nr an >. so that ther* v::l! Ic:*
b) Qualifying Conditions
When the Personal Floating Holidav is taken, an employee shall be paid for the said holiday at his regul job rati y '(r his I; a rk ;t d il< s ibji to tl
except in the
Page 30
iii)	An employee shall apply on an approved form, at least seven (7) days in advance, for his Personal Floating Holiday. The employee shall receive notice of the disposition of his/her request a minimum of 72 hours prior to the requested Personal Floating Holiday
iv)	If an employee is required to work on his Personal Floating Holiday after a definite date has been designated for such holiday, the employee shall be
f 1 ov	ne for such work at the rate of time and one-half. The
employee will then be entitled to take the holiday with pay at a later date to be mutually agreed upon.
v)	Personal Floating Holiday not taken or scheduled by April 15 of each contract year will be scheduled by Management
vi)	A Personal Floating Holiday shall not be scheduled on an employee's regular rest di y
vii)	Where an employee chooses Saturday or Sunday as a Personal Floating Holiday straight time rates will apply.
ARTICLE Xm - CALL TIME
Section 1:
Any employee reporting for work on the call ofthe Company shall be paid his/her regular rate of pay for the entire period spent at the place of work in response to the call with a minimum of, in any one day
a)
b)
Two hourspay at the employee's regular rateexceptwhen the employee's condition is such that he is not competent to perform his duties or he has failed to comply w ith the accident prevention regulations ofthe Worker's Compensation Board, or
If the employee commences work, four (4) hours pay at his regular rate, except where his work is suspended because ofinclement weather or reasons completely beyond the control ofthe Company.
Section 1:
Notice cancelling the work call for any Division ofthe Company shall be sufficient if given in the following manner:
a) First Shift - Notice cancelling the call for work shall be given the previous evening at 10:00p.m. and at I0:30p.m. or not later than one and one-half hours before the shift commences, by mBans of two broadcasts within a half hour period.
b)
Second Shift - Notice cancelling the call for work shall be aivm between 19 no nnnn t oo n.m.. but not later than three hours before the shift commences, by means oftw-bfoa uuitbin a half	iod.
C>
Third Shift - Notice cancelling the call for work shall be Riven betwee 5:00 p.m and 6:00
All broadcasts shall be over Station CKCQ.
ARTICLE XrV- GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
When a grievance arises in the plant, under the terms of this Agreement it shall be dealt within the followingmanner:
a)	The individual employee and the Job Steward shall first take up the matterwith the foremanin charge ofthe work, within fifteen (15) days.
b)	If a satisfactory settlement is not then reached, it shall be reducedto writing ty both Parties when the Committeeshall take up the grievancewith the Plant Superintendent. If desired, the UnionBusiness Agent shall accompanythe Committee, and either party shall have the right to request the presence of the employeeinvolved
If the grievance is not then satisfactorily solved, it shall be referredto the Union and Management
^	If a satisfactory settlement is not then reached, it shall be dealt with by arbitrationas
hereinafter provided.
e) If a grievance has not advancedto the next stage, under b), c), d), or e), within fourteen (14) days after completion of the preceding stage, then the grievance shall be deemed to be abandoned, and all rights of recourse to the grievanceprocedure shall be at an end Where the Union is not able io observe this time limit ty reason ofthe absence ofthe aggrieved employee or the Committeefrom the operation, the set time limit shall not apply The Union shall be bound to proceed in such a case as quickly as may be reasonably possible.
ARTICLE XV - RIGHT OF REFERENCE
Section 1:
If the Company and the Union foil to agree upon an interpretation of the Agreement either party shall have the right to refer the matter to the Joint Industry Committee(hereinaftercalled "Joint Committee") and if either party does make such reference, the other party must accept the reference.
Page 52
Section 2;
The Joint Committee shall consist of three (3) representatives selected by the IWA-CANADA, Negotiating committee and three (3) representatives selected by the Company.
Where an interpretation ofthe Agreement has been referred to the Joint Committee, this reference shall be for the period of forty-eight (48) hours or longer by mutual consent ofthe parties to this Agreement. In case the Joint Committee agrees upon a recommendation of interpretation, this shall be furnished in writing to the Unionattd to the Company
In the event the Joint Commitlee members disagree all the facts in the case as found by the Union and the Union members of the Joint Committee shall be placed in writing by the Union representatives and submitted to the Company and to the Union members involved. The facts in the case as found by the Company and the Company members of the Joint Committee shall be placed in writing and given to the Union member employeesfor their information
Section 5;
If a satisfactory interpretation on the point in question is not reached, either party may refer the question to arbitration as hereinafter provided.
ARTICLE XVI - ARBITRATION AND INTERPRETATION
Section 1:	Interpretation
a)	In case of any dispute arising regarding the interpretation of this Agreement which the Parties hereto are unable to settle between themselves, the matter shall be determined b\ interpretation in the following manner:
Either party nay notify the other party, in writing, by registered mail, ofthe question or questions to be interpreted After receiving such notice and statement, each ofthe parties will then refer the matter to the Interpreter named in this Section
b)	The decision ofthe Interpreter will be final and bindingupon the Company and the Union
c)	It is agreed that_______________________________, shall bethe Interpreter forthe
purpose of this Section
d)	In the event said Interpreter is unable to deal with any matter under this Section, the Partieswill meet and mutually agree upon a temporary replacement
Section 1:	Arbitration
a)	In the case of any dispute arising under this Agreementwhich the Parties are unable to sett te between themselves, the matter shall be determinedly arbitration in the following manner:
Either party may notify the other party in writing, by registered mail, of the questionor questionsto be arbitrated. Each ofthe parties shall, within five(5J days, refer the matter to the chosen Arbitrator.
b)	The decision ofthe Arbitrator will be final and binding upon the Company and the Union
cl If any Arbitratorfinds that an employ eehas been unjustly suspended or discharged, that employeeshall be reinstated by the Company without loss of pay and with all his rights and privilegespreserved under the term of this Agreement, provided always thatifitis shown to the Arbitrator that the employee has been in receipt of wages during the period between discharge (or suspensionjand reinstatement, or date of failure to rehire and re-hiring, the amount so receivedshall be deducted from wages payable by this Company pursuant to this Section
^ The parties agree with the principleofOne-ManArbitration. The Arbitrator will be chosen on a rotation basis from agroup of Arbitrators which will be selected by the parties
In the event either party is dissatisfiedwith the permanentchoice of an Arbitrator, the parties agree that other choices of Arbitrators will be considered by both Parties
Section 3:
The Company and the Union shall bear in equal proponionsthe expenses and allowances ofthe
Arbitrator and stenographic and secretarial expense and rent
Any arbitration to be held hereunder shall be held at the City of Quesnel or such other place as may be decided.
S<?a[gg,Expedited Arbitration
A Committee shall te established to develop and implement a system ofexpeditedarbitration of grievances. The chairman of this Committeewill be H. Allan Hope, Q.C. The committeeshall report to the parties not later than Decernber3!, 1984.
ARTICLE XVH - PAY DAYS
The Company shall provide for pay days every second Wednesday. The employees will be paid during their regular working hours, and each employee shall be furnished with an itemized statement of earnings and monthly deductions.
___[________1 GENERAL PROVISIONS
Official Union representatives shall obtain access to the Company's operation for the purpose of this ig by ii pe ii on which will be granted by the Company on request and subject to such reasonable terms and conditions as may fc 1 iid d< b the Company
Section 2:
The rate of Board and Lodging shall be $2.35 per day,
No Strike Pending Grievance and Arbitration Procedure
The Union shall not cause, promote, sanction or authorizeany strike, sit-down, slow-down, sympathetic strike or any other interferencewith work by the employeesfer any cause whatsoever until all provisions of this Agreement relating to grievance and arbitration procedure havebeen compliedwith, unless failure to comply with such procedure is due to any act or refusal to act or misconduct of the Company.
No Lockout Pending Grievance and Arbitration Procedure
The Company shall not createor institute any lockout of the employeeswith respect to any disputebetweenthe Company and the Union, or the Company and its employees until all provisionsofthis Agreement relating to grievance and arbitration procedure have been complied with, unlessfailure to comply with such procedure is due to any act or refusal to act or misconductofthe Union or itsemployees
Section 5:	j
a)	The Union may refuseto handle materialproducedby a strike bound firm. / ^
b)	TheUnion shall havethe rightto respect another Union’s picket line.
Section 6:
The Company shall provide plug-ins (for block heaters only) in the parking lot to accommodate all employees, at no cost to the employees
Section *
is agreed that the patties to the Agreement will meet jointly to discuss and implement a Planerman's Training Prograr	—s
—'	3 £ ? L
— f r / ls s? r
a) Effective July 1 st, 1982, sixty (60) days notice of closure will be provided
Section 8:
Effective July 1st, 1982, employees terminatedby the Company because ofpermanenl closure of a manufacturing plant shall be entitled to severance pay equal to one (I) week's pay for each year of continuous service and thereafter in increments of completedmonlhs of service
ARTICLE XIX - FORESTRY ENVIRONMENTAL COMMITTEE
Forestry Environmental Committees shallbe establishedby the Company and the Local Union
The details concerning the structure, operation and terms of reference must be agreed to by the Company and the Local Union prior to implementation.
ARTTCT.F.XX-MF.DTCAT. ANU HEALTH AND WELFARE
Medical Coverage
Medical coverage including Extended Health Benefit coverage shallbe provided by the Company at no cost to the employee, The ExtendedHealthBenefit coverage shallinclude hospitalization coverage up to a maximum of $8 50 per day
Medical coverage eligibility shall be the first of the month following date of employment Participation in the Plan is to be a condition of employment.
That the appropriate policies for Medical and Dental coverage be amended to provide coverage for dependents over the age of twenty-one (21) years but not over the age of twenty-five (25) years, provided that the dependents are attending a recognized educational institution.
Page 36
e)
Effective July 1st, 1982, a Vision Care Program be instituted to provide for payment up to a maximum of One hundred dollars ($100 00) per person in any twenty-four (24) consecutive month period far charges incurred relative to the purchase of lenses and frames or contact lenses when prescribed by a person legally qualified to make such prescription Effective July I, 1995 the maximum will be increased to one hundred and fifty dollars ($150,00) per member or dependent.
f) Physiotherapy - Effective July 1, 1995, the Physiotherapist/Massage practitioners' limit will increase by two hundred and fifty dollars ($250.00) per calendar year to a total limit offive hundred dollars ($500 00) per member or dependent per calendar year
g) Chiropractic • Effective July 1, 1995, the Chiropractors/Natrupathis Physicians' limit will increase by two hundred dollars ($200.00) per member or dependentper calendar year to a total limit of four hundred dollars ($400 00) per member or dependent per calendar year
Section 1:	Institution
It is agreed that a Health and Welfare Plan be instituted with the principleshereinafter set out
Section 3:	Provincial Board of Trustees
Weldwood of Canada Limited, together with Forest Industrial Relations Limited, the Interior Forest Labour Relations Association, the Council on Northern Interior Forest Employee Relations, Northwood Pulp & Timber Ltd., Canadian Forest Products Limited, and the IWA-CANADA agree to establish one ret of trustees for the purpose of developing a common text, a common trust agreement, and a common employee booklet for the snHealth and Welfare Plans, covering Life Insurance, Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance, and Weekly Indemnity
The parties agree that a Joint Committee, representing Forest Industrial Relations Limited, the Interior Forest Lai ji R :l iti s 4 c :i li t, the Council on Northern Interior Forest Employee Relations, Canadian Forest Products Limited. Northwood Pulp & Timber Ltd , Weldwood f ai i imited, and the IWA CANADA will be established to ;t i th it :ti i
ft i ti tii )fth Pit	ti to tl Pt :i no U than I. !9S4
Section 4:	Weldwood • IWA Board of Trustees
The Board of Trustees, composed oftwo (2) membersrepresenting IWA-CANADA and two (2) members representing the Company, are responsible for the administration of the IWA • Weldwood Health and Welfare Plan Hie Trustees are also responsible for the selection of carrier, funding adjudication of compassionate appeals, and Health and Welfare problems directly related to the Plan
Page I7
Section 5; Insurance Coverage
The following coverage will be provided by the Company
"yds / O
d
Group Lifelnsurance for each qualified employeeas follows
^	—-rj V2?
effectiveJune 15, 1994, $ 50,000 00
effectiveJune IS, 1995,5 55,000 00	'‘
effective June 15,199b, S 60,000 00	&
a)
Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance for each quahfiedemployeeas follows
effective June 15, 1994,5 50,000 00 effective June IS, 1995,5 55,00000 effective June IS, 1996,5 60,000 00
EffectiveJuly 1, 1994, the Hal will provide for coverage for accidents occurring at work Weekly Indemnity as follows.
effective July 1,1995, the Weekly Indemnity benefit level be increased by ten f	dollars ($10.00) per week so that the benefit level is four hundred and thirty-turn
'’"7* ^----- dolors ($439.00) per weeks or 52 weeks.
c^5'3tv-9 f 7 ¥ >0
,	effective Julv 1. 1996. the Weekly Indemnity benefit level be increased by ten
dollars ('$10.00) per week so that the benefit level is four hundred and forty-nine yy>.dollars($449.00) per week for 52 weeks.
qtoi-^3 rYf> --------------------------
EffectiveJanuary 1, 1995, a "NoDowns" provision be introducedao that the four hundred twartynine dollar ($429.00) per week rate will notbereducedty further reductions ty U.I.C. of the maximum insurable earnings number.
The Union agreesthat if the Company maintains Weekly Indemnity Plan benefits which will meet the standard requirements for full premium reduction for "wage loss replacement plan underthe Unemployment Insurance Act", the employes 5/12th share of the premium reduction is retained as payment inkirtd in the provisions of the Weekly Indemnity Plan benefits
In the case of disability caused by non-occupatiortal illness, Weekty	u,ill
be payable commencing the first day of any such abserta wh tl illi tit ii the claimant being hospitalized as a bed patient and in t is< rh s is performed hi itates loss of time ft rk
e)	Absences due to the same or related causes will be considered one continuous absence unless the employee returns to full-time work for at least four (4) continuous weeks bet at
0	The Officers of IWA-C ANADA, Local 1 -424 shall, upon written request, be permitted to exa ii» ii	f f ii it claims and disbursements of the above insurance
pla Such requests will not be granted more frequently than once every three (3) months dur the term f this A	t.
g)	Third Party Subrogation:
The parties agree to recommend to the Trustees of the Health and Welfare Plan that effective on the date of ratification of this Memorandum a third party subrogation clause h drptedsotha th Weekly! i liyPl can be reimbursed from damages recovered from a liable third party for illness, injury or income loss. The Plan will be entitled to recover the full amount of benefits paid to the member which exceeds 100% of the ib •' p Its il IJity, ;r income. Gross income will be calculated by using the member's regular hourly job rate times (x) 40 hours. Trustees to work out the application and details, including the deduction of lettal fees from the settlement and the execution of areimbursement agreement	_J2^
Denial Plan
a)	A dental plan will be provided bared on the following general principles.
Basic dental services (Plan A) - Pian pays 8 fees
o ofapproved schedule of
Prosthetics, crowns, and bridges (Plan B) - Plan pays 60% ofapproved schedule of fees

Orthodontic (Plan C) - Plan pays 60% of approved schedule of fees (lifetime maximum 52,500,00) There shall be ro waiting period for coverage
General Principles for Health and Welfare and Denial
Section 6
a)	Premium costfor insurance shall be paid by the Company.
b)	Participation in the Plan is to be a condition of employment
Page 59
c)	Any new employee who has not worked in covered employment in the last eighteen months will be eligible to become a covered employee on the first day of the month following completion of the probationary period. However, for such employee, coverage for the Medical Services Plan and for the Extended Health Benefit will apply on the first day of the month following the date ofemployment
^ Coverage will be portable in all units covered by collective agreements between members of Forest Industrial Relations Limited, the Interior Forest Labour Relations Association, the Council on Northern Interior Forest Employee Relations, Canfor Limited, Northwood Pulp & Timber Ltd., Weldwood ofCanada Ltd., and the IWA and there shallbe no waiting period for qualified employeeschanging employerswithin the Industry. e) Coverage during lay-offwill be provided as follows:
Employeeswith one(l) armore years seniority- six (6) months
Employeeswith more than three (3)monthsbut less than one(l)year seniority - three (3) months.
In order for reinstatement of lay-off coverage to occur there must be a return to regular full-time employment An employee returns to regular full-timeemploymentwhen he is employedfor 10 working dayswithin a floating period of thirty (30) consecutive days.
Also. an employee who returns to work for at least one working day and less than IO working days will be covered for that month, in addition to any lay-off coverage to which he was entitled, if the recall occurred during the period of lay-off coverage.
i)
il)
ill)
iv)
Weekly Indemnity coverage will be eliminated for an employeeon an extended leave of absence under Leave of Absence, Article IX, Section 3, Compassionate Leave, provided however that such employee is eligiblefor Weekly Indemnity coverage on the agreed upon dayofretum to work. In orderto qualifyfor this coverage the employeemusthave returned to his place ofresidence in British Columbia unless his disabilityrequired him to be hospitalized and satisfies the requirements of the claims adjudication carrier. In the case of a compassionate appeal dealing with disabilityincurred during an extended leave of absence, the Trustees have the right to review certain circumstances
Employees on extended leave of absence under Leave of Absence, Section 3:. Compassionate Leave will pay their own premiums for Medical Services Plan, Extended Health Benefit, and Dental Plan, whilethe premiums for Group Life Insurance and Accidental Death and DismembermentInsurance will be paid by the employer during such extended leave of absence.
Page 40
£>
ARTICLE MI LONG TERM DISABILITY PLAN
a)	ThePlan will become effective July 1st, 1982.
';«r -r -
b)	Effective July l, 1993, the Plan to be funded on a 50/50 cost sharing basis with '
contributions of twenty-two cents (22*!) per hour per employeeper hour worked, of which the Industry will contribute eleven cents (11£) end the employeewill contribute eleven cents (11£).
Effective January!, 1995, contributions from both the Industry and the employeeswillbe increased by six cents (6^) per hour worked so that contributionswill be thirty-four cents (34j!) per hour per employeeper hour worked ofwhich the industry will contribute seventeen cents(17£) and the employeewill contribute Seventeen cents (17^)
Effective July 1, 1995, contributions from both the Industry end the employeeswillbe increased by a further two and one-halfcents (2'/j£) per hour worked so that contributions will be thirty-nine cents(39£) per hour per employeeper hour worked ofwhich the Industry will contribute nineteen and one-half cents(19’/rf) and the employeewill contribute nineteen and one-half cents (] 9'/j£).
c)	A Board of Trustees will be constituted with equal representation from the Union and the Industry, to be responsible for establishing the terms ofthe Plan and the on-going administration.
d)	The Trusteeswill select a qualified actuary to assist them and to insure the establishment of actuarially somd reserves to Hind the benefits provided by the Plan
e)	The Trustees will enter into a Trust Agreementwhich will include provision for a procedure to settle any major dispute that may arise with regard to the provisions ofthe Plan
f)	Protection Against Withdrawals - Withdrawing employerto be assessed for both the
employer and employee share ofthe unfunded liability in cases of negotiated withdrawal, decertification or relocation closure. Unfunded liability formulato be uniform and based on Plan Unfunded Liability dividedby the total number of Plan member (at the time of most recent Plan Valuation) multiplied by the number of Plan members affected by the withdrawal. Trustees to be directed to amend the participation agreement accordingly
ARTICLE XXn - PENSION PLAN Section 1:
The Parties agree to establish a Pension Plan in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Memorandum of Agreement ofthe Pension Sub-Committeedated August 17,1977
Section 2;
The Industry contribution to the Pension Plan of one dollar seventy cents ($1.70) per hour per employee per hour worked, which became effective July 1, 1988, will be increased by seventy cents (700) per hour, effective July !, 1992, to,two dollars forty cents ($2.40) per hour per employee per hour worked. Effective July 1,1993, employee contributions of ten cents (100) per hour per employee per hour worked will be addedto the above contribution rate.
Unfunded ---------
Address the Plan's Unfunded Liability Issue by providing a one-time contribution offorty-four cents (440) per hour on November 1, 1994, and an additional one-timecontribuuon offorty-four cents (440) per hour on July I, 1995. Theses contributions Will be based on alllWA-Forest Industry Pension Plan hours worked by each ofthe parties ofthe first part during the 1993 and 1994 calendar years respectively and require no change to the ongoing shared $2.50/hour contribution rate for the term of this agreement
These contributions, if matched by other Pension Plan Participating Employers, will result in the following projections ofthe unfunded actuarial liability based on contributory hours of473 million hours in 1994, declining to 46 million hours in 1995, and declining by one million hours per year in each succeeding year to 2001, using a 8% interest assumption for solvencypurposes the Revised Mortality Basis, and Triennial Valuations:
1/1/94	$553.9 million
1/1/95	$461.6 million
1/1/96	$370.3 million
1/1/97	$283.7 million
1/1/98	$228.8 million
1/1/99	$171.2 million
1/1/2000	$111.0 million
These contributions will allow the unfunded actuarial liability to be fully amortized in 7 7 years from 1/1/94 (The amortization period in the Preliminary ActuarialValuationofDecemberU, 1993 is 9 1 years from that date)
Article xxm ■ apprenticeship training program
a)	The Company and the Union agree to institute the ApprenticeshipTraining Program for Tradesmen as outlined in this Agreement. The following trader to be pan ofthe Apprentice Training Program:
b)	Where the Company requires a person cr persona to maintain a valid pressure certificate, they will notify the Local Union. The Company will pay the cost ofthe examination fee and fare allowance and lost time wager for the taking ofthe exam
c)	If an official ofthe Department of Public Works requires welder to attend school, and the Company at their discretion still requires the pressure certificate, the Companywill pay the cost ofthe examination fee, fare allowance. and net lost time wages.
df	That a Committee will be established to review and upgrade the ApprenticeshipTraining
Program
Section 2:	Selection of Apprentice Procedure
1>	PURPOSE
The purpose of this agreement is to establish an equitable criteria which will give management reasonable assurance that the apprentice, upon completion of his indentureship, will become a proficienttradesman and to assure the Union and its members that the senior applicant who meets the criteria will become an apprentice
2)	EDUCATIONS!, PREREQUISITES
The educational requirement for general trades in Grade 10 or equivalent and Grade 12 or equivalent for the electrical trader.
3)	APTTTIJDF. TESTING
Applicants will be tested in accordance with the bank of tests asrecommendedby the Apprenticeship Branch ofthe Ministry of Labour Testing procedure will be as follows
Carpenters
Electricians
Welders
Heavy Duty Mechanics Machinists
Page 43
a)	A standard set of testing instructions and procedures will be developedand authorizedby the parties to this agreementand communicated to appropriate management and union personnel.
b)	The passing grade for the tests will be established by the ApprenticeshipBranchof the Ministry of Labour.
c)	The passing marks for the Mechanical Trades and Electricaltests are established as being a combinedrequirementof, firstly,seventypercent (70%) in the Mechanical Aptitude and Space Relations segments of the tests, and, secondly, seventypercent (70%) in the overall finalscoring of the tests.
d)	All scoring computations of percentages in each section and overall scores of the tests are recorded as being roundedoff to the next highest percentage point where any fraction of a percentage point exists
e)	Tests will be conducted on plant properly or near the plant by Management, a Unionrepresentative will be present when the tests are given and marked
f)	Tests recommended for the self-evaluation will be made availableandmaybe taken by an interested employee. Failure to take such tests shall not jeopardize an employee's applicationfor any apprenticeship.
g)	Apprenticeship SelectionTests Will be amendedto provide improved selection criteria as in place in the Southernlnterior.
4)	RE-TESTING
a)	It is agreed that where an applicant has Failed to pass the MechanicalAptitude and Space Relations section of either the Mechanical or Electrical tests, the employee will be allowedtobid and be re-tested one(l) additionaltime for each test
b)	Results of all tests will be retained onfileinthe Company's office. An applicant who has met the criteriaand successfully passed the requisite test and is the senior for any future apprenticeshipposting within a three (3) year period, will be considered the successful applicant.
c)	An applicantwho qualifiesand has passed the Mechanical Aptitude and Space Relations section of any ofthe available tests, but failed the overall tests, Will be eligible to bid and be re-tested for any future apprenticeshipposting.
d)	Amastercopy ofthe tests will be made available to IWA Regional CouncilNo. 1 on request.
Page -W
5)	MAINTENANCE MnWTTnRTNK. AND DISTRIBUTION OF TESTS
a)	Sufficient copies of the tests, answer sheets, and markiiwt overlays will be
maintained by Weldwood of Canada Limited, Vi	Offi i/or th
Apprenticeship Branch of theMinistry ofLabour oftheProvincc of British Columbia
b)	Test materials will be supplied on request to those operations requiring same and will be returned immediately after use
c)	Use of the tests will be monitored by Weldwood of Canada, Vancouver Head Office and/or the Apprenticeship Branch ofthe Ministry ofLabour the Province of British Columbia Such monitoring will maintain a record of applicants' tests, successful applicants' scores recorded, seniority applied, and provide a follow-up ofthe successful applicants'progress throughout training and an appropriate post training period. Other information as deemed necessary by the parties to this agreement will be made available as agreed.
6)	PROBATIONARY PERIOD
The successful applicant will be given a probationary period up to ninety (90) calendar days
7)	SELECTION REVIEW
Where a dispute arises out ofthe selection of an apprentice, that cannot be resolved at the plant level, the matter will be discussed by Management and the Local Union
8)	TRIAL PERIOD
This agreement is for a twelve (12) month trial period, from the date of this agreement Either party may terminate this agreement upon one (I) month's written notice after the completion of the eleventh month
ARTICLE XXIV - EVALUATION
Section I; Plywood Evaluation
a)	TheParties agree fomakejoint application for the services ofthe evaluators from Forest
Industrial Relations and IWA-CANADA, when these services are necessary for the purpose of evaluating or re-evaluating categories in the plywood section ofthe Company
Page 45
Where Forest IndustrialRelations and IWA.-CANADA have agreed to changesinthe present PlywoodEvaluationPlan, the Companyandthe Local Union agree to meet to discuss the possible implementationof these changes in the Company’s operations covered by this Agreement.No implementationof changes may be made without prior agreement between the Companyand the Local Union.
Section 2:	Sflwnylf Rate Determination
The Sawmill Rate DeterminationProgram as negotiated between Forest IndustrialRelations
Association and International Woodworkers of America, will be institutedin accordance with
Schedule No, 5
A
StttfrR fj
a)
/r
Marshallingpoints to be establishedby mutual agreement for Scalers
Travel time shallbe paid for at straight time rates for time in excessof eight and one-half (8%) hoursin any one day betweenleaving the designatedmarshalling point, and returning to the said point, provided always that the said eight and one-half (8!4) hour period is based upon one-halfhour for lunch and may be extended to amaximumof a furtherfifteen minutes where the lunch time exceeds one-half hour
c)	EmployeesawayFromthe designatedmarshallingpoinlinexcessoften(lO) hours shallbe paid at rate and one-half for the period in excess often (10) hours
The Company shall avoid unnecessary delay in transporting employeesfrom the marshalling point to the place ofwork and return
*1/
ARTICLE XXVI - TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE Section 1:	a
The Company shall notify the Shop Committee and the Umon six (6) months in advance of intent to institute changer in working methods or fecihties which would involve the discharge or laying cff of employees
'IS
Ltiun 2. Retraining

The Company shall co-operate with the Govemmentof British Columbia and participate in every way possible in training or re-trainingof employeesso affected
gection_3:	Rate Adjustment	{Jr*
a)	An employee who is set back to a lower paidjob because of mechanization, technological change or automation will receive the rate of his/her regularjob at the time of the setback for aperiod ofthree (3) months and for a further period of three (3) months he/she will be paid an adjusted rate which will be midway between the rate of his/her regularjob at the time of the setback and the rate of his/her new regularjob. At the endofthis six (6) month period the rate of his/her new regularjob will apply. However, such employee will have the option ofterminating his/her employmentand accepting severance pay as outlined in Section 4 below, providing he/she exercises this option within the above-referred-to six (6) month period.
b)	Following an application of(ft) above, where an employeeis set back to a lower paidjob because of an application of Article VIII - Senioritybrought on by mechanization, technological change or automation he/she will receive the fate of his/her regularjob at the time ofthe setback for aperiod ofthree (3) months and for a further period ofthree (3) months he/she will be paid an adjusted rate which will be midway between the rate of his/her regularjob at the time ofthe setback and the rare of his/her new regularjob At the endofthis six (6) month period the rate of his/her new regularjob will apply.
Severance Pay	—
Employees discharged, laid eff or displaced from their regular job because of mechanization. technological change or automation shall be entitled to severancepay of one week's pay for each year of service with the Company The amount calculatedunder such entitlement shall not exceed a maximum of thirty (30) weeks pay. This Section shall not apply to employees covered by Section3(b) above.
RPTTfTT.T: xxvn - SAFETY EQUIPMENT
SectiopJ;
a) Where the following articles ofequipmenc are required to be used by the Company or by the Water' sCompensadon Board, the Company shall.
1.	Supplynew employeeswith the articles ofequipment as required.
2.	Supply employees moving to another department with the articles of equipment they require and that they do not have at the time ofthe move, or
3.	Replace articles of equipment as required when they are presented worn or
damaged beyond repair by an employee at no cost to the employee.
1.	n
2.	J t!
3.	iVeldinggogg ss, ti
4.	;li t tii	juipriM t
5.	3	]	ition
6.	5 protection
7.	Ear protection 8 Gloves
Notwithstanding the foregoing all articles of equipment to be replaced only when they are j :d worn or 1	,g< d beyond repair; otherwis I h	nll^ ttl expense 0f
the empl
b] The Co	shall be equiredto
require- to wear », thefollowi
til )h
employees who are
1.	Safety shoes
2.	Rain gear
3.	*.r,
An employeewho is required to wear caulk boots by the Worker's Compensation Board shall receive annuallya caulk boot allowance of
Effective July 1,1994 -$120.00
i) If h e has six (6) months or more seniority, or
ij) Upon obtaining six (6) months seniority.
Season lay-off shall not interfere with the qualifying period herein
c)	Companies that supplied safety equipment and clothing at no cost to the employee on the effective date ofthis Agreement, will continue to do so at no cost to the employee.
ARTICLE XX Vm - TOOL INSURANCE
a) The Company shall, uponthe sicpngof the Coast Master Agreement, at its expense, insure for damage or loss caused by fire or floodthe tools of its employeeswhich are required to be used in the performance of their work
Page 48
b)
The Company shall, uponthe signing ofthe Coast Master Agreement, at its expense, insure the tools ofits employees which are required to be used in the performance oftheir work, for loss by theft where the tools are stored in a designated place of safety within the control ofthe Company and there isforcible breaking and entering. The insurance coverage provided shall be subject to a deductible of $50 00 h respect of each employee's claim.	—■
ARTICLE XK - CONTRACTING OUT
a) The Company will not contract out any work that is performed by employeesin the Bargaining Unit at the effective date ofthe agreement
b)
Current practices in operations shall be agreed on with the Local Union in writing. Until such time as agreement is reached the above Clause (A) only will apply.
ARTICLE XXX ■ DURATION OF AGREEMENT SWIM 1:
This Agreement is a renewal and revision of the previous Collective Agreement entered into between the Company and the Union on July 1st, 1991
a)	The Parties hereto mutually agree that this Agreement shall be effective from and after the
Is* day of July, 1934. to midnight the	19^ and thereafter from year to
year unless written notice of contrary intention is given by either Party to the other Party within four (4) months immediately preceding the date of expiry
The notice required hereunder shall be validly and sufficientlyserved at the Head Office of the Party of the First Part, orat the Local Office upon the Local Officers of the Union, Party ofthe Second Part, within four (4) months immediately preceding the 1st day of July. 1994, If no Agreement is reached at the expiration of this Contract and negotiations are continued, the Agreement shall remain in force up to the time an Agreement is reached or until negotiations are discontinued by either Party
b)	The Parties hereto agree that the operation of Section 66 (2) ofthe Labour Code of British Columbia Act 197.1 is excluded fnonthe Master Agreement
Page 49
E.&O.E.
Page 50
10
M
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20 21
22
23
24
25
26 27
*13.71.16 18.83 ' 18.96 19.07-54 19.26
19.39-54 19,59 19.75-54
19.93
20.11-54
20.30
20.46-54
20.66 20 58 21.06-54 2! ,25
21.49-	56 21 71
21.93 22.20-54
22.50-	54
22	78-54
23	06 23.34 23 63 23.90-54 24.19-54
22.14
22.36
22.59
22.87
23.(8
23.47
23.75
24.04
24.34
24,62
24.92
p*#<5!
fi/at ii ATrn rATF.GORIES - PLYWQQI? P-LMlL£
GRADE 3
MINE 15/94 JUNE 15/95
$18 a3	$19,395
power Sweeper Operator Lily Pad Chipperman
GRADE 3
18 96
19 53
MIKE 15/96
$19,785
19.92
#3 Dryer Feeder Lathe Charger Attendant Car Shorer Panel Bin Attendant
19	075
Press Helper	,
#1 & #2 uryer Feeder/vacuum feed Lathe Charger Attendant/Lathe
Trainee utility Man Green Chain Offbearer
#3 Lathe Charger Attendant Barker Building Chipper Op Core SplitterOperator
GRADE 5	1921
19.645	20.04
19 84	20.235
SheetTumer
Chip Car Loader
Dryer Grader* Offbearer
Strip Saw Operator
Sheathing Grader
M2 Sc #3 Lathe Charger
Attendant -Lathe Trainee
Greenchain Off earer/Chipper Attd
Chipper Operator
JUNE 15/94
Jpwg 15/96 JUNE IS/IK
GRADE ti	19,395
Sheet Tumer/5FT/3 person crew Core Feeder/5FT/3 person crew Strapper Machine Op/Stencil!ing Core Feeder - Odd & £ven p|ys Chip V Saw Attd - Stud Offbearet
gRADg7	19.59
Patch LinePatcher
Head G/C man
As$t H± Press Op • #2 Press
GRAPE ft	19.755
Dryer Grader Offbearer/Cert D.O
Oiler
Stacker/Strapper Op
ForkliftOp Finish End
19.93
Fork Lift Op • Green end KUyim
Forklift Op • Veneer & Spreader Glue Mixer
Forklift Op - Shipping/ Tally
GRAPE 10	20.11$
Log Loader • Vat Loading Log Loader • Vat Unloading Core Layer
GRAPE 11	20.30
Chip LoaderOperato;
Core Layer/5FT/3 person crew
19 975	20 375
20 18 20 585
20 35	20.755
20	53	20.94
20 72	21 135
20.91	21.33
Pa$e 53
TTINF. 15/94 fllNB tSaS WWE \m
r.B\DE 11
S20.465
ffl Log Saw Op sringunit& Grade Line Operator Standby Lather Operator/ Charger Attendant Ring Barker Op Twin
n Hot Press Operator Sander/T &. G/Forklift Operator Grinderman
fiffAPfi-U	21.065
21.08	21.50
21.505	2l’935
21.695	22.13
Dryer Operator
Dryer Operator - Weekends
QRADE 19
#1 Hot Press Operator
GRADE 25
Wl Lathe Operator #3 Lathe Operator
GRADE 26
#1 Lathe Operator
21.93
23.63
23.905
22.59	23.04
24.34	24,825
24.62	25.11
PLYWOOD DIVISION CATEflOMFS IIN'DERRATE DETERMINATION (LOG YARD)
CATEGORY	JUNE 15/94
$19,335
Log Deck Chaser
19.61
Long Log Deck Operator Group 8
Short Log Deck Operator	20 125
#2 & U3 db Saw Operator
Group 9	20 405
JUNE 11/95 JUNE 15/96 19.915	20.315
20 20	20 605
20 73	21 145
21015	21435
#1 Cut off Saw / Log Sizer
20.735	21355	2178
Licensed Scaler/Weighmaster
Group 12:	21.465	22 11	22 55
Log Loader Operator
22 185	22 85	23 305
Wagner Operator
First Aid Attendant • lob Rate Plus:
Level II Certificate	SOf per hour
Level III Certificate	851 per hou*
NON-EVALUATED CATEGORIES • PLYWOOD PLANT
Chargehand plus Clean Up
PLYWOOD MAINTENANCE DEPARTMENT
1H
JUNE 15/94 JUNE 15/95 JUNE 15/96
$19 275	$19,66
e;%
2nd Class Engineer 3rd Class Engineer 4th Class Engineer Fireman (where the employee acting as Fireman has a fourth Class Ticket)
Fireman
25 515 24 375 23 08
21 50 19 74
26 28	26	805
25 105	25	605
23 77	24	245
22 145	22 59
20	33	20 735
Fuel Bin Bunkerman	18	715
Maintenance Utility Man	18	775
Steam Plant Utility Man	19	095
Steam Plant Utility Man (has 4th Class Ticket)	20	035
19 275	19 66
19 34	19 725
19	67	20 065
20	635	2105
Truck Driver Plant	19 095
Truck Driver Plant (required to operate forklift part time)	19.415
19 67	20 065
19 995	20 395
Warehouse Man Helper	19 015
Watchman	18.715
19 585	19 975
19 275	19 66
920 Operator
19.415
19 995	20 395
Cat Operator D8 (or smaller) 20 3 I
20 92	2134
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
SAWMILL RATE DETERMINATION PROGRAM
GROUP AND RATE CHART
EFFECTIVE JUNE 15/94
$18.71-%
18.85 19.02-% 19.17 19.33-% 1961 19.88 20.12-%
20.40-% 20.73-% 21.11-%
21.46-% 21.81-% 22.18-% 22.52-% 22.87-% 23.24-% 23 61 23,93-% 24.40 24.83-% 25,27-% 25.72
EFFECTIVE JUNE 15/95
$19 27-%
19.41-% 19.59-% 19.74-% 19 91-% 20.20
20.47-% 20.73 21.01-% 21.35-% 21.75 22.11 22,47
22.85
23	20
23.56
23.94
24	32 24,65-%
25	13 25.5$
26	03-% 26 49
EFFECTIVE JUNE 15/96
$19.66 19 80-%
19	98-%
20	14 20.31-% 20,60-% 20 88-% 21,14-%
21	43-% 21,78
22	18-% 22 55 22 92 23,30-% 23,66-% 24.03 24 42 24.80-% 25.15 25.63-% 26,09 26.55-% 27.02
Page 57
SAWMILL WAGE SCALE
ESTABLISHED BY THE SAWMILL RATE DETERMINATION
JUNE 15/94
GROVE!	$18,715
Clean-Up
QBSmi	19.025
Green Chain Puller GROUP 4	19)7
Chipper Feeder
CTQVfg	19335
Sorter Bin Operatoi #1 Drop Sorter #3 Drop Sorter
QRQUP-i	1961
II and #2 Trimmer/Roiating Sorter StackerOperator
GROUP 7	19 88
Pocket Edger/Fixed Chipping Heads
GWVU	20.125
Forklift Operator Qrcular Gang Saw Operatoi
PROGRAM
JUNE 15/95 JUNE 15/96 $19,275	$19.66
19.595	19.985
19.745	20.14
19.915	20.315
20.20	20 605
20.475	20 885
20.73	21.145
Page 58
	JUNE 15/94	JUNE 15/95	JUNE 1 5/96
GROUP 9	20 405	21 015	21 435
21" Semi Auto Barker Attd 30” Semi Auto Barker Attd			
GROUP 19	23 935	24.655	25 15
Circular Headrig Sawyer			
PLANER MILL WAGE SCALE
ESTABLISHED BY THE SAWMILL RATE DETERMINATION PROGRAM
	JUNE 15/94	JUNE 15/95	JUNE 11/96
Clean-up Strip Piler	$18715	$19,275	$19.66
GROUP 2 Clock Watchman Paperwrapper - End Sealer	1885	19.415	19 805
GROUP3 Planer Chain Puller Breakdown Hoist Operator	19 025	19 595	19.985
19 17	19 745	20 N
Breakdown Hoist Operator/ Strip Filer Car Loader
Receiving Tilt Hoist Operator (Planer End Loader)
Planer Chain Puller/Grade Stamper/Checker
JUNE 15/94 .TUNE 15/9? JUNE 15/96

JUNE 15/94 JTINE 15/95
GROUP 6	19 61	20 20
Chipper Feeder/Set-Up/Swing Saw Operator
GROUP 7	19.88	20.475
Strapper Operator ■ Tallyman Planer Feeder
20 125	20 73
Forklift Operator
GROUP 9	20 405	21 015
Planer Feeder & Set Up Grader #2
GROUP 11
Grader#1 GROUP 12
Planerman #2
GROUP 14
Planerman#!
GROUP 15
G S.L A Grader/
Grade Reader
21115	2175
21 465	22 11
22 185	22 85
22 525	23 20
ESTABLISHED BY LOCAL AGREEMENT
Grinderman	20.88	21.505
JUNE 15/96 20.605
20.885
21.145
21.435
22.185
22.55
23.305
23.665
21.935
Page 60
MAINTENANCE DEPARTMENTS • ALL DIVISIONS
TRADESMEN. APPRENTICESHIP AND MISCELLANEOUS RATES
CATEGORY	JUNE 15/94.
(Certified)
Carpenter	$24,375
Electrician
Heavy Duty Mechanic
Millwright
Stwnfitter-Pipeflttcr
Helper	19.85
Helper, 1st Year Completed	20,12
Improver, 2nd Ifear Completed 20.62 Improver, 3rd Year Completed	21.185
(1st six months)
improver, 3rd Year Completed	22,165
(2nd six months)
Journeyman	23.^75
Journeyman- Certified	24,375
Machinist
JUNE 15/9,5
$25,105
20 445
20	725
21	24 21 82
22	83
24	605
25	105
■TTINF 15/96
$25,605
20	855
21	14 21 66
22	255
23	285
25.105
25.605
Helper	19,945
Helper, 1st Year Completed	20,215
Improver, 2nd Year Completed	20.705
Improver, 3rd Year Completed	21,28
(1st six months)
Improver, 3rd Year Completed	22.165
(2nd Si months)
Journeyman	23.875
Journeyman • Certified	24,375
20	545	20.955
20.82	21,235
21	325	21.75
21	92	22,36
22	83	23 285
24.605	25 105
25 105	25.605
Page 61
CATEGORY	JUNE 15/94
Forklift & Carrier Mechanic
Helper	19.85
Helper, 3st Year Completed 20,12 Improver, 2nd Year Completed 20,62 Improver, 3rd Year Completed 21,185 (1st six months)
Improver, 3rd Year Completed 22,00 (2nd six months)
Mechanic	23,685
JUNE 15/95 JUNE 15/96
20 445	20,855
20	725	21,14
2124	2166
21	82	22,255
22	66	23,1 15
2441	24,91
Mechanic -Certified
24,185	24 91	25.41
PainterHelper	19.67
Painter Improver,	20,61
1st Year Completed
Painter	23,50
Painter - Certified	24,00
20	26	20.665
21	23	21,655
24 22	24,715
24 72	25,215
Welder-Group 3	23.685
Uncertified
Welder-Group 2	24 185
(Fl-103, DPW 1, DPW 2)
Welder-Group 1	24.375
(Fl-101, Fl-102)
24 41	24 91
24	91	25,41
25	105	25.605
Note I: Must be qualified as requiredlunder the standardForest Industry Welding Specifications and either having completedthe three year apprenliceshipprogramor having worked in the trade for six thousand (6,p0Q) hours as a Welder.
FILING ROOM TRAPES;
Saw Fitter Helper SawFitter,
1st Year Completed SawFitter Saw Fitter (with Certificate) Circular Saw Filer Helper Circular Saw Filer Circular SawFiler-Certified
19,85	20,445
20,355	20,965
23.51	24.23
24.01	24.73
24.01	24.73
23:875	24,605
24.375	25.105
20.855
21.385
24,725
25,225
25,225
25.105
25.605
Page 62
CATEGORY	JUNE 15/94 JUNE 15/95 JUHE15/96
Benchman Helper	24.375	25	105	25	605
Benchman	24.58	25	33	25	845
Benchman (with Certificate)	25 08	25	83	26	345
ChargehandPlus 11(1
First Aid Attendant- lob Rate Plus:
Level 2 Certificate	SOtf per hour
Level 3 Certificate	85£ per hour
WELPWOOD OF CANADA LTD. - LOG YARD
WAGE SCALE • NON EVALUATED CATEGORIES
CATEGORY	JUNE 15/94
Utility	$18.85
Strapper	19.025
Bucker/Marker/Scaler	21.395
Crane Operator/Repair and	22.525
Maintenance Responsibilities
ChargehandsPlus U(
■JUNE 15/95	JUNE 15/96
$19,415	$19 805
19.595	19.985
22.035	22 475
23,20	23.665
Page 63
WELDWOOD OF CANADA LTD. ■ OUESNEL OFFICE WAGE SUPPLEMENT - JUNE 15, 1994 START 6 MONTHS 12 MONTHS 18 MONTHS 24 MONTHS GROUP I	$15.45	$15.52	$16.41
Junior Clerk. Planer
GROUP 2	15.52	15 76	16 12	16.85
GROUP 3	15.81	16.20	16.715	17.59
Receptionist Statistics Clerk Accounts Payable Clerk
GROUP 4	16 12	1654	1709	17.665
Accounting Clerk Payroll Clerk Personnel Clerk
GROUP6
16.995	17.43
18035	18.645
Draftsperson Woods Clerk
GROUP 7	17 50	17.965
Storekeepers Senior Clerk, Planer
GROUP 8	18.365	18 85
Senior Payroll Clerk Junior Accountant
1858
19 62
19 27
20.355
GROUP 9	19.005	19.61	20.355	21.135
Purchasing Clerk
18.345
19.30
1996
21 115
21 92
Pa?o W
WELDWOOD OF CANADA I.TTV ■ OTIF.SNF.T. OFFICE
WAGE SUPPLEMENT • JUNE 15,1995
SIMI 6 MONTHS_______12 MONTHS 18 MONTHS 24 MONTHS
GROUP 1	$15,915	$15,985	$16.90
Junior Clerk, Planer GROUP2
GROUP3
Receptionist Statistics Clerk Accounts Payable Clei
GROUP4
Accounting Clerk Payroll Clerk Personnel Clerk
GROUP 6
Draftsperson Woods Clerk
GROUP7
Senior Clerk, Planer Storekeepers
GROUPS
Senior Payroll Clerk Junior Accountant
GROUP?
15.985	16 235	16.605
16.285	16.685	17.215
k 16.605	17.035	17 605
17.505	17.955	18.575
18.025	18.505	19.135
18.915	19.415	20.21
19.575	20.20	20.965
17.355 18 12
18.195	18 895
19 205	19.88
19	85	20 56
20	965	21 75
21,77	22.58
Page 65
Purchasing Clerk
WELDWOQD OF CANADA LTD. ■ OUESNEL OFFICE
WAGE SUPPLEMENT - JUNE IS. 1996
START
QRQT/P i	$16,235
Junior Clerk, Planer
16.305
GROUP 3	16.61
Receptionist StatisticsClerk Personnel Clerk Accounts Payable Clerk
16.935
AccountingClerk Payroll Clerk
17.855
Senior Clerk, Planer Draftsman
Mini Computer Operator «!	18.385
Storekeepers
GROUP 8	19 295
SeniorPayroll Clerk Junior Accountant
GROUP 9	19.965
6	MONTHS 12 MONTHS $16,305	$17.24
16.56	16.935
17.02	17 56
17.375	17 955
18.315	3B945
18	875	19 52
19	805	20.615
20.605	21 385
18 MONTHS 24 MONTHS
17.70
18.48
18.56	19 275
19.59	20.28
20.245	20 97
21.385	22.185
22.205	23 03
Page 66
Purchasing Clerk
SCHEDULE NO. 2 BIDDING PROCEDURE
1	The Bid Sheet shall be posted on the plant bulletin board for a minimum oftwenty-four (24) hours.
NOTE: Woods bids shall be posted.
2.	The Personnel Department shall screen bid sheets for the successful bidder on the basis of seniority and competency.
3.	ThePersonnel Manager shall maintain a list of successful bidders on the plant bulletin board which list shall accumulate forthree (3) months. As the successful bidders are selected, their names shall be entered with the date and, if possible, the datethejab becomes effective. All bids shall be entered five (5) days after the bid sheet comes down Successful bids shall become effective on the 6th working day after the bid sheet comes down
4	A "Successful Bid Sheet" shall be published weekly with copies given to the Department Superintendent, Foreman's Office, Payroll Section and Committee.
5. In the event the Personnel Manager and/or Superintendent and the employee concerned and/or Committee Chairman cannot settle on an effective date which has been delayed because of exceptional conditions, a Committee meeting shall be held to appraise the exceptional conditions Failing settlement in this manner, grievance procedure shall be instigated
When commencing employment at Weldwood of Canada Ltd , all employees automatically become part of a "labour pool". To get out ofthe labour pool and acquire departmental seniority employees must bid on posted jobs or be placed on ajob where noone else has bid
Alternatively, employees may find themselves in the labour pool owing to insufficient departmental seniority to remain in their department,
(i) in case ofcurtailment of forces; or
(jj) in case ofthe disappearance ofjobs owing to technical change
In the event that senior employees in the labour pool fail to bid, the Company and the Committee shall make every €£a± to place such employees. In regard to employees as defined under Sub-section (b) (i) an (b) (ii) above.
6	(a)
(b)
(c)
Page 67
Placement by the Company and the Committee shall not interfere with the employee's right to return automatically to the jobs which they held before reduction when the jobs are re-established;
The ninety (90) day bidding restriction (see Article 8 below) doer not apply, and;
Such employeesmay bid within the new department until such time as their formerjob re-opens; at which time such employeesmust decide whether to return to their oldjob (with no loss in department seniority) or stay in the new department (seniority starting at the date of placement.
Nothing contained in (c) (i) to (iii) above shall interfere with the application of Section 5(d) of Article VIII.
(d) Any employee in the labour pool who refuses a job in linewith his seniority on any given day shall relinquish his seniority rights for that day.
7	When more than one employee bids on ajob and the successful bidder fails to qualify, all employees who bid shallbe considered before thejob is re-posted. However, ifthejob is not filledwithin six (6^weeks, it shall be re-posted
8.	Department seniority shall start on the day on which a job is successfullybid into the department Successfulbidders within a department may not bid for anyjob outside that department until ninety (90) days have elapsed unless their bid is the only bid However, a bid within a department is valid unless ajunior employee in the same department who does not come under the ninety (90) day restriction bids for the job Successfulbids for thejob training have no effect on the employee'spower lobid for regular jobs
9.	The foregoing bidding procedure may be revised annually.
(0
00
(iii)
(iv)
Page 68
SCHEDULE NO. 3
(REFERENCE: SEE ARTICLE XXIID
1,
PLYWOOD JOB EVALUATION
Principles and Procedure:
The implementation and administration of the job evaluation program shall be in accordance with the principles and procedures as set out in a manual dated September. 19SS, and entitled "lobEvaluation fc£nal for Operational Hourly Paid lobs in the Plywood Industry of "British Columbia" as amended July I. 1966 and as further amended April, 1971 (herein referred to as the "Manual")
2.	PointRangeand Increment!
All jobs in Group One, the point range of which is 0 to 81, shall he paid the minimum rate for common labour as provided in Article IX, Section 1. The point range for subsequent groups shallbe ten (10), i e. Group Two (82-91), Group Three (92-101), etc. The wage increment curve for the plywood industry is as follows
GRADE EFFECTIVE	EFFECTIVE	EFFECTIVE
LEVEL JUNE 15/94	.TUNE 15/95	JUNEI15/96
1	$18.71.14	$19.27-14
2	18.83	19.39-'/,
3	18.96	19.53
4	19.07-'/,	19.64-'/,
5	19.26	19.84
6	19 39-14	19.97-'/,
7	19.59	20.18
8	19.75-'/,	20.35
9	19.93	20.53
10	20.11-'/,	20.72
11	20.30	20.91
12	20 46-'/,	21.08
13	20.66	21.28
14	20.88	21.50-14
15	21 06-'/,	21.69-'/,
16	2128	21.92
17	21.49-'/,	22.14
18	21 71	22.36
19	21.93	22.59
$19,6 6 19.78-'/, 19.92
20.04 20.23-14 20.37-/,
20.58-	'/, 20.75-'/,
20	94 21.13-'/,
21	33 21.50 21.70-/, 21.93-14 22.13 22.36
22.58-	/, 22.80-/,
23.04
Page 69
GRADE EFFECTIVE	EFFECTIVE	EFFECTIVE
LEVEL JUNE 15/94	JUNE 15/9S	JUNE 15/96
20	22.20-14	22.87
21	22.50-14	23.18
22	22.78-14	23.47
23	23.06	23.75
24	23.34	24.04
25	23.63	24.34
26	23 90-14	24.62
27	24.19-14	24 92
23.32-14
23.64-14
23 94
24.22-14
24.52
24.82-14
25.11
25.42
3.	Industry Job Evaluation Committee:
There shall be a committee constituted and named the Industry Job EvaluationCommittee (hereinreferredtoasthe "PlywoodEvaluationCommittee)to consist of one member representative ofthe Company. and one member representativeof Regional Council No.
1,	International Woodworkers of America.
4.	Function of Plywood Evaluation Committee:
(a)	The PlywoodEvaluationCommitteeshall assume general responsibility forthe administrationofthejob evaluationprogram.
Qj) The unanimousdecision ofthe said Committeeshallbe final and binding on the Parties hereto.
5.	Plant Job Review Committee
(a)	There shall be a committeeconstituted in each Plywood Plant named the Plant Job Review Committee (herein referredto as the 'Review Committee"), to consist of two (2) members represenlativeofManagement and two (2)members representative ofthe employees. At least one (1) representative of Management must be a member of the Plant's salaried staff or Management, and at least one representative ofthe employees must be an employeeofthe Plant whose job is subject to Plywood Job Evaluation. Management may choose their second representative from amongst personsnot employed at the plant, and the Union may do likewise except that neither Party may choose as its representative a member of the PlywoodEvaluationCommitteeor any person who is employed as a Job Evaluator by Forest IndustrialRelationsLimitedor by Regional CouncilNo 1 ofthe IntemationalWoodworkers of America.
(b)	The Company shall reimburse any of its hourly paid employees for time lost while acting as a member of the Review Committee or while presenting information, n gi ding his/h o job, befoi a •< g il I convened meeting of the Review Committee. The Company shall not be responsible for remunerating employee representatives who are not its hourly paid employees.
Function of Review Committee
(a)	T1 Review Committee will be f for seeing that all requests for
evaluation or	-evaluation of jobs are adequately and accurately documented
before	5 s J > th Ply\ d E ill lion Committee for forth action. 1
i<	n ui ed /ill i dud a "Request for Job Evaluation" form submitted
either by an individual employee or by local Management, and a fully >i Job s< ip ii hi:! ] /i !i s ffici< inf< ation fc th i'i qi il	>i of
t! Ij /ooi li a n ( tu ti The form of the documents, the procedures for submitting and handling them, and the time limits foi lpletii i 13 bi amended as required by the Plywood Evaluation Committee under the authority given them by Article 3 of this supplement.
(b)	Decisions of the Review Committee respecting the appropriateness of a request f evaluation or re-evaluation, or respecting the adequacy and accuracy of documents, shall be by unanimous agreement. Failing such agreement within the established time limit, the Review Committee shall, at the request of any one of its members, immediately forward the Request for Job Evaluation, together with any other documents on which there is unanimous agreement, to the Plywood Evaluation Committee and shall then have no further responsibility for documenting that request.
(c)	When the Ply 0 > £ a tat in eh; a t< a :i 1 respecting the
evaluation of a job, it shall communicate that decision to the appropriate Review Committee, he R< C	will be responsible for informing
Management and the employees concerned, giving reasons for the outco nt I these are available. \ lei isic of the Review Committee that an Application for Job Evaluation should not be forwarded to the Plywood Evaluation Committee will, similarly, be communicated with reasons to those concerned.
(d Nothing in this Article limits the right of the Plywood Evaluation Committee to
determine the facts about any job, by direct observation or otherwise, or ti amend ar jo 1 sc >ti or :ific io t, il itt< i 1 il ii support f; B for Job Evaluation form.
7.	Application of Program:
The job evaluation program shall apply to all employeesin the plywood industry except Journeymen, Tradesmen. Improvers, Helpers and Powerhouse and Boom Crews
8,	Direction ofWork:
lob Evaluation descriptions are written with the intent to set forth the general duties and requirements ofthejob and shall not be construed as imposing any restriction on the right ofthe Company to assign duties to employees other than those specificallymentioned h job descriptions, provided always that if the assignmentof such duties changes the job content sufficientlyto justify a review ofthe evaluation the Plywood Evaluation Committee shall make such a renew in accordance with the procedure as net out herein
9.	Re-Evaluation:
(a)	When ajob has moved to another grade as a result of re-evaluation, the wage rate for the new grade shall be effective on the date that Management or the employee has applied to the Review Committee for re-evaluation
(b)	When ajob is moved to a lower grade as a result of re-evaluation, the incumbent shall maintain his/her job rate as a red circle rate subject to the provisions of Paragraph 11(c) herein.
10.	Hew Jobs Created
Where the Company has exercised its right to create a newjob, a temporary rate shall be set by Management The permanent rate for the saidjob as determined by the Plywood Evaluation Committee shall be effective as ofthe date the job was installed If the evaluated rate for the newjob is lower than the temporary rate the incumbent (s) shall be allowed to continue at the temporary rate.
11.	Red Circle Jobs
The Company shall supply the Union with a list of employees holding red circle jobs, the said list to include the name ofthe employee, name of job category filled, the evaluated rate for the job, and the actual rate paid
Employees on red circle rates who are promoted to a higher grade shall regain the red circle rate if subsequentlyfound incompetent to continue in the higher grade
Employees holding red circlejobs who are demoted during a reduction of forces. shall be paid only the evaluated rate far the job to which they are assigned. If at a later date an employee is reassignedto his/her formerjob, he/she shall regain his/her red circle rate
(b)
(c)
(a)
Page 72
(d)	When the Company terminates ajob, or a job is not occupied during a period of oneyear, a record as to the cancellation ofthe applicablejob description and classification shall be established.
(e)	If an employee is temporarily transferred at the request ofthe Company he/she shall retain his/her existing rate or receive the rate for the newjob. whichever is higher. On return to his/her regularjob. the said employee shall regain his/her red circle rate
12.
Seniority:
(a)	Subject to the provisions herein set out, Article VI1IS (Seniority) shall continue to apply
(t,) Promotions shall be made only where a vacancy exists Referral Procedure ('Appeal Procedure!
(a)	When the Plywood Evaluation Committee has decided the outcome of a Request for lob Evaluation, it shall transmit its decision to the appropriate Plant Job Review Committee.
(b)	When an employee's request for re-evaluation results in no change being made in the job grade, or in a reduction. or when Management requests results in no change or in an increase, the Plywood Evaluation Committee shall give to the appropriate Review Committee a short statement ofthe reasons for the decision The statement should not go into great detail, but should indicate the criteria used in sufficient depth to show the applicant that the request was given adequate attention.
(c)	An evaluation done by the Plywood Evaluation Committee shall be final and binding on the Parties but, at any time after five years since the last evaluation or re-evaluation of ajob, Management or an individual employee may submit a request for re-evaluation of that job and no other reason than the elapsed time shall be necessary
(d)	If the Plywood Evaluation Committee is unable to reach agreement regarding the disposition of a Request for Job Evaluation or any other matter regarding the job evaluation program which falls within their jurisdiction the matter shall be referred to Forest Industrial Relations Limited, and to the International Woodworkers of America, Regional Council for settlement
Page 73
(e)
All communi in 1 een any Plant Review Committee i li s Plywood Evaluation Committee referred to above shall be effected by se i one p ' tc the Union representative or representatives on the Committee and one copy to the Company Representative or representatives. In the case of communications to a Plant Revi< C littee, the Uni rep si e tati’ e ill be idd id car if he office of the appropriate Union Local and the Company representatives care of b i 1 o ic at the Plant. In tl	a	f sommi iici ti<	t	h Plj
iva itioni j ittei liUnitn m	it	s will be It a	sd	care >f	i
offices of Regional Council No. 1 of th	M	tii \ od	•!	ri<	a
Vancouver, and the Company representative care of the office of Forest Industrial Relations Limited.
14. Training Program
A program of training for members of the Review Committee in each plant s\ be i rti i, the details of which shall be arranged by the Company and the 1 >t Woodworkers of America Regional Council.
Page 74
SCHEDULE NO. 4 FIRE FIGHTING AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
WELDWOOD OF CANADA LIMITED. (CAR] BG 0 DIVISH
AND:
IWA-CANADA,
LOCAL 1-424, A.F.L., C.I.O., C.L.C.
The following terms and conditions shall be applicablefor the duration ofthe current Collective Agreement during "Company Responsibility Fires” in which the employed employee relationship exists under the said Collective Agreement.
Definitions
00
Accidental Fi e: Any fire not deliberately ignited by the Company to dispose of slash or waste, and which requires active measure to extinguish.
(b)	il Escape Fire: Any slash fire ignited by the Company which has escaped the p termined boui darit and ii ti' measures to extinguish.
(c)	Slash Control F Any slash fire ignited by the Company which is contained within the pre-determined boundaries, or alternatively, any slash fire which has escaped such boundaries but is not considered out of control and does not require active measures as contemplated in (a) and (b) above
<d)
(e)
Com
n o
Fi» Any fire which the Company is responsible for
takin measures to igt ish pursuant to ll provisions of the Forest Act.
Forest Service Fire: A a fin n t which the B.C. Forest Service accepts ibili fc direction of measures to extinguish.
g Rates: The rates of pay for fighting Company Responsibility Fires
hereinafter set out in this Agreement.
(g)
_iii_
' Rates: Rates of pay to employees for the performance of their
;ai Jobs. as set out in the Wage Supplement to the Collective Agreement.
Page 7:
^ Statutory Rates: Rates ofpay establishedby B C Forest Service for fire fighters
2.	Company Controlled Timber
(a| Notwithstanding the foregoing, when the Company directs Company employeesto fight fire on Company controlled timber, or to fight fires on property adjacent to Company controlled timber, which is threatening Company controlled timber, the Company will pay those employees at the fire fightingrates set out in Section 3 of this Supplement.
(b)	Where the B. C. Forest Service directs the Company to provide its employees for fighting fires in circumstances other than those set out in a) above, those employeeswill be paid at the statutory rate
(e) The parties agree to hold discussions, which will parallel any discussions held between the IWA and the F.L.R A., regarding the application of this section
3.	Fire Fighting Rates
(a) The basic rate shall be $19,425 per hour effective June 15, 1994 and $20 01 per hour effective lune 15, 1995, and $20.41 per hour effective lune 15, 1996, and shall apply to all employees engaged in fightingAccidental or Slash Escape Fires except those performing one of the following fire fightingjobs
CATEGORY	JUNE 15/94 JUNE 15/95 JUNE 15/96
Crew Boss	$21 66	$22 31
Cat Operators	21 095	21 73
Power Saw Operators (CW" saw)	22 895	23 58
Mechanics/Heavy Duty	Mechanics Regular Job Rate
Slip-On Tank and/or Trailer Tanks with Pump Driver/
Operator	21,095	21 73
Water Tank Truck with Pump Driver/Operator	20 31	21.95
Service Truck/Bus Driver 19.425	20 01
Pumpman	19.765	20 36
$22,755
22.16
24 05
22 16
22.39 20.41 20 765
(b)	Straight time rates will apply to all employees throughout the period during whish the said employees are engaged in fire fighting. This shall not include cook and bunkhouse personnel, tradesmen, mechanics, or other categories, servicing feeding or supplying fire firefighters from areas removed from the area of the fire or fires, unless the duties performed during any day in question are exclusively related to fire fighting operations
(c)	Regular job rates will apply only for the duration ofthe regular production shift in which the fire started
(d)	Where employees are working in job classifications during fire fighting, other than those set out herein, job rates shall apply.
4.	Board and Lodging
(a)	Employees who commute from home or camp are expected to "carry a lunch" Additional meals where required will be at Company expense
(b)	Employees required to live away from their private residence will receive board and lodging at Company expense
(c)	Employees living in fly camps will receive board and lodging at Company expense
5,	Travel Time
Travel time for employees engaged in fire fighting will be paid in accordance with the
Weldwood Agreement, except for the overtime provisions thereof
6,	Slash Burning
(aj All employees engaged in watching or controlling slash fires which have been set by the Company will be paid their regular job rate and overtime conditions will apply
(b) The arbitration award of the late Chieflustice Gordon M G Sloan handed down onthe23rd day ofFebruary, 1948, shall apply to (a) herein
7.	Interpretive Notes
(a) When active fire fighting ceases to be necessary, rates and overtime conditions for fire watchers will revert to the normal conditions provided for in the Collective Agreement.
Page 77
(b)	Notwithstandingany of the conditionsherein, if any equipment possessingresidual value to the operationis manufacturedor created, the work performed thereon shall be subject to regular rates.
(c)	The meaning ofthe word "extinguish"as used in this Agreement shall includethe act or process ofsuppression to the point when the fire requires fire watchers only.
8.	All provisions of the Collective Agreement except as amended or modified herein shall continue to apply.
SCHEDULE NO. 5
SAWMILL RATE DETERMINATION PROGRAM
Section T:	Responsibility. Implementation. Continuity and Administration
The IWA-CANADA and Forest IndustrialRelationsLimiled agree to implement and continue the provisions of this Article of the Coast Master Agreement and any related Supplementsto the Coast Master Agreement as administered by IWA-CANADA and Forest IndustrialRelations Limited. The IWA-CANADA and Forest IndustrialRelationsLimiled shall be responsible for all aspects of the program
Section 2:	Purpose and Method
The purpose of the Program shall be the ranking ofapplicable hourly-paid categories and placing them ingroups accordingto their relative value within the B.C. Coast Sawmill Industry by using a method of agreed upon benchmark categories and relatedjob descriptions.
Where new or significantly changedjobs do not fit an existingbenchmarkjob description.the Parties agree to group suchjobs by comparisonto existingjobs where possible, in order to keep benchmarkjob descriptionsto a minimum
The Parties agree that the Details of Agreement as per Appendix No. I ofthe Memorandum of Agreement dated February 1 1, 1992 in respect ofMechanization,TechnologicalChangeor Automation will be implemented. Rate increases,if any, will be effectiveJune 15, 1992. No incumbenl'srate shall be reduced as a result ofthe implementationofthis Agreement
Section 3; Application
(a) SawmillRateDeterminationshallbe carried out at the Local Union - Local Management level in accordance with the provisionsofthis Article and the provisions of any related Supplements to the Coast Master Agreement
Page 7s
(b) Sawmill Rate Determination shall apply to all hourly paid categories in the sawmill industry except for those categories which have been excluded by mutual agreement between the TWA Coast Negotiating Committee and Forest Industrial Relations Limited
Sawmill Rate Determination shall not supersede existing in-plant agreements, signed on or before November 3, 1976 at the Local Union-Local Management Level
Section 4:	Development, Uniformity and Co-ordination
In order to ensure uniform application, the Program shall be developed and co-ordinated ty the B C Coast Sawmill lob Analysis Board, consisting of an equal number of representatives from the Union and the Industry as follows
For the Union:
One (1) Officer representing IWA-CANADA and three (3) Officers representing the IWA-CANADA Coast Local Unions assisted bv one (I) Technical Advisor in the field of Job Analysis employed by IWA-CANADA
For the Industry:
One(l) representative of Forest Industrial Relations Limited and three (3) representatives of the B.C Coast Sawmill Industry, assisted by one (I) Technical Advisor in the field of Job Analysis employed by Forest Industrial Relations Limited
Section 5:	Procedure
(a)	The Sawmill Rate Determination Program shall be administered jointly on aday-to-da\ basis by the respective Technical Advisors, subject to the approval by the B C Coast Sawmill Job Analysis Board
(b)	Any agreement reached in this manner regarding the disposition of a category rate clearance application received from the Local Union-Local Management Level shall be final and binding on the Parties
If no agreement can be reached in this manner regarding the disposition of a category rate clearance application received from the Local Union-Local Management level, the matter shall be referred to the Board.
If the Board is unable to reach agreement regarding the disposition of a category rate clearance application received from the Local Union-Local Management level, the matter shall be referred to the IWA Coast Negotiating Committee and Forest Industrial Relations Limited in accordance with Section I of this Article
Page ’9
Section6; Job Analysis Wage Curve
GRADE EFFECTIVE EFFECTIVE	EFFECTIVE
T.FVFT. -IltNF. 1S/Q4	JUNE 1S/9S	JOHE 15/96
1	$18.71-14	$19.27-14
2	18 85	19.41-14
3	19 02-14	19 59-1/2
4	19 17	19 74-14
5	19.33-14	19.91-14
6	19.61	20.20
7	19.88	20.47-14
8	20.12-Vi	20 73
9	20.40-V4	2101-14
10	20.73-V4	21 35-14
11	21.11-14	2175
12	21.46-14	22 11
13	21 81-14	22 47
14	22.18-14	22 85
15	22.52*14	23 20
16	22.87-14	23 56
17	23.24-14	23 94
18	23 61	24 32
19	23 93-14	24.65-14
20	24.40	25 13
21	24.83-14	25 58
22	25.27-14	26 03-14
23	25.72	26 49
$19.66 19 80-14
19	98-14 20.14
20	31-14 20.60-14 20.88-'A
21.14-14 21.43-14 21.78 22 18-14 22 55
22	92
23	30-14
23	66-14
24	03 24 42
24	80-14
25	15
25	63-14
26	09
26	55-14
27	02
The general wage increaseprovidedfor in Article V, Section 1(a) has been incorporated into these rates
Section 7:	Incumbent's Rate
No incumbenl'srate shall be reduced as a result of the implementationand/or continued application of the Program. The parties further agree that details of the SawmillRate Determination Program may be subject to amendment at the written request of either Party at the end of each three month period from the date of this Agreement.
Page 80
SCHEDULE NO. 6
CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTING
Section Is
It is agreed that Plant Tradesmen who are assigned by the Company to carry out work directly related to "new" construction with tradesmen employed by an outside contractor, plant tradesmen will be paid the "outside" contractor(s) rate(s).
Section 2:
For the purpose of this Agreement "new" construction shall be defined as meaning.
(a)	The construction ofmajor new buildings and major additions to existing buildings
(b)	The addition of new or used major production machinery and related equipment not previously in existence
Section 3;
(a)	"Tradesmen" shall mean journeymen and apprentices in the following trades
Machinist
Millwright
Steamfitter/Pipefitter
Welder
Electrician
Carpenter
(b)	"Contractor's Rate" shall only mean the hourly wage paid by that contractor and not any other payment or working conditions
(c)	"Contractor's Rate" will not exceed the rates for similar trades paid by IW A construction companies
Page 8)
APPRENTICESHIP TRAINING PROGRAM
Between
WELDWOOD OF CANADALIMITED (CARIBOO DIVISION!
AND
IWA-CANADA LOCAL 1-424
in co-operation with
DIRECTOR OF APPRENTICESHIP & INDUSTRIAL TRAINING
PROVTNCF. OF BRITISH COLUMBIA
ARTICLE I - PURPOSE
The purpose of this Program is to improve the knowledge and skill of persons employed ty the Company as Journeymen, Improvers or Helpers in respect to the trades named in Article II herein
ARTICLE U ■ TRADES
1.	Millwrights	• 4 Year Program
2	Heavy Duty Mechanics	• 4 Year Program
3.	Steamfitter-Pipetitter	- 4 Year Program
4.	Machinist	• 4 Year Program
5.	Electrician	- 4 Year Program
6,	Welder	• to be established
7.	Carpenter	• 4 Year Program
8.	Forklift & CarrierMechanic	• 4 Year Program
9	Filers& Fitters	• to be established
ARTICLE HI ■ GENERAL PRINCIPLES
Section 1:	Collective Agreement
All provisions of the Collective Agreement shall be applicable to Apprenticesinthis Program
Section 2:	Right to Continue
Once started int he Program, subject however to the provisionsofthe Collective Agreement, the Apprentice shall have the right to continue, providing hepassesall ofthe prescribedtestsand work is available to him.
Section 3:	Tests
Upon completion of each period of training in the vocational school, an Apprentice will be required to pass a test. In the event of failure to pass such a test, the Apprentice will be given a second opportunity, but in the event of failure to pass on the occasion ofthe second such test, he shall be required to withdraw from the Program
Section 4:	Meaning of "Year"
Wherever reference is made to a year as a Helper or Improver, it shall mean a period of not less than two hundred (200) working days, the said period to include time spent at the vocational school.
Section 5:	Trainine TimeEnfitlement
Subject to the provisions herein, an Apprentice who is hired by the Company and who has had training in another apprenticeshipplan will be given recognition of such training time
Section 6:	On-The-Job Training
The Company will ensure that the Apprentices will be given the necessary on-the-job practical training
ARTICLE fV- SELECTION OF APPRENTICES
Section I:	Seniority
When the Company requires Apprentices, it is agreed that the vacancy will be posted in the operation, and applicantsselected in accordance with the provisionsof Article XXII, Section?. of the Collective Agreement
Section 2:	Successful	Applicants
Successful applicantswill be assigned as Helpersfor athree(3) month probationary period, unless the applicant's previous experience renders such assignment unnecessary
Section 3;	Entrance Standards
Entranceto the Program will in all cases be subject to the applicant meeting the standards required for acceptance by the Apprenticeship and Industrial Training Branch
Pass 83
Section 4:	Compulsory Entrance
All present Helpers and Improvers employed by the Company must enter the Program Helpers and improvers who cannot qualify in the Program will be reclassified as Labourers with no reduction in rate of pay, until such time as they have an opportunity to apply their seniority to obtains job with equal or a higher rate of pay.
Labourers will not be employedin a manner that will interfere with the applicationof the Program.
There will be no age limit for applicants.
ARTTCT-F. V • TRAINING SCBEDUIES Section 1; Assignment as Helper
All successfulapplicants,except Welder Apprentices (see appropriate Appendix), will be registered as Apprenticesand be assigned as Helpers for an 11 month period, priorto attending vocational school, unless the applicant'spreviousexperiencerenders such assignment unnecessary
A program for the aforementionedWelder Apprenticeswill be established
Section 2:	5 Year Schedule
	Rating	At Operation	At School
First Year	Helper	first 11 months	last 4 weeks
Second Year	Helper	first 11 months	last 4 weeks
Third Year	Improver	first 11 months	last 4 weeks
Fourth Year	Improver	first 11 months	last 4 weeks
Fifth Year	Improver	first 11 months	last 4 weeks
Section 3;	4 Year Schedule		
	Rating	At Operation	At School
First Year	Helper	first 11 months	last 4 weeks
Second Year	Helper	first 11 months	last 4 weeks
Third Year	Improver	first 11 months	last 4 weeks
Fourth Year	Improver	first 11 months	last 4 weeks
Page 84
Section 4:	3 Year Schedule		
	Ratine	At Oreration	At School
First Year Second Year Third Year	Helper Improver Improver	first 11 months first 11 months first 11 months	last 4 weeks last 4 weeks last 4 weeks
Section 5:	Electricians		
Notwithstanding the provisions of Sections 2,3, and 4 herein, the Electrician Apprentices shall be required to take 8 weeks at school during each year oftheProgram instead of 4, with the period in the operation reduced accordingly.
Section 6:	Passim Test
The Apprentice must successfully pass the prescribed test before promotion from Helper to Improver.
Section 7:	Journeyman Qualification
Following completion ofthe period of training as required herein, and upon becoming certified. he shall receive certified Journeyman's rate of pay if a Journeyman's job is available If, however, a Journeyman'sjob is not available he shall be entitled to exercise his plant seniority forjob entitlement. If in the exercise of his seniority he is retained as an Improver, he shall not be required to perform a Journeyman's work or take the place of a Journeyman
Section 8:	Vocational School Delay
If any ofthe periods provided for in Sections 2, 3, 4 or 5 herein are exceeded by reason of vocational school facilities being unavailable, such period of excess shall be credited to the Apprentice in succeeding training requirements
ARTICLE VI • WA GF. RATES
Section 1;	Rater and Incrtminli
a)	Wage Rates for Helpers in the first term shall be that specified in the Wage Supplement
b)	At Apprentice who passes his test shall receive an increment agreed to between the Company and the Union during his second termyear as a helper
c)	The Wage Rate for an Improver shall be that as specified in the Wage Supplement
Page 85
d)	An Apprenticewho passes a test in the fourth period ofVocational training shall receive an increment agreed to between the Company and the Union during his second term as an Improver.
e)	Persons employedas Journeymen, and who are certifiedas such, shall receive the certified rate for the trade, as agreed to between the Company and the Union
Section 2:	Expenses
Fares. Lost Time Pay, and School Expenses are to be paid by the appropriate Government authorities as part ofthe cost ofthe Apprenticeship Plan, with the exception that the employer shall pay the Apprentice while attending vocational school, the differencebetweenthe subsidy granted by the appropriate Government authoritiesand the regular wages of the employee concerned.
Singleperrons shall receive their wages. less the sum paid to them by the appropriate Government authorities. Married persons shall receive their wages, less the sum paid to single persons by the appropriate Government authorities.
Section 3;	Delay in Testing
Where an employee incurs delay in taking one of the tests under this Program. through no fault of his own, the delay shall not prejudice his right to wage incrementsprovided for in Section I herein.
Section 1;	Constitution
There shall be an Advisory Board for each trade covered by the Apprenticeship Agreement, consistingof two (2) representatives ofthe Industry, two (2) from the Union, one (1) representing the Vocational School, and one (1) from the Apprenticeship and IndustrialTrainingBranch
Section 2:	Responsibility
The Board shall be responsible for advising the Departmentof Labour, Apprenticeship and Industrial TrainingBranch, regarding the content of tests, standards of marking, and the school curriculum with respect to registered Apprentices. "The Board shall not be responsible for the actual setting or markingof tests.
Page 86
ARTICLE VTTT . GENERAL PROVTSTONS
Perrons presently employed as Journeymen, who do not wish to become certified, shall continue to be employed as Journeymen.
Section 2;
Perrons employed as Journeymen. who take the Tradesman Qualification Exam and fail, shall continueto be employed as Journeymen
If a present Journeyman fails to pass the test for a voluntary Tradesmen's Qualification Certificate, he can then become indentured as an Apprentice at no reduction in rate of pay
.There will be a three-man committee established to process applicants who make application to be tested under the voluntary Tradesmen's Qualification, or who become indentured under the Apprenticeship and Tradesmen's Qualification Act The committee will also determine what vocational training is necessary for persons indentured as Apprentices Representation on the committee shall consist of the following:
a)	One (1) Representative from the Union
b)	Qie(l) Representative from the Industry
One (1) Representative from the Apprenticeship Branch
Vocational training will be conducted during day courses Textbooks and study material will be made available when required
ARTICLE tX - TOOLS
All Journeymen tradesmen shall be required to have, and shall not qualify for the Journeyman rate unless they have a full kit of hand tools necessary lo perform thejob for which they are hired, with the exception ofmachinery or tools which shall not be deemed to fall within the responsibility of the Journeyman
Page S7
Section 2:
The Improver shall be required to have and maintain a basic tool kit and to be in the general process of buildingup the necessary tools to equip himself forthejob.
Section 3:
The Helper generally shall not be required to own tools and shall use those designated to him However, in his own interest he should commencethe process ofbuilding up a tool kit
Page 88
July 1st, 1991
IWA-CANADA LOCAL 1-424, CL.C PRINCE GEORGE ,B C
Dear Sirs:
We wish to confirm our Agreement originally drawn up March 25 th, 1955 for the duration of our present Agreement in regard to logging contractors employed by the Company in the Quesnel area
1 We shall hold our uncertified logging contractors responsible io abide by the relevant provisions of the present Agreement, in particular as it regards wage scale, holiday pay and seniority clauses. Dues for all employees and a list of employees far whom dues are submitted must be submitted to the Local Union once a month, without application for Union membership
2.	The seniority provisions are interpreted as follows.
a)	Men working for any contractors gather seniority on that operation only
b)	Ifanother contractor or ourselves lakes over all or pan of one operation. men whose jobs essentially continue under the new setup will retain their jobs and go on the new contractor's seniority list as per the date they were hired by the previous contractor If we take over the p an of the operation, such men will be transferred to the "Seniority list" of our Woods Department in the manner described above
c)	If, due to layoff or reorganization of a show or for any other reason, a man's job "disappears", he has no claim to be transferred to any other logging show, the plywood mill or sawmill
3.	The Company will encourage logging contractors to make reasonable arrangements to help compensate for travelling were no camp is provided
.72
Page 89
rWA LOCAL 1-424, Prince George July 1, 1991 Page 2
4 New wage categories paid or negotiated by our contractors (i.e. categories other than or higher than set out in our Agreement) bind us (or future contractors) only if they have been approved by an Officer of Weldwood of Canada.
5, The Company agreed to notify the IWA as regards the commencement date of new logging shows
Yours truly,
WELDWOOD OF CANADA LIMITED
July 1st, 1991
IWA-CANADA LOCAL. 1-424, CLC.,
PRINCE GEORGE, B C
Dear Sirs
CHARGE HAND
The normal duties of a Charge Hand are to transmit work orders to direct the activities of a group ofworkers in his charge. He may from time to time supervisea shift on atemporary basis, but will not assume the responsibilityof a Foreman for an extended period of time
Ife may or may not perform work within his area of supervision He, as a Union member, is not granted the right to hire or discharge
None of the foregoing is intended to restrict any of the usual activities of a Charge Hand m this operation but merely to clarify the fact that the Company does not give Charge Hands the right to hire or discharge employees
Yours truly,
WELDWOOD OF CANADA LIMITED (CARIBOO DIVISION)
OTEU 15
Page 91
WELD WOOD OF CANADA LIMITED CARIBOO DIVISION QUESNEL, B.C.
Dear Sirs
Thiswill confirm our understanding that the Union will agree to sit down and negotiate during the term ofthe 1991-1994 Collective Agreement a continuous production schedule
It is understood that at such time, all aspects of hours of work and wages lo be affected will also be opened for negotiation, and it be further understood that any proposed agreement on this proposal must be ratified by secret ballotvote of the members ofthe IWA-CANADA, Local 1 424, employed by Weldwood ofCanadaLimited at Quesne), B. C.
Yours truly,
IWA-CANADA LOCAL 1-424,
CL.C.
President
Financial Secretary
E. & O.E.
OTELT IS
Page 92
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN
WELDWOOD OF CANADA LIMITED CARIBOO DIVISION
AND
IWA-CANADA LOCAL 1-424, C.L.C,
RE:	JOB POSTING (TEMPORARY JOBS!
Temporary jobs must be posted if more than three weeks known duration, excluding vacations, with the successful bidder having the right to return to his regular job when the temporary job expires
To qualify for a temporary posting the bidder must be qualified to perform thejob
Employees holding trainee positions shall not bepermitred to bid on temporary jobs except on jobs in the category in which they are training.
Temporary jobs shall be reposted as permanent jobs when it is indicated that the absent employee will not return.
RE:	OVERTIME ON DRYERS
The Local Union agrees to overtime work on the dryers provided that
1	Normal plant production be maintained on a five (5) day per week schedule
2	Any additional overtime required in excess of(l) above to be discussed by the Local Union and the Company
3.	This letter of Understanding is to apply to dryer overtime only
4	It is further understood that the general principles which have been followed on dryer
overtime will prevail as follows
a)	Overtime will be equalized as much as possible, i e. one man will not get two Overtime shifts on a weekend if it is possible to get another man
b)	Spares who have seniority and are on layoff will get preference an the unskilled jobs.
Page 93
c)	The followingjobs will be manned by experiencedpersonnel in all cases if possible; dryer operators jeep driver, four dryer-grader cffbearers, two patcbers and one reclip operator
d)	Foremen will control and supervisethe abovepoints
R£i ATTENDANCE AT GRIEVANCE MEETINGS
The parties hereby agree that for the purpose ofgrievance meetings, arrangements shall be made allowing all members of the Plant Committee to attend such meetingswith out suffering any loss of pay
It is further agreed that prior to taking up any individual grievance, the Committee shall have the right to examine the employee's record with the Personnel office
BEi ROT DRYER CLEANING
It is mutuallyagreed that the members ofthe cleaningcrew will rotate, at reasonable periods. to the "hot spot", and, further agreed that the Company will supply some type ofprotective overgarment to each ofthe cleaning crew
RE:	SELECTIVE EMPLOYMENT
The Company agrees that when an employee, who requires selective employmentbecause of accident or extended illness, returns to work the Companywill. within twenty-four (24) hours after the employee has returned to work, inform the Plant Committee ofthe employee's name and to what work he has been assigned
Where a dispute arises about the suitability of the, work to which the employee has been assigned, the Committee and the Company shall meet and attempt to resolve the matter
Br. MTTT.TTPT.F.OUAl.tTTrATTONS ON BID SHEETS
The Parties agree that Multiple Qualifications shall not be used on the Bid Sheets.
RE; WORKING FOREMEN
It is agreed that Foremen and persons excluded fj-om the bargainingunit shall not perform wort usually performed by employees in the bargaining unit except for instruction, experiments, quality control or in an emergency where no one in the bargaining unit is either available or capable of performing the work required
p r- INTERPRETATION ARTICLE IX - LEAVE O F ABSENCE
Further to our discussion, during negotiationsin regard to Article IX - Leave of Absence in the new Agreement, the Local Union agrees that Article IX, Section3, as it applies to Leaves of Absence for educational and training purposes, should be clarified as to intent and proposethe following interpretation
I
The Company will only be obliged to grant Leaves of Absence for educationaland training purposes to employeeswho intend to take training that will assist the individual obtaining skills relatedto the industry.	^
The Local Union agrees that Article IX, Section3, as it appliesto compassionateleave be interpreted as follows	^
The company will only be obliged to grant extended compassionateleave to emplo\ees ir casesof emergency such as illness or death in the family, or in cases where the individual is designated to act as Administrator of an estate,
3	Requestsfor Leave of Absence for personal reasons other than compassionateor
educationaltraining will be subject to the provisions of Sections2 and 3, Article Eof th-Collective Agreement.
The Parties agree that in the application of Article IX, Leave of Absence. Section 3, Compassionate Leave, the following criteria shall be used in determining an employee's eligibility
1	Leave of Absence without pay for extended vacation purposes shall be limited to those employeeswith more than two (2) years continuousservice
2	Leave of Absence without pay for extended vacation purposes shall be granted based cn one (I) month leave of absence for each gear ofcontinuous sen ice to a maximum of six (6)months
3	Leave of Absence without pay for extended vacation purposes shall be limited to a maximum ofone (I) leave in a three (3) calendar year period
4	Leave of Absence for extended vacation purposeswill be limited to four (4) emplovees off on leave at any one time in the plywood section, one (l)employeeoff an leave et am one time in the logging section, two (2) employeesoffon leave at any onetime in the sau mill division, one (I) employeeoffon leave at any one time in theplanermill division, one(l) employeeoffon leave at any one time in the plywood maintenancedepartment
5	Leave of Absence for extended vacation purposeswill be granted on a first come/first serve basis
Pace 95
RE:	WAGE REVISIONS
This is to confirm our Agreement that wage revisions negotiated on the Coast will apply to the Weldwood operations atQuesnel. In applying such revisions it will be done on the basisofjob comparison rather than simplyjob title.
RE:	ESTABLISHMENT OF FORCES
The Parties agree that when forces are re-established, employeesshall return to their previously held jobs as soon as possible but not later than the first shift following the first weekend

RE, NEW CONCEPTS COMMITTEE
The Parties agree to establish a committee to study new concepts, including industrial democracy, of ways to improve labour management relations between the above named Parties
EMPLOYEE AND FAMILY ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
The Parties agree to establish a Joint Committee consisting of two (2) members from the So yTWA-CANADA and two (2) members from the Company, to study the practicability of a £✓ Troubled Employee Program. Details to be worked out between the parties.
RE:	GRADERS
The Parties agree that the grade stamp currently in use at the Cariboo Divisionwill be recognized as a grade stamp issuedby an inspection service under a Grade Stamp License Agreement h accordance with the provisions of the B. C Coast Sawmill Rate Determination Program.
The Lumber Graderjob categories that appear in the Cariboo Wage Supplements are as follows
Group 14 - G SL S. Grader Group 11 • No. I Grader Group 9 - No. 2 Grader
For the purpose of establishing where Graders fit within these levels, the following procedure will apply:
j	Graders with " A Tickets will be paid G.S.L. A. Grader's rate.
2.	Graders with "B11 Tickets will be paidNo. 1 Grader's rate until they have repeated the complete Grader's Course and written the test in an attempt to get an "A" Ticket. Even if they do not achieve an "A" Ticket, they will be elevated to aG.S.L.A. Grader's rate
3.	Graderswith no ticket will be paid a No 2 Grader's rate
Page 96
The Parties further agree that the resulting rate changes will be paid retroactively from September I, 1977.
The Parties finally agree that this Letter of Understandingmay be subject to amendment at the written request of either Party at the end of each three-month period from the date of this Agreement
RE; TRAINING FORFTRF.FTGHTF.RS, 4TH CLASS ENGINEER
The purpose of this Letter of Understanding is to improve the technical background of people in
the Boilerhouse and open up a line of progression in the Steam Plant and a specific agreement re
the Training Program for the entry position for Fireman with Fourth ClassTicket
1	Future Bailerhouse Utility vacancies Will be posted as Trainee positions for Fireman with 4th Class Ticket. The successful candidate will be selected on the basis of seniority, and the successful completion of the Apprentice Selection Tests (Mechanical)
2	Applicants must be High School graduates includingGrade 12 Mathematics orB C equivalent.
3	Successful bidders will enroll in the Department of Education correspondence course for 4th Class Engineers, and should complete the course within twelve (12) months They would keep the Chief Engineer ad\ ired of their progress.
4.	To remain in the Utility position, the trainee must complete the Fourth Class Certificate course and examination as set out h the Leave of Absence for Stationery Engineers Training Agreement within sixteen (16) months.
5.	Trainees will be utilized as relief Firemanwhen the Chief Engineer feels they have become familiarwith the position of Fireman
6.	Ore trainees have their 4th Class Ticker, they would qualify for bidding on the next permanent Fireman's position
7.	Boilerhouse Utility Trainees on obtaining their 4th Class Ticket will be paid the Boilerhouse rate assigned to the Fireman category
Present Boilerhouse Utility bid holders not in possession of a 4th Class Stationery Engin ing Certificate dll t able to bid o fill Firen j titic Oi obtaining such bid, he will be required to enrol in the Department of Education Correspondence Course for a 4th Class Certificate and complete the course and examination as set out in the Leave of Absence for Stationery Engineers Training Agreement, within eight (18} months. If he does not pass he course or examination, he will be given a second opp rtt ity to do so. This must be completed within six (6) months. Failing a s :co timt he will be required to withdraw from the program, but will keep the bid position of Fireman.
This Agreement shall take effect of August 28th, 1981 and is subject to review at the request of either party after two months written notice
RE; ARTICLEXI. SECTION4 • PERSONAL FLOATING HOLIDAY
The purpose of this Letter of Understanding is to clarify the administrationof the Personal
Floating Holiday.
a)	The Parties agree that a regular, full-time employee, when taking his Personal Floating Holiday as provided for in Article XI, Section 4, must have worked his last regularly scheduled work day before, and his first regularly scheduled work day after the holiday, unless his absence is due to illness or an occupational injury, or the employee is on authorized leave ofabsence (subjectto ArticleXI, sub-section4(b) (iii)
bl The Parties agree that when an employee has been on the payroll for not less than ninety (90) consecutive calendar days and terminates far whatever reason, and he has not previously taken his Personal Floating Holiday then he shall be paid his Personal Floating Holiday.
The Parties further agree that payment of the Personal Floating Holiday uponterminat ion shall not be construed as an extension of his period of employment
Page 98
RE: APPRENTICESHIP TRAINING PROGRAM
Where an employee voluntarily leaves the apprenticeship program,he/she shall forfeit all right to train in that trade, unless there is evidence of immaturity or poor health at the time of the bidding offthe job In such a case, Management agrees to review a new bid but one (1) year must pars from the date of the occurrence.
DATED this	day of
1991
FOR
FOR
WELDWOOD OF CANADA LIMITED IWA-CANADA (CARIBOO DIVISION)	LOCAL 1-424, C L C
President
Financial Secretary
E &0 E
SCHEDULE NO. 7
ALTERNATE SHIFT SCHEDULING
FLEXIBILITY OFHOURS OFWORK
The Parties recognize the need for flexibility of hours other than those outlined in the Hours of Work Article, for the express purpose of better utilization of manpower and capital such as
Balancing of production Maintenance Market requirements Even flow production
Emergency or unexpected harvesting programs Continuous scheduling (eg. Logging, Engineers, Firemen,
Maintenance, Watchmen)
B. SHIFT SCHEDULING
The parties agree that the following shift scheduler will provide the flexibility required to meet the needs expressed above.
1	Logging
j)	compressed schedules consisting of 10 hours per day, 4 days per week;
jj) non-continuous schedules such as 10 days on, 4 days off
2	Manufacturing
^	2 crews working 4 days, 10 hours per shift;
jj) up lo 3 crews working Monday to Saturday, 10 hours a shift not exceeding 40 hours perweek,
iii) employeesworking in continuous operations may be scheduledto work shifts other than (i) or (ii) above.
within the terms of the Hours of Work Article. It is anticipated that the Local Union will make sincere attempts to assist the Company wishing to introduce alternate shift schedules. The parties must mutually agree on resolution of issues such as:
a)	details of shift
b)	details of Statutory Holidays, Floating Holiday, Bereavement Leave, and Jury Duty.
c)	Maximum length of shifts for physically demanding work. Accident prevention is a factor to taken into account in determining shift lengths.
d)	The loss of hours/employment as a direct result of the implementation of alternate shift schedules.
e)	The use of employees for supplementary production work
2. The Camp or Plant Committee and the crew wilt be actively consulted by the Parties during the process.
Page 101
H.	GENERAL PRINCIPLES
When an alternate shift schedule is in effect other provisions of the Collective Agreement will be administered on the principle that an employee will not lose or gain any benefits over his normal live-day schedule.
1.	The Company agrees that alternate shift schedules will not be introduced where the intention is to increase the use of casual employees in place of regulai emDl
2.	Different parts of )p may be scheduled on different shifts.
3	The principle of the forty (40) hour week if tc be maintained over an averaging
period.
4
This Article shall not change existing alternate shift agreements, unless agreed to by both ti t.
5.
Ei	;< will be scheduled on the same basis as days and hours worked
under the alternate shift schedule.
6.	Other A ich of the	tii Agr t ti provide benefits after eight (8)
hours are extended by the amount the regular hours of work have been increased beyond the eight (8) hours per day.
I An employee's rest days may vary from week to week under an alternate shift
;i dull Employees shall not be paid premium pay for changes in their rest days in these msta
8	An employee whose rest days are changed by the Company under an established alternate shift schedule shall receive rate and one-half for work performed on his rest days unless a change in rest da> results from the application of seniority or has been agreed to between the employee and the Company.
9	1 II bi i pi ii pay paid to any { nployee whose rest days are changed because of the implementation of an alternate shift schedule.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN:
Weldwood of Canada Limited (Cariboo Division)
(hereinafter known as the "Company") OFTHE FIRSTPART
AND
IWA-CANADA Local t-424
(hereinafter known as the "L'nion") OFTHESECOND PART
The Company and the Union hereby agree to abide by the following terms and conditionsin respectto Leaves of Absence for Stationary EngineersTraining
1. FOURTH CLASS CERTIFICATE
Upon successful completion of the Department of Education CorrespondenceCoursefor aFOURTHCLASS STATIONARY STEAM ENGINEERING CERTIFICATE, or possessing equivalent qualifications acceptable to the Vocational School authorities. Powerhouseemployeeswill be granted three (3) weeks leave of absencewith pav to attend an approved Vocational School to completethe course and write the examination for the Fourth Class Stationary Steam Engineering Certificate
During his first week at the School,the employeewill be evaluated b> the school authoritiesto determ inehis knowledge of the subject, and if the evaluation is favourable, he will continue his studies at the school during the following two weeks and write the prescribedexamination. I n the event that the evaluation is not favourable, the school authoritieswill indicate to the employee those areas where further study is needed and he will return to the mill and carry out the recommended home studies Upon completion of this additional studying, the employeewill be granted three (3) weeks leaveof absence, two (2) weeks with pay and cne (l>vithout, to return to the Vocational School to completethe course, and write the prescribed Fourth Class Certificate examination
Page io;
2 THIRD CLASS CERTIFICATE
Upon successful completion of the Department of Education Correspondence Course fc a THIRD CLASS STATIONARY STEAM ENGINEERING CERTIFICATE ,t possessing equivalent qualifications acceptable t- : /o< i< il School authorities Powerhouse employees shall be granted five (5) weeks leave of absence with pay to attend an approved Vocational S rii Itc .plet ht course d v :t d ti f< tl I ird Cl Stationary Steam Engineering Certificate
During his first week at the school, t i emplo will be	d bj the s:hool
authorities to determine his knowledge of the subject, and i‘ the vali ation is favourabl he will continue his studies at the school during the following four weeks and write the e	bi examination. In the ev ent Ijttl e >1 li is 10 ft abl, .1 h 1
utt iti ill indical C the ip ) ;e those areas where further study is needed and he will return to the mill and cany 0"t the recommended home studies I/non oomnlerion n this additional studying the employee wi!! be granted five (5) weeks leave of absence, fear (4 c 'i h p done (1) itl lut.tort 1 tl Vi iti IS! il t< ii thi course and tv th s ril ed hird Cl; ifi	ii
SECOND CLASS CERTIFiCAT E
Upon successful completion oftheDepartment ofEducation Correspondence Course far CLASS STATIONARY STEAM ENGINEERING	or
possessing equivalent qualification aw.e.ntahle to the Vocational School authorities P v f u t.tipli) t sh :111 ra ti 0) weeks leave of absence with pa;. on the h»«ls set forth hereunder to attend an approved Vocational School to comolete thi two-part course and write the examination th* Second ria«s stationary Steam Engineering Certificate:
i) Five (5) weeks leave of absence with pa” to complete Per*. “A"
(■ it ie .t id Physics'
jj) Five (5) weeks leave of absence with pay to complete Part "B" (Be!: ngi" it
During his first week at the school in each ofthe above-mentioned cases (i) and (ii) the employee will be evaluated by the school authorities to determine his knowledge ofthe subject, and if the evaluation is favourable he will continue his studies at the school during the fallowing four (4) weeks and write the examinationprescribedfarPart "'A' or "B", whichever is applicable. In the event that the evaluation is not favourable. the school authorities will indicate lo the employee those areas where further study is needed and he will return to the mill and carry out the recommendedhome studies Upon completion of this additional studying, the employee will be granted five (5) weeks leave of absence, four (4) weeks with pay and one (1) without, lo return to the Vocational School to complete the course and write the examination prescribed for Pan "A" or "B", whichever is applicable
4	BASIS OF PAY
One (1) week's pay shall be equal to forty (40) hours at the straight time hourly rate ofthe employee's regularj ob.
5,	ADDITIONAL LEAVE
Leaves of absence with pay will be granted to Steam Plant personnel on the basis as set forth in 1, 2, and 3 above. Any further Vocational Training required to pass each respective certificate shallbe at the employee'sexpense and such additional leave of absence will be granted.
6	BOOKS
The Company will bear fifty percent	(50%) ofthe cost ofthe correspondence courses and
the textbooks laid down by the Vocational Training School as a requirement for those writing far Stationary Engineering Certificates.
7	EXAMINATION AND TUITION	FEES
The Company will bear the cost ofthe prescribed examinationand tuition fees, if any. required of candidates writing for Stationary EngineeringCertificates
8.	TRANSPORTATION ALLOWANCE
The Companywill grant transportation allowance to Steam Plant personnel attending Vocational School on the same basis that transportation allowanceis being granted at the time by the Apprenticeship Branch to apprentices attending an approved Vocational School.
Transportation allowance for those attending Vocational School under this agreement will be
i)
ii)
return bus fare from the mill location to the Vocational :h l or 5.54/kilometre driven from the mill location to the onal school if .1 vehicle i i
an allowance of $60.00 to cover first night hotel expense and meals
9.	TIMING OF LEAVE
Leaves of absence will be granted at a time suitable to the Company, bearing in mind the Vocational School curriculum.
)0	NUMBER ON LEAVE
Normally, it vail not be possible to grant leave of absence to more than one Steam Plant smployee ut a ti Ho	if i sli tf i:	ilal 1< this limit may, at the discretion of the
Company, e exo li d.
11.	GOVERNMENT ALLOWANCES
If at any time provisionis marte whereby transportation and/or other allowances are granted by the Government to Steam Plant personnel attending an approved Vocational School to write for Stationary Engineering certificates,the provisions set forth above will then be amended to take into account such Govemmentallovvances
12,	l.F.VF.l, OF CgRTEFfCATES
It is agreed that there shall be no liability on the part of the Companyto train an employee beyond the highest hourly paid certificaterequired in the plant.
DATED TB-B 9th day of January	, I9_£i
FOR: IWA-CANADA	FOR: VVELDWOOD CF CANADALIMITED
Local 1-424	(Cariboo Division)
(SIQN5P)
(SIGNED!
SUPPLEMENT NO. 9
November 4, 1994
LETTER CF UNDERSTANDING New and Evolving Work
Preamble
Weldwood of Canada Limited and I"WA-Canada agree to a process which seeks to balance the economic concerns of the member companies with the needs of their employees to have access to New and Evolving Work within the Northern Interior Forest Industry.
This process is intended to deal with
1.	employment for regular company employees who are displaced by reductions in Annual Allowable Cuts or other land use decisions
2.	additional opportunities for bargaining unit employment in new work that may be created in the forest industry
3.	replacement bargaining unit employment in new or evolved work which may develop m future
Process
1 This Letter established a process for the Company and the Local ttuonto discuss
opportunities for having company employees perform new and evolving work within the forest industry in.
•	Value Added
•	Remanufacturing
•	Opportunities created through B C Forest Renewal funding
2	Companies and Local Unions are committed to working together towards making new
work opportunities available to company employees It is understood to accomplish these goals the parties must achieve
•	efficiency and cost effectiveness on a fair and reasonable basis
•	quality objectives
•	safety objectives
2
3	The parties recognizethat they cannot reasonably anticipateall circumstancesand situationswhich may arise so cannot prescribe comprehensivesolutionsin advance.
4	The parties agree that earlyjoint preparationis an important contributor to the successful implementation and administrationof the New and Evolving Work Letter. To this end, the respectivenegotiating committeeswill bejointly availableto clarify this agreement, and to assist parties on a case by case basis
5.	Issues must be resolved in a timely fashion
6.	This Letter will expire onJune 30, 1997 \mJess specificallyrenewedby both parties
Dispute Resolution Process:
In order to assist member companies and Local Unions in resolving disputes which may arise as a
result of this Letter, Weldwood of CanadaLimitedand IWA-Canada agree to:
a) Establish a joint Dispute ResolutionCommitteecomprisedof three (3)
representativesfrom management and three (3) representatives from the Union to fact find and assist the company and Local Union in reaching a solution
5) Management ortheLocalUnioncanrequesttheassistanlofthe Dispute ResolutionCommittee
c)	The Dispute ResolutionCommittee may utilize the services of facilitators,
mediators, or whatever means in order to reach a final recommended solution
Agreed to on behalf
Page 108
Task Force
Weldwood of Canada Limited and TWA-Canada have agreed to a Task Force, comprised of three (3) representatives from management and three (3) representatives of the Union, with co-chairmen from each party The Task Force will examinethe changer and trends in the forest industry.
The terms of reference for the T&& Force will be as follows. but may include other matters the parties wish to explore
1 To examinethe change(s) taking place within the Industry and the impact on Urtion/Management relations
2.	To identify any procedure. policy. agreement, work schedules, method, working environment, people utilization, and company practice which contributes to efficient, safe production performance while expanding the current workforce
3.	To identify what changes are appropriate to improve the overall Industry's ability to harvest and manufacture the timber in a safe, economical manner
4.	To i dentify opportunities for employeesfor employees to learn new skills and to train company employees to operate the equipment and perform the other jobs associated with the evolving jobs within the B C. Forest Industry.
5	Die Task Force will submit repons with recommendations to the Union and Management Negotiating Committee on a regular basis on measures that will address the changes needed within the Forest Industry.
6. This Letter will expire on lune30, 1997, unless specifically renewed by both parties
Agreed to on behalf.
Page 109
November 4,1994
Weldwood of Canada Limited P.O, Box 2179 Vancouver, BC V6B3V8
Attention: Gordon Gray Dear Sir.
Re Agreement on New and Evolving Work
This letter is intended to clarify IWA*Canada'# intent with regard to the terms and conditions of the Letter of Understanding^ 1994 negotiationson New and Evolving Work.
During discussionson this, the Industry raised concerns that we answer as follows.
1.	It is not the intention of IWA-Canada to use this agreement to replace existing logging contractor# w ithlWA members or crews.
2.	It is IWA*Canada’j desire to have opportunities to discuss with employersthe possibility of either using IWA company crews, or IW A contractors, to perform work under Forest Renew al, but it is not our intent to cause companiesto purchase equipmentwithout having the costs of such equipmentconsideredas pan of the efficiencyand cost effectivenessthat the IWA agrees to address under the New and Evolving Ptak agreement.
3.	It is IWA-Canada1# intention that discussionsconcemingnew operations under the agreement may lead to voluntary recognitionand certification* it is not our intention t i achieve certificationfirst and enter into discussionlater unless certificationoccurs as a direct result of an IWA organizingdrive.
As stated earlier, this letter is to clarify’ our intentions concemingour agreement. It is not intended to form pan of die agreement, as is not arbitrableby either party'.
Sincerely,
fttu^Arcand
4th Vice President IWA-Canada
HA/jg
Pip 110