Weldwood of Canada Limited (100 Mile House Operations)
I.W.A. Canada Local 1-425
01002 (06)
I N D E X
ARTICLE
PAGE
I	Bargaining Agency	1
II	Definition	2
III	Management	2
IV	Union Security	2
V	Wages	6
VI	Committee	8
VII	Hours of Work	9
VIII	Seniority	13
IX	Leave of Absence	17
X	Vacations with Pay	19
XI	Safety and Health	24
XII	Statutory Holidays	25
XIII	Call Time	27
XIV	Grievance Procedure	28
XV	Right of Reference	28
XVI	Arbitration and Interpretation	29
XVII	Pay Days	31
XVIII	General Provisions	31
XIX	Health and Welfare	32
XX	Long Term Disability Plan	36
XXI	IWA-Forest Industry Pension Plan	38
XXII	Apprenticeship Training Program	39
XXIII	Sawmill Rate Determination	39
XXIV	Technological Change	40
XXV	Safety Equipment	41
XXVI	Tool Insurance	41
XXVII	Contracting Out	42
XXVIII	Education Trust Funds	42
XXIX	Duration of Agreement	43
SUPPLEMENTS
No. 1	Wage Scale A - Evaluated Categories	
	- Sawmill	45
	Wage Scale B - Non-Evaluated Categories	49
No. 2	Journeyman Tradesman Categories	52
No. 3	Sawmill Rate Determination Program	53
No. 4	Apprenticeship Training Program	56
No. 5	Letters of Understanding	65
No. 6	Firefighting Agreement	67
No. 7	Construction Contracting	71
No. 8	Alternate Shift Scheduling	72
No. 9	New and Evolving Work	75
A G R E E M E N T
THIS AGREEMENT made and entered into as of the 11th day of August, 1997. BETWEEN:
WELDWOOD OF CANADA LIMITED,
100 MILE HOUSE OPERATIONS,
(hereinafter called the Company of the FIRST PART)
AND:
I.W.A. CANADA, Local 1-425, C.L.C.
(hereinafter called the Union of the SECOND PART)
1.	Whereas it is the intent and purpose of the Parties hereto that this Agreement will promote and improve industrial and economic relationships between the Employees and the Company, and to set forth herein the basic Agreement covering rates of pay, hours of work, and conditions of employment to be observed between the Parties hereto;
2.	And Whereas the Company accepts responsibility to observe each and all provisions and conditions of this Agreement and to promote orderly and peaceful relations with the Employees;
3.	And Whereas the Union accepts responsibility to observe each and all provisions and conditions of this Agreement and to promote orderly and peaceful relations with the Company.
NOW THEREFORE, the Parties hereto mutually agree as follows:
ARTICLE I - BARGAINING AGENCY
Section 1:
The Company shall recognize and bargain with the duly elected bargaining representatives on behalf of its employees properly and duly certified under the appropriate regulations in effect from time to time.
Page 1
Section 2:
The bargaining authority of the Union shall not be impaired during the term of the Agreement. The only certification that the Company will recognize during the term of this Agreement is that of the Union unless ordered by due process of law to recognize some other bargaining authority.
Section 3:
The Company and the Union shall meet at such time and place as may be mutually agreed upon for the purpose of discussing wages and working conditions and adjusting any matters within the confines of the Agreement which come within the scope of the Collective Bargaining between the Employees and the Company.
ARTICLE II - DEFINITION
The Term "Employee" as used and for the purpose of this Agreement shall include all persons employed by the company on whose behalf the I.W.A.-CANADA, Local 1-425, have been certified as bargaining agents, except and excluding foremen and others having authority to hire and fire, office workers, supervisory officials and salesmen.
ARTICLE III - MANAGEMENT
Section 1:
The management of the operation and the direction and promotion of the Employees are vested exclusively in the Management; provided, however, that this shall not be used for the purpose of discrimination against employees.
Section 2:
The Company shall have the right to select its employees and discipline or discharge them for proper cause.
ARTICLE IV - UNION SECURITY
Section 1:
The Company shall co-operate with the Union in obtaining and retaining as members, the employees as defined in this Agreement, and to this end shall present to new employees and to all Supervisors and Foremen the Policy herein expressed.
Page 2
Section 2:
All employees who entered the employment of the Company on or after the 15th of June, 1970, and all new employees, shall within thirty (30) calendar days after the execution of this Agreement, or thirty (30) calendar days after entering employment, whichever date last occurs, become members of the Union and maintain membership therein throughout the term of this Agreement, as a condition of continued employment.
Section 3:
Any employee who is a member in good standing, or is reinstated as a member of the Union, shall, as a condition of continued employment, maintain such membership in good standing throughout the term of this Agreement.
Section 4:
Any employee who fails to maintain his/her membership in the Union as prescribed herein by reason of refusal to pay dues and assessments shall be discharged forthwith after seven (7) days written notice to the Company of the said employee's refusal to maintain his/her membership.
Section 5:
a)	No employee shall be subject to any penalties against his/her application for membership or reinstatement, except as may be provided for in the I.W.A. National Constitution, and in accordance with the Bylaws of Local 1-425, as of June 1981.
b)	Any employee who applies to join the Union pursuant to the provisions herein and whose application is rejected by the Union, shall not be subject to discharge from employment.
Section 6:
The Company shall require all new employees at the time of hiring to execute the following assignment of wages in duplicate on forms supplied by the Union. The forms shall be substantially as follows:
Page 3
I.W.A. - CANADA
CHECK-OFF
Starting Date.....19...
Name of Employer	Name of Employee
Address
Postal Code___________
Phone_________________
(Please Print)
__________________________________	Social Insurance
Operation	Number_________________
Are you a Member of the I.W.A.?__________________________________
In what IWA operation were you last employed?____________________
Local Union
Page 4
I HEREBY AUTHORIZE AND INSTRUCT YOU TO DEDUCT FROM MY WAGES AND
REMIT TO LOCAL 1-__________________ THE FOLLOWING IN PAYMENT OF THE
AMOUNT SET OUT BELOW:
1.	Union Initiation Fees in the amount of $_______
2.	Union Back Dues in the amount of $_____________
3.	Union Dues $_________per month, commencing_____19____
4.	Union Assessments in the amount and at the time stated in notice received by you from the Local Union designated above.
Clock No.
APPLICATION FOR MEMBERSHIP
I hereby request and accept membership in the I.W.A.-CANADA, Local No. 1____________, and agree to abide by the constitution and bylaws of the organization. In
case of misstatement of qualifications for membership I agree to forfeit all rights, privileges and monies paid.
Signature of Applicant-Employee
This assignment shall become effective immediately in the case of employees already members of the Union, and shall become effective thirty (30) calendar days from the date of execution in the case of employees not previously members of the Union. Until the said assignment is revoked by the employee, the Company shall remit the dues deducted pursuant to such assignment to the Local Union named therein no later than the 15th of the month following the month in which the deduction was made from the employee, together with a written statement of names of the employees for whom the deductions were made and the amount of each deduction. All check-off forms shall be forwarded to the Local Union within fifteen (15) days of hiring.
Section 7:
The Company shall furnish the Union once every month with a list setting out the names of employees absent for fourteen (14) days or longer, due to illness or injury.
Section 8:
The Company shall furnish the Union with the Social Security Number of each employee on its payroll on the first occasion when dues are forwarded to the Union after the execution of this Agreement or after the employee enters the employment of the Company, whichever date last occurs.
Page 5
Section 9:
The Parties agree that the Company shall deduct from an employee's wages and shall remit to the appropriate employee benefit plan, the employee's contribution which is specified in any benefit plan agreed to by the parties to the Coast Master Agreement.
ARTICLE V - WAGES
Section 1:
a)	The Parties hereby agree that wages of all hourly rated employees covered by the Agreement shall be increased by one percent (1%) per hour effective June 15, 1997; a further two percent (2%) effective June 15, 1998; and by two percent (2%) effective June 15, 1999.
b)	The Parties agree that the minimum rate in the mill for common labour shall be:
i)	$19.855 per hour effective June 15, 1997.
ii)	$20.25 per hour effective June 15, 1998.
iii)	$20.655 per hour effective June 15, 1999.
c)	Employees who have left the employ of the Company must apply within thirty (30) days of ratification to be eligible for retroactive pay flowing from this Agreement.
d)	Coverall service will be made available to Tradesmen and Apprentices per Supplement #3 plus Oilers, Grindermen, End Sprayers and Panel Sprayers.
Cost of providing this service will be borne by the employer. When coverall service is requested by the employee, the service must be used. Failure to wear the coveralls after they have been provided will result in permanent loss of this privilege.
e)	The Company will pay the cost of training or retraining for Industrial First Aid Certificates including lost time wages to designated duty First Aid Attendants.
f)	Grades - Sawmill - Planer
i)	Grading tickets shall be permanent and valid certificates.
ii)	All graders holding grading tickets shall attend upgrading classes as required.
iii)	Graders who are required to attend upgrading classes (rule changes) shall receive their regular straight time job rate for time spent in attending said classes.
Page 6
iv)	All Certified Lumber Graders shall receive a premium of twenty-five cents (250) per hour for a Grading Certificate provided that these premiums shall be paid only when actually engaged as Lumber Graders, effective September 1, 1975.
v)	Effective June 15, 1994, a fifteen cents (150) premium for employees holding current and valid lumber grading certificates, but not engaged as lumber graders, so that the total ticket premium will be fifteen cents (150) per hour. There shall be no stacking or pyramiding of premiums.
Section 2:
For convenience of reference only, a Wage Scale is published as Supplement No. 1 and shall be effective, subject to corrections of any errors or omissions, as of June 15, 1997, and may, subject to the consent of both Parties, be revised once annually.
Section 3:	First Aid Attendants
a)	Designated First Aid attendants shall receive their job rate of pay plus the Ticket Premium Rate.
All other employees holding valid First Aid Tickets shall receive a premium of five cents (5 cents) per hour over and above their job rate. There shall be no stacking or pyramiding of premiums.
b)	Where a Company is paying a bonus or premiums(s) greater than set out above, it shall keep such policy in effect.
Section 4:	Shift Differential
The first shift is the recognized day shift. Hours worked outside the recognized day shift shall be regarded as the second and third shifts. A shift differential of thirty-one cents (31 cents) per hour shall be paid for second and third shifts. A day shift employee working in excess of his/her regular shift shall be paid rate and one half without the differential. Any employee on the second and third shift working in excess of his/her regular shift shall receive rate and one half. For the purpose of the last sentence, rate shall be rate plus thirty-one cents (31 cents). Persons employed other than on regular shifts shall be paid the thirty-one cents (31 cents) shift differential for all hours worked outside the recognized day shift.
Section 5:	Job and Equipment Changes
a)	The Company will give advance notice of job and equipment changes to the Local Union.
b)	i) New jobs shall be posted in accordance with Article VIII, Section 4.
Page 7
ii)	Bid employee on significantly revised jobs will remain on the revised job, competency considered. Up-graded basic rate jobs will be posted in accordance with Article VIII, Section 4.
c)	An employee shall receive the rate of his/her previously held job until such time as a new rate is negotiated.
d)	i) The applicant shall have the right to revert to his/her original job within
thirty (30) working days providing his/her old job still exists.
ii) Management shall have the right to postpone the reversion to permit the training of a replacement.
e)	When a permanent rate is agreed upon, the employee shall receive the difference between the rate and his/her interim rate from the date he/she started the new or revised job.
f)	Rate negotiations shall be guided by the following principles:
i)	Job analysis to be based on all factors including skill, knowledge, responsibility and job conditions.
ii)	Failing satisfaction at the local level, the Union would have the right of referral to a Regional Authority.
g)	In the event that job conditions change due to the installation of new machinery or revision of work practices or new classifications, the Parties shall meet after new machinery is operating properly or the new work practices have proven practical, to determine the designation and wage rate to be paid to the employee(s) affected.
h)	In the event that job conditions change in the Sawmill or Planermill Sections as set out in Section (a) above, wage rates shall be determined as set out in the Sawmill Rate Determination Program.
ARTICLE VI - COMMITTEE
Section 1:
For the purpose of this Agreement, when the word "Committee" is used, it shall mean Shop, Camp, or Mill Committee, members of which are appointed by the Union.
Section 2:
The Committee shall consist of not less than four (4) and not more than seven (7) employees who are members of the Union, and, whenever possible, they shall be selected on a departmental basis.
Page 8
Section 3:
The Union, shall within sixty (60) days from the date of this Agreement, notify the Company in writing of the members on the Committee. The Union or committee shall inform the Company in writing when any member change takes place on the Committee. No member of the Committee shall be recognized by the Company unless the above procedure is carried out.
Section 4:
The provisions of Sections 1,2 and 3 shall not apply in reference to: a) Article XI: Safety Committee - where the members are designated according to the provisions of the Workers' Compensation Act, and, (b) under Article XV: Joint Committee.
ARTICLE VII - HOURS OF WORK
Section 1:
a)	The regular hours of work shall be eight (8) hours per day and forty (40) hours per week, with rate and one half for any hours worked in excess of eight (8) in any one day and forty (40) in any one week. All production employees shall be paid rate and one half for Saturday and/or Sunday, regardless of the number of hours worked during the week except that:
b)	Double straight time rates shall be paid for the following:
i)	Hours worked in excess of eleven (11) hours per day.
ii)	Hours worked on Sunday by employees who have worked five (5) shifts during the preceding six (6) days.
iii)	For the purposes of (b) herein a Statutory Holiday shall be considered a shift worked.
iv)	Item (ii) above shall not apply to employees who work Sunday as a regularly scheduled day.
Section 2:	Casual Work
a)	The term "Casual Work” as used in this Agreement shall apply only to work performed on Saturday and/or Sunday by either laid-off regular employees or other persons hereinafter referred to as "Casual Employees".
b)	Casual work on production shall be paid for at one and one half times job rate.
c)	Casual work on maintenance, repair and preparatory work shall be paid for at straight time job rates.
Page 9
d)	Regular laid-off employees shall not be classified as Casual Employees, and shall have preference for available work over the said Causal Employees.
e)	Weekend cleanup work performed by casual employees, laid-off regular employees and part-time employees will be paid for at straight time job rate except as provided in (f) herein.
f)	A laid-off regular production employee shall be considered a production employee during the week he/she is laid off and will be paid rate and one half for any work he/she performs on either Saturday or Sunday except as provided in Section 1, subsection (b) above.
g)	The Company agrees to keep a separate seniority list of casual employees for each division who have worked at least ten (10) working days exclusively for recall purposes and, subject to Clause (d), further agrees to recall casual employees in accordance with their seniority as set forth in this list.
Section 3:
a)	Those employees who, of necessity, regularly work on Saturday and Sunday shall take two (2) other days of the week off to be mutually agreed between the employees and the Company. In such event, Saturday and Sunday shall be considered working days and overtime rates shall not apply on Saturday. However, these employees shall be paid rate and one half for work performed on Sunday. Overtime rates shall apply when the regular daily or weekly work limit has been executed. Overtime rates shall apply on the rest days of these employees, if worked, unless a changes in rest days has been agreed upon between the employee and the Company.
b)	For the purpose of this Section only, employees shall be Engineers, Firemen, Operating Millwrights, Maintenance Workers and Watchmen.
Section 4:
a)	Maintenance, Repair and Construction employees can be employed on a Tuesday to Saturday work week for which they shall be paid straight time for Saturday work. In such event, Sunday and Monday shall be recognized as their rest days and any work performed on their rest days shall be paid for at rate and one-half. The rest day, Monday, may be changed by mutual consent between the employee and the Company.
In such event, work performed on Monday shall be paid for at straight time. If the employee works on Monday at the request of the Company, the rate of pay will be rate and one half. However, if the employee requests a temporary change from his/her rest day on Monday, work performed on Monday shall be paid for at straight time.
b)	If a Statutory Holiday occurs on the employee's regular day off, he/she shall be entitled to take his/her next regular work day off without pay.
Page 10
Page 11
Section 5:	Alternate Shift Scheduling
a)	Management, Plant or Camp Committees and the Local Union shall have the right under the terms of the Collective Agreement to agree upon and implement other schedules which, except for production shifts in manufacturing operations, may include Sundays, without overtime penalty, provided the principle of the forty (40) hour week is maintained over an averaging period. Rate and one-half shall be paid for hours worked on Sunday.
b)	Any variation(s) to the preceding Sections denoting normal hours of work shall be implemented only upon completion of the following steps:
i)	Negotiated agreement between the Local Union and Local Management.
ii)	Majority approval by the employees involved in the proposed variations.
c)	When alternative shift schedules have been implemented in accordance with a) and b) above, the following overtime provisions will apply:
A.	Rate and one-half shall be paid for the following:
i)	The first three (3) hours worked in a day in excess of the normal daily hours of the established schedule.
ii)	Hours worked in excess of forty (40) hours per week or forty (40) hours average when there is an averaging period.
iii)	All hours worked on an employee's scheduled rest day, unless a change in rest day has been agreed to between the employee and the Company.
iv)	All hours worked on Sunday except those excluded in the casual section.
B.	Double straight-time rates shall be paid for the following:
i)	All hours worked in excess of a(i) above.
ii)	All hours worked on a Sunday when Sunday is also an employee's scheduled rest day, if the employee has worked forty (40) straighttime hours in the preceding six (6) days, unless a change in rest day has been agreed to between the employee and the Company.
C.	Supplement No. 8 - Alternate Shift Scheduling, contains the
agreed upon general principles and parameters for the establishment,
implementation or discontinuance of alternate shift schedules.
Page 12
Section 6:
If three (3) hours or less in the Sawmill Division and/or one (1) hour or less in the Plywood Division are necessary after midnight Friday or after midnight preceding a Statutory Holiday to complete a shift which commenced work on Friday afternoon or the afternoon preceding the Statutory Holiday, time worked after midnight Friday or after midnight preceding the Statutory Holiday to complete the shift shall be paid straight time rates.
Section 7:
The work shall commence with the starting time of the first shift Monday, and shall end at the completion of the last shift which commences on the following Friday.
Section 8:
a)	The Company shall have the right to operate the plant or any part thereof on a three (3) shift basis and all employees working under this arrangement shall receive eight (8) hours pay upon completion of the full hours established as their regular shift. Details of shifts shall be varied at the Company's option.
b)	Section (a) above shall only apply to those employees actually working on a three (3) shift basis.
Section 9:
The foregoing provision of this Article shall not be construed as guaranteeing to any employee any number of hours of work per day or per week.
Section 10:
All employees in manufacturing plants shall be entitled to two (2) ten-minute (10) rest periods during each regular shift; provided always that the Company shall have the right to use relief employees in implementing this provision.
Section 11:
Where maintenance, repair and construction employees are required to work two (2) hours or more overtime beyond their normal shift, the Company shall provide a hot meal to be consumed by the employees on Company time before beginning the overtime work. The hot meal will be made available in a local restaurant.
Section 12:
The Company agrees to discontinue the use of time clocks, subject to the following:
1.	The general use of clocks be discontinued for a trial period of three (3) months.
2.	New employees are to punch the clock for the first three (3) months of
Page 13
employment.
3.	Casual employees are to punch the clock.
4.	Employees who report late must punch the clock and have the card initialed by their foreman.
5.	Employees may make arrangements with employees on the same jobs on their following shift to relieve them a maximum of ten (10) minutes prior to their regular quitting time providing they have permission of both foreman involved.
6.	Employees may enter or leave their place of work by the North Entrance only.
7.	Employees who work overtime must punch.
8.	Employees who have been absent and return to work must report to their department foreman at the commencement of the shift.
9.	Employees who abuse the system shall be required to punch the clock for a three (3) month period.
10.	Employees abusing the honour system will still be subject to Article III, Section 2 of the Collective Agreement.
ARTICLE VIII - SENIORITY
Section 1:	Principle of Seniority
The principle of seniority, competency considered, shall be recognized by the Company and the Union; the application of seniority being determined by Plant or Division.
Section 2:	Divisions and Departments
This Agreement covers all operations of the Company which shall be organized for seniority purposes as follows:
1.	Sawmill Division
Section 3:	Seniority Lists
The Company shall supply to the bargaining agent once every three (3) months a complete seniority list which seniority list shall be kept up to date particularly in the event of a reduction of forces.
Divisional Seniority Lists:
a)	Sawmill Division
Page 14
Section 4:	Promotions or Job Openings
a)	Promotions shall be based on seniority, competency considered. Promotion into designated "Key Jobs” is subject to the provisions of the Job Training Plan.
b)	Job openings (except those on base rate) shall be posted for a minimum of twenty-four (24) hours.
Section 5:	Lay-offs or Reduction of Forces
a)	In the event of a reduction of forces, the last person hired shall be the first released, subject to the provisions of Sections 1 and 8 of this Article.
b)	Where a reduction of forces is caused by emergency conditions, the application of seniority as agreed to under Sub-section 5 (a) may be postponed for such periods as may be necessary, not exceeding three (3) working days. If the Company decides to exercise its rights under this provision, it shall notify the committee as soon as possible.
c)	During a reduction of forces where an employee's seniority is such that he/she will not be able to keep his/her regular job he/she may elect to apply his/her seniority to obtain a job paying a higher rate, subject to the competency of the person involved and the provisions of Section 1. Details to be worked out between the Local Union and the Company.
During a reduction of forces where an employee's seniority is such that he/she will not be able to keep his/her regular job he/she may elect whether or not to apply his/her seniority to obtain a lower paid job or a job paying the same rate or accept a layoff until his/her regular job becomes available, provided however:
1.	If during the layoff period the employee wished to return to work and so notified the Company, he/she shall be called back to work as soon as his/her seniority entitled him to a job.
2.	The application of this provision shall not result in the employee, in the exercise of his/her rights, bumping an employee with less seniority.
Section 6:	Seniority Retention
Seniority during lay-off shall be retained on the following basis:
a)	Employees with less than one (1) year's service shall retain their seniority for a period of eight (8) months.
b)	Employees with one (1) or more year's service shall retain their seniority for one (1) year, plus one (1) additional month for each year's service up to an additional six (6) months period.
Page 15
c)	A laid-off employee's seniority retention is reinstated on the completion of one day's work.
Section 7:	Rehirinq or Re-establishing of Forces
a)	In case of re-establishment of forces, "demoted" employees shall have first claim on their previously held jobs and in such event jobs shall not be posted.
b)	When rehiring after a reduction of forces, employees shall be notified by telegram, or registered letter, if residing within 100 miles' radius of 100 Mile House, and they shall be rehired in order of their Plant Seniority, provided that they reply to the telegram (or letter) in the affirmative within ninety-six (96) hours and appear not later than seven (7) days from the time the telegram or letter was sent out. However, employees resident in the Province of Alberta or the Yukon Territory shall be given one (1) additional day's time for reporting and any employees resident in any other Canadian Province or the United States shall receive two (2) additional day's time for reporting. All employees shall, upon returning to employment within the required number of days of being notified by the company, retain all seniority rights. It shall be the employees' responsibility to keep the company informed of their addresses during lay-off.
Section 8:	Probation
a)	Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, all employees are hired on probation. The probationary period shall continue for thirty (30) working days, during which time such employees are to be considered temporary workers only, and during this same period no seniority rights shall be recognized. Upon completion of thirty (30) working days, such employees shall be regarded as regular employees and shall be entitled to seniority dating from the day on which they entered the Company's employ; provided however, that the probationary period of thirty (30) working days shall only be cumulative within the three (3) calendar months following the date of entering employment.
b)	Clause (a) of this section does not apply to employees who move from one operation of a Company to another operation of the same Company within thirty (30) days for those laid-off; and within ninety (90) days for those terminated
as a result of permanent closure.
c)	It is agreed that probationary employees will have preference over Casual employees for any work performed during the normal work week, subject to competency.
d)	It is further agreed that in the application of c) above, probationary employees will be called in for work in accordance with their hiring date, unless such call-in is beyond the control of the employer, and is subject to the employee being competent to perform the work. This obligation does not apply where the employee cannot be readily contacted or where the employee has worked one shift in the 24 hour period.
Page 16
Section 9:	Reinstatement
In any case where an employee has been transferred by the Company to a Supervisory position and at a later date ceases to be a Supervisory worker and the Company desires to retain his/her services, reinstatement can be made within the bargaining unit provided however, that Supervisory workers reinstated in the bargaining unit must return to the job held at the time of their promotion to a Supervisory position.
Section 10: Part-time and Temporary Employees
a)	Weekend workers and others not desirous or available for regular employment shall be regarded as casual employees, and shall not accrue any seniority.
b)	Workers who are hired for temporary employment and signify that they are available and who are in fact available for permanent employment shall be considered as relief workers and as soon as they have worked thirty (30) days within the three (3) calendar months period following their date of hiring, they shall accrue seniority from their date of hiring.
Section 11: Hiring
It is agreed that companies signatory to this agreement shall give preference in hiring, competency considered, on the following basis, in the following order:
1.	previous employees of the Division who have both previous seniority and an application on file
2.	previous employees of the company who have previous company seniority and are seeking employment as a result of operational closures or crew reductions in other operations of the company
3.	laid off employees of other forest industry companies in the communities, who are seeking employment as a result of operational closures or crew reduction in excess of ninety (90) days
4.	laid off forest industry IWA members of Local 1-424 and 1-425 who are seeking employment as a result of operational closures or crew reduction in excess of ninety (90) days
5.	persons who qualify for preference, and wish to exercise their rights to preference, must make application within six months of the operational closure or the ninety day layoff period.
Applications will be kept on file as active for 60 days. After which time, applications must be renewed by the person seeking employment, or no preference shall be considered.
Page 17
ARTICLE IX - LEAVE OF ABSENCE
Section 1:	Injury or Illness
The Company will grant leave of absence to employees suffering injury or illness for the term of this Agreement, subject to a medical certificate if requested by the Company. The employee shall have a reasonable period of time to present such medical certificate. The employee shall report or cause to have reported the injury or illness which requires his/her absence to the company as soon as may be reasonably possible.
Section 2:	Written Permission
Any employee desiring leave of absence must obtain permission in writing from the Company for such leave.
Section 3:	Union Business
a)	The Company will grant leave of absence to employees who are appointed or elected to Union Office. The employee who obtains this leave of absence shall return to the Company within thirty (30) calendar days after completion of his/her term of employment with the Union.
b)	The Company shall grant leave of absence to employees who are elected as representatives to attend Union Conventions or as members of the negotiating committee of the IWA-CANADA in order that they may carry out their duties on behalf of the Union.
c)	In order for the Company to replace such employee with a competent substitute before such employee receives leave of absence as set forth in Clauses (a) and (b) above, the Company shall be given due notice in writing and, in the case of (a), twenty (20) calendar days notice, and in the case of (b), five (5) calendar days notice shall be sufficient for all purposes.
Section 4:
Any leave of absence granted to an employee by the Company for a period of longer than fourteen (14) days, shall be subject to discussion and approval between the Company and the Union.
Section 5:	Compassionate Leave
The Company will grant leave of absence up to a maximum of six (6) months without pay to employees for compassionate reasons or for educational or training or extended vacation purposes, conditional on the following terms:
a) That the employee apply at least one (1) month in advance unless the grounds for such application could not reasonably be foreseen.
Page 18
b)	That the employee shall disclose the grounds for such application.
c)	That the Company shall grant such leave where a bona fide reason is advanced by the applicant, or may postpone leave for educational or training purposes where a suitable replacement is not available.
d)	That the Company shall be required to notify the Shop Committee of its decision in respect of any application for leave under this section.
e)	It is agreed that employees requesting leave of absence for extended vacations during the months of July and August, shall only be granted such leave once every three (3) years, and that a record be kept for the purpose of rotating such leaves.
f)	That applications for extended vacations from January 1st to June 30th and September 1st to December 31st shall be in accordance with the principle established in Article X, Section 2(b) of the Collective Agreement.
g)	That employees making application for leave of absence for "extended vacations” shall apply at least one (1) month in advance.
h)	"All earned vacations" must be taken in conjunction with an "extended vacation leave".
i)	The Company will grant a reasonable period of extended maternity leave without pay to female employees where there is a valid reason.
Section 6:	Bereavement Leave
a)	When a death occurs to a member of regular full-time employee's immediate family, the employee will be granted an appropriate leave of absence for which he/she shall be compensated at his/her regular straight time hourly rate of pay for his/her regular work schedule for a maximum of three (3) days.
b)	Piece workers who are entitled to bereavement leave shall be compensated in accordance with the principles established in Article XII, Section 2 (B) of this Agreement.
c)	Members of the employee's immediate family are defined as the employee's spouse, mother, father, brothers, sisters, sons, daughters, mother-in-law, father-in-law, step-parents, grandparents, grandparents-in-law, grandchildren, sons-in-law, daughters-in-law, and step children.
d)	Compensable hours under the terms of this section will be counted as hours worked for the purpose of qualifying for vacations and for recognized paid holidays, but will not be counted as hours worked for the purpose of computing overtime.
Section 7:	Jury Duty
a) Any regular full-time employee who is required to perform Jury Duty, Coroner's
Page 19
Jury, Crown Witness, or Coroner's Witness on a day on which they would normally have worked, will be reimbursed by the Company for the difference between the pay received for Jury Duty and their regular straight time hourly rate of pay for their regularly scheduled hours of work. It is understood that such reimbursement shall not be for hours in excess of eight (8) per day or forty (40) per week less Statutory pay received for Jury Duty. The employee will be required to furnish proof of Jury Service and Jury Duty pay received.
b)	Any piece worker who is required to perform Jury Duty shall be compensated for the difference between Statutory pay received for Jury Duty and his/her job rate in accordance with the principle established in Article XII, Section 2 (b) of this Agreement.
c)	Hours paid for Jury Duty will be counted as hours worked for the purpose of qualifying for vacations and for recognized paid holidays, but will not be counted as hours worked for the purpose of computing overtime.
Section 8:	Public Office
a)	The Company will grant leave of absence for campaign purposes to candidates for Federal, Provincial or Municipal elective public office for periods up to and including eight (8) weeks, provided the Company is given due notice
in writing of twenty (20) calendar days, unless the need for such application could not reasonably be foreseen.
b)	Employees elected or appointed to Federal, Provincial or Municipal office shall be granted as much leave as is necessary during the term of such office. Municipal office holders, where the term of public office is served intermittently, shall give the Company reasonable notice for absences from work for conducting Municipal business.
c)	The employee who obtains this leave of absence shall return to his/her Company within thirty (30) calendar days after completion of public office.
ARTICLE X - VACATIONS WITH PAY
With respect to annual vacations and vacation pay the following provisions will apply. Section 1:	One to Two Years Service
The annual vacation for employees with one (1) to two (2) years service covered by this Agreement shall be two (2) weeks, and the pay therefor shall be based upon five percent (5%) of the total wages or salary earned by the employee during the period of entitlement, or eighty (80) hours at the hourly rate of the employees' regular job, whichever is greater.
Page 20
Section 2:	Two to Seven Years Service
a)	The annual vacation for employees with two (2) to seven (7) years service covered by this Agreement shall be three (3) weeks, and the pay therefor shall be based upon seven percent (7%) of the total wages or salary earned by the employee during the period of entitlement, or one hundred and twenty (120) hours at the hourly rate of the employee's regular job, whichever is greater.
b)	The additional one (1) week vacation provided for in this Section may be taken when convenient for the Company but does not have to be consecutive with the vacation period provided for in Section 1 herein.
Section 3:	Seven to Fifteen Years Service
a)	The annual vacation for employees with seven (7) to fifteen (15) years service covered by this Agreement shall be four (4) weeks, and the pay therefor shall be based upon nine percent (9%) of the total wages or salary earned by the employee during the period of entitlement, or one hundred and sixty (160) hours at the hourly rate of the employee's regular job, whichever is greater.
b)	The additional one (1) week vacation provided for in this Section may be taken when convenient for the company but does not have to be consecutive with the vacation periods provided for in Sections 1 and 2 herein.
Section 4:	Fifteen to Twenty-Four Years Service
a)	The annual vacation for employees with fifteen (15) to twenty-four (24) years service covered by this Agreement shall be five (5) weeks, and the pay therefor shall be based upon eleven percent (11%) of the total wages or salary earned by the employee during the period of entitlement, or two hundred (200) hours at the hourly rate of the employee's regular job, whichever is greater.
b)	Subject to the provisions of Section 8 herein, the additional one (1) week vacation provided for in this Section may be taken consecutively with the vacation periods provided for in Sections 1,2 or 3.
Section 5:	Twenty-Four to Thirty Years Service
a)	The annual vacation for employees with twenty-four (24) to thirty (30) years service covered by this Agreement shall be six (6) weeks, and the pay therefor shall be based upon thirteen percent (13%) of the total wages or salary earned by the employee during the period of entitlement, or two hundred and forty (240) hours at the hourly rate of the employee's regular job, whichever is greater.
b)	Subject to the provisions of Section 8 herein, the additional one (1) week vacation provided for in this Section may be taken consecutively with the vacations periods provided in Sections 1, 2, 3 or 4.
Page 21
Section 6:	Thirty Years Service
a)	The annual vacation for employees with thirty (30) years service covered by this Agreement shall be seven (7) weeks, and the pay therefor shall be based upon fifteen percent (15%) of the total wages or salary earned by the employee during the period of entitlement, or two hundred and eighty (280) hours at the hourly rate of the employee's regular job, whichever is greater.
b)	Subject to the provisions of Section 8 herein, the additional one (1) week vacation provided for in this Section may be taken consecutively with the vacation periods provided for in Section 1,2, 3, 4 or 5.
Section 7:	Vacation Pay on Termination
An employee whose employment is terminated shall receive vacation pay at the appropriate percentage of the wages or salary earned during the period of entitlement in accordance with the employee's years of service.
Section 8:	Vacation Time
a)	Vacations for employees shall be taken at such time as mutually agreed upon by the Shop Committee and the Company when quantity and regularity of production shall not be impaired.
b)	All earned vacations must be taken.
Section 9:	Payment of Vacation Pay
a)	The calculation and comparison of the vacation pay amounts developed by the percentage of gross wages method and the hours times the regular job rate method will be completed and the greater amount paid to the employee within fourteen (14) days of the common vacation pay cut-off date or the employee's anniversary date. The company's present cut-off or anniversary date method shall be continued unless a change is agreed upon between the Company and the Local Union.
b)	For the purposes of this Article, the rate of the employee's regular job will be the rate of the employee's regular job at the date of the common vacation cut-off date or the employee's anniversary date, as the case may be.
c)	In the case of a pieceworker, the rate of the employee's regular job will be determined by computing the employee's hourly average earnings for the days actually worked during the pay period immediately preceding the common vacation cut-off date or the employee's anniversary date, as the case may be.
d)	On the date when an employee completes one (1), two (2), seven (7), fifteen (15), twenty-four (24) or thirty (30) years service and where there is a common cut-off date for all employees in the operation, the employee will receive:
Page 22
i)	In the case of one (1) year, one percent (1%) of his/her gross earnings between the date of employment and the date of the last common cut-off date.
ii)	In the case of two (2), seven (7), fifteen (15), twenty-four (24) or thirty (30) years, two percent (2%) of his/her gross earnings between the date of his/her last anniversary date and the date of the last common cut-off date.
Section 10: Vacation Pay - Percentage of Wages Method
The following shall be considered as days actually worked for determining vacations
with pay for an employee after one (1) continuous year of employment.
a)	Absence on Workers' Compensation up to a period of one (1) year, provided that the employee returns to his/her employment.
b)	Absence due to illness up to a period of one (1) year, provided that the employee returns to his/her employment. The employer shall have the right to require a certificate from a qualified medical practitioner.
c)	Absence due to bereavement leave in accordance with the terms and conditions of Article IX, Section 6.
d)	Absence due to time service of Jury Duty, including Coroner's Jury, or time served as a Crown Witness or Coroner's Witness in accordance with the terms and conditions of Article IX, Section 7.
e)	Any other absence duly approved by the employer in writing shall be credited towards entitlement for annual vacation, but time spent on such leaves of absence shall not be counted in computing vacation pay.
Section 11: Qualifications for Vacation Pay - Regular Job Rate Method
a)	i) In order for an employee to qualify for the amount generated by the hours times the regular job rate method, the employee must have worked a minimum of fifteen hundred (1,500) hours in the employee's first year of service and a minimum of one thousand (1,000) hours during the employee's succeeding year of entitlement.
ii)	Where there is a common vacation pay cut-off date, for purposes of
calculating minimum hours as in (i) above, the calculation period shall be from the cut-off date in one year to the cut-off date in the succeeding year.
iii)	Where there is no common vacation pay cut-off date, for purposes
of calculating minimum hours as in (i) above, the calculation period shall be from the employee's anniversary date in one year to his/her anniversary date in the succeeding year.
Page 23
b) For purposes of computing the requisite hours the following will be included:
i)	All hours worked.
ii)	Statutory Holiday hours.
iii)	Jury and Crown Witness Duty.
iv)	Bereavement leave.
v)	Vacation hours.
vi)	Time not exceeding one (1) year, lost as the result of an accident recognized as compensable by the Workers' Compensation Board and suffered during the course of employment, shall be considered as time worked for the purpose of qualifying for vacation, provided that the employee returns to his/her employment.
vii)	Time not exceeding one (1) year, lost as the result of a non-occupational accident or illness, shall be considered as time worked for the purpose of qualifying for vacation, provided that at the time of the accident or illness the employee has been on the payroll for not less than one (1) year and that he/she returns to his/her employment. It is understood that the employer may require that the employee provide a certificate from a qualified medical practitioner.
viii)	Time lost as a result of layoff shall not be considered as time worked for the purpose of qualifying for requisite hours.
ix)	Employees who report for work and who receive call time payment shall be credited with eight (8) hours for any such shift for purposes of computing requisite hours under this Section. Any employee who qualifies for call time in a day shall receive credit under this Section for eight (8) hours or credit for the hours for which wages were paid, whichever is greater.
x)	All hours worked in more than one 1 division of the parent company as a result of transfer or layoff.
Section 12: Employment Standards Act
Part 4 - Annual Vacation of the Employment Standards Act, S.B.C., 1980, c. 10, and amendments thereto, except where varied or modified by the provisions herein, shall become a part of this Agreement.
Page 24
ARTICLE XI - SAFETY AND HEALTH
Section 1:
The Company and employees shall co-operate to assure safe working methods and conditions and to devise plans for the furtherance of safety measures. Equipment and devices mutually agreed upon shall be provided by the Company.
Section 2:
The management of every operation shall maintain an Accident Prevention Committee (hereinafter called "Safety Committee”) of four (4) to twelve (12) members according to the size of the operation. Members of the Safety Committee shall be designated in equal numbers by the employees and the Company. Employee representatives shall be regular employees in the operation, with at least one year's experience.
Section 3:
When inspections and Safety Committee meetings are held in the same week and the total time spent by any employee exceeds two (2)hours provided for, employees are to be compensated at straight time rates for all time spent on inspections and Safety Committee meetings outside of normal working hours.
Employees who attend Safety Committee meetings or accident investigations during working hours shall not suffer any loss of pay. Plant inspections for safety will be done outside of the employee's normal working hours, unless otherwise agreed.
Section 4:
Anyone or all employees working in the immediate proximity when a fatal accident has occurred may, without discrimination, refrain from working the balance of the shift.
Section 5:
Effective July 1, 1989, an IWA-Forest Industry Safety and Health Research Program
will be established on the following general principles:
a)	The Plan will be jointly trusteed.
b)	The Plan is to be funded on the basis of an Industry contribution of one-half cent (% cent) per hour per employee per hour worked, effective July 1, 1989.
c)	The trustees will be appointed in the first year of the Agreement and will meet during the first year to establish objectives and operating and administrative procedures.
d)	(a.) When funds in the Plan reach $100,000.00, the Employer will contribute an additional %n per hour for a total of one-cent (1 n) per hour.
Page 25
(b.) When funds in the Plan reach $200,000.00, the additional one-half cent (% n) provided for in (a) above will be discontinued until the fund level is again reduced to the $100,000.00 level.
ARTICLE XII - STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
Section 1:
a)	All employees who work on New Year's Day, Good Friday, Victoria Day, Canada Day, British Columbia Day, Labour Day, Thanksgiving Day, Remembrance Day, Christmas Day and Boxing Day shall be paid rate and one half for hours worked.
b)	In the event one of the above Statutory Holidays falls on a Sunday, the following Monday shall be observed as the Holiday.
c)	In the event that one of the above Statutory Holidays falls on a Saturday, it shall be observed on the preceding Friday or the succeeding Monday, or as agreed upon between the Company and the Shop Committee.
d)	When a Statutory Holiday falls on a Friday, employees working on a Tuesday to Saturday work week, by mutual agreement between the Company and the Plant Committee may work on a Friday Statutory Holiday at the straight time job rates and substitute Saturday as the Statutory Holiday.
e)	In the event of a Statutory Holiday falling on a Tuesday, Wednesday or Thursday, and when the Company and the Shop Committee mutually agree, the said holiday may be observed the preceding Monday or following Friday respectively.
f)	At the option of the Company but whenever possible by mutual agreement with the Shop Committee, either Good Friday, or Easter Monday shall become the designated Easter Holiday, and the Company shall notify its employees of the designation at least one (1) week prior to the said Holiday.
Section 2:
a)	An hourly rate or piece work employee who qualifies for the following holidays, that is: New Year's Day, Good Friday, Victoria Day, Canada Day, British Columbia Day, Labour Day, Thanksgiving Day, Remembrance Day, Christmas Day, and Boxing Day, under the conditions set out below shall be paid for the holiday his/her regular job rate of pay for his/her regular work schedule. The hours so paid for the Statutory Holiday shall not be included in the weekly work schedule.
b)	The holiday rate of piece work employees shall be established by computing their daily average earnings for days actually worked during the previous thirty (30) days.
Page 26
c)	An employee working on a paid holiday shall be paid, in addition to his/her holiday pay, rate and one half for any hours worked on a shift designated as a "Holiday Shift".
d)	An employee, to qualify for holiday pay, must have been on the payroll thirty (30) calendar days immediately preceding the holiday, and must have worked his/her last regularly scheduled work day before, and his/her first regularly scheduled work day after the holiday, unless his absence was due to a compensable occupational injury or illness, which occurred within six (6) months preceding the holiday, or such employee was on authorized leave of absence. In the case of illness, or injury, the Company shall have the right to request a certificate from a qualified medical practitioner.
Notwithstanding the other requirements of this section, an employee may only qualify for Statutory Holiday Pay if he/she works one (1) day before and one (1) day after the holiday providing the said two (2) days fall within a ninety (90) calendar pay period. Employees while on leave
of absence under Article Ix, Section 3(a) or any employee while a member of a negotiating committee under Section 3(b) shall not qualify for paid Statutory Holidays.
e)	Employees as defined under Article VIII, Section 10 shall not receive pay for Statutory Holidays.
Section 3:
This section becomes effective September 1, 1978. This Personal Floating Holiday is in lieu of the proposed Heritage Day but this section shall come into operation on its effective date even if Heritage Day has or has not been proclaimed.
a) Regular full-time employees will be granted one (1) Personal Floating Holiday during each contract year of the Agreement, to be arranged at a time suitable to the employee and the Company, so that there will be no loss of production.
b)	When the Personal Floating Holiday is taken, an employee shall be paid for the said holiday at his/her regular job rate of pay for his/her regular work schedule, subject to the following conditions.
i)	A new employee must have been on the payroll for not less than ninety (90) consecutive calendar days to qualify for the Personal Floating Holiday.
ii)	An employee will not qualify for the Personal Floating Holiday if on leave of absence for more than nine (9) months in the contract year, except in the case of sickness or injury.
iii)	An employee shall apply on an approved form at least seven (7) days in advance, for his/her Personal Floating Holiday. The
Page 27
employee shall receive notice of the disposition of his/her request a minimum of seventy-two (72) hours prior to the requested Personal Floating Holiday.
iv)	If an employee is required to work on his/her Personal Floating Holiday after a definite date has been designated for such holiday, the employee shall be paid overtime for such work at the rate of time and one half. The employee will then be entitled to take the holiday with pay at a later date to be mutually agreed upon.
v)	Personal Floating Holiday not taken or scheduled by April 30th of each contract year will be scheduled by Management.
vi)	A Personal Floating Holiday shall not be scheduled on an employee's regular rest day.
vii)	Where an employee chooses Saturday or Sunday as a Personal Floating Holiday, straight time rates will apply.
ARTICLE XIII - CALL TIME
Section 1:
Any employee reporting to work on the call of the Company shall be paid their regular rate of pay for the entire period spent at the place of work in response to the call with a minimum of, in any one day:
a)	Two hours pay at the employee's regular rate except when the employee's condition is such that he/she is not competent to perform his/her duties, or he/she has failed to comply with the accident prevention regulations of the Workers' Compensation Board; or
b)	If the employee commences work, four (4) hours pay at his/her regular rate, except where his/her work is suspended because of inclement weather or reasons completely beyond the control of the Company.
Section 2:
Notice cancelling the work call for any Division of the Company shall be sufficient if given in the following manner:
a)	First Shift - Notice cancelling the call for work shall be given the previous evening at 10:00 p.m. and at 10:30 p.m. or not later than one and one half (1%) hours before the shift commences, by means of two (2) broadcasts within a half hour period.
b)	Second Shift - Notice cancelling the call for work shall be given between 12:00 noon and 1:00 p.m. but not later than three (3) hours before the shift
Page 28
commences, by means of two (2) broadcasts within a half hour period.
c)	Third Shift - Notice cancelling the call for work shall be given between 5:00 p.m. and 6:00 p.m., but not later than three (3) hours before the shift commences.
All broadcasts shall be over Radio Station CKBX.
ARTICLE XIV - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
When a grievance arises in the plant, under the terms of this Agreement it shall be
dealt with in the following manner:
a)	The individual employee and the Job Steward shall first take up the matter with the foreman in charge of the work, within fifteen (15) days.
b)	If the grievance is not satisfactorily settled in this way, the same individual employee, with the Committee, shall take up the problem with the foreman.
c)	If a satisfactory settlement is not then reached, it shall be reduced to writing by both Parties when the Committee shall take up the grievance with the Plant Superintendent. If desired, the Union Business Agent shall accompany the Committee, and either Party shall have the right to request the presence of the employee involved.
d)	If the grievance is not then satisfactorily solved, it shall be referred to the Union and Management.
e)	If a satisfactory settlement is not then reached, it shall be dealt with by arbitration as hereinafter provided.
f)	If a grievance has not advanced to the next stage, under (b), (c), (d), or (e) within fourteen (14) days after completion of the preceding stage, then the grievance shall be deemed to be abandoned, and all rights of recourse to the grievance procedure shall be at an end. Where the Union is not able to observe this time limit by reason of the absence of the aggrieved employee or the Committee form the operation, the set time limit shall not apply. The Union shall be bound to proceed in such a case as quickly as may be reasonably possible.
ARTICLE XV - RIGHT OF REFERENCE
Section 1:
If the Company and the Union fail to agree upon an interpretation of the Agreement, either Party shall have the right to refer the matter to the Joint Industry Committee (hereinafter called "Joint Committee”) and if either Party does make reference, the other Party must accept the reference.
Page 29
Section 2:
The Joint Committee shall consist of three (3) representatives selected by the IWA-CANADA, Negotiating Committee, and three (3) representatives selected by the Company.
Section 3:
Where an interpretation of the Agreement has been referred to the Joint Committee, this reference shall be for the period of forty-eight (48) hours or longer by mutual consent of the Parties to this Agreement. In cases the Joint Committee agree upon a recommendation of Interpretation, this shall be furnished in writing to the Union and to the Company.
Section 4:
In event the Joint Committee members disagree, all the facts in the case as found by the Union and the Union members of the Joint Committee shall be placed in writing by the Union representatives and submitted to the Company and to the Union members involved. The facts in the case as found by the Company and the Company members of the Joint Committee shall be placed in writing and given to the Union member employees for their information.
Section 5:
If a satisfactory interpretation on the point in question is not reached, either Party may refer the question to arbitration as hereinafter provided.
ARTICLE XVI - ARBITRATION AND INTERPRETATION
Section 1:	Interpretation
In case of any dispute arising regarding the interpretation of this Agreement, which the
Parties hereto are unable to settle between themselves, the matter shall be determined
by interpretation in the following manner:
a)	Either Party may notify the other Party, in writing, by registered mail, of the question or questions to be interpreted. After receiving such notice and statement, each of the Parties will then refer the matter to the Interpreter named in this section.
b)	The decision of the Interpreter will be final and binding upon the Company and the Union.
c)	It is agreed that the Parties will arrange, as soon as possible, to name a person acceptable to both Parties to be the Interpreter for the purposes of this section.
Page 30
d)	In the event said Interpreter is unable to deal with any matter under this section, the Parties will meet and mutually agree upon a temporary replacement.
Section 2:	Arbitration
In the case of any dispute arising under this Agreement, which the Parties are unable to
settle between themselves, the matter shall be determined by arbitration in the following
manner:
a)	Either Party may notify the other Party in writing, by registered mail, of the question or questions to be arbitrated. Each of the Parties shall, within five (5) days, refer the matter to the chosen Arbitrator.
b)	The decision of the Arbitrator will be final and binding upon the Company and the Union.
c)	The chosen Arbitrator shall be selected on a rotation system and no Arbitrator shall deal with more than one question at any one time.
d)	If any Arbitrator finds that an employee has been unjustly suspended or discharged, that employee shall be reinstated by the Company without loss of pay and with all his/her rights and privileges preserved under the terms of this Agreement, provided always that if it is shown to the Arbitrator that the employee has been in receipt of wages during the period between discharge (or suspension) and reinstatement, or date of failure to re-hire and re-hiring, the amount so received shall be deducted from wages payable by this Company pursuant to this section.
e)	The Parties agree with the principle of one-man arbitration. The Arbitrator will be chosen on a rotation basis from a group of Arbitrators which will be selected by the Parties.
In the event either Party is dissatisfied with the permanent choice of an Arbitrator, the Parties agree that other choices of Arbitrators will be considered by both Parties.
Section 3:
The Company and the Union shall bear in equal proportions the expenses and allowances of the Arbitrator and the stenographic and secretarial expense and rent.
Section 4:
Any such arbitration to be held hereunder shall be held at 100 Mile House, B. C., or such other place as may be decided.
Page 31
Section 5:
A Committee shall be established to develop and implement a system of expedited arbitration of grievances. The chairman of this Committee will be H. Allan Hope, Q.C. The Committee shall report to the parties not later than December 1, 1984.
ARTICLE XVII - PAY DAYS
The Company shall provide for pay days every second week and each employee shall be furnished with an itemized statement of earnings and monthly deductions.
ARTICLE XVIII - GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section 1:
Official Union Representatives shall obtain access to the Company's operations for the purpose of this Agreement by written permission which shall be granted by the Company upon request and subject to such terms and conditions as may be laid down by the Company.
Section 2:	No Strike Pending Grievance and Arbitration Procedure
The Union shall not cause, promote, sanction, or authorize any strike, sit-down, slowdown, sympathetic strike or other interference with work by the employees for any cause whatsoever until all provisions of this Agreement relating to grievance and arbitration procedure have been complied with, unless failure to comply with such procedure is due to any act or refusal to act or misconduct of the Company.
Section 3:	No Lockout Pending Grievance and Arbitration Procedure
The Company shall not create or institute any lockout of the employees with respect to any dispute between the Company and the Union, or the Company and its employees, until all provisions of this Agreement relating to grievance and arbitration procedures have been complied with, unless failure to comply with such procedure is due to any act or refusal to act or misconduct of the Union or its employees.
Section 4:
a)	The Union may refuse to handle material produced by a strike bound firm.
b)	The Union shall have the right to respect another Union's picket line.
a)	The Company shall provide plug-ins (for block heaters only) in the
parking lot to accommodate all employees at no cost to the employees.
d)	Job Posting and Training Programs will be instituted as agreed to between the local Committee and the Company.
Page 32
Section 5:	Planerman Training
It is agreed that the Parties to the Agreement will meet jointly to discuss and implement a Planerman's Training Program.
Section 6:	Permanent Plant Closures
a)	Effective July 1, 1982, sixty (60) days notice of closure will be provided.
b)	Effective July 1, 1997, employees terminated by the Company because of permanent closure of a manufacturing plant shall be entitled to severance pay equal to seven (7) days pay for each year of continuous service and thereafter in increments of completed months of service.
ARTICLE XIX - HEALTH AND WELFARE
Section 1:	Provincial Board of Trustees
Weldwood of Canada Limited, together with Forest Industrial Relations Limited, the Interior Forest Labour Relations Association, the Council on Northern Interior Forest Employment Relations, Northwood Pulp and Timber Ltd., Canfor Limited and the IWA-CANADA to establish one set of trustees for the purpose of developing a common text, a common trust agreement, and a common employee booklet for the six Health and Welfare Plans, covering Life Insurance, Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance and Weekly Indemnity.
The Parties agree that a Joint Committee, representing Forest Industrial Relations Limited, the Interior Forest Labour Relations Association, the Council on Northern Interior Forest Employment Relations, Canfor Limited, Northwood Pulp and Timber Ltd., Weldwood of Canada Limited, and the IWA-CANADA, will be established to study the most effective method of administration of the Plans, reporting to the parties no later than July 1, 1984.
Section 2:	Weldwood - IWA Board of Trustees
The Board of Trustees, composed of two (2) members representing IWA-CANADA and two (2) members representing the Company, are responsible for the administration of the IWA-Weldwood Health and Welfare Plan. The Trustees are also responsible for the selection of carrier, funding, adjudication of compassionate appeals, and Health and Welfare problems directly related to the plan.
Section 3:	Medical
a)	The Company agrees to provide medical coverage for its employees by participating in the Medical Services Plan of British Columbia.
Page 33
b)	The Company agrees to provide Extended Health Benefits, including hospitalization coverage up to a maximum of $8.50 per day, to its employees by participating in a plan entered into between the Company and an appropriate carrier.
c)	Effective July 1, 1982, a Vision Care Program be instituted to provide for payment up to a maximum of One Hundred Dollars ($100.00) per person in any twenty-four consecutive month period for charges incurred relative to the purchase of lenses and frames or contact lenses when prescribed by a person legally qualified to make such prescription. Effective July 1, 1997, the maximum will be increased to two hundred dollars ($200.00) per member or dependent. Effective July 1, 1999, the maximum will be increased to two hundred and fifty dollars ($250.00) per member or dependent.
d)	Physiotherapy:
Effective July 1, 1997, the Physiotherapist/Massage practitioners' limit will increase by fifty dollars ($50.00) per calendar year to a total limit of five hundred and fifty dollars ($550.00) per member or dependent per calendar year.
e)	Chiropractic:
Effective July 1, 1998, the Chiropractors/Naturopaths Physicians' limit will increase by two hundred dollars ($200.00) per member or dependent per calendar year to a total limit of six hundred dollars ($600.00) per member or dependent per calendar year.
f)	Orthopedic Shoes:
Effective July 1, 1998, increase the Orthopedic Shoes limit by one hundred dollars ($100) from four hundred dollars ($400) to five hundred dollars ($500) (adults), and from two hundred dollars ($200) to three hundred dollars ($300) (child) per calendar year.
g)	Orthotics:
Effective July 1, 1998, establish coverage for prescribed orthotics with a maximum limit of two hundred dollars ($200) per member or dependent per calendar year.
h)	Hearing Aids:
Effective July 1, 1999, increase the Hearing Aids limit by one hundred and fifty dollars ($150) from four hundred dollars every five years for children to five hundred and fifty dollars ($550) every five years. Effective July 1, 1999, establish the same five hundred and fifty dollar ($550) limit per member or dependent, every five years, unless there is alternate coverage provided for.
Section 4:	Insurance Coverage
a)	Group Life Insurance for each qualified employee as follows:
effective July 1, 1997, $70,000.00 effective July 1, 1998, $80,000.00
Page 34
b)	Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance for each qualified employee as follows:
effective July 1, 1997, $70,000.00 effective July 1, 1998, $80,000.00
Effective July 1, 1994, the Plan will provide for coverage for accidents occurring at work.
c)	Weekly Indemnity as follows:
effective July 1, 1995, the Weekly Indemnity benefit level be increased by ten dollars ($10.00) per week so that the benefit level is four hundred thirty-nine dollars ($439.00) per week for 52 weeks.
effective July 1, 1996, the Weekly Indemnity benefit level be increased by ten dollars ($10.00) per week so that the benefit level is four hundred forty-nine dollars ($449.00) per week for 52 weeks.
effective January 1, '1995, a "No Downs” provision be introduced so that the four hundred twenty nine dollar ($429.00) per week rate will not be reduced by further reductions by U.I.C. of the maximum insurable earnings number.
Weekly Indemnity will commence the first day of hospitalization as a bed patient, and in cases where lost work time results in surgery. Absences due to the same or related causes will be considered continuous unless the employee has returned to full-time work for at least four (4) continuous weeks between absences.
The Union agrees that, if the Company maintains Weekly Indemnity Plan benefits which will meet the standards requirements for full premium reduction for "wage loss replacement plan under the Unemployment Insurance Act" the employee's 5/12th share of the premium reduction is retained as payment in kind in the provisions of the Weekly Indemnity Plan benefits.
i)	Third Party Subrogation
The parties agree to recommend to the Trustees of the Health & Welfare Plan that effective on the date of ratification of this memorandum a third party subrogation clause be adopted so that the Weekly Indemnity Plan can be reimbursed from damages recovered from a liable third party for illness, injury or income loss. The Plan will be entitled to recover the full amount of benefits paid to the member which exceeds 100% of the member's pre-disability gross income. Gross income will be calculated by using the member's regular hourly job rate (x) 40 hours. Trustees to work out the application and details, including the deduction of legal fees from the settlement and the execution of a reimbursement agreement.
Page 35
d)	The Officers of Local 1-425, IWA shall, upon written request, be permitted to
examine statements of premium income and claims, disbursements of the above insurance plan. Such requests will not be granted more frequently than once every three (3) months during the term of this Agreement.
Section 5:	Dental Plan
A Dental Plan will be provided based on the following general principles:
i) Basic dental services (Plan A) - Plan pays 80% of approved schedule of fees.
ii)	Prosthetics, crowns, and bridges (Plan B) - Plan pays 60% of approved schedule of fees.
iii)	Orthodontic Plan (C) - Plan pays 60% of approved schedule of fees (lifetime maximum $2,500.00). There shall be no waiting period for this benefit. Effective July 1, 1998, increase the lifetime maximum limit for Plan C (Orthodontic) from $2,500 to $3,000 for children only.
Section 6:	General Principles
a)	Premium cost for insurance shall be paid by the Company.
b)	Participation in the Plan is to be a condition of employment.
c)	Any new employee who has not worked in covered employment in the last eighteen (18) months will be eligible to become a covered employee on the first day of the month following completion of the probationary period. However, for such employee coverage for the Medical Services Plan and for the Extended Health Benefit will apply on the first day of the month following the date of employment.
d)	Coverage will be portable in all units covered by collective agreements between members of Forest Industrial Relations Limited, the Interior Forest Labour Relations Association, the Council on Northern Interior Forest Employment Relations, Canfor Limited, Northwood Pulp and Timber Ltd., Weldwood of Canada Limited and the IWA, and there shall be no waiting period for qualified employees changing employers within the Industry.
e)	Coverage during layoff will be provided as follows:
i)	Employees with one (1) or more years of seniority - six (6) months.
ii)	Employees with more than three (3) months but less than one (1) year seniority - three (3) months.
f)	In order for reinstatement of lay-off coverage to occur, there must be a return to regular full-time employment. An employee returns to regular full-time employment when he/she is employed for 10 working days within a floating
Page 36
period of thirty (30) consecutive days.
Also, an employee who returns to work for at least one working day and less than 10 working days will be covered for that month, in addition to any layoff coverage to which he/she was entitled, if the recall occurred during the period of lay-off coverage.
g)	There will be no duplication of Weekly Indemnity and Pension Plan payments.
h)	Weekly Indemnity coverage will be eliminated for an employee on an extended leave of absence under Leave of Absence, Section 5: Compassionate Leave provided, however, that such employee is eligible for Weekly Indemnity coverage on the agreed-upon day of return to work. In order to qualify for this coverage the employee must have returned to his/her place of residence in British Columbia unless his/her disability required him/her to be hospitalized and satisfies the requirements of the claims adjudication carrier. In the case of a compassionate appeal dealing with disability incurred during an extended leave of absence, the Trustees have the right to review certain circumstances.
i)	Employees on extended leave of absence under Leave of Absence, Section 5: Compassionate Leave will pay their own premiums for the Medical Services Plan, Extended Health Benefit and Dental Plan, while the premiums for Group Life Insurance and Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance will be paid by the employer during such extended leave of absence.
j)	Effective January 1, 1998, the existing Extended Health Benefits Plan will be extended to incorporate a medical travel plan allowance for necessary medical travel from remote areas when members or their dependents are referred by their attending physician to medical specialists in B.C. and such referrals require travel from the patient’s community of employment in excess of 500 kilometers.
A Weldwood - I.W.A. committee will work out all of the details prior to implementaton.
ARTICLE XX - LONG TERM DISABILITY PLAN
a)	The Plan will become effective July 1, 1982.
b)	Effective July 1, 1993, the Plan to be funded 50/50 cost sharing basis with contributions of twenty-two (220) per hour per employee per hour worked, of which the Industry will contribute eleven cents (110) and the employee will contribute eleven cents (110).
Effective January 1, 1995, contributions from both the Industry and the employees will be increased by six cents (60) per hour worked so that contributions will be thirty-four cents (340) per hour per employee per hour worked of which the Industry will contribute seventeen cents (170) and the employee will contribute seventeen cents (170).
Page 37
Effective July 1, 1995, contributions from both the Industry and the employees will be increased by a further two and one-half cents (2-%) per hour worked so that contributions will be thirty-nine cents (390) per hour per employee per hour worked of which the Industry will contribute ninteen and one-half cents (19-%) and the employee will contribute ninteen and one-half cents (19-%).
c)	A Board of Trustees will be constituted with equal representation from the Union and the Industry, to be responsible for establishing the terms of the Plan and the on-going administration.
d)	The Trustees will select a qualified actuary to assist them and to ensure the establishment of actuarially sound reserved to fund the benefits provided by the Plan.
e)	The Trustee will enter into a Trust Agreement which will include provision for a procedure to settle any major dispute that may arise with regard to the provisions of the Plan.
f)	Protection Against Withdrawals:
Withdrawing employer to be assessed for both the employer and employee share of the unfunded liability in cases of negotiated withdrawal, decertification or relocation closure. Unfunded liability formula to be uniform and based on Plan Unfunded Liabiltiy divided by the total number of Plan members (at the time of most recent Plan Valuation) multiplied by the number of Plan members affected by the withdrawal. Trustees to be directed to amend the participation agreement accordingly.
1)	Weldwood of Canada and IWA Canada will jointly consider
plan modifications that will improve the delivery of Rehabilitation within the Long Term Disability Plan, and will encourage and facilitate the development and establishment of Disability Management systems in participating employers’ operations.
The Trustees are directed to develop Plan modifications that will:
i. )	Improve the timeliness, effectiveness and
quality of Rehabilitation from the Plan.
ii. )	Provide incentives to Employers and Local
Unions to establish Disability Management systems at the operations level.
In the event that there are saving to the Long Term Disability Plan as a result of either Disability Management Systems, or amendments to Rehabilitation, consideration can be given to dispersal of these funds for further improvements in either of the above areas.
Where the Trustees reach agreement on modifications in the above areas, implementation can occur at the direction of the Trustees.
Page 38
Should additional funding be required to implement the Trustees recommendations, their recommendations will be forwarded to the respective Negotiating Committees to be dealt with.
ARTICLE XXI - IWA - FOREST INDUSTRY PENSION PLAN
a)	The Industry contribution to the Pension Plan of one dollar and seventy cents ($1.70) per hour per employee per hour worked, which became effective July 1, 1988, will be increased by seventy cents (700) per hour effective July 1, 1992, to two dollars and forty cents ($2.40) per hour per employee per hour worked. Effective July 1, 1993 employee contributions of ten cents (100) per hour per employee per hour worked will be added to the above contribution rate.
b)	Unfunded Liability:
Address the Plan's Unfunded Liability Issue by providing a one-time contribution of forty-four cents (440) per hour on November 1, 1994, and an additional onetime contribution of forty-four cents (440) per hour on July 1, 1995. These contributions will be based on all IWA-Forest Industry Pension Plan hours worked by each of the parties of the first part during the 1993 and 1994 calendar years respectively and require no change to the ongoing shared $2.50/hour contribution rate for the term of this agreement.
These contributions, if matched by other Pension Plan Participating Employers, will result in the following projections of the unfunded actuarial liability based on contributory hours of 47.3 million hours in 1994, declining to 46 million hours in 1995, and declining by one million hours per year in each succeeding year to 2001, using an 8% interest assumption for solvency purposes, the Revised Mortality Basis, and Triennial Valuations:
1/1/94	$553.9 million
1/1/95	$461.6 million
1/1/96	$370.3 million
1/1/97	$283.7 million
1/1/98	$228.8 million
1/1/99	$171.2 million
1/1/2000	$111.0 million
These contributions will allow the unfunded actuarial liability to be fully amortized in 7.7 years from 1/1/94. (The amortization period in the Preliminary Actuarial Valuation of December 31, 1993 is 9.1 years from that date).
c)	Revised Plan
A revised plan will be developed during the life of the agreement, based on the $2.50 contribution rate during the life of the Agreement in accordance with Appendix #1 of the August 11, 1997 Memorandum.
d)	The I.W.A. - Forest Industry Pension Plan Trustees will be directed to investigate the feasibility and implications of amending the Plan to allow Company paid bridging funds to "flow through” the Plan so as to enhance legal
Page 39
tax effectiveness.
ARTICLE XXII - APPRENTICESHIP TRAINING PROGRAM
a)	The Company and the Union agree to institute the Apprenticeship Training Program for Tradesmen. The following trades to be part of the Apprenticeship Training Program are:
Carpenters Electricians
Forklift & Carrier Mechanics Heavy Duty Mechanics Pipefitter - Steamfitters
b)	Where the Company requires a person or persons to maintain a valid pressure certificate, they will notify the Local Union. The Company will pay the cost of examination fee and fare allowance and lost time wages for the taking of the exam.
c)	If an official of the Department of Public Works requires a Welder to attend school, and the Company, at their discretion, still requires the pressure certificate, the Company will pay the cost of the examination fee, fare allowance, and net lost time wages.
d)	The Company is prepared to form a joint committee with the IWA Local 1-425 during the term of the 1977-79 Agreement to update the Apprenticeship Training Program to reflect current practices.
e)	The Company and IWA Local 1-425 will meet and develop appropriate tests and selection standards for trades and planerman categories during the term of the 1979-81 Agreement. This will include consideration of an opportunity for employee self-appraisal.
f)	Apprenticeship Selection Tests be amended to provide improved selection criteria as in place in the Southern Interior.
ARTICLE XXIII - SAWMILL RATE DETERMINATION
Machinists
Millwrights
Welders
Fitters, Filers & Benchmen
The Sawmill Rate Determination Program as negotiated between the Forest Industrial Relations Association and the IWA-CANADA will be instituted in accordance with Supplement No. 3.
ARTICLE XXIV - TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE
Section 1:	Advance Notification
The Company shall notify the Shop Committee and the Union six (6) months in advance of intent to institute changes in working methods or facilities which would
Page 40
involve the discharge or laying off of employees.
Section 2:	Retraining
The Company shall co-operate with the Government of British Columbia and participate in every way possible in training or retraining of employees so affected.
Section 3:	Rate Adjustment
a) An employee who is set back to a lower paid job because of mechanization,
technological change or automation will receive the rate of his/her regular job at the time of the setback for a period of three (3) months and for a further period of three (3) months he/she will be paid an adjusted rate which will be midway between the rate of his/her regular job at the time of the setback and the rate of his/her new regular job.
At the end of this six (6) month period the rate of his/her new regular job will apply. However, such employee will have the option of terminating his/her employment and accepting severance pay as outlined in Section 4 below, providing he/she exercises this option within the above referred to six (6) month period.
d)	Following an application of (a) above, where an employee is set back to a lower paid job because of an application of Article VIII - Seniority, brought on by mechanization, technological change or automation, he/she will receive the rate of his/her regular job at the time of the setback for a period of three (3) months and for a further period of three (3) months he/she will be paid an adjusted rate which will be midway between the rate of his/her regular job at the time of the setback and the rate of his/her new regular job. At the end of this six (6) month period the rate of his/her new regular job will apply.
Section 4:	Severance Pay
Employees discharged, laid-off, or displaced from their regular job because of mechanization, technological change or automation shall be entitled to severance pay of seven days pay for each year of service with the Company. The amount calculated under such entitlement shall not exceed a maximum of thirty weeks pay. This section shall not apply to employees covered by Section 3(b) above.
ARTICLE XXV - SAFETY EQUIPMENT
a) Where the following articles of equipment are required to be used by the Company or by the Worker's Compensation Board, the Company shall:
i)	Supply new employees with the articles of equipment as required.
Page 41
ii)	Supply employees moving to another department with the articles of equipment they require and that they do not have at the time of the move, or
iii)	Replace articles of equipment as required when they are presented worn or damaged beyond repair by an employee at no cost to the employee.
1.	Aprons	5.	Dust Protection
2.	Hard Hats	6.	Eye Protection
3.	Welding Goggles, etc.	7.	Ear Protection
4.	Flotation Equipment	8.	Gloves
Notwithstanding the foregoing, all articles of equipment will be replaced only when they are presented worn or damaged beyond repair; otherwise the replacement will be at the expense of the employee.
b)	The employer shall be required to make available at cost to those employees who are required to wear them the following articles:
1.	Caulk Boots	3.	Rain Gear
2.	Safety Shoes	4.	Coveralls
c)	Companies that supplied safety equipment and clothing at no cost to the employee on the effective date of this Agreement will continue to do so at no cost to the employee.
d)	An employee who is required to wear caulk boots by the Workers' Compensation Board shall receive annually a one hundred and twenty dollars ($120.00) caulk boot allowance.
i)	If he/she has six (6) months or more seniority, or
ii)	Upon obtaining six (6) months seniority.
iii)	Season lay-off shall not interfere with the qualifying period herein.
ARTICLE XXVI - TOOL INSURANCE
The Company, at its own expense, shall insure for damage or loss caused by fire or flood, the tools of its employees which are required in the performance of their work. This provision for tool insurance shall also apply to loss by theft where the tools are stored in a designated place of safety within the control of the company and there is forcible breaking and entering. The insurance coverage provided shall be subject to a deductible of Fifty Dollars ($50.00) in respect of each employee's claim.
ARTICLE XXVII - CONTRACTING OUT
a) The Company will not contract out any work that is performed by employees in
Page 42
the Bargaining Unit at the effective date of the agreement.
b) Current practices in operations shall be agreed on with the Local Union in
writing. Until such time as agreement is reached the above Clause (A) only will
apply.
ARTICLE XXVIII - EDUCATION TRUST FUND (THE FUND)
The Parties agree to establish a Fund based on the following parameters:
1.	The Fund to be structured so as to comply with all requirements of a trust as specified by Revenue Canada.
2.	The Industry will contribute to the Fund and will continue such contributions throughout the period of the Collective Agreement. The contributions will be one cent (10) per hour per employee per hour worked effective January 1, 1998; and, one cent (10) per hour per employee per hour worked effective July 1, 1998; and, one cent (10) per hour per employee per hour worked effective July 1, 1999.
3.	The Funds will be collected by the IWA-Forest Industry pension plan Office and directed to the Education Trust Fund.
4.	The Fund will be jointly trusteed by representatives as appointed by the IWA-Canada and the industry.
5.	The Fund will be subject to annual audits by an independent public accounting firm selected by the Trustees.
6.	The Fund will provide funding for the purpose as defined by the following:
Education Fund Policy Statement
The strength of the IWA Canada relies on the continued commitment of the membership to effect positive change. There is an increasing need for our leaders and membership to understand and respond to emerging issues affecting the forest industry and/or our membership. We need to renew and build upon the historic principles of the IWA Canada through a comprehensive education program which will enrich union membership and enhance the objectives of the IWA Canada as a proud and progressive union.
To this end, the union will develop and deliver a wide range of programs which may include:
Grievance Handling
Page 43
Collective Bargaining Environmental Issues Land Use Issues Stewards Training
Parliamentary Procedure & Public Speaking
Communication Skills
Leadership Training
Economic Issues
Benefits Training
Health and Safety
Union History
Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Fund will be used to develop and deliver programs, and to pay for administration costs, time lost from work to attend education and training, travel, accommodation and such other reasonable costs as the Working Committee determines appropriate regarding the operation and administration of the Fund.
7.	The Working Committee will be comprised of representatives of each
participating Local Union who would have responsibility for the development and delivery of Education and Training and Administration of Funds consistent with the purpose stated in point 6 above.
ARTICLE XXIX - DURATION OF AGREEMENT
Section 1:
This Agreement is a renewal and revision of the previous Collective Agreements entered into between the Company and the Union on July 1, 1994.
Section 2:
This Agreement shall be effective from and after the 1st day of July, 1997, to midnight the 30th day of June, 2000, and thereafter, from year to year, unless written notice of a contrary intention is given by either Party to the other Party.
The notice required hereunder shall be validly and sufficiently served at the Head Office of the Company or at the Local Office upon the Local Officers of the Union, at least four (4) months prior to the expiry of any contract period.
If no agreement is reached at the expiry of this Contract, and negotiations are continued, the Agreement shall remain in force up until the time the subsequent agreement is reached or negotiations are discontinued by either party.
Page 44
Section 3:
The Parties hereto agree that the operation of Section 66 (2) of the Labour Code of British Columbia Act, 1973, is excluded from the Master Agreement.
SIGNED this day of___________, 199,
FOR:	FOR:
WELDWOOD OF CANADA LIMITED	IWA-CANADA
100 MILE HOUSE OPERATIONS	LOCAL 1-425, C.L.C.
Page 45
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
WAGE SCALE - A
SAWMILL RATE DETERMINATION PROGRAM GROUP AND RATE CHART
Effective June 15, 1997 Per Hour
$19.85-%
20.00-%
20.18-%
20.34 20.52 20.81 21.09-% 21.35-% 21.65 22.00
22.40-% 22.77-%
23.15 23.54 23.90 24.27 24.66-% 25.05-% 25.40
25.89
26.35 26.82 27.29
Effective June 15, 1998 Per Hour
$20.25
20.40-%
20.59
20.74-	% 20.93 21.22-% 21.51-% 21.78 22.08-% 22.44 22.85-% 23.23 23.61-% 24.01 24.38
24.75-	%
25.16 25.55-% 25.91 26.41 26.87-% 27.35-% 27.83-%
Effective June 15,1999 Per Hour
$20.65-%
20.81-%
21.00
21.16
21.35
21.65
21.94-%
22.21-%
22.52-%
22.89 23.31 23.69-% 24.08-% 24.49 24.87 25.25 25.66-% 26.06-% 26.43 26.94
27.41-%
27.90 28.39
Page 46
EVALUATED CATEGORIES - SAWMILL
	JUNE 15/97	JUNE 15/98	JUNE 15/99
GROUP 1 -	$19.855	$20.25	$20.655
Strip Layer Strip Piler Clean-Up (overload)			
GROUP 2 -	20.005	20.405	20.815
GROUP 3 -	20.185	20.59	21.00
Re-entry Hoist Operator/Sawmill Breakdown Hoist Operator/Planermill
GROUP 4 -	20.34	20.745	21.16
Conveyor Chaser/Clean-up Chip Car Attendant/Car Mover Garage Helper Chipper Feeder Log Deck Sorter (Barkers)
Clock Watchman/Kiln duties
GROUP 5 -	20.52	20.93	21.35
Mill Deck Chaser
Flatcar Layout/Yard Clean-up/
Mobile Equipment J-Bar Sorter Bin Operator/Sawmill J-Bar Sorter Bin Operator/Planermill Fire Protection/Watchman Yard Clean-up/Pickup Dry Chain/Lumber Piler/Outside
Page 47
JUNE 15/97
JUNE 15/98
JUNE 15/99
GROUP 6 -	20.81	21.225
Strapper/Log Yard J-Bar Operator/Planermill J-Bar Stacker Operator/Sawmill Yard Cleanup/Mobile Equipment Op.
GROUP 7 -	21.09	21.515
Car Blocker/Utility
Optimizer Trimmer Att'd/Sawmill
Auto Package Press Operator/Wrapper/
Stenciller Planer Feeder Planer Stacker Operator
GROUP 8 -	21.355	21.78
Yard Utility - Forklift Operator Forklift Operator (Standard)
Warehouseman
Optimizer Trimmer/Reman Dropgate Board Edger Feeder Optimizer Edger Att'd Log Cut-off Saw Operator
GROUP 9 -	21.65	22.085
Forklift Operator/Flatcar Loading Forklift Operator/Sawmill Outfeed Forklift Operator/Planer Infeed Forklift Operator/Kilns Log Cut-off Saw/Log Sizer Operator
GROUP 10 -	22.00	22.44
27" Mechanical Barker Operator Kiln Operator/Konus Hot Oil System Weighmaster Licensed Scaler J-Bar Board Straightener/Mill Grader Shurman/Gang Utility Operator Q.C. - Weighmaster/Scaler
21.65
21.945
22.215
22.525
22.89
Page 48
JUNE 15/97
JUNE 15/98
JUNE 15/99
GROUP 11	-	22.405	22.855
Twin Auto Barker Operator
Planer Feeder/Setup/Systems Monitor
GROUP 12	-	22.775	23.23
Log Loader	Operator/Cat 966
Mobile Equipment Operator/Yard Maintenance
GROUP 13	-	23.15	23.615
Canter/Gang Edger Op.
GROUP 14	-	23.54	24.01
Planerman #1
Log Loader Operator/LeTourneau M.S.R. Operator
GROUP 15	-	23.90	24.38
G.S.L.A. Grader/Grade Reader Canter/Quad/Gang Edger op.
23.31
23.695
24.085
24.49
24.87
Page 49
WAGE SCALE - B
NON-EVALUATED CATEGORIES
CATEGORY	JUNE 15/97 JUNE 15/98	JUNE 15/99
MAINTENANCE
ELECTRICIAN
HEAVY DUTY MECHANIC
MILLWRIGHT
PIPEFITTER/STEAMFITTER CONSTRUCTION MILLWRIGHT/
CARPENTER
Journeyman (with
Certificate)	25.86	26.375	26.905
Journeyman Improver (3rd Year	25.36	25.875	26.405
Apprenticeship complete) Improver (2nd Year	22.48	22.93	23.39
Apprenticeship complete) Helper (1st Year	21.875	22.315	22.76
Apprenticeship complete)	21.35	21.775	22.21
Helper	21.065	21.485	21.915
MACHINIST			
Journeyman (with			
Certificate)	25.86	26.375	26.905
Journeyman Improver (3rd Year	25.36	25.875	26.405
Apprenticeship Complete) Improver (2nd Year	22.585	23.035	23.495
Apprenticeship Complete) Helper (1st Year	21.97	22.41	22.86
Apprenticeship Complete)	21.445	21.875	21.315
Helper	21.165	21.59	22.02
Page 50
CATEGORY	JUNE 15/97	JUNE 15/98	JUNE 15/99
WELDER			
Journeyman (see Note 1)	25.86	26.375	26.905
Journeyman (with			
applicable DPW Ticket)	25.665	26.18	26.705
Note 1:	Must be qualified as required under the Standard Forest Industry Welding
Specifications and either having completed the three year Apprenticeship Program or having worked in the trade for six thousand (6,000) hours as a Welder.
AUTO MECHANIC
Journeyman
(with Certificate)	25.665	26.18	26.705
Journeyman Improver (3rd Year	25.165	25.68	26.205
Apprenticeship Complete) Improver (2nd Year	22.48	22.93	23.39
Apprenticeship Complete) Helper (1st Year	21.875	22.315	22.76
Apprenticeship Complete)	21.35	21.775	22.21
Helper	21.065	21.485	21.915
PLANER MECHANIC BLACKSMITH BOILERMAKER SHIPWRIGHT MAINTENANCE MECHANIC			
Journeyman			
(with certificate)	25.665	26.18	26.705
Journeyman	25.165	25.68	26.205
PAINTER			
Journeyman			
(with Certificate)	25.465	25.975	26.495
Journeyman	24.965	25.475	25.995
Improver	21.87	22.305	22.75
Helper	20.87	21.285	21.71
Page 51
CATEGORY
JUNE 15/97
JUNE 15/98
JUNE 15/99
FILING ROOM
a)	Benchman
Benchman (with
Certificate)	26.61
Benchman	26.11
Benchman Helper	25.86
27.14
26.64
26.375
b)	Circular Saw Filer
Circular Saw Filer (with certificate) Circular Saw Filer Saw Filer Helper
25.86
25.36
25.475
26.375
25.875
25.985
c)	Saw Fitter
Saw Fitter (with
Certificate)	25.475
Saw Fitter	24.975
Saw Fitter (1st Year Complete)	21.88
Saw Fitter Helper	21.065
25.985
25.485
22.32
21.485
MISCELLANEOUS
First Aid tickets - Occupational Rate +
Level 2 certificate 500 per hour Level 3 certificate 850 per hour
Grinderman
Oiler
Yard Bucker
22.385
22.40
22.70
22.835
22.85
23.155
27.685
27.185
26.90
26.905
26.405
26.505
26.505
26.005
22.765
21.915
23.29
23.305
23.62
Page 52
Planermill Maintenance Technician
JUNE 1/97 JUNE 1/98 JUNE 1/99
2 Year Apprenticeship for Planermill Maintenance Technician II
Helper (During first 6 months)	$21.065	$21.485	$21.915
Helper (First 6 months completed)	21.73	22.165	22.61
Improver (First Year completed)	22.355	22.80	23.255
Non-Certified	23.765	24.24	24.725
Certified	24.27	24.755	25.25
A further 1 year Apprenticeship for a Planermill Maintenance Technician I			
Improver	$24.27	$24.755	$25.25
Non-Certified	25.355	25.86	26.375
Certified	25.86	26.375	26.90
SUPPLEMENT NO. 2
Journeyman Tradesmen Categories:
As referred to in Article V, Section 1, of this Agreement.
Carpenter
Electrician
Forklift and Carrier Mechanic Heavy Duty Mechanic Machinist Millwright
Pipefitter-Steamfitter
Welder
Fitters
Filers
Benchman
Page 53
SUPPLEMENT NO. 3
SAWMILL RATE DETERMINATION PROGRAM
Section 1:	Responsibility, Implementation, Continuity and Administration
The I.W.A.-CANADA and Forest Industrial Relations Limited agree to implement and continue the provisions of this Article of the Coast Master Agreement as administered by Regional Council No. 1 of the Industrial Wood and Allied Workers Union and Forest Industrial Relations Limited. The I.W.A. Coast Negotiating Committee and Forest Industrial Relations Limited shall be responsible for all aspects of the Program.
Section 2:	Purpose and Method
The purpose of the Program shall be the ranking of applicable hourly paid categories and placing them in groups according to their relative value within the B. C. Coast Sawmill Industry by using a method of agreed upon benchmark categories and related job descriptions.
Where new or significantly changed jobs do not fit an existing benchmark job description, the Parties agree to group such jobs by comparison to existing jobs where possible, in order to keep benchmark job descriptions to a minimum.
The Parties agree that the Details of Agreement as per Appendix No. 1 of the Memorandum of Agreement dated February 19, 1992 in respect of Mechanization, Technological Change or Automation will be implemented. Rate increases, if any, will be effective June 15, 1992. No incumbent's rate shall be reduced as a result of thie implementation of this Agreement.
Section 3:	Application
a)	Sawmill Rate Determination shall be carried out at the Local Union-Local Management level in accordance with the provisions of this Article and the provisions of any related Supplements to the Coast Master Agreement.
b)	Sawmill Rate Determination shall apply to all hourly paid categories in the sawmill industry except for those categories which have been excluded by mutual agreement between the IWA Coast Negotiating Committee and Forest Industrial Relations Limited.
c)	Sawmill Rate Determinations shall not supersede existing in-plant agreements, signed on or before November 3, 1976 at the Local Union-Local Management level.
Page 54
Section 4:	Development, Uniformity and Co-ordination
In order to ensure uniform application, the Program shall be developed and coordinated by the
B. C. Coast Sawmill Analysis Board, consisting of an equal number of representatives from the Union and the Industry as follows:
For the Union:
One (1) Officer representing IWA-CANADA and three (3) Officers representing the Coast Local Unions assisted by one (1) Technical Advisor in the field of Job Analysis employed by Regional Council No. 1 of the IWA.
For the Industry:
One representative of Forest Industrial Relations Limited and three (3) representatives of the B. C. Coast Sawmill Industry, assisted by one (1) Technical Advisory in the field of Job Analysis employed by Forest Industrial Relations Limited.
Section 5:	Procedures
a)	The Sawmill Rate Determination Program shall be administered jointly on a day-to-day basis by the respective Technical Advisors, subject to the approval by the B. C. Coast Sawmill Job Analysis Board.
b)	Any agreement reached in this manner regarding the disposition of a category rate clearance application received from the local Union-Local Management level, shall be final and binding on the Parties.
c)	If no agreement can be reached in this manner regarding the disposition of a category rate clearance application received from the Local Union-Local Management level, the matter shall be referred to the Board.
d)	If the Board is unable to reach agreement regarding the disposition of a category rate clearance application received from the Local Union-Local Management level, the matter shall be referred to the IWA Coast Negotiating Committee and Forest Industrial Relations Limited in accordance with Section 1 of this Article.
Page 55
Section 6:	Job Analysis Wage Curve
	Effective	Effective	Effective
Group	June 15, 1997	June 15, 1998	June 15,1999
Level	Per Hour	Per Hour	Per Hour
1	$19.85-%	$20.25	$20.65-%
2	20.00-%	20.40-%	20.81-%
3	20.18-%	20.59	21.00
4	20.34	20.74-%	21.16
5	20.52	20.93	21.35
6	20.81	21.22-%	21.65
7	21.09-%	21.51-%	21.94-%
8	21.35-%	21.78	22.21-%
9	21.65	22.08-%	22.52-%
10	22.00	22.44	22.89
11	22.40-%	22.85-%	23.31
12	22.77-%	23.23	23.69-%
13	23.15	23.61-%	24.08-%
14	23.54	24.01	24.49
15	23.90	24.38	24.87
16	24.27	24.75-%	25.25
17	24.66-%	25.16	25.66-%
18	25.05-%	25.55-%	26.06-%
19	25.40	25.91	26.43
20	25.89	26.41	26.94
21	26.35	26.87-%	27.41-%
22	26.82	27.35-%	27.90
23	27.29	27.83-%	28.39
The general wage increase provided for in Article V, Section 1(a) has been incorporated into these rates.
Section 7:	Incumbent's Rate
No incumbent's rate shall be reduced as a result of the implementation and/or continued application of the Program.
The Parties further agree that details of the Sawmill Rate Determination Program may be subject to amendment at the written request of either Party at the end of each three (3) month period from the date of this Agreement.
Page 56
SUPPLEMENT NO. 4
APPRENTICESHIP TRAINING PROGRAM
between
WELDWOOD OF CANADA LTD., 100 MILE HOUSE OPERATIONS
and
IWA CANADA,
Local 1-425, C.L.C. in co-operation with
DIRECTOR OF APPRENTICESHIP & INDUSTRIAL TRAINING PROVINCE OF BRITISH COLUMBIA
ARTICLE I - PURPOSE
The purpose of this Program is to improve the knowledge and skill of persons employed by the Company as Journeymen, Improvers, or Helpers in respect to the trades named in Article II herein.
ARTICLE II - TRADES
1.	Millwrights	- 4 Year Program
2.	Heavy Duty Mechanic	- 4 Year Program
3.	Steamfitter - Pipefitter	- 5 Year Program
4.	Machinist	- 5 Year Program
5.	Electrician	- 4 Year Program
6.	Welder	- To be established
7.	Carpenter	- 4 Year Program
8.	Forklift & Carrier Mechanic	- 4 Year Program
9.	Filers & Fitters	- Is established
Page 57
ARTICLE III - GENERAL PRINCIPLES
Section 1:	Collective Agreement
All provisions of the Collective Agreement shall be applicable to Apprentices in this Program.
Section 2:	Right to Continue
Once started in the Program, subject however to the provisions of the Collective Agreement, the Apprentice shall have the right to continue, provided he/she passes all of the prescribed tests and work is available to him/her.
Section 3:	Tests
Upon completion of each period of training in the Vocational School, an Apprentice will be required to pass a test. In the event of failure to pass such a test, the Apprentice will be given a second opportunity, but in the event of failure to pass on the occasion of the second such test, he/she shall be required to withdraw from the Program.
Section 4:	Meaning of "Year"
Wherever reference is made to a year as a Helper or Improver, it shall mean a period of not less than two hundred (200) working days; the said period to include time spent at the Vocational School.
Section 5:	Training Time Entitlement
Subject to the provisions herein, an Apprentice who is hired by the Company and who has had training in another apprenticeship plan will be given recognition of such training time.
Section 6:	On-the-Job-Training
The Company will ensure that the Apprentices will be given the necessary on-the-job practical training.
ARTICLE IV - SELECTION OF APPRENTICES
Section 1:	Seniority
When the Company requires Apprentices, it is agreed that the vacancy will be posted in the operation, and applicants selected in accordance with the provisions of Article IX of the Collective Agreement.
Page 58
Section 2:	Successful Applicants
Successful applicants will be assigned as Helpers for a three (3) month probationary period, unless the applicant's previous experience renders such assignment unnecessary.
Section 3:	Selection of Apprentice Procedures
1.	Purpose
The purpose of this agreement is to establish an equitable criteria which will give management reasonable assurance that the apprentice, upon completion of his indentureship, will become a proficient tradesman and to assure the Union and its members that the senior applicant who meets the criteria will be come an apprentice.
2.	Educational Prerequisites
The educational requirement for general trades is Grade 10 or equivalent and Grade 12 or equivalent for the electrical trades.
3.	Aptitude Testing
Applicants will be tested in accordance with the bank of tests as recommended by the Apprenticeship Branch of the Ministry of Labour. Testing procedure will be as follows:
a)	A standard set of testing instructions and procedures will be developed and authorized by the parties to this agreement and communicated to appropriate management and union personnel.
b)	The passing grade for the tests will be established by the Apprenticeship Branch of the Ministry of Labour.
c)	The passing marks for the mechanical Trades and Electrical tests are established as being a combined requirement of, firstly, seventy percent (70%) in the Mechanical Aptitude and Space Relations segments of the tests, and secondly, seventy percent (70%) in the overall final scoring of the tests.
d)	All scoring computations of percentages in each section and overall scores of the tests are recorded as being rounded off to the next highest percentage point where any fraction of percentage point exists.
e)	Tests will be conducted on plant property or near the plant by \ Management; a Union representative will be present when the tests are given and marked.
Page 59
f)	Tests recommended for the self-evaluation will be made available and may be taken by an interested employee. Failure to take such test shall not jeopardize an employee's application for any apprenticeship.
4.	Re-testing
a)	It is agreed that where an applicant has failed to pass the mechanical Aptitude and Space Relations section of either the Mechanical or Electrical tests, the employee will be allowed to bid and be re-tested one (1) additional time for each test.
b)	Results of all tests will be retained on file in the company's office. An applicant who has met the criteria and successfully passed the requisite test and is the senior for any future apprenticeship posting within a three (3) year period will be considered the successful applicant.
c)	An applicant who qualifies and has passed the Mechanical Aptitude and Space Relations section of any of the available tests, but failed the overall test, will be eligible to bid and be re-tested for any future apprenticeship posting.
d)	A master copy of the tests will be made available to IWA-CANADA on request.
5.	Maintenance, Monitoring and Distribution of Tests
a)	Sufficient copies of the tests, answer sheets and marking overlays will be maintained by Weldwood of Canada Limited, Vancouver Office and/or the Apprenticeship Branch of the Ministry of Labour of the Province of British Columbia.
b)	Test materials will be supplied on request to those operations requiring same and will be returned immediately after use.
c)	Use of the tests will be monitored by Weldwood of Canada Limited, Vancouver Office and/or the Apprenticeship Branch of the Ministry of labour of the Province of British Columbia. Such monitoring will maintain a record of applicant's tests, successful applicant's scores recorded, seniority applied and provide a follow-up of the successful applicant's progress throughout training and an appropriate post training period.
Other information as deemed necessary by the parties to this agreement will be made available as agreed.
6.	Probationary Period
The successful applicant will be given a probationary period up to ninety (90)
calendar days.
7.	Selection Review
Page 60
Where a dispute arises out of the selection of an apprentice, that cannot be resolved at the plant level, the matter will be discussed by Management and the Local Union.
8.	Trial Period
This agreement is for a twelve (12) month trial period, from the date of this agreement. Either party may terminate this agreement upon one (1) month's written notice after the completion of the eleventh (11th) month.
Section 4:	Compulsory Entrance
All present Helpers and Improvers employed by the Company must enter the Program. Helpers and Improvers who cannot qualify in the Program will be reclassified as Labourers with no reduction in rate of pay, until such time as they have an opportunity to apply their seniority to obtain a job with equal or a higher rate of pay.
Labourers will not be employed in a manner that will interfere with the application of the Program.
Section 5:	Age Limit
There will be no age limit for applicants.
ARTICLE V - TRAINING SCHEDULES
Section 1:	Assignment as Helper
All successful applicants, except Welder Apprentices (see appropriate appendix), will be registered as Apprentices and be assigned as Helpers for an eleven (11) month period, prior to attending Vocational School, unless the applicant's previous experience renders such assignment unnecessary.
A program for the aforementioned Welder Apprentices will be established by June 1st, 1968.
Section 2:	5 Year Schedule
	Rating
First Year	Helper
Second Year	Helper
Third Year	Improver
Fourth Year	Improver
Fifth Year	Improver
Section 3:	4 Year Schedule
Rating
At Operation	At School
first 11 months	last 4 weeks
first 11 months	last 4 weeks
first 11 months	last 4 weeks
first 11 months	last 4 weeks
first 11 months	last 4 weeks
At Operation	At School
Page 61
First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year
Helper	first	11	months
Helper	first	11	months
Improver	first	11	months
Improver	first	11	months
last 4 weeks last 4 weeks last 4 weeks last 4 weeks
Section 4:	3 Year Schedule
First Year Second Year Third Year
Rating At Operation At School
Helper	first	11	months
Improver	first	11	months
Improver	first	11	months
last 4 weeks last 4 weeks last 4 weeks
Section 5:	Electricians
Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 2, 3 and 4 herein, the Electrician Apprentices shall be required to take eight (8) weeks at school during each year of the Program instead of four (4), with the period in the operation reduced accordingly.
Section 6:	Passing Test
The Apprentice must successfully pass the prescribed test before promotion for Helper to Improver.
Section 7:	Journeyman Qualifications
Following completion of the period of training as required herein, and upon becoming certified, he/she shall receive certified Journeyman's rate of pay if a Journeyman's job is available. If, however, a Journeyman's job is not available he/she shall be entitled to exercise his/her plant seniority for job entitlement. If in the exercise of his/her seniority he/she is retained as an Improver, he/she shall not be required to perform a Journeyman's work or take the place of a Journeyman.
Section 8:	Vocational School Delay
If any of the periods provided for in Sections 2, 3, 4 or 5 herein are exceeded by reason of Vocational School facilities being unavailable, such period of excess shall be credited to the Apprentice in succeeding training requirements.
Page 62
ARTICLE VI - WAGE RATES
Section 1:	Rates and Increments
a)	Wage Rates for Helpers in the first term shall be that specified in the Wage Supplement.
b)	An Apprentice who passes his/her test shall receive an increment agreed to between the Company and the Union during his/her second term year as a Helper.
c)	The Wage Rate for an Improver shall be that as specified in the Wage Supplement.
d)	An Apprentice who passes a test in the fourth period of vocational training shall receive an increment agreed to between the company and the Union during his/her second term as an Improver.
e)	Persons employed as Journeymen, and who are certified as such, shall receive the certified rate for the trade, as agreed to between the Company and the Union.
Section 2:	Expenses
Fares, Lost Time Pay, and School Expenses are to be paid by the appropriate Government authorities as part of the cost of the Apprenticeship Plan, with the exception that the employer shall pay the Apprentice while attending Vocational School the difference between the subsidy granted by the appropriate Government authorities and the regular wages of the employee concerned.
Single persons shall receive their wages, less the sum paid to them by the appropriate Government authorities. Married persons shall receive their wages, less the sum paid to single persons by the appropriate Government authorities.
The parties agree to introduce, by July 1, 1998, a plan which will offset the amounts by which the federal government has reduced the apprenticeship allowances.
The plan will be based on an update of the November, 1967 FIR-IWA apprenticeship agreement and address living away from home allowance, travel allowance and/or commuting allowance.
Changes to the November, 1967 Apprenticeship Agreement will be retroactive to July 1, 1997.
Page 63
Section 3:	Delay in Testing
Where an employee incurs delay in taking one of the tests under this Program, through no fault of his/her own, the delay shall not prejudice his/her right to wage increments provided for in Section 1 herein.
ARTICLE VII - ADVISORY BOARD
Section 1:	Constitution
There shall be an Advisory Board for each trade covered by the Apprenticeship Agreement, consisting of two representatives of the Industry, two from the Union, one representing the Vocational School, and one from the Apprenticeship and Industrial Training Branch.
Section 2:	Responsibility
The Board shall be responsible for advising the Department of Labour, Apprenticeship and Industrial Training Branch, regarding the content of tests, standards of marking, and the school curriculum with respect to registered Apprentices.
The Board shall not be responsible for the actual setting or marking of tests. ARTICLE VIII - GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section 1:
Persons presently employed as Journeymen, who do not wish to become certified, shall continue to be employed as Journeymen.
Section 2:
Persons presently employed as Journeymen, who take the Tradesmen Qualification exam and fail, shall continue to be employed as Journeymen.
Section 3:
If a present Journeyman fails to pass the test for a voluntary Tradesmen's Qualification Certificate, he/she can then become indentured as an Apprentice at no reduction in rate of pay.
Section 4:
There will be a three-person committee established to process applicants who make application to be tested under the voluntary Tradesmen's Qualifications, or who become indentured under the Apprenticeship and Tradesmen's Qualification Act. The Committee will also determine what vocational training is necessary for persons
Page 64
indentured as Apprentices. Representation on the committee shall consist of the following:
a)	One Representative from the Union
b)	One Representative from the Industry.
c)	One Representative from the Apprenticeship Branch.
Vocational training will be conducted during day courses. Textbooks and study material will be made available when required.
Section 5:
The Company is prepared to pay training costs, as described below, for an employee who is required to renew his/her D.P.W. #1 or #2 Welding Ticket, or equivalent; and who is required to weld as a part of his/her employment. The Company will also pay training costs, as described below, incurred for any employee who upgrades his/her Welding Ticket at the request of the Company.
Training Costs shall be limited to:
1.	Lost wages, less any Government Assistance Programs.
2.	School Expenses.
3.	Fares.
4.	Cost of test.
ARTICLE IX - TOOLS
Section 1:
All Journeyman Tradesmen shall be required to have, and shall not qualify for the Journeyman rate unless they have, a full kit of hand tools necessary to perform the job for which they are hired, with the exception of machinery or tools which shall not be deemed to fall within the responsibility of the Journeyman.
Section 2:
The Improver shall be required to have and maintain a basic tool kit and to be in the general process of building up the necessary tools to equip him/herself for the job.
Section 3:
The Helper generally shall not be required to own tools and shall use those designated to him/her. However, in his/her own interest, he/she should commence the process of building up a tool kit.
Page 65
SUPPLEMENT NO. 5
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN:
WELDWOOD OF CANADA LIMITED, 100 MILE HOUSE OPERATIONS,
AND:
IWA CANADA, Local 1-425, C.L.C.
RE-ESTABLISHMENT OF FORCES
The Parties mutually agree that when the forces are re-established after a shutdown or lay-off, employees shall return to their previously held jobs as soon as possible, but not later than the first shift following the first weekend.
INTERPRETATION ARTICLE IX - LEAVE OF ABSENCE
Further to our discussion during negotiations in regard to Article IX - Leave of Absence -in the new Agreement, the Local Union agrees that Article IX, Section 5 as it applies to leaves of absence for educational and training purposes, should be clarified as to intent, and propose the following interpretation:
The Company will only be obliged to grant leaves of absence for educational and training purposes to employees who intend to take training that will assist the individual in obtaining skills related to the Industry.
The Parties agree that in the application of Article IX - Leave of Absence, Section 5, Compassionate Leave, the following criteria shall be used in determining the employee's eligibility.
1.	Leave of Absence without pay for extended vacation purposes shall be limited to those employees with more than two (2) years continuous service.
2.	Leave of Absence without pay for extended vacation purposes shall be granted based on one (1) month Leave of Absence for each year of continuous service to a maximum of six (6) months.
3.	Leave of Absence without pay for extended vacation purposes shall be limited to a maximum of one (1) leave in a three (3) calendar year period.
4.	Leave of Absence for extended vacation purposes will be limited to three (3) employees off on leave at any one time.
Page 66
5.	Leave of Absence for extended vacation purposes will be granted on a first come/first served basis.
Request for Leaves of Absence for personal reasons other than compassionate or educational training will be subject to the provisions of Sections 2 and 3, Article IX of the Collective Agreement.
SELECTIVE EMPLOYMENT
The Company agrees that when an employee who requires selective employment because of accident or extended illness returns to work, the Company will, within twenty-four (24) hours after the employee has returned to work, inform the Plant Committee of the employee's name and to what work he/she has been assigned.
Where a dispute arises about the suitability of work which the employee has been assigned, the Committee and the Company shall meet and attempt to resolve the matter.
CHARGE HAND
The normal duties of a charge hand are to transmit work orders to direct the activities of the group of workers in his/her charge. He/She may from time to time supervise a shift on a temporary basis, but will not assume the responsibilities of a foreman for an extended period of time.
He/She may or may not perform work within his/her area of supervision.
He/She, as a Union member, is not granted the right to hire or discharge.
None of the foregoing is intended to restrict any of the usual activities of a charge hand in this operation, but merely to clarify the fact that the Company does not give charge hands the right to hire or discharge employees.
WAGE REVISIONS
This is to confirm our Agreement that wage revisions negotiated on the Coast will apply to the Weldwood operations at Williams Lake and 100 Mile House. In applying such revisions it will be done on the basis of job comparison rather than simply job title.
Page 67
SUPPLEMENT NO. 6
FIREFIGHTING AGREEMENT
The following terms and conditions shall be applicable for the duration of the current Collective Agreement during "Company Responsibility Fires”.
It is understood that the terms of this Agreement only apply to the employees in the employ of the Company at the time the fire started. Any person hired for firefighting after the start of the fire will work under the rate and conditions as required by the B. C. Forest Service.
1.	DEFINITIONS
a)	Accidental Fire
Any fire not deliberately ignited by the Company to dispose of slash or waste, and which requires active measures to extinguish.
b)	Slash Escape Fire
Any slash fire ignited by the Company which has escaped the predetermined boundaries	and requires active measures to extinguish.
c)	Slash Control Fire
Any slash fire ignited by the Company which is contained within the predetermined boundaries, or alternatively, any slash fire which has escaped such boundaries but is not considered out of control and does not require active measures as contemplated in a) and b) above.
d)	Company Responsibility	Fire
Any fire which the Company is responsible for taking measures to extinguish pursuant to the provisions of the Forest Act.
e)	Forest Service Fire
Any fire in respect of which the B. C. Forest Service accepts responsibility for direction of measures to extinguish.
f)	Fire Fighting Rates
The rate of pay for fighting Company Responsibility Fires hereinafter set out in this Agreement.
Page 68
g)	Regular Job Rates
Rates of pay to employees for the performance of their regular jobs, as set out in the Wage Supplement of this Collective Agreement.
h)	Statutory Rates
Rates of pay established by B. C. Forest Service for fire fighting.
2.	COMPANY CONTROLLED TIMBER
a)	Notwithstanding the foregoing, when the Company directs Company employees to fight fires on Company controlled timber, or to fight fires on property adjacent to Company controlled timber which is threatening Company controlled timber, the Company will pay those employees at the fire fighting rates set out in Section 3 of this Supplement.
b)	Where the B. C. Forest Service directs the Company to provide its employees for fighting fires in circumstances other than those set out in (a) above, those employees will be paid at the statutory rate.
3.	FIRE FIGHTING RATES
a)	The basic rate shall be the base rate shown in the Collective Agreement and shall apply to all employees engaged in fighting Company Responsibility Fires except those performing one of the following fire fighting jobs:
Category	June 15/97	June 15/98	June 15/99
Crew Boss	$22.985	$23.445	$23.915
Cat Operators	22.38	22.83	23.285
Skidder Operators	23.94	24.42	24.91
Power Saw Operators	24.29	24.775	25.27
(Own Saw)			
Mechanics/Heavy Duty	Mechanic's regular job rate		
Slip-on Tank and or	22.38	22.83	23.285
Tailor Tanks with Pump Driver/Operator			
Water Tank Truck	22.615	23.065	23.525
with Pump Driver/ Operator			
Service Truck/Bus	20.615	21.025	21.445
Driver			
Pumpman	20.975	21.185	21.61
Page 69
The general wage increases provided for all employees effective June 15/97 (Article V,
Section 1) have been incorporated into these rates.
b)	Straight time rates will apply to all employees throughout the period during which the said employees are engaged in fire fighting. This shall not include cook and bunkhouse personnel, tradesmen, mechanics or other categories servicing, feeding or supplying firefighters from areas removed from the area of the fire or fires, unless the duties performed during any day in question are exclusively related to fire fighting operations.
c)	Regular job rates will apply only for the duration of the regular production shift in which the fire started.
d)	Where employees are working in job classifications during fire fighting, other than those set out herein, job rates will apply.
4.	BOARD AND LODGING (While Fighting Company Responsibility Fires)
a)	Employees who commute from home or camp are expected to "carry a lunch”. Additional meals where required will be at Company expense.
b)	Employees required to live away from their private residence will receive board and lodging at Company expense.
c)	Employees living in fly camps will receive board and lodging at Company expense.
5.	TRAVEL TIME
Travel time for employees engaged in fire fighting will be paid in accordance with the Collective Agreement.
6.	SLASH BURNING
All employees engaged in patrolling or controlling slash fires which have been set by the Company will be paid their regular job rate and overtime conditions will apply.
7.	INTERPRETATIVE NOTES
a)	When active fire fighting ceases to be necessary, rates and overtime conditions for fire patrol will revert to normal conditions provided for in the Collective Agreement.
b)	The meaning of the word "extinguish" as used in this Agreement shall include the act or process of suppression to the point when the fire requires fire patrolman only.
8.	All provisions of the Collective Agreement except as amended or modified herein shall continue to apply.
Page 70
9.	The Company and the Union are prepared to participate in joint submissions to the Provincial Government on statutory fire fighting rates.
Page 71
SUPPLEMENT NO. 7
CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTING
Section 1:
It is agreed that Plant Tradesmen who are assigned by the Company to carry out work directly related to "New" construction with tradesmen employed by an outside contractor, plant tradesmen will be paid the "outside" contractor(s) rate(s).
Section 2:
For the purpose of this Agreement "New construction" shall be defined as meaning"
a)	The construction of major new buildings and major additions to existing buildings.
b)	The addition of new or used major production machinery and related equipment not previously in existence.
Section 3:
a)	"Tradesmen" shall mean journeymen and apprentices in the following trades:
Machinist	Millwright
Steamfitter/Pipefitter	Welder
Electrician	Carpenter
b)	"Contractor's Rate" shall only mean the hourly wage paid by that contractor and not any other payment or working conditions.
c)	"Contractor's Rate" will not exceed the rates for similar trades paid by IWA construction companies.
Page 72
SUPPLEMENT NO. 8
ALTERNATE SHIFT SCHEDULING
A.	FLEXIBILITY OF HOURS OF WORK
The Parties recognize the need for flexibility of hours other than those outlined in the Hours of Work Article, for the express purpose of better utilization of manpower and capital such as:
Balancing of production Maintenance Market requirements Even flow production
Emergency or unexpected harvesting programs Continuous scheduling (e.g. Logging, Engineers,
Fire-fighter, Maintenance, Watchmen)
B.	SHIFT SCHEDULING
The Parties agree that the following shift schedules will provide the flexibility
required to meet the needs expressed above.
1.	Logging
i)	compressed schedules consisting of 10 hours per day, 4 days per week;
ii)	non-continuous schedules such as 10 days on, 4 days off.
2.	Manufacturing
i)	2 crews working 4 days, 10 hours per shift;
ii)	up to 3 crews working Monday to Saturday, 10 hours a shift not exceeding 40 hours per week;
iii)	employees working in continuous operations may be scheduled to work shifts other than (i) or (ii) above.
3.	Maintenance
i)	shifts of up to 10 hours per day, 40 hours per week. Monday to Sunday inclusive;
ii)	three shifts per week, not exceeding 12 hours per day.
4.	Other Shifts
Page 73
It is understood the parties can establish other shifts by mutual consent to meet local conditions.
C.	IMPLEMENTATION
Any variations(s) to the Hours of Work Article shall be implemented only upon completion of the following steps:
1.	The Company and the Local Union will meet to discuss proposed shift schedules within the terms of the Hours of Work Article. It is anticipated that the Local Union will make sincere attempts to assist the Company wishing to introduce alternate shift schedules. The parties must mutually agree on resolution of issues such as:
a)	Details of shift.
b)	Details of Statutory Holidays, Floating Holiday, Bereavement Leave, and Jury Duty.
c)	Maximum length of shifts for physically demanding work. Accident prevention is a factor to be taken into account in determining shift lengths.
d)	The loss of hours/employment as a direct result of the implementation of alternate shift schedules.
e)	The use of employees for supplementary production work.
2.	The Camp or Plant Committee and the crew will be actively consulted by the Parties during the process.
D.	GENERAL PRINCIPLES
When an alternate shift schedule is in effect other provisions of the Collective
Agreement will be administered on the principle that an employee will not lose or
gain any benefits over his normal five-day schedule.
1.	The Company agrees that alternate shift schedules will be not introduced where the intention is to increase the use of casual employees in place of regular employees.
2.	Different parts of an operation may be scheduled on different shifts.
3.	The principle of the forty (40) hour week is to be maintained over an averaging period.
4.	This Article shall not change existing alternate shift agreements, unless agreed to by both parties.
Page 74
5.	Earned vacations will be scheduled on the same basis as days and hours worked under the alternate shift schedule.
6.	Other Articles of the Collective agreement which provide benefits after eight (8) hours are extended by the amount the regular hours of work have been increased beyond the eight (8) hours per day.
7.	An employee's rest days may vary from week to week under an alternate shift schedule. Employees shall not be paid premium pay for changes in their rest days in these circumstances.
8.	An employee whose rest days are changed by the Company under an established alternate shift schedule shall receive rate and one-half for work performed on his rest days unless a change in rest day results from the application of seniority or has been agreed to between the employee and the Company.
9.	There shall be no premium pay paid to any employee whose rest days are changed because of the implementation of an alternate shift schedule.
Page 75
SUPPLEMENT NO.9
November 4, 1994
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
New and Evolving Work
Preamble
Weldwood of Canada Limited and IWA-Canada agree to a process which seeks to
balance the economic concerns of the member companies with the needs of their
employees to have access to New and Evolving Work within the Northern Interior
Forest Industry.
This process is intended to deal with:
1.	employment for regular company employees who are displaced by reductions in Annual Allowable Cuts or other land use decisions
2.	additional opportunities for bargaining unit employment in new work that may be created in the forest industry
3.	replacement bargaining unit employment in new or evolved work which may develop in future
Process
1.	This Letter established a process for the Company and the Local Union to discuss opportunities for having company employees perform new and evolving work within the forest industry in:
■	Value Added
■	Re-manufacturing
■	Opportunities created	through B.C. Forest Renewal
funding
2.	Companies and Local Unions are committed to working together towards making new work opportunities available to company employees. It is understood to accomplish these goals the parties must achieve:
■	efficiency and cost	effectiveness on a fair
and reasonable basis
■	quality objectives
■	safety objectives
3.	The parties recognize that they cannot reasonably anticipate all circumstances and situations which may arise so cannot prescribe comprehensive solutions in advance.
../2
Page 76
- 2 -
4.	The parties agree that early joint preparation is an important contributor to the successful implementation and administration of the New and Evolving Work Letter. To this end, the respective negotiating committees will be jointly available to clarify this agreement, and to assist parties on a case by case basis.
5.	Issues must be resolved in a timely fashion.
6.	This Letter will expire on June 30, 2000, unless specifically renewed by both parties.
Dispute Resolution Process:
In order to assist member companies and Local Unions in resolving disputes which may
arise as a result of this Letter, Weldwood of Canada Limited and IWA-Canada agree to:
a)	Establish a joint Dispute Resolution Committee comprised of three (3) representatives from management and three (3) representatives from the Union to fact find and assist the company and Local Union in reaching a solution.
b)	Management or the Local Union can request the assistant of the Dispute Resolution Committee.
c)	The Dispute Resolution Committee may utilize the services of facilitators, mediators, or whatever means in order to reach a final recommended resolution.
The parties agree to:
a)	Activate the Task Force provided for in Letters of Understanding by June 30, 1998.
b)	In the event there are unresolved issues related to the implementation of the N.E.W. process the company or local union concerned will seek the assistance of the Dispute Resolution Committee in resolving the issues.
c)	Appendix No.9 contains the agreed-upon general principles and parameters concerning New and Evolving Work, including Dispute Resolution and Task Force.
Page 77
Agreed to on behalf:
IWA-CANADA	WELDWOOD OF CANADA LIMITED
Date:
Date:
Page 78
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
Task Force
Weldwood of Canada Limited and IWA-Canada have agreed to a Task Force, comprised of three (3) representatives from management and three (3) representatives of the Union, with co-chairmen from each party. The Task Force will examine the changes and trends in the forest industry.
The terms of reference for the Task Force will be as follows, but may include other matters the parties wish to explore.
1.	To examine the change(s) taking place within the Industry and the impact on Union/Management relations.
2.	To identify any procedure, policy, agreement, work schedules, method, working environment, people utilization, and company practice which contributes to efficient, safe production performance while expanding the current workforce.
3.	To identify what changes are appropriate to improve the overall Industry's ability to harvest and manufacture the timber in a safe, economical manner.
4.	To identify opportunities for employees to learn new skills and to train company employees to operate the equipment and perform the other jobs associated with the evolving jobs within the B.C. Forest Industry.
5.	The Task Force will submit reports with recommendations to the Union and Management Negotiating Committee on a regular basis on measures that will address the changes needed within the Forest Industry.
6.	This Letter will expire on June 30, 2000, unless specifically renewed by both parties.
Agreed to on behalf:
IWA-CANADA	WELDWOOD OF CANADA LIMITED
Date:
Date:
Page 1
November 4, 1994
Weldwood of Canada Limited P.O. Box 2179 Vancouver, BC V6B 3V8
Attention: Gordon Gray Dear Sir:
RE: Agreement on New and Evolving Work
This letter is intended to clarify IWA-Canada's intent with regard to the terms and
conditions of the Letter of Understanding in 1994 negotiations on New and Evolving
Work.
During discussions on this, the Industry raised concerns that we answer as follows:
1.	It is not the intention of IWA-Canada to use this agreement to replace existing logging contractors with IWA members or crews.
2.	It is IWA-Canada's desire to have opportunities to discuss with employers the possibility of either using IWA company crews, or IWA contractors, to perform work under Forest Renewal, but it is not our intent to cause companies to purchase equipment without having the costs of such equipment considered as part of the efficiency and cost effectiveness that the IWA agrees to address under the New and Evolving Work agreement.
3.	It is IWA-Canada's intention that discussions concerning new operations under the agreement may lead to voluntary recognition and certification - it is not our intention to achieve certification first and enter into discussions later unless certification occurs as a direct result of an IWA organizing drive.
As stated earlier, this letter is to clarify our intentions concerning our agreement. It is
not intended to form part of the agreement, as is not arbitrable by either party.
Sincerely,
Harvey Arcand 4th Vice President IWA-Canada
Page 2