WELDWOOD OF CANADA LIMITED
100 MILE HOUSE OPERATIONS
and
IWA-CANADA, LOCAL 1-425
JULY 1, 1994 - JUNfE 30, 1997
Av& 2Jl 1995
ARTICLE
1ND E ft
l
II
III
IV
v
VI
VII VIII
IX
x
XI
XII
XIII
XIV
XV
XVI
XVII XVIII
XIX x x
XXI
XXII XXIII XXVI
x x v XXVI XXVII XXIII
Bargaining Agency Definition Management Union Security Wages Committee Hours ofWork Seniority Leave of Absence Vacations with Pay Safety and Health Statutory Holidays Call Time
Grievance Procedure Right of Reference Arbitration and Interpretatiqn Pay Days
General Provisions
Health and Welfare
Long Term Disability Plan
IWA-Forest Industry Pension Plan
Apprenticeship Training Program
Sawmill Rate Determination
Technological Change
Safety Equipment
Tool Insurance
Contracting Out
Duration of Agreement
2
2
2
6
9
10
14
18
21
25
26 29
29
30
31
32 32 34
37
38
39
40
40
41
42 42 42
SUPPLEMENTS
NO 1	Wage Scale A - Evaluated Categories	
	- Sawmill	44
	Wage Scale B - Non-Evalua^ed Categories	48
No 2	Journeyman Tradesman Categories	51
N o 3	Sawmill Rate Determination program	52
No 4	Apprenticeship Training Program	55
No 5	Letters of Understanding	64
No 6	Firefighting Agreement	66
No 7	Construction Contracting	70
No. 8	Alternate Shift Scheduling	71
No 9	New and Evolving Work	74

THIS AGREEMENT made and entered into asofthe 9thi day of November, 1994
BETWEEN:
WELDWOOD OF CANADA LIMITED.
100 MILE HOUSE OPERATIONS,
l
(hereinafter celled the Company of the FIRST PART)
AND:
IWA CANADA,
Local 1-425, C.L.C,
(hereinafter celled the Union of the SECOND PART)
1.	Whereas it is the intent and purpose of the Parties hereto that this Agreement will promote and improve industrial and economic relationships between the Employees and the Company, and to set forth herein the basic Agreement covering rates of pay, hours of work, and conditions of employment to be observed between the Parties hereto;
2.	And Whereas the Company accepts responsibility tjc observe each and all provisions and conditions of this Agreement and to promote orderly end peaceful relations with the Employees;
3.	And Whereas the Union accepts responsibility to observe each and all provisions end
conditions of this Agreement and to promote orderly and peaceful relations with the company.	1
NOW THEREFORE, the Parties hereto mutually agree S|$ follows;
ARTICLE I - BARGAINING AGENCY
Section 1:
The Company shell recognize and bargain with the duly elected bargaining rcpmentathro on
behalf of its employees properly and duly certified under tfje appropriate regulations in effect from
time to time.
Section 2;
The bargaining authority of the Union shall not be, impaired during the term of the Agreement The only certification that the Company will recogrozduring the term of this Agreement is that of the Union unless ordered by due process of laW to recognize some other bargaining authority
Section 3:
The Company and the Union shell meet at such tifne and place as may be mutually agreed upon for the purpose of discussing wages and working conditions end adjusting any matters within the confines of the Agreement which come within the scope of the Collective Bargaining between the Employees and the Company.
ARTICLE n-DEFINITION
The Term “Employee" as used and for the purpose of this Agreement shall include all persons employed by the company on whose behalf the IWA-CANADA, Local 1*425, have been certified as bargaining agents, except end excluding foremen and others having authority to hire and fire, office workers, supervisory officials end salesmen.
ARTICLE III - MANAGEMENT
Section L
The management of the operation and the direction and promotion of the Employees are vested exclusively in the Management; provided, however, that this shell not be used for the purpose of discrimination against employees.
Section!;
The Company shall have the right to select its employees and discipline or discharge them for proper cause.
ARTICLE IV - UNION SECURITY Section 1;
The Company shall co-operate with the Union in obtaining and retaining es members, the employees es defined in this Agreement, and to this end shall present to new employees and to all Supervisors and Foremen the Policy herein expressed.
SwtfrM;
AU employees who entered the employment ofthfr Company on or after the 15th of June, 1970, and all new employees, shall within thirty (30) calendar days after the execution of this Agreement, or thirty (30) calender days after entering employment, whichever date last occurs, become members of the Union and maintain membership therein throughout the term of this Agreement, es a condition of continued employment.
Section 3:
Any employee who is a member in good standing, or is reinstated as a member of the Union, shell, as a condition of continued employment, maintain such membership in good standing throughout the term of this Agreement.
Section 4:
Any employee who fails to maintain his/her membership injthe Union as prescribed herein by reason of refusal to pay dues and assessments shall be discharged forthwith after seven (7) days written notice to the Company of the said employee’s refuel to maintain his/her membership
Section 5:
a)	No employee shall be subject to any penalties agairjst his/her application for membership or reinstatement, except as may be provided for in the IWANational Constitution, and in accordance with the Bylaws ofLocal 1-425, es ofjune 1981.
b)	Any employee who applies to join the Union pursuant to the provisions herein end whose application is rejected by the Union, shall not be subject to discharge from employment
Stctto" <;
The Company shall require all new employees at the time df hiring to execute the following assignment of wages in duplicate on forms supplied by the Union. The forms shall be substantially as follows:
TWA-CANADA CHECKj-OFF
; Starting Date . ..19
Name of Employer	Name of Employee
: Address Postal Code
Phone
(Please Print)
i Social Insurance
Operation	; Number
Are you a Member of the IWA?
In what IWA operation were you last employed?
Local Union
i HEREBY AUTHORIZE AND INSTRUCT You to pEDUCT from MY Wages AND
REMIT TO LOCAL 1-___________________THE FOLLOWING IN PAYMENT OF THE
AMOUNT SET OUT BELOW:
1.	Union Initiation Fees in the amount of $
2.	Union Back Dues in the amount ofS
3.	Union Dues S	per month, commencing	19
4.	Union Assessments in the amount and at the time Stated in notice received by you from the Local Union designated above
Clock No.
APPLICATION FOR MEMBERSHIP
I	hereby request and accept membership in the IWA-CANADA, Local No. 1-,_____and
agree to abide by the constitution and bylaws of the organization. In case of misstatement of
qualfffgatlbmrffrrmgmtterstViir ragree to forfeit-all rights, jjrivileges and monies paid.
Signature of Applicant-Employee
This assignment shall become effective immediately in the (case of employees already members of the Union, and shall become effective thirty (30) calendar days from the date ofexecution in the case of employees not previously members of the Union. Until the said assignment is revoked by the employee, the Company shall remit the dues deducted pursuant to such assignment to the Local Union named therein no later than the 15th of the m()nth following the month in which the deduction was made from the employee, together with a written statement of names of the employees for whom the deductions were made and the amount of each deduction. All check-off forms shall be forwarded to the Local Union within fifteen!(15) days of biting.
Section 7:
The Company shall furnish the Union once every month with a list setting out the names of employees absent for fourteen (14) days or longer, due to Illness or injury
Section 8;
The Company shall furnish the Union with the Social Security Number of each employee on its payroll on the first occasion when dues are forwarded to tfje Union after the execution of this Agreement or after the employee enters the employment of the Company, whichever date last occurs.
Section 9:
The Parties agree that the Company shall deduct from an employee’s wages and shall remit to the appropriate employee benefit plan, the employee's! contribution which is specified in any benefit plan agreed to by the parties to the Coast Master Agreement.
ARTICLE V-WAGES
a)	The Parties hereby agree that wages of allj hourly rated employees covered by the
Agreement shall be increased by three perpent (3%) per hour effective June IS, 1994; a further three percent (3%) effective June |5,1995; and by two percent (2%) effective June IS, 1996.
b)	The Parties agree that the minimum rate in the mill for common labour shall be:
i)	$18,715 per hour effective June IS. 1994.
ii)	$19,275 per hour effective June IS, 1995.
iii)	$19.66 per hour effective June 15,1996.
c)	Cash Payment - A one thousand dollar (Sjl,000.00) cash payment will be paid, within 14 days of notice of ratification of the 1994 J 1997 Memorandum of Agreement to all regular full-time employees, and designated part-lime employees who have worked a minimum of 350 hours in the 12-month period preceding the date of notice of ratification and who are actively employed at the date of signing tills Memorandum.
A five hundred dollar ($500.00) cash payment will be paid June 15,1995 to all regular full-time employees and designated part-time employees who have worked a minimum of 350 hours in the preceding 12-month period.
A cash payment may be paid on June 15,1996 to all regular full-time employees and designated part-time employees who have worked a minimum of3S0 hours in the preceding 12-month period, subject to th^ following scale:
Based on the Price Waterhouse annual analysis of the B.C. Forest Industry which will be published in The Forest Industry in British Columbia in May of 1996, ifthe return on capital employed for the Interior lumber Rector in 1995 is equal to or greater than 20.0 percent, a cash payment of five hundred dollars ($500.00) will be paid; if equal to or greater than 16.1 percent, a cash payment of four hundred dollars ($400.00) will be paid: if equal to or greater than 12.2 percent, a, cash payment of three hundred dollars ($300.00) will be paid; if equal to or greater than 9>0 percent, a cash payment of two hundred dollars ($200.00) will be paid; if equal tp or greater than 6.75 percent, a cash payment of one hundred dollars ($100.00) will be paid.
d)	Employees who have left the employ of the Company must apply within thirty (30) days of ratification to be eligible for retroactive pay flowing from this Agreement
e)	Coverall service will be made available to Tradesmen and Apprentices per Supplement #3 plus Oilers, Grindermen, End Sprayers and Panel Sjjrayers. Cost of providing this service will be borne by the employer. When coverall services requested by the employee, the service must be used. Failure to wear the coveralls after they have been provided will result in permanent loss of this privilege.
f)	The Company will pay the cost of training or retraiijung for Industrial First Aid Certificates including lost time wages to designated duty First Attendants
g)	Grades - Sawmill - Planer
i)	Grading tickets shall be permanent and valid certificates.
ii)	All graders holding grading tickets Sjhall attend upgrading classes as required.
iii)	Graders who are required to attend bpgrading classes (rule changes) shall receive their regular straight time jop rate for time spent in attending said classes
All Certified Lumber Graders shall ileeive a premium of twenty-five cents (25(f) per hour for a Grading Certificate provided that these premiums shall be paid only when actually engaged as Lumber Graders, effective September 1,1975.
Effective June 15,1994, a fifteen cents (150) premium for employees holding current and valid lumber grading certificates, but not engaged as lumber graders, so that the total ticket premium will be fifteen cents (15(f) per hour. There shall be no stacking or pyramiding ofpremiums.
Section 2:
iv)
For convenience of reference only, a Wage Scale is published as Supplement No. I and shall be effective, subject to corrections of any errors or omissions.as of June 15,1994, and may, subject to the consent of both Parties, be revised once annually.
Section 3; First Aid Attendants
3 Designated First Aid attendants shall receive their job rate of pay plus the Ticket Premium Kate.
All other employees holding valid First AidiTicketS■shall receive a premium of five cents (5 cents) per hour over and above their job rate There shall be no stacking or pyramiding ofpremiums.
b) Where a Company is paying a bonus or pre(niums(s) greater than set out above, it shall keep such policy in effect,
Section & Shift Differential
The first shift is the recognized day shift. Hours wprked outride the recognized day shift shall be regarded as the second and third shifts, A shift differential of thirty-one cents (31 cents) per hour shall be paid for second and third shifts. A day shift employee working in excess of his/her regular shift shall be paid rate and one half withou^1 the differential. Any employee on the second and third shift working in excess of his/her regular shift shall receive rate and one half. For the purpose ofthe last sentence, rate shall be rate plusjthirty-one cents (31 cents). Persons employed other than on regular shifts shall be paid the thirty-be cents (31 cents) shift differential for ah hours worked outside the recognized day shift.
Sates.5; Joh and Equipment Change;
a)	The Company will give advance notice ofjob and equipment changes to the Local Union.
b)	i) New jobs shall be posted ir^ accordance with Article VIII, Section 4.
ii) Bid employee on significantly revised jobs will remain on the revised job, competency considered. Up-graded basic rate jobs will be posted in
accordance with Article VW. Section 4,
c)	An employee shall receive the rate of his/her previously held job until such time as a new rate is negotiated.
d)	i) The applicant shall have th£ right to revert to his/her original job within
thirty (30) working days providing his/her old job still exists.
ii)	Management shall have thp right to postpone the reversion to petit the
training ofa replacement.
e)	When a permanent rate is agreed upon, the employee shall receive the difference between the rate and his/her interim rate from the date he/she started the new or revised job

f)	Rate negotiations shall be guided by the following principles:
i)	Job analysis to be based on all factors including skill, knowledge, responsibility and job conditions
ii)	Failing satisfaction at the local levfel, the Union would have the right of referral to a Regional Authority.
g)	In the event that job conditions change due to the.instaliation of new machinery or revision of work practices or new classifications, |he Parties shall meet after new machinery is operating properly or the new work brattices have proven practical, to determine the designation and wage rate to be pasp to the employee(s) affected.
h)	In the event that job conditions change in the Sawjmill or Planermill Sections as set out in Section (a) above, wage rates shall be determined ;BS set out in the Sawmill Rate Determination Program.
ARTICLE VI - COMMITTEE Section 1:
For the purpose of this Agreement, when the word “Comibittee” is used, it shall mean Shop, Camp, or Mill Committee, members of which are appointed by the Union.
Section 2i
The Committee shall consist of not less than four (4) and riot more than seven (7) employees who are members ofthe Union, and, whenever possible, they shall be selected on a departmental basis.
Section 3;
The Union, shall within sixty (60) days from the date of ihijj Agreement, notify the Company in writing ofthe members on the Committee. The Union ordommittee shall inform the Company in writing when any member change takes place on the Comnjuttee. No member ofthe Committee shall be recognized by the Company unless the above procedure is tied out.
The provisions of Sections 1,2 and 3 shall not apply in reference to: a) Article XI: Safety Committee - where the members are designated according |'o the provisions ofthe Workers’
Compensation Act, and, (b) under Article XV: Joint Committee.
ARTICLE Vn - HOURS OF WORK Section It
a)	The regular hours of work shall be eight (8)ihours per day and forty (40) hours per week, with rate and one halffbr any hours worked in excess of eight (8) in any one day and forty (40) in any one week. All production employees shall be paid rate and one half for Saturday and/or Sunday, regardless of thenjumber of hours work& during the week except that:
b)	Double straight time rates shell he paid for the following:
i)	Hours worked in excess of ^teven (11) hours per day.
ii)	Hour, worked on Sunday by employees who have worked five (5) shifts during the preceding six (6) days.
iii)	For the purposes of(b) herein a Statutory Holiday shell be considered a shift worked.
iv)	Item (ii) above shell not apply to employees who work Sunday es a regularly scheduled day.
Stfthn ft CwunIWork
a)	The term “Casual Work" es used in this Agreement shell apply only to work performed on Saturday and/or Sunday by either laid-off regular employees or other persons hereinafter referred to es "Casual Employees".
b)	Casual work on production shall be paid for at one and one halftimes job rate.
c)	Casual work on maintenance, repair and preparatory work shall he paid for at straight time job rates.
d)	Regular laid-off employees shall not be classified as Casual Employees, and shall have preference for available work over the said Causal Employees.
e)	Weekend cleanup work performed by casual employees, laid-offregular employees and part-time employees will be paid for at straight time job rate except es provided in (0 herein.
f)	A laid-off regular production employee shall be considered a production employee during the week he/she is laid off and will be paid rate and one half for any work he/she performs on either Saturday or Sunday except es provided in Section I, subsection(b) above.
Page 10
g)	The Company agrees to keep a separate seniority list of casual employees for each division who have worked et least ten (10) working days exclusively for recall purposes and, subject to Clause(d), further agrees to recall casual Employees in accordance with their seniority as set forth in this list.
Section 3:
a)	Those employees who, of necessity, regularly work qn Saturday and Sunday shall take two (2) other days of the week off to be mutually agreed between the employees and the Company. In such event, Saturday and Sunday shall be considered working days and overtime rates shall not apply on Saturday Howevebhere employees shall be paid rate and one half for work performed on Sunday. Overtime rates shall apply when the regular daily or weekly work limit has been executed 'Overtime rates shall apply on the rest days of these employees, if worked, unless a changes in r«|st days has been agreed upon between the employee and the Company.
b)	Par the purpose of this Section only, employees shal be Engineers. Firemen, Operating Millwrights, Maintenance Workers and Watchmen.
Section 4:
a)	Maintenance, Repair and Construction employees c apbe employed on a Tuesday to Saturday work week for which they shall he paid strjjijht time for Saturday work In such event, Sunday and Monday shall be recognized as thiif rest days and any work performed on their rest days shall be paid for et rate and one-half The rest day, Monday, may be changed by mutual consent between the employee aijld the Company
In such event, work performed on Monday shall be jjiaid for at straight time If the employee works on Monday at the request of the Company, the rate of pay will be rate and one half. However, if the employee requests a temporary change from his/her rest day on Monday, work performed on Monday shall be pa/d for et straight time
b)	If a Statutory Holiday occurs an the employee’s regular day off, he/she shall be entitled to take his/her next regular work day off without pay.
Section S:	Alternate Shift Scheduling
a)	Management, Plant or Camp Committees and the Ldcal Union shall have the right under the terms of the Collective Agreement to agree upon and implement other schedules which, except for production shifts in manufacturing!operations, may include Sundays, without overtime penalty, provided the principle oftjhe forty (40) hour week is maintained over an averaging period. Rate and one-half shall bi’paid for hours worked on Sunday
b)	Any variation(s) to the preceding Sections denoting [normal hours of work shall be implemented only upon completion of the following jsteps
p»t«n
i)	Negotiated agreement between the Local Union and Local Management
ii)	Majority approval by the employees involved in the proposed variations
c) When alternative shift schedules have beep implemented in accordance with a) and b) above, the following overtime provisions will apply:
A. Rate and one-half shell be paid for ^ie following:
i)	The first three (3) hours worked in a day in excess of the normal daily hours of the established schedule.
ii)	Hours worked in excess of forty (40) hours per week or fatty (40) hours average whei^ there is an averaging period.
iii)	All hours worked op en employee’s scheduled rest day, unless a change in rest day has been agreed to between the employee and the Company.
iv)	All hours worked on Sunday except those excluded in the casual section.
B)	Double straight-time rates shall he paid for the following:
i)	All hours worked in excess of a(i) above.
ii)	All hours worked on a Sunday when Sunday is also an employee’s scheduled rest dayJifthe employee has worked forty (40) straight-time hours'in the preceding six (6) days, unless a change in rest day has been agreed to between the employee and the Company.
C)	Supplement No. 8 ‘Alternate Shif) Scheduling, contains the agreed upon general principles and parameters for the establishment, implementation or discontinuance of alternate shift scheduler.
Section 6:	,
If three (3) hours or less in the Sawmill Division and/or one (1) hour or less in the Plywood Division are necessary after midnight Friday or afljer midnight preceding a Statutory Holiday to complete a shift which commenced work on Fridajy &moon or the afternoon preceding" find Statutory Holiday, time worked after midnight Friday or after midnight preceding the Statutory
Holiday to complete the shift shell be paid straight time rates.
Fi|i )2
Section 7:
The work shell commence with the Starting time of the firsfl shift Monday, end shall end at the
completion of the lest shift which commences on the following Friday.
Section 8:	j
a)	The Company shall have the right to operate the plint or any part thereof on a three (3) shift basis and all employees working under this arrangement shall receive eight (8) hours pay upon completion of the full hours established a^ their regular shift Details of shifts shall be varied et the Company's option.
b)	Section (a) above shell only apply to those employees actually working on a three (3) shift basis
Section 9:
The foregoing provision of this Article shell not be construed as guaranteeing to any employee any number of hours of work per day or per week.
Section 10:
All employees in manufacturing plants shall be entitled to uj/o (2) ten-minute (10) rest periods during each regular shift; provided always that the Company shall have the right to use relief employees in implementing this provision.
Section 11:
Where maintenance, repair end construction employees are required to work two (2) hours or more overtime beyond their normal shift, the Company shal| provide a hot meal to be consumed by the employees on Company time before beginning the overtime work The hot meal will be made available in a local restaurant
12r;tion
The Company agrees to discontinue the use of time clocks, jiubject to the following:
1.	The general use of clocks be discontinued for a trial period of three (3) months.
2	New employees are to punch the clock for the first three (3) months of employment
3. Casual employees are to punch the clock.
4 Employees who report late must punch the clock and have the card initialed by their foreman
Pip 13
5.	Employees may make arrangements with employees on the same jobs on their following shift to relieve them a maximum of ten (I 0) nfiinutes prior to their regular quitting time providing they have permission ofboth forertjan involved.
6.	Employees may enter or leave their place of work by the North Entrance only
7.	Employees who work overtime must punch.
8.	Employees who have been absent and retunVto work must report to their department foreman at the commencement of the shift.
9.	Employees who abuse the system shall be required to punch the clock for a three (3) month period
10.	Employees abusing the honour system will still be subject to Article III, Section 2 of the Collective Agreement.
ARTICLE Vin - SENIORITY
Section 1; Principle of Seniority
The principle of seniority, competency considered, Shall be recognized by the Company and the Union; the application of seniority being determined by Plant or Division.
Section 2; Divisions and Departments
This Agreement covers all operations of the Company which shall be organized for seniority purposes as follows:
1. Sawmill Division
Section3t Seniority Lists
The Company shall supply to the bargaining agent.once every three (3) months a complete seniority list which seniority list shall be kept up to date particularly in the event of a reduction of forces.
Divisional Seniority Lists:
a)	Sawmill Division
P»|*14
Section 4:	Promotions or Job Qneningg
l
a)	Promotions shall be bared on seniority, competency considered. Promotion into designated “Key Jobs" is subject to the provisionslof the Job Training Plan.
b)	Job openings (except those on base rate) shall be posted for a minimum oftwenty-four (24) hours
Sections; Lay-offs o r Reduction of Forces
a)	In the event of a reduction of forces, the last person hired shall be the first released, subject to the provisions of Sections 1 and 8 of thi(f Article.
b)	Where a reduction of forces is caused by emergency conditions, the application of seniority as agreed to under Sub-section 5 (a) maylbe postponed for such periods as may be necessary, not exceeding three (3) working dayk If the Company decider to exercise its rights under this provision, it shall notify the co ojmittee as soon as possible.
c)	During a reduction of forces where an employee’s [eniority is such that he/she will not be able to keep his/her regular job he/she may elect to. apply his/her seniority to obtain a job paying a higher rate, subject to the competency of khe person involved and the provisions of Section 1. Details to be worked out between thb Local Union and the Company
During a reduction offerees where an employee’s seniority is such that he/she will not be able to keep his/her regular job he/she may elect wjtether or not to apply his/her seniority to obtain a lower paid job or a job paying the samejrate or accept a layoff until his/her regular job becomes available, provided however:
1. If during the layoff period he employee wished to return to work and so notified the Companii,he/she shall be called back to work as soon as his/her seniority ent tied him to ajob.
I
2 The application of this provision shall not result in the employee, in the exercise of his/her rights!, bumping an employee with less seniority.
Section 6i Seniority Retention
Seniority during lay-off shall be retained on the following basis
a)	Employees with less than one (1) year's service shall retain their seniority for a period of eight (8) months.
P»g< 15
b)	Employees with one (1) or more year’s service shell retain their seniority for one (1) year, plus one (1) additional month for each year's service up to en additional six (6) months period.
c)	A laid-off employee’s seniority retention is Reinstated on the completion of one day’s work.
Section 7:	Rehiring or Re-establishing of Forces
a)	In case of re-establishment of forces, "demoted" employees shell have first claim on their previously held jobs and in such event jobs shall'not be posted.
b)	When rehiring_after a reduction offerees. Employees shall be notified by telegram, or registered letter, if residing within 100 milesf' radius of 100 Mile House, and they shall be rehired in order of their Plant Seniority^ provided that they repjy to the telegram (or letter) in the affirmative within ninety-six (96) hoijrs and appear not later than seven (7) days from the time the telegram or letter was sent out However, employees resident in the Province of Alberta or the Yukon Territory shall be given one (1) additional day’s time for reporting end any employees resident in any other Canadian Province or the United States shell receive two (2) additional day’s time for reporting. All employees shell, upon returning to employment within the required number of days of being notified by the company, retain all seniority rights. It shallie the employees’ responsibility to keep the company informed of their addresses during lay-off
Section 8:	Probation
a)	Notwithstanding anything to the contrary Contained in this Agreement, all employees are hired on probation. The probationary peripd shall continue for thirty (30) working days, during which time such employees are to be considered temporary workers only, and during this same period no seniority rightsishall be recognized. Upon completion of thirty (30) working days, such employees shall be regarded es regular employees and shall be entitled to seniority dating from the day oij which they entered the Company’s employ; provided however, that the probationary period of thirty (30) working days shall only be cumulative within the three (3) calendar nRonths following the date of entering employment.
b)	Clause (a) of this section does not apply to employees who move from one operation of a Company to another operation of the same Company within thirty (30) days for those laid-off, and within ninety (90) days for those terminated as a result ofpermanent closure
c)	It is agreed that probationaiy employees will tad preference over Casual employees for
any work performed during the normal work weejk, subject to competency.
d)	It is further agreed that in the application ofc) abbve, probationary employees will be called in for work in accordance with their hiring date, unless such call-in is beyond the control of the employer, end is subject to the employee being competent to perform the work. This obligation does not apply where theejnployee cannot be readily contacted or where the employee has worked one shift in the 2$ hour period.
Section 9:	Reinstatement
In any case where an employee has been transferred by th4 Company to a Supervisory position and et a later date ceases to be a Supervisory worker end the Company desires to retain his/her services, reinstatement can be made within the bargainirg limit provided however, that Supervisory workers reinstated in the bargaining unit musji return to the job held at the time of their promotion to a Supervisory position.	1
Becaiom tOr t i m e and Temporary Employees
a)	Weekend workers and others not desirous or available for regular employment shall be regarded es casual employees, and shall not accme|any seniority.
b)	Workers who are hired for temporary employmentJwd signify that they are available and who are in feet available for permanent employment shall be considered as reliefworkers and as soon es they have worked thirty (30) days wlithin the three (3) calendar months period following their date ofhiring. they shall acctjue seniority from their date ofhiring.
Hacfarci II:
It is agreed that companies signatory to this agreement shall give preference in hiring, competency considered, on the following basis, in the following order
1,
2
3.
4
previous employees of the Division who have both previous seniority end en application on file
previous employees of the company who have previous company seniority and are seeking employment as a result of operational closures or crpw reductions in other operations of thecompany,
laid off employees of other forest industry companie $ in the communities, who are seeking employment as a result of operational closures or ertw reduction in excess of ninety (90) days
laid off forest industry IWA members of Local 1-424 and 1-425 who are seeking employment as a result of operational closures or cr^iw reduction in excess of ninety (90) days
P»gf 17
5. persons who qualify for preference, and wiqh to exercise their rights to preference, must make application within six months of the dperational closure or the ninety day layoff period.
Applications will be kept on tile as active for 60 dtyS. After which time, applications must be renewed by the person seeking employment, or no preference shell be considered
[CLEIX -LEAVE OF ABSENCE ,
Section!;	Injury or Dlness
The Company will grant leave of absence to employees suffering injury or illness for the term of this Agreement, subject to a medical certificate if requested by the Company. The employee shell have a reasonable period of time to present such njedical certificate. The employee shall report or cause to have repotted the injury or illness which ijequires his/her absence to the company es soon as may be reasonably possible.
Section 2;	Written Permission
Any employee desiring leave of absence most obtqin permission in writing from the Company for such leave.
SectionJi	Union Business
a)	The Company shell grant leave of absencejto employees who are appointed or elected to Union Office for a period up to and" including two (2) years. Further leave of absence may be granted by mutual consent. Any employee who obtains such leave ofabsence shell return to the Company within thirty (30) calendar days after completion of his/her term of employment with the Union.
b)	The Company shell grant leave of absencej to employees who are elected es representatives to attend Union Conventions or as members of the negotiating committee of the IWA-CANADA in order that they tnay carry out their duties on behalf ofthe Union.
c)	Tn order for the Company to replace suchjemployeewith a competent substitute before such employee receives leave of absence as set forth in Clauses (a) and (b) above, the Company shall be given due notice in writing and, in the case of(a), twenty (20) calendar days notice, and in the case of(b), five (5) calendar days notice shall be sufficient for ail purposes.
Section 4;
Any leave of absence granted to an employee by the Combany for a period of longer than fourteen (14) days, shall be subject to discussion and approval betvjeen the Company and the Union.
The Company will grant leave of absence up to a maximum of six (6) months without pay to employees for compassionate reasons or for educational o<‘ training or extended vacation purposes, conditional on the following terms:
That the employee apply at least one (I) month in advance unless the grounds for such application could not reasonably be foreseen.
That the employee shall disclose the grounds for sdch application.
That the Company shall grant such leave where a bbna fide reason is advanced by the applicant, or may postpone leave for educational oiitrairuhg purposes where a suitable replacement is not available.	^
That the Company shall be required to notify the S^iop Committee of its decision in respect of any application for leave under this section.
It is agreed that employees requesting leave of absent
months of July and Augtrsf, shaff orrfy'be granted si ' and that a record be kept for the purpose of rotating
ice for extended vacations during the ;i ch leave once every three (3) years, such leaves.
That applications for extended vacations from Janu kry st to June 30th and September 1st to December 3 1st shall be in accordance with the pjinciple established in Article X, Section 2(b) of the Collective Agreement.
That employees making application for leave of absence for “extended vacations" shall apply at least one (1) month in advance
h)	“All earned vacations" must be taken in conjunctio with an “extended vacation leave"
i)	The Company will grant a reasonable period of extended maternity leave without pay to female employees where there is a valid reason.
Section 6: Bereavement Leave
3	When a death occurs to a member of regular full-tirfic employee’s immediate family, the employee will be granted an appropriate leave of absence for which he/she shall be compensated at his/her regular straight time hourly late of pay for his/her regular work schedule for a maximum of three (3) days.
is
b)	Piece workers who are entitled to bereavement leave shall he compensated in accordance with the principles established in Article XJI, Section 2 (B) of this Agreement.
c)	Members ofthe employee’s immediate famjly are defined as the employee’s spouse, mother, father, brothers, sisters, sons, daughters, mother-in-law, father-in-law, step-parents, grandparents, grandparents-in-law, grandchildren, sons-in-law. daughters-in-law, end step children.
d)	Compensable hours under the terms of this section will be counted es hours worked for the purpose of qualifying for vacations ant] for recognized paid holidays, hut will not be counted as hours worked for the purpose pf computing overtime.
Section 7; Jury Duty
a)	Any regular full-time employee who is required to perform Jury Duty, Coroner's Jury, Crown Witness, or Coroner’s Witness on ^ day on which they would normally have worked, will be reimbursed by the Company for the difference between the pay received for Jury Duty and their regular straight tittle hourly rate of pay for their regularly scheduled hours of work. It is understood that such reimbursement shall not be for hours in excess of eight (8) per day or forty (40)|per week less Statutory pay received fQr-Jury Duty. The employee will be required to fijmish proof of Jury Service and Jury Duty pay received.
b)	Any piece iwjf/rerwho is required to perform Jury Duty shall be compensated for the difference between Statutory pay received for Jury Duty and his/her job rate in accordance with the principle established in Article Xfl, Section 2 (b) of this Agreement.
c)	Hours paid for July Duty will be counted ps hours worked for the purpose of qualifying for vacations end for recognized paid holidays, hut will not he counted es hours worked for the purpose of computing overtime.
Section 8: P u b I i c Office
a)	The Company will grant leave of absence for campaign purposes to candidates for Federal, Provincial or Municipal elective public office for periods up to and including eight (8) weeks, provided the Company is given due notice in writing of twenty (20) calendar days, unless the need for such applicationjCOuld not reasonably he foreseen.
b)	Employees elected or appointed to Federal, Provincial or Municipal office shall be granted a$ much leave as is necessary during the term of such office. Municipal office holders, where the term of public office is served intermittently, shall give the Company reasonable notice for absences from work for condutjting Municipal business.
c)	The employee who obtains this leave of absence shall return to his/her Company within thirty (30) calendar days after completion of public office.
P*t< 20
ARTICLE X -VACATIONS WITH PAY
With respect to annual vacations and vacation pay the following provisions will apply.
Section I:	One to Two Years Service
The annual vacation for employees with one (I) to two (2jl years service covered by this
Agreement shell be two (2) weeks, and the pay therefor sljall be based upon five percent (5%) of
the total wages or salary earned by the employee during tl|e period of entitlement, or eighty (80)
hours at the hourly rate of the employees’ regular job, whichever is greater
Section 2:	Two to Seven Years Service
a)	The annual vacation for employees with two (2) to jeven (7) years service covered by this Agreement shall he three (3) weeks, and the pay therefor shall be based upon seven percent (7%) of the total wages or salary earned by the employee during the period of entitlement, or one hundred and twenty (120) hour) at the hourly rate of the employee’s regular job, whichever is greater.
b)	The additional one (I) week vacation provided for ijn this Section may be taken when convenient for the Company but does not have to bji consecutive with the vacation period provided for in Section 1 herein.
Section 3:	§gyggjo_FjfteenJ£eai£_2gj2i££
a)	The annual vacation for employees with seven (7) tej fifteen (IS) years service covered by Ibis Agreement shall be four (4) weeks, end the pay jtoerefor shell be based upon nine percent (9%) of the total wages or salary earned by (he employee during the period of entitlement, or one hundred and sixty (160) hours atjthe hourly rate of the employee’s regular job, whichever is greeter
b)	The additional one (I) week vacation provided for itvthis Section may be taken when convenient for the company but does not have to be consecutive with the vacation periods provided for in Sections 1 and 2 herein
Section 4:	Fifteen to Twentv-Four Yews Service
a)	The annual vacation for employees with fifteen (IS) t|> twenty-four (24) years service covered by this Agreement shall he five (5) weeks, anjd the pay therefor shall be based upon eleven percent (11%) of the total wages or salajy earned by the employee during the period ofentitlement. or two hundred (200) hours at (he hourly rate of the employee’s regular job, whichever is greeter
b)	Subject to the provisions of Section 8 hereip, the additional one (I) week vacation provided for in this Section may be taken consecutively with the vacation periods provided for in Sections 1,2 or 3.
SwttQWJi	Twentv-Four to Thirty Years Service
a)	The annual vacation for employees with tvlen tv-four (24) to thirty. (30) years service covered by this Agreement shall be six (6) Weeks, and the pay therefor shall be bared upon thirteen percent (13%) of the total wages (jif salary earned by the employee during the period of entitlement, or two hundred and ‘forty (240) hours at the hourly rate of the employee’s regular job, whichever is greater.
b)	Subject to the provisions of Section 8 her^n, the additional one (1) week vacation
provided for in this Section may be taken fconsecutively with the vacations periods provided in Sections 1,2, 3 or 4	'
Section 6:	Thirty Years Service
a)	The annual vacation for employees with tfurty (30) years service covered by this Agreement shall be seven (7) weeks, and the pay therefor shall be based upon fifteen percent (15%) of the total wages or salary earned by the employee during the period of entitlement, or two hundred and eighty (280) hours at the hourly rate of the employee’s regular job. whichever is greater.
b)	Subject to the provisions of Section 8 herein, the additional one (1) week vacation provided for in this Section may be takeri consecutively with the vacation periods provided for in Section I. 2, 3, 4 or 5.
Section 7;	Vacation Pay on Termination
An employee whose employment is terminated shall receive vacation pay at the appropriate
percentage of the wages or salary earned duringthe period of entitlement in accordance with the
employ& years of service.
jwtian»;	Vacatjon Time
a)	Vacations for employees shall be taken at such time as mutually agreed upon by the Shop Committee and the Company when quantity and regularity of production shall not be impaired.
b)	All earned vacations must be taken.
Section 9- Payment of Vocation P»v
4) The calculation and comparison of the vacation pay amounts developed by the percentage of gross wages method and the hours times the regular job rate method will be completed and the greater amount paid to the employee within fourteen (14) days of the common vacation pay cut-off date or the employee’s annivej'saiy date The company’s present cut-off or anniversary date method shall be continued unless a change is agreed upon between the Company and the Local Union.
b)	For the purposes of this Article, the rate of the employee’s regular job will be the rate of the employee’s regular job at the date of the common vacation cut-off date or the employee’s anniversary date, as the case may be.
c)	In the case of a pieceworker, the rate of the employe's regular job will be determined by
computing the employee’s hourly average earnings jfo- the days actually worked during the pay period immediately preceding the common vaciltbn cur-off date or the employee’s anniversary date, as the case may be.	i
d)	On the date when an employee completes one (I), tjwo (2), seven (7), fifteen (15), twenty-four (24) or thirty (30) years service and where there is a common cut-off date for all employees in the operation, the employee willreieve.
i) In the case of one (1) year, one perctnt (1%) of his/her gross earnings
between the date ofemployment anc| the date of the last common cut-off due.
ii) In the case of two (2), seven (7), fifteen (15), twenty-four (24) or thirty
(30) years, two percent (2%) of his/l|ier gross earnings between the date of his/her last anniversary date and the (late of the last common cut-off date
j___Vacation Pav - Percentage of Wages Method
The following shell be considered as days actually worked far determining vacations with pay for
an employee after one (1) continuous year ofemployment
a)	Absence on Workers’ Compensation up to a period df one (1) year, provided that the employee returns to his/her employment.
b)	Absence due to illness up to a period of one (I) year! provided that the employee returns
to his/her employment. The employer shell have the Iright to require a certificate from a qualified medical practitioner	1
c)	Absence due to bereavement leave in accordance with the terms and conditions of Article lx, section 6.
pii<»
d)	Absence due to time service of Jury Duty, including Coroner's Jury, or time served as a Crown Witness or Coroner’s Witness in accordance with the terms and conditions of Article IX, Section 7.
e)	Any other absence duly approved by the employer in writing shall be credited towards entitlement for annual vacation, but time spent on such leaves of absence shall not be counted in computing vacation pay. i
Section lit Qualifications for Vacation Pav 4 Regular Job Rate Method
a)
i)	In order fbr&R employee t'cj qualify for the amount generated by the hours times the regular job rate ipethod, the employee must have worked a minimum of fifteen hundred (1,500) hours in the employee’s first year of service and a minimum ofdne thousand (1,000) hours during the employee's succeeding yed1 Cf entitlement.
j. .
ii)	Where there is a common yacation pay cut-off date, for purposes of calculating minimum hours; as in (i) above, the calculation period shall be from the cut-off date in onfe year to the cut-off date in the succeeding year.
iii)	Where there is no com/norf vacation pay cut-off date, for purposes of
calculating minimum hour} as in (i) above, the calculation period shall he from the employee’s anniversary date in one year to his/her anniversary date in the succeeding yeaf.
b) For purposes of computing the requisite hours the following will be included:
i)	All hours	worked.
ii)	Statutory	Holiday	hours.
iii)	Jury and	Crown Witness £uty
iv)	Bereavement leave.
v)	Vacation	hours.
vi)	Time not exceeding one (1) year, lost as the result of an accident recognized as compensable by the Workers’ Compensation Board and suffered during the course of employment, shall be considered as time worked for the purpose pf qualifying for vacation, provided that the employee returns to his/her employment.
Ftp 24
vii) Time no, exceeding one (I) year, l^st as the result of a non-occupational accident or illness, shall be considered as time worked for the purpose of qualifying for vacation, provided tl^at at the time of the accident or illness the employee has been on the payr II for not less than one (1) year and that he/she returns to his/her employme t. It is understood that the employer may require that the employee pro| ‘de a certificate from a qualified medical practitioner.
Viii) Tie lost as a result of layoff shall hot be considered as time worked for the purpose of qualifying for requisite hours.
ix)	Employees who report for work anji who receive call time payment shall be credited with eight (8) hours forjany such shift for purposes of computing requisite hours under thjj$ Section. Any employee who qualifies for call time in a day shall receive credit under this Section for eight (8) hours or credit for the hours for whjfch wages were paid, whichever is greater.
x)	All hours worked in more than one [1 division of the parent company as a result of transfer or layoff
Section 11:	Employment Standards Act
Part 4 • Annual Vacation of the Employment Standards Ac):, S B.C. 1980, c. 10, and amendments thereto, except where varied or modified by the provisions herein, shall become a part of this Agreement
ARTICLE XI - SAFETY AND HEALTH
Section!;	|
The Company and employees shall co-operate to assure safe working methods and conditions and to devise plans for the furtherance of safety measures. Equipment and devices mutually agreed upon shall be provided by the Company.
Section 2:
The management of every operation shall maintain an Accident Prevention Committee (hereinafter called “Safety Committee’! of four f$),ta twelve fl2), members according to the size of the operation. Members of the Safety Committee shall be designated in equal numbers by the employees and the Company. Employee representatives shqil be regular employees in the operation, with at least one year's experience.
Section 3:
When inspections and Safety Committee meetings ^re held in the same week and the total time spent by any employee exceeds two (2)hour$ provided for, employees are to be compensated at straight time rates for all time spent on inspections pnd Safety Committee meetings outside of normal working hours.
Employees who attend Safety Committee meeting^or accident investigations during working hours shall not suffer any loss of pay. Plant inspections for safety will be done outride of the employ& normal working hours, unless otherwise agreed.
Section 4:
Anyone or all employees working in the immediate proximity when a fatal accident has occurred may, without discrimination, refrain from working Ihe balance of the shift.
Section S;
Effective July I, 1989, an IWA-Forest Industry Safety and Health Research Program will be established on the following general principles:
3 The Plan will be jointly trusteed.
b)	The Plan is to be funded on the basis of anilndustry contribution of one-half cent (VS cent) per hour per employee per hour worked, effective July 1,1989.
c)	The trustees will be appointed in the first year of the Agreement and will meet during the first year to establish objectives and operating and administrative procedures.
ARTin.E XTT - STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
Section 1:
a)	All employees who work on New Year’s Day. Good Friday, Victoria Day, Canada Day, British Columbia Day, Labour Day, Thanksgiving Day, Remembrance Day, Christmas Day end Boxing Day shall be paid rate and one half for hours worked.
b)	In the event one ofthe above Statutory Holidays foils on a Sunday, the following Monday shall be observed as the Holiday.
c)	In the event that one ofthe above Statutory Holidays foils on a Saturday, it shall he observed on the preceding Friday or the succeeding Monday, or as agreed upon between the Company and the Shop Committee.
PigelS
work week, by mutual agreement between the Company and the Plant Committee may work on a Friday Statutory Holiday at the straight lime job rates and substitute Saturday as the Statutory Holiday
e) In the event of a Statutory Holiday felling on a Tu^day, Wednesday or Thursday, and when the Company and the Shop Committee mutufi^y agree, the said holiday may be observed the preceding Monday or following Friday respectively.
9 At the option of the Company but whenever possible by mutual agreement with the Shop Committee, either Good Friday, or Easter Mondayjshall become the designated Easter Holiday, and the Company shall notify its employees of the designation at least one (I) week prior to the said Holiday.
a) An hourly rate or piece work employee who qualifies for the following holidays, that is
I	'	jr
his/her regular work schedule The hours so paid ft}r the Statutory Holiday shall not be included in the weekly work schedule.
b)	The holiday rate of piece work employees shall be established by computing their daily average earnings for days actually worked during thj? previous thirty (30) days
c)	An employee working on a paid holiday shall be pai$, in addition to his/her holiday pay. rate and one half for any hours worked on a shift designated as a “‘Holiday Shit?1.
d)
the holiday, unless his absence was due to a compensable occupational injury or illness, which occurred within six (6) months preceding the jioliday, or such employee was on authorized leave ofabsence. In the case ofillness, o)r injury, the Company shall have the right to request & certificate from a qualified medical; practitioner.
Notwithstanding the other requirements of this section, an employee may only qualify far Statutory Holiday Pay if he/she works one (I) day before and one (1) day after the holiday providing the said two (2) days fall within a ninety (90) calendar pay period. Employees while on leave ofabsence under Article IX, Section i(a) or any employee while a member of a negotiating committee under Section 3(b) shall ijot qualify for paid Statutory Holidays	|.
Section 2:
F»»« J7
e) Employees as defined under Article VIII, Section 10 shell not receive pay for Statutory Holidays.
Section 3:
This section becomes effective September 1,1978; This Personal Floating Holiday is in lieu of the proposed Heritage Day but this section shell cpme into operation on its effective date even if Heritage Day has or has not been proclaimed.
a)	Regular full-time employees will be granted one (1) Personal Floating Holiday during each contract year of the Agreement, to be arranged et a time suitable to the employee end the Company, so that there will be no loss rfproduction.
b)	When the Personal Floating Holiday is taken, an employee shell be paid for the said holiday et his/her regular job rate of pay for his/her regular work schedule, subject to the following conditions.
i)	A new employee must have been on the payroll for not less then ninety (90) consecutive calendar days to qualify for the Personal Floating Holiday.
ii)	An employee will not qualify for the Personal Floating Holiday if on leave of absence for more then nine (9) months in the contract year, except in the case of sickness or injury.
iii)	An employee shall apply on an approved form et least seven (7) days in advance, for his/her Personal Floating Holiday. The employee shall receive notice of the disposition of his/her request a minimum of seventy-two (72) hours prior to the requested Personal Floating Holiday.
ivl If an emolovge is reauiredito work on his/her Personal Floating Holiday after a definite date has bejen designated for such holiday, the employee shall be paid overtime for such work et the rate of time and one half. The employee will then be entitled to take the holiday with pay et a later date to be mutually agreed upon.
v)	Personal Floating Holiday not taken or scheduled by April 30th of each contract year will be scheduled by Management.
vi)	A Personal Floating Holiday shall not be scheduled on en employee’s regular rest day.
vii)	Where an employee chooses Saturday or Sunday es a Personal Floating Holiday, straight time rates will apply.
Ftp 28
ARTICLE XHl - CALL TIME Section 1:
Any employee reporting to work on the call of the Company shall be paid their regular rate of pay for the entire period spent at the place of work in respons^to the call with a minimum of, in any one day.
a)
Two hours pay at the employee’s regular rate exceht such that he/she is not competent to perform his/her with the accident prevention regulations of the Woi
when the employee's condition is duties, or he/she has failed to comply •kers' Compensation Board; or
b)	If the employee commences work, four (4) hours ply at his/her regular rate, except where his/her work is suspended because of inclement wither or reasons completely beyond the control of the Company.
Section 2;
Notice cancelling the work call for any Division of the Conlpany shall be sufficient if given in the
following manner;	l
a)	First Shift -Notice cancelling the call for WOfk j&Ut I be given the previous evening at 10:00 p.m. and at 10:30 p.m. or not later than one ajnd one half (114) hours before the shift commences, by means of two (2) broadcasts within it half hour period.
b)	Second Shift - Notice cancelling the call for work s^iall be give" between 12:00 noon and 1:00 p.m. but not later than three (3) hours before the shift commences, by means of two (2) broadcasts within a half hour period.
c)	Third Shift-Notice cancelling the call for work sh^Il be give" between 5 00 p.m and 6:00 p.m., but not later than three (3) hours before the shift commences.
AU broadcasts shall be aver Radio Station CKBX.
ARTICLE XIV • GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
When a grievance arises in the plant, under the terms of this Agreement it shall be dealt with in the following manner:
a)	The individual employee and the lob Steward shall first take up the matter with the foreman in charge of the work, within fifteen (IS) days.
b)	If the grievance is not satisfactorily settled in this way, the same individual employee, with the Committee, shall take up the problem with the foreman.
Pm*»
Ic)	If a satisfactory settlement is not then reached, it shall be reduced to writing by both
Parties when the Committee shall take up the grievance with the Plant Superintendent |f desired, the Union Business Agent shall accompany the Committee, and either Party shall have the right to request the presence of the employee involved.
d)	If the grievance is not then satisfactorily solved, it shall be referred to the Union and Management
e)	If a satisfactory settlement is not then reached, it shall be dealt with by arbitration as
hereinafter Provided.
f)	If a grievance has not advanced to the next stage, under(b). (c), (d), or (e) within fourteen (14) days after completion of the preceding stage, then the grievance shall be deemed to be abandoned, and all rights of recourse tojthe grievance procedure shall be at an end Where the Union is not able to observe thi? time limit by reason of the absence of the aggrieved employee or the Committee form the operation, the set time limit shall not apply. The Union shall be bound to proceed in such a case as quickly es may be reasonably possible
XVTI (RIGHT O_______________F___________REFERENCE
Section I:
If the Company and the Union fail to agree upon an interpretation of the Agreement, eithpr Party shell have the right to refer the matter to the Joint Industry Committee (hereinafter called “Joint Committee”) and if either Party does make reference, the other Party must accept the reference
Section 2;
The Joint Committee shall consist of three (3) representatives selected by the MA-CANADA, Negotiating Committee, and three (3) representatives selected by the Company.
Section 3;
Where an interpretation of the Agreement has been referred to the Joint Committee, this reference shall be for the period of forty-eight (48) hours ot longer by mutual consent of the Parties to this Agreement. In cases the Joint Committee agree (jpon a recommendation of Interpretation, this shall be furnished in writing to the Union and to the Company.
S^tiqn 4;
In event the Joint Committee members disagree, all the ffycts in the case as found by the Union and the Union members of the Joint Committee shall be placed in writing by the Union representatives and submitted to the Company and to theiUnion members involved. The facts in the case as found by the Company and the Company members of the Joint Committee shall' be placed in writing and given to the Union member employees for their information.
If a satisfactory interpretation on the point in question is not reached, either Party may refer the question to arbitration as hereinafter provided.
ARTICLE XVI - ARBITRATION AND INTERPRETATION Section l:	Iptffprytajion
In case of any dispute arising regarding the interpretation cjf this Agreement, which the Pm-ties hereto are unable to settle between themselves, the matter phall be determined by interpretation in the following manner:
a)	Either Party may notify the other Party, in writing, Ify registered mail, of the question or questions to be interpreted After receiving such notice and statement, each of the Parties will then refer the matter to the Interpreter named in this section.
b)	The decision of the Interpreter will be final and binding upon the Company and the Union.
c)	It is agreed that the Parties will arrange, as soon as possible, to name a person acceptable to both Parties to be the Interpreter for the purposes of this section
d)	In the event said Interpreter is unable to deal with any matter under this section, the Parties will meet and mutually agree upon a temporary replacement
Section 2; Arbitration
In the case of any dispute arising under this Agreement, whiqfi the Parties are unable to settle between themselves, the matter shall be determined by arbitration in the following manner:
a)	Either Party may notify the other Party in writing, by registered mail, of the question or questions to be arbitrated. Each of the Parties shall, Within five (5) days, referthe matter to the chosen Arbitrator.
b)	The decision of the Arbitrator will be final and binding upon the Company and the Union
c)	The chosen Arbitrator shall be selected on & rotation system and no Arbitrator shall deal with more than one question at any one time,
d)	If any Arbitrator finds that an employee has been unjustly suspended or discharged, that employee shall be reinstated by the Compare without loss of pay and with all his/her rights and privileges preserved under the terms of this Agreement, provided always that if it is shown to the Arbitrator that the employee hbs been in receipt of wages during the period between discharge (or suspension) and reinstatement, or date of failure to re-hire and re-hiring, the amount so received shall be deducted from wages payable by this Company pursuant to this section.
e)	The Parties agree with the principle of one-man arbitration The Arbitrator will be chosen on a rotation basis from a group of Arbitrators which will be selected by the Parties
In the event either Party is dissatisfied withjthe permanent choice of an Arbitrator, the Parties agree that other choices of Arbitrators will be considered by both Parties
Section 3:
The Company end the Union shall bear in equal proportions the expenses and allowances of the
Arbitrator and the stenographic and secretarial expense and rent.
Section. 4;
Any such arbitration to be held hereunder shall be held at 100 Mile House, B. C., or such other place as may be decided.
Section 5:
A Committee shall be established to develop and implement a system of expedited arbitration of grievances. The chairman ofthis Committee will be H. Allan Hope, Q C. The Committee shall report to the parties not later than December 1,1984.
ARTICLE XVP - PAY DAYS
The Company shall provide for pay days every second week and each employee shall be furnished with an itemized statement of earnings and monthly deductions.
ARTICLE XVIII - GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section 1:
Official Union Representatives shall obtain access to the Company’s operations for the purpose of this Agreement by written permission which shall be granted by the Company upon request and subject to such terms and conditions as may be laid down by the Company.
Page 32
gfiflfrq l- KQ-Stfike_Pcnding_Gricvance_and Arbitration Procedure
The Union shall not cause, promote, sanction, or authorise any strike, sit-down, slow-down, sympathetic strike or other interference with work by the employees for any cause whatsoever until all provisions of this Agreement relating to grievance and arbitration procedure have been complied with, unless failure to comply with such procedwe is due to any act or refusal to act or misconduct of the Company.
Section 3:	No Lockout fending Grievance and ArtiCration Procedure
The Company shall not create or institute any lockout of the employees with respect to any dispute between the Company and the Union, or the Conjjpany and its employees, until all provisions of this Agreement relating to grievance and arbitration procedures have been complied with, unless failure to comply with such procedure is duejto any act or refusal to act or misconduct ofthe Union or its employees.	1
Section 4:
a)	The Union may refuse to handle material producej! by a strike bound firm.
b)	The Union shall have the right to respect another tjnion's picket line.
c)	The Company shall provide plug-ins (for block heaters only) in the parking lot to accommodate all employees at no cost to the employees
d)	Job Posting and Training Programs will be instituted as agreed to between the local Committee and the Company
Section Si	Planerman Training
It is agreed that the Parries to the Agreement will meet jointly to discuss and implement a Planerman's Training Program.
Section 6;	Permanent Plant Closure!
a)	Effective July I, 1982, sixty (60) days notice of elejsure will be provided.
b)	Effective July 1,1982, employees terminated by th^ Company because of permanent closure of a manufacturing plant shall be entitled' to severance pay equal to one (1) weeks pay for each year of continuous service and therefb er'in'increments ofcompleted months of service
ARTICLE XIX - HEALTH AND WELFARE Section 1; Provincial Board of Tnnteq
Weldwood of Canada Limited, together with Fores^ Industrial Relations Limited, the Interior Forest Labour Relations Association, the Council!on Northern Interior Forest Employment Relations, Northwood Pulp and Timber Ltd.. Canft^r Limited and the IWA-CANADA to establish one set of trustees for the purpose of developing a common text, a common trust agreement, and a common employee booklet for the six Health andj Welfare Plans, covering Life Insurance, Accidental1 Bfeatfr and Vfcnremberment Insurance a^id Weekly Indemnity.
The Parties agree that a Joint Committee, representing Forest Industrial Relations Limited, the
Interior Forest' Labour Relations Association, the Council on Northern Interior Forest Employment Relations, Canfor Limited, Northwoojd Pulp and Timber Ltd., Weldwood of Canada Limited, and the IWA-CANADA, will be established to study the most effective method of
administration of the Plans, reporting to the parties no later than July 1,1984.
Section 2:	Weldwoo d-VA (Bird of Trustees
The Board of Trustees, composed of two (2) members reoresenting IWA-CANADA and two (2)
members representing the Company, are responsible for the administration of the IWA-Weldwood Health and Welfare Plan The Trustees are also responsible for the selection of carrier, funding, adjudication of compassionate appeals, and Healthj and Welfare problems directly related to the plan
Section i:	Medical
a)	The Company agrees to provide medical coverage for its employees by participating in the Medical Services Plan of British Columbia.
b)	The Company agrees to provide Extended Health Benefits, including hospitalization coverage up to a maximum of $8.50 per day, to its employees by participating in a plan entered into between the Company and an appropriate carrier
c)	Effective July 1,1982, a Vision Care Program be instituted to provide for payment up to a maximum of One Hundred Dollars ($100.00) per person in any twenty-four consecutive month period for charges incurred relative to the purchase of lenses and frames or contact lenses when prescribed by a person legally qualified to make such prescription. Effective July I. 1995, the maximum will be increased to one hundred and fifty dollars ($150.00) per member or dependent.
d)	Physiotherapy:
Effective July L1995. .the Phvsiotherapjst/Massage practitioners' limit will increase bv two hundred and fifty dollars ($250.00) per calendar year to a total limit of five hundred dollars ($500.00) per member or dependent per calendar year
P*g«34
e) Chiropractic:	,
Effective July I, 199$, the Chifopractors/Namrojphthij Physicians’ limit will increase by
two hundred dollars ($200.00) per member or dependent per calendar year to a total limit of four hundred dollars ($400.00) per member O^dependent per calendar year.
a)	Group Life Insurance for each qualified employe^ as follows.
effective July l, 1994, $50,000.00 effective July 1,1995, $55,000.00 effective July 1, 1996, $60,000.00.
b)	Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance jpr each qualified employee as follows:
effective July I, 1994, $50,000.00 effective July I, 1995, $55,000.00 effective July 1,1996, $60,000.00.
Effective July 1,1994, the Plan will provide for coverage for accidents occurring at work
c)	Weekly Indemnity as follows:
effective My 1,1995, the Weekly Indemnity benefit level be increased by ten dollars ($ 10.00) per week SO that'the benefit level is four hundred thirty-nine dollars ($439.00) per week for 52 weeks.
effective July 1,1996, the Weekly Indemnity benefit level be increased by ta dollars ($10.00) per week so that the benefij level is four hundred forty-nine dollars ($449.00) per week for 52 weeks.
effective January 1,' 1995, a "No Downs” provision be introduced SO that the four hundred twenty nine dollar ($429.00) per w4tk rate will not be reduced by further reductions by U.I.C- of the maximum insurable earnings number.
Weekly Indemnity wilt commence the first day of holpitalization as a bed patient, and in cases where lost work time results in surgery. Absences due to the same or related causes will be considered continuous unless the employee h|is returned to full-time work for at least four (4) continuous weeks between absences.
The Union agrees that, if the Company maintains W ekly Indemnity Plan benefits which will meet the standards requirements for full premiu reduction for "wage loss replacement plan under the Unemployment Insurance Act" the employee's 5/12th share of the premium reduction is retained as payment in kind in the provirions of the Weekly Indemnity Plan benefits.
rip 3?
i) Third Party Subrogation
The parties agree to recommend to die Trustees of the Health & Welfare Plan that effective on the date of ratification o|T this memorandum a third party subrogation clause be adopted so that the Weekly Indemnity Plan can be reimbursed from damages recovered from a liable thiijd party for illness, injury or income loss. The Plan will be entitled to recover the foil amount of benefits pud to the member which exceeds 100% of the membeijs pre-disability gross income. Gross income wilt be calculated by using the member’s regular hourly job rate (x) 40 hours. Trustees to work out the application and details, including the deduction of legal fees from the settlement and the execution of a reimbursement agreement.
d) The Officers of Local 1-425, IWA shall, upon written request, be permitted to examine statements of premium income and claims, disbursements of the above insurance plan.
Such requests will not be granted more frequently than once every three (3) months during the tern, of this Agreement.
Sefliaall Dental Plan
A Dental Plan will be provided based on the following general principles
i)	Basic dental services (Plan A) - Plan pays 80% of approved schedule of fees
ii)	Prosthetics, crowns, and bridges (Plan B) - Plan pays 60% of approved schedule
of fees.	1
iii)	Orthodontic Plan (C) -Plan pays £0% of approved schedule of fees (lifetime maximum $2,500.00). There shall be no waiting period for this benefit.
gtftitni; General Prindnlti
a)	Premium cost for insurance shall be paid by the Company.
b)	Participation in the Plan is to be a condition of employment.
c)	Any new employee who has not workedjin covered employment in the last eighteen (18) months will be eligible to become a covered employee on the first day of the month following completion of the probationary period. However, for such employee coverage for the Medical Services Plan and forthe Extended Health Benefit will apply on the first day ofthe month following the date of employment.
d)	Coverage will be portable in all units covered by collective agreements between members of Forest Industrial Relations Limited, the Interior Forest Labour Relations Association, the Council on Northern Interior Forest! Employment Relations, Canfor Limited, Notthwood Pulp and Timber Ltd., WeWwood of Canada Limited and the IWA, and there shall be no waiting period for qualified employees changing employers within the Industry
Ptfa3<
e)
0
Coverage during layoff will be provided as fijdlows:
i)	Employees with one (I) or mfere years of seniority . six (6) months.
ii)	Employees with more than thfee (3) months but less than one (I) year seniority - three (3) months ,
In order for reinstatement of lay-off coverag^ to occur, there must be a return to regular full-time employment. An employee returns io regular full-time employment when he/she is employed for 10 working days within a floating period of thirty (30) consecutive days.
Also, an employee who returns to work for a|l least one working day and less than 10 working days will be covered for that monthJin addition to any layoff coverage to which he/she was entitled, if the recall occurred du hg the period of lay-off coverage.
g) There will be no duplication of Weekly Indenjnity and Pension Plan payments
h) Weekly Indemnity coverage will be eliminated for an employee on an extended leave of absence under Leave of Absence, Section 5: Compassionate Leave provided, however, that such employee is eligible for Weekly Indemnity coverage an the agreed-upon day of return to work. In order to qualify for this courage the employee must have returned to his/her place of residence in British Columbiailinless his/her disability required him/her to be hospitalized and satisfies the requirements Of the claims adjudication carrier. In the care of a compassionate appeal dealing with disability incurred during en extended leave of absence, the Trustees have the right to revi|fw certain circumstances
i) Employees on extended leave of absence und4f Leave of Absence, Section 5:
Compassionate Leave will pay their own prenjjums for the Medical Services Plan, Extended Health Benefit and Dental Plan, wlqle the premiums for Group Life Insurance and Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance will be paid by the employer during ouch extended leave of absence.
ARTICLE XX - LONG TERM DISABILITY PLAN a) The Plan will become effective July 1,1982.
b)
Effective July 1,1993, the Plan to be fu. ud twenty-two (22(5) per hour per employee per contribute eleven cents (110) end the employer
50/50 cost sharing basis with contributions of Hour worked, of which the Industry will will contribute eleven cents (110).
Effective January 1,1995, contributions from both the Industry and the employees will be increased by six cents (60) per hour worked scf that contributions will be thirty-four cents (340) per hour per employee per houT woriced|of which the Industry will contribute seventeen cents (170) end the emplpyee will contribute seventeen cents (170).

Effective July 1,1995, contributions from both ^he Industry and the employees will be increased by a further two and one-half cents (2M) per hour worked so that contributions will be thirty-nine cents (390) per hour per employee per hour worked of which the Industry will contribute ninteen and one-half cer|ts (19-l/j) and the employee will contribute ninteen and one-halfcents (IV-K).
c)	A Dowd of Trustees will be constituted with eqjjal representation from the Union and the Industry, to be responsible for establishing the terms of the Plan and the on-going administration.
d)	The Trustees will select a qualified actuary to ajsist them and to ensure the establishment
of actuarially sound reserved to fund the benefits provided by the Plan
e)	The Trustee will enter into a Trust Agreement tlhich will include provision for a procedure to settle any major dispute that may arise with regard to the provisions of the Plan.
9 Protection Against Withdrawals:
Withdrawing employer to be assessed for both/he employer and employee share of the unfunded liability in cases of negotiated withdrawal, decertification or relocation closure. Unfunded liability formula to be uniform and 'b^sed'on Plan Unfunded Liabiltiy divided by the total number of Plan members (at the time qf most recent Plan Valuation) multiplied by the number of Plan members affected by theiwithdrawal. Trustees to be directed to amend the participation agreement accordingly/
ARTICLE XXI - IWA - FOREST INDUSTRY PENSION PLAN
a)	The Industry contribution to the Pension Plan df one dollar and seventy cents ($1.70) per hour per employee per hour worked, which became effective July 1,1988, will be increased by seventy cents (700) per hour effective July 1,1992, to two dollars and forty cents ($2.40) per hour per employee per hour worked. Effective July 1, 1993 employee contributions often cents (100) per hour per employee per hour worked will be added to the above contribution rate.
b)	Unfunded Liability
Address the Plan's Unfunded Liability Issue byiproviding a one-time contribution of forty-four cents (440) per hour on November (, 1994, and an additional one-time contribution of forty-four cents (440) per houson July 1,1995. These contributions will be based on all IWA-Forest Industry Pension ijlan hours worked by each of the parties of the first part during the 1993 and 1994 calendar years respectively and require no change to the ongoing shared $2.50/hour contributionjrate for the term of this agreement.
These contributions, if matched by other Pension Plan Participating Employers, will result in the following projections of the unfunded acjuarial liability based on contributory hours of 47.3 million hours in 1994, declining to 46 trillion hours in 1995, and declining by one million hours per year in each succeeding year ip 2001, using an 8% interest assumption for solvency purposes, the Revised Mortality Bjksis, and Triennial Valuations:
1/1/94 1/1/95 1/1/96 1/1/97 1/1/98 1/1/99 1/1/2000
These laentributiojife will aUowv the; unfunded actuarial liability to be fully amortized in 7.7 years from 1/1/94. (The amortization period inl'the Preliminary Actuarial Valuation of December31, 1993 is 9.1 years from that date)|
ARTICLE XXn - APPRENTICESHIP TRAINNcj PROGRAM
a) The Company and the Union agree to institute jhe Apprenticeship Training Program for Tradesmen. The following trades to be part ofjthe Apprenticeship Training Program are:
Carpenters
Electricians
Forklift & Carrier Mechanics Heavy Duty Mechanics Pipetitter - Steamfitters
Machinists
Millwrights
Welders
Fitters. Filers ABenchmen
Where the Company requires a person or persons to maintain a valid pressure certificate, they will notify the Local Union. The Company will pay the cost of examination fee and fare allowance and lost time wages for the takirjg of the exam.
ff an official of the Department of Public Workirequires a Welder to attend school, and the Company, at their discretion, still requires tljie pressure certificate, the Company will pay the cost of the examination fee, fare allowance, and net lost time wages.
The Company is prepared to form a joint committee with the IWA Local 1-425 during the term of the 1977-79 Agreement to update the Apprenticeship Training Program to reflect current practices.	j
The Company and IWA Local 1-425 will meet ptti develop appropriate tests and selection standards for trades and planerm&n categories during the term of the 1979-81 Agreement. This will include consideration of an opportunity for employee self-appraisal.
P»|< 3?
9 Apprenticeship Selection Tests be amended tcj provide improved selection criteria as in place in the Southern Interior.
ARTICLE XXm - SAWMILL RATE DETERMINATION
The Sawmill Rate Determination Program as negotiated between the Forest Industrial Relations Association and the WA-CANADA will be instituted in accordance with Supplement No 3
ARTICLE XXIV - TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE
Section 1:	Advance Notification
The Company shall notify the Shop Committee and the Union six (6) months in advance of intent to institute changes in working methods or facilities vj/hich would involve the discharge or laying off of employees.
Section 2;	Retraining
The Company shall co-operate with the Government of British Columbia and participate in every way possible in training or retraining	of employees sp affected.
Section 3;	Rate Adjustment
I a)	An employee who is set back to a lower paid job because of mechanization, technological
change or automation will receive the rate of his/her regular job at the time of the setback fur a period of three (3) months and fur a further period of three (3) months he/she will be paid an adjusted rate which will be midway between the rate of his/her regular job at the time of the setback and the rate of his/her new regular job
At the end of this six (6) month period the rafe of his/her new regular job will apply. However, such employee will have the optiotji of terminating his/her employment and accepting severance pay as outlined in Section 4 below, providing he/she exercises this option within the above referred to six (6) m<j>nth period
b) Following an application of (a) above, wherelan employee is ret back to a lower paid job because of an application of Article VIII • Seniority, brought on by mechanization, technological change or automation, he/she \lill receive the rate ofhis/her regular job at the time of the setback fur a period of three (j3) months and for a further period of three (3) months he/she will be paid an adjusted rate which will be midway between the rate of his/her regular job at the time of the setback pnd the rate ofhis/her new regular job. At the end of this six (6) month period the rate ofhis/her new regular job will apply.
Ssaisaii Stream flw	j
Employees discharged, laid-off: or displaced from their regular job because of mechanization, technological change or automation shall be entitled tb severance pay of one weeks pay for each year of service with the Company. The amount calculated under such entitlement shall not exceed a maximum of thirty (30) weeks pay. This section shill not apply to employees covered by Section P(b) above.
Article xxv ■ safety eovipm^nt
a)
Where the following articles of equipment are .required to be used by the Company or by the Worker's Compensation Board, the Compsiny shall:
i)
Supply new employees with th«i articles of equipment as required.
ii)	Supply employees moving to ai(other department with the articles of
equipment they require and thai they do not have at the time of the move, or
iii)
Replace articles of equipment a reajt red when they are presented worn or damaged beyond repair by an ployee at no cost to the employee.
1,	Aprons	5.	Dust Protection
2,	Hard Hats !	6,	Eye Protection
3,	Welding Goggle}*, etc.	7.	Ear Protection
4,	Flotation Equipment	8,	Gloves
Notwithstanding the foregoing, all articles of equipment will be replaced only when they are presented worn or damaged beyond repair; {otherwise the replacement will be at the expense of the employee
b)
The employer shall be required to make available at cost to those employees who are required to wear them the following articles:
1.	Caulk Boots	3.	Rain Gear
2,	Safety Shoes	4,	Coveralls
c) Companies that supplied safety equipment and Nothing at no cost to the employee on the effective date of this Agreement will continue tq do so at no cost to the employee.
d) An employee who is required to wear caulk boots by the Workers’ Compensation Board shall receive annually a one hundred and twenty dollars ($120,00) caulk boot allowance.
i)	Ifhe/she has six (6) months oriinore seniority, or
ii)	Upon obtaining six (6) months seniority.
iii)	Season lay-off shall not interfere with the qualifying period herein. ARTICLE XXVI - TOOL INSURANCE
The Company, at its own expense, shall insure for dapiage or loss caused by tire or flood, the tools of its employees which are required in the performance of their work. This provision for tool insurance shall also aoolv to loss by theft where the tools are stored in a designated place of safety within the control of the company and there is forcible breaking and entering. The insurance coverage provided shall be subject to a deductible of Fifty Dollars (SS0.00) in respect of each employee’s claim.
ARTICLE XXVII - CONTRACTING OUT
a)	The Company will not contract out any workj that is performed by employees in the Bargaining Unit at the effective date of the agreement.
b)	Current practices in operations shall be agreed on with the Local Union in writing. Until such time as agreement is reached the above Clause (A) only will apply.
flPTin F XXVIII - DURATION nr AGREEMENT
Section 1:
This Agreement is a renewal and revision of the previous Collective Agreements entered into between the Company and the Union on July l, 199).
This Agreement shall be effective from and after the, 1st day of Jutv. 1994, to midnight the 30th day of June. 1997, and thereafter, from year to year,1 unless written notice of a contrary intention 1?gTveifftf diffiSP'Party to the other Party.
The notice required hereunder shell be validly and sufficiently served at the Head Office of the Company or at the Local Office upon the Local Officers of the Union, at least four (4) months prior to the expiry of any contract period.
If no agreement is reached at the expiry of this Contract, and negotiations are continued, the Agreement shall remain in force up until the time the subsequent agreement is reached or negotiations rue discontinued by either party.
Page 42
Section 3:
The Parlies hereto agree that the operation of Section 66 (2) of the Labour Code of British Columbia Act, 1973, is excluded from the Master Agreement.
SIGNED this day of /H'AH 7	,199^
FOR
FOR
WELDWOOD OF CANADA LIMITED 100 MILE HOUSE OPERATIONS
IYVA-CANADA LOCAL 1-425, c L.C
WAGE SCALE - A
SAWMTT.T, RATE DETERMINATION PROGRAM GROUP AND RATE CHART
Effective	Effective
Group	June 15,1994	June 15,1995
Level	Per Hour	Per H o u r
Effective June 15,1996 Per Hour
2
3
4
5
6
7
8 9
10
11 12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20 21 22 23
$18.71-14
38.85
19.02-/2
19.17
19.33-1/2
19.61 19.88 20.12-1/2 20.40-14 20.73-14 21.11-14 21.46-14 21.81-14 22.18-14 22.52-14 22.87-14 23.24-14
23.61 23,93-H 24.40 24.83-'4 25.27-14 25.72
$19.27-14 19.41-14 19.59-14 19 74-14 19.91-14 20.20 20.47-14 20.73 21.01-14 21.35-14 21.75 22.11 22.47
22	85 23.20
23	56 23.94 24.32 24.65-14 25.13 25.58 26.03-14 26.49
$19.66
19.80-	14 19.98-14
20.14 20.31-14 20.60-14 20.88-14 21.14-14 21.43-/2 21.78 22.18-'4 22.55 22.92 23 30-/2 23.66-/2 24.03 24.42
24.80-	/2
25.15 25.63-/2 26.09 26.55-/2 27.02
EVALUATED CATEGORIES. SAWMILL
JUNE 15/94	JUNE 1S/9S	JUNE 15/96
GROUP 1-	$18,715	$19,275	$19.66
Strip Layer Strip Piler
Clean-Up (overload)
CROUP 2 -	18.85	19.415	19 805
Conveyor Chaser/Clean-Up
GROUP 3-	19025	19.595	19985
Re-entry Hoist Operator/Sawmill Breakdown Hoist Operator/Planermill
GROUP 4 -	19.17	19 745	20.14
Chip Car Attendant/Car Mover Garage Helper Chipper Feeder Log Deck Sorter (Barkers)
Deck Chaser (Canter & Chip-N-Saw)
Log Deckman (Cut-off Saws)
Clock Watchman/Kiln duties
GROUPS-	19 335	19.915	20.315
Car Blocker
Flatcar Layout/Yard Clean-up/
Mobile Equipment J-Bar Sorter Bin Operator/Sawmill J-Bar Sorter Bin Operator/Planermill Yard Clean-Up/Mobile Equipment Operator Fire Protection/Watchman
GROUP 6
JUNE 15/94	JUNE 1S/9S	JUNE IS/96
19.61	20.20	20.605
Strapper/Log Yard J-Bar Operator/Planermiil
J-Bar Operator/Species Select J-Bar Stacker Operator/Sawmill Yard Cleanup/Mobile Equipment Op.
GROUP 7 -	19.88	20.475	20.885
Optimizer Trimmer Att'd/Sawmill
Auto Package Press Operator/Wrapper/
Stenciller Planer Feeder
Yard Utility/Forklift Operator Planer Stacker Operator
GROUP 8 -	20.125	20.73	21.145
Yard Utility - Forklift Operator Forklift Operator/Flat Car Loading Forklift Operator (Standard)
Warehouseman
Optimizer Trimmer/Reman Dropgate
Board Edger Feeder Optimizer Edger Att'd Log Cut-off saw Operator
GROUP 9 •	20.405	21.015	21.435
Forklift Operator/Sawmill Outfeed Forklift Operator/Planer Infeed Planer Feeder/Setup Man Forklift Operator/Kilns Log cut-off Saw/Log Sizer operator
GROUP 10 -	20.735	21.355	21.78
35" Mechanical Barker Operator Kiln Operator/Konus Hot Oil System Circular Gangsaw Operator (2 decks)
Weighmaster Licensed Scaler
MflUE	JjfJNE	JUNE 15/96
GROUP 11	-	21.115	21.75	22 185
Twin Auto Barker Operator
GROUP 12	-	21.465	22	1!	22.55
Breakdown Units (Twin Band Resaw, Chip-N-Saw, Chjpper Canter)
Log Loader Operator/Cat 966
Mobile Equipment Operator/Yard Maintenance
GROUP 14	-	22.185	22	85	23 305
G.S L A Grader/Trimmer (Rotating)
Planerman #1
Log Loader Operator/LeToumeau
MS R Operator
GROUP 15	-	22 525	23	20	23.665
G S L A Grader/Grade Reader
WAGE SCALE - B
NON-EVALUATED CATEGORIES
CATEGORY	JUNE 1S/94	JUNE 15/95	JUNE 15/96
MAINTENANCE
ELECTRICIAN
HEAVY DUTY MECHANIC
MILLWRIGHT
PIPEFITTER/STEAMFITTER
CONSTRUCTION MILLWRIGHT/
CARPENTER
Journeyman (with
Certificate)	24.375
Journeyman	23.875
Improver (3rd Year	
Apprenticeship complete)	21.185
Improver (2nd Year	
Apprenticeship complete)	20.62
Helper (1st Year	
Apprenticeship complete)	20 12
Helper	19.85
MACHINIST	
Journeyman (with	
Certificate)	24.375
Journeyman	23.875
Improver (3rd Year	
Apprenticeship Complete)	21.28
Improver (2nd Year	
Apprenticeship Complete)	20.705
Helper (1st Year	
Apprenticeship Complete)	20.215
Helper	19.945
25.105
24.605
21.82
21 24
20.725 20 445
25.105
24.605
21.96
21.325
20.82
20.545
25.605
25.105
22.255
21 66
21.14
20.855
25.605
25.105
22.36
21.75
21.235
20.955
CATEGORY	JUNE 15/94	JUNE 15/9S	JUNE 15/96
WELDER
Journeyman (see Note 1)	24 375	25.105	25 605
Journeyman (with applicable DPW Ticket)	24.185	24.91	25.41
Journeyman	23.685	24.41	24.91
Note 1:	Must be qualified as required under the Standard Forest Industry Welding
Specifications and either having completed the three year Apprenticeship Program or having worked in the trade for six thousand!(6,000) hours as a Welder.
AUTO MECHANIC
Journeyman	
(with Certificate)	24.185
Journeyman	23 685
Improver (3rd Year	
Apprenticeship Complete)	21.185
Improver (2nd Year	
Apprenticeship Complete)	20.62
Helper (ID Year	
Apprenticeship Complete)	20.12
Helper	19.85
24.91
24.41
21.82
21.24
20.725 20 445
25.41 24 91
22.255
21.66
21.14
20.855
PLANER MECHANIC BLACKSMITH BOILERMAKER SHIPWRIGHT
MAINTENANCE MECHANIC
Journeyman
(with certificate)	24.185	24.91
Journeyman	23.685	24.41
PAINTER		
Journeyman		
(with Certificate)	24.00	24.72
Journeyman	23.50	24.22
Improver	20 61	21.23
Helper	19.67	20.26
25.41
24.91
25.215
24.715
21.655
20.665
CATEGORY	JUNE 15/94
FILING ROOM
a)	Benchman
Benchman (with Certificate)	25.08
Benchman	24.58
Benchman Helper	24.375
b)	Circular Saw	Filer
Circular Saw Filer
(with certificate)	24.375
Circular Saw Filer	23.875
Saw Filer Helper	24.01
c)	Saiwt t e r
Saw Fitter (with Certificate)	24.01
Saw Fitter	23.51
Saw Finer (1st Year Complete)	20.62
Saw Fitter Helper	19.85
MISCELLANEOUS
First Aid tickets - Occupational Rate +
Level 2 certificate 50£ per hour Level 3 certificate 85fS per hour
Grinderman	21.095
Oiler	20.285
Yard	Bucker	21.395
JUNE 1S/9S
2S.83
25.33
25.105
25,105
24.605
24.73
24.73
24.23
21.24 20.445
21.73
20.895
22.035
JUNE 15/96
26.345
25.845
25.605
25.605
25.105
25.225
25.225
24.725
21.665
20.855
22.165
21.315
22.475
SUPPLEMENT |V0.2
Journeyman Tradesmen Categories
As refed to in Article V, Section l, of this Agreement.
Carpenter
Electrician
Forklift and Carrier Mechanic
Heavy Duty Mechanic
Machinist
Millwright
Pipefitter-Steamfitter
Welder
Fitters
Film
Benchman
SUPPLEMENT NO. 3
SAWMILL RATE DETERMINATION PROGRAM
Section 1; Responsibility. Implementation, Continuity and Administration
The IWA-CANADA and Forest Industrial Relations limited agree to implement and continue the provisions of this Article of the Coast Master Agreement es administered by Regional Council No. 1 of the Internationa! Woodworkers of America and Forest Industrial Relations Limited. The IWA Coast Negotiating Committee and Forest Industrial Relations Limited shall be responsible for all aspects of the Program.
Sect'vm. 2:	Purpose and Method
The purpose of the Program shall be the ranking of applicable hourly paid categories and placing them in groups according to their relative value withit) the B. C. Coast Sawmill Industry by using a method of agreed upon benchmark categories and related job descriptions.
Where new or significantly changed jobs do not fit an existing benchmark job description, the Parties agree to group such jobs by comparison to existing jobs where possible, in order to keep benchmark job descriptions to a minimum.
The Parties agree that the Details of Agreement es per Appendix No. 1 of the Memorandum of Agreement dated February 19,1992 in respect of Mechanization, Technological Change or Automation will be Implemented. Rate increases, if any, will be effective June 15,1992. No incumbent’s rate shall be reduced es a result ofthie implementation of this Agreement.
Section 3; Application
a)	Sawmill Rate Determination shell be carried out et the Local Union-Local Management level in accordance with the provisions of this Article and the provisions of any related Supplements to the Coast Master Agreement.
b)	Sawmill Rate Determination shall apply to all hourly paid categories in the sawmill industry except for those categories which have been excluded by mutual agreement between the IWA Coast Negotiating Committee and Forest Industrial Relations Limited.
c)	Sawmill Rate Determinations shell not supersede existing in-plant agreements, signed on or before November 3,1976 et the Local Union-Local Management level.
Section 4:	Development. Uniformity and Co-ordination
In order to ensure uniform application, the Program shall be developed and co-ordinated by the
B.	C, Coast Sawmill Analysis Board, consisting of an equal number of representatives from the
Union and the Industry as follows:
For the Union:
One (I) Officer representing IWA-CANADA and three (3) Officers representing the Coast Local
Unions assisted by one (I) Technical Advisor in the field of Job Analysis employed by Regional
Council No. 1 ofthe IWA,
For the Industry:
One representative ofForest Industrial Relations Limited and three (3) representatives ofthe B
C,	Coast Sawmill Industry, assisted by one (1) Technical Advisory in the field of Job Analysis
employed by Forest Industrial Relations Limited.
Section 5:	Procedures
a)	The Sawmill Rate Determination Program shall lj*e administered jointly an a day-to-day basis by the respective Technical Advisors, subject to the approval by the B, C. Coast Sawmill Job Analysis Board.
b)	Any agreement reached in this manner regardingithe disposition of a category rate clearance application received from the local Unjon-Local Management level, shall be final and binding on the Patties.
c)	If no agreement can be reached in this manner regarding the disposition of a category rate clearance application received from the Local Union-Local Management level, the matter shall be referred to the Board.
d)	If the Board is unable to reach agreement regarding the disposition ofa category rate clearance application received from the Local Urtion-Local Management level, the matter shall be referred to the IWA Coast Negotiating Committee and Forest Industrial Relations Limited in accordance with Section I of this Artjcle
Section 6:	Job Analysis Wage Curve
Effective
Group	June 15,1988
Level	Per Hour
2
3
4
5
6
7
8 9
IO I I 12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20 21 22 23
$18.71-14
18.85
19.02-14
19.17
19.33-14
19.61 19.88 20.12-14 20.40-14 20.73-14 21.11-14 21.46-14 21.81-14 22.18-14 22.52-14 22.87-14 23.24-14
23.61 23.93-14 24.40 24.83-14 25.27-14 25.72
Effective Junel5,1989 Per Hour
$19.27-14
[9.41-14
[9.59-14
[9.74-14
(9.91-14
20.20
20.47-14
jiO.73
21.01-14
21.35-14
21.75
22.11
22.47
22.85
^3.20
23.56
23.94
24.32
24.65-14
25.13
25.58
26.03-14
26.49
Effective June 15,1990 .Per.Hout
$19.66
19.80-	14 19.98-14
20.14 20.31-14 20.60-14 20.88-14 21.14-14 21.43-14 21.78 22.18-14 22.55 22.92 23.30-14 23.66-14 24.03 24.42
24.80-	14
25.15 25,63-14 26.09 26.55-14 27.02
The general wage increase provided for in Article V, Section 1(a) has been incorporated into these rater.
Section,?; Incumbent's Rate
No incumbent’s rate shall be reduced as a result of the implementation and/or continued application of the Program.
The Parties further agree that details of the Sawmill Bate Determination Program may be subject to amendment at the written request of either Party at the end of each three (3) month period from the date of this Agreement.

APPRENTICESHIP TRAINING PROGRAM
between
WELDWOOD OF CANADA LTD., 100 MILE HOUSE OPERATIONS
and
IWA CANADA.

in co-operation Vith
DIRECTOR OF APPRENTICESHIP &j INDUSTRIAL TRAINING PROVINCE OF BRITISH! COLUMBIA
ARTICLE I - PURPOSE
The purpose of this Program is to improve the knowledge and skill of persons employed by the Company as Journeymen, Improvers, or Helpers in respect to the trades named in Article II herein.
ARTICLE n - TRADES
1.
2.
3
4.	Machinist
5	Electrician
6	Welder
7.	Carpenter
8	Forklift 4 Carrier Mechanic
9.	Filers 4 Fitters
4 Year Program
4	Year Program
5	Year Program 5 Year Program 4 Year Program To be established 4 Year Program 4 Year Program Is established
ARTICLE III - GENERAL PRINCIPLES Section^__CoJlective^£j2|ine^	|
All provisions of the Collective Agreement shall be applicable to Apprentices in this Program. Section 2:	Right to Continue
Once started in the Program, subject however to the provisions of the Collective Agreement, the Apprentice shall have the right to continue, provided he/she passes all of the prescribed tests and work is available to him/her.
Section 3:	Tests
Upon completion of each period of training in the Vocational School, an Apprentice will be required to pass a test. In the event of failure to pass sijch a test, the Apprentice will be given a second opportunity, but in the event of failure to pass op the occasion of the second such test, he/she shall be required to withdraw from the Program
Section 4:	Meaning of “Year”
Wherever reference is made to a year as a Helper or Improver, it shall mean a period of not less than two hundred (200) working days; the said period to include time spent at the Vocational School
Section S:	Training Time Entitlement
Subject to the provisions herein, an Apprentice who is hired by the Company and who has had training in another apprenticeship plan will be given recognition of such training time.
Section 6:	On-the-Job-Traininc
The Company will ensure that the Apprentices will be given the necessary on-the-job practical training.
ARTICLE IV - SELECTION OF APPRENTICES
Section 1:	Seniority
When the Company requires Apprentices, it is agreed tjiat the vacancy will be posted in the operation, and applicants selected in accordance with the provisions of Article IX of the Collective Agreement
Section 2:	Succeaftil Applicant!
Successful applicants will be assigned as Helpers fa a three (3) month probationary period, unless the applicant’s previous experience renders such assignment unnecessary
Section 3:	Selection of Apprentice Procedures
1,	Purpose
The purpose of this agreement is to establish an uquitable criteria which will give management reasonable assurance that the apprentice, upon completion of his indentureship, will become a proficient tradesman and to assure the Union and its members that the senior applicant who meets the criteria will be come an apprentice.
Educational Prerequisites
The educational requirement for general trades Grade 10 or equivalent and Grade 12 or equivalent for the electrical trades.	j
3. Aptitude Testing
Applicants will be tested in accordance with the bank of tests as recommended by the Apprenticeship Branch of the Ministry ofLabour. Testing procedure will be as follows
a)	A standard set of testing instructions and procedures will he developed and authorized by the parties to this agreement and communicated to appropriate management and union personnel
b)	The passing grade for the tests will he established by the Apprenticeship Branch of the Ministry ofLabour
c)	The passing marks for the mechanical Trades and Electrical tests are established as being a combined requirement of, firstly, keventy percent (70%) in the Mechanical Aptitude and Space Relations segments cjf the tests, and secondly, seventy percent (70%) in the overall final scoring of the tfsts.
d)	All scoring computations ofpercentages peach section and overall scores of the tests are recorded as being rounded off tq, the next highest percentage point where my fraction of percentage point exists
e)	Tests will be conducted on plant property or near the plant by Management; a Union representative will be present wheiji the tests are given and marked.
f)
Tests recommended for the self-evaluation will be made available and may be taken by an interested employ.%. Failure to take such test shall not jeopardize an
employee’s application for any apprenticeship.
4. Re-testing
a)	It is agreed that where an applicant ijas fiuied to pass the mechanical Aptitude and Space Relations section of either th^ Mechanical or Electrical tests, the employee will be allowed to bid and be re-tested one (I) additional time for each test.
b)	Results of all tests will he retained oji file in the company's office, An applicant who has met the criteria and successfully passed the requisite test and is the senior for any future apprenticeship posting within a three (3) year period will he considered the successful applicant.
c)	An applicant who qualifies and has passed the Mechanical Aptitude and Space Relations section of any of the available tests, but failed the overall test, will be eligible to hid and be re-tested for arty future apprenticeship posting.
d)	A master copy of the tests will be m*de available to IWA-CANADA on request
5.	Maintenance^Monltorine and Distribution of Tests
a)	Sufficient copies of the tests, answer; sheers and marking overlays will be maintained by Weldwood of CanadalLimited, Vancouver Office and/or the Apprenticeship Branch of the Minist|y of Labour of the Province of British Columbia.
b)	Test materials will be supplied on request to those operations requiring same and will be returned immediately after use.
c)	Use of the tests will be monitored b>f Weldwood of Canada Limited, Vancouver Office and/or the Apprenticeship Branch of the Ministry of labour of the Province of British Columbia. Such monitori tWill maintain a record of applicant's tests, successful applicant’s scores record:^., seniority applied and provide a follow-up of the successful applicant’s progress throughout training and an appropriate post training period. Other information al deemed necessary by the parties to this agreement will be made available as kgreed.
6.	Probationary Period
The successful applicant will be given a probationary period up to ninety (90) calendar days.
P««»
7.	Selection Review
Where a dispute arises out of the selection of an apprentice, that cannot be resolved at the plant level, the matter will be discussed by Management and the Local Union.
8.	Trial Period
This agreement is for a twelve (12) month trial p&ad. from the date of this agreement. Either party may terminate this agreement upon ope (I) month’s written notice after the completion of the eleventh (I 1th) month.
Section 4; Compulsory Entrance
All present Helpers and Improvers employed by the Comjfanymust enter the Program Helpers and Improvers who cannot qualify in the Program will'belicecl&ssified as Labourers with no reduction in rate of pay, until such time as they have an opportunity to apply their seniority to obtain a job with equal or a higher rate of pay.
Labourers will not be employed in a manner that will interfere with the application of the Program.
Section 5:	Aee Limit	!
There will be no age limit for applicants
ARTICLE V-TRAINING SCHEDULES Section 1; Assiehm eti as Helper
All successful applicants, except Welder Apprentices (see| appropriate appendix), will be registered as Apprentices and be assigned as Helpers for An eleven (I I) month period, prior to attending Vocational School, unless the applicant’s previous experience renders such assignment unnecessary.
a program for the aforementioned Welder Apprentices will be established by June 1st, 1968
S Year Schedule
Ratine
Operation
At School
First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year Fifth Year
Helper
Helper
Improver
Improver
Improver
first 11 mohths first I I motjiths first I I mohths first II moijiths first I I mohths
last 4 weeks last 4 weeks last 4 weeks last 4 weeks last 4 weeks
Sect'vin. 2
Section 3:	4 Year Schedule
	Rating	At Operation	At School
First Year	Helper	first II months	lest 4 weeks
Second Year	Helper	first ] 1 months	last 4 weeks
Third Year	Improver	first 1 1 months	last 4 weeks
Fourth Year	Improver	first I I months	lest 4 weeks
Section. 4:	3 Year Schedule
	Ratine	Alberation	At School
First Year	Helper	first It months	lest 4 weeks
Second Year	Improver	first 11 months	last 4 weeks
Third Year	Improver	first II months	lest 4 weeks
Section. 5:	Electricians
Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 2, 3 and 4 herein, the Electrician Apprentices shell be required to take eight (8) weeks et school during each year of the Program instead of four (4). with the period in the operation reduced accordingly
Section 6;	Passing Test
The Apprentice must successfully pass the prescribed test before promotion for Helper to Improver
Section 7:	Journeyman	Qualifications
Following completion of the period of training es required herein, and upon becoming certified, he/she shell receive certified Journeyman’s rate of pay if a Journeyman’s jab is available. If. however, a Journeyman’s job is not available he/she'Shall be entitled to exercise his/her plant seniority for job entitlement. If in the exercise of higher seniority he/she is retained as en Improver, he/she shall not he required to perform a Journeyman’s work or take the place of a Journeyman.
Section. 8:	Vocational School	Delay
If any of the periods provided for in Sections 2, 3, 4 or 5 herein are exceeded by reason of Vocational School facilities being unavailable, such Period of excess shell be credited to the Apprentice in succeeding training requirements

ARTICLE VI - WAGE RATES
Section It Rates and Increments	1
a)	Wage Rates for Helpers in the first term shall be that specified in the Wage Supplement
b)	An Apprentice who passes his/her test shall receive an increment agreed to between the Company and the Union during his/her sewncj term year as a Helper
c)	The Wage Rate for an Improver shall be that ffs specified in the Wage Supplement
d)	An Apprentice who passes a test in the fourthilperiod of vocational training shall receive an increment agreed to between the company ancji the Union during his/her second term as en Improver.
e)	Persons employed as Journeymen, and who ar|c certified es such, shall receive the certified rate for the trade, as agreed to between the Company and the Union
Section 2:	Expenses
Parer, Lost Time Pay. and School Expenses are to bejpaid by the appropriate Government authorities es pen of the cost of the Apprenticeship Plan, with the exception that the employer shalt pay the Apprentice while attending Vocational School the difference between the subsidy granted by the appropriate Government authorities arjd the regular wages of the employee concerned.
Single persons shall receive their wages, less the sum paid to them by the appropriate Government authorities. Married persons shall receive their wage$, lens the sum paid to single persons by the appropriate Government authorities	1
Section 3; Delay in Testing
Where an employee incurs delay in taking one of the jests under this Program, through no fault of his/her own, the delay shall not prejudice his/her right; to wage increments provided for in Section 1 herein
ARTICLE VII - ADVISORY BOARD Section 1; Constitution	1
There shell be an Advisory Board for each trade covered by the Apprenticeship Agreement, consisting of two representatives of the Industry, twd from the Union, one representing the Vocational School, and one from the Apprenticeship :and Industrial Training Branch.
Section 2:	Reiponiibililv
The Board shall be responsible for advising the Department ofLabour, Apprenticeship and Industrial Training Branch, regarding the content oftests, standards ofmarking. and the school curriculum with respect to registered Apprentices.
The Board shall not be responsible for the actual seating or marking of tests.
ARTICLE Vffl - GENERAL PROVISIONS Section 1;
Persons presently employed as Journeymen, who dp not wish to become certified, shall continue to be employed as Journeymen
Section 2:
Persons presently employed as Journeymen, who take the Tradesmen Qualification exam and fail, shall continue to be employed as Journeymen.
Section 3:
If a present Journeyman fails to pass the test for a voluntary Tradesmen’s Qualification Certificate, he/she can then become indentured as an Apprentice at no reduction in rate of pay
Section 4:
There will be a three-person committee established to process applicants who make application to be tested under the voluntary Tradesmen’s Qualifications, or who become indentured under the Apprenticeship and Tradesmen’s Qualification Act. The Committee will also determine what vocational training is necessary for persons indentured as Apprentices. Representation on the committee shall consist of the following:
a)	One Representative from the Union
b)	One Representative from the Industry
c)	One Representative from the Apprenticeship Branch
Vocational training will be conducted during day courses. Textbooks and study material will be made available when required.
The Company is prepared to pay training costs, as described below, for an employee who is required to renew his/her D P.W #1 or #2 Welding Ticket, or equivalent, and who is required to weld as a part of his/her employment The Company will tflso pay training costs, as described below, incurred for any employee who upgrades his/her Welding Ticket at the request of the Company
Training Costs shall be limited to	'
1	Lost wages,	less any Government Assistance Programs
2	School Expenses
3	Fares
4	Cost of test
ARTICLE M-TOOLS Section 1:
All Journeyman Tradesmen shall be required to have, and shall nor qualify for the Journeyman rate unless they have, a full kit of hand tools necessary to jjierform the job for which they are hired, with the exception of machinery or tools which shall not be deemed to fell within the responsibility of the Journeyman.
Section 2:
The Improver shall be required to have and maintain a bar c tool kit and to be in the general process ofbuilding up the necessary tools to equip hinVhel'self for the job
Section 3;
The Helper generally shall not be required to own tools an'd shall use those designated to him/her. However, in his/her own interest, he/she should commenc^ the process ofbuilding up a tool kit.
SUPPLEMENTNO
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN:
WELDWOOD OF CANADA LIMITED, 100 MILE HOUSE OPERATIONS,
AND:
IWA CANADA, Local 1-425, C.L.C,
RE-ESTABLISHMENT OF FORCES
The Parties mutually agree that when the forces are ye-established after a shutdown or lay-off, employees shall return to their previously held jobs ai soon as possible, but not later than the first shit? following the first weekend.
INTERPRETATION ARTICLE IX - LEAVE OF ABSENCE
Further to our discussion during negotiations in regard to Article IX * Leave of Absence -in the new Agreement, the Local Union agrees that Articlerjx, Section 5 as it applies to leaves of absence for educational and training purposes, should be clarified as to intent, and propose the following interpretation:
The Company will only be obliged to grant leaves of absence for educational and training purposes to employees who intend to take training that will assist the individual in obtaining skills related to the Industry.
The Parties agree that in the application of Article IX-Leave of Absence, Section 5, Compassionate Leave, the following criteria shall be'used in determining the employee’s eligibility.
1	Leave of Absence without pay for extended vacation purposes shall be limited to those employees with more than two (2) years continuous service.
2	Leave of Absence without pay for extended vacation purposes shall be granted based on one (I) month Leave of Absence for each year of continuous service to a maximum of six (6) months.
3	Leave of Absence without pay for extended vacation purposes shall be limited to a
maximum of one (1) leave in a Uuec (3) calendar ^rear period.
4	Leave of Absence for extended vacation purposes bill be limited to three (3) employees off on leave at any one time
5	Leave of Absence for extended vacation purpose; will be granted on a first come/first served basis.
Request for Leaves of Absence for personal reasons othef than compassionate or educational training will be subject to the provisions of Sections 2 and 3, Article IX of the Collective Agreement
Y M E N T
The Company agrees that when an employee who requires selective employment because of accident or extended illness returns to work, the Company will, within twenty-four (24) hours after the employee has returned to work, inform the Plan( Committee of the employee’s name and to what work he/she has been assigned
Where a dispute arises about the suitability of work whicjl the employee has been assigned, the Committee and the Company shall meet and attempt to resolve the matter
CHARGE HAND
The normal duties ofa charge hand are to transmit workprders to direct the activities of the group of workers in his/her charge. He/She may from tiijfie to time supervise a shift on a temporary basis, but will not assume the responsibilities pf a foreman for an extended period of time
He'She may or may not perform work within his/her arep of supervision.
He/She. as a Union member, is not granted the right to hSre or discharge
None of the foregoing is intended to restrict any of the ujiual activities of a charge hand in this operation, but merely to clarify the feet that the Compan^ does not give charge hands the right to hire or discharge employees
WAGE REVISIONS
This is to confirm our Agreement that wage revisions negotiated on the Coast will apply to the Weldwood operations at Williams Lake and 100 Mile House. In applying such revisions it will be done on the basis of job comparison rather than simply jpb title.
SUPPLEMENT NO, 6 FIREFIGHTING AGREEMENT
The following terms and conditions shall he applicable fpr the duration of the current Collective Agreement during “Company Responsibility Fires”.
It is understood that the terms of this Agreement only apply to the employees in the employ of the Company at the time the fire started. Any person hired for firefighting after the start of the fire will work under the rate and conditions as required by the B C. Forest Service.
1 DEFINITIONS
3	Accidjjenta!l__e
Any fire not deliberately ignited by the Company to dispose of slash or waste, and which requires active measures to extinguish.
b)	Slash Escape Fire
Any slash fire ignited by the Company which has escaped the predetermined boundaries and requires active measures to extinguish
c)	Slash Control Fire
Any slash tire ignited by the Company which is contained within the predetermined boundaries, or alternatively, any slash lire which has escaped such boundaries but is not considered out of control and does not require active measures as contemplated in a) and b) above.
d)	Company Resnais lii Hi Fire
Any fire which the Company is responsible far taking measures to extinguish pursuant to the provisions of the Forest Act
e)	Forest Service Fire
Any fire in respect of which the B. C. Forest Service accepts responsibility for direction of measures to extinguish.
f)	R^^ightingJtgtej
The rate of pay far fighting Company Responsibility Fires herein&r set out in this Agreement.
Page 66
g)	Regular Job Rates
Rates of pay to employees for the performance of their regular jobs, as set out in the Wage Supplement of this Collective Agreement.
h)	Statutory Rates
Rates of pay established by B. C. Forest Sejvice for fire fighting.
2. COMPANY CONTROLLED TIMBER
a)	Notwithstanding the foregoing, when the Company directs Company employees to
tight tires on Company controlled timber, ot to fight fires on property adjacent to Company controlled timber which is threatening Company controlled timber, the Company will pay those employees at the fiife fighting rates set out in Section 3 of this Supplement.	|:
b)	Where the B. C. Forest Service directs the Company to provide its employees for fighting fires in circumstances other than thjjse set out in (a) above, those employees will be paid at the statutory rate
3
FIGHTING RATES
a) The basic rate shall be the base rate shown i|n the Collective Agreement and shall apply to all employees engaged in fighting Company .Responsibility Fires except those performing one of the following fire fighting jobs:
Category
JuneJS/94	June IS/9S	15/96
Crew Boss Cat Operators Skidder Operators Power Saw operators (Own Saw)
Mechanics/Heavy Duty Slip-on Tank and or Tailor Tanks with Pump Driver/Operator Water Tank Truck with Pump Driver/ Operator
Service Truck/Bus Driver Pumpman
$2166	$22.31	$22,755
21.095	21	73	22.16
22.565	23	24	23 705
22.895	23	58	24 05
Mechanic’s regular jqb rate
21.095	21 73	22 16
20.31	21.95	22 39
19.425	20.01	20.41
19 765	20.36	20.765
P*g«67
The general wage increases provided for all employees effective June 15/94 (Article V, Section 1) have been incorporated into thes^ rates.
b)	Straight time rates will apply to all employees throughout the period during which the said employees are engaged in fi jt; fighting. This shall not include cook and bunkhouse personnel, tradesmen, mechanics or other categories servicing, feeding or supplying firefighters from areas Removed from the area of the tire or fires, unless the duties performed during any day in question are exclusively related to fire fighting operations.
c)	Regular job rates will apply only forjthe duration of the regular production shift in which the fire started.
d)	Where employees are working in joh classifications during fire fighting, other than those set out herein, job rater will aj|ply.
14.	BOARD AND LODGING	fWhile Fighting Company Responsibility Firer)
a)	Employees who commute from home or camp are expected to “carry a lunch". Additional meals where required willlbe at Company expense.
b)	Employees required to live away from their private residence will receive board and lodging at Company expense.
c)	Employees living in fly camps will receive board and lodging at Company expense. 5.	TRAWL TIME
Travel time for employees engaged in tire fighting will be paid in accordance with the Collective Agreement.
6.	SLASH BURNING
All employees engaged in patrolling or controlling slash fires which have been set by the Company will be paid their regular job rate land overtime conditions will apply.
7	INTERPRETATIVE NOTES
a) Wien active fire fighting ceases to be necessary, rates and overtime conditions for tire patrol will revert to normal conditions provided for in the Collective Agreement.
b) The meaning ofthe word “extinguish" as used in this Agreement shall include the act or process of suppression to the point when the fire requires fire patrolman Only.
PtfeM
8	All provisions ofthe Collective Agreement except as amended or modified herein shall
continue to apply.	j
9	The Company and the Union are prepared to participate in joint submissions to the Provincial Government on statutory fire fighting rates.
P«f*<9
SUPPLEMENT NO. 7
CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTING
Section 1:
It is agreed that Plant Tradesmen who are assigned by the Company to carry out work directly related to “New” construction with tradesmen employed by an outside contractor, plaiit tradesmen will be paid the “outside" contractors) tate(s).
Section 2;
For the purpose of this Agreement “New construction’ shall be defined as meaning"
a)	The construction of major new buildings and major additions to existing buildings
b)	The addition of new or used major production machinery and related equipment
b)	"Contractor's Rate" shall only mean the hourly wage paid by that contractor and not any other payment or working conditions.
c)	"Contractor's Rate" will not exceed the rates for similar trades paid by IWA construction companies.
not previously in existence.
States ?■
Machinist
Steamfitter/Pipefitter
Electrician
Millwright
Welder
Carpenter
Fig< 70
SUPPLEMENT NO. 8
ALTERNATE SHIFT SCHEDULING
A. FLEXIBILITY OF HOURS OF WORK
The Parties recognize the need for flexibility of hours other than those outlined in the Hours of Work Article, for the express purpose of better utilization of manpower and capital such as:
Balancing of production Maintenance Market requirements Even Row production
Emergency or unexpected harvesting programs Continuous scheduling (e.g. Logging, Engineers,
Firs-fighter. Maintenance, Watchmen) I
B. SHIFT SCHEDULING
The Parties agree that the following shift schedules will provide the flexibility required to meet the needs expressed above
1.	Logging
i)	compressed scheduler consisting of 10 hours per day, 4 days per week;
ii)	non-continuous schedules such as 10 days cm. 4 days off
2.	Manufacturing
i)	2 crews working 4 days. lOlhours per shift;
ii)	up to 3 crews working Monday to Saturday, 10 hours a shift not exceeding 40 hours per week;
iii)	employees working in contiguous operations may be scheduled to work shifts other than(i) or (ii) above
3.	Maintenance
i)	shifts of up to 10 hours per day, 40 hours per week. Monday to Sunday inclusive;
ii)	three shifts per week, not exceeding 12 hours per day.
4.	Other Shifts
It is understood the parties can establish other shifts by mutual consent to meet local conditions.
C. IMPLEMENTATION
Any variations(s) to the Hours of Work Article shall be implemented only upon completion of the following steps.
1 The Company and the Local Union;will meet to discuss proposed shift schedules within the terms of the Hours of W^rk Article. It is anticipated that the Local Union will make sincere attempts to assist the Company wishing to introduce alternate shift scheduler. The parties must mutually agree on resolution ofissues such as:
Details of shift.
Details of Statutory Holidays, Floating Holiday, Bereavement Leave, and Jury Duty.
Maximum length of shifts fpr physically demanding work. Accident prevention is a factor to be taken into account in determining shift lengths.
The loss of hours/employment as a direct result of the implementation of alternate shift schedules.
The use of employees for supplementary production work.
2.	The Camp or Plant Committee and;the crew will be actively consulted by the Parties during the process.
a)
b)
c)
d)
e)
D. GENERAL PRINCIPLES
i-
When an alternate shift schedule is in effect other provisions of the Collective Agreement
will be administered on the principle that an employee will not lose or gain any benefits
over his normal five-day schedule.
1.	The Company agrees that alternate shift schedules will be not introduced where the intention is to increase the use of casual employees in place of regular employees.
2.	Different parts of an operation may be scheduled on different shifts.
3	The principle of the forty (40) hour week i$ to be maintained over an averaging
period
4.	This Article shall not change existing alteniate shift agreements, unless agreed to by both parties.
5.	Earned vacations will be scheduled on the Same basis as days and hours worked under the alternate shift schedule.
6 Other Articles of the Collective agreementwhich provide benefits after eight (8) hours are extended by the amount the regular hours of work have been increased beyond the eight (8) hours per day.
7. An employee’s rest days may vary from wflek to week under en alternate shift
schedule. Employees shall not be paid prel/ruum pay for changes in their rest days in these circumstances.
8	An employee whose rest days are changediby the Company under an established alternate shift schedule shell receive rate a(jd one-half for work performed on his rest days unless a change in rest day result^ from the application of seniority or has been agreed to between the employee and 'the Company
9	There shall be no premium pay paid to any employee whose rest days are changed because of the implementation of an alternate shift schedule.
SUPPLEMENT NO.9
I
November 4,1994
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING New and Evolving Work
Preamble
Weldwood of Canada Limited and IWA-Cana aidgree to a process which seeks to balance the economic concerns of the member companies Uith the needs oftheir employees to have access to New and Evolving Work within the NDFtficm Interior Forest Industry.
This process is intended to deal with;
1.	employment for regular company employeejs who are displaced by reductions in Annual Allowable Cuts or other land use decisions
2.	additional opportunities for bargaining unit;employment in new work that may be created in the forest industry
3 replacement bargaining unit employment injnew or evolved work which may develop in future
This Letter established a process for the Company and the Local Union to discuss opportunities for having company employees perform new and evolving work within the forest industry in:
•	Added
•	Re-manufacturing
•	Opportunities created through B.C. forest Renewal funding
Companies and Local Unions are committek to working together towards making new work opportunities available to company employees. It is understood to accomplish these goals the parties must achieve:
•	efficiency and cost effectiveness on a fair and reasonable basis
•	quality objectives
•	safety objectives
The parties recognize that they cannot reasonably anticipate all circumstances and situations which may arise so cannot prescribe comprehensive solutions in advance
„/2
Rife 74
-24. The parties agree that early joint preparation is an jjmportant contributor to the successful implementation and administration ofthe New andi Evolving Work Letter. To this end, the respective negotiating committees will be jointly available to clarity this agreement, and to assist parties on a case by case basis.
5.	Issues must be resolved in a timely fashion
6	This Letter will expire on June 30,1997, unless specifically renewed by both parties. Dispute Resolution Process:
In order to assist member companies and Local Unions in resolving disputes which may arise as a result of this Letter, Weldwood of Canada Limited and I^A-Canada agree to:
a)	Establish a joint Dispute Resolution Commlittee comprised of three (3) representatives from management and threi (3) representatives from the Union to feet find and assist the company and Local jlfnion in reaching a solution.
b)	Management or the Local Union cm request the assistant ofthe Dispute Resolution Committee.
c)	The Dispute Resolution Committee may utjlize the services of facilitators, mediators, or whatever means in order to r^iach a final recommended resolution
Agreed to on behalf WA-CANADA.
P.g«73
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING Task orce
Weldwood of Canada Limited and IWA-Canada have agreed to a Task Force, comprised of three (3) representatives from management and tltree (3) representatives of the Union, with co-chairmen from each party. The Task Force wi^l examine the changes and trends in the forest industry.
The terms of reference for the Task Force will beias follows, but may include other matters the
parties wish to explore.
1.	To examine the ch&ngefs) taking place within the Industry and the impact an Union/Management relations.
2.	To identify any procedure, policy, agreement, work schedules, method, working environment, people utilization, and company practice which contributes to efficient, safe production performance while expanding the current workforce.
3.	To identify what changer are appropriate to improve the overall Industry’s ability to harvest and manufacture the timber in a s^fe, economical manner.
4.	To identify opportunities for employees tp learn new skills and to train company employees to operate the equipment and perform the other jobs associated with the evolving jobs within the B.C. Forest Industry.
5.	The Task Force will submit reports with recommendations to the Union and Management Negotiating Committee on a regular basis an measurer that will address the changes needed within the Forest Industry.
6.	This Letter will expire on June 30,1997, unless specifically renewed by both parties
Agreed to on behalf:
November 4. 1994
Weldwood of Canada Limited PO Box 2179 Vancouver, BC V6B 3V8
Attention: Gordon Gray
Dear Sir
This letter is intended to clarify IWA-Ctnadl'l intent wkh regard tot he terms end conditions of
the Letter of Understanding In 1994 negotiations on hew and Evolving Work
During discussions on this, the Industry raised concern] that we answer es follow
1.	It is not the intention of IWA-Canada to use thjf agreement to replace existing lopping contractors with IWA members or crews.
2.	It is IWA*Canadi‘a desire to have oppommitieslto discuss with employers the possibility of either using IWA company crews, or IWA contractors, to perform work under Forest Renewal, but It is not our intent to cause compares to purchase equipment without having the costs of such equipment considered qs pert of the efficiency and cost effectiveness that the IWA agrees to address unjler the New and Evolving Work agreement
3.	it is IWA-Canida's intention that discussions concerning new operations under the agreement may lead to voluntary recognition an {I certification • it is not our intention to achieve certification first and enter into discussions later unless certification occurs es a direct result of an IWA organizing drive
As stated earlier, this letter is to clarify our Intentions concerning our agreement, ft is not
intended to form part of (He agreement, as is not arbitrable by either party
Sincerely,
Harvey Arcand
4th Vice President
IWA-Canada
RE: Agreement on New and Evolving Work
ttnu
1