COLLECTIVE LABOUR AGREEMENT B-------
AND
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPER WORKERS UNION OF CANADA LOCAL2039
EFFECTIVE FROM
May 1,1995 «. to April 30,1998

Txsn
THIS COLLECTIVE LABOUR AGREEMENT E MADE AND ENTERED INTO BY AND BETWEEN:
CARADON LOCK-WOOD]
A DIVISION OF CARADON LIMITED
HEREIN AFTER REFERRED TO AS THE ‘COMPANY”
AND
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPER WORKERS UNION OF CANADA LOCAL 2039
HEREIN AFTER REFERRED TO AS THE “UNION”
1
DESCRIPTION OF CLAUSE
ARTICLE NO.	PAGE
Bereavement Leave	7
Copies of Agreement	9
Discharge and Disciplinary Procedure	5
Discrimination	4
Dues	4
Duration of Agreement	22
Grievance Procedure and Arbitration	15
Hours of Work and Overtime	6
Insurance	18
Job Postings	12
Jury Service	8
Lay-Off Notice	12
Leave of Absence	16
Liaison Committee	15
Management Rights	3
Negotiating Committee	10
No Strikes or Lockouts	20
Purpose	1
Recognition	2
Safety and Health	11
Seniority	12
Severance Allowance	17
Shop Stewards and NationalRep	5
Statutory Holidays	14
TechnologicalChange	19
Transfers	12
Union Security and Check Off	4
Vacation	13
Wages	21
Schedule “A	
-2- t"
9
10
5
4
4
23
16
6
20
12
10
14
18
18
4
10
21
3
3
11
11
19
5
15
20
13
4
14
21
22
ARTICLE 1 - PURPOSE
1.01	The general purpose of this Agreement is to establish mutually satisfactory relations between the employer and the employee, provide machinery for prompt settlement of grievances and establish and maintain satisfactory working conditions, hours of work, and wages for those employees covered by this Agreement.
ARTICLE 2 - UNION RECOGNITION
2.01	The Company recognizes the Communications, Energy and Paperworkers Union of Canada (CEP), Local 2039, as the sole and exclusive bargaining agent for all employees employed at its plant and/or plants in Scoudouc, New Brunswick, save and except foremen and those above the rank of foreman, security guards, office and sales staff, hereinafter called employees.
2.02	Persons whose regular work is not within the classification of schedule “A” will not perform any of the work covered by the classification in Schedule “A” except in cases (f
(a)	emergency
(b)	where aid is requested by an employee
(c)	where such work isfor the purposes of instruction, investigation or experimentation.
Emergency is defined as work that must be done immediately to maintain the efficient and smooth operation of the Company's business and suitable trained employees are not available.
2.03	The Company agrees that, during the term of this Agreement, it will not contract out to non-Union contractors the work of assembling completed doors and windows distributed by the Company; provided that this shall not be construed as preventing the Company from obtaining and distributing component parts from or to sources outside the Company’s plant at Scoudouc.
Any work normally done by Maintenance Department will not be contracted out while employees of the Maintenance Department who would normally do such work are on layoff.
■3-
A 3-	1/1GEMENT RIGHTS
3.01	The Union acknowledges that the employer has the exclusive rights to manage its business save and except as modified by the terms and conditions of this Agreement, including the right to discharge or discipline for just cause, to make, alter or amend from time to time, and enforce rules of conduct and procedure to be observed by employees. It is agreed that these functions shall not be exercised in a manner inconsistent with the provisions of the Agreement.
ARTICLE4- UNIONSECURITYAND CHECK-OFF
4.01	All present employees and new employees shall become members and remain members in good standing as a condition of employment of local 2039 of the Union from the first day of work, but shall not accumulateseniorityor be entitled to invoke the grievance procedurein case of layoff or dismissal duringthe 45 -day probationary period.
If, at the end of such period, the employee is deemed satisfactory, his seniority will be antedated to the first day of work.
4.02	The Company agrees, during the term of this Agreement, to deduct from the wages of each employee in the bargaining unit an amount equal to his regular authorized Union dues and to remit to the Financial Secretary of the Union the monies deducted along with a list of names of the employees from whom deductions were made, the amount deducted and the hours worked, not later than the 15th day of the month following the deductions. Deductionsshall be made weekly.
4.03	The Company further agrees that it will deduct from the wages of new employees an amount equal to the regularly authorized Union initiation fee. The amounts so deducted shall be remitted to the Financial Secretary of the Union by the 15th of the following month.
4.04	The Union will save the Company harmless from any and all claims which may be made by employees against the Company for amounts deducted from their pay as herein provided.
4.05	Neither the Company nor the Union shall discriminate against employees with respect to terms or conditions of employment on the
-4-
grounds of race, creed, colour, age, sex, religion, nationality or place of origin, Union membership or participationor non-participationin Union activities, family relationship, place of residence, political affiliation or physical handicap.
4.06	Where the masculine gender is used in this Agreement, it is for convenience only and shall refer to both males and females.
ARTICLE 5 - SHOP STEWARDS AND NATIONAL REP OF C.E.P.
5.01	The Company recognizes the right of the Union to appoint a shop steward in every operating building to represent the employees on their respective shifts.
5.02	Temporary stewards may be appointed in the absence of regular stewards. The Union agrees to notify the Company in writing of the names of the steward and the effective date of the appointments. Temporary shop stewards involved in grievance shall continue the follow-up procedure in the event the regular steward returns to work before the grievance is satisfactorily resolved.
5.03	The Union acknowledges that the steward and chief shop steward have regular duties to perform on behalf of the Company and that they will not leave such duties without receiving permission from their foreman or supervisor. Such permission shall not be unreasonably withheld. With this understanding, the Company agrees that the stew ard and chief shop steward shall not suffer any loss of pay during working hours for the time spent to administer any in-plant business concerning this Agreement.
5.04	Permanent Union stewards shall be creditedwith double seniority in the event f a lay-off, provided, however, this provision does not apply in the event the shift, for which a steward was appointed, is no longer in operation. In the event f layoff, it is agreed the president of the Union Local will be the last person to be laid off, subject to such president having the skill, ability and physical fitness necessary to perform the job.
■5-
DISCHARGE AND DISCIPLINARY PROCEDURE
5.05	a) Any employee called into the off ice on a disciplinary matter shall be accompanied by his shop steward. In the event of the shop steward being absent and no other shop steward is available, the chief shop steward must accompany the employee.
b)	The Company shall not take disciplinary action without first warning the employee concerned, unless the circumstances justify immediate suspension or discharge. In the event of a claim that an employee has been discharged or suspended unjustly or unreasonably, the grievance shall be filed at Step Three f the grievance procedure within five (5) working days. Warning shall be given in writing or in the presence of a shop steward.
c)	Any warning will be removed fro the employee's record at the end of twenty-four (24) months following the date of such warning provided that no other disciplinary action has been taken against the employee within the twenty-four (24) month period.
5.06	If an authorized Union representative who is not employed by the Company wishes to speak to local Union representatives in the plant about a grievance or other official Union business, he shall so advise the Human Resources Manager or his designate. The Local representatives shall be called to the office where they may confer privately.
5.07	The Company agrees to provide Union bulletin boards in the plant for the purpose of posting Union notices and official papers. Notices are to be posted only by officers and stewards of the Union and are to be in keeping with the spirit and intent of this Agreement.
TICLE 6 - HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME DAY SHIFT
6.01	(a) The normal work week for Lock-Wood employees on day
shift shall be forty hours per week, eight hours per day, 8:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. Mondayto Friday inclusive.
(b)	Lunch period shall be one half hour to be taken during the period between the hours of 12:00 noon and 1:00 p.m. Day-shiftwork-6-
ers shall receive a ten-minute break period in the forenoon and another in the afternoon.
(c)	Any time worked in excess of eight hours per day shall be paid for at time and one half. Any time worked on Sundays shall be at double time. Any employee working on a Statutory Holiday shall be paid at double time for hours worked and shall also receive any holiday pay to which he is entitled.
(d)	Day shift employees required to work more than eight and one half hours in any day or shift without at least twenty-four hours prior notice shall be given one hour for meal time at time and one half.
(e)	Employees given twenty-four hours prior notice will receive 30 paid minutes for supper and a paid 10 minute break every two hours at time and one half.
6.02	Overtime will be on a voluntary basis and wherever practical shall be divided equally among the employees.
EVENING SHIFT
6.03	(a) The normal work week for Lock-Wood employees on the evening shift, when night shift is operating, shall be thirty-eight hours per week, nine and one-half hours per shift, commencing at 4:30 p.m. Monday and ending at 2:30 a.m. Friday.
(b)	Lunch periods and breaks on the evening shift shall be so scheduled: a ten-minute break at 7:00 p.m., a thirty-minute break at 9:30 p.m. and a final ten-minute break at 12:00 midnight.
(c)	Employees working the evening shift will receive ten hours pay for nine and one half hours of work.
EVENING SHIFT AND NIGHT SHIFT BOTH OPERATING
6.04	(a) The normal work week for Lock-Wood employees on the evening shift shall be thirty-seven and one-half hours per week, seven and one-half hours per shift, commencing at 4:30 p.m. Monday and ending at 12:15 a.m. Saturday.
(b)	The normal work week for Lock-Wood employees on the night shift shall be thirty-seven and one-half hours per week, seven
-7-
and one-half hours per shift, commencing at 12:15 a.m Tuesday and ending at 8:00 a.m. Saturday.
(c)	There shall be a ten-minute break half-way through the first half of the shift, a fifteen minute lunch break mid-way through the shift, and a ten minute break half-waythrough the second half of the shift.
(d)	Employees working the evening and night shifts will receive eight hours pay for seven and one-half hours of work. An additional shift premium for night shift to be included in Schedule “A”.
6.05	When no night shift is operating, the evening shift will be as per 6.03. VMien a night shift is started in any department, all departments having an evening shift will operate as per 6.04. When the Paint Department only is working night shift, the remainder of the plant will operate as per 6.03.
6.06	It is the intention of the Company, where possible, to have the evening shift operating at capacity before starting a night shift in that department.
6.07	In the event that both the Union and the Company find the above schedule of night shift hours unworkable, the company agrees to reconsider this schedule with the Union.
6.08	Any employee assigned to another shift shall be given not less than seven (7) calendar days notice of such change of shift. It is understood that employees with the lowest departmental seniority will be assigned first to shift work provided they have sufficient training to do the work. Where possible assemblers with the least amount of plant wide seniority will be assigned to the night shift.
6.09	At the end of each ten-minute break period as provided for in paragraphs 6.01(b), 6.03 (b) and 6.04 (c), a warning horn will sound and all employees shall immediately return directly to their work stations. At the twelve-minute mark a second horn will sound at which time all employees must begin working.
6.10	An employee scheduled for and reportingfor work and then not permitted to work shall receive four hours’ pay at his regular straight time rate. This provision shall not apply when any emergency closedown occurs involving over 25% (f the employees on the active payroll.
-8-
In November of each year, employees will be notifiedof the method for announcing plant close-downs.
6.11	An employee “called back" to work after he has completed his normal shift and left the plant, shall receive the greater of:
(a)	four (4) hours of pay at straight time, or
(b)	time and one half for hours actually worked.
6.12	The Company guarantees that periodic “stock-taking” will not result in the loss of more than one scheduled working day at any one time.
6.13	Employees coming under the terms of this Agreement may be paid either by cheque or by direct deposit into a specified bank account. Employees paid by cheque will receive their cheque Thursday at 4 o’clock cf each week if cheques are ready. When paid Friday, shall be paid at noon. When Friday is a Statutory Holiday, pay is to be given not later than 4 o’clock on Thursday. Employees paid by direct deposit will have their pay on Thursday of each week. When Monday is a holiday, employees paid by direct deposit may, at times, not receive their pay until Friday.
ARTICLE7- BEREAVEMENTLEAVE
7.01	The Company will grant leave of absence with pay for the purpose of arranging and attending funerals in the case of bereavement as follows:
(a)	Five (5) days of absence with pay in the case of the death of a spouse or child. These days must be taken within two weeks of the date of death.
(b)	Three (3) days of absence with pay in the case of the death of a brother, mother, father, sister, mother-in-law, father-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, or grandchildren of an employee.
(c)	One (1) day of absence with pay in the case of a grandparent, brother-in-law, and sister-in-law of an employee for the purpose of attending the funeral.
(d)	In case of out of town or city death, one extra day with pay
-9-
shall be granted where the funeral is held outside a two-hundred kilometer radius of the Scoudouc plant for the purpose of attending the funeral.
7.02	The leaves of absence granted under (b), (c) and (d) shall end on the day of the funeral, except in the case of an out of town death
(d).
7.03	Compensation will not be paid to an employee for any part of this period he would normally not be scheduled to work.
ARTICLE 8 ■ PAY FOR JURY SERVICE
8.01	The Company shall pay an employee who is required for jury service the difference between his regular straight time daily earnings and the amount of pay receivedfrom the court for each regular working day spent on jury service.The employee must present proof cf service and the amount of pay received.
ARTICLE9 - COPIES OF AGREEMENT
9.01	The Company and the Union desire every employee to be familiar with the provisions of the Agreement and his rights and duties under it. For this reason, the Company will print the Agreement in English and in French in booklet form and all employees will receive a copy.
Should a conflict occur, the English version shall prevail.
ARTICLE 10 -N EGOTIATINGCOMMITTEE
10.01	For the purpose of meeting with Company representatives to negotiate contract changes, a committee of not more than five employees plus Union representative(s) will be designated by the Union.
Members of Negotiating Committee will not lose pay for time spent during regularly scheduled working hours attending scheduled meetings with the Company representatives.
-10-
ARTICLE 11 ■ SAFETY AND HEALTH
11.01	The Company and Union agree that they mutually desire to maintain high standards of safety and health in the plant in order to prevent industrial injury and illness.
11.02	The Company agrees to continue its present practice of furnishing the following safety equipment and protective clothing where and when required by the job:
Safety Glasses	Gloves	Wrist Guards
Hard Hats	Hearing Protectors	Aprons
Goggles	Overalls	Masks
The company will provide an allowance of up to $50.00 per year for boots for Paint System Operators and Hand Sprayers.
11.03	The Company and the Union agree to name a Safety and Health committee comprising an equal number of Company and Union representatives.The Committee's function will be to promote safety and industrial hygiene in the plant. It shall make monthly inspections and also accompany the Safety Inspector on his inspections of the plant and equipment.The Committee shall hold monthly meetings.
11.04	Upon request of the Union or the Company, the Safety Committee shall investigate and report as soon as possible on the nature and causes of any accident or injury.
11.05	In the event of employees sustaining injuries at work during the course of their employment and becoming physically handicapped as a result thereof, every effort will be made by the Company to give the handicapped employee such suitable employment as is available.
ARTICLE 12-SENIORITY
12.01	The Company recognizes that job opportunity and security in the bargaining unit should increase in proportionto length of service. It is, therefore, agreed that in all such cases of vacancy, promotion, transfer, lay-off, recall, vacation schedule, senior employees shall be entitled to preference.
11
12.02	In recognition, however, of the responsibility of the Company for efficient operation of the plant, it is understood and agreed that in all such cases the Company shall have the right to pass over any employee if it establishes that he does not have the skill, ability or the physical fitness to perform the work, providing that the Company gives a fair and reasonabletrial and training period not to exceed two days.
12.03	Seniority of each employee in the bargaining unit covered by this Agreement shall be established after a probation period of forty-five (45) calendar days and shall count from date of employment.
12.04	JOB POSTINGS
All vacancies and promotions for positions of more than one month's duration and newly created positions shall be posted for ten (10) working days on the bulletin board supplied for Union purposes. Any employee desiring the position must make written application to the Company within the first ten (10) days of posting.
Notices for newly created positions will be given to the Union at least twenty-four (24) hours in advance of posting for translation.
All applicants for a posted vacancy will be considered on the following basis:
(a)	He has the skill and ability to performthe job.
(b)	Seniority
(c)	In the event the Company does not receive any application within the said period of ten (10) working days, the Company shall have the right to fill the position without further posting.
It is agreed that in the event of two (2) or more applicants possessing relatively the same qualifications then the employee with the most seniority will qualify for the job.
12.04	It is agreed that the successful applicant be given a trial period of 10 working days both to demonstrate his ability and to familiarize himself with the job requirements. In recognizing that the Company must be able to train successful applicants in preparation for peak periods, training may take precedence over seniority. Estimated training times will be established for each classification, after consultation with the Union.
If, at the end of the trail period, it is deemed that he has neither the -12-
ability nor the interest to perform the job, then he has the right to return to his former position and wage classificationwithout loss of seniority.
An employee may not bid for and try more than two new positions in a twelve-month period.
12.05	The Company shall maintain a seniority list fcrthe plant, a copy of such list shall be posted for employee inspections and a copy shall be provided to the Union. This list shall be kept up to date three times per year.
12.06	An employee shall lose seniority and shall cease to be an employee of the Companyfor any of the following reasons:
(a)	if the employeevoluntarily quits
(b)	if the employee is discharged for just cause and is not reinstatedthrough the grievance procedure
(c)	if the employee has been on lay-off for lack of work according to the following schedule:
45 days to two (2) years -12 months
More than two (2) years- less than ten (10) years
-18 months
Ten (10) years and over - 36 months
(d)	if an employee on lay-off is offered a job in any department in the plant at the same rate as his classified rate and refusesto accept the recall to work.
12.07	TRANSFERS
fan employee substitutes in any department on any job during the absence of another employee, he shall receive the rate for the job cr his regular rate, whichever is the greater. An employee currently working and holding a classificationwill continue to be paid at the agreed rate for that classification, whether he is working on his classified job or not. A classified employee who is on layoff and is rehired for other than his classified job, however, would not be paid his classified rate until such time as he is once again required to work at his own classification.
-13-
12.08	No,employee shall be transferred to a position outside the bargaining unit without his consent. If an employee is transferred to a position outside the bargaining unit, he shall retain his seniority accumulated up to the date of leaving the unit but will not accumulate further seniority. For a period of nine months from the date of leaving the bargaining unit such employee shall have the right to return to a position in the bargaining unit consistent with his seniority accumulated up to the date of transfer outside the unit. For existing foremen and staff, the period of nine months begins May 1,1995.
12.09	The Company may temporarily transfer an employee for a period of up to three (3) working days without referring to seniority. Temporary transfers beyond three (3) working days shall be done on a seniority basis. Classified employees above the rate of assembler may be excluded from transfer. Any transfer of a permanent nature will be discussed with the individual concerned.
12.10	Employees on layoff for shortage of work or absent due to illness, who have completed their probationary period, shall continue to accumulate seniority while on lay-off subject to the restrictions of Article 12.06.
12.11	New employees shall not be hired for jobs classified under this Agreement while there are employees on lay-off.
12.12	LAY-OFF NOTICE
In the event of lay-off due to lack of work, the employees affected and their union shall be given one week's notice in advance.
ARTICLE 13 -VACATION
13.01	The vacation year is July 1 to June 30. Vacation and vacation pay will be based on the following schedule:
Seniority	Vacation
Lessthan 1 year 1 day per month worked (maximum 10)
1	year 1 day per month worked (maximum 12)
2	years
3	years
14-
4	years
5	years
6	years 1 1/4 days per month worked (maximum 15)
7	years
8	years
9	years
10	years
11	years
12	years
13	years 1 3/4 days per month worked (maximum 21)
14	years
15	years
16	years
17	years
18	years
19	years
20	years
21	years
22	years
23	years & over 25 days (maximum)
13.02	Absence due to lay-off and approved leave of absence of up to two months shall be considered as days worked for vacation purposes.
13.03	Absence due to a non job related sickness or injury, of up to four months and absence due to a job related injury of up to six months shall be consideredas days worked for vacation purposes.
13.04	Vacations shall be taken at a time mutually satisfactory to the employee and to the Company. Vacation pay shall be paid to the employee at least one week before the vacation is taken.
The company will give anyone who is entitled to two weeks or more vacation, up to two weeks vacation within the June 15 to September 15 period, at the employee's option, provided that not more than 50 people will be absent from the plant at any one time during that period.
ARTICLE 14-PAID S_______________HOLIDAYS
14.01	The following shall be paid holidays:
-15-
NewYeai's Day	Labour Day
Heritage Day (if declared)	Thanksgiving Day
Good Friday	Remembrance Day
Victoria Day	Christmas Day
Canada Day	Boxing Day
New Brunswick Day
14.02	In January of each year, the Company will notify the employees of the days on which the Statutory Holidays will be observed.
14.03	An employee required to work on any of the above named holidays shall be paid at the rate of two times the regular straight time hourly rate in addition to the holiday pay.
14.04	If a Statutory Holiday falls within the employee's vacation period, the Company shall grant an extra day's vacation pay at a time to be determined by the Company and the employee either the day before or the day after the vacation period provided not more than fifty (50) employees are absent on the day requested by the employee.
14.05	To be eligible for Statutory Holiday pay, an employee must work his scheduled work day immediately preceding and the scheduled work day immediatelyfollowing such Holiday except in the case of sickness or accident (doctors' certificate may be required) or approved leave of absence. In the event an employee is laid off on a day immediately preceding a Statutory Holiday, the employee will be paid for that Statutory Holiday.
ARTICL E15 • GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE AND ARBITRATION
15.01	The purpose of this section is to establish procedures for discussion, processing and settlement of grievances as defined in this Agreement.
15.02	“Grievance” as used in this Agreement is a complaint or request involving any matter relating to any question or interpretation or application of, or compliance with, the provisions of this Agreement and shall only relate to or concern any grievance which has arisen or arises subsequent to the date of this Agreement.
-16-
15.03	Saturday, Sunday, plant holidays and plant vacation period shall not be included in any time limits in this section of the Agreement. If either party is unable to follow the time limits as set down in the Grievance Procedure, these time limits may be extended by requesting same in writing, if mutually agreed upon by both parties.
15.04	Grievances shall be handled in the following manner:
(a)	STEP ONE Any employee who believes he has a grievance must discuss the matter with the foreman, the employee may, if he so desires, be accompanied by his steward. If no acceptable decision can be reached at this time, then within 7 working days after the alleged grievance has arisen, the employee must present the grievance in writing to his foreman. The foreman shall state his decision or refusal to make a decision in writing and submit the same within 24 hours.
(b)	STEP TWO If no settlement is reached in Step One, the grievance may, within 5 days after the disposition of Step One, be referred in writing to the Human Resources Manager who will meet with the employee concerned accompanied by the chief shop steward or the Union president within 48 hours. The Human Resources Managerwill render a decision in writing within afurther48 hours.
(c)	STEP THREE If no settlement is reached in Step Two, the recording secretary accompanied by his Union President and/or a Union representative will meet the President or his designate to discuss the grievance, no later than 5 days after the disposition of Step Two. The President of his designate will render his decision within 48 hours of the meeting.
(d)	If the grievance is not then settled, then at the request of either party to this Agreement the grievance may be referred to arbitration within 5 days after the disposition of Step Three.
15.05	The Union or Company shall have the right to initiate a grievance of a general nature, at Step Three of the grievance procedure.
15.06	Arbitration shall be in accordance with the current Industrial Relations Act and each of the parties hereto will bear the expense of an Arbitrator appointed by it, (or a single Arbitrator) and the parties will jointly bear the expenses of the Chairman of the Arbitration Board, if any. The procedures of the Arbitration Board will be expedited by the parties hereto.
15.07	The Board of Arbitration shall not have the power to alter or change any of the provisions of this Agreement or to substitute any new provisions for any existing provisions nor to make any decisions inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement. The Arbitration Board (or single Arbitrator) will be required to render a formal decision within thirty (30) days from the conclusion of the Hearing.
15.08	All time limits mentioned in the grievance and arbitration procedures may be extended by written mutual agreement between the parties.
15.09	LIAISON COMMITTEE
The Company agrees to meet with the Liaison Committee to be appointed by the Union from its Lock-Wbod membership.
The Committee is to include a representativefrom the Union, all duly appointed executive officers and at least four (4) Company representatives.
The meetings are to be held monthly and, in addition, either the Union or the Company may call a Special Meeting to discuss items of business which should not be delayed until the regular meeting.
Special Meetings will be held on the time of those calling the Meeting.
In general, the duty of the Committee will be to discuss matters of mutual interest to the Union and the Company.
During the performance of their duties, the employees on the Committee shall be excused from their regular duties.
ARTICLE 16 - LEAVE OF iBSENCE
16.01	An employee will be allowed up to a 30-day leave of absence without pay for personal reasons if:
(a)	he requests it from the Company in writing; and
(b)	the leave is for good reason and does not interfere with operations. A leave of absence will be extended for additional 30-day periods, if there is good reason and the Company agrees. The employee must request the extension in writing before his leave of absence is up. The Union will be notifiedof all leaves under this Section.
18-
16.02	An employee who has been elected or appointed by the Union to attend Union conventions or conferences shall be granted a leave of absence without pay for this purpose. The Union will inform the Company of the names of the delegates to a maximum of five (5) delegates at any one time. The company shall grant an employee a leave of absence of not more than three years to work in an official capacity for the local or national Union. The employee must request the leave in writing and the Union must approve it. This leave may be extended for additional three-year periods.
16.03	An employee may be granted a leave of absence for the purpose of attending a recognized educational institution on a full time basis for studies relative to the operation of the plant. Employees wishing a leave of absence for educational purposes must have permission from the Human Resources Manager or his designate. The request for such leave tf absence must be submitted to the Human Resources Manager in writing at least one (1) month prior to the requested starting date.
16.04	Request for leave of absence will be in writing and no such leave will affect any employee's seniority rights when used for the purpose granted.
ARTICLE17 - SEVERANCE ALLOWANCES
17.01	Subject to the seniority provisions of this Agreement, employees who become permanently displaced as a result of the closing of the plant or a department, or of the moving of the plant to another location shall be entitled to a severance allowance in accordance with their seniority. The amount of severance allowance to which an employee shall be entitledto shall be:
(a)	One year cf seniority but less than three years, shall receive two weeks pay;
(b)	Three years seniority but less than five years, four weeks pay;
(c)	Five years seniority but less than seven years, seven weeks pay;
(d)	Seven years seniority but less than nineteen years, nine weeks pay;
19-
(e)	Nineteen years seniority or more, twelve weeks pay
Severance allowance shall be paid to employees in a lump sum at the time of termination.
ARTICLE 18-INSURANCE
18.01	The Company agrees to make a contribution toward the employees' health and welfare fund: namely, Local 2039 Health Insurance Trust Fund as follows:
Effective May 1,1995-$0.49 per hour on all hours earned.
ARTICLE 19-TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE
19.01	Technological Change, for the purpose of this Agreement, is defined as a change resulting from the introduction of different equipment which will reduce labour requirements.
19.02	A technological change which is likelyto affect, on a permanent basis, the continued employement of 10 or more employees within the bargaining unit, will not be put in effect until the following conditions are met:
(a)	the Company gives notice in writing of the technological change to the employees likely to be affected and to the union at least 60 days priorto the implementationof such change.
(b)	the notice to the Union shall be in writing stating the nature of the technological change, the location and number of employees likely to be directly affected, and the proposed implementationdate.
(c)	the Company and the Union will discuss the proposed technological change and the measures to be taken to deal with the anticipated effect of the proposed change on the employees who will be directly affected.
19.03	Any new job classification resulting from such technological change shall be discussed with the Union, and if the parties are unable to agree on the wage rate for such classification, the rate established by the Company shall apply until the next negotiation of the labour agreement.
■20-
The employee given the new position shall receive such training as may be necessary to perform the requirements of the new job, without loss of earnings.
19.04	An employee displaced or laid off from his or her job as a result of the technological change shall be given the opportunity to fill any vacancy or displace an employee with less seniority as provided for in Article 12 except such employee shall have no right to return to hisfor-mer position.
ARTICLE20- NO STRIKES OR LOCKOUTS
20.01	The Union agrees that there will be no strike or other collective action which will interfere with or stop the efficient operation of production or other work of the Company for the duration of this Agreement.
20.02	The Company agrees there will not be any lockout of employees for the duration of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 21 -WAGES
21.01	The wage schedule listing all job classifications is attached hereto as Schedule “ A and shall form part of this Agreement.
21.02	It is agreed that no employee shall suffer any loss in present take-home pay as a result of the signing of this Agreement.
SCHEDULE“A”
CLASSIFICATIONS	Mav 1.1995
Industrial Mechanic	15.01
Machine Operator - Class 1	14.00
Machine Operator - Class 2	12.93
Custom Work	12.75
Single-End Tenoner	12.75
Maintenance - Utility Worker	12.67
Forklift Operator (over 12,000 lbs.)	12.67
Lumber Grader	12.67
Glazier	12.67
Glass Cutter	12.67
Forklift Operator (under 12,000 lbs.)	12.62
•21
Rip Saw Operator	12.62
Grill Machine	12.62
Meter Mix Operator	12.54
Nailer Operator	12.54
Defect Cutter	12.54
Shipper	12.46
Shunter Driver	12.46
Hand Spray Painter	12.45
Assembler	12.40
Lumber Handler	12.40
Stockroom Attendant	12.40
Warehouse Worker	12.40
Minimum Starting Rate	9.74
FinalAssembler	12.45
Vinyl Wndow Assembler	12.45
Vinyl Wndow Custom Maker	12.75
Vintage Maker	12.45
Vintage Glazier	12.67
Custom/Vintage/Aluminum Grille- Lock-PaneAssembler (Name to be discussed)	12.45
Display Maker	12.45
First-Aid Premium Lead Hand Premium Night Shift Premium
.25 / hr. .35/hr. .25 /hr.
Machine Operator classes include Matcher, Moulder, Double-End Tenoner, Finger-Joint, and Paint System Operators and Grinding Room Attendants.
COMMENCING IVAY1.1995 -.350 per hour of the employee's hourly wage as set out above shall be deducted by the Company and paid monthly to the Union's Designated Pension Fund.
VARIABLE EMPLOYEE BONUS PROGRAM
For purposes of the Variable Employee Bonus Program, the term "year" refers to the period January 1 through December 31, and includes 1995,1996, and 1997.
If the Company is profitable at the end of ary of the years noted above, 10% of such profit will be paid to employees based on the following criteria:
■22-
+K-
(a)	employees must co-operate and participated teams
(b)	each employee must give five hours per year of free time for professional development, i.e. videos, Total Quality Management, etc.
(c)	employees must continue to achieve quality and productivity improvements, i.e. fewer rejects, minimum production levels, etc.
If the Company is profitable at the end of the year 1998, 2.5% of such profitwill be paidto employees, based on the criteria shown above.
Bonus will be allocated to employees based on number of hours worked by each employee during the year. Fifty percent (50%) of the bonus will be paid out prior to the Christmas shutdown each year, and the remaining amount will be paid out by January 21st of the following year.
ARTICLE 22- DURATION OF AGREEMENT
22.01	This Agreement shall be binding and remain in effect frnm jviay J 1995 tn April aruiafliUMri shall be renewedfrom year to year thereafter unless either party gives to the other party written notice within ninety (90) days prior to the expiry date of the contract, that it desires to terminate or amend its provisions.
•23-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the patties have executed this Collective Agreement on the 18th day of May 1995.
CARADON LOCK-WOOD

COMMUNICATIONS,ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION OF CANADA LOCAL2039