COLLE
AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
LEVESQUE PLYWOOD .LIMITED
ILOCALP2995
IWA
-CANADA
J u ne ri, S 96. to M ay(31] vt 999
01019 (05)
LEVESQUE PLYWOOD LIMITED
INDEX
BEREAVEMENT PAY . . ,......., . . . . 36
CALL OUT PAY.................... 22
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE 11-12-13-14-15 HOLIDAYS WITH PAY	9-10-11
HOURS OF WORK......... 18-19-20-2122-23
INSURANCE COVERAGE:
MEDICAL	  33-34-35-36
DRUG a...................33
HOSPITAL ................. 34
LONG TERM . 40-41-42-43-44-45-46
DENTAL...............38-39-40
LIFE ..................... 34
VISION . .,..............I. 36
PENSION PLAN . . . ,....46-47
JOB DESCRIPTION , . , . . 52-53-54-55-56-57
JOB POSTING ..................... 51
JURY DUTY ........*.....*....... 37
LAY OFF PROCEDURE ......, . . . 25-26-27
LUNCH TIME .......,........., . , . 20
OVERTIME	  22
PAID EDUCATIONAL LEAVE _____, , , , 47
PROBATION PERIOD ...............  25
RECALLS.......................... 26
REPORTING PAY . . . ............. 21
SENIORITY . . 23-24-25-26-27-28-29-30-31-32
SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL ...............23
TRADE APPRENTICE PROGRAM 49-50-51 TRANSFER TO OTHER JOB .... 23-27-30
VACATIONS WITH PAY.........., . . 6-7-8
WAGE SCHEDULE .............. 3-58 to 66
WORKING CONDITIONS ............17-18
m1 z m
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
between
LEVESQUE PLYWOOD LIMITED (hereinafter referred to as the “Company”)
and
I.W.A. CANADA LOCAL 1-2995 (hereinafter referred to as the “Union”)
ARTICLE T - PURPOSE
1.01	The purpose of this Agreement is to secure for the Company and the Union, the full benefits of orderly and legal collective bargaining in respect to hours. wages, working conditions and to ensure to the utmost extent possible, the safety and physical welfare of the employees, economy of operation, quality and quantity of output and the protection of properly. This Agreement, moreover, seeks to provide for fair and peaceful adjustments of all disputes that may arise between the parties. It is recognized as a duly of the parties hereto and of all employees to co-operate fully, individually and collectively: for advancement of the conditions set forth herein.
ARTICLE II -- IRECOGNJTION
2.0	1(a) The Company recognizes the Union as the sole collective bargaining agent of all employ ees of Levesque Plywood Limited at Hearst save and
2
except foremen, persons above the rank of foreman, office and sales staff and scalers.
2.01(b) The employees of contractors engaged by the Company in the plants and yard of the Compaq shall be considered employees within the terms of this Agreement; save and except the employees of contractors and/or the contractors who are engaged to perform occasional special services not commonly performed by employees covered by the terms of this Agreement employees of contractors where such contractors are engaged for the purpose of erecting structur es and where such a contractor is bound by an Agreement with a Union or Unions affiliated with a central labour body covering such work.
Supervisory personnel, which include contractors whose employees arc considered to be employees under this Agreement, shall not perform work which would normally be a function of an employee in the job classifications covered by this Agreement, except where instructing employees and iii cases of emergency which involve physical danger- to employees or danger to properly,
ARTTCUF, TTT - PERIOD
3.01	The Company and the Union agree one with tire other that they will abide by the Articles of this Agrccmcntjfrom June J. 1996 to May 3 1.1999 inclusive, and from year lo year thereafter, unless either party desires to change or terminate this
3
Agreement, in which case the party desiring the change or termination shall notify the other part} in writing at least sixty (60) days prior to May 3 1st of that particular year that such is its desire. Either party opening the Agreement in the manner provided above shall notify the other party in writing, as to the changes desired.
ARTICLE IV -.WAGE SCHEDULE
4.01	The Wage Schedule is attached hereto and forms a part of this Agreement.
4.02	If during the life of this Agreement, a significant change in job content in physical or mental requirements occurs in any job classification listed in the attached wage schedule the rate thereto shall be adjusted by negotiations between the parties. Upon failure to reach agreement the matter may be referred to Section 8.05 of the grievance procedure.
4.03	For classified jobs not listed in this wage schedule, the Company may set estimated or temporary rates. Any such rates will be based on comparison with prevailing rates for a similar and/or related occupation in the attached wage schedule.
Whenever possible the Company mus t give at least thirty (30) days advance notice to the Union of any proposed change in job content to any job classification.
4
After a trial period of thirty (30) days any such rate or rates shall be negotiated with the Local Union and upon agreement shall become part of the wage schedule, and payment made retroactive, and after the thirty (30) day trial and following negotiation for such rates with the Local Union, if no agreement is reached on the rate, the matter shall become subject to the grievance procedure beginning at Section 8,05.
ARTICLE V - IINTON MEMBERSHIP
5.01	All present employees who are members of the Union and those who may become members of the Union shall maintain such membership in good standing as a condition of continued employment.
5.02	Employees shall make application to join the Union when first approached to do so by a duly authorized Union Steward, Official oi Representative. The Company shall upon hiring remit to said employee a letter supplied by the Union with a copy to the Steward, advising employee that it is a condition of employment foi him to report to the Union Steward within 10 days.
5.03	For each individual employee, who is a member of the Union or applies to become a member, the Company agrees that it will, on his behalf and upon his written request or upon written notice by the Union, pay Union initiation fees and/or monthly membership dues from monies due him.
5
The Company shall put employees on checkoff at the time of hire or return to work and deduct the Union’s monthly membership dues from monies due them and the Union will inform the
Company accordingly.
The Company shall include on each employee’s Income Tax (T-4) slip, the amount of Union dues deducted in the calendar year.
5.04	Remittances of all deductions shall be sent to the Local Union; said remittances to be accompanied by itemized lists in alphabetical order, in duplicate, showing payroll numbers, full names and amounts. The Company shall deliver the above not later than the end of the following month. A copy of the list will be given by the Company to the Union Steward.
Remittance of all work permit including names of contractors shall be included in the
checkoff list of each month.
5.05	The Local Union shall furnish the Company with a list of Local Officers and Representatives, and shall amend these lists as changes occur.
5.06	The Company will furnish a list of supervisory personnel to the Union Office at the start of the contract year and amend it as required. The amended list will show the effective date of the changes.
6
5.07	The Company agrees that while hiring additional employees it will give preference to Union members providing they apply for work or that the Union applies on their behalf.
5.08	Representatives of the Union carrying a certificate of authority signed by the President and Secretary of the Union shall have the right to visit the plants for the purpose of investigating any alleged violation of this Agreement.
Prior to his visit the Union Representative shall obtain permission from an authorized officei of the Company for his visit and to allow the Company to appoint a representative to accompany him during his visit. The Union Representative shall conduct himself in a manner which will not interfere with the normal operation of the plants during his visits.
ARTICLE VT - VACATION WTTH PAY
6.01	Vacation with pay credits shall be paid on
the following basis and each 2% of vacation pay entitles an employee to one week of time off:
a)	4% of gross earnings for employees who have less than four (4) years service time with the Company.
b)	6% of gross earnings for employees who have four (4) years or more but less than
7
eleven (1 1) years service time with the Company.
c)	8% of gross earnings for employees who haw eleven (11) years or more but less than eighteen (18) years service with the Company.
d)	10% of gross earnings for employees who have eighteen (18) years or more service with the Company.
e)	12% of gross earnings for employees who have 30 years or more service with the Company.
f)	Supplementary Vacation With Pav
Employees who have worked more than twenty (20) years for the Company, shall receive the following additional vacation in the calendar year in which they attain:
Above benefits terminate when employee attains his 65th birthday.
Age 60 - 1 week Age 6 1-2 weeks Age 62 - 3 weeks Age 63 - 4 weeks Age 64 - 5 weeks
(2% of gross earnings) (4% of gross earnings) (6% of gross earnings) (8% of gross earnings) (10% of gross earnings)
9
working days.
ARTICLE W - HOLIDAYS WITH PAY
7.01	Employees shall be paid without the performance of work for the following Holidays at their regular rate of pay:
New Years’ Day Good Friday Canada Day Victoria Day Boxing Day
Civic Holiday Labour Day Thanksgiving Da> Christmas Day January 2nd
Two (2) floating holidays per year for each employee who has accumulated a minimum of one hundred and twenty days (120) seniority, will be granted in addition to the above holidays. Request for floaters are to be submitted in writing at least three (3) working days in advance of the floater with the exception of emergency situations. Management will confirm within twenty-four (24) hours of receiving the request.
All floaters not taken prior to Noveinbei 1st in each year will be scheduled and paid in the same pay period that the floater is taken. An employee who by reason of lay-off not exceeding twenty-one (21) working days is prevented from taking an earned floating holiday, shall be paid for the holiday if it cannot be otherwise scheduled during the calendar year.
10
The Company shall advise the Union Steward when any employees are on vacation or taking a floating holiday.
Seniority shall apply in the event floaters are taken in excessive numbers.
7.02	When any of the above holidays fall on Saturday, ii shall be observed on the preceding Friday and if the holiday falls on Sunday, it will be observed on the following Monday or as otherwise mutually agreed.
For purposes of the Agreement, a Saturday or a Sunday or a Holiday shall begin at 8:00 a.m. of that day and end at 8:00 a.m. the day following.
7.03	An employee who has established seniority' in accordance with Article XII, and who works any of the available work days within the thirty (30) day period prior to the Holiday, and who works the last scheduled shift prior to the holiday and the first scheduled shift following the holiday, unless his return to work is prevented by circumstances beyond his control, shall receive pay for the holidays.
7.04	Holidays occurring during the course of an allowed vacation period shall not be included as part of that allowance.
7.05	An employee who qualifies under Section 12.02(a) and 7.03, who is obliged to cease work due to a lay-off during the thirty (30) day period
1]
immediately prior to the holiday, shall receive holiday pay for the holiday(s) within such thirty (30) day period.
7.06	An employee, who qualifies under Section 12.02(a) and 7.03, who is obliged to cease work due to sickness, pregnancy or accident certified by a licensed practitioner during the thirty (30) day period immediately prior to the Holiday, shall receive holiday pay for the holiday(s) within such thirty (30) day period.
7.07	If an employee who qualifies under Section 12.02(a) and is recalled and works his first scheduled shift during his twenty-one (21) calendai day period, he shall receive holiday pay for the preceding holiday(s).
ARTICLE IVIII. - ADJUSTMENT OE GRIEVANCES
8.01	All disputes between employees and the Company shall be settled by the following procedure.
8.02	The Union shall arrange for the election from its working membership, of two Union Committee!; of three (3) headed by a Union Steward. One (1) Plywood and one (I) Particle board Plant. The Company shall be notified in writing as to the names of the Union Committee. Union Steward and/or Grievance Committee man, may be allowed time off during his working hours at a time
12
acceptable to the Company in connection with Union/Company business, provided that it does not interfere with the efficient operation of the Plant (excluding negotiations of Collective Agreement). The Company shall pay the Union Steward and/or Grievance Committee man, at his regular oi premium rale, which may be proper for any time spent in connection with this Article (8.02).
8.03 Stage 1
Any grievance arising during the term of this Agreement must be presented for adjustment without undue delay. A grievance of an employee shall be taken by the employee singly or together with the Steward and/or Union Representative directly to the employee’s immediate supervisor and a decision thereon shall be rendered within two (2) clays from the presentation of the Grievance.
8.04(a) Stage 2
If this decision is not satisfactory to the aggrieved employee, the grievance shall be made in writing, and signed by the aggrieved employee and/or a Steward, and shall be presented to the Company by himself, or together with the Union Steward and/or Union Representative, within seven (7) days from the date of the decision under paragraph 8.03 above, and shall be dealt with at a meeting of the Steward’s committee and management and. such decision shall be rendered within seven (7) days or within such further time as
13
may be mutually agreed.
8.04(b) In case of discharge or suspension by the Company, the Company will, within two (2) days notify the employees in writing of the reason for the discharge of suspension. A copy of such notice shall be submitted to the Union Steward within two (2) days. A grievance arising from a claim by an employee that his discharge or suspension by the Company was unjust or contrary to the terms of this agreement must be dealt with in writing by both parties and must be presented to the Company no later than ten (10) days after the written notice of the discharge or suspension. The grievance shall be introduced at this Stage.
8.04© Grievances which involve Company wide interpretation, administration or alleged violation of the Agreement. shall be made in writing, and delivered to the opposite party within ten (10) days of the occurrence on which the grievance is based, and shall be dealt with by Representatives of the Company and Representatives of the Union. If the matter is not settled within thirty (30) days of notice being received by the opposite party, it may be referred lo arbitration.
8.05 stage 3
In the event that the grievance is not settled in the above, matter, it may be referred to arbitration in accordance with the Labour Relations Act, and Notice of Processing to Arbitration shall be made on
14
the opposite party within thirty (30) days of the decision rendered under Section 8.04 above.
8.06	Saturdays, Sundays and Holidays shall not be included in any time limits in this Article of Agreement. The time limits mentioned in this Article may be extended by mutual agreement, but otherwise shall be of essence. Failure on the pat-t of the griever to comply with time limits shall be deemed to be an abandonment of the grievance.
8.07	In arbitration, the Company and the Union shall each select one person; these two shall select a third party who shall act as Chairman. Either party shall appoint its nominee not later than five (5) days after written notice of the other party’s nomination. The arbitration board’s decision shall be final and binding on both parties to this agreement. In the event of the failure of the two persons selected by the respective parties to select a third party as provided above, they shall ask the Provincial Minister of Labour to appoint a third party.
Nothing contained in this Article shall prevent the parties from mutually agreeing lo a single arbitrator.
8.08	It is understood that the function of the Arbitration Board shall be to interpret and apply this agreement and that it shall deal only with the specific questions as submitted and shall have no power to alter, add to, nor amend this agreement.
15
However, the function of the Arbitration Board shall include the power to consider adjustments to individual job classification rates under Article 4.02, 4.03. The Arbitration Board shall have no power to decide questions involving general wage adjustments.
8.09	Each party to this agreement shall pay all expenses of the member of the Arbitration Board selected by it or by the Minister of Labour and shall share equally in the fees and expenses of the third member of the Board.
ARTICLE IX - NO STRIKE - NO LOCKOUT
9.01 There shall be no strike, stoppage of work or slowdown, as defined by the Ontario Laboui Relations Act, called or supported by the Union oi its members, and no lockout caused by the Company during the life of this agreement or any renewal thereof.
ARTICLE: X - WORKING CONDITIONS
10.0 J (a)	It is agreed that the Company and
the Union will co-operate collectively in improving safety and first aid practices. The Company and the Union further agree to set up and maintain a joint safety committee to promote safe working conditions and practices. The Company will endeavour to have a qualified first aid man on each shift.
16
It is the intention of the Company to earn out on a monthly basis, a safety inspection of its plant with two (2) members of the employee’s safet> committee.
Times spent by employees on such safety activities shall be considered as time worked.
10.01(b)	The Company will provide free of
charge the following safety apparel and equipment: gloves to be supplied in different sizes as required. rain suits, coveralls for all maintenance work. welding shields, aprons and safety glasses where required. The Company will ensure that adequate safety switches are installed as required on machinery throughout the plant. Worn out gloves. hearing protector equipment and aprons must be returned before a new pair of gloves, new apron or a new hearing protector is issued otherwise the employee will be charged for the new gloves. apron or hearing protection equipment.
10.01© Effective January 1, 1997 the Company will pay 50% of the cost of one pair of good quality safety boots per year to a maximum of $50.00. Said amount to be paid upon presentation by the employee of proof of purchase.
10.0 l(d)	For those employees that have to
wear prescription eye glasses, the Company will pay for replacements of frame or lenses if damaged at work, up to a maximum of eighty ($85.00) dollars per year, per employee.
17
10.02	It is agreed that during the life of this Agreement, there shall be no reduction in existing privileges.
10.03(a)	The Company will provide
adequate cafeteria space and ventilation and will
provide low heat oven facilities.
10.03(b)	Car plug-ins shall be provided for
employees’ cars at the Company’s plant parking lot.
10.04	The Company will, in consultation with the Union. endeavour to take such measures as required ‘to improve ventilation, heating and dust control in both plants.
10.05 (a)	Adequate vacuum cleaners will be provided by the Company for the employee’s clothing.
10.05(b)	The Company agrees that it will
provide free insurance coverage against loss by fire of tradesmen’s tools normally required by tradesmen to the full value of such tools, while on authorized Company property or work sites. In order to receive this coverage, tradesmen shall be required to supply to the Company, a list of such tools with their invoices, so that proper coverage can be provided.
The Company agrees that it will provide coverage for theft or damage of tradesmen’s tool chests and its contents while on Company’s
18
property providing tradesmen supply list of tools to the Company. This is to apply only in cases where tradesmen’s tool chests have been broken into and contents stolen therefrom. In such cases. the employee will be required to give Immediate notice to his supervisor.
10.06 Employees in Particle Board only, will be paid every second Thursday and pay computed to 8:00 a.m., Sunday of the preceding week.
The existing practice of paying employees through the Bank will be maintained and the Company will make arrangements whereby employees may receive their pay as of ten (10:00) o’clock a.m. on payday.
ARTICLE XI - HOURS OF WORK
11.01 (a)	The work week shall consist of
forty (40) hours.
11.01(b)	1 ■ On three (3) shift production
the work week shall consist of forty (40) hours, eight (8) hours per day. beginning at 12:00 a.m. Monday to 12:00 a.m. Saturday, in accordance with the following schedule:
#1 shift	12:00	a.m.	to	8:00 a.m.
#2 shift	8:00	a.m.	to	4:00 p.m.
#3 shift	4:00	p.m.	to	12:00 a.m.
2. In Plywood only:	Shift will
start at 12:00 a.m. on Monday.
19
3. Lathe Operation ('Plywood';
The hours of work for the lathe operation shall be from:
7:30 a.m. to 4:00 p.m.
7:30 p.m. to 4:00 a.m.
Meal time excepted
11.01© On two (2) shift production the
#1 shift shall be from	7:30 a.m. to 4:00 p.m.
#2 shift shall be from	4:00 p.m. to 12:30 a.m.
Meal time excepted.
11.01(d)	The work day for employees not
on shift crews (day shift) shall consisl of eight (8) consecutive hours between the hours of 7:30 a.m. to 4:00 p.m meal time excepted.
11.01(e)	Continuous operations, limited to
Particle board Plant only.
1)	Such employees will be excluded from the provisions of time and one half for Saturday work or double time for Sunday work in 11.04(a) and 11.04(h) if such work is part of their regular scheduled hours of work.
2)	Regular scheduled hours of work on Sunday will be paid time and one half.
20
3)	The shift schedule on said operations will remain a negotiable item.
4)	The day shift shall be from 8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m., the afternoon shift shall be from 4:00 p.m. to 12:00 midnight and the night shift from 12:00 midnight to 8:00 a.m.
5)	On continuous operation, the work week shall start at 12:00 a.m. Sunday to 12:00 a.m. the following Sunday for the foui
shift operation.
6)	All other provisions of Article XI will apply.
11.02(a)	All employees will be allowed a
ten (10) minute coffee break at the mid.-point of each half shift, and one half ('A) hour off for lunch at the mid-point of each shift. For those employees working on one shift or two shift operation, lunch period will be unpaid. Coffee breaks are on Company time. Coffee breaks may be advanced or delayed by fifteen (15) minutes and lunch break advanced or delayed by QA) an hour to suit the maintenance and production requirements.
11.02(1))	1 ndividual employees can elect to
spend their lunch breaks either in the cafeteria or outside of the Company’s premises but if they elect to go out they will be required to punch their cards when going and when returning to work. For those employees that lunch is taken on Company time,
21
employees will not be allowed to leave the premises. However, permission to leave the premises will be granted for special circumstances.
11.03	(a)	If an employee reports for work
and no work is available he will receive four (4) hours pay for reporting to work, If he commences work and no work is available for him to complete his shift, he shall be paid for eight (8) hours pay at his regular rate.
To qualify for the above, the employee must remain on the job until told by the foreman that he may leave and must accept other than his normal work if it is offered, unless the employee is prevented from performing such work due to reasons beyond his control.
11.03(b)	The starting and stopping times
will remain constant and fixed during the weekly period, subject to the following;
An employee’s scheduled shift may be changed at the Company’s request provided he is paid one and one-half his regular rate for the first shift worked after the change. When the employee reverts to his original shift, he shall be paid at his regular straight lime rate, provided there is a break of at Least eight (8) hours between the shifts worked.
11.04(a)	Time worked in excess of eight (8)
hours per day or shift or over forty (40) hours per week and all hours worked by an employee outside
22
his scheduled shift or on Saturday. shall be paid for at the rate of time and one-half.
Where an employee’s shift schedule is changed by the Company. the affected employee will be paid at the rate of time and one half for the
first shift.
11.04(b)	Time worked on Sunday or any of
the Holidays specified in this Agreement shall be paid for at the rate of double time. For work done on Sunday, employees attached to the Dryer Operation shall be paid at time and one half. Dryer feeder, Dryer out feeder, Veneer grader, Lift,Clean-up, core composer.
Core composer and employees attached to the dryer operation to be paid at time and one half for all time worked on Sunday.
11.04© Employees who are willing to work overtime will be required to signify by giving their names ‘to their supervisor each week on forms to be supplied by the Company.
Overtime requirements during the week and on week-ends will be distributed as equally as possible among employees who are capable of performing the work.
11.04(d)	An employee who is called back
for work after completing his day or shift shall be paid time and one half for the hours worked, but in
23
no case shah he receive less than four (4) hours pay at straight time rate.
11.05(a)	Employees working on two (2) or
three (3) shifts operation, will change shift every week and such change of shift will be on rotation.
11.05(b)	All employees scheduled to rotate
on two (2) and three (3) shift operations shall receive $0,250 cents per hour in addition to their
regular rate.
Effective June 1,1996 increase to .250 cents per hour. Effective June 1,1997 increase to .260 cents per hour, Effective June 1,1998 increase to ,270cents per hour.
ARTICLE XII - SENIORITY
12.01(a)	The Company recognizes the
principle of Seniority. Seniority shall govern in promotion, transfers, lay-offs and recalls after lay offs, provided the employee has the necessary qualifications, skill and ability to perform the work required.
An employee’s seniority shall be his length of service with the Company dating back to his original hiring date or in case his service was broken as defined in Section 12.03, his hiring date after his last break in service.
Time off due to sickness or accident must
24
be certified by a licensed physician. dentist or chiropractor. An employee who has accrued seniority and is on authorized leave of absence on Union Business shall accrue seniority while on such
leave.
An employee who has accrued seniority and is then employed by the Union shall continue to accrue seniority for a period not exceeding one month and retain such accrued seniority for a period not exceeding six (6) months, unless otherwise mutually agreed to. An employee who has accrued seniority and is then employed by the Company in a position beyond the scope of this Agreement shall continue to accrue and retain seniority for a period not exceeding three (3) months unless otherwise mutually agreed to. Such employee may upon proof of Union membership in good standing, exercise his seniority to return to the bargaining unit.
12.01(1))	Employees who are or become
pregnant shall be allowed such time off as medically required by their condition without loss of seniority.
12.01© An employee who has been absent from work due to accident. sickness, pregnancy or authorized leave of absence has the right to return to the job classification he held prior to such absence. If there should be conclusive evidence that an employee has carried out work during his absence which would demonstrate he would have been able to carry out his regular functions with the Company, such employee’s seniority will be cancelled.
25
12.02(a)	A new employee of the Company
shall be considered as probationary until he has completed 30 days of work in one period ol employment, except in case of lay-off. Seniority oi a new employee shall be established at the end of this period and shall be effective from the date of employment.
12.02(b)	In case of lay-off employees shall
accrue seniority for 12 months. Then, he shall retain all his seniority.
12.03	An employee shall lose all seniority if he:
a)	quits or is discharged and not reinstated
b)	fails to reporl for work following recall as provided in Section 12.04(b) or fails to return from authorized absence on the date specified unless in either case his return to work on time is prevented by circumstances beyond his control, and he has taken the necessary steps to advise the foreman.
12.04(a)	In cases of lay-off, the Company
will notify in writing the employees intended to be laid-off and the Union Steward at least five (5) working days in advance. or will pay in lieu thereof.
In cases of lay-off of a duration of five (5) working days or less the above five (5) days’ notice will be reduced to two (2) days’ notice.
However, in case of a general lay-off,
26
notice of lay-off will be posted on the Bulletin Boards of the Company five (5) working days in advance. Absent employees at time of notice of layoff, will be advised in writing of said lay-off.
Except in cases of lay-off due to breakdown or electrical power failure, the employees affected will be paid in accordance with Article 11.03 and will be permitted to exercise their seniority rights to another job the same day and for the following day on their scheduled shifts. Should the breakdown last more than the above mentioned period. the employees will be permitted to exercise their seniority rights for another job on any shift in accordance with 1.2.01(a).
12.04(b)	When the date of recall is known
or anticipated at the time of lay-off. employees leaving will be informed accordingly. In all other cases, notice in writing will be mailed to the employee at his given address with copy to the Union Office, at least ten (10) days before he is required to report to work. Employees will be required to acknowledge receipt of such notice within four (4) days and report for work on the date specified, unless other arrangements have been made in writing. However, a direct verbal conversation with the employee or employees involved will be sufficient notice to return to work on mutual agreement by the Company and the employee(s). An employee who avails himself of time limits provided herein has no claim in
27
12.04© If, as a result of a lay-off or for any other reason it is necessary to transfer an employee from one job classification to another, senior employees will be given preference. Provided the employee has the aptitudes of skill, efficiency and ability, he will be trained by the Company in order to meet the job requirements. An employee will be allowed five (5) working days in which to quality or such othei period as may be mutually agreed to.
12.04(d)	For lay-offs of less than three (3)
months, employees affected will revert back to thcii original job once normal operation resumes, unless he has applied on a permanent vacancy during the above mentioned period.
12.05(a)	When an employee transfers at the
request of the Company to meet production requirements, to a lower paying job, the employee will be paid at the rate of the job from which he has so transferred. It is understood that such transfers will be made in conformity to seniority provisions.
12.05(b)	For a transfer at the request of the
employee, payment from the date of transfer will be made at the rate of the new occupation of classification.
12.05© For all other transfers (including but not limited to transfers due to inefficiency, inability, health, safety and demotions for cause) payment shall be made at the rate for the job to which the
‘transfer is effected.
28
12.05(d)	Promotions shall mean
advancement to a job which carries a higher rate of pay. or a reduction in shift rotation.
12.06	1. Where any vacancies occur, immediate
notice thereof will be posted on the bulletin board for a period of five (5) working days for which the Company may make a temporary appointment to such vacant job. However. in case of replacement is required for a vacancy of less than fifteen (15) consecutive working days, such vacancy may be filled by temporaiy appointment without posting.
Re: Posting - In the Plywood department job vacancies occurring during the period of a Statutory Holiday, said holiday will be considered a work day. In tire event that more than one Statutory Holiday occur during a posting period, such vacancy will be posted for a period of five (5) working days.
2.	Employees will not be considered for a vacant job, unless they apply in writing during the five (5) day period on forms lo be supplied by the Company. A copy of such form will be retained by the applicant and one copy of such form will be given to the Steward. All possible effort will be made to advise absent employees of such vacancy, provided the employee has indicated in advance his desire to be so advised.
3.	The vacancy will be filled by the senior applicant who, provided he has the aptitudes of skill, efficiency and ability, will be trained by the
29
Company in order to meet the job requirements. An employee filling the posted vacancy shall be allowed a minimum of five (5) working days in which to qualify or any further time as may be mutually agreed, this does not apply however, to an employee who, in the past, has successfully filled such vacancy. Failure of an employee to qualify shall entitle him to return to his former job. Name(s) of successful applicant(s) will be posted for at least five (5) working days by the Company on the bulletin board in all cases.
12.07	An employee who has successfully claimed and filled a job shall be ineligible to further bid foi another vacancy before three (3) months have elapsed unless such vacancy is a promotion.
12.08	A Seniority list shall be prepared and posted monthly on the bulletin board by the Company, showing each employee’s name with Christian names, clock number and effective date of hiring. Copies of such list shall be mailed to the Union Steward and the Union Office. Seniority list of each department shall be posted on all bulletin boards.
12.09	Seniority will be set up and maintained on departmental basis. One department will be comprised of all employees at and out of the Plywood Plant. The other department will be comprised of all employees at and out of the Particle board Plant.
30
Inter-department transfers will be allowed only in case there is a vacancy in one department which must be filled by hiring. In such case, employees of the other department will be given preference over new hires.
An employee transferring from one department to the other under the aforementioned circumstances, will, for purposes of fringe benefits, retain all his seniority already accrued. For purposes of actual exercising of seniority, such said employee’s seniority will begin accruing on the date his transfer becomes effective. An employee transferring in the manner described herein will be considered as having filled a vacancy in accordance with the terms of Section 12.06.
Melamine will form nail of the Particle Board Plant
In case of lay-off or job opening, the following option will be available for original employees from the Plywood Plant:
a)	Employees will be permitted to apply on job opening
b)	Employees will be permitted to bump
into the Plywood Plant in case of lay-off.
c)	It is understood that the above is applicable only for a one time deal and lie will not be permitted to return.
31
d)	Notwithstanding Article 12.04(d), should an employee choose to accept a lay-off in the Melamine Plant, the above option will remain open lo him.
e)	No bumping in case of mechanical breakdown for (2) days or less.
f)	S to 12 hour shift at (he employee’s option for a period of six (6) months then. Collective Agreement will apply.
g)	Bumping not permitted from Particle Board to Melamine or vice-versa for the nest anticipated shutdown (maintenance).
12.10	In addition to the provisions of Section 12.09 there will be a third department comprised of all employees attached to the following operations: Shipping, Machine Shop, Garage. Electricians, Knife Grinder, and Carpenter to the third department. Those positions would in the future be posted in the third department. Employees would retain their seniority in their respective department in case of lay-off,
Vacancies in this third department will be open to employees of either of the other two depart meats. Employees who successfully bid foi such vacancies will retain and continue to accrue seniority in the department in which they were originally hired.
Employees presently employed in the third
32
department will retain and continue to accrue seniority in the department in which they were originally hired.
Employees hired in the third department will accrue seniority in the Plywood department.
It is agreed and understood that the Yard Carry Lift 950 which belongs to the Particle Board department, will remain to the Plywood department until such lime as it becomes vacant. Upon becoming vacant this classification shall revert back to the Particle Board department and posting and filling of the vacancy will be made in accordance with Section 12.06 and 12.09.
12.11	An employee with three (3) or more years of continuous service for whom no job is available can upon termination elect to receive a severance allowance of one (1) week’s pay for each year of employment during his last period of continuous services (up to the dale of termination) computed on the basis of forty (40) straight time hours at the employee’s regular rate. The maximum severance allowance payable being thirty (30) weeks. It is understood that an employee who chooses to receive his severance allowance will be terminated from his employment waiving his recall rights pursuant to this Agreement.
ARTICLE XIII - BULLETIN BOARD
13.0] The Union shall have the right to post
33
notices dealing with Union affairs upon Bulletin Boards of the Company, such notices to have the approval of Company management before such posting.
ARTICLE. XIV - .HEALTH AND WELFARE
14.01(a)	For each employee who has
established seniority in accordance with Article XII. the Company will pay the premium cost of O. H.I.P. Drug Plan bill (equivalent to the current Blue Cross Ding Plan) and semi-private Hospital Care Plan monthly.
14.01	fb)	The Company will pay for a drag
plan benefit whereby an employee, upon having a prescribed ding ordered, must pay the druggist a flat rate of thirty-five (,35p) cents per prescription, the balance being covered by the carrying insurance Company.
14.0ICO For married employees where both arc working, the Company will pay one amount of the married contribution and one single to be paid direct to the employee. For employees covered outside this plan the Company will pay the single contribution direct to the employee.
14.01	(d)	If there should be a net reduction
in the premiums charged for Medical. Surgical Insurance due to a revision of the O H.I. P. by either the Federal and/or Provincial Government, the Company’s contribution will not be reduced from
34
the amounts set out in this Article.
If the Company’s contribution exceeds the premiums required for Medical, Surgical, Drug and Hospital Care Insurance, the balance will be applied to such other employee benefits as may be agreed upon between the Company and the Union as to the application of contributions over and above the premiums required such additional monies will be paid direct to the employee.
ISTBERANCE
14.02	The Company will provide and pay the fill! cost of a thirty-five thousand dollars ($35,000.00) life insurance and an accidental death and dismemberment benefit for up to a maximum of thirty-five thousand dollars ($35,000.00) for each employee. Effective June I. 1997 increase to $37,000.00 plus A.D.&D.
WEEKLY M N I T Y
14.03	The Company will maintain and pay the premium cost of a Weekly Indemnity Insurance Plan. The Plan will provide seventy (70%) percent of Weekly earnings (40 hours times an employee’s regular rate) up to a maximum of $480.00 per week effective at date of ratification. To commence on the first day in case of non-compensable accident and or hospitalization on tire fourth (4th) continuous day from the commencement of a disability due to
35
sickness and will continue for the period of disability up to a maximum of fifty-two (52) weeks, combined with U.I.C. benefits. Employees not qualifying for U.I.C. benefits will maintain continued coverage under the Weekly Indemnity Insurance Plan. Effective June I. 1997 increase maximum to $500.00 per week. Effective June 1.
1998 increase maximum to $520.00 per week.
14.03(a)	The Company’s contribution
towards Health and Welfare package will continue for a period of up to twelve (12) months when an employee is off work due to a Workmen’s Compensation Claim or a short term disability claim. Employee will have to apply or have someone apply on their behalf immediately at the time of illness or accident.
On the U.I.C. issue, should an employee demonstrate that he was negatively impacted by the U.I.C. rules, the Company will reimburse the total negative impact.
14.03(b)	For employees who quality undei
Article XII. the Company agrees that an employee shall be paid at the regular rate for the balance of his shift lost because of injury while at work. It is also agreed and understood that where an employee is unable to return to work, he will be required to show proof to qualify for the above.
DISPUTED W.C. R. CLAIM
36
If an employee covered by the Company’s present Weekly Indemnity Plan suffers a disability for which payment is in dispute with the W.C.B., Weekly Indemnity payment will be made retroactively if requested by the employee and provided he has been off work for at least one (1) month due to the disability without W.C.B. having accepted the claim and providing the employee is subject to the rules and regulations covering the Weekly Indemnity Plan. If the W.C.B. claim is subsequently established, the employee will then repay (he Weekly Indemnity payment(s) received to the appropriate fund.
VISION CARR PLAN
14.04	‘The Company shall institute and pay the premium cost of a Vision Care Plan equivalent to the $90/24 Blue Cross Plan. Effective January 1, 1997 increase to $100/24. Effective January 1.1998 increase to $125/24.
BEREAVEMENT PAY
14.05	When death occurs to a member of an (employee’s immediate family, that is: an employee’s father, mother, mother-m-law. father-in-law. brother, sister, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, son-inlaw, daughter-in-law, grandchild and grandparents both sides. The employee will be granted leave and shall be paid for eight (8) hours at his regular straight time rate for time lost up to a maximum of three (3) days. Five (5) days leave with pay will be
37
provided on death of an employee’s spouse oi children. The day of the funeral must be one of tile three (3) days. The intent of this clause is to allow the employee to attend the funeral without loss oi earnings.
Any claim for bereavement pay must be submitted by the employee to the Company in writing, along with proof of bereavement in the employee’s immediate family
It is understood that for purpose of this Article step-relatives will be considered the same as blood relatives.
14.06	In the case of an employee who is call ed for jury service, or is subpoenaed as a witness by the Crown, the Company shall pay. for each day of such service, an allowance equal to the difference between eight (8) hours of pay based on his regular straight time hourly rate, and the payment he received for jury service. The employee will present proof of service and of pay received therefore when making his claim for such allowance
14.07	It is the duty of every employee to advise the paymaster of any change regarding the following:
1)	Marital Status
2)	Change of Insurance Beneficiary
3)	New dependants with date of birth
4)	Change of address and telephone	number
38
ARTICLE :XV -.MANAGEMENT RIGHTS,
15.01 The Union agrees that the Company has the exclusive right and power to manage the plants, to direct the work force, and to hire, promote, transfer or lay-off employees and to suspend 01 discharge or otherwise discipline employees for just cause; provided that the Company agrees that any exercise of these rights and powers shall be subject to the express provision of this Agreement.
ARTICLE XVI = DENTAL CARE PLAN
16.0 1 The Company will maintain a Dental Care Plan with participation compulsory for all employees on the following basis:
1.	Eligibility:
Participation in this plan is limited to employees who have accumulated one hundred and twenty (120) days (6 months) seniority with the Company.
It is understood and agreed that the Plan will provide for the continuation of coverage for the period an employee is off work due to lay-off oi leave of absence. not to exceed one hundred and twenty (120) days (6 months).
2.	Plan Design:
a)	Services and benefits	as provided in Blue
Cross No. 7 Basic Plan and Rider No. 1.
39
b)	Services and benefits as provided in Blue Cross Rider No. 2 (50%) The Plan provides for the application of the 1995 O.D.A. Schedule of Fees. Effective January 1,1997 the plan will provide for 1996 O.D.A. and effective January 1.1998, the plan to provide for 1997. O.D.A. Schedule of Fees and effective January 1.1999 the Plan will provide for the 1998 O.D.A. Schedule of Fees.
Maximum of $ 1,000.00 per calendar year pet person.
The Company agrees to provide the Union with a copy of Rules and Regulations relating to the Plan
3.	Administration:
The plan will be administered in accordance w ith an appropriate contract or set of procedures reflecting the plan design outlined in Item 2 above. The decision as to the choice of administrative vehicle from among service carriers, insurance Companies, or self-administration will be made by the Compaq on the basis of appropriate study of these alternatives.
4.	Premiums'
The premium cost of this plan shall be paid by the
Company.
5.	Integration:
The Plan will not provide like benefits where such
40
are currently being provided by Federal or Provincial Legislation.
If during the life of this Agreement, Federal 01 Provincial Governments shall introduce legislation to provide benefits already covered by this Plan, the plan shall be amended so as to eliminate said benefits.
NOTE-
The employee monthly premium cost contribution for the above-mentioned benefits for the tern of this Collective Agreement will be as follows:
Single -	$3.00 through payroll deduction
Married - $3.00 through payroll deduction
ARTICLE XVII - LONG TERM DISABILITY PLAN
Effective lune 1,1981. the Company will institute and maintain a Long Term Disability Plan as per Schedule “A” attached.
Schedule "A’-'
The Company shall pay the monthly premium cost of the Long Term Disability Benefit Plan.
The Long Term Disability Benefit Plan shall be administered in accordance with the terms of an insurance policy.
41
1.	Eligibility
The Long Term Disability Benefit Plan shall be compulsory for all employees who have accumulated 45 days seniority with the Company.
2.	Effective Date of Coverage
An eligible employee absent from work due to sickness or accident at the effective date of the Plan. shall only be eligible for Long Term Disability Plan benefits upon the return to continuous active fulltime employment for a period of more than foui consecutive weeks.
The Company shall have the right to give medical examinations to employees returning from such layoff to determine their eligibility under the plan.
3.	Qualifying Period
An insured employee shall be eligible to receive an amount of Long Term Disability Benefit after fifty-two weeks of benefit entitlement for the same disability under the Weekly Indemnity Plan. Benefit payment shall not commence during a strike until the termination of the strike.
4.	Definition of Disability
a)	Until the individual has	received Disability
Income Benefit payments as a result of the disability for 24 months, the complete inability of the individual due to injury, disease. pregnancy or
42
mental disorder to perform any and every duty pertaining to his occupation, and
b)	After the individual has received Disability
Income Benefit payment as a result of the disability for 24 months, the complete inability of the individual due to injury, disease, pregnancy or mental disorder to engage in any and every gainful occupation for which he is reasonably fitted by education, training or experience. However, an individual will be deemed to cease to be disabled if he engages in any gainful occupation except as provided in the Rehabilitation Section.
5.	Amount of Benefit
a)	The disability' benefit shall be 50% of monthly earnings as defined in (5b), up to a maximum monthly payment of $1,500.00 per month effective January 1,1997. Effective June 1st, 1997 the maximum monthly payment will be increased to $1,600.00 per month.
b)	"Monthly Earnings” means, in the case of a day or shift worker, 173 x his regular hourly rate;
c)	“Hourly Rate” mans the regular rate of the employee eiFective immediately prior to the date on which the disability occurred, excluding overtime or shift bonus.
d)	The benefits payable under this Plan are reduced by any primary disability payments made
43
under the Canada Pension Plan, or any Company group disability income plan. Benefits are not affected by War Pensions, W.C. Disability Pensions, or by any insurance policies lie may have purchased himself.
6.	Duration of Benefi t
a)	Benefits will be paid for one month, for each completed month of service prior to commencement of the Long Term Disability Benefits, while the employee is disabled.
b)	Disability benefits will be paid one month in arrears.
7.	Termination of Benefits
Benefits shall cease upon the occurrence of any one of the following:
a)	On the date the employee ceases to be disabled. (If there is a recurrence of the same disability within six (6) months of return to work, a new qualifying period will not be required, and the disabled employee will be eligible for any balance ol Long Term Disability Benefit payments. This provision shall take precedence over any recurrent disability provision under the Weekly Indemnity Plan). or
b)	On exhaustion of the benefit period, or
44
c)	Up to normal	retirement,	or
d)	On death.
8.	Exclusion
a)	An employee receiving Long Term
Disability Benefits will not be eligible for vacation
or statutory holiday pay.
b)	Benefits under the Long Term Disability
Plan will no) be payable for claims resulting from:
I)	Any injury	arising	out	of or sustained
while doing any act or thing pertaining to any occupation or employment for remuneration or profit, or
ii)	Any injury or illness entitling the employee to compensation under any Workmen’s Compensation or similar legislation, or
iii)	Selfdestruction or any self-inflicted injury, while sane or insane, or
iv)	Disability for which the employee is not under the treatment of a physician, 01
v)	Alcoholism or drug addiction, unless the employee is undergoing a recognized course of treatment by a specialist in the care and treatment of alcoholism and drug
45
addiction or the employee is undergoing regular rehabilitative treatment approved by the insurer and licensed physician.
vi)	Disability or loss (1) while the employee is on. or	could,	be	placed	on
Pregnancy/Maternity leave, or (2) if employee	fails	to	qualify	foi
Pregnancy/Maternity leave because of failure to meet the length of service requirements, during the period of Pregnancy/Maternity leave that the employee could be on if she qualified foi such leave, in accordance with the Employment Standards Act 1974, Ontario or any other relevant provincial statutes.
9.	Rehabilitation
An employee receiving an amount of Long Term Disability Benefit may be asked to undergo reasonable rehabilitation measures which have been the subject of prior consultation with the employee’s doctor, at no cost to the employee. If such employee refuses to undertake such rehabilitation, he may be declared not eligible for an amount of disability benefits.
10.	Ehxacm i n a t i o n s
The Company and/or insurer reserves the right to require periodical physical examinations throughout the duration of the employee’s absence due to
46
disability. Such examinations shall be conducted by a physician or physicians designated by the Company and/or insurer.
Cost of physical examinations, transportation and reasonable out-of-pocket expenses related thereto will be paid by the insurer.
The Company will reimburse employee’s cost of medical reports requested by the Company or the Insurance Company.
AjmCLE XVIII - PENSION PLAN
The Company agrees to establish a plan to provide pensions at retirement to become effective on October 1st, 1986. This Pension Plan will be in the fonn of a $35.00 per month defined contribution to be deposited with a trustee to the credit of the individual accounts under the Plan. The Compaq also agrees to contribute an additional $35.00 pei month to each eligible employee conditional on the individual employee contributing an equal amount of $35.00 per month to the Plan.
Cost of establishing the account for each employee and the ongoing cost of administering and investment will be deducted from each account.
The Company agrees to contribute during each month on and after the effective date, $35.00 to the account of each member of the plan who is on the Company’s active payroll in the month. The
47
Company also agrees to contribute an additional $35.00 per month per eligible employee conditional on the individual employee contribution an equal amount of $35.00 per month to the plan.
Full time employees will join the plan after completing one year of continuous service.
Effective January 1st. 1997 - $55/$55/$55 Effective January 1st, 1999 - $60/$60/$60
There shall be equal representation from Company and Union as trustee into the Pension Plan.
General
There will be no preferred rates or bonuses paid in money or in kind under any circumstances unless approved in writing by Agreement between the Company and the Union.
PAID EDUCATIONAT. LEAVE
The Company agrees to pay a flat amounl of $ 1,400.00 per year to the Union.
48
General Wage Increase
Increase all hourly, daily and monthly rates by: June 1/96 - 3% and a signing bonus of $ I. ,000.00 June 1/97 - 3%
June 1/98 - 3%
Retroactive pay of three (3) percent will be paid to any one who was in the employ of the Company from June 1, 1996 to and including the date of ratification. Such retroactive pay will be paid on all hours worked including premium time.
Those no longer in the employ of the Company have sixty (60) days to claim their retroactive pay.
SIGNED IN HEARST. ONTARIO
this day of	1997
FOR THE COMPANY
DonaldBisson Gilles Boucher Jos Carnpeau Jocelyn Blais Mike Fournier
FORTHFIMON
NormanRivard Etienne Gagnon Leo Levasseur Alam Cliarlebois Andre. Parent Alain Piette Damien Roy
49
TRADE APPRENTICE PROGRAM
1.	Apprenticeship openings will be filled in accordance with the provisions of Section 12.06 herein.
Note:	Applicant to be advised that they
will require grade 10 or equivalent and grade 12 for electricians
2.	The apprentice will be on a probationary period until such time as he(she) has finished attendance of first session of school.
3.	Any apprentice who fails his first year exams shall be required to be re-examined within twelve (12) months but not earlier than six (6) months. Failure to pass the reexamination will result m the apprentice being dropped from the program and returned to his former Job classification without loss of scnioriH
4.	Once an employee enters an apprenticeship contract he must continue to fulfill the obligations of the contract, including necessaiy training, periods iii a vocational school.
5.	The Company will make up the difference between the Canada Manpower Training Program allowances and the employee’s normal earnings based on his regular
50
straight time rate, multiplied by 40 hours per week. For purposes of calculation the Canada Manpower at home allowance shall be used.
6.	For all Tradesmen
All qualified tradesmen will be required to attend upgrading seminars, and will be required to continually update themselves to the provincial standards with courses provided by the company, in conjunction with a recognized training institution, oi equipment manufacturer in the case of specialized training on new equipment. Annually, in the month of September, an Evaluation Committee, consisting of the Plant Superintendent and/or his representative and the Maintenance Supervisor, together with a qualified Union Membei and a Union Representative will evaluate the performance and progress of each tradesman. For those tradesperson who refuse to update or upgrade themselves in their respective trade, then they may be demoted.
If upgrading is necessary, it will be coordinated by the Maintenance Supervisor.
7.	Tradesmen l s
51
Tradesmen will furnish all hand tools common to the trade. Mechanics will furnish spanners up to 1!4” opening, sockets up to and including 'A” drive and 1 'A" opening, adjustable wrenches up to 18" in length, hammers, chisels punches and screw drivers. The Company agrees to replace any personal tools broken in service provided that such broken tools are returned. The Company agrees to provide tools to tradesmen at cost. The Company will provide on loan any special tools including power driven tools, testing and measuring instruments and gauges, pullers, sockets over 'A" drive, spanners over 1V" opening.
In the event that the common tools of tradesmen are required to be in metric measurement such tools shall be provided on loan by the Company.
8.	Should an apprenticeship posting be developed because of a tradesman transfei from one department to the other, the posting for the apprenticeship will be posted in the department where tire tradesman is transported in the department where the tradesman is transferred. It is understood that the apprentice will have to transfer, according to the seniority clause. to the department where the apprenticeship program is needed.
1.
52
.JOB DESCRIPTION FOR TRADESMEN
INDUSTRIAL MECHANICS. (Millwrights)
Industrial Mechanic “A”:
Must be in possession of a Provincial Certificate of Qualification in that Trade.
Industrial Mechanic “I”:
Must have successfully completed the Third Year Training Program in that Trade, or must be capable under direction of performing all Industrial Mechanic jobs assigned to him in an efficient manner.
Industrial Mechanic “II”:
Must have successfully completed the Second Year Training Program in that
trade.
Industrial Mechanic “III”:
Must have successfully completed the First Year Training Program in that Trade.
Industrial. Mechanic “IV”:
Must have satisfied to Article 1 of the
TRADES APPRENTICE PROGRAM.
53
2.	ELECTRICIANS/.
ElectwJan, “A”'.
Must be in possession of a Provincial Certificate of Qualification in that Trade.
Electrician “I”:
Must have successfully completed the Third Year Training Program in that trade, or must be capable under direction of performing all Electrical jobs assigned to him in an efficient manner.
Electrician “II”-
Must have successfully completed the Second Year Training Program in that Trade.
Electrician ” :
Must have successfully completed the First Year Training Program in that Trade.
Electrician “IV”:
Must have satisfied to Article 1 of the
TRADES APPRENTICE PROGRAM.
3.	MOTOR VEHICLE MECHANICS:
54
Motor Vehicle Mechanic “A”
Must be in possession of a Provincial Certificate of Qualification in that Trade.
Motor Vehicle Mechanic “I”:
Must have successfully completed the Fourth Year Training Program in that Trade, or must be capable under direction of performing all jobs assigned to him in an efficient manner, on gasoline and/or diesel powered equipment and other equipment generally used in the Company operations.
Motor Vehicle Mechanic “II”:
Must have successfully completed the Third Year Training Program in that Trade.
Motor Vehicle Mechanic “III”:
Must have successfully completed the Second Year Training Program in that Trade.
Motor Vehicle Mechanic “IV”:
Must have satisfied to Article 1 of the
TRADES APPRENTICE PROGRAM.
55
4.	WF.LDF.RS: Welder “A”-
Must be in possession of a Provincial Certificate of Qualification in that Trade.
Welder”	:
Must have successfully completed the Third Year Training Program in that Trade, or must be capable under direction of performing all welding jobs assigned to him in an efficient manner.
Welder “II”:
Must have successfully completed the Second Year Training Program in that Trade.
WdldhrT ” :
Must have successfully completed the First Year Training Program in that Trade.
Welder “IV’”.
Must have satisfied to Article 1 of the
TRADES APPRENTICE PROGRAM.
5
INDUSTRIAL MACHINISTS
56
Industrial Machinist “A”
Must be in possession of a Provincial Certificate of Qualification in that Trade.
Industrial Machinist “I”:
Must have successfully completed the Third Year Training Program in that Trade, or must be capable under direction of performing all machinist jobs assigned to him in an efficient manner.
Industrial Machinist “II”:
Must have successfully completed the Second Year Training Program in that Trade.
Mdiastcidh i n i s t “HI”:
Must have successfully completed the First Year Training Program in that Trade.
Industrial Machinist “IV”:
Must have satisfied to Article 1 of the TRADES APPRENTICE PROGRAM.
6.	PLANTNTERS
Plant Carnenter “A”:
57
Must be in possession of a Provincial Certificate of Qualification in that Trade.
Plant Carpenter “1”:
Must have successfully completed the Third Year Training Program, or must be capable under direction of performing all plant carpentry assigned to him in an efficient manner.
Plant Carpenter “II”:
Must have successfully completed the Second Year Training Program in that Trade.
Plant Carpenter “HI”:
Must have successfully completed the First Year Training Program in that Trade.
Plant Carpenter “IV”:
Must have satisfied to Article 1 of the
TRADES APPRENTICE PROGRAM.
PLYWOOD DEPARTMENT Classification:
Pond Attendant Debarker Operator Exterior Slasher-Operator Lathe Operator Clipper Operator (green) Taiier 8'
Fishtail Saw
Dryer Feeder and Out feeder Glue Spreader Feeder Lay Up Lead Lay Up
Green End Assistant
WAGE RATES
June 1/96	Lino i iqh J U.li'w If S 1	June 1/98
$16 50	$17.00	$17.51
$16,73	$17.23	$17.75
$16.73	$17.23	$17.76
c* i n -t q 4) 1 / J7	$17.91	$18.45
$16.73	$17.23	$17.75
$16.73	$17.23	$17.75
$16.50	$17.00	$17 51
<r i c cn 4) lO.JU	<c i "7 nn q> a i , vv	$17.5!
$16.52	$17.02	$17.53
$16.73	$17.23	$17.75
$16,52	$17.02	$17.53
I < < 7 4J AO.O l	$17.11	$17.62
PLYWOOD DEPARTMENT Classification:	June 1/96
Press Operator	$17.14
Trim Saw Operator	$16.88
Sander Operator	$17.36
Patchers	$16.50
Clipper Dr)	$16.50
Glue Mixers	$16.73
Lift Truck Operator	$16.88
Putty Line	$16.50
Veneer Graders	$16.67
Plywood Inspector	$17.20
June 1/97	June 1/98
$17.65	$18.18
$17.39	$17.91
$17.88	$18.42
$17 00	$17 51
$17.00	$17 51
$17.23	$17.75
$17 19	$17.91
$17 00	$17 51
$17 17	$17.69
$ 17 72	$18 25
vC
WAjl chman and fire protection
Classification:
Watchman & Clean Up	June 1/96 $16.50
Yard Carry Lift Operator	<rin r\o 4> i / .vo
*Spareman	$16.77
Lunch Room Attendant	$16.39
Millwright Class “A” & Instrumentation	$20.98
Millwright Class “A”	$20.16
Millwright Class “I”	$19.11
Millwright Class “ii”	$18.15
Millwright Class “III”	$17.89
Millwright Class "IV"	$17.65
Welder Class “A”	$20.16
welder Class "I"	$19.11
Welder Class “II”	$18.15
Welder Class “HI”	$17.89
June 1/97	June 1/98
$17.00	$17.51
cn O' J / . s	$18.12
$17.27	$17.79
$16 88	$17.39
$2161	$22.26
$20 76	$21,38
$19.68	$20.27
$18.69	$19.25
$18.43	$18.98
$18.18	$18.73
$20.76	$21.38
cj9 68	$20.27
$18.69	$19.25
$18.43	$18.98
ON
o
June 1/96
June 1/97
June 1/98
Welder Class "IV"
Bulledger Cores
Handyman & Fire Equipment Attendant
$17.65 $16 77 $16 50
$18.18
$17.27
$17.00
$18.73
$17.79
$17.51
*	Minimum Rates - Highest Rate will apply when replacing on classifications with higher rate.
*	Any tradesman who successfully completed the trades robotics II course will receive a . 15c per hour adjustment over and above his regular rate
PARTICLEBOARD DEPARTMENT Classification.
HEAT TRANSFER UNITS COMPRESSOR DRYERS. ETC.
June 1/96
June 1/97
June 1/98
Operator
$17.25
$17.77
$18.30
GREEN END Casual Labour	$16.50
DRY END	
Glue Kitchen	$17.25
Press Operator	<P 1 *7 1 C 4> 1 /.ID
Swing	$17.36
Classification QUALITY CONTROL.	
Laboratory Lead	$!8 23
Laboratory	$1 7.02
$17.00
$17.51
$17,77
$17,66
$17.88
$18 78 $17.53
$18.30
$18.19
$18.42
$19.34
$18.06
FINISHING	June 1/96
Fork Lift Operator	$16.83
Sander Operator	$17.36
Grade Line Operator	$16.77
OTHERS:	
Lunch Room Attendant	$16.39
Yard Operator. Dumper. Seal	$17.08
*Spareman	$ I 7 02
Yard Helper Casual Labour(lnc Student weekend	$ 1 (> 50
cleaning)	$16.50
Millwright Class "A" & Instrument	$20 98
Millwright Class "A"	$20 16
Millwright Class "1"	$19 11
Millwright Class "II"	$18 1.5
Millwright Class "III"	$17.89
June 1/97	June 1/98
$17.33	$17 85
$17.88	$18.42
$17.27	$17 79
$16.88	$17.39
$17 59	$18 12
$17 53	$18 06
$ 1 7 00	$ 17 5 1
$17.00	$17 51
$21 61	$22 26
$20 76	$21 38
$19 68	$20.27
$18.69	$19 25
$18 43	$18 98
O'
LO
	June 1/96	June 1/97	June 1/98
Millwright Class "IV”	$17.65	$18.18	$18.73
Millwright “A” & H P Welder	$20.98	$21.61	$22.26
Welder Class "A”	$20.16	$20.76	$21.38
Welder Class “I”	$19 11	$19.68	$20.27
Welder Class "II"	$18 15	$18.69	$19.25
Welder Class “III”	$17 89	$18.43	$18.98
Welder Class “IV”	$17.65	$18.18	$18.73
*Minimiun Rates - Highest Rare will appl>	w lien replacing c	mi classification nV.Vibights ra	
Am tradesman u ho snccessfull\ completed the trades Robotics II Course			will receive a 15c
hour adjustment o\ er and above his regular	rale		
THIRD DEPARTMENT			
Classification:			
	June 1/96	June 1/97	June 1/98
Shipping	$16.90	$17.41	$17.93
Mechanic Ciass "A"	$20 16	$20.76	$21.38
Mechanic Class "1"	$19.11
Mechanic Class "II"	$18 15
Mechanic Class "III"	$17.89
Mechanic Class “IV”	$17 65
Machinist Class " A"	$20 16
Machinist Class “I”	$19 11
Machinist Class “IF”	$18 15
Machinist Class "III"	$17 89
Machinist Class “IV”	$17 65
Electrician E D	$20 98
Electrician Class “A”	$20 16
Electrician Class "I"	$ 1 9 11
Electrician Class “II”	$18 15
Electrician Class "111”	$ 1 7 89
Electrician Class "IV"	$17 65
Knife Grinder "A"	SIX 95
Knife Grinder "ET	$18 11
Knife Grinder "C"	$17 65
Plant Carpenter “A”	$20 16
$19.68	$20.27
$18.69	$19.25
$18 43	$18.98
$18.18	$18.73
$20 76	$21.38
$19.68	$20 2.7
$18.69	$19 25
$18.43	$18 98
$18 18	$18.73
$21.61	$22 26
$20 76	$21 is
$19 68	$20 27
$18.69	$19 25
$18.43	$ 18 98
$18 18	$18 73
$ 19 52	$20 1 1
$18.68	$1924
$18.18	$18 73
$20.76	$21 1
Plant Carpenter "1"	$19.11	$19.68	$20.27
Plant Carpenter "II"	$18.15	$18.69	$1.9.25
Plant Carpenter "III"	$17.89	$18.43	$18.98
Plant Carpenter "IV"	$17.65	$18.18	$18.73
On
ON
67
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
between
LEVESQUE PLYWOOD LIMITED (hereinafter referred to as the “Company”)
I. W. A. CANADA LOCAL 1-2995 (hereinafter referred to as the “Union”)
RE: - ARTICLE 2.0 1 fbt
Where circumstances are such, that there would be serious difficulties for the Company in the application of the terms of this Article in connection with construction projects it is agreed that disposition will be taken between the Company and the Union to resolve such difficulties by mutual agreement.
Hauling operations of raw materials and finished products of the Company are excluded from the term of the Collective Agreement.
RE: - YARD WORK- INCIDENTAL TO
LOGGING
The unloading of cars of veneer logs in Company's yard shall continue to be performed by the employees of the woods department.
68
SIGNED IN HEARS T. ONTARIO this day of	199'?
FOR THE COMPANY
FOR THE UNION
Donald Bisson Gilles Boucher Jos Campeau Jocelyn Blais Mike Fournier
Norman Rivard Etienne Gagnon Leo Levasseur Alain Charlebois Andre Parent Alain Piette
Damien Roy
69
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
between
LEVESQUE PLYWOOD LIMITED (hereinafter referred to as the “Compaq”)
and
I.W.A. CANADA LOCAL 1-2995 (hereinafter referred to as the “Union”)
RE: __VACATION SHI ITDOWiAND
TRADESMEN
Whenever possible, all tradesmen will be required to work during the plant vacation shutdown and will be allowed to take vacation time off at a time convenient to them and the Compaq in order not to jeopardize the plant operation.
70
SIGNED IN HEARST. ONTARIO
this day of	-199
FOR THE COMPANY
Donald Bisson Gilles Boucher Jos Campeau Jocelyn Blais Mike Fournier
FOR THE UNION
Norman Rivard Etienne Gagnon Leo Levasseur Alain Charlebois Andre Parent Alain Piette Damien Roy
71
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
between
LEVESQUE PLYWOOD LIMITED (hereinafter referred to as the “Company”)
and
I.W.A. CANADA LOCAL 1-2995 (hereinafter referred to as the “Union”)
RE: EMP1 OYE1E ON W.C.B. AND W.I.
II. is agreed that employee on W.C.B. and W.I. claim will be required to report in person even two weeks to their respective plant superintendent or the personnel director of the Company.
Should they be prevented from doing so b\ reason of health or reasons beyond their control, they should advise their plant superintendent or personnel director by telephone or have someone on tlicir behalf do it.
72
ONTARIO . 199"
Donald Bisson Gilles Boucher Jos Campeau Jocelyn Blais Mike F oumiei
SIGNED IN HEARST. this day of FOR THE COMPANY
FOR THE UNION
Norman Rivard Etiemie Gagnon Leo Levassem Alain Chariebois Andre Parent Alain Piette Damien Ro\
73
LETTER OR UNDERSTANDING
between
LEVESQUE PLYWOOD LIMITED (hereinafter referred to as the “Company”)
and
I.W.A. CANADA LOCAL 1-2995 (hereinafter referred to as the “Union”)
RE: MECHANIC’S WAGE ADJUSTMENT
A wage adjustment of. 7 10 cents per hour shall be paid conditional that:
1)	The affected employees must be in possession of a class “A” drivers licence.
2)	Mechanics will be required to work on logging site if requested.
74
SIGNED IN HEARST. ONTARIO
this day of	1997
FOR THE COMPANY	FOR THE UNION
Donald Bisson Gilles Boucher Jos Campeau Jocelyn Blais Mike Fournier
Nonnan Rivard Etienne Gagnon Leo Levasseur Alam Charlebois Andre Parent Alain Piette Damien Roy
75
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
between
LEVESQUE PLYWOOD LIMITED (hereinafter referred to as the “Company”)
and
LW.A. CANADA LOCAL 1-2995 (hereinafter referred to as the “Union”)
RE: OVERTIME'; AND PART TIME EMPI .OYF.F.S
1)	Effective January 1,1989 overtime in the Plywood department will be distributed as per the employment Standard Act.
2)	Company will be allowed to hire part-time employees to replace regular employees on floaters, vacation and leave of absence.
3)	These two above measures are to be on a trial basis for the period of January 1,1989 to May 3 1,1990.
4)	It is further agreed to compile a schedule effective January 1, 1988 which will show the overtime accumulated in all plant. Such overtime list will be for a period of 3 months and the overtime sheet shall be posted in lunchroom.
76
SIGNED IN HEARST, ONTARIO
this day of	1997
FOR THE COMPANY	FOR THE UNION
Donald Bisson Gilles Boucher Jos Campeau Jocelyn Blais Mike Fournier
Norman Rivard
Etienne Gagnon
Leo Levasseui
Alam Charlebois
Andre Parent
Alam Piette
Damien Ro\
77
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
between
LEVESQUE PLYWOOD LIMITED (hereinafter to referred to as the “Company”)
and
IAV.A. CANADA LOCAL 1-2995 (hereinafter referred lo as the “Union”)
RE: WORK PERMIT. CONTRACTORS AND EMPLOYEES
AH contractors and their employees shall pay a work permit for every month or part thereof which shall be deducted by the Company and forwarded to the Local Union Office.
It is understood that the above shall not
apply to consultant, salesman and engineer.
77
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
between
LEVESQUE PLYWOOD LIMITED (hereinafter to referred to as the “Company”)
and
I.W.A. CANADA LOCAL 1-2995 (hereinafter referred to as the “Union”)
RE: WORK PERMIT. CONTRACTORS AND THEIR EMPLOYEES
All contractors and their employees shall pay a work permit for every month or part thereof which shall be deducted by the Company and forwarded to the Local Union Office.
It is understood that the above shall not
apply to consultant, salesman and engineer.
78
SIGNED IN HEARST. ONTARIO
this day of	1997
FOR THE COMPANY	FOR THE UNION
Donald Bisson Gilles Boucher Jos Campeau Jocelyn Blais Mike Foumiei
Norman Rivard Etienne Gagnon Leo Levasseur Alain Charlebois Andre Parent Alain Piette ! Jamien Roy
79
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
between
LEVESQUE PLYWOOD LIMITED and
I.W.A. CANADA LOCAL 1-2995
Re:	Weekend maintenance schedule for
classification in maintenancgroup.
1)	Vacancies shall be posted as they occur and will be filled in accordance with the
job posting procedure.
2)	Hours of work:
Worked Paid Schedule
Friday 8	8 - 8:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.
Saturday 12	14 - 7:00 a.m. to 7:30 p.m.
Sunday 12	18-7:00 a.m. to 7:30 p.m.
Total 32	40
Electricians in the plywood department will be scheduled to work on the weekend maintenance once every four (4) weeks on a rotation schedule.
Hours of work:
Worked i d Schedule
Saturday	12	14	- 7:00	a.m.	to 7:30 p.m.
Sunday	12	18	- 7:00	a.m.	to 7:30 p.m.
Monday	8	8	- 8:00	a.m.	to 4:30 p.m.
3)	Overtime
All hours worked in excess of the regular work day, or in excess of the 32 hours worked per week will be paid at the rate of time and one half, except the rotation schedule of electricians.
Hours worked in excess of the twelve (12) on Sundays will be paid at the rate of double time.
4)	Vacation:
For the purpose of vacation entitlement, one (1) week will be Friday, Saturday and Sunday.
For electricians, one week vacation will be Saturday, Sunday and Monday.
5)	Holidays:
Statutory or Floating	Holidays shall	be	paid
the same amount of hours as if the employee bad worked.
Note:	No employees	will	loose	or	gain	any
money as a result of the above.
If a statutory holiday falls on a Saturday or
81
Sunday, it shall be observed on that day.
If a statutory holiday falls on a Monday, or any other day during the week, it shall be observed on the following Friday.
For the electricians, if the statutory holiday falls during the week, it shall be observed on the following Monday
6)	The three (3) days worked on the weekend schedule will be equal to one (11 week seniority.
7)	Should a person be off on a Sunday due to sickness, lie will be allowed to work two (2) eight (8) hours, shift through the week to make up eighteen (18) hours missed for Sunday
81 Scheduling to remain constant, except when Christmas Day. Boxing Day. January’ Is' and 2nd falls on a Sunday. Weekend shift employees will go back to five (51 day scheduling those weeks.
SIGNED IN HEARST, ONTARIO THIS DAY OF	, mi
For the Company	For the Union
DonaldBisson	Norman Rivard