■ '■ mmmmmmummummmimmw
f |E«|
lftl
M IS' II BEMS13 M T
BETWEEN
LFVESOMr PLYWf
! rv? 1! i
June 1, 1993 to May 3'J 1996

fifsYRfiflnR PfiYHOOD LIMITED
INDEX
MAYEHENT PAY.................................. 24
CALL OUT PAY...	...................... 15
(1RIBYANCR PROCKDDliK................................. 8,9.10
HOLIDAYS WITH PAY....
HOORS OF HOAR.... INSORANCB COVERAGE: WKDICAL
D R U
,.,,6,7.8 13.14,15
.............................22,23
G -	-22
HOSPITAL.............................................. 23
LONGTERH DIGABILITY....................... 27,28,29,30,31
DENTAL...................... 25,21), 27
LIFE . . . ..........................................  23
VISIOH................................................ 24
PENSION PLAN........................................31,32
JOB DESCRIPTION.................................. 35,36.37.30,39
.............................. 34.35,36,37.38
Y DOTY.......................................... 2
PROCEDURE................................ 17,18
TIME........................................ 14
JOB POSTING..
J U R LAY-OFF LUNCH
OVERTIME....... .........................................14.15
PAID EDUCATIONAL LEAVE.....................................32
PRORATION PERIOD.........................................
RECALLS.................................................   is
REPORTING PAY.............. .	u
SENIORITY	16,17,18,19,20,21,22
SHIFTDIFREREMTIAL..........................................15
TRADE APPRENTICE PROGRAK.............................. 33.34
TRANSFER TO OTHER JOB..................... ....	16,18.20
VACATIONS WITH PAY....	5,6
WAGE SCHRDULK.......................... 2,3,39.40.40.41,42.43
WORKING CONDITIONS..................................... 11,12
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT between
LEVESQUE PLYWOOD LIMITED (hereinafter referred to as the "Company")
IWA CANADA LOCAL 1-2995
(hereinafter referred to as the "Union")
ARTICLE__I - Purpose
f.Ol	The purpose of this Agreement is
to secure for the Company and the Union, the full benefits of orderly and Legal collective bargaining in respect to hours, wages, working conditions and to ensure to the utmost extent possible. the safety and physical welfare of the employees, economy of operation, quality and quantity of output and the protection of property. This Agreement, moreover, seeks to provide for fair and peaceful adjustments of all dispuLes that may arise between the parties. It is recognized as a duty of the parties hereto and of all emplovees to co-operate fully, individually and collectively, for advancement of Lhe conditions set forth herein.
ARTICLE !I - RccogniLion
2.0L (a)	The Company recognizes the Union
as Lhe sole collective bargaining agent of all employees of Levesque Plywood Limited at Hearst save and except foremen, persons above the rank cf foreman, office and sales stair" and scalers.
ARTICLE II
2
Recogn it ion (cont'd)
2.01	(b) The employees of contractors engaged by the Company In the plants and yard of the Company shall be considered employees within the terms of this Agreement; save and except the employees of contractors and/or the contractors who are en -gaged to perform occasional special serices not commonly performed by employees covered by the terms of this Agreement employees of contractors where such contractors are engaged for Che purpose of erecting structures and where such a contractor is bound by an Agreement with a Union or Unions affiliated with a central Labour body covering such work.
Supervisory personnel, which include contractors whose employees are cons idered to be employees under this Agreement, shall not perform work which would normally be a function of an employee in the job classifications covered by this Agreement, except where instructing em-p loyees and in cases of emergency which involve physical danger to employees or danger to pro--perty.
ARTICLE III - Period
3.01	The Company and the Union agree one
with the other that they will abide by the Articles	of this Agreement	from June 1,	1993	to	May
31,	1996	Inc lus ive, and	from year to	year	there - -
after, unless e ither party des ires to change or term inate th is Agreement, in wh ich case the party desiring the change or termination shall notify the other party In wr it ing at Least s ixty (60) days prior to Nay 31st of that particular year that	such	is its des ire. E ither party	open	ing	the
Agreement In the manner provided above shall notify	the	other party	In writing,	as	to	the
changes des ired .
ARTICLE IV - Wage Schedule
A. 01	The Wage Schedule is attached hereto
and forms a part of this Agreement.
- 3 -
ARTICLE IV - Wage Schedule Sconc'd)
4.02	If during the life of this Agreement, a significant change In job content In physical 01 mental requirements occurs In any job classification Lasted In the attached wage schedule the rate thereto shall be adjusted by negotiations between the parties. Upon failure to reach agreement the matter mav be referred to Section 8.05 of the grievance procedure.
4.03	For classified jobs not listed In this wage schedule, the Company may set estimated or temporary races, ~-'v such rates will be based or comparison with prevailing rates tor a similar and/or related occupation in the attached wage schedu le .
Whenever possible the Company must give at Least, thirty (30) days advance notice to the Union of any proposed change In job content to any job classification.
After a trial period of thirty (30! days any such rate or rates shall be negotiated with the Local Union and upon agreement shall become part of the wage schedule, and payment made	retroactive, end after the thirty (30) da!
trial and following negotiation for such rates with the Local Union, if no agreement is reached on the rate, the matter shall become subject to the grievance procedure beginning at Section S.05.
ARTICLE V - Union Membership
5.01	All	present employees who are members
of the Union and those who may become member+ of the Union shall maintain such membership In gooc standing as a condition of continued employment.
5.02	Employees	shall make application Lo
join the Union when first approached Lo do so b\ a dul\ authorized Union Steward, Official or Representative. The Company shall upon hiring remit to said employee a Letter supplied by the Union	with a	copv to the Steward, advising em-
ployee that it is a condition of employment for him to report to the Union Steward within L0 days.
5.03	For	each individual employee, who is a
member	of the	Union or applies to become a member
the Company agrees that it will, on his behalf and upon his written request or upon written notice by the Union, pay Union Initiation fees and/or monthlv membership dues from monies due him.
ARTICLE v - Union Membership (cont'd)
The Company sha L1 put empl oyces o n checkoff at the time of hire or return Lo work and deduct the Union's monthly membership dues from monies due them and the Union wi I I inform the Company accordingly.
The Company shalt include on each employee’s Income Tax (TA) slip, the amount of Union dues deducted in the calendar year.
5.04	Remittances of	all	deductions
shall be sent to the Local Union; said rem it -tances to be accompanied by itemized lists in alphabetical order, in duplicate, showing payroll numbers, ffuJ.l names and amounts. The Company shalt deliverthe above not later than the end of the following month. A copy of the list will be given by the Company to the Union Steward.
5.05	The Local Union shalt furnish the
Company with a list of Local Officersand Representatives,	and shall amend	these lists as
changes occur.
5.06	The Company will furnish a list of supervisory personnel Lo the Union Office at the start of the contract year and amend it as required. The amended list will show the effective date of the changes .
5.07	The Company agrees that while hiring additional employees it will give preference to Union members providing they apply for work oi that the Union applies on their behalf.
5.08	Represent a t ives of t h e Union carry-
ing a certificate of authority signed by the
President and Secretary of the Union shall have the right L o visit the plants for the purpose of investigating any alleged violation of this agreement.
Prior to his visit the Union Representative shall obtain permission from an authorized officer of the Company for his visit and Lo allow the Company co appoint' a representative Lo accompany him during his visit. The Union Representative shall conduct himself in a manner which wilt not interfere with the normal operation of the plants during his visits.
ARTICLE VI - Vacr.t •: ons with Pay
6.0).	''acncion with pay credits shall be
paid on the following basis and each 27- of vacation pay entitles an employee to one week ol time off:
a 1 b)
C l
d)
e)
f)
'r- of gross earnings for employees who have less than four (4) years service Lime with the Company.
67 of gross earnings for employees who have four (4) years or more but less than eleven (11) years service time with the Company.
oi of gross earnings for employees who have eleven (11) years or more but less than eighteen (18) years service with the Company.
10'- of gross earnings for employees who have eighteen (18) vears or more service with the Company .
12''.- of gross earnings for employees who have 30 years or more service with the Company.
SUPPLEMENTARY VACATION WITH PAY
Employees who have worked move than twenty (20) years for the Company. shall receive the following additional vacation in the calendar venr in which they attain:
- Above benefits terminate when employee attains his 65th birthday.
Age 60 Age 61 Age 62 Age 6 3 Age 64
1	week
2	weeks
3	weeks
4	weeks
5	weeks
(27. of gross earnings) (47- ol gross earnings) (67 of gross earnings) (87 of gross earnings) (107 of gross earnings)
6.02	An employee who has been cone i-
nuousl> employed for one II! year, shall take vacation time off in accordance wi lb Lhe provisions of Section 6.04 herein.
- 6 -
ARTICLE VI - Vacation with Pay (cont'd)
6.03	Accrued vacation with pay shall be
paid to each employee by cheque to be issued at the time o£ lay off or at the time vacation is taken. Where the employee is discharged for cause or quits he shall	be paid	his accrued	vacation
with pay at the next regular pay day. The calculation of Vacation Pay taxes will be on payroll stub.
6.04	A	plant vacation shutdown of two
(2) weeks duration, or any further period as may be mucually agreed to between the Company and the union, will be scheduled each year during July and/or August. The	Company	will notify	the	Union
as to duration and timing of such said shutdown. An employee who works during the vacation shutdown and/or who is	entitled	to vacation	time	off
in excess t:o the duration of the vacation shutdown will be allowed to take such time off upon not ice in wr it ing to h is superv isor. In case too many employees should seek	additional tine	off,
thereby jeopardizing efficiency of operations, time off will be scheduled in accordance with seniority.
ARTICLE VII - Holidays with Pay
7.01	Employees shall be paid without
the performance of work for the following Holidays at their regular rate of pay:
Civic Holiday (1st Monday in August)
Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Chr istmas Day January 2nd
Two (2) floating holidays per year for each employee who has accumulated a minimum of one hundred and twenty days (120) seniority, will be granted in addition to the above holidays. Request for floaters are to be submitted in writing at least three (3) working days in advance of the floater with the exception of emergency situations. Management will confirm within twenty-four (24) hours of receiving the request.
New Years 1 Day
Good Friday Canada Day Victoria Day Boxing Day
ALL floaters not taken prior to November 1st In each year will be scheduled. An employee who by reason of lay-off not exceeding twenty-one (21) working days is prevented from taking an earned floating holiday, shall be paid for the holiday if it cannot be otherwise scheduled during Che calendar year.
Seniority shall apply in the event floaters are taken in excess ive numbers.
fall on Saturday, it shall be observed on the preceding	Friday	and if	the	holiday	falls on
Sunday, it will	be observed	on the	fol ) owing
Monday or as otherwise mutually agreed.
For purposes	of the Agreement,	a
Saturday or a	Sunday or a	Holiday shall	begin	at
8:00	a.m. of	that day and	end at 8:00	a .m. the
day following.
7.03	An employee who has established se-
niority In accordance with Article XII, and who works any	of the	available	work days	within the
thirty (30) day period prior to the Holiday, and who works the last scheduled shift prior to the holiday and the first scheduled shift following tie	holiday,	unless his	return to	work	is
prevented by circumstances beyond his control, shall receive pay for the holidays.
7.04	Holidays occurring during the course of an allowed vacation period shall not be included as part of that allowance.
7.05	An	employee	who	quali	lies under
Section 12.02 (a) and 7.03, who is obliged to cease work due to a lay-off during the thirt) (30) day period immediately prior to Che holiday, shall receive holiday pay for the holiday(s) within such thirty (30) day period.
8
ARTICLE VII - Holidays with Pay (cont'd)
7.06	A”	employee, who qualifies under
Section 12.02(a)and 7.03, who is obliged to cease work due to sickness, pregnancy or accident certified by a licensed practitioner during the thirty (30) day period immediately prior to the Holiday, shall receive holiday pay for the holi-day(s) within such thirty (30) day period.
7.07	If	an employee who qualifies under
section 12.02 (a) and is recalled and works his first scheduled shift during his twenty-one (21) calendar day period, he shall receive holiday pay for the preceding holiday(s).
ARTICLE VIII - Adjustment of Grievances
8.01	All	disputes between employees and
the Company shall be settled by the following procedure.
8.02	The	Union shall arrange for the
election from its working membership, of two Union Committees of three (3) headed by a Union Steward. One (1) Plywood and one (1) Particleboard Plant The Company shall be notified in writing as to the names of the Union Committee. Union Steward and/or Grievance Committee man, may be allowed time off during his working hours at a time acceptable to the Company In connection with Union/Company business, provided that it does not interfere with the efficient operation of the Plant. (excluding negotiations of Collective Agreement! . The Company shall pay the Union Steward and/or Grievance Committee ma” :	at	his
regular or premium rate, which may be proper for any tine spent in connection with this Article (8.02).
8.03	stage
Any grievance arising during the term of this Agreement must be presented for adjustment without undue delay. A grievance of a” employee shall be taken by the employee singly or together with the Steward and/or Union Representa-t ive d irect ly to the emp loyee’s immed iate super -visor and a decision thereon shall be rendered within two (2) days from the presentation of the Grievance.
9
ARTICLE VIII - Adjustment of Grievances (cont’d)
8.06	(a)
stage 2
If this decision is not satisfactory to the aggrieved employee, the grievance shall be made in writing, and signed by the aggrieved employee and/or a Steward, and shall be presented to the Company by himself, or together with the Union Steward and/or Union Representative, within seven ( 7) days from the date of the decision under paragraph 8.03 above, and shall be dealt with at a meeting of the Steward's committee and management and such decision shall be rendered within seven .7)	or	within such
further time as may be mutually agreed.
8.06	(b)	In case of discharge or suspension
by the Company, the	Company will,	within	two (2)
days notify the employees in writing of the reason for the discharee, or suspension. A copy of such notice	shall	be submitted	co the Union
Steward within two (2) days. A grievance arising from a claim by ar. employee that his discharge or suspension by the Company was unjust or contrary co the terms of this agreement must be dealt with in writing by both parties and must be presented to the Company no Later than ten (10) days after the wri tten notice of the discharge or’ suspension. The grievance shall be introduced at this Stage.
8.06	(c)	Grievances which involve Company
wide interpretation, administration or alleged violation of the Agreement, shall he made in writing, and delivered to the opposite party within ten (10) days of the occurrence on which the grievance is	based:	and shall he	dealt	with bv
Representatives oJ the Company end Representatives of the	Union.	If the matter	is not	settled
within thirty (30) davs of notice being received by' the opposite partv, it may be referred co arbitration.
8.05
Stase 3
I n the event chat the gr ievance is not settled in the above matter, it may he referred to arbitration in accordance with the Labour Relations Act, and Notice of Processing to Arbitration shall be made or. the opposite party within thirty (30) days of the decision rendered under Section 8.06 above.
- 10 -
ARTICLE VIII - Adjustment of Grievances (cont'd)
8.06	Saturdays,	Sundays and Holidays shall
not be	included in	any	time	limits	in this
Article	of Agreement.	The	time	limits	mentioned
in this Article may be extended by mutual agreement, but otherwise shall be of essence. Failure on the part of the grievor to comply with time limits shall be	deemed	to be	an abandonment	oE
the grievance .
8.07	In arbitration,	the	Company	and	the
Union shall each select one person; these two shall select a	third	party	who shall act	as
Chairman. Either party shall appoint its nominee not later than five (5) days after written notice of the other party's nomination. The arbitration board's decision	shall	be final and binding	on
both parties to this agreement. In the event of the failure of the two persons selected by the respective parties to	select	a third party	as
provided above, they shall ask the Provincial Minister of Labour to appoint a third party.
Nothing contained in this Article shall prevent the parties from mutually agreeing to a s ing le arb itrator .
8.08	It is understood that the function of
the Arbitration Board shall be to interpret and apply	this agreement	and that	it shall	deal only
with the specific questions as submitted and shall	have no	power	to	alter,	add to,	nor amend
this agreement. However, the function of the Arbitration Board shall include the power to consider adjustments to individual job classification rates under Article A.02, 4.03. The Arbitration Board shall have no power to decide questions involving	general wage	adjustments.
8.09	Each	party	to	this agreement	shall pay
all expenses of the member of the Arbitration Board	selected	by it	or	by the	Minister	of Labour
and shall	share equally	in	the	fees and	expenses
of the third member of the Board.
ARTICLE IX No Strike No Lockout
9.01	There shall be no strike, stoppage of
work or slowdown, as defined by the Ontario Labour Relations Act, called or supported by the Union or	its members,	and	no	lockout	caused	by
the Company during the life of this agreement or anv renewal thereof.
- 11 -
ARTICLE X Working Conditions
10.01	(a) It is agreed that the Company and the Union will co-operate collectively In improving safety and first aid practices. The Company and Che Union further agree to set up and maintain a joint safety committee to promote safe working conditions and practices.	The Company will en-
deavour to have a qualified first aid man on each shift.
It is the intention of the Company to carry out on a month ly bas is, a safety inspect ion of its	plant with (2) two members	of the	em-
v i. oyee ’ 6 saitL)
Times spent by employees on such safety activities shall be considered as time worked.
10.01 (b) The Company will provide free of charge the following safety apparel and equipment; gloves to be supplied in different sizes as required, rain suits, coveralls for all maintenance work, welding shields , aprons and safety glasses where required. The	Company will	ensure	that
adequate safety switches are installed as required	on machinery	throughout the	plant.	Worn
out gloves, hearing protector equipment and aprons must be returned before a new pair of gloves,	new apron or	a new hearing	protector is
issued otherwise the employee will be charged for the new gloves, apron or hearing protection equipment .
10.01 (c) The Company agrees to pay yearly from date of last payment a flat allowance of twenty dollars ($20.00) to each employee, each year, as a compensation for safety boots. Said amount to be paid upon presentation by the employee of proof of purchase.
10.01	(d) For those employees that have to wear prescription eye glasses, the Company will pay for replacements of frame or lenses if damaged at work, up to a maximum of eighty ($80.00) dollars per year , per employee .
10.02	It	is agreed that during the life of
this Agreement, there shall be no reduction in existing privileges.
- 12 -
ARTICLE X - Working Conditions (cont1d )
10.03	(a)	The Company will provide adequate
cafeteria space and ventilation and will [provide low heat oven facilities.
10.03	(b)	Car plug-ins shall be provided for
employees’ cars at the Company’s plant parking lot.
in consultation such measures as heating and dust.
cleaners w i L1 be employees’ clo-
10.03	(b)	The Company agrees that it will
provide free insurance coverage against Loss by fire of tradesmen’s cools normally required by tradesmen to the full value of such tools, while on authorized Company property or work sites. In order to receive this coverage, tradesmen shall be required to supply to the Company, a list o f such tools with their invoices, so that proper coverage can be provided.
The Company agrees Chat it will provide coverage for theft or damage of tradesmen's tool chests and its contents while on Company’s property providing tradesmen supply List oftools to ths Company. This is toapply only in cases where tradesmen's tool chests have been broken into and contents stolen therefrom. I” such cases, the employee will be required to give immediate notice to his supervisor.
10.06	Employees will be paid every
second Thursday and pay computed to 8:00a.m., Wednesday of the preceding week.
The existing practice of paying employees through the Rank will be maintain and the Company will make arrangements whereby employees may receive their pay as of ten (10:00) o’clock a . m. on payday .
10.04	The Company will
with the Onion endeavour to take required to improve ventilation, control in both plants.
Adequate vacuum the Company for the
10.05 (a)
provided by
thing.
- i 3 -
ARTICLE: XI - I]:>urs of Work
LI.OL (a)	The work week shall consist: of ioi'Ly (40)
hours.
1.1.01	tb) 1. On three t3) shill produciion Lite work week shall consist of forty (40) hours, eight (8) hours nor day, beginning at 8:00 a.m. Monday to 8:00 a.m. Saturday, in accordance with the following schedule:
No. 1 shift -	8:00 a .m. to 4:00 p.m.
No. 2 shi ft -	4:00 p.m. co 12:00 midnight
so. 3 shi ft - 1.2:00 a.m. c o 8:00 a.m.
2.	_In Plywood only: Shift will start at 12:00 a.m. Monday on~a trial basis of six (6) months.
3.	Lathe Operation (Plywood)
For the period of December 1st to March 31st the hours of work shall be:
8:00 a.m. Lo 4:00 p.m.
8:00 p.m. to 4:00 a.m.
11.01	(c)	On two (2) shift production the work week
shall consist of forty (40) hours, eight (8) hours per dav beginning at 8:00 a.m. Monday to 12:00 midnight Friday, in accordance with the following schedule:
No. 1 shift - 8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m.
No. 2 shift - 4:00 p.m, to 12:00 midnight
LI.01 (d)	The work day for employees not on shift
crews (day shift) shall consist of eight (8) consecutive hours between the hours of 8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m.
11.01	(e)	Continuous operations, limited to Parti-
cleboard PLant only.
1) Such employees will be excluded from the provisions of time and one half for Saturday work or double time for Sunday work in 11.04 ta) and 11.04 (b) if such work is part of their regular scheduled hours of work.
2:	Regular scheduled hours of work on Sunday will be
paid time and one half.
- u -
ARTICLE XI - Hours of Work (cont'd)
3)	The shift schedule on said operations will rema in a negot iab le item .
4)	The day shift shall be from 8:00 a .m. to 4:00 p.m., the afternoon shift shall be from 4:00 p.m. to 12:00 midnight and the night shift from 12:00 midnight to 8:00 a .m.
5)	On continuous operation, the work week shall start at 12:00 a .m. Sunday to 12:00 a .m. the following Sunday for the four shift operation.
6)	All other provisions of Article XI will apply.
11.02	(a) All employees will be allowed a ten (10) minute coffee break at the mid-point of each half shift, and one half (1/2) hour off for lunch at the mid.-point of each shift. Lunch and coffee breaks are on Company time. Coffee breaks may be advanced or de layed by f ifteen (15) m inutes and lunch break advanced or de layed by 1/2 an hour to suit the production requirements.
11.02	(b) Ind iv idua 1 emp loyees can e lect to spend their lunch breaks either in the cafeteria or outside of the Company's premises but if they elect to go out they will be required to punch their cards when going and when returning to work.
11.03	(a)	If	an	employee	reports for	work and	no
work is available he will receive four (4) hours pay for reporting to work. If he commences work and no	work	is	available	for	him to	complete	his
shift,	he	shall	be paid	for	eight (8) hours	pay
at h is regu lar rate .
To	qualify for	the	above,	the employee
must remain on the iob until told by the foreman that he may leave and must accept other than h is normal work if it is offered, unless the employee is prevented from perform ing such work due to reasons beyond h is control.
11.03	(b) The starting and stopping times will remain constant and fixed during the weekly period, subject to the following:
An employee's scheduled shift may be changed at the Company's request provided he is paid one and one-half his regular rate for the
- 15 -
ARTICLE XI - Hours of Work (cont'd)
11.03	(b) (cont1d )
first shift worked after the change. When the enployee reverts to his original shift, he shall he paid at his regular straight time rate, provided there is a break of at lease eight (8) hours between the shifts worked.
11.04	(a)	Time	worked	in excess of eight (8)
hours	per	day	or shift	or over forty (40) hours
per week	and	all hours worked by an employee
outside his scheduled shift or on Saturday, shall be paid for at the rate of time and one-ha If.
Where an employee’s shift schedule is changed by the Company, the affected employee will be paid at the rate of time and one half for the f irst sh ift.
11.04	(b) Time worked on Sunday or any of the
Holidays specified in this Agreement shall be paid	for	at	the rate	of double time, except
employers attached to the Dryer Operation who shall be paid at time and one half, Dryer Feeder, Dryer Out Feeder, Veneer Grader, Lift and Clean-up.
11.04	(c) Employees who are willing to work overtime will be required to signify by giving their names to their supervisor each week on forms to be supplied by the Company.
Overtime requirements during the week and on week-ends will be distributed as equally as possible among employees who are capable of perform ing the work .
11 .04 (d) An employee who is called back for work after completing his day or shift shall be paid time and one half for the hours worked, but in no case shall he receive less than four (4) hours pay at straight time rate.
11.05	(a)	Employees working on two (2) or three
(3) shifts operation, will change shift every week and such change of shift will be on rotation.
11.05 (b) All employees scheduled to rotate on two (2) and three (3) shift operations shall receive $0.22 cents per hour in addition to their regular rate .
Effective June 1, 1994 increase to c.23 per hour. Effective June 1, 1995 increase to <t. 24 per hour.
- 16
ARTICLE XII - Seniority
12.01	(a)	The Company recognizes the prin-
ciple o£ Seniority. Seniority shall govern in promotion,	transfers, lay-offs and recalls after
lay-offs, provided the employee has the necessary qualifications, skill and ability to perform the work requ ired .
An employee’s seniority shall be his length of service with the Company dating back to h is or ig ina 1 h ir ing date or in case h is service was broken as defined in Section 12.03, his hiring date after his last break in service.
Time off due to sickness or accident must be certified by a licensed physician, dentist or chiropractor. An employee who has accrued seniority and is on authorized leave of absence on Union Business shall accrue seniority whi la on such 1 eave.
An employee who has accrued seniority and	is	then employed by the	Union shaj I
continue	to	accrue seniority for	a period	not
exceeding one month and retain such accrued	se-
niority for a period not exceeding six (b) months, unless otherwise mutually	agreed to.	An
employee who has accrued seniority and is then employed by the Company in a position beyond the scope	of	this	Agreement	shall continue to	accrue
and retain seniority for a period not exceeding three	(3)	months unless	otherwise	mutually	agreed
to. Such employee may upon proof of Union membership in good stand ing , exerc ise h is sen ior ity c o return to	the	bargaining	unit.
12.01	(b)	Employees	who are	or become	preg-
nant shall be allowed such time of' as medically required by their condition without loss of seniority .
12.01	(c)	An employee who has beer absent
From work due to accident, sickness, pregnancy or authorized leave of absence has the right to return to the job classification he hold prior to such absence. If there should be conclusive evidence than an employee has carried out work during his absence which would demonstrate he would have been able to carry out his regular functions with the Company, such employee’s seniority will, be cancelled.
- 17 -
ARTICLr, XII -- Seniority (cont'd)
12.02	(a) A new employee of the Company shall be considered as probationary until he has completed 30 days of work In one period of employment, except In case of lay-off. Seniority of a new employee shall be established at the end of this period and shall be effective from the date of employment.
12.02	{b) In case of layoff employees shall accrue seniority for 12 months. Then, he shall retain all his seniority.
12.03	An	employee shall lose all seniority it
he:
al quits	or	is discharged	and not.
reinstated.
b)	fails to reporc work work following recall as provided in Section 12.04 (b) or fails to return from authorized absence on the date specified unless in either case his return to work an time is prevented by circumstances beyond his control, and he has taken the necessary steps to adv ise the foreman.
12.04	(a) In cases of lay-off, the Company wiLl notify in writing the employees intended to be laid off and the Union Steward at least five (5) working days in advance, or will pay in Lieu thereof.
In cases of Lay-off of a duration of five >'3) working days or less the above five (5) days ' notice will be reduced to two (2) days’ notice.
However, in case of a general lay- off, notice of lay-off will be posted on the Bulletin Boards of the Company five (3) working days in advance. Absent employees at time of notice of lay-off, will be advised in writing of said layoff.
Except in cases of lay-off due to breakdown or electrical power failure, the employees affected will be paid in accordance with Article 11.03 and will be permitted to exercise their seniority rights to another job the same day and for the following day on their scheduled shifts. Should the breakdown last more than the above mentioned period, the employees wi.1) be permitted to exercise their seniority rights for another job on any shiftin accordance with 12.01 (a).
18
ARTICLE X T T - Seniority (conti'd)
12.04	i.b) When Che date of recall is known or anticipated at the time of lay-off, employees Leaving will be informed accordingly. In al.l other cases, notice in writing will be mailed to che employee at his given address with copy to the Union Office, at Least ten (10) days before he is required to report to work. Employees will be required to acknowledge receipt of such notice within four (4) days and report for work on the date specified, unless other arrangements have been made in writing. However, a direct verbal conversation with the employee or employees involved will be sufficient notice to return to work on mutual agreement by the Company and the empLoyoe(s). An employee who ava ils himself of time limits provided herein has no claim in connection with time worked by another employee.
L2.04 (c) If, as a result of a l.ay-off or for any other reason it is necessary to transfer an employee from one job classification to another, senior employees will be given preference. Provided the employee has the aptitudes of skill, efficiency and ability, he will be trained by the Company in order to meet the job requirements . An employee will be allowed five (5) working days in which to qualify or such other period as may be mutually agreed to.
12.04	id) For layoffs of less than three (3) months, employees affected will revert back to their original job once normal operation resumes, unless he has applied on a permanent vacancy during the above mentioned period.
L2.05 (a) When an employee transfers at the request of the Company to meet production requirements, to a lower paying job, the employee will be paid at the rate of the job from which he has so transferred. It is understood that: such transfers will be made in conformity to seniority pro vi s i otis .
12.05	(b) For a transfer at the request of the employee, payment from the date of transfer will be made at the rate of the new occupation of classification.
L2.05 (c) For all other transfers (including but not limited to transfers due to inefficiency, inability, health, safety and demotions for cause) payment shall be made at the rate for the job to which the transfer is effected.
1.2.05	(d) Promotions shalL mean advancement to a job which carries a higher rate of pay, or a reduction in shift rotation.
- 19 -
ARTICLE XII - Seniority (cont'd)
L2.06	L. Chert any vacancies occurs imme-
diate notice thereof willb e posted on the bulletin board for a period of five (5) working days for which the Company may make a temporary appointment to such vacant job. However, in case replacement is required for a vacancy of less than fifteen (15) consecutive working days, such vacancy may be filled by temporary appointment wi thout posting .
Re: Posting - In the Plywood department job vacancies occuring during the period of a Etatutovv Ho] fLiv. said hoLiday will be considered a ‘work day. In the event that more than one Statutory Holiday occurs during a posting period, such vacancy will be pasted for a period of five ( 5 ) working days .
2. Employees wiLl not be considered for a vacant job, unless they apply in writing during the five (5) day period on forms to be supplied b\ the Company. A copy of such form will be retained by	the	applicant	and	one copy	of	such
form will be given to the Steward. All possible effort will be made to advise absent employees of such vacancy, provided the employee has indicated in advance hi:; desire to be so advised.
3. The vacancy will be filled by the senior applicant who, provided he has the aptitudes of skill,	efficiency	and	ability,	will	be
trained by the Company in order to meet the job requirements. An employee filling the posted vacancy shall	be	allowed a	minimum of	five	(5)
working days in which to qualify or any further rime as ma> be mutual 1 y agreed, this does not apply however, to an employee who, i n the past, has successfully filled such vacancy. Failure of an employee to qualify shall entitle him to return to his former .job. Name ( s ) of successfu 1 applicant(s)	will be posted	for	at least	five	(5)
working days by the Company on the bulLetin board in all cases.
12.07	Anemployee who has successfully
claimed and filled a job shall be ineligible to further bid for another vacancy before three (3) months have elapsed unless such vacancy is a promotion.
- 2 0 -
ARTICLE XII - Seniority ( cont1 d )
12.08	A Seniority list shall be prepared
and posted monthly	on the bulletin	board by	the
company, shoving each employee’s name with Christian names, clock	number and effective	date	of
hiring. Copies of such list shall be mailed to the Union Steward	and the Union	Office.	Se-
niority list of each department shall be posted on all bulletin boards.
12.09	Seniority will be set up and main-
tained on departmental basis. One department wiLl he comprised of all employees at and out of the PI vwoocl Plant. The	other department	will	be com-
prised of all employees at and out of the Particleboard Plant.
Inter-department transfers will be allowed only In case there is a vacancy In one department which must be filled by hiring. In such case, employees of the other department will be given preference over new hires.
An employee transferring from one department to the other under the aforement ioned circumstances, will, for purposes of fringe benefits, retain all his seniority already accrued. For purposes of actual exercising of seniority, such said employee's seniority will begin accruing on the date his transfer becomes effective. An employee transferring in the manner described herein will be considered as having filled a vacancy in accordance with the terms of Section 12.06.
Melamine will form part of the Particleboard Plant"
In case of layoff or job opening, the following option will be available for original employees from the plywood plant:
a)	Employees will be permitted to apply on jcb opening.
b) Employees will be permitted to bump into the plywood plant in case of Layoff.
c)	It is understood that Che above is applicable only for a one time deal and he will not be perm itted to return.
- 21 -
ARTICLE .*<11 - Seniority tcont'd’1
12.09	(cont1d)
d)	Notwithstanding Article 12.04 (d), should an employee choose to accept a layoff in the melamine plane, the above option will remain open to him.
e)	No bumping in case of mechanical breakdown Cor (2) days or less.
f) 8 or 12 hour shift at the employee's option Cor a period of six i months then, Collective Agreement will apply.
g)	Bumping not. permitted from particleboard to melamine or vice-versa Cor the next ant ic ipated shutdown (maintenance).
12.10	In addition to the provisions of
Section 12.09 there will be a third department comprised of all employees attached to the follow ing operations: Shipping - Machine Shop - Garage.
Vacancies in this third department will be open to employees of either of the other two departments. Employees who successfully bid for such vacancies will retain and continue to accrue seniority in the department in which they were originally hi red .
Employees presently employed in the third department will retain and continue to accrue seniority in the department in which they were originally hi red.
Employees hired in the third department will accrue seniority in the plywood department.
It is agreed and understood tnat the Yard Carry Lift 9'50 which belongs to the ParticLeboard department:	will remain to the Plywood
department until such time as it becomes vacant. Upon becoming vacant this classification shall revert back to the particleboard department and posting and filling of the vacancy will be made in accordance with Section 12.06 and 12.09.
22 -
ARTICLE XII - Seniority (cont'cl)
12.1L	An employee with three (3) or more
years of continuous service for whom no job is available can upon termination elect to receive a severance allowance of one (l) week's pay for-each year of employment during his last period of continuous services (up to the date of termination) computed on the basis of forty (40) straight tine hours at the employee's regulaa-rate. The maximum severance allowance payable being thirty (30) weeks. It is understood that, an employee who chooses to receive his severance al lovance will be terminated from his employment waiving his recall rights pursuant to this Agreement.
ARTICLE XIII - Bulletin Boards
13.01	The Union shall have the right to
post notice; dealing with Union affairs upon Bulletin Boards of the Company, such notices to have che approval of Company management before such posting.
ARTICLE XIV - Health and Welfare
14.01	(a)	For	each employee who has	esta-
blished seniority in accordance with Article XII, the Company will pay the premium cost of O.H.I.P. Drug Plan bill (equivalent to the current Blue Cross Drug Plan) and semi-private Hospital Care Plan monthly.
14.01	(b)	The	Company will pay for a	drug
plan benefit whereby an employee, upon having a prescribed drug ordered, must pay the druggist a flat	rate of thirty-five cents (.35<£) per	pres-
cription, the balance be ing covered by the carry-ing insurance Company.
14.01	(c)	For	married employees where	both
are working, the Company will pay one amount of the married contribution and one single to be paid direct to the employee. For employees covered outsice this plan the Company will pay the s ing le contr ibut ion d irect to the emp loyee .
14.01	(d)	If there should be a net reduction
in the premiums charged for Medical, Surgical Insurance due to a revision of the O.H.I.P. by e ither the Federa1 and/or Prov inc ia1 Governments , the Company's contribution will not be reduced from the amounts set out in this Article.
- 23 -
ARTICLE XIV - Health and Welfare (cont'd)
14.OL (d)	If the Company's contribution ex-
ceeds the premiums required for Medical, Surgical , Drug and Hospital Cal-e Insurance, the balance will be applied to such other employee benefits as may be agreed upon between the Company and the Union. Pending agreement between the Company and the Union as to the application of contributions over and above the premiums required such additional monies will be paid direct to the emp loyee .
LIFE INSURANCE
14.02	The	Company will provide	and pay
the full	cost	of	a thirty-five thousand	dollars
($35,000.00) life insurance and an accidental death and dismemberment benefit for up to a maximum of thirty-five thousand dollars ($35,000.00) for each emp loyee .
WEEKLY INDEMNITY
14.03	The	Company will maintain	and pay
the premium cost of a Meekly Indemnity Insurance Plan. The Plan will provide seventy (70Y») percent of Weekly earnings (40 hours times an employee's regular rate)	up	to a maximum of $440.00 per
week. To	commence	on the first day In	case of
non-compensable accident and or hospitalization on the fourth (4th) continuous day from the commencement of a disability due to sickness and will continue for the period of disability up to a maximum of fifty-two (52) weeks, combined with U.I.C. benefits. Employees	not qualifying for
U.I.C. benefits will maintain continued coverage under the Weekly Indemnity Insurance Plan. Effective June 1 ,	1995 increase maximum to
$465.00 per week.
14.03	(a)	The	Company's contr ibut ion	towards
Health and Welfare package will continue for a period of up to twelve (12) months when an employee is off work due to a Workmen's Compensation Claim or a short term disability claim. Employee will have to apply or have someone apply on their behalf immediately at the time of illness or acc ident.
ARTICLE XIV - Health and Welfare (cont'd)
14.03	(b) For employees who qualify under Article XII, the Company agrees that an employee shall be paid at the regular rate for the balance of his shift lost because of injury while at work. It is also agreed and understood that where an employee is unable to return to work, he will be required to show proof to qualify for the above.
DISPUTED W.C.B. CLAIM
If an employee covered by the Company's present Weekly Indemnity Plan suffers a disability for which payment is in dispute with the W . c . Ii . , Weekly Indemnity payment will be made retroactively If requested by the employee and provided he has been off work for at least one (1) month due to the disability without W.C.B. having accepted the claim and providing the employee is subject to the rules and regulations covering the Weekly Indemnity Plan. If the W.C.B. claim is subsequently established, the employee will then repay the Meekly Indemnity payment(s) received to the appropriate fund.
VIS_ON CARE: PLAN
14.04	The Company shall institute and pay the premium cost of a Vision Care Plan equivalent to the $80/24 Blue Cross Plan. Effective June L, 1994 increase to $90/24.
BEREAVEMENT PAY
14.05	When death occurs to a member of an employee's immediate family, that is:	an em-
ployee's father, mother, mother-in-law, father-in-law, brother, sister, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-lax , grand-child and grandparents both sides. The employee will be granted leave and shall be paid for eight (8) hour! ; at h is regu lar stra ight t ime rate for t ime lost up to a maximum of three (3) days. Five (5) days	leave with pay	will he	provided	on death	of
an employee's spouse or children. The day of the funeral must be one of the three (3) days. The intent of this clause is to allow the employee to attend the funeral without loss of earnings.
Any	claim for bereavement pay must	he
submitted by	the	employee to the	Company	in
writing, along with proof of bereavement in the emp loyee's immed iate fam ily .
It	is understood	that for	purpose	of
this Article step-relatives will be considered the same as blood relatives .
- 25 -
JURY DUTY ALLOWANCE
14.06	I " the case of an employee who is called for jury service, or is subpoenaed as a witness by the Crown, the Company shall pay, for each day of such service, an allowance equal to Che difference between eight (8) hours of pay based on his regular straight time hourly race, and the payment he received for jury service. The employee will present proof of servLCe and of pay received therefore when making his claim for such allowance.
14.07	It is the duty of every employee to advise the paymaster of any change regarding the following:
1)	Marital Status
2)	Change of Insurance Beneficiary
3)	New dependants with date of birth
4)	Change of address and te lephone number
ARTICLE XV - Management Rights
15.01	The Union agrees that the Company has
the exclusive right and power t o manege the plant:. , to direct the work force, and to hire, promo te, transfer or lay-off employees and to suspend or discharge or otherwise discipline employees for just cause; provided that the Company agrees	that	any exercise of	these rights	ar.d
powers shall be subject to the express provision of this Agreement.
ARTICLE XVI - Dental Care Plan
16.01	The Company will maintain a Dental Care Plan with participation compulsory for all employees on the following basis:
1. Eligibility:
Participation in this plan is limited to employees	who	have accumulated	one hundred	and
twenty ( 120) days ( 6 months )seniority with the Company.
It is understood and agreed that the Plan will provide	for	the continuation of	coverage for	the
period an employee is off work due to lay-off or leave of absence , n o t t o exceed one hundred and twenty (120) days (6 months).
26 -
ARTICLE XVI - Dental Care Plan (cont'd)
2.	Plan Design:
a)	Services	and	benefits	as provided	in Blue
Cross No . 7 Bas ic P lan and R ider No . I.
b)	Services	and	benefits	as provided	In Blue
Cross Rider No. 2 (50%). The Plan provides for the application of the 1992 O.D.A. Schedule of Fees. Effective January 1, 1994 the plan will provide for 1993 O.D.A. and effective January 1, 1995, the plan to provide for 1994., O.D.A. Schedule	of Fees and effective January	1,	1996
the Flan will provide	for the 1995 O.D.A.
Schedule of fees.
Maximum of $1,000.00 per calendar year per person.
The Company agree:; to provide the Union with a copy of	Rules	and Regulations relating	to	the
Plan.
3 .	Adm in istrat ion :
The plan	will	be administered in accordance	with
a" appropriate contract or set of procedures reflecting	the	plan design outlined in	Item 2
above. The decision as to the choice of administrative	vehicle from among service carriers,
insurance Companies, or self-administration will be made by the Company on the basis of appropriate study of these alternatives.
4. Prem iums :
The premium cost of this plan shall be paid by the Company.
5. Integration:
The Plan will not provide like benefits where such are currently being provided by federal or prov inc ia l	leg is lat ion .
If during the life of this Agreement, Federal or Provincial governments shall introduce legislation to provide benefits already covered by this Plan, the plan shall be amended so as to eliminate said benefits.
- 27 -
ARTICLE XVI - Dental Care Plan (cont'd)
NOTE :
The employee monthly premium cost contribution for the above mentioned benefits for the term of this Collective Agreement will be as follows:
Single-$3.00 through payroll deduction
Married-$5.00 through payroll deduction
ARTICLE XVII - Long Term Disability Plan * 4
Effective June 1,	1981, the Company
will institute and maintain a Long Term Disability Plan as per Schedule "A" attached.
SCHEDULE "A-
The Company shall pay the monthly premium cost of the Long Term Disability Benefit Plan.
The Long Term Disability Benefit Plan shall be administered in accordance with the terms of an insurance policy.
1.	Eligibility
The Long Term Disability Benefit Plan shall be compulsory for all employees who have accumulated
4 5 days sen ior ity w ith the Company .
2.	Effective, Date of Coverage
An eligible employee is entitled to benefits provided he is actively at work on the first day the Long Term Disability Benefit Plan becomes effective .
An eligible employee absent from work due to sickness or accident at the effective date of the Plan, shall only be eligible for Long Term Disability Plan benefits upon the return Co continuous active full-time employment for a period of more than four consecutive weeks.
- 28 -
2.	Effective Date of Coverage (cont'd)
The Company shall have the right to give medical examinations to employees returning from such layoff to determine their eligibility under the plan.
3.	Qualifying	Period
An insured employee shall be eligible to receive an amount of Long Term Disability Benefit after fifty-two weeks of benefit entitlement for the same disability under the Weekly Indemnity Plan. Benefit payment shall not commence during a strike until the termination of the strike.
4.	Definition	of Disability
"Disabled" and	"Disability" mean:
a)	Until the individual has received Disability
Income	Benefit	payments	as a	result	of the disability	for 24	months,	the	complete	inability of
the	individual due	to	injury,	disease,	pregnancy
or mental disorder to perform any and every duty pertaining to his occupation, and
b)	After the individual has received Disability
Income	Benefit	payment	as a result	of the disability	for 24	months,	the	complete	inability of
the	individual due	to	injury,	disease,	pregnancy
or	mental disorder	to	engage	in any	and every
gainful occupation	for	which	he is	reasonably
fitted by education, training or experience. However, an individual will be deemed to cease to be disabled if	he engages in any	gainful!	occupation except as	provided in the Rehabilitation	Sec-
tion.
5 . Amount, of Benefit
(a)	The disability benefit shall be 50% of monthly earnings as defined in (5b), up to a maximum monthly payment of $1,300.00 per month. Effective June 1st, 1994 the maximum monthly payment will be increased to $1,450.00 per month.
(b)	"Monthly Earnings" means, in the case of a day or shift worker, 173 x his regular hourly rates;
29 -
5.	Amount of Benefit: (cont'd)
(c)	"Hourly Rate" means the regular rate of the employee effective immediately prior to the date on which chc disabiLLly occured, excluding overtime or shift: bonus.
(d)	The benefits payable under this Plan are
reduced by any primary disability payments made under the Canada Pension Plan, or any Company group disability income plan.	Benefits are not
affected by War pensions,	W.C. Disability
Pensions, oi b y any insurance policies he may have purchased h imseIf.
6.	Duration of Benefit
(a)	Benefits will be paid for one month, for each completed month of service prior to commencement of the Long Term Disability Benefits, while the emp loyee is d isab led .
(b) Disability benefits will be paid one month in arrears.
7.	Termination of Benefits
Benefits shall cease upon the occurrence of any one of the following:
(a) On the date the employee ceases to be disabled.	(If there is a recurrence of the same
disability within six (6) months of return to work, a	new qualifying period will	not	be
required,	and Che disabled employee will be
eligible for any balance of Long Term Disability Benefit payments. This provisions shall Cake precedence over any recurrent disability provision under the Weekly Indemnity Plan), or
(b)	On exhaustion of the benefit period, or
(c) Up to normal retirement age, oi (d ) On death
- 30 -
Long Term Disability Benefit PLan (cont'd)
8.	Exclusion
(a)	An employee receiving Long Term Disability
Benefits will not be eligibLe for vacation or
statutory holiday pay.
(b)	Benefits under the Long Term Disability Plan
will not be payable for claims resulting from:
(i)	Any injury arising out of or sustained while
doing any	act	or thing pertaining to	anv
occupation or employment for remuneration or profit, or
(ii)	Any injury or illness entitling the employee to compensation under any Workmen's Compensation or similar legislation, or
(iii)	Self-destruction or any self-inflicted injury, while sane or insane, or
(iv)	Disability	for	which the employee is	not
under the treatment of a physician, or
(v)	Alcoholism	or	drug addiction, unless	the
employee is undergoing a recognized course of treatment by a specialist in the care and treatment of alcoholism and drug addiction or the employee is undergoing regular rehab i-litative treatment approved by the insurer and a licensed physician.
(vi)	Disability or loss (1) while the employee is on, or could be placed on Pregnancy/ Maternity Leave, or (2) if employee fails to qualify for Pregnancy/Maternity Leave because of failure to meet the length of service requirements, during the period of Pregnancy/Maternity Leave that the employee could be on if she qualified for such leave, in accordance with the Employment Standards Act 1974, Ontario or any other relevant pro-v inc ia 1 statutes .
- 31 -
Long Term Disability Benefit Plan (cont'd)
9.	Rehabilitation
An employee receiving an amount of Long Term Disability Benefit may be asked to undergo reasonable rehabilitation mesures which have been the subject of prior consultation with the employee's doctor, at no cost to the employee. If such employee refuses to undertake such rehabilitation, he may be declared not eligible for an amount of disability benefits.
10.	Physical Examinations
The Company and/or insurer reserves the right to requ ire per iod ica l phys ica l exam inat ions through -out the duration of the employee's absence due to disability, Such examinations shall be conducted by a physician or physicians designated by the Company and/or insurer.
Cost of physical examinations, transportation and reasonable out-of-pocket expenses related thereto will be paid by the insurer.
The Company will reimburse employee's cost of medical reports requested by the Company or the Insurance Company.
ARTICLE XVIII - Pension Plan
The Company agrees to establish a plan to provide pensions at retirement to become effect ive on October 1st, 1986. This Pens ion P lan will be in the form of a $33,00 per month defined contribution to be deposited with a trustee to the credit of the individual accounts under the Plan. The Company aIso agrees to contr ibute an additional $33.00 per month to each eligible employee conditional on the individual employee contributing an equal amount of $35.00 per month to the P lan .
Cost of establishing the account for each employee and the ongoing cost of administering and investment will be deducted from each account.
ARTICLE XVHf - Pension Plan IconC'd)
The Company agrees Co contribute during each month cn and after the effective date, $35.00 to the account of each member of the plan who is on the Company's active payrolL in the month. The Company also agrees to contribute an additional $35.00 per month per eligible employee conditional on the individual employee contributing an equal amount of $35.00 per month to the plan.
lull tine employees Hill join the plan after completing one year of continuous service.
Effective June 1st, 1994 - $45/45/45
Effective June 1st, 1995 $50/50/50
There shall be equal representation from Company and Union as trustee into the Pension Plan.
There will be no preferred rates or bonuses paid in money or in kind under any circumstances unless approved in writing by Agreement between the Company and the Union.
PAID EDUCATIONAL LEAVE
The Company agrees to pay a flat amount of $1,400.00 per year to the Union.
SIGHED Ili HEARST, ONTARIO THIS
1993.
FOR THE COMPANY:
FOR THE UNION:
Gilles Lechasaeur
Robert Coneau
Harcel Letoucneau
Leo Levasseur
- 33 -
TRADE APPRENTICE PROGRAM
1. . Apprenticeslip openings v/ili be	filled in
accordance with	the provisions	of Section
12.06 here in .
Note: Applicant to be advised	that they
will require grade 10 or equivalent.
2.	There will be a probationary period of up to
three (3) months or any further time may be mutually agreed	to between the	Company and
the Un ion, pr ior to enter ing into an appren-ticeship agreement during which time the employee nay	return or	failing	to display the
necessary mechanical aptitude, be returned to his former job classification without loss of seniority.
3.	Any apprentice	who fails his	first year
exams shall be	required to be	re-examined
within twelve (12) months but not earlier than six (6) months. Failure to pass the re-examination will result in the apprentice be ing dropped from the program and returned to his former job classification without loss of seniority.
4.	Once an employee enters an	apprenticeship
contract:	he must continue to fulfill the
obligations of the contract, including necessary training periods in a vocational school.
5.	The Company	will make	up the	difference bet-
ween the Canada Manpower Training Program allowances and the employee’s normal earnings based	on his	regular	straight time
rate, multiplied by 40 hours per week. For purposes of calculation the Canada Manpower at home allowance shall be used.
6.	For all Tradesmen
Wherever possible, every effort will be made by the Company to provide training courses which will assist these desiring Co qualify themselves to write the provincial examina-t ion in the trade, in order t o obta in a Class "A" designation.
- 34 -
Trade Apprentice Program (con t1d) 7 . Tradesmen Too Is
Tradesmen will furnish all hand tools common to the trade. Mechanics will furnish spanners up to 1-1/4" opening, sockets up to and including 1/2" drive and 1-1/4" opening, adjustable wrenches up to 18" in Length, hammers, chisels punches and screw drivers. The Company agrees to replace any personal tools broke" in service provided that such broken tools are returned. The Company agrees to provide tools to tradesmen at cost. The Company will provide on loan any special tools including power driven tools, testing and measuring instruments and gauges, pullers, sockets over 1/2" drive, spanners over 1-1/4" opening.
I" the event that the common tools of trades-me" are required to be in metric measurement such tools shall be provided a" Loan by the Company.
8.	Should a" apprenticeship posting	be deve-
loped because of a tradesman transfer from one department to the other, the posting for the apprenticeship will be posted in the department where the tradesman is trans-posted in the department where the tradesman is transfered. It is understood	that the
apprentice will have to transfer, according to the seniority clause, to the	department
where the apprenticeship program is	needed.
JOB DESCRIPTION FOR TRADESMEN
1.	INDUSTRIAL MECHANICS (Millwrights)
Industrial Mechanic "A" :
Must be in possession of a Provincial Certificate of Qualification in that Trade.
Industrial Mechanic "1":
Must have successfully completed the Third Year Tra in ing Program in that Trade, or must be capable under direction of performing all Industrial Mechanic jobs assigned to him in an efficient manner.
- 35 -
JOB DESCRIPTION FOR TRADESMEN icont'd) Industrial Mechanic "II":
Must have successfully completed the Second Year Training Program In that trade.
Industrial Mechanic "111":
MusC have successfully completed the First Year Training Program In that Trade.
Industria 1 Mechanic "IV" :
Muse have satisfied to Article 1 of the TRADES APPRENTICE PROGRAM.
2.	ELECTRICIANS:
Electrician "A" :
Must be in possession of a Provincial Certificate of Qualif ication in that Trade.
Electrician "1":
Must have success fully completed the Third Year Training Program in that trade, or must be capable under direction of performing all Electrical jobs assigned to him in an effi-c ient manner .
Electrician "11":
Must have successfully completed the Second Year Training Program in that Trade.
Electrician "111":
Must have successfully completed the First Year Training Program In that Trade.
Electrician "IV":
Must have satisfied to Article 1 of the TRADES APPRENTICE PROGRAM.
3.	MOTOR VEHICLE MECHANICS
Motor Vehicle Mechanic "A" :
Must be In possession of a Provincial Certificate of Qualification in that Trade .
- 36 -
Motor V e h i c I e Mechanic "l":
Must have successfully completed the Fourth
Year Training Program in that Trade, or must be capable under direction of performing all jobs assigned to him in an efficient manner, on gasoline and/or diesel powered equipment and other equipment generally used in the Company operations.
Motor Vehicle Mechanic "11":
Must have successfully completed the Third Year Training Program in that Trade.
Motor Vehicle Mechanic "111": * 4
Must have successfully completed the Second Year Training Program in that Trade.
Motor Vehicle Mechanic "IV" :
Must have satisfied to Article 1 of the TRADES APPRENTICE PROGRAM .
4.	WELDERS
Welder "A":
Must be in possession of a Provincial Certificate of Qualif ication in that Trade.
Welder "l11:
Must	have	successfully	completed	the	Third
Year Tra in ing Program in that Trade, or must be capable under direction of performing all welding jobs assigned to him in an efficient manner.
Welder M11IC:
Must	have	successfully	completed	the	Second
Year Training Program in that Trade.
Welder "11111:
Must	have	successfully	completed	the	First
Year Training Program in that Trade.
3?
JOB DESCRIPTION (cont'd) Welder "IV" :
Must:	have satisfied to Article 1 or the
TRADES APPRENTICE PROGRAM.
5.	INDUSTRIAL MACHINISTS
Industr la 1 Ma ch in i s t
Must be In possession of a Provincial Certificate of Qualification In that Trade.
Industrial Machinist "l":
Must have successfully completed the Third Year Training Program In that Trade, or must be capable under direction of performing all machinist jobs assigned to him In an efficient manner.
Industr la 1 Ma chinist "11" :
Must have successfully completed the Second Year Training Program in that Trade.
Industrial Machinist "111":
Must have success fully completed the First Year Training Program in that Trade .
Industrial Machinist "IV":
Must have satisfied to Article 1 of the TRADES APPRENTICE PROGRAM .
6.	PLANT CARPENTERS
Plant Carpenter "A" :
Must be in possession of a Provincial Certificate of Qualif ication in that Trade.
Plant Carpenter "l":
Must have successfully completed the Third Year Training Program, or must be capable under direction of performing all plant carpentry assigned to him In an efficient manner.
38 -
JOB DESCRIPTION (cont'd)
Plant Carpenter "1L11:
Must have successfully completed the Second Year	Training Program	in	that	Trade.
Plant Carpenter 1111111:
Must	have successfully	completed	the First
Year	Training Program	in	that	Trade.
Plant Carpenter "IV" :
Must have satisfied to Article 1 of the TRADES APPRENTICE PROGRAM .
-39-
WAGE SCHEDULE
PLYWOOD DEPARTMENT
Clas.sific.
WAGE RATES
Pond AC Cendant Debarker Opcr-Mechanical Saw Opcr. LaChe Oper.
Clipper Operator (gr^ Toiler 4'
Toiler 8'
Fishtail Saw Dryer Feeder and Outfcedcr
Glue Spreader Feeder l_ay Up Lead Eay Up Press Opcr.
Trim Saw Opcr.
Sander Opcr.
Pacchers Clipper Drv Clue Mixers lift Truck Opcr.
Putty Line Veneer Graders Plywood Inspector Sr Plywood Inspector
Juno 1/93
$15.25
15.45
15.40 16.07
15.45
15.45 IS .45 IS . 25
15.25
15.27 IS . 45 IS . 27
15.03 15.60
16.04
15.25 IS . 25 IS . 40 IS . 60
IS.14
15.40 IS . 79
15.79
Juno 1/94
$15.63
15.84
15.79 16.47
15.84
15.84
15.84
15.63
15.63
15.65
15.84
15.65
16.23
15.99 16.44 15-63
15.63 15-79
15.99 15.52
15.79
16.18
16.18
Juno 1/95
$16.02
16.24
16.18 16.88
16.24
16.24
16.24
16.02
16.02
16.04 16-24
16.04
16.64
16.39
16.85
16.02
16.02
16.18
16.39 15.91
16.18
16.58
16.58
-40-
WAGE SCHEDULE Icont'd)
WATCHMAN AND KIKE BKOTECTIO'N
	S15.25	515.63
Yard Carry Bile Open.	15.79	16.18
Spaceman	15.49	15 . as
Lunch Room ACCendanC	15.14	
	19.39	19.87
Electrician Class "A"	18-62	19.09
	17.66	18. lO
	16.77	17.19
Electrician Class "Til’*	16.54	16.95
Electrician Class "IV"	16.31	16.72
Millwright Class "A" & InsCrumenca C i on	19.39	19.87
Millwright Class "A"	18.62	19-09
Millwright Class ”1”	17.66	18 - 10
Millwright Class ‘*11”	16.77	17.19
Millwright Class "HI"	16.54	16.95
Millwright Class "IV"	16.31	16.72
Welder Class "A"	18.62	19.09
Welder Class "I"	17 -66	18 . lO
Welder Class "IX"	16.77	17.19
Welder Class "III"	16.54	16.95
Welder Class "IV"	16.31	16.72
Knife Grinder "A"	17 - 51	17.95
Knife Grinder "B"	16.76	17.18
Knife Grinder "C”	16.31	16.72
Builedge r Cores	15.49	15.88
Handyman &. Fire Equ-i-p-Attcndant	15.25	15.63
■* Mininura Races - Highest Race will apply when replac Cion with higher -race.
tdesman who successfully complcccd Che crades e a £.15 pen hour adjustment over and above hi
Juno 1/95 $16.02 16.58
16.28 15.91
20.37
19.57
18.55
17.62
17.37
17.14
20.37
19.57
18.55
17.62
17.37
17.14
19.57
18.55
17.62
17.37
17.14
18.40 17.61
17.14
16.28
16.02
.«£ on classifica-
robotics TI course s regular race.
-41-
WAC1F. SCHEDULE - PARTICLEBOARD DEPARTMENT Cl ti-. i.HTlcti Clun :
heat Transfer units
COMPRESSOR . I1KYKKS. I-TQ.	June* 1/73
WAPK RATKS
Jun»» 1/74
Juno l/QS
Op»**r.-»tr»r CXLtlN EK’D C/i:.u-il Labour DRY KNf>
CUii- Kicchvn Swi n>»
QUALITY CONTKOT-
I..ibor.ilory Li-.«rl I.«i liur.i t urv
F l N t ?nH I sr.
Fork l.J t r dpi• r . S.mJ.»r OpiTiitur Lf.'idi.' I..[rv:	Op.*r.il
sis.74
IS.25
IS. 04 IS. 04 16.04
JO.OS 1 Li . 73
1S.4S IC .04
t16.34
IS.63
16.34 1C.24 \G.44
17.27 1C. 1 2
IS. 04 J 6.4 A
IS . »t*
C16.7S
16.02
16.76 16.6S 16.WS
17.70 16.S2
16.24 16.65 1 <,. ? e
^3