Collective Agreement
Between
I.W.A. Canada Local 2995
and
Columbia Forest Products
Begins:
06/01/2002
Terminates:
05/31/2007
O1019 (07)
Columbia Forest Products (Levesque Hearst)
ARTICLE	PAGE
1	Purpose..............................1
2	Recognition..........................1
3	Period...............................3
4	Wages Schedule...............:........3
5	Union Membership.....................4
6	Vacation with Pay............;........6
7	Holidays with Pay..................  9
8	Adjustment of Grievances............12
9	No Strike - No Lockout..............16
10	Working Conditions..................16
11	Hours of Work.......................19
12	Seniority...........................28
13	Bulletin Board......................38
14	Health & Welfare....................38
14	Life Insurance......................39
14	Weekly Indemnity....................40
14	Disputed W.S.I.B, Claim.............42
14 Vision Care Pian........................42
14	BereavementPay......................42
15	Management Rights...................44
16	Dental Care Plan....................44
17	Long Term Disability Plan...........47
18	Pension Plan........................52
18	Bridging Supplement.................54
18	Paid Educational Leave..............54
18	General Wage Increase...............54
Trade Apprentice Program....................57
Job Description For Tradesmen...............60
Wage Schedule...............................68
Letters of Understanding....................78
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
Between
COLUMBIA FOREST PRODUCTS (Levesque Hearst)
(hereinafter referred to as the “Company”) and
I.W.A. CANADA LOCAL 2995 (hereinafter referred to as the “Union”)
ARTICLE I - PURPOSE
1.01	The purpose of this Agreement is to secure for the Company and the Union, the full benefits of orderly and legal collective bargaining in respect to hours, wages, working conditions and to ensure to the utmost extent possible, the safety and physical welfare of the employees, economy of operation, quality and quantity of output and the protection ofproperty. This Agreement, moreover, seeks to provide for fair and peaceful adjustments of all disputes that may arise between the parties. It is recognized as a duty of the parties hereto and of all employeesto co-operate fully, individually and collectively, for advancement of the conditions set forth herein.
ARTICLE TT - RECOGNITION
2.01(a) The Company recognizes the Union as the sole collective bargaining agent of all employees of Columbia Forest Products (Levesque Hearst) at Hearst save and except foremen, persons above the rank of
2
foreman, office and sales staff and scalers. ^
2.01	(b) The employees of contractors engagedby the Company in the plants and yard of the Company shall be considered employees within the terms of this Agreement; save and except the employees of contractors and/or the contractors who are engaged to perform occasional special services not commonly performed by employees covered by the terms of this Agreement employees of contractors where such contractors are engaged for the purpose of erecting structures and where such a contractor is bound by an Agreement with a Union or Unions affiliated wfh a centrai labour body covering such work.
The Company agrees that it will not employ contractors or sub-contractorsto do maintenance work commonly performed by employees covered by the term of this agreement, In such situations where additional manpower will be required to perform the above maintenance work, qualified employees will have the first right of refusal.
Once a year, the Company, and the Union will study its needs for maintenance to determine if it would be warranted to make adjustments to the number ofpeople.
Supervisory personnel, which include contractors whose employees are considered to be employees under this Agreement, shall not perform work which would normally be a function of an employee in the job classifications covered by this Agreement, exceptwhere instructingemployeesandin
3
cases of emergency which involve physical danger to employees or danger to property.
ARTICLE TTT - PERIOD
3.01	The Company and the Union agree one with the other that they will abide by the Articles of this Agreement from June 1, 2002 to May 31, 2007 inclusive, and from year to year thereafter, unless either party desires to change or terminate this Agreement, in which case the party desiring the change or termination shall notify the other party in writing at least sixty (60) days prior to May 31st of that particular year that such is its desire. Either party openingthe Agreement in the manner provided above shall notify the other party in writing, as to the changes desired.
ARTICLE IV- WAGE SCHEDULE
4.01	The Wage Schedule is attached hereto and forms a part of this Agreement.
4.02	If during the life of this Agreement, a significant change inj ob content in physical or mental requirements occurs in anyjob classificationlisted in the attached wage schedule the rate thereto shall be adjusted by negotiations between the parties. Upon failure to reach agreementthe matter may be referred to Article 8.05 of the grievance procedure.
4.03	For classified jobs not listed in this wage schedule, the Company may set estimated or temporary rates. Any such rates will be based on
4
comparison with prevailing rates for a similar and/or related occupation in the attached wage schedule.
Whenever possible the Company must give at least thirty (30) days advance notice to the Union of any proposed change in job content to any job classification.
After a trial period of thirty (30) days any such rate or rates shall be negotiated with the Local Union and upon agreement shall become part of the wage schedule, and payment made retroactive, and after the thirty (3 0) day trial and followingnegotiation for suchrateswith the Local Union, ifno agreement is reached on the rate, the matter shall become subjectto the grievance procedure beginning at Article 8.05.
ARTICLE V - UNION MEMBERSHIP
5.01	All present employees who are members of the Union and those who may become members o f the Union shall maintain such membership in good standing as a condition of continued employment,
5.02	Employees shallmake applicationto j oin the Union when first approached to do so by a duly authorized Union Steward, Official, or Representative. The Company shall upon hiring remit to said employeea letter suppliedby the Union with a copy to the Steward, advising employee that it is a condition of employment for him to report to the Union Steward within 10 days.
5.03	For each individual employee, who is a
5
member ofthe Union or applies to become a member, the Company agrees that it will, on his behalfandupon his written request or upon written notice by the Union, pay Union initiation fees and/or monthly membership dues horn monies due him.
The Company shall put employees on checkoff at the time of hire or return to work and deduct the Union’s monthly membership dues from monies due them and the Union will inform the Company accordingly.
The Company shall include on each employee’s Income Tax (T-4) slip, the amount of Union dues deducted in the calendar year.
5.04	Remittances of all deductions shall be sentto the Local Union; said remittances to be accompanied by itemized lists in alphabetical order, in duplicate, showing payroll numbers, full names and amounts. The Company shall deliver the abovenot laterlhanthe end ofthe followingmonth, A copy ofthe lists will be given by the Companyto the Union Steward.
Remittance of all work permits including names of contractors shall be included in the checkoff list of each month.
5.05	The Local Union shall furnish the Company with a list of Local Officers and Representatives, and shall amend these lists as changes occur.
5.06	The Company will furnish a list of supervisorypersonnel to the Union Office at the start
6
of the contract year and amend it as required. The amended list will show the effective date of the changes.
5.07	The Company agrees that while hiring additional employees it will give preferenceto Union members providing they apply for work or that the Union applies on their behalf,
5.08	Representatives of the Union carrying a certificate of authority signed by the President and Secretaryof the Union shall have the right to visit the plants for the purpose of investigating any alleged violation of this Agreement.
Prior to his visit the Union Representative shall obtain permission from an authorized officer of the Company for his visit and to allow the Companyto appoint a representativeto accompanyhim during his visit, The Union Representative shall conduct himself in a manner, which will not interfere with the normal operationofthe plants during his visits.
5.09	Each new employee shall be allowed one half(l/2) hour on Company time to meet with the Union Steward within the first week of completion of the probationaryperiod.
ARTICLE VT - VACATION WTTH PAY
6.01	Vacation with pay credits shallbepaidonthe
following basis and each 2% of vacation pay entitles an employee to one week of time off:
7
a)	4% of gross earnings for employees who have less than four (4) years service time with the Company.
b)	6% of gross earnings for employees who have four (4) years or more but less than eleven (11) years service time with the Company.
c)	8% of gross earnings for employees who have eleven (11)years or more but less than eighteen (18) years service with the Company.
d)	10% of gross earnings for employees who have eighteen (18) years or more service with the Company.
e)	12% of gross earnings for employees who have 30 yean; or more service with the Company.
f)	Supplementary Vacation With Pay
Employees who have worked more than twenty (20) years for the Company, shall receive the following additional vacation in the calendar year in which they attain:
Above benefits terminate when employee attains his 65th birthday.
Age 60-1 week	(2% of gross earnings)
Age 61-2 weeks	(4% of gross earnings)
8
Age 62-3 weeks	(6%of gross earnings)
Age 63-4 weeks	(8% of gross earnings)
Age 64-5 weeks	(10% of gross earnings)
6.02	An employee, who has been continuously employed for one (1) year, shall take vacation time off in accordance with the provisions of Section 6.04 herein.
6.03	(a) Accrued vacation with pay shall be paid to each employee by cheque to be issued at the time of lay off or at the time vacation is taken. Where the employee is discharged for cause or quits he shall be paid his accrued vacation with pay at the next regular payday.
6.03	(b) The Company will deduct vacation pay taxes, C.P.P. andE.I, onabi-weeklybasis from regular pay.
6.04	The Company will post the vacation shutdown period, if any, prior to March 3 1st of each year. Those employees with supplementaryvacation will advisethe Companyin writing prior to April 15th of the same year on their preferred holiday schedule.
The Company will confirm the holiday schedule prior to April 30, based on seniority. All unscheduled holidays will then be on a first come first serve basis provided there is a five (5) working day advanced request.
Holidays will be granted provided it does not jeopardize the efficiencyof operations.Vacations will be taken on the same basis as the employees’ regular
9
schedule in blocks of a minimum of three (3) days. However, on continuous operation, one (1) week’s vacation shall be seven (7) consecutive calendar days of which five (5) must be working days.
Vacation taken during regular operationwill be taken in blocks of a minimum of3 days or 2 days for employees on 12 horns schedules.
Shutdowns outside the month of July or August shallnot be considered as vacation shutdowns.
ARTICLE VII - HOLIDAYS WITH PAY
7.01	Employees shall be paid without the performance of work for the following Holidays at their regular rate of pay:
New Years’ Day Good Friday Canada Day Victoria Day Boxing Day
Civic Holiday Labour Day Thanksgiving Day GTostnes Day January 2nd
If you are on a continuous operationand you are schedule to work, you will work on that day except if you request the day off one week in advance. For tradesmen only, should there not be the normal crew available, the Company will appoint by reverse seniorityand the appointed tradesman will be allowed. an alternate day off by mutual agreement, For production employees, should there be open positions not filled by qualified permanent employees, the Company will fill these positions with part time
10
employees.
Three (3) floating holidays per year for each employee who has accumulated a minimum of one hundred and twenty days (120) seniority, will be granted in addition to the above holidays. Request for floaters are to be submitted in writing at leastthree (3) working days in advance of the floater with the exception of emergency situations. Floaters and holidays to be paid on a no loss no gain basis. Employees shall be reimbursed the same amount of hours as if he/she was scheduled to work Management will confirm acceptance of the floater within two (2) working days of the requested floating date(s).
All floaters not taken prior to year end will be paid on the last pay of the year. An employee who by reason of lay-off not exceeding twenty-one (21) working days is prevented from taking an earned floating holiday, shall be paid for the holiday if it cannot be otherwise scheduled during the calendar year.
The Company shall advise the Union Steward, when any employees are on vacation or taking a floating holiday, leave of absence and short term sickness.
Seniority shall apply in the event floaters are taken in excessivenumbers and will be superseded by vacation time authorized as per Article 6.04.
7.02	When any of the above holidays fall on Saturday, it shall be observed on the preceding Friday
11
and if the holiday falls on Sunday, it will be observed on the following Monday or as otherwise mutually agreed. This does not applyto continuous operations or weekend schedule.
Forpurposes of the Agreement, a Saturday or aSundayoraHolidayshallbeginatl2:00 a.m, ofthat day and end at 12:00 a,m, the day following.
7.03	An employee who has established seniority in accordance with Article XII, and who works any ofthe available work days within the thirty (30) day period prior to the Holiday, and who works the last scheduled shift prior to the holiday and the first scheduled shift following the holiday, unless his return to work is prevented by circumstances beyond his control, shall receive pay for the holidays.
7.04	Holidays occurring during the course of an allowed vacation period shall not be included as part ofthat allowance.
7.05	An employee who qualifies under Article 12.02(a) and 7,03, who is obliged to cease work due to a lay-off during the thirty (30) day period immediatelyprior to the holiday, shall receive holiday pay for the holidays) within such thirty (30) day period.
7.06	An employee, who qualifies under Article 12.02(a) and 7.03, who is obliged to cease work due to sickness, pregnancy or accident certified by a licensed practitioner during the thirty (30) dayperiod immediatelyprior to the Holiday, shall receive holiday
12
pay for the holidays) within such thirty (30) day period.
7.07	If an employee who qualifies under Article 12.02(a) and is recalled and works his first scheduled shift during his twenty-one (21) calendar day period, he shall receive holiday pay for the preceding holidays).
ARTICLE VIII
ADJUSTMENT OF GRIEVANCES
8.01	All disputes between employees and the Company shall be settled by the followingprocedure.
8.02	The Union shall arrange forthe election from its working membership, of two Union Committees of four (4)headed by a Union Steward. One (1) Plywood and one (1) Particle board Plant. The Company shall be notified in writing as to the names of the Union Committee. Union Steward and/or Grievance Committee member, may be allowed time off during his working hours at atime approvedby the Company in connection with Union/Comp any business, provided that it does not interfere with the efficient operation of the Plant (excluding negotiations of Collective Agreement). The Company shall pay the Union Steward and/or Grievance Committeemember, at his regular or premium rate, which maybe proper for any time spent in connection with this Article (8.02).
8.03	Stage 1
Any grievance arising duringthe term of this
13
Agreement must be presented for adjustment without undue delay. A grievance of an employee shall be taken by the employee singly or together with the Steward and/or Union Representative directly to the employee’s immediate supervisor and a decision thereon shall be rendered within two (2) days from the presentation of the Grievance.
8.04(a) Stage2
If this decision is not satisfactory to the aggrieved employee, the grievance shall be made in writing, and signed by the aggrieved employee and/or a Steward, and shall be presented to the Company by himself; or together with the Union Steward and/or Union Representative, within seven (7) days from the date of the decision under Article 8.03 above, and shall be dealt with at a meeting of the Steward’s committee and management and such decision shall be rendered within seven (7) days or within such further time as may be mutually agreed.
8.04(b) In case of discharge or suspension by the Company, the Company will, within two (2) days notify the employees in writing of the reason for the discharge of suspension. A copy of such notice shall be submitted to the Union Steward within two (2) days. A grievance arising from a claim by an employee that his discharge or suspension by the Company was unjust or contrary to the terms of this agreementmust be dealt with in writing by both parties and must be presented to the Company no later than ten (10) days afterthe writtennotice of the discharge or suspension. The grievance shall be introduced at this Stage.
14
8.04	(c) Grievances which involve Company wide interpretation, administration or alleged violation of the Agreement, shall be made in writing, and delivered to the opposite party within ten (10) days of the occurrenceon which the grievance is based, and shall be dealtwithby Representativesofthe Company and Representatives of the Union. If the matter is not settled within thirty (30) days ofnotice beingreceived by the opposite party, itmay be referred to arbitration.
8.05	Stage3
In the event that the grievance is not settled in the above matter, it maybe referred to arbitrationin accordancewith the Labour Relations Act, and Notice of Processing to Arbitration shall be made on the opposite party within thirty (30) days of the decision rendered under Article 8,04 above.
8.06	Saturdays, Sundays and Holidays shall not be included in any time limits in this Article of Agreement. The time limits mentioned in this Article may be extended by mutual agreement, but otherwise shall be of essence. Failure on the part ofthe griever to comply with time limits shall be deemed to be an abandonment ofthe grievance.
8.07	In arbitration, the Company and the Union shall each select one person; these two shall select a third party who shall act as Chairman. Either party shall appoint its nominee not later than five (5) days after written notice of the other party’s nomination. The arbitration board’s decision shall be final and
15
binding on both parties to this agreement. In the event of the failure of the two persons selected by the respective parties to select a third party as provided above, they shall ask the Provincial Minister ofLabour to appoint a third party.
Nothing contained in this Article shall prevent the parties from mutually agreeingto a single arbitrator.
8.08	It is understood that the function of the Arbitration Board shall be to interpret and apply this agreement and that it shall deal only with the specific questions as submitted and shall have no power to alter, add to, nor amend this agreement. However, the function of the Arbitration Board shall include the power to consider adjustments to individual job classification rates under Article 4.02, 4,03. The Arbitration Board shall have no power to decide questions involving general wage adjustments.
8.09	Each party to this agreement shall pay all expenses of the member of the Arbitration Board selected by it or by the Minister of Labour and shall share equally in the fees and expenses of the third member of the Board.
8.10	Where mutually agreed, and prior to arbitration, the parties will share equally in the cost of a mediator, whose decision shall be binding. The parties will mutually agree to a list ofmediators. Ifthe parties cannot agree to the mediationprocess, theterm of the Collective Agreement shall apply.
16
8.11	The record of any disciplinary notation for offence shall not be used against an employee after 24 months has elapsed since the date of disciplinary notation^),
ARTICLE IX - NO STRIKE - NO LOCKOUT
9.01	There shallbeno strike, stoppage of work or slowdown, as defined by the Ontario Labour Relations Act, called or supported by the Union or its members, and no lockout caused by the Companyduringthe life ofthis agreement or any renewal thereof
ARTICLE X -WORKING CONDITIONS
10.01	(a) It is agreed that the Companyand the Union will co-operate collectively in improving safety and first aid practices. The Company and the Union further agree to set up and maintain a joint safety committee to promote safe working conditions and practices. The Company will endeavour to have a qualified first aid man on each shift. All members of the Joint Health and Safety Committee will receive training from the Workers Health and Safety Centre <x its equivalent.
It is the intention ofthe Company to carry out on a monthly basis, a safety inspectionof its plant with two (2) members ofthe employee’s safety committee.
Times spent by employees on such safety activities shall be considered as time worked.
10.01	(b) The Companywill provide free ofchargethe
17
following suitable safety apparel and equipment; gloves to be supplied in different sizes as required, rain suits, coveralls for all maintenance work, welding shields,'aprons and safety glasses where required. The Company will ensure that adequate safety switches are installed as required on machinery throughout the plant, Worn out gloves, hearing protector equipment, aprons and safety glasses must be returned before a new pair of gloves, a new apron , a new hearing protector or new safety glasses, is issued otherwisethe employee will be charged for the new gloves, apron, hearing protection equipment or safety glasses. 10,01© Effective date of ratification, the Company will pay the cost of one pair of good quality safety boots, to a maximum of one hundred and ten dollars $110,00 per calendaryear. Effective January 1st, 2004, increase to $115.00, Effective January 1st, 2005, increase to $120,00. Effective January 1st, 2006, increase to $125.00.
10.01(d) The Company agrees to pay an allowance effective date of ratification, of one hundred and twentydollars ($120.00)maximumto each employee, each year to assist in the purchase of prescription safety glasses/frames for the workplace. For those employees who have to wear bi-focal prescription safety glasses the maximum allowance will be one hundred and fifty dollars ($150.00). For calendaryear 2004, increase maximums to one hundred and thirty dollars ($130.00) and one hundred and sixty dollars ($160.00). For calendar year 2006, increase maximums to one hundred and forty dollars ($140.00) and one hundred and seventy dollars ($170.00). Said amount to be paid upon presentation by the employee
18
of proof ofpurchase.
10.02	It is agreed that during the life of this Agreement, there shall be no reduction in existing privileges.
10.03(a) The Company will provideadequatecafeteria space and ventilation and will provide low heat oven facilities.
10.03(b) Car plug-ins shall be provided for employees’ cars at the Company’s plant parking lot.
10.04 The Company will in consultation with the Union, endeavour to take suchmeasures as required to improve ventilation, heating and dust control in both plants.
10.05(a) Adequate vacuum cleaners will be provided by the Company for the employee’s clothing.
10.05(b) The Company agreesthat it will provide free insurance coverageagainst loss by fire oftradesmen’s tools normally required by tradesmen to the full value of such tools, while on authorized Companyproperty or work sites. In order to receive this coverage, tradesmen shall be required to supplyto the Company, a list of such tools with their invoices, so that proper coverage can be provided.
The Company agrees that it will provide coverage for theft or damage of tradesmen’s tool chests and its contents while on Company’s property providing tradesmen supply list of tools to the
19
Company. This is to apply only in cases where tradesmen’s tool chests have been broken into and contentsstolen therefrom, In such cases,the employee will be required to give immediate notice to his supervisor. The Company will pay $350,00 ($25.00 remaining to be paid at ratification) per year as tool allowance to all trade’s person. Effective June 2003, increase yearly amount to $400,00. Effective June 2004, increase yearly amount to $425.00. Effective June 2005, increase yearly amount to $450,00, Effective June 2006, increase yearly amount to $475.00, The Company will no longer replace worn, stolen or lost tools.
10,06 Pay periods will be on a calendar week, Sunday to Saturdayto start and end at the same time for all plants.
The existing practice of paying employees through the Bank will be maintained and the Company will make arrangements whereby employees may receivetheirpayas often (10:00) o’clock a,m, on payday.
ARTTCT.F XT-HOURS OF WORK
11.01(a) The normal workweek shall consistofthose hours as specified in Article XI.
Managementreserves the right to schedule a seven (7) day, twenty-four (24) hour per day continuous operation where required.
11.01(b) 1. On three (3) shift per day production the
20
work week shall consist of forty (40) hours, eight (8) hours per day, beginning at 12:00 a.m. Monday to 12:00 a.m. Saturday,in accordancewiththe following schedule:
#1 shift	12:00 a.m. to	8:00 a.m.
#2 shift	8:00 a.m. to	4:00 p.m.
#3 shift	4:00 p.m, to	12:00 a.m.
2.	InPlvwood only: Shrltwill start at 12:00 a.m. on Monday.
3.	Lathe Operation (including Loader operators, Slasher operator, Debarker operator, Ponds, Chip & Saw, Lathe, Green End Assistant, Clipper operator, Green Stacker, Green Chain operators, Green End Misc Task, Green End Forklift, Green End Spareman, and all other employees attached to the Green End)
The hours of work for the lathe operation shall be from:
Monday to Friday:
Or
Monday to Thursday
7:30 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. 7:30 p.m. to 4:00 a.m. Mealtime excepted
7:30 a.m. to 6:00 p.m, 7:30 p,m. to 6:00 a.m. Mealtime excepted
Coffee breaks and lunch break as follows for ten (10) hour shifts:
Two (2) hours from the start of the shift, Ten (10)
21
minutes.
Four (4) hours from the start of the shift, Thirty (30) minutes.
Six (6) hours from the start of the shift, Ten (10) minutes.
Eight (8) hours from the start of the shift, Ten (10) minutes.
And with the option of adding the following scheduled shift:
Friday to Sunday 7:00 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. 7:00 a.m. to 7:30 p.m 7:00 a.m. to 7:30 p.m Mealtime excepted
Hours worked Paid
10	10
12	12
12	18
For greater clarity, when the need for the weekend crew is there, the two (2) weekly shifts will go to a four (4) day 10 horn schedule Monday to Thursday. When there is not a need for the Weekend crew, the two (2) weekday shifts will work Monday to Friday-8 hours unless mutually agreed otherwise.
For those employees working on the Friday to Sunday weekend schedule the following shall apply:
For the purpose of vacation entitlement, one (1) week will be Friday, Saturday and Sunday.
Statutory or Floating Holidays shall be paid the same amount of hours as if the employee had worked.
22
If a StatutoryHoliday falls on a Saturdayor Sunday, it shall be observed on that day.
Coffee breaks and Lunch break to follow breaks for ten (10) or twelve (12) hour schedules.
Advanced power failure will not affect weekend scheduled employees
4,Continuous operations for Dry End and Maintenance Departments:
Plywood Maintenance departments (in total or in part) and Plywood Dry End section (includesDryer Feeders, Dryer Outfeed, Dryer stacker, Composers, Patching Machine Operators, Patching Graders, Dry End Misc Task, Dry End Forklifts, Clean Up and all other employees attached to the Dry End but excludes employees working on random drying on day shift only.)
The day shift will be from 7:30 a.m, to 7:30 p.m. and the night shift from 7:30 p,m, to 7:30 a.m.
On continuous operation,the workweek will start with the start of a day shift on Sundayto the start of the day shift the following Sunday.
On 12 hours schedule, coffee breaks will be taken as per the following:
Two (2) hours from the start of the shift, Ten (10) minutes.
Four (4) hours from the start of the shift, Ten (10)
23
minutes.
Six (6) hours fern the start of the shift, Thirty (30) minutes.
Eight (8) hours ffomthe startofthe shift,Fifteen(15J minutes.
Ten (10) horns from the start of the shift, Ten (10) minutes.
If he commences work and no work is available for him to complete his shift,he will be paid forafull shift at his regular rate.
11.01© The hours are for day shift only. On two shifts and onathree-shift operation, the hours of work shall be those of the Plywood plant.
11.01(d) Shipping:
Garage:
6:00 am. to 2:30 p.m. 8:00 a.m. to 4:30 p,m, 7:30 p.m, to 4:00 p.m,
6:00 a.m.to 2:30 p.m, (Bush Mechanics)
Bio-Shell:
7:30 a.m, to 4:00 p.m. 4:00 p.m. to 12:30 a.m. (on three shifts, the hours shall be those of the Plywood Plant)
Yard Unloading: On one (1) shift per day 9:30 a.m. to 6:00 p,m,
On two (2) shifts per day 7:30 a.m. to 4:00 p.m,
24
4:00 p.m. to 12:30 a.m.
(on three shifts, the hours shall be those of the Plywood Plant.)
11.01 (e) Continuous operations:
II) Such employees will be excluded from the provisions of time and one half for Saturday work or double time for Sunday work in 11.04(a) and 11.04(b) if such work is part of their regular scheduled hours of work.
2)	Regular scheduled hours of work on Sunday
will be paid time and one half:
3)	The shift schedule on said operations will remain a negotiable item.
4)	The day shiftshallbe from 8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m., the afternoon shift shall be from 4:00 p.m. to 12:00 midnight and the night shift from 12:00 midnightto 8:00 a.m,
5)	On continuous operation,the workweek shall
start at 12:00 a.m, Sunday to 12:00 a.m. the following Sundayfor the four shift operation.
6)	All other provisions of Article XI will apply.
11.02(a) All employees will be allowed a ten (10) minute coffee break at the mid-point of each half shi ft, and one half (lA) hour off for lunch at the mid-point of each shift, For those employees working on one shift or two-shift operation, lunch period will be unpaid.
25
Coffee breaks are on Company time. Coffee breaks may be advanced or delayed by fifteen (15) minutes and lunchbreak advanced or delayedby (V2) anhourto suit the maintenance and production requirements.
11.02(b) Individual employeescan elect to spend their lunch breaks either in the cafeteria or outside of the Company’s premises but if they elect to go out they will be required to punch their cards when going and when returning to work. For those employees that lunch is taken on Company time, employees will not be allowed to leave the premises. However, permission to leave the premises will be granted for special circumstances.
11.03(a) If an employeereports for work and no work is available he will receive four (4) hours pay for reporting to work. If he commences work and no work is availablefor him to completehis shift, he shall be paid for eight (8) hours pay at his regular rate.
To qualify for the above, the employee must remain on thej ob until told by the foreman that he may leave and must accept other than his normal work if it is offered, unless the employee is prevented from performing such work due to reasons beyond his control.
11.03(b) The starting and stopping times will remain constant and fixed during the weekly period, subjectto the following;
An employee’s scheduled shift may be changed atthe Company’srequest provided he is paid
26
one and one-half his regular rate for the first shift worked after the change. Unless advised the week prior to the change and applies to the Finishing End Spareman specifically hired to replace on all shifts on those positions created after December 1* 1999. When the employee reverts to his original shift, he shall be paid at his regular straighttime rate, provided there is a break of at least eight (8) hours between the shifts worked.
11.04(a) Time worked in excess ofregular scheduled hours or unscheduled work on Saturday shall be paid for at the rate of the j ob at time and one-half.
Where, an employee’s shift schedule is changed by the Company, the affected employee will be paid at the rate of time and one half for the first
Shift.
Re: Training and Information Session:
“All employees upon a 5-day notice shall attend development session at a maximum of24 hours per year.” Every reasonable effort will be made to have training during normal working hours.
11.04(b) Time worked on any ofthe H±ic^S specified in this Agreement shallbe paid for at the rate of double time. Time worked on Sunday shallbe paid at the rate of double time for those employees not on their scheduled shift.
11.04(c) Employees who are willingto work overtime will be required to signify their intentions by giving
27
their names to their supervisor each week on forms to be supplied by the Company.
Overtime requirements for complete shifts will be distributed by seniority to those capable of performing thejob immediately.
11.04(d) An employee who is called back for work after completing his day or shift shall be paid time and one half for the hours worked, but in no case shall he receive less than four (4) hours pay at straight time rate.
11.05(a) Employees working on two (2) or three (3) shifts operation, will change Shiftevery week and such change of shift will be on rotation.
11.05(b) Effective date of ratification, all employees scheduled to rotate shall receive $0.32 cents per hour in addition to their regular rate.
11.06(a) 12 hours to be added in Collective Agreement
Regular schedule hours of work on Sunday and the first 8 hours of Saturday shift will be paid at the rate of time and one half
The day shift will be from 7:30 a.m. to 7:30 p.m, and the night shift from 7:30 p.m, to 7:30 a.m.
On continuous operation, the workweek will start with the start of a day Shift on Sundayto the start ofthe day shift the following Sunday.
28
11.06(b) On 12 hours schedule, coffee breaks will be taken as per the following:
-	2 hours from the start of the shift, (10) minutes
■	4 hours from the start of the shift, (10) minutes
-	6 hours from the start of the shift, (3 0) minutes
•	8 hours from the start of the shift, (15) minutes
■	10 hours from the start of the shift (10) minutes
If he commences work and no work is available for him to complete his shift, he will be paid for a full shift at his regular rate.
Time worked in excess of 12 hours will be paid at time and one half
ARTICLE XII - SENIORITY
12.01(a) The Company recognizes the principle of Seniority. Seniority shall govern in promotion, transfers, lay-off and recalls after lay-off) provided the employee has the necessary qualifications, skill and abilityto perform the work required.
An employee's seniorityshallbe his length of service with the Company dating back to his original hiring date or in case his service was broken as defined in Article 12,03, his hiring date after his last break in service.
Time off due to sicknessor accident must be certified by a licensed physician, dentist, or chiropractor. An employee who has accrued seniority
29
and is on authorized leave of absence on Union Business shall accrue seniority while on such leave.
An employee who has accrued seniority and is then employed by the Union and the Companyshall continueto accrue seniorityfor a period not exceeding twelve month and retain such accrued seniority for a period not exceeding twelve (12) months, unless otherwise mutually agreed to. An employee who has accrued seniority and is then employed by the Company in a position beyond the scope of this Agreement shall continue to accrue and retain seniority for a period not exceeding three (3) months unless otherwise mutually agreed to. Such employee may upon proof of Union membership in good standing, exercise his seniority to return to the bargaining unit.
12.01(b) Employees who are or becomepregnant shall be allowed such time off asmedicallyrequiredbytheir condition without loss of seniority.
12,01© An employeewho has beenabsentfromwork due to accident, sickness, pregnancy or authorized leave of absence has the right to return to the job classification he held prior to such absence. If there should be conclusive evidence that an employee has carried out work during his absence which would demonstrate he would have been able to carry out his regular functions with the Company, such employee’s senioritywill be cancelled.
12.02(a) A new employee of the Company shall be considered as probationary until he has completed 30
30
days of work in one period of employment, except in case of lay-off. Seniority of a new employee shall be established at the end of this period and shall be effective from the date of employment. On twelve hours schedule, 30 days means 20 days.
12.02(b) In case of lay-off employees shall accrue seniority for 12 months. Then, he shall retain all his seniority,
12.03 An employee shall lose all seniority and his employment with the Company if he:
a) Quits or is discharged and not reinstated
t>) Fails to report for work following recall as provided in Article 12.04(b) or fails to return from authorized absence on the date specified unless in either case his return to work on time is prevented by circumstancesbeyond his control, and he has taken the necessary steps to advise the foreman.
12.04(a) Incases oflay-off the Company will notify in writing the employees intended to be laid-offand the Union Steward at least five (5) working days in advance, or will pay in lieu thereof
In cases of lay-off of duration of five (5) working days or less the above five (5) days’ notice will be reduced to two (2) days’ notice.
However, in case of a general lay-oft; notice of lay-offwill be posted on the Bulletin Boardsofthe Company five (5) working days in advance. Absent
31
employees at time of notice oflay-0%will be advised in writing of said lay-off
Except in cases of lay-off due to breakdown or electricalpower failure, the employees affected will be paid in accordance vafh Article 11.03 and will be permitted to exercise their seniorityrights to another job the same day and for the following day on their scheduled shifts, provided he or she can do the job immediately. Should the breakdown lastmore than the above-mentioned period, the employees will be permitted to exercise their seniority rights for another job on any shift in accordance with 12.01(a).
12.04(b) When the date of recall is known or anticipated at the time of lay-0% employees leaving will be informed accordingly. In all other cases,notice in writing will be mailed to the employee at his given address with copy to the Union Office, at leastten (10) days before he is required to report to work. Employees will be required to acknowledgereceipt of suchnotice within four (4) days and report for work on the date specified, unless other arrangements have been made in writing. However, a direct verbal conversationwith the employee or employees involved will be sufficient notice to return to work on mutual agreement by the Company and the employee(s). An employee who avails himself of time limits provided herein has no claim in connection with time worked by another employee.
12.04(c) If, as a result of a lay-off or for any other reason it is necessary to transfer an employee from one job classificationto another, senior employees will be
32
given preference. Provided the employee has the aptitudes of skill, efficiency, and ability, he will be trained by the Company in order to meet the job requirements. An employee will be allowed five (5) working days in which to qualify or such other period as may be mutually agreed to.
12.04(d) For lay-off of less than three (3) months, employees affected will revert back to their original job once normal operation resumes, unless he has applied, on a permanent vacancy during the above mentioned period.
12.05(a) When an employeetransfers at the request of the Company to meet production requirements, to a lower payingjob, the employeewill be paid at the rate of the job from which he has so transferred. It is understood that such transfers will be made in conformity to seniorityprovisions.
12.05(b) For atransferattherequestofthe employee, payment from the date of transfer will be made at the rate of the new occupation of classification.
12.05(c) For all other transfers (including but not limited to transfers due to inefficiency, inability, health, safety and demotions for cause) payment shall be made at the rate for the j ob to which the transfer is effected.
12.05(d) Promotions shallmean advancementtoajob, which carries higher wage rates or a reduction in shift rotation and from a temporary posting to a permanent posting for an employee who has never held a
33
permanent posting.
12.06	1 .a) Where any vacancies occur, immediate notice thereof will be posted on the bulletin board for a period of five (5) working days for which the Companymay make a temporary appointment to such vacant job. However, in case of replacement is required for a vacancy of less than fifteen (15) consecutive working days, such vacancy may be filled by temporary appointment without posting.
When a vacancy is caused by an employee’s ■ absence due to disability or authorized leave of absence of fifteen (15) working days or more, such vacancy, will be considered and posted as temporary, in which case, the employee whose position has been dealt with as temporary vacancy is entitled upon his return to resume his former position, provided he is capable of performing its requirements.
An employee who has filled a “Temporary” vacancy may only bid for a permanent, job vacancy while on such temporary job. If no permanent job becomes vacant, such an employee must remainonthe “Temporary ”j ob until the return o f the employee he is replacing.
12.06	1, b) An employee shallnotbe eligible to post on a temporary posting if he or she is not actively at work for a period of more than 12 months. If an employee is absent from work for more than twenty four (24) months, the vacant position will be considered permanent, without posting. It is understood that should an employeeretumto regular
34
duties following his absence, if more than 24 months, such employee will be entitled to bump and apply his seniority as per this Agreement.
12.06	1, c) Melaminemarticleboard
In case of lay-off of less than 1 week, senior employee affected will be temporarily appointed.
Re: Posting - In the Plywood department] ob vacancies occurring during the period of a Statutory Holiday, said holiday will be considered a work day. In the event that more than one Statutory Holiday occurs during a posting period, such vacancy will be posted for a period of five (5) working days.
2,	Employees will not be considered for a vacantjob, unless they applyin writing duringthe five (5) day period on forms to be supplied by the Company, A copy of such form will be retained bythe applicant and one copy of such form will be given to the Steward. All possible effort will be made to advise absent employees of such vacancy, provided the employee has indicated in advance his desireto be so advised.
3.	a) The vacancy will be filled bythe senior applicant who, provided he has the aptitudes of skill, efficiency and ability, will be trained by the Company in order to meet the job requirements. An employee filling the posted vacancy shall be allowed a minimum of five (5) working days in which to qualify or any further time as may be mutually agreed, this does not apply however, to an employee who, in the past, has
35
successfully filled such vacancy. Failure of an employee to qualify shall entitle him to return to his formerjob. Name(s) of successful applicant(s) will be posted for at least five (5) working days by the Company on the bulletin board in all cases.
12.07	An employee who has successfully claimed and filled a job shall be ineligible to further bid for another vacancybefore three (3) months have elapsed unless such vacancy is a promotion.
12.08	A SaricD-ty list shall be prepared and posted monthly on the bulletin board by the Company, showing each emp loyee * s name with Christian names, clock number and effective date of hiring. Copies of such list shall be mailed to the Union Steward and the Union Office. Sanco-tylist of each department shall be posted on all bulletin boards.
12.09	Sanco-ty will be set up and maintained on departmental basis. One department will be comprised of all employees at and out of the Plywood Plant. The other department will be comprised of all employees at and out of the Particleboard Plant.
Inter-department transfers will be allowed only in case there is a vacancy in one department, which must be, filled by hiring. In such case, employees of the other department will be given preference over new hires.
An employee transferring from one department to the other under the aforementioned circumstances, will, for purposes of fringe benefits,
36
retain all his seniority already accrued. For purposes of actual exercising of seniority, such said employee’s seniority will begin accruing on the date his transfer becomes effective. An employee transferring in the manner described herein will be consideredas having fdleda vacancy in accordance with the terms of Article 12.06.
Melamine will form part of the Particle Board Plant
In case of lay-off or job opening, the following option will be available for original employees from the Plywood Plant:
a)	Employees will be permitted to apply on job opening.
b)	Employees will be permitted to bump into the Plywood Plant in case of lay-off.
c)	It is understood that the above is applicable only for a one time deal and he will not be permitted to return.
d)	Notwithstanding Article 12.04(d), should an employee choose to accept a lay-off in the Melamine Plant, the above option will remain opento him.
e)	No bumping in case of mechanical breakdown for (2) days or less.
f)	8 to 12 hour shiftsatthe employee’soption for a period of six (6) months then, Collective Agreement will apply.
37
g)	Bumping not permitted from Particleboard to Melamine or vice-versa for the next anticipated shutdown (maintenance).
12.10	In addition to the provisions of Article 12.09 there will be a third department comprised of all employees attached to the following operations: Shipping, Machine Shop, Garage, Electricians,Knife Grinder, and Carpenter to the third department. Those positions would in the future be posted in the third department. Employees would retain their seniority in their respective department in case of lay-ofE,
Vacancies in this third department will be open to employees of either of the other two departments. Employees who successfully bid for such vacancies will retain and continue to accrue seniority in the department in which they were originally hired.
Employees presently employed in the third department will retain and continueto accrue seniority in the department in which they were originally hired.
Employees hired in the third department will accrue seniority in the Plywood department.
12.11	An employee with three (3) or more years of continuous service for whom no job is available, can upon termination elect to receive a severance allowance of one (1) week’s pay for each year of employment during his last period of continuous services (up to the date of termination) computed on
38
the basis of forty (40) straight time hours at the employee’s regular rate. The maximum severance allowance payable being thirty (30) weeks. It is understood that an employee who chooses to receive his severance allowance will be terminated from his emp loyment waiving his recall rights pursuant to this Agreement.
ARTICLE XITT - BULLETIN BOARD
13.01	The Union shall have the right to post notices dealing with Union affairs upon Bulletin Boards ofthe Company, such notices to have the approval of Company management before such posting.
Plant management will provide copies of plant wide committees’ minutes on the mill bulletin board and to the steward.
ARTICLE XIV - HEALTH AND WET .FARE
14.01(a) For each employee who has established seniority in accordance with Article XII, the Company will pay the premium cost of O.H.I.P, Drug Plan bill (equivalentto the current Blue Cross Drug Plan) and semi-privateHospital Care Plan monthly.
14.01	(b) The Companywill pay for a drugplanbenefit whereby an employee, upon having a prescribed drug ordered, mustpay the druggista flatrate ofthirty-five (,35£) cents per prescription, the balance being covered by the carrying insurance Company.
14.01© For married employees where both are
39
working, the Company will pay one amount of the married contributionand one single to be paid directto the employee. For employees covered outside this plan the Company will pay the single contribution direct to the employee.
14.01(d) If there should be a net reduction in the premiums charged for Medical, Surgical Insurancedue to a revision of the O.H.I.P. by either the Federal and/or Provincial Government, the Company’s contributionwill not be reduced from the amounts set out in this Article.
If the Company’s contribution exceeds the premium required for Medical, Surgical, Drug and Hospital Care Insurance, the balance will be applied to such other employee benefits as may be agreed upon between the Company and the Union as to the application of contributions over and above the premiums required such additional monies will be paid direct to the employee.
14.01(e) The company will pay the full cost of an Extended Health Plan.
14.01	(f) All benefits set forth above and which form parts of the CollectiveAgreement to be described in a pamphlet in French and Englishto be supplied to each employee and the Union by the Company.
LIFE INSURANCE
14.02	The Company will provide and pay the full cost of a sixty thousand dollars ($60,000.00) life
40
insurance and an accidentaldeath and dismemberment benefit for up to a maximum of sixty thousand dollars ($60,000.00) for each employee. Effective June 1, 2004 increase to $70,000.00 plus A.D.& D.
Effective June 1, 2006 increase to $80,000.00 plus A.D.& D.
WEEKLY INDEMNITY
14,03	The Company will maintain and pay the premium cost of a Weekly Indemnity Insurance Plan. The Plan will provide seventy (70%) percent of Weekly earnings (40 hours times an employee’s regular rate) up to a maximum of $570.00 per week effective at date of ratification, to commence on the first day in case of non-compensable accident and or hospitalizationonthe fourth (4th) continuousday from the commencement of a disabilitydue to sickness and will continue for the period of disability up to a maximum of fifty-two (52) weeks, combined with U.I.C. benefits. Employees not qualifying for U.l.C. benefits will maintain continued coverage under the Weekly Indemnity Insurance Plan. Effective June 1, 2003 increase maximum to $580,00 per week.
Effective June 1,2004 increasemaximumto$590.00 per week.
Effective June 1,2005 increasemaximumto$600.00 per week.
Effective June 1,2006 increasemaximumto$610.00 per week.
14.03(a) The Company’s contributiontowards Health and Welfare package will continue for a period of up
41
to twelve (12) months when an employee is off work due to a WSIB Claim or a short term disability claim. Employees will have to apply or have someone apply on their behalf immediately at the time of illness or accident.
On the U.I.C, issue, should an employee demonstrate that he was negatively impacted by the U.I.C. rules, the Company will reimburse the total negative impact.
For future claims only, employeesreceiving Long Term Disability benefits will be covered under the Group Life Insuranceplan and the Drugplan for a period of one year. Starting June 2004, employees will be covered under Life Insurance, A.D.&D. and Drugs while on Long Term Disability.
14.03	(b) For employees who qualify under Article XU, the Company agrees that an employee shall be paid at the regular rate for the balance ofhis shift lost because of injury while at work. It is also agreed and understood that where an employee is unable to return to work, he will be required to show proof to qualify for the above. In case of day surgery, except for aestheticpurposes, the employee will be coveredfrom the first day.
14.03(c) In the case of Weekly Indemnity claim, all costs ofmedical reports requested bythe Companyor the Insurance Carrier will be paid by the Company. This doesnot include doctor’s slip confirming medical reasons for absence from work.
42
DISPUTED W.S.I.B. CLAIM
14.03	(d) If an employee covered by the Company’s present Weekly Indemnity Plan suffers a disability from which payment is in dispute or delayed with the WSIB, Weekly Indemnity payment will be made retroactively if requested by the employee and provided he has been off work for at least one (1) month due to the disability without WSIB having accepted the claim and providing the employee is subject to the rules and regulations covering the Weekly Indemnity Plan. If the WSIB claim is subsequentlyestablished,the employeewill thenrepay the Weekly Indemnity payment(s) received to the appropriate fund.
VTSTON CARE PLAN
14.04	The Company shall institute and pay the premium cost of a Vision Care Plan equivalentto the $ 180/24. Effective June 1,2004 increase to $200/24,
BEREAVEMENT PAY
14.05	When death occurs to a member of an employee’s immediate family, that is: an employee’s mother-in-law, father-in-law, brother, sister, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, grandchild and grandparents both sides, spouse, children, mother and father, the employee will be granted five (5) days leave and shallbe reimbursedthe same amount of hours as if he/she was scheduled to work. The day of the funeral must be one of the five
43
(5) days. The intent of this clause is to allow the employee to attend the funeral without loss of earnings.
Any claim for bereavement pay must be submitted by the employee to the Company in writing, along with proof of bereavement in the employee’s immediate family.
It is understood that for purpose of this Article step-relatives will be considered the same as blood relatives.
In the case of an employee who has established seniority and who is called for jury service or subpoenaed as a witness, the Company shallpay for each day of such service an allowance equal to the difference between (8) hours of pay based on his regular straight time hourly rate and the payment he received for Court service. Arbitration and W.S.I.B, hearing are not considered Court service in the context of this Agreement. The employee will presentproofof service and of pay received thereof when making his claim for such allowance. An employee who is called for Court service must notify the Company immediately.
14.07	It is the dutyof every employee to advise the
paymaster of any change regarding the following:
1)	Marital Status
2)	Change of Insurance Beneficiary
3)	New dependants with date of birth
4)	Change of address and telephone number
44
ARTICLE XV - MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
15.01	The Union agrees that the Company has the exclusive right and power to manage the plants, to direct the work force, and to hire, promote, transfer or lay-off employees and to suspend or discharge or otherwise discipline employees for just cause; provided that the Company agrees that any exercise of these rights and powers shall be subject to the express provision of this Agreement.
ARTICLE XVI - DENTAL CARE PLAN
16.01	The Company will maintain a Dental Care Plan with participation compulsory for all employees on the following basis:
1.	Eligibility:
Participation in this plan is limited to employees who have accumulated one-hundred and twenty (120) days (6 months) senioritywith the Company.
It is understood and agreed that the Plan will provide for the continuation of coverage for the period an employee is off work due to lay-off or leave of absence, not to exceed one hundred and twenty (120) days (6 months).
2.	Plan Design:
a)	Services and benefits	as	provided	in	Blue
CrossNo, 7 Basic Plan and Rider No. 1.
b)	Services and benefits	as	provided	in	Blue
45
Cross Rider No. 2 (50%). The Plan provides for reimbursement in accordance with the Ontario Dental Association, with a one (1) year lag on the fee guide for general Practitioners. Effective January 1, 2000 increase maximum to $ 1,500.00 per calendar year per person.
Orthodontic services (Rider No. 3) - 50% with maximum of $1,000,00 lifetime.
The Company agree s to provide the Union with a copy of Rules and Regulations relatingto the Plan.
3.	Administration:
The plan will be administered in accordance with an appropriate contract or set ofproceduresreflectingthe plan design outlined in Item 2 above. The decision as to the choice of administrative vehicle from among service carriers, Insurance Companies, or selfadministration will be made by the Company on the basis of appropriate study of these alternatives.
4.	Premiums:
The premium cost of this plan shall be paid by the Company.
5.	Integration:
The Plan will not provide like benefits where such are currently being provided by Federal or Provincial Legislation.
If during the life of this Agreement, Federal or
46
Provincial Governments shall introduce legislationto provide benefits already covered b y this Plan, the plan shall be amended so as to eliminate said benefits.
NOTE:
The employee monthlypremium cost contributionfor the above-mentioned benefits for the term of this Collective Agreement will be as follows:
Single • $3,00 through payroll deduction Married - $5,00 through payroll deduction
47
ARTTCT F XVTT ■ LONG TFRM DISABILITY PJ AN
Effective June 1,1981, the Company will institute and maintain a Long Term Disability Plan as per Schedule “A” attached.
Scheduled”
The Company shall pay the monthly premium cost of the Long Term DisabilityBenefit Plan.
The Long Term Disability Benefit Plan shall be administered in accordance with the terms of an insurancepolicy.
1.	Eligibility
The Long Term Disability Benefit Plan shall be compulsory for all employees who have accumulated 45 days seniority with the Company.
2,	Effective Date of Coverage
An eligible employee absent from work due to sickness or accident at the effective date of the Plan, shall only be eligible for Long Term Disability Plan benefits upon the return to continuous active full-time employment for a period of more than four consecutive weeks.
The Company shall have the right to give medical examinationsto employeesretumingfrom suchlay-off to determine their eligibility under the plan.
48
3,	Qualifying Period
An insured employee shall be eligible to receive an amount of Long T erm Disability Benefit after fifty-two weeks of benefit entitlement for the same disability under the Weekly Indemnity Plan. Benefit payment shall not commence during a strike until the termination of the strike.
4,	Definition of Disability
a)	Until the individual has	received Disability
Income Benefit payments as a result of the disability for 24 months, the complete inability ofthe individual due to injury, disease, pregnancy or mental disorderto perform any and every duty pertaining to his occupation, and
b)	After the individual has received Disability Income Benefit payment as a result of the disabilityfor 24 months, the complete inability of the individual, due to injury, disease, pregnancyor mental disorderto engage in any and every gainful occupation for which he is reasonably fitted by education, training or experience. However, an individualwill be deemed to cease to be disabled if he engages in any gainful occupation except as provided in the Rehabilitation Section.
5,	Amount of Benefit
a)	The disability benefit shall be 55% of monthly earnings as defined in (5b), up to a maximum monthly payment of $1,850,00 per month. Effective
49
June 1st, 2003 the maximum monthly payment will be increased to $ 1,900.00 per month.
Effective June 1st, 2004 the maximum monthly payment will be increased to $ 1,950.00 per month. Effective June 1st, 2005 the maximum monthly payment will be increased to $2,000.00 per month. Effective June 1st, 2006 the maximum monthly payment will be increased to $2,050.00 per month.
b)	“Monthly Earnings” means, in the case of a day or shiftworker, 173 x his regular hourly rate;
c)	“Hourly Rate” means the regular rate of the employee effective immediately prior to the date on which the disabilityoccurred, excluding overtime or shift bonus.
d)	The benefits payable under this Plan are reduced by any primary disability payments made under the Canada Pension Plan, or any Company group disabilityincome plan. Benefits are not affected by War Pensions, WC Disability Pensions, or by any insurance policies he may have purchased himself
6.	Duration of Benefit
a)	Benefits will be paid for one month, for each completed month of service prior to commencementof the Long Term Disability Benefits, while the employee is disabled.
b)	Disability benefits will be paid one month in arrears.
50
7.	Termination of Benefits
Benefits shall cease upon the occurrence of any one of the following:
a)	On the date the employee ceases to be disabled. (If there is a recurrence of the same disability within six (6) months of return to work, a new qualifying period will not be required, and the disabled employee will be eligible for any balance of Long Term Disability Benefit payments, This provision shall take precedence over any recurrent disabilityprovision under the Weekly IndemnityPlan), or
b)	On exhaustion of the benefit period, or
c)	Up to normal retirement, or
d)	On death.
8.	Exclusion
a)	An employee receiving Long ffeom Disability Benefits will not be eligible for vacation or statutory holiday pay.
b)	Benefits under the Long Term Disability Plan will not be payable for claims resulting from:
i)	Any injury arising out of or sustained while
doing any act or thing pertaining to any occupation or employment for remuneration or profit, or
51
ii)	Any injury or illness entitling the employee to compensation under any Workmen’s Compensation or similar legislation, or
iii)	Self-destruction or any self-inflicted injury, while sane or insane, or
iv)	Disability for which the employee is not under the treatment of a physician, or
v)	Alcoholism or drug addiction, unless the employeeis undergoing a recognized course of treatment by a specialist in the care and treatment of alcoholism and drug addiction or the employee is undergoing regular rehabilitative treatment approved by the insurer and licensed physician.
vi)	Disability or loss (1) while the employee is on, or could be placed on Pregnancy/Matemity leave, or (2) if employee fails to qualify for Pregnancy/Matemity leave because of Mure to meet the length of service requirements, during the period of Pregnancy/Matemity leave that the employee could be on if she qualified for such leave, in accordance with the Employment Standards Act 1974, Ontario or any other relevant provincial statutes.
9.	Rehabilitation
An employee receiving an amount of Long Term
52
Disability Benefit may be asked to undergo reasonable rehabilitationmeasures which have been the subject of prior consultation with the employee’s doctor, at no cost to the employee. If such employee refuses to undertake such rehabilitation, he may be declared not eligible for an amount of disabilitybenefits,
10.	Physical Examinations
The Company and/or insurer reserves the right to require periodical physical examinations throughout the duration of the employee’s absence due to disability. Such examinations shallbe conductedbya physician or physicians designated by the Company and/or insurer.
Cost of physical examinations, transportation and reasonable out-of-pocketexpensesrelated thereto will be paid by the insurer.
The Company will reimburse employee’s cost of medical reports requested by the Company or the Insurance Company.
ARTICLE XVTTI - PENSION PLAN
The Company agrees to establish a plan to provide pensions at retirement to become effective on October 1st, 1986. As of ratification, this Pension Planwillbeinthe form ofa $80.00 per month defined contribution to be deposited with a trustee to the credit of the individual accounts under the Plan. The Company also agrees to contribute an additional $80,00 per month to each eligible employee
53
conditional on the individual employee contributing an equal amountof$80.00 per month to the Plan. Cost of establishing the account for each employee and the ongoing cost of administeringand investment will be deducted from each account.
Full time employees will join the plan after completing one (1) year of continuous service.
Effective June 1,2003, increase each units to $90.00. Effective June 1,2004, increase each units to $95.00. Effective June 1,2005, increase each units to $100.00. Effective June 1,2006, increase each units to $110.00.
All new employees will fully participate in the Pension Plan.
There shall be equal representation from Company and Union as trustee into the Pension Plan.
BRIDGING SUPPLEMENT
The Company agrees to provide an early retirement payment to employees who retire prior to age 65, This opportunitywill apply only to employeeswhoreach60 years of age and have worked more than twenty (20) years for the Company. Employees making thisreceive $15.00 permonthper year ofservice. The above will continue until attainment of age 65 or the death of the retiree, which ever occurs first.
Example: 30 years service x $15.00 = $450.00 per month.
54
To be paid semi-annually on June 30lh and on December 31" in the employee's Pension Plan as a retirement allowance.
General
There will be no preferred rates or bonuses paid in money or in kind under any circumstances unless approved in writing by Agreement between the Company and the Union.
Clothing Allowance
The Company shall pay to each employee the equivalent of one (1) day's wages on the first pay of December of each year towards clothing allowance.
PAID EDUCATIONAL LEAVE
Three (.03) cents per regular hours worked for each employee will be paid to the Union Office in order to pay for Educationalneeds of the members as of date of ratification. Increase to four (0.04) cents effective June 1st, 2004.
The above shall be paid on a quarterly basis. GENERALWAGE INCREASE
Increase all hourly, daily and monthly rates by:
June 1/2002- $0.60 per hour
55
June 1/2003- $0.60 per hour June 1/2004- $0.60 per hour June 1/2005 $0.60 per hour June 1/2006 $0.60 per hour
Retroactive pay will be paid for.all hours worked from June 1st 2002, overtime hours included.
Those no longer in the employ of the Company must take the initiative to claim retroactivepay prior to sixty (60) days following date of ratification.
56
SIGNED IN HEARST, ONTARIO This 13th day of March 2003.
FOR THF, COMPA NY	FOR THF, T INTON

Manon Cyr
huUM (Jullay
3uy Vemeux
/i- (ZdZZ
Gilles Levesque
' Alain Ch
&&'&U
t
57
TRADE APPRENTICE PROGRAM
1.	Apprenticeship openings will be filled in accordance with the provisions ,of Article 12,06 herein.
.Note:	Applicant to be advised that they
will require grade 12 or equivalent.
2.	The apprentice will be on a probationary period until such time as he(she) has finished attendance of first session of school.
3.	Any apprentice who fails his first year exams shall be required to be re-examined within twelve (12) months but not earlier than six (6) months, Failure to pass the reexamination will result in the apprentice being dropped from the program and returned to his former job classification without loss of seniority.
4.	Once an employee enters an apprenticeship contract he must continue to fulfill the obligations cf the contract, including necessary training periods in a vocational school.
5.	The Company will make up the difference between the Canada Manpower Training Program allowances and the employee’s normal earnings based onhis regular straight
58
time rate, multiplied by 40 hours per week. For purposes of calculation the Canada Manpower at home allowance shall be used.
6.	For all Tradesmen
All qualified tradesmen will be required to attend upgrading seminars, and will be required to continuallyupdate themselvesto the provincial standards with courses provided by the company, in conjunction with a recognized training institution, or equipment manufacturer in the case of specialized training on new equipment.
Annually, in the month of September, an Evaluation Committee, consisting of the Plant Superintendent and/or his representative and the Maintenance Supervisor, together with a qualified Union Member and a Union Representative will evaluate the performance and progress of each tradesman. For those tradesperson who refuse to update or upgrade themselves in their respective trade, then they may be demoted.
If upgrading is necessary, it will be coordinated by the Maintenance Supervisor.
7.	Tradesmen Tools
Tradesmen will furnish all hand tools common to the trade. Mechanics will furnish
59
spanners up to 1 !4” opening, sockets up to and including 14” drive and 1%” opening, adjustable wrenches up to 18” in length, hammers, chisels punches and screwdrivers. The Company agrees to replace any personal tools broken in service, provided that such broken tools are returned. The Company agrees to provide tools to tradesmen at cost. The Company will provide on loan any special tools including power driven tools, testing and measuring instruments and gauges, pullers, sockets over 14” drive, spanners over 114” opening.
In the event that the common tools of tradesmen axe required to be in metric measurement suchtools shall be provided on loan by the Company.
8,	Should an apprenticeship posting be developed because of a tradesman transfer from one departmentto the other,theposting for the apprenticeship will be posted in the department where the tradesman is transported in the department where the tradesmanis transferred. It is understood that the apprentice will have to transfer, according to the seniority clause, to the department where the apprenticeship program is needed.
60
■TOB DESCRIPTION FOR TRADESMEN
1.	TNDTTSTRTAT,_____________MECHANICS
(Millwrights!
Industrial Mechanic “A”:
Must be in possession of a Provincial Certificate of Qualification in that Trade.
Industrial Mechanic “I”:
Must have successfully completed the Third Year Training Program in that Trade, or must be capable under direction of performing all Industrial Mechanic jobs assigned to him in an efficient manner.
Industrial Mechanic “IT”:
Must have successfully completed the Second Year Training Programin that trade.
Industrial Mechanic “HP’:
Must have successfully completed the First Year Training Program in that Trade.
Industrial Mechanic “IV”:
Must have satisfied to Article 1 of the TRADES APPRENTICE PROGRAM.
61
2.	F.I.F.CTRICIANS-
Electrician “A”:
Must be in possession of a Provincial Certificate of Qualification in the trade of electrician, construction, and maintenance.
Must be capable of doing all electrical installation as per prints supplied, and as per the Ontario Safety Code.
Must be capable to develop electrical concepts in the construction, adaptation, interfacing, check-out, start-up,maintenance and repair of all plant equipment, required in the production of the Company’s products.
Electrician “I”:
Must have completed the third year of training in that trade and must be capable under direction of performing all of the electricalj obs assigned to him in an efficient manner.
Electrician “II”:
Must have successfully completed the Second Year Training Program in that Trade.
Electrician “III”:
62
Must have successfully completed the First Year Training Program in that Trade.
Electrician “IV”:
Must have satisfied to Article I of the TRADES APPRENTICE PROGRAM.
NEW CATEGORY
Industrial Electrical Plant technician 111:
Must have been awarded a diploma in recognition of having success hilly completed the prescribedtwo (2) year course of study in the Electrical Technician Program or three (3) year course of study in the Electrical Technologist Program from a recognized post-secondary College of Applied Arts and Technology.
Industrial Electrical Plant Technician 11
Must have successfully completed the intermediate level of training to become a qualified electrician under the terms and conditions of the Province of Ontario.
IndustrialElectricalPlant Technician 1
Must have successfullycompleted the advanced level of training to become a qualified electrician under the terms and conditions of the Province of Ontario.
63
Industrial Electrical Plant Technician “A”
Will need to install, troubleshoot, modify and or program P.L.C.’s panel views, H.M.I’s computers, A.C, and D,C. drives, digital controllers, burner controls, instrument calibrations (ex: pressure transducers, temperaturetransducers, thermocoup les, R.T.D, weight scales) qualify control instrument and all other instruments which are used in the plants, where presently employed.
Must be inpossessionofboth a Provincial Certificate of qualification in the trade of electrician, construction and maintenance, including electronics endorsement, and a diploma as an electrical technician or electrical technologist.
Industrial Electrical Plant Technician “A-1”
Also able to successfully complete aproficiency exam in the trade, in the plant where employed.
Individualmust have been employedby the Company for at least 1 year as a qualified plant technician “A”.
3.	MOTOR VEHICLE MECHANICS:
Motor Vehicle Mechanic “A”:
Must be in possession of a Provincial Certificate of Qualification in that Trade.
Motor Vehicle Mechanic “I”:
Must have successfully completed the Fourth
64
Year Training Program in that Trade, or
must be capable under direction of performing all jobs assigned to him in an efficient manner, on gasoline and/or diesel powered equipment and other equipment generallyused in the Company operations.
Motor Vehicle Mechanic “IT’:
Must have successfully completed the Third Year Training Program in that Trade.
Motor Vehicle Mechanic “HI”:
Must have successfully completed the Second Year Training Program in that Trade.
Motor Vehicle Mechanic “IV”:
Must have satisfied to Article 1 of the TRADES APPRENTICE PROGRAM.
4.	WELDERS:
Welder “A”:
Must be in possession of a Provincial Certificate of Qualification^ that Trade.
Welder “I”:
Must have successfully completed the Third Year Training Program in that Trade, or
65
must be capable under direction of performing all weldingjobs assigned to him in an efficient manner.
Welder “IT:
Must have successfully completed the Second Year Training Program in that Trade.
Welder “m”:
Must have successfully completed the First Year Training Program in that Trade.
Welder “IV”:
Must have satisfied to Article 1 of the TRADES APPRENTICE PROGRAM.
5.	INDUSTRIAL MACHINISTS
Industrial Machinist “A”:
Must be in possession of a Provincial Certificate of Qualificationin that Trade.
Industrial Machinist “I”:
Must have successfully completed the Third Year Training Program in that Trade, or must be capable under direction of performing all machinist jobs assigned to him in an efficient manner.
66
Industrial Machinist “IT’:
Must have successfully completed the Second Year Training Program in that Trade.
Industrial Machinist “III”
Must have successfully completed the First Year Training Program in that Trade.
Industrial Machinist “IV”;
Must have satisfied to Article 1 of the TRADES APPRENTICE PROGRAM.
6.	PLANT CARPENTERS
Plant Carpenter “A”:
Must be in possession of a Provincial Certificate of Qualificationin that Trade.
Plant Carpenter “I”:
Must have successfullycompleted the Third Year Training Program, or must be capable under direction of performing all plant carpentry assigned to him in an efficient manner.
67
Plant Carpenter “IT1:
Must ‘have successfully completed the Second Year Training Program in that Trade.
Plant Carpenter “in”:
Must have successfully completed the First Year Training Program in that Trade.
Plant carpenter “IV”:
Must have satisfied to Article 1 of the TRADES APPRENTICE PROGRAM.
uo
WAGE S C H F, I) IT T.K
Classification:
Lmll:
-	Loader Operator
-	Lathe Operator
-	Sander Operator
-	Sander Grader -Handyman -Grade Line Assistant
Lml 11:
-	Trim Saw Operator
-	Press Operator
-	Press Assistant
-	Press Rotation (Press 1&2)
-	Quality Assistant
WAGE RATES
June	June June	.Tune	June
1/02	1/03	1/04	1/05	1/06
$20.56 $21.16 $21.76 $22.36 $22.96
$20.28 $20.88 $21.48 $22.08 $22.68
69
Level 111:
-Forklift	$20.03 $20.63 $21.23 $21.83 $22.43
-	Shipping
-	Dryer Grader
-	Spreader Feeder
-	Spreader Lead
-	Spreader Assistant
-	Glue Mixer -*Spareman
-	Packaging
-	Packaging Assistant
-	Repair station
-	Press End Misc. TSdcs
-	Finishing End Misc. tfedcs
-	Spreader Rotation (Spreader#!)
Level IV:
-	Slasher
-	Debarker
-	Ponds
-	Green End Assistant
-	Clipper Operator
-	Green Stacker
-	Green Chain
-	Chip & Saw
-	Dryer Stacker & Grader back up
70
$19.86 $20.46 $21.06 $21.66 $22.26
Level V :-Dryer Feeder
-	Dry Chain
-	Dryer Stacker
-	Green Fnd Misc. Tasks
-	Core composer
-	Kuper
-	Dry End Misc. Tasks
-	Patching Grader
-	Potty
-	Putty line Assistant
-	Cleaning
-	Pair-up
-Lunchroom attendant
-	* Forklift Pair-up
-	Dryer Outfeed
-	Patching Grader/Misc. Tasks
-	fetching Machine
71
$19.55 $20.15 $20.75 $21.35 $21.95
72
Millwright Glass "A" & Instrumentation Millwright CIrkk "A" Millwright Glass'T Millwright dass'H" Millwright daes "HI" Millwright Class "TV" Welder Glass "A" Welder Class T Welder Glass "IT Welder Glass 'HI" Welder Class "IV"
Junel/02Junel/03Junel/04Jtmel/05Junel/06
$24.69
$23.75
$22.54
$21.43
$21.15
$20.87
$23.75
$22.54
$21.43
$21.15
$20.87
$25.29
$24.35
$23.14
$22.03
$21.75
$21.47
$24.35
$23.14
$22.03
$21.75
$21.47
$25.89
$24.95
$23.74
$22.63
$22.35
$22.07
$24.95
$23.74
$22.63
$22.35
$22.07
$26.49
$25.55
$24.34
$23.23
$22.95
$22.67
$25.55
$24.34
$23.23
$22.95
$22.67
$27.09
$26.15
$24.94
$23.83
$23.55
$23.27
$26.15
$24.94
$23.83
$23.55
$23.27
•Minimum Rates - Highest Rate will apply when replacing on classifications with higher rate.
• Any tradesman who successfully completed the trades roboticsH course will receive a .150 per hour adjustment over and above his regular rate.
73
PARTICLEBOARD DEPARTMENT Classification:
HEAT TRANSFER UNITS
COMPRESSOR, DRYERS, ETC.
June 1/02 June 1/03 June 1/04 June 1/05
Operator
$20.41	$21.01	$21.61	$22.21
GREEN END casualLabour
$19.55	$20.15	$20.75	$21.35
DRYENt> due Kitchen Press Operator Swing
$20.41
$20.29
$20.53
$21.01
$20.89
$21.13
$21.61
$21.49
$21.73
$22.21
$22.09
$22.33
June 1/06 $22.81
$21.95
$22.81
$22.69
$22.93
Classification: QUALITY CONTROL
Laboratory Lead Laboratory
74
June 1/02 June 1/03 June 1/04 June 1/05 June 1/06
$21.53
$20.14
$22.13
$20.74
$22.73
$21.34
$23.33
$21.94
$23.93
$22.54
FINISHING
Fork Lift Operator Sander Operator Grade Line Operator
$19.81
$20.53
$19.86
$20.41
$21.13
$20.46
$21.01
$21.73
$21.06
$21.61
$22.33
$21.66
$22.21
$22.93
$22.26
OTHERS:
Lunch Room Attendant	$19.43	$20.03	$20.63	$21.23	$21.83
Yard Operator, Dumper, Seal	$20.21	$20.81	$21.41	$22.01	$22.61
•Spareman	$20.14	$20.74	$21.34	$21.94	$22.54
Yard Helper	$19.55	$20.15	$20.75	$21.35	$21.95
• casual Labour(Inc. Student weekend cleaning)
$19.55	$20.15	$20.75	$21.35
$21.95
75
Millwright Class "A" & Instrument $24.69
Millwright Class "A" Millwright class "I" Millwright Class TI" Millwright Class "HI" Millwright cl ass 'TV" Millwright "A"&H.P Welder Class "A" Welder Class'T Welder C lass "IT Welder Class "HI" Welder Class TV"
$23.75
$22.54
$21.43
$21.15
$20.87
Welder $24.69 $23.75 $22.54 $21.43 $21.15 $20.87
$25.29
$24.35
$23.14
$22.03
$21.75
$21.47
$25.29
$24.35
$23.14
$22.03
$21.75
$21.47
$25.89
$24.95
$23.74
$22.63
$22:35
$22.07
$25.89
$24.95
$23.74
$22.63
$22.35
$22.07
$26.49
$25.55
$24.34
$23113
$22.95
$22.67
$26.49
$25.55
$24.34
$23.23
$22.95
$22.67
$27.09
$26.15
$24.94
$23.83
$23.55
$23.27
$27.09
$26.15
$24.94
$23.83
$23.55
$23.27
•Minimum Rates - Highest Rate wi 11 apply when replacing on classificationwith higherrate. Any tradesmanwho successfully ccrrpletedthe trades Robotics H Course will receive a,15j£ per hour adjustment over and above his regular rate.
THIRD DEPARTMENT Classification:
Mechanic Class "A" Mechanic Class "I" Mechanic Class "H" Mechanic Class "HI" Mechanic Class "TV" Machinist Class "A" Machinist daBBT" Machinist dasB "II" Machinist daBB "in" Machinist deBB'TV" ElectricianE.D. Electrician Class "A" Electrician ( lass "I" Electrician Class ’H" Electrician class "El" • Electrician Class ’TV" Industrial Electrical
76
June 1/02 June 1/03
$24.69	$25.29
$22.54	$23.14
$21.43	$22.03
$21.15	$21.75
$20.87	$21.47
$23.75	$24.35
$22.54	$23.14
$21.43	$22.03
$21.15	$21.75
$20.87	$21.47
$24.69	$25.29
$23.75	$24.35
$22.54	$23.14
$21.43	$22.03
$21.15	$21.75
$20.87	$21.47
June 1/04 June 1/05
$25:89	$26.49
$23.74	$24.34
$22.63	$23.23
$22.35	$22.95
$22.07	$22.67
$24.95	$25.55
$23.74	$24.34
$22.63	$23.23
$22.35	$22.95
$22.07	$22.67
$25.89	$26.49
$24.95	$25.55
$23.74	$24.34
$22.63	$23.23
$22.35	$22.95
$22.07	$22.67
June 1/06
$27.09*
$24.94
$23.83
$23.55 .
$23.27
$26.15
$24.94
$23.83
$23.55
$23.27
$27.09
$26.15
$24.94
$23.83
$23.55
$23.27
7.
ELant T echnician IH Industrial Electrical Plant Technician II Industrial Electrical ELant Technician I Industrial Electrical Plant Technician A Industrial Electrical ELant Technician AT Knife Grinder "A" Knife Grinder "B" Knife Grinder "C" ELant Carpenter "A" Hanfc Carpenter - t ELant Carpenter "II" ELant carpenter "IH"
ELant carpenter tv"
$21.90
$22.65
$23.42
$25.13
$25.88
$22.36
$21.42
$20.87
$23.75
$22.54
$21.43
$21.15
$20.87
$22.50
$23.25
$24.02
$25.73
$26.48
$22.96
$22.02
$21.47
$24.35
$23.14
$22.03
$21.75
$21.47
$23.10
$23.85
$24,62
$26.33
$27.08
$23.56
$22.62
$22.07
$24.95
$23.74
$22.63
$22.35
$22.07
$23.70
$24.45
$25.22
$26.93
$27.68
$24.16
$23.22
$22.67
$25.55
$24,34
$23.23
$22.95
$22,67
$24.30
$25.05
$25.82
$27.53
$28.28
$24.76
$23.82
$23.27
$26.15
$24.94
$23.83
$23.55
$23.27
♦All garage mechanics will be required to work on Logging site as requested.
78
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING between
COLUMBIA FOREST PRODUCTS (LEVESQUE HEARST)
(hereinafter referred to as the “Company”)
and
I.W.A. CANADA LOCAL 2995 (hereinafter referred to as the “Union”)
Re:	ARTICLE 2.0 ltbt
Where circumstances are such, that there would be scriousdifficulties for the Companyinthe application of the terms of this Article in connection with construction projects it is agreed that disposition will be taken between the Company and the Union to resolve such difficulties by mutual agreement.
Hauling operations of raw materials and finished products of the Company are excluded from the term of the Collective Agreement.
Re:	Yard Work Incidental to Logging
The unloading of veneer logs in the Company’s yard will be performed by the employees of the plywood department.
79
SIGNED INHEARST, ONTARIO
This 13lh day of March,
FOR THE COMPANY
Donald Bisson
H\jMA LLs-H-OM
Guy VeHfeux
Manon Cyr /!	Alain PJette
Gilles Levesque
ft a	a
Diane Vi
Andre Parent
80
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING Between
COLUMBIA FOREST PRODUCTS LEVESQUE HEARST) (hereinafterreferred to as the “Company”)
and
I.W.A. CANADA LOCAL 2995 (hereinafter referred to as the “Union”!
Re: Vacation Shutdown and Tradesmen
Whenever possible, all tradesmen will be required to work during the plant vacation shutdown and will be allowed to take vacation time off at a time convenient to them and the Company in order not to jeopardize the plant operation.
81
SIGNED IN HEARST, ONTARIO
This 13th day of March, 2003.
FOR THE COMPANY	FOR THE UNTON
---------------
Donald Bisson	Gujwourgojjiir

Gilles Levesque
Leo Levasseur
Guy VSfleux
ML-
82
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING between
COLUMBIA FOREST PRODUCTS (LEVESQUE HEARS!) (hereinafter referred to as the “Company”)
and
I.W.A. CANADA LOCAL 2995 (hereinafter referred to as the “Union’)
RE: EMPLOYEE ON WSIB AND W.I,
It is agreed that employee on WSIB and W.I, claims will be required to report inperson everytwo weeks to their respective plant superintendent or the personnel director of the Company.
Should they be prevented from doing so by reason of health or reasons beyond their control, they should advise their plant superintendent or personnel director by telephone or have someone on their behalf do it.
83
SIGNED INHEARST, ONTARIO
This 13th day of March, 2003.
FOR THE COMPANY	FOR THE J JNTON
-J^LuM CL /
GuyVifflfcux
Alain Piette
Gilles Levesque
i=KSu^JT'JL. Diane Vienneau,	/J
Andre Parent
84
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
between
COLUMBIA FOREST PRODUCTS (LEVESQUE HEARST) (hereinafter referred to as the “Company”)
and
I.W.A. CANADA LOCAL 2995 (hereinafter referred to as the “Union”)
Re: Overtime and Part Time Employees fPlvwood only-)
1)	Overtime will be distributed by seniorityas per 11.04 (c),
2)	Company will be allowed to hire part-time employees to replace regular employees on floaters, vacations, leave of absence, and short-termsickness (max 3 days).
85
SIGNED IN HEARST, ONTARIO This 13th day of March, 2003.
FOR THE COMPANY	FOR THE UNION
ilxtM UjuUmwS
GuyVSflfcux
rU^rpJr 0*-- OtTHL
Andre Parent
\
86
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
between
C-OLUMBIA FOREST PRODUCTS (LEVESQUE HEARST) (hereinafterreferred to as the “Company”)
and
I.W.A. CANADA LOCAL 2995 (hereinafter referred to as the “Union”)
Re: Work Permits, Contractors and their Employees
All contractors and their employees shall pay a work permit for every month or part thereofwhich shall be deducted by the Company and forwarded to the Local Union Office.
It is understood that the above shall not apply to consultant, salesmanand engineer.
87
SIGNED IN HEARST, ONTARIO
This 13th day of March, 2003
88
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
between
COLUMBIA FOREST PRODUCTS (LEVESQUE HEARS!) (hereinafter referred to as the “Company”)
and
I.W.A. CANADA LOCAL 2995 (hereinafter referred to as the “Union”)
Re: Job Replacement on Shift Change
It is understood that all employees coming on shift will be at their workstation to replace the outgoing employee.
Employees coming on shift who are not replacing an outgoing employeewill be at his/her workstation at the start of the shift.
It is further understood that the Company intends to enforce the hours of work and length of coffee break and lunch break as per the Collective Agreement.
89
SIGNED IN HEARST, ONTARIO This 13th day of March, 2003.
FORTHFCOMPANY	FOR THE UNION
\