Effective Date: Expiry Date:
MR i 4 tfiW
COLLECTIVE
BARGAINING AGREEMENT
- between -
DASHWOOD INDUSTRIES LIMITED, CENTRAL1A, ONTARIO
THE UNITED BROTHERHOOD OF CARPENTERS AND JOINERS OF AMERICA, LOCAL3Q54.
November16th, 1996 November! 5th, 1996
'STICLE1 'PURPOSE
1.01	The general purposeofthisAgreement isto establish mutually satisfactory relations
betweenthe Company and itsemployeesandto providemachineryforthe promptand equitable disposition of grievances, andto establish and maintainsatisfactoryworking conditions, hours ofwork andwages for all employees who are subjectto the provisions of this Agreement.
ARTICLE2 • RECOGNITION
2.01	The Company recognizes the Union as the sole collective bargainingagency for all its employees covered underthe terms of this CollediveAgneement, save and except, Foremen, persons above the rankof Foremen, Office and Sales Staff.
2.02	When an employee covered by this CollectiveAgreement and the necessaryequipment isavailableforthe employee to performwork in any ofthejob classificationswhere the employee normallyworks, no Foremen, person above the rank of Foremenor other persons not covered by this CollectiveAgreement shall performwork normally performed by the employees inthejob classifications exceptforthe purposes of instruction, experimentingor in cases of emergency.
2.03	(a) Any person employed as a studentwho electsto becomea permanent employee and is accepted by the Company,will have his seniority and all other conditions of employment commence from the date of his acceptance by the Company as a permanentemployee.
(b) The Company agneesthat no studentswill be hiredwithin ninety(90) calendar days of the date when regularemployeesaneto be terminated because of the expiry of their recallrights as prescribed by Article 14,05 (d) of this CollectiveAgreement.
2.04	S is understood and agreed betweenthe partiesto this CollectiveAgneementthat should the Company opt to service customers from other locations in the provinceofOntario, normally serviced by employees covered underthe terms of this CollectiveAgreement, then the positionscneated shall first be offered to these employees aforementioned, before new employees are hiredto performthe newly createdjobs.
ARTICLE 3 • UNIONSECURITY
3.01	All present employees covered underthe terms of this CollediveAgreement on the effective date of this Agreement and every newemployee uponthe completionofthe probationary period, shalljoin the Union and remain a memberofthe Union in good standing as a condition of continuedemploymentwith the Company.
Probationaryemployeeswill beentitledto coverage underthe Insurance and Welfare programs as set forth in Schedule'C" to take effect on the first day of the month followingthe completion of twenty-five (25) days worked. Probationaryemployeeswho have worked twenty-five (25) days shall receive paymentfor Paid Holidayscovered in Article 13.01.
3.02	The Company agrees that it shall deductfrom all employees covered bythis Agreement including probationaryemployees, an amount equal to the regular monthly Uniondueswhich istwo (2) times the employee's current hourly rate per month as prescribed by Local3054. Said sums shall be remittedto the Unionduringthe week following the week of deduction. The Company shall, when remitting such dues, name the employees from whose pay such deductions were made.
The Company shall not deduct any additionaldues, fees or assessments without the specificwritten direction and authorizationofthe Union and in no casewill the Company be held responsiblefor any dues, fees or assessments improperly deducted when the procedure herein is followed.
3.03	inorderto protectthe employee's good standingof membershipinthe Unionas required by Article 3,01, and inthe event any employee in the Bargaining Unit falls intoarrearsof Duesby failing to work inthe week that Union Dues are deducted becauseof lay-off, accident, sickness, leaveof
2
absence or vacation and the regular monthly Union Duesare not remitted to the Union, the recovery of illy such arrears will be accomplishedbythe following method:
1.	A memberwho falls one (b)>fwo (2) monthsin arrearswill havethe total arrearsdeducted from one (1) pay upontheirreturntowork.
2.	A memberwho falls morethantwo (2) monthsin arrearswill have one (1) month's dues deducted from each week's pay untilthe arrears have been caught up.
Should any employee anticipateor encounter personaldifficultieswith the application of S u b Sections 1 and2 of this Article, alternative methods may be arranged betweenthe employee andthe Unionto assist inthe recovery of such arrearswith the least amount of Inconvenience to the employee. The Unionwill advise the Company inwritingof such cases outliningthe agreement neachedandthe Companywill make the deductions as arranged.
ARTICLE 4 - MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
4.01	The Union acknowledgesthat it is the exclusivefunction of the Company to hire, promote, classify, transfer and suspend employees and also the right of the Companyto disciplineor dischargeany employeefor just and reasonable cause providedthat a claim by an employee, who has acquiredseniority.that he has beendischargedordisciplinedwithout reasonablecause may be the subject of a grievance and dealt with as hereinafterprovided.
4.2	The Unionfurther recognizesthe right of the Companyto operate and manage its businessinall respectsin accordance with its commitmentsand responsibilities. The location of the
plants,the productsto bemanufadured, the schedulesof production,the methods, processes and meansof manufacturingused.the rightto decide on the numberof employees needed by the Company at anytime, the rightto use improved methods, machinery and equipment andJurisdictlon overall operations, buildings, machinery, tools and employees are solely and exclusively the responsibilityof the Company. However,should the Unionwish to question the reasonablenessof a produdionrate set for an operation, the Union shall havethe rightto investigateor have itstime study personnelenterthe plant and study the operation in question. Ifthe Unionis of the opinion that the Company has set an unreasonableproductionrate, the question of the reasonablenessof the produdionrate may be referredinwriting by the Unionto a Boardof Arbitration as providedin Article 8 within a reasonable period of time, but in any event not laterthan three (3) months afterthe Company has set the produdion rate, unlessthe rate has been affected by the conditionsor requirementsbeyondthe employee's control.
4.03	The Company hasthe rightto make, alter, publish and enforce reasonable rulesand regulationsto be observed by its employees. Such rulesand regulations^///ibe discussed with the
reviewed.
4.04	It is agreedthat none of the rights set forth inthis Article will be exercised in a manner
inconsistentwith the terms of this Agreement and further that all classificationswill be in accordancewith Schedule "A" attached.
ARTICLE 0 - SHOP STEWARDS
5.01	The Company recognizesthe right of the Unionto appoint a maximumofeight (8) shop
stewards, one ofwhich will bedeslgnated as the Chief Shop Steward and one as the Alternate Chief Shop Steward.
The Unionwillendeavourtorecruit ShopStewardsfrom as manyareasordepartments where possibleinan attempt to maintainafull compliment of Stewards as permittedbythis article,
Only one steward from a given department, excluding the Chief Shop Steward, shall be allowedto leavehisjob to attend to any Union businesspertainingto this CollectiveAgreement.
5,.02	The namesofthe stewards, from time to time seleded, shall begiventothe Company in
writing and the Company shall not be requiredto recognizeany such steward until it has been so notified.
3
Number of Factory Employees (inclusive of the Shop Stewards)	Number of Shop Stewards	SelectionCriteria
1-80	2	Chief4 Alternate Chief
81 -120	3	Next senior Steward
121 -180	4	Next senior Steward
101 - 200	5	Next senior Steward
5.05	The Company shall informthe appropriate Union Stewardof a new employee hired m his
area of representationon the day that such reu employee commences his employmentand when the new employee's probationaryperiodhas beencompleted.
ARTICLES • NO DISCRIMINATION
8.01	The Companyandthe Union agree that there will be nodiscrimlnatlon against any employee becauseof race, colour, creed, sex, national origin, age or Union membership. Any reference inthis Agreement to "he or "she" shall be consideredto referto an employee of either sex
ARTICLE 7 - DISCHARGEAND DISCIPLINARY PROCEDURES
7.01	The Companyshall nottake azy disciplinaryactlon without first warning the employee in the presence of a Shop Steward. Inthe event of a claimthat an employee has beensuspended or discharged unreasonably, the grievance shall be filed at StepThree (3) of the Grievance Procedure within three (3) working days. Warnings shall be given uniting and inthe presence of a Shop Steward. The Company and the Union agree that disciplinary penalties shall not be imposed unreasonably or unjustly. Inthe eventthe circumstancesjustify immediate suspension or discharge of the employee,
4
'she shall begivena reasonable opportunity to consult with his Shop Steward before leavingthd ^.mpany's premises, unless it is necessary, because of the natureofthe employee's conduct, to require the employee's immediateexpulsionfromthe Company's premises.
7.02	Ifit is determined or agreed st any step of the Grievance Procedure or decided by a
Board of Arbitration that any employee has been disciplined or discharged unjustly, the Company shall put him back on hisjob with no loss of seniority and shall pay the employeethe amount hewould have earned had he been working, or by any other arrangement as to compensation, including reinstatement without pay, which isjust and equitable in the opinion of the partiesorinthe opinion of the Board of Arbitration if the matter is referredto such Board.
7:03	Inthe Service and Truck DrivingGroups, the time limitsin Articles? and8 vJi be
adjusted if necessary to conforrmwith the availability of the shop steward or his alternate, but in no event to exceedten (10) working days from the date of the incident.
7.04	The Company shall providethe employee and the Union with a copy of any verbal or written warning affectingthe employee. Any reply by the employee shall become part of hisrecord, The record of any disciplinary action shall not be referredto or used against himat any time aftertwelve (12) months following such action.
Failureto grieve previousdiscipline, orto pursue any grievanceto Arbitration, shall not be consideredto bean admission that such disciplinewasjustified. Any Grievanceshall be subject to the time limitsinArticle 8.
7.05	Employees while absent from work because of illnessor injury shall not be subjectto any disciplinary procedureduringthe periodof their disability for any allegedviolationsofthe Company's Rules orthis CollectiveAgreement, subjectto the limitations detailed in medicaldocumentssuppliedto the Company.
ARTICLE 8 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDUREANDARBITRATION
8.01	"Grievances"as used inthis Agreement will beany matterrelatingto wages, hoursor working conditions, includingquestionof, or compliancewith the provisionsof this Agreement and shall only relateto or concern any grievancewhich has arisen or arises subsequentto the date of this Agreement.
8.02	Time limits as defined inthis Grievance Procedureshall includeonly normalworking days and shall not include Saturdays, Sundays, or Statutory Holidaysandsuch time limits may be extended by mutual consent of the parties where applicationfor such extension is made prior to the expiration of a time periodas defined below.
8.03	The Stewardfirst (1st) selected by the employee will processthe complaint or grievance to its conclusionandwill be perrmittedthe opportunityto discussthe problemwiththe employeepriorto any meetingwith the ForepersonorSupervIsor.
STEP ONE:	Any employeewith seniority inthe bargaining unit having a problem with
regardto hisrelationshipwiththe Company underthe terms ofthisCollectiveAgreementwill meet and discuss any such problemwith his Foreperson or Supervisor inthe presenceofthe shop stewardof the employee's choice priorto initiatinga formal grievance and within five (5) working days of the incident giving riseto the problem.
STEP TWO:	Shouldthe Steward or the employee be dissatisfied with the Forepetson
or Supervisor's verbal dispositionof such complaint or request, the Steward may, within too (2) working days refersuchgrievanceinwritingto the Forepersonor Supervisorwho shallanswerthegrievancein writing within two (2) working days.
STEP THREE: Inthe event the grievance is not settled in Step One or Step Two, the ShopSteward may request a meetingwiththe Distributionor Manufaduring Managers, which Is to be held within six (6) working days afterthe Union's receipt of the ForepersonorSupervisor's answer In StepTwo and boththe Company andthe Union may have outside representatives present. Such meetingtime shall be mutually set bythe parties. Ifthe grievanceis not settled at the meetinginStep Three then either party may refer itto Arbitrationwithin ten (10) working daysfromthe Union's receipt of the Company's answer in Step Three and in accordance with Articles 8.05 to 8.12 inclusive.
5
* 04	The Unionand/or the Company shall havethe rightto file a grievanceof a policy ’nature
,hin ten (10) working days of the date of the incident comingto the attention of either party. A meeting betweenthe appropriaterepresentativesof the Company and the Unionto discuss and attemptto resolvea policy grievancewill be convened within five (5) workingdays of the filingof said grievance. Shouldthe partiesfail to neacha settlement of a policy grievance at this time, then either party may refer itto Arbitrationwithin (10) working days of this meetingandin accordancewith Articles 8.05 to 8.12 inclusive.
8.05	A sole arbitratormay be selected by the partieswithin seven(7) working days of receipt of the notice of intentto arbitrate. In such cases, the parties shall endeavourto agree on the selection of an arbitrator. Inthe event the partiesane unableto agree within a further seven (7) working day period, then a Boardof Arbitration shall be constituted.
8.06	A Boardof Arbitration shall be composed of one person appointed by the Company, one person appointed by the Union and athirdpersonto act as Chairman, chosen by the othertwo members of the Board.
8.07	The request by either party for a Boardshall name the first party's appointeeto the Board. The recipient of the notice shall within seven (7^vorking days advise the other party of the name of its appointeeto the Arbitration Board.
8.08	Shouldthe personchosen bythe Company and personchosen by the Unionto act on the Boardfail to agree on a third personwithin seven (7) working days of the appointment of the second of them, they shall apply to the Ontario Labour Management Arbitration Commission for a list of Arbitrators. Ifthe appointeesfail to agree on a Chairman from this listthey shall apply to the Ministerof Labourforthe Provinceof Ontario for the appointment of an impartialthird memberto act asChalrman,
8.09	The decisionsof an Arbitrator or a Boardof Arbitration, or a majoritythereof, constituted in the above manner, shall be binding upon both parties and upon any employee affected by it. A majority decisionshall be accepted as the decision of the Boardand in the absence of a majority decision, the decision of the Chairman shall be accepted as the decision of the Board.
8.10	The Arbitrator orthe Boardof Arbitration shall not havethe powerto alter, amend, modify, or add to any of the provisionsof this Agreement orto substitute any new provisionsforany existing provisionsnorto give any decision inconsistentwiththe terms and provisionsof this Agreement.
8.11	Eachofthe partiesto this Agreement shall bearthe expenses of the Arbitratorappointed by it and the partieswill jointly bearthe expenses, if any, ofthe Chairman.
8.12	Time limitsfixed in this Article may be extended by mutual agreement inwriting between the Company and the Union.
ARTICLE 9 - NO STRIKES - NO LOCKOUTS
9.01	It is agreed bythe Unionthat there will be no strikes norpicketingduringthe periodthat this Agreement continues in operation, and the Company agrees that there will be no lockouts during the periodthat this Agreement continues in operation. The terms "strikes" and "lockouts" as referredto in the paragraph shall mean "strikes" and "lockouts" as defined by the Ontario Labour RelationsAct.
9.02	No actionwill betaken against any employee for refusingto cross a picket line set upin connectionwith a lawfulstrike.
ARTICLE 10 -WAGE RATES
10.01	Duringthe term of this Agreement, the Companyandthe Union agree that all payment of wages shall be made in accordance with the wage rates set forth i n Schedule "A1 hereto, which Is hereby made a part of this Agreement and by any Article of the Agreement pertainingto the payment of wages.
10.02	The Company agrees to pay theemployees wages earned every Friday, for the hours worked in theprevious week, and such payment shall be made during working hours by
6
ns of direct deposit into each individual employee's bank account This direct deposttwill < ne Into existence as soon as It Is reasonably possible following date of ratification of the
Collective Agreement
ARTICLE 11 - HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
11.01	The following paragraphsandsections define the normalhoursofwork and shall not be construed as a guaranteeof daily, weekly, monthly or annualwork.
11.02	The basicworkweek is made up of five days, Mondaythrough Friday andthe basicworkday is eight (8) hours, brokenonly by the established paid break periodsand unpaid lunch period.
11.03	The normal hours of work shall be as follows:
Day Shift:	7:00 am. to 12:00 Noon
12:30 p.m. to 3:30 p.m.
Afternoon Shift:	3:30 p.m. to 7:30 p.m
8:00 p.m. to 12:00 Midnight
The Company may scheduletwo (2) maintenancepersonnelto perform preventive maintenanceduringthe period of 12:00 Noonto 12:45 p.m.. This scheduling shall be rotatedand not consecutiveand not meantto exclude emergency or repairwork.
Plant shift work when requiredshallbe on a two (2) week rotation basis for employees requiredto performsuch shiftwork
The day shift unpaid lunch periodshall bethirty (30)minutesto be taken betweenthe hours of 11:46 a.m. to 12:45 p.m. with the evening shift unpaid lunch period beingthirty (30) minutes from 7:30 p.m. to 8:00 p.m.
The paid break periods shall be of fifteen (15) minutesdurationai/rayfromworkator about the mid-pointof each half shift including a paidten (10) minute break period priorto the commencement of any overtime period scheduled in excess of one hour.
11.04	Inthe event that a three (3) shift work schedule is to be implemented,the normal work week for such a three (3) shift schedule shall be five (5) days Mondaythru1 Friday (inclusive) andthe normalwork day shall be eight hours, brokenonly by the established paid break periods.
Day Shift:	7:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m.
Afternoon Shift:	3;00 p.m. to 11:0O p.m.
NightShift :	11:00 p.m. to 7:00 am
The three (3)shiftwork schedulewhen requiredshall be worked on a two week rotation basis, that is (i.e. - two (2)weeksday shift, two (2)weeks aftemoonshiftandtwo (2)weeks nightshift).
The paidlwenly (20) minute lunch periodshall beat or about the mid-pointof each shift, Paidten (10) minute breaks shall be at the mid-polnUbf each half shift.
11 .OS	Any operationsof the Company which require continuoustwenty-four(24) hours
operation and yet may not requirefive (5) days of continuous operation perweek to meet production requirements, shall apply the following conditions of work:
Day Shift:	7:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m.
Afternoon Shift:	3:00 p.m. to 11:00 p.m,
Nightshift:	11:00 p.m. to 7:00 a,m.
During the three (3) shift operations, each employee shall beentitledto a thirty (30) minute lunch period st or about the mid-pointof each shift away from hiswork station but the operation demands that one or moreof the employees be working at any given time.
A rest periodof fifteen (15) minutes of paidtime will be givento each employee at or about the mid-point of each half shift and such rest periodwill be granted away from the work station as long as the operation remainsattended by one or more personnel at any given time.
Employees may be requiredto work one or more shifts at their straighttime hourly rate of pay on regularoperationsas scheduled by the Company in order to complete their normal work week, because operations and shift schedules haveto be cancelled or suspended due to mechanical breakdown or completion of productionrequirements.
n
The Companywill makeevery reasonableeffortto provideaHemaUve work during the heduled shift or during the week that such cancellations or suspension of shift operationsand schedules are in effect.
11.06	The normal hours of work for employees inthe Bargaining Unitwho are requiredto travel for the Company to performtheir duties shall beas follows:
Forty(40) hours per week worked betweenthe hours of 10:00 p.m. Sunday and 12:00 Midnight Friday and the normalwork day shall be eight hours perday brokenonly by the established paid break periodsand unpaid lunch periods. The unpaid lunch periods for personnelcoveredbythis Article shall be of thirty (30) minutesdurationat approximately mid-point in each normal shift.
Paidfifteen (15) minute break periodsfor personnelcoveredbythis Article will be approximately mid-point ineadr half shift includinga paidten (10) minute break periodpriorto the commencement of any overtime period scheduled in excess of one (1) hour. Paidfifteen (15) minute break periodswill beat approximately the mid-point of each four (4) hours of overtime. Aftertwelve (12) hoursofwork, a second lunch periodof thirty (30) minutesdurationwill be deductedfrom the total hours. After sixteen (16) hoursofwork, a third lunch periodof thirty (30) minutesdurationwill be deductedfrom the total hours.
11.07	a)	Overtimeforall workers shall be paid as follows:
I)	Overtime for non-Trucking and non-Service personnelshallbepaidforatthe rate of time and one-half the straighttime hourly rate for the first four hours worked in excess of the norrmalshift hours and doubletime for all subsequent hours on a daily basis.
II)	Overtime for truck drivers, truck drivers’ helpers and service personnelwill be paid for at the rate of time and one-half their straight time hourly rate for all hours worked in excess of the normalshift hours on a daily basis.
III)	All work performedon Saturday shall be paidfor at the rate of time and one-halfthe straight time hourly rate plus any premiumsthat may be applicableforthe first four (4) hours of such Saturday work and double the straight time hourly rate plus any applicable premiumsforwork in excess of four (4) hours on Saturday.
Iv) All work performedon Sunday shall be paidfor at the rate of double the straight time hourly rate plus any premiumsthat are applicable.
b)	All overtime shall be on a voluntary basis and no employee shall be penalized for exercisingthis right.
Overtimeshall be equitably distributedas is practical among employees normally performing the work to be done. Theovertimeshallbe consideredequitablydistributed when the ratio of hours of overtimepay divided by hours of straight time work, whichwill be referred to as the overtime ratio, are equal for employeesin a specific departments, on a specificshtft and withinaspactfic departmentaljobclassificationsontheshift
Errors In the equitabledistribution will be corrected by offering overtime assignmentsas they become available in the classification in question, until such time as the situation is corrected,
It is understood that the Company’sobiigation, with respect to the distribution of overtime, applies only to those employees at workon theshlft within the departmentof classification at the time the overtimeis assigned.
Whenreasonably possible, employees will be notified the work day before weekday overtime, and the Thursdaybefore weekendovertime.
Any offer of overtime which Is refused, provided at least eight (8) hours advance notice wasgiven, will be chargedto the employeeas overtime worked for thepurpose of equalization of overtime.
If the Company Is unabletoobtainsufflclent employeeswlthln the classification erdapartmant, the opportunity to workthe overtime will be givento employees who have sign ad an uOvertime Notice” whichls posted on the CompanyBulletin Boards on a monthly basis and usedexciusiveiy for overtime outsideofthelndividual classification or department provided the employees have the skill and ability toperform the overtimeassignmentsavailable. Employees will be selected in the inverse order of their overtimeratio.
8
Employees absent when overtime Is offered will not be called until the Company has exhausted everyone whohassignedtheuOvertim» Notice" on theshtft which the overtime Is required. Should It benecessary to phone employeeset home, theCompany shall have a Union Steward present tovertfy the calls.
TheCompanywIII maintain records of all overtime worked for verification of distribution of hours.
Failure tosign theuOvertime Notice"shall not disqualify or penalize any employeefrom the solicitation for or an opportunity to perform any future overtime work.
11.08	Truck Drivers, truck drivers' helpers and service personnelshallreceivetheir regular shift pay of eight (8) hours per day when they are prevented from performingtheir duties by adverse weather conditions only when they are stranded away from home during a scheduled run. Service personnelshall receive four (4) hours pay when storm stranded at home and pneventedfrom performing their duties, to compensate for the rearrangementof their work schedules.
11.09	Route assignments for long distance truck driverswill be in accordance with any schedule establishedand agneedto betweenthe Company andthe Union.
11.10	Inthe event of second/thlrd shift cancellations, or changes in the schedules of such shifts, the Company agrees to give the employees involved, notice of such cancellations or changes as far in advance as possible.
There shall be a mandatory minimum of eight (8) consecutive hours time off between scheduled, rescheduledshiftsor shift changes. Inthe event an employeewould be unable to complete his shift immediately prior to a reschedulingor shift change becauseofthe mandatory eight (8)hours minimum rest requirement, the Company may send himhomeinorderto meet the startingtime of his next shift. Any employee who is sent home underthesecircumstancesshall receive a reporting allowance in accordance with Article 19.03 of this Agreement.
The following Groups will be exempt fromthis Article: truck drivers, servicemen, samples and field display workers and maintenance.
QualifiedFirst Aid personswillbeon duly duringthese additional shift operations.
ARTICLE 12 - ANNUAL VACATIONS
12.01	All employeesas of June 30th will be eligible for the following vacation allowance and
will bepaida percentageoftheir gross pay for all work performedupto June 30th:
Years of	Numberof	of
Service	Weeks	Gross Pay
0-1		4%
1-3	2	4%
3-5	2	5%
5-8	3	6%
8- io	3	7%
10-15	4	9%
over15	5	10%
12.02	The scheduling of vacation times for employees shall be the function of Managementin
keepingwith the needs and dictates ofthe business. Employeesnorrmallywill be given the choice asto the schedulingoftime off forvacation. When moreemployeesfrom a department request vacation at the same time than can be allowed to be absent, seniority shall govern the granting of vacation only up to the last working day in April.
9
Shouldthe Company deckle on a summer shut down period, this period shall become the scheduled vacation period for all employees inthe Bargaining Unit except those that the Company many requestto performwork duringthe vacation shut down In orderto meetthe demands of business. The actual date of the plant shutdown shall be posted on the bulletin boards by March 31st of the current year.
12.04	Employeesentitledto vacations in excess of two (2) weeks peryearshalltakethe remainderat a time mutually satisfadoryto the employee and the Company.
The vacation calendar listingthe vacation periods grantedshall remain posted on the Plant bulletin boards untilthe end of the current vacation year.
12.05	ForThe purpose of computing vacation pay, the vacation pay year shall be from anniversary to anniversary of the employee'sindividual seniority. Vacation pay shall begiven to the employees not laterthan the third Friday of July inthe year in which the vacation allowance is earned, together with an itemized statement defining the particulars of the vacation pay earned and paid for in that year.
ARTICLE 13 - PAIDHOUDAYS
13.01	All employees, including probationaryemployeeswho haveworkedtwenty-five (25) days, shall receive payment for the following paid holidays and will includeany additional statutory holidays proclaimed by legislation:
New Year's Day	Good Friday	EasterMonday
Victoria Day	Canada Day	Civic Holiday
LabourDay	Thanksgiving	Day	Christmas Gay
Boxing Day
Plustwo (2) days to be designated by the Company at the Christmas/New Year's period. Paymentshall be based on the employee's regularcurrent hourly rate multipliedby the numberof hours in a normalwork day and shall be madesubjectto the following conditions:
To be eligible for holiday pay, an employee mustwork on his/her regularworkday immediitely preceding and immediately following such holiday, providedthat where an employee fails to do so work on either day dueto illnesscertifiedto the satisfaction of the Company, death inthe immediatefamilyjury duty, approved leave of absence or lay-off not exceeding (10) working days prior to the holiday,then, he/she shall not be deprived of holiday pay.
b)	Inthe eventthat one or more of the paid holidays occurs during an employee's vacation heshall be paid for the holiday(s) inadditionto his Vacation Pay. The employee muststipulate priorto his vacation period if he wishes to take an extra day in lieuthereof.
c)	If an employee is authorizedto and performswork on any of the above named paid holidays, heshall receive payments double time for the hours actually worked by him inadditionto receiving his holiday pay.
13.02	Eachofthe holidays enumerated hereinshall be observed on the day onwhich itfalls unless otherwisedeclared by the Dominion of Canada orthe Province of Ontario or unlessotherwise mutually agreed to by both parties.
13.03	Ifa paid holiday enumerated herein falls on a weekend, itshall beobservedonthe following Monday, unless otherwise declared bythe DominionofCanada orthe Province of Ontario or unlessotherwise mutually agreed to by both parties.
10
>*»TICLEU-SENIORITY
14.01	a) The parties recognizethat job opportunity and security should increase in proportionto lengthofservlce, It istherefore agreed, that in all such cases of vacancy, promotion,transfer, lay-off, recallfrom lay-off or termination otherthan discharge forjust cause, senioremployeesshall be entitled to preference/n accorc/ancewith Articles 15, 16,17.
Seniority shall meanthe length of continuous employment with the Company as a regularfull time employee inthe bargaining unit from his/her lastdate of hire.
All employees shall have their seniority determined by the Individual numerical sequence to which their name appears on the seniority list No person shall be deemed to have thesame seniority although they may have been hired on thesame date,
The maintenance of the employee seniority lists shall be the responsibility of the
Company.
14.02	In recognition,however, ofthe responsibility of the Companyforthe efficient operation of the business, it is understood and agreedthat in all such cases the Company shall havethe tight to passover any employee if itestablishesthat he does not havethe ability orthe physicalfttness to performthework The specifiedtrial ortraining period may be utilizedto establishthe employee's ability or physicalfitness. Ifa candidate is passedoverwithout a trial ortraining period, theChiefShop Steward shall be informed of the reasonsthe trial period was not extended and such reasonsshall be subjectto the grievance procedure if not acceptable to the Union.
14.03
14.0S
An employeewill be considered probationary for the first 320 hoursorforty (40) days worked andwill have no rights except for those outlined in Article 3.01 underthis Collective Bargaining Agreement duringthat time and may bedischarged at any time during that periodwithout recourseto thisAgreement. After 320 hoursorforty (40) daysworked, the employeewill gain Seniority standing and his seniority shall date backtothe date on which his employment began.
14.04	Maintenance and Accumulation of Seniority
Seniority shall be maintained and accumulateduring: a) absence due to lay-off;
compensable work related accident;
certified sicknessoraccidentfor a period not to exceed66 consecutive months; pregnancy leave of absence as allowed and defined inthe Employment Standards Act;
absence due to an authorized leave of absence for a period not to exceedthe duration approved.
o
Seniority shall be lost and not reinstated for any ofthe following reasons: the employee terminates his employment for any reason; or the employee is discharged for any reason and is not reinstated in accordance with the Articles of this Agreement: or
the employee is laid off and fails to return to work within five days after he has been so requested by means of registered mailfrom the Company to his last recorded address; or
the employee has been on lay-off for a continuous period of eighteen (18) calendar months; or
after six (6) months absence from the scope of the CollectiveBargaining Agreement due to work being performedfor the Company which isnot covered by this Collective BargainingAgreement.
14.06	Seniority Lists
The Company shall maintainseniority lists for the Bargaining Unit and such listsshall be postedonthe bulletin boardsfor employee inspection. These kts shall be updated every three (3) months and a copy shall be providedtothe Union.
14.07	Promotionsto any classification involvingthe driving of a Company vehicle will be governed by seniority where the senior eligible employee applying, meets any and all standards as set by
b)
c)
d)
e)
a)
b)
c)
d)
e)
11
*he Company carrying out fleet insurance, the Company bonding our truck driving employees, and'any arising or qualification requirements as set by any government agencyhavingjurisdiction overthe operation of such vehicles as the Company may utilize.
ARTICLE 15 - JOB POSTING
15.01	Forthe purposesofjob posting procedures, all vacant positions in classifications higher than Group4 as shown inSchedule'A’ must be posted on the bulletinboards inaccordancewith Article 15,02,
15.02	All vacancies created by new classifications and any to be filled inexistingclassifications shall be posted within five (5) working eldys of the occurrence of any such vacancy andwill remain postedfor a five (5) working day period. Any employee inthe Bargaining Unit may make application for suchvacancieswithin the five (5) working day posting periodandthe following conditions will apply:
a)	The successfulapplicant shall be named and transferredwithin the five (5) working day period immediatelyfollowingthe closingofthe postingperioa.
b)	The Company shall providethe Chief Shop Stewardwith a copy of all applications and appointments when the posting has been completed.
c)	Vacancies created by lay-offs, sickness, accident, leave of absence or vacations shall not be posted.
d)	Infilling the vacancy, the parties shall be subject to the obligationsand entitled to the rights set forth in Article 15,
e)	Nothing herein shall prevent the Company from hiring personsfrom outsidethe bargaining unitwhen no eligible employee applies for a posted vacancy.
0 The Company may fill a vacancy on a temporary basisfor upto twenty
(20) working days untilsuch time as the job posting procedureis completed.
15.03	Thesuccessful applicantto ajob posting shall be paid therate for thepostedjob according to Schedule"A" upon his/her transfer into thatjob classification following the job posting.
15.04	In those cases where theskill, ability andphysical fitness of the applicant cannot be objectively assessedpr/or toselection, a trialperiod will be used, Thetrialperiod shall be ten (10) days for Group 3jobs andtwenty(20) days for Group2 and Groupljobs. At the endofthe trialperiod, an evaluation meeting will be held with the Union, Company and applicant If the applicant has not been able to demonstrate reasonableproficiency duringVtvs trialperiod, then the employeewill be returned to his/her previous classification. If the results of the trialperiod are inconclusive, the trialperiod may be extended by the Company.
After the completion ofthejob posting procedure, the positionvacated by a successful applicant or employee transfer request shall be posted immediately upon the employee's acceptance into the new position. A review of the vacated positionwill take place betweentwo (2) Shop Stewards and Management of the Company ifthe vacated positionis notto be posted.
15.05	An employee may be considered ineligibleforthe appointment if he has bid for and filled another position inthe previoussix (6) months.
15.00	An employee making an application for a vacancy underthe provisionof this ArtlcJe,
shall on the selection of a successful applicant, be notifiedof the appointment.
ARTICLE 15 -TRANSFERS 18.01	Temporary Transfer*
When an employee is temporarily transferredfrom his regularjob inthe bargaining unitto anotherjob in the bargaining unit, his rate of paywill be determined as follows:
12
a)
b)
c)
16,02
a)
b)
When an employee istemporarily transferredto any job In the bargaining unit, hefchall receivethe rate for thejob or his own regularrate, whichever is greater.
Any employee temporarily transferredwill be returned to their regularjob at their regular rateof pay uponthe completion of theirtemporary assignment.
Any positionfllled on a temporary basis underthis Article will not be protectedfrom layoff when the employee is subject to lay-off as a result of his seniority standing.
Standard Transfers
An employee who is transferredas a result of a successful application for ajob vacancy, shall receivethe rateforfhejob for which he applies; or Any employeewho requestsand receives a transferto ajob in a lowerwage group classification,shall receivethe lowerrateof pay.
ARTICLE 17 • LAY-OFF& RECALL PROCEDURE
a)
b)
c)
d)
17.01
Inthe event of lay-offsfor lack of work, the following procedureswill be observed: Students, then probationary employees shall beterminated before regular fulltime employees are effected; then
Lay-offs will be in the inverse order of seniority, that is, the employee with the least plant wide seniority shall be thefirst to be kid offproviding thesenior employee has the skill, ability andphysical fitness to perform thejob withinone (1)day withoutadditionaltrainingforpostedpositions, andten(10) days for unposted positions.
Inthe event of unanticipatedshortage of materials or major equipment failure, the Company may lay-offemployees for a temporary period not to exceed two (2) working days ony once during a six (6) calendar month periodwithout regardsto the lay-off and recall provisions of this Collective Agreement and only after consultationwith the Union. When production requirements are reduced because of a lack of work, the normal hours of work as prescribed in Articles 11.01 •11.02-11.03-11,04-11.05 or 11.06 of this Agreement shall not be altered, modified or reduced for employees required to performwork for the Company while operations inthe plant continue.
17.02	Inthe event of impending lay-offdue to lack of work, all employeesto be laid off shall be given forty-eight (48) hoursadvance notice, cr in lieu thereof sixteen (16) hours pay. The Shop Stewards in the plantshall be given forty-eight (48) hours notice of pending lay-offs.
17.03	Whenit is necessary to recall employees to thework force, the following procedure will be used.
.	Theemployee with the greatest plant wideseniority shall be the first tobe recalled
^ providing thesenior employee has theskill, abilityandphysical fitness toperform thejob withinone(l) day without additional training for posted positions, and ten (10) days for unposted positions.
The employeeso selectedfor recallshall be contacted by registered letter or via Courier Mailas outlined belowwith a requestto returnto work. A verbal requestto returnto work may be utilizedto attempt to have the employees return quickly to the work force but in no case will an employee be considered as terminated where he answers negativelyto a verbal recallor fails to give a definite answerto a verbal recall.
When an employee is given notice of his/her recallfrom lay-offto active employment by registered mail, or via Courierto his/her addresswhichwas last recorded with the Company, the employee must return to work on that date or within five (5) working days from the date of the mailingof the registeredletter, r the delivery of noticevia courier mail, whichever isthe later date.
Failureto properly respondto the foregoing requirements, the employment of an employee may beterminated unlesshe/she can provide and substantiate a bonafide reasonfor not doing so to the satisfaction of the Company.
6)
c)
13
'7.04	Becauseofthe nature of the work involved and the skills requiredinthe following'
.sslflcatlons:
MaintenanceMillwripht (licensed)
Vehicle Mechanic (licensed)
Servicemen and Service Helpers Moulder & Tenoner Set Upand Operate Electrician (licensed)
Tractor Driven (A-2 License)
The employees inthe foregoing classifications who would normally be laid off because of their lesserseniorityand in accordancewith the procedures established \n Article 17,01, said employees shall be protectedfrom lay-offwhen it is necessarythat the functions of their regularduties must be continued and that employees with greater plant-wide seniority may be laid off.
Should an operation containing any of the classifications defined above be suspended during a lay-off and inwhich employees currently protectedare working, it shall be deemed as cause for such employeeswho have lesser plant-wideseniority inthe protected positionsto be laid off than those employed in non-protectedjobs, and conversely,those with greater plant-wideseniority will be entitledto be accommodated in non-protected positions.
Uponthe resumption of any temporarily suspended operationscaused by a lay-off, employees whose regularjobs are within the classificationssheltered underArticle 17.04 may be recalled without regardto plant-wideseniority (but in conformitywith the orderin which they were laid off from their regularjobs, (e.g. "the protectedclassifications")to enable an expeditious returnto normal operations as soon as possible.
Inthe event a Department or group classificationis permanentlydiscontinued for any reason, employees affected by the cessation shall be accommodated by means of a transfer by the Company into a group classification and their current rate of pay will be maintained for a period ofthree (3) calendar months. After three (3) months in the newgroup classification,their rate of pay will be adjusted accordingly.
17.06	ChargeHands shall not be laid off irrespective of theirsenlortty and their
positions shall be preserved only when their respective departmentscontinueto operate, Including when the department is running at partial capacity.
ARTICLE 18 • TRAINING
18.01	Person's in posted positions may be assignedto special projects for upto fourty monthsin a twelve(12) month period, Project assignments may be extended by mutual agreement of the Company, Unionand said individual. Theindividual will retain his/her wage nte during this project assignment
18.02	Employees may be temporarilyassigned to other Jobs in the plant so that others can be cross-trainedto perform his/herjob. Temporaryassignmentsto allow for cross-training shall not exceed two (2) occurrences of two (2)weeksper occurrenceper six (6) months. The person being crass-trained shall retain theircurrent wage rate. Theperson being displaced to allow cross-trainingshall be paid tho higher of his/her current wage rate or the wagerateof the temporary assignment,provided that theperson is qualifiedto perform the work on the temporary assignment. Otherwise, the displaced person will retain his/her current wagerate, and the temporary assignment will be treated as cross-trainingas well. All cross-training assignments may be extended by mutual agreement of the Company, Unionand impacted worker*.
14
ARTICLE 1 • • WAGES
19.01
Bereavement Leave:
>	An employee shall receive upto three (3) days bereavement leavewith pay whenever
there is ameathii his immediate family. The immediatefamily Is: Spouse, commort-law-spcuse, children, common-law-children, father, mother, brother, sister, father-in-law, mother-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, grandparents (of either spouse) and grandchildren,
Common-Law being defined as co-habitant for twelve (12) consecutivemonthsor
greater.
TO qualify for this payment, the employee must havetaken upto three (3) days off during the five (5) consecutiveday period immediatelysubsequent to the bereavementforthe purpose of attending the funeral and matters pertainingto the bereavement.
.. An employee shall be granted one (1) day's bereavement leavewith pay for the purpose of attenSmgthe funeral of a Brother-in -Law or Sister-in-Law.
I n all cases^he one (1) working day orthree (3) working days paid bereavement leave is granted to protectthe employee from loss of income during hisperiodof bereavement.
A multiplebereavementshall betreatedasone (1) bereavementforthe purpose of this
Article.
19.02	Pay for Citizen Duty:
The Company shall pay an employeewho is requiredforjury service or subpoenaed as a court witness for each day of service, the difference between hisstraighttlme hourly rateforthe number of hoursbenorrmallyworkson his regularshift, and the payment he receivesfor court service. The employee will present proof of service and the amount of pay received.
19.03	ReportingAllowance:
Any employeewho reportsto work at the commencement of the pre-lunch portion or post-lunch portion of his shift and finds no work available shall receive four (4) hours pay for reporting for the pre-lunch portionofthe shift andtwo (2) hours pay for the post-lunch portionof the shift except where:
1.	When the employee is notified in advance notto reportto work.
2.	When the lack of work is due to powerfailure, ads of God, labour disputes or emergency situations.
Inthe event that it is necessary to asUL an employee backto work inthe case of an emergency, he shall be given a minimumof three (3) hours pay at his regularrate or time and one-half forthe hours actually worked, whichever isgneater.
19.04	Travel and Meat Expenses:
a\ All employees who are required totravel fortheCompeny shall receive a meal expense as shown in the following table:
15
(I)	Away from the plant butdoesnot require *n overnight stay:
•	less thanhve (5) hoars	• nil
•	five (ft hours or more but
less then eight (8) hours	- $ 4.00
•	eight (8) hours or mom but
less than fourteen (14) hours	• $11.00
• fourteen (74) hours or mom	• $ 9.00 Such expensesare not to exceed 423,00 per day.
Additional
Additional
....	In the event of the employee being away from the Company's premises for
mom mam one (7) day the Companyshallpaythe employeeforhls lodging andmeel expenses for each day he Is away as shown in following table:
• less than 6 hours
< five (6) hours cr more but less then 8 hours
• $6.00
• $8.00
• eight (8) or mom hours	• $11.00
Such expenses are not to exceed 42S.OO per day,
Additional
Additional
All expenses must be substantiated by cash register receipts showing thedate, time, OST registration number and amount.
19.0$	InsuranceandWilfare:
The Company agrees to pay the full erst of the Employee BenefitPlans* Insurance, MajorMedicalPlan, O.H.I.P. and DentalPlan(1993 0.DA Scheduleof Fees effective November16Ui, 1995 shallthen be automatically upgradedto provide and maintainatwo (2) yeardifferencefromthe current year's O.D.A Scheduleof Fees as of January 1st of each successiveyear)) as set forth in Schedule "C" attached heretoandforming partofthisAgreement. Such coverage totakeeffect fromthe first of the full month following the completion of twenty-five (25) days worked as defined jnArticle 3,01 of this Agreement.
All employees eligible for InsuranceandWelfare benefits underthis Collective Agreementwill havethe premiumoosts of such benefits paid by the Companyfor aperlod of two (2) months following the end of the month inwhich the employee islaid-off.
16
Company Pension:

Ail employees who have completed one (1) full year of service with the Company shall be entitledto participate inthe Group Registered Retirement Savings Planestablished on the Firstday of February, 1988,
Effective November 16,1993 the Company's contributionto the Planwill betwenty (20)
cents per hour.
These contributionswill be paid on all hours worked or paid, includingovertime hours but shall notbe computed on a premiumbesis. n
The Company contributionto the Planwill be for employees on the active pay rofl of the Company only and employees on Workers' Compensation,Weekly Indemnity, LongTerm Disability, or leaveof absencewill be excluded,
The employee contributionto the Planwill be by pay rolldeduction and must matchthe Company contribution. Employees may exceed the minimumtothe limit allowed under Federal legislation.
The Planwill provide:
.. immediate vesting of Company contributions;
a spousal plan option for employee contributions;
an annual statement of accounts and an annual receiptfor incometax purposes.
3' The Company shall havethe rightto selectthe carrier of its choice in nespecttothis Plan, providedthat inthe event that any carrier is changed, an equivalent level of benefitswill be maintained.
ARTICLE 20 - PLANTSAFETY
Both parties heretowill co-operateto the fullest extent reasonably possibleinthe prevention of accidents and the promotionof the safety and healthof the employees of the Company. It isagreedthatallemployeeswill usethe protectivedevices supplied by the Company. The Company shall provideeighty-five dollars ($85.00) peryearto each eligible employee towards the cost of safety footwear and this amount shall be increased to ninety dollars ($90.00) effective July 1,1997. This subsidy shall not be accumulative from year to year.
New employees will be entitledto receivethe safety footwear subsidy uponthe successful completion of the probationary period and be actually working for the Company.
Students will NOT be entitledto receivethe safety footwear subsidy.
Whenever an employee sustains an injury during working hours and is unableto continue working the remainderof his shift, the Company agrees that it will compensatesaid employee to the extent that said employeewill be paid his regular rate ofwages includingawy shift premiumor overtime forallremainingtime left in hisshift.
20.03	The Company shall providetransportationfrom the plant on the day an employee sustains an industrialaccident, and pay for time spent by an employee during his regularshift hours for subsequent medicaltreatment requiredas a result of an industrialaccident. Itwill be requiredthat an employee who is certified medically able to performwork priorto or following such treatment will do so where such work does not interferewith the treatment times.
20.04	The Company will not be responsible for the payment of such time and transportation which would be compensated by the Workers' Compensation Board, The calculation of hourly rate shall be based on the employee's straight time hourly rate.
20.06	i n the event of employees sustaining injuries or becoming affected by occupational
diseases during the course of their employmentwith Dashwood IndustriesLimitedand become physically handicapped as a result thereof, every effort will be made by the Company to give the handicapped employee such suitable employment as is available.
17
99	In addition to the duties given to the Plant Health & Safety Committee under
m^plicabie Occupational Health anc/Safety legislation, theCommittee will:
a)	Promote compliance withpertinent legislation,
b)	Meet once each month, or more regularly as mutually agreed.
c)	Designate one (1) member of the Committee whorepresents workers and one (I) member of theCommittee whorepresents managemerrttutourthe Plant to inspect the physical condition of theworkpiace once per month as scheduled by the Plant Health & Safety Committee.
ARTICLE 21 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE
21.01	At the discretion ofthe Company an employee may be allowed upto a30 day leaveof absencewithout pay for personal reasons if:
1.	He requests it from the Company in writing and sufficient notice is given to allowfor rearrangementofwork or substitution of a replacement and the leave is for good reason.
2.	A leaveof absencewill beextendedfor additional30 day periods ifthere isgood reason and the Union and the Company mutually agree. The employee must requestthe extension inwriting before his leave of absence is up. The Unionwill be notified of all leaves underthis Section.
21.02	Employees, maximum four (4) at any one time, who have been elected or appointed by the Unionto attend Union Conventions or Conferences shall begranteda leaveof absencewithout pay for this purpose.
The Unionwill inform the Company of the names of the delegates. The Company shall grant an employee a leave of absenceof not morethan two years to work in an official capacityforthe local or international Union. The employee must requestthe leave inwriting and the Unionmust approve it. This leave may be extendedfor additionaltwo year periods. Not morethan one employee will begranted such a leave at any onetime and nocontinuationofbenefitsor other Company sponsored or paid programs will be given for leaves in excess of thirty (30)6ays duration underthe terms of 21.02.
21.03	Any leaveof absencewill be in writing and no such leavewill affect any employee's seniority rightswhen usedfor the purpose granted.
ARTICLE22- GENERAL
22.01	The Company agreesto providethe Unionwith at leastfour (4) Bulletin Boardsforthe purposeof posting Job Vacancies in accordance with Article 15 of this Agreement (to be posted by an appropriate member of Management) and to permit the Unionto post noticesof Union meetingsand social affairs.
A Bulletin Boardshall be situated at each ofthe following Plant locations:
One on the wall betweenthe South End Washrooms;
One inthe ReceivingArea;
One inthe M.L.K. Lunchroom; and One et the North End Employee Entrance.
Unionnoticeswillbe posted only by Officers and Shop Stewardsof the Unionand will be in keepingwith the spirit and intent of this Agreement.
22.02	The Company's obligations and the employee's rights with respectto overtime, lay-offs and reporting allowancesshall beconditionaluponthe employee maintaining a residential address and telephone, and upon having providedthe Company in writing with his current address and telephone number. Evidencethat the Company has not been able to contact any employee at such telephone numbershall be conclusive as to the employee's failure to performthis condition.
22.03	The Company will recognizea Union Negotiating Committee of five (5) employeeswho have acquired seniority underthisAgreement and this Committee shall consist of the current Chief Shop
18
•ward andfour(4) memberselected by the employees inthe Bargaining Unit plusonecrtwo Business ixapresentative's from the Unionforthe purpose of negotiating the renewal ofthis Agreement The Company agreesto pay the regularwagesforthe employee membersofthe Committeefortime spent in negotiatingmeetingswith the Companyduring the normal hours of work upto but not including any Conciliation Meetings.
22.04	The Company andthe Uniondesireevery employeetobe familiarwith the provisions of
this Agreement and his rights and duties under il.For this reason both patties agree to share the cost equally in printingthe Agreement and each employee will receiveone <fc£py which Is to be distributed bythe Union.
22.06	If an authorized Union Representative, who is not employed bythe Company, wished to
speak to a Shop Steward inthe plantabout a grievance or other official Union business, he shall make such request of a Company Representativewhoshallthen call a Shop Stewardforthe purposeof having this meeting. These discussions shall be mutually arranged betweenthe Company and the Union Representatives.
ARTICLE 2J- DURATION

23.01	This Agreement shall be binding and remainin effect from November16,1S96to November) 5,1966 and shall be renewed from year to year thereafter unless either party givesto the other party, notice inwritingwithin the period of ninety (90) days priorto the expiry of this Agreement that ltdesiresto amend or terminate the Agreement.
23.02	Where noticeto amend the Agreement isgiven, the provisionsofthisAgreement shall continue in force until a new Agreement is signed or the right to strike or lockout occurs, whichever is first.
Executed at Centralia, Ontario, this 3/ 4h day of	, 19 97
19
SCHEDULE A CLASSIFICATIONS
Trades Group
Maintenance Millwright (licensed)
Electrician (licensed)
Vehicle Mechanic (licensed)
Group I:
Tractor Driver ("A" License)
Serviceman"A" after 2 years as service truck driver
Group 2 :	.
Serviceman "B" • ServiceTruck Driver Vinyl Transfer Une* Setup6 Operate Maintenance Mechanic, Welder and Fitter MoulderandTenoner- Set-up and Operate Pre-select RipSaw- Set-up and Operate FourComerWelder* Set-up and Operate _ Flngergroover - Set-up and Operate ’ Sample and Field DisplayWorker TowMotorDriver (licensed, safety course)
Toot and Grinder* Set Up and Operate
Paintllne • Set Up and Operate
Special UnitAssembler
EdgeGluer- Set-up and Operate
Chop Saw Operator
Truck Driver'D" License
Mulling* 2 years or more experience
Classic Door Assembler* 2 years or more experience
Packaging
Group3 :
Service Helper"A" • motethan 2 years as a service helper
Double Mitre Push Back- Set Up and Operate
Double Mitre Cope Saw - Set Up and Operate
Shipper cr Receiver
Mulling • Lessthan 2 years experience
Truck Driver's Helper
Classic Door Assembler* Lessthan 2 years experience Prime Casement FinalAssembly Trimmer
Group4 :
Ali other workers after! 2 months service (except Group V),
Group6 :
Medically requested lightduty (only considered with current medicaldoctoris certificate). Employeesin Group V are ineligibleforall overtime.
My ne/v classificationcreated by the introductionofnev operationswill haveto be discussed and classifiedwhen they have been agreed upon betweenthe Company and tine Union.
20
SCHEDULE "B" HOURLY WAGE RATES
EfFective Dates Trades Group Group 1 Group2 Group3
Group4 after12 mos service Group5
AfterS mos, service After Probation Start Rate Student Rate Premium
1996
Nov 16th $16,50 $14.65 $14,15 $13,75 $13.65 $12,40 $11.95 $1 120 $10,20 $ 8.55
1997
Nov 16th $16.75 $14.90 $14,40 $14.00 $13.90 $12.65 $12.20 $11.45 $10.45 $ 8,55
1.	Charge Hand Premium- Shall be55c per hourabovethe Group Rateofthe classificationfor all hours worked and said premiumshall not be used in calculating the premiumto be paidon overtime work.
2.	Lead Hand Premium* Shall be40c per hourabovethe Group Rateofthe classificationfor all hours worked and said premium shall not be used in calculatingthe premiumto be paidfor overtime work.
3.	Shift Premium- AD employees
a)	EveningShift: ($.40) forty cents per hourfor all hours worked between3: p.m. and 12:00 Midnightwhenthe shift beginson and after 3:30 p.m.
b)	NightShift: ($.50) fifty cents perhourfor all hours worked between12:00 Midnight and 7:00 am. when the shift beginson orafterl2:00 Midnight.
Said shift premiumshall not be used in calculating the premium to be paid for overtimework.
4.	Seniority Premium- All employeeswill receive in addition to their group rate:
Effective November 16th, 1993:
$0,05 per hourafterthree (3) years' seniority $0.10 perhourafterfive (5) years' seniority $0,25 per hour after ten (10) years'seniority $0.30 perhourafter fifteen (15)years'seniority $0.40 per houraftertwenty (20) years' seniority
5.	Training Premium-	The service truck driver as described in Groups 1 and 2 shall be paid a
training premiumof40c per hourfor all hoursspenttrainingorinstructing probationary employees.
6.	Hazard Premium - Effective November 16th, 1991 any employeewhoisrequiredto performworkonthe repair, replacement or installation etc. of aDashwood Industries Product abovethe forty (40)foot level on the exterior of a buildingshall bepaidthe Premiumof One Dollar ($100) per hourabove his regular rateof pay for all hours worked inthe performanceof such duties.
21
SCHEDULE C
Dashwood Industries Limited Descriptionof Benefits only -Coverage Governed by Plan Documents
Life Insurance:
Payable in the event of accident of sickness at death from all causes...........$35,000.00
Accidental Death and Dismemberment:
(24 hourcoverage) on cr offthejob...............................................$35,000.00
Weakiy 8lck Pay Payable From:
1st day due to an accident or hospitalizationas an in-patient 8th day of absence resulting form illness Payable During
Following eligibility, 15 weeks for each disability Benefits Payable:
2/3 of normalgnoss straight time pay to a maximum of U.I.C. current maximum LongTerm Disability:
Eliminationperiod of 180 days. Payableforfive (5) years or until normal retirementdate, whichever comes first. Benefit of $1000.00/month for all employees effective November 16th, 1993.
O.H.I.P.
BasicO.H.I.P, pian coverage for employee, spouseand unmarried children from birthto age
21 while still dependent
Major Medical Plan- no Deductible
Co-inaurance:
100% of balance Maximum:
$10,000 per person
Denial:
$1Q/$20 Deductibles
maximum:
$1,OOO/yev/lnsured
22
EXTENDED HEALTH PIAN Eligible Expenses
.PrescriptionDrugs •Nursing Charges -Ambulance Charges -Rental of durable therapeutic equipment -PhysiotherapyCharges -Out-patient Hospitaland Clinic Charges
•Blood; Plasma: Artificial Limbsandeyes; Casts; Splints; Trusses; Braces •Oxygen and Rentalof Equipmentfor its administration
-Vision Care: $70,00 effective November16th, 1993 during and 24 month period. Unlimited Lenses. Contact lenses if medically required (no sun glasses).
-Semi-private Hospital Room Rate
-Coverageoutside Canada for Doctorsand HospitalwithinO.H.I.P. fee schedule -Hearing Aids • $600.00 maximum wary five (6) years.
HOURLY DENTAL PLAN
Deductible
Aftera$10/$20 deductible in each calendaryear, the planwill reimburse 100% of eligible major restorativetreatment.
Covered Expenses- Routine
The following services (I) to (iv) inclusive, each limitedto once in any 6 month period:
I)	oral examination
ii) prophylaxis(the cleaning and scaling of teeth)
III) bite-wing x-rays
Iv) topical applicationof fluoride solutions
Full mouth series of x-rays, providedthat a periodof at Ieast24 consecutive months has elapsed sinethe last such series of x-rays was performed.
Extractionsandsingle alveolectomy at the time of tooth extraction.
Amalgam, silicate, acrylic and composite restorations (fillings).
Surgicalextraction of impactedteeth.
Surgical removalof tumors, cysts, neoplasms, plus the incision and drainage of an abscess. Diagnosticx-rays and. laboratory procedures required in relationto dental surgery.
General anaesthesia required in relationto dental surgery.
The cost of medicationand its administration when provided by injectionin the dentist's office. Endodontictreatment • treatment of diseases of the dental pulp. l\ Periodontictreatment- treatment of tissues and bones supporting teeth, iy Space maintainors for missing primary teeth and habit breaking appliances. Consultationsrequiredby the attending dentist.
Relines, repairs, and rebases to existing appliances (fixed bridgework, removable partialor complete dentures).
a)
b)
c)
3
0
g)
9
j)
m)
n)
Covered Expenses- Major Restorative
Crowns and onlays, includinggoldand porcelainveneer fillings where other materials is not suitable. Crowns providedforthe sole purposeof periodontalsplinting are not eligible.
The creationof an appliance (fixed bridgework, removable partialor complete dentures).
The replacementof an existing appliance (fixed bridgework, removable partialor complete denture) only underthe following circumstances:
1.	If necessitated by the extractionof additional naturalteeth while insured underthis policy.
2.	Ifthe existing appliance is at least 5 years old and cannot be made serviceable.
3.	If the existing appliance is temporary and is replacedwith a permanentbridgeor denture and takes place within 12 monthsofwhen thetemporary appliancewas installed.
a)
b)
c)
23
NOTE: Replacementofa lost, mislaid orstolenappliancewill not be an eligible expense.
Servicesof a licensedDenturtst when practisingwithin the scope of his license.
Other necessary oral surgical procedures not specifically listed underRoutine Treatment.
Exceptions and Limitations
1.	Services and supplies rendered for dietary planningforthe control of dental caries, for plaque control or oral hygienelnst/vctlons.
2.	Orthodontictreatmenlwhich meansdental treatmentwhich has itsobjectivethe correction of malocclusionofteeth (Malocclusion- faulty comingtogetherofteethwhen biting).
3.	Brokenappointments or the completion of claim forms requiredby the Company.
Treatment Plan Requirements
Before beginning any proposed dental wok which your dentist estimateswill oast morethan $300,00, you mustfirst submit atreatmentPlanto the insurancecompany. Special forms are availablefromthe PersonnelAdministrator.
A Treatment Plan is a plan including x-rays showing the patient's dental needs, a description of the proposedtreatment and an estimate of the cost.
The filing of a treatment Plan avoids any misunderstanding as to the extent of coverage and gives the patient and dentist an opportunity to review the proposedtreatment and the extent of piancoverage before any work is started.
24
MINUTESCF SETTLEMENT
• between •
UNITEDBROTHERHOODOF CARPENTERSAND JOINERS OF AMERICA,
LOCAL3054
(hereinafter The “Union”)
• and-
DASHWOOD INDUSTRIESLIMITED CENTRALIA. ONTARIO (hereinafterThe “Company”)
WHEREASthe Union filed grievancedated July 17, 1987 allegingthatthe Company violate^ the CollectiveAgreement in failing to pay statutory holiday pay to students.
AND WHEREAS the parties are desirous of resolvingthe aforementionedgrievance.
AND WHEREAS in resolvingthe aforementionedgrievance the partiesare desirous of clarifyingthe application of the Collective Agreement to studentswith a view to minimizing disputes and harmonizing their relationship.
NOWTHEREFOREthe partiesagree as follows:
1.	Studentsfallwithin the bargaining unit of employeesforwhomthe Union holds bargaining rights.
2.	The employmentrelationshipbetweenstudentsandthe Company isdurational in natureand accordingly, applicationofthe CollectiveAgreement is limitedto the following Articles:
a)	Article 1 (entirety)
b)	Article 2.01,2,02, 2.03
c)	Article 3.02,3.03
d)	Article 4 (entirety)
e)	Article 6 (entirety)
f)	Article 7 (entirety)
g)	Article 8 (entirety)
h)	Article 9 (entirety)
0 Article 10 (entirely)
J) Article 11 (entirety)
k)	Article 16 (entirety)
l)	Article 17 (entirety)
m)	Article 18.03, 18.04
n)	Article 19 (entirety)
o)	Article 21.02,21.04
p)	Schedule A
q)	ScheduleB
3.	It is agreed and understoodthat pursuantto Articles 4, 8 and 7, students shall not have access to the grievance procedurein respect of disciplineand discharge.
4.	It is agreed and understoodthat Article 16 shall only apply in those instanceswhere students are assigned work performed by employees in classifications above GroupIV as set out in Schedule B.
5.	It is agreed and understoodthat Article 2.03 shall not be construed as limitingthe rights of students as providedfor inthese Minutesof Settlement.
DATED at London this 10th day of December, 1987.
FORTHE UNION:	ADAM B. SALVONA
DANIEL ISAAC
FORTHE COMPANY	S. J. GENNO
R. E 2EEHUISEN
25
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
The Company agrees that itwill post Lead hand and Charge Hand positionseffiective immediately upon ratificationof this Collective Agreement
FOR THE COMPANY S.J.GENNO
FOR THE UNION ADAM B. SALVONA
26
Letter Of Agreement • between*
UNITED BROTHERHOODOF CARPENTERS AND JOINERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 3054
• and •
DASHWOOD INDUSTRIESUMJTED
This Letter of Agreement will replace Article 12 - Annual Vacations in the existing Collective Agreement dated November^, 1996 to Novembers, 1996 if ajoint applicationto the Ministry ofLabourls successful and approved.
ARTICLE 12 • ANNUAL VACATIONS
12.01	All employeesas of December31st will be eligibleforthe following vacationallowance and will be paid a percentage of their gross pay for all work performedupto December 31st
Years of	Numberof	% of
Service	weeks	Gross Pay
0- 1	4%
1-	3	2	4%
3-5	2	5%
5-8	3	6%
8-10	3	7%
10-15	4	9%
over15	5	10%
12.02	The vacation yearwill runfrom Januaryl to December 31.
12.03	Vacation eamingswill bepaidevery Friday, for the vacation earnings of the priorweek. These earnings will bedeposited by means of direct deposit into each individualsaccount. The employee may specify separate accounts for regular pay and vacation pay.
12.04	The scheduling of vacation times for employees shall be the function of Managementin keeping with the needs and dictates of the business. Employees normally will be given the choice as to the schedulingof time off for vacation. VMien more employees from a department requestvacation at the same time than can be allowedto be absent, seniority shall govern the granting of vacation only uptothe lastworklng day m April.
12.08	Shouldthe Company decide cn a summer shut down period, this periodshall become the
scheduled vacation periodfor all employees inthe Bargaining Unit except those that the Company may requestto perform work duringthe vacation shut down in orderto meetthe demands of business. The actual date of the plant shut down shall be postedon the bulletin boards by March31 cf the current year.
12.00	Employeesentitledto vacations in excess cf two (2) weeks peryear shall take the remainderata
time mutually satisfactory to the employee and the Company.
The vacation calendarlistingfhe vacation periods granted shall remainposted on the Plant bulletinboards untilthe end of the current vacation year.
12.07	For the purpose of computing vacation pay, the vacation pay year shall befrom anniversaryto
anniversary of the employee's individual seniority.