CONTRACT between
CWA
Communications Workers of America
AFL-CIO
The State of New Jersey
Higher Level Supervisory Unit July 1,1999 through June 30,2003

ARTICLE
I
n
nr
IV v vi
VTI
Vill
LX
HIGHER LEVEL SUPERVISORS UN11 AGREEMENT . TABLE OF CONTENTS
TITLE	PAGE NO.
Preamble....................................................   I
Recognition ofRigtits and Definitions ......................  I
A.	Recognit io ci of Union and Unit ....................... 1
B.	Management Rights ...................................... I
C Definitions. .............................................. 2
D. Special CitcinnsiHiicca .................................. 2
Policy Agreements ........................................... 2
A.	Non-Diacriraioatmtr .................................... 2
R.	Dues Deduction am] Membership Information......	2
C.	Policy Agreements, Strike? and Lockouts ................ 4
D.	Administration o^ A$,TtemHi1 .........................  5
Department OfPersonneL Rotes ................................ 5
(kievance Procedure ......................................... $
Discipline .................................................  12
Compensation Plan and Program .............................. 12
A. Special Salary Program July 1,19W to Time 3<l, 2003 • -	17
B Clothing Maintenance Allowance ........................... IS
C.	Dental Care Plan .............................. 18
D.	liye Care Program...................................... 12
E-Deferred Compensation Plan ...............................  12
F,	Special Tnuning ........................   •••	W
G.	Salary Program Adminislratirm ................. 19
H- Bonus Payment for Second and Third Shift ........ 20
|.	Salary Adjustment for Nurses and TeachersJn.'itniclurS ■	20
3.	UonpetstiveEffort ..................................... 20
Position Reclassification and Reevaluation Reviews . 2fl
Hours and Overtime ......................................... 21
A.	HrnLn nf Work ................................. 21
B.	Real and Lunch Period ................................. 21
C.	Overtime ................................    •	••	21
D.	Policy nn Lalwicss ......................... •	• •	22
E.	Other Bencfita ..........................    •	• •	23
F.	Policy on Unexcused Absence .... .............. 2 >
Uompermatciry Time Balances ........................ 21
X	Anniversary Dates .....................s..................... 25
XT	Out-of-Title Work ........................................... 24
XI	]	Promotion .................................. 24
XIII	Job Posting and AnnonnMments - Career	Service ............... 25
A. Job Posting ............................................. 25
E, Announcement!!........................................... 25
XIV	Job Vacancy AnixnjtLCemenls for Unclassified Employees ..	25
XV	Department of Peraontici Examinations ....................... 25
XVI	Performance Assessment Review ............................... 26
XVII	Holidays .................................................... 27
XVIII	Special Time Oil ............................................ 28
XIX	Retirement Benefits	2$
XX	Health Benefits Program and Prescription	Drug Program ...	29
A.	Slate Health Beneflre Program ......................... 29
B.	Prescription Drug Program ............................. 29
XX1	Health Insurance ru. REtircmeut ............................. 29
XXU	Leaves nf Absence ........................................... 30
A.	Administrative Leave-Career Service Program ........... 30
B.	Jury Duty and Witness Leave ........................... 3t
C.	Leave of .Absence Due to Injury (SLI) ................. 31
D.	Pregnancy-Disability Leave ............................ 32
E.	Military Leave	32
F.	Sick Leave ............................................. 33
G.	Vacation Leave-Career Service Program ,,............... 34
H.	Continued Benefits .................................... 35
XXI11	Vacation Leave and Administrative Leave for
Unclassified Employees ..................................... 35
XXIV	Leaves of Absence Without Pay ............................... 35
XXV	Union Rights and Representatives ............................ 36
A.	Acecss to Premises ...................................  36
B.	Leave of Absence for Union Activity ................... 36
C.	Bulletin Boards ....................................... 37
D.	Representation Lists .................................. 38
E.	Union Stewards .......................................  38
F.	Union Privileges ....................................... 38
(3. Tnfonnauonal Postcards ................................. 39
H -Membership Packets ...................................... 39
XXVI	Acoe$S to Personnel File .................................... 39
XXVTT	Seniority ................................................... 40
XXVTIl	Layoff Mhd Rec all-Career S«v ice .......................    41
XXIX	Layoff and Recall for Unclassified and Provisional
Employees ................................................  42
XXX	Liability Claims Indemnification............................ 44
XXXI	Travel Regulations •....................   .••-'•........... 45
XXXTI	Health and Safety .....................................      46
KXXH3	Claims Adjusliwcnt ........................................  48
XXXTV	TuiiiunAid and Employee Training .........,. ............... 43
XXXV	EmergencyWork. iNew Program) ............................    48
XXXVI	Video Display Terminal Qperalucj............... ........
XXXVII	Presentation of Agreement to Employees ....................  5D
XXXVTTl	Unemployment Compensation aM Dirthiltty..................... 51
XXXIX	Transfer arid Reasrigtimcrit .. .........................    51
XL	Mdirttcnarrcc of BoneRtK, Effect of Agrcvrmsnl and
Complete Agreement .....................................    53
A,	Maintenance of Benefits ............................   53
B.	Effect of Agreement .................................  53
C-Complete Agreement ...................................    53
X1J	ppiSCTvatiofl of Rights ..............................       5j
XLD	Effect of Law .............................................. 54
A. Legislative Atflon '...................................  54
R. Savings Clause ........................................  54
XLIU	Notices .................................................    54
XLIV	Term of Agreement and Negotiations Procedure ............... 54
A. Term of Agreement .....................................  54
R. NegotiationsProwdurc .................................   54
MeinnraDd'jmofUjuJvrstanding.T ..........................   56
Memorandum of Understanding 11 ...........................  56
Apptfidix ]-State Colleges Tuition Waiver Program ......... 57
Appendix IT - Side Letters of Agreement ................... 53
Appendix TT! - Tilles
Appendix TV' - Titles Eligible for Clothing Allowance
Salary Schedules CWA Local Jurisdictions
PREAMBLE
This Agreement made between the Stale of New Jersey, hereinafter Interred Io iu the "State" and the Commimiwitkms Worker of America Higher Level SupcrviBors, hereinafter referred to its the "Union", covering employees ill The Higher Level Supervisors Unit, has uS its purpose the improvement and promotion of harmonious employee relations between (be State andiis employees represented hy the L'mon, the establishment of equitable and peaceful procedures tor the ;mi icul ile resolution of al! disputes and griev arises, and ihe determination of the; wnges, hours of work urn I other terms and conditions of employment
Now, therefore, in consideration of The mutual promises of (his Agrcemail, the parties agree as follows:
ARTICLE T RECOGNITION OF RIGHTS AND DEFINITIONS A. Recognition <)( Union nd Ulft
I.	The State by the Office of Employee Relations in ihe Governor's Office hereby recognizes the Union as the exclusive representative for collective negotiations far wages, hours uf work and other lennn and eoibditinns c»f employment for all its emplcryeea in the state-wide Higher Ttvcl Supervisors Unit- The State will niM negotiate with nor grant rights afforded under terms or provisions of (his Agreement io any other employee organization in crwmectioti with the eiOfiloyees in this unit.
2.	a. Included are All full-lime permanent, career Service, unclassified arid provisional employees Mid all permanent fiill-tiinctcn (10} month employees (career service, unclassified and pruiisioflal) and permanent part lime employees (career service, unclassified and prov isional) who me employed a minimum of twenty (20) hours per week, for forty (40) hour fixed workweek tides and seventeen acid one-half (I	hours per week fvf thirty-five (35) hour fixed workweek titles,
and who arc included in the cliissificauons listed in Appendix 11.
b. Whenever rrew classifications of employees arc created, the State shall assign ti> such classification a unit designation, if appropriate Tl»c Stale w ill notify Ute Union in writing uf such designation (0 or climinarion of title from this ncjotiatiims injit thirty (JO) days privr in the effective date of amending such Listing. If requested in writing, the State will discuas any such designation with the Union. In the evem the parties cannot reach agreement fallowing such dLKussions, the dispute may only be submitted IO the Public Employment Relations (Tororuission for resolution consistent with Un rules and regulations.
3.	Excluded lire:
a.	Managerial Executives
b.	Ncin-Higber Level Supervisors
C- Confidential employees
d.	Policemen
e.	Craft employees
f.	Professional employees
g.	Classifications designated within other recognized atld appropriate units
h.	Classifications within die Stale Colleges and Universities, except those in the State Collcge/Liiiversity System which are included.
i,	All older employees ufiftc State of New Jersey.
B. Management Rights
I.	The State, its several Departments and subordinate functions reain and may excreiw al; righlS, power?, duties, authority and responsibilities conferred ypori and vested in them by the laws and constitutions of the State of New Jersey and of ihe United States uf Ainericu
2.	Eluxpl aa ^wifically abridged; Limited or modified by the- terms of this Agreement between the Stare and the Union, all such rights* powers, authority, prerogatives of moniigemoit and responsibility Io promulgate and enforce reasonabla rules and regulations governing the conduct and the activities of employees are retained by the State.
€- Definitions
1.	All references to employees in this Agreement designate both sexes, and wherever the male gender i? used, il shall be construed to include male and female employees.
2.	The term "holiday* means any day so designated under Article XVJI or a day especially designated by the Governor.
3-	The term "work unit* refers to a group of employees whose activities are closely related Mtd whose Minrtitions of work are governed hy a single clement of managerial activity. 'Organ,iza(ionaI Unit" is an institution or a funcliumd activity of one of the departments of State government as from time to lime may be designated by the State. Each employee will be informed by liis appropriate departmental authorities of the work unit and organizational unit in which he is employed,
4.	NE (nori-exempt, UO timil) anployec - Employees who work at least a 3$ hour workweek with Occasional requirements for a longer workweek Io complete projects or assignments. These employees are covered by (he provisions of ihe Fair Labor Slandarda Act which mandates time and □nc-half (pay or compensatory time off) for hours in a week worked over 40 hour*.
5,	An unfair practice is any action of either party so defined in Amendments to Chapter 303, Laws of 196*.
D. Special Circumstances
1,	Employees who are within the classifications included in this unit but appointed under the CETA Program nr other comparably funded employmml programs, are considered io be subject lo all provisions of this Agreemenl as provisional employees except that the Federal legislation and regulations concerning this program and any agreement between the Scute and any touul government prime sponsor which is involved shall be in effect nnd modify the provisions of Otis Agreement which would oliKrwise be operable.
2.	Any grievance as to whether cir not the provisions of [he Agreement conflict with Federal legislation or regulations or any agreement with a Local government prime sponsor shah be eonridCTed lo be governed under A.2. oftha Grievance Procedure or if relating to any matter within Paragraph C, Section t „ of Ihe Grievance Procedure, then directly lo the Deparirnenl of Personnel.
ARTICLE n
POLICY AGREEMENTS
A. NDa-Dueriminatura
The Slate and Lhe Union agree there shall be no discrimination against any employee boranse of age, sex, affections! or sexual orientation, marital Status, race, color, religion, naliotiiii origin, physical handicap. political affiliation or Union membership, or legal Union activity permitted herein.
R, Dues Deduction and Membership Lnformatioii
I.	Dues Deduction
a.	The State agrees to deduct from flic regular paycheck of any tmplriyee dues ofthq Union provided 1he employee Submits an aulhoriwtion for dues deductions in writing and in proper form Lo Lhe responsible payroll clerk. (Jn receipt of Che form, the payroll clerk shall fixward it within two (2) working days to the centralized payroll section* DepartmstK ofllie Treaty. Dues dsductiw wilt be reflected in the paycheck for the current pay period, provided the form is received in centralised payroll at least seven (J) calendar days prior to the end of lhe pay period otherwise lo be refiecled
in the next pay period. If violations nf these bate frames are brought tn the attentinn of lhe State, the Stale will review thenwttef and solve tlw problem prospectively forthwith.
h.	Dues deductions for any employee io this nep/iuating unit shall be limited lo rive Union. Employees shall he eligible to withdraw such sullwricaijon only as of July I of each year provided the notice of wilhdrawal is filed timely after May 15 with the respCdtsible payroll Clerk.
c.	Dues so deducted by Lhe State shall be transmitted to lhe SccrelaryTreasurcr of the Union together with a hating of the employees included.
d.	The Union shall certify to the State the amount ofUnioti dues and shall notify Ute State of any change hi docs artuclirre thirty (30) days in advsrace of the requested date of sucli change. The change shall be reflected in payroll deduction at (he earhesl time after receipt of the request.
e,	Whenever an employee's dues deduction is (iisMntinued, die Union shal' be provided with the Stale's reason for the disccurtinualioaon a quarterly basis.
2.	Fcpresenlaliuri Fee (Agency Shop)
a.	Subject to the condltimrs sei forth rs the paragraphs below, aft eligible nonmember employees jn this unit will be required to pay to the majority representative u representation fee in lint Of dues for services rendered by the majority representative until June SO, 2003. Nothing herein Sftall be drfirtnftl IO require aj»y injipfoyse to bccrac a jBCMnbor af Jh« majority repmswUsli vn.
Tt Is understood that Uk implcmenlutiun and/or continuation of the agency fee program is predtCHted qh the demonstration by the Union that more than 5Ct% of the eligible employees tn the negotiating unit are dues paying members oftlie Union.
In ciidi year of lhe Contract on January L an iixscsaneul. stinSL be made lo determine if the minimum percentage baa bwn exceeded. If it has, the agency fee sbn.ll conbnus unn'. the follow i nc annual assessment If it has not, (be agency fee will be discontinued and el igibi lily for rei r.rtatrmeui shall be CD a quarterly basis as provided below.
If lhe agency fee is discontinued, an asaessmetic shall be made on each <juanerly Jxc; i.e., January 1, April I, July I or October I, to delemtitic if the minimum percentage is exceeded. If lhe minimum percentage is exceeded the agency fee plan shall be reinstated, With proper nulled to affected employees.
h.	AraotitJtofFee
Prior to (he beginning of each contract year, the Urupn will notify' the Stale in writing vf lhe amount of regular memberahip dues, initiation fees and assessments charged by the Union to its own members for (hat contract year, and (he amount of (he representation fee for 1hai contend year. Any djujigcs in lhe representation fed structure during 1he contract yew shall be in accordance with B.Jd. above.
The representation fee in' Jifflr of duos shall be in an amounl equivalent rp llic regular membership dues, initiation fees and stjessmciris charged by the majority representative to its own members leas the cost of benefits financed through the dues, fees and assessments and available to CT benefiting only ils roetnbera, but in no event sbaU such fee exceed S5% Of the regular membership dues, fees and assessments.
c.	Deduction and Transmission of fee
After verification by the Slate; thal an employee must pay ifre representation tee, Hie State will deduct the fee for all eligible employees in accordance with (his article.
The mechanics of the deduction of representation fees and (he transmission of such tecs in lhe Union will, as neatly as possible, be the same as those used for the deduction und irensmissiuti of regular membership dues co the Union
Tl'ic Stale shall deduct (he representation fee as Soon as possible after ths tenth day following reentry into this unit for employees who previously served in a position identified us excluded or confidential, for individuals rcctnpfoyed in this unit from a rocmployrnenl list- tor
3
employees returning from leave without pay', and tor previous employee members who became eligible for rhe representation fee because of Don-manbcr status.
The State Shall deduct Ihe: representation fee from anew employee as soon as possible after thirty (30} days from the beginning date of ernploymenlinaposilion in Uusunil.
d.	Demand and Return System
The representation fee iu lieu of dues only shall be available to the Union if the procedures hereafter are maintained by Lhe Union.
The burden of proof under this system is on the Union.
The Union shall return any part of the ftpmsenlBtieai fee paid by the ciuploy-re which i epi eh cuts the employee's additional pro ruts shared'expenditures by lhe Union that is either in aid of activities or causes of a partisan political or ideological nature only incidentally related tn Ute terms and conditions of employment, or applied toward the cost of other benefits available only to members of the majority representative.
The employee shall be entitled to a review of the amowt of the representation fee by requesting [he Uukio to suhMantiale the amount charged for the representation fee. This review shall be in conformance with the internal steps and procedures established by the Union.
The Union shall submit a copy of the Union review system to the Office of Employee Relations. The deduction of the representation fee shall be available only if the Union establishes and nULinluuia this review sysietn.
If the employes is dissatisfied with the Union's decision, he may appeal to a three-member board established by the Governor.
e.	StitteHeld Harmless
The Union hereby agrees that it will indemnify and hold the Slate harmless from any claims, actions nr proceedings brought by any employee in the negotiations unit which arises from an agreement to deduct made by the Stale in accordance with this provision. Neither the Stole nor the employee shall be responsible Ibr any back payment of the representation fee few my cause upon rhe niliy or reentry of the employee into the Union from an excluded position or another unit. The I erm excluded position shall include but not he limited Lo confidential, managerial and exempted positions.
If violations of any time frame occur regarding representation fee deduction, and they are brought to the altorttion of the Stale, the State shall review the nuller and solve the problem on a prospective basis.
f.	Legal Requirements
Provisions m tikis clause are further conditioned upon all Other requirements set by slalule.
3.	Membership Information
The State agrees to provide to the designated representative of rhe Union on a semi-annual basis acotnplele up-lo-date listing of all employees Covered by Gils Agreernenl together with their Addresses and job title* as they appear on the records of the State. Such list shall also include lhe coded payroll location and dues deduction status of each employee. The Union shall disclose Such infentution only Co Ita officials and representatives whose duties require acccaa to such itilbnnation.
C, Policy Agreetnrals, Strikes aad Lockouti
1.	During the tom of this Agreement, die Uijwtj agrees not to engage in or Support any stnle, work stoppage, slowdown, or other similar action by employees covered by this Agreement.
2.	No lockout of employees shall be instituted or supported by the State during the term of ibis Agreement.
3.	The Union recognizes its responsibility as exclusive cotieclive negotiations agent and agrees to represent all employees in the unit without discrimination.
4
4.	These agreements are not intended to Limit the freedom of speech nr demonstration of the Union or its members.
5.	Il is agreed thai the Sttato and the UtJIOD Shall rcfrun from (he commitment of any unfair practice and it is further agreed that the requirements of negotiability m set forth in Chnplcr ,i(H, Laws of H6R and as amended, shall guide the conduct of lhe parties during the terms of 1lii s Agreement
0. The 5 Iura and the Union agree chat the working envjruaruerrt should be cbaractentrd by mninal raped for the common dignity Lo which all individuals are ra.1 tiled Cl is agreed Lfwl vjt'I-xlI and/or physical hnTH«cmt-iir of an employee is inappropriate.
D. Administration of Agreement
1.	A committee consisting of Stale and I 'ruon represenlali vt* may meet for the purpose of reviewing the administration of the Agreement aad todisc-uas problems which may arise (herefrom.
2.	Said committee mn-tinga shall he scheduled some time during (he secund week of March, June, Septembei' and December. For the purpose of this Agreement, these meetings arc not intended to bypass the grievance procedure nor to be considered collective negotiation meetings but rather are intended as a means of fosleritig good and sound employment relations through commimiculiuiis between the parties.
3.	Either party may request a meeting and shall submit a written agenda of topics to lie discussed seven (7) days prior to such meeting.
A A maximum of five (5) employee representatives of the Union, exclusive of Union staff or Attorney representative, may attend iwh quartaly meeting aj>d, if held during regular work hours, they shall be granted time to attend without loss of pay.
5. Sthtiis nf Pending Department of Fersmme] Matters
During 1he meeting (he Union may Ln addition present up io four (4) specific matters uC particular importance pending before the Department of Personnel which the State will investigate and respond to (he Union with regard to the current status of such pendi ng matters. Sudi response will be made within a reasonable period of time.
article rn DEPARTMENT OF PERSONNEL RULES
The administrative and procedural provisions and iXtocrols of Meii! System Laws and rhe Rules and Regulations promulgated ihaeulder, are lo be observed in the administration of this Agreement, except and to the extent that this Agreeraenl pertains to subject* Mt Chcrem conini utsd or where tills Agreement is contrary tn, or in Ctmfllcl with such provisions and controls. Where the terms of this Agreement specifically indicate an understanding contrary Lo, Oi in conflict with any such provisions and controls, the parties agree, if necessary under Law, iu join'.ly seek [[UHiificaliuti or amendincnt of the particular rule; or statute To he thm consistent with (he terms of the Agreement by appeal to (he Merit System Board or the Legislature. Nothing herein shah be construed to deny any individual employee bls Tights under Merit System Lw$ or Regulations.
ARTICLE IV
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
A A ''Grievance'1 is:
1.	A claimed breach, misinterpreLulicm or improper application of the tenus of this Agreerriei it (contractual grievance); or
2,	A claimed viotauon, misinterpretation or misapplication cf rules or regulations, existing policies, orders, letters nf memoranda or agreement, administrative decisions, or laws, applicable Lo the agency or department which employs [he gricvanl which establish (etms and COtidkians of
employment and which are no( included in A.L above (non'Contracteal grievance).
IL Purpose and Euipkiyee ud/or Uaian Rights
1-	The purpose of this procedure is to resolve grievances and tn assure prompt and equitable solutions of problems arising from the administration of the Agreement, or other conditions of employnient by pro virtujg the exclusive vehicle set forth in ibis Article for the settlement of employee grievances, except that a grievant may request that Ihe Merit System Board agree to review any mailer 11 defined in A.2. above which by the terms of this grievance procedure may not be processed beyond Step Two, provided Thal such roeller is within the jurisdiction of the Merit System Board. Nothing herein can be construed la require the Board to review such Dialler but ajiy declination will ho mate iti writing Io (be grievam and Io (he Linton if a request to IheDeparlrnenl of Personnel is made by tht gricvanl
2.	It is agreed that the individual employee is entitled Io use this grievance proced are And CO he represented by (tie Unkm upon his request in accordance with the provisions hereof He shall not he coerced, intimidated or sutler any reprisal as a di root or i indirect result of such use.
3.	Nothing in this Agreement shall be constnied as compelling the Uniort in submit a grievance to arbitration or to represent an employee before (he Merit System Board, The Union's decision [□ request the movement of any grievance at any step or tO terminate the grievance at any step shall be final as to (he interests of the grievant and the Union,
No grievance Settlement reached under the trema of the Agreement shall add to, subtract from Or modify any terms of this Agreement.
5.	Where an individual grievaoit initiates an A.l. grievaitc*, such grievance shall only be processed ttffwgji Union representation.
6.	The State will upon request, make available to the Union information in its possession to which the Union is entitled, to properly represent Lbe grievant. Such request for information by Ihe Union shall be made to the appropriate management official within til's (5) working days after the grievance is filed or Appealed to Step Two. Management stall provide the Union with the above mentioned information no later than 72 hours prior ro the hearing or mocting-
C.	Scope of Grievance
I.	Unless speciEcnJly provided for elsewhere in tills Agreement, where the grievance involves on alleged vie lotion of individual rights specified in the Merit System's law and rules for which a specific appeal to the Department of Personnel is available, the individual nmstpreaenthis complaint to the Department of Personnel directly, provided Iwwever, where allegations of violations of other employee rights which derive from this Agreement occur, it is intended that ths provisions of this grievance procedure are to be utilized.
2.	A claim of improper and unjust discipline against an employee shall be processed in accordance with Article V of this AgrcetnetiC
3.	The mclusiou of or reference by name ot title or Otherwise in this Agreement to laws, rules, regulation;, formal policies or orders cf the State, shall net be COTSttued as bringing any allegation concerning the interpretation or application Of Sl»ch matters within the scope of arbitrabilily as sei forth in this Agreement
D.	General Rules and Procedures
I,	Any member of the oolkchve negotiating unit may orally present and discuss lu$ complaint with his immediate supervisor on an informal basis.
2,	Where the .subject of a grievance, vr its nJicrgcnl nature, suggests it is appropriate, and where tite parties mutually agree, which agreement shall not be unreasonably withheld, such grievance may be railiul«l at or moved to any step of the procedure without hearing at a Lower step.
3.	a, Where u grievance directly conrmia and is shared by more than ode (1) grievant, such group grievance may properly ho initiated at the first level of supervision common lu (be several
6
gtievditis, The initiation of such group grievaart rnay be by appropriate Union rcpresenta(Ac(R) nr one fl) ofthe griovanls or both. A group grievance will only be pruceSMd by the. Union flodone (1} of the gricvanls designated hy (he Union. Nothing herein stall be ennsttued u. recjujririg the Union to process the group grievance.
b,	Where individual grievances cOtlCcminG the same mattes are filed by several gnei'an[sk it shall be the option of the State to consolidate Mich grievances fur hearing as a group grievance provided the time Limitations expressed elsewhere herein art nndcsstuud ro remain im-nllftteri and the Union shall he notified of this action.
c.	Whose a group grievance affecting employees in one (I) or more ileptutmcnts resells from the application of an ewder or policy imposed by a level higher than ihe departments. affected :un< results in an alleged violation of (his Agreement, the Union may submit such grievance in writing lo (he Office of Employee Relations instead of initialing it al another level ii4 tiwugh such submission were being filed At Step Two Ami with all procedural conditions set forth herein, pertaining, except IhiUthetcn <_b0} days for hearing stall he twenty-five (25) days, A refusal to tali the grievance by' the Office of Employee Relations stall not affect ita titncl iness of the filing.
4.	In the event that Ihe grievance tas not been satisfactorily resolved on an informal basis, then an appeal (nay be nude on the grievance fortn specified below.
5.	All grievances stall be presented in writing to the designated representative of each of die parties agaburi whom if is made on "Grievance Forms" (0 be provided by t]xe State. Such forms shall make adequate provision for the representative of each of the parties tartto to maintain a written record of ah action taken in handling and disposing of the grievance at each step of the Urirvxiricc Procedure. The form shall contain a general description of the relevant feels fiord which the grievance derives and references to the sections of the Agreement, if any. wliich the grievaur claims have been violated. The grievance form must be completed in its entirely. A group grievance initiated by employees and/or the Union may be presented OP the above form, cm in anotlicr forniiiL provided that the grievance is fully set forth in *Tilimj and comaitis all the rnfotmation called for by said fortn. Reasonable supplies of grievance forms shall be available a1 local offices offhc Stale tn employees or represeDtativBB of the Union.
6.	Should the grievajit elect to process his non-contractual grievance without Union representation, ta shall so indicate on the grievance form al Step Une: The Union stall be sent a copy Of such grievance upon receipt of the fbnn by (he personnel office of tta involved appoi oti ng authority. In exception io D.7., below, Die appointing .cwthonty stall ta required lo ,vcnd id lilt Union a copy uf the final disposition of grievances presented without L’niou representation upon request of the Union.
7.	The Union shall be given a copy of (be final disposition of all grievances. A copy ot the derision of the Stale at each step shall be provided to (he grieviujt and lo (he Uju'on representative involved.
8.	The Union may undertake to amend 1tie grievance during (he initial rrtep at which Such grievance is fried It is understood Itai SUCb amendiricn! is only fur 15ic purpose uf cl ari ficurion and stall not be utilized to change the nature of (be grievance ox to include additional issues.
9.	Grievance resolutions or decisions ri Steps One and Two shall not constitute a precedent in any arbitration or other proceeding unless a specific- agreement to that effect is mriJc in writing by tta Office of Employee Relations and the aulhorirod representative of the Union.
IC. If a grievance is appealed to ihe Second Step and a determinalkw is made by the Department Head or his designee that a rcsuluLion of the grievance is not within the authority of the department, the grievance may be forwarded to (be Office of Employee Relations wherein a detcnnimiiinn stall be made relative to the appraprwie disposition of such grievance.
a, In rhe event (1 ic Deportment Head or his designee determines Itai the grievance is not
within the authority of the department, find decides not Co hear the grievance, the Union only may submit finch grievance to the Office of Employee Retarioue within ten (10) days tom the receipt of such departmental decision. Rliould the department decide tn bold a hearing and in the course of such hranng the department determines that a resolution of the grievance is HOC within its authority, the t inion only may submit the grievance to the Office of Employee Relations within ten (10} days from the receipt of such determination. A determination hy the Union not to pursue the grievance shall be final.
h. Within twenty (20) days from the receipt of the grievance, the Office of Employee Relations, nr its designee will respond relative to the appropriate disposition ot"1 be grievance. Such disposition may involve;
(L) Assignment of the matter to a designated Department or Agency,
(2} Hearing of the grievance hy tfie Office of Employee Relations,
(3> A dctcrmitiatioD by the Office of Employee Relations without hearing,
(4)	Redirection to the Department in which the grievance was initiated requiring a substantive answer to Lhe grievance Of,
(5)	Other disposition determined by the Office of Employee Relations to be appropriarc.
If the Office of Employee Relations determines a hearing is necessary, such hearing wil] be Scheduled witltin twenty (20) days from the receipt of the grievmce. Decision* shaft be icudned us provided in Section E.3. If the grievance involves a nun-contractual matter as defined in A.2. the decisions of the Office nf Employee Relations, or its designee, shall be dual. If the grievance involves a matter as defined tn A.l. above, such grievance may he appealed to Step J'hree-ArbittAfion, provided all of the conditions and time limits derailed in Step Three arc met. Time limits referred to in S tep Three are applicable to the cjrcumslaDces in 10.b., (1 )-(5), above. Where the Union makes no timely and appropriate request lo utilize this procedure, il is understood the conditions concerning Lhe arbitraiion procedure (Step Three) shaft be unchanged.
L1 • For purposes of this Ankle, a "shop steward" is an employee in the active employ of the Stilts serving as the recognized union representative in the grievance district. A "Union staff representative" or 'Local Union officer* shall be a person in the active employ of the Union And not the State.
12.	When an employee formally' elects to undertake the resolution of A contractual grievance through any available procedure established by an agency of proper authority outside of those provided herein, such election shall constitute AIL absolute waiver of the option to appeal (he grievance to arbitration unless the parties mutually agree otherwise.
R, Grievance Time Limits ud Management Responses
1.	A grievance must he filed mitially within thirty (30) calendar days fiom any date on which the act which Ln the subj act of (he grievance occurred or thirty (30} calendar days from the date on which the grievAnt should reasonably have known of its occurrence. Older references to days in ih is Article arc working days of the party to which they apply.
2.	Hearings or meetings shall be scheduled as set forth bdow and decisions after a scheduled hearing stall be rendered in writing within established time limits as act forth herein. A decision will be considered timely if rctidcrcd within the following lime limits or within ten (10) days after the conclusion of a scheduled meeling at Step One And twenty (20) days aiier Lhe conclusion of a scheduled hearing or grievance meeting at Step Two. whichever Is later.
a,	at Step One within seven (7) days of the receipt of the grievance;
b.	at Step Two, within Leu (KI) days of the receipt of (he appeal ItOm lhe Step One decision.
1 Should a grievance not be satisfactorily resolved, nr should lhe employer not respond
a
within the prescribed time periods, either after initial receipt of the grievance or after a scheduled bearing or grievance meeting, the grievance mity be appealed within seven (7) working days to the next step. The lack o F response hy the Stale within the prescribed time periods, unless time Li'si its have been extended by ruulual agreement, should be construed aa a negative response.
•4. When a grievance appeal is Co be filed, the Slate representative at the last hearing 01 meeting shall inform, the grievantof the name and position of the next highci level of m;iimy,emciil to whom the appeal should be presented,
5.	Time limits under this Article may be changed by mutual tigreemenl and request for CXten&iotia Of Citne litnila will net he unreasonably withheld.
6.	If, at liny step in the grievance procedure, the Stuls's decision is licit appcalod within ths ,	appropriate prescribed time, such grievance- will be considered closed and there &hidl be ho further
appeal or review,
7.	No adjustment of any grievance shall impose Proactivity heyond the date on which the grievance was initiated or the thirty (301 days provided in E.l. above except that payroll erroi's and ;	related matters shall Ik corrected to lhe date of error.
8.	Meetings und^jr hearings shall be scheduled by (he Department after consultation with (be Union aa tp availability cf mutually conveniert dates within Lhe Lime Limits set forth herein. Accommodation of a shori period beyond these li mils may bo made for sufficient reason.
9.	All management decisions shall include a written explanation of Iheteason for die decision.
F, Time OF for Grievance Investigation
I.	When a grievance has been fwidally submitted in writing end the Union represents the grievant, and where (he Union steward requires time to investigate such grievance lo achieve an understanding of the specific work problem during working liourx, the Steward will be granted permission and rc<W(itWh]e time, to a I i mit of one {I) hour, to investigate wilhoul lus-s of pay. It is understood that lhe supervisor shall schedule, such ILUJC release, providing the work responsibilities of the Steward and of any Involved employee are adequately enverad, and providing further Liter? is no disruption of work. Such time release shaEI not be unreMonably wilhheld ytui upon reduest could be extended beyond Lhe one (!) hour Limit for specified reasons, if in the judgment ufllte supervisor, the circumstances w arrant an exception lo litis limit, Where a Union Stew ard serves a '	mutually agreed upon grievance district encompassing two (2) er mart geographically separate work
f	locations, and where the circumstances require it, a supervisor may authorise a ituwdrttuiw of two (2)
■	hours for any appropriate investigation of grievances.
I	2. Such time release shall net be construed Lo include preparation of paperwork record
■	keeping, conferences among Union Officials nor prqraration for preseulalkm at a grievance hearing
or meeting, G, Time 0ft
1	1. Azi employee and his desi-guated anpkycErrpresCTtativefhall be allv'X'ed tjmeoff witboul'
loss of pay:
a.	as may he icquircd foi appearance at a hearing or meting oDhc employer's gritf^ante scheduled during work houra;
b,	for necessary Iravc] time during working hours.
If the hearing or meeting extends beyond the employee's normal working hours, compensatory I	time equal to the additional time spent at the hearing or meeting rjiall he granted but such time shall
i	not be considered time worked for the computation of overtime.
|	2. Whert Ilie employes or the Union requests employee witnesses, permission lor u reiiSOInhle
•	tiumher of witnesses required during the grievance proceedings will be. gianted. A witness ar vucli
I	proceedings will be permitted 10 appear without loss of pay for ttie time of appearance and travel
i	time as required if during his normal scheduled working hours.
9
5.	At grievance meetiogs, resource people may be heard and pertinent records received in accordance with paragraph H., below. At grievance bearings, witnesses may be heard and pertinent records received in accordance with paragraph H., below.
H.	Grinmee Steps aid Parties Therein '
The Stale and the Union agree to tweet the last Week ofwsiy mCmlh to try lo resolve grievances that bid bcjjtg appealed tv urbdlralion The parties shall mutually agree on a day in lhe last week of every monlh. The Union may bring a local union officer or a union staff represartatrre Co 1he meetings. The State may bring represantatives finmtbe Departments to the inaetingR.
1.	It is understood by the putties that lhe grievanl shall receive a hearing on lhe grievance prior (0 Step Three unless the grievance lb satisfactorily rcsotved.
2.	Step One
a.	Jn the event die matter is not resolved Informally. Lhe grievml may subftul his grievance in writing to the office or individual designated by the Department to process the matter. Management shall schedule a grievance meeting pursuant to paragraph E., section 8- At the first step grievance meeting die gritrvanl may be represented by the steward, Or the Unions designated local officer or local Union staff representative who is noCan employee. In a meeting, one person slmjl aui spnkespvrsjj] fur lhe gritfvanc and one pawn shall act as spuk«4".is«iij fut cruviagcurarL
b.	A reasonable numbs* of resource people shall he allowed to attend a grievance meeting i f mutually agreed to by the parlies. A resource petsou is an individual in lhe active employ of dir Slate who possesses direct information important to the ciarificartun of the m^nm- and shall be treated in accordance with G.2., above, for purposes of time off. At the meeting the Union will present its side uflhe grievance through lhe grievanl and its resource people. Management will thoti proceed to present its responses to the Union's presentation.
c.	If the parties reach a resolution Ou the grievance submitted, a Statement setting forth the terms of the agreement shall be written and signed off by the parties. If no resolution is reached management shall put forth a slatemeait slating the issnefs) grieved, the couttact articles cited in the gri cvancc, a summary of each party's presentation, and a conclusion that no agreement between the parties have been reached and why such resolution has not been reached. Such written statement shall be rendered within the time frameworks outlined in section Efi) nf thin article The slttetnent issued at Step One shill be cortslrued as management's Step One decision.
3.	Step Two
a,	Tftlie grievan! is not satisfied with the disposition ofthe grievance nl Step One, he niaj1 appeal to Lhe DqurtmenlHead or his designee, The appeal shall be accompanied by Lhe decisions, if any, at the preceding levels and any written record Ihul has been made a part of the earlier proceeding, The grievant may be represented by the Steward and/or 1he designated Union representative und'or lhe designated Local Union officer. One person shall act as spokesperson for the grievant and one person shall act as spokesperson for managCTicul, Either party may make a verbatim record through a certified shorthand reporter. Such.record is to bemuds u( ths expense of the party who makes it, IToWevef, if both parties want a copy ef die transcript, lhe cosl of lhe transcript and the reporter shall be shared equally,
b.	If the decision involves a non-coniractual grievance uS defined Ln A2 „tbc decision of the Department Head or bis designee shall be final except that the provisions of B. L pertaining (0 the Merit System Board review shal] not tic denied.
4,	The Union representative stmil have ihe right directly to examine or cross examine witnesses -who appear at any Step of this procedure.
5.	Step Three - Arbitration
a.	In the event that lhe grievance ha* not bean satisfactorily resolved at Slep Tivo, and the grievance involves an alleged violation of the Agreement as described in the definition of a
LO
grievance in A. I above, then arbitration may he brought only by lhe Union, through its designee within thirty (,10) calendar days from the day the UniOu Ki2ejv«1 the Step 'Iwo decision nr From the date on which the Step Two decision was due, by mailing a written request for arbitration Lu lhe Public EmployitlCnJ Relations Cumihission and sending a copy to tl»a Office at Employee Relations. Ip the event the Union deems it necessary to use an additions! period beyond the thirty (1'0) days;
provided herein lhe time to appeal may be extended by the Union tu not more than tweniy (2(1) additional calendar days. Should the Union Use any of these additional days it is undersluixL that Che time used in Computing the extent of the Stale's liability shall not exceed twenty (20) days fium the day (he Union received lhe Siep Two decision or firor the data on which lbe Step Two decision was due. If mutually agreed, a prc-arbilituiod conference may be scheduled to frame lhe issue or issues. All cntiinumicackms couamLng appeals add decisions at this Step shall he made in writing. The request for arbitration shall contain, lbe names of Lhe department or agency and employee involved, a copy of the grievaitcc form and lhe Step Two decision, if available.
b.	Within thirty (JO) days of the execution of this Agreement, Lhe panics shall mutually agree upon a pane] of not Leas than five (S) arbitrators. Each member of the panel sli^il serve in turn as the Sole ajhitrator for a given ease. Where a member of the panel is unable to sene. The next member in KqUViWC shall then In the event the parties vr imnhl« tn agree upon 3 pttnel nf arbilratots wjlfi in thirty (30) days, arbitrators shall be selected on a case-hy-case basis IIJhIct the selection procedure of the Public fhuployment Relations QMnmissiun until swh time as the parties agree upon a panel.
C. The arbitrator Stiall conduct u bearing in determine Lhe facts and render A decision in writing lb the parties. Vbe arbilrTilof shall not have the power to add Lo, subtract from, or modify die provisions of this Agreement or laws of the State, or any written policy of (he State or subdi virion thereof not inconsistent with this Agreement, or to determine any dispute uivuJvbig the exercise of a manSgwerrt function which is wnbw rhe	of Hie Slain- US .act forth in Artiile I.C.,
Management Rights, and .shall confine Ids decision solely 1i> the interpretation Add application of this Agreement. He Shall coniine himself to the precise issue submilled for arbitration and shall have no authority Co determine any other issues not so submitted to him, nor shall he submit cbsreVXitloiis or declaration of opinions Which are not essential in reaching (lie determination, The decision or award of the arbitrator shall bt final and bindmg consistent with applicable law and thia Agreement. Tw no event shall Lhe same question or issue be the subject of arbitration more than once. The arbilralot may prescribe an appropriate back pay remedy when ho finds a violation of this Agreement, provided such remedy rs permitled by law and is consistent with the tenns of this Agreement The fees turd expenses of lhe arbitrator shall be divided equally between the parries. Any Other cost of tlus proceeding including (he cost of recording shall be bonke by the party incurring lhe Cost.
d. fht wbitrati’ir shall hold Lhe hearing al a time and place convenient Lo the pnrtics within thirty (3D) calendar days of hie acceptance to act as arbitraLur and shall issue his decision w ithin litirty (30) daya after the cboSe of the hearing. In the event u disagreement exists regarding the arbitrability of an issue, the arbilrator shall make a preliminary determination us M whether (he issue is arbitrable muter tire express terms of Illis Agreemrnl, Once a detennbiation is nUite that such a dispute is arbitrable, the arbitrator shall then proceed to determine the meriis of the di spate.
c. Whenever a grievance which is to be resolved al Step Three, Arbitration, is based on n provision of this Agreement in which Ute power or authority nttehe arbilralijr is. specifically jiun'ted to an udvisoiy award, that limit shall be observed and all the provisions nf paragraph b, c and d above shall be operable except that the awafti and opinion shall be advisory ,wd tint binding an the parlies. However, absent n particular exception lhe previsions of flit grievance procedure above shall be operable.
11
ARTICLE V
f
c
F 3
DISCIPLINE
A. The terms ofthjs Article apply lo permanent carere service employees. Other employees shall be covered only as specifically provided.
H. Discipline ciCan employe* shall be imposed only far just tausu, Discipline tinder lids Article means official written reprimand, fine, suspension without pay, reduction in grade Or dismissal from service. Dismixsal from service or reduction in grade based upon a layoff or other operational judgment oflhe Starts shall not t>c construed lo be discipline.
C.	Disciplinary action may tie initiated for any of the reasons Specified m Meri! System Board Hides or for any cirnujiLsLauce amounting io sufficient cause.
D.	The htinlen of proof in disciplinary procedures shall be upon die Stale, eacept as otherwise provided inl.2.
K. General Procedures
1.	Where an appointing authority or his designee imposes or intends to impose discipline, written (lOUoe of such discipline shall be given to the Employee. Such notice shall contain a reasonable specification of (he nature of the charge, a genera' description of the alleged iMis and/or rjmrii icr upca which the chjtfg* it hoced and the nature of iKc discipl i ik.
2.	The name of any employee who is ratified of .inofficial written reprimand, StKpeiiSiOfl, fine, or dismissal or intended suspension, fine, or dismissal, shail be transmitted to the Union representative as seen as is feasible but not to exceed seventy-twv (72) hours after such notice.
3.	Any appeal relating fo die involved disciplimiry matter must Ik filed by the employee witltin fourteen (14) calendar days of delivery of notice of discipljjbe, The Department or Agency Head, or his designee, who was nol personally involved ih the facts uf the diqiurc, will onvene a I tearing within twenty (2U) calendar days afler receipt of such disciplinary appeal and shall render a written decision within Iweoty (20) calendar days aftaj uompleticn cfthchcaring. TlieUnion may file exceptions, however such filing does not change the time limits for uppeals as described herein. The employee may be represented at the hcvtng by (he Steward andtor a Union representative not in the Active employ of the State however, only one (1) person sha]] serve as die Spokesperson for the employee and one (L) person shall serve as spokesperson for (he State.
4.	Minor Discipline ■
Hearings shall be scheduled hy the Department after consultation with Ibe Union as lo availability of mutually convenient dales within the time limit* Ml forth herein. Acoonuitodation of a short period beyond these limits may be made for sufficient reason.
5.	Major Dtedpllne
Provided a notice of appeal is fit«l within seven (7) calendar days of the employee's receipt of lire preliminary notice, the Department shall eotisull with the Union as to availability and schedule a hearing cm a mutually convenient date withm the twenty (20) day period set forth in section H.3. In the event an appeal is not filed within the Seven (7) calendar day period, or the parties are unable 10 agree on a mutually COnvenienl date within Hie twenty (20) day period, the Department .shall go forw ard and Schedule the hearing.
6.	Cooikag Off Period
1'he Union recognizes the Stale's right and obligation lo impose and implement dfodplinaty suspensions and the parties agree that prior 1o implementation of suspensions of nut mure than five (5) days as a matter of general practice and intent and, where in the judgment of Ihe Slate such Suspension is nut directed art Ihe immediate need to maintain siferty, order pr effective direction of work assignments, such. Suspensions will not be implemented until afire a three (3) day period of notification withm which time, the Union, representing Ihe involved employee, may undertake
12
informal discussion with an appropriate level of manafeemmL. Reasonable advance notice wi 11 be given lo the employee.
F. I. Major di acipSinaiy penalties are:
1 Suspension Of fine of more (han five (5 j days at one LimO;
h. Suspensions Of fines irtore-than three (J) times in one caleodai year
or suspensions or fines which in Lhe aggregate arc more than fifteen
(15) days pay jjj one calendar y«ir;
c. DcnJulioui
d- Discharge.
2,	Minor disciplinary'penalties are:
a.	Suspension of one (1) through five (5) days;
b.	bines of up to five (5) days pay;
c.	Ofticial Written Reprimands.
G.	Procedures for Major Discipline
Permanent career service employees (including provisional or probationary employees with permanent Status), may only appeal major diwipb'erary penalties to ilie Merit System Board, pursuan? (0 Dcpartmeul of Personnel Rides. Such appeal must be received by (he Merit System Board within twenty (10) days after lhe date of receipt of the decision rendered in paragraph F..S. The Mwil System Board's Law and the Rules and Regulations promulgated thereunder shall govern rhe disposiliott of such a request or petition.
H.	Procedure* for Minor Discipline
L Afi permanent career service employees and unclassified ami provisional employees may elect Lo Utilize (fo is procedure.
2.	Oiljciij] written reprimands shall not be Appealable beyond the depurLmisnia! hearing. Nothing herein ahull preclude the Merit System Board from reviewing minor discipline matters, it' timely presented, in acconlutlca with its discretionary jurisdiction.
3.	There is hereby esLibljaJierf, a Joint Unjnrii'Manugenient Panel consisting of two fl) individuals selected by the Stale and Iwo (2) mdividuaLs selected by the Union und a third parly neutral mutually selected by (he parties. The purpose of thia panel is to review appeals from Department] determination.* of disciplinary suspensions of one (I) through five (5) days, amd fines of up tn rive (5) days pay.
4.	When a Department or Agency .Head or designee issues a decision upholding lhe discipKniiry Action of the Department, lhe ninplciyte then Iw twenty (20) calendar days after the receipt of such decision to eled .10 appeal the decision to either lhe Joint Unicri''ManagcmcD( Panel or the Meril System Board- The employee may noi appenl the decision to both forutris. It 1he employee elects to appeal to the panel then the nupluyce, through lhe Union, shall mail the notice of Appeal within twenty (2U) calendar days to the Office of Employee Relations with a copy to the Department or Agency Head or designee involved. Included with the uuljcc of appeal shajj be a copy of the decision and any other documents which have been tnude part ot'lhe record.
J. The panel shall meet once eixh month provided there are *t least eight (S') cases rci be considered. If, In any month there is no meeting because (here arc tower than eight (bl cases on die agenda, there wi]] be a meeting Ilie following month if there are any cases lo be heard. The panics may mutually agree te schedule additional meetings if necwsnry. The agenda uf each moufiily meeting shall consist of nJ] cases as lo which the Union has requested panel canrider^lidii prcwideil that the notification is received at least fourtesn (14) calendar days prior !u the scheduled date of the panel meeting.
fi. The panel considerations shall be based upon tin; Department ur Agency I leu J u: designer's decision and any documents that have been made a part of lhe record. The Slide and Union panel
members shall discuss each Use on the agenda and with the assistance of (he neutral punel member, attempt to jointly resolve the appeal. Where the Stale and Union panel membera agree, the appeal shall be distuhaed «tiphtW. tfl ths itwofred penalty may be •modified. Where the State and Union panel members do not agree as to the disposition of the appeal, the neutral panel member will determine whether (tie case raises issue? which may warrant submission to arbitration. In the event the neutral determines that the case does not raise issues which may warrant submission to arbitration, such delenntnaiion shall he final and Ilie case closed,
7.	Ihe neutral shall maintain a written record of the disposition of each case which shall be Signed by each panel member. Unless mutually agreed Co the contrary, the written disposition of each case shall be made iit Ihe panel meeting al which il is considered, and a copy shall be provided to each panel member,
B.	In the event the neutral delcnrjinea that a case raises issues which may warratll Submission to arbitration, the Uninn may elect to appeal to disciplinary arbitration as provided herein. The neutral panel member may not serve aa (he atbllralnr tor any muller which has been, submitted to Ihe panel.
Tile fees tiftite neutral pane] member shall be shared equally Hy the panics.
10. On ty minor disciplinary cases detenadned. by the osutatl panel member to warrant subtflissicn to arbitration, may he appealed to arbitration.
I.	ArbftrttiM
1.	An appeal to disciplinary artnfrirtton -may twtbl^'Ehrnrly by a dMignntavt Union official, by mailing a written request fbrdiKiplinury arbitration by certified nr registered mail to (he Director of toe Office of Employee Eolations, which must bepostmarloed within eighteen (18} calendar days from Ihe decision rendered in paragraph H-9, A request for disciplinary arbitTdlion shall contain the name of the department Or agency and the employe involved, a copy of ths ariginal Appeal, the notice of discipli ne and any written decisions rendered concerning (he matter,
2.	a. TEie sole determination to be made by toe etbilralor shall he the guilt or irmoccnce of the employee and he shall, therefore, sustain toe penalty imposed or vacate it by his opinion, how ever, the arbitration decision rendered sltall be complete. He shah neither add to, subtract from, nor modify any of (tie provision? of this Agreement by any award.
b. The Arbitrator's opinion shall contain a short statement of the nature of the proceedings, Ihe positions of the parties and specific findings and Cuwclusionshased Ort (he facts. In. addition, (he arbitrator's order shall discuss any of the testimony, evidence or position of the parties which merit special analysis or explanation.
3.	The fee? and expense* of Ihe arbitrator and Iherecording oflheprocedure shall be divided equally between ihe patties. Any other coal of this proceeding shall be home by Ihe party incurring (be cost.
4.	Within thirty 0V) days of Ilie execution of Dus Agreement, (he partie? shall mutually agree upon a panel of not Leas than five (5) discrpl ioaty arbitrator?. Each member of Ute panel dial! serve in turn as (he sole arbitrator for a given case, Where a member of the panel is unable to serve, the □ext member m sequence shall then serve. In the event foe parties arc unable lo agree upon a panel of arbitrators within thirty (30) days, arbitrators shall be selected. Cte a case-by-Case basis under the selection procedure of the Public Employment Relations Commission until such time as the parties agree upon a panel, The disciplinary arbitrator shall hold a hearing al a place convenient 10 (he parties as Soon as possible after foe request For arbitration but not later than thirty (30) days after the arbitrator accept? the case.
J.	Uaclassified and Provisions! Employee Dhcipliie Procedures
1.	The following shall constitute toe disciplinary appeal procedure rights for unclassified and provisional employee* who have been employed in suck uapacily for a mini mum of six (<5} mouths,
14
Upon request of the Employee, the employee may be represented by the Steward, or fl ibun 'State einploytc representative of the Union as follows:
In all disciplinary matters, except fliymBsaS from service. such employes, shall be einit'.&l -.o utilize the provisions of thia Article through the departmental hearing level.
2.	In the event an unclassified or pro via ion al employee is dismi SScd from State employtoctv! willKiut receiving specific written reasons and such dismissal is not related 1o fiscal problems or programmatic changes and in the judgment of the Slate such dismissal ia not of a nature whereby ftic employer must be immediately removed front the work Location, the State shall provide rhe employee with al toast tan (10} calendar days notice iji advance of the dismissal
Unless there are exceptional circumstances, when Such employees are dismisjerl from State employment due (n misconduct, management shall serve the employee with 1hc specific wrilleu reasons relating to lhe miacoixlijct. The employee may request and shall be granted n hearing by th: department nr agency head or his designee, whose decision shidl be final. Time limits in F-3- shall apply. The burden of proof for unclassified employees shall be on lhe euploycc.
3.	It is understood that nothing herein shall be construed as Itoriling the State from exercising its inherent discretion lo term inatc unclassified enJployees who serve nl (he pleasure of the departtnenl ui agency head, without Stating the reasons therefore, Dismiasal related to job performance shall nnl fall within the pinview of this article. Grievances concerning 1he interpretation of this article Shall be processed in accordance with Article IV as iion-contraduid (A.2.) grievances.
4.	In no went shall the previsions of this Article apply where tjie employee is bong i eiuovcd as a result of the certification of a Department of Pensonncl eligible list.
S.	Unclassified employees not covered by a staluloiy discipline procedure, who have served in unclassified lilies for a minimum of six (6) consecutive yarns mfly appeal a Department level decision Involving major discipline, for just cause, os defined under SBcliOtl F- 1 • (a through d) of this article, 10 the Office of Employee Rei aliens.
An appeal 10 the Office of Employee Relations may be brought hy the employee through the Union by mailing a written request for review of The Department decision to the Office of Employee Relations by cati lied or registered mail. Such requcSl for review must he postmarked within fifteen (15) calendar days from receipt of Uw decision rcmdwnl by the Department. The request shall conlaan 1l»c name of the Department or agency and 1he employee involved, a copy of the original appeal, the notice of discipline and 1be wriucn decision rendered.
Ths Office of Employ w Relations will meet with the Union lo review rtie record uf the discipline within 30 days of receipt of lhe appeal from the Union If the discipline Appeal is nol resolvai al that meeting il shall be an noted in wri1rn$. The (ktitm, may •sltct tn appeal the discipline to binding arbilrauon. The appeal shall be sent to the Office 0 f Employee Rehlfous (by registered or certified mail) and postmarked within eighteen. (I R) calendar days from die DERJUnion written determination.
The arbitrators hearing these appeals shall come from the panel selected to hear Jiiinor discipline appeals from (he Joint Union Management Panel, The arbitrator ahull belli a hearing at fi place convenient to the parties as soon as possible after the request for arhitraticm bm not later then thirty (30) days after the arbitral nr accepts the case.
l he arbitrators shall confine themselves to deCenninnUOtls of guilt or InntM ajCe and the appropriateness of penalties and shall neither add to, subtract from, nor modify any of the provisions of this Agreement by any award. The Arbitrator's decision wi1h respect to guilt, innocence or penally shall be final and binding upon the parties. In lhe event the arbitrator finds the employee guilty, the arbitrator may approve the penalty sought or imposed, nr modify such penalty os appropriate to lhe circumstances, in accord with discipline as sei forth in paragraph It of this article,
IS
Removal from savicc shall not be substituted fora lesser penally. In the event the iVbilrtltor finds the employee innocent of modifies a penalty, he may order irinstatenicnt with back pay for all ur part of a period of an. imposed suspension M ttdtotisn in or period that th® employee was djpni.59Cd from Sendee. The arbilralor may consider any period of suspension served or the pcricwl Ihat the employee Was dismissed from Service io determining the penalty to be imposed.
Should the arbitrator's award provide for reinstatement with backpay for ail or part of a period of suspension, terminstiem of service Os reduction in grade, the employee may be paid for the hours he would have worked in his normally scheduled workweek at his normal rate of pay but not exceeding forty (4LF) hours per week or eight (8) hours per day, less any deductions required hy law or other offsetting income for the back pay period specified hy the arbitrator.
The iirbitoteta decision shall contain a short statement of ibe nature of the proceedings. tire positions of the parlies end Specific findings and conclusions on the facts. In addition, the arbitrator's decision shall discuss any of 1he testimony, evidence or positions of the parties which merit special analysis or explanation. The arbitrator stall not substitute a mor® severe penally than has been imposed by tire State.
'I'he fees and expenses of the arbitrator lliaJ] be divided equally between the parties. Any other enrt of this proceeding aJuill be buvixe by the patty itKtutlttg the uubL
K.	General hnnisioas
1.	tn the event a fcmttd charge of misconduct is made fey tire State against an employee and if Phe Sv requests, sfoe stall he entitled to a representative of the Union only us a witness or aS art advisor during any subsequent inlerrogilionoftijeemployee concerning sneh charge. No recording of stwh procedure stall be made -without notification to lhe employee. Tlw employee aitd'or the Umon, if presort, may request tod receive a copy of such recording, if made. There shall toe no presumption of guilt.
Where an employee is interrogated during tire course of a formal rnvesligiitiun imd when 1hert is & reasonable likelihood that the individual being questioned may have formal charges preferred ■dgasnst tat,-him, the nature of those contemplated charges shall be made known to tire employee who Shull then, if s/he requests, be entitled to a representative of the Union, only as a witness or as an advisor, during subsequent interrogation concerning tits charge provided that th® interrogation process shall not be delayed and/or Ita rwiuircinenL lo expedite any official duly no! be impaired.
2-	A permanent career service employee must be served with a Frelitmnary Notice of Disciplinary Action setting forth the charges and afforded the opportunity for a hearing prior to imposition of major discipline, except;
a.	An employee may be suspended immediately and print to a hearing where il is determined that the employe® isunftt for duty Of is fi Ivuiud to any person ilpetmilled to remain on th® job, or Itai an immediate suspension is necessary to maintain the health, safety, order or effective direction of public sarvicss.
b.	An onployee may be suspended immediately when the employee is formally charged with a crime of lhe first, Second CT third degree Or a crime of the fourth degree on lhe job or direclly related to the job.
c.	Where a suspension is immediate under (a) or (bj above, and is without pay, the employe® mu&1 first he apprised cither orally or in writing, of why an immediate suspension is scrughl. the cLirges and general evidence in Support of foe charges and provided with sufficient Opportunity to review the charges tod the evidence in Order 10 respond fo the charges before a representative of the appointing authority. The employee may be represented by an authorized union representative.
3.	Where criminal charges are initiated, the right of foe employee to representation by his attorney shall not he denied.

!	4. An employee shall not tie discipliflcd fcr acts which occurred toon; thiifl one (!) yav prior
I	lo the service of ihe notice of discipline, except those Which would constitute a crime. The
;	employee's whole record of employment, hoWOver, may be considered with respect to the
j	appropriateness of the penally to be imposed.
,1. Nothing Article or Agreement ahull be cuDStrued to bin it die right of the State to irnpleiuettt any disciplinary Milon notwithstanding ihe pendedwy of any grievance proceeding.
6.	When a final determination of innocence: is rendered through a decision arising < nit of a
,	Departmental hwriug, or a Merit Sysrern Board hearing, or discipline urbiininon b.earinv, die
'	employee initially disciplined shall nut be recharged with discipline, rm matters ^rising oul ufihc
same facts that the coital disci plinc was based upon.
7.	The Slate will, open request, make available lo the Union information in its possession Lo which the Union is entitled, to properly represent the employee,
8,	At Departmental bearings either party may make a verbatim record through u certified shorthand reporter. Such record is to be mads at the expense of the party who requests the reporter However, ifbolh parties want u copy of Ihe ttunSCfipt, the cost Of the transcript and the reporter shall be shared equally.
ARTICLE VT compensation plan AND program A. Special Salary PrnEram July 1,1999 to June 30,2003
It is agreed that during the term of this Apeement far Ihe period of July 1,1999 - June 30,2003. the following solary and fringe benefit improvsncrtls shall he provided tn eligible employees in die .	unit within flic applicable policies ;md practices of (be .Stale and bi keeping with the conditions ael
forth herein.
Subject to Ihe Slate Legislature aiactiiig impropriations of funds for'hesc specific purposes, ihe State agrees tn provide (lie following benefits effective at the tithe stated here or, if later, within a reasonable time after Enactment of the iipptopriatiou.
’	1 a. Effective July L, S990, vaeh employee covered by ibis agreement.shall be entitled to a two
and one-half (2.5%) percent aerosi-lbe-hoard increase, applied lo Ilie emp loyee's current bast salary.
b. hfifedA'c for FY 200! (which coOU/icnccs on luly 1,2OO0), there shall bt i> ffrrcc and i.ciu-hulf (3,5%) percent aejoso-the-boarri increase wppl ied to each nSRotiation iniic employee's base salary in effect on June 30, 2000. Two (2%) percent of the increase shall be paid effective July 1, 200U. One and one-half (1.5 %} percent of the increase shall be paid on or about January 1, 2001.
c Effective fur FV 2<JU2 (which tjonunctuces on July ], 2001) ihwe shall he a four (4%)
1	percent across-Hic-board increase applied to each negotiation unit employee's base- salary' in effect
on June 30,2<J0J. Two (2%)pereent of the increase shall be paid affective July 1,2001. Two (2%) percent oflhe increase shrtll tfo paid on of shout Jimuury 1, 21MJ2.
d- Effective for FY 21W (which axuatehcai m July 1,2002) there shall he a t'uilr and imlC • half (4.5%) peiccnt across-the-board mcreare applied to end* negotiation unit employee’s base salary-in effect on June 30, 2002. Iwo (2%) percent of the increase shall be prill effective J uly 1. 2002 Two atld one-half (2. percent of the increase shall be paid on or about January 1, 2WJ3.
|	2. a. For ten (KJ) mouth employees, ihe foregoing increases ilial ate effective July 1 of S999.
2fX)Cl, 2001, iiitd 2002 far twelve (121 month employees, sliall he applied to the base siilary of ler, '	(10) month employees effective September I, 1999, September t, 2WX3, September I. 200J, and
September 1,2002.
b. Ker ten (10) month employees, the foregoing increases that are effective on or about January 1, 20111, January 1,1(102 and January 1, 2CKJ3 (or Iwelvc (12) rounU) employees, shall he
J7
applied ta the base salary often (10) month employees on tn about February t, 2001, February I, 2002, and February 1,200-1-
3.	Ttie State Compensation Plan salary schedule shall be ajjnsted in accordance with established procedures to incorporate tire increases sei forth in I. and 2. above for each step of each •Salary range. Each employee shall receive 1he increase by remaining at the step in the range occupied prior to Lhe adjustments.
4.	Normal increments shall be paid to all employees eligible for such incremaits within the policies of the Stale Compensation Plan during the term of this Contract.
5.	Employees who have beat at the eighth step of tile same range fur JU months or longer shall he eligible for movement (o the ninth Step providing their perfonnance warrants this salary adjustment.
R, Clubbing Maintenance Allowance
i-	The clothing mnintenance tdlowance shall be paid to those fuU-lnne employees serving in titles in which The employees Ure required to wear special clothing or a uniform and which lille received a cash clothing allowmcc In fiscal year 1998-1999.
2.	a. Each full lime employee serving in a title under the conditions described in B.l. above, and who will have compjrttd esc (1) lull yut uf sci vic* yn or before July I, 19 99 ah a Ll receive a cash clothing maintenance allowance of S55*J. Each eligible full time employee who wil I have completed six (6) months of service OH Or before July t, 1999 shaft receive S275.
b. Each fill] time employee serving in a title under the conditions described in R, I, above, and who will have cernpteted one (l) full year of Service c<n w before July ], 2(100 shall receive a cash clothing maintenance allowance of 5550. Each eligible full time employee who will have completed RIK (6) months t>f service on or before July 1,2000 shall receive $273.
C. Each full time employee serving in a title under (he condrtlons described in B, 1above, and who will Iwt completed one (I) full year of service on orbefort July 1,2001 shall receive a cash clothing maintenance allowance of 3550. Each eligible lull lime employee who will have completed six. (6) months Of service on or before July 1,2001 shall receive 3275.
d. Each full time employee serving io a title under lhe conditions described in R, I, above, and who will have completed one (1) foil year of service on ut before July 1, 2002 shall receive a cash clothing maintenance allowance of $550. Each eligible full time employee who will have Completed six (d) months of service on or before July 1, 2002 shall receive $275.
3.	Permanent part-time employees in & 40 hour worieweek title who are regularly scheduled to work twenty (20) ur more hours per woek, and permanent part-time employees In a 35 hour workweek lille who arc regularly scheduled to work seventeen Md one-half (1714) or more hours per Week, wbo are included in the classiflcattona listed tn Appendix IT and who meet the service and eligibility requirements set forth above will receive one-half (Vs) of lhe normal clothing allowance.
4,	Leaves of absence without pay or suspension up IO thirty (3D} day* duration shall not affect the eligibility requirements as to one (1} year of service. In order to be eligible to receive this payment, the employee must be On the payroll a£ of the date of payment.
5.	[1 is understood between the parties that the clothing nuinlenanEe allowance applicable Io eligible unit employees shall be a subject fur re-negotiation for lhe contract that succeeds this Agreement rermLoaimg June 30, 2OD3, C. Dairitl Care Ptas
1.	Full-time employees and eligible dependents shall be eligible for lhe Slate-artministcrod Dental Cure Program which slmJJ be continued during lhe life of this Agreement
2.	Participation in lhe Program Shall he voluntary with a condition of participation being that each participating employee authorize a biweekly salary deduction not to exceed 50 percent of the
28
cost of the lypc of coverage elected, e.g, individual employee only, husband and wi fc, parent and child or fami ty coverage.
3.	Hach employee shall be provided with a brochure describing the delitils of the Prugfiurt itol atroLLmenc infonriaciun and (he required fams,
4.	Participating employees shall be provided with an identiiicijlion curd to be 'jLilted wtien covered dental care is required.
5.	An optional Group UenlttJ progrJrf which will provide services through specific dental clinics will be made available to employees in this unit, Participtition jn this program shall Ik voluntary with a condition that each pniticipating employee author!?* a biweekly salary' deduction not 10 exceed JO percept of the cost Of the coverage For a one year period. Employers, will be abl c In Enroll in only one of the iwo prUgtams or in up prctgjajn at all.
D, Eye Cape Pronrim
1.	Il ls agreed that the Slate shall continue the Eye Care Program during the period of this Contract The coverage shall provide for a $35.00 payment for regular prescription lens ur £40.00 for bifocal lens ur more complex prescriptions. Included are all eligible full Nme employees and their eligible dependenls (spouse ami umnaftted children under 23 years of age who live with the employee in a regular parent-child rektiuushrp). The extension oflicncfits to dependents shall be effective only niter the employee has been continuously employed fora minimum of sixty (60) days.
2.	Full-time employees and eligible dependents as defined above shall be eligible for a maximum payment Of $35,00 or the cost, whichever is less, uf an eye examination by aii Ophthalmologist or an OpEumdrist.
3.	Each eligible employee and dependent nWy receive opfy one payment for glasses mid urte payment for examinations during Ute period July 1, 3999 to June 3<J, 2001 and nnc payment for glasses and itme payment for exanrinatron during (lit period oF July t, 2001 tn Jime 3(J, 2OU3 Proper affidavit and submission of receipts arc required of the employee in under In i cceivc payments. E. Deferred Compensation Plan
Il is understand that the State shall coniioue [he program which will permit eligible employees in this negotiating unit to voluntarily authorise determent of a portion of their etunecl bast' salary so (hat ttte funds deterred can be placed in an Internal Revenue Service approved federal Incom* Tax exempt investment plftU, Tttedeferred income so invested and the itllcrert or clhcr income return on Hie investment are intended to be exempt from current Federal Income TEutelicn umll the individual employee withdraws or otherwise receives SUCb funds as provided in the plan.
It is imdersk**! Utall the State shall be solely responsible f<4 the administration of (he plan -iicrd (fie determination of policies, conditions and ragulatinns governing its implementation and use.
The Slate shall provide literature describing (he plan as well as a required enrollment or other forms to all employees when Lhe plan has been established.
It is further imdetSluod that the maximum amount uf deferrable uicoroe under this plan shall he twenty-five percent (25%) or 17500 whichever is Less.
F, Special Training
The State will join with the Union lo provide a Speciid training program which will be available to employees in Ute Professional Unit The Ebrtuulalion and cUnEeiit of the special training program shall he decided by mutual agreement between the Office of Employee Relations and the Union. G, Salnry Program Administratran
The parti® Eteknowtedge the existence and continuation during the tenn of this Agreetnenl uf lhe Slate Compensation Plan which incorporates in particular, but without ipixifiv limit, the following basic concepts:
I.	A system of position dEWSillcatioijs witb appropriate position defixtpti ons. Copies of <v rtenr position descriptions will be made available lo the Union.
19
2.	A salary range with specific mfojnium. and maximum rales and intermediate merit incremental steps therein for each position.
3.	Regulations governing the administration of ihe plan including the Performance Assessment Review System.
4.	The autfiority, method and procedures to effect modification as such are required, However, if the State makes major changes in the Compensation Plan Or changes which have a negative effect on the earnings of employees it is understood that (he impact of these changes will be negotiated with the Union and such negotiations shaft Commence within thirty (30} days of the dam upon which the Union requests negotiations of ihe matter.
5.	No employee covered by thia Agreement shall suffer a reduction in nil? of pay as a result of A reduction of salary range for the job class in which he is employed and any such change in salary range shall be negotiated with the Union prior to impfemailalion, Uns is not intended to reduce (he right of appeal of any individual,
H* Bonns Payment forSerond and Third Shift
1.	There shall be a bonuspayment of S 240 in Decmtbw of fiscal yeaiS 1999/2000; 200(1/2001; 2001/1002; 200’2'2002 to all IbN-thne employees who worked al least one hundred and ninety-five (195) shifts on either the second (2nd) and/or the third (3rd) shift, (which are commonly known as the afternoon or evening shift and the night or midnight shift), fix the eligibility period of twelve (12) months preceding the December payment (November 1 through October 31).
2-	Full-lime employees who are in positions that require rotation of shifts and who work rotating drifts during the eligibility period (November 1 through October 31), 0<K hundred seventy (170) of which are on the second (2nd) and third (3rd) shifts, (which are commonly known as Ute afttmocm or evening sbifl and ihe night or midnight shift), shall also be eligible to receive the bonuses.
3.	Paid leave time LB considered to be time worked for eligibility for this payment
4.	Employees must be in pay Status on (he date ofpaymcnt in order to receive this payment.
5.	Permanent part-time employees who work at least half time and who meet the eligibility requirements set forth above and woric a 5 day Week and work al feast 19 J shifts during (he above period will receive a pro rate share
I. Shhlry Adjustment for Nurses and Teichers/TBStrnctors
The two-range Increase pegotialed in the 19&9/1992 oonlruct for Nurses and Classroom Tcachers/lnsliuctors and the two-range increase negotiated in the 1992/1995 contract for teachers who supervise other tcachca^ shall centjjiue in effect under this contract-J. Cooperative Effort
The parties to (he Agreement understand (hat the public services provided tn the citizoiry of the State of New Jersey require a continuing cooperative effort particularly during this period of severe fatal constraints. They hereby pledge themselves to achieve the highest level of scrviccby jointly endorsing a concept of intensive productivity improvemeul which may assist in realizing that objective.
ARTICLE VII
POSITION RECLASSIFICATION AND REEVALUATtON REVIEWS A, Reclassification
Employees in the negotiation unit may initiate requests for position reclassification in accordance with the applicable Marit System Rules and Regulations and in keeping with (he conditions and procedures established by the Department of PoBonneL A request for reclassification shall be acted upon and a determination rendered within one (1) year of the -submission of such requests, unless the time period may be exlerided by mutual agfcetnent B. RecvaluatioD
The [ Inion may request the recvatuaticin of a job classification in accordance with applicable Merit System Rules and Regulations, on the basis of job content change only. The State will review
20
auch a request and will reevaluate (he job classification, provide 30 opportunity for the Union lo present its views, and present ils position to the Union as provided in lhe Merit System Rules and Regulations, in writing if requested, .
C. Implementation
Implementation of any changes resulting hum reclassification or reevaLtMtioo shall be made consistent with normal procedures and the availability of funds,
ARTICLE VD1
HOURS AMD OVERTIME
A. Honrs of Wurk
1,	The number of hours tn the workweek, for each job classification, witiijn (ho unit atiall be consistent with its present designation in the State Compensation Plan.
2.	Hours of work for *NLn employees maybe adjusted by lhe responsible agency official in keeping with existing regulations and procedures,
3,	Where practicable the normal workweek shall wnsbri of five (5) coDseeutivc work, days
4,	For fixed workweek employees, when schedule changes ve made the rnOKlinum possible notice, which shah not he less than seven (7) working days except for unforeseen cirtumstancea, shall be given to the affected employee.
$. For fixed workweek employees, when such employees' shift is changed, adequate advance notice which normally will be at least seven (7) working days and which shall not be less Ilian seventy-two (72) hours, except in die case of an emergency, will be given io the affecied employee. B. Rest Period
l.	The work schedule shall provide for a fifteen (!5) minute rest period during each uric-half (V4) shift.
2.	For (he purpose of this provision a shift shall constitute the employee's notmiilly scheduled work day. For example, an employee working from 9 a.m. io 5 p.m. will be entitled to a rest period in the forenoon and in the afternoon ns determined by lhe appointing authority,
3.	The normal schedule shall include a provision tor an unpaid lunch period during the midpartion of lhe work day. There jjyll be a minimum Of one-half ('A) hour provided for the lunch period. This 1$ not intended to suggest that existing lunch periods of Longer than one-half ('/r) hour muft be changed.
€. Overtime
1.	Employees covued by ihis Agreement will be compensated at Lhe rate of time andcrne-ludf (114) for the overtime hours accrued in excess of the normal hours of the established workw eek. These compensation credits shall be taken in COtnpetiBatory time or in cash at the discretion of management Employees may request compensation credits Ui compensatory Lime or Ln cash,
2,	When a work shift extends from one (1) day to the next it is considered to be on the day in which Ute larger portion of the hours we scheduled and all hours of the scheduled shift arc considered to be cm that day.
3,	All IbOiiday hours and hours of leave not worked lor which an employee Is compensated shall be regarded as hours worked for the computation of overtime in lhe workweek.
4.	Hours worked on a holiday are not considered hours worked for lie computation of regular overtime in the workweek bul shall be compensated at time and unS'half (1'Zt) tn addition Lo (lie holiday credit.
5.	"Scheduled overtime" means overtime ^gsignsl prior to lhe day on which it is to be worked, Ordinarily scheduled overtime is planned and assigned in advance.
G, "Non-scheduled overtime" means assigned overtime trade on ihe day on which rt is to be worked.
7,	"Incidental overtime" is a period cf assigned non-acheduJed overtime work of less Ihim fifteen (1.1) minute*.
21
8.	Overtime shall be scheduled and distributed fay seniority on a rotational basis by tath frrtittiorai wtrft wi wrthcnrt fiiscrimmsfion provided it does net impair opcratiotkS. Employees within their functional work unit Who are quafi lied and Capable of performing the Work Without additional traiorng shall be called upon to perform such overtime Work. To the extent that it is practical and reasonable to foresee, the State shall give the employee as much advance notice aj possible Native to Bic scheduling of overtime work Ihe State shall not ordinarily assign more than sixteen (16) conSCCUliVe hours of work.
9.	h is agreed that overtime work shall be shared by all employees in an occupational ci as si fl cation within any work unit without discrimination. The Opportunity to work overtime shall be extended to each employee on a rotational basis provided the employee is capable of performing the work.
10.	Each employee is expected to be available for a reasonable umounEofovcftime work. An employee who refuses an overtime Ot on-call assignment with a reasonable excuse will not be subjected to d'lSCtpKnary action.
11,	a. (hi a semi-annual basis commencing with the unplenjantAtiod of tins provision, the distribution of overtime shall be evaluated and assignments of overtirne made thereafter shall reflect the approximate equalization of overtime for each employee in the work unit by job classification.
b. Par ihe purpose of detormining approximate equttlitHlJui। yf overtime, any overtime assignment offered, whether worked or not worked wi II be considered as if it wore worked,
C.	To Ihe extent (hat b disproportionate distribution of overtime exists because of special ability or inability to perform tha work assignments, those hours will not be considered in the semi-annua! equalization. This provision wifi not be abused.
12,	A list showing Ihe rotational order and the overtime tall Etans of each employee and a record of the total overtime worked and refused by each employee shall be maintained in the work unit Such records shall be made available for inspection on request to Union Officers. Stewards and employees concerned.
13.	The State will give advance notice of all scheduled overtime to each employee concerned. Such scheduled overtime will be assigned minimally in units of one (I) hour and m hourly or half hourly increments thereafter when such overtime la to he performed Contiguous to the employee's •Scheduled work shift. When overtime is scheduled not contiguous to the employee's work shift, it will be assigned minimally in units of two {2) hours and In hourly or half hourly increments (hereafter.
14.	An employee who is assigned tlOD-SChedulcd overtime tn excess of fifteen (15) minutes will be guaranteed 0 minimum of one (1) hour's work and will be sauced overtime thereafter in one-half (Vs) hour increment. An employee who is called in for non'SChcduled overtime shall be guaranteed a minimum of two (2) hours of Compensation whether or noL ths two (2) hours are Worked except when Ihe end of the call-in period coincides with the beginning of his regularly scheduled shift.
IS.	Where incidental overtime assignments are made, records of Suth time worked shall be kept and accumulated at straight time in exception of the provisions of C.l. Such accumulations may be scheduled On an bour-for-hour basis as compensatory time.
16,	Cash paid overtime will be reflected in regular biweekly payroll checks. The State will make a good faith effort to try to issue cash paid overtime payments in biweekly dtCCks which reflect cash paid overtime earned during the preceding Overtime reporting period.
D.	Policy mi lateness
I,	a, Whenever an employee is delayed in reporting for a scheduled weak assignment, he shaft endeavor to contact his supervisor in advance, if possible. An employee who has a reasonable excuse and is less than fifteen (15) minutes late is not to he reduced in salary Or denied the opportunity to work the balance of his scheduled shift trad he shall not be disciplined except where there is evidence of repetition Of neglect, A record of such lateness Shall be maintained and may be
charged against any campensitory time acCrtJtd or vacation bfliajfrccs. An emplvya may chouse lo use either of these balances or alternatively to be reduced in salary.
b. [.ataiess beyond (he fifteen (15) minute period above shall be treated on a discretionary basis. Hdwever. this provision is not intended lo reran that all lateness nr each inuidwKe of Luteness beyond fifteen (15) minutes shall tQCUt disciplinary action or loss of opportunity to complete a work shift or reduction of salary.
2. T^afcnesS or absence due to weather conditions
a.	When an employee is unable to get to his assigned work because o f w«;d^r unridi rion s, his absence mriy be compensated if he has a sufficient comp^jjalory tirhe balance or if none is available a charge may be made against vacation balance oradmifii^rative Leave balance if requested by (he employee-. Such absence will allftMtanvely be without pay.
b.	Employees late for duly due to delays caused by weaiher conditions nml who made a reasonable effort to report on time may be given credit fur such late time al the discretion of the appointing authority.
EL Other Benefitii
Etnployees who are required to work beyond their regular quirting time 10 the next shift, -shull receive a fifteen (15) tnitlUle rest period when (be period of scheduled work beyond their regular shift exceed* two (2> hours. Such employees shall also be entitled to meal allowances as provided by 1he regulations of the State.
F. Policy an llnexcused Absence
Absence without noLice and approval tor five (5) days or failure to return from any leave of absence shall be considered a rcsignatiou,
ARTICLE IX
COMPENSATORY TIME BALANCES
A.	When employees accumulate compensatory time balance*, (he appointing authority will provide administrative procedures to tenure the employer thal such compensatory balances will not be taken away bul will be scheduled as time off tVr alternatively paid in cash.
B.	Employee requests for Use of conrpenSalory time balances shall be honored. Priorities in honoring requests fbr use of compensatory lime balances will he given to employee*;
I.	Where an emergency exists;
2.	Where scheduled one (1) month in advance;
1.	Where shorter notice of request is made.
Requests for use of such time under 2 and 3 will be lionored except where emergency conditions exj$1 or where the dales requested conflict with holiday or vacation schedules G Ordinarily, a maximum of sixty (<50) hours of crwnpcnwfOry rime may be carried by an employee. Where the biJance exceeds sixty (60) hours, 1be employee and the supervisor will meet io nruic:ihty schedule such compensatory time off.
D. I. An employee may he required to take- COttlpetiSUtory lime uH in keeyihg wi1h Ute i iccds within the unit.
2.	An employee may request the use of this compensatory time off which ahull be scheduled with (he immediate .supervisor in keeping with the needs within the work Unit.-
3.	Wlitrievirr compensatory lime off is to be scheduled, reasonable advance notice tor the request or requirement will be given.
ARTICLE X
ANNIVERSARY DATES
The firs! full pay period following an employee's original date of hire shaft consciuitc his
23
anniversary dale unless the employee's actual dak of hire coincides with the first day of the pay period in which case that pay period shall serve aa the employee's armit-mmry dam in the event a pencmtiel action occurs which, pursuant to Marit System Rules and Regulations, would result in a change of the employee's anniversary data, the Department of Personnel shall establish die next appropriate pay period as the new anniversary date.
ARTICLE X]
OIJT’OF-TJTLE WORK
A, The State and the E Jnicm agree chat employees should he assigned work appropriate to and within their job classification.
B- The practice of regularly assigning oui-of-tltlc worir to employees alkali be discontinued. Instances of 0ki1 -of-iiile work identified by lhe Union and fonnully brought to the attention of the State si kali be lolj noted immediately or by phasing out such assignments at die earliest time which shall in any case he no Laler than three (3) months from the time of notification by lhe Union subsequent to notifying the appropriate managerial official- Any dispute us to whether the work is wiihin die job classification of the employ«(S) involved shall be resolved Py Unionur employee appeal to the Department of Personnel where the matter will be heard within twenty-one (21) days and a decision rendered within Ecu (10) days of that hearing. Any dispute concerning the phasing out period wi]] be resolved through the grievance procedure.
C, Where out-of-tillc work assignments are ttnide for lunger than thirty (id) days, permanent (career Service) employees in the work unit from the next lower promotional title iti the series, dccmod capable of performing (he work, and where available, shall be jived Ute opportunity Co assume such higher oul-cf-titlc work in the work unit undshall have lhe right lorefuse such assignments based on job classification seniority. Where such assignments arc readily identifiable by the State, lhe eligible employees concerned shall he notified and a copy of Lhe notification shall be given to lhe Union.
ARTICLE XTT
PROMOTION
Promotion qualifications and procedures for permanort career service employees are governed by the Department of Personnel pursuant to Statute and Rules and Regulations promulgated thereunder.
A.	Promotion iiiQiUJS the »jvuncemtsil of an employee to a job classification within the unit at a higher sukuy range.
B.	Upon promotion of a permanent employee, all sick leave, adminisiraliv*. leave and vacation balances shall be relaioed by lhe employee.
C- Upon pro motion, an employer shall be informed of his or her new rate of uompetisation at least one (1} week in advance of the effective date.
D.	ProvisioiHl pf OIILOtiuiial appointments shall be made only in cases of emergency or when no complete employment list exists. Where such appointments arc made, the Department of Personnel will take the necessary steps to promulgate a list appropriate to the position in keeping with its rules and regulations us scon as possible.
If requested by the Union, hui not more frequently than quarterly, the Slate agrees to provide a list of then current provisional appointments.
E.	When an employee is given an opportunity on atrial OF provisional basis tn qualify for promotion by serving in a new clarification, his or her permanency in Ids Or her regular permanent job classification shall be continued during such trial or provisional period and he shall have the opportunity to return to such pcnnanaitt classifiwtiuti in Ute event the promotional opportunity shall
24
not become permanent provided there is no discharge action for cause.
ARTICLE Xin
JOB POSTING AND ANNOUNCEMENTS - CAREER SERVICE .A Jota Poitiaf;
1,	To provide promotional opportunities for employees within a department or urgctniaiUiirial unit, existing or planned job Vacancies stall be prominently posted within Che promotional examination scope established by the Department of Personnel for fourteen {14) days. Broader posting may be undertaken by the department at its option. When provisional promotions ure i u be made within a work unit, employees who meet Ihe minimum qualifications and arc capable of pcrfcrtnlrtg the work US tfeterttlfocd by management, and file pursuant lo this Article he given consideration for such appointment. The posting shall include a description of the job, any required qualifications, the location of the vacancies, the salary range, Tile Imuis of work and the procedures to be followed by employees interested in making application.
2.	Copies of edch notice posted will be forwarded to the appropriate luuii I Union n fflcc.
3.	Fcutinga of promotional uppOildtutiva for cwir.ting or planned jab vacancies tdndl b* undertaken prior to any notices of such vacancies being published in newspapers ar otherwise advertised outside the negotiations unit.
4.	Where a provisional or permanent promotion Of a reassignment is crmsnmmsted us a result of the job posting procedure, the appointing authority will port the name of the individual appointed on the bulletin board. In the event a provisional promotion is made, the appointing Autimrity will notify ihe Department ofPcrsonnel of such action so that the Department ofFcraonr.el can activate its process Leading Lo permanent appointment.
S.	The t Inion may inquire as to the status (provisional or permanent) of a position inc umbejit and such inquiry will be answered by the appointing authority involved.
B.	AnDOUBCcmenti
Unless a good reason to the contrary exirts, announcements which describe available educational programs or Suite scholanihips, shall be posted prominently at approximately the same time in order (hat interested employees may have an equivalent opportunity to be informed and apply for Such educational programs and Slate Scholarship?. Copies of these items will be sent to the Union.
ARTICLE XJV
JOB VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENTS FOR UNCLASSIFIED EMF1X>¥EES
I,	In situations where u vacancy in a Specific job classification series arise?, joh vacancy announcements should be ported in order to inform unil employees serving in appropriate titles of a ptOnWliwul possibility. Such job vacancy announcement shall be prominently posted within an organizational scope hs determined by management for five (J) days, The announcement shall include a description of the job, any required qualifications, the location of ihe vacancy, the salary range, the hours of work and the procedure Lo be followed by employees interested in making an application.
2.	Copies of each notice ported will be forwarded ro the appropriate lu'uil Union office. 1 Lt is understood that the job vacancy announcement process described above shall not hitidci the appointing authority in filling Ihe vacancy At thccarticat lime and is for informational purposes only
ARTICLE XV
DEPARTMENT OF PERSONNEL EXAMINATIONS
Employees who are scheduled to take open competitive examinations for the position in which
25
the employee is provisional er promotional examinations administered by the Department Of Personnel Of (he State Of New Jersey for positions in the State service shall be granted time off with pay including necessary travel time to take sued examraations if they arc scheduled during lite work -Shaft of the employe;, S uch privilege? may not be abused.
ARTICLE XVI
PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT REVIEW
I-	Sections A through H below shah apply only to employees in the career service covered by this Agreement.
A. 1, Tbe Stale will maintain a performance assessment review system for all employees, except those on trainee status, covered by Uri* Agreement. The system wilt include a formal process whereby the employee and his designated supervisor mutually formulate performance and imp CO van en I goals and work Standards appropriate to the job performed, which shall be A basis for measuring the employee's performance during a rating period.
2. During the normal probationary period of four (4) months, the employee will bo informed ot the standariia of prrrfnrmuTW: tn hn srhirwd and will be advised of (he rpecifie deficiencies in his progress, immediately in writing, at the end of the second and third months, Should the State extend (he probationary period to a uiMHDUin of six (6) months, the employee will be similarly advised at the end of the fifth munth.
&. 1. There shall be a formal written evaluation and rating of each employee completed annually which sliall be the basis for granting a normal merit increment to eligible employees. More frequent evaluations may he made where circumstances such as promotion, assignment change, transfer, change of supervisor or other reason may warrant. In such cases the annual rating shall be a function of all such evaluations.
2.	Employees who are eligible and whose petfuntuince is above the "Significantly fielow Standard" level shall he granted a normal merit tucremenL
3.	It is understood that work load should be a relevant consideration in determining an employee's overall performance evaluation.
C.	PcrfonnucE Evalcatnn Coafereoce
At least every six (6) mouths the employer shall have a conlejeuoe with the employee in connection with performance evaluation and improvement goals and work standards. Ratings and Conferences ordinarily shall be given by or conducted by the immediate supervisor. A written record of such conference shall be provided (o the employees within three (3} weeks of the conference.
D,	Less than "Standard" Rating
I.	a. Where (he perfbftnatice of an employee is less than "Standard", lhe designated supervisor will confer with such employee at Least once every three (3) month? and shall set forth the deficiencies and improvement goals required to achi eve a "Standard" level of performance or better.
b.	A record of such Conferences shall be made and a copy given to the employee with in two (2) weeks of the conference.
c.	Grievances which evolve from the inability of the employee and designated Supervisor to reach agreement on performance and improvement goals and work standards shall be treated as an A.2 grievance.
2.	Where a nonruil merit increment has net heen earned due to a "Significantly Below Standard" rating and the perfonnance of the employee improves to the point which Wiimnls paulin* of the: normal merit increment, Sllch increment may be granted effective on any payroll period following 90 days from the atmivenary date.
3.	The normal anniversary date of such employes shall not be affected by (his action.
26
4.	Where a normal merit increment has been denied, the performance rating's concerned with (he issue of restoration, as provided in D.2. shall net be grievable.
E,	The required signature of the employee on (he annual evaluation fonn, or on any other related form, shall be acknowledgment but shall not be construed Co mean agreement widi Ihe comeiil Unless Such agreement is Stated thereon by the employee.
F.	Orientation Material
The State will use a variety of cummunicatioDS media, which may include booklets, pamphlets, publications, letters and anuouncanenls, to keep employees informed Ou rhe cunent status of thePwfonnance Assessment Review System. .Ml now employees al the time of hire shd I receive an orientation booklet describing the objective o f the evaluation system. Such tnnleriul will be distributed to employees through their appropriate personnel function. Additional copies of sucli communications shall be supplied lo the Union al ils request,
G- In the event of a proposed modification or change ul pan Ot a]] of the Performance Assessment Review System, lhe Slate agrees to discuss such changes with the Union prior to its introduction and/or adoption.
II. Eraplvyvcs rwviving jwtinga abcrvotliatcif "Signitvcantly iJedow Standard' etwtl b» granted an increment.
IL Sections A through B below shall apply only to employees in the unclassified service covered by this Agreement
A- Pic performance evaluation systems for Unclassified employees covered by this Agreement IhfU are operative on the effective date of (his Agreement sh'ill reruuih ojwrativc tor the duration of the Agreement provided IhaE if a depwtrtiept changes its system, the employees afiecl ist Will be given reasonable notice to prevent any hardship and r]js department will either adopl Lhe system described id this Article under Scotian I, A. through II. above, or iranntiicr system Is to be adopted, lhe change shall be subject 10 negotiations if requested by the Union.
B, Whore grievances pertaining Lo peifonnance evaluation and/or denial of normal merit increment based upon the above mentioned departmental policies are pursued <0 Step Three, Arbitration, the award of the arbitrator shall be ikivL$ory and non-binding as provided in Article IV, Grievance Procedure, Step 1, Paragraph c.
AKHCLE XVH
HOLIDAYS AND PERSONAL PREFERENCE DAYS
A. Holidays
1, The official paid holidays which are recognised holidays tor (he purposes of this
Agreement are as follows: New Year's Day Martin Luther King's Birthday (3rd Monday in January) Lincoln's Birthday Washington's Birthday (3rd Monday in February) Good Friday Manorial Day (Last Monday in May)	Independence Day Labor Day Columbus Day (2nd Monday in October) Election Day Veteran's Day (November ll) TLwhfcjgivins Day Chris Im as Ikiy
Tn the event any of the above statutory holidays fall on a Sunday, 1hey shall be celebrated on lhe following Monday. Should any of the aforementioned holidays fall on a Saturday, they shall bo celebrated on the preceding Friday.
2. In addition to lhe aforementioned holidays, the Stale will grant a holiday when the
27
Governor, in his role as Chief Executive of the State of New Janey, declares a holiday by Proclamation.
B.	Personal Preference Days
1.	During the month of March, ajaploye&j may submit requests for alternative holidays to those specified to be celebrated within the calendar year which stall be- dates of pcjwnsl preference such ai religious holidays, employee birthday, employee anniversary or like days of celebration provided:
a.	the agency employing ths individual agrees and schedules the alternative date off in lieu of Ihe holiday specified and the employing agency is scheduled to operate on the flJtcmairve fates selected;
b.	the employett shall btt paid on the holiday worked and deferred at hi? regular daily rate of pay,
C, Ute commitment to schedule the personal preference day off shall he non-revofcabfo d. and provided furilKr that if, due to an Emergency, the employee is required to work rm the selected personal preference day he shall be paid on Ihe Sitt*5 basis aa if it were a holiday worked including Lhe protuiim pay,
2.	Where more requests for personal preference days arc made than can be acccwnmodaled within a work unit, the State seniority of anployees io the work unit shall be the baas Ibr Scheduling lhe personal preference days which can he accornmodated. Reqiwts received alter March may he considered i f the scheduling needs of the work unit arc satisfied.
3.	Requests for personal preference days in lieu ofholidays that fall belWwu January 1 and March 31 maybe submined on December 1 of foe preceding your,
4.	The provisions of section B apply only to employees who participate in a seYeit-cUy-a-week, treaty- four-hour-a-day operation work schedule mid whose job responsibilities require that the employee is involved in the aforajueGrtfoned-work schedule,
ARTICLE XVJJJ
SPECIAL TIME OFF
A.	Emergency.or Special Ohiervatiaus
Whenever lire GoVUtlWf may declare a special anagmty or observation of an event of State nr national concern and authorize* time off to employees of the State for foe observation of such event, those employees covered by this Agreement who are required IO work during foe period o f the authorized Lime off shall he compensated for such hours worked as outlined in this Agreement Cif as otherwise aultiwrized by (he Governor.
B.	Other
Whenever the Governor may declare lime off for all employees (such as a day preceding or following an existing holiday) those who are required to work on foal Jay shall be compensated for such hours worked by being granted eqoivalent lime vfi at other times in accordance with the Governor's prctlanwliun, <ir as provided by the appointing authority and, if opcratjonally, feasible as requested by the employee. If foe time off occurs cm a seven (7) day Operation employee's regular day off, ho'she shall ba granled equivalent lime off ih accordance with lhe above provision.
C.	TacSesunt Weather
The release of anployeeS by executive order or otherwise! from the workplace dire 10 i nclcmenl weather shall twit result in a loss of earning? for the hours of release lime, however employee* on leave at the time shall not have their leave credit adjusted.
25
ARTICLE XIX
RETIREMENT BENEFITS
The State is a participant in the Public Employees Retirement System. Eligibility for participation by employees ami retirement benefits are governed by statute and rule; and regulations promulgated thereunder and administered exclusively by lhe New Jersey Division of Pensions. Upon request to Bit appointing anibority, lhe Union and any employee in thia negiuiuting um1; shal I be provided with a written description of the PERS Pingram ns outlined by the Division ofPcosioriK Employees within this unit shall be given information regarding (heir retirement benefit* in accordance with the Department of Personnel guidelines Olid rcgulalimm ajul'oi dcpatlmeutal policies through that department personnel officer.
ARTICLE XX
HEALTH BENEFITS PROGRAM AND PRESCRIPTION DRUG PROGRAM
A.	Suite Health Benefits Progrun
1.	The State Health Bcncfils Ptogram is applicable to employees covered by this contract. Such Employees will have lhe option on the open enrollments dates of selecting one of (he following pluus. Ttaditional Irt^OTnoity, Managed CW/Pnini of Service (New Jersey Plus), Or on liMO approved by the State HeuJQi Benefits Commission. If both spouses are active Slate employees and eligible lo participate ra the State Health Benefits Program, the couple may choose only one f/MO family policy.
2.	a The Managed Car&Toint of Service Plait (New Jersey Plus) shall remain without any premium CORt to eligible employees and their eligible dependents during lbs tarn at' ihis Agrerajitiii.
h. Effective July I, 2000, employees Who elect coverage in the Traditional Plan shall pay 25% of the cost of the premium of dial Plan as established by the Stale Health Benefit; Commisskou. Jie premium cost provisions set forth in the 1995-1999 Agreement ter lhe Traditional Plan shall remain in effect until June JO. 2000.
c. Effallve J nly 1,204)0, employees *'l>o elect coverage in ao approved HMD Plan shall pay 536 ofthe cost of the premium of that Plan 35 established by the State Health Ber.efns Commissicm. The approved HMD Plans shall remain without any premium cu&1 from July I, 1999 dirough J-.inc 30,2000.
3.	Active employees will be able to use pre-lflX dollars lo pay conLributions to health benefits under a Skclfon 125 premium conversion option. All cOIrtribifiiouS will be by deductions irorti pay.
4.	Effective January I, 1996, consisted! with law, lite State will no longer reimburse active employees or their spouses for Medicare Part 0 premium payments.
B,	Prescription Drug Program
1.	It is agreed tbal die State shall continue the Prescription Drug Benedit Program during the period of thia Agreement. The program shall be funded and administered by 1he Slate. It shall provide benefits tn adl eligible unit employees and Uveir ehgiblv dependents. Each prescription required by competent medical authority few Federal legnut drags sbul) he paid fur hy the Suite front funds provided for The Program subject to a deductible provision which shall uo1 exceed $5.0U pee prcscripttdl cr renewal of sitch prescription add further subject to specific procedural ami adtnjnistraljve rules and regulations which ate part of the Program.
AlcnCLE XXI
HEALTH INSURANCE IN RETIREMENT
A- The State agrees tn assume upon retirement the full coat of lhe Health Benefits cuvejagc for State employees and rticir depemfctits including the coSt of charges under Fan B of lhe Federal Mcdicur.-Program for eligible unployees aud their spouses, but not including survivors. fet employee* wlvj
29
accrue. 25 years of pension credit service, as provided under the Slate plan, by July I,1997, and those employees who retire for disability cm Lhe basis of fewer yean of pension credit in the State plan by July 1, 1997.
B.	Those employees who accrue 2.5 years of pension credit service or retire on a disability retirement during (he period from July 1,1997 through Time 30, 2000 are eligible to receive the following when they retire:
1,	Employees in this group who elect to enroll in the Managed Care/Pornl of Service (NJ Plus) or any of the approved HMO Plane shat t not have to contribute to the cost of any premium for healfo insurance coverage.
2.	Employees io this group who elect to enroll in the Traditiond Plan and earn $49,000 or more i n base salary in 1bc year they retire shall pay the difference between the coat of the Tradrtional Plan and the average of the cost to the State of the Managed Caro/Boirrf of Service (NJ Plus) and the approved HMD Flans for health inauranoe coverage.
3.	Employees in this group who eitrcl lo enroll in lhe Traditional Plan and eum less thfin 140,000 in bust salary in the year (hey retire ahalt pay i% of their annual base pay at retirement but not leaa than $20.00 a mouth for health insurance coverage.
4.	Employees in thia group shall receive Medicare Part H reimbursement after relkemeul up to a cap of $46,10 per month per eligible empfoyee end the employee's -spouse.
C.	Those employees who accrue 25 years of pension credit service or retire on a disability retirement during Che perit>d from July t, 2000 through June 30,2003 are eligible To receive the following when they retire:
[. Employees in this group who elect to enroll in the Managed CatfPoint of Seivicc (NJ Plus) or any of lhe approved HMO Plans in retirement shall not have lo contribute 1o the <ost of futy premium tor health insurance coverage.
2.	Employees in this group who elect to enroll in like Traditional Plan shall pay 25% of the premium cost of Lhe Truditinnal Plan for health insurance coverage.
J, Employees in fol? group shall receive Medicare Part B rcirnhuTsemcnl after retirement Up lo a cap of $46,10 per month per eligible employee and lhe employee's spouse.
D.	Those employees who sarnie 25 years of poison credit or reLire on a disability retirement on or after July 1| 2OT3 will ba subject, to the provision of paragraph C. above, unless superceded by collective negoii iilfons or IkW ,
E.	All retimes who elect approved HMDs may choose only one family policy, regardless of retirement date.
F,	Employees hired Oli or fufiet July I, [995, Will not receive any reimbursement for Medicare Put B after retirement,
<L Employees wbo elect deferred retirement are not entitled to health benefits under (his provision.
ARTICLE XXII
LEAVES OF ABSENCE
A. AdwintstTatiTg Leave-Career Service Program
I.	Employees covered by this Agreement shall be entitled Lo Lhree (3) days C*f administrative leave t>f absence with pay tn each calendar year.
2.	Adraimslrabvetes¥ttmBybtusedfor(a.)emerseDcies,{b) vbservaticui of religious or other days of celebration hut not holidays as defined herein, (c) personal business or (d) other personal affairs.
3.	Newly hired employees dull be granted one-half C^) day of administrative leave after each full calendar month of employment to a maximum of three (3) days during the remaindisr of the calendar year in which he is employed.
30
****
4,	a. Administrative leave shall be grafted by tfie appointing authority upon request of the employee and, except ill emergences, leave «ha!l be scheduled in advance provided the request jnay be granted Without interference with the proper conduct of the government fiincuon involved.
b. Priority in granting such requests shall be (I) emwgBDcies, (2} observation of religious or other days of CelAraiion but not holidays, (3) personal business, (4) other personal affairs. Wham, within a work unit, there gjc more requests than can be granted for use of this leave for one of the purposes above, the conflict wilt then be resolved on the basis of Stale seniority and the maximum number of such requests shall bo granted in accordance with the first paragraph of 4. Administrative leave rttay be scheduled in units of one-half ('/it) day, or molciple* thereof and may be taken in conjunction with other types of paid leave.
5. Such leave credit shall mil accura«U<c. Unused balance* in aoy year shall be cameHM B. Jury Only and Wi(ne» Leave
L An employee shall be granted Accessary time off without buss at' pay when he is sumruon^d iiirf performs jury duty as prescribed by applicable law; or when required to perform emergency civilian duty in relation Lo national defense or other emergency when su ordered by the (IcivtJJjnr or the President of the United States. When tus appearance is reqiurtdiluriiig a Shift period wlikti is immediately contiguous fo his scheduled ahifl and wholly within the day of such duty, he s bull be excused from such drill without loss of pay. If his shift hours extend front one day to the next, and the required appewanoe Is during a shift period not immediately contiguous m the scheduled sb ift. the employee shall have the option of chousing to be excused from lhe scheduled shift prior to ur after lhe required appearance provided the shift from wJiich he is excused is partly within lhe day of such duty, Ip no eVgrrt is an employee W he excused front his work schedule for more days than the number o f days of such duty performed.
2.	When an employee is summoned ,0 appear as a witness before a courl, legisl;diVc commiciee nr judicial or quasi-judicial body, unless the uppearanc's is as a party to the litigation in H antler rmi'alated fci liis capacity as an employee or officer of his agency, he shall lie grunted time off wiihcmt lost of pay if such appwfance is during his scheduled work sJd ft. Where his appearance is during a shift period immediately contiguous to his scheduled shift, he shall be granted icenpensdlwy time equal lo the hour* required for such duty.
3-	In no case wilt Oue special leave he granted or credited for more than eight (&} hours in any day or forty (40) hours in any week.
4.	TTte employee shall notify managenwut immediately of his requirement. for Ibis leave, and subsequently ftmftsh evidence iha1 he perfbnned lhe duty for which the leave Was rcqueStai C, J-eave of Absnve Due to Injury (8L1)
I,	AU employees covered by this Agreement who are disabled because erfjob related injury or disease may, if ft is reccantiiended by Che appointing authority and approved by cite Department of Personnel, be granted a leave of absence with pay from foods appropriated for this purpose and aa provided in State regulations.
2.	Any pari of the salary or wages paid or payable to on employee for disability leave shidl be reduced by the amount of worker's compensation award under the Now Jersey Wnilrer’s Compensation Ad for temporary disability
3.	Such leave may be granted for up to one (1} year from lhe date of i ujury or illness trad shall be based on medical or other proof of the injury or i llness and die conliniti ng disabi I ity of the employee.
4.	When such teave is granted, lhe employee shall not be charged ordinary sick leave or vacation. However, if ihiS leave (SI,J) expires, the employee may ulibie sick leave or vacation i f required to remain off duly.
5.	If an application for SLT is rejected by 1lit appointing aulhoriry, lite employee concerned
31
may appeal such drieniunation in Accordance with the Department of Personnel Rules and Regulaiicijw-
I)	. Fregnancy-Disihilkj'
1.	Permanent employees covered by thig Agreement, upon the submission of acceptable medical evidence, shall be entitled to pregnancy-disability leave as hereinafter act forth. Request for such Iwve will be made in writing to the Personnel Department, Notification of the pregnancy shall be given io the Personnel Department not later than the end of the fourth month of the prejDNiCy, Except for reasons of hralth and safety or inability io perform her job. the pregttittft employee shall be permitted to work provided the attending physician approves and so advises in writing. The ntlliaation ofearnwl and Koniecf sick leave shall be limited only by the length of the employee's approved disability due to pregnancy,
2.	During pregnancy-disability leave, permauenl employees may Utilize earned Leave time (sick, vacation, administrative or compensatory) hnt shall not be required to exhaust accrued leave before taking a leave without pay for pregnancy-disability. The employee must exhaust all accrued sick leave prior to being eligible for New Jersey Temporary' Disability Insurance.
3.	Subject to approval by the appointing authority. employees covered by this Agreement who are entitled to pregnancy-diaafaihty leave who are without or have exhausted accrued sick leave, vacation ix compensatory time will be granted a leave nf absence without pay to the end of the period of pregnancy-disability prescribed above. Lewes of absence may be granted by the appointing authority with (he approval of (he Department of Personnel for a period or periods not to exceed a total of one (I) year from the initial date of pregnancy-disability leave, upon written request when accompanied hy a doctor's certificate setting forth the need therefor.
4.	Child core leave may be granted by the appointing authority for a maximum of one (I) year under the same terms and conditions applicable to al! cither persona) leaves without pay.
E. Military Leave
1. A permanent employee who enters upon active duty with the military Of tUVal service in time of war w emergency shall be granted a leave of absence for the period of such service and three (3) months thereafter.
a Tn case of service-connected illness or wound which prevents him from returning. to his eitlpfoynMit, such leave Shall be extended until three (3) months after recovery, but not beyond the expiration of I wo (2) years after the date of discharge.
h. An employee who voluntarily continues io the militaiy service beynnd the time when he may be rel«ised or who voluntarily re-enters the Armed Forces or who accepts a tegular commission shall be considered as having abandoned his employment arid resigned.
2-	A permanent employee who enlists in a reserve component of the Armed Force? of (he United Stales or is olherwise required 1u perform an initial period of active duty far training pursuant to the Reserve Forces Act of W55 (Reserve Enlistment Program) shall be granted leave of absence for such period of training. Such leave is not considered military leave.
3.	An employee witfl provisinnsl t# temporary, status who enters upon active duty with the Armed Forces or who. purananl !o lhe Reserve Fences Act of 1955 (Reserve Enltatmenl Program) either enlists in a reserve component nf the Armed Forces of tire United Slates or is otherwise required to perform an initial period of active duly for (raiding, shall be recorded as having resigned.
4,	A permanent employee who is a member of the National Guard or naval militia or of a rescrvtr COmponetlt Of any Of the Armed Forces of the United States who is required CO undergo annual field training or annual active duly fur training shall be granted a leave of absence with pay few such period as provided by regulation. Such leave shall be in addition to regular vacation leave.
$. A full-time provisional employee who Is a member nf the National Guard or naval militia Of of 4 reserve uuibpoqMit of (he Armed Forces of die United Stales who is required to undergo
Annual field irtitling or annual active duty fur ItaiDing ^faaif he grunted a taftt of absence vhli payor wiOiom pay as provided by regulation.
6. a, Employees who are members of the Nation/] Guard must be given dine off with full pay 10 attend reqi1irod drills,' Such lime off shall be io addition to vacation, sick and Odinjnistrative tefivc.
b. An appointing authorily my, however, rescbedule an employee's hours and days of work in cmier Lu enable an employee <0 attend drills and still fulfill all wiploynwu respvfi.sibjliiiei without Ihe need for additional lime off, F, Sick Leave
I,	AU employees covered by Ukis Agreement and eligible for Rick leave with, pay shall be entitled to the use of sick leave as provided herein.
2,	Sick leJW may be util'ittii by employees when they are wiablc to perform their work by reason of personal illness accident or exposure to ccnogioua disease. Sick leave mw also b< used for short periods because of death in ihe employee’s irtimed late family or for the allanlonce of lire employee upon a member of the immediate family w]ki is swiuusly ill, but such sick leave siiall not include Any extended period where the employee serves aS nurse or lwusekeq»» during thi s period Ui illness,
3.	a. During the remainder of the calendar y-ftar in which an employee is first appointed, he will accumulate sick leave privileges as earned on the basis of ooe fl) day per mouth of service or major fraction thereof.
b. In each full calendar year thereafter, he shall be entitled to fifteen (15) days rick leave. The leave ’* audited in advance at tfc beginning of the yeV in anticipation uF continued employment for the (i,iU year and may be used on that basis and in accordance with established Stale policy. Such leave not utilized shall be accumulated:
4.	a. In iff cases of ilInes?, whether of sftctrt or Jang term, the employe# if required to notify his superior of (he reason for absence at the earliest possible time but in tio event less than Ids usual reporting time, or other time as required each working day as necessitated by the circumstances. Failure to report absences or abuse of side leave privileges on Che part of any employee may because for disciplinary action.
b. When it is known that sick leave will be required for more than tm (10) days, such leave must be requested by the employee in writing to his immediate supervisor. This requesi must be accompanied hy a written and signed Statement by a physician prescribing the- sick leave and giving ihe reasons for the sick leave Md the Mticipaled duration of the incapacity
5-	a. Ute appointing authority may require proof of illness of an employee od Rick leave, whenever such requiremew appears reasonable. Such requirement sliidl be consistent with the Department of Personnel Rules and Regulations.
b- Au employee who has been iibseih on rick Leave for periods tolalliug fifteen (IS) days in one (I) calendar year consisting of periods nf less than five (5) days, shall submit acocpfobfo medical evidence, but where reasonable and appropriate un affidavit of the employee shall be acceptable aa medical evidence, tor tiny additional sick leave in that year unless such illness ia of a chronic or recurring nature requiring recurring absences of one (I) thiy or less o' which case only one certificate shall be necessary for a period, of slit (6) months.
6.	When an employee is on vacation and requires sick- leave few any portion uf tJwt vacation leave, bcTuust immediately request the use of accumulated Rick leave, in accordance wilh State regulations, through the designated airibority. Such rajucats muy be made hy telephone, telegram or letter but, if by phono, should he confirmed by iclegreni or letter to clearly estubl ish lienc of request- No sick leave will he credited unless supporting medical evidence verifying tile illness or Injury which would have precluded »(irklng is pKsem#d-
7.	Death m Family
3i
If ihere is a death i,n the family as defined in the State Sick Leave Program and an emptoyw his exhausted his sick leave balance, he shall be granted leave wilhuut pay or may charge leave against vacation or administrative lesve of compensatory time balances for up to Hires (3) days upon his request tn the appointing authority. Tn exceptional situations, Ute time limit may be extended at [he diacrution of the appointing authority.
3.	Employees shaft noLhe charged for flick leave on a non-working day.
S>. An employee may apply for me of sick leave for periods of less than his fall work day far any appropriate and approved reason Buch as becoming ill while working during Ihe assigned shift or in order io keep a medical appointment which could not Tie arranged during non-worlc lime. The employee must Charge Such sick leave Against his accumulated sick leave balance, or, if such employee has thi sick leave balance, he may charge SJdb time against other accrued paid leave time if avdi table, or, alternatively. leave without pay, Utilization of any Sick laave for less than a full work day shall be on an hourly basis; one hour of sick leave charged for each hour, 0* portion thereof, excused from the work shift. For purposes of this clause, only, seven (7) hours is equal to one (0 day of sick leave for employees serving in a No Limit (NL) category and eight (3) hours is equal to one (I) day of sick (cave for those employees serving in a NL4 category. Where an NL or NL4 employee uti lizca sick Leave for a period of less than his established wcfic schedule for the day, sneh employee shall be charged sick leave on a pro-rata baric in accordance with the work schedule established on the day of utilization.
IQ. Unused Sick Leave -Retirement
a. A permanent employee who enters retiremenl pursuant to the pmviflions of a Stale administered or approved retirement system and has to his credit any earned and unused accumulated sick leave shall be entitled to receive supplemetMid compensatlati for such earned and unused accumulated sick leave.
b- The supplemental compensation to be paid shall be CMnpUled St foe rate of one-half (W) of the eligible employee’s daily rate of pay for each day of earned and unused accumulated side leave based upon the average annual compensation received during foe last year of his employment prior lo foe effective date of his retirement, presided, however, that no such supplemental compensation payment shall exceed $l5,Q0Q.0fo Ulis supplemental compensation diall be paid in a lump sum after foe effective date ofreiiremem pr as may he elected by the Employee deferred for CWC(l)year. G. Vacation Leave - Career Service Program
1.	All «faw service employees covered by this Agreement md eligible for vacation leave with pay shall be entitled lo foe use of vacation leave sa provided hatin:
a.	One (I) working day of vacation for each month of employment fairing the first calendar year of employment.
b.	Twelve (12) working days of vacation faun otte (!) to five (5) years of service.
c.	Fifteen (IS) working days of vacation from six (6) to twelve (12) years of service.
d.	Twenty (20) working days of vacation Hom thirteen (13) to twenty (20) years of service.
e.	Twenty'five (25) working days of vacation after the twentieth (20) year of service,
It is underatood that the current program to schedule vacation, time in. effect at each institution □r agency wi IL be continued, Conflicts concerning the choice of doles when scheduling vacations will be resolved within the work unit on (he basis of State seniority. Specific requests for vacation utilisation which do not conflict with operational cunsidcrttiojj'i shell not be unreasonably denied. 2. a. Vacation leave is credited in advance at the beginning of foe calendar year in anticipation of continued employment tor the full year and may be used on that basis flild in accordance with established State policy. Vacation allowance must be taken during the current calendar year ar such time as permitted or directed by the Department Head unless foe Department Head determines 11 cannot be taken because of pressure O f work; except that an employee may request a maximum of
34
one (I) year of earned vacation allowance be carried forward into lhe next succeeding year. The	I
request Shall be made in writing to the appropriate HppointinR authority and may be approved few	I
good reason and providing lhe employee and his supervisor have scheduled the use Of such vacation
allowance. Such approval and scheduling shall not he unreasonably wirtdield.	!
h. Where ati employee has an earned vacation balance which has no1 hetn previously scheduled ns of October 1, the supervisor wilt inset wilh the employee to determine a schedule of such vacation rime so ihul no accrued vacation time will be lust
3-	Upon separation from the Slate or upon retirement, an employee shall be entitled lo vacation allowance for the current year prorated upon the number u f months worked in ihc calendar year in which the separation or retirement becomes effective and any vocation leave which rr.iiy have been carried over from Hie preceding caiaidm year.
4.	If n permanent employee dies having vacation credits, a sum of muiwy equal to die	■
compensation tigumd on hi* salary rate ai the time of death shall he calculated and prid to his estale.
5.	In the event the State ofNew Jersey enacts legiulatian granting additional vacation benefits	j
Ip employees of lhe Slate, MKh additional vacation benelil will he made available to members of lhe	f
Unit prorated as of the first foil month following Uw effective date of stjch legislation.	y
6.	Wbetl the vacation allowance ftrrsnffiipjuj'cettidngu basedon Jus yvan of invite din-ins	£
any calendar year, the ttajditioual annual allowance will he given for lhe entire year.
H, Omttaied Bndfo
During any leave of absence with pay employee hinge benefits shall be continued and leave allowances shall continue to accrue for any employee affected.	|
ARTICLE XXI It
VACATION LEAVE AND ADMINISTRATIVE LEAVE FOR UNCLASSIFIED	J
EMPLOYEES
A.	In accordance with applicable rales, regulations, and policies, ctnployees serving in the	;
unclassified service ahull have an option of Selecting a policy of vacation leave and sdmi nistrative laavc as prescribed by the Slate for employees m the career service or the policy uf vacation leave and administrative leave for unclassified employees as determined to be appropriate hy lhe Department Head. This option may be exercised not more Ilian once on forms furnished by the respective employee's Personnel Officer. The department policy in effect chi ibc date uf live signing Of Ute Agreement aball noL be changed without prior notice to and negotiations with the Union. The provisions of Ibis paragraph shall not apply tn employees whose wurk sthe=iul cs are governed by the academic calendar.
B.	A program to schedule vacation time at each institution ur agency will be established by Lhe ^propriate managauent official. Conflicts tuhccming the choice of dates w1kci scheduling viKatiou will be resolved within the work imiL OJ) the buris of Stale seniority. For purposes uf th is Article, an unclassified employee shall begin lu accumulate State seniority hunt the date of initial hire with, tire Stale of New Jersey until there is a break in service- This provision dues nul apply Id ctfi (10) month employees whose work schedules are governed by an academic calendar,
ARTICLE XXIV
LEAVES OF ABSENCE WlfilOITT PAY
A. All employees covered by this Agreenwil, upon written application setting forth the reason. may be granted a leave of ahscnce without pay for a mexittium period of one (I) year by rhe appointing authority with the approval of the Department of Personnel. Furtiter leave ill exceptional siphilioiis may be granted by the appointing authority with the approval t>f(he Department Of Personnel, where it is in the public interest
35
B> The appointing authority shall request approval fiora the Department of Personnel (bl a Leave of absence without pay up to a maximum period of one (1) year for an employee ejected or appointed to a full-time position with the Union SuCh leave may be renewed on an annual basis, Rmploycns holding full-time elected or appointed positions with the Union shall be permitted to remain on leaves of absences without pay fur the Juration of thia collective negotiations agreement. Each annual itncwat is subject tu approval by the Department of Personnel,
C- The granting of a request for leave of absence without pay will not be unreasonably withheld,
ARTICLE XXV
UNION RIGHTS AND REPRESENTATIVES
Au Access to PremiSM
I.	Unicm officials and duty autbqtizcdUn'wtltepresenruliveS, whose names and identificalion have been previously submitted lb and acknowledged by the State, shall be admitted to the premises of the state On Union business. Requests for such viriej shall be directed with reasonable advance not tee (o State officiate who shall be designated by the State and shall include (he purpose uf Lhe visit, proposed time and date and Spetilk work arras involved. Permission for such visits shall not be unreasonably withheld. Provided that requests have been made pursuant to this paragraph, such Unno Officials shall have the opportunity to consult *ith employees in the unit before the start of the work shift, during lunch Of breaks, or after completion of (he Work shift, or during the period Of grievance investigation provided in the Grievance Procedure. The State will designate appropriate places for such meetings at its facilities. Access to the premises as set forth in this paragraph shall not be given by the State to any employee organization other than to the Union set forth herein or to any officer or representative of such other employee organization for the purpose of communicating with employees in this unit.
2.	T1i.C Union shill be tdluwed Co Conduct normal business meetings On State properties, provided font space is available during hours when the facilities are open; requests for such meetings shall he made it1 least one (!) week in advance of the proposed date of tw, Hod employees may attend Such Tn wrings during off duty hours. Less notice may be acceptable: to the State.
3.	The above is not intended to restrict Union Officials and representatives from exercising their ordinary right as ertizens as regards access to the public premises of the State.
Eh T^ave of Absence for Union Activity
I,	Ttw Slate agrees to provide leaves of absence wfth pay for designees of the Union to attend Union activities. A total of 130 days of such leaves of absence may be used during the period July L, 1999 through June 30, 20fl(\ atid 120 days of such leaves of absence during the poiod July 1,2000 through June JU, 2001; and 120 days of such leaves of absence during (be period July L, 2001 through June 30, 2(102, and I2O days of such leaves of absence during the period of July 1, 2002 through June 3U, 200J.
2.	a. This leave is to be used for participation in regularly scheduled meetings or conventions of labor organizations with wbjcli the Uninp is affiliated and for training programs or other Union activity for which appropriate approval by (he Stale is required and whtdi approval shall not be unreasonably withheld.
b,	Application for the use of such leave on behalf of the desiguacs of the Union shall be made in writing or orally eighteen (IB) days jn advance Of less* period if appropriate by the Union President or other duly antborized representative to (he Office of Employee Relations.
3,	Leaves will he granted individuals authorized by the President or other duly authorized representative, Authorized leaves granted to an individual shall not exceed a maximum of twenty (20) days in a year period and seven (7) days of paid Leave for any single activity for any individual employee except where speeds] approval of an exception maybe granted by the Slate.
36
4.	Any Leave ncx utilized in a yearly period stall not be uCCiitmilaJed except where a written request of the Union for carry-over i’ll such leave for ? piirticuLo- putpewe is made no! Liter lluirl thirty (30) days prior to the end of the year period. This request may be approved in whole or in part by the State.
J. In addition, the State agrees to provide leave of absence without pay for designees of the Union to attend Union activitifia approved by the State. A Lola! of J 20 days of such leave <if absence without pay may he used tiuriflg (he period July 1,1999 to June 10,2000; and 120 days during Ihn year July L 2000 to June 30,2001; and 120 days during die period July 1, 2001 through June JO, 2002, and 120 days during the period July 1,2002 through J line 30, 2003.
6.	This additional leave of absence without pay is to tie used under the same wnil it ions and restrictions expressed in connection with leaves ofabsenoc with pay.
7.	The time pwldad herein is in addition to time provided elsewhere id this Agreement lor negotiations meetings and contract admirtislration meetings.
8.	In exceptional arcLunstances the Union may request, through the Office of Employee Relations, a day off without pay for a local Un ion officer who is tn the active employ of the Shut in Older ror such officer to represent a giicvAl'il hi hi* rKgotinfie^ unit ood. local 41 Steps I and 2 pursuant to the Article, Grievance Procedure. The requcut for release must be nude in accordance with the Article, Union Rights and Rcprescuiatives, subsection B, Leave of Absence for Union Activity and approval shaft be ai the discretion of departmental management based upon operdliucia] considerations ancVcr the exceptional nature of Lhe grievance.
9.	In addition to tile twenty (20) days nf unpaid leave of absence (ut Union activity provided for in tire Union Rights and Representatives Articles currently found in the various Agreements, upon proper application-(he State agrees lo grant to the four (4) negotiating titti's a combined total Of up to twelve (12) Union officers named by the Union and recognized in advance by ibe Staie, a maximum of ten (10) additional days of unpaid leave of absence pec individual for I Jn ion activity for which appropriate approval by ihc State is requited.
C, Bulletin Boards
]. (n central locations and in work areas where there are large numbers of employees covered by litis Agreement, (he Stale will make space available on existing bulletin boards wh ich space will be tor lhe exclusive use of the Union. The space provided on clkIi bulletin board w ill minimally approximate 30" by 3On or an equivalent If (he Union desires bulletin boatris at other locations, thas it may request permission to provide its ownbulletin boards. Where JWtcsssjy (he Scute shall alii* or tang such bulletin boards. Approval of such requests shall enntonn lu State standards and will Dot be unreasonably withheld by flic State.
2,	Appropriate material on such bulletin boards shall be posted and removed by representatives of the Union. Tlw maierial stall not contain anything profane, obscene. <JT dcfaiJialOiy of (he Stale or its representatives and employees, nor anything constituting election campaign material- Materials Which violate prcvusioris of this Article shall not be posted. Material to ba posted will consist of the following:
a.	Union electiems and results thereof;
b.	Union appointments;
c.	Union meetings;
d.	Social and recreational events of the Union;
e,	Reports of ofG cl al Union business and achievements.
The term defamatory as used in this Article is not intended lu preclude expreasioPS of criticism.
3.	The Unity) uolj be permilied 10 post notices on designated bulletin hoards where available in Heid locations not within institutions or offices oi the Slate provided such postings are coiisistenl
37
With the conditions agreed to above, Requests for permission for such postings shall he granted by the dcpartmenlaJ or appropriate subordinate level of maaagement
4.	The Stale may, upon request of the Union, undertake lo make Specific postings of authorized materials rm behalf of the Union.
5.	The State will provide space in central Locations and areas frequented by employees in the unit where Union newspapers, circulars and Literature rosy be placed® Oot employees may pickup copies during non-worir time provided that auch material for distribution is consistent with (terti 2 of this pry vision. It is further agreed that the Union Will assure (fiat all undistributed liwrttture ’* removed from (he dialribtition points after a rcnsouiblc time.
D.	KeprcECDtation Lola
J. The Union agrees lo furnish the State with complete written ]iM of Union representatives including Shop Stewards Or alternates and ttieir appropriate and mutually agreed upon grievance districts. 'lhe Union further agrees to inform the State Itufcugh the Office of Employee Relations of any changes and to keep such lists cutrent and correct at all times.
2. The State will appoint appropriate representatives of management St each location who will respond to the Union io CjrievmM Procedure or other designated (unctions. lhe stale will provlcte a list of such management representatives IO the Union.
E.	Union Stewdi
The Union has lhe wte right and discretion to designate Sicwanfe or alternates and specify their respective responsibitilies and authority (0 act for the Union. The patties agree that the privileges afforded lo Stewards, elsewhere provided, arc applicable Lo a reasonable number of Stewards reasonably acceptable to the Slate. Should conflict arise in the administration of this clause, the parties agree to revive the conflict(&) through further discussion.
F.	Union Privileges
I.	Where the Stale has a newsletter or house organ which is published periodically for the itlforniatlon of employees, announcements of Union meeting* of unit representatives ur affaire may be inchided if'requested by the Unit representative-
2.	Where the Union has mail to be delivned Lu ils oGkers or oths* representatives, the infer-office mail system Will be blade available to deliver such Tn nil within any institution ur building provided that priority is retained for the business of the State.
1	Where there Are public address systems in the work areas, the unit represenlative may submit notices of meetings or other unit mallets which will he announced eacept where the broadcast system is open CO the public or tn persons m the care and custody of the Stale, where such announcements may be inappropriate,
4	. When telephone messages for unit representatives are received by the employer, the message Will be delivered to the representative at the earliest possible time.
J. lhe President of a local may request use of available Space for storage of papers and files of the local council or chapter pertaining to State employees. Provisions of such space stull not be unreasonably withheld, when available^ however, lhe provision of space shall doc lake priority over a&oitKil iip&atioiial uses and the State shall incur no responsibility for the security ur safety of any Union materials nor any liability for kiss or damages which may occur. Further, the Union may be permitted to furnish file cabinets or other equipment related to Ute commitment above under the Same cunditiorrS. The permisaien to utilize the facilities of lhe Slate may he withdrawn at any time, but will nut be unreasonably withdraw^
6.	When a managerial or consuhsnt investigating or implementing committee seeks views of employ tea affected, lhe Union shall be notified and one of the employees who will be allowed Lu speak shall he spawn selected by the Uoioik Wltett such an investigation procedure is undertaken without the solicitation of views of employees, the Union may present a written statemem of it*
36
views La the investigating agent.
7.	Regulations or documenta specified in this AgiCCinent shall be available for reference al ihe Personnel Office of the employee seeking (be irformaljoti.
Q. Tifomuilioaal Postcards
The Union will make available to lhe Departments Self-addressed stamped potlcard-S. The postcard will contain spwe for the following information: employee name, employee address, liomc phone number, job title, hiring date, department which hired employe*, employees woric location, 9Dd the payroll number whet's the employes works.
Upon receipt of such card* from lhe Union, the departments personnel officefs) wilt distribute the card to new hires what the new hire comes in to fill out the necessary paperwork needed 10 initiate (he payroll processes. The card can be fiUeiJ outby the new hire. Curds filled cut by the new hire will be forwarded to lhe Union via 1he mail.
M. Membership Packets
The Union representative may supply mtpjbcrahip pw;kcts which contain iofotmatton for distribution to employees in (he unit, including the role of the (Inion rtprcsciilaLrie, the membership upplrcaictHj uiid atopy ufihis Agr«wna<>t an well us othrrmHiefrial mutually agreed to bv the Slate and the Union represeniaiive. The Stale agrees to distribute such membership packets to all employees in the unit ar the time such employees receive the copies of this Agreement &nd lo new employee* during lhe initial pbiUea of employment which shall not ordinarily exceed twenty (20j days from the dale of employment
AKTIC1 .R XXVI
ACCESS TO PERSONNEL FILE
A* Upon request and with fOBatuble notice, an eroplayec shall have the cpprwtunily to review and examine pertinent documails including those related to performance cvalualion and conduct tn his ar her personnel history file ar in an)' pennOJtejrt supplementary pwsrwmc! file, The Sial* shall honor tf»a request of such employee for copica of documents in rtic fi Ie. The State shal I have die right to have auch review and examination take place in (he presence of an appropriate official ijfthe agency or department in question. The employee may file a written response of reasonable length to any memoranda of documntts which are derogatory or adverse 10 him or her. Such response will be imluded in (he relevant pemtanertt personnel hi story file or permanent supplementary personnel flic and will be attached LO and retained with the document in question. If any material, derogatory or adverse to the employee is placed in Lhe file in question, a copy of such rmitsri al shall be sent tu the employee.
B-	No document of anonymous origin shall be used against any employee.
€, Copies of any written documents specifically related to discipline or the work performance of an employee which arc relied upon by tbc State during any disciplinary proceedings, grievance hearing, or iz) any final evaluation report rendered under the PARS Program will be given To the employee upon bis request.
D, A copy of specific written material which is derogulbry or advene to an employee and is in the possession of lhe State or its reprcsEntalivcs, and which has not been previously transmitted to the entphyoe, shall be provided In the employee whftO such written jnatoriul is to berebed upon in any adverse personnel action resulting ifl disciplinary proteeditigs. or in aj>y evaluation report rendered under the PARS program. and a re astro able time provided for response.
39
L....
ARTICLE XXVJT SENIORITY
]. Definition
A.	State seniority is the accumulated period of service of a permanent employee of lhe Stele.
H. Job classification seniority is lhe accnmuLalBd period of service of a permanent employee of the SLile in a particular job classification,
IL PeriBODBBt Employee
A, Employees shall be considered to have State BEniorily upon successful completion of lhe probationary period (working test period) for any permanent position, effective on the first day worltaf following s(H'h successful completion hut computed fimn (he dale of"initial hire. Such Stale seniority is accuraulable unless (here is or has been a break in service as set forth below.
B.	Fmployaes shall he considered to have job classification seniority upon successful completion of the poabalionitry period (working test period), far the job classification effective an the first day worked following sinti successful completion but computed from (hi data of initial hire or promotion to the particular job classification, Such job classification seniority in the job Glassification to wtucti. the employee is assigned is aixuimifable unless mere is or has been a break as sd fbrlb below or whwa the employee is appointed to another job classification or during such Eime an employee serves a disciplinary snspenstCEL,
C,	A break In continuous service occurs when an employee resigns, is discharged for cause, retires oris laid off; however, employee Slate and job classification snuorily accrued prior to layoff shall be continued upon recall and reemployment and the provision of Article X XV 111 shall apply.
D,	In The ca$e where an employee is promoted but docs not successfully complete the probationary period (working leSl period), be maybe returned Io his previous job classificalion in his most recent locati on or his then current EotaltOtl if practicable, without loss of job classification seniority and such job classification seniority stull be construed to have continued accumulation in the permanent position provided lhe positions arc in (he same or appropriately rclafed job class series as delermined by the Department of Personnel.
E.	lhe Slate agrees to supply current scniurily Hala to the Union on a semi-isnunal basis.
F.	This Article sliall not apply to the compumtiunor application of seniority in determination of indtvidual rights administered by the Department of Personnel, such as layoff and promotional rights. In such cimumstantrS, seniority determinations and applications shall be deterrnmed by the Department of Personnel. The trims and conditions of seniority pertaining Lo layoff and promotions arc fully set forth in stululs and in the Merit System Regulations and are intended lo be observed in the iulntimslration of this Agreement. The provisions above are not intended lo vary the application nf the seniority provision? under rule or law us they pertain to layoff and promotional mailers.
nt. Provisional and Probationary Employees
A. Provisional and probationary employees (serving working test period), who have accrued State and job classification seniority under Section 1 above in another permanent position shall be considered to have lhe Stale mid job classification seniority previously accumulated and shall coni roue to accumulate such Slate and job classification seniority as long as such previous permanent status is maintained, subject to any break in service and provided that with reference to job classification seniority the continuation of accumulation is predicated on lhe determinatiou of (he Department of Personnel that the positions are in the same or appropriately related job class scries.
B.	Except a» provided in paragraph A. shove, provisional and probationary employee? (serving working lest period) shall be considaed be wiibout SHUorily in (heir provisional or probationary job classification. The absence of seniority shall not be conslrued to diminish the
4C

assignability of any employees to overtime or emergency work.
C.	Provisional appointmcnta will n(rt be marie except in the case of an emergency ns provided	j
in NJ.S-A- HA;4’l3h. Where an examination is required, such will he scheduled <j( (be earliest possible; time.
ARTICLE Tamil layoff and recall - career survive
A.	When it is nweSsiiy to lay off employees, the Union shall be notified al uirfe and as Car i n advance as possible of the notice referred to in D. below and be -supplied with relevant data concerning the letyofF and procedures discussed and the conditions outlined below arid the establisiied protections administered by the Dcparimem of Personnel shall be obyer'-'cd. Ihe Slide shall provide the Union with seniority lists and grids for directly affected employees in advance of (he final option Selection interviews at the liaJe these materiuJs arc received by the affected department.
B.	In the event of a layoff, t])c Union shall be allowed to have one (1) representative Out in the active wptay <rf the Sleto attend tbv pratirnfflary layoff^nn frawiue for all affected unit employees when conducted by ihe dqRtrimcnt and Otte (1) representative riot in Lhe active employ of the Stale attend . the individual Employee's final options sejsetino interview. It is understood that the purpose of the Union representative's attendstnee at the meetings ia to observe and advise employees with respect to questions arising out of the process, however, lhe representative shall not d jsmpt or delay the proceeding in any way. A sltnp steward may attend such meeting without pay in order to ad as, representative in lieu of (he non-employcc Union representative if acceptable to the Stale.
€, Permanent employees withm a department will not be laid off before any emergency appointments, temporary appointments to tanporflry extra positions, provisional appointments to permanent positions or employees serving in working test period widtin the classifiMtion affected.
D,	The Slate will provide fl minimum of forty-five (4S) calendar day* notice of layoff to any pennatient employee tn he affected-
E.	Job classification seniority jdiul) be a determining factor to be considered when identifying which pcrmuietit employees are to be laid Oft
F,	WhmeVct possible. the State will Ity hi identify all employmem opportunities and to avoid layoff by transferring, l'aaBwgning or offering to demote employees to available vacancies within (Etc authority of the appointing authorities concerned-
G- Pamumsit employees affected by layoff requirements may exercise bumping tights wjflun their job classification or to equated Of Lower rated job classifications as provided.
H. Employees finally determined lo be laid off and wiio leave the payroll shall he g«v«l tai (10) working days’ notice. Thia provision is subject to the Deporiincnt of Personnel adjusting its rules and regulations as ore required to accommodate this program.
1 The name of di? permanent employee who is laid off shall be placed ufl a special rcenipjoyjjicni List. Persona on such a fist Win be given preferential consideration over any other type of applicant for appoinicticnf to the job classification or equated job classficuticin and no new cmpltiycc shall be hired until all employees on layoff status desiring lo return to worif shall have been recalled, provided such employees on layoff slams are capable of returning to work. The employee must provide the employer with any address change while waiting for recall.
,L Pecmaneni employees will he rer-alled to week in 1hc reverse order in which they were laid off by the .appointing authority, subject io the limitation dial those peirnaneru employees wfm were J«i(i off first for reason of 3il unsatisfactory perforruaDCv rating shiill he placed on fl special reemploymeni list in actordance with their seniority credits. Notice u f recall will he made in writing by moil tn the employee's home address of record.
4J
IC ]. An employeewhoja recalled must respond within five (5) calendar days of the date of receipt of ttie notice Of certifiealjcii) for recall or within ten {10} (lays of (he date of mailing or be considered Co have abandoned his recall rights,
2.	An employee recalled to his famar or equated job claasification must report for reinsiartement or be Considered to have abandoned his recall rights.
3.	An employse recalled Io a job classification with a tower salary rate (tun his previous job classification may refuse such position and remain eligible for recall.
4.	Ap employee who if demoted in acccrdanet with The regulations of the Department of Personnel during a layoff shall be continued On a previously established promotional list during its existence.
L. An employee on layoff accrues no additional sick leave or vacation credits. When an employee-is recalled faun layoff and reinstated, he is considered IO have continuous Service credit for cotnputotiem of future earned vacations.
JVL Except for the commitments concerning 'notice", "layoff and procedures discussed- and the supply of "relevant data" set forth in paragraph A. and except for paragraph F„ it is recognized (hit the provisions <?f paragraph A. through K. above ora ilJmrtrrrtivo parti eno of the layoff and rwaJI rights established under Department of Personnel Statutes and Regulations and ttial the overall system is administered by the Department of Personnel, Tito Union reserves the right under applicable law to challenge changas to any of the foregoing.
N. I. The Stale will discuss with The Union any decision to subcontract work based On solely fiscal reason* wlien it is apparent that employees will be laid off as a direct result of the Subcontracting.
2.	If, during the term of this Contract, the State contracts out or subcontracts work normally performed by employees covered by this Conlract and such action results in Layoff or demotion, employees affected will be given every priority available to continue (heir employment within their classification or any ivthcr position available for which They we Ratified, priortolaynff or demotion. Any employee thus affected will he protected by the layoff and recall provisions nfthe Contract and by any relevant laws, rules end regulations.
3.	Where employees -in titles covered under this contract are to be either transferred or reassigned due to work being phased out, the State will meet and discUSs with the Union any contracting out of (hu specific work, if such contracting out is to occur within ninety (!?U) days. D. I. A reorganization is the abolition or consolidation of a State office.
2.	When a determination is made to reorganize an entire local State office Of a Larger Departmental entity, the Union shall he notified of well reorganization prior to its implementation. Upon request, ihe Union and The Dep<trttnent shall meet to discuss m.rtlers mlaiiog to the reorganization. The scheduling of such meeting shall no! serve to delay (he reorganization process.
ARTICLE XXIX
LAYOFF AMP RECALL FOR UNCLASSIFIED AND PROVISIONAL EMPLOYEES
A, In (he event management determines tiiat a department-wide layoff due to financial exigencies or programmatic changes must take place which will affect unclassified or provisional employees (he following procedure shall bo observed:
1.	The Union shall be notified of the Layoff as for in advance as possible.
2.	Affected employees shall be given a generalized notice of layoff at least forty-five (4$) calendar days, prior to the reduction in force.
3.	The State win supply the Union with relevnol data concerning the layoff.
4,	Employees serving in the same job classifications within (he Work unit affected who, in the judgment Of managetnenl, have performed unsatisfactorily; or are Lacking with respect to having
42
achieved OT mamlamcd necessary and/or expected Certifications, degrees, or like qualifications^ Or are lacking the abilities andtar skills necessary to perform current or future work USSigflinetllS stiTitl at the option of managerricrit be laid off first Duc considejattou shat! tic given to the concepts of affirmative action.
5.	Where, in the judgment of management, the elements set forth in paragraph 4. above du Uul distinguish employees affected by the reduction in forte sticb employees serving in the same job dassificatiofl within the work unit shall be laid off in inverse order of job classi fiextion seniority. For purposes of this article, an employee shall begin to accrue job ci assi fixation seniority as of stir (Ci) months subsequent to die effective date of the employee's initial appointment to (he particular job classification to which he is assigned. Employees who are appointed tv a new j uh title (due to promotion, for example) subsequent to having .nerved the initial srr (6) munlh period shall htgui to accrue job classification seniority three (3) motitte subsequent to lhe effective dtite uf lhe employed 4pp0inlment to such naw job title, provided Uial tirtfehasteeuno break m srrvice. An nnployee's job claasifioation Seniority accrued prior to a layoff shall be continued and again begin to accrue immediately Upon the employee's reLum lo full employment status in tha mme job title in Which he had been serving prior io the layoff. Job classification Beiriorilv shall continue to accumulate until (here is a break in service. Employees rm unpaid leaves of absence or layoff shall not accrue jub damfictnion seniority during the leave or during the period of layoff Employees who are reinstated due tn improper application of thia Article ahall not suffer any loss of seniority accrual.
6.	Nothing herein shall convey any trumping rights to employees covered by this article. Failure ip comply with any dement of this article shall oct result in delaying lhe effectuation of the layoff, and any errors identified with respect Co 1he application of this, prnr^l ine sh;i 11 be corrected on a pro spec live basis only. Rack pay shall not be awMijed,
7.	The various appointing authorities dial] create and maintain a recall list by title composed of those employees who were laid off The list shall continue iit existence tor nine (9} months following the date of layoff except for teaching personnel covered by this article in which case the list shall continue until the beginning of the next full academic year irnmettialely following fne expiration date of the recall list. Employee* who are fully qualified, posseting credentials deemed necessary, whose performance has been satisfactory atui w]ro are capable of performing the work to he assigned shall be recalled in inverse order nf layoff The appointing authority shall not be required IO recall employees who were Laid off pursuant to paragraph 4. of litis article, however, such employees may be recalled at the .option nf the appointing authority when the hst cf eligible employees is cwhausLed.
8.	The term job classificatjoriR as used in this article stwH encompass all titles within a title settee. Hence., layoff will be based upon total seniority within a title series when applicable.
B, Procedure
The appointing auchoriiy shall simullsneuiisfy notify by regular mail ur phone af Least three £1) eligible employees of a vacancy in then particular rille and a copy of such notice shall he forwarded to file Union. The most senior employee affirmatively and timely insponding In the notice shall fill (he position. The employee musl respond within five (5) working days of the receipt of lhe notice nr within ten (10) working days after lhe mailing The letter of recall shall specify the latest date by which the employee may timely contact the appointing authority. Employees who do not respond in a timely manncj mey be pennanenUy removed from the list. Each employee .shall be responsible for keeping the appointing authority advised of their COrieut address and phone number. The employee must report to work within a reasonably prompt period of time wfoch in nd case shall, exceed twenty (20) calendar days. Failure tn report within (be time frame set forth above may result in forfeiture of the position 10 which rhe employee had been retailed and elimination Item Che recall list.
43
ARTICLE XXX
LIABILITY CLAIMS INDEMNIFICATION
A. Employees covered try ihis Agroemetit shidl be entitled to defense and indemnification as provided irtNJ.S. A. 59:10-1 et scq. and NJ.S.A. 59:10A-1 et $eq.
K Fur tnformaiional purposes only, the following paragraphs generally describe ihe provisions presently contained in lbe aforesaid slulutes,
1.	Defease of Employee!
a.	Eacep! as provided in paragraph 2. below, the Attorney General shall, upon a request of an employee provide fur lhe defense of any action brought against (he employee on account of an act or omission in the scope of his employment. The-Attorney CkncraTs duty to defend shall extend to a cross-action, ccmnlerclaiin or cross-complainl against an employee,
b.	The Attorney General taay refiwe to provide for the defense of an action referred to in paragraph I. above if he determines that:
1.	the act or omission was not within the scope- of employment; or
2,	(Ik acl of Failure to act was because of actual fraud, will fol miaconduct or actual imlm, or
3.	The defense of the action or proceeding by the Attorney General would create a conflict of interest between the State and the employee.
c.	In any other action or proceeding, including criminal proceedings, the Attorney General may provide for (he defense of an employee If he concludes that such representation is in the heal interest of lhe State.
d.	Whenever the Attorney General provides for the defense of an employee, lhe Attorney General may assume exclusive control over (be npnsenlulion of such employee and such employee shall cooperate fully with the Attorney General's defense.
e.	The Attorney General may provide for a defense by an attorney from his own staff or by employing other counsel for this purpose or by asserting tbe State's right under any appropriate insurance policy which requires the Insurer to provide die defense.
2.	[ndcnuifrcatioM
a.	]f the Attorney Gtxuual provides for the defense of an employee, the State shall provide indemnification for (lie employ®, Nothing in this section authorizes the State to pay for punitive or exemplary damages or danwges resulting from Ihe commission of a crime.
b.	If the Attorney General refuses to provide for lhe defense of a State employee, the employee shall be entitled to indemnification if he establishes that the sol or omission upon which the claim or judgment was based occurred within the scope of his employment as an employee of the State and the State fails to establish that he acted or failed to act because of actual fraud, actual malice or willful misconduct, If Uk employee establishes (hut ha waa entitled to a defense, lhe Stats shall pay or reimburse him for any bona fide settlement agreements entered into by the employee, and shall pay or reimburse bitll for any judgments entered against ihe employee, and shall pay or reimburse him for idlcoslS of defending Lhe action, including reasonable counsel fees and expenses, together with costs of appeal, if any.
Nothing in this section authorizes the State to pay for punitive or exemplary damages or damages resulting from the rommimim of a Crime,
c.	An employee shall not be entilled to indemnification unless within ten (ICQ calendar days of the lime he is served with any summons, complaint, process, notice, demand or pleading, he delivers lbe ungjnal or a copy' thereof to the Attorney General or hrs designee. Upon such delivery the Attorney General may assume exclusive cootml of the employee's representation and such employee shall cooperate fully with the Attorney General's defense.
44
C, The provisions of this Article shall not be subject Lo the Grievance Ptoccduic as set forth in Article IS’.
ARTICLE XXXI
TRAVEL REGULATIONS
A. fraDEpotfiilfoi Allowance
!. Whenever an individual employee is authorized and required to use his private]}' owned vehicle or ®A a condition of his employment uses such vehicle, the State will be responsible for indemnifie at ion pursuant to appropriate legislation for aurb sanctioned use and shall reimburse ihe employee* at the applicable rate provided by law for each mile of such use. Authorization for such u$e is predicated cm the individual mainlarning basic automobile insurance as specified in lhe Ne* Jersey Travel Regulations and current registration and licensure.
2.	During such aulhotized use Of hi? privately owned vehicle, the State requires each individual accepting such authorization [omaincain insurance for personal liability ill the minimum amounts of $25,000 for each person and $50,0(10 for each accident and $10,000 property damage for each accident. The Stale will provide insurance coverage where auch privately owned vehicles are used in lhe authorized business of the Slide covering the excess over the valid and collectible private insurance in the amount of $ 13O,OOO for each person and $5OU,0 W for each accident for personal liability and £50,000 property damage for each accident unless and until legislation is pauad which requires the Scale ti> iodamnily and hold harmless tbair employees for personal injuries and property damage caused by the negligence of said employees while operating their privately owned vehicles on the authorized business Of lhe Stale.
3.	The requirement lo utilize a privately owned vehicle shall iKit be imposed where il causes undue hardship on the employee,
9. Rcunbursejnertt
L, Employees shall be reimbursed for travel expenses while on the authorized business of the State in keeping w ith the condtti ons set forth, in the Travel RlcguialionS of the Stale.
2.	a. Expenses incurred for pacessary parking and lolls directly related to lhe authorized use of a vehicle on official Stale bimMSS are allowed and reimbursable by the State. All such expenses require documentation and may require advanced authorization. j\j1 exception to the requirement of doctuncntiuiun of an expense may be authorized for such cireumstaflcea where recerph for payments are not available; for example, the payment of parking meter expenses.
b. Vouchers, inclusive of required Supplemental documentation, shall Ik submitted on a monthly basis when travel expenses are incurred, Such vouchers presented forreiDfouraement on or prior to the last day of the month shall be processed prOtnpfly through focal authorization procedures and, if-approved, submitted to the Division of Budget and Accounting to assure receipt prior to the tenth (10) day of ihe following month.
3.	Payment where warranted under the Travel Regulations shall be mtldc promptly providing lhe voucher ia complete and accurate and received within the time schedule outlined hercin-
4.	In vacepuon to these conditions, whatever in employee accumulates authorized expenses of one hundred dollars ($100.00) or more, that employee may exercise an option tn submit an appropriate voucher with documentation for payment without regard to the ordinary monthly schedule. Further, where authorized monthly expenses arc leas than ten dollars (SlO.Ofi), the Stille may exercise an option 10 accutnulaia such expenses Co include other monthly periods until there is an amount in excess of 1en dollars (110 00) hut such accutrudaticwi shall not be continued beyond three (3) successive months.
C.	An employee who is authorized to use a privately owned vehicle for State business may deci not to transport other employees of the State except ihal this election must be communicated in advance
45
any travel assignment thua providing suffiuiott time notice for planning purposes.
D,	What the Slate requires an employee tn he medically examined hy a Stale designated doctor or rn&dioa] Cwility, travel expenses, not incortsisteol with the Travel Regulations of the State, shall be. paid in the same manner and under lhe same conditions as other travel expenses. An employee attending such examination shall do so without loss of pay for necessary lime of Midi attendance and necessary travel time appropriate thereto if during normal working time.
E.	1. Inorder to provide- nnnrinuityof erliwliikrl wnrlt hy employe? Tllt1n iq rnntlarly MiKhrn-iTPrl to use a privately owned vehicle for Slate business and in (he event such vehicle is damaged or otherwise inoperable and undergoing major repairs such employee may request temporary use of a Stare owned vehicle from those vehicles in the motor pool servicing lhe particular function. The request if endorsed by the appropriate supervisor shall be presented lo the Stale official in charge of thc$e vehicles fur approval and authorization. Such vehicles may be assigned for up lo three (3) days and such period may be extended if required.
2.	All such use of State vehicles must confirm lo Lhe regulations pertaining thereto.
3.	Employee* authorized to utilize State owned vehicles shall obtain gasoline and related cervices and products at State facilities.
4,	Employees may request the issuance of Slate credit card* when edreuraatances seem to wanart. Such requests rf endorsed by appropriate inamgetJwtrt and approved by the State official al the k>CAl molar pool nil] be forwarded to the Central Motor Pool for atrthcri&Uion. The issuance of credit cards shall be witbin conditions and Criteria established hy the supervisor of the Central Motor Pool.
F.	Grievances concerning these matters shall be copRidETodnoD-contnictual.
ARTICLE XXXH
HEALTH AND SAFETY
A. Ihe State Shall continue to nuke reasonable provisions for the safety and health of its employees during the hours of their employment, The State will discharge its responsibility for the development and enforcement of occupational safety and health standards lo provide a safe and healthful environment in accordance with PEOSHA and any other applicable statutes, regulations or guidetinm published in lhe New Jersey Register which pertains to health and safety matters. The state will set up necessary job safety and health programs for all employees covered by this Agreement and shall provide 0 reasonably safe and healthful place of employment for ail anpkyees. B. The parties agree to cooperate in mamtainmg and improving safe working conditions and health protection for the employee* consistent With established safety standards and in the promotion Of safety, safe working habits and good housekeeping throughout (he work environment. 'Where reasonably possible each employee will comply with all safety elites and regulations.
C.	Employee compluinLi of unsafe or unhealthful conditions shall be reported to the inunEdiale supervisor and shall be prurnplly investigated. Corrective action shall be initiated as soon as practicable to remedy the condition within safety guidelines.
D.	Employees shall not be required lo work under conditions of work which ara unsafe or unhealthfol. An employee whose work is temporarily eliminated aa a result of the foregoing may be promptly assigned on an interim basis to other comparable work for which the employee is qualified lo perform.
E.	If an employee incurs an on-the-job inpuy during regular hours of employment requiring professional medical attention, Lhe Slate will expedite such medical treatment by calling for an ambulance, if required, or providing transportation to a recognized medical facility when the injured employee can be moved.
F.	1, a, The Stare and the Union shall establish a Joint Safety and Health Committee for the purpose
4£
nf discussing satay and health probiemB, hazards and/or programs in an effort co develop recotniMfwIatioite concerning improvements ar modifications of conditions regarding health and safety. U is appropriate for the eorarnittee to handle issues of b Slate-wide and local nature- The ftimmrttea ahall be attmded byone (1) unit member appointed by the Union and representatives tfum the Stale and (lie appropriate Operati ng dnpartaml(s). AL lhe request of cither party, the committee shall be scheduled tn meet at a mutually convenient time add place bimonthly, In emergent situations, additional meetings may be convened npon the mutitel agreement of the purlieu. Where than is a mutual agreement to do so, special safety meetings may be scheduled at work locations. None of these tnEetings are intended to bypass the grievance procedure nor be considered collective negotiations sessions. Any program instituted as the result of any meeting shall ho considered experimental rad not constitute a binding prMtice unless ihe panics specifically ngrse in writing.
b.	The party requesting lhe meeting shall submil a written agenda of the suggested 1opic(s) lobe discussed al least fifteen (15} work days prior to convening ths meeting except ivhere an emergent situation warrants a waiver of this period. Ihcre muar be mutual agreement upon topics to be planed on ihe agenda for the meeting,
c.	The State and (he Union ngrue to set up a subcommittee of (he State Hftahh and Safety Committee to discuss the use ofVDT machines in State Departments. Included in the discussions Will be We Department of Health Guidelines on the um ofVDT madillics. The Bubcommiticc will consist of four management represraftaliva? and four UiuCtnrcpre&entativE& The subcommittee tnay tasks reoominendations to the Comraissfontr of the Departmeul of Labor as to future PEOSHA rtgulaiiona. The subcommittee will meet quarterly. The ootruniltee shall meet within 90 days after (tie contract is signed.
d.	The conunillee shall consider rewrartiahdations fbr new or revised health rad safety standards developed by eittier llie Union or the Stele.
This program shall expire on Juno 30, 2003 unless extended in whole nr In part by mulual agreement between the State and lhe Union.
2.	The Stele rad ths Union shall establish Departmental Health rad Safety Committees. These totnmjtuxs ahall consist of fcproaesitativcs from the Department fuid representatives (rum the Unkrn Local whom are net in the active employment of the State. The Union may also have one (I) unit employee representative attend Bitch meeting, Such employee representative shall be released only for die purpose of attending hialiet department's scheduled meeting. The purpose of the Joint Committee meetings is fo provide the parties the opportunity lo raise and discuss important DcpartruEtilal health and safety matters, rad to make recommendations cuncenung improvements or modifications of conditions regarding health rad safety. Department committee meetings may be scheduled at Ihe request of cither party. The party requesting the meeting shall submit a written agenda of lhe meeting net less than fourteen (14) working days prior to lhe meeting along with any documents or reports that arc relevsnl to the topdefa) listed on ihe agenda. Complaints of unsafe or unhealthy conditions shall be accompanied by written documentation when available.
3.	Where reasonably possible, all committee meetings shall take; place during working hours and employees shall Stiffer no loss of pay as a result bfattendance at such meetings.
4,	Ulis provision shall not be construed us conveying ray additional liabilities upon either party with respect to health or safety,
G. 1. References to suftly are intended to include a concept of reasonable personal security rad protections which shall be maintained to assure employees against physical harm.
2.	1c is understood that references to safety and health hazards and conditions of woik rctaral to in this Article are not intended to include those hazards and risks which are an onlinaiy characteristic of the work or ate reasonably associated with the perfonnraw Of rsti employee's responsibilities rad duties. However, this isuul intended to eliminate the State's general obligations
47
for (tie safety and health of such employees as set forth tn other provisions of this Article.
3.	Notice of proposed work site relocations or renovations dull be provided Lo (he Union. Tbc State agrees to meet with the Uaion concerning (he impact of such relocations and renovations open health and safety conditions and other terms and conditions of employment
4.	Pursuant (o (he Slates contractual Health and Safety Committee, the State agraaa to set up meetings with foe Union to discuss security concerns of field work-era and lo recommmd safeguards aa to field workers. Additionally, meetings will also ho held to discuss workplace security issues.
ARTICLE XXXLLL
CLAIMS ADJUSTMENT
Where a loss or damage to personal property is sustained as a result of an ai4ioii taken tn the pafbnnance of the assigned duly of an employee, Slich loss may he adjusted. A claim for such toss must be filed within thirty (30} days of foe time when the loss occurred, The claim must be fitted nut on die forms provided, including the requested adjustment, and submitted to tlic Stale tor this action, The State shaft provide the farms and any instructions which may be necessary for the Vum^lctimi oi pi'Jtttiing of the farms,
ARTICLE XXXIV TUITION AID AND EMPLOYEE TRAINING A Tuition Aid Program
1,	Where a department OF appointing authority of Lhe Stele has established a tuition aid program, the Union shall be provided with a published description of foe program, if available. Applications for tuition aid unddetcnrtiuaticms cotlMrning the approval and conditions (hr payment Shall be in accordance with the Merit System Rules.
2.	Employees of a Stele College who take approved courses al lhe College where they art employed under the program outlined hi Appendix I shall have tuition waived upon enroll ment.
Waiver of tuition is predicated on satisfactory completion of Such courses and other conditions set forth in the program description.
3.	Tn all departments where tuition aid programs are in effect, those programs will be made available to employees in this unit.
B, Employee Training
1,	The State shall continue to offer training programs of proven worth which arc aimed al skills development and improvement in order lo afford employees greater Opportunity for performance improvement and promotional growth. Such offering may be regulated or limited by availability of fluids or Other factors.
2,	When in-service or out-service training programs are available fo 4 group of employees, the selection of Ihe employee^) to be trained shall be predicated on the needs of the State, the potentialof an employee to beneGl by lhe training and to contribute to the operational program in which he or she is employed, and with due regard to a principle of lair opportunity for all eligible ca'ipfoyecx within (he group,
ARTICLE XXXV
EMERGENCY WORK (NEW PROGRAM)
A,	Unit employees shall be eligible fur foe special emergency rales or the employee's regular overtime rate, when entitled lo overtime Udder foe Fair Labor Slandante Act, whichever is greater, if called in to work undo- the following specific circumstances:
I.	Employees in the unit must be called in outside of scheduled work shlfte; and
2.	TIk work involved mustha far emergency marutenfince, replacement or repair of equipment
4 fl
or mechanical devices which are vital to the cpetalkxi of an institution, agency or other function nf (he State; and
3.	Such work must be necessitated by damage or failure resulting hum storm, flood, exptesion, sudden unexpected catastrophe nr like causes; and
4.	Such conditions must constitute unreasonable afety hazard to the public employees, other persons ar property of the State,
5.	In winter weather conditions, codes C, D and E ate to be used exclusively for emergency work pErfnrmnJ Id excess of normal work hours related Id winter weather conditions such snow removal and icc control.
B.	Il is Clearly understood that all of the foregoing element* or criteria must be met for an employee to be eptitied to payment at the emergency nite. The following special project pay rates slwll apply:
1.	Employees who are rm gaged in manual or unskilled work as hy use of shovels, picks, axes, choppers, etc., die rate of $13,80 per hour is authorized si»d known ns i Group V! Emergency Rate (Code 6).
2,	Employees who perform ecmi-ridlled work including the operation Of mechanized CqltiprncrU SLUih aa tiutha, pfcrwi, lighrt-gradM, b*ok hewn, eta., a iW* of $24.07 per hour is ailrtwnrizwL and known as a Group V Emergency Rate (Code 5),
Employees who perform skilled work including the operatiern of heavy equipment or those employee* Who are assigned to he in charge of or supervise either seml-aldlled or unskilled works* OT both, the rule of S2?.2O per hour is authorized and known a* a <rroup IV Emergency Rate (Code 4}-
4.	Employees who supervise skilled worker* or mixed reams of skilled, Semi-skilled und,r0r unskilled employees, lhe rale of $31.94 per hour is authorized and known os a Group 11L Emergency Rate (Code 3).
5.	Supervisors who are in charge of a local area or district emergency operations, the rate of $3(5.95 per hour is authorized and known as a Group]! Emergency Rate (Code 2).
6,	Supervisor* wbo arc m charge of cma gnuy operations on u Statewide or regional level within a dqraitment with eperattons going chi in several areas throughout the Slate, the rate of $42.80 per hour is authorized and known u a Group I Emergency Rata (Code I).
7.	Employees who supervise and/or mill in tee supervision of sectional or area crews will have an hourly rate of 832.00 aa boor and such wort shall be known aS Code Rale C,
8	Employees who operate hedvy duty equipment, such as trock/fraol end loader mounted snow blowers; perform mechanical repair work; supervise the distribution of inventory parts for emergency operations; perform skilled labor involved in the repair of equipment; ot act ns Department representative assigned to snow removal activities shall have an hourly rule of $31. i 5 an hour and such work shall be known as, Code Rate D-
Employees who operate "walk behind” snow blowers, graders, front end loadcra, trucks; snow plows, material spreaders, compressors, and other mechanised equipment; make cr assist in making occasional mechanical or electrical repairs;' distribute or assist in the distribution of inventory parts for emergency operations; handle radio communications tdtisnlcg at base radio Stations cr assist in State or district control coder Operations shall have Ui hourly rate: of $29.22 an hour and such work sball be known as Code Rate E-
C,	The emergency rate described in 0,1-9 above, Shall be adjusted by two end one-half (2.5%) percent, effective on July f, 1999. The etnetgancyratesitJ effect on June 30, shall be adjusted by two (2%) percent on July 1,2000. The emergency rates in effect on December 31,2000 shah be adjusted by one and one-tuiif (1.5%) percent on or about January 1, 2001. The emergency rates in effect June 30, 2001 shall be adjusted by two (2%) percent on July J, 2001. The emergency rales in effect on December Ji, 20Ut shall be adjusted by two (2%) percent on or about January 1,2DU2.
49
The emergency rates in effect June on 30,2001 shall he adjusted by two (2%) percent on July 1, 2002. The enici^eucy rales in effect an December 31,2002 shall be adjusted by two and one-half (2.5%) percent on cr about January 1, 21)03.
D.	The requirement of each employee to respond, if called when such emergency conditions are present, Constitutes a condition Of Stille employment. An employee who refuses an assignment because of a reasonable excuse will not he subjected to disciplinary action. However, any absence Of repeated absence nr refusal to respond Without good and sufficient reason, may be cause for such action.
E.	When an employee is called in and reports for an sruergeiwy work assigntnenl, Ike stall be paid for all hours actually worked outsida his normally scheduled Work shift and Shall be entitled to a minimum of two (2) hours pay at like appropriate Special project rale whether or not such two (2) hours are actually worked, providing lire employee remains available for any work assigned.
F.	Liats showing the rotational order nf each employee and the total hours worked and refused by each employee shall be maintained in ths work unit. Such lifts shall be made available tor inspection on request lo Union Officers.
<j. An emergency overtime assignment 1$ subject to all appropriale rules and regulations of (he State and the Department.
H. In exception to the requirement ttal employees be called in outside of regular work shifts, employees assigned lo Snow and Ice Control JEmergency Overtone will receive lhe appropriate Special project rate after lhe end of the employee's regular wntk shift duringthc time prior to die next regular work ahifL
ARTICLE XXXVI
VIDEO DISPLAY TERMINAL OPERATORS
A.	Full-time employees who operate VDT mtwhineS on a full'lirtie basis shall he eligible tor annual eye exfittlS. Such employees shall also be eligible tor reimbursemetil for (he cost of glasses, should there be a change, in the employee's lens prescription. Reimbursement rales are (hose established in Article VI, Section D.
B.	A full-time VDT operator who is pregnant and experisKing signiiirant discomfort at her work statical may request reassignment to Other work allowing greater flexibility as to position and pOSlure. Such requests wilt be given consideration and may be granled in full or in part when there is comparable work available, 7farga$$ignmeirt is not available, the employee may be given other duties during the workday, based upon availability of the work and (he employee's ability to perfonn il_ Ttwac aocomiftodaiianB uc, as tn their degFco or continuity, subject to the overriding need* of the employing agency. Grievances concerning Che determination lo grant or refuse such requests or Otherwise directly related to those detenirinaticras are non-contractual and processed exclusively under Article 1V, A_2. of lhe Grievance Procedure.
ARTICLE XXXVR
PRESENTATION OF AGREEMENT TO EMPLOYEES
Printing of Agreement
After the Signing o F this Agreement, the State, at Its expense will reproduce this Agreement insufficient quantities so that each employee in the unit may receive a copy, and so that there see sufficient additional copies tor distribution lo employees hired during the lertn of this Agr«tnenl and for additional copies to the Union. The Slate shall distribute such copies of the Agreement (0 all employees if) the unit and ti> (he Union Within a reasonable period of time after the Agreement has been executed. The cover of the Agreement shall include lhe seat Of lhe Stale of New Jersey and the insignia or other appropriate designation of the unit represenlalivt.
50
ARTICLE XXXVH!
UNEMPLOYMENT COMPENSATION ANI> DTSABITXTY
A.	All eligible employees in this unit arc covered under 1he State Unemployment Compeosation Plan under th# current laws of ihe State of New Jersey.
R The Slate agrees lo include eligible employees in this unit in the State of New Jetsey Temporary Disability Plan. Thai Is a sharad cost plan which provides payments to employee;- who are unable to work as the result of non-work connected illness or injury and who have exhiiuiled their an cumulated sick leave
ARTICLE XXXIX
The foUowing provLsion(s) are sei forth herein (ar informational purposes only. These matters as they apply io individual employees ifffected shall lx grievable within the provisions at*the Grievance Procedure iti (lit Agreement aS defined iti Article IV, Section A.2. except for the provisions lieiow (hat are umterlifl«i which are grievable under Article IV, Section A.l. TRANSFER AND REASSIGNMENT Ar Transfer
I.	Transfer is (ho movement of ao employee from one job assignment to another wilhin his job classification in another organizational unit or department.
2.	An employee shall not be transferred without We approval an J Consent of Ove appointing authority from And to whose unit the transfer is sought, nCtf without the consent of the employee, or 1he approval of the Department of Personnel, except that:
a.	The consent of the employees shall not he required wheal ihe employee movement is the result of a transfer or combining of functions of one unit m or with another,
b.	When a temporary transfer is made, Ihe consent ofthe employee shaft not be required; but if the employee object*, he shall have ihe tight to have Uw transfer reviewed by the Department ofPtrsuftDCl;
c.	Any special hardship lltaf may result will be given due cousideiaticn:
d.	The ngfari of an employee wbo has voluntarily Ifapsfcrred shall not be adversely affertjd «nCj*Bl that he shall not retain any ritAls in the unit finm which he has uwoftfetred:
e- The rights of.an employee who has involuntarily transferred sltsll not be adversely affected but he shall retain no rights in theunii from which he has bam transt'nTTed eiae&t that if he is on a promotional fiat his name shall be retained on fbe proqiotiond eligible list far the Utii! from which he has bcm transferred until he has had an opportunity to take a prontorional examination ih his new unit and the resultant list Lu been ommnlgHled. Nothing herein is imqpde d to diminish the rights Of employees resulting from a layoff;
f Transfer shall not affect the accumulation of an employee's State or job classification seniority.
3.	Upon any transfer of a permanent employee, all sick leave and vacation balances shall be irunsfcrrcd with the etnpLcyee. exceol that
a.	Upon voluntary transfer, all flccrttfd compensatory .time wilL at the diacreliotloftfic Sfptp. be transferred with the employee, taken as time offurior tu transfer or uaid in cash a1 the employee's currenl rule of pay.
b.	Upon involuntary transfer of a permanent employee, all accrued cunroeiisatorv ritae balances shall be iransfensd with ihe employee.
C- When accepted fur transfer by an organizational unit or depiuitnent the request for transfer shall not be unreasonably withheld by the organizational unit or department where the individual is employed.
4.	An employee may request a IriLjlsfcr thnju|fta ills personnel officer.
51
B.	Reassignment
1.	Reassigoraent is the ntovemeni of an employee from one job assignmenl to another within his job classification and within the work unit, organizational unit or department.
2.	Reassignment of employees may be made in accordance with the fiacaJ responsibilities of the appointing authority to improve or maintain operational effectiveness, or to preside employee development and job Jraining Of 3 balance of employee experience in any work area. Where sueb reassignment art nol mutually agreed to, the appointing authority will make rcassignments in (he inttnc order of the job classification seniority of Ihe employees affected, given the above conditions, providing the employees are capable of doing ihe work and it is agreed that special qualifications of a personal nature nr special hardships which may result will be given due consideration. 3. When lemnorary m-wriftiments (ordinarily of Icjs than six Id) months'duration) are made Io achieve any of the objectives in B. 2, above. Employees Io be affecled will be given maximum posable noticq. The consideration of seniority othowisc applicable in reasignmenlswill not apply. The utilization of the concept of wnperary rea$aignm$nts will not be used unreasonably.
4.	Whflrt perwwmH chanyes in a wnrk unit provide oooartunrlies fur shill of schedule changes. InlCLtatal njiuluym niny apply fu Jiauiral Hyaijurricnt Lu Ulc wutk unit aujjta viaui. £JulIl ivLajjgfs in assignment will be made on Ihe basis of die job classification seniority of employEes requesting the change, except that priority is given to ibe assignment of individual employees as provided in B.2. above.
S.	When a vacancy j$ filled by an employes from outside a work unit, the employee joining thill work unit sJiall be assigned ihe open position on Ihe shift and work schedule which were appropriate io Ilse opening.
6.	e. Where the principles in B. 2. above are observed, requests for voluntary reassignment within the organizational unit or department shall be given consideration.
b, AjI employee desiring reassignment to any job in his organizational uml or department may submit xn Jipplirjimn Ihmuyh his supervisor In writing to his Personnel Officer atatinF ihe reasons for (tie request. Employees who are capable ofperfbnning the work and who apply for such reasfiignmcQts will be considered and Teasfljgnmcnts will be made on Ihe basis of these requests. Where more than one request for reassignment from qualified employees deemed capable of performing the work in such a job is on record, any assignmetMfa) will be made on the basis of ihe job classification seniority of employees having recorded such areqilsSt.
7.	An employee may have on record no more than Iwo (2) requests for reassignment in O.b. above,
d. When an employee is granted a volimlSay reassignment under provisions of 4,5 Or 6 above, Ele shall then be eligible for only one (I} additional voluntary reassignment in the succeeding twelve (l^j-monlh. period.' Consideration will be given to a request for additional reassignment where special circumslunces exist.
9. Salary steps, seniority or tike auhstantive rights shall not be adversely affected by Teassjenmenl unless specifically Ret frrthhcrcin
JO. Permanent employees Shalt he given' preference for consideration fc* voluntary-reassignment as contrasted to provisional or probationary employees.
C, Special Requests
Requests for transfer or reassignment predicated on extreme personal hardship will be given priority cirri si deration where positions are available which the employee is capable ofperfornung. D. Reassignment for Uninn Offiren and Stewards
L Ihe Slate uttd the Union recognize that tfnicn Officers and Shop Stewards have in their rclati cnshio to their jobs n need for continuity in the assigned shi H and j urisdidion wilich exceeds that of Other follcrwoinplqvccg. It is agreed, therefore. ihaL Ihese Utl ion Officers and Stewards will
52
nnl he trnitinely rea&si pied outride of their eslahl i.shaj jurLsdicTion,
2.	The State and the Union recoada the need to utUlzc all jimonneL it, meet operational renuinmaits effeclivdy and notwithstanding therxirnntitment inPurtgranhJ.. above, movement uf saeh Union Officoa and Khnn Slewards outside of their established jurisdidion iruiv be ne&ysary and appropriate [gwrally on a tempunitv baais'i in.exertion to the guidelines agreed to Jia Paragraph I.
3.	Theexccnlitm used in Parayranh 2. will not be used unreasonably.
ARTICLE XI.
MAINTENANCE OF BENEFITS, EFFECT OF AGREEMENT AND COMPLETE AGREEMENT
A Maintenance of Benefits
The fringe benefits, winch arc aiibstanjinUy uniform in their appliuilion to employees m the unil, and which are currently provided to those employees, sutfi as the Hearth. BenetifiJ Program, die Life Insurance Pnjgram and their tike, shall remain in effect without diminution during the farm of this Agreement utairss modified herein or by subsequent agreement of lhe parties.
B, Effect tf Agreement
Regulatory policies initialed by lhe various roatiluliuns and agencies where these employees are working which have the effect of work rules governing the conditions af mplayment within the institution orageticy and which conflict with any provision of this Agreement shall be ixipsidcrcd to he modified consisrttiC with Are terms of ltrs	pzwwJerf tZrat if the State changes or
intends te make changes which have the effect of nomination in pad or in whole such Icons ubd conditions of emptoysnent, the State will notify tlte Union and, if requested hy the Union within ten (10) days uf such notice or of such change or of the date on which the change Would reasonably have become known to the employees affected, the Stale shall within twenty (2(1) days of such request enter negoliatiOnS with the Union on the matter involved, providing the matter is wjrhin die scope of Issues which are mundaiorily negotiable under tile Employer-Employee Relations Act iiA amended and further, if a dispute arises aS to flio negotiability <rfsoclt matters, thul the p/ocalures of lhe Public Employment Relations Commission shall he utilized to resolve such dispute, C. Complete A^Tteuieut
The State and lhe Uitioii acknowledge this and any Monortwxfa af Understanding attached hereto lo be (htzir complete Agreement inclusive of all negotiable issues whether or not discussed and hereby waive any right to further negotiations except an may otherwise he provided herein or Specifically reserved for continued negotiation by purlivillar reference in iticmoraodiicn of undcrslurtditig pro-dating lhe d-utobf signing of lhe Agreement and except that proposed new rule: or modifications uf existing rules governing working conditions shall be presented to the Union and negotiated upon the re quest of the Union as muy be required pursuant to Chapter 3U3 of the Laws of New Jersey, as amended.
ARTICLE XL] PRESERVATION OF RIGHTS
Nohrilhsfand'mg any other provision of this Agreement, the parties hereto recognize mid aerre that they separately maintain and reserve alt rights Lo utilize the process of iht Public EmployrtHtU Relations Commission and to seek judicial review of?or LoLcrpuse any and all claims or defenses in legal actions surrounding such proceedings as on fair practices, scope n f negotiations, enlbreuiitc r.t or modification uf arbitration awards, issues of arbitrability, and specific performance of lhe Agreement.
ARTICLE XUI
EFFECT OF I AW
A.	Legislative Action
]. If Un}' provisions of this Agreement require legislative' action, or require adoption or modification of Lbe nils and regulations of (he Department of Personnel (0 become effective, or require (he appropriation of funds for their implementation, it La hereby understood and agreed that such provisions shall become effective only after the necessary legislative action or rule modificaLicul is enacted, and ihal the parties shall jointly Seek the enactment of such legislative action at rule modification.
2.	In the event that legislation becomes effective during lbe term of this Agreement which has flic effect of improving the wages and fringe benefits otherwise available to eligible employees in this unit, tills Agreetneni shall not he construed as a limitation otl their eligibility for such improvemenis,
B.	Savings Clause
1.	If any provision of this Agreement shall conflict with any Federal or State law or have lhe effect of eliminating urruakiiig lire State ineligible few Federal funding, that specific provision of this Agreement shall be deemed amended or miLlified to conform io such law. The other provisions of the Agreement Shall not he affected thereby and shall continue in full force and effect. Where a conflict of a provision of tins Agreement with Federal or State law would result in the amendment or tnUihcaiiOn of Ihe language of this Agreement as provided above, the modification shall be made only to the extent required to preclude any unlawful provisions,
2.	Upon request of either patty the State and the Union agree Lo meet and renegotiate any provision so affected.
ARTICLE XLlll
NOTICES
For the purports Of giving notice as provided in Article XLni, Teem of Agreement and Negotiations Procedures, lhe Stale may be notified through the Director, Office of Employee Relations, Governor^ CHTice^State House, 4lh floor, PO Box 228, Trenton, New Jersey, 08625; and the Union through lhe Corarttunicaitons Workers of America, 10 Rulgere Place, Trenina, New Jersey, H861S.
ARTICLE XLIV
TERM OF AGREEMENT AND NEGOTIATIONS PROCEDURE
A,	Term Of Agreement
1.	This Agreement shall remain in foil force and effect through June 30,2003,
2.	The Agreement shall be renewed from year to year thereafter unless either party shall give written notice of ita desire to terminate, modify or amend (he Agreement. Such notice shall be by certified mail poor Co October 1,2002 or October I of any succeeding year for which the Agreement has been renewed.
B,	Negotiations Procedure
1.	The parties agree to enter into collective negotiations concerning a successor Agreement to become effective on Of after July I, 2tM)3. subject to the provisions ofparagrapfi A. above.
2.	The parties also agree to negoliale in good faith on all ruatters presented for negotiations. Should an impasse develop, the procedures available Under law shall be utilized exclusively in an orderly manner in an effort to resolve such impasac.
54
TN WITNESS WHEREOF, lhe Stale and the Union have caused this Agreement to be signed fay their duly authorized repmaentalives aS of Que JI'1’ day of October, 1999.
55
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING 1
The following contractual provisions de net apply to the unclassified service: Department of Personnel Rules Promotion
Job Postings and Announcements ■ Career Service
Department ofPcrwnnel Exams
T-eaves of Absence (Paragraph A in lhe PinfesMonal, flic Primary Level Supervisors and the Higher Level Supervisors CoutracLs, and Paragraph F in the Administrative and Clerical Sendee® Contract)
Seniority
Layoff and Recall - Career Service
MEMORANDUM Of UNDERSTANDING II
A, The inclusion of certain part-time employees within die negotiating unit shall not be construed to expand the coverage of any Slate program relating to terms and conditions of employment for which such part-time employees were HOI previously deemed lo be eligible, otto include such part-lime employees under the coverage of any provision of this Agreement unless Uic sUOsumus ul Hie provision describes a type of program for which such part-time empkyees were generally eligible prior kt inclusion under lhe Agreement. Where such part-time employees are eligible for State programs or coverage under provisions of this Agreement, appropriate pro-rations will be made in accord with their part-time Btatuik
B. Disputes concerning whether part-ti |i>e Employees are eligible for coverage under any provision of Lhe Agreement between Lhe parties, or (he terms tiBd conditions of the coverage, shall he deemed 10 he an A.2. (non-cunltiictnal) grievance and Shall not be eligible Ibr Step Three arbilration.
56
APPENDIX [
STATE COLLEGES TUITION WAIVER PROGRAM
Ar The tuition waiver program provides Uiiiiotl asBjsAanct: w employers who take approved counts attfae college where they ere employed on their own time. Tbe intern of the program is to fulfill the needi of ihe Sune college sponsoring (he aid, State gov eminent as u whole and to enhance employee development. Each College shall determine its needs and waive tuition £?r employees engaged ill an approved enurae of study.
R. Each Stale College stall prepare a tuition aid plan at the beginning of each Ssail year with ccmsidaation given to affirmative action responsibilities. The plan shall specify:
J. Employee eligibility which is limited to full-time, permanent employees in die classified and unclassified services with exceptions granted on a case by case basis by t]jc college;
2.	Internal application procedure;
3.	Maximum amount of aid a vajlahle per person not lo exceed 51,1)00.00 or (he cost of twelve credits, whichever ia greater, per semester or education program;
d. Acceptable academic grades tor waiver of luiljtwi;
5.	Eligible costs; mtd
6.	AproCHSdure lo notify •emplijju'r:? r,f wpprrtVal or disflpprovaL
C.	Employees who do not satisfactorily complete courses tor which tuition waiver tad b«cn granted, stall be required to reimburse (he College for all waived costs. Until such reimbursement has been made, no further waivers will be available to Chat employee.
D.	1. It is u&dcratood that tnajorprogrammalii; changes shad not be made without negotiating, with (he Union whatever thal obligation would exist.
2.	Additional crile/ia for determining eligibility within (he program may be cstablisltadhy ihe College.
E.	When ad ctuployoe 1st cm an approved program of study under die tuition waives program, and a course under (tat program is either not available or oversubscribed at the college where the employee works, an exception will be granted tci the employee to tidre such wurac al anudicr Star College ifsoch course is (aught at the other institution.
APPENDIX II
SIDE LETTER OF AGREEMENT
Access to Premises
The Slate and Lhe Union agree that both parties will abide by the access to premises provision in the Union Rights and Representatives contract articEe. If problems develop as .to access tn premises a representative from the Office of Employee Relations and the Communications Workers of America Witt meet to sset an amicable resolution to Lhe problems. If no resolution is achieved both parties reserve their rights (o exercise legal and contractual options available.
SIDE LETTER OF AGREEMENT #2
Access to Premises
During the time prior to the ratification ofthis Agreement the Union may request acecss lo premises in accordance with the Access to Premises provision of the applicable Agreement ill order lo explain the negotiated Agreement As a one time per location per unit exception lo Lhe normal circumstance regarding Union meetings, the meetings may be wnchictcd for up to 3<J minutes. Employees may attend such meetings by combining their tore and afternoon breaks. Recognizing its responsibility to maintain necessary coverage, manage tnetil shall attempt to accommodate employees who wish to attend such meetings. Employees who ace unable Lo attend such meetings due lo the need to maintain nlvcrtge shall be allowed to combine (heir breaks should subsequent pre-ratificstion meetings bo conducted by (he Union, No employee may attend a 3<1-rmmite meeting more than once.
SIDE LETTER OF AGREEMENT #3 Additional Tides to the nothing Allowance
Tlic parties agree that employees serving in the list of titles sei forth below atid who meet the eligibility requirements otherwise act forth m Article VI, Section B, Clothing Maintenance Allowance, (with die exception of Lhe requirement of receiving the clothing maintenance allowance jli fiscal year ITOS/lP^k shall he erttitied to receive a clothing allowance as cortrartudlyxl forth in the above mentioned article effective id fiscal year 1999/2000 Ilrtsc titles shall be added to the List of titles already eligible to receive the clothing maintenance allowance:
I)	Assistant Supervisor 2, Administrative Services Facilities (R‘8265 8)
2)	Assistant Supervisor 3, Administrative Services Facilities (P-82655)
3)	A ssistant Supervisor 3, Admmismitive Services Public Safety (P-82655)
4)	Assistant Supervisor 4, Administrative Services Public Safety (P-82652)
5)	Assistant Supervisor of Residential Living (R-04213)
6)	Assistant Supervisor ofProfcRsianal and Residential Services (R-60634)
7)	Associate Supervisor 2, Facilities (S-82675)
8)	Audio Visual Technician (A-74762]
9} Child Care Quality Assurance Inspector (9-62220)
10)	Child Care Quality Assurance Inspector 2 (R-62227)
11)	Fipgcrprml Operator Trainee (A-45010)
12)	Fingerprint Technician, Stale Police (A-45012)
13)	Graphic Artist L (A-54593)
14)	Graphic Artisl 1 (A-54603)
15)	Graphic Atti« 2 (A-M609)
16)	Graphic Aili&l 2 (A-5460!
IT) Graphic Ailisl 3 (A-54598)
18)	Graphic Artist 3 (A-54594)
19)	Gmnakeepcr (R-02671)
2D) Museum Registrar(P>74593)
21} Occupational Health Consultant L (P-03914)
22)	Occupational Health Consulttmi 2 (P-03913)
23)	Occupational Health Consultant 3 (P-03912)
24} Occupational Health Consultant 4 (P-03114)
25)	Principal Audio vi sual Technician (R-74764)
26)	Principal Fiilgofpriht Technician, Scale Police (R.-45011)
27)	Principal Forensic Photographer (R-44924)
2A) Principal Safety Inspector Mming (R-17244-C)
29)	Principal Sanitarian (R-03154)
30)	Senter Audio Visual Technician (A-74763)
31)	Senior Engineer, Materials (P-13093)
32)	Senior Engineer, Strnclural Bridge Design (P-10473)
33)	Senior Engineer, Transportation (P-10273}
34)	Senior Engineer, Structural Evaluation (P-10468)
35)	Senior Fingerprint Technician, Slate Police (A-45013)
36)	Senkr Forensic Photographer (A-44923)
37)	Senior Geotechnical Engineer (P-10453)
38)	Studio CoonfiiiaCor Art Service (A-SZ434)
39)	Supervising Engineering Aide (S-14055)
40)	Supervising Graphic A rtist, State Police (R-54956)
41)	Supervising Laburulory Service Worker (S-01936)
42)	Supervisor. Aide to Navigator (S-32418)
43)	Supervisor Forensic Photography Unit (R-44945)
44)	Supervise of Postal Services (S-2020S)
45)	Teacher I (P-?52J»)4
46)	Teacher 2 (P-75292) 4
47)	Teacher 3 (P-75291) 4
4&) Radio Chemist J (P-18084.^-59979)
49)	Radio Chemist 11 (P-13083)
50)	Research Scientist 3, Radiological Health (P-18073)
e Tji the tollowioq f/Rs. £03, 6X1, 620, 321, S41. >54.V, 550. CCi
ba
59
SIDE LETTER 0* AGREEMENT #4
Ajjenry Ftc
The State and lhe Union ore contracting patties in an agreement concerning wages and toms and conditions. of employment for the period July ], 1999 through June 30,2003. One article of that agreement emhexijes a condition whereby employees art required to pay artpresentation fee to the Union. As a condition of the continuance of that requirement, it is understood that the Union will provide relevant financial information lo employees and maintain its demand and return system in such manner aa lo be in accord with the then current law' and determinations by the U.S. Supreme Court in all related matters hut specifically with regard to expeditious i&puuaE, prevision of required information and the preservation of individual's constitutional rights^ and further, it is understood that any n/lcs nr regulations promulgated by the New Jersey Public ErtZpIoyilteJrt Relations Commissiuu concerning this matter will be abided by in the admiriiRtration of the program.
SIDE LETTER OF AGREEMENT #5
Altera ate Workweek
When an Alternate Workweek Program is put forward by a Department or requested by the Union, the Stale, through the Governor's Office of Employee Relations and the Union, shall meet to discuss the parameters of such a program.
If the parties agree to proceed with an alternate worirweek program in a particular Department or division within a Department, the State recognizes its obligation under the New Jersey Btnployer-Employee Relation* Act tel negotiate un negotiable tenns andcoodiiioos of employment. The parties equally recognize that cert:iin subject* within an alternate workweek program are preempted hy Statute and/or regulations from negotiations,
Any agreement the parties may reach aa to an alternate workweek program must be approved by the Department oIFcmarmcl as per their jurisdiction under N J .S.A 11 A, ct seo.
SIDE LETTER OF AGREEMENT M
Computer Tape*
The Stale will provide the Lriitm with the following information un (ape provided by the Union: I) employee^ name, 2) address, 3) social security number, 4) check distribution number, 5) payroll number, 6) due* or agency shop fee amount, 7} negotiations utlil, 8) sei, 9) title, 10) anniversary date, 11) ran^ Step, and 12) pay period.
Such information ghsll be provided every payroll period. The Union acknowledges and agrees to All prior understandings regarding disclosure of informarion contained on these tapes.
SIDE LETTER OF AGREEMENT #7 Department ef Human Services
1,	The Union may request use of available space at an institution in the Department of Human Services for use as an office or for the sburtge of papers and files. Provisions 0 f such space chair jhi| be unreasonably withheld when available; however, the provision of space ahull oat take priority over essential ubcs and maybe on a shored basis. 'Hie Stars shall incur no responsibility for security OT safety of any Union materials nor any liability for Loss or damages which occur. Further, Lhe Union may bepetiniticd to famish Rte cabinets or cifacreqwpmaU ti> the cornmitmart above and under Lhe same condition*. The permission to utilise facilities of the Slate maybe withdrawn by ibe State; at any time.
60
2.	At Stale institutions of the Department of Human &cjvjc«, foe State will provide a thirty (30) minute period during the new employee's orientation period to alto* n mm-State employee representative of foe Union to med and explain the Union's responsibilities. If the noil’State employee representative of foe t Inion carmcit be present during s,tch orientation period, one (1) unit employee Of the institution designated by Lhe Union may be allowed Lo make such presentation to a maximum of twelve (12) times pcs year. Any employee released pursuant to this paragraph fortlss purpose t>f addressing employees during orientation stwj] only fddress employees ivhose titles are contEuned in Lhe same negotiating unit as Lhe employee making the presentation.
3.	Upon the request of the Union at an institution in foe Department of Human Services, a LabocManagemail meeting shall be scheduled by management sometime during the second week of March, June. September and December. The quarterly meetings are to discuss local contract administration problems and improve communications. The Union shall designate one (1) employee from foe Administrative and Clerical Services, Professional, Primary Level Supcrvlsmu and Higher Level Supervisors Units murder to attend such meetings. Meetings shall be up to one-balf (1A) day In duration. Either party' may request a meeting and shall submit a written agenda of the topics Lu ha discussed al least iwven (7) days prior to such meeting. Employee representatives who attend such meetings during their scheduled work shift shall be granted time off to attend without loss of pay. ITany employee representative who attends the meeting is scheduled tn work on another shift on the date of said meeting or attends the meeting cm hisfoer normal day off, Wihe shall be granted haur-for-hcdtr compensatory time for foe time spent ar the meeting.
litis letter shall expire on lune JU, 2003 unless the parlies mutually agree tn ;*n extension.
SIDE LETTER OP AGREEMENT lift
Department orMititary and Veterans Attain Alternate Workweek tor Employees Performing Ftre-fL^iting Duties
The Alternate Workweek Program currently in place a1 foe Department of Military and Veterans Affairs, which affect employees in foe tides Slid' Officer J, Staff Assistant L iurd Staff Assiatetlf 2, tha1 perform fire-fighting services at foe Atlantic City Arc Rase shall, fur lhe duration of Ibis contract,. remain in place as is, a* per dte November 10,1993 agreement between the S Late of New Jersey, {Jffice of Employee Relations, and [be Communications Wofoars o f America. The My 19, 1994 letter from the Department of Military and Veterans Affairs to foe Communication^ Workers of America shall also continue for the duration of this contract as is.
Tliis side letter of agreement expires on June 3 0, 2003.
SIDE LETTER OF AGREEMENT #9
Dignity
In order Lu resolve un uulstatidihg dispute concerning Article IT, section C-6, commuidy tefaied to as foe dignity clause, il is agreed foil where an issue or issues in a dignity grievance maybe covered by another article in the contract, or by direct appeal to the Department of Personnel., those issues shall he severed from the dignity grievance and appealed irndcr the appropriate contract provision, or by appeal 1o the DepurtmtnL of Personnel as a means of resolving (hose aspects of foe grievance.
The dignity grievance, if still viahlc, shall then proceed under Article IT, section C-6 of the contract.
SI DE LETTER OF AGREEMENT #10
DOT Milsige
After exception of (tie ccmrtrtjet the pieties wilt meet to discuss the DOT standard mileage deduction. The Union can select up tn two (2) DOT employees to attend (he meeting. The meeting will be conducted at a mutually agreeable time.
SIDE LETTER OF AGREEMENT #11
Grievance Procedure
The State And ihe Cummunicatiorts Workers of America hereby agree tn establish a pilei program involving (he collective negotiation agreement Grievance Procedure for all units whereby (be parties will substitute a Racond step grievance meeting instead of a secund step grievance bearing and a Crsl step grievance meeting.
The tttlie frame for filing 3 grievance that shall go to a grievance meeting shall be the time frames set forth under Article IV, section £(1). The Lime frames for scheduling a meeting and rendering a decision shall be Ihe Same as a Step 2 hearing
Pursuant U> iltiu pkil |nuy tun al llic iticcdtLjp icfHcaailiilcvca uf die pRutiwpfltio^ Department or Agency and the Union shall meet to discuss the resolution of Use grievance. At the meeting, m addition to the grievant, the Union may be represented by a local union officer aod/or local union represenLulive, The Department or Agency shah designate a representative Io attend the meeting. The Union and the Department shall also bfc Allowed one resource person who is tamilior with Lhe dispute to attend the meeting. Additional resource people may attend based upon the mutual consent of the parties.
At the grievance meeting, one peiSOB shall act as spokesperson for ihe Union and one person shall act 3R -Rpo.lrcspcr.Ron for the Department.
Any resoluliwi of the grievance will be reduced to writing. If [here is no resolution, the Department will Lrruc a decision explaining the basis ku denying the grievance, if the grievance is an A(l.) contractual grievance, management’s decision may be appealed to arbjlruliunpUrWtlt to (he lime frames set forth under Article IV, Section (H) (5).
The State and the Union agree to tried Once a year (0 discuss bow (his pilot prujetl is working and Lo determine wither any party may wish to continue or discontinue the project in any Department The pilot project shall expire Ob June 3D, 2003.
The following Departments or Agotcies have agreed to participate in this piled project:
1.	Agriculture
2.	Banking & Insurance
3.	Board of Public Utilities
4.	Community Affairs
5.	LdutalioO
6.	Environmental ffroleclion
7,	Health
8.	Labor
9.	Office of Information Technology
J fl.	Public Defender
11.	Transportation
SIDE LETTER OF AGREEMENT #12 Health Cara Cast Containment Commillce
1.	The STATE and the CWA agree tn continue the labtif.'Tnanagtmrrrt cost cuntaiiuikent eiHumittcc. All coats associated *i1h implementing the committee’s objectives that are mutually
62
agreed toby union and management shall beboroe by lhe State. The-term health insurance carrier shall include all providers eifbeaith senioes for represented employees, including HMOs and plan adfniilistrafora. The Joint Union''ManageiJteail Committee with equal representation ofiTlfuiagemenl and the Union shall be established. The committee shall;
<l Conduct an ongoing study of activities which have Lhe potential of limiting hcahh plan casts withoul shifting costs te workers or otherwise reducing levels of benefits or quality uT care. The study shall develop recommendations fur measures to hold insurance curriers, administrators and hospitals and physicians more accountable ter controlling health care uo&ls.
b, Conduct an ongoing review of any cost cnntrol programs agreed itpou in the health care benefit contract Tn performance of its duties, the Committee may Emve direct access co representative?. of all health plan carriers providing plans to employees when and as deemed appropriate by management and 11k union. The Committee shall receive copies nfpublic document reports on the health plan (including health plan. uosl and utilization infonuation} and shall have the ability to request additional reports mudiaily agreed upon hy management and the union.
2.	The Committee slia]] have Ihe ability to request regular reports on cost vonlrol programs THiiltuilly Vpun by management end d» union. Such reports ahall address costs of cpe-.i1jng the program, activities, savings (including assumptions) and future pEsns|,rccojiitnendzitLon5.
3.	The Cnmmitlee may also recommend additional measures w alternatives, consistent wifti the goals forth above, and the report prepared by tiic CW A entitled "Good Medic iim’!.
SIDE LETTER OF AGREEMENT #13
Job Security
This side letter will confirm the understanding between (he panics regarding some of the efforts th® Stifle of New Jersey (State) will undertake to lessen the impact of future privatizaion Initiatives or the closing of Stile fuctlitiK that occur during the penod from mriJjcjilion of this contract through June 30. and which itnpJU-t on employees in CWA ne^nfiutioti units. This letter refers lo negotiations unit entpJoyces who arc ultimately laid off at the coticiufiirui nf the Suite's layoff procedures, but the layoff would have lo be the result of the Slate's decision to privatize a function or lo close a facility,
In the event the State seriously considers privulitatioa of a facility nr (unction for purely fiscal or economic reasons impacting bargaining unit employees, tire State agrees lo give the Union reasonable advance notice, hut Dol Jets than 90 days prior to nidilal closure or privatization and, upon request, to med wi1h ihe Union to give the Union an opportunity to present its position ou the economic issues, The Union shall be given the opportunity to demonstrate that null employees will do the same work more efficiently than a private contractor. The Stale agrees lo provide the Union with relevant cost information necessary to enable Hie Union 1<? develop its economic position, including public dneurnenls involving the RFP, once issued arid shall meet with the Union within 30 days of tiiv issuance of the RFP.
When (he privatization decision ts based upon policy reasons, and well result in a layoff or joh displacement of bargaining unit employees, the Stale will give the Union reusonabltt advance notice of ifo decision and, Upon request, meet with (he Union 1o explain its rationale and discuss lhe impact cm affected employees. It is imderslood that in any event, Tlw decision lo privatize is n irulnugeriuL prerogative Thal nuy not be subject to 1he negotiation process.
The efforts the Stole will undertake *o MitSviMe Ihe impact on employees laid off as a result of such actions shall include one ot more of the following as appropriate under the cxistint, r: i re ti instances and sliall be (subject to discuasions herweAifi lhe Slate and the CWA:
I.	Establishing preferential hiring lists wi(h lbe private employer;
2.	Establishing hiring (feezes for positions rieiennincd by the Department of Personnel to
6?
have the same nr similar duties and responsibilities at other Stale locations within The department affected to create openings which wi IL be filled by Qualified Laid off employees and, if practicable, by employees targeted for layoff, alt in accordance with DOP and SAC rules and regulations;
3.	Continuing health coverage under COBRA which the State will pay for ft Certain limited transition period but not less thuu three months in duration; and
4.	Providing training for qual i Red employees to Ihe extent ihere are openings and laid o FT employees require training to fi It them.
The State agra&s to make good faith efforts which shall include compliance With all DOP regulations to Lessen the possibility of the layoff or demoticm-in-lieu-of Layoff of employees in the bargaining unit. Where practicable, these efforts will bo mile whenever workers are placed at risk through privatization, or program reductions or diminationa for reasons of economy, efficiency, or other reason. The efforts the Stale may take to lessen the. possibility of layoff nr demotion may include:, wherever pructicable, voluntary reduced work time and voluntary layoff or demotion which shall be offered to employees before the employer lakes involuntary action lo reduce the workforce.
Consistent with'DOP regulations. The Stale wilt consider the following prolayoff actions prior to any permanent employees heins laid off or demoted:
I.	Hiring and promotion freezes;
2,	Separation of non-permanent employees;
3.	Returning provisional employees lo their permanent titles
4,	Securing of transfers and reassignment to other employment; and
5.	Filling of existing vacaibCjeS.
Good forth aJtcmpG will he made to fill positions detcrmitied by lbe Department ofPersotiitel to have substantially the same or similar duties and responsibilities at other State Locations by qualified Laid off or demoted employees arid, if practicable, by employees targeted for layoff As practicable, the State shall tr-iiin *a1 risk" employees Lo allow' movemeul from the "at risk" localion to work locations within or outside the appointing authority where positions arc available. It Is understood Ihal all such actions must be consistent with operative Law and OOP regulations.
•SIDE LETTER OF AGREEMENT #14
L a bo r/M an age meat Hcartfa Care Advisory Committee
1.	There shall be established a labor,Management Health Care Advisory Committee to expedite, on a voluntary basis, the transition of negotiations unit employees from lhe TredilitMtal Plan and Health Maintenance Organizations to New Jersey Plus from July I, 19W Uuuugh December 3 L, 2000, Ti te Committee shall consist of four designees of the Division of Pensions and Benefits and four dcsignccs tn be selected by tlieCWA. The Committee shall decide On wlwladvlcc and recommendations will be made in determining the following issues:
a.	Coinuy-by-County problem solving In-Network establishment with a standard of two doctors wifhin a five mile radius cf the covered employee where Sufficient providers exist; and at Least 75% of Lhe hospitals in New Jersey under contract.
b.	For current employees in rural areas where access is less than two primary care physicians wlrfon 2(1 miles, the minimum solution sliall be live design of the Traditional Plan.
c.	Ah problems concerning transition cases and pre-existing conditions shall be resolved by having as lhe minimum suhd ion the design of lhe 1 rad ilional Plan,
2.	The Conran 11 ee decisions shall be by majority vote, Ites shall be broken by the Slate Health Benefits Commiasion. The Comraillee shall endeavor Co make Ihe benefits of NJ Plus available lo a max imum number of employees in the negotiating units, discuss problems of substance abuses and Shall ere ale conditions 1o facilitate the muvemenl of Stille employees and (heir dependents from tlie Traditional Plan and Health Maintenance Organizations to NJ Plus.
6'1
SIDE LETTER OF AGtiEE M ENT * 15 LataiC-iS Due to Dependent Cart
When Em employee is late for work due to dependent cure problems, it is the position of cth. State that the employee and lhe SuptrViKjriMauageral the employee’s wort site, will uieel tu irV ru resolve (be Lateness problem. The employee will have the right to Union iepr«ttihtion during this meeting. This meeting will be held prior to any disciplinary nclion being taken against the employee as a resuh of the I ateness, However, once Such a meeting is held, the State reserves its right to	;
implement disciplinary action if lhe employee continues to come in late ter woi k.	'
SIDE LETTER OF AGREEMENT #16	|
Leaves of Absence Less Thio 6 Months
The State agrees to consider requcsls made by tire Union in accordance with 1hc T.eaves of Absence Withnut Pay Article id lhe various Agreement Tur periods uf Jess thso 6 crjuubs In mXwnJance with nonnol practice, such request tor an unpaid leave ofabsencc wit! be made directly to the Office of Employee Relations which will investigate in an attempt tn accommodate die	;
requested IfL'ivt wit]) the UudHStimding 1ha1 (be requested period uf iwivt shall be definite ;uid	•.
requests by the (Inion tor leave extensions shall be made in only exceptional situations.
SIDE LETTER OF AGREEMENT #17	I
OrlenlatkHis Sessions	;
A. lhe fol J owing understanding shall apply to all State Departments except the insttlulionaJ	<
facilities at the Department of Corrections, the Department of Military and Veterans Affairs and the	■
Department of Human Services.
When a Department or Division plans to hold an orientation session for now employees, the Union shall be so notified in advance if a reasonable number of Lhe new emptuv’SeS attenditig the session arc in titles covered by the Contract. The Department or Division holding the orientation will provide the Union with u thirty (30) minute period in which to meet with new employees whose Lltles art covered under this contract, if so'requeslel by (he Union, Die thirty (30) minute pcriiki	. i
shall be within the employees workday but may not be during Lunch or break time. The	I
representative of the Union shall be a local Union representative. If a ncn-State employee Union	|
representative cannot ba present during an orientation session, a unit employee designated by the	2
Union will be nituwed lo make such prescnlntiun.	i
B, At State, instiuitions in the Department of Human Services. Department uf CorrecUur.s <tnd U< Department of Military and Veterans Affairs, Lht State Wil! provide a thirty (30) jninntc period during the new employee's orientation period to allow' a non-Siatc employee representative of [lie Union to meet and explain the Union's rc^wnsibilities. If the non-Statc employee reprcsmlulivc of the Union uiuiout be present during such orientation period, one (1) unil employee nf Ure institution, designated hy the Union may be allowed to make such presentation to a maximum of twelve 112).
litnes per year. Any employee released pursuant lo Ups paragraph fur the purpijsi? of addressing	■
employees during orientation shall only address employees whose titles are contained in the .same	J
negotiating uoit as the employee making the presentation.	i
SIDE LETTER OF AGREEMENT *18	,
Potential Changes to Titles
Now Recedvia^ the Clothing Allowance
In recognition thill during 11k Imn uf this cunlnid Lilics that ai e currently cl igible 1o receive Lhe clothing allowance may be abolished or substantially changed so tbul they are no longer eligible
6b
fo receive Gk cEotiung allowance under the Criteria se( forth Ln the contract, the parties agree that, ill the event this occurs, Gif Union retains the light, during the term of this agreement, to reopen the elothing allowance contractual provision to address this specific issue.
El lr understood hy Tike parties that, in (he event tits Union invokes til is provision, the State's only obligation is to negotiate for ad equal number of employees who will be eligible to receive the clothing allowance payments in a different title. The number of new employees the Union may negotiate as lo receiving the clothing allowance is the same us the number of employees who were in (he title eligible to receive (he clothing allowance prior to its abolishment or change to a title ineligible to receive (he clothing allowance.
SIDE TETTER OF AGREEMENT 9
Promotion - Unclassified Employees
Where a title series exists in the unclassified service, employees within die title series shall be considered for promotion prior to the filling of a vacancy.
SIDE LEITER OF AGREEMENT #20
Rest Periods
The current practice of requiring certain employees to remain at (heir work places during rest perioefe for safety reasons or operational requirements shall be continued, However, if the employee js required to work during the rest period it shall be rescheduled or, if this is nut feasible, the lost rat period shall he Accumulated at straight time and scheduled in Accordance with the regulations concerning use of compensatory time off.
S) DE LETTER OF AG REFMENT #21 Status of Part-Tima, Intermittent, Temporary and Special Servkes Employee
Within six Ly (fiftj days of the execution of (tie collective negotiations agreements the Slate and the UJlion will constitute a labor-tnStnagement committee for the purpose of reviewing the Slams of non-negotiations unit employees performing lhe same or similar duties as employees represented by the CWA. A representative Itotti the Department of PetionneJ witf participate on the cmUraillee. The committee shall be comprised of equal numbers of Union end tttatHgemetil representatives and will develop standards to determine which part-time, ilLtermillent, temporary and special services employees, not presently included in CWA's Units, should be included.
STDE LETTER OF AGREEMENT #22
Tnn\
The Slate will maintain a list of tools required for tbe performance i>f work assignments by each of the employees listed in the lilies below.
Each of those employees whd provides and is requited lo use his personalty owned Cools us a condition of employment shall, on or about December 15 of each year of this COdtred, be granted A tool allowance, i f the employee cOtnpletes a calendar year of employment in his current capacity and is On the payroll as of the dale of payment.
Subject to any conditions set forth in the applicable contract the tool allowance aha]] be S100 for (Eue fiscal years beginning July 199?, July 2000, July 20ft] and July 2002.
Eligible employees includes only those employees wotking for the Department of Treasury, Central Motor Pool, in the following titles:
I)	Assistant Crr* Supervisor, Mechanic
2)	Crew Supervisor, Garage Operations
66
3)	Crew Supervisor, Mecitanic
4)	Crew Supervisor, Mechanics (body and lender shop)
SIDE LEITER OF AGREEMENT #25
Iraiaiiig & Education Fuad
The State and the Union agree to jointly fund special training and educatiim programs tbi employees in ihe Administrative and Clerical Services, Professional, Prbtiaiy t.evd S'upetvisiny anil Higher Level Supervisory negotiations units. Such tanning and education prognims enust be mutually agreed to by the Office of Employee Relations and the Union and may include, but no, be limited to, ureas of specialized teclmui] training, job skills refresher courses, and professional or career development, which arc related to the employee's job. w which may be necessary ordireclly beneficial to Career advtunrenwnt within State service.
Employees eligible lb participiile in a program must he employed in a CW A negotiations unit and must he on the payroll at the beginning and al the end of the program- Additional cli gibilily requi cements shall he mutually agreed to hy the State and the Union.
The program shall be funded equally by 1he Shite mid the CWA, with each party paying up to a maximum of 525,000 LU each year of the Agreement The parties may on a one lime basi-j, elect to carry over money not utilized during a ootf yettf period tr> (he n&rt year.
SIDE LETTER OF AGREEMENT #24
Training Cur Lower Ptdd Employee*
11 is understood that special attention shall he given to the needs of least skilled lower paid employees to enhance their job performance add potential for advancement inclusive of ulletriule career path choices. The Training Division of Ihe Dcpuritiient of Perscmiicl will provide these training opportunities und will develop a procedure ra identify eligible employees wilhin operating departments.
A tomtiuUee including two represefitslives uf the Union, Iwo font OER, and two from th: Training Division of the Department ofPetSOtmel shall meet with the objective of assisting m the development of Ihis program. It shall be the responsibility of the Department of Personnel to determine the program and the resources io be mltde available after reviewing recommendations uf this commillec.
SIDE LETTER OF AGREEMENT #25 Departmental Sick Leave Policy
The State and the Communkatiurts Workers of America agree to establish a connnittec to review and discuss, State Departments' sick leave polity. Ttw ctunmiBce shall consist of a representative from the Office of Employee Relations and representative.:; from th# Slate Department*. The Commissioner of Stale Departments attending the canuniltee meeting shall designate representatives lo attend such meeting. The Union shall be represented by a person from the Communications Workers of America, AFL-CIO, and representativefs) from lite CW A Locals.
The committee shall meel af mutually convenient times and places and the Union cun request a meeting hy sending such request with an accompanying agenda to the Office of Employee Relations. The committee will examine the policies as it pertains to employees’ lights under the FMJ-A, protection and preservation ofcmployeKS1 rights ofConfidentiality. Th: conunitlw will ulst) make recommenJalioni 10 evaluate and improve upon sick leave policies.
57
APPENDIX 1)1
Listed below are ail Iides included tn [he Contract If your title is not listed here it may te included in another CW A Unit Also listed is the title code number, pay range, and workweek desismaticn.
Ilit pay range um be used to help determine an individual's proper pay by rafenfin^ to Appendix [J.
The cxpl an at ion uf the symbols used lor workweek designation is:
J5 -	35 hour fixed workweek wmfcer. Overtime eompcftxanoii is regulated by Ihe Overtime
Article of this contract and Department of PertOimel Overtime rules. Additionally., the FLSA (Fair Labor Standards Act) mandates overtime compensation for these workers for hours over 4(1 worked tn a Workweek.
40 -	44) hour fined workweek wnrker. Overtime cconpcnsaficin is regulated by the Overtime
Article of this contract. Department of Personnel Overtime rules, and the Federal FLSA
NE - Non-exeinpt, non-I i mired these workers work al least a 35 hour workweek with intermittent requirements for a longer wnrkwaek as warranted to complete projects or aastgiiHUMitB. 1F.MKJ wnrkcra lire cuvcrcd by the Pimviaious of Ecdcml FLSA jiuuhLiWlI timc-aM-Ofie half (pay or compensatory lime) for hount tn a week worked over 40 hours. Ilour-for-hour hourly compensation (if any) for hours worked in a week between 35 hours and 40 hours is determined by Department of Personnel Overtime rales and Departmental policy.
M. - Non-Limited workers. These workers shall work at least a 35 hour workweek with i nrtci itiil Lent requirements ffrj a longer workweek as warranted tn complete projects or assignments
1 he State ofNew Jersey believes that these lilies are exempt from coverage by the overtime compensation provisiona of the federal FLSA. (Workers in these tides who believe they should bo covered by Ihe FLSA may appeal to :hc LrS - Deportment of Labor.)
Ho or-for-ho ur compensation (if any) forNL workers for hours over 35 worked in a week is determined by Department of Personnel Overlime rules and Departmental policy.
NL4- Mon-Limited Idle which involve direct and continuous supervision of workers in 4(1 hour workweek titles. The Slate of New Jersey believes these workers are exempt front coverage by the federal FLSA.
Any compensation for hours beyond the noittial workweek is regulated by Deportment of Personnel Overtime rules and Departmental policy.
3F • (exempt 25 hour) 35 hout fixed workweek worker. Overtime COmpeilSiltion is regulated by (he Overtime Article of this «mirud and Department of Personnel Overtime Rules. Tlus Stale of New Jersey believe? these winkers are exempt from coverage by the FLSA.
4E - (exempt 40 hour) 40 hour fixed workweek worker. Overtime compensation is regulated by the Overtime Article uf this contract and Department of Personnel Ovcrti me Rules. The Slate of New Jersey believe*these workers-ore exempt from overage by the FLSA.
I he above information is supplied by the Union for information purpose? only. It is hcl part of the contract between the State and Ihe CWA
Higher Level Supervisory
RANGE TITLE CODE TITLE	HOURS
?.O	40355	Area Supervisor Bridge Operations	40
?.]	42145	Atta Supervisor Highway Maintenance	40
25	52 934	Assistant Chief, L*uhlic Contracts SeCl ion
23	42424	Assistant Engineer ill Charge Maintenance 2	N4
25	42425	Assistant Engineer in Citatgc Maintenance 1	N4
19	44724	Aasistanl Food Service Supervisor 3	N4
20	44725	Assistant Fuod Servite Supervisor 2	N4
21	44726	AsaSEAnl Food Service Supervisor J	N4
29	57086	Assistant M anager Bureau of Appraisals	XI
24	62759	Assistant Manager of Residential Rehabilitation CenU'r Commission For Blind	MT.
21	43745	Assistant Muster Mechanic	4U
21	43646	Assistant Regional Eleclriual Supervisor	4(1
18	45644	Assistant Superintendent nf State Game Farm	N4
27	62309	Assistant Superintendent of Veterans' Cemetery	NT.
29	17695	Assistant Supervising Architect	Nr4
2R	59924	Assistant Supervising Architect	XL
21	52904	Assistant Supervising Contract Administrator	49
21	42415	Assistant Supervisor Bldgs and EQuiprnenl Div. M.V.	4n
2!	44151	Assistant Supervisor of Building Repairs	4U
24	60634	Assistant Supervisor of Prof.. Residential Service* Development	N4
22	04213	Assistant Supervisor of Kesidenl Living	N4
24	44728	Assistant Supervisor, Reykuiu] Food SierricB Operation	Nr4
27	51334	Assistant Supervisor Technical Services Taxation	NL
24	35255	Assistant Executive Secretary Board of Medical Examiners	Ml.
25	82672	Associate Supervisor 3, Facilities	NT.
27	52578	Building Management Services Specialist 1	NL
19	40203	Building Services Cocrdirwitur J	35
21	40208	Building Servites Coordinator 1	JO
30	15761	Chief Capital Construction and Fatililies Service	N4
30	15751	Chief Capital Planning and Prugrt mei ing	Ni
29	59333	Chief Capital Planning and Programming	NL
37	01074	Chief of Dental Services	NL
20	32264	Chief Security Officer	N4
?.5	61973	Child Support and Pnlerujly Sjwcialist I	NL
22	10133	Construction & Maintejiancc Technician J	46
26	17247	Construction Official	NF.
27	17248	Construction Official	40
31	00837	Cuurd. Health Carn Facilities Atial. Med. Assist.& Health Seiviec	NL
2?	15678	Cixirdinator, Maintenance Services	NL
27	60455	Coordinator i>f Inspections. Long Twin Caic Facilities	NT.
28	42447	Coordinator of Plant Services and Picvcmative Mdicceiiai ilc	N4
19	40147	Coordinator of Supply Support Operuliotii	N'E
2j	53673	Disability Review Officer Pensions	XJ.
18	G(X)G2	Electronics technician 3	KE
30	15875	Emergency Response Specialist 1	N4
28	59949	Engineer I, Ruzardoiis Site Mitigation	Nl.
25	42436	Engineer in Charge Marintenancf 3	N4
23	42435	Engineer in Charge Maintenance 4	N4
22	IG122	Engineering Technician I	iy
20	59954	Engineering Technician I	35
25	62165	Field Sendee Supervisor 2	NL
30	54865	Ficuuwia] Examiner 1	NL
2G	44745	Food Service Supervisor 1	N4
24	44744	FoodS'ervict Supervisors	N4
22	44735	Food Service Supervisor 3	N4
20	44734	food Service Supervisor 4	S’4
24	43827	Gjifagc Hupcrvisur L	40
21	43826	Garage Supervisor 2	4G
29	03275	Hazardous Site Mitigation Specialist 1	N4
28	59962	Hazardous Site Mitigation Specialist L	NL
15	21734	Head Accident Record Reviewer	iS
15	20625	Head Vault Clerk	35
22	44256	Housekeeping Supervisor 1	40
19 1? 28	44255 44254 <4145	. Housekeeping Super,'isor 2 Housekeeping Supervisor 3 Labor Marte! Analyst 1	4Q 4ft NT.			27 22 28	50465 13894 50965	Supervising Aceouijtatll Stale Use Supervising Agricultural Products Agent Supervising Auditor	NL N4 NL
13 30 21 22 22 25 19 27 IK 21 25 24 22 21 26 19 22 27 29 28 29 29	444JS 36307 41426 52705 43326 52322 21055 02005 21856 43CM5 14119 i 56194 56743 80216 03674 22545 22536 00144 10485 1509] 15096 10895	Laundry Supervisor Legal Assistant I Office or Administrative 1.aw Manager ofFdnna Control and Printing DMV Manager Word Processing System 2 Marina Superintendent I Marketing Specialist Lollery Medical Records Supervisor Microbiologist 2 Office Supervisor Pinks Maintenance Supervisor 1 Principal Engineer Civil Principal Examiner Unemployment Tax Principal Investigator Motor Carriers Principal Investigate Sludent 1 Xians Principal Occupational Therapist Frinciog Operations Technician 3 Printing Gperationn Technician -t Program Specialist 1 Occupational Environ, Health Project Engineer Architectural Bridge Design Project Engineer Code Services Project Engineer Code Services Project Engineer Construction	41) NL NL NI. N4 NE 35 NT NF 40 NL 35 40 NL N4 NE ST NT. N4 NL N4 N4	1 L f s		30 2? 28 28 27 28 29 30 27 28 27 29 29 2G 25 24 23 28 29 28 29 22 2D	<0819 01758 01759 OI5S5 91785 60624 51250 51251 31974 56481 64614 15004 14895 14055 02475 16291 59993 16297 16305 1S855 15856 15835 59994	Supervising Auditor Taxation Supervising Biologist Supervising Biologist Supervising Chemist Supervising Clinical i^afcoralory Evaluator Supervising Community Program Specially Supervising Contract Administrator Supervising Contract Administrator Supervising Driver Improvement Analyst Supervising Driver Improvement Analyst Supervising Employment Services Specialist , Supervising Engineer Energy Supervising Engineer Utilities Supervising Engineering Aide Supervising Entomologist Supervising Environmental Compliance Investigator Supervising Fnvi roomie til al Compliance InvcAtigfttor Supervising Environmental Engineer Super vising Environ™ ratal Engineer Supervising Environmental Specialist Supervising Environmental Specialist Supervising Environmental technician Supervising Envimumeotsl Techniciiin	Nl. NL N4 NL NL NL Nl. N4 Nl. N4 XT. N4 N4 49 NL N4 NL NL N4 NL N4 40 35
29 29 29	10255 10256 11683	Project Engineer Drainage Project Engineer Electrical Project Engineer Equipment	N4 N4 N4			25 28 3D	62155 51684 01594	Supervising Family Service Specialist I Supervising Field Representative Local Property T:>x Supervising Forensic Scientist	Nl. NL NL
29	10465	Project Engineer Geology	Nd			29	02664	Supervising Forest Firewarden	NL
29 29	10455 17095	Project Engineer Geotechnical Project Engineer Industrial	K4 N4			28 28	02660 U3O55	Supervising Forester Supervising Geologist	NL
29	10684	Project Engineer [.ambeape	N4			29	03056	Supervising Geologist	NJ
29	13695	Project Engineer Local Government Aid	N4			27	15682	Supervising Historic Preservation Specialist	Nl
29 29	11684 13095	Project Engineer Maintenance Project Engineer Materials	N4 N4	>		21 30	40644 55085	Supervising Institutional Trade Instructor Supervising insurance Examiner	NL
29 29	12695 11895	Project'Engineer Planning Project Engineer Plant Engineering and Operations	N4 N4			26 26	54935 55156	Supervising Investigator Banking Supervising Investigator Insurance	Nl. NL
29	12295	Project Engineer Research	N4			28	55180	Superviarag Investigator, Insurance Fraud Prevention	NL
29	12503	Project Engineer Right of Way	N4	i		28	51355	Supervising Investigator Taxation	Nl.
29	10478	Project Engineer Structural Evaluation	N4			16	01936	Supervising Laboratory Service Worker	NE
29	10475	Project Engineer SttUClural Transportation	N4	।		22	01925	Supervising Laboratory Tcclltliclan	NF
29	10275	Project Engineer Surface Design	N4			23	01930	Supervising Laboratory Technician	40
29	11296	Proj ect- Engi Beer Traffic	N4			27	74085	Supervising librarian	NL
29	10252	Project Engineer Utilities	N4			28	13726	Supervising Local Aid Analyst	N4
25	34794	Radiological Officer Office of Emergency Management	NL			23	32683	Supervising Medical Security Officer	40
23	43806	Regional Equipment Supervisor Transportation	40			29	55390	Supervising Municipal Finance Auditor	NL
24	42346	Regional Maintenance Supervisor Transportation	4E			29	54945	Supervising Planned Real Estate Development Analyst	N4
28	03199	Regional Superintendent, Fish, Game and Wildlife	M			27	16475	Supervising' Planner	XL
J<	75504	Secretary 1 Word Processing System	35			28	16492	Supervising Planner	N4
24	10070	Senior Examiner Engineer and Boiler Operators License	NL	।		28	16463	Supervising Planner, DEF	NL
	61748	Stmar Hearing. Officer State Parole Board	NL			29	12495	Supervising Planner Transportation	N4
2$	60064	Social Work Supervisor 2	XL	I		29	64486	Supervising Program llcvcIoptnciK Specialist	NL
21)	34373	Special Staff Officer?	NL	L i		30	64487	Supervising Program Development Specialist	N4
21	3437lJ	Special Staff Officer 2	N4			29	02104	Supervising Prog. Support Specialist	XL
30	12800	Statistical Engineer I	N4			27	62928	Supervising Public Health Representative	NL.
25	03194	Superintendent. Fish Hatchery	N4			30	18085	Supervising Radiological Physicist	NL
!8	45545	Superintendettl of Institutional Grounds	40			27	56725	Supervising Rate Analyst Util’uiw	N'T.
28	02754	Superintendent Parks and Forestry 1	N4	*		29	12285	Supervising Research Assistant J rajisportatron	,X$
26	02753	Superintendent Parks and Forestry 2	N4	ySBLk		28	04185	Siipt'j-i'j'srngResnJcjJtf^ ScrxiceJ SptWJist	
24	02752	Superintendent Parks and Forestry 3	N4			ts	4UQ35	Supervision Stock Cleric	
21	&275\	Superintendent Patk& and Forestry 4							
25	63116	Supervising Substance Abuse Counselor	NL
28	15315	Supervising Technical Operations Anaylst CATV	NL
28	59997	Supervising Topographic Engineer	NL
29	13285	Supervisi ng Transportation Analyst	N4
27	03200	Supervising Zoologist, Non-ganre	NL
25	56464	Supervisor 1. Division of Motor VehicScs	N4
24	564HS	Supervisor 1, Division of Motor Vehicles	NL
25	65249	Supervisor I, Unemployment Benefits	NT,
20	25026	Supervisor 1, Word Processing Center	NL
18	25025	Supervisor 2, Word Processing Center	NL
23	56462	Supervisor 2, Division of Motor Vehicles	35
23	56463	Supervisor 2, Division of Motor Vehicles	40
22	32418	Supervisor Aids to Navigation	4U
30	50768	Supervisor Budget & Fiscal Planning	N4
23	44153	Supervisor Building Service?	N4
24	424)6	Supervisor Buildings & Equipment MV tnspecuon	4E
30	50770	Supervisor, Capital Budgeting, Planning & Bund Fund Admin.	NL
25	70494	Supervisor Child Center Program Evaluation	NL
27	62228	Supervisor Clklld Care Quality Assurance Inspection	NL
JD	I5U94	SupervisciM ronstnictirm PLins Approval Section	N4
23	15235	Supervisor. Construction Inspection	N4
23	53306	Supervisor Data Entry Unit Pensions	NL
25	57656	Supervisor DaU Input and Control Section Taxation	NL
22	53082	Supervisor Data Preparation	NL
19	53333	Supervisor Data Processing Machine Operations 2	35
29	53084	Supervisor Data Processing Technical Support	NL
19	26705	Supervisor, Data Reduction Unit	jj
24	523.56	Supervisor Disl.A Collect.Operations Slate Lottery	NL
30	64426	Supervisor Enforcement	
2U	50483	Supavi.iar Fiscal Accounts	NL
21	02649	Supervisor Forest Fire Equipment Maintenance	40
26	0265#	Supervisor Forest Fire Equipment	N4
JU	50762	Supervisor, General and Support Seeviues	M
27	64456	Supervisor, I lousing Assistance Program	NL
20	27312	Supervisor Licensing Section	NL
1?	30622	Supervisor Licensing Unit Professional Board	35
25	74233	Supervisor Microfilm Services State	NL
23	22046	Supervisor Microfilm Services	NL
29	64582	SupervisOtNew Jersey Youth Corp.	
17	27114	Supervisor of Accounts	3F
23	42505	Supervisor of Building Repairs 2	40
25	42426	Supervisor of Bldg-Srvs. Repairs and Central Stores	NL
27	56375	Supervisor of Claims	NL
22	02374	Supervisor of Clinical Laboratories	40
27	32202	Supervisor of Code Inspections	Nt.
29	72745	Supervisor of Educational Programs )	NL
x.2	43756	Supervisor of Equipment Inspections	40
22	42046	Supervisor of Highway Marking	40
28	15115	Supervisor of Mousing Code Compliance	NL
24	62225	Supervisor of Inspections Child Care Centers	NL
31	00323	Supervisor of Inspections Hospitals	NL
29	00304	Supervisor of Inspections Long fcftu Care Facilities	NL
25	55)25	Supervisor of Insurance Education	NT.
28	56793	Supervisor of investigations	NL
25	44446	Supervisor of Laundry Operations	N4
19	24837	Supervisor of 1 .egal Secretarial Services	NE
17	52473	Supervisor of License Processing	NE
27	,54916	Supervisor of Licensing Consumer Credit	NL
25	52376	Supervisor uf Lott.Control and Winner Notification	NL
19	20425 '	Supervisor of Mails	4U
17	20435	Supervisor of Mails	35
f
m	40102	Supervisor i>f Materials Maintenance
7j	03854	Supervisor of Nursing Services
20	03849	Supervisor of Nursing Services ■ 10 mo.
25	40139	Supervisor of OperatiunS Distribution Center
26	51684	Supervisor of Operations Jnmsuiy
29	05693	Supervisor of Physical Therapy
23	20205	Supervisor of Postal Service
26	80073	Supervisor ofPurchasing. and Services State College?.
25	60000	Supervisor of Radiological Certification
18	26905	Supervisor ofkecords Transportation
22	03553	Supervisor of Recreetion
!6	12445	Supervisor uf Traffic Enumeration
28	32170	Supervisor of Train.& Cert., Bureau of Fire Safety
24	52633	Supervisor Transportation 8ervice$> Corrections.
24	52611	Supervisor Parts and InveldOty Control
30	52665	Supervisor RroL-uretnem Unit
27	52666	Supervisor Procurement Unit Motor Vehicles
26	74235	Supervisor Records and Forms Analysis
26	74206	Supervisor Records Management
23	74218	Supervisor Records Storage
28	44729	Supervisor KegmnaJ Food Service Operation
29	00301	Supervisor Residential Ilealdl Care Facilities
22	57694	Supervisor Returns File Section Taxation
29	64422	Supervisor, RoaitL& Board,Home Urals, and Licensing
29	62196	Supervisor Standards & Procedures
20	21844	Supervisor State Office Cailrex St'stems
24	64374	Supervisor Technical Assistance Seclioi' Relocation
27	64700	Supervisor Test Research
15	82314	Technical Assistant 1 Higher Education
15	00230	Technical Assistant Construction Monitoring
16	74135	Technical Library Assistant
28	93167	Technical Operations Coordinator PBA
27	57135	Title Officer 2
29	62210	Training and Staff Development Officer
30	93174	Transmitter Engineer Manager PBA
27	SI1O4	Transportation Sendees Specialist I
29	64867	Work Program Cnorchnalyr
NEW JERSEY WAT1R SUPPLY AlTHORFTY
40 4K 4F
N4 NL
N4 40
NL NL NE N4 40
KL NL N4 Nt.
NL Nl. NL ?I4 NL Nl. NL NT. NE NT NL 35 35
4E NL NL N'4 NL

TITLE
Purchasing Manager, WSA
Supervisor, Grounds Maintenance.. WSA
Supervisor Water Supply (Canal h WSA
Supervisor Waterways &■ Embankment Maintenances WSA
i.
£ t
I
AfPI?(T*lX IV Tiiltt Eligible for Clothing Allowance HIGHER LEVEL SUPERVISORS UNIT
TITLE	TIT LE CODE
Adult Scrviiiei Center Supervisor Area Supervisor Highway Marntmance Assistant Engjofier to Charge of Maintenance Assistant Food Services Supervisor L Assistant Food Services Supervisor 2 Assistant Fowl Services Supervisor J Assistant Master Mechanic Assis tan! Regional Eleclric Supervisor Assistant Supervisor Building Repairs Assistant Supervisor Regional Food Services Associate Supervisor 2 Facilities Clief Bridge Operator 1 Chief of Security WSA Construction and Maintenance Technician 1 Conatruclion Official Construction official Engineer in Charge of Maintenance 3 Engineer in Charge of Majutenanw 4 Engineering Technician 1 Food Services Supervisor I Food Services Supervisor2 Food Services Supervisor 3 Food Services Supervisor 3,10 Mentha Food Services Supervisor 4 Garage Supervisor 1 Garage Supervisor 2 Golf Course Manager Head Vault Clerk Housekeeping Supervisor 1 Housekeeping Supervisor 2 Housekeeping Supervisor 3 Laundry Supervisor Marina Superintendent 1 Microbiologist 2 Park Maintenance Supervisor 1 Principal Investigator Motor Carriers Principal Occupalion Therapist Printing Operations Technician 4 Printing Operations Technician 3 Regional Superintendent, Fish, Game & wildlife Regional Supervisor Construction Code Enforcement Regional Equipment Supervisor Transportation Superintendent lostitultonal Grounds Superintendent Parks and Forestry 1 Superintendent Parks and Forestry 2 Superintendent Parks and Forestry 3 Superintendent Parks and Forestry 4 Supervising Chemist Supervising Coastal Inspector Supervising Engineering Aid Super vising Environmental Technician Supervising Forensic Scientist	60946 42345 42424,■'42425 44726 44725 44724 43745 53648 44151 44728 82675 40354 10133 17247 17248 42436 42435 10122/59954 44745 44744 44735 4473ft 44734 43827 43826 02673 20625 44256 44255 44254 44435 43326 02<JU5 43045 56743 03674 22536 22545 03199 30592 43806 45545 02754 02753 02752 02751 01555/01555 32U62 14055 15835/59994 01594
Supervising Institutional Trade Insuuctor
Supervising Lab Teclinitiln
Supervising Laboratory Service Woitxr
Supervising Medical Security Officer
Supervising Slock Clerk
Supervising Traffic Enumerator
Supervisor Aide to Navigator
Supervisor Fish Hatchery
Supervisor Forest Fite Equipment
Supervisor Motor Vehicles Inspection Station
Supervisor of Mails
S upervisor of Maintenance Fish and Game
Supervisor ofNursiiig Services
Supervisor of Nurajftg Services, 10 McdttltS
Supervisor of Physical Therapy
Supervisor of Postal Services
Supervisor Of Recreation
Supervisor i DMV
Supervisor 2 DMV
Supervisor Grounds Maiatenance WSA
Supervisor Water Supply WSA
Supervisor Waterways and Emheriknuaill Maintenance WSA
40644 oi^j/oiyso 01936 32683
40035 12445
32413 01194 02649
56595
43096
Q3854 03849 0369?
20205 03553
56464* 56463*
* Applies only lo employees working at a DMV Inspection Station
SALARY SCHEDULE
IS Mauth Employees Effective: July 1,1099
10 Month Employees Effective: September 1,1999 Covering Employee Relotions Groups: P * R' S
SALARY SCHEDULE
12 Month Employees Effective: July 1,1999
10 Month Employe** Effectives September 1,1989 Covering Employee Relatione Groups: P *R* S
lUige	i	2	8	4	6	6
Increment	611.33	639.64	670.68	704.16	740-24	778.99
Str# J	14,870,36	15*481.68	16,121.32	16,79200	17,496.16	18,236.40
Step 2	15,481.68	16,121.32	16.792.00	17,496.16	18,236.40	19,015.69
Step 5	16,093.01	16,760.96	17.462.68	18,200.32	16.976.64	19,704.38
Step	16.704.34	17*400.60	18.133.86	18.904.48	19,716.68	20,573.37
Step S	17.315.67	18,040 24	18.804.04	19,608.64	20.457.12	21,352.36
Step 6	17,927.00	18.679.88	19,474.72	20,312.80	21.197.36	22,131.35
Step 7	18,638.33	19,319.52	20,145.40	21,016.96	21.937.60	22*910.34
Step 8	19,149.66	19,959.16	20,616.08	21,72112	22.677.34	23,689-33
s^>.„	19,76099	20,598.80	21,486.76	22.425 28	_ 23,418.08	24,468.32
jidiuge	19	20	21	22	23	24
Inez enunt	1,465.07	1,539.89	1.617.25	1,697.23	1.782.32	1,870.02
Step 1	32.005,04	33,470.11	35,010.00	39,627.25	35,324.48	40,106.80
Step 2	83,470,11	35,010.00	36,027.25	38,324.48	40.10A80	41,976.83
Step 3	84,935.18	36,549-89	38.344-50	40,021.71	41.889.12l	43,846.86
Step 4	36,400.25	38,089.78	39.861.75	41,718.94	43,671.44	_ 45,716.89
Step 5	37,365,32	39,629.67	41,479.00	43,416.17	45,463-76	47,58^92
Stepff	39,330,39	41,169.56	43,096.25	45,113.40	47,236-08	49,456.95
S'ep 7	40*795.46	42,709.45	44,713.50	46,810.63	49,018.40	51,328.98
Step 8	42,860.53	44,249-34	46,330,75	46,507.36	50,800.72.	53,107,01
Step 9	43,725.60	45,789.23	47,948,00	50.205J9	52,583.04	55,067.04
Ebmce	7	0	9	10	11	IS
Jn^emeni	817.66	858.92	900.21	944.05	990.48	1,039.49
Step J	19,015.39	19,833.05	20,691.97	21,592.18	22,538.23	23,528.71
Step 9	19.633.05	20,691.97	21,59216	22,536.23	23,526.71	24,566-20
Step 5	20,850 71	21,660.39	22,492.39	28,480.28	24,517.19	25,60669
Step 4	21,468-37	22,409.81	23,392.60	24,424.33	25,507.67	26,645.18
Step 8	22,286.03	23,268.73	24,292.81	25,388.38	26,498.15	27,684.67
Step 6	23,103.69	24.127.65	25,193.02	26,312.43	27,488.63	28,724.16
Step 7	23,92135	24,986.57	26.093.23	27.256.48	29,479.11	29,763.65
Srtp 3	24,739.01	25,845.49	26,993 44	28.200*i3	29,469 59	30,80314
Step 9	25.556.67	28,704.41	27.893.86	29,144.58	30,460.07	31,842.63]
Range	25	26	27	28	29	30
ZnCrtmenf	1,965.46	2.063.60	3,166.85	2,375-01	2.388 46	2,507,16
Step 1	41,976.83	43,942,29	46,008.70	48,172-44	50,447.45	52,838.91
Step 2	43,942.29	•46,005.79	48,172.44	50,447.45	52,685.91	_ 55,343.07
Step 3	45,907.75	48,069-29	50,339.09	52,722.46	55,224.37	57,050.23
Step 4	47,873.21	50,132.79	52,505.74	54,997.47	57,612.33	00,357.39
Step 5	49,838.07	52,196.29	54,672.39	57,272.48	60,001.29	62,864.55
Step 3	51,804.13	54*259.79	58,839.04	59,647.49	82,389.75	85,871-71
Sf'P 7	53,759.59	56,323.2?	59,005.69	61,822.50	64,778.21	57,678.87
Step 8	55.735.05	58,386.79	61,172.34	64,097.51	67,166.6-7	70,386.03
Step 9		67,700.51	60.450 2.9	63,338,99	66,372.5g	69,555.13	72,893,19
Range	13	14	16	18	17	18
Increment	i.omo	1*147.85	1,204.54	1,266 47	1,330.98,	1,395.40
Step J	24,566.20	25,659.80	26,807 65	28,01219	29,278.66	30,609.64
Step £	25,659.30	26,807.65	28,012.19	29,278.66	30,609.64	32,005.04
Step 3	26,753.40	27,965.60	29,216.73	30.545 13	31,940 62	33,400.44
Step 4	27.847.00	29,103.35	30,42127	3M11-60	33,27160	34,795.84
Step 8	28,940-6O	80,251.20	81,625.81	33,078.07	34,602.58	36,191-24
j Step 6	30,034.20	31*39905	32,830,35	34,344.54	35.933.56	37,586.64
Step 7	31,127.80	22,646.90	34,034.89	35,611-01	37,264.54	38,982.04
Step 8	32,221.40	33.694.75	85,239.43	36,377.48	38,595.52	40,377.44
Step 9	53 15.00	34,842.60	36,443.97	38,143.95	39.926.5ol	41,772.84
k k i. r
I-
r
]Lijge	31	82	S3	34	as	36
Zncr«'/wii	2,633,51	2,765.08	2.901.78	3,048.81	3.196.40	_ 3,358.34
Step j	55,343.07	57,976,58	60,741-66	63,643.44	66,692.25	69,890.05
Step 2	57,976.58	60,741.66	53,643.44	66,092.25	69,890.65	73,248.99
-AfJI Step 3	60,610,09	83,506.74	68,545.22	69,741.06	73,089.05	78,607.33
Step 4		63*243.60	06.271,82	69,447.00	72,789.87	76,287.45	79,965.67
Step 8	65,877.11	69,036.90	72,348.78	75,838.63	79,485.85 fl9.684 25	83.324.01 86,685.35
Step 8 Step 7	68,510.62 71,14413	71.801,98 74,567.08	78,152.34	81.936.30	85,882-65	90,040.69
	 Step 8	73,777.84	77,332.14	81,054.12	84.985.11	89,081.05	93,399.03
Step 9	76,411.15	80,097.22	63,955.90	88,033.92	92.279.45	96,757.37.
(Salary Schedules arc for informational pwposes only)
SALARY SCHEDULE
13 Month Employees Effective: Julj 1,1999
10 Month Employees Effective: September.!, 1999 Covering Employee Relations Grouper P »R * S
i’juige	37	88	89	49	41	42
increment	3,528-56	3,703.84	3,899.67	4,033.13	4,389.44	4,501,00
Step 1	73,249,99	76,777,55	80,481.49	84,371.16	88,45429	92,743,73
Step 2	75,777.65	80,481.49	84,371.16	88,454.29	92,743.79	97,244.73
Step £	80,306,11	84,185,43	68,260,83	92,537.42	97,033,17	101,745.73
Step 4	83,834.67	87,669.37	92,150 50	96,620.56	101^822,61	106,246.73
Step 5	67,363.23	91,593.81	96,040.17	100,703.68	105,512.05	110,747.73
S tsp 6	90.B9L7&	95,297.25	99,939.84	104,786.81	109,901.49	115,248.73
Step 7	94,420.35	99,001.19	103,819.61	108,869.94	114,190.93	119,749.73
Step 3	97,848.91	102,705.13	107,709.18	112,953.07	118,480.37	124,250.73
J<#p £	101,477.47	106,409.07	111,596.85	117,038,20	122,769.81	128,751.78
.-.n£e	48	44	45
Znfrtmenf	4,727.09	4,965.26	5,212.85
Ssep J	97,244.73	101,972,73	106,937,98
Step 2	101,972.72	106,997.98	112,150 83
Step J	108,700.71	111,903.24	117,363.68
Step 4	111,426.70	116.868.80	122,576.63
Step 5	11S.15S.69	121333.76	127,789,38
Step 6	120,884.68	126,799.02	133,002.23
Step 7	125,612.67	131,764-28	138,21808
Step 8	190,340.66	136,729.54	143,427.93
Step 9	135,068.65	141.694.80	148,640.78
SALARY SCHEDULE
12 Month Employees Effective July I, 2000
10 Month Employees Effective: September L 2W0 Covering Employee ReLetioti* Groups: P 1 R 1 S
Range	1	2	a	4	5	6
Zneremept	623.56	662.44	684.09	718,24	766.05	794.57
Sttjp i	15,167.76	15,791.31	16,443,75	17,127.84	17,846.08	18,601.13
Step 2	15,791.31	16,443.75	17,127.84	17,846.08	18,691,13	19,396.70
Step 3	16,414.86	17,99619	17,811.93	18.564.32	19,35818	20,190.27
Step 4	17,038.41	17,748.63	18,496.02	19J282.58	20,111.23	20,934.84
Step 5	17,661.66	18,401.07	19,180.11	20.000.80	20,866.28	21,779.41
Step 6	18,286.61	19,053.61	19,854,20	20,719.04	21,621.33	22,573.98
Step?	18,999.98	19,705.95	20,548.29	21437.28	22,376,38	23,368.55
Step3	19,532.61	20,358.39	21,232.38	22,155.52	23,131.43	24,163.12
Step 9	20,156.16	21,010.83	21,916.47	22,873.76	23,886 48	24,957.69
Range	7	8	9	10	11	i2
/increment	83401	876.10	918,21	962.93	1,010.29	1,060.28
Slep 1	19,395.70	20,229.71	21,105.81	22,024.02	22,986.95	• 23,097.24
Slep2	20,229.71	21,105.81	22,024,02	22,986.95	23.997 24	25,057.52
Step3	21,063.72	21,981.91	22,942.23	23,949.88	25,007.53	26,117.80
Step 4	21,897.73	22,858 01	23.860.44	24,912.81	26,017.82	27,178.08
Step 5	22,731.74	23,734.11	24,778.85	25,575.74	27,029.11	28,238.36
Step <5	93,565,75	24,610.21	25,896.86	26,638.67	28,038.40	29,298.64
Siep 7	24,399.76	25,486.31	26,615.07	27,801,60	29,048.69	30,358.92
Step 8	26,233.77	26,362.41	27,533.28	28,764-53	30,058.98	31,419.20
Step 9	26,067.78	27,238.51	28,451.49	29,727.46	31,069.27	32,479.48
Runge	13	14	16	16	17	18
Increment	1,115.48	1,170 JO	1,228.68	1,291.80	1,357.60	1,423.31
Step J	25,057.52	25,173.00	27343.80	28,57243	29,864.23	31,221.83
Step 2	26,173,00	27,343,80	28,572.43	29J64.23	31,221.83	32,845.14
Step 3	27,288.48	28,514,60	29,801.06	31,156.03	32,579.43	34,058,45
Step 4	28,403.96	29,685.40	31,029.69	32,447.83	33,937.03	35,491,76
Step 5	29,619.44	30,856.20	32,258.32	33,739.63	35,294.63	36,915.07
Step fi	30,834,92	32,027.00	33486.95	35,031.43	36,652.23	38,338.38
Step 7	31,750.49	33,197.80	34,715.58	36,323.23	38,009.83	39,761.69
StepS	32,865.88	34,388.60	35,944.21	37,615.03	39,367.43	41,185.00
StepS	33,981.36	35,539,40	• 37,172.84	38,906.83	40,725.03	42,608.31
SALARY SCHEDULE
IS Month Employees Effective: July 1, 2000
10 Month Employees Effective: September lt 2000 Covering Employee Relations Groups: P • R ♦ S
Range	19	20	31	32	83	24
Increment	1,494.37	1,570,69	1,649.60	1,731.17	1,817.97	1,907.43
Step J	32,646.14	34,139.51	36,710.30	37,359.80	39,090.97	40,908.94
Step;?	34,139.51	35,710.20	37,359.80	39,090,97	40.908.94	42,816 37
Step 5	35,333.88	37,280.89	39,009 40	40,822.14	42,726.91	44,723.80
Step 4	37,128.35	38,851.59	40,659.00	42,553,31	44,544.88	46,631.23
Step 5	38.622.63	40,422,27	42,308.60	44,284,48	46,882,85	48,538.66
Step 8	40,116.99	41,992.96	43,958.20	46,015.65	48,780,82	50,446 09
Step 7	41,611.36	43,563.65	45,607.80	47,746.82	49,998,79	52,353.52
StepS	43,105 73	45,134.34	47457.40	49,477.99	51,816,76	54,260.95
Step 9	44,600.10	46,70503	48,907.00	51.209,16	53,634.73	56,16838
Range	25	26	27	26	29	30
Increment	2,004.77	2,104.77	2,209.98	2,320.51	2,436.23	2,557.30
Step 1	42,816.37	44,821.14	46,925.91	49,135.89	51,456.40	53,892.83
Step 2	4432114	46,925.91	49,135.89	51,456.40	53,892.63	66,449.93
Step 3	46,825 91	49,030.68	51,645.87	53,776.91	56,328.86	59,007.23
Step 4	48,830.68	51,13545	53,555,85	56,097.42	58,765.09	61,564.53
SlttpS	50.835.45	53,240.22	56,765.83	58,417.93	61,201 32	64,121.83
Step 6	52,840.22	55,344.99	• 57,975.81	60,738.44	83,637.55	66,679.13
Step 7	54,844.99	57,449,76	60,185.79	G3,058.95	66,073.78	69,236.43
Step 8	56,849.76	59,554.53	62,395 77	65,379.46	68,510.01	71,793.73
Step 9	58,854.53	61,659.30	64,605.75	67,699.97	70,946-24	74,351.03
Range	$1	32	38	84	35	38
IMWJW nr	2,888.18	2,820.38	— 2,959.82	■ 3409.79	<F,2B2.o<J		-9,425.01
Step 1	56,449.93	59,136.11	61,956.49	64,916.31	88,026.10	71588.46
Step 2	59,136.11	61,956.49	64,916.31	68,028.10	71,288.46	74,713.97
Step3	61,822.29	64,776.87	67,876.13	71,135.89	74,550.83	76,139.48
Step 4	64,508.47	67,597.25	70,835.95	74,245.68	77,813.18	81,564.99
Step 5	67,194.66	70,417.63	73,795.77	77,355.47	81,075.54	84,990.50
Step	69,880.83	73,238.01	76,755.59	80,465.26	84,337.90	88,416.01
Step 7	72,567.01	76,058119	79,715.41	83,575.05	87,600.26	91,841.52
Step 8	75,253.19	78,878.77	82,675.23	86,684.84	90,862.62	95,267.(13
Step 9	77,939.37	81,699.16	85,635.05	89,794.63	94,124.98	98,692.54
SALARY SCHEDULE
12 Month Employees Effective: July 1, 2000 Id Month Employees Effective! September 1,2000 Covering Employee Relatione Groups: P ‘ R1 S
Range	87	aa	39	40	41	42
Increment	3,599.13	3,778-02	8,967.46	4,164.80	4,375.22	4,591-02
Step/	74,713,97	78,313.10	82,091.12	86,058.58	W,223.38	94,698.60
Step £	78,313,10	82,091.12	86,058.58	90,223.38	94,598.60	99,189.62
Step 3	91,912.23	85,889.14	90,02604	94,388.18	98,973.82	103,780.64
Step 4	85,611.36	89,647.16	93,99350	98,652.98	103,349.04	106,371.66
Slip 5	89,110.49	93,425.18	97,960.96	102,717.78	107,724.26	112,962.68
Step 6	92,709.62	97,203.20	101,928.42	106,882.58	112,099.48	117,553,70
Step 7	96,308.75	100,981.22	105,895.88	U 1,047.38	116,474.70	122,144.72
Step8	99,907.88	104,759.24	109,863.34	115,212.18	120,849.92	126,736.74
Step 9	103,507.01	108,537.26	113.830.80	119,376,98	125,225.14	131,326.76
Range	4a	44	46
JncremeAf	4,822.55	5,064.57	5,317.11
Step 1	99,189.62	104,012.17	109,076.74
Step2	104,012.17	109,076.74	114,393.35
Step 3	108,884.72	114,141.31	119,710.96
Step 4	113,657.27	119,205.88	125,028.07
StepS	118,479.82	124,270.45	130,345.18
Step 6	123,302.37	129,335,02	135,682.29
Step 7	128,124.92	134,399.59	140,979.40
Step 8	132,947.47	139,464.16	146,296.51
Step 9	137,770,02	144,528.73	151,613.62
SALARY SCHEDULE
Month Employees Effective: January I, 2001 10 Month Employees Effective: February 1,2001 Covering Employee Rotations Groups P • R • 9
Range	1	2	3	4	B	6
Increment	682.73	662.08	694,15	728.81	760.14	806,26
Step 1	15,390,81	18,023.54	16,685.67	17,379.72	18,106.58	18,874.67
Steps	16,023.54	16,685.57	17,379.72	18,106.53	18 £74.67	19,680.93
Step 3	16,656.27	17£47.60	18,073.87	18,837.34	19,640.81	20,487.19
Step 4	17,286,00	18,009.63	18,768.02	19,566.15	20,408.95	21.293.45
Step s	17,921.73	18,671.66	19,462.17	20,294.98	21,178.09	22,099,71
Step 6	18,554.46	19333,69	20,156.32	21,023.77	21,939.23	22,905.97
Step 7	19,187,19	19395.72	20,850.47	21,752.58	22,705,37	23,712.23
Step S	19.819.92	20,657.75	21,544.62	22,481.39	23,471.61	24,518.49
Step 9	20,452.66	21,319,78	22,238.77	23,210.20	24,237.65	26,324.75
Range	7	S	9	10	11	13
increment	846.28	998.98	931,72	977.09	1,026.14	1,076.88
Step i	19,680.93	20,52741	21,416.13	22,347.91	23.325.00	24,350.14
Step 2	20,527,21	21,416.19	22,347.91	28425,00	24,350.14	25,426.02
StepS	21,373.49	22,306.17	23,279,63	24402 09	25,375.29	28,501,90
Step 4	22,219.77	23,194.15	24411.35	25,279.18	20,400.42	27,577.78
Step 6	23,066 06	24,08313	25.143.07	26,256.27	27,425.56	28,653.66
Step S	23,91233	24,972.11	26.074.79	27,233.36	28,450.70	29,729.64
Step 7	24,758.61	25,861.09	27,006.51	28,210.45	29,475.84	30,805.42
Steps	25,604.89	26,750.07	27,938.23	29,187,54	30,500.96	81,631.80
Step 9	26,451.17	27,639.05	28,869.95	30,164.83	31,526.12	32,957.18
Range	13	14	15	16	17	18
increment	1.131.87	1,188.03	1,248.70	„ 1,810.2^		1,377.67	—1,444,24
Step 7	25,426.02	26,557.89	27,745.92	28,992.62	30,303.41	31,680.98
Step 2	26,557.89	27,745.92	28,992.62	30,303.41	31,880.98	33,125.22
Step 3	27,689,76	25,933.95	30,239.32	37,614.20	33,058.55	34,569.46
Step 4	28,821.63	30,121.98	31,486.02	32,924.99	34,436.12	36,013.70
Step 5	29,953.50	31,310.01	32,732.72	34,235.78	35,813.69	37,457,94
Step 6	31,085.37	32,498,04	33,979,42	35,546.57	37,191.26	38,902.18
Step 7	32,217.24	33,686.07	35,226.12	36,867.36	38,588.88	40,346.42
Step a	33,349.11	34,874.10	36,472.82	88,158.15	39,946.40	41,790.66
Step 9	34,480.98	36,062,13	37.719.52	39,478.94	41,323.97	43,234.90
--BifW* P’ “^^»V W *	a*rvi	JfcWl r. 1*i ojimijiiiiitiuii'WMi
SALARYSCHEDULE
13 Month Employees Effective: January 1, 200!
10 Mouth Employe*® Effective: February 1,2001 Covering Employee Relatione Groups P < fl - S
Range	19	20	21	32	23	24
Increment	1,510.34	1,690.79	1,673.85	1,756.64	1 £44.70	1,935.48
Step 1	33,125.22	34,641.56	38,235,36	37,909.20	39,665.84	41,510.54
Step 2	34,641.56	15 Iw 3 P9 1—_	37,909.20	39,665.84	41,510.54	43,446.02
StepS	36,157,90	37,829.14	39,583.05	41,422.48	43,355 24	45,301.50
Step 4	37.674.24	39,422.93	41,26690	43,179.12	45,199,94	47,316.98
Step 5	39,190.69	41,016.72	42380.75	44,935.76	47,044.64	49,252.48
Step 6	40,706.92	42,610.61	44,604.60	46,692.40	48,889.34	51,187.94
Step 7	42,223.26	44,204.30	46,278.45	48,449.04	50,734,04	53,123.42
Step B	43,739.60	45,798.09	47,962,30	50,205.88	52,578,74	55,058.90
Step 9	45,255.94	47,391.88	49,62815	51,962.32	54,423.44	56,994,38
Range	25	28	27	28	29	30
increment	2,034,26	2,135.72	2,242.49	2,364.63	2,472,06	2,594.91
Step J	43.448.02	45,480.27	47,615.99	49,858.48	52,213.11	54,685.17
Step 2	45.480.27	47,615,99	49£58.48	52.213.11	54,685.17	57,280.08
Step 3	47,514.52	49,751.71	53,100.97	£4,567.74	57,157.23	69,874.89
Step 4	49,548.77	51,887.43	54,343.46	56£22.37	59,329,29	62,469.90
StepS	61,583.02	64,023.15	56,685.95	69,277.00	62,101.35	65,064.81
StepG	53,617.27	56,168.87	58,828.44	61.63163	64,573.41	67,659,72
Step 7	55,651.52	58,204.59	61,070.93	63,986.26	67,045.47	70,254.03
Step 8	57,685.77	60,430.31	63,313.42	66,340.89	69,517.53	72,849.54
StepS	59,720,02	62.666,03	65,555.91	68,695.62	71,989.59	75,444.45
Range	91	93	33	34	35	3H
i/ivnimeni!	— 2,725.88	2,861.86	—3,003.3?	" 3,155 52	3 £ 10.34	3,4?5.88
Step 1	57,280.08	60,005.76	62,887.62	65,870.96	69,026.48	72,336,82
Step 2	80,005,76	62,867.62	65,870.98	69,026.48	72,336,82	75,812.70
StepS	62.73144	65,729 48	68,374.30	72,182.00	76,64716	79,288.58
Step 4	65,457.12	88.59L34	71J77.64	75,337.62	78,957.50	82,764.46
Step 5	68,182.30	71.453.30	74,880.95	78,493 04	B2.267.84	86,24034
Step 6	70,908 48	74,315.06	77,384.32	81,648.56	85,578.18	89,716.22
Step 7	73,634.16	77,176.92	80,887.66	84,804.08	88,888,52	93,192.10
StepS	76,359,84	80,038.78	8389100	67,959.60	9'2,198.86	96,667.98
Step 9	79,085.52	82,900.64	S6£94.34	91,115,12	96,509.211	100,143.86
SALARY SCHEDULE
12 Month Employees Effective-, January 1,2001
10 Month Employees Effective: February 1, 2001
Covering Employee Relations Groups: P ’ R * 8
Range	07	38	39	40	41	42
ZncrflnifFft	3,862.00	3,833.fiS	4,025.81	4,226,04	4,439.57	4,658.64
Step 1	75,812.70	79,46476	83,298.34	87,324.15	91,660.19	95.909,76
Step 2	79,46476	93,200.34	87324,15	91,660.19	96,909,76	100,640.30
Step3	83,118,82	87,131.92	91,349.96	06,776.23	100,420.33	106,306.04
Step 4	S6J68.88	90,965.60	95,375.77	100,002.27	104,868.90	109,965,38
Step 5	90,420.94	94,799.06	99.401.58	104,228.31	109,308.47	114,623.92
Step 6	94,073.00	98,632.66	103,427.39	100,454.35	113,748.04	119,202.46
Step 7	97,726.06	102,466 24	107,453.20	112,600.39	116,187.61	123,941.00
Step S	101,377.13	106,299.82	111,479.01	116,906.43	122,627,18	128,599.54
Step 9	105,029.18	110,133,40	115,604.82	121,132.47	127,066.75	133,258.08
Range	44	44	45
Increment	4,893.47	6,139.04	5,396.30
Step 1	100,648.30	105,541.77	110,680.81
Step 2	106,641,77	110,680.81	116,076.11
Step 3	110,435.24	115,819.86	121,471.41
Step 4	115,328.71	120,958.89	126,866.71
Step 6	120,222.18	126,097.93	132.262.01
Step f>	125,115.65	131,236,97	137,657.31
Step 7	130,009.12	136,376.01	146,052.61
Step 8	134,902.56	141,515.06	148,44791
Step 9	139,796.06	146,654.09	153,843.21
salary schedule
12 Month Emplnyeee Effective: July 1, 2001
10 Month Employ sea Effective; September I, 2001 Covering Employee Relations Groups: P 'R> S
Range	1	2	3	4	6	6
Jncraffw/it	64530	676.27	708.08	743.39	781.46	822.39
Step 1	15,698.63	16,344.01	17,018.28	17,727.31	18,470,70	19,252.10
Step 2	16,344.01	17,019.28	17,727,31	18,470.70	19,262.16	20,074.55
Step 3	16,989.39	17,894.55	16,435.34	19,214.09	20,033.62	20,896,94
Step 4	17,634.77	18,389.82	13,143.37	19,967,48	20,815.08	21,719,33
Step 5	18,280.16	19,045.09	19,861.40	20,700,87	21,596.54	22,541,72
Step 6	18,925.53	19,720.30	20,559.43	21,444.26	22,378.00	23,364.11
Step 7	19,570.91	20,395.63	21,267.46	22,187.65	23,159.46	24,186.50
Step S	20,216.29	21,070.90	21375.49	22,931.04	23,940.92	25,006.89
Step 9	20,861,67	21,746.17	22,683,52	28,674.43	24,722.38	26,831.28
Range	7	8	9	10	11	12
IncrePtertt	860.20	906.76	950,36	996.63	1,045.64	1,097.40
Step 1	20,074,55	20,937.75	21,844.51	22,794.87	23,791.50	24.837.14
Step 2	20,907.75	21,844.51	22,794.87	23,791.50	24,837,14	25,934.54
Step 3	21,800.95	22,751.27	23,745.23	24,788.13	25,682.78	27,031.94
Step 4	22,664.15	23,658.03	24,695.59	25,784.76	26.928.42	28,129.34
Step 5	23,527.35	24.564.79	25,645.95	26,781.39	27T974.06	29,226.74
Step 6	24,390,55	25,471.55	26,596.31	27,776.02	29.019.70	30,324.14
Step 7	25,263.76	26,378.31	27,546.67	28,774.65	30.065.34	31,421.54
Step 6	26,116.95	27,285.07	28.497.03	29.771,28	31,110.98	32,518.04
Step 9	26,980,15	28,191.83	29,447.39	30.767.91	32.156.62	33,816.34
	13	14	lfi_. . __lfi			17	in
/ncrewent	1,154.51	1,211.79	1,271.63	1,337.01	1,405.12	1,473.12
Step I	25,934.54	27,089.05	28.300.84	29,672.47	90.909.48	32,314.60
Step 2	27,089,05	28,300,84	29,572,47	30,909.48	32,314,60	33,787,72
Step 3	28,243.56	29,512.03	30,844,10	82,240,49	30,719,72	35,260.84
Step 4	29,398.07	30,724,42	32,115.73	33,583,50	36,124 84	36,733.96
Step 5	30,552.58	31.936.21	33,387.36	34,920 51	36,529.96	98,207.08
Step 6	31,707.09	33.148.00	34,658.99	36,257.52	37,935,08	39,680.20
Step 7	92,861.60	34.369 79	35,930.02	37,594.50	39,340.20	41.153.32
Step 8	34,010, ]1	35,571.58	37^02.25	8B, 931,54	40,745-32	42,626.44
Step 9	35,170 62	96,783.37	38,473.88	40,368.55	42,150.44	44.0S9-5B
SALARY SCHEDULE
12 Month Employee* Effectives July 1, 2001
10 Month Employee* Effective: September L 2001 Covering Employee Relations Groups! P » R * S
Ranffe	19	20	21	22	23	24
/rtcrementf	1,540.87	1,825.6?	L7O7,32	1,791.78	1,881,50	1,974.19
Step 1	33,787.72	35,384.39	36,960.06	38.687.88	40,459.16	42340.75
Step 2	35.334.39	36,960.06	38,667.38	40,459.16	42,340.76	44,31494
Step 9		98,686.73	40,974.70	42,250.94	44,222.84	46.289.13
Step 4	38,427.73	40,211.40	42,082.02	44,042.72	46,103.93	48,263.32
Step 5	39,974.40	41,837.07	43,789.34	45364.50	47,985,62	50,297.61
Step 6	41,621.07	43,482,74	45,490,66	47,626.28	49,967.11	52,211.70
Step 7	43,087,74	48,088,41	47,209.98	49,418.06	51,748.70	64,185.89
Step S	44,614.41	48,714.08	48,011,30	51,209.84	53,650,29	56,180,08
Step 9	46,161,08	48,330.75	50,618.82	53,001.62	55,511,88	58,134.27
Range	25	36	27	28	29	30
fnCTEmcJit	2,074.94	2,17843	2 87,34	2 A01.72	2*521.50	2,848.81
Step J	44,314.94	46,389.88	48,568.91	50,855.65	53,257.37	55,778,87
Step 2	46,989.88	48,668 31	50,555.66	59,257.37	66,778,87	58,425.68
Step J	48,464 82	50,746.74	69,142.99	55,659.09	68,900.37	61,07249
Step 4	50,539.76	52,925.17	55,430.33	58,060,81	60,821.87	63,719.30
Step t>	52,614.70	55,103.60	57,717.67	60,462.69	63,343.37	66,366,11
Step 6	54,689.64	57,282.03	00,005.01	62,864.25	65,864.87	69,012.92
Step 7	58,764.58	69,460.46	02,292.35	65,266.97	68,386.37	71,659.73
Step 8	58,839,52	61,638.89	64,679,09	67,667.69	70,907.87	74,906.54
Step 9	60,914,46	63,817.32	66,867,03	70,069.41	73,429.37	76,953.36
Range	31	82	33	34	35	88
ZjicreFTwn.!	2.760.20	' 2,919.09	3,06341	3,218.63	3,376.56	3,545.99
Step 1	SkT4^,Aii	01305.88	64,124.97	87,188.38	70,407.01	73,783.56
Step 2	61,205 88	04,124.97	67,188 38	70,407.01	73,783.50	77,328,95
Step 3	63,986.08	67,044.06	70,251.79	73,625.64	77,160.11	80,874,34
Step 4	66,766.28	69,963.15	7015.20	76,844.27	80,536.66	84,41973
Step S	89,546.46	72,882.24	76,378,01	80,062.90	83,913.21	87*966.12
Step 6	72,326.68	75,801.33	79,442.02	83,281,53	87,289.76	91,510.51
Step 7	75,106.88	78,720.42	82,505.43	86.50016	90,600 31	95,055.90
Step 8	77,687,08	81,639.61	85,568.34	89,718.79	94,042.86	98,601.29
Step 9	80,667 28	84,558.60	88,832.26	92,937,42	97,419,41	102,146.68
SALARY SCHEDULE
12 Month Employees Effective! July 1.2001
10 Month Employee* Effective: September 1, 3001 Covering Employee Relations Groups: P'B'S
Range	37	38	39	40	41	42
taCrErnd/tf	3J25.11	3,910,25	4,106.32	4,310.56	4,528.37	4,751,71
Sten J	77,328.05	81,054.06	84,964.81	89,070.63	93,361.19	97.909.56
Step 2	81,054.06	84,964.31	89,070,83	93,381.19	97,909.56	102.661.27
Step 3	84,779.17	88,874,56	93,176.95	97,691.76	102,437.93	107,412.98
Step 4	88,504.28	92,784.81	97,283.27	102,002.91	106,866.30	112,164.69
Steps	92,229.39	96.695.06	101,369.59	106,312.97	111,494.67	116,916.40
Step 6	95,954 50	100,805,31	105,495.91	110,623.43	116,023.04	121,668.11
Step 7	99.679.61	104,515.56	109,602.23	114,933.99	120,661.41	126,419,82
Step $	103,404,72	108,426,81	113.708.55	119,244.55	125,079.78	131,171.63
Step 9	107,129.88	112,336 06	117,8I4.fl7	123,555,11	129,608.15	135.923.24
Range	4®	44	45			
Increment	4.991.34	6JZ4L82	5,503,20
StBpl	102,661.27	107*662.61	112,99443
SiBp 2	107,652.61	112,884.43	118,397.63
Step 3	J 12,643,95	118,136.25	123,900.83
Step 4	117,636.28	123.378.07	129,404.03
Step 5	122.626.63	128,619.89	134,907.23
Step 6	127.617.97	133,861.71	140,410.43
Step 7	132,609.31	139,103,53	145,913,63
Step a1	137,600,66	144,345.35	151,416.83
Step y	142,591.99	149,587.17	166,920.03
SALARY SCHEDULE
12 Month Employees Effective: January l, 0002
10 Month Employees Effective: February 1. 2002 Covering Employee Relations Group*; P * R * 8
Range	1	2	9	4	5	8
Zrtcremfljit	R58.O4	688.51	731.92	757.96	786,79	838.51
Step I	16,006.44	16,664,48	17,352.99	18,074.91	19,632.67	19,629.66
Step 2	16,664.48	17,352.99	18,074.91	18,882,87	18,629.66	20,488.17
Step 3	17,322.52	18,041.50	18,798.83	19590.83	20,426.46	21,306.66
Step 4	17,980.66	18,790.01	19,518.75	20,348.79	21,223.24	22,146.19
Step5	13,656.60	19,418.52	20,240 67	21,106.75	22,020.03	32383.70
Step 6	19,296.64	20,107,03	20,962.69	21,664.71	22,816.82	22522.21
Step?	19,954,68	20,796 54	21,684.61	22,622.67	23,613.61	24,660,72
Step 8	20,612,72	21,484.05	22,406.43	23,390.63	24,410.40	26,499.23
Step 9	21,270.78	22,172.56	28,128.35	24,138.59	25,207.19	26,337.74
Range	7	6	y	1U	11	12
Zncrrment	880.13	924.54	968.99	1,016.17	1,056.15	1,118.91
Step!	20,466.17	21,348.80	22^72.84	23,241.93	24,258.00	26,324.15
Step 2	21.M8.30	22,272.84	23.241,83	24,258.00	25.324.15	26,443.06
Step 3	22,228.48	23,197.38	24,210,82	25,274.17	26,390.30	27,561.97
Step 4	23,108,56	24,121.92	26,179,81	28,290.34	27,456.45	28,680.83
Step 5	23,988.69	25,046.46	26,148.80	27,306.51	28,522.60	29,799.79
Step 6	24,868.82	25,971.00	27,117,79	28,322 68	29,688.75	30,918.70
Step 7	25,748.95	26,895.54	28.086.78	29,338.85	30,664.90	32,037.61
Step 8	26,629.08	27,820,08	29,055.77	30,355.02	31.721.05	33.156.52
Step 9	27,509.21	28,744.62	30,024.76	31,371.19	32,787.20	34,275-43
Range	13	14	16	16	17	18
/FWrBTTWFlt	1.177.16	1,285.55	1,296.66	1.363.23	1.432.67	1,502.01
—SftBlrt—	28,443.00	2?,620.21	25,555.76	30,152.32	31,515.55	32,943.22
Step 2	27.620.21	28355,76	30,152.32	81,515.55	32,948.22	84,450.28
Steps	28,797.36	30,091.31	31,448.88	32,878.78	84,880,89	85,952,24
Step 4	29,974.51	31.326.86	32,745 44	34,242.01	36.813.66	37,464.25
Step 5	31,161.66	32,582.41	34,043.00	35,605.24	37,246,23	38,956.26
Step 6	32,328.81	33,797,96	35,336.56	86,968.47	$8,678.90	40,458,27
Step 7	33,505.96	35,033.51	06,636.12	38,331.70	40,111.57	41.960.28
Step 8	34,683.11	36,269.06	37,931.68	39,694.93	41,544.24	43.462.29
Step 9	35,860.28	37,504.61	39,228.24	41,058.16	42,976.91	44.964.30
SALARY SCHEDULE
Month Employees Effective: January 1,2002 10 Month Employees Effective: February 1, 2002 Covering Employee Relation* Groups: P » R » S
Range	19	20	21	22	23	24
increment	1.576.99	1,657.54	1,746.81	1,82S. 33	1.918.49	2,012.90
Step J	34,400.28	36,027.22	37,684.76	39,425.57	41,252.47	43,170.96
Step 2	36,027.22	37.684.76	39,426.57	41,252.47	43,170,06	45,183.86
Step 3	37,604.21	39,342.30	41,166.38	43,079.37	46,089,46	47,196.76
Step 4	39,181.20	40,999.84	42,907.19	44.906.27	47,007.94	49,209.66
Step 5	40,768.19	42,657.38	44,648.00	46,733.17	48,926.43	51,222.56
Step 6	42,335.18	44,314,92	46,388.81	48,560.07	60,844.92	53,235.46
Step 7	43,912.17	46,972.46	48,129,62	50,386.97	52,763.41	55,248.36
Steps	45,489.16	47,660.00	49.870 43	52,213.87	54,681-90	57,261.26
Step 9	47,066,15	49.287.64	51,611.24	54,040.77	66,600.39	59,274.16
Range	ZS	26	at	—s—	&	30
Jhcrement	2,115.62	2,221.16	2,332.19	2,448.81	2,570.95	2,698.70
Step 1	46,183,86	47,299.48	49,620,63	51,852,82	54,301,83	56,872.58
Step 2	47,299.48	49,520.63	51,852.82	54301.83	56,872.68	59,571,28
Step 3	49,415.10	• 51,741,78	54,186.01	56,750.44	59,443.53	62,269.98
Step 4	51,530.72	53,962.93	58^17,20	59,199.26	62,014,48	64,968.66
StepS	53,646.34	56,184.08	68,849.39	61,64808	84,685.43	87,687,36
StepS	55,781.96	58.405.23	61,181.58	64,096.87	67,156.38	70,366.08
Step 7	67,877.58	60,828,38	63,513.77	68,545.68	69,727,33	73,064.78
Step 8	59,993.20	52,847.63	66,845.96	88,994,49	72,298.28	75,780.48
Step 9	62,108.82	65,068.68	68,178.15	71,443.30	74,869.23	78,462.18
Range	01	32	88	84	86	86
Inercmewt	2,834.71	2,976.33	3,123.48	3,281.74	3,442.76	3,614.92
Step J	58,571,35'	62,405.99	65,38232	68,505.50	71,787.54	75,230 29
Step 2	62,405.99	65,382.32	66,506.80	71,787.54	75,230.29	78,845.21
Step 3	65,240 70	68^58.65	71,629.28	75,069.28	78,673.04	82,460.13
Step 4	68,075.41	71,304,98	74,752.76	78,351.02	82,115.79	86,075.05
Step 5	70,910.12	74,311.31	77,876,24	81,632.76	85,558,54	89,669-97
Step 6	73,744.83	77,287.64	80,999.72	84,914,60	89,001.29	93,304.89
Step 7	78,579.54	80,263.97	84,123.20	88,196 24	92,444.04	96,919.81
StepS	79,414.25	83,240.30	87,246.68	91,477.98	95,866.79	100,534,7:1
Step 9	62,248.96	86,216.63	90,37016	94,759.72	99,329.54	104,149.65
SALARY SCHEDULE
12 Month Employees Effective: January L 2002 1Q Month Employees Effective: February I, ZOT2 Covering Employee Relatione Groups: P ♦ R ♦ S
Range	37	38	89	40	41	42
Increment	3,703,14	3,986.92	4,186.86	4,395.08	4,617.15	4344.88
Step 1	78,846.21	82,643.36	88,830.27	90,817.12	95,219.40	89.829.35
Step 2	82,643.36	86,630.27	90,81713	95,212.20	99,829.35	104,674.23
Step J	66,441.49	90,617.10	95,003.97	99,807.28	104,446.50	109,619.11
Step 4	90,289.63	94,604.11	99,190.82	104,002.36	109,063.55	114,363.99
Step 5	94,037.77	98,691,03	103,377.67	108,397.44	113,680.60	119,208.87
Step 6	97,335.91	102,577,95	107,664.52	112,799.52	118,297.95	124,063.75
Step 7	101,634,05	106,564.87	111,751.37	117,187.60	122^15.10	128,898.63
Step 8	105,432.19	110,651.79	115,938 J22	121,682.68	127,532.25	133,743,51
Step 9	109,230.33	114,538.71	120,125.07	125,977.78	132,149.40	138,588.39
Range	48	44	45
increment	5,089.21	5344.60	5,611.11
Step/	104,674.23	109,763.44	115,108,04
StepS	109,763,44	115,108.04	120,719,16
Step 3	114,962.65	120,452.64	126,330.26
StejO 4	119,941.86	126,797.24	181,941.37
Step 5	125,031.07	181,141.84	137,652 48
Step 6	130,120 28	136,488.44	143,163.59
Step 7	135,209.49	141331.04	148,774.70
Step 9	140,298,70	147,175.64	164,38581
Step 9	145,387.91	152.520,24	159,996.92
SALARY SCHEDULE
12 Month Employees Effective: July 1, 2002
10 Month Employees Effective: September L, 3002 Covering Employee Eelatloos Groups P * R * S
Range	1	a	3	4	6	6
Increment	671.20	702.28	736.36	773.12	812.72	855.28
Step 1	16,326.57	16,997.77	17,700.05	18,436.41	19,209.53	20,022.25
Step 2	16,997.77	17,700.05	18,436.41	19,209.63	30,022.25	20.877.53
Step J	17,668.97	16,402.33	19,172.77	19,982.65	20,634.67	21.732.flT
Step 4	18340.17	19,104.61	19,909,13	20,755.77	21,647.69	22,588.09
Step 5	19,011.37	19306.89	20,645.49	21,528.89	22,480,41	23,443.37
Step 6	19,682.57	20j609.17	21,361.85	22,302.01	26,273.13	24,298.65
Step 7	20,353.77	21,211.45	22,118.21	23,075,13	24.085.85	25,153.9'3
Step 6	21,024.97	21,913.73	22,854.57	23.848,25	24.898.57	26,009.21
Step 9	21,896.17	22,616.01	23,690.93	24.821JJ7	25,711.29	26,864.49
Range	7	8	9	10	11	IS
Increment	897,74	943.03	988.37	1,036.49	L087.47	1.141.29
Step 7	20,877.63	21,776.27	22,710.30	23,706.67	24,743.16	25,aao.«3
Step 2	31,775.27	22,718.30	23.706.67	24,743.16	26,830.63	26,971.92
Step <?	22,673 01	23,661.33	24,695.04	25,779,65	26,918.10	28,113.21
Step 4	23,570.75	24,604.36	25,883.41	26,816.14	28,005.57	29,254.50
Step 5	24,468.49	26.547.39	26,671.78	27,852.63	29,098,04	30.395,79
Step 6	2.6,366.22	2S.4B0.42	ai,mis1	20,889.12		31,537.08
Step 7	26,263.97	27,433.45	28,646,52	29,925.61	31,267.98	32,678.37
Step 8	27,161.71	28,376.48	29,638.69	30,962.10	32,065.45	33,819.66
Step 9	28,059,45	29.319.51	30,625.26	31.998.59	33,442.92	34,960.96
	13	14	15			W			15			18	
Zricremenf	1,200.69	1,260,27	1.322.49	1,39049	1,461.32	1,532.05
Step J	26,971,92	28.172.61	29,432.88	30,755.37	32,145.86	33,607.18
Step#	28,172.61	29,432,88	30,755.37	32,145.86	33,607.18	35,J39;23
Step 3	28,373.30	30,693.15	32,077.86	33,636,36	35,060.50	96,671,28
Step 4	30,573.99	31,963.42	33,400.35	34,926.84	26,529.82	38,203.33
Step S	31,774,88	33,213 69	34,722,84	36,317.33	37,991.14	39,733.38
Step 6	32,975.37	34,473.96	36,046.33	37,707.82	39,462.40	41,267.43
Step 7	34,176.06	35,734.23	37,367.82	39,098.31	40,913.78	'42,7yy,4fi
Step 8	36,378.75	36,994.60	38,690.31	40,488,80	42,375.10	44,331.53
Step 9	36,577 44	38,254.77	40.012.BO	41.879 29	43,836.42	45,863.59
SALARY SCHEDULE
12 Month Employees Effective: July 1* 2002
10 Month Employees Effective: September 1,-2002 Covering Employee Relations Groups: P * R * S
Range	10	20	21	22	23	24
JnentHent	1,008.53	1,890.70	1,775.82	1,803.44	1,056.86	2.053.16
Step 2	35,139.23	36,747,76	88,438.46	40,214,08	42,077.52	44,034.38
Step 2	36,747.76	38,438.46	40,214.08	42,077.52	44,034.38	46,087.64
Step 3	38,355.5$	40,128,16	41, 989.70	43,940,96	45,991.24	48,140.70
Step 4	30,964.82	41,819.96	43,766.32	46,804.40	47,048.10	60,103.86
SiepS	41.573.35	43,510.58	45,540.94	47,667.04	49,904.96	52.247,02
Step 6	43,18138	45,201.26	47,316.50	49,531.29	51,861.82	54,300.18
JStep 7	44,790,41	46,891,96	49,002.18	51394.72	53,818.68	50353.34
Step 8	46,398.94	48.582.66	50,867 80	53,258.16	86,776.54	58,408.50
Step 9	48,007.47	60,278.36	52,643.42	55,121.60	57,732.40	60,459.66
Range	25			2?		28	29	30
Increment	2,157.93	2.265.57	2,378.84	2,497,78	2,622.37	2,752.68
Step 1	46.087.54	48,245.47	50,511.04	62,889.88	56,38766	68,010,03
Step2	48,249.47	60,611.04	52,889,88	95,387.66	58,010,03	60,762.71
Step 3	50,403.40	52,776.61	55,268.72	67,805.44	60,632.40	63,519.39
Step 4	52,561.33	55,042.18	57,647.56	80333.22	63,264.77	88,268.0?
StepS	54,719,26	57,307,75	60,026.40	82,881.00	65,877.14	09,020.75
Step 6	56,877,19	59,573.32	62,405.24	85,378.78	68,499.61	71,773.48
Step?	59,035,12	6L83S89	64,784.08	67,876.56	71,121.88	74,526.11
StepS	61,193.05	64,104.46	67,162.92	70,374,34	73,744.29	77J278.79
Step y	63,350.98	66,370.03	69,541.76	72,872.12	76,366.62	80,031.47
Range	31	32	3ft	34	35	W
Increment	2,891,40	3,035.88	3,186.96	3,347.37	3,511.61	3,687.21
Step 1	60,762,71	63,654.11	88,609.9*/	69,875.92		76,734.90
Step 3	63,664.11	66,639.97	69,875.82	73,223.29	76,734.90	80,422.1]
Step 3	66,549.91	69,725,83	73,061.87	70,670.05	80,246.31	84,109.32
Step 4	69,436.91	72,761.59	76,247.82	79,918.03	83,758.12	87,796.53
StepS	72,328.31	75,797.66	79,433.77	83,265.40	87,269.73	91,483,74
StepS	75,219.71	78333.41	82.819.72	86,612.77	90,781.34	95.170.95
Step 7	78,111.11	81,809,27	85,806.67	89,960,14	94,292.96	98,858.16
StepS	81,002.51	84,906.13	88,991.62	93,307.61	97,804.56	102,545.37
StepP	83,893.91	07,940.99	92,177.57	96,654.88	101,316,17	106,232.58
SALARY SCHEDULE
12 Month Employees Effective: July 1, 2002
10 Month Employees Effective: September L 2D02 Covering Employee HelAtione GroupK P * R * 8
Range	87	38	89	40	41	42
Increment	3,874,11	4,066.66	4,270.58	4,482-98	4,709.50	4,941.77
Step 1	80,422,11	84296.22	88,362.88	92653.46	97,116.44	101,625.94
Step 2	64,296.22	68,362,88	92,633.46	07,116-44	101,825,94	106,767.71
Step 3	88,170,33	92,439.54	96,904.04	101,599.42	106,535.44	111,709,48
Step 4	92,04444	96,496.20	101,174.62	106,082.40	111,244.04	116,651.25
Step 5	95,918.56	100,662,86	105,445.20	110,566.28	115,954,44	121,593.02
Step fi	99,792,66	104,629.52	109,715.73	115,048.36	120,663.94	126,634.79
Step 7	103,668.77	10MW.18	113,988.96	119,531.34	125,373,44	131,476.66
Steps	107,540.88	112,762.84	118,256.94	124,01432	130,082.94	136,418,33
Step!*	111,414.99	116,829.60	122,527.52	128,407.30	134,792.44	141,360.10
Range	43	44	45
ZncTemcjit	5,191.00	5,451.49	5,723.33
Step 7	106,767.71	111^958.71	117,410.20
Step 2	111,958.71	117,410.20	123,133.53
Step 2	117,149.71	122,861,69	128,356.86
Step 4	122,340.71	128,313.18	134,580.19
Step 5	127,531.71	133,764.67	140.303.52
Step 6	132,722.71	139,216,16	140,026,85
Step?	U7 513.71	144,667.66	151,76038
Step 8	143,104.71	150,119.14	157,473.51
Step 9	148,295.71	155,570.63	183,106.84
SALARY SCHEDULE
12 Month Employees Effective; January 1, 2003
10 Month Employees Effective; February 1, 2009 Covering Employee Relation* Groups: P » ft » S
SALARY SCHEDULE
12 Month Employees Effective: January L 2003
10 Month Employees Effective! Fehmary 1, 2(H)3
Covering Employee Reistiens Groups; P ♦ R < 8
Range	I	2	9	4	5	6
fr*creme/tf	687.66	719,49	754.4)	792.07	832.64	876.25
■Step 1	16,726.73	17,414.38	18.163 87	18,888,28	19,680.36	20.512.9S
Step 2	17,414.99	18J33.87	18,888.28	19,680.35	20,512.99	21.389^4
Step 3	19,102.03	18,863.06	19,642.69	20.472,42	21,345,63	22,266.49
Step 4	18,789.88	19,572.86	20,397.10	21,264.49	22,17827	23,141.74
Step 6	19,477.33	20,292.34	21,161.61	22,066.56	23,010.91	24,017.99
Step 5	20,104,98	21,011.83	21,905.92	22,848.63	28342.66	24,894.24
Step 7	20,852.63	21,731,32	22,680,33	23,640.70	24,676.19	25,770.49
Step 8	21,640 28	22,450.81	23,414,74	24.432.77	26,508.83	28,846.74
Step if	22,227.93	23,170.30	24,169.15	25.224.84	26,341.47	27,522.99
Range	19	20	21	22	33	24
increment	1,647.95	1,732.13	1,819.16	1,909.11	2,004.82	2,103.48
Step J	96,000.49	37,648.44	39,380.57	41,199.72	43,108.83	45,113.65
Step 2	37,646.44	39,380.57	41,199.72	43,108.83	46,113.65	47,217.13
Step 3	39,296.39	41,112.70	43,018,87	45,017.94	47,118.47	49,320.61
__Step 4	40,944.34	42,844.83	44,538.02	46,927.05	49,123.29	51,424.09
Step 5	42,692-29	44,676.96	46,667.17	48.836.16	51,128.11	63,527.57
Step 6	44,240.24	46,309.09	48,476.32	50,745.27	53,132.93	55,631.05
Step 7	45,888.19	48,041.22	50^96.47	52,654.38	66,137.75	57,734.53
Step S	47,536.14	49,773.35	62,11462	54,563.49	57,142.57	59,838.01
Step 9	49,184.09	_ 51,506.48	53,933.77	60,472.60	59,147.39	81,941.49
Range	7	8	9	10	11	12
Increment	919.73	966.15	1,012.89	1,061,90	1,114.12	1,169.26
Step 1	21,389.24	22,208.97	23,275.12	24,287.71	25,349.61	26,463,74
Step 2	22,308.97	23,275.12	24,287.71	25.349.61	26,463.74	27,833,00
StepS	23,228.70	24,241.27	25,300.30	26,411.51	27,577.87	28,802.26
Step 4	24,148,43	25,207.42	26,312.89	27,473.41	28,692,00	29,971.52
Step 5	26,068.16	28,173.57	27,326.48	28,535.31	29,806.13	31,140.78
Step 6	25,987.89	27,139.72	28,338,07	29,597.21	30,020,26	32,310,04
Step 7	26,907.62	28,105.87	29,360.66	30,669.11	32,034.39	33,479.30
Step 8	27,827.36	29,072.02	30,363.26	31,721.01	33,148.62	34,648.56
Step 9	28,747.08	30,038,17	31,375.84	32,782.91	34,262.65	35,317.82
Range	2ft	28	57	28	Z9	30
JnPretnent	2,210.83	2,321.10	2,437.14	2,559.00	2,686.65	2,820.14
Step?	47,217.13	49,427,96	61,749.06	54,186.20	56,745.20	59,421.85
Step 5	49,427.96	61,749.06	64,186.20	56,745,20	69,431.85	62,251.99
Step.?	51,638.79	54,070.16	56,623,34	59,304.2(1	62,118.60	65,072.13
Step 4	53,849.62	56.391.20	59,060 48	61,863.20	64,805.15	67,892.37
Step 5	60,000.45	58,712.36	61,497.62	64.422 20	67,491.80	70,712.41
Step 6	58,271.28	61,033.46	63,834.70	68,981.20	70,175,45	73.63Z.ft5
Step?	80,482.11	63,354.56	66,371.90	69,540.21)	72.865.10	76,352.69
Step 8	62,69294	65,676,66	66,809.04	72,099 20	75,551.75	79,172.83
Step 9	64,903.77	67,996.76	71,246.16	74,668.20	78,238.40	61,992.97
							.1 r
Range	ia	14	15	16	17	18	•* '	!	
increment	1,230.12	1,291.15	1,354.90	L424.58	1,497.14	1,569.60	■ i;
Step J	27,633.00	28,863.12	30,154.27	31,509.17	32,933.75	34,430.89	
Step 2	28,863.12	30,154.27	31,509.17	32,933.75	34,430.89	36,000.49	
Step 3	30,093.24	31,445.42	32,864,07	34,358.33	35,928.03	37,570.09	
Step 4	31,323.36	32,736.57	34,218.97	35,782,91	37,425.17	39,139.69	
Step 8	32^53.48	34,027.72	35,573,87	37,207.49	38,922.31	40,709.29	!.
Step 8	33,783.60	35318.87	36,928.77	38,632.07	40,419.45	42,278.89	
Step 7	35,013,72	36,610 02	38,283.67	40,056.65	41,916.59	43,848.49	
Step S	38,243.84	37,9OL17	39,638.67	41,481.23	43,413.73	45,418.09	£
Step 9	37,473.96	39,]£2,32	40,993.47	42,905.81	44,910.87	46,987.69	t
Range	81	32	33	34	6ft	30						
	Q M') 97				a SO7 67	
						
Step 1	62,251.99	65,214.26	68,324.52	71,588,56	76,017.98	78,615.66
Step 2	66,214.26	68,324.52	71,680,56	75,017.98	78,615.66	' 82,393.24
Step J	68.176.63	71,434.78	74,852.60	78,447.40	82,213.32	86,170.83
Step 4	71,138.80	74,545.04	78,116.64	81,878,82	85,810.99	89.948.42
Step 5	74,101.07	77,655.30	81,380.63	85.306 24	89,408.66	93,726-01
Step 6	77,063.34	80,786.56	84,844,72	88,735.66	93,006.33	97,503.60
Step?	80,025.61	88375.82	87,908.70	92,165.08	96,604.00	101,281.19
Step $	82,987.38	86.9S6.08	91,172.80	96,694,50	100,201.67	105,058.73
Step 9	85,950.15	90,096.34	94,436.84	99,023,92.	103,799.34	108,836.37
SALARY SCHEDULE
Month Employees Effective: January 1,2003
10 Month EmployeM Effective: February lf 2003
Covering Employee Relation* Groups: P * R * 8
Range	37	88	89	40	41	42
Increment	3,909 08	4,166.33	4,375.26	4,592.86	4,824.92	6,082.90
Step I	82,303,24	86,38230	90,628.63	94,903.89	99,49675	104,321.67
Step 2	86,962,30	90,528.63	94,903.89	99,496.75	104,321.67	109,384.57
Step3	90,331.38	94,694.96	99,279.16	104,089.61	109,146.69	114,447.47
Step 4	94,300.42	98,861.29	103,654.41	108,682.47	113,971.51	119,510.37
Step 5	93,268.48	103,027,62	108,029.67	113,276.33	118,796.43	124,573.27
Step 6	102,238.54	107,199.95	112,404.93	117,888,19	123,621.35	129,836.17
Step 7	106,207 80	111,360.28	116,780.19	122,461.06	128,446.27	134,696.07
Step 8	110,176.66	116,626.61	121,166,45	127,053.91	133,271.19	139,761.97
Step 9	114,145.72	119,692.94	125,630.71	131,646,77	138,096.11	144,824.87
Range	43	44	46
Increment	5,318.22	5,585.11	6,863.61
Step I	109^84^7	114,702.79	120,297.90
Step 2	114,702.79	120,297.90	126,151.51
Step J	130,021.01	125,873.01	132,01610
Step 4	125,339.23	131,46812	137,878.73
Step 5	130,857.45	137,043.03	143,742.34
Step 6	136,976,67	142,628.34	149,605.95
Step 7	141,293.89	148,213.46	165,469.58
Step 8	146,612.11	163,798.56	161,333.17
Step 9	151,930.33	159,383.67	167,196 78
CW A Letal Jttrii41eth)»
UcsUtll
JarvdJrtloai
Dffiem
?hoiw ta: Pres J Mti
Jarkdlttloa:
Stale College System, Office of Student AisistaMt, Commissiwi oa Higher Edueatw MCulwRmd
Moo retouch J unci Loo, NJ US8J2 40B-274-2ni
WS-I7MI54 Rcrti Palazzo
Offire:
Ptauoet Fav President:
l*csl 1033 Jariidktteai
Department ofTranspcirteilcin (except DMV). New Jersey Futile Brwdtastmg Aultwmy, O.T.L5.
990 ffiutiswJck Avenue
Trerrtffll,NJ 0M3B
609-9 W410D
«W-9*M5J0
Tim Marketti
Office:
Fan PfmW'M:
Loeat 1834 Jurisdiction^
la the County of Mneer, Ute ttutowing Executive Branch Ctopertments.- Huklag ud Inswaricc, EdoettitNi, Militvy & Vctowij Afters, Office of the public Defender, Slate, Treasury [except O.T.I.S.), Lew & Public Safety, TraaEpoeteiton (DMV) 321 Wea Slate Street Trenton, NWS M9-39V7723 609-393-7111 Rae Roeder
Office
Fhoer
!q the County of Merter. the fallowing Deportments: Agriculture, Commerec CcmmiuioiL FnvirMunentM fVtitecticm, Haith, Labe*
Oe Lower Ferry Rend WeM 1 ration, NJ M6Z8------------•••
6W-53O-MI6O
UttLUB'leaetieert.i..
Community' Attain. Also rxrieded in nil Cutilities ire elt wudters in ihoCtmunission on Higher Educatinn and Tmmsporiaiiuii (encepi DMV) and Institutional worker* in the DepartHietHS pf Corrections and HuitiUi Srevrces.
Office:	JQ Clinton Street
Newark, N) Q71D2
Phmiei	973-613-1823
Fn;	971-623-37T7
E-atell:	lftfto@cwtl£l37.ur&.
PreaMHit:	MlkeHcfkina
Loral 1038
JcrisdictiMi State workers in the counties of Atlantic. Burlington, Camden, Cape May, Cumberlnnd, Gloiwedtf and Salem. Jufisdkiiun uehriea InstitatSoaal work era In rhe EJepartranttsof Cwrections and Human Swvkei and employees ef tea CernmieiKio on Higher FdozelkiB and IrtatfmWKe (except DMV)
OtSu:	45E N. Glustaro Rud
Woodbury Heights, N) 06097
Pheai:	S56433-ISDC
Riat	K46-S51-5932
Fresfdant?	13au5 Alcxmdef
Local 1M9
Jarladlrttew: la lhe Counties of Mere=r, Hunterdon, Scinctset, Middlesex^ Mmimoutli and Ocean, JFnn-icMMiotial rttpkoyees m the [fepartroena of Conarjiunrty Atthira, State, Parole Board, and Hurnan Stevtcea (Including DD.D, in Nucuiod Burlington County). In the County of Mercer, □qHrtnmtofPemnmte HKD]
Office	l23EaMH«fOV4cSteetf
Trenton, N) M605
Ptawa:	609-394^111
-tat---------__________________________________________
Pmldant: Jayoc Ccmch
Feu	6O9-33WO633		
E-mail: Web Pifr;	CWA ffil4@wl.wcn www.cwatCt34.org	Local IMO Juriadlttloai	Institutional wnrkcrs in the Pepantiicrils of
Pro idem Itfeal I037j Jarvdkiita:	Carla KaU, Workers in lhe New Jersey Waier Supply Authority, fWireder IntetWe Park Cwnmlasioa, wd worker* la (he C ou rrtiei of Bergen, Essex, Hudson, Mania, Punic, Sussex, Litton and Wirren; in theCoiBUite ofHunKntoa, Mlddlwc, fMetstovlh, Ooean and Somaaet, jifrlsdktion indwdesa])Dep*rtm«ilsne±pl Human Servtott, Conwticns and	Offiw PlKHie: Ju: President	CtrrrecJons. Military and Veterans Affaire, luverdle Justice Cammtssicm. v*d Human Services ('statewide). In the County of Mom, Ndm Jnslitutioaal workers rnCMreeticKu. Depaunciu of CorreeticmrCcrUrai Office, Deputroem of Personnel HRDI (statewide) except Trenton. 230 Pukway Avenue Tren(Mi,NJ Ug616 609-33S-B699 6D9-518-H6t Carolyn C Wade