LABOR AGREEMENT
Between
Honeywell International Smart Energy
and
Perfection Employees' Independent Union
April 1,2017 Through March 31,2020
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Agreemen t .........................................................................................     3
Article 1	- Purpose	3
Article 2	- Recognition	3
Article 3	- Management	4
Article 4	- Nondiscrimination	4
Article 5-Union	5
Article 6	- Adjustment of Grievances	7
Article 7	- Arbitration	8
Article 8	- Vacations	10
Article 9	- Holidays	14
Article 10	- Pay in Extenuating Circumstances	16
Article 11	- Hours and Overtime	18
Article 12	- Job Titles and Cross-Training	21
Article 13	- Seniority	22
Article 14	- Transfers and Postings	26
Article 15	- Leaves of Absence	29
Article 16	- Wage Rates	30
Article 17	- Safety	32
Article 18	- Bulletin Boards	33
Article 19	- Rules	33
Article 20	- Work By Non-Union Personnel	34
Article 21	- Retirement Provision	35
Article 22	- Insurance Coverages	35
Article 23	- Other Benefits	38
Article 24	- Employee Recognition	39
Article 25	- Savings Clause	39
Article 26	- Definitions	40
Article 27	- Appendixes	41
Appendix A	- Dues Deduction Authorization	41
Appendix B	- Holidays	42
Appendix C	- Job Titles and Wage Rates	42
Article 28	- Sale or Closure	44
Article 29	- Entire Agreement	45
2
Article 30-	Term of Agreement	45
AGREEMENT
This Agreement, dated April 1, 2017 is between Honeywell International, Smart Energy (hereinafter called the Company) and Perfection Employees' Independent Union (hereinafter called the Union). This Agreement is binding upon the parties, their successors and assigns.
ARTICLE 1	- PURPOSE
Section 1	- Relationship:
It is the intent and purpose of this Agreement to promote harmony between the Company, its employees and the Union, and to maintain maximum efficiency so that the employees and the Company may mutually benefit; and to provide procedures for the prompt, peaceful and equitable adjustment of differences which may arise from time to time. The Company agrees to seek Union participation in working together to achieve the common benefits and goals.
Section 2	- Conduct:
The Company agrees that there will be no lockout of employees during the life of this Agreement. The Union Executive Board agrees for itself, the bargaining unit employees, its agents and its representatives that during the life of this Agreement there will be no strike, picketing, walk-out, slow-down or any other interference to the normal operations of the Company. It is understood that violation of this section shall be grounds for discipline, up to and including discharge.
(A)	The Union will, as soon as possible, publicly announce through the local newspaper and on local radio and television that the strike or other proscribed activity is unauthorized and not condoned by the Union;
(B)	The Union will instruct all employees involved in the strike or other proscribed activity to immediately cease this violation of their Agreement and to return to work, and, in the event of noncompliance with these instructions, will fine their members to the maximum extent possible.
ARTICLE 2-	RECOGNITION
The Company recognizes the Union as the exclusive bargaining agency of all its production and maintenance employees located at the Geneva plant at 436 North Eagle Street, Geneva, OH 44041, but excluding office or clerical employees, professional employees, managerial employees, and Supervisors as defined in the National Labor Relations Act, as amended.
3
ARTICLES- MANAGEMENT
Section 1	- Management Rights:
It is agreed that the Company reserves to itself and retains the right to manage the plant and to direct the working forces, subject only to the limitations and restrictions upon such rights which are expressly contained in this Agreement. Among other things, the management of the facilities includes; the right to plan, direct and control plant operations, hire, promote, transfer, suspend or discharge for proper cause, relieve employees from duty because of lack of work or other legitimate reasons, require verifications and/or other qualifications for any tasks, jobs/job titles or classifications within the plant (following notice to the Union Executive Committee), and to introduce new or improved production methods or facilities. The Company further reserves all other management rights and prerogatives, except as of such rights or prerogatives may be expressly limited by this Agreement.
Section 2	- Non-Discrimination:
It is agreed that nothing contained herein shall be used for the purpose of discriminating against employees because of membership in the Union.
ARTICLE 4 - NONDISCRIMINATION
There shall be no discrimination in the interviewing, hiring, promoting, upgrading, training, laying off, discharging or in any condition of employment on account of sex, marital status, race, color, creed, national origin, religious beliefs, age, non-disqualifying handicap or disability, and veteran's status or because other family members are employed by the Company. However, family members shall not directly or indirectly supervise or report to persons with whom they have a close family relationship. Close family relationship is defined as follows:
•	Spouse
•	Child: biological, foster, adopted, grandchild, stepchild
•	Brother, sister, stepbrother/sister
•	Parent: biological, adoptive, stepparent, grandparent
•	Parent/grandparent of spouse
•	Brother/sister-in-law, son/daughter-in-law
•	Same-sex domestic partner, child, stepchild, foster child, adopted child, parent, brother or sister of a domestic partner
•	Common-law spouse in states where common-law marriage is recognized, child, stepchild, foster child, adopted child, parent, brother or sister of a Common-law spouse
•	Any other relative actually residing with the employee
4
ARTICLE 5 - UNION
Section 1	- Union Membership:
All employees shall:
(A)	Become members of the Union in good standing and maintain such membership.
(B)	Pay to the Union a reasonable fee amount determined by the Union that shall comprise of the periodic dues and initiation fees required by all members.
In the event that the Union's dues include fees for Union work or services that are not related to the Union's duties as the exclusive representative of the employees in dealing with the employer on labor-management issues, then any Union employee may elect to not pay such extra fees by so notifying the Union in writing. Only exceptions governed by Article 4, and those consistent with applicable law, will be acceptable reasons for refusing to join or remain a member of the Union.
This provision is to take effect as to each employee after completion of the employee's probationary period.
Section 2	- Union Dues:
During the life of this Agreement, the Company will withhold Union dues in line with Company payroll periods, as designated by the Treasurer of the Union. Such deductions shall be made on the basis of individual written authorization in the form attached hereto as Appendix A. All such deductions shall be promptly remitted to the Treasurer of the Union. The Company will not be held responsible for collecting Union dues if, or when, there is no Agreement in effect.
Section 3	- Union Duties:
The Company agrees to allow the Union to use an onsite office in which to keep its records and conduct its official Union business.
Section 4	- Executive Board:
All Executive Board members shall be on first (1st) shift for contract negotiations only.
The Executive Board consists of:
President, Vice President, Treasurer, Secretary, and, Sergeant At Arms.
5
Notification to the Supervisor is required for duties carried out by the Executive Board. These duties will be paid by the Company, and will be limited to the following, provided such duties are performed during the Union official's regularly scheduled work hours and unless acting as a Union Steward:
•	Contract Negotiations
•	Disciplinary Action (write-ups, terminations)
•	Step two and Grievance resolution
•	Arbitration
•	Monthly union meetings with the Company
•	Maintaining Union records & Union dues
•	Matters brought to Union's attention by the Company (layoffs, shift re-alignments, posting of jobs, transfers)
For items not included in the above list, supervisor approval is required.
Section 5	- Union Stewards:
Union/Chief Steward: Maximum of one (1) per each shift.
Duties paid by Company will be limited to the following, provided such duties are performed during the Union official's regularly scheduled work hours and prior approval of the supervisor is given:
•	Employee issues that have not been resolved by the Supervisor (FMLA, transfers, vacations, paychecks, supervision, insurances, safety, occurrences, contract, job descriptions)
•	Disciplinary Action
•	Step one Grievance Resolution
Section 6	- Union Indemnity:
Except as otherwise set by Federal Law, the Company and its agents are not liable for any actions or non-action solely taken by the Union during the course of carrying out Union duties, handling membership matters, or conducting union affairs or business.
Section 7	- Union Representation:
Not more than two (2) Union representatives will be released from their normal work to investigate employee issues or adjust grievances. Such representatives may be an Executive Board Member or a Steward; with a bias for prompt and speedy representation.
6
ARTICLE 6 - ADJUSTMENT OF GRIEVANCES
Section 1 - Procedure:
A grievance shall be a claim that some provision of this Agreement has been violated or not properly interpreted or applied. The Company and the Union encourage the highest degree of friendly and cooperative relationships between their respective representatives. Recognizing the value and importance of full discussion in clearing up misunderstandings and preserving harmonious relations, every reasonable effort should be made to settle problems prior to getting into the formal grievance procedure. An employee may discontinue any such voluntary discussion at any time and enter into the grievance procedure as follows:
During all stages contained within this article, the Employee has the right to Union Representation provided they have completed their probationary period.
For the purpose of this article only, "working days" will not include Saturday, Sunday, or Company Holiday.
In order for an issue to be considered in the following steps, it must be presented no later than five (5) working days after the date of the event upon which the issue is based, or five (5) working days from the date at which the employee should reasonably have known of the issue.
Step One - Any employee who has a complaint may discuss it verbally with his/her Supervisor or Human Resources. The Supervisor or Human Resources shall attempt to settle the problem with the employee. If the complaint is not then settled to all parties' satisfaction within two (2) days, unless otherwise agreed to by the parties as covered in
Section 3 of this Article, it shall proceed to Step Two in the manner set forth below.
Step Two - The grievance shall be submitted by the Union in writing to Human Resources and one copy to the Grievant. Grievances at any level will not be recognized unless in writing and signed by the grievant.
The grievance must state:
•	The date of the occurrence,
•	The article and section of this Agreement alleged to have been violated or misapplied,
•	A brief statement of the facts and a statement of the remedy requested.
7
Grievances not including all of the required information shall not be deemed filed or initiated for the purpose of this Article and the time limitations set forth herein.
Such a written grievance must be submitted no later than ten (10) working days after the expiration date of Step One. The Company will acknowledge the grievance no later than ten (10) working days from the date received and schedule a meeting with the Executive Board; unless otherwise agreed to by the parties as covered in Section 3 of this Article. Attendees at the meeting may comprise of, the grievant, management representative(s) and Union representative(s). Written answer to the grievance shall be given by the Company within ten (10) working days following the date of the meeting.
In the event this written answer is not satisfactory, the Union may, within ten (10) working days from the date of the written response (under this Step Two), give notice of its desire to arbitrate as provided in Article 7 by requesting a panel of arbitrators as set forth in Article 7 (Arbitration).
Section 2	- Effective Date of Awards:
Awards or settlements of grievances shall in no case be retroactive beyond the date when the grievance was first presented in Section 1.
Section 3	- Timeliness:
The time period for submission of grievances, investigation, processing, and requests for arbitration must be met, unless an extension of time is requested and mutually agreed upon by the Company and the Union's Executive Board. Any grievance that is not answered in a timely manner by the Company, shall be deemed to have been appealed to the next step on the day following the due date of the Company's response. Any grievance that is not submitted or appealed in a timely fashion by the Union shall be deemed withdrawn.
ARTICLE 7	- ARBITRATION
Section 1	- Process:
Any grievance by the Union relating to the interpretation or application of the provisions of this Agreement shall be subject to final and binding arbitration, provided the requirements set forth in Article 6 have been satisfied. This arbitration procedure shall be the sole and exclusive forum for resolution of such matters. Grievances must be presented and processed in the manner and within the time limits herein provided (or any extensions thereof agreed to by both parties) in order to be subject to arbitration.
8
Section 2	- Jurisdiction:
The arbitrator's jurisdiction shall be limited to adjudication of grievances and associated issues based on the express terms of this Agreement and any Submission Agreement that shall be entered into between the parties hereto. Such adjudication shall be set forth in a written decision or award that includes a statement of the reasoning and grounds upon which such decision or award is based. The arbitrator's decision or award shall be based solely on the evidence and arguments presented to the arbitrator by the respective parties in the presence of each other.
The arbitrator shall have no authority:
(A)	To accept for submission or rule on any issue other than a question as to whether or not a provision of the Agreement has been violated;
(B)	To add to, detract from or alter in any way the provisions of the Agreement;
(C)	To alter any wage rate or wage structure set forth in this Agreement;
(D)	To award any monetary loss, compensation or pay other than regular, straight-time wages and benefits lost, less any unemployment compensation that he/she may have received or be entitled to from any source during such period or any assistance from any state or federal government agency;
(E)	To render a decision or award that is retroactive to a date preceding the date that the written grievance upon which the decision or award is based was presented to the Company.
Section 3	- Appointment of Arbitrator:
The arbitrator shall be appointed from either the American Arbitration Association or the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (FMCS) as agreed to by mutual consent of the Union Executive Board and the Company. The Union shall contact the agreed upon agency to request a panel of nine (9) arbitrators. The arbitrator shall be chosen by both parties by the alternate strike method with the first party to strike to be selected by a method mutually agreed to by both parties. If the parties are unable to agree upon an arbitrator from this panel, or if either party is dissatisfied with the first panel, they shall request the American Arbitration Association or the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (FMCS) to send a second panel of arbitrators. The parties shall alternately strike from this second panel of arbitrators until an arbitrator is selected.
9
Section 4	- Timeliness:
Within ten (10) working days of the appointment of an Arbitrator, a meeting/conference call will be arranged between the Company Representative, a member of the Union Executive Board, Company Attorney, and Union Attorney to review the availability of all parties in order to schedule an arbitration date. All Parties shall endeavor to make themselves available for a hearing within thirty (30) working days of said meeting.
Section 5	- Decision of Arbitrator:
The decision of the arbitrator shall be final and the parties agree to abide by his/her award.
Section 6	- Cost of Arbitration:
The Company and the Union shall share equally the expense of arbitration.
ARTICLE 8	- VACATIONS
Section 1	- Eligibility:
Any employee who has ninety (90) days or more seniority shall be eligible to use vacation with pay according to the following:
Effective April 1, 2017 through May 31, 2017, vacation shall remain the same as was in the prior cba.
Effective June 1, 2017, employees will earn vacation leave according to their seniority on an "earn as you go" basis. Employees will earn 1/12 of their annualized vacation benefit during each month of employment.
For purposes of this calculation, an employee who works a single day in the month will be treated as having been employed by the Company for that entire month. The rate of pay for the vacation time off shall be the employee's normal hourly rate, including applicable shift differential, which the employee would have earned had they worked. For purposes of computing service to determine the appropriate accrual schedule, the Company will use the seniority of the employee at any time during the upcoming vacation year as the seniority for the entire year of accrual.
10
(A)	Transition from 2016-2017: The 2016-2017 vacation hours earned from June 1, 2016-June 1, 2017 will be regarded as "prior year's vacation allotment" for the purpose of this transition only
(B)	For employees who have fewer than 10 years of service as of Jupe 15, 2017, 100% of the prior year's vacation allotment will be added to their 2017-2018 accrual balance.
(C)	For employees who have 10 or more years of service, one-half of that prior vacation allotment will be added to the employees' vacation balance for use in the	2017-2018 vacation year. The remaining one-half will be paid as cash at the first
regular payroll period following June 1st 2017.
(D)	"Prior year's vacation allotment" may be used beginning April 3, 2017 to encourage the use of such vacation as promptly as possible at times that have historically been less than desirable vacation times. Prior year's vacation allotment is subject to the use it or lose it principle and must be used by the end of the 2017-2018 vacation year.
Section 2	-Accrual Schedule:
Any employees hired prior to April 1, 2014 will accrue vacation on the following schedule:
Seniority
1 year but less than 3 years
3 years but less than 5 years
5 years but less than 10 years
10 years but less than 15 years
15 years but less than 20 years
20 years but less than 25 years
25 years or more
Number of Hours of Vacation
48	(6 days)
72	(9 days)
96	(12	days)
13	(17	days)
17	(22 days)
20	(25 days)
22	(28 days)
Any employees hired April 1, 2014 and thereafter will accrue vacation on the following schedule:
Seniority	Number of Hours of Vacation	
1 year but less than 3 years	48	(6 days)
3 years but less than 5 years	72	(9 days)
5 years but less than 10 years	96	(12 days)
10 years but less than 15 years	13	(17 days)
	6	
15 years or more	16	(20 days)
11
Section 3	- Vacation Scheduling:
The Company shall have the right to shut down its plant for vacation period(s), and if it decides to shut the plant for a vacation period(s) the Company will give at least thirty (30) days advance notice of such a shut down. Except in case of emergency, it shall be the policy of the Company that vacations be taken during one shutdown period per calendar year. The Company will attempt, to the extent possible in the light of production requirements, to allow employees to take their vacations at times requested by them, with preference being given to employees with the greatest amount of Company seniority under the.following procedure:
(A)	Requesting Vacation:
(i)	The Company will allow a minimum of 10% of the workforce to use vacation on the same day, excluding maintenance, provided that no more than 30% of the employees in a single job title may select the same day for vacation. Temporary workers will be counted in the determination of the workforce.
(ii)	Employees will submit vacation requests between April 1st and April 15th (up to 3 choices, full week (Monday-Friday) vacation requests will take preference over requests of less than five (5) days, 1 full week max per request.) These requests will be granted with preference to seniority. Requests submitted between April 1st and April 15th will be returned by April 22nd.
(iii)	Any employee who has any choices denied during the initial process of vacation scheduling, will have the opportunity between April 22nd and May 7th to resubmit an alternate vacation request (one request per slip). Full week (Monday-Friday) vacation requests will take preference over requests of less than five (5) days, 1 full week max per request. These requests will be granted with preference to seniority. Requests submitted between April 22nd and May 7th will be returned by May 14th.
(iv)	Any vacation requests made after May 14th of each year will be granted on a "first come" basis. Any vacation requests turned in on or after May 15th will be returned to the employee within five (5) working days after being turned into the Company.
(B)	Vacation requests will be submitted in a form designated by the Company, which the Company may change at its discretion.
(C)	Vacation can be requested for 2, 4, or 8 hours and up to 5 consecutive days (Monday-Friday).
13
(D)	Except as provided in Article 15, Section 1 in association with leave taken under the Family and Medical Leave Act, the minimum amount of vacation taken at any one time shall be two (2) hours at the beginning or at the end of the shift, can be used once per calendar month, four (4) employees per shift, shall be requested at least twenty-four (24) hours in advance, and will not count towards the 10%. Vacation time taken on a Monday or Friday, less than four (4) hours, shall not be used to avoid mandatory Saturday overtime.
(E)	Vacation can be requested for 2, 4 or 8 hours on a mandatory Saturday; all Saturday vacation hours will be paid at straight time and not be counted toward weekly overtime. Up to six (6) people may be approved on a first-come first-approved basis.
Section 4	- When Vacation is Not Exhausted:
Vacation pay each year (June 1 through May 31) shall be on a use it or lose it basis. Any carryover arrangement entered into because an employee was not approved by the Company to take their full allotment, must be in writing between the Company and the Union and such carryover cannot be for a period exceeding two (2) months.
Employees who are placed on layoff with an expected duration of at least thirty (30) days shall be given their vacation balance check at the next payroll period after layoff.
Section 5	- Vacation Year:
The vacation year shall be from June 1 to June 1 of each year.
Section 6	- Emergency Use of Vacation Time:
Time off will not be regarded as vacation time unless it is requested at least twenty-four (24) hours in advance. On an emergency basis, employees may seek waiver of this twenty-four (24) advance notice provision but such approval will be at their supervisors' discretion.
Section 7	- Vacations - Rate of Pay:
The value of vacation pay shall be the employee's normal hourly wage rate plus shift pay, if applicable.
14
ARTICLE 9	- HOLIDAYS
Section 1	- Designated Holidays:
The 2017 holiday schedule previously agreed to by the Company and the Union conferring ten (10) paid holidays and one (1) floating holiday shall continue to be observed.
Effective January 1, 2018, the Company shall designate twelve (12) paid holidays per calendar year and publish such schedules in advance of the New Year.
Section 2	- Holiday and Overtime:
In the event that a designated holiday falls on a Friday, the overtime on the immediately following Saturday will be worked on a voluntary basis. If the holiday falls on a Monday, the preceding Saturday will be worked on a voluntary basis.
Section 3	- Payment for Un-Worked Holiday:
In the event any of the designated holidays fall on one of the days in the standard workweek, each active employee shall be paid for the holiday, on the normal check that covers that specific payroll period, in accordance with the following rules:
(A)	The employee must work his/her full scheduled workday prior to and subsequent to the holiday. Failure to work such day shall be excused only in case of sickness, approved vacation, approved intermittent FMLAof the employee, or in case of death or sickness in the employee's immediate family; in either event the employee must notify the Company during the day of absence for the reason of his/her absence, and may be required to give reasonable proof of such reason.
(B)	An employee who is on Leave of Absence under Article 15 Section 2 is not considered to be on the active payroll for purposes of this Section.
(C)	The employee must have passed probation at the time of the holiday.
(D)	If the holiday falls in an eligible employee's vacation period, he/she shall receive pay for the holiday and not be required to use vacation time for that specific day.
(E)	Pay for an unworked holiday shall be in an amount equal to eight (8) hours times the employee's wage rate plus shift pay, if applicable.
(F)	For the purpose of (A) above, if an employee works one (1) hour less than his/her scheduled hours for that day, it shall count as having worked the full scheduled workday. However, this clause does not mean an employee can leave one (1) hour early.
15
(G)	Paid holidays that are not worked shall be counted as time worked for overtime purposes that week.
Section 4	- Payment for Holiday Work:
Work performed on any of the designated holidays shall be paid at 1-1/2 times the employee's normal rate of pay. In addition to the above pay, the employee shall receive his/her holiday pay if he/she so qualifies to receive such holiday pay.
Section 5	- Anniversary Holiday:
The provisions of this Section shall only apply through December 31, 2017.
Employees hired prior to April 1, 2014 are eligible to take their anniversary holiday on the fifth (5th) Anniversary of the employee's hire date and every succeeding year thereafter.
Eligible employees who want to have their anniversary day off unpaid need no approval; but, employees must notify their Supervisor at least five (5) working days in advance of the day off. If the employee takes this day off, it can be taken only as a full day off. Such time must be taken within the pay week that it falls. If an employee elects to work their Anniversary Holiday, they shall be excused from mandatory Saturday overtime.
Employees who wish to take a day off during the week of their anniversary date with the Company shall be permitted to do so with or without using paid vacation and will not receive attendance points, provided they give the Company appropriate and timely notice of their intention to miss work. This will not be included in the 10% allowance on vacation time allowed.
Section 6	- Birthday Holiday:
The provisions of this Section shall only apply through December 31, 2017.
Employees hired prior to April 1, 2014 shall be eligible to take off the date of their Birthday.
On each employee's Birthday, the employee shall receive a Birthday payment in the amount of eight (8) hours times the employee's wage rate plus shift pay, if applicable. This payment shall be included in the next pay period following the Birthday. Eligible employees who want to have their Birthday off need no approval; but, employees must notify their Supervisor at least five (5) working days in advance of the day off. If the employee takes this day off, it can be taken only as a full day off. Such time must be taken within the pay week that it falls. If an employee elects to work their Birthday Holiday, they shall be excused from mandatory Saturday overtime.
16
ARTICLE 10	-PAY IN EXTENUATING CIRCUMSTANCES
Section 1	- Reporting to Work:
In the event that the Company fails to begin production at a previously scheduled time, but an employee has reported to work and is ready to work at that scheduled time, the employee shall be paid straight time for:
(A)	Two (2) hours, if the employee is unable to gain access to the building within one (1) hour of the schedule start time. The employee must notify the Call-Off Line before the following scheduled work day to confirm their attempt to report to work.
(B)	Two (2) hours, if the Company releases the employee during the first hour following the scheduled start time;
(C)	Four (4) hours, if the Company releases the employee after the first hour following the scheduled start time; or
(D)	The employee's actual hours worked, if the Company begins production and the employee performs work, with a minimum of four (4) hours' pay.
Notwithstanding any of the above, the Company shall not be obligated to pay any employee who leaves the plant without first being released by the Company. Nor shall the Company be obligated to pay any employees who are not able to work due to a failure to begin production that is beyond the Company's reasonable control.
At the Company's discretion, such employees may be assigned to other work that they are qualified to perform in lieu of their being released. If the employee refuses such assignment, he/she shall not be paid for the four (4) hours pay.
Section 2	- Rate of Pay:
The call-in-pay provided for in Section 1 shall be at the rate applicable to such employee as such rate appears in Appendix C.
17
Section 3	- Exceptions:
The provisions of Section 1 shall not be applicable in the event that:
(A)	Picketing, strikes, stoppages in connection with labor disputes, failure of utilities beyond the control of the Company, or Acts of God interfere with work being provided; or
(B)	The Company gives reasonable notice of a change in the employee's scheduled starting time or that an employee need not report.
Section 4	- Unscheduled Call-ln-Pav for Specific Assignments:
If an employee reports to work after having been called in on an unscheduled day, or after having left the Company's premises on a regularly scheduled workday, for a specific assignment, he/she will be released when the specific assignment is complete. All time worked shall be paid at the time and one-half rate and the employee shall be guaranteed at least four (4) hours pay at time and one-half.
Section 5	- Bereavement Pay:
Employees are required to contact Human Resources, Supervisor, or call the call off line to notify the Company for their request for bereavement. Employees are required to bring in verification of the bereavement request.
In the event of a death in an employee's immediate family (as defined below), such employee shall be granted up to three (3) days off, with 8 hours' pay for each day at his/her regular, straight-time rate. Such time off will be granted for the purpose of making arrangements for and attending the funeral of such members of his/her immediate family. This section shall not apply to employees on layoff or leave of absence when the death occurs. Bereavement pay may only be taken for days falling within seven (7) days of the date of the funeral service.
For purposes of this Section, "immediate family" shall be limited to the employee's parent, stepfather, stepmother, child, spouse, grandparent, brother, sister, step brother, step sister, father-in-law, mother-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, stepchildren, grandchildren, and legal guardian.
If an employee has a death in his/her extended family, the Company will allow the employee one (1) day without pay to attend the funeral.
If the death in the immediate family or extended family requires the employee to travel more than 500 miles from the employee's workplace, the employee may request off two (2) additional days without pay, provided he/she has notified the Company of his/her intent to do so.
18
Section 6	- Sick Pay:
All employees are entitled to one paid sick day each year from June 1 to May 31 each year. Any employee wishing to utilize their paid sick day must notify the Company via the call off line on the day of the call.
As long as all proper procedure is followed in accordance with the Absentee Policy, employees shall receive one (1) paid sick day paid at eight (8) hours for the time missed with no occurrence.
ARTICLE 11 - HOURSAND OVERTIME
Section 1	- Alternative Schedules:
The normal workday shall consist of eight (8) hours, and the normal workweek shall consist of forty (40) hours (Monday thru Friday). Nothing herein is a guarantee of minimum hours available to be worked. The regular work schedule will be posted at the plant and the workweek shall run for five (5) consecutive days. All employees hired on or after April 1,1998 will be subject to alternative work schedules as a condition of employment. Employees hired prior to March 31, 1998 can bid at their option. The work schedule will only be changed by the Company in the event of business necessity. In the event of a change, at least 48 hours' notice will be given to the Union Executive Board and employees.
The Company reserves the right to establish alternate workweeks only after consultation with the Union Executive Committee. This shall include the possibility of four ten hour days, Tuesday through Saturday workweeks, and the like.
Section 2	- Overtime Rates and Eligibility:
(A)	Time and one-half shall be paid for all hours worked in excess of forty (40) in any work week.
(B)	Any employee that has scheduled vacation time on a day that there is voluntary overtime may work that overtime.
Section 3	- Assignment of Overtime:
Except in cases of emergency, an employee will not be required to work beyond the normal shift unless he/she has received notice by the end of his/her shift on the day before the overtime is to be worked, or, in the case of weekend overtime, by the end of 3rd shift Wednesday morning.
All mandatory overtime will be on or adjacent to the employees' normal shift. If an employee schedules four (4) or more vacation hours on the Friday before or Monday after, the employee will not be required to work mandatory Saturday overtime, however, he/she cannot cancel such vacation hours.
19
The Company will make every effort to give its employees at least one (1) Saturday per month off, providing all shipments for the month are met. Unreasonable overtime is defined as overtime which exceeds a weekly mandatory schedule of 60 hours of work per week. All hours over sixty (60) per week are classed as voluntary. The Company shall not assign mandatory overtime on Sundays. Moreover, the Company shall not require more than eight (8) hours of mandatory overtime on a Saturday. The Company and the Union will agree to the rules of overtime assignments as outlined below.
(A)	Overtime work in a job title shall be rotated as equally as possible among the employees normally performing such work using an overtime rotation list maintained by the Union. Before making an overtime work assignment on this basis, the Company and Union shift representative must agree on who is eligible and make assignment by using the rotation list. Transferred employees who have worked a full seven (7) hours have a right to overtime assignments in the job title (must be worked that day) if they are otherwise qualified within the rules of overtime and rotation.
(B)	Whenever the overtime work is to be of a general type of labor which can normally be performed equally well by any willing employee, the work shall be assigned based on company-wide seniority and rotation using an overtime rotation list maintained by the Union. Before making an overtime work assignment on this basis, the Company and Union shift representative must agree on who is eligible and make assignment by using the rotation list. The assignment will be posted on a Company bulletin board.
(C)	An employee who has been incorrectly passed over for a voluntary overtime assignment shall be offered the next available overtime opportunity in that department but in no case will be paid for the passed over hours.
(D)	Whenever the overtime work is to be a type of work which requires specific skills or abilities, then the Company shall have the right to offer such work only to employees with such skills and abilities, regardless of department and/or job title. However, Company-wide seniority shall control within those employees who have such skills and abilities. Before making an overtime work assignment on this basis, the Company and Union shift representative must agree on who is eligible and make assignment by using the rotation list which is to be maintained by the Union.
(E)	Probationary employees and temporary workers shall be allowed to work voluntary or scheduled overtime. However, the overtime must first be offered to all available and qualified Union members.
(F)	If an employee accepts a voluntary overtime assignment and does not show up for that assignment, they will incur an occurrence point within the absenteeism
20
policy.
(G)	Unless and except as required by any applicable law, no employee shall be eligible for overtime during any time period in which he/she has a work restriction.
(H)	In all circumstances, it shall be the right of the Company to determine the number of people required, and which specific positions/job titles/shifts, are necessary for overtime work. The Company shall endeavor to equally distribute overtime by shift.
Section 4	- Premium Payment Rules:
There shall be no duplication or pyramiding of overtime or premium payments. An hour paid at an overtime or premium rate shall be excluded from all consideration in computing any other overtime or premium payments due under this Agreement.
Section 5	- Break Schedule:
The normal workday is as follows:
(A)	A 10 minute paid break taken at an established time during the first four (4) hours of the shift.
(B)	A 20 minute paid lunch at approximately mid-shift.
(C)	A 10 minute paid break at an established time during the last four (4) hours of the shift.
(D)	A normal shift will be as follows:
1)	1st Shift	7:00 a.m.-3:00 p.m.
2)	2nd Shift	3:00 p.m. -11:00 p.m.
3)	3rd Shift	11:00 p.m. - 7:00 a.m.
(E)	The employees are required to work until the end of their shift.
(F)	If a job title is asked to start at a different time schedule than as in (D) above, employees in that job title by seniority will have the opportunity to work that time schedule.
21
Section 7 - Absenteeism:
The Company will make every effort to balance its work load and maintenance schedules so as to provide full regular employment throughout the year. In turn, employees are expected to report on time each day. The Company, in order to run the plant in an efficient and economical fashion, needs to rely on employees reporting on scheduled days of operation. Employees who are absent and/or tardy seriously hinder the operation of the plant. Employees who fail to report to work or are late will be subject to discipline, up to and including discharge, as defined in the Absentee Policy; as such policy may change from time to time in the Company's discretion.
In the event an employee is not able to work due to sickness, accident or personal reason, it will be his/her responsibility to notify their shift supervisor (or if not available, any other available supervisor) as soon as possible, but no later than one hour after their scheduled starting time. This time limit will not apply if the circumstances are such that the notification could not be made in the time specified. Employees are to use the call off number provided by the Company for notification of call off.
Employees who expect to be off work for a period of time to exceed one week, after so advising the Company, will only be expected to call in periodically but must call in at least one day prior to returning to work. If the absence has been for medical reasons and has exceeded one week, the employee must obtain full a medical release from his/her doctor before returning to regular duties. In cases of less than a full medical release, the return to work will be governed by the Transitional Work Policy; as such policy may change from time to time in the Company's discretion.
ARTICLE 12 - JOB TITLES AND CROSS TRAINING
Section 1	- Job Titles and Descriptions:
The Company has the right to establish new Job Titles and Descriptions but will negotiate the applicable pay rates for such positions with the Union. Changes to existing Job Titles and Descriptions including any pay changes as a result of the changed title or description, shall be negotiated with the Union. The purpose of such Job Titles and Descriptions is to identify the major function performed by an employee during the majority of his/her working hours. Written Job Descriptions will be published for all job titles.
During the term of this Agreement, the Company reserves the right to establish an appointed job titled Team Leader (or equivalent) which shall include the duties of the Spider position along with the right to modify the current Moveman position to a bid job; current incumbents in the Moveman role may choose, only once and at this initial transition period, to be grandfathered into the position.
22
Section 2	- Cross Training & Team Concepts:
It is agreed that long term cooperation and flexibility are required to maintain a high level of quality and efficiency and to implement flexible work practices and manufacturing systems. This flexibility includes, but is not limited to, the following: 1) Use of team concept; 2) Flexibility in position assignment; 3) Continuous training; 4) Performance by team members on a variety of tasks; 5) A cooperative work relationship among team members; and 6) An active and meaningful team involvement program.
The parties understand that the flexibility described above will require cross training for team members. Accordingly, the parties agree that the Company shall have the right, if it so chooses, to require cross training for employees.
When an opportunity arises for training within a Job Title (e.g. introduction of new machinery) the Company will post a signup sheet and employees holding that Job Title will be selected by seniority on each shift. If no one comes forward, the Company will use its discretion to select employees to be trained.
The Company shall determine, in its discretion, whether such training will be provided; the time, place, order and manner in which such training will be provided; and all other matters associated with such training. In addition, nothing in this article shall be read as restricting the Company's right to require training of employees within their current Job Title.
ARTICLE 13 - SENIORITY
Section 1	- Seniority List:
Company-wide seniority shall date from the date of most recent employment with the Company. The Company will prepare and maintain a seniority list showing the names of all employees and their seniority dates. A copy of such list will be given to the Union Executive Board and posted in the plant on a quarterly basis. Any issues with the seniority list will be dealt with under Article 6, Adjustment of Grievances.
Every reference to seniority in this Agreement shall mean company-wide seniority.
Section 2	- Probationary Period:
Following hiring by the Company, new employees will be regarded as probationary employees for a maximum period of sixty (60) working days of completed employment. Completion of a probationary period shorter than sixty (60) working days is left to the discretion of the Company. During that period, probationary employees may be laid-off or discharged as exclusively determined by the Company. Probationary employees continued in the service of the Company subsequent to said period shall receive full continuous seniority credit from the date of hire.
23
o • o o • © © © © • o o o o o o o 0 o o o o o o © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © ©
Section 3	- Loss of Seniority and Employment Status:
An employee shall lose all seniority and employee status in the following cases, to the extent permitted by all applicable laws and regulations:
(A)	By voluntarily quitting.
(B)	By being discharged.
(C)	By failing to report, without justifiable extenuating circumstances, for work within seventy-two (72) hours (excluding Saturdays, Sundays or Company holidays) after recall from layoff. Recall notice shall be given by registered mail. Notice to the employee's last known address as shown on the Company books shall be considered proper notice. Notice periods are computed in accordance with Article 26, Section 1 (computing time).
(D)	By being declared permanently and totally disabled pursuant to the Ohio Workers' Compensation laws or by being declared permanently and partially disabled pursuant to the Ohio .Workers' Compensation laws where such one is, by reason of his/her permanent partial disability, unable to perform the essential functions of his/her job title (or the essential functions of any job title available in the plant) with or without reasonable accommodation.
(E)	By being determined that an employee has reached Maximum Medical
Improvement as defined by Ohio Worker's Compensation laws and does not return to work if released by the employee's physician of record. Should the employee, within ninety (90) days of returning to work, be determined by the physician of record or the Company, unable to perform the essential functions of their job title (or the work of any job title available in the plant) with or without reasonable accommodation, all seniority will be lost.
(F)	By being absent for a period exceeding eighteen (18) months for layoff.
(G)	By being on an approved Medical Leave of Absence, for a continuous period of
fifty-two (52) weeks even though the illness or injury is not permanent, or by qualifying for permanent Social Security disability benefits. This applies once all Short Term Disability has been exhausted.
(H)	By being absent beyond the period of a formal Leave of Absence (Article 15) granted by the Company.
(I)	By repeated tardiness or absences, as defined by Absentee Policy, or failure to perform work satisfactorily, as defined by the work rules.
24
(J)	By accepting a transfer to a nonunion position with the Company. If the
employee later returns to an hourly position seniority shall be measured from the date of return to the hourly position.
Section 4	- Promotions:
It is the Company's intention to promote from its ranks whenever possible. However, nothing herein shall prohibit the Company from posting open vacancies to both external and internal candidates.
Section 5	- Layoffs and Recalls:
If layoffs are necessary, the following rules shall apply:
(A)	In the event a general layoff or permanent reduction is necessary, company-wide seniority shall be the determining factor provided the ability to perform the work, as determined within the Company's discretion, are substantially the same. Layoffs will be made beginning with the lowest employee on the seniority list.
(B)	As a result of a layoff or permanent reduction, there may be a complete elimination of a job title or merely a reduction in the number of jobs in a job title. In either event, the procedure shall be as follows:
1)	The Company shall prepare a list indicating the total number of jobs in each job title that will be available after the layoff or reduction, and the number of employees (if any) that will be placed on layoff.
2)	If employees are to be placed on layoff, the Company will designate such employees by beginning at the bottom of the seniority list and working upward. In accordance with paragraph A.
3)	After employees have been designated for layoff under the preceding paragraph, the remaining positions in the plant will be filled. Beginning at the top of the seniority list, employees shall be designated to retain the remaining jobs in their existing job title.
25
4)	Those employees who do not retain their existing job title pursuant to the preceding paragraph will be reassigned to a different job title as follows:
a)	Bumping rights - in case of a layoff or elimination of a job title or jobs within a job title, those affected employees shall have the right to bump (by seniority) the most junior employee in any job title (excluding Maintenance) that they previously and successfully held into which their regular seniority will carry them. In accordance with paragraph A.
b)	If the employee did not hold or is otherwise ineligible to bump into a prior job title under the preceding subparagraph, the employee will be assigned to any job title in which the Company believes work will be available. Such positions will be filled by giving the employees a choice (in order of Company-wide seniority) of the available job positions.
c)	Once the affected employees have been assigned to different job titles, the affected employees may select any shift in that job title to which their seniority will carry them.
(C)	Recalls following.a layoff shall be made in the reverse order in which layoffs were made. However, recalls of certain skilled employees out of the normal recall sequence may sometimes be necessary to secure production following a layoff.
(D)	When an employee is recalled from layoff they shall return to their old job title. If their old job title is filled, they shall return to any job title where work is available and be paid at the same rate level within the new job title as what they held at the time of layoff.
(E)	If a vacant position becomes available in a job title, that position will first be offered in order of Company-wide seniority to employees eliminated from that job title (by layoff, bumped or permanent reduction). The Union will provide the Company with a list of the employees who have been eliminated from each job title, listed in order of their seniority preference, who may have rights for two (2) years under this paragraph to a vacant position in that job title. The Union will update this list as it changes from time to time. Under no circumstances will the Company be found to have committed a violation of this Agreement if it awards an open position to the employee with the highest seniority preference on the most recent list provided by the Union.
26
Section 6 - Ties in Seniority:
In the event of a tie in seniority, the seniority classification goes in alphabetical order by last name as hired.
ARTICLE 14 - TRANSFERS & POSTINGS
Section 1	- Transfers Generally:
Transfers, both temporary and permanent, from job title to job title are necessary to secure efficient operations, meet production schedules, and allow for promotions. When all other considerations are equal, company-wide seniority of employees is the determining factor in deciding on all transfers covered within this article:
(A)	Employees with most seniority will be given the opportunity to transfer, subject to possessing the skills and qualifications to perform the work and desire to transfer,
(B)	Employees with the least seniority will be required to transfer, subject to possessing the skills and qualifications to perform the work.
All employees are subject to transfer by the Company to assure to the Company efficiency of operations. On a daily basis, the Shift Supervisor will provide to the Union a listing of all transfers conducted that day.
Section 2	- Types of Transfers:
(A)	Transfers to other Job Titles on Same Shift: In the event that there temporarily is not sufficient work within a job title, seniority shall prevail. Those employees with the least company-wide seniority who possess the skills and qualifications for the transferred position are subject to transfer. If a transfer is made under this provision, the transferred employee shall receive the wage rate of his/her regular job title.
(B)	Transfers within Job Titles to Different Shifts: In the event that there is sufficient work within a job title, but work schedules require a temporary realignment of personnel to different shift schedules, company-wide seniority within the affected job title will prevail so long as the transferred employee possesses the skills and qualifications for the transferred position. (However, despite the preceding, nothing will prevent employees from agreeing among themselves how to allocate such shift-work if completion of work schedules can be assured, and plant management approves.)
27

(C)	Company Convenience: In the event that there is sufficient work in all job titles, but production schedules dictate that certain job titles need temporary help, the Shift Supervisor may transfer employees from any other job title to those job title(s) requiring help. Such a transfer shall be known as a "transfer for Company convenience" and seniority within the job title from which employees are being "loaned" shall prevail amongst employees who possess the skills and qualifications for the transferred position. If an employee is transferred for Company convenience the employee will receive their current rate of pay.
(D)	For each type of transfer above, the duration may be either Temporary or Permanent as noted below.
Temporary Transfers
Any temporary transfer shall be for an expected maximum duration of not more than thirty (30) working days.
If a situation starts out as a temporary transfer and conditions indicate that a permanent transfer is required, the job will be posted for bidding in accordance with Section 3 below.
Temporary transfers caused by routine absences such as illness and leaves of absence will not be subject to the thirty (30) working day transfer limit.
Permanent Transfers:
Any transfer expected to be for a duration of greater than thirty (30) working days shall be filled by 1) Temporary Transfer as noted above and 2) the position is to be concurrently posted consistent with Section 3 below.
Section 3	- Posting Open Jobs:
When the Company determines that a permanent opening in a job title exists for any reason, or that a new job title is to be filled (subject to exception of Article 13, Section 5 (E)), notice of such an opening shall be posted describing the job, the shift and the wage rates, in order to permit employees to request consideration therefore. The posting shall remain on the bulletin board for at least four (4) working days and must be signed by the employee to be considered for the job. The successful bidder, by seniority, will then be notified and must accept or decline at that time. When a job title has an opening existing on a specific shift, an employee who bids for the job must take the job on the shift that is specified.
Employees may not bid on a job within the same job title that has an opening on the same shift. Employees may bid shift to shift in the same job title regardless of the time spent in the current position.
28
New employees must achieve twelve (12) months of Company service before bidding on a job.
Section 4	- Procedure for Filling a Posted Job Title:
Following the posting and bidding procedures, the job title will be assigned to the successful bidder, and they will be moved into the new job title as soon as practical. The Company will make the transfer within thirty (30) working days of notification unless there are justifiable and extenuating business conditions causing a delay. Successful bidders will be allowed to take their current rate of pay.
(A)	If after the bidding is closed, an employee is notified that they are the successful' bidder, and they refuse to accept the posted job title, they may retain their old job title but may not bid on any other job title for a period of twelve (12) months following the date of refusal to accept the posted job title.
(B)	Once the successful bidder accepts the new position, he/she shall not be permitted to bid on another job opening (with the exception of shift to shift changes) for a period of twelve (12) months.
(C)	If a previously posted job title is opened within thirty (30) working days from the original posting, it shall not need to be re-posted. The Company may select the next qualified employee from among the original list of bidders.
In all instances, if no bids are received for the job opening, the Company may:
(i)	Hire externally to fill the opening
(ii)	Assign an existing non-union probationary employee to the job title
(iii)	Temporarily transfer the least senior qualified employee to the position while seeking an external candidate
Section 5 - Deviations:
It is agreed that the Company and the Union Executive Board may, by mutual agreement from time to time, deviate from the strict application of the above seniority rules when, in their opinion, such application would cause a hardship.
ARTICLE 15	- LEAVES OF ABSENCE
Section 1	- Family and Medical Leave Act:
Leaves under the Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA) are separate and apart from the contractual leaves provided for in this Article. Employees covered by this Agreement are
29
eligible for FMLA in accordance with applicable laws and Company policy on the same terms and conditions applicable to those other employees as the Company may change them from time to time.
FMLA leave shall be taken in conjunction and concurrently with, and not in addition to, the contractual leaves set forth hereafter.
FMLA classifications are determined by a third party administrator and are not subject to the grievance and arbitration procedure. Vacation time will be deducted in accordance with these classifications as follows:
(A)	Continuous FMLA - At the time of the leave, an employee will be required to use 50% of their remaining vacation balance concurrently with leave. Vacation deduction will stop once the employee exhausts 50% of the remaining vacation balance or has returned from leave.
(B)	Intermittent FMLA - Employee will be required to use a vacation day for each Intermittent FMLA day(s) used. Vacation deduction will stop once the employee ' exhausts 100% of the remaining vacation balance or has returned from leave
Section 2	-Military Leave:
Effective April 1, 2017 and thereafter, Honeywell shall make available to employees covered by this Agreement the same veterans and military leave policies and benefits at the same terms and conditions, plan design, administration, funding and cost sharing, as Honeywell offers to non-bargaining unit employees at the site and as they may change from time to time, provided that those policies and benefits will not be construed to change the employment relationship under this Agreement.
30
Section 3	- Other Leaves:
Effective April 1, 2017 and thereafter, employees covered by this Agreement are eligible for the following leaves of absence as are made available to other employees at the work site, on the same terms and conditions applicable to those other employees and as the Company may change them from time to time. These include the following leaves:
Jury and Witness Duty Pay
Unpaid LOA
Workers Compensation
Short Term Disability (STD) as found elsewhere in this Agreement
Section 4	- Rights & Limitations While on Leave:
(A)	No employee on Leave will receive Holiday pay.
(B)	An employee on a Leave of Absence may bid on a posted job title and must be
physically able to return to work within fifteen (15) working days of being awarded the job bid. It is the responsibility of the employee who is on leave to check for the job postings. Union dues will be made current by the employee upon the employee's return to work.
(C)	While on a Leave of Absence an employee may not change his/her status to "vacation" without prior authorization from Human Resources.
ARTICLE 16	- WAGE RATES
Section 1	- Wage Rates:
An employee's hourly wage rate is determined by reference to Appendix C. New employees are hired by the Company as probationary employees in a specific job title. Upon successful completion of the probationary period, all employees may earn wage increases as described in Section 2 below.
Section 2	- Wage Rate Increases:
Employees may earn increases to hourly wage rates as follows:
(A)	Negotiated Raises - Any negotiated wage increase agreed to by the Company and Union will be added to all employees hourly wage rate on the effective date and subsequent anniversary dates of this Agreement. Such negotiated wage increase will also be added to the wage rates for all job titles as shown in Appendix C.
31
(B)	Merit Review and Increase - All employees not paid at level 4 wage rate will be reviewed in February and August (to be paid in March and September) of each year of this Agreement, in order to progress to the next level. Newly hired employees will be reviewed after six months, during the first year of employment.
(i)	Increases will be applied to wage rates in the next pay period following the review.
(ii)	To qualify for a rate increase, employees must receive an "Achieving" expectations rating on their performance review. Performance criteria will be determined annually (in January each year) at the discretion of the Company, following a "Working Group" consultation made up of Management Representatives and members of the Bargaining Unit.
Section 3	- Saturday Work (or 6- Consecutive Dav):
Work performed on a Saturday shall be paid at time and one-half if such hours are in excess of forty (40) straight time hours previously worked during the workweek.
Section 4	- Sunday Work (or 7- Consecutive Dav):
Work performed on Sunday shall be paid at time and one-half if such hours are in excess of forty (40) straight time hours previously worked during the workweek.
Section 5	- Payment in Case of Injury:
If an employee is injured on the job in a job-related accident which would be compensable under Workers' Compensation Law, and requires medical attention away from the Company premises, such employee will not be required to clock out and will be paid their regular wages for time spent away from the job during the shift on which the injury occurs. If the employee is able to return to complete their shift, they must do so as soon as possible. If the employee is unable to return to their shift, they will receive pay for all scheduled hours for the day of the injury only if the inability to return to work is certified in writing by the attending physician or hospital. This section does not apply to self-inflicted, intentional, or non-job-related injuries.
Section 6	- Individual Adjustments:
The Company may assign an hourly wage rate to an employee which exceeds the rate required under this Agreement. Such employees will be referred to as "red-circled." Such rates do not reflect increases for the other employees in the same job title, but apply only to the specific individuals affected.
32
Section 7	- Shift Differential Pay:
(A)	Second Shift Differential Pay - Any Union member who works on the second shift shall receive the rates as stated above plus twenty-five cents (25 C) per hour for all work performed on the second shift.
(B)	Third Shift Differential Pay - Any Union member who works on third shift shall receive the rates as stated above plus thirty cents (30C) per hour for all work performed on the third shift.
Section 8	- Frequency of Payday:
Union employees will be paid bi-weekly.
ARTICLE 17	- SAFETY
Section 1	- Safety Committee:
A joint Safety Committee shall be established, consisting of an equal number of Union and Company members. This Committee shall have authority to make safety recommendations and suggestions as to the introduction of safety devices. It shall exert every effort to eliminate unsafe or unhealthy conditions and to secure full understanding by all employees of safety rules. The Safety Committee shall meet at least once every month. All Safety Rules will apply to all visitors to the plant.
Section 2	- Safety Rules:
Employees violating safety rules or tampering with safety devices shall be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including discharge.
Section 3	- Safety Glasses:
It shall be a condition of employment that all employees wear protective safety glasses at all times in the plant. In the event that a new employee does not have suitable (i.e., prescription) safety glasses, the employee shall be required to obtain and pay the cost of an eye examination and shall be required to obtain and pay for a pair of suitable safety glasses. In the event that an employee's safety glasses are broken or damaged as a fault of the Company, then the Company will pay the cost of replacing those glasses. The Company will provide once per year safety glasses, cost not to exceed $150.00. To qualify for this allowance, employees are required to provide proof of purchase to Human Resources. If damage or breakage results because the employee failed to use proper equipment which was provided, then the employee must pay the cost of replacing those glasses.
33
Section 4	- Safety Shoe Allowance:
The Company shall provide a safety shoe allowance for all employees on January 1st in the amount of $150.00. Safety shoes must comply with Company specification.
Section 5	- Clothing Allowance:
The Company shall provide suitable work uniforms at Company cost for all employees.
ARTICLE 18	- BULLETIN BOARDS
Section 1	- Union Bulletin Boards:
Suitable bulletin boards shall be supplied by the Company in conspicuous places to be used exclusively by the Union for posting notices pertaining exclusively to Union affairs. All notices posted by the Union must be signed by the President or Secretary of the Union, and must be submitted to and have approval of Human Resources before posting.
Section 2	- Company Bulletin Boards:
There shall be a Company bulletin board for exclusive use of Company notices. Any notices placed on this bulletin board will be considered to be personal notice to every Company employee.
ARTICLE 19	- RULES
Section 1:
The Company shall have the right to establish work rules and plant rules which are not in conflict with the express provisions of this Agreement. Copies of all current rules and job descriptions shall be posted on the bulletin boards and given to the Union. No changes will be made to work rules or plant rules without advising the Union Executive Board of the intended changes and giving the Union Executive Board a chance to provide input on and discuss such changes, prior to implementation.
Section 2:
Work rules as posted will be adhered to without qualification.
34
Section 3:
The duration of time following an incident during which the Company may consider such incident in connection with pending discipline should vary depending upon how serious was the former incident and whether or not the pending matter is a repeat violation. Incidents that are violations of Class I Work Rules will be subject to consideration at any time during an employee's career with the Company. Violations of Class II Work Rules more than three (3) years old shall not be considered.
ARTICLE 20-	WORK BY NON-UNION PERSONNEL
Section 1	- Temporary Workers:
The Union recognizes that from time to time, the Company may utilize the resources of external agency Temporary Workers to perform collective bargaining unit work in the plant.
This work shall be based upon fluctuating organizational demands, and would cover needs such as production output, production variances, employee vacation and leave of absence. This work will normally be short term in nature and is not a method of replacing permanent employees.
Utilization of Temporary Workers also supports the promotion of a stable union workforce level year round.
The Company and Union Executive Board will include temporary worker assignments as part of monthly meeting agenda.
Temporary Workers are not covered by the terms of this Agreement and will not be utilized during any layoff periods or in a workweek in which bargaining unit members are on a scheduled, reduced workweek.
Section 2	- Supervisor Working:
The primary function of a Supervisor is supervision and instruction as opposed to production. This section is not intended to prevent a Supervisor from protecting life or property or from giving instruction. The supervisor may give occasional assistance at the request of the employee and may always assist in an emergency if qualified to do so.
35
ARTICLE 21	- RETIREMENT PROVISION
Employees covered by this Agreement will be eligible for The Honeywell Savings and Ownership Plan (HSOP). Effective April 1, 2017, the match on employee contributions will be 50% up to 8% of base pay and will stay fixed for the duration of this Agreement. Except for the negotiated level of match, all other provisions of HSOP, including those related to administration and investment options, will be the same as those offered to other Honeywell US employees, as they may change from time to time.
ARTICLE 22-	INSURANCE COVERAGES
The Company shall determine all administrative procedures required for the execution of the Plans described in this Article. All matters concerning benefits provided under the applicable Plans shall be governed by the terms and conditions of the insurance policy or as described in the applicable Summary Plan Descriptions. No matter respecting the Plans shall be subject to the Grievance Procedure established in the Collective Bargaining Agreement between the Company and the Union.
Section 1	- Life Insurance:
Effective April 1, 2017 the Company shall make available to employees covered by this agreement Basic Life insurance and Basic Accidental Death and Dismemberment in the amount of 1.5 X base pay. The cost of this coverage shall be paid by the Company.
The Company shall make available to employees covered by this Agreement the Supplemental Life Insurance including the same terms and conditions, plan design, administration, funding and cost sharing, as it offers to non-bargaining unit employees at the site and as they may change from time to time.
The Company shall make available to employees covered by this Agreement the Supplemental AD&D including the same terms and conditions, plan design, administration, funding and cost sharing, as it offers to non-bargaining unit employees at the site and as they may change from time to time.
The Company shall make available to employees covered by this Agreement Dependent Life Insurance including the same terms and conditions, plan design, administration, funding and cost sharing, as it offers to non-bargaining unit employees at the site and as they may change from time to time.
36
Section 2	- Employee Health Insurance:
A)	The Company will make Medical and Dental insurance coverage available to bargaining unit employees on the same basis (including benefits, deductibles and co-pays) as are available to the Company's non-bargaining unit employees. The Company reserves the right to make changes to such insurances (including monthly contribution rates) as it deems necessary.
Effective April 1, 2017, all bargaining unit employee contribution rates will remain unchanged through December 31, 2017.
An employee who chooses to opt-out of the Medical and Dental insurance coverage provided under the terms of this contract must provide proper documentation of health care coverage from another carrier or spouse's coverage. These employees will receive a $200.00 per month opt-out benefit only through December 31, 2017. Should the employee lose coverage from another outside carrier or spouse's outside coverage, they may enroll in Company provided benefits with proper documentation and will forfeit the $200.00 per month opt-out benefit. In the event such an employee enrolls in the Medical and Dental insurance offered by the Company, the employee's coverage will be effective on the date following the date his/her prior coverage was lost as long as the proper documentation is provided to the Company within 30 days of the termination of his/her prior coverage. There will be no coverage for any period covered by the prior insurance. There will also be no coverage if proper documentation is received after 30 days following the date his/her prior coverage was terminated until the next available open enrollment.
B)	Effective January 1, 2018 and thereafter, the Company shall make available to employees covered by this Agreement, the same coverage for Medical, Health Savings Account, and Limited Purpose Flexible Spending Account including the same terms and conditions, plan design, administration, incentives / surcharges, funding and cost sharing, as it offers to non-bargaining unit employees at the site, except that in no case will such contributions increase by more than 20% over the prior year for bargaining unit employees and will not change more than once annually.
C)	Effective January 1, 2018 and thereafter, the Company shall make available to employees covered by this Agreement the same Dental coverage including the same terms and conditions, plan design, administration, funding and cost sharing, as it offers to non-bargaining unit employees at the site and will not change more than once annually.
37
D)	Effective January 1, 2018 and thereafter, the Company shall make available to employees covered by this Agreement, the same Vision coverage including the same terms and conditions, plan design, administration, funding and cost sharing, as it offers to non-bargaining unit employees at the site.
Enrollment in such coverage will be at the election of the employee. The terms applicable to such coverage shall be set forth in and governed by the plan documents as they may be amended from time to time by the Company. Any dispute relating to a denial of benefits or coverage shall be resolved in accordance with the terms and processes set forth in the applicable plan documents, and shall not be subject to the grievance and arbitration procedure established in this Agreement.
Section 3	- Short & Long Term Disability Insurance:
The Company and the Union have agreed to establish a Group Disability Insurance program.
The details of this program are based upon employee seniority as follows:
No. of weeks at 60% pay
Years of Service
No of weeks at 100% pay
From 0 -1	0 weeks	26 weeks
From 1 - 2	1 week	25 weeks
From 2 - 3	2 weeks	24 weeks
From 3 - 4	3 weeks	23 weeks
From 4-5	4 weeks	22 weeks
From 5 - 6	5 weeks	21 weeks
From 6-7	6 weeks	20 weeks
From 7 - 8	7 weeks	19 weeks
From 8 - 9	8 weeks	18 weeks
From 9 -10	9 weeks	17 weeks
From 10 -11	10 weeks	16 weeks
From 11 -12	11 weeks	15 weeks
From 12 -13	12 weeks	14 weeks
13 or over	13 weeks	13 weeks
The cost of this short term disability provision shall be paid for by the Company. This will correspond with the normal pay date schedule.
Effective April 1, 2017 and thereafter, the Company shall make available to employees actively at work and who are covered by this Agreement the same coverage for Long Term Disability insurance, including the same terms and conditions, plan design, administration and cost sharing, as such coverage exists for Non-Bargaining Unit Employees at the site and as they may change from time to time. If you are not actively at work on April 1, 2017 your coverage will not begin until you become actively at work.
38
ARTICLE 23	- OTHER BENEFITS
Dependent Care Flexible Spending Account
The Company shall make available to employees the same coverage for the Dependent Care Flexible Spending Account including the same terms and conditions, plan design, and administration, as it offers to non-bargaining unit employees at the site and as they may change from time to time.
Employee Assistance Program
The Company shall make available to employees the same Employee Assistance Policy including the same terms and conditions, plan design, administration, funding and cost sharing, as it offers to non-bargaining unit employees at the site and as they may change from time to time.
Educational Assistance Policy
The Company shall make available to employees the same Educational Assistance Policy including the same terms and conditions, plan design, administration, funding and cost sharing, as it offers to non-bargaining unit employees at the site and as they may change from time to time.
Bravo
The Company shall make available to employees who have completed one hundred eighty (180) days of service the same Reward and Recognition (BRAVO), including the same terms and conditions, plan design, administration and cost sharing, as such coverage exists for Non-Bargaining Unit Employees at the site and as they may change from time to time.
Employee Discount Program
The Company shall make available to bargaining unit employees the same Employee Discount Program, including the same terms and conditions, plan design, administration and cost sharing, as such coverage exists for Non-Bargaining Unit Employees at the site and as they may change from time to time.
Employee Referral Program
The Company shall make available to employees covered by this Agreement who have completed one hundred eighty (180) days of service the same Employee Referral Program, including the same terms and conditions, plan design, administration and cost sharing, as such coverage exists for Non-Bargaining Unit Employees at the sites and as they may change from time to time.
39
ARTICLE 24	- EMPLOYEE RECOGNITION
Section 1	- Good Attendance Award:
Any Union member may earn one hundred dollars ($100.00) once each twelve month period by having good attendance throughout the period between April 1 and March 31 of the following year. Good attendance, for purposes of this Section only, is defined as receiving not more than one (1) warning for unexcused absence in the prior twelve (12) month period.
Section 2	- Global Service Award Program:
Effective April 1, 2017, the Company shall make available to employees covered by this Agreement, the-same Global Service Award program including the same terms and conditions, plan design, administration, and cost sharing, as it offers to non-bargaining unit employees at the site and as they may change from time to time.
The Global Service Award program currently recognizes and rewards employees at five-year and ten-year milestones. For every five-year milestone (5, 15, 25, 35, 45), employees will receive a certificate that their manager prints, signs and presents to them. Beginning at 10 years of service, and for every ten-year milestone (10, 20, 30, 40, and 50), employees can choose a gift to commemorate their dedication and commitment to the Company. The services in selecting the gifts will be managed by one vendor globally.
ARTICLE 25	- SAVINGS CLAUSE
If any provisions of this Agreement should be held or adjudged illegal, or in violation of any present or future law, such adjudication shall not invalidate any other portion or provision of this Agreement, nor relieve any party thereto from their liabilities and obligations under this Agreement, and the remainder shall continue in full force and effect. In the event that any portion of said Agreement is held illegal as above mentioned, the Parties will immediately commence negotiations to replace the applicable provision with language that does not conflict with the law.
40
ARTICLE 26	- DEFINITIONS
Section 1	- Computing Time:
The following rules apply in computing any time period (excluding payroll calculations) as specified in this Agreement:
(A)	Exclude the day of the event that triggers the period;
(B)	Count every working day, excluding intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and Company holidays; and
(C)	Include the last day of the period, but if the last day is a Saturday, Sunday, or contractual holiday, the period continues to run until the end of the next day that is not a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday.
Section 2	- Job Role Information:
JOB TITLE: Is the name of the job an employee does and defines the wage rates paid for that job.
JOB DESCRIPTION: Is the written description that defines the major functions that an employee does in his/her job title.
JOB POSTING: Defines an opening in a job title in a particular plant and on a particular shift within that plant.
41
ARTICLE 27 - APPENDIXES
APPENDIX A - DUES DEDUCTION AUTHORIZATION
I hereby authorize the Company to deduct from my wages and to turn over to the Treasurer of the Perfection Employees' Independent Union the monthly dues and initiation fee (which are currently in effect) which I may owe to the Union, as is provided for in the current Agreement between the Company and the Union.
This authorization shall be irrevocable for the term of the present contract between the Company and the Union or for one year, whichever is the lesser, and shall automatically renew itself for successive yearly or applicable contract periods, whichever is lesser, until I give written notice to the Company and the Union (at least Sixty (60) days and not less than ten (10) days before my periodic renewal date of this authorization and assignment) of my desire to revoke the same.
I hereby request and accept membership in the Perfection Employees' Independent Union and authorize it to represent me and to negotiate agreements on my behalf pertaining to wages, hours or conditions of work. This power expressly revokes and supersedes all previous authorization which I may have given to any other person or organization.
Name
Clock #
Witness
Date
42
APPENDIX B	- HOLIDAYS:
Section 1 - Holidays:
The following seven (7) days are designated as holidays during the term of this Agreement (see Article 9):
(A)	New Year's Day
(B)	Memorial Day
(C)	July 4Th
(D)Labor Day
(E)	Thanksgiving Day
(F)	Day after Thanksgiving
(G)	Christmas Day
In addition to these seven (7) fixed and standard holidays, the Company will designate no fewer than five (5) "floating" holidays each year and these floating holidays may change from year to year.
APPENDIX C	- JOB TITLES AND WAGE RATES
Section 1	- General:
The Job Titles and Wage Rates for the term of this contract appear on the following schedules:
(A)	April 10, 2017 through March 31, 2018 - Appendix C, Section 2
($0.35/hour increase)
(B)	April 1, 2018* through March 31, 2019 - Appendix C, Section 2
($0.41/hour increase)
(C)	April 1, 2019* through March 31, 2020 - Appendix C, Section 2
($0.45/hour increase)
*	All employee pay rate changes provided for in this Agreement shall commence on the first day of the Company's normal payroll period immediately following the date of the rate change.
Section 2	- Wages:
43
All employees hired prior to April 1, 2014 will receive Tier 1 wage rates listed below
All employees hired on or after April 1,2014 will receive Tier 2 wage rates as listed below
Year 1
								
	Level 1		Level 2		Level 3		Level 4	
Job Title	Tierl	Tier 2	Tierl	Tier 2	Tierl	Tier 2	Tierl	Tier 2
Maintenance Technician	$17.48	$17.48	$18.36	$18.36	$19.50	$19.50	$20.14	$20.14
Production Operator	$17.48	$14.48	$18.36	$15.36	$19.50	$16.50	$20.14	$17.14
Fusion Operator	$17.48	$14.48	$18.36	$15.36	$19.50	$16.50	$20.14	$17.14
Welding Operator	$17.48	$14.48	$18.36	$15.36	$19.50	$16.50	$20.14	$17.14
Production Support	$17.48	$14.48	$18.36	$15.36	$19.50	$16.50	$20.14	$17.14
Year 2
								
	Lev	ell	Level2		Level 3		Level 4	
Job Title	Tierl	Tier 2	Tierl	Tier 2	Tierl	Tier 2	Tier 1	Tier 2
Maintenance Technician	$17.89	$17.89	$18.77	$18.77	$19.91	$19.91	$20.55	$20.55
Production Operator	$17.89	$14.89	$18.77	$15.77	$19.91	$16.91	$20.55	$17.55
Fusion Operator	$17.89	$14.89	$18.77	$15.77	$19.91	$16.91	$20.55	$17.55
Welding Operator	$17.89	$14.89	$18.77	$15.77	$19.91	$16.91	$20.55	$17.55
Production Support	$17.89	$14.89.	$18.77	$15.77	$19.91	$16.91	$20.55	$17.55
44
Year 3
								
	Level 1		Level2		Level 3			Level 4	
Job Title	Tierl	Tier 2	Tier 1	Tier 2	Tier!	Tier 2	Tierl	Tier 2
Maintenance Technician	$18.34	$18.34	$19.22	$19.22	$20.36	$2036	$21.00	$21.00
Production Operator	$18.34	$15.34	$19.22	$16.22	$20.36	$1736	$21.00	$18.00
Fusion Operator	$18.34	$1534	$19.22	$16,22	$20.36	$17.36	$21.00	$18.00
Welding Operator	$18.34	$15.34	$19.22	$16.22	$20.36	$17.36	$21.00	$18.00
Production Support	$1834	$15.34	$19.22	$16.22	$20.36	$17.36	$21.00	$18.00
ARTICLE 28	- SALE OR CLOSURE
Section 1	- Sale of Business:
This Agreement shall be binding upon the Company's successors, assigns, purchasers, lessees or transferees whether such succession, assignment or transferee effected voluntarily or by operation of law; and in the event of the Company's merger or consolidation with another company or companies, this Agreement shall be binding upon the merged or consolidated company.
Section 2	- Plant Closure:
If during the term of this Agreement, it is contemplated that a plant closure is necessary, the Company will give written notice to the Union's Executive Committee as far in advance as possible. The notice will include the reason the Company is considering closing the plant, a projection of the date of such closing and anticipated alternative sourcing, if any. Thereafter, the Union will be afforded the opportunity to discuss the matter with the Company and the Company will give appropriate weight to the Union's comments in reaching a final decision.
In the event such a plant closure is unavoidable, severance shall be provided to all bargaining unit members as follows: Employees who sign and return a General Release of Claims in the form provided for by the Company shall receive a lump sum severance payment within thirty (30) calendar days after their termination date. The lump sum severance payment shall be equivalent to one (1) week of straight time pay per full year of service, capped at a maximum of 26 weeks. Health insurance shall be continued for three (3) additional months following closure so long as the employee maintains their normal premium payments.
45
ARTICLE 29	- ENTIRE AGREEMENT
It is hereby agreed that this Agreement is the complete understanding between the parties. Any subject whether discussed during negotiations or not, shall not be negotiated during the life of this Agreement, except by mutual agreement by the Company and the Union. The parties may from time to time reach a mutual, written agreement to temporarily deviate from a specific provision of this Agreement. Any such temporary deviation will set no precedent on future situations.
ARTICLE 30	- TERM OF AGREEMENT
This Agreement shall take effect on April 1, 2017 and shall remain in effect through March 31, 2020. It shall be renewed for successive yearly periods following March 31, 2017; unless not less than sixty (60) days prior to March 31, 2020 (or any anniversary thereof) either party shall notify the other party in writing of its desire to terminate or modify this Agreement. At least thirty (30) days prior to the Agreement's expiration, the parties shall meet for the purpose of negotiation.
PERFECTION EMPLOYEES'
INDEPENDENT UNION
HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL SMART ENERGY
Michael DeDomenic, President
George Distler, Vice President
Donna Ritchie, Treasurer
Ed Grafton, Secretary
Scott Myers, Sergeant at Arms
Chris O'Keefe, Site Director
Elizabeth Gillespie, Human Resources
46