BLS Contract Collection - Metadata Header
This contract is provided by the Martin P. Catherwood Library, ILR School, Cornell University. The information provided is for noncommercial educational use only.
Some variations from the original paper document may have occurred during the digitization process, and some appendices or tables may be absent. Subsequent changes, revisions, and corrections may apply to this document.
For more information about the BLS Contract Collection, see
http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edu/blscontracts/
Or contact us:
Catherwood Library, Ives Hall, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 14853 607-254-5370 ilrref@cornell.edu
Contract Database Metadata Elements (for a glossary of the elements see -http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edU/blscontracts/2/)
Title: Fort James Corporation, Wauna, Oregon Mill and Paper, Allied-Industrial, Chemical & Energy Workers International Union (PACE), AfL-CIO, Local 8-1097 (2000)
K#: 8217
Employer Name: Fort James Corporation, Wauna, Oregon Mill
Location: Westport OR
Union: Paper, Allied-Industrial, Chemical & Energy Workers International Union (PACE), AFL-CIO
Local: 8-1097
SIC: 2621	NAICS: 322121
Sector: P	Number of Workers: 1000
Effective Date: 04/01/00	Expiration Date: 03/31/06
Number of Pages: 197	Other Years Available: N
For additional research information and assistance, please visit the Research page of the Catherwood website - http://www.ilr.cornell.edu/library/research/
For additional information on the ILR School, http://www.ilr.cornell.edu/
FORT JAMES
Trusted products for everyday fiviut’
CORPORATION WAUNA MILL
[GOO Lt/Wk&S
PAPER, ALLIED - INDUSTRIAL, CHEMICAL AND ENERGY WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION and its affiliated Local No. 8-1097
Labor Agreement 2000 - 2006
(97 Ate
CONTENTS
SECTION	PAGE
#	28	ADJUSTMENT OF GRIEVANCES..................41
17	ALLOWANCE FOR FAILURE TO PROVIDE WOR......15
29	APPEAL FROM DISCHARGE OR SUSPENSION.......44
•	32	ARBITRATION...............................46
23	BULLETIN BOARDS...........................22
IB	CALL TIME.................................16
3	DEFINITIONS................................2
22	DISCIPLINARY ACTION.......................21
EXHIBIT A-1 WAGE RATES............................51
EXHIBIT A-2 MECHANICS.............................54
EXHIBIT A-3 JOB ANALYSIS PLAN.....................60
EXHIBIT A-4 WAGE RATES........................INSERT
EXHIBIT A-5 LUBRICATION...........................65
®	EXHIBIT B-GROUP INSURANCE PLANS...................68
•	EXHIBIT B-HEALTH PLAN AND SPENDING ACCOUNTS....INSERT
•	11	FUNERAL LEAVE..............................7
34	GENERAL POLICIES..........................47
31	GENERAL PROVISIONS REGARDING ARBITRATION...45
12	GROUP INSURANCE PLAN.......................8
•	14	HOLIDAYS...................................9
•	15	HOURSOFWORK...............................14
10	JURY DUTY ALLOWANCE........................7
26	MEALS.....................................33
30	MEDIATION................................45
9	NIGHT SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL..................6
6	NO INTERRUPTION OF WORK...................4
35	NON-DISCRIMINATION.......................49
2	OPERATING CONTROL.........................2
8	OVERTIME..................................5
19	PAPER MACHINE CLOTHING TIME..............19
5	PAYROLL DEDUCTION OF UNION DUES...........3
13	PENSIONS..................................9
33	PROVISIONS FOUND TO BE IN
CONTRAVENTION OF LAWS...................47
1	RECOGNITION...............................2
RETIREMENT PLAN.................................91
24	SAFETY...................................22
16	SCHEDULING EMPLOYEES'WORKING
TIME AND DAYS OFF.......................14
25	SENIORITY................................23
21	STARTING AND STOPPING WORK OF
DAYWORKERS..............................21
20	STARTING AND STOPPING WORK OF
TOUR WORKERS............................20
SUPPLEMENTAL AGREEMENTS........................112
36	TERM OF AGREEMENT AND CHANGES
IN AGREEMENT............................49
4	UNION MEMBERSHIP..........................3
27	VACATIONS................................33
7	WAGES.....................................5
LABOR AGREEMENT
BY AND BETWEEN FORT JAMES CORPORATION, WAUNA, OREGON MILL, hereinafter referred to as the Company, and THE PAPER, ALLI ED-INDUSTRIAL, CHEMICAL & ENERGY WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, AFL-CIO ON BEHALF OF ITS WAUNA LOCAL UNION No. 0-1097, ACTING as the Sole Collective Bargaining Agent hereinafter referred to as THE SIGNATORY UNION.
1
SECTION 1	- RECOGNITION
The Company recognizes the Signatory Union as the sole collective bargaining agent of all employees of the Company employed in the Wauna mill covered by this Agreement, excepting those engaged in the fallowing: administration, actual supervision, watchman duties, sales, engineering and drafting, research and technical occupations requiring professional training, accounting, office clerical, stenographic and other office work.
SECTION 2	- OPERATING CONTROL
A.	Except as expressly set forth in this Agreement, the right of the Company to manage its business, operations and affairs and to prescribe terms and conditions of employment shall be unimpaired.
B.	The failure of the Company to exercise rights hereby reserved to it or its exercising them in a particular way shall not be deemed a waiver of said rights or a waiver of ils right to exercise them in some other way not in conflict with the terms of this Agreement.
C.	All matters which are within the scope of collective bargaining are closed for the duration of this Agreement, except as provided in Section 36, Paragraph D.
SECTION 3	- DEFINITIONS
Whenever used in this Agreement, Including Exhibits; the male noun or pronoun is used to include the female noun or pronoun where applicable, and;
A.	The word EMPLOYEES means all the employees of the Company employed in the mill covered by this Agreement, excepting those engaged in the following: administration, actual supervision, watchman duties, sales, engineering and drafting, research and technical occupations requiring professional training, accounting, office clerical, stenographic and other office work.
B.	The words REGULAR EMPLOYEE means an employee filling a permanent position in the organization, or an employee regularly employed in a utility capacity, unless each employee has been personalty notified in writing that his employment is temporary or probationary.
2
C.	The words TOUR WORKERS mean employees engaged in operations, scheduled in advance, for at least twenty-four (24) hours continuous running and utilizing four (4) crews. All other workers are day workers. Refer to Section 21 lor further clarification.
D.	The word DAY means a period of twenty-four hours beginning at 7 AM or at the regular hour of changing shifts nearest to 7:00 AM, it being understood that the hour for the beginning of a day need not be the same for every department or every section of a department in the mill.
E.	The word WEEK means a period of seven (7) consecutive days beginning on Monday at the hour established by “D’above.
F.	The word MILL or PLANT means the entire manufacturing facility at Wauna in which the employees are covered by this Agreement.
G.	The words LOCAL UNION mean the local of the Signatory Union in which employees of the Company are members and which shall act as the representative of the Union in the performance of those provisions cf this agreement which provide for action by the Local Union.
H.	The words UNION STANDING COMMITTEE mean a committee selected by the Local Union which shall represent the Local Union in the performance of those provisions of this Agreement which provide for action by the Union Standing Committee.
SECTION 4	- UNION MEMBERSHIP
A.	Any Employee who is a Member of the Union at the time this Agreement becomes effective shall, as a condition of employment, continue membership In good standing for the duration of this Agreement.
B.	Any Employee who is not a Member of the Union at the time this Agreement becomes effective shall become a Member thereof In good standing on the thirtieth (30) day following the effective date of this Agreement, or on the thirtieth (30) day following employment, whichever is later, and shall as a condition of employment remain a Member in good standing for the duration of this Agreement.
SECTION 5	- PAYROLL DEDUCTION OF UNION DUES
A. During the life of this Agreement or any renewal or exten-
3
sion thereof upon the tiling with the Company by the	'
Financial Secretary of the Local Union of a valid official writ-	<
ten authorization signed by any individual employee who is a member of said Local Union, and for as long as said | authorization remains in effect, the Company will deduct from the wages due such employees in accordance with the ( terms of said authorizations, Union dues and initiation tees.
8. The Company shall pay over to the Financial Secretary of the Local Union the amount of deductions made In accordance with authorization filed and shall receive therefor the written receipt of the said Financial Secretary in the name of the Local Union. The details as to making of deductions and payments of same to the Local Union shall be arranged by the said Financial Secretary and the Company in such manner as most conveniently fits into the established payroll procedures of the Company and results in payments to the Local Union once a month.
C.	The amount of dues to be deducted may be revised only by written notice from the Financial Secretary given in advance to the Company.
D.	Any deductions made by the Company under the provisions of this Section shall be deemed trust funds until remitted to the Local Union, but such funds need not be kept separate from the Company’s general funds. The Signatory Union agrees that'the Company shall be saved harmless with respect to all deductions made and paid to the Local in accordance with the provisions of this Section.
SECTION 6 - NO INTERRUPTION OF WORK
It is agreed that there shall be no strike, walkout, refusal to report for work, or other interruption of work by the Signatory Union nor the Local Union or any Employee during the period of this Agreement. It is agreed Ihere shall be no lockout by the Company during the period of this Agreement.
In the event that in violation of the provisions of the preceding paragraph a strike, walkout, refusal to report for work, or other interruption of work shall occur, neither the Signatory Union nor the Local Union shall be subject to financial liability for such violation provided that the Signatory Union and the Loral Union involved immediately after the beginning of such violation each shall have (1) pub-
4
licly declared such action a violation of this Agreement, and (2) in utmost good faith used its best efforts to terminate such violation, it being further agreed that any Employee participating in such violation shall in the discretion of the Company be subject to immediate discharge or other disciplinary action.
A refusal to report for work, as used in this section, applies only to refusals arising out of or related to a labor dispute.
SECTION 7-WAGES
Wage rates in accordance with Exhibit A, attached hereto and made a part-hereot, shall be paid. (See Insert; Exhibit A-4 Wage Rates)
SECTION S - OVERTIME
A. Subject to the conditions set forth in paragraph B of this Section, any employee paid on an hourly basis will, in addition to his straight time pay, receive overtime;
1.	At one-half the straight time hourly rate of the job for;
a.	Alt work performed on Sunday.
b.	All work performed on any of the holidays listed in Section 14.
c.	All work performed in excess of eight (8) straight time hours in arty one day.
d.	All work performed in excess of forty (40) straight time hours in any one week,
e.	All work performed in excess of eight (8) continuous hours worked when such period of work extends across the end of a work day into the succeeding day provided that such continuous periods of work begins four (4) or more hours before the start of the succeeding day.
f.	All work performed on assigned days off, as such days are defined in Section 16, provided, however, that this sub-Paragraph (f) shall not apply if the work so performed results because a regular assigned day off has been traded for another day off at the request and for the convenience of the employee, or employees, involved.
2.	At the straight time hourly rate of the job for:
5
a.	Al! work performed in excess ol eight (8) hours on any of the following holidays as fisted in Section 14; New Years, Memorial Day, July 3, Sunday before Labor Day, and Thanksgiving.
1.	All work performed in excess of twelve (12) hours while on a regular compressed schedule for these holidays.
b.	All work performed in excess of eight (8) hours on Sunday.
1.	All work performed in excess of twelve (12) hours while on a regular compressed schedule on Sunday.
c.	All work performed on the following holidays as listed in Section 14; Independence Day, December 24, Christmas and Labor Day.
B. In applying the provisions of paragraph A of this Section, the following conditions shall be in effect:
1.	No hour worked qualifies as an overtime hour on more than one of the above nine bases, except that work on a holiday may also qualify under A-1-d. Time worked on a holiday will be credited toward the forty (40) hour qualification.
2.	When an employee works at more than one job rate during the week, payment of overtime tor more than 40 hours shall be computed at the rate of the job at the time such overtime occurs.
SECTION 9	- NIGHT SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL
A.	In addition to the hourly job rate, the following night shift differential shall be paid:
1.	A Night Shift Differential of fifty-four (54) cents per hour shall be paid for the hours worked between 3:00 P.M. and 11:00 P.M, except for day workers between 3:00 P.M. and 3:30 P.M.
2.	A Night Shift Differential of eighty-four (84) cents per hour shall be paid tor the hours worked between 11:00 P.M. and 7:00 AM
B.	Effective April 1, 2001, 2002,' 2003, 2004 and 2005 the NSD will be adjusted if applicable, guided by a retrospective review by the Company and the Union beginning March 1,
6
2000. 2001, 2002, 2003 and 2004 of a calculated Straight average of the four (4) most favorable actual cents per hour NSD adjustments having been bargained to be effective in 2000 (for a 4/1/01 Wauna adjustment), 2001 for a 4/1/02 Wauna adjustment), 2002 (for a 4/1/03 Wauna adjustment), 2003 (for a 4/1/04 Wauna adjustment), and 2004 (for a 4/1/05 Wauna adjustment) from among Fort James-Camas, Fort James-Halsey, K-C Everett, GP-Be!lingham, Boise Cascade-St. Helens, Weyerhaeuser-Longview and Longview Fibre.
C.	Such Night Shift Differentia) shall not be deemed a pari of the hourly job rate when applying the provisions of this Agreement except in the payment of Overtime as provided for in Section 8.
SECTION 10	- JURY DUTY ALLOWANCE
A. Any regular employee as defined in Section 3 who is required to perform jury duty will be entitled to reimbursement at the straight time hourly rate of his regular job for the hours necessarily lost as a result of serving on the jury, provided, however, that such reimbursement shall not exceed eight (8) hours per day or forty (40) hours per week, fess • pay received for jury duty. The employee will be required to furnish a signed statement from a responsible officer of the A court as proof of jury service and jury duty pay received. w B. Hours paid for jury duty will be counted as hours worked tor the purpose of computing vacation, holiday and overtime pay.
C. Similar reimbursement as specified in Paragraphs A and B will be granted to an employee who necessarily loses time from work because of his appearance in court pursuant to proper subpoena, except when he is either a plaintiff or defendant in the court proceeding.
0 SECTION 11 - FUNERAL LEAVE
A.	When death occurs to a member of a regular employee's immediate family, the employee, al his request, will be granta ed reasonable necessary time ofi as funeral leave of " absence to attend the funeral. When the employee attends a Memorial Service rather Ihan or in the absence of a funeral, the provisions of this sections shall apply.
7
It the employee attends the funeral, he will be compensated at his regular straight time hourly rate for hours lost tram his regular schedule on any of the days prior to the funeral, the day ol the funeral, or any days after the funeral, with a maximum of three (3) days compensation.
B.	Members of an employee’s immediate family shall be limited to the employee’s spouse, mother, step-mother, father, step-tather, brothers, sisters, sons, daughters, mother-inlaw, father-in-law, grandparents, spouses grandparents, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, sister-in-law, brother-in-law, legal guardian, sIep-children, step-sister, step-brother, grandchildren, and step-grandchildren.
C.	Compensable hours, under the terms of this Section, will be counted as hours worked for the purpose ol computing vacation and holiday pay and will be counted as hours worked tor the purpose of computing weekly overtime.
D.	An employee who is on vacation will be granted funeral leave as outlined above.
SECTION 12	- GROUP INSURANCE PLAN
The Company shall make available a group insurance plan for its employees and their eligible dependents pursuant to the terms and conditions of Exhibit B, attached hereto and made a part hereof. Effective June 1, 2000, active hourly employees will be offered the Fort James health care plans. Fort James health care plan provisions will be described in each plan's summary plan description (SPD). Employees’ per pay period contributions for the balance of 2000 and 2001 will be:
Fart James Plan	Pay Period Contribution
Primary Care Network Plan (PCN) $16.92/Pay Period Preferred Provider Organization $29.2VPay Period
Plan (PPO)
Thereafter, composite payroll contributions and plan design will be the same as other employees enrolled in the Fort James health care plans. Refer to Exhibit B for terms and conditions, attached hereto and made a pari hereof.
• ••••• ••• •••••
8
SECTION 13	- PENSIONS
During the term of this Agreement, including any extension thereof, the benefits provided by the Fort James Retirement Plan and by Schedule 56, of such Plan, as amended, which cavers employees under this Agreement at the Fort James Wauna, Oregon Mill, shall remain in effect.
However, the Company may amend the Fort James Retirement Plan and Schedule 56 thereof to the extent necessary to maintain the qualified status of the Plan under Section 401 of the Internal Revenue Code, as the same may be amended from time to time and any regulations or rulings issued thereunder, and to meet the requirements of the Employee Retirement income Security Act of 1974, including all amendments thereto and rules and regulations issued thereunder.
SECTION 14-HOLIDAYS
A.	There shall be nine (9) holidays during each year, namely:
Length
Designation	(Hours)	Starting Time	Ending Time
New Year's Day	(24)	7:00 AM. January 1	7:00 A.M. January 2
Memorial Day	(24)	7:00 AM. Federally	7:00 A.M. day after
		recognized Memorial Day	Memorial Day
July 3	(16)	7.00 A.M. July 3	Hr® RM. July 3
Independence Day	(32)	ff:OOP.M. July 3	7.00 A.M. July 5
Sunday before Labor Day	(16)	7.00 A.M. Sunday	1 f;00 P.M. Sunday
Labor Day	(32)	11:00 P.M. Sunday	7:00 A.M. Tuesday
Thanksgiving	(24)	7:00 A.M. Thanksgiving	7® A.M. day after Thanksgiving
December 24	(24)	7.® AM. December 24	7:00 A.M. December 25
Christmas	(24)	7:00 A.M. December 25	ZOO A.M. December 26
1.	On a holiday there are no restrictions upon any work scheduled by management.
9
B.	In each department or section of a department of the mill the time of ending of each holiday specified in paragraph A above shall be varied from the 7:00 AM. above prescribed whenever necessary co coincide with the time nearest to 7:00 AM which is the regular starting time for the day shift in such department or section of each department; and in the cases where such variation is so made the starting time shall be correspondingly varied to comply with the prescribed length of the holiday. The time of starting and ending of each holiday, in addition to any variation which occurs pursuant to the preceding sentence, may be further varied by mutual agreement of the management and the Union Standing Committee.
C.	Subject to compliance with all the conditions set forth In “D" below, an employee who is on the payroll of the Company on any of the holidays listed in Paragraph A of this Section will be granted eight (8) hours holiday pay al the straight time rate of the job plus such additional compensation to which he is entitled under other sections of this Agreement except employees working compressed work waek schedule who are scheduled off on a regularly scheduled work day, will be paid 12 hours compressed rate. His rate of pay for time not worked will be computed as follows:
1.	Holiday pay for time not worked will be computed at the rate of Ihe job to which an employee is assigned ' on the date the holiday occurs, or at the rate of the job to which he is assigned on his last shift just preceding the holiday in those cases where he is not scheduled to work on the holiday.
2.	If the employee has accepted extra work during a shutdown of his job, department or plant which does not exceed seven (7) consecutive days just prior to the holiday and which shutdown extends into the holiday, he will receive his holiday pay for time not worked at the rate of the job to which he was assigned on the fast day just preceding such shutdown or at the rate of the job on which he works during the shutdown, whichever is higher.
D.	The employee must have been on the payroll for not less than ninety (90) days just preceding the holiday, and must have worked at least 260 hours during such ninety days,
10
provided that any employee whose failure to so work 260 hours was caused by curtailment of operations shall nevertheless be deemed to be in compliance herewith if he has been on the payroll of the Company for the one hundred eighty (180) days just preceding the holiday and has worked at least 520 hours during such 180 days, and
1.	The employee must have worked his scheduled work day before and his scheduled work day after such holiday, unless failure to work his scheduled work day before or after the holiday was due to any of the following events.
a.	When the employee is on his regularly authorized paid vacation;
b.	When the employee Is unable to work by reason of an industrial accident as recognized by the
' Workmen's Compensation Board;
c.	When the operation in which the employee is engaged is curtailed or discontinued by the decision of the management and which curtailment or discontinuance changes or eliminates the employee's scheduled work day before or his scheduled work day after such holiday;
d.	When a trade in shifts agreed upon between employees and approved in advance by management results in a temporary change of the scheduled work day before or the scheduled work day after a holiday, provided the employee works the shift agreed upon;
e.	When bona fide sickness or other bona fide compelling reasons beyond the control of the employee prevents the employee from working all or part of his scheduled work day before or his scheduled work day after a holiday, provided the employee affected, or the Local Union in his behalf, brings the case to management’s attention within a reasonable time and management approves such reasons as being bona fide and beyond the control of the employee;
f.	When the employee prior to a holiday has made a written request to be excused from working all or part of his scheduled work day before and/or after such holiday and has received the written approval
11
of management. Failure to grant approval will not be subject to the grievance procedure but the Union Standing Committee may discuss with the Company any action which appears to It to be discriminatory.
E.	An Employee who cannot meet the requirements tor the number of hours worked as set forth in “C above Io qualify for holiday pay may use the tallowing credits toward meeting the required qualifying hours:
1.	Any employee whose failure to work the 260 hours was due to absence caused by Industrial injury or because of a sick leave approved by Management shall be deemed to have met that requirement as to any holiday falling during the first 12 months of such absence recognized by the Workmen’s Compensation Board or such sick leave approved by management.
2.	In the case of a returned serviceman who has returned to work prior to a holiday, and who otherwise qualifies for holiday pay, the Company will waive the requirement of working 260 hours in the ninety (90) days just prior to the holiday.
3.	Time spent on a paid vacation shall count as hours worked for the purpose of qualifying for holiday pay.
F.	It is agreed, however, that an employee shall not receive the holiday pay provided above in paragraph C of this Section if he is directed to work on his regular job (or relief job if he is then working on a relief job) on such holiday and fails or refuses to work, except in the case where a bona fide sickness or other bona fide reason approved by managemenl prevents his working on such holiday.
G.	Special Personal Floating Holiday(s)
1.	There shall be granted annually five (5) Special Personal Floating Holidays with pay to each regular full lime employee, such special holidays to be arranged at dates mutually agreeable to the employee and the Company, during the Contract Year.
2.	For each Special Personal Floating Holiday taken, an employee will be granted eight (8) hours’ pay at the straight time rate of the employee's regular job subject to the following:
(a) New employee floating holiday(s) will be prorated during the remainder of their first contract year
• ••• •• •••• •••• ••••
12
according to their date of employment within the
contract year as follows: Hired 4/1 - 6/30 Hired 7/1 ■ 9/30 Hired 10/1 -12/31 Hired 1/1 - 3/31
4 days 40 hrs. pay
3 days 30 hrs. pay
2 days 20 hrs. pay
1 day 10 hrs. pay
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)
An employee will not qualify for a Special Personal Floating Holiday if on leave ot absence of more than nine (9) months in the Contract year except in the case of sickness or injury.
If an employee is required to work on a Special Personal floating Holiday, after a definite date has been designated for such a holiday, the employee shall be paid overtime for such work at the rate of
time-and-one-hatf. The employee will then be entitled to take the said holiday with pay at a later date to be mutually agreed upon.
When the holiday is requested in writing thirteen (13) days in advance, the payment of overtime shall not be a factor In the granting of a Personal Floating Holiday. The employee shall receive a written notice of the disposition of their request a minimum of 72 hours prior to the requested Personal Floating Holiday(s).
Employees who work four (4) or more consecutive hours on Independence Day (11:00 P.M. July 3 to 7:00 a.m. July 5) will be entitled to one (1) additional floating holiday. Employees who work four (4) or more consecutive hours on the Christmas holidays (7:00 a.m. December 24 to 7:00 a.m. December 26) will be entitled to one (1) additional floating holiday.
Special Personal Floating Holidays requested on Holidays covered in Section 14 A. will ba covered on a voluntary basis. First from the job classification, then any qualified employee.
At the employee’s request. Special Personal Floating Holiday will be paid retroactively to cover any bonafide absence, providing the employee has not exceeded an absenteeism rate of 2.5% average over a rolling 12 month period.
13
SECTION 15	- HOURS OFWORK
A.	The parties to the Agreement are committed to maintain the principle of a basic work week of forty (40) hours; but agree that additional time may be worked when such work is paid tor as provided in other Sections of this Agreement.
B.	When such overtime work is required, the Company will make reasonable effort to assign it to an employee(s) from the job classification in which the need for the overtime work occurred.
C.	Employees are not guaranteed any number of hours of work in any week.
D.	No employee will work in excess of sixteen (16) hours in a day, or sixteen (16) consecutive hours. For the purpose of this paragraph the hour beyond which an employee shall not work shall be arrived at by including all meal periods.
E.	Any employee required to work a twelve hour shift will have the lunch period counted as hours worked for pay purposes.
SECTION 16	- SCHEDULING EMPLOYEES’ WORKING TIME AND DAYS OFF
In scheduling an employee’s working time and days off the Company will comply with the following obligations and restrictions;
A.
B.
The Company shall assign two (2) days off each week for each employee except for employees involved in a four shift tour schedule involving a seven (7) day continuous operation in which case one (1) day off shall be assigned for the periodic week in which the projected schedule results in one day off. A tour worker who is scheduled on such periodic weeks consecutively will also be assigned a second day off on such successive consecutive weeks for the application of Call Time and Overtime only. It is agreed that the second day off will normally be the day after the regular assigned day off.
The Company shall make reasonable and diligent effort to arrange schedules so that the assigned days off of any employee shall be consecutive.
An employee transferred, after the start of the week, from one job or shift or schedule to another, shall, solely for the application of the Call Time and the Overtime provisions, retain his
14
c.
assigned days off, but only for the remainder of that week.
The Company will not, solely for the purpose of avoiding the payment of overtime, change the day or days off of a tegular employee in a week in which a holiday specified in Section 14 occurs.
An employee who has been required to work overtime, or has been required to work on his assigned day or days off, shall not be laid off on one of his scheduled work days in the same week solely for the purpose ot limiting his hours of work to forty (40).
When an employee is temporarily off work because of a shutdown on his job, department, or plant, extending for not less ihan forty-eight (48) hours in excess of that normally encountered in the working schedule, the employee’s regular schedule of hours per day and days per week, including his starting time, and assigned day(s) off, shall be deemed to have been voided and shall no longer be In effect.
If an employee is sent home during his regular scheduled shift with instructions to return later, and his return is canceled so that he works less than eight (8) hours he was scheduled to work, he will be paid as though he had worked eight (8) hours at his regular straight-time rate.
SECTION 17	- ALLOWANCE FOR FAILURE TO PROVIDE WORK
A.
C.
D.
B
In case any employee reports for work having been scheduled or ordered to report for such work, unless notified not to report before leaving home for work, and then no work is provided, he shall receive an allowance of three (3) hours pay at hrs straight-time rate for so reporting.
Notwithstanding Paragraph A above, in case an employee is scheduled or ordered to report for work on his assigned day or days off and he is subsequently notified not to report less than 36 hours prior to the start of such work, he shall receive an allowance of three (3) hours pay at his straighttime rate.
In case any employee has commenced work on his regularly schaduled shift, he shall receive a minimum of six (6) hours pay at his straight-time rate.
Failure to provide notice under Paragraphs A or B of this Section or failure to provide work under Paragraph C of this
15
Section shall not require such payments il the failure to provide notice or work is due to a breakdown, accident or interruption ot power. This exception shall not apply to employees commencing work on any shift beginning later than eight (8) hours after the discovery of the breakdown, accident or Interruption of power.
SECTION 1fi ■ CALLTIME
A.	It is agreed that in the payment of Call Time on the basis provided in this Section, not more than one basis shall be used to cover the same period of work except as provided in Paragraphs B-1 and B-5 of this Section, nor will Call Time be added to or paid in lieu of allowances payable under Section 17 or Section 19.
B.	Regular hourly-paid employees will be paid four (4) hours Call Time at the straight-time day rate in addition to the actual hours worked, subject to the following conditions:
1	. Call time will be paid if, in accordance with instructions from management, an employee works on Independence Day, day before Christmas, Christmas, Labor Day, or Floating Holidays as defined in Section 14, Holidays. Call time is payable for each separate or distinct shift worked wherein any ol the shift hours fall within the defined holiday period.
2	Call Time will be paid if, in accordance with instructions from management, an employee works on his assigned day(s) off as defined in Section 3 and Section 16 subject to the following exceptions marked “a" and “b".
a.	When an employee works beyond his shift into his assigned day off for a period not to exceed two (2) hours, no Call Time is payable.
b.	When an employee starts his following day’s work, within his assigned day off, no Call Time is payable if the period of work wilhin the day off does not exceed two (2) hours and if at least thirty-six (36) hours notice thereof, has been given prior to the start of such work.
3. Call Time will be paid if, in accordance with instructions from management, an employee punches cut, either during or at the end of his regular shift and
16
reports for work again In the same day subject to the following exceptions marked “a*, "b", and “c”;
a.	When the additional period of work in the same day results from a reasonable meal period, no Cail Time is payable,
b.	When the additional period ot work in the same day results from a single recall during a shift after a suspension of work of one (1) hour or more during a shift due to a failure of equipment or interruption of power, no Call Time is payable.
c.	When the additional period of work in the same day extends into the starting time of the employee's established shift on the following day, no Cail Time is payable if the period of work within the same day does not exceed two (2) hours and if at least thirty-six (36) hours notice thereof, has been given prior to the start of such work.
Call Time will be paid if. In accordance with instructions from management, the starting time of an employee’s work is changed to a new starting time either earlier or later than the previously established starting time subject io the following exceptions marked “a” and"b":
a.
b.
5,
When notice of the change in starting time is given at least thirty-six (36) hours prior to the newly established starting time, no Call Time is payable.
When the change in starting time is for a temporary period only, no Call Time is payable for the second change in starting time when the employee changes back to his previously established starting time at the end of the temporary period.
An additional Cal! Time will be paid if, in accordance with instructions from Management, a mechanic who has been called to work on an emergency job(s) is assigned to work on an additional job(s) during the same emergency call-in period. In no case shall more than two (2) call payments be made for one such period of work.
A Yard Worker, Equipment Operator, or Senior Equipment Operator called to operate mobile equip-
17
ment will also be covered under the provisions of this Paragraph B-5.
6,	An employee who volunteers to participate in the following mill activities: Orientations, interview Boards, Toure, Health & Wellness Committees, Health Fairs, Picnic Committees, Softness Panel, Fiber Utilization Group, S.A.C, Participants (not designated by the Company or Union as network members), Job Fair Committee, County Fairs and Finding a Better Way Committee is not eligible to receive call time. All other contract provisions will apply.
By mutual agreement the Standing Committee may add newly created activities or committees of similar nature or delete from the above list,
C.	When an employee has been notified to report for work at a time other than his regular shift under circumstances which would entitle him to a caff time payment, and he is subsequently notified that such work has been canceled, he shall nevertheless be paid a call time allowance if he receives notice of cancellation after leaving the mill on his last shift preceding the canceled period of work.
D.	It is agreed that the starting time of an employee's work may be changed at any time by the management.
E.	it is agreed that when an employee's assigned day off is traded for another day in the same week at his request and for his own convenience, with management’s consent but not at management's request, no Call Time is payable, and such a change in day off, made at the employee’s request, is not to be considered a transfer initiated by the Company as outlined in Paragraph B of Section 16.
F When certain privileges, such as working on an employee’s assigned day off; trading shifts; or reporting for work at an earlier or fater starting time than that established, are requested by employees for their own convenience, Call Time is not payable.
G.	Paragraph B-3 of this section relating to a recall to work or a separate shift in the same day in addition to an employee’s regular shift, is intended to require the payment of Call Time regardless of whether the employee reports for the separate and additional period of work in the same day before he reports for his regular shift or after he punches out from
18
his regular shift provided it is actually a separate period of work apart from his regular shift and does not extend into or out of his regular shift.
H.	It is agreed that when an employee is temporarily off work because of a shutdown of his job, department, or plant, extending for not less than forty-eight (48) hours in excess of that normally encountered in the working schedule, the employee's regular schedule of hours per day and days per week, including his starting time, and Assigned Day(s) Off, shall be deemed to have been voided and shall no longer be in effect. Call Time shall not be payable for any assignments to extra work during the shutdown period or for assignments in connection with the resumption of operation of the job. .
I.	Call Time will be paid to non-tour workers who make more than two (2) shift changes in a work week; the company will not pay call time for maintenance employees exercising their choice, Labor Pool employees and people in the Utility classification.
* SECTION 19 - PAPER MACHINE CLOTHINGTIME
A.	A tour worker called to actually pul clothing on a paper machine at a time other than his regular shift, who is dismissed *	before his shift is scheduled to begin, shall be paid for the time
"	worked plus four (4) hours, but not less than a total of four (4) hours
A for any one such period of work.
B.	All machine wash-up done preparatory to putting on such paper machine clothing, and the restringing of Fourdrinier forming fabrics, shall be construed as clothing lime and paid for as such.
C.	A tour worker called to actually put clothing on a paper machine before his shift is scheduled to begin and who works through into his regular shift shall be paid for the time worked plus four (4) hours. If a tour worker is asked to remain after his shift is scheduled to end, and actually puts clothing on a paper machine and/or loads a wire gun, he shall be paid for the lime worked, plus four (4) hours.
D.	The above shall also apply to a tour worker when working on machines other than his own.
E.	In cases where more than one machine is involved, the above allowances shall be paid for each machine.
F.	A tour worker asked to assist in putting clothing on a paper machine other than his own, during his regular shift, shall receive
19
four (4) hours extra lime, but in no case shall more than four (4) hours extra time be allowed,
G,	A tour worker assigned to put a Fourdrinier Wire on his own machine during his regular shift shall be paid tor the time worked, plus two (2) hours, but in no case shall this two (2) hour premium be paid for the same wire change on which an employee qualifies for any other premium under this Section. This paragraph G shall not apply to #5 Paper Machine.
H.	Where used in this Section 19, paper machine clothing means: Fourdrinier wires; and pick-up, second, ihird, bottom, and dryer felts.
I.	in addition to the premium set forth above, such employees who are called back to the plant while off shift for the purposes set forth in this Section shall receive an additional payment of four (4) hours at their straight time rate and shall be limited to one such payment per call back.
J,	Pay for the allowance time provided above shall be figured at straight time even though the actual time worked may be paid for at the overtime rate.
K.	A tour worker assigned to put a pickup felt on No. 5 Paper Machine during his regular shift shall be paid for the time worked plus two (2) hours, but in no case shall this two (2) hour premium be paid for the same pickup felt change which an employee qualifies for any other premium under this section.
SECTION 20	- STARTING AND STOPPING WORK OF TOUR WORKERS
When a tour begins, each tour worker is required to be in his place. At the end of a shift no tour worker shall leave his piece to wash up and dress until his mate has changed his Clothes and reported to take on responsibility of the position. If a tour worker does not report lor his regular shift, his mate shall notify the supervisor. He shall then remain af his post until a substitute is secured and, if necessary, he shall work an extra shift, ft is the duty of a tour worker to report for his regular shift, unless he has already arranged with his supervisor for a leave of absence. If unavoidably prevented from reporting, he must give notice to his supervisor, or at the office, at least tour (4) hours before his lour goes on duty.
20
SECTION 21	- STARTING AND STOPPING WORK OF DAYWORKERS
Day workers shall be at their respective posts ready to begin work at the time their day starts and shall not quit work in advance ot the time their day stops. For example, if a mechanic’s pay time is from 7:00 a.m, to 11:00 a.m,, and from 11:30 a.m. to 3:30 p.m., he shall be at his post ready to work at 7:00 a.m. and 11:30 a.m., and shall not quit work until 11:00 a.m. and 3:30 p.m.
A day worker may be required at the end ot his shift to not leave his place until his mate has reported and taken on his responsibility of the position.
SECTION 22	- DISCIPLINARY ACTION
A.	Causes for disciplinary action, up to a nd including discharge:
1.	Bringing intoxicants or illegal drugs into or consuming Intoxicants or illegal drugs in the mill or on mill premises.
2.	Reporting for duty under influence of alcohol or illegal drugs.
3.	Disobedience.
4.	Smoking in prohibited areas.
5.	Deliberate destruction or removal of Company's or another employee's property.
6,	Neglect of duty.
7.	Refusal to comply with Company rules; provided that such rules shall be posted in each department where they may be read by all employees and further that no changes in present rules or no additional rules shall be made that are inconsistent with this Agreement; and further provided, that any existing or new rules or changes in rules may be the subject of discussion between the Union Standing Committee and the Mill Manager, and in case of disagreement, the procedure for other grievances shall apply.
8.	Disorderly conduct.
9.	Dishonesty.
10.	Sleeping on duty.
11.	Failure to report for duty without bona fide reasons.
B.	Discharge or suspension of an employee (not including a temporary lay-off) shall be based on just and sufficient cause with full explanation given the employee in writing.
21
The Standing Committee of the Local Union will be notified of the discharge or suspension as soon as possible following the action taken.
C.	Reprimands shall be removed from an employee’s record at the end of one (1) year provided no further reprimands are issued in the one year period. Records of offenses, for which an employee received a suspension, shall be removed from an employee’s work record at the end of five (5) years.
1.	No employee will be requested or required to sign a written reprimand.
2.	The Company will promptly furnish to the Local Union a copy of every written reprimand and a copy of any notation on the Employee’s record relating to any verbal reprimand.
SECTION 23	- BULLETIN BOARDS
The Employer shall supply adequate enclosed official bulletin boards for die use of the Union in posting of officially signed bulletins.
SECTION 24	- SAFETY
The Company, the Union, and all employees will cooperate in promoting safe working practices and conditions In the Mill.
1.	Supervisors are to confine their instructions and procedures within the generally accepted standards of safe practices.
2.	Employees and the Company are to comply with all safety rules as established by the Company from time to time.
3.	The Company and the Union shall establish a Safety Advisory Committee composed of two members from the Union and two members from the Company which will meet at least once a month to consider all safety problems and safety rules. The duties of this committee shall include review and recommendations of:
a.	M ill-wide safe ty r u les
b.	Mill-wide and departmental safety inspection procedures
c.	Mill-wide safety promotion programs
d.	Safety recommendation procedures
e.	Serious accident investigations
22
••• • •••••••• ••••
4.	The Company and the Union shall establish either departmental, progression and/or crew safety committees composed of members from the Union and the Company.
The duties of these committees shall include:
a.	Conduct periodic safety inspections
b.	Review and recommend department safety rules
c.	Review and recommend department safety promotion programs
d.	Participate in investigations of accidents
5.	If requested by an employee who has been on the payroll for over six (6) months, the Company will reimburse the employee up to $85 toward the cost of safety shoes in calendar years 2000 and 2001; $100 in calendar years 2002, 2003 and 2004; and $110 in calendar year 2005. The remaining amount from one calendar year may be carried over to the next calendar year up to a maximum of doubling the single year allowance. Repairs or rebuilds are eligible for reimbursement.
6.	Safety glasses, frames and lenses (prescription lenses if needed) will be paid at 100% if purchased through the Medical Department.
SECTION 25 - SENIORITY
This section shall determine the extent of application of an employee’s length of service in those situations in which seniority is a factor, namely, promotions, demotions, transfers, layoffs and recalls.
A.	Definitions:
For the purpose of this section and ground rules established hereunder the following definitions shall apply:
1.	Mill means the entire manufacturing facility at Wauna in which Ihe employees are covered by this agreement.
2.	Mill seniority means the length of continuous service of an employee from the most recent date of hire at the Wauna mill.
3.	Progression Ladder Seniority means the length of service in a progression ladder.
4.	Job Seniority means the length of service in a given job classification.
5.	Job opening means an opening which management
23
decides must be filled.
6.	Progression ladder means a series of reasonably related jobs.
7.	Promotion means the movement of an employee from any rung on a progression ladder to a higher rung on that same ladder.
8.	Demotion means the movement of an employee from a higher rung on a progression ladder to any lower rung on that same ladder and also means the movement of an employee from the bottom rung of a ladder, or from any job nol on a ladder, to a layoff pool.
9.	Transfer means the movement of an employee from any job to a job opening which is not a promotion or a demotion, as defined in 7 and 8 above.
10.	Layoff means the movement of an employee from any job to unemployed status.
11.	Recall means the return to work of an employee who has been unemployed but who has not lost seniority.
12.	Qualified means the ability of an employee Io satisfactorily discharge the duties and responsibilities of the job involved based on his qualifications and his past performance, and as to entry on the bottom rung of a progression ladder, means in addition, his ability to progress through the ladder.
13.	Seniority Ground Rules means rules and procedures established in the manner set forth in this Section 25 for the application of seniority.
14.	A Layoff Pool means the labor pool or Yard base rate jobs plus any other jobs which may be designated for the purpose of permitting qualified senior employees, who would otherwise be laid off from work, to exercise their seniority. (See the Supplemental Agreements Section).
15.	Major curtailment is 60 consecutive days.
16.	For a curtailment of up to 48 hours, the senior employee on each shift will be scheduled for any available work. For curtailments over 48 hours the senior affected employees will be scheduled for any available work.
B.	Progression Ladders:
1.	The parties agree that management shall have the
24
right to establish new progression ladders or change or eliminate existing progression ladders. However, any employee adversely affected by such action by management has the right to process a grievance, but If it reaches the arbitration stage the arbitrator’s decision shall not establish, change or eliminate any progression ladder.
2.	Any dispute, arising out of the claim that an employee’s job rights based on his seniority have been adversely affected by the Company’s application of this Section or governing ground rules may be processed through the entire grievance procedure. Should the dispute reach the arbitration stage the arbitrator’s decision shall be limited to (a) directing the placement of the employee on a job giving effect to his seniority and qualifications and (b) if back pay is an issue, and the arbitrator orders payment thereof, it shall not be retroactive to a date eartier than the date the grievance was first presented to management.
C.	Promotion Procedure:
1.	In filling job openings other than as provided in (0.2) first consideration will be given to the qualified employee with the most job seniority in the job immediately below the job opening. When job seniority is equal, then progression ladder seniority shall prevail. When job and progression ladder seniority are equal, then mill seniority shall prevail.
2.	a. On shift promotions may be made for vacation and floating holidays.
b. All other vacancies which include but are not limited to, replacements due to sickness, accident, move out of the bargaining unit, scheduled absence, special assignments, etc. will be filled according to C.1. except as follows:
1)	On shift promotion may be made for full week vacancies that become known after day shift on Friday of the preceding week , and for parts of a scheduled week. Known means reasonable notice to the department scheduler. Employees on all other sched
25
ules may be moved up by on-shift of the scheduled work week.
2)	A department may modify C.2. above, subject to departmental approval.
3.	The Company will notify the employee involved and the Local Union of each case in which it determines that an employee lacks the qualifications to be promoted as described above. Such employee wilt be considered frozen as described in paragraph 1.1 b of this Section 25 unless he becomes qualified for a future promotion to the same job.
D.	Transfer Procedure:
1,	a. Job openings will be posted in the dock alley for a period of fourteen (14) days prior to the filling of that job on a permanent basis. It shall not be necessary to post temporary job openings, unless such a temporary job opening has been temporarily filled for six (6) uninterrupted months. Should a regular employee desire to bid on a pasted job opening, he shall make application to the Human Resources Department prior to the end of the fourteen (14) days posting period. Such bid shall remain active until the job opening is tilled.
b. Job openings In (a) above for which no qualified applicant has applied will be posted but if this does not generate a qualified candidate, the job will be filled by outside hire.
2. The Company shall consider such employees for such job openings as arise in order of their mill seniority, subject to the employee being qualified. The need tor the employee in his current job may delay the transfer, following selection, but in no case shall he be held on his present job for more than 7 days from die following Monday, unless extended by agreement between the Company and the Union.
3
When an employee accepts a transfer to another job he shall have his seniority protected in his old job for a
26
period of 60 days to be exercised only in case he fails to qualify or elects to return to his former job. However, should an employee with longer seniority protection displace such employee after the above 60 day period has expired, such employee will have his seniority protected on his old job extended for that same longer period of time. The 60 day period may be extended by agreement between the Company and the Union Standing Committees.
4. a. An employee can transfer up to twice in a 12 month period. The transfer of an employee who is later disqualified during the probationary period by the Company and returned to his former job will not be counted in applying this Paragraph 4. Moves for substantiated medical or personal reasons acceptable to the Company will not count as a transfer, and do not have to meet the limitations of job bidding described in this paragraph 4. An employee with substantiated medical reasons will be considered for suitable job openings whether they had previously signed up or not.
b. An employee who is transferred according to this Section D will receive 90 percent of the pay rate during the 60 day probationary period. Employees who successfully complete the probationary period or are disqualified by the Company and returned to their former job, will be reimbursed retroactively to 100% of the above pay rate during the probationary period.
E.	Probationary Period:
All new employees will be required to serve a probationary period of sixty (60) working days, not to exceed 120 calendar days of continuous employment, unless extended by agreement between the Company and Union Standing Committees.
F.	Loss of Seniority:
Seniority shall be terminated for the following reasons:
1.	If the employee voluntarily leaves the employ of the
27
Company;
2.	If the employee is discharged;
3.	During the first year of an employee’s layoff the Human Resources Department will notify the employee of a permanent job opening available in the mill which the laid-off employee has the ability and experience to fill, and to which his seniority may entitle him. Notice will be made to the employee by certified mail (return receipt requested) sent to his last known address. The notified employee will be given seven (7) days, not including weekends and holidays, after mailing of such notice to notify the Human Resources Department that he desires to return to work, and fourteen (14) days after mailing of such notice to actually report to work unless this period is extended by express permission of the Company. The failure of such laid-off employee to comply with any of the above conditions within the time limits specified, or the failure of a suitable vacancy to occur within one year of his layoff, shall result in the forfeiture of all his recall rights and he shall be terminated from the payroll of the Company.
In any case where an employee is absent from work because of a physical disability the employee's rights to any benefit under the Labor Agreement will be maintained for a period of two (2) years, unless any competent medical authority advises that such employee is deemed permanently disabled to the point where employment should not be resumed. At the end of the two (2) years of disability, Management will take no action to terminate the disabled employee without prior consultation with the Union Standing Committee. In any case where employment is held open beyond two (2) years, such employee will not accumulate seniority during such extension beyond two (2) years.
During the layoff or leave of absence period provided for herein, the employee’s right to his job will be maintained; he will receive Vacation pay if qualified under Section 27; will receive Holiday pay if qualified under Section 14, and will be eligible for such Health and Welfare coverages as are available to him under the
26
•••• •• • ••••••
Plan in effect during his absence.
G.	Supplementary Provisions:
1.	The seniority rights of Mechanics, Helpers and Applicants for Helper positions in mechanical crews and the obligations of management with respect thereto are set forth as a part of this Agreement in the Mechanics’Package Exhibit A-2.
2.	The seniority rights ol oilers and applicants for oiler positions, and the obligations of management with respect thereto, are set forth as a part ol this Agreement in the Lubrication Package Exhibit A-5.
3.	The parties agree (a) that this Section does not nullify the seniority provisions of the Mechanics’ Package, nor the Lubrication Package relating to the application of seniority and (b) employees subject to the Mechanics' Package or the Lubrication Package shall have all the rights specified in this section to the extent such rights are consistent with their respective Mechanics’ or Lubrication Package.
4.	Current progression ladders and new or changed Seniority Ground Rules will be posted on the bulletin board of the department involved.
H.	Establishment of Seniority Ground Rules:
1.	Written Seniority Ground Rules (which effectuate the application of seniority as provided in this Section 25) shall continue in effect during the period of this Agreement subject to change only by mutual agreement of the parties.
2.	Additional Seniority Ground Rules may be established or existing Seniority Ground Rules changed by mutual agreement of the parties.
When mutual agreement has been reached by the Union Standing Committee and the Company Standing Committee, to be effective such Seniority Ground Rules must be reduced to writing, identified as such and signed by the Mill Manager.
3.	In the event mutual agreement has not been reached as to the establishment of, or a change in, any Seniority Ground Rule, the Company may neverthe
29
less keep in effect or put into effect the Ground Rule which is the subject of disagreement. Any claim that an employee’s seniority rights have been adversely affected by the application of this Paragraph 3 may be processed through the entire grievance procedure.
Seniority Ground Rules:
1.	Employees are expected to accept opportunities for promotion and may not freeze or unfreeze except by written agreement between the Company and the Union Standing Committees after the employer has notilied the Local # 8-1097 Executive Board and in accordance with the following principles:
a.	When an employee uses his job seniority and bypasses another employee who is frozen in a job on lie progression ladder, he will acquire job seniority rights to the job to which he has moved and will be considered permanentiy ahead ot the by-passed employee. By-pass rights are not acquired by on-shift move-ups.
b.	Not more than one-half the number of employees on any given job above the bottom job on a progression ladder will normally be allowed to freeze at any one time.
c.	Freezing will net normally be allowed on the bottom job in any progression ladder.
2.	In the event there is a reduction in the working force or curial Im ent of production in excess ol 48 hours which results in demotions or layoffs, employees shall be demoted or laid off in the reverse order of their promotions.
3.	Lay-offs from among employees in the lay-off pool will be made on the basis of inverse mill seniority. Lay-off pool job classifications shall be determined by mutual agreement between the Company and the Union -(See Supplemental Agreements Section),
4.	In all cases of layoff extending longer than the beginning of the second week following the day his layoff starts, a qualified senior regular employee will not be continued on layoff as long as a junior employee is working on a layoff pool job. However, if a qualified
30
senior regular employee is scheduled, prior to 8:00 AM on Friday to be laid off beginning Monday of the following week, such employee will not be laid off as tong as a junior employee is working on a layoff pool job.
5.	Employees who have been laid off will be recalled for any work that Is available, in accordance with their mill seniority in the case of lay-off pool jobs, and in accordance with their job seniority in the case of filling other jobs to which their job seniority entitles them.
6.	The Company shall furnish seniority lists to the Local Union upon request, but not more frequently than each ninety (90) days.
7.	Any employee covered by this Agreement, who accepts a job with the Company, which is outside the bargaining unit may return to his former job within one hundred eighty (180) days without loss of seniority. This period may be extended by an additional 180 days by mutual agreement between the Company and the Union. An employee who accepts a job outside the bargaining unit will not perform bargaining unit work later the same day unless it is done within his regular scheduled shift.
Permanent Progression Ladder Closure:
In cases of permanent closure of a progression ladder and/or jobs, the affected employee(s) may exercise their progression ladder and then their mill seniority in accordance with the following principles:
i.	Qlesuie
a.	If a non-progression job or an entire line of progression is permanently eliminated, then the affected employee(s) will be offered a “One time" opportunity to displace junior employees occupying the bottom rung of remaining progression ladders in the mill. This opportunity only applies to bottom rung jobs filled after ratification of this Labor Agreement.
b.	In cases where two or more lines of progression share a common relief pool, employees affected by a permanent closure must first exercise their
31
progression ladder seniority and thereby displace progression ladder junior employees in the common relief pool. Relief employees who are displaced will be offered the "One time" opportunity described in i.a.
c.	Displacement ot junior employees occupying the bottom rung of the remaining mill progression ladders will be limited to displacement of no more them 50% of the employees occupying the bottom rung of any progression ladder, in progression ladders where more than 50% ot the employees on the bottom rung are mill junior, this restriction does not apply.
2.	Grandfather Rights
a.	In all instances, affected employees will be granted Grandfather Rights to return to their previous progression ladder If a permanent opening in that ladder becomes available. Employees returning under this Section will retain their previous progression seniority date, if an employee refused to exercise their Grandfather Rights, they permanently forfeit those rights.
b.	If they forfeit their Grandfather Rights, to their original job, they will also forfeit their retained job rate.
c.	Where jobs/progression ladders are eliminated or an employee is displaced, and that employee had bid into (hat job/progression ladder for less than one (1) year, that employee will have the option to return to their previously held job. If the employee declines io exercise their grandfather right of return to the job they were displaced from, then the employee will be assigned to the labor pool. If an employee has become a successful bidder after being displaced, that employee will not be assigned to the labor pool, if the employee declines their grandfather rights.
3.	The above paragraphs (1-2) describe the general application of the principles which will guide the par-32
ties under the circumstances described in this section. The Local Union and Company Standing Committees, by mutual agreement, have the authority to modify the specific application of this paragraph ‘J’ in order to respond to situations as they might arise.
SECTION 26-MEALS
A.	A meal which will be hot it practical, shall be furnished at a usual meal time by, and at the expense of the Company, or, at an employee's option, a $7,75 meal ticket shall be provided by the Company to any employee who:
1.	is required to work ten consecutive hours, or
2.	is notified to report for work with less than one (1) hour prior notice and is required to work four (4) consecutive hours.
B.	An additional meal shall be furnished at a usual meal time by, and at the expense ot the Company, or, at an employee's option, a meal ticket shall be provided by the Company to an employee qualifying for the benefit ot A1 above for each additional four (4) consecutive hours worked beyond ten (10) hours, and to an employee qualifying for the benefit of A2 above it he is required to work for eight (8) consecutive hours; provided that an employee other than a regular employee shall not be entitled to the benefit of A2 above unless he then has an established work schedule.
C.	Notwithstanding the above, a notice to report for work which is given between 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. will be considered to have been given with less than one (1) hour notice when applying the provisions of this section.
0. If, in accordance with instructions from management, an employee's unpaid lunch period is shortened, or if his unpaid lunch period is rescheduled so that it begins more than one-half hour eariier or ends more than one-haff hour later than his regular unpaid lunch period, the employee will be pad for such lunch period and will be allowed to "eat on the fly."
SECTION 27 - VACATIONS
A. Employees as defined in this Agreement shall be granted one (1) week vacation with pay, subject to the following terms and conditions:
33
1. To be eligible for a weeks vacation during the year subsequent to any June 1st the employee must be on the payroll of the Company on said June 1st and either a. have been an employee tor not less than one (1)
year prior to said June 1 st, during which year the employee worked a minimum of 1,000 hours or
b. have worked a minimum of 1,500 hours prior to said June 1st.
B.	Employees as defined in thia Agreement shall be granted two (2) weeks vacation with pay, subject to the following terms and conditions:
1.	To be eligible for a two (2) weeks vacation during the year subsequent to any June 1st the employee must qualify under the conditions set forth above for a one (1) weeks vacation and in addition either
a.	have been an employee for not less than two (2) years prior to said June 1st, during which the employee worked a minimum of 1,000 hours in each of the Iwo (2) years, or
b.	have worked a minimum of 1,500 hours prior to June 1st in the first year of his employment and a minimum of 1,000 hours prior to June 1st in one (1) additional year,
C.	Employees as defined in this Agreement shall be granted three (3) weeks vacation with pay, subject to the following terms and conditions:
1.	To be eligible for a three (3) weeks vacation during tha year subsequent to any June 1st, the employee must be on the payroll of the Company on said June 1st and have worked a minimum of 1,000 hours during tha year just preceding said June 1st, and in addition must a. have been an employee for not less than five (5) years prior to said June 1 st, or
b. have worked a minimum ot 1,500 hours prior to June 1st in the first year of his employment and have been an employee for not less than four (4) additional years.
D.	Employees as defined in this Agreement shall be granted four (4) weeks vacation with pay, subject to the following terms and conditions:
1.	To be eligible for a four (4) weeks vacation during the
34
year subsequent to any June 1st, Ihe employee must be on the payroll of the Company an said June 1 st and have worked a minimum of 1,000 hours during the year just preceding said June 1st, and tn addition must a. have been an employee tor not less than ten (10) • years prior to said June 1st, or
b. have worked a minimum of 1,500 hours prior to June 1st in the first year ot his employment and have been an employee for not less than nine (9) additional years.
E.	Employees as defined in this Agreement shall be granted live (5) weeks vacation with pay, subject to the following terms and conditions:
1.	To be eligible for a five (5) weeks vacation during the year subsequent to any June 1st, the employee must be on the payroll of the Company on said June 1 st and have worked a minimum of 1,000 hours during the year just preceding said June 1st, and in addition must a, have been an employee for not less than fifteen
(15)	years prior to said June 1 st, or
b. have worked a minimum of 1,500 hours prior to June 1st in the first year of his employment and have been an employee for not less than fourteen (14) additional years.
F.	Employees as defined in this Agreement shall be granted six (6) weeks vacation with pay, subject to the following terms and conditions:
1.	To be eligible tor a six (6) weeks vacation during the year subsequent to any June 1st, the employee must be on the payroll of the Company on said June 1st and have worked a minimum of 1,000 hours during the year just preceding said June 1st, and in addition must a, have been an employee lor not less than twenty
(20)	years prior to said June 1 st, or
b. have worked a minimum of 1,500 hours prior to June 1st in the firs) year of his employment and have been an employee for not less than nineteen (19) additional years.
G.	Employees as defined in this Agreement shall be granted seven (7) weeks vacation with pay, subject to the following terms and conditions:
1,	To be eligible for a seven (7) weeks vacation during the
35
year subsequent to any June 1st, the employee must be on the payroll ot the Company on said June 1st and have worked a minimum of 1,000 hours during the year Just preceding said June 1st. and in addition must a. have been an employee tor not less than twenty-five (25) years prior to said June 1st, or
b. have worked a minimum of 1,500 hours prior to June 1st In the first year of his employment and have been an employee for not less than twenty-four (24) additional years.
H,	Provided that, with respect to either sub-Paragraph “a” or "b’ of Paragraphs “A”, “B”, "C”, "O’, "E”, “F” or “G” above, if a termination of employment occurred in the eligibility period, credit for length ot employment or for hours worked prior to the lermination of employment shall not be included.
1.	Any employee who does not meet the qualification of hours worked set forth in Paragraphs "A", “B”, “C, “D", “E”, *F or “G", above, may where applicable use the following to qualify for a vacation:
1.	Time lost as a result of an accident, as recognized by the Workmen’s Compensation Board, suffered during the course of employment shall be considered as time worked in applying the above provisions.
2.	For the purpose of determining the qualification for vacations of an employee with five (5) or more years of continuous service, time lost by him tor which nonindustrial sickness or accident benefits are paid to him under the Company's Group Insurance shall be construed as time worked in applying the provisions of Paragraphs “B”, “C". “D", “E", 'F and ‘G’ of this Section. Provided, (1) that time so lost shall be computed at eight (8) hours per day and forty (40) hours per week, and (2) that if the time lost so computed exceeds 520 hours in the prior “vacation year”, only 520 hours shall be considered as time worked under the provisions of this sub-paragraph. Vacation year means twelve (12) consecutive months subsequent to any June 1st.
3.	For the purpose of qualifying for vacation pay, an employee shall be considered to have worked the hours he would have been scheduled to work during
36
his vacation period, but not to exceed 8 hours a day and 48 hours a week.
The vacation pay for an employee who qualifies is to be computed in accordance with the number of hours as set forth herein and shall be computed at the higher of:
1.	The job rate of his regular job as such rate exists on the day his vacation starts, or
2.	The weighted average straight time hourly rate paid to the employee in the prior contract year, adjusted for the change, if any, in his average rate effective on the effective date of the last general wage increase preceding the time at which his vacation is taken. Said average rate (1) for an employee who worked at the same job rate during the entire prior contract year is that job rale and (2) for an employee who worked at more than one job rale in the prior contract year shall be determined by the following procedure: Multiply the number ol hours he worked in said year at each job rate by that job rate; add the amounts so computed; and divide the sum by the total number of hours he worked in said year.
Vacation Pay Allowance of fltty-four (54) hours will be paid for each week of earned vacation subject to all other provisions of this Section 27.
The vacation must be taken within the vacation year, that is it may not be accumulated to be used in the following year. However, employees who are eligible for more than two weeks of vacation may bank all or part of their vacation period over two weeks. Employees may bank only full weeks of vacation and a maximum of five (5) vacation weeks may be accumulated In the bank. Banked vacation weeks may be withdrawn at retirement or for extended vacations.
The vacation pay for banked vacation will be based on the employee's blue slip rate at the time of withdrawal from the bank at 54 hours for each week.
The allotment of vacation time, including banked vacation, is to be decided by management.
1.	Management is permitted, but not obligated, to adjust starting days of vacation time for employees, if so requested. However, any employee's request for vaca-
37
tion running from day off io day off will be granted subject to the other provisions of this Paragraph L,
2.	No employee is to have the privilege of drawing the vacation pay and continuing to work in lieu of taking the vacation.
3.	It is agreed that management is not committed to schedule three, four, five, six or seven consecutive weeks of vacation.
4.	All employees sign up prior to May 1. From May 1 to May 23, people who signed-up for vacation weeks, but were denied - will have the opportunity to reschedule, by seniority, those weeks. All vacation sign-ups wilt be completed by May 23rd. Management will schedule vacation time from the requests so made on the basis of mill seniority.
5.	Management shall give timely notice to each employee of his scheduled vacation and shall then consider in good faith, before making final decision, any change asked for by the employee or the Union Standing Committee. Such change may be asked for and shall be considered whether it arises from a personal preference for a vacation during a particular part of the vacation year or from an announcement by management liiat the vacation time is to be scheduled so as to coincide with an announced shutdown.
6.	a. Employees who are eligible for three (3) or more weeks of vacation will be allowed to schedule one (1) week of vacation in full day increments of less than four (4) days for shift workers and less than five (5) days for day workers. Election to exercise this option will not be revocable once an employee has been paid.
b.	Pay for day-at-a-time vacation will be administered via a lump-sum check on the next available payday.
c.	Prior to taking the one (1) week of day-at-a-time vacation, all Personal Floating Holidays (earned in the previous contract year or carried forward from the previous contract year} must be taken. Subsequently, day at-a-time vacation days wilt be scheduled using the same notification/approval
38
requirements as per Personal Floating Holidays.
d.	This procedure will be utilized for a period beginning June 1, 2000 - April 30, 2001, after which, Management or the Union may elect to terminate the program or both may agree to extend it for the term of the Agreement with or without modifications.
M.	It is agreed that any employee who has left the employ of the Company prior to June 1 st for the purpose of serving in the armed forces, but who otherwise has fulfilled the qualifications for a vacation during the year just preceding that June 1st, will be granted vacation pay. The vacation pay will be mailed to the employee immediately following said June 1st, provided satisfactory proof has been furnished to the Company that the employee Is serving in the armed forces.
N.	Any returning serviceman who -
1.	was on the payroll of the Company at the time of induction into the armed forces; and
2.	made application to return to the employ of the Company within ninety (90) days after being relieved from duty in the armed forces; and
3.	actually performed work for the Company on or before the June 1st immediately following his return from the armed forces; and
4.	had qualified for one (1) weeks vacation while in the employ of the Company in the eligibility period in which he was inducted, or in the next preceding eligibility period, or whose service with the Company immediately preceding his induction, plus his service since his return from the armed forces immediately preceding June 1st, is sufficient to qualify him for a vacation under the requirements existing at the time he returns shall be granted one (1) weeks vacation with pay, whether or not he worked 1,000 hours in the eligibility period immediately prior to said June 1st.
Any returning serviceman when he has qualified for one (1) weeks vacation on any of the basis made available to him and whose total length of service with the Company including the time spent in the armed forces is sufficient to qualify him for a longer vacation, shall be granted the longer vacation without applying the requirements of hours worked to that period spent
39
in the armed forces. Il is understood that there shall be but one vacation for each eligibility period.
O. When an employee is retiring, he is terminated from the payroll as an employee and as such he is no longer a par of the collective bargaining unit covered by this Agreement. However, management has agreed that in the case of an employee who is retiring prior to June 1st pursuant to the retirement plan in effect, or at age 65, or later, pursuant to the Social Security Act, and who has fulfilled the requirements of the Agreement as to hours worked within the vacation year, the requirement that he be on the payroll on June 1st shall be waived and upon retirement he shall be paid a sum equivalent to vacation pay based on his then current rate. Provided, however, that if said retiring employee has not fulfilled the requirement of the Agreement as to hours worked within that vacation year, il is agreed that upon retirement he shall be paid a sum which shall be computed on a prorated basis dependent on the number of hours he worked as related to 1,000 hours,
P. In the event an employee dies white on the payroll prior to June 1 st but who, prior to death, fulfilled the requirements of the Agreement as to hours worked within that vacation year, his heir (or heirs) shall upon proof of entitlement satisfactory to the Company, be paid vacation pay he would have been entitled to at his current rate. If, within six months after the employee’s death no application has been made to the Company by any heir (or heirs) or the Company by reasonable effort has been unable to locate heir (or heirs) the above stated obligation shall thereupon terminate.
Q. An employee who leaves the employment of the Company prior to June 1st, and who has fulfilled the requirements of the agreement as to hours worked within the vacation year, shall have the requirement that he be on the payroll on June 1st waived. This provision does not apply to employees discharged under the terms of Section 22
A. Subject to mutual agreement between the Company and Union, an employee may elect to donate a week(s) of vacation to another employee tor legitimate humanitarian needs or emergencies. The employee receiving the donated vacation will receive the time off and the wages of the donating
40
employee. The hours and dollars received shall not affect vacation eligibility or average rate of vacation pay for either employee. Tax liability goes with the dollars.
SECTION 28 - ADJUSTMENT OF GRIEVANCES
All disputes, complaints, or grievances of any employee or the Union may be presented through the grievance procedures ot this Agreement, and if not thereby settled may be processed to arbitration for a determination of whether the terms of this agreement have been violated. This Section shall not be applicable to grievances arising from discharge or suspension.
Standing Committees shall be maintained in the following manner:
1.	The Mill Manager shall appoint a Company Standing Committee of up to five (5) individuals which shall represent that Company.
2.	The Local Union shall select from its membership a Union Standing Committee ot up to five (5), which shall represent the Local Union for the purposes stated in this Agreement,
3.	The Company Standing Committee and the Union Standing Committee have the authority to make the final decision consistent with the terms of this Agreement on matters properly before them. Either party may express reservation that it desires to refer the question under consideration to higher authority.
4.	Accurate minutes of each and every Standing Committee meeting must be kept and must be signed by the chairman of the Company Standing Committee and the chairman of the Union Standing Committee. The minutes shall include statements of positions and conclusions, if any. A copy shall be supplied to the Local Union.
5.	Conclusions reached in Steps 3 and 4 shall be prepared and signed by the appropriate parties. A copy shall be supplied to the Local Union.
Should there be any dispute, complaint, or grievance of any employee or the Union, herein collectively referred to as grievances, the employee shall work as directed by management pending final adjustment of the grievance. Any
41
such grievance shall be deemed to have been waived if not presented as a formal grievance by the employee to his supervisor within thirty (30) calendar days following either the occurrence out of which the grievance arose or the first date upon which the grievance could reasonably be assumed to have been known to ths employee, whichever is later.
In order to facilitate the resolution of grievances at the 1 st Step, the Company and Union hereby agree that any grievance settlement al the 1st Step does nol establish a precedent with respect to how a similar matter should/will be resolved in the future.
STEP 1.
Such dispute, complaint or grievance shall first be taken up with his supervisory by the employee. In the event the employee desires io submit the matter as a formal grievance he shall present it in writing to the supervisor specifying the date of submission. The employee may have the Shop Steward accompany him when he discusses the matter with his supervisor. If the supervisor and the grievant are unable to arrive at a satisfactory settlement, to be timely the grievance must be referred to Step 2 within ten (10) calendar days after the date the grievance was first presented to the supervisor as a formal grievance.
STEP 2.
Any such grievance shall be submitted in writing by the Union Standing Committee to the Company Standing Committee setting forth the circumstances out of which the grievance arose, and the remedy or correction requested. Subjects which have been presented at Step 1 but not mentioned in said written submission shall nevertheless be dealt with.
1.	Within ten (10) calendar days after the date of receipt ol such written grievance the two committees shall meet.
2.	If the two committees are unable to arrive at a satisfactory settlement within ten (10) calendar days after their initial meeting, to be timely the Union Standing Committee must
42
STEP 3.
refer the grievance in writing to the Mill Manager within fifteen (15) calendar days of the expiration of the ten (10) calendar-pay period in Step 2-2,
1.	Within ten (10) calendar days after the date of such written notice the Mill Manager and/or his representative and the representative(s) of the Local Union shall meet.
2.	If the Mill Manager and/or his representative and the representative(s) of the Local Union are able to arrive at a satisfactory settlement within ten (10) calendar days after their initial meeting, to be timely the Local Union must
STEP 4.
refer the grievance in writing within fifteen (15) calendar days of the expiration of the ten (10) calendar-day period in Step 3-2 to the President of the Signatory Union or his representative, and an official of Fart Janies Corporation, (Copy of referral shall be delivered to Mill Manager.)
1.	Within thirty (30) calendar days of date of such written notice these two shall meet.
2.	If these two are unable to arrive at a satisfactory settlement within fifteen (15) calendar days of iheir initial meeting, to be timely the Local Union may,
STEP 5.
submit a grievance based upon an alleged violation of any provision^) of this Agreement to the arbitrator as provided in Sections 31 and 32 of this Agreement within thirty (30) calendar days after the expiration of the fifteen (15) calendar-day period in Step 4-2 for interpretation anchor application of such provisions). It is agreed that if the PA.C.E. Executive Board or Local Union, pursuant to the PA.C.E. Constitution or local bylaws or constitution or any agency or court, decides that an employee's grievance was improperly withdrawn from the grievance procedure by the Union, the grievance shall be reinstated in the grievance procedure at the step from which it was withdrawn.
43
D.	The parties in Step 2, in Step 3 and in Step 4 may, by mutual agreement in writing, extend the time limit specified in Step 2-2 and/or in Step 3-2 and/or in Step 4-2 for a period not to exceed thirty (30) calendar days.
E.	However:
1.	In case of a grievance which affects a group of five (5) or more employees who have the right under this Agreement to present that grievance to their supervisors), an official or some other representative appointed by the Local Union shall have Ihe right to take that grievance up directly with the Mill Manager and/or his representative in accordance with Step 3.
2.	tn case of a grievance affecting the rights of the Union, as such, as distinguished from grievances involving an individual employee or group of employees, the Local Union shall have the right to take that grievance up directly with the Mill Manager and/or his representative in accordance with Step 3.
SECTION 29	- APPEAL FROM DISCHARGE OR SUSPENSION
A.	If an employee who is not serving his probationary period claims to have been unjustly discharged or suspended during the lite ot this Agreement or any continuance thereof, to be timely his case must,
STEP1.
within seven (7) days of the date of notice to the Local Union ol such discharge or suspension, be referred in writing to the Mill Manager or his representative through the Union Standing Committee.
1.	These two parties shall meet within seven (7) days of the date of the referral.
2.	If, upon investigation, no settlement is made within ten (10) days of their initial meeting, to be timely the case must,
STEP 2.
within thirty (30) days of the expiration of the ten (10) day period in Step 1-2 be referred to the President of the Union or his repre-
44
sentathre, and an official of Fort James Corporalion neither of whom has previously judged the case in accordance with this Section; provided that written notice of such reference or appeal shall be delivered by the appealing party to the other party.
1.	Within thirty (30) days of date of such written notice these two shall meet.
2.	If these two are unable to arrive al a satisfactory settlement within thirty (30) days of their initial meeting, to be timely the Union must,
STEP 3.
within thirty (30) days ol the expiration of the thirty (30) day period in Step 2-2, submit the case to arbitration as provided in Sections 31 and 32 of this Agreement.
B.	The parties in Step 2 may, by mutual agreement in writing extend the time limit specified in Step 2-2 for a period not to exceed thirty (30) days.
SECTION 30	- MEDIATION
If the Local Union and Mill Manager are unable to arrive at a satisfactory settlement at the Third Step of the grievance procedure or Step 1 of the appeal from discharge or suspension procedure, the Local Union may elect to refer the grievance or appeal to mediation in place of Step 4 of the grievance procedure or Step 2 of the appeal from discharge or suspension procedure. The mediation will be processed in a timely manner, with the mediator rendering a bench opinion if the parties are unable to reach agreement. The mediator shall not have the authority to force either party to accept a particular opinion. Settlement discussions by the parties during mediation may not be introduced during subsequent arbitration, nor may the comments by the mediator be referenced. The mediator will be selected from a panel provided by the American Arbitration Association, according to the same procedure used for arbitration, with the cost of the mediator paid equally by the Company and Union.
SECTION 31	- GENERAL PROVISIONS REGARDING ARBITRATION
A.	In the event the parties are unable to reach a settlement of a grievance or an appeal from discharge or suspension, the
45
dispute may be moved to arbitration in accordance with the provisions of this Section and Section 32, only if and after the timely utilization and completion of all prior Steps in Section 28 or Section 29, whichever is applicable, have failed to produce an agreement between the parties. The prior Steps and time limits for initiation and completion are set forth in Sections 28 and 29. Failure of the charging party to act within the applicable time limit specified for any Step in Section 28 or Section 29, whichever is applicable, shall constitute waiver of the charging party’s right to further consideration of the case.
B.	Each party to any case submitted to arbitration (1) shall bear the expenses of preparing and presenting its own case, including witnesses, and (2) shall pay one-half of the charges for hearing room expenses, fees of the arbitrator incurred in the arbitration and the arbitrator’s copy of the transcript of the hearing. If either party orders a copy of the transcript for its own use that party shall pay for its copy.
C.	It is agreed that each party to a case submitted to arbitration will do everything in its power to permit early selection of and decision by the arbitrator.
SECTION 32	■ ARBITRATION
A.	Arbitration referred to in the preceding sections of this Agreement shall be in accordance with the provisions set forth below.
B.	Arbitration shall be conducted by a single arbitrator. The determination by the Arbitrator shall be final and binding upon all parties concerned provided however:
1.	The Arbitrator shall not have the authority to modify, add to, alter or detract from the provisions of the Agreement, or to impose any obligation on the Union or Company not expressly agreed to by the terms of this Agreement
2.	In suspension or discharge cases submitted to arbitration and as to which the arbitrator shall find the suspension or discharge to be unjustified, the amount of payment for lost time shall be determined by the arbitrator, but shall not exceed payment for lost time at the employee’s rate of pay of the job he was on at time of
46
suspension or discharge.
3.	The OPERATING CONTROL, as provided in Section 2, is not subject to the grievance and/or arbitration procedures of this Agreement
4.	The arbitration proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the American Arbitration Association Voluntary Labor Arbitration Rules except as modified by the provisions of this Agreement. In the event of any conflict between the said rules and this Agreement, this Agreement shall prevail.
C.	The Union shall make application to the American Arbitration Association for a panel of available arbitrators in the Pacific Northwest from which an arbitrator for the case involved shall be promptly selected by the parties. The parties to any case submitted to arbitration shall cooperate in arranging with the selected arbitrator for the time and ptace that, subject to the arbitrator's convenience, will best serve tor the quickest disposition of the matter.
SECTION 33	- PROVISIONS FOUND TO BE IN CONTRAVENTION OF LAWS
It any provision of this Agreement is in contravention of the Jaws or regulations of the United States or of the State of Oregon, such provision shall be superseded by the appropriate provisions of such law or regulations so long as same is in force and effect but all other provision of this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect. It the parties are unable to agree as to whether or not any provisions hereof is in contravention of any such laws or regulations, the provisions hereof involved shall remain in effect until the disputed matter is settled by the court or other authority having jurisdiction in the matter.
SECTION 34	- GENERAL POLICIES
A. Vbting Privileges - If work schedules are such as to make it difficult or impossible to exercise the privilege of voting, management will, at the request of an employee, arrange for the modification of the employee’s schedule of work to provide him adequate time to vote.
B Smoking Privileges - Smoking zones will be designated by management for the convenience of employees. Smoking will be restricted to such designated areas.
47
C. No Conflicting Agreements - Neither the Company nor any supervisor shall have any private understanding or agreement with any individual employee or group of employees in conflict with this Agreement.
□. Employees Not to be Displaced - Supervisors and other salaried employees, shall not displace the employees covered by this Agreement by doing work which would normally be done by such employees unless the performance ol such work is required for:
1.	Training purposes.
2.	Emergencies which have or could cause harm to individuals or property or hinder operations.
3.	Incidental work to help an employee or employees.
4.	Instances when a qualified employee Is not available but a relief is being pursued.
E. Contract to be Explained - The Company agrees to explain fully the terms of this Agreement to its supervisors and the Union similarly agrees to explain it to its members.
F Leave of Absence for Union Business • Leave of absence without pay, will be granted under the tallowing conditions:
1.	The President and Recording Secretary of the Local Union shall be granted Leave of Absence without pay up to one full shift when necessary to enable them to attend the regular, periodic meeting of the Local Union, provided notice to the employer Is given by the Local Union in writing, at least two weeks prior to each such meeting.
2.	Employees duly elected or appointed to attend official ' Union conferences or conventions shall be granted a leave of absence without pay for the time necessary to attend such functions when notice to the employer is given by the Local Union in writing at least two weeks In advance.
Time spent on such leave of absence shall be counted as hours worked (limited to eight (8) hours per day and forty (40) hours per week) for the purpose of qualifying for vacation and holiday pay.
G. The Company will replace privately owned tools, or parts of tools, if evidence satisfactory to the Company is given that such tools were broken or made unsafe while being proper
48
ly utilized in the performance of assigned work.
Upon written request from an employee giving at feast two (2) weeks advance notice, the Company will grant an emp)oyee(s) a persona] leave of absence for the purpose of his running for elective political office. Such leave of absence shall be without pay and shall not exceed six (6) months.
1.	Seniority shall not be broken but shall only accumulate for a maximum of six months.
2,	An employee must return to work or report his availability for work (it no work is available) at the end ot his leave or within two (2) weeks following completion of the campaign for which the leave was granted, whichever is earlier, or he will be considered to have terminated.
3.	When this Agreement terminates, leaves previously granted shall be continued for their originally stated period, subject to the provisions then in effect under any new agreement.
4.	In the event the employee is elected, he will be granted an extension of his leave to serve one full term but not to exceed 4 years. No employee during his total career service within the Company shall be granted leaves in excess of accumulative total of 4 1/2 years under this Paragraph H.
The Box Facial Section of the Converting Department will be operated under the terms of the language included in the Memorandum of Agreement signed on April 4, 1980 whenever production schedules permit.
SECTION 35	- NON-DISCRIMINATION
In the administration of this Agreement both the Company and the Union agree that there shall be no illegal discrimination against any employee because of race, color, religion, age, sex, national origin or handicap.
SECTION 36	- TERM OF AGREEMENT AND CHANGES IN AGREEMENT
This Agreement shall be in effect from April 1, 2000 up to and including March 31, 2006 and shall be automatically
49
renewed thereafter from year to year unless notice to terminate is given by either party as hereinafter provided.
A.	This Agreemenl may be modified as follows:
Either party desiring any modification shall mail to the other party notice in writing by Certified mail with a Return Receipt Requested sixty (60) days prior to March 31,2006, or prior to any subsequent March 31 on which this contract is in effect, that a modification is desired; and if no such sixty (60) day notice is given prior to any March 31, the earliest time at which such notice may later be so mailed is sixty (60) days prior to March 31 of the next year.
B.	If notice of desire for modification has been given, the parties shall, as soon as agreeable to the parties following such notice meet for collective bargaining. Any agreement or modification arrived at in such negotiations and approved by a majority of the membership of the Union who vote in the referendum which shall be conducted for the purpose, shall be binding upon the parties to this Agreement.
C.	In case negotiations conducted in accordance with "B” break down, either party may terminate this Agreement upon the expiration of ten days written notice mailed by registered mail, to the other party, at any time after the March 31 with reference to which the notice of modification has been mailed as provided in “A".
D.	The requirements of paragraphs A through C of this Section 36 notwithstanding, any provisions of this Agreement may be changed during its term subject to the approval of all parties to the Agreement.
50
B	IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have caused this	
	Agreement to be executed.	
•	Fort James Corporation	P.A.C.E. Union
	(Richard P. Warmer) v.P. Resilient Manager - Wauna Mill	(Alvin L. Lippincott, Jr.) International Representative
	(Keith B. Larson)	(Billy Taylor)
	(Joseph G. HertigJ	(Larry Reandeau)
	(Wichael Woods)	(Dan Duvall)
•	(Douglas Campbell)	(Roland Lee)
	(Geoge Gazzana)	(Sluart Potler)
(Gene Dixon)
EXHIBIT A
The wage changes described below are effective as of (he dates shown. Wage rates effective as of April 1, 2000, 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004 and 2005 are specifically enumerated in Exhibit A-4 of this Exhibit A. (See Insert; Exhibit A-4 Wage Rates)
EXHIBIT A-1 - WAGE RATES
A.	Effective April 1, 2000
The base rate will be increased two percent (2%). Temporary hires will receive $12.29 per hour (or compressed rate of $10.84 per hour if working a compressed schedule) worked a period of 120 days of continuous employment. Employees remaining on temporary status after 120 days of continuous employment will receive the full rate of the job worked. A new 120 day period commences following breaks trt service.
New Regular hires will receive $12.29 per hour (or compressed rate of $10.84 per hour if working a compressed schedule) worked for a period of 60 working, not to
51
exceed 120 calendar days unless such probationary period is extended by agreement between the Company and the Union Standing Committees. Employees who satisfactorily complete the probationary period will receive the full rate of the job worked. Journeyman mechanics and employees hired at Step 15 and above are excluded from the reduced initial rate.
Effective April 1,2001
The base rate will be increased two and one-half percent (27s%>.
Effective April 1,2002
The base rate will be increased two and one-half percent
(
Effective April 1,2003
lump Sum payment of two and one-half percent (2'A%) of
the 2002 W-2 earnings with a $1500 minimum.
Effective April 1,2004	j
The base rate will be increased two percent (2%)	"
Effective April 1,2005
The base rate will be increased three percent (3%j	|
B.	The rates described in “A" shall remain in force during the period of this Agreement, excepting as to any changes which may be made pursuant to the Joint Job Analysis Program described below in Exhibit A-3 - The Job Analysis Plan,
C.	Rates When Moved from Regular Job.
1.	Whenever an employee is moved from his regular job to a higher rate job he shall receive the higher rate. An employee shall be deemed to be moved to a higher rate job when he takes over the duties and responsibilities of that job without the guidance of the employee who is breaking him In, and he shall then receive the higher rate. While the employee is being broken in and another employee Is on the job and carrying the responsibility for the job, the employee being broken in shall receive the hourly rate of his regular job.
52
2.	Whenever, for the convenience ot Iha Company, an employee, during his regular shift is temporarily moved from his regular job to a tower rate job and his regular job is still available, the employee shall receive his regularjob rate during that period.
3.	When an employee, at the request of the Company, accepts temporary work on a lower rate job either before or after his regular shift or on his “day off" in order to fill some emergency vacancy existing, he is to receive his regular rate.
4.	When a physician who is treating an employee for an injury sustained in the mill advises the Company that the injured employee is temporarily unable to perform his regular job because of such injuryfsj, and the Company offers a suitable lower-rate job(s) to the injured employee, he shall receive his regular job rate,
5.	An employee who is working following an industrial injury wtH be entitled to reimbursement at the straight time hourly rate of his regular job for the hours necessarily losi from his regularly scheduled shift for company-arranged doctor visits for treatment of foe industrial injury.
6.	When an employee is directed to work for a temporary period on any suitable job other than his regular job, whether or not his regular job is available to him he shall receive foe rate of his regular job or the rate of the job to which he is moved, whichever is higher. When an employee’s regular job is not available to him and ha Is offered work for foe temporary period on any other job, he may elect to lay off instead of moving to the job offered at the rate for that job. Where used in this Paragraph 6, “regular job” means the job to which an employee’s seniority may entitle him at any point in time.
7.	Where used in this Agreement a suitable job means one for which the employee has necessary clothing and which he is physically able to perform without unreasonable hazard to his health or to the safety of himself, fellow workers, and equipment.
8.	When an employee at his own request and for his own convenience is temporally assigned extra work before or after his regular shift, or on his assigned day off, he is to receive the job rate of the extra work assigned.
53
Requests from employees for extra work will be recognized only when such requests are made in writing on appropriate forms provided for that purpose, and shall be effective until canceled by the employee in writing.
9.	Notification to employees of extra work which is available is not to be construed as an order or request that they accept such work.
10.	In all cases the employee is to be told the rate he is to receive before going on the job.
11.	Where used in this Paragraph D, a temporary period is one so designated by the Company, but after such period has extended longer than one week and the request the Union Standing Committee to discuss the matter with the Company and such period shall terminate unless the Union Standing Committee and the Company agree otherwise.
D.	Job Rate Retention:
a)	An employee who was permanently displaced from his job will retain his blue slip rate in effect at the time he was displaced and will have his “rate retained". The employee will retain his rate until such time as the rate of the job to which he is assigned equals or exceeds the “retained rate" at which time the “retained rate" will be discontinued.
b)	An employee who is required to change jobs due to a bona fide medical reason will, on a case by case basis, be eligible for consideration under this job rate retention provision.
c)	General wage increases do not apply to an individual’s "retained rate".
EXHIBIT A-2 - MECHANICS
This Section sets forth the wage rates and certain special provisions applicable to Mechanics and Helpers.
A.	There shall be six (6j classes of Mechanics and two (2) classes of Helpers with rates as follows:
Note 1:The J+ program will cease on April 1, 1985 and the classifications of J-I-+ and J+ Mechanics will be eliminated. All J4-+ and J+ Mechanics will be grandfathered at their present J++ and
54
Mechanics
J+ + Mechanics (see Note 1}
J+ Mechanics (see Note 1) Journeyman Mechanic intermediate Mechanic A intermediate Mechanic
Effective
4/1/00	4/1/01	4/1/02	4/1/03	471/04	4/1/05
25.765	26.405	27.170	27.170	27.715	28.650
25.355	25.990	26.745	26.745	27.280	28.200
24.950	25.575	26.315	26.315	26.845	27.750
20.970	21.490	22.030	22.030	22.470	23.145
20,565	21,075	21.605	21.605	22.035	22.695
20.360 20.370 21.390 21.390 21.820 22.475
20.155 20.660 21.175 21.175 21,600 22.250
Junior Mechanic A Junior Mechanic
Helpers
Senior Helper
Helper
18.940 19.415 19.900 19.900 20.295 20.905
18.535 18.995 19.470 19.470 19.860 20.455
J+ rates and will receive the full amount of any future wage increases and other additions to compensation which may be applicable to Journeyman Mechanics.
Note 2: In addition to a Mechanic's regular rate, twenty-five (25) cents per hour shall be paid to a shift mechanic for all hours worked while assigned the normal duties of maintaining plant facilities on a rotating four-shift tour schedule.
B.	Any employee whose work is primarily in any one or more of the below listed trades is subject to the provisions of this Exhibit.
Machinists	Insulator
Millwrights	Pipefitters
Electricians	instrument Mechanics
Painters	Welders
Carpenter	Auto Mechanics
Sheet Metal Workers
If employees are hired for trades other than those listed above, such trades will be added to the above list of trades. Each employee subject to this Exhibit A-2 will be classified into one of the trades listed.
C.	A Journeyman Mechanic is one who is a finished mechanic and has the necessary tools required by the trade, in general, who could qualify as a journeyman in any industrial or job shop. He must be able tc execute the necessary work without direct supervision. For instance, a journeyman Piper must be able to take a working drawing or blueprint ol a layout; go out on the job; take the necessary measurements, requisitions, cut and install the pipe without more than the
55
general, normal supervision.
D.	The Company will select the Helpers on its mechanical crews through a procedure which may include such tests as intelligence tests, mechanical aptitude test, Interest and preference tests. Each person selected for a mechanical crew shall indicate his desire to learn a specific trade, and become a Journeyman. He shall indicate his willingness in writing, on a form provided by the Company, to take through correspondence courses or other outside schooling, whatever mathematical knowledge, blueprint reading, and other related subjects he may need to pass the required examinations.
The cost of such training limited to tuition and required books shall be borne by the Company. The Company shall not be required to reimburse the employee until a course has been successfully completed. The institution offering such schooling and the courses of study must be approved by the Company before enrollment.
On an annual basis regular employees will be given the opportunity to bid on Helper Mechanic positions. The annual posting will be held during the month ot January and be effective for one year beginning April 1 of that year. Employees may elect to sign up to three Helper postings.
Employees musl be on the payroll for two years to be eligible to sign a helper posting.
E.	An applicant selected by the Company to learn a mechanical trade will be placed, when a vacancy exisls, on the Helpers job for a period of either six (6) months elapsed time or 900 worked hours, whichever is longer; and at the end of the period if he is retained, he will be automatically promoted to Senior Helper. He will spend another period of either six (6) months elapsed time or 900 worked hours, whichever is longer, on the job as Senior Helper; and at the end of the period he will be automatically promoted to Junior Mechanic.
F.	During the first ninety (90) days after an applicant has been regularly assigned to a Helpers job. he will be classified as probationary on that crew and he can be removed from the crew al any time during that period. Prior to removal from the crew of any such probationary helper because of his performance, management will notify the Union Standing
SB
Committee of the intended action and the justification thereof. If the Union Standing Committee considers the proposed removal unjustified it may take the matter up with ths Mill Manager, whose decision in the matter shall not be subject to the Arbitration procedure. If such applicant is transferred to the mechanical crew from another department in the plant, he will retain his seniority in the department from which he transferred for a period of ninety (90) days, and will be returned to the job from which he transferred if removed from the crew. If he is removed from the crew after a period of ninety (90) days he will retain his plant seniority and will be given a job preferably in the department from which he transferred at the starting rate in that department, but if that plan is not available he will be given a base rate job in the plant; however such rights shall not apply if discharged for cause. During the probationary period management will determine as quickly as is practical whether or not the applicant has the aptitude and other characteristics necessary to become a Journeyman. Unless a Helper has earlier been removed from ths crew, prior to the expiration of the first ninety days after he has been regularly assigned as a Helper, the Company will review with him his progress to date.
(1)	Any employee temporarily assigned to the mechanical crew and doing unskilled work will be paid tha base rate specified In Exhibit A-1.
(2)	Any employee having substantially the qualifications of a Senior Helper, temporarily assigned to work done by a Halper and working under the direct supervision of a Mechanic, will be paid the rate ol a Senior Helper.
(3)	An applicant transferred to the job of Helper, who has temporarily worked with the mechanical crews tor continuous periods of two (2) or more forty (40) hour weeks, will be credited with all such periods up to the total time requirement of promotion to Senior Helper.
A Helper who has been promoted as prescribed in Paragraph E. above will be placed in the Junior Mechanic's classification and will spend a period of either nine (9) months elapsed time or 1350 worked hours, whichever Is longer, in that classification, following which time he will be eligible and obligated to take a test for Junior Mechanic A.
57
J.
Upon satisfactorily passing that test he will immediately be 1 advanced to Junior Mechanic A, Upon completion of either g nine (9) months elapsed time or 1350 worked hours, " whichever is longer, as Junior Mechanic A, he will be eligi- 4 ble and obligated to take a test for Intermediate Mechanic. w Upon satisfactory passing of that test he win Immediately be f advanced to Intermediate Mechanic. Upon completion of either nine (9) months elapsed time or 1350 worked hours, 0 whichever is longer, as Intermediate Mechanic, he will be eligible and obligated to take a test for Intermediate O Mechanic A. Upon satisfactory passing of that test he will immediately be advanced to Intermediate Mechanic A.	"
Upon completion of either nine (9) months elapsed time or	£
1350 worked hours, whichever is longer, as intermediate Mechanic A, he will be eligible and obligated to take a test for Journeyman. Upon satisfactory passing of that test, which will be designed to determine if he meets the qualifications of a Journeyman set forth in paragraph C above, he will immediately be advanced to Journeyman. It is understood in addition to the final test and examination at the end of each nine (9) month period to determine fitness for promotion, interim progress tests may also be given during each nine (9) monlh period in those skills or parts oi a trade in which the mechanic has had an opportunity to work and acquire knowledge. Results of such interim progress tests will not be used to retard or advance a mechanic’s promotion from one classification to another. It is also understood and agreed that a person who fails to pass the test after the period of either nine (9) months or 1350 worked hours, whichever is longer, in either the Junior or Junior A or intermediate or Intermediate A classification, will be given an additional period of time, not in excess of nine (9) months, during which a second test will be given, and if he fails to pass the second test he shall be removed from the crew.
Outside mechanics may be employed in any of the established classifications. Before an outside mechanic is hired to till a job opening for a Journeyman Mechanic, the Company will consider all requests for transfer from employees who claim to be qualified to fill such a job opening.
The progress and qualifications of each mechanic below
58
the grade of Journeyman will be periodically reviewed at intervals of not more than six (6) months. Records of the results of these reviews will be maintained and will, at his request, be discussed with each mechanic at six (6) month intervals. Whenever such a review of such a mechanic has been completed the Company shall notify him in writing, with copy to the Local Union, calling his attention to the completion of such review and his right to request a discussion of it. If the employee so desires, he may have his Union Representative present at the time his progress report is discussed with him.	.
Management will adopt an organized plan as far as practical of rotating each mechanic below Journeyman through different departments and under different Journeymen, in order that he may gain the widest variety of experience in the work of his chosen trade, to progress as above set forth and in any such case the Mill Manager, after consultation with the Standing Committee, may deviate from the above described progression, but unless the consent of the Standing Committee has been obtained, the Manager’s action shall be subject to the grievance procedure.
In the event there is a reduction of the maintenance workforce, Mechanics and/or Helpers will be laid off in the reverse order of their entry into the Mechanics Package, Exhibit A-2. In the event there is a reduction in the A-2 package, those affected mechanics will be placed into the Labor Pool,
Nothing hereinabove shall be construed so as:
(1)	to obligate the employer to hire or retain any employee unless there is work for him, or
(2)	to mean that any right or obligation of either party to the Labor Agreement, established under that Agreement and not herein specifically amended, has been modified or revoked.
The Local Union shall select a "Mechanic’s Committee" composed of five employees. The Local Union “Mechanic's Committee” shall participate with a Company Mechanic’s Committee in developing the testing procedures and tests which shall be mutually agreed to by the parties to this Agreement.
The Company will pay for all State License requirements
59
with which any Mechanic may be required to comply. Q. The Company may engage Independent contractors for new construction, warranty work, temporary overloads of routine maintenance work, or when special skilled personnel or equipment is not available. When it becomes necessary to engage an independent contractor in the mill, the Company will notify the local Union and tell them the nature of the work involved. If the local Union so requests, an opportunity will be given for a meeting in which Ihe Union will have the right to make suggestions for consideration by the Company.
R. Shift Mechanics will cover when premium time Is paid for full shift(s). A mechanic covering the last four (4) hours ot a twelve (12) hour shift(s), as continuation of his shift, will not be considered as to be in the tour classification.
EXHIBIT A-3 - JOB ANALYSIS PLAN
1.	The Job Analysis Plan is a semi-scientific plan developed for the purpose of uniformly evaluating and appraising jobs according to the skill, working conditions and responsibility factors required by and contained in each job. thereby resulting in ihe establishment of a uniform method of wage rate determination based upon conditions which will provide job rates equitable and proper in their relationship with each other and with the base rate.
2.	The Scope and Limitations of the Program:
A.	The job analysis program shall not be applied to the jobs included in the mechanical trades listed in Exhibit A-2 or the lubrication Exhibit A-5 of the Labor Agreement.
B.	The job analysis program shall not be applied to the following jobs:
Log S tacke r Operator	Yard Wo rke r
Senior Equipment Operator Equipment Operator
C.	All other jobs covered by the Labor Agreement shall be considered eligible for analysis when presented In ihe
60
manner prescribed herein to the Joint Job Analysis Board hereinafter provided for.
• •••
3.	Administration and Procedure:
A.	Job Analysis Directors:
1.	The Job Analysis Directors shall be composed of two (2) representatives of PACE. and two'(2) representatives of TOC Management Services.
2.	It shall be the duly of the Job Analysis Directors:
a.	To direct and supervise the functioning of the Job Analysis Program in accordance with Ire policies and procedures adopted by the parties to the Labor Agreement through negotiations, b. To receive reports from Plant Analysis Committees and to recommend improvements where necessary in the prodedure of the Committees.
c.	To review cases ol analysis upon request of either union or management members of the Plant Analysis Committees.
d.	To review the general operation of the Joint Job Analysis Board as to methods, factors, procedures, delays, etc.
e.	To direct the Joint Job Analysis Board as to changes in the methods which do not constitute basic changes. The Directors shall not negotiate rates or exercise any of the collective bargaining functions of the Union or of the Company.
f.	To recommend improvements in the job analysis program to future conferences for consideration.
B.	Joint Job Analysis Board:
1.	The Joint Job Analysis Board shall consist of one (1) representative of the Union and one (1) representative of TOC Management Services.
2.	It shall be the duty of the Joint Job Analysis Board to evaluate and set the rate for any job presented for analysis in accordance with this program. It shall also be the duty of Ihe Board to develop, revise and main-lain in an up to date manner Ihe tables and charts nec
61
essary Io the functioning of the job analysis plan as directed by the Directors. All decisions of the Joint Job Analysis Board must be agreed to by both members of the Board before becoming official.
C.	Plant Analysis Committee:
1.	The Mill Manager and the Local Union shall create a Plant Analysis Committee which shall consist of four (4) members representing the Local Union and two (2) members representing the Company. Two of the committee members representing the Local Union will meet wilh the two members representing the Company to act and/or vote on each question.
2.	It shall be the duty of the Plant Analysis Committee: a. To ad upon all requests for job analysis which may arise and to make application to the Joinl Job Analysis Board on forms provided when and if in their opinion such analysis would result in a rate change. Any decision to submit a job to the Joint Job Analysis Board for analysis must be unanimously agreed upon by the two members representing management, and the two members representing the Union who are acting on the question.
b.	To make investigations of jobs submitted for analysis and to assist in pointing out factual and pertinent information relative to the job to the Joint Job Analysis Board at the time of analysis.
c.	To make a written monthly report to the Job Analysis Directors, which will include:
(1)	the number of jobs the Plant Analysis Committee has submitted to the Joinl Job Analysis Board for analysis, and
(2)	a list ot the jobs on which the union and management members of the Committee have been unable to agree as to whether an analysis should be made, with a statement of the facts on which the disagreement was based.
3.	Either the union or the management members of the Plant Analysis Gommitlee may request a review by the Job Analysis Directors of any case of analysis where,
62
in their opinion, proper application of the job analysis standards has not been accomplished.
General Policies:
A.	The analyzed job rate arrived at through official analysis by the Joint Job Analysis Board will be final and binding upon both parlies to the Labor Agreement, unless review has been requested as provided in 30, Paragraph (3). In case of such review the decision of the Job Analysis Directors shall be final and binding upon both parties.
B.	In cases where an official analysis indicates an upward adjustment in the rate for a job, the adjustment will be retroactive to the date agreed upon by the Plant Analysis Committee which is entered on, and a part of, the application for analysis provided for in 3C, paragraph (2)(a) setting forth the duties of the Plant Analysis Committee.
C.	When an official analysis results in a downward adjustment of a rate (other than a temporary rate), the rate prior to the analysis will be paid as a red circle rate to the following employees:
1.	Any employee working on said job who was regularly assigned to said job on die day of the official analysis,
2,	Any employee working on a job on a higher rung of the same progression ladder on said day in which the downward adjustment took place, if he is later moved to said job because the higher job is not then available to him; provided, that if any such employee subsequently refuses any promotion his seniority rights entitle him to, for which he is qualified, his right to the red circle rate shall cease on the date of such refusal; however, it the rate of the job to which he is promoted is less than his current red circle rate he will nevertheless retain his current red circle rate while on such higher job. Red circle rates will be adjusted upward for the full amount of each future wage increase.
63
D.	In any case where a new job has been created the Plant Analysis Committee will make application io the Joint Job Analysis Board tor a temporary rate for the new job. The temporary rate assigned will remain in effect until the official analysis is made. It will be the duty of the Plant Analysis Committee to agree on a date on which the job became sufficiently stabilized Io have permitted an official analysis, and any increase resulting from the analyzed rate will be paid retroactively to that date.
E.	Insofar as possible the Joint Job Analysis Board will complete its analysis of all jobs at the plant. Members of the Plant Analysis Committee shall be invited to be Insofar as possible the Joint Job Analysis 9 Board will complete its analysis of all present during the analysis of the jobs; or at the option of the Plant W Analysis Committee the Joint Job Analysis Board will explain in detail the analysis computations to the Plant ” Analysis Committee before leaving the plant. In those f cases where it is not possible to complete the analysis at the mill the Joint Job Analysis Board will return to the plant and explain the analysis computations before making the results official.	V
F.	Upon request, the Joint Job Analysis Board shall furnish to the Plant Analysis Committee, a copy of the job description and analysis computation forms pertaining to any specific job that has been analyzed in the plant. The copies of the forms furnished ace to be retained in the files at the plant office and will be open to members of the Plant Analysis Committee tor study or review.
G.	Members of the Plant Analysis Committee or other employees in the plant who are relieved from their jobs during working hours to assist in carrying out the functions of the Job Analysis Program will be paid by the Company at their regular job rates for the time during their regular shifts, thereby preventing any loss in regular income. Time put in on analysts work outside
64
the employee's regular shift will not be paid tor by the Company.
H.	Only those employees on the payroll of the Company on the date the analysis is officially reported to the Union and the Company will be eligible to receive retroactive pay resulting from an increase in job rate under our Job Analysis Program, excepting that persons terminating to enter the armed forces or who are retired, or the estates of persons who are deceased will also be eligible,
EXHIBIT A-5 - LUBRICATION
This Section sets forth the special provisions applicable to
Oilers.
A. There shall be four (4) classes of oilers as follows;
Senior Oiler (After 12 months as Oiler and satisfac-
Oiler
Junior Oiler
Helper Oiler
torily pass a test)
(After S months as Junior Oiler) (After 6 months as Helper Oiler) (Start)
The Company will select Oilers for its Lubrication crew
through a procedure which may include tests such as; intelligence tests, mechanical aptitude tests, interest and preference tests and interviews conducted by supervision as are considered necessary to determine basic qualifications. Each person selected as an oiler shall indicate his desire to become a Senior Oiler. He shall indicate his willingness in writing, on a form provided by the Company, to take, through correspondence courses or other outside schooling, whatever subjects he may need to pass the required final test.
The cost of such training, limited to tuition and required books, shall be borne by the Company. The Company shall not be required to reimburse the employee until a course has been successfully completed. The institution offering such schooling and the courses of study must be approved by the Company before enrollment.
65
On an annual basis regular employees will be given the opportunity to bid on a Helper Oiler position. The annual posting will be held during the month of January and be effective for one year beginning April 1 of that year. When an employee signs an Oiler-Helper bid it is counted as one of the four bids allowed in Section 25. To be eligible for transfer an employee must have been on the payroll for fourteen months.
C.	An applicant selected by the Company to learn to be an oiler will be placed, when a vacancy exists, on the Helper Oller's Job for a period of either six (6) months elapsed time or 900 worked hours, whichever is longer; and at the end ol the period if he is retained, he will be automatically promoted to Junior Oiler. During this time he will iearn the lubrication routes and practical skills necessary to become a Junior Oiler.
D.	During the first ninety (90) days after an applicant has been regularly assigned as a Helper Oiler, he will be classified as probationary and he can be removed at any lime during that period. If such applicant is transferred to the Lubrication crew from another department in the plant, he will retain his seniority in the department from which he transferred for a period of ninety (90) days, and will be returned to the job from which he transferred if removed from the crew. During the probationary period management will determine as quickly as is practical whether or not the applicant has the aptitude and other characteristics necessary to become a Senior Oiler. Unless a Helper Oiler has earlier been removed, prior to the expiration of the first ninety days after he has been regularly assigned as a Helper Oiler, the Company will review with him his progress to date.
E.	A Helper Oiler, who has been promoted as prescribed in paragraph C above, will be placed in the Junior Oiler classification and will spend a period of six months or 900 worked hours, whichever is longer, in that classification, following which time he will be automatically promoted to Oiler. A Junior Oiler, who has been promoted to Oiler, will be placed in the Oiler classification and will spend a period of twelve months or 1800 worked hours, whichever is longer, in that classification, following which time he will be eligible and obligated to take a test for Senior Oiler. Upon satisfactorily
66
passing the test, he will immediately be advanced to Senior Oiler. It is understood that tn addition to the final test at the end of the 6 month period, interim tests may also be given but will not be used to retard or advance an Oiler’s promotion to Senior Oiler. It is also understood and agreed that a person who fails to pass the final test will be given an additional period of time, not in excess of six months, during which a second test will be given, and if he fails to pass the second test, he shall be removed from the Lubrication Crew. The Senior Oiler final test referred to above shall consist of one ore more tests to adequately determine an Oiler’s qualifications to become a Senior Oiler. Such tests will include both practical and theoretical skills.
The above program is not intended to eliminate in any way the lubrication duties performed by the present oilers or other employees.
In the event there is a reduction of the Lubrication work force, the Oilers and/or helpers will be laid off in reverse order of their entry into the Lubrication Package and placed into the Labor Pool,
The local Union shall select a “Mechanic's Committee” composed of six (6) employees to include one (1) Oiler The focal Union “Mechanic’s Committee" shall participate with a company Mechanic's Committee in developing the testing procedures and tests which shall be mutually agreed to by the parties to this agreement.
• • • •
67
EXHIBIT B
GROUP INSURANCE PLANS
(See Insert; Exhibit B Health Plan end Spending Accounts) Health Care Coverage
(Non-Occupational) For Eligible Employees and Eligible Dependents
Eligible employees may elect to cover themselves and their eligible dependents under any Plan offered by the Company. Each year at open enrollment any one of these eligible employees may transfer himself and his dependents from one plan to another from among these plans.
Note that an eligible employee enrolled in any of the medical plans may not also be enrolled as a dependent of a spouse who is also enrolled as an eligible employee. Furthermore, eligible dependent children can be covered by one eligible employee only, if both parents are eligible employees.
Effective June 1, 2000, and annually thereafter, active hourly employees will be offered the Fori James health care plans. Fort James health care plan provisions will be described in each plan’s summary plan description (SPD). Employees’ per pay period contributions for the balance of 2000 and 2001 will be:
Fort James Plan
Primary Care Network Plan
Preferred Provider Organization Plan
Contribution $16.92 $29.21
Thereafter, composite payroll contributions and plan design will be the same as other employees enrolled in the Fort James health care plans.
OTHER GROUP BENEFITS OVERVIEW
This booklet provides Wauna employees with essential information about the other Fort James Group Benefits Program. These benefits are designed to provide important protection and
68
security for you and your family.
The booklet has three sections. The first, "Your Health Care Program," describes the medical coverage options available to you. Information on the Dental Plan which is also detailed here.
The second section is entitled “Survivor Protection" This program provides a firm and valuable foundation of protection for your family through life insurance and accidental death and dismemberment insurance.
The third section is concerned with “Disability." The disability program offers comprehensive earnings protection when non-occupational illness or injury keeps you off the job.
You should take time to read this booklet carefully, if you have questions about any of your benefits, your local Benefits Representative will help you get them answered.
YOUR HEALTH CARE PROGRAM
Introduction
Your Health Care Program offers you substantial protection against today’s high costs of medical care - hospital and surgical expenses, physicians’ services, nursing service, X-rays and other types of expenses for non-occupatronal illness or injury.
Your Health Care Program protects you and your family from the financial burden of skyrocketing medical bills. At the same time, the program is designed to help slow down runaway health care costs by encouraging you to be a better consumer of health care services. It does this in several ways:
First, you're offered a choice of coverages so you can choose a plan best suited to your individual needs and circumstances.
Second, benefits such as the Stop Smoking benefit are provided to promote preventive care and healthier living.
You can be an enlightened health care consumer and receive excellent medical services. Take time to ask your doctor questions. Find out if there are less expensive treatments that are just as effective. Although some features of your health care benefits are described here, the official Plan documents and insurance carrier contracts govern its operation and the payment of all benefits.
69
Choice of Coverage
You have a choice of health plans tor you and your family.
•	(PCN) Primary Care Network Plan
•	(PPO) Preferred Provider Organization Plan
When you enroll yourself and your family in the health plan of your choice, coverage in the Dental Plan is automatic.
This section summarizes eligibility and enrollment information and details of coverage for the Dental Plan. Be sure to make your choice of health plans carefully, since the opportunity to change plans comes only once a year, during open enrollment The annual open enrollment period is described more fully in the Eligibility and Enrollment section.
ELIGIBILITY AND ENROLLMENT
• • • •
Who is Eligible
The following employees are eligible for the benefits described in this booklet:
Active hourly employees represented by P.A.C.E., Local B-1097 at the Wauna Mill, Clatskanie, Oregon.
You can also enroll members of your family. Eligible dependents include;
•	Your spouse.
•	Your unmarried dependent children, including step, foster
and legally adopted children, to the end of the month in which they reach age 19, or age 25, provided they are attending a recognized institution of higher learning on a full-time basis (12 or more credit hours).
•	Physically or mentally handicapped children who are incapable of supporting themselves can be covered indefinitely, as long as the disability begins while the child is still a dependent. Proof that your child is fully handicapped must be submitted to the Claims Administrator not later than 31 days after he or she would have ceased to be covered as a dependent. Proof of incapacity may be requited periodically thereafter. Coverage is not offered if you or an otherwise eligible dependent are engaged in active military service, except during U.S. Military Reserve duty when no government coverage is provided.
Your eligible dependents must be enrolled in the Plan you select for yourself. For example, you cannot elect coverage
70
under the (PON) Plan and have your dependent coverage under Ihe (PRO) Plan.
When to Enroll
You must complete and sign a Benefit Plan Enrollment Form during the annual open enrollment period or within 31 days of becoming eligible.
•	Once a year you have the opportunity Io change health plans without providing evidence of good health, during the open enrollment period. You can choose the (PCN) Primary Care Network Plan or (PPO) Preferred Provider Organization Plan.
•	New employee - You have 31 calendar days from your date of hire to enroll yourself and your eligible dependents.
•	New spouse - You have 31 calendar days from date of marriage to enroll the spouse.
•	New child - You have 31 calendar days from date of birth, legal adoption or custody to enroll the child. Ybur newborn child is automatically covered for the first month of life only, and you must enroll the child for further coverage.
•	Working spouses - If your spouses own coverage is terminated due to loss of job, you may enroll your spouse within 31 days of the last day of work. Written proof of termination of coverage due to job loss is required.
During this 31-day enrollment period, evidence of good health is not required. But it you do not enroll within the 31 days and then want to enroll later, you'll have to file for late enrollment by submitting an Evidence of Insurability Statement to the Claims Administrator, who may also require you or your dependents to have a physical examination at your expense. Please see the section “Administrative Details” to find your Claims Administrator.
After you enroll you will receive an identification card which provides necessary ID numbers and gives the address ol the claims office to which you will send your claims.
(PCN) AND (PPO) PLANS
When Coverage Begins
For new employees, when you enroll promptly, coverage begins on the first day of the month following your employment
71
date. Coverage for your dependents will begin on the same date. Newborn children will be covered from birth provided that you enrol) them within 31 days of the date of birth.
If you file for late enrollment, coverage starts on the first of the month following approval by the Claims Administrator of your application for late enrollment.
There are some exceptions to the rules above. Coverage will not be granted to a dependent, except for a newborn child, who is confined for medical treatment in any institution or at home on the day coverage would normally begin. In this case coverage begins 31 days after the dependent is given final medical release from all such confinement.
Monthly Contribution
Your monthly contribution depends on which health plan you choose. Employee contributions begin the first ot the month coinciding with, or following, the effective date of coverage and continue through the end of the month in which termination of coverage occurs.
The employee's contribution is the same as payable by other Fort James employees who are enrolled in the PCN Plan. The employee’s contribution for the PPO Plan is subject to change as the costs of the Fort James medical plans increase above Ihe amount paid by the company.
All benefits are payable according to the plan’s fee schedule for in-network services, or for out-of-network services, according to the usual, customary, and reasonable (UCR) rule. This means that benefits will be paid up to the usual charges for services and supplies in your geographical area, as determined by the Claims Administrator.
Payment of benefits is also governed by the rule ot medical necessity. That is, coverage is provided only for service and supplies that are broadly accepted professionally as essentia) io the treatment ol disease or Injury.
DENTAL PLAN
The Dental Plan is separate from the medical plans. Benefits are paid according to a fee schedule when you use dental providers that are designated as participating providers by the
72
dental plan administrator, or when you use non-participating providers according to what is usual, customary and reasonable (UCR). Dental benefits are payable according to the rule of medical necessity.
To be eligible for reimbursement under the Plan, dental services must be provided by a legally qualified dentist who is practicing within the scope ot his license; or by a legally qualified physician authorized by his license to perform the particular dental service he has rendered,
Eligibility and Enrollment
Eligibility requirements are the same as tor the health plans. When you enroll yourself and your family in the (PCM) or (PPO) you are automatically covered by the Dental Plan. Enrollment in the Dental Plan alone is not available.
Annual Maximum
There is an annual maximum for dental benefits of $1,500 per person.
Benefits Paid at B0% UCR
The Dental Plan will pay 80% of the UCR charges (up to the annual maximum) for the following services:
•	Oral examinations, including scaling and cleaning of teeth, but not more than one examination in any period ot six consecutive months.
•	Topical application ot sodium or stannous fluoride, but only if the insured family member has not yet attained the age of 15 years.
*	Dental X-rays
•	Extractions
*	Oral surgery, including excision of impacted teeth
•	Fillings
•	Anesthetics administered in connection with oral surgery or other covered dental services.
•	Inlays, gold fillings, crowns (including precision attachments for dentures), and initial Installation of fixed bridgework (including inlays and crowns to form abutments) to replace one or more natural teeth.
•	Treatment of periodontal and other diseases of the gums and tissues of the mouth.
73
Endodontic treatment, including adjustments during the six month period following installation) of partial or full removal dentures to replace one or more natural teeth.
> Replacement of an existing partial or full removable denture or fixed bridgework by a new denture or by a new bridge* work, or fixed bridgework by a new denture or by a new bridgework, or the addition of teeth to an existing partial removal denture or to bridgework to replace extracted natural teeth, but only if evidence satisfactory to the Insurance Company is present that;
a.	The existing denture or bridgework cannot be made serviceable; or
b.	The existing denture or bridgework was installed at least five years prior to the replacement and that the existing denture or bridgework cannot be made serviceable; or
c.	The existing denture is an immediate temporary denture and replacement by a permanent denture Is required, and takes place within twelve months from the date of installation of the immediate temporary denture,
•	Space maintainers
•	Repair or re-cementing of crowns, inlays, bridgework, or dentures, or refining of dentures.
Expenses Not Covered
Covered dental expenses do no! include, and no payment will be made for any of the fallowing;
•	Expenses in connection with occupational accidents or diseases.
•	Services and supplies to the extent they are not reasonably necessary for treatment of an injury or disease or to the extent they exceed customary and reasonable charges.
•	Charges for treatment by other than a dentist except that scaling or cleaning of teeth may be performed by a licensed dental hygienist if the treatment Is rendered under the supervision and direction of the dentist.
•	Charges for services and supplies that are partially or wholly cosmetic in nature, including charges tor personalization or characterization ot dentures.
•	Charges for prosthetic devices (including bridges and crowns) and the fitting thereof which were ordered while the
74
individual was insured under the Plan but are finally installed er delivered to such individual more than thirty days after termination of insurance.
•	Charges for the replacement of a lost or stolen prosthetic device
•	Expenses paid or payable under any other Group Insurance Plan.
Orthodontia Benefits
The Plan will pay 50% of the cost ot orthodontia services, up to a life-time maximum benefit ot $1,500 per person.
CLAIMS PROCEDURES
In-network providers on the PCN and PPO Plans and participating dental providers will file claims on your behalf. When you use an out-of-network medical provider or a non-participating dental provider you are responsible for filing claims. Your Benefits Representative has all the forms you need to file a claim for medical or dental benefits.
Inpatient Hospital Claims - Out-of-Network
Simply show your health plan ID card at the admissions desk and provide whatever other information is requested. When you review your hospital bill, please check it carefully and notify the Claims Administrator of any discrepancies.
Other Claims - Medical Out-ot-Network or Dental Non-Partlclpetlng
To file other claims, such as other hospital and non-hospital medical expenses, prescription drug charges or dental costs, get the appropriate claim form from your Benefits Representative.
You should submit claims for payment as soon as possible after you incur the expense. In any event, claims submitted later than the end of the calendar year following the year in which you incurred the expense will not be paid.
It's also very important to keep accurate records. You must be able to prove all claimed expenses with bills or receipts listing:
•	Social Security number.
•	Patient’s name - you or covered dependent.
•	Nature of illness or injury, type and nature of service per-
75
formed, amount charged and date.
•	Prescription number, name of medication and quantity, date of purchase, amount paid, name of attending physician and diagnosis.
If your claim form is not complete, it will be returned and payment delayed. A questionable medical claim may result in the Claims Administrator requiring you to be examined, at the Claims Administrator’s expense, at any time while the claim is pending.
Disputed or Denied Claims:
Claims Review
Claim reviews are subject to the provisions of federal ERISA rules as defined in the most current Summary Plan Description (SPD
GENERAL INFORMATION
Coordination of Benefits - Medical
Your Fort James health care plans (PCN and PPO) coordinate benefit payments with any other group health care plan under which a participant or dependent is covered. It Fort James is your primary (pays first) coverage, the Plan will pay its usual benefits. If Fort James is your secondary (pays second) coverage, the Fort James Plan will pay its usual benefits minus any payments made by the primary plan. However, In no event will the Fort James Plan (PCN or PPO) reimburse an amount greater than it would have paid if it had been primary. For a more detailed description of how coordination of benefits is administered see the Summary Plan Description (SPD).
Coordination of Benefits ~ Dental
The purpose ol your Dental care program Is to help meet the covered expense you and your eligible dependents actually incur. Because individuals sometimes have protection under more than one group plan, the total benefits may not exceed the actual expenses. Such duplicate coverage may tend to unnecessarily increase Ihe cost of the Plan, Therefore, the Fort James Dental Plan, referred to below as the Fort James Plan contains a provision coordinating payments with coverage the patient has under “Other Plans".
When a claim is made, the coordination provision deter
76
mines whether the Fort James Plan will pay the regular amount or whether it will be adjusted so that the benefits paid for “Eligible Expenses” available from all plans will not exceed 100 percent of the expenses. “Eligible Expenses" are any necessary, reasonable and customary expenses covered, at least in part, by one of the plans.
“Other Plans” means dental care benefits provided by group insurance or other coverage for a group of individuals, whether on an insured or uninsured basis including any prepayment coverage, group practice or individual practice.
A plan without a coordinating provision is always the primary plan. It all plans have such a provision:
1.	The plan covering the patient as an employee is primary and the other is secondary.
2.	If a child is covered under both parents’ plans, the Federal Birthday Rule is followed. This requires that the parent whose birthday falls first during the year is primary for insurance coverage. Should the parents have the same birthday, the parent whose plan has covered the child longest is primary. Coverage for an eligible dependent child may be continued provided he meets the carrier’s definition of eligibility and is not covered by Medicare. During the time that these coverages are continued for the retiree and his eligible dependents, the Company will pay the cost of coverage.
When a claim is made, the primary plan pays its benefits first without regard to any other plan. The secondary plan adjusts its benefits so that the total benefits available from both plans will not exceed the allowable expenses. No plan will pay more than It would without the coordination provisions.
Coordination of benefits for dependent children of separated or divorced parents is as follows:
1.	If the parents are divorced and both are eligible for health insurance benefits, a divorce decree is required to determine responsibility for health insurance coverage for a dependent child.
2.	Benefits of the plan covering the dependent child of a re-married parent with custody will be paid first by the parent’s plan.
Benefits will then be paid by the plan covering the child as a dependent of a stepparent, and finally benefits will be paid by the plan covering the child as a dependent of the natural parent with-
77
out custody.
Subrogation Clause
In the event of third party liability, the carrier is entitled to first payment from any settlement with or judgement obtained by the employee against a third party for all amounts paid under the contract on the employee's or dependent's behalf, less reasonable collection costs incurred.
Early Retiree Medical Coverage
Early retiree’s, who retire under the terms of the Fort James Retirement Plan, are eligible for the Primary Care Network (PCN) or Preierred Provider Organizalion (PRO) Plan (excluding dental coverage). Early retiree’s, who retired prior to June 30, 1985, will be covered under the Base/Major Medical Plan in effect on June 30, 1985. Early retiree’s hired after August 11, 1995 WILL NOT be eligible for health care benefits referred to herein.
Retiree’s will pay the same cost as active employees pay for coverage.
Early retiree’s who are not eligible for Medicare may continue their health care coverage (excluding dental coverage) for themselves and their eligible dependents (who also are nol eligible for Medicare). Coverage for the retiree will be continued until he becomes eligible for Medicare, attains age 65 (or older if modified by Medicare eligibility during the term ot the agreement), or until his death, whichever occurs first, Coverage for the retiree’s dependent spouse may be continued until the spouse becomes eligible for Medicare, attains age 65 (or older if modified by Medicare eligibility during the term of the agreement) or remarries, whichever comes first.
Normal Retiree Medical Coverage
Employees who retire at age 65 or continue to work beyond age 65 and then retire are no longer covered for health Insurance benefits as they become eligible for Medicare. Coverage (excluding dental coverage) for their spouse will continue until they reach 65 or are eligible for Medicare. Coverage for a dependent child will continue as long as they meet the dependent child requirements and that the child is not covered by Medicare.
78
Coverage for Disability retiree’s Under Age 55
Employees who, on or after May 1, 1976, qualify for a permanent and total disability retirement benefit under the provisions of the Fort James retirement Plan and who are not yet age 55 on the effective date of retirement, will have their health coverage continued for themselves and their eligible dependents. The cost for this coverage will be paid for by the Company. The health coverage to be continued is that which covered the employee when actively at work and as modified by subsequent collective-bargaining negotiations. Coverage for the retiree and his eligible dependents will be continued for 30 months or until the date on which the retiree becomes eligible ter Medicare or until the end ot the month in which Ihe retiree dies, whichever is earlier.
Coverage for Spouse of Deceased Employee
When an employee dies while actively employed by the Company and that employee, at the time of death, is eligible for early retirement, group Hospital-Surgical-Medicai coverages will continue for the spouse and dependent children who continue to be eligible under the respective plan definitions until either the spouse remarries, is covered by another group insurance program, or is eligible for Medicare, whichever occurs first.
Coverage During Leaves of Absence
* Occupational Disability
If you are absent from work due to an accident or occupational disease, as recognized by the Workmen's Compensation Board, your coverage and your eligible dependents' coverage will be continued at Company expense during the period of disability up to a maximum of twenty-four months following the month in which the disability began.lt you are disabled beyond 24 months and have not terminated your employment, your coverage, and your dependents' coverage, will be canceled unless you elect to continue at your expense.
• Non-Occupational Disability
If you are absent from work due to a non-occupational accident or sickness, your coverage, and your dependents' coverage, will be continued at Company expense during the period of disability up to a maximum of twelve months following the month in
79
which the disability began. If you are disabled beyond 12 months and have not terminated your employment, your coverage, and your dependents’ coverage, will be canceled unless you elect to continue at your expense.
•	Layoff or Personal Leave of Absence
If you are on layoff due to disciplinary action or lack of work or due to an approved personal leave of absence, your coverage and your dependents' coverage, will be continued at Company expense for one month following the month in which the layoff or leave began. If the layoff or leave continues beyond one month you may continue your coverages under the COBRA PROVISIONS.
Conditions For Termination of Coverage
You should be aware that Company coverage ends when ... *	You choose to discontinue coverage.
•	A covered person loses eligibility.
•	You enter military service.
*	You leave the Company.
•	The period of the Labor contract ends.
Coverage During Deferred Retirement
If you continue to work past age 65 and are eligible tor Medicare or if your spouse is over 65 and is eligible for Medicare, federal law still requires that your employer's health insurance is primary for coverage. Medicare becomes your secondary coverage.
Prior to you and your spouses 65th birthday, it is recommended that you apply for both Parts A and B of Medicare which entitles you to Medicare coverage for doctor’s visits, X-ray and lab benefits, and hospitalization. Premiums tor Medicare Part B are not reimbursed by the Company.
Coverage Upon Termination
Coverage upon termination of employment will be subject to the Federal regulation called The Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1935 (COBRA), Please refer to the most recent Summary Plan Description (SPD) to determine how "COBRA" applies to your situation.
80
' Extension of Benefits
। There are certain circumstances under which health plan ' coverage will continue after participation in the health plan has | ended.
If you or a covered family member are totally disabled when f your participation In the Plan ends, coverage would continue for 12 months after the end of the month in which participation in the Plan ends, until recovery, or until covered by another group plan, whichever comes first. The extension coverage includes all health and dental plan benefits normally covered.
STOPTOBACCO USE/SMOKING BENEFIT
A Company Benefit
Smoking and the use of other tobacco products is dangerous. It can contribute to heart trouble, various cancers Including lung cancer, emphysema and chronic bronchitis. One of the best things you can do for your health is to give up smoking and the use of other tobacco products. And to help you and your eligible family members, Fort James will pay 50% of the cost of a Company-approved stop smoking program or other program that enables a person to stop using other tobacco products, up to an individual lifetime maximum of $500. This benefit is not part of your group insurance coverage. It is sponsored solely by FORT JAMES and is available to you, no matter which type of health care coverage you choose. Before starting a program, however, check with your Benefits Representative to make sure the program qualifies as one of the approved programs. Benefits are paid upon completion of the program.
YOUR SURVIVOR PROTECTION PROGRAM
Introduction
Your Fort James Survivor Protection Program provides help for your family in the event of your death. The program also provides protection if you become permanently disabled or suffer accidental loss of certain body members. The program includes:
•	Life Insurance
•	Accidental Death & Dismemberment Insurance
81
Ot course we can’t expect that the benefits described in this section will provide every employee with all the insurance he or she may need. But we do believe that these benefits will provide a firm and valuable foundation of protection.
The following is a non-technical summary of the main features of the life and accident benefits provided by the Fort James Employee Benefits Organization, Inc. The official Plan document and Insurance contracts govern the operation of the Plan and the payment ol all benefits.
ELIGIBILITY AND ENROLLMENT
Who is Eligible
The following employees are eligible for the benefits described in this section:
Active hourly employees represented by P.A.C.E., Local B-1097 at the Wauna Mill, Clatskanie, Oregon.
When to Enroll
You should enroll within 31 days ot your hire date. All you need to do Is fill out an enrollment form, naming your beneficiary, and return it to your Benefits Representative.
If you do not enroll within 31 days, evidence of good health approved by the insurance company is required. You may be required to have a physical examination. This examination will be at your expense, and the results of it will be used to determine whether or not you are approved for coverage.
When Coverage Begins
Plan coverage will begin the first day of the month following your date of employment.
GROUPTERM LIFE INSURANCE
Benefit Amount
The amount of your Life Insurance depends upon your job rate bracket in the table shown in this section. This amount will be paid io your beneficiary if you die from any cause while you are insured.
Each of the hourly job rates in the table is defined as the straight-time (Blue Slip) day rate of your regular job, excluding all
B2
premiums and fringes.
Life insurance benefits will be payable as a result of death from any cause or at any time or place while you are insured. Payment will be made in a lump sum or in installments to your beneficiary.
Be sure your beneficiary designation is current You may wish to complete a new beneficiary designation due to changes in your family situation, such as marriage, birth, divorce or death.
tf you Become Disabled
If you become totally and permanently disabled while insured and before age 60, your life insurance will remain in effect as long as you remain disabled, providing you furnish proof of your continued disability as required by the insurance company. The first proof must be filed within three months after your total disability has lasted for nine months. Subsequent proofs of disability must be furnished as may be required by the insurance company,
it is important to understand what “total and permanent disability” means. You are considered to be permanently and totally disabled at any time that both of the following conditions apply:
•	You are not then actually working for pay or prolit; and
•	You are then, and will be presumably for life, unable to work at any gainful occupation for which you are fitted by your education, training or experience, or for which you could reasonably become fitted.
If you do become disabled under the above definition, you have the right to elect to receive 70 percent of your life insurance in equal monthly installments over a period of 60 consecutive months. The first payment will be made in the first month following the time at which the Company notifies you in writing that the insurance company has determined that you are totally and permanently disabled. The payments will continue only as long as you remain disabled.
The election described above must be made in writing when you fife the first proof of disability. Please note that you cannot change this election after you make it.
If you become totally and permanently disabled, make the election described and then return to active work for the company, your life insurance will be reduced. The reduction will be equal to the total amount of monthly payments you received prior to your return to work.
83
If you should dis while you are totally and permanently disabled and receiving the monthly payments, your beneficiary will receive in a lump sum the value of the remaining installments, plus the above-mentioned 30 percent of your life insurance.
Termination
Your life insurance coverage will terminate at the end ot the day on which your employment terminates. If, however, you die within 31 days after you terminate employment, the death benefit will be paid to your beneficiary.
Conversion Privilege
Upon termination, you can convert your group term life insurance coverage to an individual lite insurance policy. Under individual coverage, you pay all premiums directly to the insurance company. Application for the individual policy and payment of the first premium must be made within 31 days after termination of your group term life insurance. The individual policy will be issued without medical examination at the insurance company’s regular rates.
ACCIDENTAL DEATH AND DISMEMBERMENT INSURANCE
AD&D benefits are paid if, while you are insured, you suffer a bodily injury caused by an accident and if, within 90 days after the accident you suffer one of the losses below;
The full amount (principal sum) will be payable for the accidental loss of:
Life
Both Hands
Both Feet
One Hand and One Foot
One Hand and Sight of One Eye One Foot and Sight on One Eye Sight ot Both Eyes
84
••• • •••••• • •••
One-half the full amount will be payable for the accidental loss of: One Hand, One Foot or the Sight of One Eye.
The amount of your AD&D benefits depends upon your job rate bracket in the table shown as follows:
Fulltime Employees	HOURLY RATE OF BASIC EARNINGS -BLUE SLIP RATE'			Life Ins J AD&D	Weekly Disability
	16.57	Bui Less Than	16.84	$32,000	$335
	16.84	Bui Less Than	17.11	$32,500	$340
	17.11	But Less Than	17.38	$33,000	$345
	17.38	But Less Than	17.65	$33,500	$350
	17.65	But Less Than	17.92	$34,000	$355
	17.B2	But Less Than	18.19	$34,500	$360
	18.19	But Less Than	18.46	$35,000	$365
	18.46	But Less Than	18.73	$35,500	$370
	18.73	But Less Than	19.00	$36,000	$375
	19.OG	But Less Than	19.27	$36,500	$380
	19.27	But Less Than	19.54	$37,000	$385
	19.54	But Less Than	19.81	$37,500	$390
	19.81	But Less Than	20.08	$38,000	$395
	20.08	But Less Than	20.35	$38,500	$400
	20.35	But Less Than	20.62	$39,000	$405
	20.62	But Less Than	20.89	$39,500	$410
	20.89	But Less Than	21.16	$40,000	$415
	21.16	But Less Than	21.43	$40,500	$420
	21.43	But Less Than	21.70	$41,000	$425
	21.70	But Less Than	21.97	$41,500	$430
	21.97	But Less Than	22 24	$42,000	$435
	22.24	But Less Than	22.51	$42,500	$440
	22.51	But Less Than	22.78	$43,000	$445
	22.78	But Less Than	23.05	$43,500	$450
	23.05	But Less Than	23.32	$44,000	'$455
	23.32	But Less Than	23.59	$44,500	$460
	23.S9	But Less Than	23.86	$45,000	$465
	23.86	But Less Than	24.13	$45,500	$470
	24.13	But Less Than	24.40	$46,000	$475
	24.40	But Less Than	24.67	$46,500	$480
	24.67	But Less Than	24.94	$47,000	$485
	24.94	But Less Than	25.21	$47,600	$490
	25.21	’ But Less Than	25.48	$48,000	$495
	25.48	But Less Than	25.75	$48,500	$500
	25.75	But Less Than	26.02	$49,000	$505
	26.02	But Less Than	26.29	$49,500	$510
	26.29	But Less Than	26.56	$50,000	$515
	26.56	But Less Than	26.83	$50,500	$520
85
Fulltime Employees	HOURLY RATE OF BASIC EARNINGS 'BLUE SLIP RATE"			Life Ins y AD&D	Weekly Disability
	26.83	But Less Than	27.10	$51,000	$525
	27.10	But Less Than	27.37	$51,500	$530
	27.37	But Less Than	ST-54	$52,000	$535
	27 B4	But Less Than	57.91	$52,500	$540
	27,91	But Less Than	28.18	$53,000	$645
	28.18	But Less Than	28.45	$53,500	$550
	28,45	But Less Than	20.72	$54,000	$555
	28.72	But Less Than	28.9B	$54,500	$560
	28.99	But Less Than	29.26	$55,000	$565
	29.26	But Less Than	29.53	$55,500	$570
	29.53	But Less Than	29.80	$56,000	$575
	29.80	But Less Than	30.07	$56,500	$580
	30.07	But Less Than	30.34	$57,000	$585
	30.34	But Less Than	30.81	$57,500	$590
	30.61	But Less Than	30.88	$58,000	$595
	30,88	But Less Than	31.15	$58,500	$600
	31.15	But Less Than	31.42	$59,000	$605
	31.42	But Less Than	31.69	$59,500	$610
	31.69	But Less Than	31.96	$60,000	$615
	31.90	But Less Than	32.23	$60,500	$620
	32.23	But Less Than	32.50	$61,000	$625
	32.50	But Less Than	32.77	$61,500	$630
	32.77	But Less Than	33.04	$62,000	$635
	33,04	But Less Than	33.31	$62,500	$640
	33.31	But Less Than	33 58	$63000	$645
	33.58	But Lass Than	33.85	$63,500	$650
	33.85	But Less Than	34.12	$64,000	$655
	34.12	But Less Than	34.39	$64,500	$680
	34.39	But Less Than	34.66	$65,000	$655
	34.66	But Less Than	34.93	$65,500	$670
	34.93	But Less Than	35.20	$66,000	$675
	35,20	But Less Than	35.47	$66,500	$680
	35,47	But Less Than	35.74	$67,000	$685	'
	35.74	But Less Than	36.01	$67,500	$690
	36,01	But Less Than	36.26	$68,000	$695
	36.28	But Less Than	38.55	$68,500	$700
	36.55	And Up		$69,000	$705
YOUR DISABILITY PROGRAM Inlroduction
The Disability Income Program offers you comprehensive
86
earnings protection when non-occupational illness or injury keeps you oft the job. The program will pay you a weekly benefit for up to one year for any one period of disability, provided that you meet the eligibility criteria.
The following is a non-technical summary of the disability income portion of the employee benefits provided by the Fort James Employee Benefits Organization, Inc. The official Plan document governs the operation of the Plan and the payment of all benefits,
ELIGIBILITY AND ENROLLMENT Who is Eligible
The following employees are eligible for the sickness and accident benefits described in this section:
Active hourly employees represented by P.A.C.E., Local B-1097 at the Wauna Mi if, Clatskanie, Oregon,
When to Enroll
You should enroll within 31 days of your hire date. All you need to do is fill out an enrollment form, naming your beneficiary, and return it to your Benefits Representative.
When Coverage Begins
For new hires, Plan coverage will begin on the first day of the month following satisfactory completion ot the probationary period. This is contingent upon the fact that there are no preexisting illness or accident conditions.
When Payments Begin
You will be eligible to receive a weekly sickness and accident disability benefit when you are unable to perform your regular or customary work and are under the care ot a physician.
When medically confirmed, benefit payments will start on the first day of your disability caused by a non-occupational accident and on the fourth day of your disability caused by a non-occupational sickness. The following situations, however, can allow you to receive benefits retroactive to the first day of your sickness:
• II your sickness extends to 14 or more consecutive
87
days, benefit payments will be retroactive to the first day, provided you were under the care of a physician during the first four days of your illness.
If you are confined as a registered bed patient of a hospital at any time during a period of continuous disability, benefit. This benefit will be extended to include cases where surgery is performed on an out-patient basis, when the surgery is a medically recognized alternative to hospitalization as a bed patient.
Duration of Payments
Benefits will be payable for a maximum of 52 weeks during any one period of disability.
Benefits will be payable for as many separate periods of disability that occur. Successive disabilities due to the same illness or injury will be considered one period of disability unless separated by your return to full-time work for at least two weeks.
Period of disability due to different causes are considered different periods of disability if they are separated by your return to work.
It is important that you understand that no benefits are payable for any period of disability unless you are under the care of physician. Employees will be required to accept Transitional Work jobs according to the Joint Transitional Work Process.
Benefit Amount
The amount of your sickness and accident weekly benefit is determined by your job-rate bracket In the table 'Group Term Life, AD&D and Weekly Disability Benefits".
Each of the hourly job rates in the table is defined as the straight-time day rate of your regular job, excluding all premiums and fringes.
Terminalion
Your disability insurance coverage will terminate at the end of the day on which your employment terminates.
Your Rights Under Federal Law
In 1974 the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA) was enacted to safeguard the Interests of participants
• • • •
88
and beneficiaries in employee benefit plans.
As a member of the benefit plan described in this handbook, you have certain rights and protections under ERISA, as outlined in the following statement adapted from regulations of the U.S. Department of Labor.
While we want you to know what you are now guaranteed by law, we believe that all your rights will continue to be protected as a matter of Company policy.
ERISA provides that all Plan members are entitled to:
•	Examine, without charge, al the Plan Administrator’s principal office, 1650 Lake Cook Road, Deerfield, IL 60015 and other specified locations, such as work sites, all Plan documents and insurance contracts; copies of ail documents filed with the U.S. Department of Labor, such as detailed annual reports and plan descriptions; and a list of all affiliated companies participating in the plans.
•	Obtain copies of all documents and other Plan information by writing to the appropriate Plan Administrator. There may be a reasonable charge for the copies.
*	Receive summaries of the Plan's annual financial report ("Summary Annual Report’}. The Plan Administrator is required by law to furnish each plan member with a copy of this summary annual report.
In addition to creating rights for Plan members, ERISA imposes obligations on the people responsible for the operation of your Plans. These people, called “fiduciaries," have a duty to operate your Plans prudently and in the interest of all Plan members and beneficiaries.
No one - your employer or any other person - may fire you or otherwise discriminate against you in any way for the purpose of preventing you from obtaining a benefit or exercising your rights under ERISA. However, this rule neither guarantees continued employment nor affects your employer’s right to terminate your employment for other reasons.
if your claim for a benefit is denied in whole or in part you will receive a written explanation of the reason for the denial. You have the right to have the Plan review and reconsider your claim.
Under ERISA, there are steps you can take tc enforce the rights listed above.
For instance, if you request Plan materials and do not
89
receive them within 30 days, you may file suit in a federal court. In such a case, the court may require the Plan Administrator to provide the materials and pay you up to $100-per-day until you receive them, unless they were not sent because of reasons beyond the Administrator's control.
If your claim for benefits is denied, and you have been through the Plan’s appeals procedures, you may sue in a state or federal court.
If you believe that Plan fiduciaries are misusing Plan money, or if you are discriminated against for asserting your rights, you may seek assistance from the U. S. Department of Labor, or you may file suit in a federal court.
The court will decide who should pay court costs and legal fees. If you win, the court may order the person you sued to pay these legal expenses. If you lose, the court may order you to pay the court costs and legal fees (if, for example, it finds your claim is frivolous).
If you have any questions about the Plan, you should contact the Plan Administrator. If you have any questions about this statement or your rights under ERISA, you should contact the nearest Area Office of the LaborManagement Services Administration of the U. S. Department of Labor.
90
••••••• ••• ••••
PENSIONS RETIREMENT PLAN INTRODUCTION
The Fort James Retirement Plan (the “Plan") Is a defined benefit pension plan that has been adopted to provide retirement benefits for certain employees, including those who are members of P.A.C.E. Local No, 8-1097 working at the Fort James Wauna Mill In Clatskanie, Oregon. The Plan has been adopted in recognition of these employees’ loyal and faithful service. The Plan also provides certain benefits in the event of death, disability or other termination of employment.
This summary plan description is a non-technical summary of some of the Plan’s important features with respect to hourly employees at the Fort James Wauna Mill who are covered by Schedule 56 of the Plan. This summary will be revised periodically, so make sure that you have the most recent summary. All of the information contained in this summary Is based on the actual Plan provisions. This summary is not meant to interpret, extend or change the Plan in any way. The provisions of the Plan can only be determined accurately by consulting the Plan itself. The actual Plan document and trust document, instead of this summary, will be used in determining all claims. The full Plan document and other governing legal documents are available for your review at the local Human Resources department.
The laws relating to defined benefit pension plans change frequently. In any case in which a Plan provision is inconsistent with any new law, regulation or ruling, the Plan will be administered in accordance with the new law, regulation or ruling regardless of the terms of the Plan or this summary.
While it is expected that the Plan will remain in effect indefinitely, Fort James Corporation (“Fort James”) reserves the right to modify, suspend or discontinue the Plan at any time. However, whenever eligibility provisions or benefit levels for eligible employees and Plan participants are specified in a collective bargaining agreement between Fort James and P.A.C.E. Local 81097, such provisions and levels will not be changed unilaterally during the term of the applicable agreement.
Neither the Plan, nor this summary, constitutes a contract for benefits or a contract of employment.
91
Important names, addresses and other similar information are set forth at the end of this summary in Ihe General Information section.
If you have any questions about any part of the Plan or this summary, please contact your local Human Resources department for assistance.
SOME IMPORTANT DEFINITIONS.
Several important terms will be used throughout this summary, and are defined below:
-	Benefit Service. Your period of service with the company. However, you will not receive benefit service credit for periods of severance.
-	Period of Service. Your total service with the company, based on years and days, measured from the date you begin work to your severance date. For purposes of participation and vesting, periods of severance will be counted as periods of service, if you return to work within 12 months from your severance dale.
-	Period of Severance. A period of time beginning on your severance date and ending on the date you return to work for the company.
-	Severance Date. The date you resign, are discharged, retire or die. For purposes of participation and vesting, the first day following a 12-month leave of absence (due to holding a union or political office) or Ihe first day following a 12-month period of layoff.
-	Vesting Service. Your total service with the company. Including up to 12 months layoff or 12 months leave of absence to hold a union or political office. You must complete a 5-year period of service or attain age 65 in order to be 100% vested in your accrued benefit.
ADMINISTRATION
Fort James is the Plan’s administration. Fort James has appointed an Employee Benefits Committee to carry out the administrative responsibilities described in the Plan. The members of the Committee are listed in the General Information section at the end of this summary. The Committee has the
• • • • • •
92
power to make all decisions regarding eligibility for and the amount of benefits. The Committee can be contacted at the following address: Pension Plan Administrative Committee, Fort James Corporation, 1650 Lake Cook Road, Deerfield, IL 60015
WHEN CAN I PARTICIPATE IN THE PLAN?
The Plan is for active full-time hourly paid employees of Fort James Corporation who are members of PA.C.E. Local No. 1097 and who work at the Fort James Wauna Mill.
If you are an eligible employee, you will automatically become a participant in the Plan on your date of hire. Leased employees are not eligible to participate as well as employees whose collective bargaining agreement does not provide for their participation.
Special participation rules apply if you terminate employment and are later rehired. (See What Service Do I Get Credit For If I Terminate Employment Before My Retirement Date and Am Rehlred?)
WHAT CONTRIBUTIONS ARE MADETOTHE PLAN?
Fort James makes contributions to a trust fund for the Plan in an amount that is actuarially determined to be sufficient to provide the benefits described in the section entitled What Are My Normal Retirement Benefits? The benefit that you receive will be determined by the formula described in that section, You are not required or permitted to contribute to the Plan. Amounts contributed to the Plan by Fort James are held under a trust agreement with State Street Bank and Trust Co., the Plan’s trustee.
HOW ARE PLAN ASSETS INVESTED?
The Plan assets are held in a trust fund. The Plan’s trustee, State Street Bank and Trust Co. is responsible for maintaining the trust fund. The Fort James Employee Benefits Committee in conjunction with Frank Russell Company is responsible for selecting the investment managers who select investments of the trust fund.
93
WHAT ARE MY NORMAL RETIREMENT BENERTS?
Your normal retirement date is your 65th birthday. Your monthly normal retirement benefit will begin to be paid as of the First day of the calendar month coinciding with or next Foltowing the date on which you terminate employment after attaining age 65.
Your monthly normal retirement benefit is calculated by multiplying your years of benefit service when you retire limes the monthly benefit rate, which is based on your wage rate. The result is the amount you would receive, payable as a single life annuity, for your lifetime only, with no reduction for early retirement, termination of employment, or selection of an option for a continuing spouses benefit. Monthly benefit rates are determined according to the attached Schedule A.
The following conditions can affect which wage rate is applicable;	'
•	You are hired or rehired.
•	You return to active employment from a leave of absence.
•	You terminate employment while on leave of absence.
•	You transfer from another location or from salaried to hourly status.
•	Your previous job was eliminated and your current job pays less than your previous job.
*	You are a new employee In a new position.
The effect of the situations listed above is explained in Schedule 56 of the Plan document. You will also need to refer to the Plan document for the effect of transferring from Schedule 56 to another Plan Schedule.
CAN I RETIRE EARLY?
You can retire early it you meet the Following age and ser-
vice requirements:
Age
55-57
58
59
60 and over
Years of Vesting Service
At least 15 years
At least 14 years
At least 10 years
At least 5 years
Ybur benefits are calculated in the same way as benefits a! normal retirement age. The result is multiplied by an early retire-
94
mg nt factor for your age when payments will begin, as follows:
Benefits		Benefits	
Begin at		Begin at	
Age	Factor	Age	Factor
65	100%	59	82%
64*	97%	58	79%
63*	94%	57	76%
62*	91%	56	73%
61	88%	55	70%
60	85%		
*lf you retire when you are 62 (or older) and have 20 or more years of Vesting Service, you receive your normal retirement benefit starting immediately, with no reduction.
Your monthly benefit may be further reduced based on the form of benefit payment you select. (See How Will My retirement Benefits Be Paid?)
CAN I WORK PAST MY NORMAL RETIREMENT DATE?
You may continue to work after you reach age 65. If you work for 8 or more days or 8 or more separate work shifts per month, your pension will not begin to be paid until you actually retire. However, you will continue to accrue benefits under the Plan. When you do retire, your monthly normal retirement benefit will be based on your benefit service at your actual retirement date and the monthly benefit rate in effect at that time.
WHAT HAPPENS IF I START RECEIVING MY RETIREMENT BENEFITS AND THEN AM REEMPLOYED?
If you retire or terminate employment and return to work for Fort James or a related company after your 65th birthday, and you work for 8 or more days or 8 or more separate work shifts during a calendar month, your retirement benefits will be suspended. However, while you are employed you may continue to accrue benefits that will become payable when you again retire. When you again retire, your monthly retirement benefit wilt be based on your total years of benefit service and the monthly ben
95
efit rate in effect when you again retire. Your retirement benefit will then be actuarially adjusted to reflect any payments you received from the Plan before returning to work.
If you return to work after your 65th birthday and you work less than 8 days or 8 work shifts during a calendar month, you will continue to receive your retirement benefits, but you will not accrue additional benefits.
if your benefits are suspended because you returned to work after your 65th birthday, you will be notified of the suspension and the reason for the suspension during the first month the suspension is in effect. If you are not sure whether your reemployment will cause a suspension of your retirement benefits, you should submit a written request for a determination to Fort James’s Corporate Human Resources Department in Deerfield, IL. Finally, if you are receiving retirement benefits from the Plan and you return to work for Fort James before your 65th birthday, payment of your pension will be suspended until you again retire or terminate employment, regardless of the number of hours you work. When you again retire or terminate employment, your pension will be recalculated to reflect any additional benefits you accrued, and will be actuarially adjusted to reflect any pension payments you received before returning to work.
WHAT IF I BECOME DISABLED?
A Participant shall be considered totally and permanently disabled (except in the case of blindness) if the Participant is unable to engage in any substantial gainful activity because of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment that can be expected to result in death or that can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than twelve (12) months.
A Participant shall be considered totally and permanently disabled due to blindness if he or she has attained the age of 55 and is unable, by reason of blindness, to engage in substantial gainful activity requiring skills or abilities comparable Io those ot any gainful activity previously performed with some regularity over a substantial period ot time.
The Plan Administrator shall make the final and binding determination whether the Participant meets the above definition of dis
96
ability, including the beginning and ending date of periods of disability. In making the disability determination, the Plan Administrator may rely on an award letter from the Social Security Administration specifying that the Participant is eligible to receive disability benefits under the Social Security Act. Alternatively, the Plan Administrator may make a separate disability determination based on guidance in the law, regulations and other written material of the Internal Revenue Service, the courts, and the Social Security Administration.
The Plan Administrator may require a Participant: (1) to furnish an award letter from the Social Security Administration indicating that the Participant is eligible to receive disability benefits under the Social Security Act; (2) to furnish medical or other information it reasonably deems appropriate to establish disability under the Plan; or (3) to submit to a medical examination, at no cost to the Participant, in order to establish disability under the Plan. The above information or medical examination shall be furnished or performed in Ihe manner reasonably prescribed by the Plan Administrator.
• ••
The Plan Administrator also retains the right to determine, from time to time, at no expense to the Participant, whether the Participant continues to be totally and permanently disabled under the Plan. The Plan Adminislrator may require the Participant: (1) to submit proof that the Participant remains eligible to receive disability benefits under the Social Security Act; (2) to submit to subsequent medical examinations; or (3) to furnish such information the Plan Administrator reasonably deems appropriate to establish continued disability. Failure to furnish the requested information or failure to submit to a medical examination, if reasonably requested by the Plan Administrator, shall be grounds for a determination that the Participant is no longer totally and permanently disabled.
if a Participant is denied a distribution based on the Plan Administrators disability determination he or she may request a review of such denial in accordance with the benefit claims procedures.
In order to be eligible for disability retirement benefits, you must have completed at least 10 years of service and have been totally and permanently disabled for 6 consecutive months. If you have satisfied these conditions and Fort Jannes has determined
97
you are disabled, you will be entitled to begin receiving a monthly disability retirement benefit as of the first day of any calendar month after you have filled the prescribed application form. Ybur disability pension will be calculated in the same way as a normal retirement. However, your disability pension will be reduced if you select the qualified Joint and survivor annuity form of payment.
If you cease to be disabled, your disability pension payments will cease. At that time, you may be eligible for an early retirement benefit or a vested retirement benefit. However, you will not be entitled Io a subsequent disability retirement benefit unless you return to work for Fort James and later re-qualify as disabled.
WHAT ARE MY BENEFITS IF I TERMINATE EMPLOYMENT BEFORE RETIREMENT?
If you terminate your employment with Fort James other than by reason of retirement, disability or death and, you have completed 5 years of vesting service as of your severance date, you will be entitled to receive a vested pension. Your vested pension is based on your benefit service and the monthly benefit rate in effect as of your severance date.
If you terminate employment before you have completed 5 years of vesting service and before you reach age 65, you will not be entitled to a monthly retirement benefit, and your potential benefit will be forfeited. Forfeitures are used to reduce future company contribution.
If you are entitled to a vested pension, you may elect to receive reduced monthly payments beginning before age 65, but not before age 55. In this case, your benefit will be multiplied by a factor for your age at the time payments begin:
98
Benefits Begin at Age	Factor
65	1.0000
64	.9090
63	.8288
62	.7580
61	,6950
60	.6389
59	.5887
58	,5436
57	,5031
56	.4664
55	.4331
If your vested benefit exceeds $5,000 at the time payment begins, you and your spouse, if any, must consent before payment may begin. Otherwise, your vested benefit will not begin to be paid until you reach age 65.
If you terminate employment and are later rehired and become a participant in this Plan, your retirement benefit when you again terminate your employment will be based on both periods of employment.
WHAT SERVICE DO I GET CREDIT FOR IF I TERMINATE EMPLOYMENT BEFORE MY RETIREMENT DATE AND AM REEMPLOYED?
If you terminate employment and return to work within 12 months of your severance date, the months during which you were away will be counted as service for purposes of participation and vesting but not for purposes of benefit service.
If you terminate employment and return after 12 or more consecutive months following your severance data, you will receive no credit tor prior service unless you work at least one year after your reemployment date.
If you were not vested on your severance date, your years of service before your severance from service date will not be taken into account in determining your vested interest in your accrued benefit, or in determining your service for benefit accrual purposes, if you had a series of one year periods of severance from service that equals or exceeds ihe greater of (a) five or (b)
99
the aggregate number of your years of vesting service before your severance from service date. If you were vested on your severance date, you will be given credit for prior service, so tong as you complete at least one year of service after your most recent reemployment dale.
If you separate from service on account of maternity or paternity leave, your severance date will not occur until the second anniversary of the first day of your absence for maternity or paternity leave. The period between the first and second anniversaries will be neither a period of service nor a period of severance, However, the time from the first day of maternity or paternity leave up until the first anniversary of that leave will be counted for benefit and vesting service. Maternity or paternity leave is the period during which you are absent because of (a) your pregnancy, (b) the birth of your child, (c) the placement of a child in your home in connection with your adaption of the child, or (d) your caring for a child Immediately after his or her birth or placement in your home for adoption.
WHAT HAPPENS IF I DIE BEFORE MY PENSION STARTSTO BE PAID?
If you die after you are vested in the Plan, but before your retirement benefits have started to be paid, your surviving spouse will be entitled to receive a death benefit, if you were married for at least one year on the date of your death. Your surviving spouse will be eligible to receive a qualified pre-retirement survivor annuity (described below) unless you reject the qualified pre-retirement survivor annuity with your spouse’s written consent, on a form provided by and filed with Fort James.
The qualified pre-retirement survivor annuity will be paid only if you had been married for one year and had not rejected the pre-retirement survivor annuity with your spouse's written consent. (See How Do I Make Payment Elections?). If you elect to be covered by the qualified pre-retirement survivor annuity, the retirement benefits you actually receive from the Plan will be reduced. This charge reflects a reasonable actuarial risk factor for the period ot time during which you and your spouse chose to have the qualified pre-retirement survivor annuity in effect. However, the charge will only be made for years during or
( < < <
< <
100
after the year in which you attain age 35. For further information regarding the actuarial risk factor, contact your local Human Resources Department.
The qualified pre-retirement survivor annuity is based on your years of service and the monthly benefit rate in effect as of the earlier of the date on which you separated from service or died. Payments will begin to be made to your surviving spouse on the first day of the month following the date on which you would have reached age 65. However, your spouse may elect to begin receiving payments on an earlier date: the first day of the month following the later of (a) the date you would have attained age 55 or (b) your death. If payments start before the date that would have been your 65th birthday, they will be actuarially reduced in the same manner as for early retirement (See Can I Retire Early?) for the actuarial reduction factors.) Generally, your surviving spouse will be entitled to receive a monthly pension for his or her lifetime equal to the same amount he or she would have received if you had retired on the day before your death, with the joint and 50% survivor form of payment in effect. (See How Will My Benefits Be Paid?) far a description of the joint and 50% survivor annuity.
II you decide that you do not want this qualified pre-retirement survivor benefit coverage, your spouse must agree to the waiver, in writing, and in the presence of either a designated Plan representative or a notary public. (See How Do I Make Payment Elections?) If you and your spouse da not reject the pre-retirement survivor benefit coverage, the coverage will automatically be in effect.
ARE THERE LIMITS ON MY BENEFITS?
The Internal Revenue Code imposes limits on the amount of benefits that you may accrue under the Plan and on the amount of the annual contributions that may be allocated to your account under the Fort James Corporation 401 (k) Plan, These limits may require a reduction in the amount of benefits that you may accrue under this Plan or the amount of the company's contributions allocated to your account under the 401(k) Plan.
Also, if you are entitled to receive a benefit for the same
101
period of service from this Plan and from other qualified defined benefit plans to which Fort James makes contributions, your pension from this Plan will be reduced by the amount of your accrued benefit under the order plan.
HOW WILL MY BENEFITS BE PAID?
A. Forms of Retirement Benefits
1.	Automatic Forms. If you are married on the date your retirement benefit is to begin being paid, your benefit will automatically be paid in the form of a joint and 50% survivor annuity, unless you select another form of payment with your spouses written consent. (See How Do I Make Payment Elections? below for description of the election procedures.) Under a joint and 50% survivor annuity, you will receive monthly payments lor your lifetime and, after your death, monthly payments equal to 50% of the monthly payments you received will be paid to your surviving spouse for his or her lifetime. If your spouse predeceases you but after you have started receiving payments, you will continue to receive your pension in the same amount as before, and the last payment will be paid on the first day of the month in which you die.
If you are not married on the date your retirement benefits is to begin, your benefit under the Plan automatically will be paid in the form of a single lite annuity, unless you select another form of payment. (See How Do I Make Payment Elections?) Under the terms of a single life annuity, payments will be paid to you for your lifetime and no payments will be made after your death.
2.	Optional Forms. Instead of one of the automatic forms of benefits shown above, you may (with your spouse's consent if you are married) choose one of the following optional payment methods:
a.	Single Life Annuity. You receive the full amount produced under the benefit formula for as long as you live.
b.	Joint and 100% Survivor Annuity. You receive reduced monthly payments and after your death, your survivor (spouse, relative or other beneficiary) receives the same amount for life.
c.	Joint and 50% Survivor Annuity. You receive reduced monthly payments, and after your death, your survivor (spouse, relative or other beneficia-
102
ry) receives 50% of that amount for life.
d.	10-Year Certain and Life Annuity. You receive reduced monthly payments and if you die before
. receiving 120 monthly payments, your survivor receives continued payments in the same amount until a total of 120 payments have been made.
e.	Level-Income Annuity. If you retire before age 62, you may elect to have your benefit increased during those years between your early retirement and age 62. When your Social Security benefit begins at age 62, your benefit under the Plan will be reduced. The Level-Income Annuity may be paid in the form of (a), (b) or (c), above.
If you are not married and are eligible for disability retirement, or qualify as a terminated vested participant, your only available form of payment is a single life annuity. If you are married and are eligible for disability retirement, or qualify as a terminated vested participant, your only available forms of payment are a qualified joint and survivor annuity or, with the consent of your spouse, a single life annuity.
Each of the optional forms of payment is reduced by certain actuarial reduction factors and interest rates. They will also be reduced should they begin to be paid before your normal retirement date.
3.	Small Benefits. If the amount of your monthly retirement benefit is $10 or less when payments are to begin, your benefit automatically will be paid annually in advance.
Required Commencement Date. Your benefits must begin to be paid generally not any later than the April 1 following the calendar year in which you reach age 70 1/2, whether or not you have retired. Federal income tax will be withheld from benefits payable to you from the Plan unless you elect not to have tax withheld.
HOW DO I MAKE PAYMENT ELECTIONS?
It you are married, the automatic forms of payment will be (a) a joint and 50% survivor annuity when you retire or terminate
103
employment or (b) a pre-retirement survivor annuity payable to your surviving spouse if you die before your benefits under the Plan have begun to be distributed and if you were married for the one-year period before you died. If you are not married, the normal form of payment will be a single life annuity when you retire or terminate employment.
You may reject the normal form of payment, with the written consent of your spouse (if you are married) during the fallowing election periods:
1,	The election period for rejecting the joint and 50% survivor annuity and the single life annuity win begin 90 days before the date your benefits become payable and will end on the date your benefits become payable.
2.	The election period for rejecting the pre-retirement survivor annuity will begin on the January 1 of the Plan year in which you reach age 35 and will end on the date of your death. If you terminate employment before you reach age 35, the election period will begin on the date you terminate employment If you are reemployed you must reaffirm any election you made before you reached age 35.
Each cf the elections may be made at any time during the applicable election period, with the consent of your spouse, il you are married. Your electron may be revoked only during the election period. Once you begin to receive benefits, your election becomes final and cannot be changed. Forms will be provided to you for making elections or revocations of elections.
SINGLE SUM DEATH BENEFIT.
A $1,000 payment is automatically made to your beneficiary when you die if you have retired under the Plan. Terminated vested participants are not eligible for this benefit.
This benefit is in addition to any other survivor benefits that may be payable from the Plan, and will be payable from the Plan, and will be paid to your Estate if you have no beneficiary.
• • •
104
WHEN JS A PLAN TOP HEAVY?
A plan is “top heavy” if the sum of the accrued benefits of “key employees" exceeds 60% of the sum of the accrued benefits of all participants in the plan. Key employees generally are employees serving as officers of Fort James and other employees who are among the most highly paid of Fort James and who have the highest percentage of ownership interest in Fort James. Fort James will determine whether the Plan is top heavy. If the Plan becomes top heavy, special rules will apply that relate to minimum benefits, accelerated vesting, and the amount of compensation that may be considered in determining the benefits under the Plan. Fort James does not anticipate that the Plan will be top heavy.
WHAT IS A QUALIFIED DOMESTIC RELATIONS ORDER?
• • • •
A qualified domestic relations order is a court order that creates or recognizes current or former family member’s right to part or all of your Plan benefits. While the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (“ERISA"), a federal pension law, generally protects Plan benefits against creditors, qualified domestic relations orders are an exception. Such an order can compel payment of benefits even though the Plan prohibits distributions earlier than retirement, termination, death, or disability. The Plan Administrator will notify you if Ihe Plan receives a domestic relations order that affects your benefits and will also determine, within a reasonable time, if the order is qualified. You and the other party to the court order will be notified of the decision.
If you are a party to a divorce proceeding and your benefits under this Plan will be subject to a marital property agreement, your attorney should send a proposed domestic relations order to the Plan Administrator tor review before it is presented to the court for final entry. By doing so the Plan Administrator can Inform you of deficiencies in the proposed order that would prevent it from being deemed a "qualified domestic relations order." Proposed domestic relations orders may be sent to: H.R, Connection, 6802 Paragon, Suite 400, Richmond, VA 23230.
105
ARE MY BENEFITS INSURED?
Benefits under the Plan are insured by the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation ("PBGC*) if the Plan terminates. Generally, the PBGC guarantees most vested normal retirement benefits, early retiremenl benefits, and certain disability and survivor's pensions. However, the PBGC does not guarantee all types of benefits under covered plans, and the amount of benefit protection is subject to certain limitations.
The PBGC guarantees vested benefits at the level in effect on the date of plan termination. However, if a plan has been in effect fewer than five years before it terminates, or if benefits have been increased within five years before plan termination, the entire amount of the plan's vested benefits or the benefit increase may not be guaranteed. In addition, there Is a ceiling on the amount of monthly benefits that the PBGC guarantees, which is adjusted periodically.
For more information on the PBGC insurance protection and its limitations, you should ask a member ot the Committee or the PBGC. Inquiries to the PBGC should be addressed to the Office of Communications, PBGC, 202 K Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20006. The PBGC Office of Communications may also be reached by calling (202) 254-4817.
WHAT LEGAL RIGHTS DO I HAVE REGARDING THE PLAN?
Claims Procedure. As a participant or beneficiary in the Plan, you are entitled to certain rights and protections under the claims procedure of ERISA. If you have a claim for a benefit under the Plan, you may file the claim in writing with the Plan Administrator. If your claim is denied, you will receive, within 90 days after you file your claim, a written notice explaining the reasons for denial and pointing out the pertinent Plan provisions on which the denial is based. The denial of the claim will describe any additional material or information that may be needed to perfect your claim and will explain why such material or information is needed. You will also receive an explanation of the procedure for reviewing claims.
If your claim is denied, you may request a review. The review must be requested by written application to the Plan Administrator within 60 days after receiving the denial. You may authorize, in writing, a representative to act in your behalf. You or
106
your representative may review any pertinent documents and submit issues and comments to the Plan Administrator in writing. The Plan Administrator generally will issue a written decision within 60 days after your request tor review has been filed. The written decision will explain the reasons for the denial and will refer to the Plan provisions on which the decision is based.
ERISA Rights. As a participant or beneficiary in the Plan, you are entitled to certain rights and protections under ERISA. You can examine the Plan document, trust agreement, reports, and other Plan information, without charge, at the company's office and at other locations. You can obtain copies of the Plan document, trust agreement, and other Plan information upon written request to the company. The company may make a reasonable charge tor the copies. You will receive a summary of the Plan's annual financial report. Once each year you can obtain a statement of the amount of your accrued benefit and the percentage of the amount that is vested or the earliest date on which the amount becomes vested. You must make a written request for this statement, but it will be provided free of charge. You can file suit in a federal court if you do not receive any materials, to which you are entitled within 30 days of your request, unless ihe materials were not sent because of matters beyond the control of the company. Fines may be imposed in case of delays.
Fiduciaries. Fiduciaries (persons who are responsible for the operations of the Plan) must act solely in the interest of the participants and must exercise prudence in Ihe performance of their Plan duties. Fiduciaries who violate the law may be removed and may be required to make good any losses thal they have caused the Plan. The company may not prevent you from obtaining the vested amount of your accrued benefit or from exercising your legal rights. If you are improperly denied the vested amount of your accrued benefit, in full or in part, you have a right to file suit in a federal or state court. If fiduciaries are misusing the Plan’s assets, you have a right to file suit in a federal court or to request assistance from the U. S. Department of Labor. Legal costs, including attorney’s fees, may be awarded to the successful party.
If you or your beneficiary have any questions about this statement or your rights under ERISA, you or your beneficiary should contact the nearest Area Office cf the U. S. Labor -
107
Management Service Administration, U. S. Department of Labor.
CAN THE PLAN BE AMENDED OR TERMINATED?
Fort Janies may amend or terminate the Plan at any time. However, whenever eligibility provisions and benefit levels are specified in a collective bargaining agreement between Fort James and a union representing employees covered by the Plan, those provisions and benefit levels may not be changed unilaterally by Fort James during the term of the collective bargaining agreement. The Plan also may be terminated by the PBGC if certain events occur such as (a) Fort James being unable to make the required contributions to the Plan or (b) the Plan being unable to pay benefits to participants when they become due.
In the event the Plan is terminated, affected participants will be fully vested in their accrued benefit regardless of their years of vesting service.
Expenses relating to Plan termination may be paid from the trust fund before any payments are made to you or your beneficiary. Benefit payments from the Plan will be made in the order as required by ERISA.
GENERAL INFORMATION
Name of Plan:
Fort James Retirement Plan
Plan Sponsor:
Fort James Operating Company
(847) 317-5000
Plan Administrator:
Fort James Corporation
1650 Lake Cook Road, Deerfield, IL 60015-0089
Employer Identification Number (EIN):54-1237819
Plan Number: 033
Plan Year: January 1 through December 31 Plan Trustee; State Street Bank and Trust Co.
Master Trust Division
RO. Box 1992-M.S. D5
Boston, MA 02105-1992
Employee Benefits Committee:
Clifford A. Cutchins IV Jane R. Lateer
108
Daniel J. Girvan Ernst A. Haberli
Joseph W. McGarr
Agent (or Service of Legal Process
(Legal notices may also be served on the Plan Administrator}; Clifford A. Cot chins, IV, Esquire
Fort James Corporation 1650 Lake Cook Road Deerfield, IL 60015-0089
109
SCHEDULE A
bgita Straight Time Job Beta (■ Blue Sip Rm'i		Conupcndhg Monthly Fist Benefit Per tar of Benefit Service					
			Payable al Aje 65 on a Lifetime Only Back				
From	To	411/00	4/1/01	4/1/02	4/1/03	4/1/04	4/1/05
16.51	16.85	31.00	3300	34.50	35.50	36.50	38.50
16.86	17.19	31.50	33.50	35.00	36.00	37.DD	39.00
17.20	17.53	32.00	34.00	35.50	36.50	37.50	39.50
17.54	17.87	32.50	34.50	36.00	37.00	38.00	40.00
17.88	18.22	33.00	35.00	36.50	37.50	38.50	40.50
16.23	18,56	33.50	35.50	37.00	38.00	39.00	41.00
18.57	18.90	3400	36.00	37.50	38.50	39,50	41.50
18.91	19.24	34.50	36.50	3S.00	39.00	40.00	42.00
19.25	19.58	35.00	37.00	38.50	39.50	40.50	42.50
19.50	19.92	35.50	37.50	39.00	40.00	41.00	43.00
19.93	20.26	36.00	38.00	39.50	40.50	41.50	43.50
20.27	20.61	36.50	38.50	40.00	41.00	42.00	44.00
20.62	20.95	37.00	39.00	40.50	41.50	42.50	44.50
20.96	21.30	37.50	39.50	41.00	42.00	43 00	45.00
21.31	21.65	38.00	40.00	41.50	42.50	43.50	45.50
21.66	22.00	38.50	40.50	42.00	43.00	44.00	46.00
22.01	22.35	39.00	41.00	42.50	43.53	44.50	46.50
22.36	22.70	39.50	41.50	43.00	44.00	45.00	47.00
22.71	23.05	40.00	42.00	43.50	44.50	45,50	47.50
23.06	23.40	40.50	42.50	44.00	45.00	■18.DO	48. DO
23.41	23.75	41.00	43.00	44.50	45.50	46.50	48.50
23.76	24.11	41.50	43.50	45.00	46.00	47.00	49.00
24.12	24,47	42.00	44.00	45.50	46.50	47.50	49.50
24.48	24.83	42.50	44.50	46.00	47.00	48.00	50.00
24.84	25.19	4aoo	45.00	46.50	47.50	48.50	50.50
25.20	25.55	43.50	45.50	47.00	48.00	49,00	51.00
25.56	25.91	44.00	46.00	47.50	48.50	49.50	51.50
25.92	26,27	44.50	46.50	48.00	49.00	50.00	52.00
26.26	26.63	45.00	47.00	4fi.5O	49.50	50,50	52.50
26.64	26.96	45.50	47.50	49.00	50.00	51.00	53.00
26.99	27.33	46.00	48 00	40.50	50.50	51.50	53.50
27,34	27.60	46.50	48.50	50.00	51.00	52.00	54.00
27.69	28.03	47,00	49.00	50,50	51.50	52.50	54.50
28.04	28.38	47.50	49.50	51.00	52.00	53.00	55.00
28.39	26.73	48.00	50.00	51.50	52.50	53.50	55.50
28.74	29.06	48.50	50.50	52.00	53.00	54.00	56.00
29.09	29.43	49.00	51.00	52.50	53.50	54.50	56.50
29.44	29.70	49.50	51.50	53.00	54.00	55.00	57.00
29.79	30.13	50.00	52,00	53.50	54.50	55.50	57.50
30.14	30.48	50.50	52.50	54.00	55.00	5B.C0	58.00
30.49	30.83	51.00	53,00	54.50	55.50	56,50	58.50
30.64	31.18	51.50	53.50	55.00	56.00	57,00	59.00
31.19	31.54	52.00	54.00	55.50	56.50	57.50	59.50
110
• • • •
ftejutoSMsM 1lm« Job		Correspondrig Uorthiy FW Benefit PeeYter of Benefit Service					
		Peyibte «t Age 65 on i UfeUm Only Bate					
From	To	4/1/00	4/1/01	4/1/02	4/1/03	4/1/04	4/1/05
31.55	31.88	52.50	54.50	56.00	57.00	58.00	60.00
31.89	32 23	53.00	55.00	56.50	57.50	58.50	60.50
32.24	32.58	53,50	55.50	57.00	58.00	59.00	61.00
32.59	32 93	54.00	56.00	57.50	58.50	59.50	61.50
32.94	33,28	54.50	56.50	58.00	59.00	60,00	62.00
33.29	33,63	55.00	57.00	58.50	59.50	60,50	62.50
33.64	33.98	55.50	57.50	59.00	60.00	61.00	63.00
33.99	34.33	56 00	58.00	59.50	60.50	61.50	63.50
34.34	34,68	56.50	58.50	60.00	61.00	62,00	64.00
34.69	35.03	57,00	59.00	60,50	61.50	62.50	64.50
35.04	35.36	57.50	59.50	61.00	62.00	63.00	65.00
35,39	35.73	58.00	60.00	61.50	62.50	63.50	65.50
3574	36.08	58.50	60.50	62.00	63.00	64.00	66.00
36.09	39.43	59.00	61.00	62,50	63.50	64.50	66.50
36.44	36.78	59.50	61.50	63.DO	64.00	65.00	67 00
36.79	37.13	60.00	62.00	63.50	64.50	65.50	67.50
37,14	37.40	60.50	62.50	64.00	65.00	66.00	68.00
37.49	37.83	61.00	63.00	64.50	65.50	66.50	66.50
37.84	38.18	61.50	63.50	65.00	66.00	67.00	69.00
38.19	38.53	62.00	64.00	65.50	66.50	67.50	89.50
38.54	38.88	62.50	64.50	65.00	67.00	68.00	70.00
38.89	39.23	63.00	65.00	66.50	67.50	58.50	70.50
39.24	39.58	63.50	65.50	67.00	68.00	69.00	71.00
39.59	39.93	64.00	66.00	67.50	68.50	69.50	71.50
39.94	40.28	64.50	66.50	68.00	69.00	70.00	72.00
40.29	40.83	65.00	67.00	68.50	69.50	70.50	72.50
*«*o**«**
111
SUPPLEMENTAL AGREEMENTS	4
Layoff Pool	|
In accordance with Section 25 paragraphs A.14.	and 1.3,	|
the following job classifications shall be included in the Layoff Pool.
Department	Job	<
Storeroom	Material Handler	<
Converting	Waste Baler	
Converting	Roll Loader Box Facia!	
Converting	Quickstock Bagging	
Yard	Yard Laborer	1
Temporary expansion of the layoff pool classifications, | under conditions of major curtailment, will be negotiated by the Union/Company Standing Committee.	1
Mechanics
1.	Maintenance mechanics who are scheduled in advance to work 12 hour shifts will "eat on the fly" during such 12 hours shift and no lunch period will be scheduled.
2.	Maintenance mechanics not scheduled in advance to work a 12 hour shift who are assigned, prior to the noon meal period, to work with a crew which is scheduled in advance and does work a 12 hour shift, will also ‘eat on the fly” during such 12 hour shift and no lunch period will be scheduled.
Welding Hood Plates
The Company agrees to supply prescription welder hood plates under the following conditions:
1.	The employee request such a plate.
2.	The employee performs welding as part of his regular work.
3.	The employee normally wears prescription ground eye glasses.
112
Metric Toots
The Company agrees to have required metric tools available in the tool room for use as needed during the term of this agreement.
COMPRESSED WORK WEEK
It is understood that upon implementation of a compressed work week schedule:
1.	There wilt be no decrease in quantity and quality of production.
2.	There will be no adverse effects on employee safety, morale or attendance.
3.	Adequate qualified replacements will continue to be available for relief purposes when required.
4.	Qualified employee will continue to be available for wire and felt changes when required.
5.	Overtime, call-time and any other extra costs will not be paid if incurred upon initial implementation or discontinuance of a compressed work week schedule.
6.	If employees of a department want to cancel a schedule trial, a simple majority of employees in the department must express their desire to end the trial,
7.	If employees of a department want to continue a schedule following a trial, at least 66 2/3 percent of the employees in the department must express their desire to continue the schedule.	.
The company and the union agree to modify the provisions of the labor agreement so that utilization of a compressed work week schedule will not result in additional cost to the company.
This understanding does not alter the company's rights under Section 2 - Operating Control to decide to begin or to cease utilization of a compressed work week schedule.
113
COMPRESSED WORK WEEK LANGUAGE WAUNA MILL
January 1, 1990
Revised April 1,2000
For die purpose of a compressed work week schedule, the parties hereby mutually agree to the fallowing terms and conditions:
1.	Twelve (12) hour shift schedule will be permuted to those departments which, by a vote of 51%, have approved a trial period and/or then voted to work the schedule on a continuous basis by 66 2/3% approval.
2.	The twelve (12) hour shift times of 7:00 a.m. to 7.00 p.m., and 7:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m, will define a day as a period ot twenty-four (24) hours beginning 7:00 a.m.. and a week as a period of seven (7) calendar days beginning al 7:00 a.m. Monday.
3.	The twelve (12) hour work schedule may be canceled by either party at the end of any eight week schedule cycle or within seven (7) days if mutually agreed to by the Union and the Company.
4.	The implementation of the compressed work week will be on the conditions that the efficiency of any department or departments will not decrease.
5.	It is clearly understood by both parties that replacements must be available ot relief purposes when required. Replacements will normally come from employees on their scheduled days off. This coverage may be scheduled when necessary and be distributed as evenly as possible. When such overtime work is required, the Company will make reasonable effort to assign it to an employee(s) from the job classification in which the need for the overtime work occurred.
6.	It Is understood by both parties that problems may arise in working the compressed schedule. Should this occur, these problems will be referred to the Joint Standing Committee.
7.	Overtime will not be paid if incurred as a result ot the initial implementation or the discontinuation of the twelve (12) hour shift schedule,
8.	Overtime al the rate of time and one-hall will be paid
• •••••••• • ••• •••••
114
for all work In excess of eight (B) hours in any one day at the compressed pay rate for hours worked on the compressed work week schedule.
9.	Tour workers shall receive time and one-half pay at the compressed rate for time worked on Sunday. Hours worked on Sunday past twelve (12) hours will be paid double time at the regular rate of pay.
10.	Weekly indemnity benefits will continue to be calculated on the basis of seven (7) calendar days.
11.	Floating holidays will be paid at the rate of the job assigned for that week. Rate of the job referenced, is not the compressed rate.
a.	Four 10 hour floaters or three 13'A hour floaters, with a maximum of 40 hours pay.
b.	If an employee elects to take a 10 hour or 137i hour floating holidays, he will be committed for the rest of the year.
c.	Floaters earned by working formerly restricted periods will be computed at 12 hours and paid at the rate of the job assigned for that week the floater is taken.
12.	If a floater or vacation is scheduled before the schedule is posted the preceding week (by 3:00 PM Friday), no call fime will be payable for the day shift coverage. Call time will be paid for working the night shift on your day off.
13.	Jury duty allowance is provided, however, such reimbursement shall not exceed twelve (12) hours pay at the regular rate or forty (40) hours per week.
14.	The job rates of the blue slipped employees working the compressed work week schedule will be adjusted to .88235 of the rate established by ihe job analysis plan or job rate adjustment. However, overtime pay for work outside the regular compressed work week schedule, call time, paper machine clothing time, allowance for failure to provide work, vacation pay, holiday pay, and time worked on a holiday will be paid at the established rate of pay as defined in the Labor Agreement.
115
15.	Funeral leave will be paid at the compressed pay rata.
16.	Shift differential will be paid tor all time worked on the compressed work week schedule, by calculating the current average shift differential as provided for in the labor agreement adjusted to .86235.
17.	Group term life insurance, AD&D, weekly sickness and accidenl coverages and retirement plan monthly benefit rates will be based on the established job rate.
18.	Attached is the eight week cycle for the compressed work week schedule that will be worked. (Attached Exhibit A).
19.	Except as outlined above, the terms and conditions of the existing collective agreement remain unchanged.
20.	Employees scheduled to attend meetings or training sessions on the mill site, including the Westport area, on a day they would have worked a twelve hour compressed shift, will be allowed to return to their regular scheduled twelve hour compressed shift after the training session in order for them to complete a twelve hour shift at the compressed rate of pay. The employee may elect to go home at the end of the training, and receive pay for time spent at the training at the regular job rate. Employees electing to go home shall not be paid more than they would have received on the compressed shift. For further clarification on scheduling and paying employees, see attached Exhibit B.
The parties agree that employees who work the Compressed Schedule may be scheduled to work on one of their assigned days off during each calendar quarter, for purposes outlined below, and Call Time will not be payable for that period of work.
The purpose of this provision is to facilitate those types of interactions where work teams (such as entire shifts or
116
crews, groups ot crews, and/or persons in the same job classification or who perform similar duties), rather than individuals, are required, Examples of these types of interactions could include:
-	Safety training,
-	Training required to comply with federal, state, or corporate requirements.
-	Quality/process improvement work where group input and discussion is necessary. Examples could include Standard Operating Procedures, centerlining, project design or review.
-	Update or refresher training related to a work team’s or job classification’s area of responsibility at Wauna.
Groundrules tor this quarterly time include:
-	Days may not be accumulated or carried over quarter to quarter,
-	A quarter Is January-March, April-June, July-September, and October-December.
•	One day per quarter may be so used but does not have to be used.
-	The day each quarler is scheduled reasonably in advance.
-	The intent is that these days not be devoted Io scheduling a person in on their assigned day off to perform “normal” work.
21,	If necessary on shift promotions may be made for any reason extending up to two weeks for departments under the compressed work week schedule. Necessary as defined means those situations when a senior move is not possible due to the conflict created by working a Sunday night shift and then a senior move to a Monday day shift.
22.	Employees who work on a holiday when call lime is payable, will be paid 6 hrs. Call time for working their regular scheduled 12 hour compressed shift. Employees who work during the 8 hour holiday period, when call time is payable, will be paid 4 hours call time.
117
23.
In no case shall an employee work more than 1,4 consecutive nights in an 8 week cycle, tor the regular compressed schedule. If this Is violated the last two nights ot the 4 day work period shall be paid as the employee’s days off. This does not apply for filling Relief Supervisor Positions.
24.	It is understood that the language in Section 16, Paragraph B does not apply for the regular compressed schedule since in no situation would the regular scheduled days oft change.
25.	One hour floating holiday pay for each hour worked within the formerly restricted time period white on the compressed schedule. In no case shall this be more than 12 hours for a restricted period. Employees may elect 12 hours off for 8 hours pay. An employee who works on July 3 of their day off during the restricted period will be granted a 12 hour floater.
26.	Department Special Provisions, see attached Exhibits C and 0.
118
• ••••••
COMPRESSED WORK WEEK SCHEDULE 8 WEEKS TO COMPLETE ONE CYCLE
EXHIBIT A
119
	WEEK1							WEEK 2							WEEK 3							WEEK 4						
	M	T	W	T	F	S	S	M	T	W	T	F	S	s	M	T	W	T	F	S	S	M	T	W	T	F	S	S
DAYS	B	B	C	C	D	□	A	A	B	B	C	C	D	D	A	A	B	B	C	C	D	D	A	A	B	B	C	C
NIGHTS	A	A	B	B	C	c	D	D	A	A	B	B	C	C	□	D	A	A	B	B	C	C	D	D	A	A	B	B
OFF	C	C	A	A	A	A	C	C	C	C	A	A	A	A	C	C	C	C	A	A	A	A	C	C	C	C	A	A
OFF	D	D	D	D	B	B	B	B	0	□	D	D	B	B	B	B	D	D	D	D	B	B	B	B	D	0	0	D
	WEEKS							WEEK 6							WEEK 7							WEEKS						
	M	T	W	T	F	S	S	M	T	W	T	F	S	S	M	T	W	T	F	S	S	M	T	W	T	F	s	S
DAYS	D	D	A	A	B	B	C	C	D	D	A	A	B	B	C	C	D	D	A	A	B	B	C	C	D	D	A	A
NIGHTS	C	C	D	D	A	A	B	B	C	C	D	D	A	A	B	R	C	C	□	D	A	A	B	B	C	C	D	D
OFF	A	A	C	C	C	C	A	A	A	A	C	C	C	C	A	A	A	A	C	C	C	C	A	A	A	A	C	C
OFF	B	B	B	B	D	D	D	D	B	B	B	B	D	D	D	D	B	B	B	B	D	D	D	D	B	B	B	B
EXHIBIT B
The following guidelines are intended to provide consistency in paying employees who attend meetings on the compressed schedule In a way that minimizes the cost Impact and Inconveniences to the employee and the company.
Where possible, it is recommended that meetings be scheduled in the a.m., 7:00 to 9:00, and not last more than two hours. This will afford employees the opportunity io stay over and avoid disruption ot the schedule.
When it is unavoidable to schedule a.m. meetings or when longer duration meetings are necessary, the following guidelines should be followed:
EXAMPLE 1. Meeting on day 1 or day 2:
DAY 1	DAY 2	DAY 3	DAY 4
DAYS	DAYS	NIGHTS	NIGHTS
Employee goes to the meeting and at the end of the meeting gets paid for time at the meeting, at the non-compressed rate and goes home, or comes back to the department to complete a 12 hour day shift and receives 12 hours pay at compressed rate.
EXAMPLE 2. Meeting during day shift on day 3:
DAY1	DAY 2	DAY 3	DAY 4
DAYS	DAYS	NIGHTS	NIGHTS
Employee goes to the meeting and at the end of ihe meeting gets paid for the time al the meeting, at the non-compressed rate and goes home, or comes back to the department to complete a 12 hour day shift and receives 12 hrs. Pay at compressed rate. Employee works nights of day 4.
120
EXAMPLE 3. Meeting on day shift of day 4:
DAY 1	DAY 2	DAY 3	DAY 4
DAYS	DAYS	NIGHTS	NIGHTS
I
Employee works 12 hrs. On day shift of day 3. On day 4, employee goes to the meeting. At the end of the meeting employee gets paid for time at the meeting, at the non-com-pressed rate and goes home, or comes back to the department to complete a 12 hour day shift and receives 12 hrs. Pay at the compressed rate.
EXAMPLE 4. Meeting on day shift of day 5:
DAY 2	DAY 3	DAY 4	DAY 5
DAYS	NIGHTS	NIGHTS	DAY OFF
If the meeting will last longer than 4 hours, the employee does not work on day 4 and goes to the meeting on day 5. The employee is paid 12 hrs. Al compressed rate of pay.
EXAMPLE 5.
DAY1	DAY 2	DAY 3	DAY 4
DAYS	DAYS	NIGHTS	NIGHTS
Employees who are scheduled to attend meetings which are less than 4 hours on day 3 and 4 may, with the approval of the supervisor, attend the scheduled meeting and work the shift as scheduled. Example: meeting 0-12:00 cn day 3. Employee attends the meeting and is paid for the meeting time. The employee then works the scheduled shift.
121
EXHIBIT C
COMPRESSED WORK WEEK SCHEDULING - Special Conditions Which Apply to Process Services Department
A.	TEMPORARY VACANCIES IN THE DAY JOB CLASSIFICATIONS WHICH ARE KNOWN BEFORE THE SCHEDULE IS POSTED (WEDNESDAY) WILL BE FILLED BY CWW TESTERS IN THE ORDER OFTHEIR SENIORITY.	*
B.	MANAGEMENT WILL MAKE A REASONABLE EFFORT TO * ENSURE THAT CWW TESTERS PROMOTED TO FILL SCHEDULED VACANCIES IN DAY JOB CLASSIFICATIONS
WILL REMAIN SCHEDULED FOR A DAY JOB FOR AT LEAST TWO CONSECUTIVE WORK WEEKS PRIOR TO REASSIGNMENT BACK TO THE COMPRESSED WORK WEEK SCHEDULE.
C TEMPORARY VACANCIES OF A WEEK OR MORE IN DAY JOB CLASSIFICATIONS WHICH WERE NOT KNOWN BEFORE SCHEDULE WAS POSTED (WEDNESDAY) SHALL BE FILLED FROM THE CWW TESTERS AS FOLLOWS:
1.	The qualified Paper Tester who would normally work days on Sunday of the prior week shall be promoted to the	9
day work schedule for Ihe entire week. The tester would	»
cover either the Monday shift or the Wednesday shift. ™ 2. If the Paper Tester in (1) is not qualified, the senior a qualified Paper Tester shall be promoted to the day work	"
schedule for the entire week. (A Paper Tester working night	A
shift on Sunday would not be eligible to cover a day work schedule beginning Monday.)	Q
D. FLOATING HOLIDAY COVERAGE
1.	Floating holidays shall be covered by the qualified tester who is on his second or third day off. If a day worker’s floating holiday can not be covered by another day worker.
the vacancy may be covered by the senior qualified Paper £ Tester on his day off.
2.	A CWW Tester who primarily works relief on day jobs may elect to take all of his floating holidays while relieving on a day job. If he elects to lake his floating holidays while relieving on a day job, he must take all of his floaters while on relief and he will be paid 8 hours per floater.	_
122
• • • •
EXHIBIT D
SPECIAL CONDITIONS WHICH APPLY TO SHIFT MECHANICS
The Standing Committee (Company and Union) and the Compressed Work Week Committee have agreed to the following language to clarify the rate of pay for relief shift mechanics who work the Compressed Schedule.
Relief coverage will be paid per contract agreement for vacation, holiday, and absences less than two weeks. When known in advance that relief coverage will be necessary for period longer than two weeks, excluding vacation and holiday coverage, the compressed rate will be paid.
SPECIAL CONDITIONS WHICH APPLY TO CONVERTING
On shift promotions may be made for any reason extending up to two weeks.
P.A.C.E. Sponsored 401 (K) PLAN
The Company hereby agrees to continue to provide payroll deduction services for those hourly employees enrolled in the P.A.C.E. Sponsored 401 (k) Plan, as outlined in the Standard Farm of Agreement,
WAUNA DRUG/ALCOHOL POLICY
I.	Fort James Corporation and PACE Local 8-1097 believes that a working environment unaffected by alcohol and drugs fosters safety, quality, service and productivity, and is in the best Interest of all employees.
II.	Every employee shares in the responsibility to support a drug and alcohol-free environment.
123
III.	Fort James will work actively to educate employees about the implications of drug and alcohol problems by working closely with employee groups and Local 8-1097 representing our hourly employees. Fort James will strive to develop a cooperative approach with all employees in dealing with the problem ot drugs and alcohol. Toward that end, the Company offers an Employee Assistance (E.A.P.) to help employees and their families with alcohol and drug-related problems, as well as other personal problems. Participation in these programs is confidential and has proven to be effective in helping our employees and their families with drug and/or alcohol related difficulties.
IV.	An employee will be required to submit to an alcohol or drug test to determine the presence of alcohol or Illegal use of a controlled substance:
a)	When s/he exhibits visible signs or abnormal behavior resulting in a reasonable suspicion that the employee may be in violation of the drug and alcohol policy. Before a decision is made on whether to lest an employee for the presence of drugs or alcohol, based upon reasonable suspicion, the supervisor will:
1)	involve another supervisor (if available in a timely manner) to verify the observations.
2)	involve the Human Resources department (if available in a timely manner),
3)	involve a shop steward as an observer (if available in a timely manner).
b)	When s/he is involved in a job related incident resulting in medical attention beyond first aid available in the mill (die only exception to this would be for a repetitive, cumulative exposure injury/illness i.e. carpal tunnel syndrome and hearing loss), or is otherwise involved in an incident that results in such injury or near miss to another individual.
V.	Testing:
a.) Any testing will be administered by a qualified company representative or a qualified laboratory.
124
Pending results of the test, the employee will not return to work.
If the test is negative, the employee will be made whole for any lost wages. As appropriate, the employee would still be subject to the current disciplinary process.
If the test is positive, the employee will not be reimbursed for any lost wages and, under normal circumstances, will be given a management referral to E.A.P.
Any management referral as a result of this process will follow standard E.A.P. guidelines.
If an employee goes through a drug or alcohol treatment program as a result of a management referral, the employee may be required, by the company, to submit to random testing for up to two years, or as may be prescribed in a “Last Chance Agreement", following the referral.
b.) Current’ threshold limits
ALCOHOL/DRUG	SAMHSA/DOT
Alcohol	.04
Amphetamine	1000 ng/ml
Methamphetamine	1000 ng/ml
Cocaine	300 ng/ml
Marijuana	50 ng/ml
Opiates (Broad range) 1.	Codeine 2.	Morphine	300 ng/ml 2000 ng/ml 2000 ng/ml
* Subject to changes made by SAMHSA (formerly NIDA) or DOT.
Refusal to submit to a drug or alcohol lest or any effort to adulterate a sample or otherwise invalidate the results of any test shall be cause tor discharge.
125
TOPICAL INDEX
401-(K) Plan.................................................101,123	A
A
Adjustment of Grievances........................................    ..41-44
Alcohol & Drug Testing Policy.......................................123-125
Appeal From Discharge or Suspension...,...............................44-45
Arbitration.................................................          46-47
Authorization for Payroll Deduction of Union Dues....,..............    3-4
B
Bulletin Boards...............................................        22	A
C	A
Call Time.........................................................16-19
Causes for Immediate Discharge.............................  .....21-22
Clothing Time.............................................    .....19-20	A
Compressed WorkWeek.......................................      ..13-122	w
Contravention of Laws...........................................    ..47	*
D
Days Off..........................................................14-15
Demotions.,.,......,.,.........................................   23-33
Definitions.....................................................   ,2-3
Adjustment of Grievances........,....,..................    41-44
Day Off........................................................14
Day.............................................................3
Employees.................................................      2
Local Union............................................         3
Mill or Plant.............................................      3
Regular Employee..............................................  2
Seniority...........................................    ,...23-24
Starting and Stopping of Day Workers...........................21
Starting and Stopping of Tour Workers..........................20
Tour Workers....,.......................................       ,3
Union Standing Committee.,...................................,..3
Week............................................................3
Disability........................................................83-84
Disciplinary Action...........................................    21-22
Drug & Alcohol Testing Policy.................................  123-125
126
E
Exhibits A-1 Wage Rates..,........................................     51-54
A-2 Mechanics........................................     ...54-60
A-3 Job Analysis Plan,....................................   60-65
A-4Wage Rates.............................................  Insert
A-5 Lubrication..............................................65-67
B-Group Insurance Plans.................................    .68-90
8-Health Plan and SpendingAccounts,.......................  Insert
F
Failure to Provide Work.........................................  15-16
Floating Holiday.........................................         12-13
Funeral Leave..................................................—7-8
' G
General Policies...........................................       47-49
Contract to be Explained..................................      48
Employee Not to be Displaced____________________________________48
Leave of Absence for Union Business.........................   .48
No Conflicting Agreements.................................     .48
Political Office.....................................       ....49
Privately Owned Tools............ .’i.......................    48
Smoking Privileges..........................................    47
Voting Privileges.............................................. 47
General Provisions Regarding Arbitration..........................45-46
Glasses.........................................................     23
Grievance Procedure...........................................  ,.41-44
Group Insurance Plan,............................................    .8
H
Holidays...........................................................9-13
Hours of Work...............................................       ...4
I
Insurance.........................................          ,....,68-90
Accidental Death & Dismemberment............................ 84-86
Choice of Coverage..........................................    70
Denial................................................       72-75
Exhibit B Health Plan and Spending Accounts................. Insert
Layoffs or Leaves...................................         79-80
127
Premiums,.............................................        68
Termination of Benefits.,....,................................80
Interruption ol Work,.......................................      4-5
J
Job Analysis..................................................  60-65
Job Openings,.............................................      23-33
Job Posting........................................       ......23-33
Jury Duty and Subpoenaed Witness Allowance.........................  7	0
L
Labor Agreement.................................................    1
Layoff Pool.......................................................112
Leaves of Absence
Funeral......................................................7-8
Political.........................................      ......7-8	A
Union...................................................      48
Lubrication............................................    .....65-67
M
Meals........................................................      33
Mechanics.......................................................54-60
Classes of Mechanic.........................................  55
Probationary Period.....................................      57
Selection Procedure,....,..................................56-57
Mediation.................................................         45
N
Night Shift Differential.....................................     6-7
No Interruption of Work...........................................4-5
Non-Discrimination...............................................  49
0
Oilers..................................................        65-67
On Shift Mwe-ups..........................................      23-33
Operating Control...........................................        2
Overtime...................................................       5-6
P
Paper Machine Clothing Time...................................  19-20
128
Payroll Deduction of Union Dues...................................3-4
Pensions..,..................................................9,91-111
Policies
Drug 8 Alcohol.......................................... 123-125
General Polities.......................................   -47-49
Probationary Period.......................................    .....27
Progression ladders......................................       24-25
Promotion............................................          -25-26
Provisions Found to be in Contravention of Laws....................47
R
Recognition........................................................  .2
Reprimands...,.....................................................  22
Retirement................................................       91-111
S
Safety,.........................................................22-23
Safety Shoes..,....................................................23
Scheduling
Time and Days Off........................................  14-15
Overtime_______________________________________________—23-33
Seniority.................................................      23-33
Definitions........................................        23-24
Establishment of Seniority Ground Rules..................  29-30
Loss of Seniority......................................    27-29
Permanent Progression Ladder Closure.......................31-33
Probationary Period.........................................  27
Progression Ladders........................................24-25
Promotion Procedure....................................    25-26
Seniority Ground Rules...................................  30-31
Supplementary Provisions,................................... ,29
Transfer Procedure...................................      26-27
Shift Differential...,.......................................   —	6-7
Starting 8 Stopping Work......................................  20-21
Day Workers...........................................        21
Tour Workers...........................................      .20
Supplemental Agreements.................................      112-125
Layoff Pool..................................................112
Mechanics................................................    112
Welding Hood Plates..........................................112
Metric Tools,..........................................      113
Compressed Work Week...............................      113-122
401-(K) Tax Plan.........................................101,123
Suspensions...................................................  44-45
129
T
Term of Agreement and Changes in Agreement................,.,.49-51
Transfers within Mill..................................       26-27
U
Union Dues.................................................    .3-4
Union Membership....,...........................................  3
V
Vacations.....................................................33-41
Vesting.....................................................     92
Voluntary Overtime.................—..........................53-54
Voting...................................................        47
W
Wages..........................................................5
Wage Rates .......................................        ,51-54
Job Analysis Program.............................   60-65
Job Rate Retention................................     54
Mechanics & Helpers....................................55
New Regular Hires....................................51 -52
Rates when Moved from Regular Job.................  52-54
Temporary Hires........................................51
Wage Tables; Exhibit A-4................................. Insert
Wire and/or Pickup Felt Time,............................  19-20
Working oul of the Bargaining Unit............................31
130
FORT JAMES
WAUNA MILL
AND
P.A.C.E.
Local 8-1097

FORT JAMES
WAUNA MILL
AND
P.A.C.E.
Local 8-1097
EXHIBIT A-4 Wage Rates
A
EXHIBIT B
Health Flan and Spending Accounts (Susmry Ptu Dncrhittatn)
4wmt
EXHIBIT A-4
Wage Rates
to 6k	S9ZIC	OWfik	OSllC	toSk	SC2 0C	OSS El	octw		oirxi	9Uflk	KCfeMp XjtKUtu
OCTis	oiCfrt	OCEkt	9«0«	W9 07	ClDTZ	ttEGZ	CWiW		OCT 61	OZt'CT	dujm0 MQuenrmrw
CWK	O912Z	ewcz	OXCtt	019*32	onsz	wzez	0ZZ9Z		CUkZ	M» rz	jowmo ^jokQom
	oo*«	W «f	6*993	0B9*Z	sm rz	060 *E	ooe a		DOT CE	6C9 0C	joawMo P*n wim
											■" 'ttiZNlft
											
OftESk	ofir at	wesi	firtzi	4«*Sk	006X1	OElGt	9?rz*		M2 ri	fik2'9l	>**qn
OrSXI	owut	0C021	OOCBl	«»9i	WBOt	062 9 k	oom		98891	Orttl	Ainm noon kM*B duo
ocm	Orta	968 91	czrtz	rem	wk	9C86I-	or* oe		966 2k	otefli	JQ4EJB0O JS0M1 Pm kUOJJ
gizei	sw«	0*1 ai	oeriz	retst	OiZir	OlCfil	M2 DE		0M2i	fivZtkZ	MNO - -C*X*0 **O
Olfftf	OMZZ	DC* fit	ozozz	KOBI	086 13	98S 8k	090'13		Kl 9k	095 W	jqMOo M*WH uau>g diqo
											' " " "	jyiji
											
orc 91	09m	SWSl	S 16*21	Wtfil	OKik	wrsi	«k-a		WH	JU'h_	jutp-|
wrw	-SfitfiL	OfitQl	MSI	ortfii	urn	t*9 8l	KZ£l		age ai	00£'2l	Mflfl
wo a	OWd	WSBt	OU'Bl	63391	08E 8k	cmai	W£l		firm	9M'£i	ttjfnn - nrtmuoQ pw ocm
04011	02C61	owflk	092 81	6391	QK0k	ores i	DMtl		finsi	SOTil	w:
oem	00803	fisezt	063'03	srszi	SWBl	CklZk	QWBl		002 9k	R661	AfMOQ »U«O **»*C
UCT81	OBSUS	smi	to 08	srszt	S886L	suti	W*1		0029k	fiEBOl	jO)MdOj«tMJi49-J»ilJra JF.
WOk	SkkkZ	98091	009 03	0U4i	9W0?	OK-31			B2911	Otl'Ol	
D€»Bl	01 riz	WKJfll	DOOM	KT2k	900 0?	0W31			928'flk	Kl'Ol	JOtMdO WOQ WOOQ JCW
ftOBl	eerie	oezai	fill'DZ	oeezi	OlCCZ	68*2 k	9106		9902k	O££GL	JOIMOO jMOiO-*V«9 »
4Z0GI	Ofifil!	ozrei	W6D3	Okl'Ok	036 03	9B9 2k	03003		SEZ'£k	resat	JQWPdO IfiOB u«O0
rajsi	09513	oxrok	6C6 02	on oi	CCS03	9993k			KF21	raei	•nw w*i
OCm	014'33	K8 0k	OtfkZ	rem	066 0C	SWBk	OnflZ		fiarii	MOI	liAjQ) *c»i - x*mco «u«io
51801	rercz	fr*$ei octai	w»t otocz	0296* _ 04061	<»l I? own	l_6k8'Bk_ 699 61^	-?aeL 090LZ			OHM	{ •6m c Hi J uapiuipii *jq»no
DkQ'OE	own								Ml'0L_|	oww	(•VMS 21W01 - XtfiMO *o>o
CHIOS	oem	9296k	Otl EZ	OH Gk	969 LZ	9Z9 8k	99k'kE		ozzei	0W03	ct*a
#irw	stocz	sziei	CSC 33	rets*	41$kf	CW Bl	DOC kZ		oom	woe	«K9j*<ao	wn
seciz	09Z*Z	cm dz	□vscz	recoz	NOTE	029 61	SIS EZ		6K 6k	026'1?	i^*ii
											wodsWsJaw oMm
pir—auiEj	<hs**e	pMwdmog		pnwidUJvQ		|an*rtiii3			pMtt^iAgj	^®*»8	
IfCHVC-fiQHW		ison-vc ~ w»		itwipc-svirw		icoriw- itfM»			IkQfkET’OWir*)		
		■iwra		**Wt3					•*o=*iia		
Mt		w				KfiE			%z		
(»n si >11,41) rv’VM’s
	1%		2-3%		2 5%			2%		3.0%	
	eteNw		Effort		EftaclM			EHaettm		EfUct^w*	
			(*1©1 -MIjM]		+4Jir£*-MliO*)					(iTUCfi-ltJIIWi	
				CnffpcaaMd			CcsTOwWl	fi*u*S»P		8*w81p	funmnJ
											
	18.210	10.070	10470	16.479	19135		16805	19.020	17.223	SQ.tH	17.740
UUitiM Sanda* Oc***	»«0	20010	23 245	20 510	23 825		21025	24365	214*5	isxnb	uses
Labor*	ia.7i5	14.750	17.130	15.120	17.560		15495	(7.015	10.805	1B4S0	16 2B0
											
FVLfWG OPERATORS											
											
Kr^Min											
Putltng Op***	20620	22400	20 200	23.170	26.020		23.760	274U	24Z35	28 280	24058 -25i70—
baacti bpm*	14.2a)	siiss	14 006	ii.Ms	2S.429		22430	15-934	MMs	UTir	
Cm«c ate Un Qp*at*	32.170	18409	22.729	rtted	Jjiw		20-555	23.7M	20 865	34 470	21-505
Snx Puferv Mrirtut	31JM	10200	niio	18685	22463		20.179	23-329	20 580	34.023	31^00
W PiftAna Auirtsnt	11.360	188*3	21005	19300	22440		10600	22.890	20J95	23 575	M600
Snr Biaa^i Ai»ljl*<	21.055	ia.»o	21.300	19.040	22.120		10-520	22.565	19.910	23 240	20 SOS
June* nmh **»«*i>	1*215	10070	10.070	18475	19130		10805	(9528	17.225	2D. 195	17.740
smiMiy	17.7DS	isazs	16.150	16.015	18005		18.410	18.078	18.740	19.540	17.245
DevlUtv	10-71S	14 730	17435	ISjltJ	VsW		10455	(7.015	1SS05	13-450	*8280
Labor*	10-710	14-750	17.135	15.120	17.58Q		10495	*7,015	13805	18400	K2N
											
^B>wr											
FMpOwOprtiB	Et.tiQ	19 389	22315	19.870	23 080		20-365	£3 540	20770	24 250	21.395
Sartor ftap fiat* Op*«ar	tt»Z30	18.965	19 710	17.380	20.205		17025	20.695	tB.180	El .225	(6.730
Jwwx Put Drtw OMTM*	14-119	19400	10509	10380	19(00		10790	18410	17.125	« 8M	17.8*0
later*	10719	147W	17.135	i 3.110	ir.sU		IS4»	IT.SI S	16 805	914W	lizso
											
STOCK PttPAAAfttM											
JWllwdOpnfcr	25 730	224M	25.305		37.025		iiito	llsii	iaiifi	Mis6	±s ted
Cokx T«ctvw0*i A	22-375	19-740	22.535	K2J5	23.505		20.740	33-975	21J00	M B&5	31.780
Cokx T«eTi. B M«l 3 mertha]	2 1.155	18.870	21 685	19.133	22-230		19015	22.670	20 005	23 355	20605
mcumomm*	21.165	18.870	21 685	10135	22 230		19.615	22.670	20 005	23 3SS	20605
Amta-iu	SRoO	ina	Ti.ira	IB 875	21083		19 140	22.130	10 525	77 790	20.110
Put* Opntcr »i 8 al	1»»5	17.415		17.550	20T35		18.295	Jf.160	10 660	21.785	19220
Pufi*0o*mr«?	18.215	16870	10 670	15475	1	136	18.688	ifi 820 “Hir	17.228	20146	17.740
Aaataant Put* Op*. #11 *2	18 .115	15080	iktei	li.rtd	1				ir.i 8“	iCSOo	ir.tec
Utilttv	17.4W	15405	rfW	15.7*0	1	iss	1SIM	iSSif	15400	>i±ir)	18 950
Lafaw	15 715	14.790	17.135	15.(20	1	.580	19495	17.015	15 BOS	10450	10280
■'	2%		i&X		25H				SJKfr	
	Ertauva		ElfatNa		Eftoctw				ElTadve	
	H/lXtt-5QMH)		low-3/31*7*		(dtlFQfi-UaiXMl		t4flip-3l»lJ06k		(4J1/D6-HS1JM)	
	au»	Cw*«w		CcaifnuM		gjmCRiBaa1	ObaXtft	CQrrjK^MW1		'Cen^wswi
1 S2PAPCRMACMNU										
Macnna Tandir«	29440	24-010	afrits,	a.w<5	30*70	t7.33O	3i sin	41.875	32.54d	28.>10
i4*fhir»Ttndar *1	is .tra	25 830	30.019	iUlS	30.760	27,140	31 37S	27.380	32316	28510
3ACk Tandtf *2	25 62S	22.785	28.470	23.358	27.13C	23.MQ	27.675	24 420	2B.5O&	2S.15O
	25,730	22 655	25 355	23-265	27025	23 MS	27.605	24.326	20.3OQ	2SQ50
Third Hand *3	22 STS	19.62ft	23.140	20.420	2X720	20 030	24.1^5	21.350	24.920	21.990
TNtn Handn	az.4TS	19,630	23 035	20,325	23815	20.636	24486	21.260	24410	21X90
FOIrtH Hand 52		itTJb	20.645	lfi.215	21.160	10670	21.5S5	10046	22.235	18*15
Fdjftri Hanan	wow	n.ws	20 MO	14.125	21-055	16.560	21.476	18.050	22.120	19.520
Rfa Hand ri		18,430	19Q8&	I®	1BS6S	1TJ60	10955	17 606	10.555	10.136
UliHM/SliUl Hand (1 * «	IT.Bli	15.415	IB, 300	16400	16^15	le.sas	19.195	10035	18.775	17445
LabCrtr	16.715	14.750	17.IK	15.t2fl	17.560	15495	17.915	15 80S	18.45Q	16.2S0
4 PAPER MACHINE										
MacMna Treat	30395	J?aA2o	31.155	77.49Q	31935	29175	32.S7P	2fl 740	33550	29.000
BtokTonta	28 736	23. WO	27 405	24.190	28.C90	24,706	2X650	25 280	Z9410 S3.670	26.040 “22386
TTlrdHBnd	awi	»niw	23 554	10785	24,145	21.105	M.430	S17M		
	7O3M	Jr.ssh	wia	ilWO	31375	16650	31.4m	19240		19,815
(‘WlHand	W8±S	14,610	19295	17.025	19.775	17.450	30-170	17 600	20.775	1B33S
UfllMSlrtn Hand	14-216	15.670	14.07b	i837s	19135	10.665	13.520	17 225	20,105	17.T40
Later*	,5715	14.750	17.135	15 12b	17.5W	1X495	17.M5	ixaos	1X450	18280
5 PARER MACHINE										
MaciMne Tender	32. K5	J&go	33,780 ®«e	ze6Q6		80460 Tft6&5-J	35415 3CL.$2S	31,160 . 2>.2CO	36 375 01.7®'	33 095 2K&19
BocfrTmcr	50.765	253W>								
*tasHrwAl*J«Unt	22-M5	aoieo	5 555	20.^5		21.355	Jttocn	21 736	15,yrQ	21.355
«a|) HaMlitt Utility fSaaagnal)	Itoto	151KB	ia«o	1O0SO	16925	1X695	19300	17.030	19 880	17.540
LaboHf'	JS.775	1*750	17.135	15J29	V.580	15495	V.9JS	J5 505	1X450	16290
										
PAPER MACHINES - RISC,										
Macftfe CtotfMff £ Staffs CttXtfnfltcr	27.056	za^sao	21.596	19.040	22.120	75.620	22nSS8	W.9W	23 240	20a»
HtwdHc* WiWMrOomto'	Hl-iST	ld.875	io.sM	17.300	20095	17,740	io.wo	18.085	21,115	16030
Machine GrotNna A SupWfw Mt Kantfar__ ,__				 _ RswirtcM-Oparitur 72"	"	2G245 18.315	1?.«0 ITieo-	w.w 10775	tffJlij 18 565 -	21.2W “19 245~	W.753 16 980	^65fl 19 630	re. Mb " 17.320	2£3« 20 215	re.rw 17.840
RtoH WC0HM1 Opart tor	17.706	10.625	(3 150	T60I5	18 600	76.410	10576		rests	17.245
9
I
	—		2 5%		2-SH		2%		3.M	
	Effect**		Effect**		EitGtfw		EffaOM		tnwM	
	(<riJQQ-341jO1)		[viJOi-jauwj		(4?1<S-»1«4*		(vi Kh-3O1Q6)			
	MW	coffipaMM	fee ft*	Me**44M	BIwU	Ca ireraaa aa	8V4S*		MW	
										
Crimper M	Cpffitor	i7.56o	18.255	17.755	16845	18.175	i».MO	10.540	14360	19 MO	16B50
UiilitifM PU	17.300		17.735	UMS	18-175	11 Mt	*0-540	18360	18 OSO	16 850
	17.MX)	ISClftS	17 525	15 465	*7.985	15B60	*8125	18.170	10.875	165S6
C*av«»*14«2PJM.	17.100	15-065	iTtti	*5465	*7,065*	15 590	18-328	18.170	1887$	18 665
Omn	17.1QQ	15-065	1FJ25	15 465	•T.frii	15550	18 325	10.170	WITS	iltes
Labor*	16715	l+Sst	17.135	tt120		1540$	IT. S IS	15-505	IS4»	iij.aeo
										
CtWVtfmNQ 0KR*7*0M										
										
										
										
										
	24 »O	21355	24 605	2186$		22435	25035	22 8B5	!t»0	ilSH
	20 055	it sad	21.475	18 056	22.015	10 425	22 455	19615	Z)1»	
OtwjtxMuU*	19 635	17 325	20.125	*7.760	20 SM	16 200	21040	18 565	21675	1Q12&
Gaaa Saatar Operator	10.925	16 700	19 400	*7.115	rsau	17.M5	20.2B0	17 805	ZOBSO	IB *30
Seat* 4*C*	18.115	18500	1SSSS	18380	rtAW	rtTW	14.4W	1T.12S	1ft BBS	1)848
OMriiv^AnA	16.315	16-160	16.775	1BMJ	10.2*3	16.BB0	19630	IF.320	20.215	17 540
Opnitr ’ CcMumar	16420	18.250	16660	16656	19350	*7.075	18.735	17,418	20.330	17W5
Otwnr-MlJnFlogr	*8715	16070	iktro	16475		*6686	10.520	17.223	20.100	17,740
Hater [NapHn)	it.iM	iJ.tMS	17.525	16465	1FJW	1S.SW	10.325	W.1T0	rii?5	10 65$
l^ct* .	16215	U.tsi	17.135	15.120	l+.SSO	15 495	n.Oif	15805	18460	18380
										
fc'Padtl										
riaii rufini* ' “1	3.375	(9.740	22 635	3)235	28M6	20740	23.075	21.155	34.605	21.790
Urnzmo Oporrot	19735	17*16	20-730	17,850	20.735	18205	21, ISO	18660	21745	19-720
Carteret Opmci	10Z3G	li.386	13110	vf.Jdri	2D.2M	V.B25	za&06	113K	ivizs	18.730
BMtavto Operator	16-420	18280	ftw	16655	10»4	ITOH	tt.736	17.415	20.330	17^36
RoHLok»w	<7-506	IS«S	17.040	IS»M	liso	iizit	14.760	k.sm	19320	IT»M
libtnr	*(7tS	urso	1T.W5	45J20		154M	ir.»is	UH!	16.450	18260
										
										
										
										
	2%		2-5S		2.5*;		2%		3.0%	
	Effective		EMCliW		EfFscttva		Eflacthe		Ettoctfra	
	H/1 JOO	-SOliUI)	(4714)1	-373I4J2)	(47102	-3014)4)	HfliOt	-373l4J5k	HMA5	-roUMt
	Btoe Sib	QvKwaaaed	StoeBto	GcmpreMeti	OtoeSto	GMVesuad	BtoaSto	Comprtaaed	BtoeSib	Cctrpwed
CONVERTING OPERATIONS										
										
Rolled Pndwft										
										
Hmim6pWTpW											
Muster	23185	20.460	23.705	20.970	24JS0	21493	24M5	21.5)25	25-5W	2!5»
Cttreicr-A*jttv	20.760	10310	±1Jrzo	16.755	Si.™	19.235	22.235	19020	22-905	20.310
Wlndv Operator	tawi	17505	20.335	17-WO	20A40	15390	H 260	i5.?60	21695	
Utility Operator	14115	15.080	16 565	16.380	19.030	16790	19.410	17.135	19.985	17 64Q
PbIMw oporaior	17 705	15625	18.160	16015	10.505	16.415	16.975	16-745	19.645	17.246
Utarer	H5 71B	U.7M	17)35	15-120	17.560	15.05	17.915	15405	i!.450	18.360
UMUt										
										
Ho.7&MS.tC0fflDl«c										
AdluMpr	23-885	st.oas	24.495	21410	35.105	22.150	26.414	22.588	ii.iJS	23275
Opwatof-JUlyBlar	21.055	19.560	21.560	19040	32.120	19530	iissS	19-916	25 240	tosmI
Utilih	14-720	16.520	19.190	16.930	19.670	17.355	20.065	17.705	20.865	1823S
Laborer	16.715	14.760	17.135	15.120	17860	1&49S	17.915	45-505	16.450	16.260
										
Nd. X * A n&imnfcw										
Minster	21 seo	19625	22.100	19 5X1	22 655	19 NO	23-106	20.390	23.800	21000
Ooerstaf-Aduslr	10.040	17 W5	20.MO	iafr^	20.950	it.Ud	21-370	<Uw	22.010	19-120
UHity Operator	16520	16340	16990	16.75Q	19455	17.186	19645	17.510	2Q.440	18.095
Latrarw	*0.715	WJ50	17.135	15120	17.560	15.465	17.915	15.605	13*50	16.280
										
Gensrat Ccwertfitn										
Oorwariina HMJft CcorttoBtar	18.230	18.966	19.710	17.396	20.206	17825	20 606	1B1B0	21.225	16.730
TOfedQteciaKKA Ctoetaitor	T6-S25	16.6TJ		17.02$	tt.rre	17.460	20.170		20.775	ra.335
Rded Qi>c«*1o<> minty	UOZU	1U.430	19.060	1DM0	16.566	17.260	49.M5	17406	20-5M	14-136
TfUGKsr: HMJh Driver	19.520	ij.wr	14W»	lj756'	19-455	V.165	19445	17-510	20440	1*055
Cor pusher	18.510	1Q34O	1^.960	16.7S0	19455	17165	19945	17410	90440	18035
Welle Baier	17JM0	15.715	16.255	18.106	16.710	16&10	19.065	16840	19.686	f7.3*5
Quid). Sttt* - Hantelecter	17.100	isote	17.825	ts4te	17.965	nsuo	18.335	15170	10.4/r	16.685
Laborer	16-715	14.760	17.136	is. ta	n.ssi	15495	17^6	15 805	,a.4K>	i«&d
										
7
	a*		16*		2J5*		2%		3OX		
	ESacBw		Eta**		Eltacl'i*		EffiKUm		Eftoc«v«		
	LArtJWwMiitoik		|*H *1.531102]		(4MC2*ysi*Mi		(41104-HUB]		(i/iCJ-ltJUWk		
	tanSto	QarTptaaMrf	Otoa Sto	DtaipMatod	OkaSrip		BtotSto		UtoStp	Cttopawari	
UMTfflNO AMJ											
WAMHOOTHO											
											
											
WarttiMaa CturtfinaJot iMd	22 8M	20*90	23*55	20.665	94.040	21.310	34 520	31.635	25255	HUB	
D»v Caanferatar	21605	*9296	22 415	19 775	22.975	20.270	23415	2D.B7S	24.135	11 295	
Barfi* LMMCoofMator	2D?5O	10310	21.270	*0-765	21.000	19339	22^35	19 620	22.W6	20 2*0	
BlfOtLcsdar	»*»	17.146		TWO	16*15	10016	i0B25	19.375	11.(50	18 925	
True** HI CoodfoslQr	tto-130	,Mi	19005	' n.Mi	20W5	I7.r»	20.500	irtss	11.113	liBM-	
True**’HL	U.WS	15700	10*00	IM 15	1980©	tr.645	20MD	1TJ95	20894	19 <30	
Latxxw	10.715	11.736	17.135	13.120	17.560	15 .55	17.0*5	15406	*0.450	10280	
UlrilldHQ											
L^nitinr er ■ du fCronjUWir	21 *a>	16635	21.905	*9.4*0	22.545	19.895	23.000	30.295	23 690	20 900	
am awn tX4w Oparatar	20.446	180*0	23 MO	18.490	214M	l*M8	2t9l0	19335	23.570	10 SIS	
Wvmw CKMiS	2»1«0	ir.rro	20049	19.215	21. tOQ	14 AM	21.509	lff&45"	22733	19 615	
Truew Ciwe**	19533	ir±w	30C20	n»H	30420	iiiiS-	30939	»M?Q	Z14M	iS'Hs	
Trw* Doer OweW	li.sii	*0 700	19 406	*7.1*5	*9895	17 545	M.M5	17.895	28890	l64»	
Carter) Tfue*ar	17.0*0	15OO5	18 380	16.200	*0815	IB 805	19.105	16.935	*9.770	17.445	
L*X»	16.7*5	14.750	17.133	16120	IT.560	15.495	17.9*5	15.805	18450	16.280	
MAimWNCEWPTCKr											
											
bHchwriw											
J ttoilvta. r»iwa«uuv rn w tap 4i	24 WO	23015	35.575	zz.se©	1«yi5	73720	38.845	»885	21J5O	24.405	
War-Uacft M»w*iHawi«)aj	20-970	IB 500	21 *90	10.985	22.030	*9440	22470	*0.825	23.U5	20.420	
Irriar. MKft (t MnttoM 190 In ■>.*!	20.SBS	10.149	21075	10595	21005	19 QM	22.036	19449	22 695	M 023	
xMoch	■**.)	20.300	ir.Ms	Miro	10-415	Si. 1M	1M75	31420	19 250	22.476	10030	
Jr.	aii*um m ■_ ww*	20.153	rf.iw	SOON	ia»o	J 1.175	'»U5	31.000	■ 1(000	"5TB6		0830
$c ttotor ttnjaiwpan a*a*i	iiM	*0710	19 4i£"	*7-130	*9900	l+«5	30396	iftlt	20 005		iZ*5
Motor	1*333	*0355	fi.Ws	*0.700	*9170	17.160		17 525	20455		8050
											
o«*n											
Sartor Orito tartto 1? Ik«<a to Olar*	BI-005	10.515	21 S20	IB 080	Z2.165	19556	22.800	*9 9*5	21285	20.5*6	
□Bar Wr MM» a >. Ofer)	20.2*0	17,000	20750	10.300	71285	107M	21.690	*9140	22349	10715	
JwriOf OB*	5 IMrttn to Komo)	10430	17-145	19915	irs>s	M.15	15015	alKS	WITS	11.445	1S.KS	
MttorCtor	iOts	13*10	19.209	17X05	H1W	if*3d	10.175	ifioi	M780	liBT	
8
	2%		7-»		2.5%				3.0%	
	CffK*ra		Effect**		Effecw*		Eftdiw		EBvcIm	
	(4/1100	'U11J&1I	(4T1J01	-33102)	(411/02	-W314M]	l*f1JW	-»1M)	(4/i iOS	-M1*N)
	B Mt S*p	Cui***ttd	Bto»S*	Cvgnam	kuK		BMn 3^	Oerrpwwd	fMtSKp	Cv^NMd
										
Mwvftcftiffnff Jutmrt erouo										
fiarior EtjtdcMWil Of*vtor	20.045	17.&K	20 550	18.130	21.060		21 485	16.955	22.130	19 525
EqJpmart Gpmor	19*36	17.145	19931	17 675	20.415	taci5	20 625	16.375	21450	10925
YartWtecar	17.605	15.710	1Q2B0	Klick.	10.705	16 506	19.080	16635	19656	17-5*0
□tvtr		14,750	17.115	10.120	17J56O	15496	17.913	<5KB	1^404"	10280
										
Olrtwra fcnml Mtec.										
hteWfte* OMnMar	18.S20	18 340	16.880	18.760	19 455	17.185	19.845	17.510	20.440	15.035
Tnjt*anc'JWV	10310	10160	15 775	10455	152*5	14960	issio	17J3J	20.246	17.640
MM artel* rencST	18.215	10070	18 870	15 <75	iSiss	16.885	19520	llHS	i6nW	17.740
W^aoe	ir.oid	15406	18 360	10200	Hil5	^803	141&5	10.036	19.770	17.446
	10.71 &	14 750	17.135	13.120	i?sto	15-455	11413	13405	IS.4W	1O2N
										
flora*										
Raconte Ctertotetc*	WHS	17.415	201i4	17450	$6ts5	U.M&	21.1W	19660	24.765	“i9iid
Fwglt P/vJiMm Olptrtnfl (Altar 1 Yw)	10 620	16*30	>9-085	16 640	19 566	17.250	19.956	17.606	2O.5S0	L6.13&
Mttnina (Anar fraoo >	17.7(8"	15425	>».!»	70016		» 4W	!S.S?3	1&745	1W45	’7.240
MtertinadaiOfnoa.)	17.W	15265	17.735	lit®	18-175	H.040	1&M0	1036	19095	16.650
Latere	16-715	14.750	IT.lU	15 iHF	17.560	U.496	17.915	15905	10 490	idlJo
MBttLLMIEOUS SUPPORT										
										
Emteaanw RlIBMia SuMfiQ										
Erwn. Raacnrea Cocrt. Ute ® m»)	22-SW	20.190	tstw	it MS	KOffl	212 id	M.SK	21635	25^95	22.3S5
EnWg. Raw** Cijwd (nt 4 ™ |	21360	18 8*5	21.K5	19 320	22 44Q	19600	22 800	20-195	23 579	«eoo
FteSyttemln&peet^r	19.940	17.596	20.440	16 036	2O9SO	10.485	21.370	16 055	22.010	10.420
niter ar	16.715	1*7&O	IT.136	16.420	17.880	15496	17.915	IS BOS	16.450	482BO
										
TECHNICAL. BEIMCU										
Precoat tevtlng										
Sorter Tstateite *	22.BBS	20 no	73555	20 785	24. MS	21.305	24 63Q	21.730	25.370	22 366
Sorter Qwlttr Tocht'iicwi A	23. ITO	10565	22.725	20D5Q	23 295	20 555	23.700	20. MS	24 470	21595
Sorter Tttfinidte B (in 3 mao J	21.971)	19.385	22.519	19670	23.080	20.365	23 540	30770	24.250	21.3BS
Stejfav* fadWdte	21765	10206	fans	is sis	22.855	20175	23 325	20.580	24 026	i>a»
	2%		25*		2S%		?%		30%	
	EW*Ct?i*		ElfedM		Eted^		Efttctkw		EJ1«*v4	
	ftnioa	-V31O1I	(41	-M1AS1	(4t«2		[MiO«		hags	-MIMI
			eus^	IGanpM«Md		<Ganp*Md	ftj* Sip		m*sap	eanwi
Santr Quail** JThirl an A	a mi	HASS	18.470	aiefts	«115	22.230	l&STS	22 070	26.005	23 355	20.608
proMM Y«d«4aien a	2UW	18870	21 685	10 135	22 230	18615	22 570		33JSS	20805
Pmcwa Tactwicw B <i«3ac»j	»-M5	ir.ioi	20085	1**00	21.^75		itsU	it	73 455	rt*i*
PicrTwnr	i£*5s	iTza	ko»	1T.0M	a>$ii	18110	20835	14170	71.660	woU
Puts Tid»	1872C	il.drt	10150	1**30	19*70	17 355	20005	17.706	«riw	H.SH
										
hvA<t Ourfth ft Dw*Hc»wil										
Qu^ty Taeindan A -	SQ.9S5	18.400	21.475	16 050	22.035	1042S	22*55	1061S	23.130	M405
QuKv T«Ol A - Comm. Fwi	M7H	18.310	21 270	38.755	2I.8OC	10 235	2Z.235	19620	22.906	20.710
Q^lly Titfridan (! - Ttesuo [ta 6	j	100*0	17.505	20440	18005	2O.950	10 485	21.370	16855	22.010	18.420
fraUy Tadl A - Gomrv Pfevi (Wi	10.735	17.41 B	20230	17450	20.735	18295	21.150	16-560	71.786	18220
Oudty	- Ttaua	10825	10-700	19400	17.115	18885	17M5	alw	17665	20890	18.430
										
MMHltfwawt										
GdM'taO Ffeacta T«*rid«A	19.110	(Sirs	iltos	1T.X0	TowT	17.7K>		i*6m	71.110	HW
CoiiisurtF Tadndari A	1**25	i4.tM	t»400	17.115	10885	17.545	20 280	17605	STbkI	1S.4&
Compvt* T«d*»dwn B (1 M3 mot.J	ttuii	10 100	16.775	185&5	10245	i*a»	10.030	1M34	20il5	
CvT^rUd Product* Tw*r	1131$	10 180	IMIS	18 565	102*5	i49«o	19830	17.3S0	MUS	ITSU
RMT«tfMdin	38.115	15980	TO 565	1BJ8Q	IB O30	15.790	19410	17.125	10996	17.840
Ufcorv	11 >15	14.750	17.1»	15.120	17480	10.406	17.11*	18805	IB 4W	lijao
										
										
										
10
Forr jamis
EXHIBIT B
Health Plans & Spending Accounts
TORT JAMES
THE WAUNA HOURLY HEALTH CARE PLANS
AND
SPENDING ACCOUNTS SUMMARY PLAN DESCRIPTIONS
Your Benefits
DENTAL PLAN_....    -..............—.  1
KALm CARE PLANS ............         .-3
tanofVCcvR Netwtfr Aon......        I
ftofawo PruvtcAw OiLMttutan..	,....... „....	... ,-....-   ?
A«m_F{pay> arrf Wtez core     ................___ I
ee^bboei^^^^^m
CLAIM DENIAL PROCEDURE*...............................................    2
APPEALING A DEMEDCLAIM.................................— ..................2
YOUR RIGHTS UNDER ERISA....................................—............  2
CONDNUADON Of COVERAGE UNDER OOttA ..............-...................     3
OWWVTK? Evwifl.........-................................           4
GMng Netefl INflf 4 COGRA EvOTt	...._._.......  _..S
9»Cftng crxl !or COBRA CAATZuoNcvi	..—.......*
CONDOR	if» Conttnuofton Aftflcxf,................... ................................. S
Ltfw> CCflT?A CorrfihuDitfon CDuarapa fneft.........,„,........... 5
QUAL1RED MEDICAL CHILD SUPPORT Q«PEH.............h..«,...h...............
FUNDING QF CERTAIN FLANS.................   „.^...H._......—....—........ 7
REASONABLE AND CUSTOMARY.........................   „.................    7
CCQRDMADDN OF BENEFITS (COB.)______________________________________________7
QTHR PLAN INFQRUA'hDK..............................................       *
YOUR PIANS.H.-.................-.........—..........—...........-........—*
ADMINISTRATIVE INFORMATION ABOUT YOUR PLANS................_.-...........  —	ID
I mm frwram
fjajjAkjIA** ,.  ............. ■■■„>..—.........	—...,,..^.. TO
//eatth Care Flam
SUMMARY —..................................     „........  „.......ID
MEDICAL PLANS HIGHLIGHTS.................  -.........................11
Pwnory core jmgFvkv* cRCfflRcn.......................-........»
ft»l*r7AdftOWlQ»f OFOOntfGflen |WPJ ffafl-.,...........      IT
ELIGIBILITY—...............................     -................. II
STEPS VO TAKE.............................      *...—............... —	12
EKROLUVCT...........................................~..............12
FORT JAMIS
COVtUACE LfVEU............................................      IB
QUALIFYING CHANCE IN FAMJIT STATUS..-....—................      12
QUAUflW MBJCAL CHILD SL*ranORD£ftS............................  IE
potiauuiy...............„„.......................——.............ia
CQHTBIUffiONS............................-....................  14
FILING A CLAIM...................................—............  14
•/
FORT JAMES
AFRAUHG A DENIED GUMM......... —................     14
RtASOftAME AND CUffOMAfrY ....................        W
COORMNADDN Of MNEFTU (C.0.S.)   —-.............   —. IS
JUUQQATIOH-...................................       IS
|chrrvj'fH> uf/Wworj Carp A'trfo'rirfc PAtk
HOW THE WAN WOW4......................................................     IS
Paefuctbf#....................................................      JS
Canturarkc*..  ...............................................      J*
ModTMJm Ou1-<rf-AjcJte* Exparu* .....................................
ArtatfleoMn..........................................    __	......M
AtMffionorf Womoflofl	......................................
irv aJ PPW Plan
HOW THE PLAN WORK*....................................................      —	IS
PwAJCWfaM.....................-.......................   —........
Ccrturone*-................. ........       .......................17
M3NTnuri Otjr-a/-Ac>e*er spawn....................................J 7
ftecwwcoiwn ..................................................     17
AQdttfcnc* RiAwnonon..........................—h.     ................. 17
PCN ANO FPO REGIONAL CLAMS ADMINISTRATION............................     17
fVMntf>T CflrgAffwflfA (/'GV; Pfan
SUMMARY OF BENEFIT*.................................................       11
Prffetrt'ti Pruvider Organization ff’I’OJ flan
SUMMARY Of StrtFffS...................................................-—.....................  I*
COVEBW MEDICAL SERVICES UNDER THE PRIMARY CARE NETWORK AND THE PREFERRED PROVIDER ORC AN UDON FLAMS....................................................   20
ArtTttJCrtC# 5WMCP..........................   .....................................   20
AuOoiogr Some# ... ,.. ,.-....................................................         20
CwnpfanCR,.	..i,...-—..................  ....................-20
ConrtMB*eW FocRA' Ca»........    .............................. ......V.H.H 20
OOOTKtf^ Jtaty, LCD. Ortf	fMM...........................................  2	f
AMcfriJ and Surpicc/ EqurnwiF......, ............................ 21
EyWErarn COW«rag*........................................................<.^........^^^2^
FocftlyCrmget ...............................  —................—................ 2 f
Horn* Kooifn core-...............................................................      2F
HetpiC^ OM..................................................    -..................^.—.22
HDVUOlCna^t.....................................................................       23
Menhd HtaWwSLtvTance Atxjw  .................................—*... -. -....23
Gccupsrwfiati'Ahvw^cf TbRicpy.....................................................     23
FORT JAMCI
3333333 fl 331933333434^ 4 332333333334* ■ : ! S ! i ! I i : J ! ? ! : t I F i : : i I i ? : * ! I ? i ■ i ■
Office HtaJ.............................................................
A^AokrAsfon fwfrig „..„..„.......................	„~.~—.............
WWW Ssrutaj,.,...	...............................
Acwinwtt.................. .............................................
J9c**dNui^ts Cos....-..-...............,.^.IWJ^........,......—.„....,..   ....... .......
Sp*#ca ihew........................................	..........,™,~
Jt^fW AmMTi. otm* Mctoocin* JbetfcEV frwrapy       ....„.™
1HV1CE1 NOT COVEBEtk UH0EIHME PRIMARY CAM NETWOMt ANO PWtMCOPWCWOTWOftOANllATJW PLAN-...............................................
|<hrrvifM' t/f Pff^cripiiun Drug Plan
f^tCriptian frup AonRla^a^sr,......rrtrr„............... ....-H<..,	.........
AiflPt Mambef^p..........................................................
MAN PRQTO»NS..^^........................................................    „
Vamj* Brond Mm* Drupi .„....H<.„.. ___________________________
Moi a«c/xk*9 0/ MoinferurKe C*ugi.....	............
toed f^QfmccY Afeno»&,.„.............................................
Cortfr&toa SubttoncM....................................... ..„,.......
ftUNC A £UUM..„...................................        ...................
neimm PnoimecY..............................  -.........................
JMort-Aiahuert FhomoSy..........................................     —
MO* $WMC*	..........................
TERMINATION OF COVfUGf......................................................
Drug Plan
SUMMARY Of BENEFITS.
Jn/foraitfrifl*far ffrulth Care Man*
TEHHNATKJW Of COVERAGE.........—..................................   -...—,
Cij|pfci!MJl..h^.....................................................
©•pandwnfj   .........................................»MM........~...H... ...»>..>.
CONTINUATION COVERAGE (COBRA)  ...............„........„......._..........
OTHM PLAN JNKHtMATTQJ^ _______________~_________________________________
AXnOTahWnff....,....>H»H“........................        ......
DENNK1OMI FOB HEALDi CAIE PLANS...........................................
AmwcrofY Suip*v Merv...............................................
AnMtfMfJcr OopM.........................................      ,„sh.h
CutWcPaCCow........ ......................—.....................
Co*w*d MeoHn Co*	______________________
CMdOnaite ontf J^£> Cncvpaa,,....................................
FORT JAMIS
fflrw/psocy AtfrtMtor*.,.............................  
fifTWjfwocvCont..,,^.______________________..............
£i7»f0HlCk CcrttfilJdr!..........................................
Hcupfca Car® A^sncy...................................
HQfctfeeCvv Foe*/)'_____________________________
/L*»cfcc*y Mcowy»~..............................-.....—....
$33833
Marra	......................................................3?
ftcL»*-H,1.,.1...H....,..1...1..111..  ........................  37
Norn^ijijpcfionc* DUkm. ..................................................37
Won-oectjpa*wnc* itiA#Y ...............................................3?
AiTpw'Coi* Wilton fJ’CF)	   ....37
&jrgHcofftDaMuie...........	    3?
FORT JAMI J
/Vf-7iur Gmj'rrbcnV’/K far Health Nan
SUMMARY..............„..—.............................    3t
FLAN MEMBEXSrtP..—..................................      34
CONTKliniCM _______________„_..„.___________________________34
OTHER KAN INFORMATION -....-..„ ....................      _M
Rpn^fKi kiniiiN...............   ,....„............ 35

l/JfgM CgrrSptfffdZrtjg^rcoiiwr
SUMMARY ..MWV~.....................     -.........................
MTTODDCHON ..................    _......—......-....„._....._......... 39
PLAN MEMTOMW-....................................   —<............
frvMfnenf«.....»..............   -...........................,.,. ,,..,39
CHANGEM FAMILY STATUS*.  ..................................— .....
coNmunoMS^.....................................—............—....._*....jq
ELJGlBtf MPENffS.......................»■......—...........»......
EXCLUSIONS ............  ■	....................................1irrinrr,Ai
AUNG CLAIMS-....................................................       41
AfflAUNS A DEMEO CLAIM.....................,...._....,......... **.„.._41
raanrruitE - w* rr on lose it....w^.....—......................  rmrrmrJi
KEMWAnOM OP COVERAGE „...„.....................-.......................41
PAYMENT Of CLAIMS FQUOWNG TERMINATION OF PAPTlCtf ATKNU ...........™...4I
OTHER PUN INFORMA RON........................................         _41
ROH A/llPfKtNA'IIlH,-,,.,,™..™..,,......      •	>■>«<»»«■■, , n.n.„47
	
untODUCTON,-.	   „		  irr				43
PLAN MEMSEtSHIP												42
EnfflOnMtf	—		 -^HriHririrt.,	_rt
CHANGE Mf ANBLY STATUS  					—. TAX COH3IDE3UT10NS				43
CONTRlBUnON&.«.H<. ™...„.,^.......„....-,-.™,^,....„™...........—...	„...	43
ElWItt EXPEH1H- 						 sn	.. .	44
NllMafLAM** 			4J
	
FORKHUPE - USE ft OB LOU IT	 ...							44
FEEKINAnaN apeovna'*"...	...				Ari
PAYMENT CH CLAIMS FOUOMNGTERMMAnONOP PARnClFAnOH..^..	..„.«W..4S
FORT FAMES
Your Benefits

Fort lunes ftrfcfe at pnywde «o izcdfcn' benefit program as jwrt cf * unal cqnpefWtDon package. This serf!Oft briefly attmUrikef ynur benefits Uli ineisdes A OirLTt with ewl and digiWity tees. A mure in-deptfi sunmuyof each taefli plan >e ihctaded facer re ihij section ofth* fuid^bcok.
DENTAL PLAN
DtnU] coverage fa rreifabk for yon and jtxr difibbedependEms TM deqcal pta pwnta corttxff ta pnrvtffowe. rptajue, major «nrt orthodontia ttafe] sSrnCcs trf rewrnaWc end cusimronf chupre-
HEMTH CARE PUftt
Ffort James olffcn wet sr urarc&xwd dtofee of rov he*!ih «w pWffi- Ttetwocteicearftife Primary C*m HefwDrk Pun md PufcitcJ Prohfls Orgmgton Pfam. Ym cyi efectto be MJTOied bysthef ofIhe tw pfan&
ftfettwrv Carp Nphwx\flqn Thjj pin. has pretftrred Lor in-networic) w«tt <*rt providers and non-preferred 1 or chk*c& fflwrt) health daft providers. The Primary Can NetWork (PCKi Pfari offers jnu Ae fledbi rity to <erf <nre from any provider you ftfat XFyoo (Jwo*s «r in-nerwoft provider, yXrr atoLpocta OW> are BEneralfy hjwtr fc» covered services. Your rubof'pdckei costs «re setwtdlyhigJkf if «a □tB’Ofwtwwi prw*r ir uatd.
With the PQ4 Plin, ywwitt establish a cotimWus r«ltfiixtfifp wf di <W defter ' w Primary Care fttyttoutn |PCT| ■ who wifi provide ytMF basic bcaifli oavWdczWnijivte your traiftncW if y*?u alscuJd nml to tee a qKcialifl. When yw PCI* cwftiinMeayrMff care, yin *nfl reeerre t higher for prafcirtdt 'ew’i ol tettfiu for tewtrod territev
RngNrtptfffaMder Qjwtntertbft Ptati trkethc Prwnary CwreNirtwk Pim, the Pre ferrod Provider Orpiuzali^(PPO) Plan h«s pretend (u-nefworl) md wn-prefrired 4 cnfli-Bf aerwpdc) health cwt provider^, fetea you uaa m 'JT-«ct.«uik. provider, )fea* oulMrf-pocket OMtr are grwreUy Lown for covered Service*.
An jiupniuail diitihctfof,i trfrfwt PftO Pfan rrthef Jam can *efc Ore *wn a s^tcfalj JT MflnMJl A referraL fre*»t* primuy we pti^icrnn. As long as )cm receive care korn m in^Ktwvrk frevidef. rren wiibcnfe a retard, yua benefiB wili be paid A the imoetwoT* tatf ta conrod service*,
ftwpttfcn Boat and Won_c<rt Both the tCN Plan and the PPO Pkn and centres* for vkioremre iBfatta'oh.yuiidcfl obtain eyectaobs and oontact rerte af di^sudtd prices ftrou^i ^oc £yeMtd pengriof.
' fiegit/uMfy fafajrnutiwi
Tbit section provides wu wiflE Iflfrrntic* on the Entptoyeo Retire^atro Irccw* Sooiriry Act (EHFSA), CdaMlidieHiOairtibqs Budget RccUfKiliahcrti Ait (COBRA] and QuAEffed Medical CW Suppvt Orden (QMCSG k
^•mhorfry H*t'i
EftlSA
ht 1974, Corjrew pufcd ERtfiA w protect ihe ^99 Fwi
Jame* Cwtprebcruret Wdfare PWi aad Tmm Cbvritfi we, fareiJ. life inaunnoe. md lot^ term diMbilitypksw), CareutuukwFin, JUnirefMrt Ptan, 1M 40 I (k) Plui are Crewifend ERISA plww.
CLAIM DENIAL PROCEDURES tt a plan boirift ter which yea* <bak you ere dtgibte n ih ieail m whnta <r m pen.	win
receive * wntjeu expkmiMi of tew nww fee due dewiil. Tlui written nottoe wiB rebate I. ThfTVeMMWftyadltrpvfcfjcur cturi ml denial
x Specific reference! to |h* Pla prtrVHiau cn wtedi the deaiat bared.
3	, Adctmpwriofeay more materia) iwreM tocwipkte pourcUni «d why it ii needed.
4	The Itepx )nu imsl teka took fa*<review efdbdadaitin.
Yeti« *» beneficiary dtodd tecchy the Mice ftihvifO (taji eta Aediim it filed. In ^aetri CSKI, *j»de n deje n altowad to *Cl cnthaclauH- tffaiiiaihe wa.ywte yw brwfciwy b* nopfied of the ream Ibr die d»L*y.
If pu e* J«» bmfiewy do iwc receive ihe MUc wifiito Ml 90-dsy poind | nr a arm «4 the delay in pfWffltnj yew clata^ Ihe cfeim can be UOMldtiul denied. Under three on.iaurliioi. you w puntedwritfat mfav pcce&rD far denied claim*.
APPEALING A DENIED CUM
If	claim has been denied, you on appeal
da ferial tad here yore clan iwfamd, If you <r yew baw^crery wret ih* ctoan id be reviewed, a uiim reqirea ™ be aihmlnail
Id itec Benefit Appal* Cbntmritcc within 60 i^yi edkr the ctKnt» denied. You <r )vw bene fan iy can requett to:
1.	Renew any tWinrenta tai are
prftinem to ta dun.
2.	Submit to die Cmaiiim* ksn «rd
im mini Ha in wrtin^ Mid iuclufa aiy •ddaicml doewnem dm reppon ynr
1	Meet nidi a quenon of dm Committee
er it* faaiyirtd npiufUlHi. u a pen at ta reww pneetae.
Vdu re jaw benafaivywiH recerw ■ wntrei redca ofibe Coumltee'i deciiioa wdhfa mp after recanting a review (O 120 daye m ^cetal eaaa). Hr Cui-amah deetamn will be find.	1
vouii cucirrs under erba
Ait membo peridpetiut»th* Fun Jcmre bate fit pIbn, yuo have cman ri |M) and pfotedMM ureter ERISA. The Mfowinf Mtn* Up ^MT right! awl prtfcettena ureter tai tewl I. Aaa Plan member you haremerred widm darpa dtti juide cuta»g copire of Bottmry phn deempttete* far «*ch plan re which ym» panicipre* cr in Mticb yw are ehfibte topenjdpn,
2, Each year, you will ■KunUicaJly wren* a twnniaiptrffiia iLtiiutmaa ipdvtock ssual lvid»l rwem. If ihov m <t tote itn fwfanpvda >n anyoffr write* pin. you will receive a umnwy of dw plant teinaal ttanrehaJ report d wdL The nan A ifcnftiiMMlar is mpared by In to finilb each menfaci with a copy oiTdiit tnfcmUKE.
3.	Youeremreincwithta cterdeeert" paper* rettenv to each plan. Three pepen brtMlirifi MiMa dWrcts, Icpl pin document*, nd cupn vf all repots filed with ta U J. Dcpartmoit of Labre. UUch u totoual fcowid repreta nd phn
WamKcrety Nw^
'OtT JAMES
dtitriptiam. Thew ptptn a? irwhbk fa yw review Ln ether the Plan Admiuifjjator'j Office <t wi» Hunton ReWAmfa bepotowh during reputo bretoen hows. You may obtain copies of tn these papers, <u nominal ctvpe, t*cn •tWIcti requret to the Pisn Atfainninlor.
4.	Once i year, upon wrioen request, you may obtainairmfiiiLiit of Ha benefits yon fare tamed to fa* under the retirement plan. If you have Mt earned 4 bwfil to tacF the bawtk SMcrem will toll you how maty more yean you must wrk to am a fanetit. This iiitoiiMin may ba requested fatten ctefewyuu.
tn adfakm to CiCaiing rights fee Han mernbera, E3USA defuieo the dulim of people	ai*
raspMAk fa the upswing of the cnqtluyuc benefit plus. These people are called IWuciariet/ Hdueifas runt perfam their ±te in the faerest of Plan mtntfan and
The law abo provides fad you CtX< b* fired m disc i iiiifafa against io prevent you torn obtttiunf a benefit w ttexamg yatr rights gtwrwttmd under £K JS A.
tf all or put of your claim co absnefit ■ drawd. you su waive a wriun explanatioi of fa ream fa Ate denh]. You have the right co have jWr d*fa reviewed and reccrnidcrtd- Utetr ERffA, yw Can tafa certain st^a to mtercc the rigta docribed abow. Ifa ranpki if you request Han aiaiials, you mat refare them within 30 (fcySr However, ifyuu here not refared the materials after abott 20 dap. tl wuid be a good idea to check with the Hm AdonMOoter to m if there are any proMernr in ®pil< you the ntoterW you	Thpi. if
you bare net rewired fam width 30 days of you request, you wi fil* renin Feder*! own.
The twrt can require the Pin Atfaiintatrator to provide the rrak^ials and pay you im to £100 fa each <hy ofdelay tail PN receive the mtBemia. ufa$ they wt m sent beerne of reuons beyond the Pfen AdmUsaratsr's conM. Or, if di or a part of your cfam fix benefits is denied w rpmed, you, can file suit rn rtite cr Federal court, or you wi ask th* U-S. DqtomnM nf Labor fa hefa if you think pis* fiduciaries ar* mtsuaing die Ptefi money or if ji m irl jni wr brim ill a i htiniml ajninil ftr nauaing yair rioter you an pt insmce torn the U5, DeyteinniM of Libor o fib ub in Fedml cwrt Any time you sue, the com win dedde *bo dntdd pay cotft co«u and legal fee Ifyou win, the court my cHfa he perenn you hen sied lb cewer these eatts and feci If you talc, ya may have to fey ttto OOM* amt fas,
If you have any qvescfaa abowi any of the plans, enact the Plan AAtUnstHSer. If you have w? qtxsfaas aboul the ukciKuI v rUfa your rights untfa ERISA, you tbould comaci the ne area office ofthePeaafaisal Wdbrt Benefits Adadrimwn, Us, Depwmut of labor, Sistod n ywtf telephone directory cr th* OivisiM dfTedntcol Altitteitoe and laquhits, Pewwn and WeJ&ra Benefits AdiiiawUtofa^ CJ. DipaiLjJinil of Labor. 100 Cunaiitotwa Areme. HW, Wadw^ra, D.C.. 30210.
coHnmM'riON of coverage UHDE A COBRA
U refer Ute CcrtooHdated Otffiibua BadgCI Recencitiam Ad eT 1985 (COBRAJ, you, pjw apouiQ and tfaeifato chdtfau tray dee! to ten^orarily watirnc oorerige taxfa fa tiohh CarePhns, Deufa Plan, and Healthcare Spending Ac cowl b* ccrtab hmaia.ii where uunuagL otherwise worfd aid.
It^rv^uls 11aided to COBRA orfaaaafa [qualified benefinaritok ire you, ywr rJOto*
WunHcfS Papi
FORT JAMES
and yw d^tndtm eNbHn	me covered «
to time ofi qmWyra( cwm. la iddraM* daM Md ta ben to jnu OT edrtfwM Ur placed far efrfrtioi with jov to COBRA !iimm period a ateoa^aliMtoaficfay. The COBRA provkhat»toa Kction i!m> apply »ray HMO trfierrii tewjh to och^afly.
OMttWEwiB
If pw esiptymest tenUMto for *’5' maon other ItM four nniawdBdtCri'j^ir tan worted we reduced » toi j™ Ptan cmnfe terminuea, you and jw umad depentats may omiiafa medico* ww under fee Ftei fcr <9 to 1 * martfe
Ifyaiftoa^loyve) afauldda, become dinned or become BKitJcd to Mabcoro, ]W ownldepMdeett whot* awdoi cmmnce unto the P to iMDuld be reduced crterminited map wndett mdial wmape unto the Pto tol^toJAmctou Ato.yuto etMrtd dttoui may eertiiaur mdtoal Eovoege far up lo M mundia «to they «>	qtoiff a*
ctnwed dependam unto to ara of to plan.
Certain eventi my extend an I 8-mooth COBRA Cwrtaotoiori period-*
* If your tontoiiiioexpertoMutoeond tfooliJjru| cvenl vtdPH dw uigiual 1 R» nnh pDttd, they (to not pu^miy extend to COBRA eoantokm period to W io an oafatfafa 18 monto (to a tooJ of q> radio tan du origiaal qualifying overt);
• If you (to empjpywl became etatod w Medieaat while anpboyod (awn if it *w not 4	«O far yea cwod
dcpatotttx htcauto totr coverage »w kO lerta imhaadjaad then a Mctnl qualifta event (nnh ** yu» tenmnadon of cmptoynwtt) hoppeaa witoo I8 motto
)w topeadnta toy etea COBRA nrrtnirrim to up u J6 nunto fart to toe yon beeaine eafrifaj to Mctowt-
• Ifyouorym depended trtod>lad{ta determined by to Staal Set-uily Admtktfiracfai) cw to dale of to quahfying nut or it any tn* toing to fra 60 daya of COBRA ctoumlion eciwa^ meh qualified beneffciiry iwhetor« not toabted) may extend COBRA cveriautboH ttwi^e to to tn addtonal 11 nwto (to a tool ofep to 3» manto). Ta qualify to	diitbfliiy
ctttnsiciu ihe conpany nwi be notified af toftnM'atoibilityi&ui bodi aritoi W dayt afto fte Social toewtry Aiibihiy detowumrian u tinwd ito betor to end afto etiginaJ ttomxth OODRA nntinwCian pcricxL Abo, if Son) Seoxiry tetonum toi to ^totod tofafcmy t> ap fatter diirtlul you me required «> KRiiy to ponptny within 30 dtyi alto toa tefafTninatwn,
topertcjii XciK J/o wemf fltwfytof rw»j oonn *f day *w Arfaf tor JP-muto todMttiy chMtoMria*period, tow each ftoetyW	v Wf topMto?
mavfaMrrcrmWCOdRx eovrrafr/w J nwrv jnooto, jftr o tori qfup » Jtf motto Jfam Jto tomtotaofl qfeMpfaweor or nototon m 4 utn cfMpJbtwtM
The bw cequim tfai ccntotonn of cowmb rifita fanlar to toot Ascribed above may apply k> rtdrteo, ipnuatA «d depondmui if to oomptfty eommetfan a haniinqrtey pMoaedsil aid toae infcvitoata loai eownge.
Okwa Hoaa Thl A COftA E»rt Hll QroffYTd
To faahfy for COBRA iwitoaton won driome or leu ofaehitfe depeotoa m&d
WrnfaltoriT to**
fOlT JAKES
under Ihe Han, jtw wt required CO notify jour Ffiu Ad&ttfl^utcv cflte divorce or lost of dependent sum uriihiis 60 days of(J» kier of the ewttror de^te j)m indiridM wouM lose ccvffla^ wider the Ptari. You will (hen be cenCkttd With ErUfrwtioiS fee etHHnrwrlg yWJt nedml owerase.
For Other qctaifyrrixrrffTWiifyour enplojeiietrt ends, jeer toons are oedticwi. er «?u tear* entitled In hfcdicari, Jem *iM be imumlpJ with i'tuUn*JMH ibr Gcmtrmiing j*w roodicsl coverage. In the rvetfl of yotr deiVt, the company win notify jar cohered efapenjents how to commie rnodic*! axng?
You must also notify ytntr Plan AdMinistretor H a diwirce Or lot! of* chiftft ttepondent SSHttf occWi that would extend yvUt pwtad of COBRA covpuge.
ElaSiaaBS-BltfllffiLSQBBa Canfriuation Ctweraqg
Yau Wwiicr year covered depcodewtr must cbw« io Ccntitoc coverage within 60 days ■ter ihe law of (ho fotewint duet:
* The data of the qualifying cx^ei, nr
v The date iteoon^aoy notifies ynu ahdiiw yvur cwrrrd jtapRkjcrSaofyTOa right to choose tn eormte cowrnge u i result of Urqwifm’jcvwl.
ifyuu decrMr&Nerian prongs, you mwji pey Dh tatarfad premium Ottoding oil premiums due but tot pvd) witter 4^ <!»}» alter }wr deepest. Thereafter. COBRA pruriuriia rratel be paid within 30	of each dte	The wet of
COBRA oerverage is 102 petowu of Hw Ml oojt of PCaii ^werapt. Tte ftsi of Mrtwp for the i 9th datogh 29lh rwndn of cuven^ under tfc disability ntewoocs IJtotoftte-fiJl rtst of coverage. except» provided below.
If a second qualifying tvw* occurs during tfre first ill crwfltfiiofCovertgc. thr 102*4 rata qiptici wife luh 36 iwutteev«i ifthe ttrfbriddl is di tabled, Hrrwtstr, ifa seexand qmlifyaig even* MCim diving the othenripr appticablB dhabilify ekkmion period (that ■>, the 19th through 29th rnonhl, (ten the 150% nte applies to the I9di dvough Sdcbraonrloof the COBRA Hxituwicn period
tfyuu eJett COBRA eprqiniiattcai buitfini feiFto pay d* premium doe within the initial 4 J^day grace period, dr ynt Aii to pay any mbacquent prcniiuni Within JO daja after 4k date 4 ii dpt, tow nvmgc win be terminated reTwach'uefy io the hst day lor which timefy paynm W mode.
If ccwwage under the Plan is changed for urivc Rnpbyees, tha wne d»nfM will be provided an hNfridiafy on COBHa commurtta. Qualified teneticiariei uko w«y change tteir downer elecrinaia during the annul ouiuftrunt teriodl w if a change in usnu OOCtn.
When COBRA Corrthuadoo C<MraO6 Eflda
The cortirnofd medical coverage far Jury pencil will end w^w> ite fim pf the following occurs: " Tlw appl xabh cmtuMUDOn period ends, e Any required (Wenihis) for cunCniwd rovenecHnrtpaidwttw 30 drafter it 1$ due-
- After the (taw COBRA Is elected, the person tecomes covered ondet another group medical plan (u an en^ivyae W otiwrwue] that dad not cotaa «n exclusion or lirnnation affecdnflte persons prteniirihf nxiddmi, or the other plan's pfeexittt&g oOTtditiiMi limit c* wtijriert does vol apply or u «bsfcd teause of tl* WPAA ruki,
*WmHaw*r ?h*e3
roar james
I i
I
•	AfertodiMCQBRAiittecMd.te qualified feeueficw/y ernolllin Medicare, (This dfra oat spptyto atar qiuMed bcnefiCuna i*tei *n rfa< cradled to Medina.)
•	fit Ite tase «ftte I extended period due eq • dozily, there tea teens (toll tifUHItntMta uadto ite Social Security Act thal yen eft no tanpr (b tabled
•	rawbonissfd dddm adopted by«r
placed for adoption with >ra (tte CMvIotte) during >w COBJIA corahoatm period, ibc due jouf COBRA C*<TtiiM»Ma period ends.
• The congMSy wmdnucs medical UMime far ail
Contact your Hl Imputing* te- further detail*. Alps, if you or jejut ^cnse fsn'< cter^d jKM address, please ntttfy jtw COMA •dmcunrwM- wfirae «Hre* can be fcwid w the prettnufti bwcHee.
QUAURW MEDICAL CHILD SUPPORT ORDERS
The Mattesl and Dental fans are req tired io provide tenelta to your dependents if cither pl*n faeciiraa "qualified mcdfCaJ child support tr<br' C'QMCSQ*). A mticaJ chitt sqipcri crdtT «* an Mtfcr lined by a Cttlft or by U adiniifalialhL agency pum^S to rtkie tav directing a participate to prc»**fc health marage for an (Utew	dependent
child, even if d» participant istteowxmrtodte parent. A wadkd thiM report order erutfl Satiny Utwn qtfli Gearicn xqutemaite to be a {JMCSCl, The wbrr nunt identify (he cted who i* the "aJtcraatr recipient" ofteatt twelve and drwrlbe Ae Tjpe tnd dwvtei ofwera^, GttanJIy, (M orta imy net rofuirt the fan to ptWnde tentftts er atyhtncA) eptien net Othciaiat atailablt tnckr tte Plan,
Any paJrtKi* mad? by tte Plas under a QMCSO io reimburse as ahxrnafc nripieif a Rtodcal <xprates paid by ite reciplrau, eumdial pftrtffl or granban, rats te paid to inch Mfridiial, rtoher than to 4*e participara' ^Hplpyet,
Ttefan Adranismtcr wfll tiorifryra rad tte twtta or curdian of chiWfra rawd id an ofifer as alternate iwr^iejiti if the fan rxocrvtS a aediad child export «der teltfrig to one or Wt of you tkpendeot chjkfren, and n111 provide tec* party vtih a rapy of Ae fan AilMBklwrajr'i proraduta far iwtewing each OHlcn. The fan Adruumtv wiU detmtoK, wTthiii * twtnaUc taae, if ihe tader ii 'tfiMdifed". 'f cn«n& rac> depaadeaa tbili u trprescrnadve of th# rhrtd »iir be tncifed ofite dadSMA. tftte Plan Aforaitatoor telti umu dtel n Crder is ^iiah^nL. the PUn Acteiaittnicr trill make snangetmxs 6r ttytAtocw in d* Ptui of any atemue reciptaa named in cte adder, IfyMLsnncAtyarbCTpkro inlte fan. Ite ottier tray roquim fat you c«p]l in tte fan if apcEMary to «teun wnip fcr tor Stomata r^torent.
EUNDXN6 0^ OlfalN MXNS For larftta wKwwtaw fa r»f>-HMO metical *r4 JsraJ plans. AJtteugh tte pints *ri 11 uffiteut. tote a&ninjrtcTed by a tod party, Fprt teneo aactams tte financial mapmnibilriy tortterabensau.
MIAOMMU AND CUSTOMARY
BMJonablc and raHomary ntoata that Ute Plan ■ etoiiursc you cr psy yew dxM*» bcepiCd, or demist on to basis effes gtwrlfty charred to yv ent far wrote services, consider^* eompKcadras and ipodaJ
Wnwlharh1 fate
FORT JAMIS
eircisTStUlca with respect to toe pu Fuiucd jpvtti or precedurci..
tf you are advised that if* amoiw parged c UMds the resKVMble and customary charge, you should firsl cheek with yuUf doctor trr dcdistfo see > f any mutual c it Ctons4to«i WWiut the >ddit>oaal charpr*. Ifife is U* cue, the Chiins Adntinteuawr abmdd be ndi Red ft* fortber review of your don.
The Pkn will oct pay ojfts that are determined, *fler review, to be over ud above the rcaambfo aod swCwnvy d»TPJ. V-mj will be rwpmribJe ftr payment of th* ptrw of the bill.
Vcu may wad to detcn^sK tf toe provider's charge is rcumble tod cwtamiy by cafftng the Ckin* AdnuraOator. To do this, haw juju provider ifanfy the cpt-4 cofe and ib« zip ocde m ftfiidk ttws*vioe win be pertained. The daitm Adnumslrator win uk das LirfcrnttlKn to identify if the prWrtder'i charge Li cels the rtoscvoMe aod customary 911 defines.
The reutuble and cwtomary fe&nae of jour pUa easarei that you m not ovtochvyedta-any soMca. b toe bong ran, Ora* feature ihwJd idYC your Fton tfctara, wfachcan fcn be med 10 yew advantage,
IfjcUptrhcipeir in thePCN wtoe FFO Plan, lie Reasonable and Customary prevision ^rplia only whui you seek cue aul^Urutwori. liFnetwk provider v* to charge pre-svpzlKfll rwtoa 'Die Dw«1 Plan *li> negotiate* foes with particrptririg dental preside?. Reumble and Customary prcMstom do not apply when ytn use parti'c^tting dental provider*. ifywptsnto UK ■ mn-participating dotal frwi fcr. )wj nay check oriU) pr Cl*kw Adrintarttur tn Item what the retacoobl* and co3*crnary rates an? for jnailar services tn ytjto area, btemst the Plan
win only ttinfounc you a fixed percentage of this amount.
COCRDINAHW OF MNEFTTt (COS.)
Vour heahh earn and dental plana Mordimte benefit pejiuolU With any ether pwj care ptan under which a ptractam or deptinfcrii is covered IfFcn James U yew primary ipaye fim) tnwrgp, the Plan will pay U* usual bcuta. Jffert l&nvsij yotr khtAtj (pays lecordy ctrrersge, put Plan will pay rU usual benefits mints sup paymmta node by the primary phn. Zfo»p»iw 4* /ro <W ovr Abe rvfnbvrte 00 jrftrtrr Am ft wuU ltjv»ptt^ if u Aad hem primary.
To lad cum whether ibe regulv benefits under this Man will be reduced according to toe ptevisiont of CccniiiutioH of benefit!, the ctder in wtueli toe wicospltod will pay benefit* must be figured. TN» will be dtsc is follow*: I, A plan with m njtes for cwyrdnalicn with other benefit will be deemed to pay in beaefftr before* pta ii»’ ccttwrw rdet
2.	A plan, winch Wwrs a pem ntoSr toan u a topendent, will be deemed to pay ih beiefiu befort * plan that coven the indhidiial 13 a dependent-
3.	Except in the cak of a depenteat dtod wtage parents tre dnwrced or separated, the plan which coven the child as a dependem of the parent whose birthday comet first in a calendar yw win be primary to the ptatr which emert to# CJtifcf ■s ■ dependent of Ihc partM whose btrforfey ocotn liter in lb* eaknrtar year. If the other pLu don rtot h<vc ftia pttovtswt regarding birthdays. Aen the rule forth in that pfin win defontiine ftw order ofbeneflu.
4.	IndtoeaacafidqHfkdenichLldwhMe parent* are drwjeoBd or toptraled:
WaanaHourty Ptgcl
A.	Ifibereis * ant decree which
cmhlttbod financul responsibility fir ta medklL deatil, or other heaMi cwt •^ponses »idi tapea ta the child, the benefits aft Pitt which ccvti^ ta ■child « defended of the pwerrt with ndi franc ill rarpcwibikty dial be dawmined before the benefit* of my other Man which coms the child a* a dependent child-
B- tftare is no each owl decree, tan ta following rales
■>	If ta perra with custody
oFfin child h» na renamed, (he batefa Oft- Plan whv± CWCK ta cHM as a tkptatent of ta pared! wife custody of the child will be dtfemioed before the bewjfra of e Pta udich etftcn th* child u a dAKude&t ofta pajt>h witaui CUSttuhr-
Si)	ITtttt pares! with custody
ofta child ta remarried, the bencta rfa Plan which onrara (he child u idepmdcol of the parad, with catody thill be taermtad before the benefit) ofatan whfcb covtra tai child as a dependent of (he iHj4>uiLid. Tbt benefits of* PUB which flOWra that child u ■ LkpenJcnl of ta rlcpparant will be iHauiuMd befert ta beaafae trf a Plan which owm fatcHd as a depadm offte pimt withMt custody,
I. ff), 2, sod 3 abort font* establish an □rdo gf |h)hkiiI the pfaa wafer which the pWron Wbccn covered for ta longest will be deemed to pay it* benefits firm, except that
5- The tadfaciti. plan, wtueh^ovomhe perscwi m afoidoffur retired enwlayee «r (hedepentbrnofnchpemn, shall
be determined after du benefit! of «iy other plan which wen such powmu an employee wto is not hid-offew retired or a dependent of tuch a person.
U. K the other pt*> bod mt have a pnnisHW regardieg an arwloyer who is laMhcff or irtiraj. and u a result, cad plan detefmoa fa benefits ata toe other, Then ta abow paragraph will not ■w<y
I. ComtintUicfl coverage: tf■ person Mtoae covCn^ b provided infer i right cortanuibcn pumant to federal er law ata is covered mder another plan, the folkHritt* shall Wie uder ofbenafii detrnunarirjoj
A.	Pint, the benefit* of a plan
C^criug perwo ju m cmpfoycc, monbcT, or tubsenber (or *■ fist pcrMmidejradeetl.
B.	Seocttd. the berwfiti underlie conti ntta on wvtnge.
I. Nfr-fcull Automobile insurance: Natali ndomcbile inpnntt wi 11 ilwa^ be Goopdctcd primary wider du* Plan, regarilefi of wbafaer yw chooK yow no-tatlt cover am » be secondary fimgh yew Momobtie policy.
The coordinmnn of benefits Astin aid! in ccntroll ii^ the total oosl of jw Plu. wfseb hdps si siv*dollars.
MMOfiATIQft
If i cowrod penori eu flbro < bos* or injwy and the lou or utjwy ■■ caused by the act or wowut «jf ■ ftrt pwly, toe Ffon, if it to efecto, hat a right to roww bum the third party wry medical jjajmmns ntae to (be covered pmon, ud the ccweaad pemm sgreesVy ta acceptance of Mcfi payment! tax file Pitn is entitind !□ rcfmbuneinenL
The Plan *tal I be	to all ta cowed
perKB1! right wTecw™ and ray proceed, io

FORT JAMIS
ihe exKBi puntad by tew. directly a^uns dw hW perry n> receiver such pcjmatt*. AheiTufi*elyh the Flan steJ) be nbrofatte re Ihe cxlcid of fta payment* to Ar pramb ef tfiy eculcmcnt re leduvwy which ite cv^red pptQfl nay lave e^umi ita ihhd party. Such on election by tte Men dull create tta reituch reseeds to da orttw ofite peynoui made. Miidi licet thcJl be enforceable by the Ptan to the octoit pcnttiUed by bw.
When nere limy, the oovend paeon dull ceecuM end driiw any docunem itei an required Md do wterew ttee U required for tbe Plan Io aiCtae iu RthrogatkHi righb. Fort James CcTponiicn raiybri^imyaetiai tader (fas rereiaon on bcfaH of dte FIm.
For the purpoMf erf&c Pfonb eaerefee of <ts lights of lulaugSlMn ot iluiIhjumjM ISrfa-ttm provium. "ccrwrcd pOW1 shall mrei any pcrwri receiving meh paymente irwludreg th* reeotsor lepl auonfreatofoeevern thu the injuudperecn b a rrtnor, reite heH. bdmtoistnttn. w Mecum o ffte esdle. when eppKcabre.
OTteEH FLAN INFORMATION
Y(n baairl plan* ar* aAnnblnd teoy£) the Hanan RMOureee Deptrtnom of the Qejwiitton. Fbi*/ ddrmiirfM qfrf teru^Lti utf fr* ffudr m oxrwidfKr with Ar tppfcobfc pEb«. Fore Jiw* te n^tmered ro ccavter dtrerafon A Ar iMctpreretto* of*W tfreu qf pteu and J»cb dtHTVtfoirefr deftrmiMfou regajyfJ^g pfan Ferner <*W idqpftJfqysW f* tendflf spot aV Xwrta^Mtj Fchtf Awre re^rev Ar nfth1 to c>wtt£« or tcHHj^oie Awptefl j er *ty Amc at Jj ratasr A? Jtrtw	t>r j^sveirreyi
regureUenq/ArdreqfretPeiweoj, re Me» pfaVjb? d jnqp qf d^pteyees c^wrpf idder a
VOUH PLANS
The mifEibere for idetsifyin# yatr ptans wares of two pretx the iderttifadnt renter essifntd re tte Canpaiy ipwnar (5&4B41173) *M a pten nwiber Ruifned by foe Conveny. Ttew pten tmmten red otter unponMi iiifaeiiiinn cat te found in fte teOdwtof hcmnl
Ftei Jfrmre rfrnnwerrergfte Woftire Plan Tte Fret Ims Ccayrrthtnsive Writer Plat teidi jwr Dorel md tfalih Cre Plus.
Cltena AAimbbufcwa:
PectfcSouree- PFO«jtto9 MS36-6K) PttlfcSai« - PCN (Gtaup ?] OUS (Group *J5W»>
FtanKunfoei;50l
Pte> Vrer tefluwy J Id HuxuAj 31
ADMINJ5TRATTVE INFORMATION ABOUT YOUR PLANS
Planlprmeor
Fan Jam Corporation 1650 Ute Cwt tad EtatetL ftinois MWiJ Telephone; (SL47p 17-W00 E.r.N, 34^lteSI7J
PlanAdffitoltMtor
&*mc u Han Spcracr
CwH»ct Director, £n?ltycc Benefit*
Rart tenet Caepreibon 1Q5o lake cock Road DuuJdd,ltajia 60013 Tete^«xie;(*47UI7’K»o
Anwnt for Soeta of Larer Proca« CreytCHtc Cnmri
sane »dAre U PUn Spreaw veoainocicM mrf ana be serrad upon the rm (wntrforrstw
ItaeHariy
FORT JAMIS
Benefit APBMHCafnrrtiqpq ofo En^tayee BcaeCiti Dcpartrnait Jtoft Jaws Corporapm
PO Bo* *9
DotrfieW. rPmoil 6001J
fr/WJff Jh'.KTwnt Prrtgrum
EjtMtd provides ■ num doccwd pregrem far jou®*d jdweHgfeb Ajtutkjiti who ire «*erod irtfer i Fai Jana hsaife can pint. EfcMnfh nctwot awnttorLen^ndien loctoKto ** »«* ret it my to obstin * dare ten prior io recemn* service*.
Te rem** yew diacoueaed virim m>pto viait fee aeaml EyeMcd lomni wtd praot yto EytMad Tt> card. To And fee emeu Loca^oV d (8D0) UbMteWKlatktrttyBMtd u|Numllijve.
ew Eamtiffiwv
Eye EufefemawaivcavauJ under )«i Fto< Jamee Health Car Man. (Sot Samrytf Beneftul
btctadtto wife ycur EyeMcd ID Urdu a booklet e^fasnOg At EyeMcd stow dBoosH piopm P hue refe to fide fewk let fort MwiBiyofeyewon dnowm
Hftflfh Cun1. Plant.
fiWrai> Core Xowur* flm. Pn^ferrW Pwtffp OtfMfaafeM Aar.
fbngf&fn
SUMMARY
•	GontoSjebGfhaonfetEmdtyoldw month fcUoMng pw uertoymn duo.
•	You iwur «nrall far bcaM wa wifefe 31 d?fl cfbccownnga bmrfn-etijible
eoiptopre, within 3 | dtps of eottm wun ar fering fee ■nimri Opee
EnraOmeat pwiod-
• You cm choose bermcn two difirins keett cere ptmr fee Primary Ore Nerwcrii Ptai nJ fee Preferred Provefer UrtMiXiritm Plan.
» Beneflu inetufe <xHonfs far prewuH etre.
■ PicKFiption Drug Ffen end discaunf pnCTtM are andteMe.
• There to a eepome deductible md Ctariw Adnntotrua fc> pcoocripfeto dn* CWl^.
» Co-papm do nrt jo KWtrfe meeting the dediiCtiMe v fee rmaiomn «motp«fcc1.
MEDICAL PUUtS NlCMLEGlfT^
Fwl Jarae oftn ym a chows of tw nadkll cowif* option*. The PrnryCn Herworit Pfan and fee Preferred Piwder Orjauutw! Ptaureeflbredeian iccatiocis, OenenPybtK majority of j<w muhi.it catt) are pud by fee Pltn ro pu eiednl cww duu eol torant a burden far you and )vw fam ly.
Pr^w> Ciw Nffiwrt fPCMi fun The PCN Phn ta bufe M tiwfnok nfttocton, top Sb. and otfwr tollh care pmidw a^u to provide Krvket to plan penkipmu at ■egntoMd rare. There rem ore often bek* fee maJ rare thtijid b similar icreioti by ptijtorivH to )W IKL
Urafer dfe pfen, )<M are be to viisl any peevifer yw feoore anytime yet* need eve. However, your teve) of ppwige viriaa fepcndsg on ttiicdwi you viart piuvidsa who arepvtcd'fec PCNPhutmwirt to nor. When yw deri pale e network pewdito to be yew Primary Care Phyiiciwi (PCPI and yrrftinair an pout an	henrtiu, fee Plan gc^ally
Wevw Nbnly N»lfl
FORT JAMIS
cover* 80% pf digitate nprowt- For Mtne ■cnr)cet.frenknpw lODKtfdigAle npenses, after * S JO w-pay.
Ffjwu droce tovifil m ',cro-ofirKtW<*l’ provider, tte Pts /aerify rover* JO% of jour etagib ItTrowMble and twtcwwy eapeniM, lite- yan med a 1250 uiul tadivafal) ctethttihle,
PrtfwreJ PmWw OnMnUaton IPPOI Plan
Like the PCM Piro, (he PPO Hu fe fait »• K*rt of tecta*. taptail, nd after fata care provider* who agree to provide eentaro id plan ptitidpam re aepdaied mh. These rroea are oftn below Ite ttsml Ma charged far ttfnlar eervicea by phyaaciaas in yw area. Under ftit plan, you are tee» visit any provider yew cteroe anytime pu need care. However. your level of coverage varies tepciMlag en whether yno visit providers M» are pan of W PPQ flan ■rtwjrt gr pct Henrover. unKke the PCM Piro, you do not need 10 desigsue or ree t Prinwy Cere Phyiidan in rodet Io receive tte Mgter ■■ nef mk btutfte The Flu generally orocra WH of your eligible dtpenaro. ta anna rervieet, the Han pays 100% of digitate cipoaa ata a I III Copay.
ff you choose ta vijn an "an of nrra eta' provider, the Ptan generally covtn of your digMe nmnahle CMdcuMimafyeipeMro. ■Acs you meet a JJSO animal individrol rod J?5C family detasitta,
ELEC1A1LTTY
Yw ere eligible to enroll ei sty health care plan offered in jero »ee. on At data you begin wwtmg roe betrefin-cKgfele employee offal Jasna Yon wan* ernJItai aytawwifbaft 5l days of year debility date
You may alio ehocdeocrnge far ^Wdigthie dependant, Eligibtedeptndnt) include: • Your eporoe; Vuwrpcrac will galifyu a depmtam only if be er ste is n« enroiM Ite coTOfigt rodfr any other tat Mme*' rpomered teaM care plan, ca is not CJj^iulby* aaMmh-e hugasung agrocmeei w «h>cti Fort Jutes ta a parry. Yow tpw 4 mi aligM* if jesa are fepliy ■qaiatel er ycW manage hu been arumllBd.
* Yaurdiild: Thn inctelayduf IkCural age. or a legally adopted child ftt» is wider IA yem of egt(whefta oraot Ite ndcptai ta bewaic final |r a rtrpdnld or tfta child wbotarodn' 19 yeanefagn, wtedcponb on yw ta riw®n rod live* with you in a reguJar pereiirE-chddrelatkitth*.
>. EfeftblecNIdreHltaadrotQuaUAad MedinJCNM Supgwl Order They wift be rotcred ifarequMfr ttedtaot i| imdr rothn )l day* eftfetsnanevoffte Qualified Mtttal CW Snppon Qttar. Otherwise.fterocHtaeri ratal went fertta itKiOpro Bvoibneet period feld m OctobenMoronftcr »ift cmnge effective (he fallowing January 1.
« Yeartapendrnrchild(ti definedabovej; If yew child la between the age* of 19 and 25. ud tf the child ia « faH4iine tfndtfit and ktapWa solely <m you far aroptai-.
STtPSTIDTAKt
MevUtvrfoueroge c noraetoma/j'e tfyoai vrorf teteiW crowpgefte .tmwwy'aW^mrjfaHUb'. ,wtf fnaiff rwmff m <t pfao to te rororod. Km tew Jf ddW JO flwpj offer _H» tartar or daw a froJfciag rvptt If you min He desdtuK. MS *U1! wttU rotif (hr o«t EnroJnair^torf to ewroffffer rtr/cd/owig co inter war.
WsaaHewly ^pll
FORT JAME 5
ENROLLMENT
To an* id ddc of he health care plan, you
■	nd radon it to HR Ogursnas. You wiB abo mod w icugteta a hn « ugpfy teformton abac dependents d« you nay be enrol fag.
Yeo vd yOto eligible tkpunJuiU nwy *i*o enroll &4nr^dic*RniBlOpa Ejuulbuwrt pmod bdd cw> Quinta iTJuwutou with joBr election goo* in» effect the iWtowfcig Jamatey I. Dang Uto Open EmitaisB pnd. you may change to a dj Fboa n*d>t*l option, if one h .torifttafa, If SOU de nor mate * mw «fciTain during the Open Brrelbnem period, yw aww wiB eemain unchMpd.
Ifywire wtacttvetyu *wi<fartog iht Open Enrol Iman period, jw my me change to a dffcrort nodical plan option until you JIM io wort. Wten you return to wodt Edhtimc, you may cfauigc to < diffem* niabcal option teing th* frp » dayi fcUowMg be date jw iwra u> wort,
•	N« pawn nay be eligible frberwfiu both at tn enpteyw and ar a dependent or »* depended of inn (hm one oaployee.
•	A dependo* camoc beocme covered wine you are ccmrM.
•	IfjAtaarenhtTodtt (he same year d»i you are termnaM you wil not be aUowad io i»<jMCil in a health care plan until (he WkmujJimmy I,
COVERAGE LEVELS
tf you atecl ttwrrage under any of the plane, you teweii:	""T
•	Eng>luyccan)y
•	Employee and (ptttaa a Employee and child! tci)
•	Enqikoyvoand kmOy
qualifying change in family STATUS
Cwreol tax law pvwte yuc tan chaagng jw medicai eteeticn (facing a Calendar year, ■nten you haw 0 tpiaJifyuig chnge n fsnaly otaiua. If >«r family iWtue change, you will Im abb ® *op or add dependent). Howrm, you eund awitoh pteM. A Change in family torus inchata:
•	Barth of achHd
•	Adoption of tchiki
*	Ywnarrtav
v Yow dnt>te <* legal Mpxmwn
v Death atf a A-puakm
• Oange b» yev	tufiu
« Ctnngce in your apouKY heahh ove cover igi doe to (he tw or aid effete or ba engdpywrL
If any of ftete eventi osar. y« itotild noiity ynr HR DepanncnL The cfaaege yai wwV to make to ^w iwedteal CMnp nul be Moabmn tntb yaw tendly w» change. do OM Atoir fta cAflRgr uertii JI doto fanufy ftofee ehoegr, W* nir mfa uato the next cwDiMni prrtod cMrt&HBiMo mdf jw be ntjLndte1 Mrl a» Ae A£e of tfre poaliAdrg fto*c.
QUAUnEC MEDICAL GOLD SUPPORT ORDERS
Yw aebetod TlaoN> Cara Han it required to provide btiwto to jw AjMMiutu if rt nunu a Ypteified raodAal child ■ppurt ordo* {QMCSO |. Fra wjrt iatermtoKn <■ QMC$0.to»page6.
RORTAWUTV
AdAttonally, Fcrt hmtj ilkm JW ondbr ynv dipuidniu.» moot! M be Mm ® (he tel tearing iriuhona:
^toaUw+r Ptga 12
FORT IAMBS
1,	Ifyrucr	dedined
swnijt in wriprij be^w of te existence of Other coverafe and ten any Of te fallowing hip pens:
A. Tie oter ccwcngp » lenniruitaJ bn mar cf a CORRA'^ke qualifying e*eto-
B The otoer coverage is COBRA coverage end tet coverage expires.
C. The eoiptajCTCotiSibotiOfl to Ihe other plan
7Ae pfait dfinw HW asdwr>twr drp&tdhtr ro eurctf ii fa v at notification of dig lost and Mfol/rtat is txdt wtikot J / deyr. Otenrise, yen fflBt wvt for the m*t iniud Open EiwcLliTKnt period.
1.	You are dtosredtcenrtll anew dependent child witei 31 day* of the birth, adeption, tn te pfaceua.it far ndoptwfl of the child. Coverage will he effective hi te due of birfa, dtoe ofplacvmttic ot tee of adoption. Otherwise, yto trust w«ii foe te next irimnl Opea Enrollment period.
2,	Your icwipeuienuybecmillcdwiteiSI &yl of the nsrriega. Oterviac, you mut nit for te next annual Open Bnrotlnwnt period.
5. irjouerpnolenTtflcd, pro may enroll ■faring ihe apetfa] cnrullnetil perwd create) bye lass ofcowragB by* fwnily manber or family mu change (birth. Mcgtiixi cr marriage), Additionally, yum spouse can enroll in te event of* birth or artaptiou of* child. EmlkneiU nuet take pL*se widen 11 day* of the crcnt. Otherwise, you andte yM dqKiafaiu mustwait for town *rm*l Open Eraolkmefif perfad
4. Yuwmeritalty or physically hastotepped child txn be covered beyond te age Ifafa <rf 19 years and 25 yean, if*nqi^st for such extended ewerags it sabmtod to aid approved byte Nai Ateunistmot prior to
yuurctiild reaching ihwr J5hbcr 251> britoxy
CONTRI BUTTONS
Fem Janes pCJa moll ofthe cost ofyour nodical coverage. You shore in thia OOtt your cwrtrihutknt. Tn order to partieipue in one of the heaMi care plans, you ntoit audtoriae Fort James, fa tbriiing, to wiiWwId yutr coatributtes weekly, ca» a pretax teds, duoagh its Pre-Tax Contribution Plan.
dny amounts	jmt comrttmte under tAe
A&tri iirt aoj curmtlV MAracf to federal income tox, c* fa *»( cojto, jnJe in were ifl-t in foidiMn, ,Vt>u dt> ttOi^av Social StCuritr taxes T^ism/n^ieei your SocialSecitrit)> beeefiu. Id fftoii oses. however, your eufTem tu $*ri ngs mnweigh ths fam reduction.
FJLIHC AClAXM
Shmtly after jou uupll fa mwofte stove plana, ycu will receive si idenofkaben eard, and te ^dreu pf yurr el*in4 eiffax. Yuu atauid praam this card to the steusates clerk to y«ur doctor's office cr hospital, AB bills reproRtdng covered expesKtcen be aem diteetlyto the Claims A<toiiiuifr*tor. t| is in^urfant thu yw advise ds Clams Aihi ifaialiflfar of win identificatte iwmbcr twhich fa yow $ete] Security Hunfoer) since this imte fa issed to identify you as at fattptojue eligible far coverage,
duni fantta n availifote the Clans Ateiiaiatntor, If you ire having difficulty (fataiiEng a cUim fom. conflict MR Dqurfawni.
‘ Vmm Ftar() Page IJ
FORT JAMES
Clsm Cxttb ihorid fee nailed disealy to the ClaantS AdnnilTtiCr.
Fctt Jam ii utavged per tiwuirticn, Hieiilui, i[ i* jngHTtitt [tut dt^lHute duns are nw filed, or that claw are not fifed isti I you bare met pur dedttctibfe. Tbfewffl hefeito reduce the nt of the Phn,
Ycaj drjuWfitoyM'fiirtl rftorn with the Ours AdRtnittitor fc* any aler^t year after y« have atamtuiatod txpenees dwt win exceed ywr deductible, wtlres pur daim to At * covered expense tor which fere it ft? fethioiblc rttyuirwrem. 8c sure to indude frith die fortial clun di npnaO incurred to Atf date, w dw CUuta Atauttotntar will have a recced cfexptMn dm pu have paid w Mtateuoa of yot» deducubh, Alio. check be-fare nbuiittB^ )t*r elmm. to insure that you a? nt* di^licaunj ■ claim sheady nbinittad by yaw ph pi cun or th® hwpftd,
The Cltotiu Adnumsmar wiD send yju an ExpUnatxm of Rent fits (E O-Bj after pur claim to proettud- If Meeuary, to truiire that jar claim u processed correctly, it may requ^ sddotton*! mTuritfakii hum Jw, such M tfw netwe of your ibcu. befcrr practising yew claim.
If joo are enrolled in the Primary Cam Network Mtn of the PPQ plan and restore care rrirfun 6c nefwczk, ri it net rexiury to submit any efrim iwn The pfeyncuiwci will do ■oftrrpu.
APPEALING A DENIS) CLAIM
Jfpw claim u denied, you can appeal the denial and have yow ckim reviewed Sae Appeal6g A Denfed Claim in the Adminirtntiaa sectm of iha guide
MAGMULE AN D CUSTOMARY
Reasonable and Custorwy means that the Plan wi 11 ram burse JAM cr pay yew provider on the btfia al foei Which are (ewraUy charged 6 jew era tor ainutar muvu_l See Rcaaoaabfe and Cusiomary to the AAnininraritm ■ectton of dtb pride.
CDOUnNAHON OF BENEFITS (GAB.)
Your heal A earn plans also ooerdtaete benefit payments widt any othw croup health can plan uadcr which 1 participant or dependent ii cowed. SeeCccrdinatioa of DujoTiIs (C OJk) in the Adntii»ttn£iQUaeP»nQflhK0ridl.
9UVRO6ATTON
!f* Coirred. p£rWi ntflrrl a Joh or tojwy nd the tow cr injwy ■■ auaed by the ad m omisica ofa third parry, tha Man, if » efoos, has a ri gM to reamer tom the third pvty. See SubregsHiM in dw AdniiMrotni aectton of Un pride.
Oa'erwtfh’ of Primary Cam yefH'ork Plan
HOW THE PLAN WORKS
TiwPCWPlui iiKludnanctfrwkofprovidrv PanKipants oan drocae to receive service cr mtmern ai two separate benefit tovela. The benefit Jewlv an ^to-nawofk" cr 'otikof.
■effort bam.* Fort Junes Contracts With PacifieSowee to arfciinitlff this plw.
You hive the lowest m^F-pcwkel cvpcnae when you derifnate an to-oewort Primary Cw* npician | PCP) to mmge your care. A KT c*> be a Family Care Tmrtouuei, Gemaliwu JstemlK or Podimrtoun. The panidpatritf
ware*towty Pie* i*
network pnwiders n juur art* «listed in the pwidcr diruCtcry, V» can get * dwctny tun ynr Cltima AfoniiiiaUatoi.
When yuo use jour PCP » direct your c*™> ycm tot comitfered "to-Mtwtjric* and jour wt-of-podtelfflM Hie tower thin KyoU receive ent “cut-of-networt." You do sen have to men u emwal deductible when jou p> in-rwnwi. hmead you pay a co-pejmant (a fat dollar fre) or cwasiinuiee (a ttndl percentage of The cost). You do wl need to worry about rtananaMe and SuaUmaiy limit! bccaue laJituk providers' ntei are pre^Ktetinted. In oddities, whn you receive cate 'Ln-Mfwtwfc* your claims will be filed tor you.
An irttjCTta.nl feature of the Plan ii a bs ■raiiul physical wilt June POP, which q covered feral lOco-pay. This feature is not ■vuhblB "aul-of-ne»Worlt"
VcU Cfaneta	hyeitfor
(1) bypuiug ?w PCP cr (2) bypanii^ the netuerk entirely, You still fore medical cover age, bul jw eul-oFpoc het costs an higher and you must meel an antual defoKtfole before fie pign begins to pay any bnifa. You ire mpcuibto for filing ynw envn cluna. fit addmtn. foe plan will only reimburse a percentage of your reascaaHe and cunorwy expensee and you may weed to obtain pemlificntfoo ofscmepmdwn fim the Plan Admanstniur.
Ifoduntfofo
Ifjoti choose to receive out-c£nerwMk can, each partiripotu must meet tfo £250 indjvifoi] ■mul rfeduCtible before Ibe plan begins to pay its share of benefits. Esh individual nut ttrai this dcrfojtibk ffuny calendar year and you cmhw cany any of yot» deductibles forward taco foe next year. Co-payments do not apply towards de^afoMas. Ora you reach the
indivafoa] dedaetihle |tte F*CN Pfoi <fan nut fore a family deductible), yni du sol hare to med uy further deductibles during (he JW,
Ccineurence
Arter jno have met jour deductible, the Pitas pay a perctntoge “f tfo cforgn few Covered medieal services.
Watniim OlMRFoctM Ernnu, Thn is the mtanum armint yw gt ymr dependents have to pay in a ulcadar year. {Sec Summary cfBenefits, page Ig). Qnceyow covered ooi-of-pockei expenses reach a certain level, ifo PCW Han pays lOOKofreasomble and ciafctMjy eligible CKpenies for the retnfertdef of the alcndtryrer, The JIC e> payment imdei foe Han does act epply toward your maximum rnst-of-poekei expense. This is alxobiE ofmentoJ foaltii and stfostance abase expenses ntdesi sppnwed hy the Utilization Rev#v Adnonittora. ln«dditi*i*tfoS3Q defewoble per vinii to foe emergency room under tfo fOI Pfoitfoemotspplytoihe mstinuu ott-ef-pockel.
^sadSEfl&a
Wfon jvu go cutof-retiiKtlc, you muit call the Claims AdjiuniUiator to pi evil Li iy for fovpfehzaboii. bvfditfH mental foelfo and alcohol /ufottsiKf ahuK tnaferwrti, tad sore outpatient services. Wboi jour treatment is prsceni fled, the Ptae Mti corer	Of )W
rwocabfe end cuefomary charges. Ifywr c*t <a mm precenbfied but medkaDy necemry, foe PI® rell jtsuaa a pmdtycfSdKcf Ite charges^ to i capof55,0t>j The PCN Man will m cow Inpatfifji or owpati®i t®t tfoi k not medkally tecwHry,
WanHnly Pate IJ
FORT JAMES
To obtain pnetriitaefion, jw, Ww doctor or a family ntcrtitv must nil y» Class A<kmnistrator.
Y« ituy fibtun Inn the Claims AdmfaiSramt
□r yocr huwi renirat dcpartnm a PCN uh lotion	1*
network care.
Addffienal IntormaUon
if you ha re any <pie*ti w or need Io eturi what may or may net be cowed by Uk PCN Plan, you dMNild flHU you Qalnt AitaiitiHrrtor.
J
FORT JAMES
Qi frvffw nfPPt) Plan
HOW THE PLAN WOHKS The PFO Mu include* a ttenwlf of providers. taucrpant* can chocte to reoeWe service or trum»it at two separate bewfil kveh. The benefit Ifnh ire in '’to-nwenk’ or ,,cuK>f«twnrii’‘ broil, Purl Jame* contracts ’*1111 PacificSounce to afoninfew drift plan.
You have ihe kn»«t cnt-c^pttta expense when ym uk nuetworfc providers. When )Uu u*s provider? tfcsrpvterf «"in-neftranlf ’ jtur out^Apodiel ctfftx are tomr then if you receive care *cuH>PnetwcfL,v When jw wO tr> n«wcrfc providers you pay « c*-payment (a flat dofiu foei or coinsurance (a smal percentage nf the cost), You do not need to worry about reacnable and eiBtcnury Knut* because network providers' rates ate pre-negomted. h addition, when you recent care ‘in-uew.nrk*', ' your cleiiH will be filed for you.
An ii i ipuruni feature of the PPO Plan b ■ bi-*wtu»J pApfad Hftrcfr r* wwa) for a $1 fr«> yay. This feature is aa available 'otw-tf-nenwrt.*
You cheese |p gp \me-ofdaefworic,' by bjpwtfting toe network enfody. You still have sncdml coverage, but ycur ura-cf-pockct mfe are higher &nd you rmtsi meet an annual deductible before the plan begns to pay any benefit. You are ■‘ctpcmihte far Ei ling yurr own dsku. In addrtim, toe plan will only Teiraburae a pwcencage of yew reasomble and fusKvrwye^cwnrev and >m nwynted u> cbtto proCtftifleadon of some procedvos fitm the Flan Adnmutratcr,
D educate
If yau cltoooe to recci^re cW-of-nrtTM^fc care, cadi paiticfeAtn oust meet the SUO individual1
S7 JO fem Oy tiirwl deductible before the plan begfnsco pay its share of be«ft3. Each indrmhal mast meet this <fcductihie every calendar yer and you cmwkM wry any ot your deductibles forward into the next year. Copayments do not apply Kwrds deduciibtec. ◦nee you reach the doduciihle, yun do not have ta med any fiwlher drfnetfbfca durii^ toe jw. Hwcvcr, when you use cwof-Vtwaik providmt rath provider! may bin p>u for amoorns above reasonably and ennerrwy, even ifywi have satisfied your deductible.
Qoerdtrr'ftfrCO
After jvU have met your deductible, the Plan pay a peroentnav c4" tot charger for uervumd medk*l terrices.
Maumurri Oumt-PoctM EwenMB Thit is thetHuinianairMMnl yw v» your dependents have to pay in a calendar year, Oace your covered ctu-of-pocket ezpenws reach a certain level, the FFO Plan pays 1W%cf taeuubte and ciBlcarary eligible expenses for the reir«ind« cdtheeaknufoj^ir.The SIO cd-pjjmcTrt Krtoer toe itojw doer rwt apP?V toward your lEubtaim oitoof'poctet expetiac, Thu is also true of mental heahfa md subnuiGe abuae experues unfess approved by foe Utilization Rrvkw AdnifostnlDr.
Preccffiflcatjofi
Wta jw tpca-of-netv/orlc, jw rmei cal fee Claims Adnviristrtore to precertity lbs hosptelizaiicn, mpatien) mental health and alcohol Jxuistance ehuse miuM.ni. and some or<p*twn1 icrvicei. Whpi ycur UcUitaft is preccrtified, foe Man will cover	of your
reasonable and customary durges. If yw eve is dm pTwenifiod bcu nrafoealfy ne&esaarK foe Phn will assess e penalty of 23% of foe durget ig> to a op of SJJXX}. The PPO Plan will nol Cover inpatient ce outpatient C*re that is net medically iwctiury.
Wau^fcvS P*^IT
F01T JAM'S
To rtrtui pwernfcatxri, you, jow doctor (V * tunj ly monber aiufi all w Churn Aifcrou mtw.
You iwy cfatebi fran the Oains Atkiiatoraur cr jru human Hsurve dtpajuma a PPO utilixzticn rrjafi 1111,111 guide for oit^f-nerrafkewe.
flffflltana) Hormifon
tfycu have any questions cr Oetd tu clarity whet mayor owyrwt be ccverrd by tw PK>, please
□ortact the Plan j’Htnrasi'aiOr
*kmM> K
I
FORT JAMES
	PRIMARY CARE NETWORK (PCN) PLAN 5UMMA.PYO BE-THUS			
	WWJQE	PCPDff J9FKTJHFD HfCflT	GVM^MJWk/ MOV' WWW	
AnnM tetodW MIWM	MSUTHin-! Pm«t*«CQH Wwt k£<> Ctn.t* vbttiflftt >Wj 1	pv fW QQ* t-4 ftMMFriyKa 1 *£»n»u«TaiiTcnfr» I’m™	Esa™ CwfjaHi KiWKtWilffmWT *nwv4icfm Cap-natfd » A^ 40*. l'Acr 1 e^Bv J yens m—i4ni1»ini ii <TH5 HMD* V**T» Urpril Qtfa C*flMr VW* 0*3 pice tie one* Wm OWopcchc Ma*<pdO»OC*.	Dt^rntflc ^•Y W« «HMM« irowd tej&m ara tavd 'P“ aaroj । ro<jiB<i1 Rwheotictrv* Ccw If™ aora) SU^d Mmhfl CoCAty Co* x™ «fi*J Aftpwiflfftttu Qkjrtwh*n1 MQdTv qrfd mmpfcjtx RqOcBqp OKI Ln& CT Scarf end MR* ElW^rcr aZKTrt VW*’ Hai fl || ljnfh/l*1i in* i4 r^nlldt fi_ j !■<> ■ CntHsincmiii ZD *«* P* «Wk*j« w> tiMMnrGcnimei 30 P* saw ywrt ItettMiMU (m» 40	Mtoeni o* euxxjj »»l Ottv CavMd StrriHt f**r*M/Qets<wsantf Tn»cp^ Spun FwopV IrfKilcni AiTbuiamSwIe*! Ckrttta M «*o3 E aiferrtetM	' hkrTa IfcJlli Cere (mu 1 SO vVft [•ccarctT ¥*^)		m EEE	E EEE , If jjjiii hLs ih ...i in , Hi min hi“ ‘"I t 	 o e e 4 ■ ■ bud £ ! .	5 * *	i i	i s e ””” 11* ”” HI >”” liliil HI 53	335	
Pip 1$
FOftT MMIJ
*kat um th* HHME BIiIiMii wjpme-mjcnn

	PREFERRED PROVIDER ORGANIZATION (PRO) PLAN SUMMAR* OF BINT Flit			
	mvcc	U4TK*lTWg NOWOHNCM	■WWUMNCRT	
Acwtf O*tfudM* "mutr flirt if ~v> <r Mnitrui RWMfW^M MMto/CMfvHtMm' 1 uttw Rwm Mtfwot 1 *t*ri «v*y X iw>iwi swm <;><■ reopen (k>«« E«* Lrtfr* 1 *0Fl Cet»*KHl ~ AQ* <1t. Md ) avtfy 1 ynv hc*vwkno| Ipikw Qt*e* va tm vw Open Co*C**Vm Ovnemcve CMe* Wn OWfiWVC UWpJWt TROW*. DUflMHK BLIP*? WotpMtotwM tfrow* R»av» fovd neewf iw«*»xi-v &*• ■Thl 1WTQ	m Ol^xTiM L*p*V aagncMK one IwapMic AaauMg? ana m CkmHM EmtQKy ROBTl VW»T 6ffC*VW L'h* 20 vM p« 9d*w t*»1		IX	Hhh	m	i H M	iHHi	! 11,, SS( u<< i Hl!	Hill!	Ill		 1 ;;;;;;	£22	5	Eg 55 		 mm nil	
WnHcwly
irmteniCvulrw 30do»peredund<3m> PBUdaiflcP trf*> eOtf^Xrtflb* Mtion w ctfcndcr’iav) Cmw CMW0 Safwlens	•0% •cm	w% MU
Ft'iiumj'QCMOaiiwi Ttadpr	UR,	40%
&DecctiThW®k'	«%	M%
IrpCttWil	«m	M%
AiTCumeu Saivt a	•OU	MU
DtfO» MpeiccS C^vrarn	•OU	MU
Heme Mecfn to* (1*™ 1 jpawtt or cwon iw)	40%	40%
* tn kta nam LIBI^MU, leapwdrfiBV ue f«d A dw^K^iaj puAi UwL
»	Ta pbakl the h*w«t fewl flf pauHl, 4 MMr IfWMd Mil *■« frttm ■	MiifctaM
In Ue ^crf«S«XW ppp WMH UnetMT* frtm tt* I ■* Prtctw ettlw	TnM PPO
Mr dm net ’’wh«PC «	not rtci>ftfl6e*M»t»MaiHt ttnkci
' rjJr.'IJt.T*^tWiKtit*■‘■■no.ntC*ffl*« !!■>»■ anwwf tMmewtarWff«»Ctfcr^^uerceHreIhe0E11 bmta tw*'. Tht4WuCtlM «r*4w to U WnERax) *K*fl M«Pt ttre IMfUtO aft* • UteM I-
'	iW.-OwwifecatFuMucarriWaEwf^wltaba vnApq* kW%ofsoar^thv*t«'l .mi ,
htlta td	Cn az^rtac^aKf Jiwit ■tt'd'ftMltna * rw±,	y<y* (1 WUlkd
ta Jpmtto ftr a« M Jf•* «W }w. kEvfa pni a ftU ad aijaiHahj pwW thp^M fi a* oT*c te *!*•««* 4* m Ktwa* a»atl *a ni-i*finrifE M.
TM m Plan «W> th* WifflB ptortw CNMrt«> Bnw^UUlClUU IA<B"
W««Hnw+r
PORT JAMIS
OOVtRtD MEDICAL SBIYICES UH MR THE PRIMARY CARE NETWORK AMD THE PREFERRED PROVIDER ORRANXZATIQK PLANSAmtUMC* &rvfc*
By in agmcy nAcnzed to provide rati) isvice,
by rr»dx»lly’Fiwx4 ptzHrnel *«1 wnupped t> handte taetocal emoyencKt:
t. From toe place where be or the is itysredor Itrickta by Amk m the nram bcriphal whoe Uuiiiuil can be twriihed.
2.	Fran the hosprteJ which ii shows to be unable to trcil hj*/het jhys k±l emdiUec to the rent winch am pwida Btaoneni.
3.	From ahoepitti in whk± he a eheii confined «> and teck from toe arireK bo^iital for special tmtmenler MM diet ve nctmitableallbe hapitai in which hear the i* pcafined
4,	Fran i torpid invtokbhe ertoei) confined k> toe necrerr amvaMeesc teility with araftabIe apace ie which he or toe fett> be MHcd upondiM3wp.
S.	Fran * hoqiita} ar canafeuert fccihty iqua discharge to hii/her heme.
Net included ire arty charges trade w nnipen toe covered iiaentotr;
I.	rfui vHtatotoeMrviChitnotredt&vd by bis or hs phyual eordtion
2.	In uyotoa vehicle cr ta any other place.
AudMogySwvkw
Duty tor in evaluation tow is fisuhedro pinpoint toe tocenon ofediteue or ngwytotoe ndjtory syarem when delMe spnpwm fodicaM that ere nay erisL
^MTiflhancw
Both the Primary Care Network Plan and die Preferred Provide QrgMnUko Plan are in
torr^thitoe with applicable EMereltepiukei, inc tiring to* ftii towing;
The Health hwraw Portalribty and
AcomOabnliiy Act (HTPAA1, The Newborns? and MohaV Health Pnotcetton tet{NMHPA),The Wonci’i Health *nd Cancer Right* Act (WHCRAk and toe Mental Hrahh Parity Act (MHPA).
ConwIMCM FbcWj Cure
The Pin win pay the reasonable and cutotwy charges (detoKlibtet and coinennce appty) tor UNifiBeiimt id a Convalncs* Facility. You can receive benefit* Ex up ml 20 toys. Tbc confinement mui begin within 14 day* fciTkwring the end oft hMptul confinement <rf at ban three toyi You aim mun be raider toe direct care of * doctor while in the CcwraJeswit Facility.
Chargee made by ■ Cbnv*l*ac*ni Facility tecopaed by toe Pin AdmimetrsKr ibr toe fofiowiag tervkes sad nppIM provided to e covered member who it confined, in toe OtiHty <han| a mnvakicoit period ere ctnocdr !. Roon and board. Ifa priviictooth h uted, any pan of toe daily ran *ad board charge which it more toan toe mtm common resttpnrae raotn rate it not Covered.
2.	Uae ofxpecsai ttcaknent tocvb: X^ay and lab loft; physical,	md epench
toer^y iurtkiktil by a Covered Health Care Provjder:	metocil senim wewncsily
tantihed by a CotniwMceni Fadhty: and tovgt, bdIumh^ dreaifagi, and cut*.
A ^awalcarat period* octo after a period of 90 ccnaecutrw dayi ofwhich toe ptwovd nember ha* nd bewnSned in any hoepttol, CorwaMceta Facility, or caber medical ftcility that provides mretog care. Net toohsded are any chargee audi:
I. For any day ofeoifinancnt diving* 'eanvalemenf periotT txanftng 120 Ayi.
WmHwh
FOJtT JAMES
2. For	wivias Or far private or
fperaJ duty Run cn£-
J, Fa are. of a pojofi onlyb ecwrec ba or the it old. emilft, or suffers frum afcohd pr druf thus, a hcaaoae he Or she b mortally retarded «» hu a fucnCaj diwdri or Ohmic hrmsyntaxne.
tMayiotme X*av. Lntt. arid PaftotapiLTgste Only what testa arc ntedkafr iDdtaed and u deled by a unrated health cars provider a? diaQKHr a dtreaas or eij*ry for wfitefc definite tyrftonu are piteeril re MT. maintain, or change a plan of tre*trn£*t jwaerited by a covered health c*! provider
tkiratota Madteal and Swacai Eoutomont O*rpM fcT be initial pdrcMte of such equipment md lOciareio needed Ct> eptfeie it win be covered,
irthe Clakra Adminiitrtw cs ih&wn ttol
I. tdtg^cermvn ivpIfimBd
1.	7>w cqaipmerrt want be nwed
J.	fl ia likely ipcael buytfwcqurpneflt than to rear it
Chajgtj ftr tw than one item of equipment for the b*hk cf airrrilw purpose Will not be eowfrei-Ottrfa ftr repair or repH«n*3U-ofp<Arih*5*d ecpqrewrrt Mal wtte»re*M needed 10 operate it wiD be covered, erdy if lbs Ptan A&ntntftnfrr ia ■Sown that:
I. Bia required becwserfiehAAfeimte covered member's phased coadition
2s B i I likely to curt Lew ta hny regtacefncf* eQiapTmt tfwi Ip rtfwr the c.A-irtwig equip rWtot te rem Ita eqcdrpmenv
DwaMe n»«bM? and staffed eqiMpfiteui ia cqtuptKxii dttt
I.	Made n withstand prolonged use
2-	MadafaiodTMntynttdinfrttreaaQeBtof a	w knury
?. Suited, for too m the home
4,	Not ncnnaily of me to penou who do HOC k*ve « dseaac or Lnimy
5,	Notftw uaeinaltmngnrqiialtyDf cernpersaae cr ft* aitenim or treJcbof.
i^ya Ejgwn Gowypa
Ikuiiie e>t esam are CQurred, You Hats KtenC the cyu dsn Ann an irknecuak pKhoder■ Othnwtw. the«yeemni will art be covered under the Ktf a PFQ Ram
FacMtawteM
Oetjc for nreoT* hospital emergency room, usbutwqr HtfBKaL taility, er ortpricHi cinlc arecowred
H<xn& Hoatih Care
To enxmft (tanei kcApfaj nays, the Hui ttVen foe rcvtouble and euitunwycwf WuxfoetWa Ktinurjuracccapply)<iTup to I2Q Hcttw Health Care Vais pa year Mpa to revtew hnd ^pimaJ ky the your Plan Admin isinnci-s
Qnrjws made by ■ Herne Health Care Afgncy hw th* flowing eerviem end fttratahed to a coveted member in Ma or her ^ne, for e*M in acdCHtanCe wifo a Hoftw Health Coo Plan, Are cwotd *s Wk*i;
1, Pan^imeatagTmtarifcurftftigtfJTliyiffl RNy or byaii UW if (be mheet of an RN are rtot avfolabfes
2.	ParMane cr intemiaet* home beehb *dc aoniece witch ccnsist mainly ofcarin# for auch member,
3,	Riyatul, □ec^a±«alb and Ipccdt ikcrepy provided by a Heme Hcatth Care AomcV-
4.	Medial euppta; preKriptiOri^iicseDd medic me? prescribed by a pH piciarL, a^d taboratory rerruxs provided by nr C» beJkl f oFaHonw Hnhh Carf Agency, bwCorfyta the eMean they would have beat apvwed write ihi> Pim if tach mmifoet
OOnfined in a horpital Or conVnlete<nt fctl ily.
WnreHtrely F*^21
FORT JAMIS
The nuhnun witter of Hare Hrefth Que Vifita a> ■ (Xjvereii metiter*i hunt ta aay a? cufeatJar year n 120. Qne Han; Hetftfc Or? Vtelltall be;
I.	Each vrai by * menter of a tot* teeJA eree want 101 cmtred member's hone to provide nilrritg Cure. phyaictJ orOCt^flNonil ten^y^or aptech tterepy-
2.	Each vnir up to ter bnn 4/bpax Jxahh wje terriccx.
Hont Health Cm expenee* an «a Coveued to cteyniwtd jncaaegtitinvitfi enyoFtte faMmrina:
I,	StovirtjoT dm whited tita Home Hetltfi Care Ptan.
2,	TnrupMtuicci torviert.
Jr	SenicA of b wtoial wertet.
4.	Srevfoee tmerwi is pm of Hreptce
Cwe,
Hruniea Gore
Similto to jMv home Wth cm brecfiii, Mcrptoc Cm hc^a cut <kwn fccti, cipaarve toapitolmpbyftopnf far repress Mused to be covered only if you 1 miajwtt in * Itojyili!, Tte Ptn pays the humiNe red tsOotrary cowed eepmet | deducts bfcr red uw^avt cppltf far HerptceCve, uptoii.OOO Dtv^tobjec to review and apptovV by te Lfnllaaco Rrview Admteiitrauir.
Tte faUnviog dur gel mute to a Ln mil oily if) meiubei (‘nceaiflf a tnmter wte1 m liras a yragnuB of appro riniaKiy iLe note or leu to tor) far hnpiee cm m mstfri wten pea a p«rt oft HupKeCvT Fii<um:
I, FteHiJy espenm (including a teepee bin teUicy. hospital or convatocw facility) aticb ue far Toom md betod end otta wicoe vto RtopJia fternhai to a anc»d ■timber u e fiJRisto inpebert It* put cOWol tod utter tetoo vtd ctetoto ejripKn
nwftotert. Net tetotaLajv fitoftay cter^es?
A- loCTCtoiofS5y00q pn yc*r-
B Fu toxvieet «rd tuj^dic? fumuhed to a nenter while uri confined >0 ■ fuH^ume ^MDcrTL
C. Tfephrtie ream ir used, any pm of the ■faity room and btard charge Which it etocc ton tte Btoe^nntc rwm 11 tnif.
I. Oianre made by a Hwptcc Cm Agency ftn A. PsrWimeorintwTniBCBt wniA^rereby in Rh| or L>N to f howi in uiytKto day.
B. Mr ri mi1 idcuI icrvicei under te dimetivi oFa jdtyuewn Tbd fat hitet i. MwstotrWteMvertd member* scctai. mtteMi, afld toedieal rcte*. tod htm* and Ettiaifau
iL EdMiAcation of the ctwwtunfty nHwraev to te covered member
rri.	Auteanc* to Ite eovtoed
member in □bwruiij the convnunky waourcre reeded u> meet Ms or ter tueered needs
A. A Herne HtaJDi C« Aftucy fcr physical or oC^i<MMnal therapy, prrPtme or vttcTTHttcni tome M«Mi cm eid« write* fat vp to tiffel htm te any wh daiy. fbediod npptoet, tap, wd rttodKtoea patented by ■ jdtyXkdvt; md puyetaoicpEa] aid dietary coudaebng, Mol included are chargea far ber**tmeni T fanmi anaogdatenta. putortl wurtehng red KntoCfaJ u b®al cetBachng. Thu inchtea, tot ix m| lamted to> OlWc ptaninf or te drtfaag of 1 win.
i. Hctwmlw or c*tttter»ervic*«. Three ere •ennere not aokfy rttecd to tte are of Ite Mfttrtd member, and iretafe irttir <x vtyanon aenwre, tetoepcradias, bowclonias, fata* ruimcarece^ or recite «■*, wftkh to eve totiibed tevig a period

FORT JXMtS
oFlime	Ue mtniter1* family or his
her UMflJ ctnoker cannot cr thwa attend <0 the oiivtrcd ideniba^ recdc ft* toy Ttasn.
X«»**r Clam* ^dMtUuratar m>f tivponri'fcur a$yu«£f aey HaptoStMftV /jr H/e AWW 0/toy	servfaf or repM1
nor do rttv mate anu £tprtto dr
Mjffa«Re gtatctmiwg 1he OKKiwre ofvrr oruiffptift.
Hojdta) Crtarpea
Charges crude by a jeneraJ tapjtaJ or medical fehtbilftiMA Meptal rewfjittd’&y y?us FMi Adirtnifnw. far board and reap tnwwd, semiprivsie, or Heteive careurof ifsfflMmdMnnf.'TTiir cndudti mcils, speeM diet*, mJling cift, tod Uber toipiial services end wppfies farm ted to & covered nwrtcr, Pfeut rote; tf« pTraietwm is md^vypvtof pw daty bavd *nd man charge lft#l i| more tfcBn the twrpiata mcnt Gnnmai spwpnvw am m» ।a <w* mutnj. In tflci ’•xrOi, >vu wilt be fcepomJMc fcr any extra cost ijr a private [WJT*-Comici jw Flm Admimmwr far ed&fone) infermeiBn,
Pimwott stoodming ttaohol abuse or druf due apply cnly to ccnfinatMtn resulting item dMgrtoriS Or recOmmendlticn by'iphjweijui. Additionally, they also tjppty mty to expcnare to the Umi Dry ■» fcr	deotaf
obuiE t drug iImsc in accQH^iwt with broadt^ veceptedstandir^QFmKfiailpnicvce, Caking imo Moouwche curran cwAjioii of Ac covered mender. Covered cter^a we mnind to 7t> cfflc* vbitf. 30 dt>s of inpaiteff core, ud flQ dayffl&n aeistofc of pMot bpeptttlizaikwi each catatta ye«
CcptjjMtfpmLPfrwfeaJ Th^ntnv
Orly fcr rnodkal refobriitMiein io the Allowing cues;
I. TheripyCtal a tipped to improve or ptewil fxther itormiiwi o<» body fiitotkrn that kw b«a lo<r cr npand *s <fae rejuir of a dfasee or injury
1 ThCTapyAwitevDLnedbf erpecife treurwjiE prcpart tta
A, Details the therapy to be provided, tow otto] and tow tong it will to needed
B.	Provides far angoinj reviews
and ts renewed qdy if Ctor^y ia still Mttoiry
QffoskfriH
QEfiw vijiin will b« pett eccwdini to fae Summary of&«nef5u, However,.
it beuig bifed with aigFor strpcwl prvceAires. ito ofRc* visit rrif) to combiMd with the tvrjeey tod taefio *lkn?ed tar Ato	charge, nibject
ta tte dMfactftle tod ctownnct. AiM >oir phjsteito wtetter or nM cto vt^pey pr'irri.tiijro top*y.
hw^im^s^c Tdfanfl
Charge! made by ■ te^atok, ambulatory wgcry toiVtty, nr tiototod dogmatic	^tibty, fcr ffe-
ftpetwir^ testing reMed to tod dte? within (he men ifayt prior w scfecAM gorgciX are covered, but only i£
l.	The covered member mdirgMS Ae KtodoJad ntTgety in tte Jtapiri or tolMtiery surgery bnility. This toes mt apply if the tews ibw that iloe BUrgery ahduld not to iforw	of his or her physical w
meatel coalition.
2.	TM charge M the m^ry is a covered medical expose,
3,	Tte te$fx gerionned wret ewued if it*: covered mentor ia«re confined at aa iqMieiM in a bcepiot
WWaHMify Pap 3a
FO«T JAMES
4.	The fctf wmto	in Ac covered
treHtett medjcxJ k*"p1 by foe ho^fta! CrlM farilrty wten Ac tiaptry 4<k*w
5.	The tests ire act npoatod in ct by fapnal or dv facility *tere (hr prgoy is perform'd.
ppyentw Sandro
TbebCTJnnflFTO Pum covena phyita! cum every 24 monfoa. Under foe K7N Plan, ibeouni mm be given by fr in-network Mnery Can? pt^wl ifoddr the	Man. foe mm must be
gwai by bv fo-necwork provider. Both foe FCN Man and the PPOFItn cover avixton exam, ftcfo ptait cover. ItnWamiaineis. weft babyCUrr, pap irntan, eg to	iiunj, irunetafTanH. (Refer
Ip Swrttaiy of Ecrtcfra	twiersge tevds.J
P readmit
The Pim pi us iter is Iterated to fc^hce ail or (M*t df any internal body qcpn or extant! body pan that i* foei ct impaired aa foe rnufl ofrtecue or injury, ittofodini b v not tented te t, AjiirfFftcWMvylefobv.taee.ceeye. 2. An »«raal teml pmaditan (and tta first bra nude solely for me therewith) fannhed after a n*n*cMmy.
3,	a taetfr ifflptom fonuiM iter a nwtectMiy.
4.	Ostomy supplies, dton^, Mu. tegf. Ixk m*!.
5.	A ctnfrac pacemaker.
6.	A datable teweitteiBipcdaJly made for and fitted to for tovtnd partteipanf.
AlaPiMAxMl W* focdutrpn fee foe repair o repUoenem for such prOcttein, but CT^y iftffc blan Admiunntor n ahown fort
1.	& is reqiarrd&ccaisecf achenes» foe
covered amber's physical conAtni.
3.	hit hteb1 tonettem wbuy anew
proohetii foe* to separ foe cwtef prosdseete.
3. The existing prasthenii oarnot he made serviceable.
tert fochided are changes for Or refatod to:
1,	Eyngteito* ct vrrion aid* ct bjarinf aifo.
2.	Orfoopahc ahoa, ortvjfo; cr other mppOito fcc foe feet
3.	Trisara, conen, and odwr support tsents. 9*dMdNuitaifl9ary
Chtfeee far dulled nursing cart will be inthtad u Covered Medtal Expewa only irfoty gc« ctere triads by m KN ot tw ota rtamfaj agency for dJiEed mowing service*.
fa used here, "skilled rming servicer Mtani: L Visitfog ntfSing Care by an RM or LPN.
Visiting	wctu a visit of wM
more foul 4 htton fee Ac purpose of perform i tij specific skiUcd aUnuig ttoks.
2,	Ptrvato duly tilling by an RN ortJW iffae pertotoi ccodfoon requirtj skilled Bun*n| rare and nrfong aiming etre is not sdequme.
Not mchxtod « "skilled nurefog eorvicta" ij;
C Thcr part or aBcfinyjMnii^ care foax does doc TCQuta ta eduearkat, mfoing and MChnccal JkiiLj of*n RMct LPN, at snsspcnaiMn, ratal prepwtfart. tiuJ sip* and norrtpareomhip uhvitta.
j. Any privets duty i«rsir< cue, given vrtite The perm is tn inpahmt bit hospital or Obes heafat C*re fiirdity.
3.	CbHS pi Glided to Wp a pCT*£ti in foe aClMbrt of daily life; inch M brfhir^ Fualatg, pettonal graenBng, dressing getting u and aitofbedora twlrtu^
4.	Ctor ^wvided solely fcr foillad obsennfoon except U fcUrrm:
Fv no nwt fcnonefatf-lMir pa’focJ pev Ay fat* period of no mote fow Id coflsectsive days foltowing te eowrAwe oc • Chrtoge in patent wredktaon
waiMfotoftp
FORT JAMIS
• Heed Ibr o~eijneT»of*Biiin-iKm-> by i physetin, or the cmct of
*ynyUjju mdkMtog the likely need far nVh TTitimriM
* Starry
v Rchare fan® hpattem cmfinemtftL
I. Any tenn prwided «fely tv «dh»UKr ent madi riser except where applicable law reqan* that each nwdicwa ha adfaiuitered byuiRNcr LFN.
Speech Therapy
Only for medka) retabiboron that is:
I.	G tpeefad to restate ^ageh la a covered member wfcq hn ta speech fanefan (the ability to espresa faugbs, speak words. and fcm wfatoetl to fa mJi of Aerate er taper
2.	Outlined to a specific toeatment prapm which:
Au	Detail* the therapy to be
Tctdeitd, tnw often and bow tong it will tewfaj
&.	Provides to* on jeiax revim
arid ia renewed only if therapy is will neefed-
x.rav. Rwjtom.and Rrtcadtow toatoCe Thoreau
Bceeflts are provided fa radkritenpy rwdwtd by afacer fa naamifm of a non-oecupaQonal tender* or aetaea. He bar fill CCXtskl of toll pojrncnC of fa ftawmbto and curbmry fees fa a doctor's rertocer in i enduing an X-ny. radnan, or radtoactfw bowpe natrnem. irchkrig the p«h*ae or rofal of radioactive wbittJtces raotoft] to the mtnerg, if the CMrfpi fa these nfatucai pre aibraittod by the doctor mrfcnn terauwi,
If tretofant it rendered by a daetcr. etho dm a resident pkystdsn v Warn, denis * hocpial ecefinentm tor which no mom nod board ehsrtes wr HEde and if the ctarges fa teamejs
are made by fa bcMpital.thahoepital charges wi> be fairidered »charges of fa doctor rendering fa treatmert, Radkjlfaxpy bpiefa fa not apply to-ffa fa aerricee paid tnfa ofar pore effa Pfcn.
SEIYTCES NOT COVERED UNDER THE PRIMARY CARE NETWORK ANO PREFERRED PROVIDER ORtUNEZATCON MAN
Ourgto fa fa toltowire ** m considered Vu*acd expenses* wider these Plan:
I.	Cfargei fapfarip,twjmsrnciiw«a eoamelk surgery, or other services and sqjplici »HA uiipiuiut afa, qr ashuq* appeannce. whefar v not fa psychological or nwodiunal reason: ewept to fa eitetn needed to:
A. faujautu the fiuaUui of ■ put of the body, ^bwfanweO or srwtwve thto iRipoel fa fadL fat ia maNonned u c rtsuti ef* severe birth defat (such as hvriip f aclbul fingers cr ton) or b ■ diTKt result of a ducaas or largely perfamed to ew a dienae or ifippy. The exclusion of “ofar fan teeth, or rtr*xUses fait ruppon fa tesfa* docs not apply » medkat tranijnem, surgoy. tervices, or suppKet nfruiarp to rained)' a LuuguulaJ eonditn tor Uildiuj rigliliiHJL and taiAr,
D Reper an tajiry which «cm tfaJe a person is a coveted tnesfar ba only if fa Kffgay is pufajitLd b the calendar year rffa acnhnl which causes the iHfay or to the opt cafatoar yon.
L Surges faor related tuiny eye turgeiy manly to correct retactrie erron, toe hiding but not limiied to mfa! kcuuumii'i1,
2.	Charges for or in cofguncdon «hh marriage, tanty, child, osreer. social aJjmtiiwjit, pastonl. cr finoncwl caoKlu* Efticcj.
3,	Cfacgea far ■< ■■[■■■■, *'■■ therapy. Ttoa dees ra mcAato «pw»r wtm it ia faniked
WnHcwiy HjfJ?
L
FORT JAMES
by a Ctovcnd Cww ftpridw aa ■ form *rf u it j|l mu M uaitoAM* mA svpcry As k moW water ttu Pin,
4.	Ctafga b w teiurf m h> of otevity ar far dm at OXtori.
$. Chtrga b qr ufauJ K preprtney ofi wn»nt mcfoer.
A Oerges for or reMfari » araftciri iMCOMMskm or m vrtu i iiiliietioo pTOOeAdes.
7. O*i p-i for Au mi), n^ptira, A up <v cum!im aerwcaa ir opinl dyaftnctna or jniAninfiii,
A CtariroforAerevenridfstefiliMCio^
9.	Ctargts fee ar udeSad to oh drape acapuj ar my tMtiiimu rrteod to gnrio identity
10.	CtejpveforoerriDearrftCd'vertolllroM Caro Prorider who ri « inaprinr rotor* or ■ Itmbn ef 6e touxtold Of ■ caw»d 11
11, Otobes for routine phjtfcai. <twv dossal, or heuiig emu. <* otter jm»»ve services links ^acifcaUy ncMtOMd th Ae Scte&ilE of Detirfiii.
*2. Ctaign for "ir"r*f"" ®t.
13, Chugci for cwafcaJ cue.
14. Ctatrpi fof services or supplies A«i tn not neceawy for the diaftoou, c*», or UMUneil fif the pkyuCtl or nwrUaJ nodiin tnvahrod. LRJl ifptILJ lbcd» TSUII JUKI llui Of iiytmod by a Cowrad Nmltti C*v Pimidw.
IS, ChtffMir, or in coroocMvi W>A, pi muteu, wrifio. Auga or ofoer supplies th* ire, u Aluiiiiiud by Ar Orin ArisntrtWIX *0 pa mmrirmfrii ** **^l wrier ririkal invowpwn by mc<te»l profewcnali. A Aug, i tevic*. ■ prmdw*. or mrinxRt win be determined teba rvcrmmtf, or iinkHi|iiiiMiil i F: A. ThtroerotnufTkMNMiaoma At> enilibto from oonooHed dinicri tnefo published in Ae pocrdwicwod literature to dbanse in ally md «9beftvtneu for Av dsua or oqivy ovotari-
B. 1 f retired by Av FDA, vprwil hs not boen graced bouisiBc,
C, A i euugjtUsd Qdicovl rasdfcel or dtnfoJ wuby, or rogriMsy agency hti dewmitod. in writiajL that it b Pip^riDAittL, bnrtMijiliuiiil, er fcv resesreh pwpmes.
0. Tte "mien protocol or protocols usd by Ac trtSJlAp fodbty, Or tte protocol tr protocols of nty ether facility ttriyiog nteantirily the anr drug, ^rioM procedure, or	|J or th* writMl
taformed «"w* mod by Ite bvriBg focilHy. or by mother focibty nudyuf tte ■me Aug, device, pr«eAire^* wvment tfi* it ii experimental, invesn^rioori, or for reseirch pnrytm.
Howewr, Ari cxchorin will m apply with reVpvtt to prcccdins, mnee* c* vmplia loth*? fon Aitp) reoervod A otnMctam with * diwr if Ae Com Ateunterais drtemfoa ttec
A. Tte dacue o> Im npeeted to caar death whhn one year, ta Ite abtom of cfWtTK UM1JIML
fo. The can omOTMnui effective for that dtwtie or stow* promise of teinp effecthe for As dscue, u tfenoufaatte by eckeWiAi dat* fn making dis detonantion, the Cirinu Arfomti mater wi> take ir® mxxmv ch* route ofa review by • panel of ariependem nedteri pnfarionah. They win be eefaeird by th* Claim* AAntfiisPiilw. Tbn panel wil inchriv pivfariuiiA who *wl Ac Ijge ofAmok wrohed.
Also, HA txdaslsi wW nor apply with reaped to drugsttec
A.	Have been penal iwamw invtsrigetxirtol row thug (D4DJ <w Grap qTltliW itTTT TfUm

B.	Arc bcmg studied at the Phase III level in * Btfioul clrnkal trial ipt»»K»ed by tlw Narumi Cancel Tnstihsc.
C,	Ifthe Claims AdrnnianUnTda&rniMS Dui aMnithle sctetuKc evidence dmcretntei that the drug is effective, or jhtnra pnjmtu of being pffectnrr for the disease.
I.	Chargei tor education, special education, or job tnjnMg, whether or not provided in a tell ity that also provides medfca) Of p I ychi riric traimcat.
2.	Cbujee for services or wpplin which criy school ijsten is required to provide undo law.
3.	Qtargni far sendees oft phpician, planted t-TTp*?1.	Hwnpiif ^recch
therepiat, or audidcptl rendered to a cowed depend* dildwha is phyinaJlyor mentally impaired or loinung disabled and which any Khrol system is reqrocd to provide under uy fow mainly to he^> htrn or her Id benefit from ^kcbI cdudbrn*-
4.	Civets for services ud supplies for which benefits ere frafefed. paid fonts for which benefits are provided or required under any law of a govemnenL This does nt* include a plan established by ■ pwcrnmwi Ifcr its employees or their dependents..
5.	Charges for services or tuppUai furnished, paid for. or for which benefits ire provided ot required by rauon of pen or present service ofanyemsed iikiiiIo in the wined force* of A government* when services cr oiqtplics n rodeted due to a service-retafod ilh*s or injury.
b. Charts thii« made only bectue the benefit ettsts, cr charges ttal no covered menfoer u legally obb^d to pay.
7. Chugs which are not WWvbh and customary
& Charges for ear*. rreaanest* service*. re supplies that are not prescribed.
retrotjifcndcd, and jpprod. by foe covered menfoo's artaiding ptiysicun cr dertiEt.
9,	Chargee for advice* (ria resident ph}siciin or rtem Tendered in that capacity.
10,	Charges for cr related to the folkwing types rftremrnent of mental divadeiL primal therapy, TDl1utg*psychodnHB. meprilwnin therapy, b wrerprtic dw*py. virion pucephon training, or carbon monoxide therapy.
11.	Chwgts for psyctnarnljsn of a covered i iKitiba who is a ccwocd Health Csre PrpvideT ipecialisnjl in the meatal health care field and mho is * p^choaaalytic ^jtfdate in training.
12.	Charge for services and snppl ies for treatment of job-related injuries or sickness.
*3. Charts for tmirmd or suppin rot cs dried by a CovtJod Haith Cas Provider.
14.	Charges for routine plrjw&al - except as tfoKtibcd Lnttee PCN Plan sad PPG Plui tawfit RMTUTiory
15.	Charges for wc 11'baby care except for those rpecificaiiy m«i*foMd in *m Schedule of Benefits, (Rooni and board, ciranndskio. and pedittridan visit charges for Mlmhctild newborns will be paid for up to 14 tfoys folfowiiig birth, ueming no cangriKaticna.) Le£ally«krpted children wifi be covered <m the same baife m narnral dependent children, wh^eror w* foe adopMa has become final
16.	Charges far WeaTmer* of wok, stratosd, flat, lUEtabie, <a wdtalatKed feet, mctalanalga* or burdens (except open cutting operations) and coma, calluses, ct toenails,
17.	Clwgra fcr services Or Supplies nd used in foe treafintnf of an illness or icijiny.
1 J. Qtoctiiy rcpplirt meh as tapes, brushes, Ay neks, powders, cmaa, eo^>*. n&toet bands, rubber gloves, Burpcal tbvuii^ spuuges, auaawa.
19.	Prime duty ntrsing ravfces «*ra> ihe skiBad services are act over and above what a fhotdd rontt*nypmfde.
WawHcvty Ps*c 39
20,	Facility dwgn far odier thaa ■ hcaprtal. Ambuhtcry Sm^ry Facility, qr dinic,
21.	Chaign lev any aarvinea or uppHs which arc far attadoMK treatment, ^baling
22.	Charge* far ihe ewactm cfwradcan lecth, 23. CliugLa far mi nnWaccpdn.
24, Chirgei fat heariag aids.
Ov^rvrtfH’ i?y /‘ftttenpfiftjt Orufj Pi™
The Preaertptiaci Drug Pim h a fatfm nfteh the Prinwy Care Ntt*at nd die WO ptes. h hit tuofessm, tin RcaU Card Mattia and cba Mai Order beet fa.
Tha Retail Card tevfr wan pmcriptMMof34 days or its al a parfaetpafiftg pharmacy, Tfe Mail Otdet tewft »Wi protcriptew of up to W d»>i . The Mail Order benefit *u tinted la help both yai and die Conpfaiy miaip the high cot Of fflUriftWct toi0.
EnKtktaJho&labkUM PCS - Where PheifieSane i* Chin
HiaJSratetti
1 Fyou art enrolled in ihe PCN or the PPO Man, y»u and jour wutd dependent! n ■UwMtKalty cowed Inder [he Pracviption □nig Pfan.
* Jfywrwvmd drTWKtoaahawprmtfy
PLAN PK0VISWM3
Gwwicvwem Brand mmaOnai
Many brand name drug! have generic equivalent) available Hv pun: hate. Uimf the generic 4u|
um money, and far mt people, prwidn #■ ftena qmicty. Thia ia becun, by I**. gfatoriq AupiBjot mart the fam ifandvfa for tffcty, lujgdi, and effactiwnea ulniM lutna itotgL Howevery ym can pay if to few tuna mm	a
tovJ aart* drug than far rt* gam cqvr^em, rune tbe Ml the dun.kgriM4, p*r^*ni md ■dwtsiaf do pined at to yaa
The PiMMipoua Drug Pte mcoongca you to UM generic 6wp, *tei awfabta, by redtdng your od-of-pocket coati far the* drug*, both at die kcal ^idrmuy at mH a* tfwwgft the Mail Service ptuf an r ezplMied bein'.
tM S«nfc« ftiFcham Ol MaBMnania Qtyfi
The Pim ia deaiynd »enabk >ca to ptadtee naatowcx drug! dauigli fac Mail Smriu
fang4zm bnri to rin <s wwrtrol diw iftwiaeij, cuch ai high Mood praum, deers, tnhriiKdlabewa, etc.
The Mai)Service Piugiaut h provided Uauugji both PCS Pharmacy Ptan. Il efiers yeat a eoarated Md oocMflfatte tey to obtoin t* to • NMsy aifpty of JMimeMnce efevp.
Drug] ordered ttretfh Mail Service usuaHy falx 14 ifayi to fin, afler PCS baa wentd yu> jNLLif Lud farm. ¥eu should alow far mailing tow. Ai an added convcncncv, yw may order medkawt refi lit or check w the naia of a pmcripwa in d» mail octvko pregrut by caDtng the appropriaet irt tea fifaai,
YSr cnat far dt^i jjudiaaul ftntigh the Mail Service ian fatten:
« Gobic cfaugi: 19 pa praafiitto (» dctecliblc toetodh
Wwltety
FORT JAMB*
*	Bnnd saw dn* fri hr»w w gmcric ttfrdcutt: $20 per prescription (no deductible to meet).
•	brand now drugs when smerx » available: 120 per pauiwi pk« fr difiliuM. between generic and brand name
•	The shove eo-pay n applicable fr JO. 40, Of OMays^ty.
PCS win only fill the raftdayanqrplyu preawfrd by )W phyriefr far each tt«-poymera. Ifyou are rtstfiTrd « a manmnance medication, yoa frreU ash >wr phpictan co wrrte a 90*day supply.
If you have ijuejOcnacaaWming tfl tubmit your mail order pmcriphai or what the m will be you may call fr appruisim vTUGw mfr.
If you we net m whether a geaerk equhaferrt «B3 before sending a braid nrncfr^ prescription io the mail order pharmacy, don't heehaw a»k your doewr.
EJxceptinru: ifyim ratnot rake a generic ifrug for nwddl JCMaru, you	need to faRtM tifre
pnndins;
1,	Obtain a ihon-ttmi prcscrij^fri bom doctor and H* ii filed a a focal pharmacy.
2.	Sead a wrincn request fra generic override to year HR Depanmem. Please indude <l. .mu ifcurw 6«ti jww freest which ecplini fr tKdical reason why juu carat take a pewric efrivafriL
J. Your request ariD be reviewed by fr Plat Aiiiiiinaibiaor's pharmacy manager, Ifit is apprewri, yvu will iCcctve a exception. Thereafter, far indan ued prescriptions filled wii fr fraud nratfric you will be responsible fr paying efry the brand name »-pcy and not the difference n oat bearcat the peturic md braid same drug- IF you ccrtfnr In need the panic
override you will be required to ipply frit cnan arm Ibas b.
En CWTMB ehuMfru, if JW doctor prescribe* wta are known as hi|b*cosi	PCS win
constt Mth ym* doctor before tilting fr onto u Mn&m the frgrwu and CTpfrt whether almaiwE dui^iiu ue available.
Localjhqpnacy Purebasu Prescripiion frige fri are needed fr route, shcnmnfl WEthnem, such as penicillin fr butt nut cfstnp fro< <r fr Sr« prescrifaiM of > nuinteitanae drug, can be purchased H yw tool jhmracy, The maxiittum supply cownd by dtePteafr purchasedai a total pharmacy i» 34 dw and frww are »Linder ® fre nnenber of refills.
« You pay a cn-pcyxaoU nf 5 ia fr cadi bread narra drl^prwacriptira end STfaraeh gci icr frag pmcriplHn pwchaard al a iWtMjrit pfrrmwy.
« [f)« pwefrav yuw piEauaMicni al ■ Man* netwert pharmacy, yw nufr £nt tuitfy a calendar year deductible of J W per penon. «jijtj par tofry.
*	Ader naeetitti the defrccibte, jour co-pajmente are t H fr frwfr name dru*i and fr generic drugs, phas yw we respcesibte fr fr AfLiukk between fr PCS nerwrek price and (be actiai ptarmey charge, if any,
•	Ifyoj purcfrae ■ brand im dreg when a pnwic b available, y« arejc^urabfe fr fr brand name co-papwre, phathe Mtreuce between the cost of fr brand raura and generic.
*	IFym nrrTnw iTiirtnmfim”4"^ Mi PfaHtecwuri ptantacy. you are recporaible fr fr brand name wpajuutt, phtt (he dttreaee between PCS’i jjlUkiL brand ran* ^icc nd fr atfrl pharmacy charge.
WwvHDWty rape >■
The jimiii, tfwrriifc fam iJmiftml above tf ncx milablr for local pharmacy purchase*.
The fafoidfolE and co-pEpMaM fa pm^ipcfai ire otpanftt from, ud & m ifpfcy id, th?
medical (fans' dofactAfa u mown euMif-pwiei
Catwafad Sny*fl|v*?
Schfttik (I CMroDod Sufatmem. uh » [hlitudid, DcnanpL, eu^ hmv tpecial diipcnunt mis which vary ion ttete to met, TTm a Plan t* desipcd nuoooitidm foa« m potkieo, Phom swt foscarfa for father itfawmija. FILING A CLAIM HtwtxKBwmaw
1 f« lanl lmil> ptamcy pacfaee t> made famwh « pnfawd pander pharmacy wfcich participata in PCSS punM)&ierw* prqpetn, the pternuetit will etarp die lmicci iravn bawdwplm data amino paper daunts required fafeinfomtriKiR,
NtXbN&rwork Pharmacy
PCS PretcripCw Un< Ctu™ farm ire avaibbte font PCS, I f yw ne favtQ drSculty tfaaaiu* dan forrrtL Mftua FIR Dcpomott,
PCS will (tae accept dr Umrani Pfanttacofoeal Otim Farm, wbieh may be aviifobfo * JW (famwcy-
You pfanwiA wfll need » complete t part of die ctain fam; er jo> cm imch tei nciHsd
(equated <■ the clwi fan Watt phwtmcm ■ifay h*v> etBtetdsrised ftgirtea Iha ntesmtetly ptvvidr far Mfanuliuii, check vtthywi,
Yow will need to cenfane foe remeinder ef foe claim fanuandfoairRsi) it k>foe PCS efareu listed m foe beck uffoe dfort fam. Yctr ctafor will mrmlly be pnmncd widen 10 te 14 fayt
fam foe day ■ it I'tuiied rf foe chfoi it im cwrtptete. h may ba eevntd by PCS, rod fou wW aum a delay at yctr reinfoai iimire
Mai Sardo PharmteO
Mid Soviet odei farm ■* t«i ttte fam foe carrfa. Ifyouare heviRf diRmfoyctjaoBit etahn fa™. Contact Iffi Drpunroeite. Singly mnqitee foe fam, ceck»e jm pmecripcMA and >nu ua-pejmt, and rrtei it to foe Hied Orfa ptwmKy-
ITRMINATHM Of CQVERAGt
Vo* tol your dipbke dtptnfojmi' ceweft mder dm Pitacnpfan On^ Prelim will tenunm effective whm yw uaoeidad eiedieaJ ptee mwete wnninaiea. o if yw avail fo on afarrteCnvmodicd plan.
H-b he»)3
FOfcT MM IS
Mo** 13
FORT JAMES
'Other hfurmutirm for Health Cure Plans
ME 45 OPIUM
$L vutofe still «rtvtfy unptojgJ^ $w « spoute rwA i££ 6Jb )ou wtt «rtri«e m be pOvertd mirf four He*! th C-^r Ham and 4k PfuUripCfon Dft^ Al*b ivdeis ]Ajb request crtherwttt. Arf Medicare mvutgi. far attach jdv a?r el^ibk will tic i>.«Mteiy*> tin* Plan.
[f you do Bea w to com nue wvnut mjer fottorini /m	faurrtty, yew <nw
eomiaFiR bepanmett.
TERMINATION OF CUVEftAGE
Medcai s-ovtTJSF fa* jcb jad dep^ndp^a tnV in Che friBwrr< wtarea*.
finp*p¥&$a
Yiv fFort Fames provided medifel cc**wate tfflfenben:
•	You toe itf longer enrolled ■> ihe Plan
•	Ycur cmplo^niffti ends, uakii jqu or w d^Ktidew qvaAifjr for ccntoicd twence dut tq death, Ktireraeta or dJHtrihcy
• Y □» an (tf Yrtgvr an tf^ble «mpio^v ■ V w (top iwkirig itqtUnd ccnlributwv • The PtanhknruBued rx dacomtriMd
Odagntoft, Covert^ for ydU d^tfixforta end* tfen.-• Yw coverage ends
•	They nokonjn meet the ehgiMrty wqiilfieiiKiiti
•	TheybecorrtecowteduF'crr/injo emtdoyeti
•	The Han elinuatm tfopentm! ccwip
•	Vqu ot yow fcpenfcnte stop nvkiflg wvu'fouitm-
COmNUATlGN COVERAGE (COGRAJ You and yar dependoiu Mve oemui fo^of fights provided infer Ihe CtotfCtti tod Orarqftnj fedgel ReCtreftaXM Art cf ICODRA). Scelte Aiinen«tonaactift» ctf Ma piide For Twe Enfarrmfon m COBRA.
other PLlU* information
Yotr Ftaahb C"*rt Eeaafitu metodint Uw pieoflMMt r>W ftan, are j*ov»<>d through (he Pwl JafMi CMupididiv* Wdfve Tntfte otrirt ar« ftirtfcd f*wiwi|y fay the Ccwtiptny. Fm JariKa partUwd party ■rfmimtHton fcJ ptwft? cluna- Hoa>cw» ewee bcnc^tr wtf fc* (mrafed through an ineuww? ^onfnez, Ar* Atiate vr paijt in xtetr *nt«f) byfte Ttu*-This timwydeKribier the eMtxrial feature* uf 4r FksL in whfch you a» timUed-TY« Cort^Wiy p*j» a Jhija ptFticn Of the rdfied to >vu and jor AjKiafei^a ewem^.
The Plan it admirurwred tfnugh the Employee Dtnetia OeDai^tment of die Corporation, ftnat (fetrmrinalkM of *11 benefits wil be made irt accordance the Plan Ekcuhent
f<MT Jamm 6 Mpoiwf ar«a#rjw atbfrcdon (n Ne'torpneto^4/rAb«KM4r^iJRlc>" aJM'Mf'A d!aUFdi«M*7pafmfmiridddPi rtguntag flV iterate Ahf rfjff bifirvabaff bf britaftrif 4,	Fft>T Jo-te
rf*#rnrt ate rigii w dtfnjt ar tetatfnrue oxy qfihc jPfoar at dn.v<Me or J'M1 *eto w orfMe ■* re&ed enjMoyete ^efwiftot af tht tisar af aifAmtm # rtTi'teiwmt. Titeac teioMed Hf4a fadM^Mrh ^tifed and iAe ksef t^unmMtiiNca rtfpafaaf. CfaMfea to Jher* j^fwfora of rMfiiB/f<rr corarW Hitter 0 dtAfetrhv btepottog OfTwreitr **!/£*“ «odr » BCCde^roee to Ar toma
tUTJOIfilOlg djF w IW.
Mk* Harty hath
FORT JAMES
Eten Am>r»fiTMnte
RcMhtOom ftr proposed UKHiMiU »the n*ri will to r^viewd tad weed upon byte Bud of Directors pf Fwi JiWl Corporation, or any pma gr puiai* to Mum ite Ekwd He delegated such nMtenity,
DEFINITIONS KM HEALTH CARE PLANS
AfHtxjMtovajnwry Forfitv;
A teilnyttac
l . Is kenned by (be jurisdictk* it it in {if rtqtvtd by thestte|.
2,	li *ci n», equipped, end rue Hfcty m ■ *R»ng for apery,
3.	Hurjetforthe irrricesmdwppfcict provide*,
4,	linauidn thrdirobiMof ■ ttsffof M.Dj M D.Q.I |w foatlMW wchphjsipi*nr*u*t toe Dti the prwni** when turpery w performed end during tte lOCOKry period].
5.	Hm t certified eieillr linUijjil on Ite pienitel. when wprynqiarfaig [cml nr q>iul wwattetia it performed and during the roctwciy pain!
6.	Ekfeitte topical MtffpriviltghiO pktffkieu Who CM poform nv^ry b m erpt heepi uJ,
7t H» u tewt two epenting rooms ud one rntxnny rowv
8r Hu fagMttic X-ray tad bb equip wen, or KcenfosKh.
9,	Doe* nr* provide * pfate fts paboti to Way overnight,
10.	PrcMdea fiil^Eiflw drilled tuning temca nttfw ependfog and aoeweryroema.
11.	Haiapipmcni md trend attffneeded tc
12.	Provide* a ongoing quality wjureace program.
I J. Keeps * nodical record “ each potent
An»ab«itic Clwraw:
Th* tercet of t doctor who it hoc dw upualiig doctor a het mistatol. for
edfnniilcring vi uwettetje, other then * be*} RfittniMn iiwrtwric.
OlitMWI CJr»-
Care wtneb oattertr of rendvee ind tapplno tacMing nun and bcerdand other ifttuamoml ■trvicet, knitted pmirtiy to tom in actM'iee ofduly living, wtetter a or* the individual is disafakd. These ■ervice* sM «9piia we natoditl CWW ftprdfelJ of the prMrtHncr or provider nto prOMribei. recatenudt. c* peribrtne than.
Cowwj Health Can Provider
Any cf tte fiA"fing wte « pTKtktog within ihcwupc ofttar ipp&ibie ttoeotea, in the AJELtoe of Vectning teqibarcrte, Otrb£cU»an by Ac epprepnate pmiriiiwaj usoctercr;
I,	PhyskLui. Any legally^ wii GM: Dbcu* of McAcoe {M,D.\ Doctor ofOnaoptfiy (DOI Doctor of Fodtery (D PJrf ), Doda of Cbtroprocte < D.C1. Doctor of OptonEtry|OAK Dwtot of dvopody IbPM-D-Sd
2.	Demist: A legally qualified dctiii (L) D_S. or D M D.) or ■ phfncbn,
3.	Chrirtbn Scicsw Practeiomr (€.S.): Lmed in tte Cteiftbo Scuwt kntffM,
A. HN:AicgiilLi cd virtot including mne pHctotener petetetna within tte scope of <rplkebk eeniteanoh Bid hw
J. LPN: a teeued prtciical or vocational mac.
6.	Midwife A Itsanytmltfiodmidwife.
7.	PA: AqisalitedphyeicteVsaitltwfltwte;
A. I* orated u ruth tte NatwnaJ Ccmnuttion oil Certiteatefi ef Hiysktui AtBfiaA; a
9. Is a ratified gr&hjtoE of tn approved tnteini cone which i* accrabcM by the Amoican Medial AtocnateiiS Convtottce cn AJnd Health Eteawn.
C. Wcrtj fertdiMcarfivtptQ^itaMtolt an M.D. a D.a.TlbtMdoee not apply if applicable law does t» allow it
WiKHctrfy tea*3J
FOBT MMES
1, Any tepDy qtatad Apneal Thmptrt.
u OceuptficmJ TScnptU, Speech Tbrrip 41, or AodniugdL
1 Aiyaber prwfarwhom ta Plan hfriiiiim >m o eeqttetd tn consider a>a Covered Health Care Provider tmfa tny fawfaaepptatodfaPlm.
Otmutic X-m ,nd I «b CMm: Eune fa dtapocir ody, pen by a fa«, a ta MxrpraauM of taenam by a doctv who is am aresideat damortir hmpM infan.
Enwy»KVMn*Bton;
AAnuicn whme (he phytaiao tanitt thr penon to the beepm] ot fatttfatt teddy nth after the nddmudtai tfac time, nMxpecwd afa of ■ ctape e • penot'i p^wal or mental oonMon which:
1.	Jtaquiiu rrinllnrwfd rfaa iwye ■ fab time hospital cr ttolmett taihly mptaiett: and
1 If in imnj i at jepfagtewo waanoa piven mid, as itawiniiiyiJ by the CUta Atannisnw, rcaaomMybe CKpenedw nesullfa
A.	Lea of life Ct bfa.
EL Sipatan supai iml to bodily fafana
C. PernwwtTidptatnon cfs body part
SIIMwCM:
Tte ta uufanea fivea in a tapm?i cmcrgaKy rootn ripM after Ok Hidden and, <1 dm tan, umipufad encl cd ■ cfaofa ci a pgzon'aphyrfaJ <r mafaloaidiln I. Roqtra boapial fail cart because;
A, The care «ouN not safely and adequately ta* been pmited eter du ■ stapnal.
B.	i|—m care »w nut avaitablc tawhn a ta m rt ta tm md ptav N *wa needed
I,	Ifta taaptatatemrne notpfa could, u determined by ta Chime
AiLijiiuwita. iLtsonaMy be «peered to rwukm:
A.	Loseafhfeo Ihnbs
B.	SipiiKtad fapaomc ta bodily faKtta
C,	tarmenert dytftncMn of < body part.
Emwwnnr CondMmv
The eatan *4 " tai tne, woputed bqct ofaetaife m a penerfs ptijrfal or memal coHtafai which, if ta mvcodm or weasneni wene uol pa tasted ri(Jsc my could, as detertaMd by ta Ctaimt Atatatmtor, rwaWy be spotted to ms&h ok I. Loaofhfectlfab.
2.	Sitafcv* w^nimerdbbodilytaiceion. 3. Pofaaaem dystaFtw of* body pan.
A lurptal pi umliei. in connottion with wtacb a bmetil« peysUe fa a tcCOld faptal opinfae v far, whkhdiov it a penalty i Fa aetend fvpcal epwrn « at uisaaml, will ba doetHcdtobe:
L Wot fa an tayijm.
3.	Mon-emerpmcyis nature if a li perfernta odm tan fa an tBILfpfey cofidittaL
HwotofeCdra iMeqcy
An afsicy or oipnirrtiw that n«» *9 of fa fttUcadnc tests:
1.	Hn hmpioe tac svfaabte 34 bom a day.
2.	la licensed u tucl by ta jurisdietfal it fl ia.
J, PtpMdcv till fed (going service*, nodical social ocrvicea, payfanlrfanl md tatwy c-ounacllnp, and bamammarn ommselinp fa ta tatadtae tatty,
4. Fwita wmnpes fot edwr services ■rtdeh will tnefaArl serviced ■( ■ pfeytatai, phjait*] QXUpStnnal (ho^y, partfane pr home beaHt anfe wrricw cnstii* of primarily caring fa ■ faminahy ill tally membs, or fapth** *** ■ fecsMy *ben h ceded fcu paDtotaol andetar atarand ctmne ryufaon manafetBeM.
iHowly Pigs»
FOMT JAMES *
Hmm Cara EMpir.
A AfiJiUof *diKinctp<rofot<eTcuch«» a Hosp ital or CcmdertCnf F*cl Jiry, the crmr all tf xbe fa)tc»in$ teStr !, hstinp, equipped Md run mainly as < setting for providing	Hcapice Orc
(a tcrByroily pen*ii.
3.	0*tS fortfrvkw mdiigrplie* rt previks.
3.	is hoe&ted m tad1! by the >ai»dkuOT H is in.
4.	Keeps * jrafea] rtoiwd on etch ptfient
5,	Provides «b ongoing quality stftrtiwt piu0<iii with rwicwi by W. D j er D£l ,-t cdfef than ttaa tter wn or dime, the teility.
ti, hiwtffiyrthediflWdoB ofatfiaffofM.Dj DQ,V,	cm of sach ^byjkrisfi*
mutt be on call u «St w*i>
7.	Frwidrt M tourt 1 day skiUkckuming serviced under Uw djtec&ari ofUHr
8.	Mai a AiD-Qrrw tefflinkrnwe.
Medtafly Wrterte ft
A terne* or sufpJy touted by a poticutu provide is necewy i Fit k detente nod by the Clttas AdrfbniCmMr UtM a <# appropriate for iM<tipsii, the cm or ihc ireecmenc of the daenie <w isjury irrvoived
To he epproptiaiE, the ve»ice or supply rruBt-
I.	&c care or tnvtroefX.a* iiktiy Upexidutt* BlfnificMI positive ctete^ns: si. wd m> more Italy to prodw* a negative attorne than any aterwiv* mvice <x wpply. both <1 to the disease ar injury Enrotved. end the peracnfetttTalP telfth aMtdjtioa.
2.	Be a dbgnMtic procedure, indicated by the feotfi ■*■&]> eftteptnm 4>sJ te M ItWy »Tewh in tntondtto ita could affect die eCstrte of treafintrit 45. Md jfotnort Jikeiy to pro&Kq l negatiw <H*Cdfl>e than, any ibcrn^Wri teivicc cr Vuppiy. both u Co the disease or injury gwphnd wd ibe perrcti^ ovtetf health
J. A» be difl^KHJ^ cue aM Ptafincrtt be no rtWTe Cady (taking Um WbBK ail expenses uwred in cunnm.on «ith *e servkt ot Supply) than any aterBJtfrt service « rupplyta meet tbe abc*e tem.
Etl dKMTtdMng iff4 pprvice of tupply il apyrapriw w*dcr tfc circiintMWMM, theOarnia jtuiitijuiujAor will «ke into cofiffidertbon:
1.	fnflrostMjn, pnurkipicm fee alTbped pwwni health
2.	Reports bi peer reviewed medieni ibentm, 3. Reports and£uidehfcipijblisted by • iMficmdlJy nx ignited haJlh cw erguusuirmj thu indude supporting scientific data.
4.	<3*nendlyfec0gnced prctaiotti itattrfarda ofetfetyand effcetkeneb in the Ifawd SfefeS, fos ffugluJM,. t*ft or uotflMt.
5.	The opuucri of hntihyrofbaaioiwls in the Aener&riyteMgniz»dhMitri rpteithy involwl
&	Any other relmrt infomMiW brou^t Co IheCltnu Adtiatiis&«te^4ttftition.
oo even/ KtbU otfjtNTsWf X*Tice» or ytvptar oojm jdtatf te & jnbubsov P. 7te» JtaJ rfa Aotf rffukr rfi< feoArritaf S&iils of cr rwfioif. f urmfd! beajtft dr cr
2. fkote jfonEMed ftuMp/p Me p^M4? dov^art ar enniYJtirflce gf th^pttson. dfff w4i> ram/or Awt pr Aar, «y parte* vMa if pon e/hl/ trr hjWjUawiA'. ofl? >CaM Car* pnwidtr t>r teffM ftrrejtjftfltb'.
J. ftore ^fcriwterf Mfr^f b«c*»J* tte fletfotr i* art i/tpaimf ofi omi 4«y c* 4hr jPerten j ^irwe or i^iv'y cooU #>My ond jt/a^ow^1 Ar dfetgitd»d' nr frra tad **ifr *0/ Cfffl/wc/.
Jrttbv	fffrVfce GrMgp^ OMiftf
Md mlrqiiftfr fy btjvtufAtJ in « pAcrician'j or a Av&fr s^Qcv or opto-fesf cosily j<ste’£.
Wwnw Hotfty	3 7
I
JAMIS x
Mantel Dtetwto
A <fec«t ccmmcrify undenttod to be i manV divwdcr. efafar or net n h«s a phptatocMai or <Xgfae him Ind Ex which ocareat »r fmmdcd by wdrrfafatctMwiofi irtfai faith piufeirkwa) nxh u * pflufaffifL a j*yriK4ojLsu<!r a pfychtac jocW wwkn. a fatal fawfa fafae*, fa it noiTniudto;
» Afecfol abuse mJ ibtt&c
* Scfuvphmm
* Sfpoterdfatier
•	Penraive Metal DevfapMrn Diionter (Attiftti)
•	Fthk dtfoffa
•	Mqor tepTCHHt famfcr
v Paytfaic depra*»n
*	Ob««U¥Mttn£rnfJT\< dtmrddr
MsSEMiaakSec
A pnivafer of mefaal ea« nhn it under C<mft with 4k Claim Aifririfamr,
Efoi}4acpijpafayl tyagmj:
A	4mi nor artee, and ufeich » w
earned or eontribuMd Ml by, or at* cermtance of, toy taeaM which <he* fa of □r ip fa Gfa* of my anpktfncm. or tNc^vfion ftjr cm i ipensainn or profit.
ttq-opaiFappMi Ipium
An acddral. baity injtry which dfa fa ■rile, and which is km ceiwd or Mertribund to. by, or la tgjrui'qrrntti vt my tfijqry Which •far fajrfcr n> fa cmat rfxaycflyfcyTieat or wvr^wTiim fix cvtytrvllfa yofil
pApiwy Oyw
A itytifak fam jam	to Mmp rf
Mpecu ofyoBr otfafa or*, A PfaaryCwr Ptyiiefa hr«yhr a goeri] ptmifater, rrrtfrmt, £> ^cdfaKten. Y«t nd you* tkpandtWt may 4«sm <fi3rm binary Cv>
Phyikin. V-ju mwr ictentify w Primary Care ttryaunn M fra Chinn AdmifainUN.
BBfcsLfiacaljgi, infaka fagiei] pf fa&H» *i fa dftfe fcilknvfa atqfwwi pMfcnned try* tfadcr, and tM ibwL irrittfuy uad related ^wopefave ■nd pfa-opcranw a/t and faairuicfaon of an ■awthm by fte (pvrdifa doctor:
1.	Tl* iirl i k)iiM efasfa ct dk«hx*tteriijttfon of any agin orptricT tiie body,
2.	The maityofatftc ffaefar of« fiadwt or dialocjtiotL
3,	The luftring'CJa w<«L
4.	TfertmuibycntofapcfiteMirf* Mi or otfa fiwjn ofact fifa fa larynx, fancbm, Wachea. esophagi!, sWitteh. winery fadfa a ureter.
J. The ftrtrfaicm of a wfa <OOt W7d»ot fa ciwwction offa entire few,
6, TM ciMcd OFCgeo redwctiM <rf tnamtor dhkeawn of fa jtw.
?. Oita DHtaMi or ctEBicn proetdint ort the para aad indict offaaifah when mi ptrltafal tn cfat^tiiw wri fa erfrrrtK*t of teUh.
Prd-Tiix Cfl/irriAuttorts for Hetifrh Plan
SUWUAY
•	Ccrvtri MnlKbUtidna fade M yt*r Group Medical Phtu.
•	Ctaritafas m made at* e prw-aa huh.
•	You we eLigMe io panicipaK if you are a regular fiiH-tfmt or [wn-tiriw tarfa eiigfaarnpfo^e.
•	ir^u *rt; crfiind in fa aanwjnrfatJW wer* cemufard. jnu awy fa be perrnfad es Join fa Plan urtfiJ fa tallowing January I,

FORT MMES
X<r	*4<Tr.rt* cvaWiiwte vmffr Mw
Pfan ** not rarmtAr jwS/ftj to/admr/ focwtre fcu ar, i* rwJ flrfili state inedW W. ta tui^oif, FTCI *m It niW	Thir mf
ruUl MEMBERSHIP
Youar* dipbk toparbopafc in this Plan on the dry jw bcgw wwttSC aa * bene to-eligibk envkMe. fm mtur nrMrw a*	Ji™
wxrtfa
o/ftsj^iHja« newtf* d&iMr fepende*f (f.ww >«* ta cn r^J/ Ata (A^w^rnr. Emuilaiejit farm* an available frcoi JW HR Dcpwtmcnt.
rfyware nehred in*M useyeir that yw wm mnikah i'l you will mt be pitnucwd »Join dw Ftan unfa] be fcdhewing January 1.
Elipbiliiy k> participate ar^ benefit pravtaitma for ihe Group Medical F*Lu» are not drMncncd by this Plan btthyfoe ipeCtllcprovijiciw of Uta
Mntmvd*«e.
ODNTRlWnONS
Contributor jw tmkeofoe Phn will be wttMd Asm yoar p«y cm a bf-wadtly basi r Ibr jw Group Medical wvetapo,
Ta participate m fo™ barfs. yen oust make a whites election and jwnaiip: to have yvur dimv Oi'Ae cm paid on < pr^taa iwe through thu Pim.
Fer rpocifc comribwion kvria, please rtlt* ta tiw rndnSdaal Man toocripptna ctwtaincd in chapide.
otwr run information
Fart jama Corpvancn hu the expts dncntueary aidhrity to aiWpet the Mu and m mo>ve anti pafiiTf. inceni wencies, or waiMiuu,
Fiatf /daUf wm*cn cte to Ad'tgtf MnwiMM pie fre-Tax CbntrihidoR Pla* « «a.V tixae. Tlie» ntMlaed Hgta lacfude Ped de barter jwtnwtef aw/ tny/ o/cMfthMiew n^QK>M/	ta dlr	a £nt^pf
mptoyfft rc wwd m/<t 0 oilierijiT 6a^aita>£ dfreMM be >w4» In uiUiHitowef ftp dr frrnt’ of liw ajlteitvf bar^oiapts agi^mttu.
Fert Jswi i»empm«r«d iDenerciK dnaetkn in wrterpretinj Us im pFth* Plan and web dixrctRmry dawmStafl repudiiig the PreTax Contnbulvi tentotata debility daN be binding vptm all partw ipsrta.
Plan Aimmtmrti
Resdutitro for proponed amewdnexi to the Plan wdl be reviewed and vMd	by foe
Bonrdof Dinckn ofFcM Jafne* Grpcemtan, or any pawn ar pmgra to whm fte Board hu delegated met artbonry,
flslbJe MraJlA Cow	4CCWJV
DcptatoAwt DtfT Cbrr^Mdmg 4<nwC
Thnc tmefia will be mihbie as plT-l-lQOO, Eiralbnem infomoon win be provided Airing Open Enrollment.
Hfidtfc C«re Spending Aecvwt SUMMARY
•	Vqq ore e ligible January I fa&nrmg year dfie efemptoynw ifyai ere a ftdl-tinc or part-time htwJycmptojcc,
•	Yonmurtcrrolt wrthtaJI <byivf digMicy, wiiha i I dajx oft "change tn fornily rub," a dtruif foe amrtl Open Enrol frnrniT period.
« CtWribirtiofBare made <m«pre-Wt b«W Thervfai, >w are reMntraed wi* doDm ihai haw net been mad.
Wwllwij Pipjr
FORT JAMES
*	You may umim muubuiorrnnt far cciiara mtdinl «r dental expemei not «w»i by pur bmkh cm* a	ria pre-itt
daim thtf pa ten ted deducted tent par papbuLk.
•	Ifyoum rehifedto the mmertoenAtynae that pu WWe Umami, pa tell mt tv ptrnSbed to jwidie Plas tadil 4c tdtowmg luajary 1.
« MirttoOtftt bi wee-lily Mrtribtean ti (UZperpa).
« Mvtaumfa-ratUycQatibutonH SlllJMfc.CWperyw).
•	USE JT OR LOSE IT.
INTRODUCTION
Thi* pteiteipt pu pay te prodctabk health tad demal npaac*** covered by your heoM cm at faatiJ pfai* tai wt-eSbctfov wry far fah pu tad	eUfiNr dtpendiau,
MAN MEMBERSHIP
Ym it«eh^WetopA£^tofe in4en« if you an* widen 31 dap ofbwrt»n a tenefita eligible crtptoptr ar within JI dap of* nthor* in fanity mu' if you m a rvgute faU-Gwffptrnime«Hpiay»»< if you are IthiHd tfl tfto Mite yetr tter )ai were tecminattd, JO* ton* nei he penrutkd to join ite Hod JHt)i tte faltowing January I, Piprirtu who can be emend by thfa pfan indudei v Your wife w tashand
•	Your naaml numjitej duUren wt» v? tordtr 19 jean of ape; er a lawfariyadcpeed child, tiepcfaW, or otter Child infer tte ^e of 19, who depewfa m yw far Report <ad fem***h jeu to aicgute penB-chiU
• A ,J cfebd I b fefawd afcove)^
teto«e>* 15 yean ofa^ and v to Ufa
hrthday, i ffudt child inewfa Ktool Kftdtfly-nri ikpuidi ■nidy ea yew 6» tuppel
EwnllfnMil
Ta end. yea rfflBl erjftfleto tte ^prepnwe enroifeter* tern and irttrn il to HR
DepaibnaL Al the tame time, jou will be acted w mppty carton adtemaiiM about the dependent* jo* enroll I i/eny), ^hw 4m y ewtef iir rtirptei mitei Jf <X»d
<IipteAry, >tn» way mM emo* mtf tte fint ^y c^anrcrca/wf pJkM J«V tM^St.HW ^utrfater * 'tteRge ui jtetJtp Mite' wbi* ir itelW/Mrk
You maycnin yrmdfor ytMrabrgAfc tependenb cteing tte arnal Ope* Enrol tonerd period bold by ite <mpanyr Tbit Open EtwEmoa period n Md every Ocufaey November **h yw etectfen pwng irte effect toe ftni eftte faUawiaf yev. You ool nte an datocri cteh Open Endte* period k> cwiteue pvticipaiicn in tte plan. If yc* do te* rate ■» cbcUon itefag Qpm EmOmat, >or partxvum in tte pt» *il KfflttMte ite faterwiny Jnuary L
CHANGE 1H FAMILY STATUS
You may not elect tmenge mier ibi pin after tte deOfl inc for eobnatiitigclaeteB farrrw te * pten yaw ar change ymfawl ofgeraapttion cfanng ite pfaa yw mieu you experience a ’cte«re b faenty mail" faring (te jear a plan year it defined a* tte 11 eawccteve nM* pchod bugimiav cw tewy 1 end atteg on Dvcaater JI, jfyow CTwfeffce a cAm** in .family hum cad Mr Ji e» ante a ctedfe fa Jtotepdrlfefauteir Crw£ wv nui mnjii vane
DtpaHMMf« favrifaji JJ Jrp edar ite MOtoa ctewge too* pfact, ^Change in family fttw', as atevd by tte l XS., bichdes:
•	Mmiay
•	Dnwee
•	Ttedesftora pinicipmnfjMUHdrdtiH « Birth, adoption of, or ptaoemm far idevtm of i portfcipura dnid
•	Cm&nwiccmeni -or isnuuuitn -of WTvtoymen by a portdperfi rpouw
। Item 1/ rapt*)
FORT JAMES
•	A ytJti’iiiKjrt luiiiaulMi <rfcntpJoytrdt1
•	Tl< Hw-nytug iw	to ptrf-Ortr
w vice wii. by fc participant tfipoum
« The tikag of« unpaid feaw of abaepce by dto ponkipam or ifiawr
•	A ripnGotm ■=*—y in the feaUb arwaage of ■ paimipanc pr rptwr wrbistbte w te (pause's 111 ipfa^q i him
cownuBvrioHS
Ypa may ccrfrtnt** * be-weofely mjtunum <rf up to a rt-weeWy imkinim ft $ 11 < Ja per plan year. Theaeccrtnbrffau frill bean a Cm>tos Uialhrrt^h «Manui>C ptjCDU
EUGTBtf EXPENSES
Tw HnJA Cnt SpatdoTg Aaamt i* taipwd to help juu pay fat tomm hmM cvt t» Artsik j ipMu»nd coated by the beoMl <®r option ct ttertiJ plan wytfi prt^tB-T &JtarB for ys^j and >cui dtpenteu* Allowable ezpcnaex «the Un« aa itast iM j«i would be allowed to ckim U tn itentoM tieductiM on jsJUT tnacme lu rtten aid thcrefare ran falfa* I.ILS. fiiddim
Sow of the rxpemea that	fcr
rctmbtfriefllBtl inclufe
•	Amouflto not paid by dtrbMliuJ ?Unffl DeataJ Kin, zutb al the dctftirtiHe ct [fie CratHjuoe yn p*y, (If Jou cr » depodff* are covered uMa two tabb cart plant, only the unou/u «x ptfd by eiUter plea is etigibte far rtWtbtofrSheryJ
*	t*wbiffitilr i Md coinmuce far othr tmkh, pnerigfan, dMal, W vfsin plus under ntach pw or Jqw Asfm<bnt> are o^raod
*	frpetuea am covered by our Medical Flan mb «$ gtrcrtH saa-Sj-THfrMWIi pTij^acal cxaffiutuxm (up to MOQ per year) and
wefl-baby tat Cosnetfa root » pnMCriptiCn dtup dur *r Uled fir CoenidK purpow are excluded.
4 Virtually all vision expftaCl. inctudfrfc Ccrraiivc ejcpl^e*, ootdaei fetnt* aid matt mvptHclaokHiMa at wefl aa toe cw of* pate ttof far the Wind «nd fpeail etacaboMl into far fiaVlbd | inda u a iprcal [ypenruu)
e Hwinf aFptMta indadnif henririg aids, ipecaJ InSfhiCtnrtj or tnuunj fir the detf ts«h tt It?
acquiring and tn<nir* a do? far tfie deaf
• Exponea incCTTfrd fix imottoq Bttlbliro FPgnm and iratkiaied pmcriptrao drug ctpewM. (Amounts paid fir Mb prescripMII dfU^, tach aa JliMtiBC (Um and «ram leiACnie pudra, w not d qpbfa far rw3bwn«Tnan>L
■ MiiBcfanftNiaexpenBto me Judin (bird tcwtrpi pi’itt Bid a wtigM ton PftfFVn yfaeribed by a pfiynCMn far cnruig a specific ailniCTU.
The twirrhxn anwsm of Fetaburvetwn ihu may be claim*! ihrinfi a ^veTi Fton Ybct N 0» atnosfll)« elected to ortibde far fatf par, Tlai traeuCT U anitahh to you Aribg dw taint jrar, tvgvdtev cfJtw much jw have ctraribsstd. is fan® as yot nmain tn active utykiyt.
EXCLUSIONS
Ehkiuvi tffei dojMt mtetLR.3, gitidelinm, DVer'IteMttatftr rnedieabaftl ahdsi^priet.
FTUNG CLAIMS
To obtain reimbUrvpneitL mki ite ften, you matt cwnplde a Htttth Ort Spending Acotmft Rdndfrfrrangnl Aapmst Fmn Mid udnnit rt to pMCIasna Atintinrtntor, Deotfista far cnotpfitoon arc provided oi m ftm. The farm is SVaitiLble U your total Iftnfil Itafltrta pepwvtxnt
Wfrat^^ly
I
J.10J
FORT JAMB
Ptan Arnendmants
Resuluccjffi fcr preposed arrwdnimu to foe Man wj[| te revired md Mrted up<«i by the &wfd cTDimlan of pert JnwaCorpimtaa. or aX$ pcnot at penamo *hai foe Band detagaod tufo aufocrity.
Dr pendent D*y Carr Spending Accxtnt SUMMARY
Yai ire eligible Jamiary I foDuwing the dire you become i benefi ts elipble aitptoyec if ycfl tie x fuD-tim; tr pad -tinw hourly pij»loyet_ (If jou are married, your ipimnaei^Bo be wotidagta order for ynu»parwipMe inihiA plan.I
* You iftirteflron within 31 of dtgibiKtyT within 31 tlsyscffoc addition of *q eligible dependent, w during the ihhaI OpenEorollriiait period
« CattriNtittu am made on a pre-tax basis. There fiire. you ere reimbursed with dollars ihat have net been trned.
• The Plan covers exposes related to depeftdoit diyearb for children under age 13 end other Enabled indivithiali whom you «|um a* dependents few ncoroe B* pOpWk
■ Jfjwu are retired in dw tame calendar year that yoo were terminated, you will not be permitted to join the Plan inbl the following JlOwy 1,
*	Mtftfntan bi-weefcty BOfttributtan Li S2 DO ($5? per 3w). MauaWsm bi-weekly conttibution b S192 JO ($3,CW per jw>.
•	USE IT OR USE IF
INTKOOUCnON
Thi* plan allows	(or both JO) and jW
kjkaia) to wwkby helping you co pay foe predictable day care expenses with pre-tax tkrilua.
PUN MEMBERSHIP
You are etigiMe t> partfcrpain n the Men ifjva enroll within 31 daJS ofbeaarangaheMlfo eligible cu^loyee, tfw addition of u <1 igiMe depended, or foe canrreocereent Of employment by yotr spouse if you are a fol I-rime or pan-time txjurly enpiojee. if ynu are rehirnd idthe »nw Jtwfoat >*w were IcnamiteA you will not be penniitod to joei the Plan tstal the following Januuy I,
"Eligible depeftfoos* include children under the age of 13 for whan yuirnentitled tout exemption an you Metal inconw tax return and any other dependetu, or tpcmw, who is physically or raeranlly incapible of earing for hutiael ObenelTtmd for whan you take ■> cKcmpiMti.
Enroflmt.nt To mull ytv must	foe ap^upnatr
enfoHnwre form and ream ii to KR Department Election to parbeipaw in the Hu shall be brcvDeaMe duraig (fer Plan ytv which cunt fajm January I through December 31, an less you have a ’chajige bi family flare/as allowed by tbe 1,R,S,. and which are outlined below.
Ywmynid! yoinelfa digiti)* depeadere durtag foe annul Open Ewollrnret period hrid by foeCcmpny. Yius Open Enrollmettl period u held evwy Octcbcaf November with jw election	rto dforl
th* fimtd foe following year, fawwMf wtte tfH	0OCA	to
i^infwpicpUrtifiiPajfoflih rtepftrfl, If you do no* make an elation <hmr^ Open EnroHmenu yoa ptftidpafioTl in the pUn Win tcrrtlinair tbe fetlowu^ JSHiwy J „
OUNCE tH FAMILY STATUS
You may net electowtrsgs under tius ptan after deuitiae far lutaujnfog form* for a

FORT JAMES
plan yw a chvige your kvel cf participaiiea tout the pta }w mln jw ejjwisx* a "change in femjy stuns’ tang tai )dr A pita )a is defined B3 ta twelve lomemliv* mtadi period tcjeming mi January I and ending on Decataxr 31. jfppM a^nnwjvs a c*ci£e in raws «mf *tr* to iwta a ttange m tout' p«rffnp<MZ*fi fcvrf, ,mt muJ noflfr MJt tapurumn' no huer-tac J f da>f qlWtaJOLU/fantfe kwi/hjlftne.
A "chnige in Rnutytafuf" bMII include. ba ms be buntal to;
•	Mariage
» Divorce
•	The death of* participant speuae cr chi Id • The birth, adoption ot or phccmcK for adoption of a pvtK'jnnft etui id
•	Ctmtmencwnetn or temiutiw oT cn^lupMtii by a ptfndpnft SpCfese
•	The tanging item fldl-tinw to wt-cune MLipluynttnt. or vice vtna. by the partkipwn « ipouae
•	The tange ■» ta daily *wting shit of ta putkipartl tr spotte
*	The Etkingof®) unpaid tern of alnoite by ta participant or tpfitae
TO 00 MSt DERATIONS
Bebe opeug yow awouMii. jon ahouJd decide iffoderal income tax endite will resdt in mun fevorahlc lea treafnwrt ta yoo. While hi plan has * maaaBum anna I us imitation S3JHM, wb indivitaal IM utnlm may detuitat vtm limh you *jt Allowed, See CoMritakea uetion befow ta more informancn.
You way cMqm between eponf* a Depend*#! □ay Cm Sptrwtaig Acedufli or claimifig ta child C*re ta cred* on jttat fedm) income In return. You should dtaufe taw eptienj witfi K»r tu advisor.
Whichwer method you choose, m cred* or DepcxJefl] Day Cwe Speodiof Aeumsil, ta IRS will require you to idtaiiy you daycare provider on jra income ia* rehm. alMg with a Sotai Security nuntar ar Tn I.D, mntibcr, to addition, s»ce cMsribunom «chi® Plan art r»i wbjwstDHCA, your Social Security beneft[ may be affected retirement hi rttosl eases, ta ta urvinga bon parteipatxon in (hts PIm win be mm bmie&iA ar*| the Social Security benefit mbacTHMs ifany,willoaiba •jfHi&ttnr. if you have *nyquentk*» onta abovt. yuo thould consult with ytm m wfrixur
CONTRIBUTIONS
Year ccrartackw io ta Dependent Day Care Speeding ACBooMmemadeona^t-ax bass tiuuu|lk payroll taducricrtS, The maxinK&n you may tact to ccrdnbutc to ihe Plan may not rMceeq the
•	I f you ire pc* married, ihe kuct of ytW biee payot S3J30C.
•	If yun arc married, the leWr of jwr taomc orywrtpoust’i earned Tncome. Kowerv. ymr election not ti&fied S3J3Q0 for the Fiat year ((2^00 in ta Ctit of mariod filing eeparale returns).
« In tacau of* ^ouk who ts afitlbtiiht Aidm or ii phjtaally or nmaUy incapable of caring for tameelttandf, hkX ■pouae will ba deemed to have earned incoffie of not lai than $200 per month if ytn haw <MB dependent C* S*DO per taMh ifyoibate twdot nW iMycmkiits.
Tbc RHnimtenamiriWan taayrw WI ’tai t| * 1 Tfmee the maetar ofwpdti Terwoinf in the Plan year,
EUGIBLE EXPENSES
"EtigiNe evpenaeir are idiow expensce paid for the eare of* depotdem u defaed ■hove. They ■mat be incurred A order to aUow you and yra if married, to be pinftlly cn^lcyod-
WnHvb N«
FORT JAMES
ErpCTBto wt fanned 1A fa tote, fa Jtr«? Ukc* pin, wx wten jo* iff tilled or p*y fa them.
Eligible upejisu do not mchtde ewperumj kKQTtd uttite yOttr taK fa Ihetm of fc dependent tmtea* fa dependtm ngulariy spen£ it tavt ei£t htwri each day u j*w household.
RUNG CLAIMS
To attain ftvnhmeaaetTl tauter the Plan, you must cocHpfae a DcpualuW DayCtae Spending Aeomm Rcimbuncmeta Request form and mtandt ik to Onnre Adrrisijlntw, RetattaMmeot forms, fttuch uwfate irmrottfeni, «e ovailuMM your local Hunan Resources Department. tn otder to be neimbursed, ati anplojee rnusi pnwie a writtm mterowl (fan ibe fay care pujvafct atahng the pnnifar'fc w payer ifaiitihmian ar Scfal Security aunjber, ihe daw fa renin wga provided, ind cho unoerri of the expenae Yau man ata certify tai fa espeswetatt* rcnrnhunable under jmy other faptrnteia fay nre rpoidinf awourH. neenbiaaaBentm made by pn* Claims Adnfriianvr. Between January I and October JI erffte Plan Year, you may request rtonburtcmenl fa aXtounti of350 or rturt- Afar October J J, ycu may raqiol reinfamcmcnt fa any imeurtt Expenses eligible fa reinbunernesi are ody fast txpeaafa wwtfta farir* fa	, Ven
may request reinilnranien) fa current plan year expenses fail March 31 of the (Uterine year.
Reinbtnemttrt of cowed expense* wilt net be made u nder tte Pfa iffayeuredfa bifaaot Lrt yw Depends Day Cara AecoM.
APPEIA1NG A MTflED CLAIM TfjajrclainitedeiKd, Jvucan repeal the denial od fave your clatei rrnewwi. See •pp&ling A Dotted Clfah in fa Adnuniskitidnaectfai of this £iide.
FORFEITURE-MR JT Oft LOSE IT Thfine iter tae irate b4 fafad negifaiion. UXdta fab rule, any umsed balances teyuitr Dependent Day Care Spewing i^nduni nuist he fateited at the erj of Ibc year, For nnnqde, ifymi-aitaated 32,000 to yev day car? acctnot and nfanrittod mpenst* of odi11IW, you would fateit fa mmintat f 100 at the tad of fa yev. You ft«y be able to Wad Ratal aft money if you csomak: yw todre Expenses realistically.
VERMEMAnON OF COVERAGE
You will peaee to be a pamcqieK aa of fa tarlier of(a)fattewo0iirtachlfaiwueMti¥e emptejnwf wfii Pori James; 6) fa date Ih wtach ymr spouse fa no Lccgtf actively crapkiycd, tjr ic'k fa ditt «n wfata fa tofanafa. Ai Ufa it not a medical benefit dm are no COBRA cortuMirtiM pnnfahwia.
PAYMENT OF OATHS FOUOWlNG TERMINATION OF PATCapATON IfjvuoeasrtobeapeRtoipant far anyreasoi, any etecekm to lun your ccntpeesMtai refaced and SO TOcel W retdtbunemtnti	Deyendeni
Dry Cm ettper^s shall tenataatr. Y«u {or your ettate) shall be entiderl to irnbwtaincnl only fa cxptoci facwrol within dx ucuc Mui jar and befav fa date jwr jerticipfaa termtated, fat only if w» (or ytw estate) apply for tach ttemburatanent by II ling a ‘‘ApeWikiir care rti*ibtr«iTEj« request fom' cm or before fa writer of I ■) fa I KHh day fallowing fa fae ymr partcipatfai tennfaied, wrt)M*rth3i tf fa year faticsratfaFta yew tn wfticl ctpessej were incurred, Na J ooh reLmbtrsaatfnt dull euned fa remaining balance, ifatiy, m fa pwoetpant'saccofa for fa Flan ynf in which fa expcaSw won buijoL
WoiMltewty Pirs^j