
I 6^
IEXCIEI.V
AGREEMENT BETWEEN
EXCEL CORPORATION DODGE CITY, KANSAS
and
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTL.
DISTRICT LOCAL #2, AFL-CIO-CLC
MAY 27, 2001 through MAY 28, 2006

AGREEMENT
This Agreement made and entered into this 27th day of May, 2001, by and between EXCEL CORPORATION, DODGE CITY DIVISION, of Dodge City, Kansas, hereinafter referred to as the “Company”, and UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, AFL-CIO-CLC, DISTRICT LOCAL UNION #2, hereinafter referred to as the “Union”.
ARTICLE 1 RECOGNITION AND BARGAINING UNIT
The Company recognizes the Union as the sole bargaining agent of all production and maintenance employees at the Excel Corporation, Dodge City, Kansas, location, but excluding office-clerical employees, professional employees, guards and supervisors within the meaning of the Act, for the purposes of collective bargaining in respect to rates of pay, wages, hours of employment and other conditions of employment.
ARTICLE 2 PURPOSE OF AGREEMENT
Section 1:	It is the intent and purpose of the parties hereto that this Agreement shall promote and insure harmonious relations, cooperation and understanding between the Company and its employees, set forth rates of pay and other conditions of employment to be observed between the parties hereto.
Section 2:	It is recognized by both parties that they have a mutual interest and obligation in maintaining friendly cooperation between the Company and the Union which will permit safe, economical and efficient operation of the plant.
Section 3:	In recognition of the mutuality of interest and desiring to provide maximum opportunity and job security for its members in this plant, the Union pledges its cooperation in promoting customer and consumer acceptance of the Company’s product.
ARTICLE 3 MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
Section 1:	The management of the plant and the direction of the working force, including the right to hire, suspend, discipline or discharge for cause, to assign jobs, to determine the qualifications and the ability of the employees, to transfer, promote or demote employees, to increase and decrease the working force, to determine production standards, to determine products to be handled, produced or manufactured, the schedules of production and the methods, processes, and means of production handling, are vested exclusively in the Company; provided this will not be used for the purpose of discrimination against any employee or to avoid any of the provisions of the Agreement.
1
Section 2:	It is mutually agreed that the Company retains all management rights and prerogatives heretofore held, except such rights as are specifically relinquished herein.
Section 3:	Foremen or other personnel may perform any duties that are necessary in the conduct of the business and do not result in displacement of bargaining unit employees.
ARTICLE 4 NON-DISCRIMINATION
Neither the Company nor the Union will discriminate unlawfully against an employee or applicant for employment because of race, color, creed, sex, age, veteran status, handicaps, religion or national origin, or because of membership or non-membership in the Union.
ARTICLE 5 ACCESS
The Union Business Representative shall have access to the plant during normal working hours for official Union business, after first obtaining permission from the Company officer in charge, provided there shall be no interference with the work of the employees.
ARTICLE 6 CHECK-OFF
Section 1:	If authorized and directed to do so by any employee in writing, and so long as both such authorization and the contract between the Company and the Union remain in effect, the Company shall deduct the equivalent of the initiation fee of the Union and the equivalent of weekly Union dues from the pay of such employee. Deductions shall be made from the employee’s pay each week, and the Company shall promptly remit the same to the officer designated by the Union. The Company agrees to recognize the check-off form agreed to by the Company and Union. The Company agrees to furnish the Union with a mailing list of unit employees once each six (6) months.
The Union agrees to defend, indemnify and hold harmless the Company from any and all claims, suits, and damages arising out of or in any way connected with actions by the Company taken for the purpose of complying with this Article of the contract, including disposition of such funds after they have been remitted by the Company to the Union,
Section 2:	The Employer agrees to deduct amounts designated by employees for the Active Ballot Club when the Employer has been furnished an individual written authorization for making such deductions on a form mutually agreed upon between the Employer and the Union. It is agreed that the ABC authorization is to be entirely voluntary upon the part of each such individual employee and that any such employee may revoke his ABC checkoff authorization upon giving thirty (30) days written notice to the Employer and the Union.
2
ARTICLE 7 GUARANTEE
Section 1:	Unless notified of a layoff on or before Saturday of the prior week, all regular full-time employees will receive a weekly guarantee in the amount of thirty-six (36) hours’ pay at their straight time rate.
The Company shall have the right to reduce the weekly guarantee of hours to thirty-two (32) hours, not more than ten (10) weeks per contract year. Notification of the reduction for any week must be made on the previous Friday. If notification is given and then thirty-six (36) or more hours are worked, it shall not count as a week against the ten (10) weeks.
The guarantee shall be reduced by time absent for any reason and for six (6) hours each full day in which the plant is unable to operate because of fire, explosion, power failure, storm, strike or boycott by a labor union or similar group. Holiday pay will be considered part of the thirty-six (36) or the thirty-two (32) hours guaranteed pay, whichever is applicable.
Section 2:	The guaranteed work-week shall apply only to regular full-time employees who commence work on the first scheduled day of the work-week. Employees displaced because of operations of the seniority provisions shall receive pay for only those hours worked in the week hired or displaced.
Section 3:	Employees called to work will be provided with a minimum of four (4) hours’ work or pay in lieu of work.
Section 4:	Employees who are called to work outside their regular work schedule after once going home for the day and not at a time when such work merges with their regular shift shall be guaranteed four (4) hours’ work at one and one-half (1 1/2) times their regular rate of pay, and the employees called to work outside their regular shift shall be paid in accordance with Article VII, Section 3, and will be permitted to work their regular shift.
Section 5:	Employees who miss scheduled work at the discretion of the Company doctor, because of a work related injury, shall be paid gang time for hours missed during the first seven (7) calendar days following the injury. If the employee subsequently receives workers* compensation for the first seven (7) days, such payment will be reimbursed to the Company.
ARTICLE 8 HOURS OF WORK
Section 1:	The work-week for payroll purposes shall start at 12:01 A.M. on Monday and end on midnight Sunday evening.
Section 2:	Hours of work shall be scheduled in line with production requirements and employees will be notified in advance of changes in shift schedules except where such change is due to circumstances beyond the control of the Company.
3
Section 3: Time and one-half (1 1/2) will be paid for all hours worked in excess of forty (40) hours in any one week or eight (8) hours in any one day except as provided under Section 10 of this article.
All employees other than part time and temporary employees shall be compensated at one and one-half (11/2) times their regular rate for work performed on their sixth (6th) consecutive day of work within the work week provided they have worked all scheduled hours during the first five (5) days of that work week. For the purposes of this section, the eight (8) hours paid for holidays shall count as hours worked in computing overtime with the exception of a holiday that falls on Saturday which will not.
Section 4:	Regular full-time employees working on holidays shall receive their regular holiday pay, and shall be paid at twice their regular rate for work actually performed on such holiday.
Section 5:	Employees working on Sundays, with the exception of regularly-scheduled maintenance, rendering, yard employees or warehouse employees shall be compensated at twice their regular hourly rate. Maintenance, rendering, yard employees or warehouse employees shall, when working on a day designated as their Sunday in lieu of die calendar Sunday, be compensated at twice their regular hourly rate for work performed on Sunday.
Section 6:	For the purpose of computing pay for hours worked on Sunday or paid holidays, a shift cutting across two (2) calendar days shall be treated as work on the day which the shift begins. Regular starting times will not be temporarily changed for the purpose of avoiding overtime or double time pay under this section.
Section 7:	Overtime work in a department shall be offered by seniority, to senior qualified employees. The Company will follow the policy of “senior employee may, junior employee must.” If no junior qualified employee(s) is available to perform the work, the Company will assign the work to qualified employees in reverse order of seniority until the Company has enough qualified employees to perform the work.
Section 8:	There shall be no pyramiding of daily and weekly overtime. Any work performed on a holiday, Sunday or day designated in lieu of Sunday, as provided for in Sections 4 and 5 of this article, shall be paid at twice their regular hourly rate only and these hours shall not be used in computing weekly overtime.
Section 9: Gang time for the kill floor will be figured on the work assigned to the up pullers. Gang time for the fabrication will be figured on the work assigned to the head of the loin table. An employee working gang time shall be compensated to the minute. The Company will install and maintain a clock at the station where gang time is determined to accurately determine gang time. An employee working in excess of the gang time shall be compensated for such time.
4
Section 10: Regularly-scheduled maintenance employees who work a twelve (12) hour schedule per day, four (4) days per week will be paid time and one-half (1 1/2) for all hours worked in excess of forty (40) hours in any one week or twelve (12) hours in any one day.
Section 11: Start time for Saturday work shall be posted by 1:00 P.M. Thursday as a convenience to the employees, and not as a binding commitment by the Company.
ARTICLE 9 SENIORITY
Section 1:	Seniority shall be established on the basis of continuous service with the Company and shall accumulate from the last date of hire, and shall be applied on the following basis within the plant. First -department; Second - division, Third - plant.
Layoff, re-employment and promotion will be based on the length of uninterrupted service within a department, division, and the plant, provided the qualifications, ability to perform the work, and the physical fitness are equal among employees eligible for consideration.
Section 2:	Seniority within the plant shall operate within each of the following divisions and departments:
A.Slaughter Division
1	.Kill floor, and hot beef cooler, straight knife sharpening, and laundry
2.0ffal
3.Carcass loading and coolers
4,Edible and Inedible rendering
5.	Yards
6.Sanitation
7.	Warehouse
8.Cartage
B.	Maintenance Division
C.Processing and Fabrication Division
1	.Fabrication
2	.Loadout and box storage
D. Seniority in the Hide Division shall operate on a division basis.
Section 3:	An employee shall be a probationary employee for a period of forty-five (45) days actually worked from the date of last employment;
however, the Union shall extend this period to sixty (60) days if the Company requests such within the employee’s first forty-five (45) days of continuous employment. The Company may, in its sole discretion, discipline or terminate a probationary employee, and no grievance shall be
5
filed or processed on his behalf. At the end of the probationary period, an employee shall become a regular full-time employee and shall have seniority commencing as of the last date of hire.
Section 4:	Layoff and Recall
A.	Job classifications shall be reduced by length of service in the respective classifications. Employees so displaced shall be permitted to return to their last-owned job or jobs if within the same department in reverse order of progression. Increase in job classifications shall be in reverse order to decreases.
B.	When department reductions are necessary, employees with the least amount of department seniority shall be laid off. Employees so affected shall have the right to displace the least senior employee in their division whose seniority is less than the employee exercising displacement rights. Employees laid off from a division shall have the right to displace the least senior employee in the plant whose seniority is less than the employee exercising displacement rights.
C.	A senior employee being laid off who does not wish to exercise displacement rights may elect to take a layoff, but cannot again exercise displacement rights until recalled in seniority turn to the employee’s department (not as a replacement as in (F) of this section) and subsequently laid off.
D.Upon notification of layoff, the Company shall furnish the employees who have displacement rights with sufficient information to exercise their choice in order of seniority. The employee must indicate his intent within twenty-four (24) hours of notification of layoff.
E.	All job changes resulting from layoff will be made as quickly as efficient operations will permit.
F.	When temporary openings occur due to absences, such openings will be filled first in line of seniority of laid-off employees present at the plant looking for replacement work, provided the qualifications, ability to perform the work, and physical fitness are equal among employees eligible for consideration.
G.Employees on layoff will be recalled in plant seniority order. Employees recalled to a department, other than the department they were laid off from, will have the option of remaining on layoff or returning to the available opening.
H. Employees who exercise displacement rights under this section and are recalled to their department in seniority turn, but do not wish to return, may remain in the department they displaced and their seniority shall commence from the day they entered the department. Such employee will lose all seniority in their previous department but will not lose their accrued plant-wide seniority.
6
Section 5:
A.Permanent vacancies within each department shall be posted for a period of three (3) work days, except that maintenance jobs will be posted for a period of five (5) work days, and employees within the department or division may bid according to their choice. A job not filled by a bidder within the department shall be awarded to the senior bidder within the division. Base labor vacancies shall not be required
I to be posted, but will be available to employees in accordance with Section 13 of this article (The job posting shall carry the rate of the job, the job title, and the name of the department).
B.	The successful bidder on the job posting at the time the posting is taken down will be required to accept the job and may not voluntarily give it up except by bidding to another job. The successful bidder shall make a sincere effort to leant the job; however, in the event he cannot, in the judgment of the Company, perform the work in a satisfactory manner, or if he/she elects to forfeit the job, he/she shall be permitted to return to his former job. The employee may have a reasonable time to learn the job. A reasonable time will be determined to be two (2) weeks; however, according to circumstances, the trial period may be less than two (2) weeks, or in some cases, more than two (2) weeks. The employee cannot bid on the same job again until he has qualified by greater experience and skill.
C.	An employee who successfully bids into another department and/or division will establish seniority in the new department and/or division when he/she qualifies for the job, and shall lose all seniority in his previous department and/or division. The seniority date for the department or division will be the same as his or her plant seniority date.
Section 6:	Employees will be permitted to bid upward, laterally or downward. An employee who bids laterally or downward may not bid for ninety (90) days. Temporary vacancies caused by sickness, leave of absence, vacation, etc., for less than ninety (90) days will not be offered for bid. The Company will allow employees to fill temporary vacancies by f seniority, provided that employees who request that they fill such a vacancy I can perform the job and can readily be replaced. If no senior qualified ► employee requests to fill such vacancy, the least senior qualified employee 1 may be required to fill the vacancy.
Section 7:	Any employee temporarily assigned to a job having a lower rate than his regular rate will receive his regular rate while performing such jobs with the exception of job accommodation due to compensable injury. Employees being accommodated due to a compensable injury shall receive their regular rate for up to the first (1st) four (4) weeks of such accommodation and then shall receive the rate of the job they are performing. This will not apply when employees are assigned to a lowerrated job in accordance with their seniority, as a result of a change in the department, division, or plant operations; nor would it apply where, in
7
accordance with seniority, an employee is recalled after a layoff and assigned to a lower-rated job than that held prior to layoff.
Section 8:	An employee temporarily assigned to a job having a higher rate than his regular rate will receive the higher rate while performing such job.
Section 9: An employee shall be paid the full rate of the job as soon as he is qualified to perform the work. However, successful bidders who are not moved to such job within fourteen calendar days of the successful bid to a job, a department or division, shall be paid the rate of such job until moved to it. In addition, any employee not moved within fourteen (14) days shall be paid a $.25 per hour penalty until moved.
Section 10:	An employee shall lose his seniority for the following reasons:
A.	Voluntarily quitting (if an employee is absent from work three (3) or more consecutive days without notifying the Company or without good cause, he will be deemed to have voluntarily terminated his employment.
B.	Discharge for cause.
C.	Failing to report at the expiration of a leave of absence without good cause.
D.	Absence from work for any reason for a period of more than eighteen (18) months.
E.	Employees recalled from layoff under the provisions of Section 4(G) will have five (5) working days to return to work after being notified by certified letter or telegram, return receipt requested, sent to their last known address. Employees failing to report within five (5) working days of the date the letter or telegram is sent will lose their seniority. An additional five (5) days will be granted if requested by the employee within the first five (5) days.
Section 11:	Employees shall furnish to the Company, in writing, their address for purposes of giving notices required to be given. All notices shall be deemed to be given to employee when mailed to the last address furnished to the Company by the employee. Subject to all applicable laws, an employee may notify the Company of a change of name or social security number. Subject to legal verification, such name change or social security number change shall be made without loss of seniority or benefits.
Section 12:	Seniority records shall be maintained by the Company and shall be posted at all times, and updated at least each six (6) months, and a copy shall be furnished to the Union, Any protest as to the correctness of the seniority list must be made, in writing, to the Company, within thirty (30) days after the list is posted and delivered to the Union, or the list will be deemed to be final.
8
Section 13:
A.Employees wishing to transfer to base labor jobs, to another department, or division shall be allowed to place their names on a waiting list designating not more than one base labor job, department, or division to which they wish to transfer. When an opening occurs in the base labor job, department, or division, the Company will offer the employees on the waiting list an opportunity to transfer before a new employee is hired for the base labor job, department, or division.
B.	An employee must have sixty (60) days' seniority to be eligible for consideration.
C.	An employee who successfully bids for a transfer to another department or division will establish seniority in that department or division from the date he transfers and will lose seniority in his previous department or division, but will retain all plant seniority accrued, and such employee shall not be eligible for transfer again to another department or division for six (6) months. The seniority date for the department or division will be the same as his or her plant seniority date.
D.Employees who reject a transfer will be dropped from the list unless the employee requests his name be put on the list again, indicating the department or division for which he desires to be considered.
Section 14:	Employee Training
A.	Purpose
To establish means and methods to insure adequate instruction and training of newly hired and existing production employees to safely and correctly perform their job duties and to help reduce employee turnover. To augment traditional training methods, i.e., supervisors.
B.	Reporting and Responsibilities
The Company will appoint hourly trainers as necessary, who will be assigned to departments according to plant needs. The trainers will report to the training supervisor and will have “dotted line’’ to the department supervisor. Duties will include orientation of new employees, instruction in safe and correct job performance for new and reassigned employees, paper work necessary to monitor employees’ progress and to work with experienced employees as required.
C.	Selection
As openings occur the Company will post a notice to all employees advising of the opening so that employees can advise the Company of their interest. (See Section 5A) The general qualifications are:
1	.Ability to perform all jobs in the specified area.
2,Acceptable work and attendance record.
9
3	.Ability to get along with others.
Candidates will be interviewed by a joint labor-management committee with the final selection being approved by the training supervisor. The Committee will consist of two members appointed by the Company and two members appointed by the Union.
D.	Understanding
It is understood that hourly trainers have no authority except as required in the role as trainer, i.e., cannot discipline, give time off, nor fill in for supervisors in their absence.
ARTICLE 10 HOLIDAYS
Section 1:	Regular full-time employees shall receive, without working, pay at their straight time rate in effect at the time of the holiday for eight (8) hours per day, for each of the following holidays:
New Year’s Day Memorial Day Independence Day Two Personal Holidays
Thanksgiving
Christmas Day
Labor Day
provided they have worked their full scheduled work day immediately before and immediately after such holiday, except in case of an excused absence which began not more than seven (7) calendar days before the holiday. Maintenance employees who are scheduled to work regular 12 hour shifts will be paid accordingly in the event a holiday falls on their regularly scheduled work day. If the holiday falls on their day off, 8 hours of holiday pay will be paid. An employee who is up to two (2) hours late either the scheduled work day before or after a holiday, will have up to two (2) hours deducted from their holiday pay. An employee who is over two (2) hours late either the scheduled work day before or after a holiday, will not receive holiday pay.
Section 2:	All hours worked on a holiday will be paid two (2) times the straight time rate for time worked, plus holiday pay.
Section 3:	If a holiday falls in an employee’s vacation period, he will be paid for the holiday in addition to his regular vacation pay.
Section 4:	If a holiday falls on Sunday, it will be observed on the following Monday.
Section 5:	The Company agrees to give due consideration to the preference of employees in scheduling these holidays; provided the Company shall have final approval and decision in such matters. Saturday will not be a scheduled workday when a personal holiday is scheduled on Friday.
10
ARTICLE 11 VACATIONS
Section 1:	Regular full-time employees shall be entitled to vacations with pay at the end of each full and continuous year of employment with the Company as follows:
After one (1) year..................................One (1) week
After three (3) years...............................Two (2) weeks
After ten (10) years................................Three(3)	weeks
After twenty (20) years.............................Four (4) weeks
Section 2:	Vacation pay for each week of vacation will be computed on the basis of 2.00 per cent of the employee’s previous year’s gross earnings excluding bonuses, if any. If an employee has worked a full calendar year, then the computation shall be based on the immediately preceding calendar year. If an employee has not worked a full calendar year, then the computation will be based on his immediately preceding anniversary year.
Section 3: A vacation schedule shall be prepared by March 30th of each year. Employees shall be given their preference of vacation based on department seniority provided the choice is made prior to April 1. After April 1, vacations will be scheduled on a first come, first served basis. The Company agrees to give due consideration to the preference of employees in scheduling vacations; provided, the Company shall have final approval and decision in such matters. Vacation will not accrue from year-to-year, but must be taken during the year following the date it is earned.
ARTICLE 12 MEALS AND REST PERIODS
A lunch period shall be scheduled not earlier than four and one half (4 1/2) hours (as determined by the Up Puller on the Kill Floor and by the Head of the Loin Table in Fabrication) nor later than five hours from the start of the employee’s shift, provided that employees may be required to work five and one half (5 1/2) consecutive hours to finish a day’s work. The Company will schedule not less than one-half (1/2) hour or more than one (1) hour for lunch. In the event the Company elects to change the length of die lunch period, it shall give notice prior to the end of the employees’ shift the day prior to the change.
Employees will receive paid fifteen (15) minute rest periods as follows:
A.One rest period scheduled at any time during the third (3rd) hour of work on each day.
B.	A second rest period scheduled in the second (2nd) half of any work day which exceeds eight (8) hours; however, this rest period shall not be scheduled earlier than two (2) hours after the lunch period.
11
C.	A third (3rd) rest period as scheduled in any work day which exceeds ten (10) hours, plus an allowance of Four Dollars and Fifty Cents ($4.50) for the purpose of purchasing a meal, except as provided under E, below.
D.	Additional rest periods for each work day shall be scheduled each two (2) hours and fifteen (15) minutes after the end of the third (3rd) rest period.
E.	Regularly-scheduled maintenance employees who work a twelve (12) hour schedule per day, four (4) days per week, will receive a third (3rd) rest period as scheduled in any work day which exceeds ten (10) hours, plus an allowance of Four Dollars and Fifty Cents ($4.50) for the purpose of purchasing a meal in the event the work day exceeds twelve (12) hours.
F.	For the purpose of this article, a work day which exceeds five and one-half (5 1/2), eight (8), ten (10) or twelve (12) hours shall be deemed a day in which the employee(s) work at least seven (7) minutes in excess of the aforementioned period.
G.In the event of a breakdown on the kill floor in which the entire gang is sent to break, a twenty (20) minute paid break will be scheduled.
H.Time paid for the donning, doffing and cleaning of safety equipment as per the Agreement between Excel and UFCW District Local 2 will not be counted toward the time necessary to trigger the Company’s obligation to provide a second rest period as set forth in this Article.
I.	Maintenance employees will be granted a scheduled unpaid lunch period, and if required to return to work after taking lunch, but before the lunch period is finished, the employee will be paid for the entire thirty (30) minutes plus an allowance of $4.50 for the purpose of purchasing a meal.
ARTICLE 13 EQUIPMENT FURNISHED BY THE COMPANY
The Company will furnish reasonable and adequate quantities of the following equipment:
A.Steels, carborundum stones, pouches, mesh gloves, rain suits for yards, head and carcass washers, mechanics’ hand tools, knives, ear plugs, hairnets and safety equipment required by the Company or Government.
B.	Steel-toed books for all maintenance department employees, knocker, shackiers, rip bellies, scale leadperson, loading leadperson, scaler, meat pusher, ribbing down, cut down buggy, hanging tender puller, hooker buggy load, inside unloader, hooking hindquarter, hooking forequarter on unloads, hanging hooks & trolleys for unloads, cut down long holsteins, rail wiper and squeegee. Two (2) pair of bools per contract year to employees permanently in the following classifications:
12
fabrication division - saw operators, kill division - stickers, drivers and stockyard, trolley hanger, hide division employees, split saw operators and gullet raisers. Two (2) pair of insulated boots per contract year to employees permanently in the following classifications: hot box pushers.
C.	All boots and aprons to gutters (will be issued individual pairs of gutter boots), aprons to fat pullers, pancreas pullers, liver trimmers, and heart boners. Aprons for saw operators in the fabrication division,
D.A11 laundry required shall be furnished by the management free of charge to die employee.
E.	The employee shall be responsible for the safe and efficient use of all equipment furnished by management, and if lost or maliciously destroyed, the employee shall be accountable therefore, and the Company may then charge the employee therewith for such equipment and deduct the cost thereof from his wages.
F.	Those employees using tools and equipment furnished by the Company will be paid for the time spent preparing and repairing those tools and equipment, or the Company may at its option assign specific employees to perform such duties.
G.The Company will provide an employee or employees to sharpen knives for all employees required to use knives.
H.	Company will furnish cotton gloves and frocks to each employee requiring same. Replacement will be furnished only if used gloves and/or frocks are returned.
1.	Freezer coats, insulated coveralls, insulated boots, insulated gloves,underlinergloves, headwear and the laundry of such items shall be provided by the Company. Employees from other departments who are used in the freezer who have been working where their clothing is damp or wet, shall be allowed sufficient time to change clothes before going into the freezer, but not more than fifteen (15) minutes.
SECTION 14 INSURANCE BENEFITS
Section 1: The Company will provide regular full-time employees with the following comprehensive individual and family insurance program on the first of the month following completion of five (5) months of employment.
A.Group Life Insurance
B.	Accidental Death and Dismemberment
C.	Hospitalization Coverage
D.Surgical Coverage
E.	Supplemental Coverage
13
F.	Major Medical Coverage
G.	Dental, Drug Coverage
Section 2:	Effective June 1, 2002 employees will pay, by payroll deduction, a pre-tax cost of $47.66 per month. Information concerning these benefits is outlined in Exhibit B.
Section 3:	Regular full-time employees shall be entitled to the following sick leave benefits for illness or injury not covered by workmen’s compensation after they have completed sixty (60) calendar days of continuous full-time employment.
Benefit	$225 per week
Benefits begin	1st day accident
4th day illness*
Maximum benefit 18 weeks per period of disability
♦First day absence because of illness is considered to be the first day the employee is treated by a doctor.
ARTICLE 15
WAGES
Section 1:
A. Effective May 28, 2001, the hourly rates shall be as shown in Section 2 of this Article and Exhibit C.
B.Wage increases will be as follows:
5/28/01 -$.51/hr.S/$.61F($10.30S, 10.10F)
11/18/02 - $.20/hr.S/$.30F ($ 10.50S, S10.40F)
11/17/03 - $.20/hrSJ$.30F ($10.70S, S10.70F)
11/15/04 - $.25/hr. ($10.95)
11/21/05-$.25/hr. ($11.20)
Section 2:	The wage schedule for employees covered by this Agreement. Effective the date of this Agreement, the base labor rate for the Slaughter, Maintenance and Hide Divisions shall be $10.30 and the Processing and Fabrication Divisions shall be $10.10. The jobs shall be placed in the following pay grades:
Grade 1 Base Labor Rate plus $.10 per hour
Grade 2 Base Labor Rate plus $.20 per hour
Grade 3 Base Labor Rate plus $.30 per hour
Grade 4 Base Labor Rate plus $.45 per hour
Grade 5 Base Labor Rate plus $.55 per hour
14
Grade 6 Base Labor Rate plus $.75 per hour
Grade 7 Base Labor Rate plus $1.20 per hour
Grade S Base Labor Rate plus $2.00 per hour
Section 3:	All employees who work between the hours of 6:00 P.M. and 6:00 A.M. will be paid fifteen cents ($.15) per hour over their regular rate except no premium will be paid on the day-shift if the kill starts less than forty-five (45) minutes prior to 6:00 A.M. Thirty-five ($.35) per hour extra compensation will be paid for work on the third shift.
Section 4:	All new employees shall be paid not less than $.50/hr. below the base rate during the first (1st) six (6) months of continuous employment. When a new employee is accepted as fully qualified by his supervisor, the new employee shall be paid the rate of the job they are performing.
Section 5:	Should new jobs be created by the Company, the Company and the Union will agree on the wage rates for such new jobs. In the event the Company and the Union cannot agree on a wage rate, such issue shall be submitted to arbitration as provided in the “Fourth Step” of the grievance procedure, Article XVI.
Section 6: The lead person rate shall be fifty cents $.50 per hour above the highest rate in the department providing the lead person is qualified on the highest rated job in the department. If the lead person is not qualified on the highest rated job in the department, the lead person rate will be Grade 6. The lead person rate in the Maintenance Division will be paid fifty cents $.50 per hour above their individual skill level.
Section 7: This section shall not be in effect during the term of this Agreement.
For each .4 increase or decrease in the U.S. Department of Labor Consumer Price Index for Urban Wage Earners, etc., (1067 = 100) there shall be an increase or decrease in wages of one cent ($.01) per hour.
Such adjustments shall be made quarterly, subsequent to the publication of the Indexes for the months of October, January, April and July each year and adjustments, if any, shall be effective the pay period subsequent to the publication of the Indexes as above noted. Decreases, if indicated, shall be chargeable only against such cost-of-living increases as have been granted under this Article.
The base month for computation of changes will be the December, 1979, Index and the first quarterly adjustment will be made on the Index changes for December, 1979, through February, 1980.
15
ARTICLE 16 NO LOCKOUT - NO STRIKE
The Company agrees that it will not lock out any of the employees covered by this Agreement; it being understood that the Company’s exercise of its rights under Management Rights shall not constitute a lockout under the Agreement.
The Union agrees that neither it nor any of the employees in the bargaining unit covered by this Agreement will collectively or individually authorize, cause, ratify, condone, aid or take part in any strike, slow down, work stoppage, sitdown, picketing or in any other interference with work during the term of this Agreement. In the event any employee shall engage in any of said activities, he shall be subject to immediate dismissal.
ARTICLE 17
ADJUSTMENT OF GRIEVANCES
A grievance committee of not more than three (3) members shall be designated by the Union from its members. The Union shall advise the Company of the names of the members of this committee in writing. The Committee shall be permitted lime off with pay to attend any regularly-scheduled meeting with the Company’s designated representatives for the purpose of settling any and all grievances as provided herein.
Section 1:	The local Union shall designate a reasonable number of stewards and the Company shall be advised in writing of the names of such stewards. Only such stewards as are so named shall be recognized.
Should grievances arise between the Company and the Union, or between the Company and the employees, pertaining to matters involved in this Agreement or incident to the employment relationship, the following procedure shall apply:
FIRST: The aggrieved employee or employees with or without the steward, shall within three (3) working days of the knowledge of the incident, discuss the matter with the department supervisor for the purpose of resolving the grievance, or the matter will be considered closed. The Company’s answer shall be given within two (2) work days. Failing to reach a settlement, the grievance shall be submitted in writing to the Second Step within three (3) working days from receipt of the Company’s answer or be considered closed.
SECOND: The steward shall discuss the matter with the Plant Superintendent or his designated representative for the purpose of resolving the grievance. The Company’s written answer shall be given within five (5) work days after the grievance is filed. Failing to reach a settlement in this step, the Union may submit the grievance to the Third Step within seven (7) calendar days from the date of receipt of the Company’s written answer or the grievance will be considered closed.
16
THIRD: The grievance committee and the local Union representatives and/or National Representative shall meet on Company time not to exceed one hour and discuss the matter with the Plant Manager or his designated representative for the purpose of attempting to resolve the grievance.
The Company’s written answer shall be given within five (5) work days from the date of the above meeting. Failing to reach a settlement in this step, the Union may submit the grievance to the Fourth Step.
By mutual agreement, a representative of the national office of the Company and the highest authority of the Local may meet in a prearbitration meeting to see if the grievance can be resolved prior to the Fourth Step.
FOURTH: In the event no disposition is made of the grievance in Step Three, the grievance may be submitted to an impartial arbitrator to be selected by mutual agreement of the parties. A written request for arbitration shall be made within fifteen (15) calendar days of the Step Three answer or the grievance will be considered closed. If within ten (10) calendar days after receipt of such written request, the parties are unable to agree upon an arbitrator, either party shall within twenty (20) calendar days after receipt of such written request for arbitration, request a list of five (5) names from the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service, and each party shall scratch two (2) names to determine which one shall be the arbitrator. The Union shall strike two (2) names from the panel of proposed arbitrators and submit such two names to the Company within ten (10) calendar days after the Union’s receipt of the panel. The Company shall then strike two (2) names and submit the same to the Union within ten (10) days after the Company’s receipt of the panel. The remaining name on the panel of arbitrators shall act as arbitrator of the dispute. Either party failing to comply with any of the time schedules above shall forfeit die grievance or its request, whichever the case may be.
The arbitrator’s decision in the grievance shall be final and binding upon the parties, provided he shall not have the authority other than to apply terms and conditions specifically set forth in this Agreement. The arbitrator shall submit his decision in writing, within thirty (30) days after the conclusion of the hearing or hearings as the case may be, and the decision of the arbitrator so rendered shall be final and binding upon the parties to the Agreement. The compensation and necessary expenses of the arbitrator shall be borne equally by the Company and the Union.
The presentation of the grievance is to be made on the Union representative and on aggrieved employees’ own time at all steps of the procedure except as described in Step Three above.
A settlement arrived at in any step of the grievance procedure will be reduced to writing and signed by both parties. Such settlement will be final and binding upon both parties.
The time for perfecting any step of the grievance procedure may be
17
extended by mutual agreement of the Company and the Union; such agreement to be in writing, signed by the Plant Manager of the Company and the Plant Steward for the Union or a local Union Representative.
Section 2:	The duly-authorized representatives of the Union shall have the right to visit the plant areas of the Company with the plant superintendent or his representative for the purpose of investigating grievances or for reviewing the operations. This right shall be exercised only at reasonable and mutually-convenient times and shall not interfere with production. The duly-authorized representatives of the Union shall have the right to visit welfare areas subject to approval of the Company.
ARTICLE 18
SAVINGS CLAUSE
It is assumed by the parties hereto that each provision of this contract is in conformity with all applicable laws of the United States and of the State of Kansas. Should it later be determined that it would be a violation of any legally effective Governmental or State Order or Statute to comply with any provision or provisions of this Agreement, the parties hereto agree to renegotiate such provision or provisions of this Agreement for the purpose of making them conform to such Governmental or State Order or Statute, and the other provisions of this Agreement shall not be affected thereby, but shall remain in full force and effect.
ARTICLE 19 WAIVER
Both parties acknowledge that during negotiations which resulted in this Agreement, each had the unlimited right and opportunity to make demands and proposals with respect to any subject within the area of collective bargaining, and that the understandings and agreements arrived at by the parties after the exercise of those rights and opportunities are set forth in this Agreement, and neither party will be required to bargain on any matter during the term of this Agreement, provided that the rate for new or changed jobs or the rates and conditions for new departments or divisions, shall be subject to negotiations between the parties, but the other provisions of this Agreement shall not be affected thereby but shall remain in full force and effect. The entire contract of the parties is set forth in this Agreement and shall take precedence over the practices and contract previously existing between the Company and the Union.
ARTICLE 20 SUBCONTRACTING
The parties to the Agreement have discussed subcontracting of work being performed by bargaining unit employees and agree that both parties desire to minimize the effects of additional subcontracting and job security of the employees and will work to that end.
18
When additional subcontracting of any existing operations becomes necessary or desirable, the Company will notify the Union. If the Union desires to discuss the effects on job security of the employees, the parties will meet for that purpose. The Company agrees to delay layoffs caused by subcontracting until at least two (2) weeks subsequent to its notice to the Union of its intention so that the parties have ample time to suggest methods of solving layoff problems.
ARTICLE 21 LEAVES OF ABSENCE
Section 1:	The Company may grant leaves of absence without pay up to thirty (30) days to employees who request same for emergency reasons. Such leaves will not be granted for the purpose of allowing an employee to take another position temporarily, try out new work, or venture into business for himself.
Section 2:	Employees chosen by the Union to attend to Union business outside the plant shall, with the permission of the Company’s management, be granted leaves of absence without pay for a period not exceeding thirty (30) days, provided that when feasible, such employees give the Company at least five (5) days notice in advance of the date such leave is desired. Time off for in plant union business will be counted as hours worked for the purpose of computing overtime providing that such time off as been previously approved by the company.
Section 3:	Employees, not to exceed three (3), who are elected or appointed to a full-time position with the Union, upon proper notice shall be granted leaves of absence without pay not to exceed the life of this Agreement, and upon one (1) week’s notice of their desire to again return to work for the Company shall be placed upon their job previously held without loss of seniority rights, provided they return within thirty (30) calendar days of the date their full-time position with the Union terminates.
Section 4:	Maternity Leaves
Such leaves will be granted to female employees upon presentation of her attending physician’s written statement of condition. It is preferred that employees begin their maternity leave not later than the end of the sixth (6th) month of pregnancy. However, an individual may continue to work beyond the sixth month providing she submits to the Personnel Department written authorization, on the prescribed form, from her attending physician. Following the birth of her child, the employee will have ninety (90) days to return to work. In the event the employee is unable to return to work at the end of the ninety (90) day period, she may be granted additional leaves of thirty (30) calendar days’ duration provided, however, that total pre and postdelivery leave will not exceed a total of twelve (12) consecutive months.
Section 5:	Military Service - Right to Re-employment
An employee who leaves or has left a position in the employ of the Company to enter active service in the Armed Forces of the United States
19
has the right to be re-employed by the Company when such employee has completed his military obligation, with full seniority and rights as provided for under Section 9 of the Universal Military Training and Service Act.
Section 6:	Military and Summer Encampment
Regular full-time employees on the active payroll will be granted a leave of absence, upon request, where they are required to participate in summer encampment as a member of the National Guard and/or United States Military Reserve, as provided in Section 270, Title 10, Code of United States, and Section 502, Title 32, Code of United States. Such regular full-time employees will receive the difference between forty (40) hours of pay per week at their regular hourly rate and what they receive from the Government. Such paid leave shall not exceed thirty (30) consecutive days. Employees will be required to verify each day of leave prior to receiving the above payment.
Section 7:	Jury’ Duty
A. An employee called to jury duty in the County, State, or Federal Courts shall be excused for jury duty service on presenting the summons requiring such duty to his Supervisor.
B.The employee shall be paid the amount he would have earned had he not been prevented from working by jury service, but not to exceed eight (8) hours per day or forty (40) hours per week. The employee, in turn, shall pay to the Company the amount he receives for such jury service, retaining any amounts received by him as expenses in excess of the daily pay for such jury service.
Section 8:	Funeral Leave
Absences due to the death of a regular full-time employee’s immediate family will be treated as an excused absence. A regular ftill-time employee so absent will be paid during the period of his absence on the following basis:
A.In the event of the death of an employee’s spouse, natural or legally-adopted child, grandchildren, mother or stepmother, father or stepfather, sister, brother, mother-in-law, father-in-law, grandmother, grandfather, and, if living in the employee’s household, a step-child, the employee will receive eight (8) hours’ straight-time pay for each of the three (3) consecutive days (one of which must be the day of the funeral) on which the gang works.
B.	In the event of the death of an employee’s brother-in-law, sister-in-law, the employee will receive eight (8) hours’ straight-time pay, providing the gang works, for the day of the funeral.
C.	An employee who finds it will be necessary for him to be absent will notify his supervisor of the purpose of his absence not later than the first of such absence.
D.An employee, when requested, shall furnish proof satisfactory to the Company, of the death, his relationship to the deceased, the date of the funeral and the employee’s actual attendance at such funeral.
20
E. Employees who have to travel to distant locations to attend funerals of immediate family members, as defined in 8A above, will receive an excused absence of reasonable time without pay to travel to and from the funeral location in addition to the days paid.
Section 9:	The Company will grant to employees requesting same a week unpaid leave of absence during their 7th, 8th and 9th year of employment. In addition, employees that accumulate 2 1/2 credits every six months to a total of five credits in an employment year and no more than four absence occurrences within that same period of time will be granted a week leave of absence. The Company agrees to give due consideration in the preference of employees in scheduling such leaves of absence, provided the Company shall have final approval.
Section 10: Employees will be granted, if requested, up to two (2) days of paternity leave without pay. Such leave must be taken within seven (7) days of the birth of the child.
ARTICLE 22 SAFETY COMMITTEE
Section 1:	Two Safety Committees shall be established; one for the Slaughter Division and one for the Fabrication Division. Each committee will consist of four (4) employees; two (2) appointed by the Union and two (2) appointed by the Company. Such committees shall meet monthly, on company time, not to exceed two (2) hours, and discuss their findings with the General Manager or his designee. The committees will determine at the time of their meetings the inspections to be made. In the event that special circumstances require a meeting in excess of two (2) hours, the Committee shall request additional time from the General Manager or his designee. In addition to the monthly meeting of the Safety Committee, one member of the Safety Committee designated by the Local Union Business Agent will be allowed time off with pay at least one day per month to tour the plant on a safety inspection. A Safety Committee member designated by the Local Union Business Agent from fabrication, slaughter, and maintenance will be allowed time off with pay to assist in the safety inspection tour in their respective division.
Section 2:	The responsibilities of the committees shall include, but not be limited to, plant inspections and/or the investigation of accidents and causes of work related illnesses, for the purpose of insuring and promoting a safe work environment. The Committee’s recommendations shall be investigated by Management and the Committee will be advised of Company action on them within one (1) week. A union steward who is designated by the Union as a member of the Safety Committee will be part of any investigation of an on the job accident that is a lost time injury.
Section 3:	The meetings of the Committee will be scheduled by the General Manager or his designee.
21
ARTICLE 23 PENSION
Effective January 1, 1980, the Company shall provide a pension program for service subsequent to January 1,1980. Eligible employees shall be covered under the program as described by the existing Excel Corporation Employee’s Retirement Plan. All covered employees shall have years of participation credited at a $10.00 benefit level. Effective January 1,2002, all covered employees shall have years of participation subsequent to January 1, 2002, credited at a $15.00 benefit level. For employees hired after January 1, 2002, the vesting schedule will be 100% after five (5) years of service.
ARTICLE 24 DURATION AND TERMINATION
This Agreement shall become effective and remain in full force and effect from the 27th of May, 2001 until Midnight on the 28th day of May, 2006. Either party may on or before sixty (60) days prior to May 28, 2006, give notice to the other party of the desire of the party giving such notice to terminate the Agreement. If such notice is not given, the Agreement shall renew itself for successive one-year periods until such notice is given.
For The Company:
Gary Bright
Dan Schnitker
Dave Stafford
For The Union: Tom B. Price Martin Rosas Jim Babcock Denise Garcia Darryl Hardy Normando Guyton Jim Bunn Joe Briggs Sterling McPhaul Anuhar Udave Rebecca Olivarez Loreto Vasquez Graciela Vasquez George Bland Noe Rodriguez
22
EXHIBIT A CHECK-OFF AUTHORIZATION AND ASSESSMENT
You are hereby authorized and directed to deduct from my wages, earned or to be earned by me as your employee (in my present or future employment by you) commencing with the next payroll period, all union dues and/or service fees, uniform assessments, and initiation fees or reinstatement fees as shall be certified by the President of District Local Two of the United Food & Commercial Workers International Union, AFL-CIO, and to remit same to said President, Dues and fees may either be deducted on a weekly or a monthly basis, according to my collective bargaining agreement. I authorize and direct you to deduct such amounts from my pay and to remit to the Local Union at such times and in such manner as may be agreed upon between you and the Local Union at any time while this authorization is in effect. The dues and fees are to be deducted in such sums as may be established from time to time by said Local Union, and any other fees authorized by the Local Union or the International Union.
This authorization and assignment is voluntarily made in consideration fro the cost of representation and collective bargaining and is not contingent upon my present or future membership in the Union. This authorization and assignment shall be irrevocable for a period of one year from the date or execution or until the termination date of the agreement between the Employer and District Local Two, whichever occurs sooner, and from year to year thereafter unless not less than ten (10) days and not more than twenty (20) days prior to the end of any subsequent yearly period I give the Employer and the Union written notice of revocation bearing my signature thereto.
The President of District Local Two is authorized to deposit this authorization with any Employer under contract with District Local Two, and is further authorized to transfer this authorization to any other Employer under contract with District Local Two in the event I should change employment.
SIGNATURE____________________________DATE
23
EXHIBIT B SCHEDULE OF BENEFITS
FOR EMPLOYEES ONLY: Life Accidental Death & Dismemberment Accident & Sickness(maximum of 18 weeks) Weekly Benefit	See Article XIII, Section 3	$5,000 $5,000
FOR EMPLOYEES AND DEPENDENTS:
Health Insurance Plan
Hospital Room & Board Days Limit Mise. Hospital Extras Surgical In-Hospital Physician Visits X-Ray and Lab Comprehensive Medical Lifetime Maximum Annual Deductible	80/20* 365 80/20* 80/20* 80/20* 80/20* $1,000,000 $150 per person* $300 per family*
Co-Insurance	80% Company* 20% Family*
Maximum Annual Out-Of-Pocket Expense, Not Including Deductible	$2000/person $4000/family
Newborn Care Extended Care Facility	80/20* 80/20* 90 Day Limit
Hospice Care	80/20 up to $12,000 Inpatient* $10,000 Outpatient
Home Health Care	80/20* $50 per visit 100 visits per year
24
Inpatient Mental Illness	80% for 40 days 50% thereafter
Outpatient Mental Illness	80% up to $50 per visit. Max. of 50 visits per year
Drug & Alcohol Treatment	Paid as any other illness (80/20)*
DENTAL EXPENSES BENEFITS	Deductible $25/$50
Aggregate maximum benefit per calendar year	$1000 per person Co-insurance 80% basic 50% major restorative
Orthodontia (dependent children only)	$1000 maximum Co-insurance 50%
PRESCRIPTION DRUG EXPENSE BENEFITS
Charges for Covered Expenses- Deductible Long-term prescription	$8.00 $12.00
Generic drug reimbursement - reimbursed at generic price level unless doctor certifies brand name as medically necessary
* 90/10 in network, 70/30 out of network if PPO in place.
An employee who does not apply for dependent coverage within 31 days from the date his/her dependent(s) are eligible must wait until the next open enrollment period.
During the term of the agreement, the Company may continue and add to Cost Containment programs designed to control and reduce employee and employer health care cost.
25
preventive care - well physical exams (employee & spouse only), gynecological exams/pap smears, mammograms, estrogen replacement, immunizations, prenatal care, well child care, paid at 90% of usual and customary charges, deductibles don’t apply.
-	annual deductible; 1/1/02 - $200/$400, 1/1/03 - $250/5500, 1/1/04 -$300/5600
-	emergency room deductibles; $50 per visit, emergency room deductible does not apply toward satisfying the annual deductible or out of pocket maximum.
-	mental or nervous disorders/alcoholism and drug abuse; change all references in the insurance booklet to 70% where it says “if such confinement has not been preauthorized by PHMH.” under Inpatient Hospital Services add “All mental and/or substance abuse care, whether in network or out of network must be precertified to receive reimbursement.
-	PCS deductible^ 10, Long-term prescription deductible/$16 - 1/1/02
eliminate vision coverage (applies only to new employees hired after ratification of the new contract)
EXHIBIT C WAGE SCHEDULE
SLAUGHTER DIVISION
KILL....................................................  GRADE
First Hangoff..............................................Base
Hang Plastic...............................................Base
Hang Trolleys..............................................Base
Hot Box Pushers............................................Base
Laborer....................................................Base
Pull Pancreas..............................................Base
Remove & Trim Grub.........................................Base
Squeegee...................................................Base
Stamp Sides & Turn Tags....................................Base
Trim Heads.................................................Base
Vacuum Shanks..............................................Base
Wash Heads.................................................Base
Wash Tails.................................................Base
Wrap & Tie Bungs............................................  1
Mid-Line Trim.................................................1
Remove Sweetbread...........................................  1
Skirt Puller..................................................1
Flush Heads...................................................1
Bone Hearts...................................................1
26
Dehomer.........................................................1
Double Cut Hocks..............................................  1
Gland Trimmer...................................................1
Inedible Tripe Dump.............................................1
Liver/Hang-Bile/Save............................................1
Mark Patterns...................................................1
Peck & Paunch...................................................1
Pop Kidneys.....................................................1
Pulloff Table...................................................1
Pull-Off Inedible ..............................................1
Rip Bellie......................................................1
Trim Lungs......................................................1
Trim Tongues....................................................1
Banana Bar Operator ............................................2
Clear Necks.....................................................2
Condemn Room....................................................2
Downpuller Operator.............................................2
Drop Bungs......................................................2
Gullet Raiser ..................................................2
High Trim.......................................................2
Hot Scales......................................................2
Pizzle Cord Remover.............................................2
Pregutter.......................................................2
Pull Weasands...................................................2
Rip Tails.......................................................2
Rod Weasand.....................................................2
Side Puller.....................................................2
Split Lips......................................................2
Trim Snouts.....................................................2
Wizzard Knife...................................................2
Cheeker.........................................................3
Templer.........................................................3
Chiseler........................................................3
Head Hanger.....................................................3
Knocker.........................................................3
Shackler........................................................3
Drop Tongues....................................................3
Fat Puller......................................................3
Sticker.........................................................3
Drop/Hang Heads.................................................3
Brisket Saw.....................................................3
Final Trim......................................................4
Outrail.........................................................4
27
Legger........................................................6
First Butt....................................................6
Flanker.......................................................6
Lowbacker.....................................................6
Prelow Backer.................................................6
Ri mover......................................................6
Rumper........................................................6
Splitter.......................................................................7
Utilityman................................................Base	+ $1.00
Gutter....................................................Base	+ $1.30
Hourly trainer.......................................................Gr	8 + $.50
Skilled butcher I (kill) - Grade 7 +■ $.25/hr. (must be qualified on any three (3) - gutter, splitter, legger, Gr 6 air knife jobs - once qualified an employee must own or be permanently assigned a job in the group to continue to receive the rate)
Skilled butcher II (kill) - Grade 7 + $.75/hr. (must be qualified on any four (4) - gutter, splitter, legger, Gr 6 air knife jobs - once qualified an employee must own or be permanently assigned a job in this group to continue to receive the rate)
OFFAL
Box Large Intestine................................................Base
Cook Small Intestine...............................................Base
Flush Intestine....................................................Base
Intestine Stripper.................................................Base
Separate Large & Small Intestine...................................Base
Separate Large Intestine...........................................Base
Separate & Box Cooked Intestine....................................Base
Small Intestine Cut Machine........................................Base
Bag Livers.........................................................Base
Box Product........................................................Base
Box Room...........................................................Base
Box Tails..........................................................Base
Inspect & Box Weasands.............................................Base
Wrap & Box Tongues.................................................Base
Count & Tie Strings................................................Base
Goldbeater Operator..............................................  Base
Separate Strings...................................................Base
Freezer Loadout....................................................Base
Sliced Livers Operator.............................................Base
28
Liver Skinner..............................................Base
Wrap Livers................................................Base
Scale Livers ..............................................Base
Cutoff Honeycomb..............................................1
Hang Paunch...................................................1
1 Open Paunch...................................................1
। Sliced Livers Operator - Leadman..............................1
Box Tripe.....................................................1
Hang Tripe....................................................1
Wash Tripe....................................................1
! Offal Scale...................................................3
Strapper Operator.............................................3
Freezer Fork Lift Operator....................................4
Palletizer/Manifestor.........................................4
!
LOADING AND COOLER
Hammer Brander................................................1
Pusher........................................................1
Rollerman.....................................................1
Scaler........................................................1
Ribber........................................................2
Saw Man.......................................................2
Operate Lugging Buggy.........................................2
Trolley Popper................................................2
EDIBLE AND INEDIBLE RENDERING
Inedible Rendering Clean-Up...................................2
। Inedible Rendering Operators..................................2
Edible Rendering Operators....................................2
YARDS
Drivers and Stockyard......................................Base
Scale Cattle..................................................4
LAUNDRY
Laundry..................................................  Base
29
CLEAN-UP
Clean-up..........................................Base
WAREHOUSE
Cage..............................................Base
Warehouse Forklift...................................2
MAINTENANCE DIVISION
GM - general maintenance, R/B - refrigeration/ boiler, ET - electronics		
technician	GM	R/B	ET
Start Base Rate	X	Start
Level 1 Base + $.25	X	
Level 2 Base + $.50	X	
Level 3 Base + $.75	X	
Level 4 Base + $1.00	X	X
Level 5 Base+ $1.50	X	X
Level 6 Base + $2.00	X	X	Start
Level 7		X	X
Base + $3.25
(must have passed test)
Level 8 Base + $4.25 (must have passed test)	X	X
30
HIDE DIVISION
Pit Man...................................................Base
Roller....................................................Base
Flesher Operator.............................................2
Fork Lift Operator...........................................2
Face-Leg-Tail Trimmer........................................2
Final Trimmer................................................2
Hide Hanger..................................................2
Mixer Operator...............................................3
PROCESSING & FABRICATION
FABRICATION
Laundry...................................................Base
Kidney Dropper............................................Base
Laborer...................................................Base
Trim Belt.................................................Base
Trim Packer...............................................Base
Trim Sorter...............................................Base
Combo Dumper..............................................Base
Ground Beef Boxer.........................................Base
Dry Clean-Up..............................................Base
Bagger....................................................Base
Boxer.....................................................Base
Tenderizer Operator ......................................Base
Treif-Dicer Operator......................................Base
Leaker Auditor............................................Base
Product Bagger............................................Base
Rebag Line................................................Base
Stager....................................................Base
Boxer.....................................................Base
Floor Scrubber............................................Base
Open Rebags...............................................Base
Bagger (Staffer).............................................1
Chuck Hanger.................................................1
Trim Defect..................................................1
Pull Hanging Tender..........................................1
Rosemeat Puller..............................................1
Finger Bone Cleaner..........................................1
Rib End Cleaner..............................................1
Trim Bottom Butt.............................................1
Button Boner.................................................1
Trim Upgrade.................................................1
31
Shank Peeler......................................................1
Trim Hanging Tender...............................................1
Wizzard Knife Operator............................................1
Operator 8318.....................................................1
Repalletizer/Manifest.............................................1
Slice-N-Tact......................................................1
Forklift Operator.................................................1
Label Cage........................................................1
Protocon..........................................................1
Vision Sort Operator..............................................1
Vision Sort Pizo..................................................1
Poss Operator.....................................................1
Operator 8300.................................................... 2
Trim Blade Meat...................................................2
Trim Pectoral.....................................................2
K-Pac Operator....................................................3
Chuck Cut-Down....................................................3
Forequarter Marker................................................3
Skirtpuller.......................................................3
Wing-Flank Dropper................................................3
Trim Tender.......................................................3
Trim/Pull Flanksteak..............................................3
Trim Strip........................................................3
Cap Puller........................................................3
Final Trim, Chuck.................................................3
Paddle Bone Pull/Ringman..........................................3
Scotch Tender Puller..............................................3
Trim Clod.........................................................3
Eye Puller........................................................3
Trim Eye..........................................................3
Trim Flat.........................................................3
Trim Gooseneck....................................................3
Separate Heel.....................................................3
Hind-Shank Boner..................................................3
Trim Inside Round.................................................3
Trim Knuckle......................................................3
Round Hangoff.....................................................3
Brisket Boner.....................................................3
Brisket Bone Cleaner..............................................3
Trim Brisket......................................................3
Navel Boner.......................................................3
Trim Skirt........................................................3
Blender/Panel Operator..........................................  3
Scaler/Pallet/Manifestor..........................................3
Make Sheet Runner.................................................3
32
Fab Carcass Scale...............................................4
Saw Shanks......................................................4
Short Rib Boner................................................
Forequarter Saw................................................
i Hindquarter Saw..............................................
' Wellsaw......................................................
Wingsaw........................................................
Rib Chinesaw...................................................
Short Rib Saw..................................................
' Chine Saw Operator...........................................
Loin Butt Saw..................................................
Chuck Saw......................................................
( Paddle Bone Marker...........................................
! Quality Control..............................................
Wizzard Knife Sharpener........................................
Saw Operator...................................................
Computer Operator (ASRS).......................................
Sales Coordinator..............................................
Trim Loin Tail.................................................
Trim Flapmeat..................................................
Arm Boner......................................................
Knuckle Puller.................................................
Round Seamer...............7...................................
Top Butt Boner.................................................
Pretrimmer.....................................................
Knife Sharpener................................................
Round Dropper..................................................
Foreshank Boner................................................
Aitch Boner....................................................
Hourly Trainers................................................8	+ $.f
Strip Boner..........................................................
Tender Puller........................................................
Chuckboner...........................................................
Rib Boner............................................................
Clod Pullers.........................................................
Skilled trimmer I (fabrication) - Grade 5 + $.25/hr. (must be qualified trim strips, trim top butts, trim rounds, trim clods - once qualified an employee must own or be permanently assigned a job in this group to continue to receive the rate)
00 00 00 00 00 O	-J -J -J	Os O\ LA LA LA LA LA LA LA LA LA LA LA LA LA LA LA LA LA LA LA
33
Skilled boner I (fabrication) - Grade 8 + $.50/hr. (must be qualified on any three (3) - bone strips, pull knuckle, bone butts, pull clods, tender puller, chuck boner - once qualified an employee must own or be permanently assigned a job in this group to continue to receive the rate)
Skilled boner II (fabrication) - Grade 8 + $.75/hr. (must be qualified on any j four (4) - bone strips, pull knuckle, bone butts, pull clods, tender puller, chuck boner - once qualified an employee must own or be permanently assigned a job in this group to continue to receive the rate)
MATERIAL HANDLING DEPARTMENT
Box Throwers....................................................Base
Slackman........................................................Base
Reject Line.....................................................Base
Case Sealer........................................................1
Computer Tech......................................................I
Forklift Operator..................................................1
In-Feed Controller.................................................1
Merge Line Operator................................................1
Palletizer.........................................................1
Pic Operator.......................................................1
Depalletizer.......................................................1
Auditors...........................................................2
Dry Storage Receiver...............................................2
Scanner/Manifestor................................................ 2
LETTER OF AGREEMENT
Subject: Leadmen, Scalers, and Quality Control Employees
The Company agrees to post leadperson, scalers (including live cattle scalers) and quality control openings for informational purposes only. Interested employees may apply for such openings but the company is under no obligation to place such applicants into such openings. In the selection of leadpersons, if interested individuals have equal qualifications, seniority will be the deciding factor. In the determination of qualifications, the Company is the final judge except that their decisions will be exercised in a reasonable manner.
LETTER OF AGREEMENT
Subject: Length of Work Day
The Company agrees that work over twelve (12) hours in any work day shall be on a voluntary basis.
34
LETTER OF AGREEMENT
Subject: Employee Orientations
The Company agrees to allow, during new employee orientation, a Union ■epresentative the opportunity to discuss the Union’s role at the Dodge City ’lant. Such presentations will not normally exceed fifteen (15) minutes, rhe company agrees to provide the union, at no expense, adequate and ufficient office space in a location inside the plant facility.
LETTER OF AGREEMENT
Subject: Chain speed verification
The Company agrees that when there are questions pertaining to chain peed, the chief steward has the right to check the chain speed.
LETTER OF AGREEMENT
The Company agrees to contribute $20,000 per contract year to the Excel-UFCW multi-cultural fund subject to a satisfactory Taft-Hartley trust agreement being reached.
LETTER OF AGREEMENT
1)	Activities to be Compensated: The parties agree that Excel will pay employees for the following activities occurring at any time during an employee’s workday:
a)	Donning of certain safety clothing and equipment and/or gear required to be worn by employees:
b)	Walking to the wash area to clean such safety clothing and equipment and/or gear, knives and hooks;
c)	Waiting at the wash area to clean such safety clothing and equipment and/or gear, knives or hooks;
d)	Washing such safety clothing and equipment and/or gear, knives and hooks; and
e)	Doffing of such safety clothing and equipment and/or gear.
2)	For purposes of this Agreement, “safety clothing and equipment’’ will be defined as follows:
a)	Items included:
Mesh body suit Mesh apron Front mesh Back mesh Mesh gloves Mesh leggings	Plastic arm guards Whizzard gloves Whizzard sleeves Rubber apron* Scabbard for knives Hand guards
35
Mesh sleeve Belly guard
Shin guards Face guard
Rubber gloves worn over mesh Other like safety clothing, equipment, and gear
* For future purposes only and without precedent going backwards, time spent donning, doffing and cleaning rubber aprons will only be considered compensable time when rubber aprons are required to be worn in combination with other equipment listed in this paragraph to be wom for safety reasons.
b)	Items excluded:
Cotton gloves Steel toe boots Frocks
Plastic apron Safety glasses
Hair net
Beard net
Ear plugs
Hard hat
Any other like items of equipment and gear
3)	Compensation to be paid. Effective May 28,2000 Excel will compensate those employees required to wear safety clothing and equipment as defined herein for the following number of minutes per day actually worked:
	Minimum Equipment Group*	Maximum Equipment Group**
Dodge City Fabrication	4 minutes	6 minutes
Dodge City Kill	6 minutes	8 minutes
* Jobs in the Minimum Equipment Group include those requiring that employees wear one or more of the items listed in Paragraph 2(a) above, exclusive of mesh body suit, mesh apron, front mesh, back mesh, mesh leggings, or mesh sleeve.
**Jobs in the Maximum Equipment Group include those requiring the employees wear one or more of the items listed in Paragraph 2(a) above, including mesh body suit, mesh apron, front mesh, back mesh, mesh leggings or mesh sleeve.
36
In the event either party believes the amount of time does not reflect current operations, methodologies, or plant layouts at a given location, that party can require additional joint time studies, and any disputes as to the result of the joint time studies which cannot be resolved through negotiation would be submitted directly to an arbitrator under the terms of applicable collective bargaining agreement.
In the event the manner in which employees are compensated pursuant to the terms of this Agreement is found, declared or determined by the Administrator of the Wage & Hour Division of the United States Department of Labor or any court of competent jurisdiction to be unlawful or invalid, such provision shall be suspended and the parties will meet to negotiate replacement terms and conditions for any such invalid provision.
Addendum To Ergonomics Agreement
1.	The Company and Union agree ±at there will be a mutually agreed upon list of light duty jobs. There will be twenty (20) jobs on this list from the slaughter division (stamp 86-K/straighten weight tags, box make-up [mezzanine], clean up [restrooms/intestine area], stamp USDA on tongues, making boxes, high wash, put on labels, take care of hide line/dump hides/push buttons, take off paper towels, put on paper towels/plastic, coolers [run on government grade/trim dirty meat], counting trim rail tender and skirt damage, yards, hang honeycomb/upstairs, janitor, trimming mid-line, pack small intestines, boxing weasands, boxing large intestines and forty (40) jobs from the fabrication division (pick low temp product, pick trim from 50/50 belt, pick bones from 50/50 belt, repair mesh equipment, trim defects from carcasses, help in laundry room [vacations only], glue boxes, crush cardboard, and help in dry storage area, trim upgrade by using knife, help label and make ground beef boxes, cooler [separate switches], inject CO2, painting, box loose meat and sort, cut sandpaper and distribute, sew frocks [for vacations only], deliver truck bills to front office, outside clean up when needed). Jobs on this list will not be subject to the bidding procedure or transfer list as outlined in Article Vin (Seniority) of the collective bargaining agreement. Jobs on this Hst are for the purpose of temporarily accommodating employees who have temporary medical restrictions due to a work related injury or work related illness.
2.	Employees who have temporary restrictions due to a work related injury or work related illness will be placed on a job from the above list which will meet their medical restrictions.
37
3.	Jobs from the above temporary light duty list will be selected by the employee, medical personnel, and the union.
4.	In the event an employee is permanently medically restricted from returning to their regular job, they will be removed from the job on the above temporary light duty list which they were performing and given a one time opportunity to utilize their seniority to bump a junior employee on a base labor job. The junior employee who was displaced will not receive a like bumping opportunity but may obtain another job through job bidding or transfer list opportunities as outlined in Article VUI.
5.	If or when an employee has recovered from a work related injury or work related illness, they will be moved back to their regular job and given a reasonable opportunity to work back into the job. The employee’s progress will be monitored to prevent re-injury.
6.	During the first year of the collective bargaining agreement, a full-time ergonomics monitor chosen by the parties will be assigned to ergonomic duties. The employee assigned will be paid Grade 4 for the first three (3) months of the assignment and Grade 6 thereafter. This situation will be reviewed after one (1) year and the Company retains the right to return to rotating employees through this position if it determines that the full-time monitor is not working out. In that event, the employee in the full-time monitor position will be allowed to return to their previous position.
ADDENDUM TO AGREEMENT
Effective October 5, 1992, the slaughter division will no longer rotate production shifts.
ENGLISH AND SPANISH
This Contract has been translated into Spanish as a service to our Spanishspeaking employees that can’t read or understand English. If a problem arises as a result of this translation, the English version will prevail.
AGREEMENT
The parties of this agreement are Excel Corporation (the Company) Dodge City Division, Dodge City, Kansas and UFCW International Union and UFCW District Local 2 (the Union).
The purpose of this agreement is to implement procedures to facilitate the parties’ cooperative efforts with respect to plant health and safety.
38
! The Company agrees that it has the sole responsibility to provide a safe it workplace and to correct safety hazards and that nothing in this Agreement shall imply that either the Local or the International Union has undertaken or assumed any portion of that responsibility.
A.	ERGONOMIC MONITORS
The Company recognizes that worker involvement is crucial to the success of any ergonomic program. The following will be established and used in coordination with the Company’s Consultant.
a.	The Union will designate up to 15 individuals as “Ergonomic Monitors” (EM) and will review the list with the Company.
b.	Each initial EM will be provided with one week of Ergonomic training. Such training will be completed as soon as practicable after new EM’s have been designated. The training will be designed to assist these monitors in developing the skills to identify and analyze jobs for ergonomic stress and to be able to recommend i solutions.
c.	The EM’s will be expected to identify, for the Consultant and the Plant Ergonomic Committee, potential ergonomic problem areas and potential solutions. The EM’s will conduct surveys of their work area, using on-site inspections, to spot problem areas and offer potential solutions. Such inspection shall occur monthly.
d.	The Company will assure that all employees are informed of the name of the EM’s and their responsibilities.
e.	In the event of on-line testing recommended by the Consultant, the appropriate EM will be advised in advance of, and involved in, any testing.
f.	The EM’s will meet with the EC monthly.
B.	ERGONOMIC COMMITTEE
A plant-wide ergonomic committee (EC) will be formed within thirty (30) days of this agreement. It will be comprised of plant engineers, medical personnel, safety personnel designated by the Company and the Local Union President or his designee, the plant night chief steward, plant assistant chief steward, and the plant chief steward.
a.	The EC will hold meetings once a month to review program progress. It will be responsible for prioritizing problem areas for study by the Consultant and the Company.
b.	The Company will provide the committee with a copy of the plant OSHA 200 Logs monthly.
c.	The EC will monitor progress of the medical management program implemented.
39
C.	MEDICAL PROGRAM
The Company, with input from the Medical Consultant will design and install a medical management program addressing CTD. The program shall include provisions for prompt evaluation of employee symptoms. When directed by a physician or by the medical department, employees shall be given sufficient time for the involved muscle/tendon to heal. This time shall include time off work, or transfer to another job which poses a lesser risk of such injuries. When injured employees require time off work, upon returning to work they shall, when directed by a physician or by the medical department, be permitted to recondition the injured muscle/tendon group by gradual resumption of duties. This shall occur in addition to any other prescribed treatments. This program will include but not be limited to:
a.	Early detection of symptoms and conservative treatment.
b.	Utilization of consulting physicians to develop and implement conservative treatment programs.
c.	The Company will conduct an ergonomic analyses of all regular light and alternate duty jobs to identify stressors with CTD potential. Based on the analyses, each job will be classified for CTD potential. A copy of the analyses will be provided to the Union upon request.
d.	All medical personnel treating employees will be given copies of such job analyses to assure that a worker having or showing early symptoms of CTD is assigned a classified light or alternate duty job.
e.	The Company will develop a tracking and follow-up program to identify and monitor symptom progress for employees showing early signs of CTD, in the treatment program and/or transferred to another job.
f.	The Company will consider development of a rehabilitation process for injured workers, utilizing in-plant and outside services.
g.	Employees with potential CTD will be referred to a doctor for appropriate medical attention. If returned to work, will be assigned to a job within the doctor’s restrictions, h. Based on ergonomic analyses of tasks, certain departments/target groups will be surveyed periodically to determine CTD potential.
i.	When an employee, in a job not previously evaluated by the ergonomic consultant, reports a CTD to medical, the Company shall evaluate that employee’s actual performance of the job to determine if ergonomic risk factors exist and corrective action is necessary.
j.	The Company will complete a baseline survey within one (1) year of the signing of this Agreement designed to measure on a plant-wide basis the extent of symptoms of work-related disorders. (The survey will omit personal information, but include such information as job title, time on the job, department, etc.). The survey shall be repeated on an annual basis.
40
D. ORIENTATION AND TRAINING
The Company, with input from the Consultant, will establish a formal training program for new and reassigned workers which will contain the following guidelines:
a.	During the orientation and training for new employees, each new hire will receive a demonstration of knife and equipment utilization and hands on training including but not limited to:
•	Care of the knife
•	Hazards of improper knife handling
•	Knife sharpening
•	Types of knives
•	Tools and devices associated with individual work duties.
In addition to knife safety, new hires shall be familiarized with applicable safety procedures including glove and equipment rules, as well as causes and prevention of CTD.
b.	Following the orientation and training period, the new or reassigned employee shall be assigned to work with a skilled fellow employee who will provide on-the-job training. They will work with a trainer until the management trainer determines the new hire, or reassigned employee, is proficient enough to pull count. (See Appendix C).
c.	There will be seven (7) full time hourly bargaining unit trainers. Except for emergency situations, they will be excluded from count. (See Appendix A & B).
d.	The emphasis will be on employees developing a safe and efficient technique before they are expected to pull count.
e.	A knife care class will be offered at least once a week for any employee who requests additional training.
f.	Those employees who have not received knife training and are assigned or bid to a knife job will attend the knife training program prior to beginning the job.
The Company with input from the Consultant, will design and implement a comprehensive education program for managers, supervisors, engineers, union representatives, and employees on the range, causes and means of prevention of CTD. The training must be completed by twelve (12 months from the date of signing.
a.	This education is for all personnel associated with jobs where the potential for CTD exists.
41
b.	This education will include instruction for methods of knife sharpening and steeling and cutting as it relates to reducing ergonomic stress.
c.	This initial training shall last a minimum of 2 hours.
d.	The training shall be repeated for each employee when necessary.
E. ERGONOMIST
The Company will retain an ergonomist to study ergonomic stress at the location.
a.	The Company, with input from the Ergonomic Committee and Monitors, will evaluate the entire plant to determine the extent and location of jobs, tasks and/or work procedures that have or are likely to cause CTD. This evaluation will include the review of OSHA 200 logs, direct observation review of “ergonomic report forms” and other necessary survey methods. The union will be provided a copy of the evaluation and any other reports, analysis or conclusions prepared by the Company or its consultants on this issue. These jobs will be analyzed by the ergonomist using survey tools, such as videotaping and the forms to be filled out by the EM’s and affected workers (basic job checklist and symptom questionnaire), to identify the stressors on each job.
b.	The Company, with input from Ergonomic Consultant and Engineering staff will implement all feasible engineering and administrative controls.
c.	An ergonomic log will be maintained to track program progress.
d.	An ergonomic hazard report form will be created for monitors to use to spot problem areas and suggest solutions.
This Agreement shall be considered an addendum to the Collective Bargaining Agreement between the parties, and subject to the grievance and arbitration procedures of that Agreement, but nothing in this Agreement shall be construed as amending any provision of the Collective Bargaining Agreement, and in the event a conflict arises between this Agreement and the Collective Bargaining Agreement, the latter shall control.
42
F. TERM OF AGREEMENT
This agreement shall become effective May 27,2001 and can be canceled by either party on May 28, 2006.
For the Company:	For the Union:
Gary Bright Dan Schnitker Dave Stafford	Tom B. Price Martin Rosas Jim Babcock Denise Garcia Darryl Hardy Normando Guyton Jim Bunn Joe Briggs Sterling McPhaul Anuhar Udave Rebecca Olivarez Loreto Vasquez Graciela Vasquez George Bland Noe Rodriguez
Date:		Date:	
43
APPENDIX A BARGAINING UNITTRAINERS
A.	Purpose
To establish means and methods to insure adequate instruction and training of newly hired and existing production employees to safely and correctly perform their job duties and to help reduce employee turnover. To augment traditional training methods, ie. supervisors.
B.	Reporting and Job Responsibilities
The Company will appoint hourly trainers as necessary, who will be assigned to departments according to plant needs. The trainers will report to the training supervisor and will have “dotted line” to the department supervisor. Duties will include orientation of new employees, instruction in safe and correct job performance for new and reassigned employees, paper work necessary to monitor employees’ progress and to work with experienced employees as required.
C.	Selection
As openings occur the company will post a notice to all employees advising of the opening so that employees can advise the company of their interest. (See Section 5A)
The general qualifications are:
1.	Ability to perform all jobs in the specific area.
2.	Acceptable work and attendance record.
3.	Ability to get along with others.
Candidates will be interviewed by a joint labor management committee with the final selection being approved by the training supervisor. The Committee will consist of two members appointed by the Company and two members appointed by the Union.
D.	Understanding
It is understood that hourly trainers have no authority except as required in the role as trainer, ie. cannot discipline, give time off, nor fill in for supervisors in their absence.
BARGAINING UNIT TRAINERS
Duties and Responsibilities: Within the limits of authorized Company policies, procedures and programs he/she is responsible for the following:
A.	General
1.	Organizes, trains and motivates subordinates.
2.	Is responsible for the implementation and maintenance of Company Safety Policies.
3.	Makes daily verbal reports to the foremen regarding trainee performance and progress.
44
4.	Displays at all times good common sense, drive, reliability, timeliness, and follows through.
5.	Is responsible for using established tracking procedures.
B.	Operational
1.	Responsible for basic knife skill, saw, packaging, cross, etc. training during the training period of all new people assigned to respective areas.
2.	Insures that new employees attain acceptable level of knife handling skill, ie. Proper and effective steeling of knife, proper steel maintenance, and safe work habits.)
3.	Insures that new employees attain acceptable level of saw, packaging and material handling skills as they apply.
4.	Monitors employees performance and makes recommendations as to types of jobs particular individuals are best suited for.
C.	Working Relationships with:
Training Coordinator: Monthly meetings held to outline training programs and activities.
Management Support Trainer: Works in conjunction with to effectively train new employees.
Foremen: Receives daily instruction and reports to directly.
APPENDIX C ORIENTATION AND TRAINING
Following the orientation and training period, the new or reassigned employee shall be assigned to work with a skilled fellow employee, meaning someone who is presently performing the job and is proficient, and who has sufficient skills to train this individual (commonly called the “buddy system”) and who will provide on-the-job training. He or she will work with this person until such time the management trainer determines the person is proficient enough to pull full count. The management trainer, before making this decision, will visit with the skilled hourly employee, hourly trainer, and the supervisor for their input in the decision.
The skilled hourly employee and the trainee at first should not be required to pull full count, but between the two of them, should be able to pull one person’s count. As the trainee becomes more skilled, the skilled hourly employee may be able to work with more than one person. For example, there may be two trainees nearly qualified, so the skilled fellow employee would be able to look after the two people. And for example, between the three of them, they may pull two people’s count, but certainly there should never be an incident where the trainer is required to pull 100% count and try to train at the same time. There will also never be an incident where the trainee is required to pull 25%, 50% or 75% and be used in the count with those percentages, but will do what his skill levels allow him to do in a safe manner.
45
This Contract has been translated into Spanish as a service to our Spanish speaking employees that cannot read or understand English. If a problem arises as a result of this translation, the English version will prevail.
CONTRATO LABORAL
ENTRE
LA CORPORACION EXCEL (DIVISION DODGE CITY)
Y
UFCW DISTRITO UNION LOCAL DOS
DODGE CITY, KANSAS
46
CONTENIDO
Pagina
El Contrato......................................................3
Reconocimiento y Contratacion....................................3
Derechos de la Empresa...........................................3
No Discrimination................................................4
Acceso...........................................................4
Chequeo y Seguridad de la Union..................................4
Garantia.........................................................5
Horas de Trabajo.................................................6
Antiguedad.......................................................7
Dias Festivos...................................................12
Vacaciones......................................................13
Periodos de Descanso y Comida...................................14
Equipo Propocionado por la Empresa..............................15
Beneficios de Salud.............................................16
Salaries........................................................17
No Lockout-No Huelga............................................18
Procedimiento en la Resolution de Agravios......................19
Provisiones de Conformidad con la Ley...........................21
Renuncia........................................................21
Subcontrato.....................................................21
Permisos de Ausencia............................................22
Comite de Seguridad.............................................25
Jubilation......................................................25
Duration y Termination..........................................26
Autorizacion y Gravamen (Exhibition A)..........................27
Plan de Beneficios (Exhibicion B)...............................28
Lista de Sueldos (Exhibicion C).................................30
Acuerdos Especiales (Cartas de Concentimiento...................38
Carta de Concentimiento..........■..............................39
Apendix del Acuerdo de Ergonomia................................41
Apendix del Contrato............................................42
Acuerdo.........................................................43
Appendix A Entrenadores bajo el Contrato........................49
Appendix C Orientation y Entrenamiento..........................51
47
EL CONTRATO
Este contrato hecho el 27 de Mayo del 2001, y por y entre Excel Corporation, Division Dodge City, Kansas de aqui en adelante sera Hamada “La Compania”, y La Union International AFL-CIO-CLC de los trabaj adores Comerciales de la Comida, Distrito Union Local #2, de aqui en adelante sera Hamada “La Union”.
ARTICULO 1 RECONOCIMIENTO Y CONTRATACION
La Compania reconoce a la Union como el unico y exclusivo agente de negocios para todos los empleados de production y mantenimiento de la Compania Excel, localizada en Dodge City, Kansas, pero excluyendo a oficinistas, empleados profesionales, guardias, y supervisors dentro de lo que significa el Acta, con propositos de negotiation colectiva respecto a tarifas de pago, salaries, horas de trabajo, y otras condiciones de empleo.
ARTICULO 2 PROPOSITO DEL ACUERDO
Section 1:	Es la intencion y el proposito de ambas partes de este acuerdo es el promoveer y asegurar relaciones armoniosas, cooperation y entendimiento entre la Compania y sus empleados, fijar sueldos de pago y otras condiciones de empleo para ser observado entre ambas partes de aqui en adelante.
Section 2:	Se reconoce por ambas partes que hay un interes y obligacion mutua de mantener cooperation amistosa entre la Compania y la Union que permitira operaciones economicas de seguridad eficientes a la planta.
Section 3:	En reconocimiento del interes mutuo y deseando proveer la oportunidad maxima y seguridad en el trabajo para sus miembros en la planta, La Union se compromete en dar su cooperation en promoveer aceptacion al cliente y al consumidor del product© de la Compania.
ARTICULO 3 DERECHOS DE LA EMPRESA
SECCION 1: La Administration de la planta tendra el derecho de conducir la fuerza trabajadora, incluyendo el derecho a contratar, suspender, diciplinar o despedir por causa; A asignar trabajos, determinar las calificaciones y habilidades de empleados; a incrementar y disminuir la fuerza trabajadora, en determinar los estandards de production, determinar que productos seran manipulados, producidos o manufacturados; horarios de production metodos, procesos, y significados en el manejo de produccion; son atribuidos exclusivamente a la Compania, siempre que esto no sea usado con el proposito de discrimination en contra de ningun empleado o para
48
eludir las provisiones de este Contrato.
SECCION 2: Queda mutuamente acordado que la Compania retiene todos los derechos de manejo y perrogativas tenidas hasta ahora, excepto en aquellos derechos que especificamente quedan renunciados en este Contrato.
SECCION 3: Supervisores u otro personal pueden llevar cualquier deber que sea necesario en la conduccion de la empresa siempre y cuando tales deberes no resulten en la destitucion de los trabajadores protegidos por este Contrato.
ARTICULO 4 NO DISCRIMINACION
Ni la Compania asi como tampoco la Union discriminaran ilegalmente contra ningun empleado o solicitante de empleo debido a su raza, color, credo, sexo, edad, condiciones de veterano, impedimiento fisico, religion o origen nacional, o debido a si pertenece o no a la Union.
ARTICULO 5 ACCESO
Representantes de negocios de la Union tendran acceso a la planta durante horas normales de trabajo para negocios oficiales de la Union, despues de haber obtendio primero permiso de un oficial de la Compania en cargo, considerandose que no habra interferencia con el trabajo de los empleados.
ARTICULO 6 CHEQUED Y SEGURIDAD DE LA UNION
SECCION 1: La Compania al recibir autorizacion escrita por el empleado, y en ambos autorizcaion y el contrato entre la Compania y la Union permanesca en efecto, la Compania deducira la cuota de iniciacion de la Union y la cuota semanal del pago de tai empleado. Deducciones deberan set hechas de cada pago semanal del empleado, y la Compania debera remitir prontamente la misma a un oficial designado por la Union . La Compania se compromete a reconocer la forma como “Deduccion Autorizada” sehalada adelante como Exposition A. La Compania se
' compromete a proporcionar a la Union con una lista de todos los empleados runa vez cada seis (6) meses.
La Union se compromete a defender, indemnizar y considerar sin culpa a la Compania contra todo reclame, pleito, y danos provinientes de o en cualquier forma relacionados con acciones tomadas por la Compania con el proposito de cumplir con este Articulo del Contrato, incluyendo la disposition de tales fondos despues de haber sido remitidos por la Compania a la Union.
SECCION 2: El empleador esta de acuerdo en deducir cantidades designadas por empleados para el “Active Ballot Club” cuando el empleador halla recibido autorizacion por escrita individual para hacer tai deduccion,
49
en forma mutuamente acordada entre el empleador y la Union, Es el acuerdo que la autorizacion de ABC es hecha voluntariamente de parte del empleado individualmente y que tai empleado puede revocar su autorizacion de ABC dando (30) dias de notificacion por escrita al empleador y a la Union.
ARTICULO 7 GARANTIA
SECCION 1: A menos de que sea notificado un cese de operaciones en o antes del Sabado de la semana anterior, todos los empleados regulares de tiempo complete recibiran una garantia en la cantidad de treinta y seis (36) horas de pago a su tarifa regular.
La Compania tendra el derecho a reducir la garantia semanal de horas a treinta y dos (32) horas, no mas de diez (10) semanas por cada ano del Contrato. Notificacion de la reduccion para cualquier semana debe de darse a conocer el Viemes anterior a esa semana. Si tai notificacion se da y entoces treinta y seis (36) o mas horas son trabajadas, estas no contaran como una semana contra las diez (10) semanas.
La garantia sera reducida por el tiempo perdido por cualquier razon y por seis (6) horas cada dia complete en el cual la planta sea incapaz de operar debido a fuego, explosion, perdida de electricidad, tormenta, huelga o boycott por un gremio obrero o grupo similar. El pago festivo sera considerado parte de treinta y seis (36) o las treinta y dos (32) horas de pago garantizado, cual sea aplicable.
SECCION 2: La semana de garantia se aplicara solamente a empleados regulares de tiempo complete quienes empiezan a trabajar el primer dia programado de la semana de trabajo. Empleados desplazados a causa de las operaciones de las provisiones de antiguedad, recibiran pago unicamente por esas horas trabajadas en la semana en que fueron contratados o desplazados.
SECCION 3: Empleados Ilamados a trabajar seran proveidos con un minimo de cuatro (4) horas de trabajo o el pago de las mismas las trabaje o no.
SECCION 4: Empleados quienes son Ilamados a trabajar fuera de sus horarios regulares de trabajo. Despues de haber ido a casa por el dia y no cuando tai trabajo se junte con su tumo regular, les seran garantizadas cuatro (4) horas de trabajo a un tiempo y medio (1 ? ) veces sus tarifas regulares de pago, y los empleados Ilamados a trabajar fuera de sus tumos regulares les sera pagado de acuerdo con el Articulo Vil, Seccion 3, y seran permitidos a trabajar su tumo regular.
SECCION 5: Empleados quienes fallen a su trabajo debido a una lesion relacionada al trabajo, a discrecion del Doctor de la Compania se les pagara el timepo gang (gang tiempo) por las horas perdidas durante los primeros siete (7) dias calendario siguientes a tai lesion. Si el empleado subsecuentemente recibi compensacion de trabajo por los primeros siete (7) dias, tai pago sera reembolsado a la Compania.
50
ARTICULO 8 HORAS DE TRABAJO
SECCION 1: La semana de trabajo con propositos de nomina de pago empezara a las 12:01 A.M. del Lunes y terminar en la medianoche del Domingo.
SECCION 2: Las horas de trabajo seran programadas de acuerdo con las necesidades de produccion y empleados seran notificados por adelantado de los cambio de horarios, excepto cuando tales cambio se deban a circumstancias fuera del control de la Compania.
SECCION 3: Tiempo y medio (1 ?) sera pagado por todas las horas trabajadas en exceso de cuarenta (40) horas en cualesquier semana o en exceso de ocho (8) horas en cualquier dia excepto como es provisto segun Seccion 10 de este Articulo. Con el proposito de esta seccion, las ocho (8) horas pagodas por dias festivos deberan contar como horas trabajadas para calcular tiempo extra (overtime) con la excepcion de que si el dia festivo es en Sabado, cual no.
Todos los empleados excluyendo a empleados de medio tiempo y empleados temporales les sera compensado con uno y medio (1 ?) veces su tarifa regular por el trabajo desarrollado el sexto (6to) dia consecutive de trabajo dentro de la semana de trabajo considerandose que ellos hallan trabajado todas las horas programadas durante los primeros cinco (5) dias de esa semana de trabajo.
SECCION 4: Trabajadores regulares de tiempo complete trabajando en dias festivos recibiran su pago regular de dia festivo, y les sera pagado el doble su tarifa regular por el trabajo desarrollado en tai dia festivo.
SECCION 5: Empleados que trabajen en Domingos, con excepcion de empleados que son programados regularmente de mantenimiento, rendering, warehouse y empleados de yardas, se les compensara con el doble su tarifa regular de cada hora. Empleados de mantenimiento, rendering, warehouse o yardas deberan, cuando trabajen el dia designado como su Domingo en lugar del Domingo calendario, ser compensados con el doble de su tarifa regular de cada hora por el trabajo desempenado el Domingo.
SECCION 6: Con el proposito de calcular el pago por horas trabajadas en Domingo o dias festivos, un tumo que cruce a travez de dos (2) dias calendario sera tratado como trabajo del dia en el cual el tumo comenzo. Horarios de comienzo regular no seran cambiados temporalmente con el proposito de evitar pagar tiempo extra (overtime) o tiempo doble bajo esta seccion
SECCION 7: Tiempo extra en el departamento debe de ser ofrecido basandose en senoria, a los empleados de mas senoria clasificados. La Compania seguira la poliza de, el empleado de mas “Senoria podra, y el empleado con menos Senoria tendra”, Si no hay empleado(s,as) clasificados con menos senoria disponible para realizar el trabajo. La Compania asignara el trabajo a empleados clasificados en orden reversible a la senoria hasta que La Compania tenga suficientes empleados clasificados para realizar el trabajo.
51
SECCION 8: No habra pago pyramidal de tiempo extra diario y semanal. Cualquier trabajo desempenado en un dia festivo, Domingo o dia designado en lugar del Domingo, como es previsto en Secciones 4 y 5 de este Articulo, sera pagado solamente al doble su tarifa de cada hora y esas horas no deberan ser usadas en el calculo de tiempo extra semanal.
SECCION 9: El tiempo de la cuadrilla (gang time) para el area de matanza (kill floor) sera figurado en base al trabajo asignado al Up Puller. El tiempo de cuadrilla (gang) time para fabricacion sera figurado en base al trabajo asignado a la primer persona de la mesa del loin. Al empleado que trabaje tiempo de cuadrilla (gang time) sera compensado al minuto. La Compania instalara y mantendra un reloj en la estacion donde se determinara el tiempo de cuadrilla (gang time ) para que el tiempo de cuadrilla sea figurado adecuadamente). Al empleado que trabaje en exceso al tiempo de cuadrilla (gang time) sera compensado por tai tiempo.
SECCION 10: Empleados de mantenimiento programados regulaimente quienes trabajen doce (12) horas por dia, cuatro (4) dias por semana les seran pagado tiempo y medio (1 ?) por todas las horas trabajades en exceso a cuarenta (40) horas en cualquier semana o doce (12) horas en cualquier dia.
SECCION 11: El tiempo de iniciacion de trabajo en Sabado sera anunciado a la 1:00 P.M. del Jueves anterior para conveniencia de los empleados y no como una obligacion o compromise de la Compania.
ARTICULO 9 ANTIGUEDAD
SECCION 1: Antiguedad debera ser establecida en base al servicio continue en la Compania y se acumulara apartir de la ultima fecha de contratacion y debera ser aplicado dentro de la planta en base a lo siguiente: Primero-departamento; Segundo-division; Tercero planta,
Despido temporal (Layoff), re-colocacion y promocion sera basado en la duracion de servicio interrumpido dentro del departamento, division, y la planta, considerandose la capacidad, habilidades para desempenar el trabajo, y la salud fisica sera igual entre empleados elegibles para ser considerados.
SECCION 2: Antiguedad dentro del la planta debera operar dentro de las siguientes divisions y departamentos:
A.	Division de Matanza;
Kill floor, and hot beef cooler, straight knife sharpening, and laundry Offal
Carcass loading and coolers
Edible and Inedible rendering
Yardas
Limpieza
Warehouse
Cartage
52
B.	Division de Mantenimiento:
C.	Division de Proceso y Fabricacion:
Fabricacion
Loadout and box storage
D.	Division de los Cueros: La antiguedad debera operar en base a la Division.
SECCION 3: Un empleado debera ser un empleado de prueba por un periodo de cuarenta y cinco (45) dias realmente trabajados apartir de la fecha del ultimo empleo; sin embargo, la Union debera extender este periodo a sesenta (60) dias si la Compania lo solicita dentro de los primeros cuarenta y cinco (45) dias de continue empleo. La Compania puede, a su discrecion, diciplinar o terminar un empleado de prueba, y no agravio debera llenarse o । procesarse a su nombre. Al termino de su periodo de prueba, un empleado se ' convertira en un empleado regular de tiempo complete y tendra antiguedad 'apartir de su ultima fecha de contratacion.
f SECCION 4: Despido temporal y Regreso (layoff-recall).
A.	Clasificaciones de trabajos seran reducidos de acuerdo a la duration de servicio dentro de las respectivas clasificaciones. Empleados asi desplazados seran permitidos a regresar a su Ultimo trabajo (s) que le pertenecia dentro del mismo departamento en orden inverso de progression. Aumento en clasificaciones de trabajo seran en orden inverso a la reduction.
B.	Cuando reducciones dentro de un departamento sean necesarias, empleados con la menor antiguedad departamental seran despedidos. Empleados asi afectados tendran el derecho de desplazar al empleado(s) de menor antiguedad en su division cuya antiguedad es menor que la del empleado ejercitando derechos de desplazamiento. Empleados despedidos de una division tendran el derecho a desplazar a empleados con la menor antiguedad en la planta cuya antiguedad es menor que la del empleado ejercitando derechos de desplazamiento.
C.	Un empleado siendo despedido quien no desea ejercer derechos de desplazamiento puede elegir a quedarse despedido, pero no puede ejercer otra vez derechos de desplazamiento hasta ser llamado a su departamento de antiguedad (no como un reemplazo como en (F) de esta Section) y subsecuentemente despido.
D.	Tras notification de despido, la Compania proporcionara al empleado quien tenga derechos de desplazamiento con suficiente information para ejercer su preferencia en orden de antiguedad. El empleado debe indicar su intencion dentro de veinte y cuatro (24) horas de la notification de despido.
E.	Todos los cambios resultando de un despido seran hechos tan pronto como operaciones eficientes lo permitan,
F.	Cuando ocurran vacantes temporales debido a ausencia tales vacantes se llenaran primero de acuerdo a la antiguedad de
53
empleados despedidos presente en la planta buscando trabajo de reposicion, siempre que la capacidad, habilidad y salud fisica para desempefiar el trabajo sea igual entre los empleados elegibles a considerar.
G.	Empleados que hallan sido despedidos seran Ilamados de Nuevo a la planta de acuerdo a la antiguedad. Empleados Ilamados a un departamento diferente del que ellos fueron despedidos, tendran la opcion de permanecer despedidios o de regresar a una vacante disponible.
H.	Empleados quienes usen derechos de desplazamiento bajo esta seccion y son Ilamados de nuevo a su departamento de acuerdo a la antiguedad, pero no desean regresar, pueden permanecer en el departamento en el que ellos hicieron uso de los derechos de desplazamiento y su antiguedad del departamento empezara a partir del dia en que ellos entraron a ese departamento. Dichos empleados perderan completamente su antiguedad del departamento anterior pero no la antiguedad acumulada dentro de toda la planta.
SECCION 5:
A.	Vacantes permanentes dentro de cada departamento deben ser anunciadas por un periodo de tres (3) dias de trabajo, con excepcion de los trabajos de mantenimiento de los cuales se anunciaran por un periodo de cinco (5) dias de trabajo, y empleados dentro del departamento o division pueden apostar segun su preferencia. Un trabajo que no sea solicitado por un apostador dentro del departamento sera otorgado al solicitante con la mayor antiguedad dentro esta division. Vacantes de tarifa base no seran requeridas a anunciarse, pero estaran disponibles a empleados de acuerdo a la Seccion 3 de este Articulo (El trabajo anunciado llevara la tarifa del empleo, su titulo, y el nombre del departamento.
B.	Un apostador con exito en un trabajo de apuesta al tiempo en que dicho anuncio sea retirado sera requerido a aceptar el trabajo y no puede dejarlo voluntariamente excepto cuando gane otro trabajo mediante el mismo procedimiento. El apostador que obtenga un empleo debera ser honesto en esforzarse a aprender el trabajo; sin embargo, en caso de que no pueda, a juicio de la Compania el/ella sera permitido(a) a regresar a) trabajo anterior. El empleado tendra un periodo razonable de tiempo para aprender el trabajo. Dicho periodo de tiempo sera de dos (2) semanas; sin embargo, de acuerdo a las circumstancias, el periodo de prueba puede ser menor de dos (2) semanas, o en algunos casos, mas de dos (2) semanas. El empleado no puede apostar en el mismo trabajo hasta que el halla calificado por medio de mayor experiencia y habilidades.
C.	Un empleado quien exitosamente aposto dentro de otro departamento y/o division, establecera antiguedad en el nuevo departamento y/o division cuando el/ella califique en el nuevo departamento y/o division cuando el/ella califique en ese trabajo, y
54
perdera toda la antiguedad de su departamento y/o division anterior. La fecha de antiguedad para el departamento o division sera la misma que su fecha de antiguedad de la planta.
SECCION 6: Empleados seran permitidos a apostar hacia arriba (tarifa de mayor paga), lateralmente (tarifa de igual paga). o hacia abajo (tarifa de menor paga). Un empleado que mediante una apuesta obtuvo un trabajo lateralmento o hacia abajo no puede apostar durante noventa (90) dias.
I Vacantes temporales causadas por enfermedad, permisos de ausencia, [ vacaciones, etc., menores de noventa (90) dias no seran ofrecidas para apostarse. La Compania permitira a empleados ocupar vacantes temporales de acuerdo a antiguedad, siempre y cuando empleados soliciten esas vacantes y pueden desempenar el trabajo y puedan ser reemplazados k facilmente. Si el empleado calificado de mayor antiguedad no solicita esa | vacante, un empleado calificado con menor antiguedad puede ser requerido a ocupar la vacante.
SECCION 7: Cualquier empleado asignado temporalmente a un trabajo que tenga una tarifa mas baja que su tarifa regular recibira su tarifa regular mientras desempene tai trabajo con la excepcion de una reacomodacion de trabajo debido a lesions compensables. Empleados siendo reacomodados debido a una lesion compensable recibiran su tarifa regular por hasta las primeras (Iras) cuatro (4) semanas de tai reacomodacion y entonces recibiran la tarifa del trabajo que ellos esten desempenando. Esto no se aplicara cuando su antiguedad, como un resultado de un cambio en el ' departamento. division, o en las operaciones de la planta; tampoco se aplicaria donde, de acuerdo con la antiguedad, un empleado es llamado despues de un despido (layoff) y asignado a un trabajo de menor tarifa que la que el tuvo antes de ser desempleado.
SECCION 8: Un empleado asignado temporalmente a un trabajo de tarifa mas alta que se tarifa regular recibira la tarifa mas alta mientras desempene tai trabajo.
SECCION 9: A un empleado le sera pagado la tarifa completa tan pronto halla calificado para desempenar el trabajo. Sin embargo, apostadores . exitosos que no sean puestos en el Nuevo trabajo dentro de catorce dias calendario a partir de la fecha en que ganaron dicho trabajo, de un departamento o division, debera ser pagada la tarifa de tai trabajo hasta que sean cambiados. En adicion, cualquier empleado no cambiado dentro de > catorce (14) dias le sera pagado $.25 por hora como penalizacion hasta ser cambiado.
SECCION 10: Un empleado perdera su antiguedad por las siguientes razones:
A.	Abandono voluntario de trabajo (si un empleado esta ausente del trabajo por ties (3) o mas dias consecutivos en notificar a la Compania o sin una razon valida, el sera considerado haber terminado voluntariamente su empleo).
B.	Despido por causa.
55
C.	El fallar a reportarse al termino de un penniso de ausencia sin una buena razon.
D.	Ausencia del trabajo por cualquier razon por un periodo mayor de diez y ocho (18) meses.
E.	Empleados llamados despues de un despido (layoff) bajo las provisiones de la Seccion 4 (G) tendran cinco (5) dias laborales para regresar a trabajar despues de ser notificados por medio de carta certificada o telegrama, con recibo a vuelta de correo, a su ultima direccion conocida. Empleados que fallen reportarse dentro de cinco (5) dias laborales a partir de la fecha en que la carta o telegrama es enviado perderan su antiguedad. Cinco (5) dias adicionales se otoigaran si el empleado lo solicita dentro de los primeros cinco (5) dias.
SECCION 11: Empleados proporcionaran sus direcciones por escrito a la Compania, con el proposito de que la Compania pueda dar avisos cuando scan necesarios. Todos los avisos deberan ser considerados dados al empleado cuando el aviso sea enviado a la ultima direccion proporcionada a la Compania por el empleado.
SECCION 12: Los expedients de antiguedad deberan ser mantenidos por la Compania y deberan publicarse o anunciarse todo el tiempo, y actualizarce por Io menos cada seis (6) meses, y una copia debera ser proporcionada a la Union, Cualquier proteseta tai como correciones en la lista de antiguedad debe ser hecha, por escrito, a la Compania, dentro de treinta (30) dias despues que la lista es publicada y enviada a la Union, o la lista sera considerada a ser correcta y final.
SECCION 13:
A.	Empleados que desean transladarse a trabajos de tarifa base, a otro departamento o division deberan ser permitidos poner su nombre en. una lista de espera indicando no mas de un trabajo de tarifa base, departamento o division.
B.	El empleado debera tener sesenta (60) dias de antiguedad para considerarse elegible,
C.	El empleado quien exitosamente aposto para una transferencia a otro departamento o division establecera antiguedad en ese departamento o division a partir de la fecha en que el se traslade y perdera antiguedad en su anterior departamento o division, pero retendra toda la antiguedad acumulada en la planta, y tai empleado no sera elegible para transferirse otra vez a otro departamento o division durante seis (6) meses. La fecha de antiguedad para el departamento o division sera la misma que su fecha de antiguedad de la planta.
D.	Empleados quienes rechazen una transferencia seran omitidos de la lista al menos que el empleado solicite otra vez que su nombre sea puesto en la lista, indicando el departamento o division para e] cual el (ella) desea ser considerado.
56
ARTICULO 10 DIAS FESTIVOS
SECCION 1: Empleados regulares de tiempo complete recibiran, sin haber trabajado, el pago de su tarifa de tiempo fijo en efecto al tiempo del dia festivo por ocho (8) horas, de pago, por cada uno de los siguientes dias festivos.
Dia de Ano Nuevo
Dia de Los Difuntos
Dia de La Independencia
Dos Dias Festivos Personales
Dia De Accion de Gracias
Dia de Navidad
Dia del Trabajo
Con la condicion de que el empleado halla trabajado el dia complete de trabajo programado el dia inmediatamente anterior y el dia inmediatamente posterior a tai dia festivo, excepto en caso de una ausencia justificada la cual halla empezado no mas de siete (7) dias calendario antes del dia festivo. A ] los empleados de mantenimiento que tienen horarios (tumos) regulares de 12 I horas se les pagara de acuredo, en el evento de que el dia festivo sea en un 1 dia regular de trabajo. Si el dia festivo es el dia regular de descanso recibiran 8 horas de pago por tai dia festivo. Al empleado que llegue hasta dos (2) horas tarde el dia anterior o el dia despues del dia festivo, tendran dos (2) horas de pago deducidas de su pago del dia festivo. Al empleado que llegue mas de dos (2) horas tarde el dia anterior o el dia despues del dia festivo, no recibira pago por el dia festivo.
SECCION 2: Todas las horas trabajadas en un dia festivo seran pagodas dos (2) veces la tarifa fija de tiempo por el tiempo trabajado, mas el pago por el dia fstivo.
SECCION 3: Si un dia festivo ocurre en el periodo de vacaciones de un empleado, se le pagara el dia festivo en adicion a su pago regular de vacaciones.
SECCION 4: Si un dia festivo ocurre en Domingo, este sera observado el siguiente Lunes.
SECCION 5: Horas de dias festivos pagados pero no trabajadas no son incluidas en el calculo para el pago de tiempo extra (overtime) semanal.
SECCION 6: La Compania acuerda dar debida consideration a la preferencia de los empleados al programar esos dias festivos; teniendo en cuenta que la Compania dara su decision y aprobacion final en tales asuntos. El Sabado no sera un dia de trabajo programado cuando un dia festivo personal es programado en Viemes.
ARTICULO 11 VACACIONES
SECCION 1: Empleados regulares de tiempo complete tendran derecho a vacaciones pagadas al termino de cada ano complete y de empleo continue con la Compania como sigue:
57
Despues de un (1) ano	Una (1) semana
Despues de tres (3) anos	Dos (2) semanas
Despues de diez (10) anos	Tres (3) semanas
Despues de Veinte (20) anos	Cuatro (4) semanas
SECCION 2: El pago de vacaciones por cada semana de vacaciones sera calculada en base a el 2.00 porciento de las ganacias totales del empleado en el ano anterior excluyendo bonificaciones (bonuses), si los hay. Si el empleado ha trabajado un ano calendario complete, entonces el calculo sera basada en su ano aniversario inmediatamente anterior.
SECCION 3: Un itinerario de vacaciones sera preparado para el 30 de Marzo de cada ano. A los empleados les sera dada su preferencia de vacaciones basado en la antiguedad del departamento, a condicion de que su seleccion sea hecha antes del 1 de Abril. Despues del 1 de Abril, las vacaciones seran programadas de acuerdo al orden en que estas se vayan solicitando.
La Compania acepta dar debida consideration a la Preferencia de los empleados en la programacion de vacaciones; siempre y cuando la Compania tenga la aprobacion final y decision en tales asuntos. Vacaciones no se acumularan de un ano a otro ano, sino que estas deben tomarse durante el siguiente ano de la fecha en que se ganaron.
ARTICULO 12 PERIODOS DE DESCANSOY COMIDA
Un periodo de comida sera programado despues de cuatro horas y media (4 ?) (segun el “Up Puller” en el Kill Floor y la Mesa de los Loins en Fabrication) no mas tarde que cinco horas a partir del comienzo del tumo de los empleados, con la exception de que empleados podran ser requeridos a trabajar cinco horas y media (5 ?) consecutivas cuando estas sean la duration del tumo de trabajo. La Compania programara un minimo de media hora (1/2) o un maximo de una (1) hora de duration del periodo de comida. En el evenlo de que la Compania decida cambiar la duracion del periodo de comida esta debera dar la nolicia antes del final del tumo del empleado del dia anterior a dicho cambio.
Empleados recibiran periodos de quince (15) minutos de descanso pagados como sigue:
A.	Un periodo de descanso programado a cualquier tiempo durante la tercer (3er) hora de trabajo en cada dia.
B.	Un Segundo periodo de descanso programado en la Segunda (2nda) mitad de Cualquier dia de trabajo el cual exceda ocho (8)horas; sin embargo, este periodo no sera programado antes de dos (2) horas despues del periodo de comida.
C.	Un tercero (3ro) periodo de descanso programado en cualquier dia de trabajo el cual exceda diez (10) horas, mas una ayuda de Cuatro delates y cincuenta centavos($4.50) con el proposito de comprar comida, excepto como es previsto en E, (mas abajo.)
58
D.	Adicionales periodos de descanso por cada dia de trabajo seran programados cada dos (2) horas y quince (15) minutos despues del final de el tercer (3er) periodo de descanso.
E.	Empleados de mantenimiento regularmente programados quienes trabajen doce (12) horas por dia, cuatro (4) dias por semana, recibiran un tercero (3ro periodo de descanso programado en cualquier dia de trabajo el cual exceda diez (10) horas, mas una ayuda de Cuatro dolares y cincuenta centavos ($4.50) con el proposito de comprar comida en el evento de que el dia de trabajo exceda doce (12) horas.
F.	En relacion a este Articulo, un dia de trabajo el cual exceda cinco y media (5 ?), ocho (8), diez (10), o doce (12) horas debera ser conciderado un dia en el cual el empleado(s) trabajen por lo menos siete (7) minutos en exceso del periodo anteriormente mencionado.
G.	En el evento de una interrupcion en la cual el equipo entero de trabajadores sean mandados a descanso, veinte (20) minutos pagados de descanso seran programados en el Kill Floor.
H.	Tiempo pagado por quitar, poner, limpiar el equipo de seguridad por el Acuerdo entre Excel y LA UFCW Distrito Union Local Dos no sera contado hacia el tiempo necesario para poner en funcionamiento las obligaciones de la Compania para proveer un Segundo periodo de descanso como dicho en este Acuerdo.
I.	Empleados de mantenimiento seran otorgados un periodo de comida programado sin pago y si es requerido que regresen al trabajo antes de que se les halla terminado su periodo de comida, el empleado recibira pago por los treinta (30) minutos completes y tambien recibira $4.50 para el proposito de comprar una comida.
ARTICULO 13 EQUIPO PROPORCIONADO POR LA COMPANIA
La Compania proporcionara cantidades adecuadas y razonables del equipo siguiente:
A.	Aceros, piedras de carborundo, bolsas, guantes de malla, trajes impermeables para yardas, lavadores de cabezas y canal (carcass), herramientas de mano para mecanicos, cuchillos, tapones para oidos, redes para el cabello, y equipo de seguridad requerido por la Compania □ el Gobiemo.
B.	Botas con punta de acero para todos los empleados de departamento de mantenimiento, knocker, shacklers, rip bellies, scale leadperson, loading leadperson, scaler, meat pusher, ribbing down, cut down buggy, hanging tender puller, hooker buggy load, inside unloader, hooking hindquarter, hooker foiquarter on unloads, hanging hooks & trolleys for unloads, cut down long holsteins, rail wiper and squeegee.
C.	Todas las botas y delantares de los gutters, delantares para fat pullers, pancreas pullers, liver trimmers, y heart boners.
59
D.	Todo el lavado requerida sera proporcionado por la Compania sin costo alguno al empleado.
E.	El empleado sera responsable en el uso apropiado y eficiente de todo el equipo proporcionado por la Compania, y si este es perdido o intencionalmente destruido, el empleado (s) por consiguiente sera responsable, y la Compania puede cargar el costo de dicho equipo al empleado y deducirlo de su sueldo.
F.	Aquellos empleados usando herramientas y equipo proporcionado por la Compania les sera pagado el tiempo utilizado para preparar y reparar ese equipo y herramienta, o la Compania a su mere discrecion puede asignar un empleado especifico para desempenar tales actividades.
G.	La Compania proveera un empleado (s) para afilar cuchillos para todos los empleados que scan requeridos a usar cuchillos.
H.	La Compania proporcionara guantes de algodon y batas a cada empleado que lo necesite. El reemplazo de tales guantes y batas sera solo cuando estas prendas una vez sucias scan devueltas.
I.	Abrigos (freezer coats), coveralls insulados, botas insuladas, guantes insulados, guantes para el frio, gorras pasamontafias, y el lavado de estas prendas sera proveido por la Compania. Empleados de otros deparamentos que trabajen en las hieleras quienes esten trabajando donde su ropa se humedece o moja, les sera permitido suficiente tiempo para que cambien ropa antes de ir a las hieleras, pero sin exceder quince (15) minutes.
ARTICULO 14 BENEFICIOS DE SALUD
SECCION 1: La Compania proveera a los empleados de tiempo complete con el siguiente programa de aseguranza individual y familiar despues del primer dia de haber completado 5 meses de empleo esto aplicara a todos los empleados que sean empleados por la Compania despues de la ratificacion de este contrato:
A.	Seguro de Vida
B.	Muerte Accidental y Desmembramiento
C.	Proteccion contra Hospital izac ion
D.	Proteccion contra cirugia
E.	Proteccion Suplementaria
F.	Proteccion Medica Principal
G.	Proteccion Dental, y de Medicinas.
SECCION 2: Effective Junio 1, 2002, empleados pagaran, por deduccion de pago, un costo de pre-tax de $47.66 por mes. Si los dos trabajan el esposo y la esposa, la deduccion aplicara solamente a uno de los esposos. Informacion acerca de estos beneficios estan deliniados en adj unto Exhibicion B.
60
SECCION 3: Empleados regulares de tiempo complete recibiran los siguientes beneficios en ausencias causadas por enfermedad o lastimaduras no cubiertas por compensacion de trabajo, despues de haber completado sesenta (60) dias calendario de empleo continue.
Beneficio:......................................$225.00	por semana
Iniciacion de Beneficios:..............1 er dia del accidente 4to dia
de la enfermedad.*
El beneficio maximo es 18 semanas por periodo de desabilidad *E1 primer dia de ausencia a causa de enfermedad es considerado a ser el primer dia en que el empleado es examinado por un medico.
ARTICULO 15 SALARIOS
SECCION 1:
A.	A partir de Mayo 27, 2001, las tarifas por hora deberan de ser como se muestra en Seccion 2 de este Articulo y Exhibicion C.
B.	Lncrementos de salarios seran los siguientes: 5/28/01-$.51/hr.S/$.61F($10.30S, 10.10F) 1 l/18/02-$.20/hr.S/$.30F($10.50S, $10.40F) 1 l/17/03-$.20/hr.S/$.30F($10.70S, S10.70F) 1 l/15/04-$.25/hr. ($10.95) 1 l/21/05-$.25/hr. ($11.20)
SECCION 2: Lista de salarios para empleados cubiertos por este Contrato. Vigente a partir de la fecha de esta contrato, la tarifa base en la Division de Slaughter (Matanza), Maintenance (Mantenimiento), y Hide (Cueros) sera $10.30 y para la Division de Processing (Procesamiento y Fabrication(fabricacion) sera $10.10. Los trabajos seran colocados de acuerdo a los siguientes grados de pago.
Grado 1 Tarifa base mas $0.10 por hora
Grado 2 Tarifa base mas $0.20 por hora
Grado 3 Tarifa base mas $0.30 por hora
Grado 4 Tarifa base mas $0.45 por hora
Grado 5 Tarifa base mas $0.55 por hora
Grado 6 Tarifa base mas $0.75 por hora
Grado 7 Tarifa base mas $1.20 por hora
Grado 8 Tarifa base mas $2.00 por hora
SECCION 3: Todos los empleados quienes trabajen entre las horas de 6:00 P.M. y 6:00 A.M. les sera pagado quince centavos ($0.15) por hora en adicion a su tarifa regular excepto dicho pago cuando el tumo de dia empieze la matanza a un tiempo menor de cuarenta y cinco minutos antes de
61
las 6:00 A.M. Treinta y cinco ($.35) centavos por hora extra seran pagados a los empleados que desempenen un trabajo en el tercer tumo.	I
SECCION 4: A todos los empleados nuevos les sera pagado no menor de $0.50/hr., por debajo de su tarifa base durante los primeros (Jros) seis (6)	[
meses de empleo continue. Cuando un nuevo empleado es aceptado como un empleado completamente calificado por su supervisor, el nuevo empleado I le sera pagado la tarifa del trabajo que esta desempenando.	1
SECCION 5: Si la Compania tuviera que crear nuevos empleos, la Compania y la Union convendran en la tarifa de pago para tales empleos. En y el caso que la Compania y la Union no puedan convenir en la tarifa de pago, tai asunto sera tornado a arbitracion como lo provee el “Cuarto Paso” del procedimiento de agravios, Articulo XVI.
SECCION 6: La tarifa de pago para el Lead man (casco rojo) debera de ] ser de $.50 centavos mas por hora por encima de la tarifa mas alta en el departamento proviendo que el (la) lead man (casco rojo) sea calificado en el trabajo mas alto clasificado en el departamento. Si el (la) lead person (casco rojo) no esta calificado (a) en el trabajo mas alto clasificado en el departamento el lead person (casco rojo) sera pagado el grado 6. La tarifa de pago para el lead person (casco rojo) en la division de mantenimiento sera pagado $.50 centavos mas por hora de su nivel individual.
SECCION 7: Esta seccion no estara en efecto durante la duration de este Contrato.
Por cada incremento o disminucion de .4 en el “Indice de Pretios del Consumidor para Trabajadores Urbanos” del Trabajo de los E.E.U.U., ect., (1067=100) Habra un incremento o disminucion de salario de un centavo ($0.01) por hora. Tales ajustes seran hechos cada tres meses, subsecuente a la publication de los Indices para los meses de Octubre, Enero, Abril, y Julio en cada ano, y ajustes cuando los halla, tomaran efecto en el periodo de pago subsecuente a la publicacion de los Indices como se explica anteriormente. Disminucion, cuando sea indicado, sera cargada unicamente contra tales incrementos del costo de vida como han sido admitidos bajo este Articulo. El mes base para el calculo de cambios sera e! Indice de Diciembre de 1979, y los ajustes de los primeros tres meses seran hechos en los cambios del Indice de Diciembre de 1979 hasta Febrero de 1980.
ARTICULO 16 NO LOCKOUT-NO HUELGA
La Compania acuerda en que no dejara afuera a ningun empleado cubierto por este Contrato; es entendido que si la Compafiia ejercita sus derechos bajo Los Derechos de la Empresa, esto no constituira un cierre (lockout bajo el Contrato.
La Union acuerda que ni ello(a) ni ninguno de los empleados en la unidad de negotiation cubiertos por este Contrato autorizara, causara, ratificara, condonara, ayudara o tomara parte en una huelga, retraso, paro de trabajo, vigilara o participara en cualquier interferencia de trabajo ya sea
62
colectivamente o individualmente durante la duracion de este Contrato.
En el evento de que algun empleado se involucre en cualquier de tales actividades, el sera sujeto a despido inmediato.
ARTICULO 17 PROCEDIMIENTO EN LA RESOLUCION DE AGRAVIOS
Un comite para la resolucion de quejas sera formado con un maximo de ties (3) empleados y la Union los designara de sus miembros. La Union le comunicara por escrito a la Compania los nombres de dicho Comite. A este Comite permitido tiempo con pago para asistir a cualquier reunion regular con los representantes designados por la Compania con el proposito de resolver cualquier queja de acuerdo a las secciones siguientes:
SECCION 1: La Union local designara a un numero razonable de stewards y la Compania sera notificada por escrito de tales nobres. Solamente estos stewards que son nombrados seran reconocidos.
En caso de que se presente una queja o disputa entre la Compania y Union o entre la Compania y los empleados, relacionado al asunto en cuestion dentro de este Contrato o incidente en coneccion al trabajo, el siguiente procedimiento debera aplicarse.
Paso 1: El empleados (as) agraviado con o sin un steward, debera dentro de tres (3) dias labonales una vez enterado del incidente, discutir el problema con el supervisor del departamento con el objetivo de resolver dicha queja, o este asunto se considerara terminado. La Compania dara una respuesta dentro de dos (2) dias laborales. El fallar en alcanzar un arreglo en esta disputa, la queja
Sera presentada por escrito al Segundo Paso dentro de tres (3) dias laborales a partir del dia en que se recibio la respuesta o contestation de la Compania o el caso se considerara terminado.
Paso 2: El steward discutira el problema con el Superintendente de la Planta o su representante designado con el proposito de resolver la queja. La contestation escrita de la Compania debera darse dentro de cinco (5) dias laborales despues de que la queja fue sometida. El fallar a alcanzar un arreglo en este paso, la Union puede someter la queja al Tercer Paso dentro de siete (7) dias calendario a partir de la fecha de recibida la contestation escrita de la Compania o la queja sera considerada terminada.
Paso 3: El Comite de Quejas y representantes de la Union local y/o Representates Nacionales se reuniran durante horas regulares de trabajo sin exceder una hora para discutir el problema con el Gerente de la Planta o su representante designado con el proposito de intentar a resolver la queja.
La respuesta escrita por parte de la Compania sera dada dentro de cinco (5) dias laborales a partir de la fecha de la reunion mencionada arriba. El fallar a conseguir un arreglo en este paso, la Union puede someter la queja al Paso 4.
Por acuerdo mutuo, un representante de la oficina national de la Compania y la autoridad mas alta de la Union local pueden reunirse en una junta de pre-arbitraje para ver si la queja puede resolverse antes del Paso 4.
63
Paso 4: En el evento de que no halla arreglo de la queja en el Paso 3, la queja puede ser sometida a un arbitro impartial a ser seleccionado por mutuo acuerdo de las dos partes. Una petition escrita para arbitraje sera hecha dentro de quice (15) dias calendario despues de la respuesta del Paso 3 o la queja se considerara terminada. Si dentro de diez (10) dias calendario despues de recibir tai petition, las dos partes son incapaces de acordar en nombrar un arbitro, cualquier de las dos partes debera dentro de veinte (20) dias calendario despues de haber recibido tai petition para arbitraje, debera solicitar una lista con cinco (5) nombres del Servicio Federal de Conciliation y Mediation, y cada parte debera borrar dos (2) nombres de la lista de posibles arbitros y sometera a la Union dentro de diez (10) dias despues que la Compania halla recibido la lista. El nombre que quede en la lista de aribtros actuara como el arbitro en la disputa. Cualquier de las dos partes que no cumpla con los procedimientos mencionados arriba perdera su derecho en la queja o su pedido, cualquiera que sea el caso.
La decision del arbitro en la queja sera final y mandatoria para las dos partes, considerando que el no tendra autoridad otra que la de aplicar los terminos y condiciones espetificados dentro de este Contrato. El arbitro sometera su decision por escrito, dentro de treinta (30) dias despues de la conclusion de la audencia (s) cualquiera que sea el caso, y la decision del arbitro presentada sera final y mandatoria para las dos partes del Contrato. La compensation y gastos necesarios del arbitro seran compartidas de forma igual entre la Compania y la Union.
La presentation de la queja tendra que ser hecha durante el propio tiempo del representante de la Union o del empleado agraviado en todos los pasos del procedimiento excepto el Paso 3 como se mentiona arriba.
La solucion lograda en cualquier paso del procedimiento de quejas sera puesta en forma escrita y firmada por ambas partes.
El tiempo para perfeccionar cualquier paso del procedimiento de quejas puede ser extendido por mutuo acuerdo de la Compania y la Union; tai acuerdo deber ser por escrito, firmado por el gerente de la planta de la Compania y el steward de la planta por la Union o representante de la Union local.
SECCION 2: Los representantes debidamente autorizados de la Union tendran el derecho a visitar las areas de la planta de la Compania con el superintendente de la planta o su representante con el proposito de investigar quejas o examinar las cperaciones de la planta. Este derecho de ser usado solo de forma razonable, oportuna, y conveniente sin interferir con la produccion. Estos representantes de la Union tendran el derecho de visitar las areas sanitarias y produccion sujeto a aprobacion de la Compania.
ARTICULO 18 PROVISIONES DE CONFORM!DAD CON LA LEY
Es Entendido por ambas partes que cada provision de este Contrato cumple con todas las leyes aplicables de los Estados Unidos y del estado de
64
Kansas. Si posteriormente se determina que cualquier provision de este Contrato es una violation de la ley, estatuto o mandate legal del gobiemo o del estado, las dos partes renegociaran tai provision con el proposito de hacerla cumplir con el estatuo o mandate del gobiemo o estado, y las ortras provisiones no seran afectadas por esta renegotiation sino que continuaran en efecto.
ARTICULO 19 RENUNCIA
Ambas partes reconocen que durante las negociaciones del cual resulto este Contrato, cada uno tuvo el derecho ilimitado y la oportunidad para hacer demandas y propuestas con respecto a cualquier tema o asunto dentro del area de negotiation colectiva, y que ninguna de las dos partes es requerida a negociar en algun asunto durante la duracion de este Contrato, considerando que la tarifa para trabajos nuevos o cambios en las tarifas y condiciones para departamentos o divisiones nuevas, seran sometidas a negociaciones entre las dos partes, pero las otras provisiones de este Contrato no seran afectadas sino que permaneceran en complete efecto. El contrato entero de las dos partes es establecido en este Contrato y tomara prioridad sobre las practicas y contratos previamente exsistentes entre la Compania y la Union.
ARTICULO 20 SUBCONTRATO
Los partidos de este Contrato han discutido el subcontrato de trabajo desarrollado por empleados de la Union y acuerdan que ambas partes desean minimizar los efectos del subcontrato adicional y la seguridad de los trabajos de empleados y se trabajara hacia ese fin. Cuando subcontrato adicional de alguna operacion exsistente sea necesario o deseable, la Compania lo notificara a la Union. SI la Union desea discutir los efectos del subcontrato sobre la seguridad de La Compania se comprometa retrasar el despidos (layoffs) causados por el subcontrato hasta por lo menos dos (2) semanas despues de notificar a la Union de su intention de tai forma que las dos partes tengan suficiente tiempo para sugerir metodos hacia la solution de los problemas de despido (layoff).
ARTICULO 21 PERMISOS DE AUSENCIA
SECCION 1: La Compania puede otorgar permisos de ausencia sin pago hasta por treinta (30) dias a empleados que lo soliciten al igual que cuando esta sea por razones de emergenda. Tales permisos no seran otorgados con el proposito de permitir que un empleado tenga otro trabajo temporal, este probando un empleo Nuevo, o se este aventurando dentro de un negocio propio.
SECCION 2: Empleados escogidos por la Union para asistir a negocios de la Union fuera de la planta, deberan, con el permiso de la Administration
65
de la Compania, otorgarseles permiso de ausencias sin pago por un periodo que no exceda treinta (30) dias; mientras le sea posible tales empleados le daran tai noticia a la Compania por lo menos con cinco (5) dias de anticipation a la fecha en que tai ausencia es deseada. Tiempo fuera para atender negocios de la Union seran contados como horas trabajadas para el proposito de computar el tiempo extra proviendo que tai tiempo fuera sea antes aprobado.
SECCION 3: Un maximo de tres (3) empleados quienes scan electos o nombrados por la Union para un puesto de tiempo complete, con previa noticia, les sera otorgado un permiso de ausencia sin pago por un termino sin exceder la duration de este Contrato, y con una (1) semana de noticia previa a su intencion de regresar a trabajar para la Compania, esta debera colocarlos en el trabajo que tuvieron anteriormente sin haber perdido los derechos de antiguedad, siempre que ellos regresen dentro de treinta (30) dias calendario a partir de la fecha en que su position de tiempo completo con la Union halla terminado.
SECCION 4: AUSENCIA POR MATERNIDAD
Tales permisos seran otorgados a empleadas una vez estas hailan presentado el informe de su medico que explique su estado de salud.
Es preferible que empleadas empiezen su ausencia por matemidad antes de que termine su sexto (6to) mes de embarazo. Sin embargo, una persona puede continuar trabajando despues del sexto mes si presenta una autorizacion escrita al Departamento de Personal, en una forma especial por parte de su medico. Despues del nacimiento del nino (a), la empleada tendra noventa dias, a ella se le otorgara un permiso adicional con duracion de treinta (30) dias calendario. Sin embargo el tiempo total de esta ausencia antes y despues del nacimiento del nino (a) no excedera un total de doce (12) meses consecutivos.
SECCION 5: SERVICIO MILITAR DERECHO A SER RE-EMPLEADO
Un empleado que se ausente o a dejado una position dentro de la Compania con motive de entrar a las Fuerzas Armadas delos Estados Uniodos, tiene el derecho a ser reempleado por la Compania cuando el empleado halla completado su obligacion militar, sin haber perdido sus derechos de antiguedad como se menciona en la Seccion 9 de la Acta Universal de Servicio y Entrenamiento Militar.
SECCION 6: ENCAMPAMIENTO MILITAR DE VERANO
Empleados regulares de tiempo completo en la nomina activa de pago les sera otorgado un permiso de ausencia, una vez solicitado, cuando ellos sean requeridos a participar en un acampamiento de verano como miembro de la Guardia National y/o Reserva Militar de los Estados Unidos, como es provisto en la Seccion 270, Titulo 10, Codigo de los Estados Unidos. Tales empleados regulares de tiempo completo recibiran la diferencia entre cuarenta (40) horas de pago por semana a su tarifa regular por hora y lo que ellos reciban del Gobiemo. Tai ausencia pagada no excederan treinta (30)
66
dias consecutivos. Empleados seran requeridos a verificar cada dia de ausencia antes de recibir pago mencionado anteriormente.
SECCION 7: DEBERCIVICO
A.	El empleado llamado a ser parte de un jurado en una Corte federal, estatal, o del condado, sera justificado para servir en esta acdvidad, una vez que presente a su supervisor la citacion donde el sea solicitado para formar parte del jurado.
B.	Al empleado le sera pagado la cantidad que el hubiera haber ganado sin no tuviera que haber servido en el jurado, sin exceder ocho (8) horas por dia o cuarenta (40) horas por semana. EI empleado(a), en tumo, pagara a la Compania la cantidad que el reciba por tai participation en el jurado, quedandose con cualquier cantidad recibida por el como gastos en exceso del pago diario por su servicio en el jurado.
SECCION 8: AUSENCIA POR FUNERAL
Ausencias debido a la muerte de un familiar inmediato de un empleado regular de tiempo complete, seran consideradas como una ausencia justificada. A un empleado regular de tiempo complete ausente por esta razon le sera pagado durante el periodo de su ausencia de la manera siguiente:
A.	En caso de la muerte del esposo (a) del empleado, hijo natural o adoptado legalmente, madre o madrastra, padre o padrastro, hermano, hermana, suegro, suegra, nietos (a) abuelo, abuela, e hijastro (a) si este esta viviendo en la casa del empleado, el empleado recibira ocho (8) horas pagadas de tiempo seguido por cada uno de tres (3) dias consecutivos (del cual uno es el dia del funeral) los cuales su departamento (gang) trabaje.
B.	En caso de la muerte de un cunado (a) del empleado, este recibira ocho (8) horas pagadas de tiempo seguido, por el dia del funeral, considerandose que su departamento (gang) trabaje.
C.	El empleado quien lo considere necesario a estar ausente por este motivo debera notificar a su supervisor el proposito de su ausencia antes del primer dia de tai ausencia.
D.	El empleado, cuando le sea solicitado, debera presentar evidencia satisfactoria a la Compania, con respecto a tai muerte, relation con el fallecido, fecha del funeral, y su asistencia al funeral.
E.	Empleados que tengan que viajar largas distancia para atender un funeral de un miembro de su familia inmediata como definado arriba en 8A, recibiran ausencia excusable de tiempo razonable sin pago para que pueda viajar a la distancia del funeral con adicion a los dias pagados.
SECCION 9: La Compania otorgara a empleados que lo pidan una semana de permiso de ausencia sin pago durante su septimo (7to), octavo (8vo), y noveno (9no) ano de empleo. En adicion, empleados que acumulen
67
dos y medio (2 ?) creditos cada seis (6) meses para un total de cinco (5) creditos en un ano de empleo y que no tengan mas de cuatro (4) ausencias dentro del mismo periodo de tiempo, les sera otorgado una (1) semana de permiso de ausencia. La Compania se comprometera a dar debida consideracion a la preferencia del empleado en la programacion de tales permisos, considerando que la Compania dara la aprobacion final.
SECCION 10: A empleados les sera otorgado, si lo soliciten, hasta dos (2) dias de ausencia sin pago cuando les nasca un nino (a). Tai permiso debera de ser tornado dentro de los siete (7) dias del nacimiento del nino (a).
ARTICULO 22 COMITE DE SEGURIDAD
SECCION 1: Dos Comites de Seguridad seran establecidos; uno para la Division de Matanza y otro para la Division de Fabricacion. Cada Comite consistira de cuatro (4) Empleados; dos (2) nombrados por la Union y dos (2) nombrados por la Compania. Dichos Comites deberan reunirse mensualmente, durantre horas de trabajo, sin exceder dos (2) horas para discutir recomendaciones sobre seguridad con el Manejador General o su representante. Los Comites determinaran durante sus reuniones las inspecciones que se haran. En caso de una circumstancia especial requiera una reunion exceso de mas de dos (2) horas, el Comite solicitara tiempo adicional al Manejador General de la Planta. En adicion a la junta mensual del comite de seguridad un miembro de dicho comite designado por Representante de la Union Local se le dara tiempo con pago por lo menos un dia al mes para recorrer la planta para realizar una inspeccion de seguridad. Un miembro de dicho comite designado por el Representante de la Union Local de Fabricacion, Matanza y Mantenimiento se ie dara tiempo con pago para asistir en el recorrido de la inspeccion de seguridad de su respective division.
SECCION 2: Las responsabilidades de los comites deberan incluir, pero no ser limitados a, inspecciones y o investigaciones de accidentes y causas de enfermedades relacionadas con el trabajo, para el proposito de asegurar y promoveer un establecimiento investigadas por la Compania y el comite sera informado acerca de la accion de la Compania dentro de una (1) semana. Un delegado de la Union como miembro del comite de seguridad sera parte de cualquier investigacion que tenga relacion con un empleado lastimandose y halla necesidad de perder tiempo de su trabajo, por causa de la lastimadura.
SECCION 3: Las juntas del comite seran citadas por el Manejador General de la planta.
ARTICULO 23 JUBILACION
A partir de Enero 1, 1980, la Compafiia proveera un programa de jubilacion por servicio subsequente a Enero 1, 1980. Empleados elegibles seran protegidos bajo el programa exsistente, explicando en el Plan de Retiro de la Corporacion Excel. Todos los empleados protegidos deberan tener
68
acreditados aiios de participation a un nivel de $10.00 de beneficios.
Efectivo el lero de Enero del 2002, todos los empleados cubiertos deberan de tener aiios de participation subsequente al lero de Enero del 2002 acreditados a un nivel de $15.00 de beneficios. A las personas empleadas despues del lero de Enero del 2002 el intinerario de inversion sera del 100% despues de cinco (5) aiios de servicio.
ARTICULO 24 DURACION Y TERMIN ACION
Este Contrato es efectivo desde el 27 de Mayo, 2001 y debera de permanecer en efecto hasta las 12:01 A.M. del veintiocho (28) de Mayo, 2006. Cualquier parte puede, antes de sesenta (60) dias antes de veintiocho de Mayo, 2006, notificar a la otra parte su deseo a terminar el Contrato. Si tai noticia no es dada, el Contrato se renovara a si mismo por periodos succesivos de un (1) ano hasta que tai noticia sea dada.
For The Company:
Gary Bright
Dan Schnitker
Dave Stafford
For The Union: Tom B. Price Martin Rosas Jim Babcock Denise Garcia Darryl Hardy Normando Guyton Jim Bunn Joe Briggs Sterling McPhaul Anuhar Udave Rebecca Olivarez Loreto Vasquez Graciela Vasquez George Bland Noe Rodriguez
69
EXHIBICION A CHEQUEDY SEGURIDAD DE LA UNION AUTORIZACION Y GRAVAMEN
Por este medio, yo autorizo y dirijo que deduzcan de mi salario empezando con la proxima lista de raya, la suma equivalente a cuotas de iniciacion como sean certificadas por el (la) Secretario (a)- Tesorero (a) del Distrito Local 2 de La Union
Intemacional de Los Trabajadores del Comercio y de La Comida, AFL-CIO, y envie lo mismo al Secretario(a)-Tesorero(a). Esta autorizacion y asignamiento es hecho voluntariamente en consideration del costo de representation y negociationes colectivas y depende en mi membrecia presente o future con la Union, Esta autorizacion y asignamiento sera irrevocable por un periodo de un ano (I) del dia de ejecucion o hasta el termino apHcable de este contrato entre la Compania y el Distrito Local 2, Cualquiera que sea el menor, y succesivamente cada ano al menos de que yo notifique por escrito por carta certificada, individuo mi deseo de revocar el mismo no menos de diez (10) dias y no mas de veinte (20) dias antes de cualquier subsequente periodo anual al Secretario (a)- Tesorero (a) del Distrito Local 2 de la revocation teniendo mi firma de ello. El Secretario(a)-Tesorero(a) del Distrito Local 2 es autorizado (a) de depositar esta autorizacion con cualquier patron bajo contrato con el Distrito Local 2 y ademas es autorizado de transladar esta autorizacion a cualquier otro patron bajo contrato con el Distrito Local 2 en el evento de que yo cambia de empleo,
FIRMA:FECHA:
70
EXHIBICION B SCHEDULE OF BENEFITS
PARA EMPLEADOS:
Seguro de Vida.............................................$5,000
Muerte Accidental y Desmembramiento........................$5,000
Seguro contra Accidente y Enfermedad (18 semanas como maxi mo) Beneficio Semanal......................Vea Articulo Xlli, Section 3
PARA EMPLEADOS Y DEPENDIENTES
Plan de Seguro Medico
Hospital..................................................80/20*
Limite en el numero de dias..................................365
Mise. Hospital Extras.....................................80/20*
Cirugia...................................................80/20*
Visita del Doctor dentro del Hospital.....................80/20*
Laboratorio y Rayos X.....................................80/20*
Cobertura Maxima de por Vida..........................$1,000,000
Deducible Annual..................................$150 por persona
$300 por familia
Co Seguro........................................80% Compania*
20% Familia*
Gasto Maximo annual sin incluir deductible........$2,000 por persona
$4,000 por familia
Asistencia Medica en un recien nacido.....................80/20*
Cuidado Extenso............................................80/20*
90 dias limite
Cuidado de Hospital....................................80/20	hasta
$12,000 interne
$10,000 extemo
Cuidado de salud en casa..................................80/20*
$50 por visita
100 visitas por ano
Intemo por enfermedad mental.........................80% por 40 dias
50% posteriormente
Extemo por enfermedad mental............................80% hasta
$50 por visita maximo de 50 visitas por ano.
Tratamiento por drogas y alcohol	Pagado al igual
Que cualquier otro enfermedad............................80/20)*
71
BENEFICIOS DENTALES:
Deducible..............................................Ninguno
Beneficio total por ano: Individual.............................................$500.00
Familiar...............................................$1,000
Pago por el tramite del poigrama.......................100%
Ortodoncia (solo para dependientes) Examen initial..........................................$100
Mensualmente...........................................$40
Tratamiento de un	periodo por Individuo................$500
BENEFICIOS EN LA PRESCRIPCION DE MEDICINAS:
Cargos en gastos cubiertos (Deducible).................$8.00
Prescription de larga duration.........................$12.00
Reembolso por drogas geneticas-reembolso al nivel del precio solo si doctor certifica que sea necesario.
*90/10 dentro del plan PPO y 70/30 fuera del programa.
El empleado que no apliqu^ por el cubrimiento de su dependes( entre 31 dia del transcurso en que sus depende(s) sean elegibles debera esperar hasta el siguiente periodo de inscription.
Durante la duration de este Contrato, la Compania puede continuar y agregar programas de Contencion de Costos designados a controlar y reducir los eostos de) tuidado de salud de empleados y de la Compafiia. Cargo preventivo-examenes fisicos (empleados y esposo(a) solamente).
Pruebas de cancer, mamogramas, reemplazamiento de estrogeno, inmunizaciones, (vacunas), cuidado prenatal, buen cuidado infantil, pagado al 90% de los cargos usuales, dedcibles no seran aplicables.
Exhibicion B
-deducible; l/l/02-$200/400, 1/1/03-$250/$500, 1/1/04-300/600
-$50 por visita sera el deducible para el cuarto de emergencia: el deducible del cuarto de emergencia no aplicara para satisfacer el deducible annual o el gasto maximo de bolsa.
-mental o desorden nerviosa/alcolismo y abuso de droga; cambiar las referencias en la aseguranza a 70% donde dice “si tai no ha sido preautorizado por PHMH,” bajo Servicio de Hospital cuando sean admitidos, anadir “todo mental y o cuidado dde abuso de sustancias, sea en el plan o fuera del plan deberan de ser preautoriazdo para recibir reembolso.
Deducible parra PCS sera de /$ 10,00, a larga duration el deducible sera de $16.00 1/01/02.
La cobertura de la vision se eliminara (solamente aplica a los empleados que fueron contratados despues de la ratification de este contrato.
72
exhibicion c
LISTA DE SUELDOS
DIVISION DE MATANZA:
KILL	GRADO
First Hangoff.....................................Base
Hang Plastic......................................Base
Hang Trolleys.....................................Base
Hot Box Pushers...................................Base
Laborer...........................................Base
Pull Pancreas.....................................Base
Remove & Trim Grub................................Base
Squeegee..........................................Base
Stamp Sides & Tum Tags............................Base
Trim Heads........................................Base
Vacuum Shanks.....................................Base
Wash Heads........................................Base
Wash Tails........................................Base
Wrap & Tie Bungs.....................................1
Mid-Line Trim........................................1
Remove Sweetbread....................................1
Skirt Puller.........................................1
Flush Heads..........................................1
Bone Hearts..........................................1
Dehorner.............................................1
Double Cut Hocks.....................................1
Gland Trimmer........................................1
Inedible Tripe Dump..................................1
Liver/Hang-Bile/Save.................................1
Mark Patterns........................................1
Peck & Paunch........................................1
Pop Kidneys..........................................1
Pulloff Table........................................1
Pull-off Inedible....................................I
Rip Bellies.^........................................1
Trim Lungs...........................................1
Trim Tongues.........................................1
Head Hanger-A Shift..................................2
Banana Bar Operator..................................2
Clear Necks........................................  2
Condemn Room.........................................2
Downpuller Operator..................................2
Drop Bungs...........................................2
Gullet Raiser........................................2
High Trim............................................2
Hot Scales...........................................2
73
I
Pizzle Cord Remover......................................................2
Pregutter................................................................2
Pull Weasands............................................................2
Rip Tails................................................................2
Rod Weasand..............................................................2
Side Puller..............................................................2
Split Lips...............................................................2
Trim Snouts..............................................................2
Wizzard Knife............................................................2
Checker..................................................................3
Tern pier................................................................3
Chiseler.................................................................3
Head Hanger-B Shift (Holsteins, if Holsteins discontinued will be Gr. 2).3
Knocker..................................................................3
S hackler................................................................3
Drop Tongues.............................................................3
Fat Puller.............................................................. 3
Sticker..................................................................3
Drop/Hang Heads..........................................................3
Brisket Saw..............................................................3
Final Trim...............................................................4
Outrail..................................................................4
Legger...................................................................6
First Butt...............................................................6
Second Butt..............................................................6
Flanker..................................................................6
Lowbacker................................................................6
Prelow Backer............................................................6
Rimover..................................................................6
Rumper...................................................................6
Splitter..............................................,..................7
Utilityman.....................................Base + $1.00
Gutter.........................................Base + $ 1.30
Skilled Butcher I (Matanza)-Grado 7+ $.25/hora. (Debera ser calificado en cual quiera de estos tres (3) Gutter, Splitter, Legger y navajas de aire grade 6. Cuando sean calificados, el empleado debera ser dueno de alguno de estos trabajos o debera de ser asignado permanentemente a uno de los trabajos en este grupo para continuar recibiendo esta tarifa de pago.)
Skilled Butcher II(Matanza) Grado 7+ $.75/hora. (Debera ser calificado en cual quiera de estos cuatro (4) Gutter, Splitter, Legger y navajas de aire grado 6. Cuando sean calificados, el empleado debera ser dueno de alguno de estos trabajos o debera de ser asignado permanentemente a uno de los trabajos en este grupo para continuar recibiendo esta tarifa de pago.)
74
OFFAL
Box Large Intestine....................................Base
Cook Small Intestine...................................Base
Flush Intestine........................................Base
Intestine Stripper.....................................Base
Separate Large & Small Intestine.......................Base
Separate Large Intestine...............................Base
Separate & Box Cooked Intestine........................Base
Small Intestine Cut Machine............................Base
Bag Livers.............................................Base
Box Product............................................Base
Box Room...............................................Base
Box Tails..............................................Base
Inspect & Box Weasands.................................Base
i	Wrap & Box Tongues.....................................Base
f	Count & Tie Strings....................................Base
Goldbeater operator....................................Base
Separate Strings.......................................Base
Freezer Loadout........................................Base
Sliced Livers Operator.................................Base
Liver Skinner..........................................Base
Wrap Livers............................................Base
Scale Livers...........................................Base
Cutoff Honeycomb..........................................1
Hang Paunch...............................................1
Open Paunch...............................................1
Box Tripe.................................................1
Hang Tripe................................................1
Wash Tripe................................................1
Offal Scale...............................................3
Strapper Operator.........................................3
Freezer Fork Lift Operator................................4
Palletizer/manifestor.....................................4
LOADING AND COOLER
Hammer Brander............................................1
Pusher....................................................1
Rollerman.................................................1
'I Scaler....................................................1
' Ribber.....................................................2
Saw Man...................................................2
Operate Lugging Buggy.....................................2
Trolley Popper............................................2
75
EDIBLE AND INEDIBLE RENDERING
Inedible Rendering Clean-up............................2
Inedible Rendering Operators...........................2
Edible Rendering Operators.............................2
YARDS
Drivers and Stockyard.............................Base
Scale Cattle.........................................4
LAUNDRY
Laundry....................................Base
CLEAN-UP
Clean-up...................................Base
WAREHOUSE
Cage.......................................Base
Warehouse Forklift............................2
MAINTENANCE DIVISION
GM-general maintenance, R/B-refrigeration/boiler, ET-electronics technician
	GM	R/B
Start		
Base Rate	X	Start
Level 1	X	
Base+$.25		
Level 2		
Base + $.50	X	
Level 3		
Base + $.75	X	
Level 4	X	X
Base + $ 1.00		
Level 5	X	X
Base + $1.50		
ET
76
Level 6
Base + $2.00
X
X
Start
Level 7 Tienen que haber pasado el test. Base + $3.25	X	X
Level 8 Tienen que haber pasado el test. Base + $4.25	X	X
HIDE DIVISION Pit Man...........................................Base
Roller............................................Base
Flesher Operator...................................  2
Fork Lift Operator...................................2
Face-Leg-Rail Trimmer................................2
Final Trimmer........................................2
Hide Hanger..........................................2
Mixer Operator.......................................3
PROCESSING & FABRICATION
FABRICATION
Laundry...........................................Base
» Kidney Dropper.....................................Base
Laborer...........................................Base
Trim Belt.........................................Base
Trim Packer.......................................Base
Trim Sorter.......................................Base
Combo Dumper......................................Base
Ground Beef Boxer.................................Base
Dry Clean-Up......................................Base
Bagger............................................Base
Tenderizer Operator...............................Base
Treif-Dicer Operator..............................Base
Leaker Auditor....................................Base
Product Bagger....................................Base
Rebag Line........................................Base
Stager..........................................  Base
2 Boxer..............................................Base
Floor Scrubber....................................Base
Open Rebags.......................................Base
Bagger (Stuffer).....................................1
Chuck Hanger.........................................1
77
Trim Defect..............................................1
Pull Hanging Tender......................................1
Rosemeat Puller..........................................1
Finger Bone Cleaner......................................1
Rib End Cleaner..........................................1
Trim Bottom Butt.........................................1
Button Boner.............................................1
Trim Upgrade.............................................1
Shank Peeler.............................................1
Trim Hanging Tender......................................1
Wizzard knife Operator...................................1
Operator 8318............................................1
Repalletizer/Manifestor..................................1
Slice-N-Tact.............................................1
Forklift Operator........................................1
Label Cage...............................................1
Protocon.................................................1
Vision Sort Operator.....................................1
Vision Sort Pizo.........................................1
Poss Operator............................................1
Operator 8300............................................2
Trim Blade Meat..........................................2
Trim Pectoral............................................2
K-Pac Operator...........................................3
Chuck Cut-Down...........................................3
Forequarter Marker.......................................3
Skirtpuller..............................................3
Wing-Flank Dropper.......................................3
Trim Tender..............................................3
Trim/Pull Flanksteak.....................................3
Trim Strip...............................................3
Cap Puller...............................................3
Final Trim, Chuck........................................3
Paddle Bone Pull/Ringman.................................3
Scotch Tender Puller.....................................3
Trim Clod................................................3
Eye Puller...............................................3
Trim Eye.................................................3
Trim Flat................................................3
Trim Gooseneck...........................................3
Separate Heel............................................3
Hind-Shank Boner.........................................3
Trim Inside Round........................................3
Trim Knuckle.............................................3
Round Hangoff............................................3
Brisket Boner............................................3
78
Brisket Bone Cleaner....................................3
Trim Brisket..........................................  3
Navel Boner.............................................3
Trim Skirt..............................................3
Blender/Panel/Operator..................................3
Scaler/Pallet/Manifestor................................3
Make Sheet Runner.......................................3
Fab Carcass Scale.......................................4
Saw Shanks..............................................4
Short Rib Boner.........................................5
Forequarter Saw.........................................5
Hindquarter Saw.........................................5
Wellsaw.................................................5
Wingsaw.................................................5
Rib Chinesaw............................................5
Short Rib Saw...........................................5
Chine Saw Operator......................................5
Loin Butt Saw (Shell)...................................5
Chuck Saw...............................................5
Paddle Bone Marker....................................  5
Knife Sharpener.........................................5
Quality Control.........................................5
Wizard Knife Sharpener..................................5
Saw Operator............................................5
Computer Operator (ASRS)................................5
Sales Coordinator.......................................5
Trim Loin Tail..........................................5
Trim Flapmeat...........................................5
Arm Boner...............................................5
Knuckle Puller..........................................6
Round Dropper...........................................6
Top Butt Boner..........................................7
PreTrimmer..............................................7
Knife Sharpener.........................................7
Round Dropper...........................................7
Foreshank Boner.........................................7
Aitch Boner.............................................7
Hourly Trainers...............................Gr.	8 +$0.50
Strip Boner.............................................8
Tender Pullers..........................................8
Chuck Boner.............................................8
Rib Boner...............................................8
Clod Puller.............................................8
79
Skilled Trimmer I (Fabricacion)-Grado 5 + $.25/hora. (Debera ser calificado en trimear strips, trimear top butts, trimear rounds, trimear clods-Cuando sean calificados el empleado debera de ser dueno de alguno de estos trabajos o debera de ser asignado permanentemente a uno de los trabajos en este grupo para continuar recibiendo esta tarifa de pago.)
Skilled Boner I (Fabricacion)-Grado 8 + $.50/hora. (Debera ser calificado en cual quiera de estos tres (3) bone strips, pull knuckle, bone butts, pull clods, tender puller, chuck boner. Cuando sean calificados el empleado debera ser dueno de alguno de estos trabajos o debera ser asignado permanentemente a uno de los trabajos en este grupo para continuar recibiendo esta tarifa de pago.
Skilled Boner II (Fabricacion)-Grado 8 + $.75/hora. (Debera ser calificado en cual quiera de estos cuatro (4) bone strips, pull knuckle, bone butts, pull clods, tender puller, chuck boner. Cuando sean calificados el empleado debera ser dueno de alguno de estos trabajos o debera ser asignado permanentemente a uno de los trabajos en este grupo para continuar recibiendo esta tarifa de pago.
MATERIAL HANDLING DEPARTMENT
Box Throwers........................................Base
Stackman............................................Base
Reject Line.........................................Base
Case Sealer............................................1
Computer Tech..........................................1
Forklift Operator......................................1
' In-Feed Controller...................................1
Merge Line Operator....................................1
Palletizer.............................................1
Pic Operator...........................................1
Auditors...............................................2
Dry Storage Receiver...................................2
Scanner/Manifestor.....................................2
CARTA DE CONCENTIMIENTO
ASUNTO: Leadman, Scalers, y Empleados de Quality Control
La Compania acuerda anunciar las vacantes para leadperson, scalers, y quality control, unicamente con propositos informativos. Empleados interesados pueden aplicar por estas plazas, pero la Compania no esta obligada a colocar tales solicitantes dentro de estas vacantes.
80
CARTA DE CONCENTIMIENTO
AS UNTO: Duracion del Dia de Trabajo
La Compania acuerda que el trabajar mas de doce (12) horas en cualquier dia de trabajo sera de manera voluntaria.
CARTA DE CONCENTIMIENTO
AS UNTO: Orientacion de Empleados
La Compania acuerda el pennitir que durante la orientacion a nuevos empleados, un representante de la Union tenga la oportunidad de explicar el papel de la Union en la planta de Dodge City, Esta presentacion normalmente no excedera quince (15) minutos. La Compania este de acuerdo en proveer a la Union sin costo, espacio adecuado y suficiente para una oficina dentro de la planta.
CARTA DE CONCENTIMIENTO
ASUNTO: ESTAC1ONAMIENTO DE LOS EMPLEADOS
La Compania y La Union acuerdan establecer un comite entre Gerencia y empleados Laborales para tartar de solucionar problemas de seguridad para el parqueadero de los empleados. El comite lievara acabo la primera junta entre sesenta dias (60) de la ratificacion de este acuerdo. Este Comite puede volver a reunirse cuando sera necesario durante el termino de este acuerdo si continuan a exsistir problemas de seguridad.
CARTA DE CONCENTIMIENTO
ASUNTO: VERIFICACION DE VELOCIDAD DE LA CADENA
La Compania acuerda que cuando halla preguntas pertenentes a la velocidad de la cadena, El Chief Steward tendra el derecho de revisar la velocidad.
CARTA DE CONCENTIMIENTO
La Compania esta de acuerdo de contribuir $20,000 por ano del contrato a la EXCEL-UFCW fundacion multi-cultural que esta sujeta satisfactoriamente al Taft-Hartley trust alcanzandose este acuerdo.
CARTA DE CONCENTIMIENTO
1.	Actividades a ser compensadas: Ambas partes de este acuerdo han acordado que Excel le pagara a los empleados por las siguientes actividades a cualquier tiempo en el cual esto suceda en el dia de trabajo del empleado.
A.	Poniendose el equipo y la ropa especializado de seguridad y/o que es requeridos a los empleados;
B.	Caminando a la area de lavado para limpiar el equipo y la ropa especializado de seguridad y/o cuchillos y ganchos;
C.	Esperando en el area de lavado para limpiar el equipo y ropa especializado de seguridad.
81
1
D. Lavando el equipo y ropa especializado de seguridad.
E. Quitandose el equipo y ropa especializado de seguridad.
2). Por el proposito de este acuerdo, “Equipo y ropa de seguridad”sera definido como sigue:
a). Items included:	
Mesh body suit	Plastic arm guards
Mesh apron	Whizzard gloves
From mesh	Whizzard sleeves
Back mesh	Rubber apron*
Mesh gloves	Scabbard for knives
Mesh leggings	Hand guards
Mesh sleeve	Rubber gloves worn over mesh
Belly guard	Other like safety clothing, equipment, and gear
Shin guards
Face guard
♦Para propositos futures solamente y sin guardar repremimientos hacia atras, tiempo usuado para poner y quitar y lavar mandiles de hule seran considerados compensable cuando estos mandiles son requeridos a ser usados en combinacion con otro equipo mencionado en lista de este parafo y seran usados por motives de seguridad.
b). Articulos excluidos:	
Cotton gloves .	Hair Net
Steel toe boots	Beard net
Frocks	Ear plugs
Plastic apron	Hard hat
Safety glasses	Any other like items of equipment and gear
3) Compensacion que se pagara. Efectivo el 28 de Mayo, 2000 Excel compensara a los empleados requeridos a usar el equipo y la ropa especializado de seguridad como definido aqui por los siguientes minutos por dia actualmente trabajados.
Minimum Equipment	MaximumEquipment
Group*	Group*
Dodge City Fabrication	4 minutos	6 minutos
Dodge City Kill (Matanza) 6 minutos	8 minutos
♦Trabajos en el Grupo Minimo de equipo incluye a esos que son requeridos a los empleados que usen uno o mas de los articulos mencionados arriba en el parafo 2 (a) exclusive of mesh body suit, mesh apron, front mesh, back mesh, mesh leggings, or mesh sleeve.
♦♦Trabajos en el Grupo Maximo del Equipo incluye a los empleados que seran requeridos a usar uno o mas de los articulos mencionados arriba en el
82
parafo 2 (a), incluyendo mesh body suit, mesh apron, front mesh, back mesh, mesh leggings or mesh sleeve.
En el evento en el cual uno de las partes de este acuerdo crean que la cantidad de tiempo no refleje operaciones corrientes, metodologias, o layouts de la planta en alguna de las locaciones, Esa parte pueden juntos requerir estudios de tiempo, y cualquier disputa como resultado del estudio de tiempo que no pueda ser resuelto por negotiation sera sometido directamente a un arbitrador bajo los terminos acordados del acuerdo de negotiation.
En el evento en el cual alguna parte halle que la compensacion a los empleados no este en acuerdo,sean declaradas o determinadas por el Administrador de la Divison del Wage and Hour del Departamento de la Labor de Los Estados Unidos o cualquier corte competente a jurisdicacion halle a hacer invalida, tales provisiones deberan ser suspendidas y las partes de este acuerdo su reuniran para negociar acuerdos de reemplazamientos y condiciones por cualquier provision invalida.
APPENDIX DEL ACUERDO DE ERGONOMIA
1.	La Compania y la Union acuerdan mutuamente que habra una lista de Trabajos livianos (light duty). Veinte (20) trabajos de esta lista seran de la Division de Matanza: Stamp 86-K/straighten weight tags, box make-up (mezzanine), clean up restrooms/(intestine area), USDA on tongues, making boxes, high wash, put on labels, take care of hide line/dump hides/push bottons, take off paper towels, put on paper towels/plastic, coolers (run on government grade/trim dirty meat), counting trim rail tender and skirt damage, yards hang honeycomb/upstairs, janitor, trimming mid-line, pack small intestines, boxing weasands, boxing large intestines y cuarenta (40) trabajos corresponden a la Division de fabricacion: Pick low temp product, pick trim from 50/50 bvelt, pick bones from 50/50 belt, repair mesh equipment, trim defects from carcasses, help in laundry room (vacations only), glue boxes, and help in dry storage area, trim upgrade by using knife, help label and make ground beef boxes, cooler (separate switches), inject C02 (painting, box loose meat and sort, cut sandpaper and distribute, sew frocks (for vacations only), deliver truck bills to fromt office, outside clean up when needed).
2.	Empleados quienes tengan restrictiones temporales debido a una lesion relacionada con el trabajo o a una enfermedad relacionada al trabajo seran colocados en un trabajo de la lista de arriba el cual reuna sus restrictiones medicas.
3.	Trabajos de la lista de trabajos ligeros (light duty) temporales mencionados arriba, seran escogidos por el empleado; personal medico, y la Union.
4.	En caso de que a un empleado le sea prohibido debido a restrictiones medicas permanentes el regresar a su trabajo regular, ellos seran removidos de empleos de la lista de trabajos ligeros
83
temporales senalada arriba los cuales ellos estubieron desempenando y tendran la oportunidad de utilizar su antiguedad para desplazar a empleados de menor antiguedad en trabajo base. El empleado de menor antiguedad que ha sido desplazado no recibira la oportunidad de desplazar pero puede obtener otro trabajo por medio del procedimiento de apuesta o por medio de la lista de transferencias como lo senala el Articulo Vlll.
5.	Si o cuando un empleado se ha recuperado de una lesion o enfermedad relacionada al trabajo, este sera colocado de Nuevo en su trabajo regular y se les dara una oportunidad razonable de tiempo para que se adapte en ese trabajo. El avance o progreso del empleado sera monitorado para evitar el que se vuelva a lesionar.
6.	Durante el primer ano del contrato colectivo de trabajo, un monitor de ergonomia de tiempo complete sera escogido por las dos partes el cual Sera asignado a actividades ergonomicas. El empleado asignado para Este trabajo le sera pagado el Grado 4 durante los tres (3) Primeros meses de su funcion y el Grado 6 posteriormente, Esta situation sera revisada despues de un (1) ano y la Compania retiene el derecho de volver a rotar empleados a traves de esta position si considera que el monitor de tiempo complete no esta desempenando corectamente su trabajo. En ese caso, el empleado en la position de monitor de tiempo complete le sera permitido el regresar a su trabajo anterior.
APENDIX DEL CONTRATO
A partir de Octubre 5, 1992, la Division de Matanza ya no rotara los tumos de production.
INGLES Y ESPANOL
Este contrato fue tradutido a Espanol como un servitio a nuestros empleados que hablan espanol y no pueden o entienden el Ingles. Si surge algun problema a resultado de esta traduction, la version en Ingles sera la que predomine.
ACUERDO
Ambas partes de este acuerdo que son la Corporation de Excel (La Compania) Division de Doge City, Dodge City, Kansas y La UFCW Union International y la UFCW Local Distrito Dos. (La Union).
El proposito de este acuerdo es para implementar procedimientos para asi fatilitar Ids esfuerzos de ambas partes y cooperar con respeto a la salud y seguridad de la planta.
La Compania acuerda de tener responsabilidad absoluta de proveer un lugar seguro de trabajo y corregir cualquier riesgo o peligro de seguridad y que nada de este acuerdo debera implicar ni al Local o La Union Intemacional hallan asumido o improvisto cualquier portion de esa responsabilidad.
84
A.	MONITORES DE ERGONOMIA
La Compania reconoce que envolvimiento del trabajador es crucial para el exito del programa de ergonomia. Lo siguiente estara establecido y usado con orden de el consultante de la Compania.
a.	La Union designara hasta 15 individuos como “Monitores de Ergonomia” (EM) y la Compania revisara la lista.
b.	Cada (EM) por initial sera proveido con una semana de entrenamiento de Ergonomia. Tai entrenamiento sera completado, tan pronto sea practicable, despues de que EM’s nuevos hallan sido designados. EL entrenamiento es disenado para asistir a estos monitores en el desarrollo de tacticas para identificar y analizar trabajos para el esfuerzo de ergonomia y para poder recomendar soluciones.
c.	Se espera que los EM’S puedan identificar, para el Consultante, y para el Comite de Ergonomia de la Planta, areas con problemas potentiates de ergonomia y soluciones potentiates. Los EM’S conduciran un examen de su area de trabajo, usando inspection a la vista, para ver problemas en el area y ofrecer soluciones potentiates. Esta inspection ocurrira mensualmente.
d.	La Compania asegurara que todos los empleados esten informados de los nombres de los EM’S y sus responsabilidades.
e.	En el evento de un examen de linea sea recomendado por el Consultante, El EM apropiado sera anticipado de, y envolucrado en cualquier examen.
B.	COMITE DE ERGONOMIA
Un Comite de Ergonomia (EC) sera formado de empleados de toda la planta en treinta (30) dias de este acuerdo.
Abarcara ingenieros de la planta, personal medico, personal de seguridad designado por la Compania y el Presidente de la Union Local o su designado, el chief steward de la noche, el asistente chief steward de la planta, y el chief steward de la planta.
a.	El Comite (EC) llevara acabo juntas una vez al mes para revisar el progreso del programa.
b.	La Compania proporcionara al comite con una copia de el OSHA 200 logs de la planta.
c.	El Comite (EC) llevara control del progreso del programa medico implementado por la Compania.
C.	PROGRAMA MEDICO
La Compania, por medio de el Consultante Medico disenara y instalara un programa medico de Gerencia dirigiendose a CTD. El programa debera incluir provisiones para evaluation pronta de los sintomas del empleado. Cuando dirigido por un Doctor o por el departamendo medico, se les dara a los empleados sufitiente tiempo para que el musculo/tendon involucrado logre recuperarse.
85
Este tiempo debera incluir tiempo fuera del trabajo, o sera transferido a otro trabajo que tenga menos riesgo de lastimaduras. Cuando empleados lastimados requieran de tiempo fuera del trabajo, y cuando ellos regresen al trabajo deberan, cuando dirigido por un Doctor o por el departamento medico. Que sea permitido que el grupo del musculo/tendon lastimado sea reacondicionado el podia resumir gradualmente a sus labores. Esto debera ocurir en adicion a cualquier otro tratamiento prescrito. Este programa debera incluir y no ser limitado a:
a.	Detection temprana de los sintomas y tratamiento conservative.
b.	Utilization de Doctores consultantes para implementar y desarroilar programas de tratamiento conservatives.
c.	La Compania condutira un analysis de Ergonomia de todos los trabajos regulares y livianos para identificar esfuerzos con potentiates de CTD. Basandose en el analysis cada trabajo sera clasificado para potential de CTD. Una copia del analysis sera proporcionado a la Union cuando se halla hecho la petition.
d.	Todo personal medico tratando a empleados seran proporcionados con listas de tales analysis de trabajos para asegurar que el trabajador teniendo o mostrando sintomas tempranas de CTD sea asignado con un trabajo clasificado, liviano o un trabajo altemativo.
e.	La Compania desarrollara un programa de tracking para identificar y senalar el progreso del sintoma para aquellos empleados que muestren tempranas seiias de CTD, en el programa del tratamiento y/o transferido a otro trabajo.
f.	La Compania considerara el desarrollo de un proceso de rehabilitation para empleados lastimados , utilizandose en la planta y en servicios de afuera.
g.	Empleados con potential CTD. Seran referidos a un Doctor para atencion medica apropiada. Si regresado a trabajar, sera asignado a un trabajo que este dentro de las restricciones del Doctor.
h.	Basandose en las tareas y analysis de ergonomia, ciertos departamentos se observaran diferentes grupos peridoicamente para determinar potential CTD.
i.	Cuando el empleado, en un trabajo que no halla sido previamente evaluado por el consultante de Ergonomia, reporte al medico de CTD, La Compafiia debera evaluar la actual funcion en el trabajo para determinar si exsisten riesgos factores ergonomicos y necesite action correctiva.
j.	La Compania completara un examen de linea base durante un ano (1) que se halla firmado este acuerdo disenado a medirse por base completa de la planta la extencion de sintomas de desordenes relacionadas con el trabajo. (El examen omitira information personal, pero incluira tai information con titulo de trabajo, tiempo en el trabajo, departamento ect.) El examen se repetira en base anual.
86
D.	ORIENTACION Y ENTRENAMIENTO
La Compania, por medio del Consultante, establecera un programa formal de entrtenamiento para empleados nuevos y reasignados que conteneran Las siguientes nomas:
a. Durante la orientation y entrenamiento de empleados nuevos, cada empleado Nuevo recibira una demostracion de utilization de cuchillos y equipo y manos en entrenamiento incluyendo y no limitados a :
•	Cuidado del cuchillo
•	Peligro de cuchillos manejados desapropiadamente
•	Afilacion de cuchillos
•	Tipo de cuchillos
*	Herramientas y apaialus asociados con lesponsabilidades individuates del trabajo.
En adicion a seguridad de cuchillos, nuevos empleados deberan de familiarisarze con procedimientos aplicables de seguridad, incluyendo guantes y reglas de equipo, como tambien como causas de prevention de CTD.
a.	Siguiendo la orientation y el periodo de entrenameiento, el empleado nuevo o reasignado a trabajar con un companero que tenga la habilidad de proveerlo con entrenamiento del trabajo.
b.	Elios trabajaran con un entrenador hasta que el Supervisor del entrenador determine que el nuevo empleado o el empleado reasignado sea habil de jalar cuenta (Vea Appendix C).
c.	Habra siete (7) entrenadores pertenetientes a la mesa de negociaciones de tiempo completo en. Excepto por situaciones de emergencia, seran excluidos de cuenta. (Vea Appendix A&B).
d.	El enfasis sera en empleados desarrollando una tecnica eficiente y segura antes de que se espere que jalen cuenta.
e.	Una clase de cuidado de cuchillos sera ofrecida al menos una vez a la semana para cualquier empleado que pida entrenamiento adicional.
f.	A los empleados que no Italian recibido entrenamiento de cuchillos y sean asignados o que hallan apostado a un trabajo de cuchillos, antederan el programa de entrenamiento de cuchillos antes de empezar a hater el trabajo.
La Compania por medio del Consultante, disenara y implementara un programa educative para manejadores, supervisors, ingenieros, representantes de la Union y a empleados en la escala, para causa de prevention de CTD. El entrenamiento debera de haber sido acabado en doce (12) meses del dia firmado.
E.	Esta education es para todo personal asociado con trabajos donde el potential de CI D exsiste.
87
F.	Esta educacion incluira instrucciones y metodos de afilacion de cuchillos y chaira y cortando asi sea relacionado para disminuir ocn la tension de ergonomia.
G.	Este entrenamiento por inicial debera durar el minimo de 2 horas.
H.	El entrenamiento debera repetirse para cada empleado asi sea necesario.
E. ERGONOMISTA
La Compania tendra un ergonomista para estudiar la tension en la location.
a.	La Compania, por medio del Comite de Ergonomia y los Monitores, evaluaran la planta completa para determinar la extencion y location de los trabajos, tareas y/o procedimientos de trabajos que tengan o que causen CTD Esta evaluation incluira el revisamiento de los OSHA 200 logs, observation directa revision de las formas con el “reporte de ergonomia” y otros metodos de inspeccion necesarios. La Union sera proportionada con una copia de la evaluation y cualquier otro reporte, analysis o conclusions preparadas por la Compania o sus consultants de este tema. Estos trabajos seran analizados por el ergonomista usando herramientas de inspeccion, tai como grabacion de videos y las formas de ser llenadas por los EM’S y los trabajadores afectados (chequeo de trabajos basicos y cuestonario de sintomas), para identificar las tensiones en cada trabajo.
b.	La Compania por medio del Consultante de Ergonomia y personal de Ingeniria implementaran ingenieros y controles administrativos.
c.	Se mantendra un diario de ergonomia para seguir con el progreso del programa.
d.	Una forma con el reporte de riesgos de ergonomia seran creadas para usarse por monitores para ver problemas en las areas y sugerir soluciones.
Este acuerdo es un complemento al Acuerdo Collectivo de Negocios entre ambas partes, y sujeto al procedimiento de agravios y arbitration de este Acuerdo, pero nada en este acuerdo debera de ser interpretado como agregacion a ninguna provison del Acuerdo Collectivo de Negocios, si en caso de que halla algun conflicto entre este Acuerdo y el Acuerdo Collectivo de Negocios, el reciente debera controlar.
TERMING DEL ACUERDO
Este acuerdo debera de ser effective desde el 27 de Mayo, 2001 y podra ser cancelado por cualquier parte en Mayo 28, 2006.
Por La Compania.1
Gary Bright
Dan Schnitker
Por La Union:
Tom B. Price
Martin Rosas
88
Dave Stafford
Fecha:.
Jim Babcock Denise Garcia Darryl Hardy Normando Guyton Jim Bunn Joe Briggs Sterling McPhaul Anuhar Udave Rebecca Olivarez Loreto Vasquez Graciela Vasquez George Bland Noe Rodriguez
Fecha:___________
89
APPENDIX A ENTRENADORES BAJO EL CONTRATO
A.	PROPOSITO
Estableceer medio y metodos para asegurar instucciones adecuadas y entrenamiento a nuevos empleados y los ya exsistentes empleados de produccion para que desempenen correctamente sus trabajos y sin accidents, y para ayudar a reducir la perdida de empleados.
Aumentar los metodos tradicionales de entrenamiento, ejemplo, supervisors.
B.	INFORMES Y RESPONSABILIDADES
La Compania nombrara a entrenadores pertenecientes a la mesa de negociacion como sea necesario, quienes seran asignados a departamentos segun las necesidades de la planta. Los entrenadores reportaran al supervisor de los entrenadores y tendran “dotted line” al supervisor del departamento. Los deberes incluiran: orientacion a nuevos empleados, ensenar de una forma correcta y segura el desempeno de trabajo al Nuevo empleado y a empleados transferido, papeleo necesario para documentar el progreso del empleado y trabajar con empleados con experiencia como sea necesario.
C.	SELECCON
A manera que ocurran vacantes la Compania las anunciara informando asi a todos los empleados para que aquellos que tengan interes lo notifiquen a la Compania. (Vea Seccion A).
Los requisites generales son:
a.	Habilidad para desempenar todos los trabajos en el area especificada.
b.	Trabajo acceptable y buen historial de asistencia.
c.	Habilidad de cooperation con companeros de trabajo.
Los candidates seran entrevistados por un comite formado por trabajadores y gerencia, y la selection final sera aprobada por parte del supervisor de entrenamiento. El comite consistira de dos miembros nombrados por la Compania y dos miembros nombrados por la Union.
D.	ENTENDIMIENTO
Es entendido que los entrenadores por hora no tienen autoridad, salvo en su papel de entrenador; ejemplo: El no podra disciplinar, otorgar ausencias de trabajo, ni reemplazar a un supervisor en su ausencia.
ENTRENADORES BAJO EL CONTRATO
A.	GENERAL
1.	Organizar, entrenar y motivar a empleados a cargo.
2.	Es responsible de la implementation y mantenimiento de la las polizas de seguridad de la Compania.
90
3.	Hacer reportes verbales diariamente al Supervisor en cuestion a la actuacion y progreso del nuevo empleado.
4.	Siempre dispone de buen sentido comun, reabilidad, tiempo, y habilidad para concretar tareas designadas.
5.	Es responsable de usar procedimientos establecidos de tracking.
B.	OPERACIONAL
1.	Responsable de conocimiento basico de cuchillos, serruchos, empacar, ect. Entrenamiento durante el periodo de entrenamiento de todo empleado Nuevo asignado a respectivas areas.
2.	Asegura que empleados nuevos prosigan con nivel acceptable manejando cuchillos, ie. propio y efectivo aftlacion de cuchillo.
3.	Asegura que empleados nuevos prosigan con nivel acceptable manejando serruchos, habilidad en empacar y manejando material como sea aplicable.
4.	Observan la actuacion y hace recomendaciones para ver que tipo de trabajo seria de major conveniencia para cada empleado por individuo.
C.	RELACION DE TRABAJO CON:
Coordinador de Entrenamiento: Juntas mensualmente para el contomo de programas y actividades de entrenamiento.
Gerencia con apoyo al Entrenador: Trabaja en conjuncion, para ser efectivamente el entrenamiento a nuevos empleados.
Mayordomos: Recibe instucciones y reportes diarios directamente
APPENDIX C ORIENTACION Y ENTRENAMIENTO
Siguiendo la orientation y periodo de entrenamiento, el empleado nuevo o reasignado sera asignado a trabajar con otro empleado, significa que alguien que presentemente esta haciendo el trabajo y es proficiente y que tiene suficiente experiencia para entrenar a este individuo (llamado el “buddy system’’) y que proveera entrenamiento en el trabajo. El o ella trabajara con esta persona hasta que el entrenador de manejamiento determine que la persona esta calificado a jalar cuenta completamente.
El entrenador de manejamiento, antes de hacer su decision , visitant con el empleado de experiencia, entrenador, y con el supervisor para dar su punto en la decision
El empleado de experiencia y el empleado aprendiz de primero no se le requerira jalar cuenta completamente, pero entre los dos, deberan de jalar la cuenta de una persona. Cuando el aprendiz tenga mas experiencia, el empleado de experiencia podra trabajar con mas de una persona. Por ejemplo, puede haber dos empleados aprendizes casi calificados, para que el empleado de experiencia pueda asistir a las dos personas. Y por ejemplo, entre los tres de ellos, pueden jalar la cuenta de dos personas, pero
91
seguramente nunca debera de haber un accidente donde el entrenador sea requerido a j alar la cuenta al 100% y trate de entrenar al mismo tiempo. Tampoco nunca debera de presentarse un incidente donde el aprendiz sea requerido que jale 25%, 50% o 75% Y que sea usado en la cuenta con esos percentages, pero hara lo que el nivel de su experiencia le permlta en manera segura.
92