COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
SNE ENTERPRISES, INC.
AND
MIDWESTERN COUNCIL OF INDUSTRIAL WORKERS OF THE UNITED BROTHERHOOD OF CARPENTERS AND JOINERS OF AMERICA
(March 29, 2004 - December 9, 2007)
AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT, effective'the 29th day of March, 2004, by and between SNE ENTERPRISES, INC., 880 Southview Drive, Mosinee, Wisconsin 54455 hereinafter referred to as the "Employer/' add the MIDWESTERN COUNCIL OF INDUSTRIAL WORKERS OF THE UNITED BROTHERHOOD OF CARPENTERS AND JOINERS OF AMERICA herein after referred to as the "Union."
RECOGNITION ''' eV*‘
•" :C< ....	: '■ ■■
r ' ;	' - •’ , .. • i - ■ r' 1 ■ '; ■ t ': ;;
Section 1,0. Collective Bargaining Unit. The' Employer hereby agrees to recognize the Union as the exclusive collective bargaining representative for purposes of collective bargaining with respect to rates of pay, wages, hours of employment and other terms and conditions of employment for all employees employed by the Employer in the following described unit:	'’
All full-time production ’and maintenance employees and lead persons employed by SNE Enterprises, Inc., '880 Southview Drive, Mosinee, Wisconsin 54455; excluding all office and clerical employees, plant security employees, engineering employees, dispatchers, truck drivers, testing lab employees, temporary employees, summer employees, student employees, contract employees including for example, Adecco employees, and all supervisors as defined in the Labor Management Relations Act of 1947.
In addition, the Employer recognizes the Union for production, maintenance and lead persons at its Marathon and Portage County facilities.
UNION SECURITY
Section 2.0. Union Security.	’"iU p,!; '
A.	As a condition of employment, all eligible employees within the bargaining unit shall become and remain... niemlpers of the .Union as long as they remain in the employ of the Employer". New employees: shall . become members upon completion of the probation period.
B.	Under /'the terms"and conditions of this Section, the responsibility of the Employer shall be limited to the discharge of any employee who is certified in
2
writing by the Union to the Employer as not in good standing because of failure to pay union dues. There shall be no discrimination against any employee because of their Union activities.
C.	The Union shall indemnify and save the Employer harmless against any and all claims, demands, suits, or other forms of liability that shall arise out of or by reason of the action taken by the Employer under, this Section.
p.;t;Each'employee shall deliver, a;check-pff5authorization, duly executed in the
- >	■	M	4.	,
I,	Name of Employee, now employed by SNE Enterprises of Mosinee, Wl, do hereby authorize and direct my Employer or its successors or any other Employer for whom I work ,under,a collective agreement between the Employer and the Union from my Wages1 and pay promptly to Local 1594 of the United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of America the membership dues, _ initiation fees and assessments which l(am obligated, to pay to the Union, and I hereby assign the same to the Union pursuant to the provisions of the current or future collective bargaining agreements.	;i- -
the authorization shall remain in effect until revoked by me. I may revoke this authorization by sending written notice to my Employers and the Union not more than twenty (20) days prior to the .time at which I . want this authorization
L revoked. This authorization shall remain,in full force and effect until revoked by me in the above manner. .
DATE:	J .	'	'
SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER:„„_________________'''■■"______________________-
N a me:______________________________________________
(Print)
ADDRESS:	______________I—..
(Signature)
.	-• ..	.Tr.^r.>v- Uk-o to nr/.jH.:. •
" . bjEONITION OF EMPLOYEES' ?bb: '
Section 3.0. Definitions. The. terms ’’employee-' and "employees",,when used in this Agreement, shall' refer to and include only those regular, full-time employees who have
3
completed their probationary period as set forth in this Agreement and who are employed by the Employer in the collective bargaining unit described in Section 1.0. For purposes of this Agreement, the following definitions shall be applicable:
A.	Full-Time Employees: Employees regularly scheduled to work on a planned forty (40) hours or more per week shall be considered as regular, full-time employees.
B.	Temporary Employees: An, Employee who is hired on a temporary' basis'to augment regular full-time employees or hired’as contract labor e.g. Adecco will be considered a temporary employee.. Jt .is not the intent of theTmployer to replace the Tegular* workforce but to augment the workforce. As a result the Employer may hire no more temporary1 employees than 10% of the current total workforce.
C.	Summer and Student:Employees:>These are ’Employees who-'are' h i fed to work dd r ing the summer, May 15To September-15.• These Employees shall' be paid as determined by the Employer. Temporary helpand summer help-rates shall be a minimum of $6.00 per hour and shall not exceed the rate of General Help 1.
f REPRESENTATION
Section 4.0. Grievance and Bargaining Committee.	•'*'	'
A.	Employees covered by this Agreement shall be represented by a grievance and bargaining committee consisting of three (3) employees elected dr selected by the Union from employees employed'by the Employer.	;
The Union may elect or appoint one (1) steward per department per shift. In the event a department on a shift would exceed 75 employees, the union in its sole discretion appoints one (1) additional steward. At no time will a department on a shift exceed two (2) stewards.	■ -	’ ■
The Employer, may meet with the stewards on a quarterly basis to discuss mutual ’ problems. It is specifically understoodThat these meetings are hot to discuss grievances. These meetings are not required but will be’called by the Employer as needed.;
B.	Notification. The Empioyer shalf be notified of the harhes1 of1 the members of the grievance and bargaining committee and departmental stewards and in what representative capacity they-are’to serve-before theyr- Shall-be recognized by the Employer. J:- - r''. :	r ■ •'	•:
e' /	'>1 ”	;;	■	■
lc *:> /	: 4 - ■■	' ■ ‘	’	'	•
4
MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
Section 5.0. Management Rights. All management rights, powers, authority, prerogatives and functions, regardless of whether exercised, in the past or prior to the effective date of this Agreement and regardless of whether exercised;in the future following the effective date of this Agreement and regardless of the frequency or infrequency of their exercise, shalL;re.majn vested exclusively in the Employer.:/Jtis'.expressJy recognized, and the Union agrees’,.that such management rights,powers;rauthoritypp[erogatives and functions include, by way.of.illustratioh.and:npt.byc.way pflimitatidn and;are in no way, whatsoever, limited tQthe fohpwjng:-p.y.oj	psm ; v -.-;C : ;	. .■ • o’■■
The right to manage and control the Employer and its facility in all of its operations and activities;, the, right to; determine,all matters of Employer and /management policy, facility and department^scope,,rlayoutx operation and-.location; the-right to terminate, merge, consolidate, sell.or otherwise.transferor reorganize the Employer's operations and services or any part thereof; including the right to move work to other.plants and other employers and shutdown this plant; the right to direct the working force including, but in no way limited to, the right to hire, discipline, suspend, discharge for just cause, promote, demote, assign, train, transfer or layoff or recall employees; the right to establish job classifications of work, the number of employees and staffingpatterns required and the number of hours in each employee work schedule; the right to establish and change work schedules, starting and quitting times; the right to eliminate job classifications; the Employer reserves the right to establish and modify from time-to-time; without, prior bargaining with the Union, reasonable rules and regulations which it shall deem proper to govern the conduct of the Employer's employees, including by way of illustration and not by way of limitation, safety rules and-regulations, drug, testing policies and procedures, absenteeism and tardiness policies, smoking rules, operational procedures, general, personnel policies and procedures and work rules and regulations. A copy of all such revised or new rules or policies will be published to employees,prior to the effective date of the new or revised rule or policy; the right to establish satisfactory productivity and work standards; the right to make judgments as to employee qualifications, including ability, and skill; the right to determine the methods, procedures, processes and means of providing and delivering services and the equipment and machines to be acquired or used to provide such services; and the right to establish the standards.of quality .of services; the right to study,, introduce and use new or improved methods^ means, equipments facilities and\the Employer .shall also have the right to use outside, assistance-. either.<in ,or.outside icfthe' ^Employer's = faciIity, including subcontracting and any other form of contracting assistance with respect to any work or function;.and^the.right.to?rnake;techn‘plogjcal changes?	.000
It is expressly understood, and jthe JUpipnragrees, that (the Employer reserves and retains solely and exclusively all of its inherent and customary rights, powers, authority, prerogatives and functions to manage and administer the Employer's operations and services in all respects. Further there shall be no duty to bargain with the Union concerning the exercise of these powers. It is provided, however, that these management rights shall not be exercised in violation of a specific provision of this Agreement as
5
written. The Union hereby further agrees that the Employer retains the sole and exclusive right to establish and administer, without limitation, implied or otherwise, all manners not specifically and expressly limited by this Agreement. In addition the rights contained in this Section, like other terms and conditions of employment, are intended by the parties to survive the expiration of this Agreement.
.......... :
PAST PRACTICES
Section 6.0. Past Practices: There are nd 'agreefhents' or'past practices’' which are binding on either of the parties other' than, the-'express'"written agreements enumerated or incorporated by reference in this Agreement'.'This Agreement embodies all the obligations between the parties evolving from the collective bargaining*process and supersedes all prior agreements, practices or understandings: No future agreement shall’ be binding on either of the parties until it’has been put in1 writing’andsigned’by.the Plant Manager and the Union Business Agent. •	’ 1	"v ' '’ ;
WORK BY NON-BARGAINING UNIT EMPLOYEES
Section 7.0. Work by Persons Outside the Bargaining Unit. The Employer may hire temporary employees, summer and student employees and contract employees including Adecco employees to perform bargaining unit work. Further, engineers, sales employees, foremen, supervisors, managers and all other non-bargaining unit employees may perform such bargaining unit work in the manner and to the extent as may be determined by the Employer from time-to-time. It is specifically agreed that the performance of bargaining unit work, as outlined above, shall not be a violation of this Agreement. In the event there are disputes concerning the nature and magnitude of work performed by supervisors the Parties agree to meet and discuss this matter. Notwithstanding the above, the Employer may not employ more supervisors than 7% of the number of employees in the plant when fully staffed. If in August and September the plant was fully staffed at 900, the Employer would be permitted to employ 63 supervisors throughout the'year.	~'
JOB TRANSFER ■ -Hi- r.'j.vii’; ’Hf«	.'.’v "07;’■
'.»;!* » ■	'	O'. J i, ■
Section 8.0. Temporary |db T?ahsfer's.:When adcl itiphal help is needed on a temporary basis to assist in another’classification’,of department, the Employer reserves the right to make temporary transfers i hits so Ie’discretion.1
6
UNION LABEL
Section 9,0. Union Label,
A.	The Union agrees to permit the use of the Union Label on all of the Company's products as manufactured under the terms of this Agreement, subject to the regulations provided in the following paragraph.
;	■ j 3 _ T. ; I / r
B.	It is hereby understood and agreed by the Employer and the Union that an application shall be made for the Union Label to the First General Vice President of the,United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of America: If the application is r' approved and.the,Union,Label is issued by the;United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of. Apn,erica to be placed upon.The Employer's products, it is understood and agreed that .the Label shall remain, the property ofJhe United Brotherhood of .Carpenters and Joiners,of America, and-shall be:at;all. times in the possession of a member of the: United Brotherhood .of Carpenters.,and Joiners, of America; and that said Union Label shall at no time be used in any manner that will be detrimental to the interest and welfare of the members of the United Brotherhood. Use of said Label may be withdrawn from the mill, shop, factory or manufacturing establishment of .the Employer, at any time at the,,discretion of the International Union.
GRIEVANCE AND ARBITRATION PROCEDURE
* ?	, ‘	1	f	1 ’ f j ( i' 1 \ i.. *1	1 *
Section 10.0. Definition of Grievance. A. grievance is defined as any violation of this Agreement. The’Union maintains, the right to .grieve and arbitrate past practices, the reasonableness of the Employer's policies and work, rules, .as..well as any actions taken by the Employer that the Union feels to be discriminatory in nature. The Employer does not have the right to file a grievance.
Section 10.1. Grievance Procedure. All grievance^ shall be processed in accordance with the following procedure:
STEP 1.
STEP 2.
The employee involved shaft Tirst discuss the grievance with the employee's supervisor and the Union representative if required. If a satisfactory settlement is ^ agreed , upon t at thjs .time, the Union Representative shall be^.immediately, c^led ;tp';yyftness the adjustment. On Iy one (1 j Un ion Representative ;may be, i nyolvpd-^t this step.
If no settlement is reached, then the employee or the Union Representative shall reduce the grievance to writing on a written
7
grievance form made out in triplicate and dated and signed by the aggrieved employee or Union Representative. The Union Representative shall present the written grievance to the Employee Relations Manager. The Employee Relations Manager shall write out the answer on the grievance form and return three copies to the Union Representative within two (2) working days from the 'written presentation of the grievance. The investigation of the grievance shall be done by one Union Representative. A grievance not presented in writing within three;(3) working days of its occurrence shall-be deemed waived. ■ 1 ”r ; ‘	•- - 1 **: ' ■
STEP 3. If the Union wishes to appeal the Employee Relations Manager's 'answer in Step 2, the President or Chief Steward of the Local Union shall'submit the written grievance to' the • Plant':Manager of his designated representative with the reasons for not accepting within three (3) working days from the- date of the1 Employee Relations Manager's answer'in Step *2. 'The Step-3' meeting shall- be deld between a . -Management committee consisting of the Plant’Manager and two (2) other representatives and.the Business Agent, the LocaPUnion President, Chief Steward or steward and the grievant: Step 3 meetings will be held within ten (10) working days. The Employer shall answer the grievance within ten (10) working days after the step. 3’meeting.
-	,	1	1	j ! '	-	' r ''
STEP 4. If the Union is not satisfied with the answer of the Employer in Step 3, the Union shall notify the Employer in writing of the Union's desire to •refer the matter to arbitration. This notification must be made within -fifteen (15) .calendar days after receipt by the Union of the Employer's 3 answer in Step 3.
Section 10.2. Time Limits: If the grievance is not appealed to the next step within the specified time limit, it shall be considered settled bn the basis of the Employers last answer. If the Employer does not answer a grievance or an appeal of a grievance within the specified time limits, the Union may elect to treat the grievance as denied at that step and may immediately appeal the grievance to the next step.
The time limits in each step may be extended by mutual written agreement of the Employer and the Union Representatives involved in each step.
Section 10.3. Time Computation.?:.'Calendar days^ shall- include all days on the calendar, specifically includingfSaturdays,> Sundays'and-Holidays recognized, either by the state or federal government;or under this Agreement. 'Work days shall be defined as Monday through Friday, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and -Holidays recognized by the state or federal governmeiitioTj under this;Agreement,-unless worked;,-in which case they will be counted as a workday. ;;:
8
I
i
Section 10.4. Lost Time. The Employer will pay .for the time required by the Local Union Representatives to investigate, and attend meetings regarding grievances during their regularly scheduled work.hours, through Step 3 of the grievance procedure. Stewards and .Union Representatives may not leave their.jobs to engage in Union business without first notifying their supervisor. The rate of pay-with be the employee's evaluated job rate. Determination of the proper rate schedule shall bemade in the-same manner as for holiday pay. ; ; '	!
Section 10.5.^Selection of Arbitrator; If a timely appeahto arbitration is filed by the Union, the parties to this Agreement shall select, by mutual agreement,, one (D arbitrator who shall decide the grievance. If the parties are unable to agree mutually upon an arbitrator, the arbjtratori;shal-Lbe;se!ect.ed. by.ea.ch>party:alternately striking a name from a panel of seven (7)a arbitrators i. submitted=; by;. the. /Federal Mediations -and ■, Conciliation Service, and the rema i n ing name sha11 serve: as the. arbi traton r a - ■:.■ y ;v -;3 . •••.J1
. .. Each party, to. the arbitration shalUbear.The; full costs and expenses of their own witnesses and-representatives/;inc!uding pay for all working time lost during an employee's regularly.scheduled...shift-;j In no.'event shall one r(1); party' be responsible for bearing the cp$ts: and expenses of the other, party's witnesses or representatives, including pay for all working time lost during an employee's regularly scheduled shift. ■
Section 10.6. Arbitrator's Powers anddurisdiction; The Arbitrator's decision shall be final and binding to both Parties to this Agreement, and the cost of the Arbitrator shall be equally borne by the Union and:.the Employer;; The^Arbitrator shall only have the authority to interpret this Agreement and the Arbitrator cannot add to, modify or subtract from the terms of this Agreement., This authority -shall include the right to determine the reasonableness of rules and policies. Any.award of the arbitrator shall not be retroactive more than seven (7) work days prior to the time the grievance was first submitted in writing. All claims for back wages shall be limited to the amount of wages that the employee would otherwise have , earned, less any unemployment . .compensation and/or compensatipn.for personal services that-the employee may have received from any source during the period in question. .
NO STRIKE - NO LOCKOUT
■ !	VC Wb. ' 3’3 ■r3	3■' ■ > "■ ■ 1 '' - ■
J ; b’.-■".1 ::	■ U ■■ i : ■ -■	■
Section 11.0. No Strike. The Union agrees that, during the term of this Agreement, neither, it nor its, officers^representatives, committeeperspns, j^stewards, members or em p I oyees cove red : by, th i ;Agreement I cwil I b for f- any.: reason, ■ d i recti y * tor i nd i rectly, cal I, sanction, support,; counsel,^encourage/or _engagen.jp any strike, walk-out, slow-down, sit-down, stay-in,; stay-away, boycott of-a,primary, ;6r .secondary nature:-or picketing. Any other;activities that, m^yvresultaryany curtailment of workdr the,restriction or interference with the Employer’s operation or in any way interfere with the Employer's operation are also prohibited. It is expressly recognized, and the Union agrees, that the scope of activity prohibited in this paragraph is intended to include, but not limited to, such activities as
9
1
4
sympathy strikes, unfair labor practice strikes and a refusal of an employee or employees to cross any type of picket line at any location for any reason whatsoever.
The Employer reserves the sole right to discipline an employee or employees up to and including discharge for violating the provision of this Section. Any appeal to the Grievance Procedure shall be limited solely to the question of whether the employee or employees did, in fact, engage in any of the above-prohibited activities.
The Union agrees that it will take prompt affirmative action;to;prevent or stop any strike or refusal to work, of any kind, on the,part of, its members; by,notifying the employees that it disavows these acts, and it will direct employees to return to work or cease the conduct in violation of this Section. Should the Union violate this, provision the Union will be liable for damages for lost production, sales and profits.
In addition, the Employer agrees, it will not lock put employees during the term of this Agreement.
PROBATIONARY PERIOD	.
Section 12.0. Probationary Period. New employees shall be on a probationary period of ninety (90) calendar days after hire. During this period the Employer, may at its option transfer, layoff or discharge such probationary employees. Employees kept beyond their probationary period shall be credited with seniority from the date of hire. Wages and benefits as outlined in this Agreement shall be effective after this probationary -period. Employees who are laid off. during their probationary period and who are later recalled shall serve a probationary period of the number of calendar days remaining in their probationary period at the time of layoff.
SENIORITY, SENIORITY LISTS & LOSS OF SENIORITY r
Section 13.0. Seniority Definition., j Seniority sb|all be defined as tan employee's length of service, which shall, ent it Ie; theemployee.tocertain,rights, as.are,express lydefinedin this Agreement. In the .event more than one;(1) employgejs hired; on thehsame. date, order of seniority shall be determined by the last four, (4),digits, of tthe employee's, social security number with the highest number being most senior.
Section 13.1. Seniority List. The Ernployer->agrees ;to give to the Union quarterly five (5) copies of the current revised seniority list. Unless errors are brought to the Employer's attention, the Employer may rely of these lists in administering the Agreement.
10
In addition the Employer will provide no less than monthly the following:
»	■ '	< I
•	All hires
. • All quits	’ '
, • All terminations	-
•	All retirements	•	■ -
•	All leaves^of absences	.	.
•	All layoffs
■	Allreca’ls' '■	■■■	’
. .::Changes in names or addresses of trie bargaining unit
In.addition the clock-number and the effective dates will be added to the above.
Section 13.2.	Loss of Seniority. An employee's seniority and the employment relationship with the Employer shall be terminated when the employee:	.....
(a)	Quits or retires;
(b)	If the employee is terminated or discharged for just cause;
(c)	If the employee is absent from work for two (2) consecutive working days,
without properly notifying the Employer; :
(d)	If the employee fails to return to work within 48 hours following a leave of absence, a vacation, or a notification of recall, unless mutually agreed upon by
■'	. the Employer arid the employee;
■ (f) If the employee is on layoff status consecutively for a period of twenty-four (24) calendar months or the' total length of the employee's continuous service at the time of layoff, whichever is less;
(g)	If the employee is on a leave of absence for a period of twenty-four' (24) calendar months or the total length of the employee's continuous service at the time of leave, whichever is less; ’
Section 13.3.	Excluded Work. Employees shall be granted a leave of absence upon their request to accept positions with this company excluded from the bargaining unit under Section 1.0. Such^jefhployeeS'Lwould.: continue td’Aaccdmulate seniority for twelve (12) calendar months so long as they pay their Union dues. Employees who are on sick leave due to a work-related illness or injury may, at the Employer's option, be placed on a job which they are capable of performing^even if the job is!hot‘withitftne'Bargaining unit and shall be paid the rate of'thejob-and ahy ;ah;dLn'itS(requi'rdd:by'}avy.’’!Tnesfc emplbyeies will continue to accrue \sen iori tywhi Ie- perform; rig sue? ’/ work; ; Such employees i emai'n mem bers of the bargaining unit and are required'to pay’-lDhidr'i dues/ -' 1 ■ :
ic-iir?;:	<'"■ ■ -	A/
LAYOFF^ND RECALL
11
Section 14.0. Voluntary Layoff. When the work force is reduced and it becomes necessary to layoff employees, employees affected by the reduction shall be given the opportunity to volunteer for layoff. The Supervisor will grant such requests unless the employee's layoff would interfere with production. In considering employees for voluntary layoff, the Employer shall consider seniority, skill and ability and staffing requirements for distribution of voluntary layoff among interested individuals. These layoffs will be for the fixed duration established at the beginning of the voluntary layoff. Employees who are laid off under this section may be recalled in less than the time established at the beginning of the voluntary layoff.
Section 14.1. Short-Term Layoff, When it is necessary to reduce ’the workforce for periods of four (4) calendar weeks'dr less; employees'‘will be Taid/off' in the particular department affected, classification affected/and1 on the particular shift affected' by seniority. In no event will employees be on* layoff under this Section for more than1 Tour (4) calendar weeks.
Section 14.2. Long Term Layoff. •' Before laying* off regular full-time employees for more than four (4) calendar weeks; temporary, student and seasonal employees will be laid off first. When it is necessary to reduce the work force beyond voluntary layoffs/ short-term layoffs and temporary, studentand seasonal employees'; full-time employees willbe laid off by seniority on a plant wide basis. After the long-term layoff, the Employer may transfer employees remaining in the plant to meet manpower needs. It is specifically understood that the above procedure will' not result in the layoff of skilled positions, Pay Grade E and above, provided they have the present skill and ability to perform the available work. In addition the parties recognize that the'long-term layoff may actually be longer or shorter than four (4) calendar weeks anticipated depending on customer and production demands.
Long-term layoff shall also include long-term layoffs due to the closure of a department either partial or complete. -■	‘
Section 14.3.	Recall. In the event of a recall from either a short-term layoff or a long-term layoff, employees laid off shall be recalled in' inverse order of lay off.
Section 14.4.	Notice. Except in case of plant emergency, the Employer shall give two (2) working days advance notice to the union prior to a long-term layoff under Section 14.2 above.	;	:	’>	; ’	' ’ ’ : •'
Section 14.5. Displaced Rate'of-Pay. I h1 the - event an ernpl oyee is d i splaced from the employee's classification' arid* iperf6rms,jaf lo^er rated' Iqr higher ’rated classification, the displaced employee* wiII* be*paid th'e;Tate:of;!the 'classification/performed after four (4) consecutive calendar weeks. There will be nt>'retroactivity df pay under this Section.
Section 14.6. Pay Rate Upon Elimination of a Classification. An employee whose classification has been eliminated shall receive the same rate of pay for eight (8) weeks, including temporary Transfer’time. ‘After eight (8) week's the employee will be paid the General Help 1 rate: Bumping is not allowed. Any such employee whose classification
12
has been eliminated shall be allowed to return to that classification if it is re established within a six (6) month period, and shall receive the rate of pay for that job. This Section shall not apply to the downsizing of a shift.
OVERTIME
Section 15.0. Overtime. All employees shall be expected to work overtime when .requeste^.AU work.thaf js;performed,in,excess.of.forty (40r;hpurs;.in..;any one workweek shall be paicEat tjmeandone-half.CI V2). the employee's;regular rate of pay/ Ray for time not worked such ,as 'holidays ,^nd<vacation shalLbe ^consideredas-hours/worked for the purpose of computing ov^rtime however,.pay in lieu:of vacationshall not1 count as hours worked.
Section 15.1. Notice of Overtime. Daily overtime shall be scheduled by the end of the shift the day before the;,dajly;overthi}e is-.required;,:. iNotice oEvyeekend overtime shall be given to.,emplpyeesby. the end,of.the shift, on Thursday. .If overtime is needed after these times, volunteers, may.be solicited from those, performing the. needed work. If the Employer Tails, to give the notice above, employees will not be required to work overtime.
Section.15.2. ■ Equalization of Overtime. Qvertime as a-general rule will be assigned to those who normally perform, the needed work. Where;possible, overtime shall be rotated within a classification within-a. department within the shift-, needed. It is understood by the parties that overtime may not,always be in order of-seniority due to staffing, availability, time restraints or human error. In . the event, a grievance is .filed alleging a violation of this provision, the employee's sole remedy shall be the opportunity to work the missed overtime at a mutually agreeable time. In no.event will an employee will be paid for time not worked. Nothing in this Agreement shall guarantee any number hours of work nor shall the Employer's right to schedule mandatory overtime be limited except as above.
Section 15.3. Replacement Workers. . From time to time employees may request that replacement workers work overtime for them. To manage this type of request, the following procedures are to be followed:
(A)	For daily overtime replacements, the employee must notify the supervisor who the replacement worker is, no later than fifteen (15) minutes after the . lunch break the day the replacement worker,is4ftwqrk-..For weekend work ... . replacements,- the employee ^usTnqti^ihe-.sqperyisoowho the replacement worker is no later than fifteen^!5),,minutesr.afterthe,Junch break the last . ..scheduled workday before a w$^end.j:h.,
(B)	Replacement worker must be able to perform the job duties of the replaced ■ 1 ■ -. ' - employee. '	.T’ •
(C)	An employee needing a replacement shall obtain, a-Request-for Replacement work form and on this form the.dates and hours of a replacement worker are
13
identified and signed by employee making the request. The identified replacement worker then signs the bottom of the form and lastly the supervisor signs the approval section, if replacement worker requirements are met. Supervisor will approve or disapprove the replacement worker form promptly. The white copy is to be given to the supervisor, the yellow copy is retained by the employee being replaced and the pink copy goes to the replacement worker.'' Replacement worker is responsible to work all hours agreed to. For daily overtime the replacement worker must'report to the affected department prior to employee being released?'
(D)	In any given week,( an, employee, who; volunteers "to,, work overtime in a department soliciting for additional overtime,.workers;:can. only.work as ’a volunteer and not a replacement,worker,- For example; an employee who volunteers to :work, two . additional hours on Monday Jn., the-, Casement Department cannot , replace a. worker on Tuesday for-.the.-same two 'hour overtime period in the,Casement Department, iLthat department is still soliciting for overtime volunteers.	, ■
IOB POSTING
Section 16.0. lob Posting. Vacancies or newly created positions within the bargaining unit shall be posted, if determined by the Employer. Vacancies or newly created 'positions within the bargaining unit shall be awarded to the most senior employee for Classifications 1-9. Employees receiving a new position in Classifications 1-9 must be able to perform the job within ten (10) working days or be disqualified. ’ Vacancies or newly created positions within the bargaining unit, in Classifications 10 and above shall be awarded to the employee who is most qualified in the Employer's judgment. In evaluating qualifications of a bidder the Employer shall consider skill, ability, experience, work record and training. If in the judgment of the Employer the overall qualifications are equal, the most senior employee will be awarded the position.
Vacancies or newly created positions wi II be posted for a period of four (4) workdays. Job postings shall set forth the minimum requirements for the position, as determined by the Employer. Employees interested shall apply in writing within the four (4) workday posting period. Employees<who have applied':ahd<afe>the^ successful bidder shall be transferred to the job. Nothing in^this^Agreement'shallTequife the posting of anyClassification unless the Employer determines to fill the position. If no qualified employee' sighs the posting, the Employer may hire from outside the bargaining unit. Employees may only receive three (3) job bids per calendar; year?! Employees 'who 'chahgeV shifts by job- posting shall be disqualified from bidding on another opening oh another shift for 6 months;
14
■1
LEAVE OF ABSENCE
Section 17.0. FMLA - Federal and State Law Administration . . FMLA leave shall be a calendar year commencing January and ending:; in December :. No employee shall be required"to utilize paid vacation, or any..other.paidor.unpaid leave time in which the employ tee does hot request to receive syciypay^ /	-	■■■■..
Sectiondi7.^l<o FLitTeraE'D^vs.- F UI 1-time ’regular1 tern pl o'vees will be'granted up to three days of pay>for;ari'/fegbrarly-^chedulted'Workday mi^sted in order to make funeral arrangements, attend-a’funeral, ter tend to estate matters dUe’ to the death' of an immediate family member; spouse-son/daughtef/Tather/mother; gfahdparehts, 'grandchildren, brother, sister, father-in-law, mother-in-law/ sdn-m-law, daugHter-in-iaw,? stepparents, stepchildren or any dependent’ in1 the employee household; C>ne paid’day will be granted for the death of a sister-in-law or brother-in-law and blood aunt and blood uncle. Employees may be required to submit proof of death and/or funeral date. No bereavement leave will be paid if the employee is on a vacation, leave or layoff.
Section 17.2.	Military Leave of Absence. Any employee who enters active service of the armed forces of the United States shall receive a leave of absence without pay for the period of. such; duty., An employee application for military: service leave of absence shall be made to the Employer in writing as soon as.;the employee is;notified of acceptance and military service. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Agreement, an employee returning from military absence shall, be re-employed in accordance with applicable federal and state .statutes and shall .be entitled to .any other benefits set forth in this Agreement, provided the employee - satisfies the eligibility requirements established under- this Agreement. .	■-
Section 17.3.	jury Duty. . Employees who,are required to serve on Jury Duty or are subpoenaed as a witness will be paid their regular wages less the amount of jury pay or witness fees received. In order to receive the pay differential, employees are required to provide their supervisor orjhe Human . Resources department , with. the proof of payment from the court..	. ...	.	yu u-.	••••■
... -Sv..-; ■	■	CUiibv i ■ -'■■■■■ JcOk-	i".	■
Section 17.4.	Short Term Union .Leave. ^ Emp'oyees, Serving:.as -a /officer, steward or committee member in.fhe.b^rg^ininga short tenTrunion leave without pay to.engage in union r^3tedjwprtipn&up co li .ccUbct; Be .
' ■' .■	//cm/	!&d on'; sbb'uo ■’i??''	' ■ ■
Section 17.5... Long-Term -Unionr?>Leave.Ohcemployecs serving in a representative capacity in, the ibargaining..unit^shalL. be. granted’a rlorigiterm union leave without pay to engage in union related functions for up to thirty-six (36) calendar months. Employees will accrue seniority and the benefits attached thereto.
15
HOURS OF WORK
Section 18.0. Work Schedule.
A.	The normal workweek shall be from Monday through Friday inclusive.
B.	The regularly scheduled workday,shall be eight (8) hours per day. : ,, (
C.	Normal hours for a one-shift operation shall be from 7:00 AM to 3:30 PM. ■
D.	Normal hours of work for a two shift operation shall be 7:00 AM to 3:30,PM for the first shift, and 3:35 PM to i 1:50 PM for the second shift, provided an extension of The current waiver1 is approved by Federal' and State authorities.
E.	The normal hours for a* continuous-’'three-shift operation' shall be 7:00 Afvi to 3:00 PM for first shift, 3:00 PM to TT:00 pm for second *shift and 11:00 PM to 7:00 Am for third shift. . It .is specifically ■ understood, that the Employer must designate continuous shift operation, for these schedules To.be utilized. Further, employees may work .on all three shifts, without the schedule being deemed continuous operation under this Agreement.
F.	From Memorial Day to Labor Day, first shift may begin at 6:00 AM. Breaks during this time period will be scheduled one (D 'hour earlier than.the. regular work schedule. If not on a three-shift operation,.there shall be.a five (5).minute interval between shifts during this time period.
G.	The normal or regular shift schedules as specified , above may.be changed provided the Employer provides a one (1) week written notice to affected employees and the Union. If the Union desires a meeting to discuss the change in schedule, the Union shall request a meeting and the Union and the Employer shall meet within twenty-four hour period to explain the changes. This provision does not apply to the scheduling of overtime under Section 15.0.
Section 18.1. Hours of Work. The normal workweek for full-time employees shall average forty (40) hours. Nothing contained herein shall be construed to constitute a guarantee of any particular number of hours of work or pay per day or hours of work or pay per week.
Section 18.2.	Work Schedule Surrounding ■Vacation. No. full-time employee shall be scheduled to work on,a Saturday or Sunday, prior, to a full week of vacation or after a full week of vacation. Employees-.-who? have,.scheduled: a day of; vacation on Friday shall not be scheduled to work ipyertime the following weekend^ Employees may only schedule five (5) vacation Fridays during-May .1,5 to, .SeptemberTS/when. scheduling vacation in less than full week increments.	■ •■>. ?< .	T.>	"
■, ■' t	V Oh ih	.1 ‘ Ti- 5 j L- ;	‘ ‘ ' * ■- •
Section 18.3.	Pay Periods.	;
(A)	^Employees will.be paid every week.? ■;
(B)	Payday "shall be every Friday uni lesscircum stances prevent it. Payroll
; mistakes in excess’ of two (2) hbdrs pay attributable to the company
16
will be corrected by issuing a supplemental check. The Employer will devise an exception report to minimize payroll errors.
(C)	Pay checks will be distributed at the beginning of the shift on Friday for first shift, and the beginning of the shift, on Thursday for second and third shift, unless circumstances prevent it.
Section 18.4.	Rest Periods and Lunch for Non-Contihuoiis'Operations. First shift will be provided’thirty''(30) minute unpaid lunch approximately mid-shiftJ plus one paid fifteen (15) minute break approximately two ahdbh'e^Viaif (2 1/2). hours into'their shift.
-n« ■ i •>	TO* * -J *},	; -'t . \ \
' • '\ 1 .1 ' r >. J 'J H H	‘ J M ... ~ . - - ■ • *	'	” .
Second shift(.ber.prpyjdedl.a paid,.,fifteen (15)..-minute break approximately three (3) hours, into thejr shjft.and one unpaid, fifteen;(1.5).minute break approximately five and one-half ,(5 !4) hours. Into their shift, provided the current waiver is .continued.
Third;shift;wilhbe provided^a paid1 fifteen-t-f 5) minute break dpprokimately two and one-half. (2 !1 /2) hours into Their shift and one uripaid fifteen (15) minute break approximately five (5); hours intotheir shift; "provided the current waiver is continued.
Section 1.8.5. Overtime Breaks for 8-Hour Shifts. ■:
:	A. If an empIoyee’is scheduled to work in excess of eight (8) hours, but less than ten (10) hours per day, the employee shall receive a ten (10) minute break period at the end of the first eight (8) hours of work.
B.	If an employee.is schedule,to work over ten,(10) hours, but less than twelve (12) hours per day, the employee shall receive a fifteen minute break period at the end of the first eight (8) hours of work.
C.	If an employee is schedule* to' work more than twelve (12) hours, two (2) separate ten (10) minute rest periods shall be granted as follows: One (1) at the end of the first eight (8) holirs of work; and one (1) -at the end of the tenth (10th) hourofwork.
Section; 18.6. Rest Breaks"for Continuous'Operation..- In the event the Employer adopts, in its, sole discretion, a continuous>eight (8) hour'operation schedule in-one or more areas of the plant,.;employees .wGrking on the, schedule established’by'the Employer will be provided with Two: (2) paid fifteen-1. (15) minute-breaks'pen shift) 1f!ah'employee assigned to a continuous shift works teni.(10) hours the temptoyegwili be provided an additional ten (10) minute paid break after eight (8) hours of work. These breaks will only be paid if the Employer has designated a continuous schedule and will not be paid when employees are present on all three (3) shifts.
In the event the Employer adopts,- iri- its. sole ^discretion; ^continuous twelve (12) hour operation schedule in one ;or, mpre^r^as of .the plant emp|oyee$.:working on the schedule established by the Employe^, will be provided with three..(3),paid!fifteen (15) minute breaks per shift spaced relatively equally throughout the shift.
17
Section 18.7. Assignment to Continuous Shifts. Assignment of particular departments, operations or the total plant to continuous shift operations will be at the sole discretion of the Employer. Employees in those departments will be assigned to the continuous operation work schedule based upon classification seniority and the employee's skill and ability. The Employer iwill determine the length of' such conversion to continuous operation. Nothing contained in this Section will permit the Employer to transfer employees to another shift. ■ ;	'
WAGES AND PREMIUM PAY
Section 19.0. Employee Compensation. During the term of this Agreement, the start and classification rates shall be set as forth as in Appendix A.
Section 19.1.	Shift Premium. For those employees scheduled for eight (8) hour shifts they will receive a shift premium of seventeen (17) cents per hour for second shift and twenty-two cents (22 ft) per hour for third shift.	’ • ‘ ' [ ■ ’	‘
Section 19.2.	Reporting Pay. In the event that the employee reports for work as scheduled without having been previously notified not to report, the employee shall be assigned work for a minimum of two (2) hours. There shall be no obligation under this Section in the event that no work is available due to acts of God, power failures, weather conditions, fire or other conditions beyond the control of the Employer or that the employee failed to have their correct address and phone number on file with the Employer
Section 19.3. Call-in Pay. An employee who is called in to work outside of the employee's regularly scheduled work hours shall be guaranteed two-(2) hours of work at time and one-half (1 !6) of pay at the employee's regular hourly'rate. In addition employees shall not work more than sixteen (16) hours in a twenty-four (24) hour period. This provision does not apply to situations where an employee, during the course of the employee's regular shift, is asked to work before or after the shift; ‘	.	■ •
?	? HOLIDAYS
Section 20.0. Recognized Holidays. The following days are recognized as holidays by the Employer:
New Year's Day ■■■ io	•’'■'J labor Day51
Good FridayJ , ' i’' 'l ' Thanksgiving'
Memorial Day	Day after Thanksgiving
Independence Day	Year End Holiday*
Employee's Birthday	Christmas Day
18
* Designated by the Employer
When the above holiday falls on a.Saturday it will be observed on The preceding Friday and when ,the above holiday falls on a Sunday it will be obser/ed on the following Monday.
The Birthday Holiday shall be celebrated on the employee's actual birthday, except a birthday occurring on a Saturday will be celebrated on Friday,*a Sunday birthday will be celebrated on Monday and birthdays occurring on another recognized holiday herein will be celebrated on the first work day after the holiday. Employees on voluntary layoff on their birthday will be paid for such day.
Section 20.1.	Holiday Pay .EIi'gibditA-rr uli-time ehnplcyees who have completed probation are eligible for holiday pay when they satisfy all of the following conditions and qualifications:
(a)	The employee must.work all of their scheduled hours on their last regularly scheduled workday before the holiday and all of their scheduled
. hours on. their,, first /regularly scheduled, workday after the,holiday. If the employee is Tardy. or leaves early on either of .these days, the total amount of time missed will be deducted from the employee's holiday pay. .
(b)	The^employee must be on the active payroll as of the date of the holiday. For purposes of This section,, a person; us not on the active payroll during non-FMLA. leaves of absence, while receiving workers’ compensation, on .any layoff of five;(5) or more consecutive work days or more, or on-a disciplinary suspension.. In the event the^plant is shutdown, employees with prearranged vacation shall be deemed to be on layoff for purposes of this Section.
(c)	.. An otherwise eligible employee who is . required to work on a recognized holiday but* fails to report, and perform the required work shall not . receive any holiday pay for such holiday unless the employee's failure to report
is for a reason , satisfactory, to the Employer. If the employee isTardy or leaves early on the holiday, the total amount of time missed will be deducted from the employee's holiday pay. In addition, all work performed on a holiday, see Section 20.0, shall be at time and one-half;■(1J/2) the employee's regular rate of pay-
Section 20.2.	Holiday Pay. Eligible full-time employees shall.’deceive eight (8) hours of holiday pay for each recognized.holiday. All holiday pay shall be atthe employee's regular straight time rate of pay. \ :	Ji-j'ior.
VACATIONS
Section 21,0. Vacation Entitlement. Full-time Employees are eligible for vacation and vacation pay in accordance with the following schedule:
Seniority	Weeks	Vacation Pay
1 to 2 years	1 week	2.5%
3 to 8 years	’■ 2 weeks ■	‘ ’ •	4.5%
9 to 16 years /	* 3 weeks ’ ■’	. ! . 6.5%
17 years or more	’4 weeks '' ■ ' !e' -	-	‘	\ §'5°/o
All full-time employees will earn vacation on April T of each'year provided the employee is actively working on April 1 and must1 work one (1) ‘fcilI’ workday after April 1 to qualify for vacation pay. Employees oh leave or layoff shall riot earn vacation until’.their return to work. Eligible employees will be paid for their first year of vacation based on their gross earnings from their first partial calendar year. Each’foliowihg year of vacation will be based on the employee's previous calendar year's gross earnings, minus vacation pay received in lieu of time off.	1	• ’	' ; ;	: r	'
Section 21.1.	Plant Shutdown. The last two'weeks of December and/or the first two weeks of January are the normal shutdown periods. The Employer may schedule additional shutdowns. Those eligible for more than one week's vacation must take five (5) days paid vacation during the shutdown, or if none is scheduled, may do so at any other time during the year provided that there is no other vacation shutdown scheduled. No more than five (5) days of paid vacation will be required to be taken per year under this Section. Employees who work during the plant shutdown may take their vacation at another time.
Section 21.2.	Vacation Scheduling and Pay. A maximum of fifteen (15) days of vacation may be taken as single days. All additional vacation time must be taken'in full week increments.
Half (1/2) day single vacation days may be taken in the sole discretion of the employee's Supervisor. Half-day vacations shall be four (4) hours and the employee shall work the remainder of the employee's scheduled hours. Supervisors may release employees early but in no event will employees be paid more than four (4) hours vacation pay.
After March 1 and until March' 3rdf 'each''year,: a vacation request form will be available arid employees may request weekly periods desired5 for vacation/ The Employer will grant these vacation requests by April 15r'/provided that the vacation period requested does not result in insufficient staffing in a classification, department and shift. Insufficient staffing shall be defined as more than ten pefcent (ld%');6ftheerhplbyee's classification,' department and shift excluding all non full-timereriVpldy^sY:,’An'e^ceptidri!ltb the 10% rule/shallbe that employees will be granted vacation for their'own1 wedding5 an’d the wedding Of a son or daughter of the employee. Employees'requesting the Vacation'schedule form will be*granted vacation by seniority in accordance with the requirements of this section'. ■ '	-
20
Employees will not be granted any paid vacation unless the vacation has been earned. A full week of vacation has priority over single days. Requests for single days and full weeks of vacation after March 31 should be made at least ten (10) days Jn advance of the period requested for vacation and it will be granted on a first-come/.first-served basis following those granted on April 15th. The Employer may grant requests made less than ten (10) days in advance if production schedules permit.
Cancellations of full, weeks of vacation must be .made.two (2) weeks in advance of the scheduled vacation period. Cancellations of vacations scheduled for less than one (1) full week can be cancelled no less than forty-eight (48). hours .prior to the scheduled vacation. To cancel a vacation, employees must fill out a vacation slip and write, "cancer in the space provided in "rea$ons".s vacation slip must:,be submitted tp-the, employee's supervisor for signed approval ’ and. turned, into Human; Respprcos,in. the- above: stated time period. If vacation is not canceled, in, jKeabpye time frarne^.the vacation will remain as scheduled.
Employees may take pay in lieu.of.tirne pff. .Pay in, lieu of vacation will not be included for thepurpose of cal cu lating the fol Iowi ng. year's vacation pay or for calculating overti me. Only full week increments of "vacation, in lieu of time off, may be paid prior to April 1 each year. Remaining unused vacation days will be paid the first full payroll period after April 1 each year. Employees taking pay in lieu of lime off cannot take unpaid vacation at a later date.
INSURANCE	.
• I •	l Ir
Section 22.0. Health Insurance. The Employer.will make available a group insurance program covering certain hospitalization, surgical, and medical benefits for participating full-time employees and their eligible dependents. ■ Thist insurance, program shall be on a voluntary basis for al I ful l-tirne employees, who elect to participate jn the insurance program. The specific terms and conditions governing the group insurance program are set forth in
detail in the master policy or policies governing the program as issued by the carrier or carriers. The specific policy will be identical to insurance extended to Peachtree employees in West Virginia and Georgia and Weather Shield employees in Wisconsin. It is specifically understood and agreed tKaj .the Employer,may .changej:the .benefits and provisions of these plans if they are changed in West Virginia, Georgia and Wisconsin. Included is the right to
change the amount, paid by employees.^provided these changes are .made at Peachtree's West Virginia arid Georgia plants^ arid -Weather Shield^^Wi^onsinpjant^._,4n.^ddition, all the above changes may be made‘v/.ithd.ut;any_d.uty,to.l^arg^ip -withthe,,Union;: ;
Employes'participate irtXh^grpup-insurance, program no earlier than the first (1st) day of the pfemium.mdnth following .completion, of. probation. hThe plan year for health insurance and all group, insurances shall;.begiq- on. January* 1A eacfuyear. Employees who drop their insui rance for/aqy^ reason, dpri pg. the. term oh th ^.Agreement, shall not be eligible for group insurance until the.next fanuary. -l^ upjess;they have a.iqualifying event under the policy or unless they sign up for insurance after layoff by the first of the month after
return from layoff.
21 .
Section 22.1.	Payment of Health Insurance Costs. For 2004 full-time employees will pay the following if they wish coverage in the PPO plan.
	Deluxe’'	Standard
Single	$48/mo	$32/mo
Family	$111/mo	$74/mo
Section 22.2.	Dental. The Employer will make available a group insurance1 program covering certain dental'benefits. 'Dental insurance is voluntary and the entire cost of this benefit will be born by the employee if the coverage' is desired. 1	?
For 2004 the cost of dental coverage sh’all-be as'fdlibws: ' -
Single 1	' . .' 1	-	$21.96" '	!
Employee-*-child’	’ ;$47.95‘'	; ■ "
Employee + spouse■' '■	’ ' $49.94 ’ '	"
Family* » ;	■	''$68^92	‘ '	’ '	■ • a ■
The specific policy will be identical to insurance extended to'Peachtree employees in West Virginia and Georgia and Weather Shield employees ~ih Wisconsin?' It is ’specifically understood and agreed that the Employer may change the benefits and provisions1 of these plans if they are changed in West Virginia, Georgia and Wisconsin'. Included is the fight to change the amount paid by employees provided these cnanges are made at Peachtree's West Virginia and Georgia plants and Weather Shield's Wisconsin plants. In addition, all the above changes may be made without any duty to bargain with the Union.
5	’	1
Section 22.3.	Vision Coverage. The Employer will make available a group insurance program covering certain vision benefits. Vision insurance is voluntary and the entire cost of this benefit will be born by the employee if the coverage is desired.
For 2004 the cost of vision coverage shall be as follows:
Single	$ 4.74
Family	$11.31
The specific policy Will be1 identical to insurance extended to Peachtree employees in West Virginia and Georgia7)ahd';Weather Shield'employees 'in Wisconsin. It is specifically understood and agreed that;thevEmployefrmay'change the'benefits and provisions of these plans if they are changed tfr West Virginia and Georgia and Wisconsin/ Included is the right to change the amount :paid’by-emplbyees,lprbvided these changes are made at Peachtree's West Virginia and Georgia plants and Weather Shield's Wisconsin plants. In addition, all the above changes may be made ’without any duty to bargain with the Union.
1	:	4
Section 22.4.	Term'Life Insurance. All full-time non-probationary employees shall be eligible for term life insurance coverage in the amount of $10,000.00: The specific terms and
22
conditions governing the group insurance program are set forth in detail in the master policy or policies governing the program as issued by the carrier or carriers.
Section 22.5.	Short Term Disability Insurance. A11 fu I l-ti me n on-p ro bation ary e m p loyees will be eligible for a short-term disability plan providing.benefits as follows:
$225 per week for up to twenty-six (26) weeks.
Section 22.6... Insurance Carrier, ujhe Emplpyer.-reserves.theright to.select or change the insurance carrier, or.carriers, or.become a,self-insurer,;either wholly onpartially, and to select the adrhinistratbr of such seIf-insu rance. program. s;;t;	< :■ <■
Section 22.7. Obligation to Conti nue -Payments., Jn.-ihe .event that an employee eligible for insurance coverage is on an unpaid leave of absence, quits, retires, is laid off or the employee's employment with the Employer is otherwise terminated, the Employer shall have no obligation or liability whatsoever ;for, making any insurance premium payments for such employee or their lawful dependents beyond the month .irr which the quit, retirement, termination, or unpaid leave of absence, occurs; provided, however, that employees on a family and medical leave of absence shall continue to be eligible for Employer-paid insurance for the period of their. Jamily and ,medical leave on the same terms that would exist if they were not on the leave. ,ln the event of indefinite layoff.the Employer shall pay its portion for the month the layoff occurs and for-the succeeding.rnonth. Employees on approved unpaid leaves of absence may continueJnsurance benefits on a month by month basis by paying to the Employer, in advance, the amount of.the next month's.premi urn for that employee and/or their lawful dependents^ subject to the approval of the insurance program. The Employer will resume payment of insurance premiums for eligible employees who return to work from unpaid leaves of absence as of the first (1st) day of the premium month following the date of the employee's return.to .work.	, .... ■	.
RETIREMENT AND OTHER BENEFITS
Section 23.0. 401 (k).	.
(a)	Effective the first day of the month following the freezing of the defined . ,	. pension plan Employer, yyi 11 Implement .a new-.40 l(k) Plan exclusively
, fpr bargaining unhJ/memb^rs.	match fifty percent
•(.50%)of.the. ?.mountpthat,enriployees contribute sup-to a maximum of eight.percent (Ro/Q}cpf..cQmpensatjonv. Empjoyees.jn>.the current 401 (k) PI an wi 11 have their 'assets rperged.intp; the new. ;4Q 1 f k) Plan.
,	■	J;:'-'/;; !?: ’ri: iV. J'*! ~	■-
(b)	Freeze the current Refined benefit. pens ion-plameffective March 15 2004, or as soon as possible after that date. Employees will earn no further pension service pr, credit/after.th^date the pension plan is frozen. .
23.
V
MISCELLANEOUS
Section 24.0. Union Bulletin Boards. The Employer will provide five (5) bulletin boards for the Union's use, located in conspicuous places within the plant. Official Union notices shall bear the signature of the proper Union Officer. Religious or political messages shall be expressly prohibited.	.	. . . , ■	. .	,
Section 24.1.	Safe Conditions^ Employees .shall not .be compelled to, work under any conditions that are or tend1 to be hazardous to health or physical,welfare.;
Section 24.2.	Non-Discrimination. Neither the Company nor.the Union will discriminate in any manner regarding the terms and conditions of employment against any applicant or employee covered by this Agreement because of any factor prohibited by law, as such prohibition is defined in applicable law.	.	..	...... ...	.
Section 243. Direct Deposit. The Employer will make .available a direct deposit program, which employees may initiate with human resources. .	...	.
Section 24.4.	Displacement. An employee in a posted classification cannot be displaced from his or her posted classification by a temporarily transferred employee.
Section 24.5.	Second Opinion. The Employer reserves the right to require any employee drawing benefits to submit to a second opinion examination, at the Employer's expense, by a physician of the Employer's choice.
Section 24.6.	Plant Injury. In the case of injury sustained in the course of employment requiring the immediate attention of a. physician or surgeon, the expense of transporting the injured employee shall be borne by the Company. The employee shall be paid their evaluated job rate for the time required to receive the services of a physician or surgeon, but not to exceed three (3) hours pay beyond the employee's scheduled hours for that day: The employee must bring in a company-provided form... signed by 4he health care provider showing when such employee .was .released. ...Should such injured employee require additional visits to a doctor's office, the time required shall be paid at the same rate, provided an attempt is,made to;schedule these visits outside of working hours. A copy of S.P.I. C-9004 shall,be.giyen .tp the Union,-providing method.,of payment. ;
Section 24.7.	Change of Address, .it is the. employee's resppnsibjIity (to keep the Employer informed of the employee's,proper,rpailing,-.address and<telephone number. Employees will notify the Employer,.ofany* changes of addresser telephone number in writing, on forms provided by the,Employer.	.	'	<
Section 24’8. Reduction in Workweek.- Aik temporary and probationary employees shall be laid off before there,is a reduction in the workweek of full-time, employees.
24
Section 24.9.	Employee Fitness for Duty. Employees must be fit for duty and able to perform the duties of their classification. In the event the Employer has a good faith doubt as to the employee's fitness for duty after a lost time injury or illness exceeding three (3) consecutive days, or after the employee has exhibited a reoccurring serious or chronic illness, the Employer may require a fitness for duty examination by a physician. These exams will be scheduled and paid for by the Employer.' The employee shall suffer no loss in wages as a result of any such'request by the Employer.
Section 24.10.	Plant Communication. The Employer maintains a variety of plant communication devices such as paging, phones, e-mail and voice mail which are intended to facilitate communication.' From time to time tne use of thesd'devices have been extended to bargainihg:xihit employees. These devices can be extended or terminated in the future at any time in the Employers sole discretion. At all times, these devices are to be used forThe!i business' purpose/ intended and are not to be used-, by bargaining unit employees for’pefsbhaFtise'or any other’ use? ”
Section 24.11.	Membership fees for Civic Groups. The Employer encourages employees to become active members of the. community.. The Employer may subsidize your membership fees ifyod wist) to join and remain ah active member of a civic group. The Employer will pay 100% of the membership fees if the annual dues are $25 or less and 75% if they are more than $25 provided the membership is approved by the Supervisor and the Human Resources Department in their sole judgment.
INTENT AND WAIVER
Section 25.0. Separability. Any part of this Agreement which shall conflict with applicable law now or in the future1 shat I be hull1 and void but only'to the extent of the conflict; all other, parts shall be in full force- and 'effect for the du ration of th is Agreement
Section 25.1. • Intent1 and Waiver. It is the intent of the parties hereto that the provisions of this Agreement will supercede all prior agreements Or understandings, oral or written, express, or. implied^ betweensuch parties, shall1 govern Their entire relationship and shall be the sole source in any and all fights or claims which may be asserted?:
/•The parties /acknowledge'*that, during the1 negotiations1' which resulted in this Agreement, each had:the unlimited ’right and oppbr^	and proposals
with respect to any subject or matter not removed by law of area of collective bargaining and that the'understahdirigs'ahd ?agi'eefnent!s5arrived at by the ;parties after the exercise of that right are set forth in4his: Agreefrieiitr''Therefore/the;-Erfiployer and’the Union, during the life of this Agreement/ each-vbiuhtarily and unequivocally 'waive th'e’fight each has and agree that they shall not be obligated to bargain collectively with^respect to any subject or matter referred to or covered in this Agreement and/or with respect to any subject matter not specifically referred* to dr covered in this Agreement^ even though5 said subject matter may not have been within Theknowledge or contemplation of either of both of the parties
25

at the time they negotiated or signed this Agreement. In addition, the parties specifically agree that, inasmuch as the Union and the Employer have specifically agreed to a detailed management rights clause in Section 5.0, the Employer may exercise its rights as generalized in Section 5.0 without prior bargaining with the Union.
TERMINATION
, , 1	.	,	t'_	' I •	t
Section 26.0. Termination; This Agreement-shall remain in full fpfce ahd effective until December 9, 2007, K:59 p.m.-, and thereafter for successive periods of one' (i) calendar year, unless either -party shall/ on or before- the- sixtieth' (60) Calendar day p'fibr to expiration, serve written notice on the other party of the desire to terminate?modify, alter, negotiate, change or amend this Agreement. Notice of a desire to modify, alter, amend, negotiate or change,-.or any combination thereof, shall have the’ effect of term inati rig the entire agreement on the expiration date in the same' manner "as'the notice of desire to terminate.
26
APPENDIX A
The Parties have agreed on a consolidation of thetturrent classification system. The Union and Employer recognize that in any consolidation plan employees could have their pay reduced. This is not the intent of either party. The following wage increases are to be extended,:to. employees who >vould not .receive1 a wage increase^under the grid below. These[employees will continue: to receive, the below increases -as long as their pay is above the'r$tes for.their cl^.iRcqtion'pn>the:grtd<below or unless.they are.awarded a job under job posting//;Secticinfl^,0.,‘
Jie;?* ..:	■•-A-!’	,'T 'X4r! J/ *■ ■’	- r:	h	pZ
All emplqyees; hired before; Marph ^TS, 2004, who are eligible as outlined above, shall receive the foil owing across-the-boardincreases. , '	. . •
Effective March 15, 2004
Thirty (304) cents per hour wage increase.
First full payroli period after March 15, 2005
Thirty (304) cents per hour wage increase
First full payroll ,period-after March 15, 2006
Thirty (304) cents per hour wage increase
First full payroll 'period after March 15, 2007
Fifteen (154) cents per hour wage increase
27
New Classification And Wage Grid
Effective March 15, 2004 the following wage grid shall be effective:
	NEW CLASSIFICA TION	P A Y G R A' D E	MAXIMUM RATE ■ j ■ / March 15>, 2Q04	?	MAXIMUM RATE j r 1 '	, \ First Full _ I. payroll t After March ; v i15; 2005	MAXIMUM RATE ; C First Full . payroll After March r 15, 2006	MAXIMUM 	RATE .> First Full payroll After March 15/2007
	Start		$10.00 '	$10.00	$10.00	$10.00
1	General Help 1	A	$12.00	..$12.00.	,$12.00 -	, $12.00 .
2	General Help 2	B	. $12-. 75	. .	- $12.75 . . .	,	$1.2.75 .	$12.75 -...
3	Assembler	C	$13.47 .	$13.77	.,. $14.07	■ $14.22
4	Coordinator'	D	$14.07	$14.37	, $14,67	. $14.82 .
5	Material Handler	D	$14.07	$14.37	$14.67	$14.82
6	Specialized Machine Operator	D	$14.07	$14.37	$14.67	$14.82 I
7	Wood Line Operator	D	$14.07	$14.37	$14,67	$14.82
8	Kanban Coordinator	E	$14 37 .	... $14.67	.	. $14,97 ...	$15.12
9	Load Receiver	E	$14.37	$14.67 VQC,	;.	$14,97	$15.12
10	Set-Up Technician ,.	.f. ..	,-i- 114...52.	,	$14.82 ?;: ■■ s-.’': 1	■>	=.ii'	- H5J2 . .	- $15.27 ;
11	Smartrak Coordinator	F	$14.52	$14.82.r.	.... $35.1 2-...••	$15.27
12	Wood Machine: Operator	.F.	...	$14.52	$14,82.. I,-, .-.;	; $15.12. J.	■ , $15.27
13	Lead 1	G	$15.01	$15.31	$15.61	$15.76
28
14	Machine Set-Up Operator	G	$15.01	$15.30	$15.60	$15.75
15	Electrician	H	Range $15.47-17.76	. Range. $15.77-18.06	Range H 6.07418.36	Range 116.22418.51
16	Lead. 2.	H	Range ■ $15.47-17.76	• Range , 415.77-18.06	. Range $16.07418.36	Range $16.22418.51
17	Machinist i	H	Range $15.47-17.76	Range 115.77718.06	Range- $16.07418.36	Range $16.22418.51
I8i;	MainVenanc Technician	■'? Hr	Range ’■?/' 415.47-17.76:	Ranged ■ ^$1-5.77-i8.06	■’ Range- $16.07418.36	Range $16.22418.51
, 19 -	‘Millwright	H*-	' ■ Range $15.47-17.76	i Range 115.77-J8.06	Range 116.07418.36	Range $16.22418.51.
20	OMS ; Technician	H	Range $15.47-17.76	Range $15.77-18.06	Range $16.07418.36	Range $16.22418.51

Wage progression: New employees will be hired at $10.00 per hour. This starting rate shall be a minimum and may.beJncreased by the Employer at any time to meet competition. Upon completion of probation, employees will receive a 50<t increase and will progress to the top rate of their classification in increments of 25<t per hour for each quarter year they have been employed. This.wage progression shall also apply to employees progressing to the maximum rate of their classification in the above grid. These wage increases shall be effective in the first full payroll period after:
•	January 1
•	- April 1 ■ •	■	.	•
•	July 1
•	October 1
New Hire Shift - Newly hired employees hired on any shift shall remain on this shift for fifteen (15) calendar months before-the employed can sign any posting for a job on a different shift. This provision.may be waived, if. in the Employer's judgment it would benefit operations.
For.higher rated jobs,. Pay Grade Fand. above, employees..may.be hiredat a higher rate than the start.rate and advanced more quickly bythe Employerbasedon the employee's prior skill, ability and experience. „.Eor. exam pleanE I ectri cian'(GradeH) might ’be hired at $15.00 per hour and advance more quickly than aboVe/ -	’■ ;
For employees holding, paylgrade H, employees will be evaluated by the! Employer each six (6) months and the Employer in its sole judgment’ may set the employee's rate within the range for Pay Grade H, _________ ______________;_______________1..
".7.“ “F	'--'CjA	' dj.d/C
29
Letters of Understanding
March 29, 2004
1.	Employees with 24 or 26 days of Earned Vacation in 2003
As part of the negotiations that resulted in,the new.Agreement the Parties agreed to grandfather employees, who earned 24 dr, 26 davs of .vacation in 2OO3.
- ■■ ■_■■■?1 ■■ ■" < < >
The Parties agree for the life of the Agreement; these employees will receive the same number of vacation days earned in 2003 and will be paid for these additional 4 or 6 days of vacation on a prorated basis under the Agreement.
It is specifically understood that employees covered by this Letter of Understanding shall remain at the level of vacation earned . in .2003,. either. ,4 or .6, additional.days. Further this Letter of Understanding shall not apply to any other employee. “
2.	Obligation to Bargain Concerning Insurance
As part of the negotiations that lead to the new Agreement, the issue of insurance .was discussed and the Union believes by actively biding insurance in the Central Wisconsin area the Union could reduce costs to its members. The Employer agrees to bargain with the Union upon demand concerning a change to a different health, vision and dental plan. The Employer will agree to anew plan if the total cost paid by the Employer for medical, vision and dental, in total, does not exceed the'fol lowing and the total cost paid by the employees is less than the following: -	’ -
Employer's Maximum Contrib.? .	Employee's Maximum Contrib.
Single	$144/month	$100/month
Family	$436/month	$230/month
The above single rates will increase by five dollars per year and the above family rates will increase by ten dollars per year. The Parties specifically agree that the above Employer's maximum will be the total amount paid by the Employer in any event and any increases in administration, claims, experience or premiums shall be borne by the employees covered. This may require changes to the amount paid by employees during the plan year to bring costs in line with the Employer's maximum payments. Should the Union not propose an insurance plan under the employee maximum contribution there shall be no duty to agree to the proposed plan.
30
3.	Vacation Transition Issues
a.	If an employee has used unearned vacation, which will exceed what will be earned in 2004, the employee will not be required to pay these amounts back.
b.	For 2004 only, employees may schedule, if they wish, the same number of ' ' days’:dff they* earned in 2003, .but the pay received will be as in the new Agredfn'ent. Thus the time off wili be guaranteed, bdt without any additional pay or cost to the Employer.
4.	Insurance Payments on Voluntary Layoff
'TheEmpfoyerwill continue the practice of allowing double payments when employees are fully back to work for the duration of the agreement.
31