DISTRICT COUNCIL OF NEW YORK CITY AND VICINITY
W
UNITED BROTHERHOOD OF CARPENTERS AND JOINERS OF AMERICA
INSTITUTED AUGUST 12, 1881
395 HUDSON STREET NEW YORK, NEW YORK 10014 PHONE: (212)366-7500 FAX: (212) 675-3140
TIMBERMAN AGREEMENT
WAGES
' /C X X X'X X T-T 7' x ~rr v t y XX’TrxXXXXXXXXXXXJ'J				
	A A. 4 A J		w^j6	cSSSss
	$13.04	$13.79		■	■v - b” 'b *	:v'	•■ r°'L?,<'
V'V V	V YT Y Y	$16.31	$17.24	■^*r^3i’*" ”	/*	l^-if	
	$21.20	$ 22.41	■f	i-Ay'	*;	yt '	’*	'• ••	r ■■■-
	$26.09	$27.58	-/■ * > "'. ■/ ' • ■"VA1. • p /' -	-$v	
DISTRICT COUNCIL OF NEW YORK CITY AND VICINITY
UNITED BROTHERHOOD OF CARPENTERS AND JOINERS OF AMERICA
INSTITUTED AUGUST 12, 1881
395 HUDSON STREET NEW YORK, NEW YORK 10014 PHONE: (212) 366-7500 FAX: (212) 675-3140
TIMBERMAN AGREEMENT
FRINGE BENEFITS
JOURNEYMAN & FOREMAN
				
		Sai®		cS^srS^
	$ 8.80	$ 8.00	£«!	ur^ ,;.:-, .7 ,;T ■<' .,. irfM ■■	<’'’^•^4' aV/'1 k	" , " <	' J J l, ' • i	A	t,.
	$ 5.91	$ 7.36	^T' V «*•':• ,	‘ 5	1 1	
	$ 5.20	$ 5.65	L *J	*' T ' !•-”	1	f,.»% J	■ J?C,\ T	/"	- -^ - .	
	$ 0.35	$ 0.50		
	$ 4.40	$ 4.50		■±^»
	$ 0.04	$ 0.04 '	- 7.; ■ '"’ ' '■ ■ 4 ‘J ”	:f"" "	’>,	.	c ■* ■ a	*7,5 v,. -s J' ■ “V "..
««»;»»«	$ 0.06	$ 0.06	>.kr-K K',.,\. ,.r .. ■ ■'.■	■•<	,	V	.	.	■<,	.	/:• ”'A-A	q, ‘•A rt !.<•.»,.	.• ■ ':',y .- "	<, .If 'J'-
vx^giSfiii^A	$ 0.15	$ 0.20		k *	!' :•'■• O" 4j • '
x3q®^hw^esXX>1	$24.91	$26.31	^,. 17^ .-, <•**	i'.	*	' v
DISTRICT COUNCIL OF NEW YORK CITY AND VICINITY
UNITED BROTHERHOOD OF CARPENTERS AND JOINERS OF AMERICA
INSTITUTED AUGUST 12, 1881
395 HUDSON STREET NEW YORK, NEW YORK 10014 PHONE: (212) 366-7500 FAX: (212) 675-3140
TIMBERMAN AGREEMENT
FRINGE BENEFITS
ALL APPRENTICES
*■ *5^	"ST				
		T T T T '	x@®©Qc 1 <4i, <"■	t ■jr Y "S
	$ 8.80	$ 8.00	*. ’ ■r.i . '& '■■ X *	.	*.•.••':►. - - - -'* A-f. ' ’	'•
	$ 2.96	$ 4.18		T y,
,JC	,b.		$ 2.60	$ 2.83	k> ■y’'--, ’... ',.' ■■■'•'■; ■ jr'-1' .'H^f.' ...» 1 ■ . Li».w >«* . jl J fj..	b:!.7‘ .	r T* '
	$ 0.35	$ 0.50	,	' (	ft: .	“ J ' •' J , ■ * ! 3? ..£W	' •7 / ■*• 7-*•	..’. >" ’	*' ■	t
	$ 2.20	$ 2.25		
	$ 0.04	$ 0.04	*w ■ WfcV',’;Tl?! *■ - -■ ’ ■■ '■ ..''/■	z'■■ ■" V - , - ' . T/ ■ -1 '.p. .:■ ji < «	j-i
	$ 0.06	$ 0.06	;■■■■	•■ J. --■«■. ai..	
	$ 0.15	$ 0.20	'	V-t £?	
A A A A. A A A A'AJ^Jl	$17.16	$18.06	■- V'-y -\T ’ ^\. ‘ ; A< '	*• '	’? v b*	s\ j. -* /
GENERAL CONTRACTORS ASSOCIATION - TIMBERMEN 1996
AGREEMENT BETWEEN MEMBERS OF THE GENERAL CONTRACTORS ASSOCIATION OF NEW YORK, INC.
AND THE DISTRICT COUNCIL OF CARPENTERS OF NEW YORK CITY AND VICINITY, AFL-CIO
FOR
TIMBERMEN'S LOCAL 1536
JULY 1,1996 - JUNE 30, 2002
Sic /W
TIMBERMEN
INDEX	PAGE
Apprentice Manning	22
Area Jurisdiction	4
Arbitration	34
Auditing	31
Binding Subcontractor and Other Finns	24
Completeness of Agreement	3
Coverage of Additional Employees Under the Welfare and Pension Plans	28
Declaration of Principles	2
Drug Testing Clause	22
Fringe Benefit Funds	26
Hardship and Advisory Committee	6
HCIF	36
Heavy Construction-Employees Covered	10
Holidays	16
Hours-Wages-Conditions	13
Inclement Weather Gear	21
Intoxicating Beverages or Use of Drugs	22
Job Injury-Medical Attention	22
Jurisdictional Disputes	9
Legality	38
Liability for Subcontractors	28
Liquidated Damages	29
List of Employees who are Delinquent in Payment of Wages and/or Contributions to the Funds	25
Lists	25
NYC and Vic. L/M Coop Fund	32
New York State	36
No Work Stoppage	“10
Off-shift	20
Other Union Agreements	10
Overtime-Flexible Lunch-Overtime Meal-Job Steward 16
Payment of Wages	15
Procedures of Grievance-Arbitration	7
Purpose of Agreement	1
Saturday Make-Up	23
Sharpening of Tools	21
Shifts	14
Spirit of Agreement	24
Status Quo	9
Storage of Tools and Clothing	21
Supplemental Fund	31
Surety Bond	35
Term-Renewal	6
Timekeeping Devices	22
UBC & JA Funds	33
Union Security - Union Visitation-Job Steward	5
Variable Shift Commencement	20
Welfare Fund-New York State Disability	28
Working Job Steward	19
Work Stoppage for Default in Fringe Benefit Fund Contributions	29
GENERAL CONTRACTORS ASSOCIATION ■ TIMBERMEN - 1996 ART. I
AGREEMENT made this 30th day of June 1996, effective July 1,1996 by and between the Members of the General Contractors Association of New York, Inc. (hereinafter "GCA"), and other Employers who are signatories to this Agreement (hereinafter "Employer"), and the District Council of Carpenters of New York City and Vicinity of The United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of America, affiliated with the AFL-CIO, Washington, D.C. (hereinafter "Union" and/or "District Council") for Timberman’s Local No. 1536.
NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual promises and covenants hereinafter set forth, the parties agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Purposes-Declaration of Principles
Section 1 - Purposes
The purposes for which this Agreement is entered into are as follows:
(a)	prevent strikes and lockouts;
(b)	facilitate peaceful adjustment of grievances and disputes between the Employer, Employee and Union;
(c)	prevent waste, unnecessary and avoidable delays, which result in unnecessary costs and expense to the Employer, and Union, and the loss of wages and fringe benefits to the Employee;
(d)	enable the Employer to secure at all times sufficient forces of skilled workmen;
(e)	provide as far as possible for the continuous employment of labor;
(f)	provide that employment hereunder shall be in accordance with conditions and at wages and fringe benefits herein agreed upon.
GENERAL CONTRACTORS ASSOCIATION - TIMBERMEN - 1996 ART. I
(g ) bring about stable conditions in the Industry;
(h)	keep costs of work in the Heavy Construction Industry as low as possible consistent with fair wages and proper working conditions, as provided for hereunder;
(i)	continue the custom and practice heretofore prevailing for many years on Heavy Construction Work of agreement as to the terms and conditions of employment, and as to the necessary procedure for amicable adjustment of all disputes or questions that may arise.
Section 2	- Declaration of Principles
Both parties to this Agreement acknowledge that this Agreement is the uniform agreement for the Heavy Construction Industry and its execution will further the interests of said Industry. This Agreement will be interpreted under the following principles:
(a)	that there shall be no limitation as to the amount of work an Employee shall perform during his working day, it being understood that said Employee shall perform a fair and honest day's work, within the limits of safety;
(b)	that there shall be no restrictions on the use of machinery, tools or appliances, within the limits of safety. If an Employee is required to use powder actuated tools, he is to be qualified to use said powder actuated tools, by securing from the tool manufacturer, or equally responsible certifying agency agreed upon by both parties hereto, an Operator's Card or similar proof of qualification and the Union shall cooperate with the Employer and tool manufacturer in having the Employee expeditiously qualified. No powder actuated tool shall be used
2
GENERAL CONTRACTORS ASSOCIATION - TIMBERMEN - 1996 ART I, II that has not been previously approved by the New York City Board of Standards and Appeals;
(c)	that there shall be no restriction on the use of any raw or manufactured materials, except prison made;
(d)	that no person shall have the right to interfere with Employees or workmen during the working hours;
(e)	that Employees are at liberty to work for whomsoever they see fit, and they are entitled to and shall receive the wages and fringe benefits agreed upon as hereinafter set forth in this Agreement;
(f)	that Employers are at liberty to employ and discharge, whomsoever they see fit, providing that no person shall be discharged without good cause;
(g)	that the GCA, the Employer and the Union agree that they have not, and will not discriminate because of race, creed, color, national origin, age, sex, disability, marital status, sexual orientation, citizenship status or union membership against any individual.
For the purpose of this Article, "citizenship status" means the citizenship of any person or the immigration status of any person lawfully residing in the United States who is not a citizen or national of the United States.
Section 3	- Completeness of Agreement
It is understood that the Purposes and Declaration of Principles, herein set forth, are a part of this Agreement and said Purposes and Principles govern all parties hereto in the performance thereof and shall be complied with as conditions of this Agreement. The parties hereto enter into
3
this Agreement and agree to carry out, conform and to comply with its terms and provisions as provided and set forth herein by reason of the mutual advantages of so doing and in order to effectuate and provide for the carrying out and putting into effect, during the term hereof, the Purposes and Principles of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
Area Jurisdiction
The Employer hereby recognizes the Union as the exclusive collective bargaining representative of all Employees covered by the jurisdiction of the Union as described herein. This Agreement shall cover work performed by or on behalf of a signatory Employer hereto in the Heavy Construction field, as hereinafter defined in Article VIII, when said work is to be performed in whole, or in part, within the territorial jurisdiction oF the Union. Said jurisdiction shall include:
In New York State the Counties of:
J Bronx Kings
Queens
Nassau 4 1 New York
Richmond ✓ Suffolk v/. Westchester
All of the Islands in and all the waters of the adjacent Harbors, Rivers, Bays, Atlantic Ocean, and Long Island Sound.
If the Employer engages in any class of work not embodied in Heavy Construction Work, as hereinafter defined, both parties shall comply with all of the Union conditions then existing in that class of work.
4
GENERAL CONTRACTORS ASSOCIATION - TIMBERMEN - 1996 ART HI ARTICLE III
Union Security - Union Visitation - Job Steward
Section 1	- Union Security
All Employees who are members of the Union at the time of the signing of this Agreement shall continue membership in the Union. All other Employees covered by this Agreement must become members of the Union on or after the seven (7) days following the beginning of employment or the date of this Agreement, whichever is later, and must maintain their membership in good standing in the Union as a condition of continued employment. If the provisions for union security clauses are modified by Congress during the term of this Agreement, this clause alone will be open for negotiation.
Section 2	- Union Visitation
Authorized representatives of the Union shall be allowed to visit jobs, and interview the Employer and Employees covered by this Agreement, but shall in no way interfere with or hinder the progress of the work.
Section 3	- Job Steward
The Timberman job steward shall be placed on the job by the Union. The steward shall perform the regular duties of a Timberman but shall be allowed sufficient time to perform his duties as steward. If his duties as a Timberman are performed in a manner not satisfactory to the Employer he may be discharged by the Employer and shall be replaced by another Timberman selected by the Union. If his duties as a steward are performed in a manner not satisfactory to the Union, he shall be discharged by the Employer at the request of the Union and a replacement shall be selected by the Union.
5
GENERAL CONTRACTORS ASSOCIATION - TIMBERMEN - 1996 ART IV, V
ARTICLE IV
Term - Renewal
This Agreement shall continue in effect until and including June 30th, 2002.
ARTICLE V
' Disputes
Section 1	- Hardship & Advisory Committee
The new committee will have authority to address, in a timely fashion, any undue hardships the collective bargaining agreement may impose on the Union, a Contractor or the Association on an issue by issue basis.
The committee may modify terms and conditions to allow the association contractors to better manage its particular project or to compete against unfair contractors on a site by site basis.
All issues the Hardship and Advisory Committee reviews will be in writing and its actions will be decided by a simple majority. All concerns brought before the committee will be reviewed periodically. Repetitious issues can be recommended for inclusion in a subsequent collective bargaining agreement.
The committee will meet, upon written request, by the Association or the Union within three work days. Such request, by fax or letter, shall state the project, location, local union, contractor, sub-contractor and brief summary of the question to be discussed.
Section 2	- No Lockout - Strike - Work Stoppage
The Employer expressly agrees that it will not lock out its Employees covered by this Agreement. The Union expressly agrees not to strike or in any other manner stop or hinder work covered by this Agreement. It is agreed that under no circumstances shall there be strikes,
6
GENERAL CONTRACTORS ASSOCIATION - TIMBERMEN - 1996	ART V
lockouts, or work stoppages, both parties agreeing to settle any question or dispute that may arise from any of the parties hereto by submitting same for determination as herein provided, with the express agreement that the parties hereto will honor, obey, be bound by and carry out such decision or determination upon any question or dispute which may be submitted.
The Union will not call or sanction any strike or concerted stoppage during the term of this Agreement except for:
(1)	the Employer's refusal to submit a matter to arbitration, pursuant to the arbitration clause of this Agreement;
(2)	the Employer's failure to comply with any decision of any Board of Arbitration established hereunder within twenty (20) working days after such decision, unless appealed to a court of competent jurisdiction, which grants a stay, and, “
(3)	any other reason explicitly provided for in this Agreement.
Section 3 - Procedures of Grievance - Arbitration
For the purpose of settling disputes between the parties hereto as to any claims of violation of this Agreement, or of any dispute or breach that may arise in connection therewith, or for construing the terms and provisions thereof, the following procedure is established:
(a)	Either party may advise the other of an alleged grievance, in writing, and the party alleging the grievance may call for a meeting to be held not less than 24 hours after receipt of the grievance notice, at a place designated by the party calling the grievance. The Board deciding the grievance shall consist of two (2) representatives of each party. No member of the Board may be a member of the Local Union or Employer involved in the grievance. Both parties to the
7
GENERAL CONTRACTORS ASSOCIATION - TIMBERMEN - 1996 ART V,VI
grievance shall be given full opportunity to be heard and present witnesses.
The grievance shall be resolved by majority decision. At each grievance hearing, if an impasse is reached, one of the arbitrators listed below will be chosen by random selection to hear the grievance should it reach the arbitration stage. If the grievance is not resolved within 72 hours of notification thereof, as set forth above, or if the agreement reached is not complied with by the guilty party within 24 hours after notification of the agreement, either party may proceed to arbitration immediately.
(b)	Any grievance not resolved pursuant to (a) above, shall be submitted to arbitration before the following four arbitrators, who shall be chosen by random selection:
1) Herbert Habber	2) Roger HMadon
3) Joseph Doyle	4) Johnathan S. Liebowitz
The arbitrator shall conduct a hearing in such manner as he shall consider proper and shall serve as sole arbitrator of the dispute between the parties. The arbitrator shall have the right to conduct an ex parte hearing in the event of the failure of either party to be present at the time and place designated for the arbitration, and shall have the power to render a decision based on the testimony before him at such hearing. The decision of the arbitrator shall be final and binding upon both parties and may be entered as a final decree or judgment in the Supreme Court of the State of New York or in a court of appropriate jurisdiction in any state where such decision shall be rendered. The
8
GENERAL CONTRACTORS ASSOCIATION - TIMBERMEN - 1996 ART V,VI costs of arbitration, including the arbitrator's fee, shall be borne equally by the GCA and the Union. It is the intent of the parties hereto that all disputes between them, both within and outside of the Agreement, shall be submitted to arbitration, as provided herein, and that no defense to prevent the holding of the arbitration shall be permitted. Service of any document or notice referred to above, or service of any notice required by law in connection with arbitration proceedings, may be made by registered or certified mail. Service upon the Employer shall be made on the individual Employer and the GCA.
(c) This Article is not, in any manner, meant to prohibit or restrict the Union's right to strike or withhold services upon the expiration of tins Agreement or any extension hereof or under the terms and conditions set forth in Article XI, Section 5 hereof.
Section 4 -> Status Quo
Until a decision shall have been rendered, neither party shall take any action of any character as to the complaint, statement or matter in question.
Jurisdictional Disputes
Section 1	- Scope
(a)	The Employers bound by this Agreement recognize the jurisdictional claims of the United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of America. Both sides are bound by the decisions of the New York Plan for the Settlement of
9
GENERAL CONTRACTORS ASSOCIATION - TIMBERMEN - 1996 ART VI, VII,VIII Jurisdictional Disputes and of the National Joint Board for the Settlement of Jurisdictional Disputes, prior to July 1, 1975.
(b)	The District Council and the GCA will endeavor to establish a Jurisdictional Panel.
Section 2	- No Work Stoppage
It is agreed that where a jurisdictional dispute arises, there shall be no stoppage of work by trades affiliated with the AFL-CIO, and the trade in possession of the work shall proceed with the job and the question in dispute shall be submitted by the trades to the Panel, as provided in section 1(b), for settlement of jurisdictional disputes for decision.
ARTICLE VII
Other Union Agreements
It is agreed that the Union and the Employer will carry out this Agreement in all details, regardless of whatever conditions and wages exist for members of any other Local Union, whether or not employed in Heavy Construction Work.
ARTICLE VIII
Heavy Construction Work - Employees Covered
Section 1	- Heavy Construction Work
Heavy Construction Work, where referred to in this Agreement is hereby defined as the Construction of Engineering Structures and Building Foundations, exclusive of the Erection of Building Superstructures since this latter work is agreed to be a separate and distinct branch of the Construction Industry.
10
GENERAL CONTRACTORS ASSOCIATION - TIMBERMEN - 1996 ART VIII
Section 2	- Employees Covered and Work Performed
(a)	This Agreement is applicable to qualified Journeyman Timberman, Journeyman Timbermen Foreman, Timberman Apprentices 1st, 2nd, 3rd & 4th Year and New York Plan Trainee(s) who are employed under the classifications as set forth in Article IX, Section 6 of this Agreement.
(b)	Timbermen shall perform the following work:
(1)	installing, maintaining and removing of all wooden sheeting, wooden bracing, shoring and support systems for:
(i)	sides of excavations;
(ii)	all temporary roadways, bridges and decks;
(iii)	all temporary rough timber work, including but not limited to lagging in subways, tunnels, sewers, trenches, sidewalk vaults and similar construction.
(2)	installing, maintaining and removing of all temporary steel sections including all steel bracing, and waling, all plates, deck beams, cap beams, and decking of any substance on sewer and subway construction;
(3)	stripping or removing of wood or steel forms for concrete on all general engineering construction and all other work generally classified as being under the Timbermen’s jurisdiction;
(4)	Timbermen shall continue their historical performance of work with
.	relation to moveable steel forms whether on wheels, rails, or overhead
tracks, in subways and sewers;
11
GENERAL CONTRACTORS ASSOCIATION - TIMBERMEN - 1996
ART VIII
(5)	all tools of the trade, i.e., burning for temporary steel installed by Timbermen shall be performed by Timbermen.
(c)	Timberman, Apprentices and New York Plan Trainees shall perform the following work except where the performance of said work is in conflict with the terms and conditions of the Agreements between Members of the GCA and the Dockbuilders Local No. 1456 and the District Council of Carpenters:
(1)	carrying and distributing lumber and material to Timbermen;
(2)	hooking and unhooking the load when a mechanical apparatus is used to distribute material to the Timbermen;
(3)	assisting a Timberman when two (2) men are necessary to operate a power or circular saw;
(4)	assisting a Timberman when two (2) men are necessary to drive wood-sheeting with a jackhammer or power hammer;
(5)	generally assisting the Timbermen in the performance of their duties provided that the Timberman Helper is recognized as a trainee who will become qualified as a Timberman.
After material has been originally deposited on the site of the project, the Timbermen, Apprentices, and New York Plan Trainees shall further be employed in:
(6)	loading and unloading lumber and material from any conveyance;
(7)	carrying, oiling and stacking of lumber and materials to be used by Timbermen;
12
GENERAL CONTRACTORS ASSOCIATION - TIMBERMEN - 1996 ART VIII, IX
(8)	carrying of all lumber and materials to and from the mill on the project;
(9)	handling of all lumber and materials which are to be set or prepared on the job site for use on the job site by Timbermen;
(10)	salvaging, cleaning and oiling of all lumber and material that are to be reused on the project by Timbermen.
All the above in accordance with existing jurisdictional precedents in the area.
ARTICLE IX
Hours - Wages - Conditions
Section 1 - Hours of Work
(a)	Eight (8) hours shall constitute a day's work. Forty (40) hours shall constitute a week's work. Any failure to work these hours gives the Employer the right to pay only for hours actually worked and the Employer may deduct from the Employee's wages and fringes the value of the time period not worked less than eight (8) hours.
(b)	At the commencement of employment a Timberman Foreman, Timberman Apprentice 1st & 2nd year and Trainee 1st & 2nd Year will be paid for days actually worked in the payroll week. At the termination of employment, said Employees will be paid for days actually worked in the payroll week. If any said Employee is laid off from his work assignment and rehired within five (5) consecutive working days for the same work assignment, said Employee shall be paid for the actual working days for which he was not employed, if he was not employed by another Employer during the layoff period. During the
13
GENERAL CONTRACTORS ASSOCIATION - TIMBERMEN - 1996 ART IX
course of continuous employment on a project said Employees shall be paid on a weekly basis, except for project shutdowns, and shall not receive holiday pay as an addition to their weekly pay, unless worked.
All other Employees covered by this Agreement shall be employed on a daily or hourly basis.
Section 2 - Shifts
(a)	A single shift shall be a continuous nine (9) hours, starting at 8:00 A.M., except when necessary to conform with the provisions of this Article IX, Section 7, subdivision (c), including one (1) hour for mealtime. The mealtime may be curtailed by one-half (1/2) hour.
(b)	When two (2) shifts are employed, the work period for each shift shall be continuous eight (8) hours.
Effective July 1, 1997, when two shifts are employed, each shift shall be eight and one-half hours with one-half (1/2) hour for lunch.
(c)	When three (3) shifts are employed, each shift will work seven and one-half ( 7 1/2) hours but will be paid for eight (8) hours, since only one-half (1/2) hour is allowed for mealtime.
(d)	When two (2) or more shifts of Timbermen are employed, single time will be paid for each shift.
(e)	A week shall start at 8:00 A.M. Monday and end at 8:00 A.M. Saturday, except when necessary to conform with the provisions of this Article IX, Section 7, subdivision (c).
14
GENERAL CONTRACTORS ASSOCIATION - TIMBERMEN - 1996 ART IX Section 3 - Payment of Wages
All wages payable under this Agreement shall become due and be paid on the job every week and not more than three (3) days' pay shall be held back. Wages shall be paid at the Employer's option either in cash or by check provided:
(a)	the check is a Todd Insured ABC System Payroll check or similar type of check, and the delivery of the checks shall be at least one (1) day preceding a banking day;
(b)	The Employer has complied with the provisions of Article XII relating to Bonding.
If for any reason the Employer terminates the services of any Employee working under this Agreement, the accrued wages of that Employee shall be paid to him at the time of termination of his employment, otherwise waiting time shall be charged for accrued wages. If an Employee shall, of his own volition, leave the services of his Employer, then his Employer may retain his wages until the next regular pay day. Should an Employee be required to wait for his pay after the hours specified in Article IX, Sections 1, 2 and 3, except for reasons beyond the Employer's control, then in addition, the Employee shall receive time and one-half for the first two (2) hours of waiting on pay day or layoff, and single time for any additional waiting time, except for Saturday, Sunday or holidays. However, such waiting time shall not exceed sixteen (16) hours. An employee claiming said waiting time shall be required to show proof that he was actually present on the job during the waiting time claimed.
15
GENERAL CONTRACTORS ASSOCIATION - TIMBERMEN - 1996 ART IX Section 4 - Overtime - Flexible Lunch - Overtime Meal - Job Steward
(a)	Time and one-half shall be paid for all work performed in excess of eight (8} hours per day, for all work performed in excess of forty (40) hours per week, and for all work performed on Saturdays. Sundays and holidays shall be at the double time rate, except .when being performed under Article IX, Section 2, shifts.
(b)	Flexible Lunch Hour
A flexible lunch may be taken for an employee or group of employees according to the following schedule:
11:30 AM to 12:00 Noon
12:00 Noon to 12:30 PM
12:30 P.M to 1:00 PM
(c)	Overtime Meal
For every four (4) hours of overtime worked, an employee shall be allowed one-half (1/2) hour for a meal time.
(d)	Job Steward
On variable shifts, the Steward is to work eight (8) hours.
Section 5	- Holidays
(a)	Holidays shall be observed in accordance with New York State law and shall be as follows: New Year's Day	Columbus Day
President's Day (3rd Monday	Election Day (Presidential-
in February)	Election Year only)
16
GENERAL CONTRACTORS ASSOCIATION - TIMBERMEN - 1996 ART IX
Memorial Day (Decoration Day)
Independence Day
Thanksgiving Day
Christmas Day
(4th of July)
Labor Day
If an Employee does not work on said holiday he shall receive no pay for said day. If an Employee works on said holiday he will be paid only the double time rate. When work is performed in an area outside of New York City, conditions as to holidays shall prevail, except that provisions of this paragraph' herein shall be operative within the jurisdictional territory of the Union.
(b)	Where the workday ends at 8.00 A.M. on a Saturday, Sunday, or holiday, the Employer may, at its discretion, define Saturdays, Sundays and holidays as beginning at 8:00 A.M. of the Saturday, Sunday or holiday, continuing until 8:00 A.M. of the following day, except when necessary to conform to the provision of Article IX, Section 7, subdivision (c).
Section 6	- Work Classifications - Wages - Total Fringes
(a)	Wage rates and fringe benefit contributions within the bargaining unit shall be determined and/or reallocated by the union at its sole discretion, in conjunction with the fund trustees.
(b)	The rate of wages to be paid Employees covered by this Agreement shall be as follows:
17
GENERAL CONTRACTORS ASSOCIATION - TIMBERMEN - 1996	ART IX
I. TIMBERMAN FOREMAN
Effective Date	7/1/96	7/1/97	7/1/98	7/1/99	7/1/00	7/1/01
Hourly Wage	$28.29					
Fringe Benefits	$19.13	+$1.32	+$1.32	+$2.85	+$2,85	+$0,88
Total Wage & Fringe						
Benefits	$47.42	$48.74	$50.06	$52.91	$55.76	$56.64
H.CI.F.	$0.25	$0.25	$0.25	$0.25	$0.25	$0.25
2. TIMBERMAN-JOURNEYMAN						
Effective Date	7/1/96	7/1/97	7/1/98	7/1/99	7/1/00	7/1/01
Hourly Wage	$26.04					
Fringe Benefits	$19.13	+$1,32	+$132	+$2.85	+$2,85	+$.88
Total Wage & Fringe						
Benefits	$45.17	$46.49	$47.81	$50.66	$53.51	$54.39
H.CI.F.	$0.25	$0.25	$0.25	$0'25	$0.25	$0.25
APPRENTICES						
Apprentice wage increases may be deferred for reasons determined by the Joint Apprenticeship
Committee or its training director by written notice to the Employer. Wages for apprentices are
determined at percentage of Journeyman’s rate.
3. FOURTH YEAR TIMBERMAN APPRENTICE & NEW YORK PLAN TRAINEE (80%)
Effective Date	7/1/96	7/1/97	7/1/98	7/1/99	7/1/00	7/1/01
Hourly Wage	$11.42					
Fringe Benefits	$12.79					
Total Wage & Fringe						
Benefits	$24.21					
H.CI.F.	$0.25	$0.25	$0.25	$0.25	$0.25	$0.25
4. THIRD YEAR TIMBERMAN APPRENTICE & NEW YORK PLAN TRAINEE (65%)
Effective Date	7/1/96	7/1/97	7/1/98	7/1/99	7/1/00	7/1/01
Hourly Wage	$14.36					
Fringe Benefits	$12,79					
Total Wage & Fringe						
Benefits	$27.25					
H.CI.F.	$0.25	$ 0.25	$0.25	$0.25	$0.25	$0.25
18
GENERAL CONTRACTORS ASSOCIATION - TIMBERMEN - 1996
ART IX
5. SECOND YEAR TIMBERMAN APPRENTICE & NEW YORK PLAN TRAINEE (50%)
Effective Date	7/1/96	7/1/97	7/1/98	7/1/99	7/1/00	7/1/01
Hourly Wage	$18.75
Fringe Benefits	$12.79
Total Wage & Fringe
Benefits	$31.54
H.C.l.F.	$0.25	$0.25	$0.25 . $0.25	$0.25	$0.25
6. FIRST YEAR TIMBERMAN APPRENTICE & NEW YORK PLAN TRAINEE (40%)
Effective Date	7/1/96	7/1/97	7/1/98	7/1/99	7/1/00	7/1/01
Hourly Wage	$23.15
Fringe Benefits	$12,79
Total Wage & Fringe
Benefits	$35.94
H.C.l.F.	$0.25	$0.25	$0.25	$0.25	$0.25	$0.25
Section 7 - Conditions
(a)	Timberman Foreman Manning
One (1) Timberman Foreman shall be employed for every six (6) Timbermen, and he shall work in a supervisory capacity. The employment of Timberman Helper Foremen shall be determined by the Employer. Each Foreman must remain with his gang at the job site.
(b)	Working Job Steward
There shall be a Working Job Steward appointed by the Union or its Representative. Where Timbermen, Timbermen Apprentices, and New York Plan Trainee(s) are employed overtime, the Steward shall be notified before they start overtime work. On variable shift jobs, the Working Job Steward is to work only eight (8) hours.
19
GENERAL CONTRACTORS ASSOCIATION - TIMBERMEN - 1996 ART IX
(c)	Variable Shift Commencement
A shift commencing Monday through Friday, shall begin two (2) hours before and two (2) hours after normal starting time, in one-half hour increments. In varying shifts the Employer may vary the shift of a Foreman and his entire crew, or part of his crew. However, for the limited purposes of preparatory and closing work there is no limit on crew size.
(d)	Off-Shift
(i)	An off-shift may commence between the hours of 5:00 P.M. and 10:00 PM and shall work for eight and one-half (8 1/2) continuous hours, allowing one-half (1/2) hours for lunch. The rate of pay shall be nine (9) hours pay, including benefits at the straight time rate for eight (8) hours work.
(ii)	EMERGENCY OFF-SHIFT WORK - INVOLVING SEWER REPAIR Due to the safety hazards involved and special knowledge required, emergency off-shift work involving sewer repair shall be paid at the rate of time and one half.
(e)	Storage of Tools and Clothing
The Employer shall provide a suitable shed or room of sufficient size for the Timbermen's tools and clothing when the project is operating and Employees covered by this Agreement are employed on the project. Said room or shed shall not be used for the storage of any other materials. The Steward or Foreman shall be furnished a key for said storage facility and the Employees will store therein all tools not actually being used by them. These requirements
20
GENERAL CONTRACTORS ASSOCIATION - TIMBERMEN - 1996
ART IX
shall not apply whenever less than four (4) Timbermen are employed on any job under a single contract. However, adequate facilities whether mutual or otherwise shall be provided for said Timbermen. If an Employee covered by this Agreement is storing his tools and/or clothing in said facility, the Employer shall be responsible for the loss of said tools and/or clothing due to fire, flood, or theft but only if the Employee has previously filed with the Employer a list of the tools he has brought to the job. The Employer's liability shall be limited to a sum not to exceed:
Timbermens' Tools;
Timbermen Helpers' Tools Overcoat Clothing Shoes
$250.00
$ 67.00
$100.00
$100.00
$ 50.00
Upon submission of appropriate proof of loss to the Employer following the acceptance of said submission, The Employee shall be paid for said loss.
Payment shall be made within fourteen (14) working days of receipt of the proof of loss. If proof of loss is not accepted by the Employer, it shall be submitted within forty-eight (48 ) hours thereafter for final determination jointly to the Director of Labor Relations of the G.C.A. and the Union.
(f)	Sharpening of Tools
Employees tools which become dulled on the job shall be reconditioned at the expense of the Employer by an Employee covered under this Agreement.
(g)	Inclement Weather Gear
Rubber boots and coats are to be furnished by the Employer.
21
GENERAL CONTRACTORS ASSOCIATION - TIMBERMEN - 1996 ART IX
(h)	Timekeeping Devices
Employees shall not be required to pick up or operate any timekeeping device, except during the normal work shift.
(i)	Job Injury - Medical Attention
There shall be no reduction in a day's wages to any Employee on the day of injury when medical attention is required to said Employee while working on the Employer's job, provided the Employee submits a note from the doctor or clinic stating that the Employee cannot work that day.
(i) Intoxicating Beverages Or Use of Drugs
The consumption of intoxicating beverages on a job .site is prohibited.
Violation of this rule, after due warning, is sufficient reason for dismissal.
(k) Drug Testing
The Employer and the Union agree that when required by the contract of any City, State, Federal and/or Quasi Public Agency or Utility Company to test the Employees covered by this agreement for Drugs and/or Alcohol abuse, they shall comply.
(!) Apprentice Manning
Where five (5) or fewer Timbermen are employed, no more than one of them may be an apprentice. However, where more than six (6) Timbermen are employed, at least one shall be an apprentice and for every six (6) additional Timbermen employed at least one (I) additional Apprentice shall be employed.
22
GENERAL CONTRACTORS ASSOCIATION - TIMBERMEN - 1996
ART IX
(m) Saturday Make-up
When conditions beyond the control of the Employer, such as severe weather, wide spread power failure, fire, natural disaster, etc., prevent the operation of the job on one or more normal working days, the Employer may, with notification to the Union, schedule the Saturday of that calendar week during which work was prevented, as a make-up day at straight time. All hours worked in excess of the normal work day shall be paid for at the rate of time and one-half When a holiday falls on a Saturday, then the make-up day rate shall be doubletime. In order to utilize a Saturday as a make-up day, the Employer must declare a regular work day "terminated”, for one of the reasons listed above, no later than 10:00 A.M. of the day terminated, and must notify the Union of its desire to work a make-up day by noon of the day preceding the make-up day. Employees employed by the Employer on the day so "terminated" shall have the right of first refusal to work on the make-up Saturday, but said Employees shall also have the right to decline work on a make-up Saturday, without any penalty. If men are needed to work a make-up Saturday, other than those already working on the job, the Employer shall call the District Council for men before employing men secured from any other source.
23
GENERAL CONTRACTORS ASSOCIATION - TIMBERMEN - 1996 ART X ARTICLE X
Intent of Agreement - Subcontractors - Lists
Section I	- Spirit of Agreement
This Agreement and all of its terms and provisions are predicated on an effort and a spirit of bringing about more equitable conditions in the Construction Industry, and the language herein shall not be misconstrued to evade the principles or intent of this Agreement.
Section 2	- Binding Subcontractors and Other Firms
(a)	The terms, covenants and conditions of this Agreement shall be binding upon all subcontractors at the site to whom the Employer may have sublet all or part of any contract entered into by the Employer. The Employer will only award
~ on site subcontracts necessitating employment "of Employees covered by this Agreement to subcontractors who are under agreement or are willing to enter into agreement with the Union. The Employer will violate this Agreement if it willfully neglects to notify the Union in writing by certified mail or hand delivery to the offices of the District Council within thirty (30) days after an award of a subcontract necessitating employment of Employees covered by this Agreement. The Employer will not sublet to another Contractor the safety protection of openings and stairways. This does not include the planking or other protection of openings in concrete arches during the form work stage until the time of stripping; nor does it include a restriction on the subletting of sidewalk bridge construction or maintenance. Nothing in this agreement will forbid the Employer which has an agreement with the New York District
24
GENERAL CONTRACTORS ASSOCIATION - TIMBERMEN - 1996 ARTX
Council of Carpenters from hiring on its payroll on a temporary basis, Timbermen who may be performing work for other Contractors on the same job site, or to perform protection work on a time-and material basis.
(b)	This Agreement shall be binding on the Employer, its successors and/or assigns as well as any firm, be it corporation, partnership or joint venture, which the Employer, its successors and/or assigns, has, or acquires, a financial interest in.
(c)	At least five (5) working days prior to the inception of any job where the contract for Timberman work is $1,000,000 or more, the Employer shall contact the Union to arrange a conference on the job site to discuss work assignment and the application of this Agreement to the particular job.
Section 3	- Lists
(a)	The Union shall furnish monthly a list of Employers who are in default on the payment of wages and/or contributions to all Funds listed in Article XI; said list will be mailed to the Director of Labor Relations of the GCA.
(b)	The parties acknowledge that the GCA has provided the Union with a list of its members and other Employers and a notarized affidavit from each Employer who has designated the GCA as its bargaining agent, and who has agreed to be bound by the terms and conditions of this collective bargaining agreement prior to the commencement of the negotiations which have resulted in this Agreement. The GCA acknowledges its representative status of its Employer-members and any service on it shall constitute service on its Employer-members. All Employer-members who have given their assent to be
25
bound to this Agreement shall be bound during its entire term. Employers who have not agreed to be bound by this Agreement may become signatories upon written request by the GCA and upon written approval of the Union.
ARTICLE XI
Fringe Benefit Funds
Section 1 - Funds - Contributions - Collection
The Employer shall pay the amounts indicated herein, for Employees covered by this Agreement, and employed within the jurisdictional territory of the Union into a United States Treasury approved:
The District Council of Carpenters of New York City and Vicinity
-Welfare Fund (hereinafter "Welfare Fund")
-	Pension Fund (hereinafter "Pension Fund")
-	Vacation Fund (hereinafter "Vacation Fund")
-	Annuity Fund (hereinafter "Annuity Fund"
-	Apprenticeship, Journeyman Retraining Education & Industry Fund (hereinafter "AJRE&I Fund")
-Supplemental Fund (hereinafter "Supplemental Fund")
-	N.Y.C. and Vic L/M Coop Fund (hereinafter "NYCDCC Fund")
-	U.B.C. National Health and Safety, Apprenticeship Training, and Education and Development Funds (hereinafter "U.B.C. & J.A. Fund ")
All hereinafter collectively "Fringe Benefit Funds", each Fund to' be administered by Trustees, one-half (1/2) of whom shall be designated by the Union and one-half (1/2) by the Employers.
The Employer is bound by all the terms and conditions of the Agreement and Declaration 4f Trust with respect to each of the Fringe Benefit Funds, which Agreement and Declaration of Trust are hereby made part of this Agreement and shall be considered as incorporated herein.
The Employer shall pay all required Fringe Benefits by stamp.
26
GENERAL CONTRACTORS ASSOCIATION - TIMBERMEN - 1996 ART XI
The following contribution shall be paid for hours worked but not on the premium
portion of the overtime rate:
Effective Date	7/1/96	7/1/97	7/1/98	7/1/99	7/1/00	7/1/01
Welfare Fund	$7.24					
Pension Fund	$3.09					
Annuity Fund	$4.00					
AJREIF Fund	$0.50					
Vacation Fund	$4.10					
Supplemental Funds	$0.04					
NYCDCC Fund	$0.10					
UBC & JA Fund	$0,06					
Total	$19.13					
H.CI.F.	$0.25	$0.25	$0.25	$0.25	$0.25	$0.25
All Apprentices and New York Plan Trainees shall receive fifty percent (50%) of the
Pension, Annuity, and Vacation contributions in accordance with the following schedule:
Effective Date	7/1/96	7/1/97	7/1/98	7/1/99	7/1/00	7/1/01
Welfare Fund	$6.58					
Pension Fund	$ 1.55					
Annuity Fund	$2.00					
AJREIF Fund	$0.41					
Vacation Fund	$2.05					
Supplemental Funds	$0.04					
NYCDCC Fund	$0.10					
UBC & JA Fund	$0,06					
Total	$12.79					
H.CI.F.	$0.25	$0.25	$0.25	$0.25	$0.25	$0.25
In the case of Timbermen Foremen, Timbermen-Apprentice 1st and 2nd Year and New York Plan Trainees 1st and 2nd Year, contributions shall be made to the Fringe Benefit Funds on the basis of hours for which said Employee is actually paid, regardless of whether said hours are actually worked. This provision does not apply to bonus, vacation or sick pay, paid voluntarily to said Employee.
27
GENERAL CONTRACTORS ASSOCIATION - TIMBERMEN - 1996 ART XI
A stamp plan has been established which provides for the payment of contributions to the Welfare, Pension, Vacation, Annuity, A.J.R.E.& I., Supplemental Funds, UBC & J A Funds, NYCDCC Fund and the Heavy Construction Industry Fund through a consolidated stamp. The Employer will comply with procedures established by the Benefit Fund Trustees to assure that the employee receives the consolidated stamp together with his/her pay. The stamps shall be purchased through facilities established by the Bank of New York or such other agencies authorized by the Trustees.
Section 2	- Welfare Fund - New York State Disability
The Welfare Fund shall provide, without further contribution from either the Employer, an approved plan of coverage as required by the New York State Disability Benefits Law.
Section 3	- Coverage of Additional Employees Under the Welfare and Pension Plans
Every present and future salaried regular Employee of the Union, the Welfare Fund and the Pension Fund may participate in the benefits provided herein for employees of each Employer for whose benefit the aforementioned contributions are made to the Welfare Fund and Pension Fund, provided that contributions at the rates hereinbefore stated are made to the Welfare Fund and Pension Fund for or on behalf of said employees of the Union, the Welfare Fund and the Pension Fund by the respective employers of said employees.
Section 4	- Liability for Subcontractors
If the Union has furnished the Employer with the list specified in Article X, Section 3, Subdivision (a) of this Agreement, and one of its subcontractors appears on said list as being in default of payment to respective Fringe Benefit Funds provided for herein, then the Employer shall be liable to said Funds for any unpaid contributions accruing to the said listed subcontractor
28
GENERAL CONTRACTORS ASSOCIATION - TIMBERMEN - 1996 ART XI solely while said subcontractor is on the project under subcontract with said Employer. The Employer's liability commences on the date said list is furnished. The Employer will only be liable for the unpaid contribution, and in no event shall an Employer be liable for any of listed liquidated damages, interest, costs or fees for which its subcontractor maybe liable.
Section 5	- Work Stoppage for Default in Fringe Benefit Funds Contributions
Whenever an Employer is in default on payments to the Fringe Benefit Funds and reasonable notice of such default is given to the Employer, the Union may remove the Employees from the work of said Employer. If said Employees who are removed remain at the work site during regular working hours, they shall be paid for lost time not to exceed three (3) days' pay. Section 6 - Liquidated Damages
(a)	In the event the Employer fails to make contributions to the Fringe Benefit Funds as specified in Article XI, Section 1 herein, the Employer shall be obligated to pay to said Fringe Benefit Funds as liquidated damages as provided for in the Agreement and Declaration of Trust establishing such Fund.
(b)	If an audit is required of the Employer’s books and records and there is established an unpaid balance in contributions to the Fringe Benefit Funds and said unpaid balance is not paid within thirty (30) days of notification to the Employer, then in addition to the costs as set forth in (a) above, as additional liquidated damages the Employer shall be obligated to pay to said Fringe Benefit Funds five (5) percent of the unpaid contributions.
29
GENERAL CONTRACTORS ASSOCIATION - TIMBERMEN - 1996 ART XI
(c)	If thereafter, in the sole discretion of the Trustees, the matter is referred to legal counsel for collection, then in addition to the costs set forth in (a) and (b) above, the Employer shall be obligated to pay to said Fringe Benefit Funds five
(5)	percent of the unpaid contributions as attorney's fees.
(d)	It is understood that the above liquidated damages are cumulative.
(e)	In no event shall an Employer be liable for any of the above-listed liquidated damages, interest, costs, or fees for which its subcontractor may be liable.
(f)	In the event that formal proceedings are instituted before a court of competent jurisdiction by the trustees of a Benefit Fund or Funds to collect delinquent contributions to such Fund(s), and if such court renders a judgment in favor of such Fund(s), the Employer shall pay to such Fund(’s), in accordance with the judgment of the court, and in lieu of any other liquidated damages, costs, attorney's fee and/or interest, the following:
(a)	the unpaid contributions; plus
(b)	interest on the unpaid contributions determined at the prime rate of Citibank plus 2%; plus
(c)	an amount equal to the greater of -
(1)	the amount of the interest charges on the unpaid contributions as determined in (b) above, or
(2)	liquidated damages of 20% of the amount of the unpaid contributions; plus
(d)	reasonable attorney's fees and costs of the action; and
30
GENERAL CONTRACTORS ASSOCIATION - TIMBERMEN - 1996 ART XI Scholarship Fund -one and one-half cents ($0,015) per hour
The Supplemental Fund shall be established in accordance with applicable law, and any Employee authorization that is required shall be secured by the Union.
Relief and Charity Fund
The purpose of the Carpenters Relief and Charity Fund is to enable the parties to make charitable donations in the name of the carpentry industry from time to time. Said donations shall be made to duly recognized tax exempt institutions within the meaning of the Internal Revenue Code and to provide emergency assistance to bona fide victims of disaster, catastrophe and community projects for the good of the general public. The contributions shall be included in the payment of the Fringe Benefit Stamp. The Fund shall be administered by two persons, one designated by the Union and the other by the” Association. Both shall serve without pay and shall be bonded to the extent required by law. All moneys received by the Fund shall be deposited in a bank selected by the two administrators and shall be disbursed only by check signed by both administrators. At least once a year the entire balance of the Fund on hand shall be disbursed to organizations and persons who meet the qualifications set forth above. The administrators shall keep such books of record as may be necessary. Once a year the administrators shall account for all moneys received and disbursed.
Section 9- N.Y.C. and Vic L/M Coop Fund
Effective July 1, 1996 the parties to this agreement recognize the N.Y.C. and Vic L/M Coop Fund . The Committee will be funded by contributions of ten cents ($0.10) per hour worked through the Trusts Funds Stamp Plan. Said contributions shall be made in accordance with all applicable Federal and State Laws pertaining thereto.
32
GENERAL CONTRACTORS ASSOCIATION - TIMBERMEN - 1996 ART XI
If any of the above allocations are determined, in the opinion of counsel, legally improper, then in that event said allocation may be allocated by the union to a presently existing Fringe Benefit Fund or to another fund to be established by the Union and the Employer.
The Employer and the union acknowledge that they are represented by their duly designated trustees to administer the various Fringe Benefit Trust Funds provided for in this contract. Because of the various liabilities and responsibilities placed upon all parties to this agreement, including all contractors and union representatives and their respectively designated trustees, each contractor hereby agrees that the Fringe Benefit Fund Trustees shall have the necessary powers to fulfill their fiduciary obligations in order to fully protect each employer signed to this agreement and their employee-beneficiaries under the respective fund plans Section 10 - UBC National Health and Safety. Apprenticeship Training and Education and Development Funds
In addition to any contributions called for herein, the parties agree that the Employer shall make a contribution of two cents ($0.02) per hour worked for each Employee covered by this agreement to the United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners Apprenticeship & Training Fund of North America (the "Training Fund"). The parties also agree that the Employer shall make a contribution of two cents ($0.02) per hour worked for each Employee covered by this agreement to the United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners Health and Safety Fund of North America (the " Health and Safety Fund"). The parties agree that the Employer shall make a contribution of two cents ($0.02) per hour worked for each Employee covered to the United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners Labor-Management Education and Development Fund. The Employer hereby agrees to be bound by the trust indenture agreement applicable to the U.B.C. Health & Safety, Apprenticeship Training and Education and Development Funds as they exist and as they
33
GENERAL CONTRACTORS ASSOCIATION - TIMBERMEN - 1996 ART XI might be amended or restated, and to such rules, regulations and other governing documents adopted pursuant to such Trusts.
Section 11 - Arbitration
Should any dispute or disagreement arise between the parties hereto, or between the Union and any Employer-member signatory hereto, concerning any claim arising from payments to the Fund of principal and/or interest which is allegedly due, either party may seek arbitration of the dispute before the impartial arbitrator designated hereunder by filing a notice of intent to arbitrate in writing with said impartial arbitrator and serving a copy of said notice on the Association and the Employer, or the Union, as the case may be in the manner permitted by law. Unless a waiver is mutually agreed to in writing by the parties hereto, a hearing shall be convened within twenty (20) days of submission, and the arbitrator shall submit his award within twenty (20) days of the close of the hearing.
The arbitrator shall have lull and complete authority to decide any and all issues raised by the submission and to award appropriate damages. The arbitrator's award in this regard shall be final and binding upon the parties hereto and the individual Employer, if any, and shall be wholly enforceable in any court of competent jurisdiction. The cost of the arbitration, including the fees to be paid to the arbitrator, shall be included in the award and shall be borne by the losing party.
Roger Maher, Esq., Robert Herdoz, Esq. or Joseph Lipowski, Esq. is hereby designated as impartial arbitrator hereunder. In the event Roger Maher, Robert Herdoz or Joseph Lipowski, Esq. is unwilling or unable to serve as impartial arbitrator, the New York State Board of Mediation shall designate an impartial arbitrator to serve in his place and stead.
34
GENERAL CONTRACTORS ASSOCIATION - TIMBERMEN - 1996 ART XI,XII
The agreement of the parties to submit said matters regarding the payment of contributions to an arbitrator does not excuse an Employer from any statutory, civil or criminal liability which may attach to his actions under Municipal, State or Federal law. The submission of a matter to arbitration is in no way meant to affect the right of the Union to remove its members from an Employer's premises, as provided for in this Agreement.
ARTICLE XII
Surety Bond
Section 1
Any Employer whose records have been audited by the Funds' Auditors and the most recent audit shows a material discrepancy is required to post a bond as set forth in Article XII, Section 2 of this agreement.
A new Employer whose records have never been audited by the Funds' auditors shall be required to post a bond as set forth in this Article XII, Section 2. A new Employer upon completion of an audit by the Funds' Auditors, and said audit reveals no material discrepancy, shall not be required to continue to post a bond.
An Employer affiliated by common ownership with a contributing Employer shall not be deemed to be a new employer for the purpose of this clause and this Agreement.
Section 2
Those Employers covered by this Agreement who are required to post a bond shall provide a Surety Bond in the following amounts:
an Employer employing 1 to 5 Employees	$ 5,000
an Employer employing 6 to 10 Employees	$10,000
35
GENERAL CONTRACTORS ASSOCIATION - TIMBERMEN	■ 1996 ART XII, XIII,XIV
an Employer employing 11 to 15 Employees	$ 15,000
an Employer employing 16 to 25 Employees	$ 25,000
an Employer employing 26 to 50 Employees	$ 50,000
an Employer employing 51 and over Employees	$100,000
ARTICLE XIII
NEW YORK STATE
The Employer agrees that if it performs any service or work described in the Trade Agreements of the Local County Carpenter Union within the geographic jurisdiction of the state, it shall be bound by all the terms and conditions of the Trade Agreement applicable to the location where said service or work is being performed for the period of time that said service or work is being performed in said location in the same manner as if it were a direct signatory to the applicable Trade Agreement, provided the Union furnishes to the G.C.A. said Trade Agreement for review.
ARTICLE XIV
Heavy Construction Industry Fund
In order to adequately protect the Heavy Construction Industry and in the interests of the Employees in the Industry, each Employer shall contribute to the Heavy Construction Industry Fund twenty-five cents ($0.25) effective January 1, 1994, applied only to the straight time payroll of each Employee. No contributions shall be made to this Fund on the premium portion of the overtime of the payroll of the Employees covered by this Agreement.
£
This Fund is designed for, but not limited to, the following purposes: 1) to increase employment opportunities through promotional activities which will increase the use of the
36
GENERAL CONTRACTORS ASSOCIATION - TIMBERMEN - 1996 ART XIV Industry and its Employees covered under this Agreement; 2) to acquaint Employers and Employees with the most efficient safety regulations for the safety of the Employees as well as the training of Employees in first aid and other safety programs; 3) to provide financial aid, guidance and assistance to the New York Plan for Training to assist the training of minorities and women for employment in the Industry in conformity with various governmental regulations; 4) to conduct educational research directed at the utilization of new and safer machines and equipment for the protection of Employees covered under this Agreement; 5) to provide and to assure equitable Industry labor relations through established Grievance Panels and Arbitrations and for the expeditious and equitable hearings of the grievances of Employees and Employers covered herein; 6) to assist in defraying the costs of the time spent by trustees representing management in connection with their work for and attendance at trustee meetings of the Benefit Funds in behalf of and for the benefit of the Employees covered herein and 7) for the administrative costs in supervising and administering the above in behalf of this Fund.
Payment to this fund shall be included in the consolidated stamp. The bank servicing the Benefit Funds shall deliver all such contributions to the Heavy Construction Industry Fund after verifying that the amount of each such contribution has been correctly computed by the Employer. All costs for clerical, legal and administrative services will be borne by the Heavy Construction Industry Fund. The Fund agrees to indemnify and to hold harmless the Union from any and all claims, actions and/or proceedings arising out of said Fund. There shall be no commingling of the check with Funds of the Union. The parties are authorized to adopt other procedures to implement the collection of this contribution.
37
GENERAL CONTRACTORS ASSOCIATION - TIMBERMEN - 1996 ART XIV,XV Each Employer voluntarily authorizes the collection of the contribution per hour Fund and each Employer shall be bound by all terms and conditions of the Agreement and Declaration of Trust of the Heavy Construction Industry Fund and by all By-Laws adopted to regulate said Fund.
ARTICLE XV
Legality
Any provision of this Agreement which provides for union security or employment in a manner and to an extent prohibited by any law or the determination of any governmental board or agency, shall be and hereby is of no force or effect during the term of any such prohibition. It is understood and agreed, however, that if any of the provisions which are hereby declared to be of no force or effect because of restrictions imposed by law is or are determined either by Act of Congress or other legislative enactment or by a decision of the court of highest recourse to be legal or permissible, then any such provisions shall immediately become and remain effective during the remainder of the term of this Agreement. In the event that there shall be changes in applicable laws as to Union security, the parties shall renegotiate any provisions concerning union security.
In the event that any provisions of this Agreement shall be declared to be in violation of law, the remaining provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have hereunder signed this Agreement by their duly authorized representatives the day and year above-written.
38
GENERAL CONTRACTORS ASSOCIATION - TIMBERMEN - 1996
THE DISTRICT COUNCIL OF CARPENTERS OF NEW YORK CITY AND VICINITY OF THE UNITED BROTHERHOOD OF CARPENTERS AND JOINERS OF AMERICA, AFFILIATED WITH THE AFL-CIO FOR TIMBERMENS LOCAL 1536
FOR AND ON BEHALF OF, AND AUTHORIZED BY THE MEMBERS OF THE GENERAL CONTRACTORS ASSOCIATION OF NEW YORK, INC. AND OTHER EMPLOYERS WHO HAVE APPOINTED THE GENERAL CONTRACTORS ASSOCIATION OF NEW YORK, INC. AS THEIR COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGENT, WHOSE NAMES ARE ATTACHED HERETO
tore of the District
Council
By.
Authored Si
IN EXHIBIT I
39