LABOR AGREEMENT 45^ ec
By and Between
WEYERHAEUSER COMPANY MID-SOUTH WOOD PRODUCTS
AND
WOODWORKERS DISTRICT W-2 INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MACHINISTS AND AEROSPACE WORKERS AND ITS LOCAL LODGE W15
March 1, 2003
Expires March 1, 2007

CONTENTS
(Article # in parenthesis)
Breaks (XXVI)------------------------------------   48
Bulletin Boards (XLlll)---------------------------- 59
Change or Modification (XL1V)---------------------- 60
Check Off (IV)-------------------------------------- 5
Compensable Injuries (XXVII)----------------------- 49
Continuous Employment (XXTV)----------------------- 43
Continuous Operation (III)-------------------------- 3
Contracting Out (XLI)----------------------------   59
Disciplinary Procedures (XX)----------------------- 44
Distribution of Overtime (XXXIX)-------------------— 56
Fire-Fighting (XXI)-------------------------------- 46
Funeral Leave (XXXVI)------------------------------— 54
Grievance Committee, Stewards & Bargaining
Committee (VI)---------------------------------  10
Grievance Procedures (VII)------------------------- 12
Health, Safety & Sanitation (XXXIU)---------------- 52
Holidays (XVI)-----------------------------------   35
Hours of Work (XII)------------------------------   31
Insurance (XXXI)-----------------------------------— 51
Jury Duty (XXXVII)-------------------------------   54
Leadman (XXXV Ill)--------------------------------- 55
Leaves of Absence (XVIII)-------------------—------ 41
Management’s Rights (II)---------------------------- 2
Non-Discrimination (XXVIII)------------------------ 49
Overtime & Premium Pay (XI)----------------------   30
Pension Plan (XXXII)------------------------------- 52
Probationary Employees (XIX)----------------------- 43
Recognition (I)------------------------------------- 1
Reporting Pay & Call-Ins (XIII)-------------------- 33
Safety Committeemen (XXX)-------------------------  50
Safety Devices (XXIX)------------------------------ 49
Seniority (VIII)----------------------------------- ] 5
Seniority Lists (IX)------------------------------  28
Shift Differential (XIV)----------------------------- 34
Shift Preference (XL)-------------------------------- 58
Shop Tools (XXV)------------------------------------- 48
Substance Abuse (XXXIV)------------------------------ 5 3
Supervisors, Work by (XXII)-------------------------- 47
Temporary Transfers (XV)----------------------------- 34
Termination (XLV)------------------------------------ 60
Timberlands Travel Pay (XLII)------------------------ 59
Time Off For Voting (XXXV)--------------------------- 53
Union Officers’ Access to Plant---------------------- 47
Union Security (V)------------------------------------ 7
Vacations (XVII)------------------------------------- 38
Voting, Time Off For (XXXV)-------------------------- 53
Wages (X)-------------------------------------------- 28
Work by Supervisors (XXII)--------------------------- 47
Exhibits/MisceHaneous
Asst Supply Clerks OJT & Promotion Prog. (Exhibit F)- 63
Energies/Utilities Program (Exhibit G\--------------- 63
Geographic Areas (Exhibit J)------------------------- 65
Health Care (Exhibit L)------------------------------ 65
Lines of Progression--------------------------------- 66
Maintenance Training Program (Exhibit B)------------- 62
Maintenance Work Areas for Distribution of Overtime &
Shift Preference (Exhibit I)---------------------- 63
Miscellaneous Wage Rate Provisions-----------------   62
Pension Plan (Exhibit D)----------------------------- 62
Skills Training Prog, for Filers &. Grinders (Exhibit E)— 63
Timberlands Training & Progression Guidelines (Exhibit C)------------------------------------------ 62
Wage Schedules--------------------------------------- 68
LABOR AGREEMENT
This Agreement, by and between Weyerhaeuser Company, Mid-South Wood Products, hereinafter referred to as the "Company," and the Woodworkers District W-2, International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers, and its Local Lodge WI5, hereinafter referred to as the "Union;" WITNESSETH:
ARTICLE 1 RECOGNITION
Section I
THe Company recognizes the Woodworkers District W-2. International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers, and its Local Lodge W15 as the sole collective bargaining agent for all production and maintenance employees engaged in lagging at its facilities and shops at Wright City, Oklahoma, and at Dierks and Mountain Pine, Arkansas, and all production and maintenance employees at its plants at Wright City, Oklahoma, and at DeQueen, Dierks and Mountain Pine, Arkansas, with the following exceptions:
Office clerical employees, professional employees, supervisory employees, watchmen and guards, as defined by the National Labor Relations Act.
Section II
The Union agrees that the Company shall have complete, unlimited, exclusive and unilateral rights concerning all phases of any new facility or expansion of an existing facility for a period of time beginning with the first day of construction of said facility (or facilities) and ending four months (120 calendar days) after the first marketable product is produced by or processed through said facility (or facilities). Upon the expiration of said time period, the new or expanded facilities will be considered a pari of the existing facilities for purposes
of collective bargaining. It is agreed that the term "all phases" as used above includes, but is not limited to, establishment of wage rates, hiring employees, terminating employees, transferring employees, hours of work, seniority, all overtime practices, training and general operation of the facility involved. Expansion of an existing facility as used herein contemplates a significant expansion and not a minor expansion such as the addition of a small production machine in a production machine center.
For the purpose of this article, the Company agrees that it will give consideration to any present employee who requests employment in a new or expanded facility and that it will automatically, without request, give such consideration to any employee who is laid off but otherwise eligible for employment.
ARTICLE n MANAGEMENTS RIGHTS
Section I
Except as explicitly limited by a specific provision or provisions of this Agreement, the Company shall continue to have the exclusive right to take any action it deems appropriate in the management of this operation and the direction of the work force in accordance with its judgment. AU inherent and commoti'Iaw management functions and prerogatives which the Company has not expressly modified or restricted by a special provision of this Agreement are retained and vested exclusively in the Company and are not subject to arbitration under this Agreement.
Section II
The Company specifically reserves the exclusive right to, in accordance with its judgment, reprimand, suspend, discharge, or otherwise discipline employees for proper cause; hire, promote, retire, demote, transfer, layoff and recall employees to
2
work; determine employee competency and qualification; maintain the efficiency of employees; close down the operation or any part thereof or expand, reduce, alter, combine, transfer, assign, or cease any job, department, operation or service, control and regulate the use of machinery, equipment, and other property of the Company; determine the number, location and operation of plants and divisions and departments thereof, the products to be handled, the schedules of production, the assignment of work and the size and composition of the work force, make or change. rules, policies, and practices not in conflict with the provisions of this Agreement; introduce new or improved research, development, production, maintenance, services and distribution methods, machinery and equipment, and otherwise generally manage the operation, direct the work force, place production and maintenance work with outside contractors and establish terms and conditions of employment, except as expressly modified or restricted by a specific provision or provisions of this Agreement.
Section III
The Company's not exercising any Junction hereby reserved to it, or its exercising any such function in a particular way, shall not be deemed to be a waiver of its rights to exercise such function or preclude the Company from exercising the same in ■ some other way not in conflict with the express provision of this Agreement.
article hi
CONTINUOUS OPERATION
Section I
The Union and its Local agree that neither of them will authorize, encourage, or assist in any way a strike, walkout, work stoppage, slowdown, or other similar interruption of work.
3
Section II
In the event that any member or members of the Local Union or the International Union shall call, engage in, sanction or assist in any strike, walkout, work stoppage, slowdown or other similar interruption of work, or shall refuse in concert or solicit concerted refusal to perform their regularly assigned services, when directed to do so by the Company, then the Local Union and the International Union and their officers and directors agree.to the following:
A. That the Company may take whatever disciplinary action it deems appropriate, including discharge, and that the degree of such disciplinary action shall not be reviewable through the complaint procedure and the arbitration procedure provided for in this Agreement, except upon the ground that the employee did not participate in the strike, walkout, work stoppage, slowdown, or other similar interruption of work or tliat the Company discriminated against an employee in the disciplinary action taken hereunder; and
B, That each of them jointly and severally, will immediately disavow and refuse to recognize any picket line or lines established as a result of conduct prohibited by this Article, and in addition, each will do everything within their respective powers to secure the disestablishment and disbanding of any picket line or lines; and
C. That each of them, jointly and severally, shall immediately take or cause to be taken all affirmative action to demand, cause and require each and every member to perform the terms and conditions of (his Agreement.
Section HI
In the event that any member or members of the Local Union or the International Union shall call, engage in, sanction, or assist in any conduct prohibited by this Article, the Company agrees
4
that it will not file or prosecute any action for damages arising out of said strike, walkout, work stoppage, slowdown, or other similar interruption of work, against the Local Union, its officers, representatives, or individual members, provided that the Local Union, it officers, and representatives, perform their obligations and responsibilities as set forth in this Article, or against the International Union, it officers and representatives, provided that they perform their obligation and responsibilities as set forth in this Article.
Section IV
Nothing in Section III above shall preclude any right to which the Company was previously entitled to seek legal redress of any individual who has caused damage, injury to, or loss of Company property.
Section V
During the term of this Agreement, the Company shall not cause, permit, or engage in any Lockout.
ARTICLE IV CHECK OFF
Section I
The Company, on receipt of written authorization from a permanent employee, shall deduct from the pay of such employee the initiation fee and monthly dues (or equivalent thereof) in accordance with the amounts specified in writing to the Company by an authorized Union official. The amount deducted, together with a list of the employees involved, will be remitted to the Financial Secretary of the Local Union monthly, as soon as practical after the second deduction.
Half (equal increments) of the monthly dues amount will be payroll deducted from the employee's check on the first and second pay periods of each month. The Union will submit a properly completed Payroll Deduction Authorization to Payroll
5
Services. The deductions shall occur within the designated pay period in which the check-off and deduction authorization is received.
If an employee is not entitled to a pay check during the period when dues deductions are made because he/she has not earned wages during the period, deductions according to the provisions of this Article will be made from his/her wages on the first pay period designated for Union dues deductions after he/she has returned to the active payroll.
The Union agrees to indemnify and hold the Company harmless against any claim which may be made by reason of these deductions.
Section II
Weyerhaeuser’s standard Payroll Deduction Authorization form will suffice as written authorization for payroll deduction of union dues. Employees will be required to sign an Authorization for Check Off statement as follows:
AUTHORIZATION FOR CHECK OFF
TO: WEYERHAEUSER COMPANY
(Date)
I hereby assign, from my earnings now or hereafter payable to me from the Employer, to Woodworkers District W-2, International Association of Machinists and .Aerospace Workers, and its Local Lodge W15, or its successor, a sum equal to Union membership dues and, if owing by me, an initiation fee, as certified to the Employer by the Local.
This assignment and authorization is in consideration of the costs of representation and collective bargaining and is not contingent upon my membership in the Union.
6
Pursuant to this assignment and irrespective of my present or future membership status in the Union, I authorize and direct you to deduct, while 1 am employed in the represented bargaining unit of the Employer, such sum equal to membership dues and, if owing by me, an initiation fee, as certified to the Employer by the Local.
Regardless of my membership status, this assignment and authorization shah be lire vocable until a date one year from its effective date, or until the date on which the current collective bargaining agreement between the Employer and the Union is terminated, whichever is earlier. I agree and direct that this assignment and authorization shall be automatically renewed, and shall be irrevocable for successive periods of one (1) year from its effective date, or for the period of each succeeding applicable collective bargaining agreement between the Employer and the Union, whichever period is shorter. This assignment and authorization may only be revoked by written notice by individual registered mail, return receipt requested, given by me to the Employer and the Union, postmarked not more than twenty (20) days and not less than ten (10) days prior to the expiration date of each one-year period, or the expiration date of each applicable collective bargaining agreement between Ute Employer and the Union, whichever is earlier.
This authorization and assignment supersedes all previous authorizations and assignments.
S i gnature o f Emplo yee_________________________________
Address______________________________
Employee Number. 
ARTICLE V UNION SECURITY
Section I
It is recognized by the parties hereto that the Union serves a definite function for all employees in the bargaining unit
7
whether or not they are members of the Union. In consideration of the services'rendered by the Union in behalf of all such employees, they shall be required as a condition of employment to pay the Union either:
A.	Regular monthly membership dues in the case of employees who are or become members of the Union, or
B.	An amount of money equivalent to regular monthly membership dues in the case of employees who are not members of the Union as a service charge to the Union for negotiating and administering the contract.
AND
C.	The regular initiation fee in the case of employees who become members of the Union, or
D.	An amount of money equivalent to the regular initiation fee in the case of new employees who are not members of the Union for negotiating and administering the contract.
Section II
All such regular monthly membership dues and initiation fees, or equivalent charges, may be deducted as provided in the Check Off Article of this Agreement.
Section III
The Company will discharge any employee who fails to pay or tender to the Union his regular monthly membership dues or initiation tee in the case of members of the Union, or an amount of money equivalent thereto in the case of non-members.
Section IV
rfhe Union's request for discharge of any employee delinquent in payment of his regular monthly membership dues and initiation fee of an amount of money equivalent thereto shall be made in writing, giving at least two (2) weeks notice to the employee and to the Company.
8
Each such employee shall have at least two (2) weeks from receipt of notice to :
A.	Appeal the Union's statement, or
B.	Pay his regular monthly membership dues and/or initiation fee or such equivalent amount of money.
Section V
This article shall be applicable thirty-one (31) days after the effective date of the foregoing provisions for present employees who are not members of the Union and thirty-one (31) days after the date of hire for all new employees after the effective date ofsaidprovisions.
Present employees, on the effective date of this Agreement, who are not members of the Union, shall not be subject to the initiation fee provisions of this .Article, unless they later become members of the Union and an initiation fee is applicable.
Section VI
The Company will furnish to the Union on the first of each month a list of all new employees, along with their addresses, and a list of employees whose employment has been terminated.
Section VII
The above previsions of the Union Security clause do not apply in any State where such provisions are prohibited by State law.
Section VIII
The Union agrees to indemnify and hold the Company harmless against any claim which may be, made by anyone by reason of a discharge resulting from the application of this Article.
ARTICLE VI
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE, STEWARDS AND BARGAININGTOftlMi T1 Efe
Section I	Grievance Committee. The Union shall elect for the loll owing plants or operations as follows:
Wright City	1)	Lumber	One (I)
	2)	Plywood	One (I)
	3)	Maintenance	One (1)
	4)	Raw Materials	One (])
	5)	Chief Steward	
Dierks .	0	Lumber	One (1)
	2)	Veneer	One (1)
	3)	Maintenance	One (])
	4)	Raw Materials	One (1)
	5)	Chief Steward	
Mountain Pine	1)	Plywood Dry	Onefl)
	2)	Plywood Green	One (1)
	3)	Maintenance	One (1)
	4)	Chief Steward	
Timberlands	1)	Oklahoma	Two (2)
	2)	Arkansas	Two (2)
DeQueen Shop			Three (3)
DeQueen Treating			Three (3)
In those locations that have a Chief Steward, the Chief Steward shall be the Grievance Committee Chair. All other locations shall elect, or appoint, their Grievance Committee Chair from the members of the Grievance Committee.
Each of these committees shall be known as the "Complex Grievance Committee,” and shall represent its employees’ group at the 3r(3 step of the grievance procedure for the purpose
10
of grievances arising out of this agreement. At 2n<i step the Grievance Committee shall be made up of up to four (4) shop stewards and the Grievance Committee representative from that plant or operation and the Chief Steward.
Section II	Shop Stewards
An adequate number of shop stewards shall be elected or appointed by the Local Union at each plant or operation. Stewards will be required to fully perform the duties of their jobs with the Company the same as any other employee; however, this shall not be construed to prohibit the stewards and the grieved employee from discussing a first step grievance with their immediate supervisor during working hours provided there is no interruption of work as a result of this discussion.
Section III
The Union shall elect from among the membership employees who shall be known as the Bargaining Committee and shall represent the Union and all bargaining unit employees for the purpose of bargaining with the Company on wages, hours of work and other conditions of employment.
Section IV
The Union shall furnish the Company in writing the names of the Shop Stewards, members of the Grievance Committee and members of the Bargaining Committee and will promptly inform the Company in writing whenever changes are made.
The Company shall identify to the Union appropriate department heads for grievance handling purposes.
ARTICLE Vn
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURES
Section I
Grievances under this Agreement shall be limited to those disputes arising over the interpretation of and compliance with its provisions.
Should any grievance arise between the Company and the Union or any.of (he Company's bargaining unit employees, it is understood and agreed that the employee involved shall continue to perform the work assigned unless it would endanger his life, limb or safety, or the life, limb or safety of another or others.
Grievances shall be handled in the following maxmen
STEP 1 Within seven (7) calendar days after knowledge of the incident giving rise to the grievance, the employee, with or without his/her Shop Steward will present the grievance orally to the employee’s immediate Supervisor. It is agreed this shall be an informal and personal but earnest effort. If the grievance cannot be settled immediately, the supervisor and steward, and grievant where appropriate, will jointly investigate the facts and complete a Joint Investigation form. Joint investigation forms generated by this joint fact findin g.process will not be submitted by either party in arbitration hearings. If the grievance is then not satisfactorily settled within seven (7) calendar days, the grievance will immediately be put in writing on the proper form and submitted to the Supervisor, If the oral step is by-passed, the grievance shall be referred back to the oral step. The Supervisor shall respond in writing within seven (7) calendar days and his/her response shall be submitted to the Shop
12
Steward, Settlements made by either party at this step shall be non-precedence setting and will not be referred to in future issues. If a settlement cannot be reached, then the shop steward shall submit the grievance to the Grievance Committee which shall be taken up with the Management. A request for a meeting with the Management on any specific grievance must be made within fourteen (14) calendar days after the receipt by the Union of the Supervisor’s answer as provided above.
Grievances which arise as a result of a discharge shall be submitted in writing and will be initiated at the STEP 2 level.
STEP 2 If the grievance is not settled at Step 1, then within fourteen (14) days, the grievance shall be further handled between the 2n^ level of management or designee, and/or Human Resource Manager, and the Grievance Committee. An earnest effort shall be made to have the Grievant and immediate Supervisor attend this meeting. The Company shall give its answer in writing to the Chair of the Grievance Committee within seven (7) calendar days after the Step 2 meeting.
STEP 3 If the grievance is not thus settled, then within fourteen (14) calendar days, the grievance shall be further handled by a meeting between the 3r^ level of management or designee and/or Human Resources Manager, the Grievance Committee, and the Business Agent of the Union and/or his representative. Grievances handled by the 2n^ level of management at Step 2 will not be handled at Step 3 by the same individual.
13
The Manager’s .answer shah be furnished in writing in the form provided within seven (7) calendar days after the STEP 3 meeting is held and such answer shall be directed to the Business Agent, or his representative, who attended the STEP 3 meeting and the Chair of the Grievance Committee.
Section II
Should the STEP 3 decision of the Manager be unsatisfactory' and the Union desires to process the matter further, the complaint may be submitted to Arbitration within seven (7) calendar days following the date of the next scheduled meeting of the Sub-Local for the location where such grievance was filed.
The Union and the Company will first attempt to agree on an Arbitrator. If they cannot agree upon an Arbitrator, the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service shall be asked to furnish a panel of seven (7) Arbitrators from whom an Arbitrator may be selected. If no agreement can be reached from the first panel, then a second panel of seven (7) shall be requested immediately. The Union and the Company shall determine by lot the order of elimination, and thereafter each shall, in that order, alternately strike one (1) name from the panel until only one (1) name remains. This person shall be the Arbitrator.
The decision of the Arbitrator shall be final and binding upon all parties of this Agreement.
The Arbitrator shall have no power to add to or subtract from or modify any of the terms of this Agreement or any Agreement made supplementary hereto nor to establish or change any wage, except as specifically provided for in Section II of Article X. Any case referred to Arbitration on which he has no power to rule shall be referred back to the parties without decision. The cost of the Arbitrator shall be borne equally by both parties concerned. The parties recognize that prompt decisions are
14
desirable in cases that go to Arbitration and feel that, absent of unusual circumstances, decisions should be handed down within thirty (30) days alter the final submission of a case.
The Union will be allowed to arbitrate not more than tliree (3) grievances and no more than one (1) of these can be a case involving termination. A grievance must be scheduled with an arbitrator within twelve (12) months from the date of referral or it shall be considered settled. Cases with increasing continuing liability will be given priority for early hearing dates.
Grievances not presented or answered within the time limits specified shall be considered settled. The limits can be extended by mutual agreement.
ARTICLE Vin SENIORITY
Section I Types of Seniority and Departments
A.	For the purpose of this Agreement there shall be one type of seniority. Company.
B.	Company seniority is the length of continuous sendee with the Weyerhaeuser Company and its predecessors in a bargaining unit job covered by tliis Agreement.
C.	The following are the departments of each plant or o peration:
1.	MANUFACTURING
a. Treating Plant
I)	Pole Peeler
2)	Framing
3)	Kilns
15
4)	M an u 1 acturin g Transpo riat inn
5)	Treating
6)	Shipping
7)	Effluent/Environmental
ft) Service Crew
9) Maintenance & Electrical
Wright City
1)	Green End (includes Raw Materials, Sawmill, Kilns)
2)	Planer Mil'll
3)	Shipping
4)	Powerhouse & Yard Crew (Utility)
5)	Maintenance & Electrical
6)	Filing & Grinding
7)	Hardwood Sawmill
Wright City Plywood
I)	Green Veneer (includes Dry Veneer)
2)	Lay-Up
3)	Finishing & Shipping
Mountain Pine Plywood
1)	Green Veneer (includes Raw Materials & Dry Veneer)
2)	Filing and Grinding
3)	Lay-Up
4)	Finishing & Shipping
5)	Maintenance & Ipectrical
6)	Powerhouse & Utility
Dierks
1)	Raw Materials
2)	Sawmill
4)	Kilns, Powerhouse & Utility Crew
5)	Maintenance & Electrical
16
6)	Filing & Grinding
7)	Planer & Shipping
f. Dierks Veneer
1)	Veneer
2.	TIMBERLANDS
1)	Forestry
2)	Construction
3.	DEQUEEN SHOPS
Section H
j\. Permanent vacancies in Manufacturing and Raw Materials shall be filled according to the provisions of this section.
B.	All employees shall be entitled to fill vacancies under the following conditions.
1)	A description of all biddable vacancies within a geographical complex (or plant where applicable) shall be posted on all complex boards for a period of at least five (5) days before initial selection to fill such vacancy is made.
Biddable jobs are those jobs with rates of pay above the base rate for that specific plant, excluding all jobs above the entry level in training programs and lines of progression.
2)	Employees who work within a complex shall have the right to bid on a vacancy within the complex.
3)	Filling of the vacancy with the bidder processing the most Company seniority, subject to the limitations of Section IV below.
17
C.	The posted descriptions in A(l) above shall identity jobs by the location, shift, and rate. An eligible employee may apply for these jobs by completing the forms provided by the Company and delivering said forms to his immediate Supervisor.
Section III
A Permanent vacancies in Timberlands shall be tilled according to the provisions of this section.
B.	All Timberlands employees shall be entitled to fill vacancies within their operation under the following conditions:
1)	A description of all biddable vacancies within the applicable operation shall be posted on the bulletin board for a period of at least five (5) days before the selection to fill such vacancy is made.
Biddable jobs are those jobs with rates of pay above the base rate for that specific operation, excluding all jobs above the entry level in training programs and lines of progression.
2)	The filling of the vacancy with the bidder possessing the most Company seniority subject to the limitations of Sect ion IV below,
C.	The Company will post, for informational purposes, a list of all Timberlands jobs classifications and the applicable wage rate.
D.	The Company will utilize existing bulletin boards at the following Timberiands locations for the purposes of complying with B and C above:
18
1)	Mountain Pine
2)	Dierks
3)	Wright City
Copies of the job postings will be made available at the forestry units.
Section IV
"A. IrT filling the vacancies described in Sections If and [JI above, the Company is entitled to take business needs fully into account. Such consideration, however, shall be limited to the following factors;
1)	The successful bidder must possess the minimum qualifications necessary to perform the job with reasonable trial and training periods not to exceed thirty (30) working days, taking into account where applicable to the job in question prior training, experience, physical ability, aptitude and overall general employment records. This time limit may be extended by mutual agreement of the Company and Local Union.
2)	The rate of pay applicable to the new job shall become effective upon permanent assignment to the classification. Retro-pay for the time worked during the trial and training period will be made upon this permanent assignment. A successful bidder need not be considered for another job for a period of four (4) months. A successful bidder is identified as the employee who successfully completes the trial period and is permanently assigned to fill the vacancy.
3)	Certain few jobs as reasonably determined by the employer in the CBU require special skill and training so that progression through certain other jobs is necessary, and promotions beyond the entry level
19
jobs within such lines shall be based on Company seniority and reasonable residence requirements in the job below the vacant job to acquire the specific skills and training. In the event the Company feels that an employee lacks such skills and training at the time an opening occurs in the job‘above but the Union disagrees, the employee shall be given a reasonable trial period in the higher job not to exceed thirty (30) working days. An employee may not refuse a promotion under this subparagraph if he/she has fulfilled the residency requirements except on the basis that he/she is physically incapable of performing the work or he/she is not qualified to perform the work. If an employee, for any of the reasons permitted by this sub-paragraph, declines promotion, he/she must do so in writing. He/she may subsequently reinstate the right to promotion, in writing, but may not be promoted to the higher job until at least one person has been permanently promoted around him/her.
B. The only base rated jobs that are subject to bid are those that are entry jobs into a progression or a skills training program.
Section V
Ai Entry' level positions in plant maintenance, timberlands maintenance, sawfilers and grinders and energy/utilities and all other progressive training programs shall be subject to the job posting procedure provided in Section II and III above. Promotion within these programs shall be governed by the terms of Exhibits B, C, E and F, respectively. The Company may hire qualified personnel, above the entry level, according to the provisions of the respective plan.
20
B.	The Company may use only such tests as have been validated as demonstrably relevant io performance of the particular jobs in question.
C.	Any employee who is removed from any training program due to lack of ability to progress through said program will be assigned to other work as follows:
1)	If the employee has been in the training program for four (4) months or less, such employee will be returned to the former position held immediately prior to entering the training program, provided the employee is fully qualified to efficiently perform the work.
2)	If the employee has been in the training program for more than four (4) months, such employee may exercise Company seniority to displace an employee in the department where the employee worked immediately prior to entering the training program. This displacement can only occur on job classifications for which the employee is fully qualified to efficiently perform the work. .
D.	The Company will assume the responsibility of providing adequate training opportunity in all phases of the training programs.
Section VI
In all plants and operations, an employee accepting assignment under the procedures in Sections II, III and IV A(3), to a different classification will be given a fair trial and trainingperiod at the rate of pay applicable to the new job, not to exceed thirty (30) working days. If, during the period, the Company finds that necessary ability is lacking, the employee shall return to his former position without waiting for the expiration of the thirty (30) working days. If the Company
21
agrees that the employee's work is satisfactory by the end of the thirty (30) working days, the employee shall have no further claim to his old job. If an employee is returned to his former position before thirty (30) working days, the next senior qualified applicant shall be given the opportunity to qualify for the job. This time limit can be extended by mutual agreement of the Company and the Union.
Section VII
Ff no applications are on file for a permanent vacancy or if no applicant^ meet the qualification standards described in Section D of this Article, the Company may till the vacancy from any source available.
B.	The Company will accept downward job bids in the event of disability supported by objective evidence or in those situations where the vacancy created by the employee's move would not cause loss of acceptable production. It is understood the Company would control the timing of these moves.
C.	Temporary replacements employed during their vacation period or on a part-time basis shall not accnie seniority nor shall they be employed in such a way as to deprive regular employees of recall or promotion rights.
All temporary replacements employed in a plant and performing bargaining unit work shall be laid off before any bargaining unit employees are laid off from that plant provided such bargaining unit employees arc fully qualified to efficiently perform the work required and the duration of the lay off is to be more than one (1) day.
D.	New employees shall not become entitled to seniority or the provisions of the grievance procedures as defined in this Agreement until after forty-five (45) days worked, after which seniority shall date from date of hire.
E.	Maintenance assignments outside the work location normally occupied will not be made for disciplinary or other reasons not connected with maintenance needs.
F.	When it is determined that a maintenance employee will be permanently reassigned from one work area to another, the least Company senior employee in the affected classification in the work area being reduced will be reassigned. After assignment to the new work area, the reassigned employee will be permitted to exercise shift preference under the provisions of Article XL, Shift Preference.
Section VIII
jY In case of temporary layoffs or reduction of force, employees will be laid off the equipment, operation or job involved.
B.	When a temporary layoff or reduction of force lasting more than one (1) day but not exceeding five (5) work days occurs, employees who are laid off from the job affected may exercise their company seniority on entry level jobs in the affected department provided they are able to efficiently perform the work on a normal production basis,
C.	In case of layoffs or reduction of forces exceeding five (5) work days, but not to exceed thirty (30) work days, employees may exercise Company seniority to displace the least senior employee in a classification within their plant provided they are qualified to efficiently perform such work without loss of acceptable production. Once this displacement has occurred, the employee who has bumped into the classification will be permitted to exercise shift preference as provided in Article XL.
23
D.	Ln case of layoffs or reduction of forces that will exceed thirty (30) work days, the least Company senior employees in the classifications affected may exercise Company seniority to displace the least senior employee in the classification, in tiny department, within their geographical area as defined by Exhibit J, provided they are qualified to efficiently perform such work without loss of acceptable production. Once this displacement has occurred, the employee who has bumped into the classification will be permitted to exercise shift preference as provided in Article XL.
E.	For purposes of application of this section, the term "qualified" shall be defined as having occupied that classification on a permanent bid, temporary bid, currently the designated relief for that job or other verifiable objective evidence of the individual's ability to perform that job. All employees shall be deemed qualified in entry-level and utility positions. It is understood that the employee must be able to efficiently perform the work of the job to which they are bumping without loss of acceptable production. Should an employee exercise their bumping option and not be able to efficiently perform such work, they shall be assigned to an entry-level position within the complex.
F, In order to retain the right to return to the operation transferred from under these provisions, the employee must return to the original operation at the first opportunity. Failure to comply with these requirements will result in the forfeiture of any recall rights.
G. The parties recognize that layoffs and reduction in force are caused by many different types of circumstances and that determinations as to the duration are not based on an exact science, therefore, cannot always be specific. In consideration of this fact, the Company will exercise its
24
best judgment in determining the duration of the layoIT. The layoff provisions to be applicable will be based on this determination.
Section IX
TV After layoff because of lack of work, employees shall be recalled in the inverse order in which they were laid off. If an employee, because of lack of work in his classification is transferred to another job, he shall be entitled to his original job upon reopening of the same.
A. Employees who are laid off because of lack of work and who have been employed for more than thirty (30) days worked shall have the right of reinstatement without loss of seniority except as hereinafter noted.
C.	Any layoff because of lack of work which extends for a continuous period of more than two (2) years shall break seniority.
D.	During the period for which a laid-off employee retains recall rights, the personnel office will notify such employee of any vacancy available in the plant which the laid-off employee has the ability and experience to fill and to which his seniority may entitle him. Notice will be made to the employee by certified mail (return receipt requested) sent to his last known address. The notified employee will be given three (3) days after receipt of such notice to notify the personnel office that he will return to work and fourteen (14) days after receipt of such notice to actually return to work unless this period is extended with the express permission of the Company. The failure of such an employee to comply with any of the above conditions within the time limits specified shall forfeit all reinstatement rights.
25
E.	In the event a certified letter fails to reach an employee at his last given address and is returned to the Company, this shall be taken as proof that the employee has failed to keep the Company posted on his address and he, therefore, forfeits all rights for reinstatement.
F.	Employees in Maintenance or Filing and Grinding who are laid off their regular job as a result of a reduction in force and who has sufficient seniority to displace other employees and remain actively at work but elects layoff rather than exercise this right, will only be recalled in his original job classification. These employees may on a one-time basis reinstate their recall status to other vacancies upon proper notification to the Company in writing by certified letter return receipt. This is reinstatement to the recall list in seniority order and if recall is not accepted when offered the individual shall forfeit recall rights.
Section X
An employee promoted or transferred from a job within the bargaining unit to a position outside the said unit shall continue to accrue seniority on the job and in the department from which he came for a period of twelve months and if he remains beyond that period in the new position, he shall forfeit all seniority rights under this Agreement.
Section XI
'ITiose employees presently employed at plants and operations covered by this Agreement, who have unbroken employment with the Company, including employment at another plant, will be given credit for said unbroken period of employment for purposes of vacations and pension plans provided said employees arc otherwise eligible for participation in these programs and have not been advised previously that they were ineligible. Employees may transfer from one geographic
26
location to another without loss of vacation or pension credits provided:
1)	The employee requests the transfer in writing.
2)	The manager at the new location approves the transfer in writing.
This paragraph shall only apply to those plants covered under this Agreement and cannot be construed as a Company-wide transfer policy.
Section Xn
Employees who transfer from one plant or operation covered by this agreement to any other plant or operation covered by this agreement shall retain their Company seniority for all purposes and rights covered in this Agreement. Transfers under this provision shall be subject to the following:
1)	The employee must request the transfer in writing.
2)	There must be work available at the location to which the employee is requesting to transfer and the employee must be qualified to perform the work required. "Available Work" is defined as either
a.	A vacancy in an entry-level position at the location the employee is transferring to, or;
b.	Higher level jobs which match the employee's qualifications and which have not been able to be filled through normal bidding procedures.
3)	The request must be approved in writing by the manager at the new location.
4)	An employee cannot request a transfer from a plant or operation in which he has less than six (6) months of sendee.
27
5)	An employee cannot transfer more than one (1) time in a two (2) year period.
6)	No more than three percent (3%) of the employees in any specific plant or operation can transfer out in a six (6) month period. This shall be based on the number of employees in the plant or operation at the start of the calendar year.
7)	By stating its reason in writing, the Company may delay transferring an employee whose request has been approved but such delay shall not exceed two (2) months.
8)	If more than one (1) transfer is being considered, the employee with greater Company seniority will be given preference.
ARTICLE IX SENIORITY LISTS
An up-to-date seniority list, including Company seniority, will be furnished the Local Union not more often than six-month intervals. The Company agrees to post the seniority list issued at each facility in the break area of each plant every six (6) months. This posted seniority list shall not contain personal data.
ARTICLE X WAGES
Section I
‘ihe hourly rates and job classifications for employees covered by this Agreement are set forth in Exhibit "A" pttached hereto, and made a part of this Agreement, and shall remain in effect throughout its life.
28
When new jobs are created or when changes in content are made which result in a substantial change in the content of existing jobs, a temporary rate of pay will be assigned to such jobs and they will be considered temporary for a maximum of sixty (60) calendar days. During this sixty (60) calendar day period the Company will conduct an evaluation of the job in question. At the completion of this evaluation, the Company will meet with the Grievance Committee which represents the job in question and fully explain the elements and results of the evaluation. The rate of pay agreed upon in this meeting shall be implemented. If a mutually satisfactory rate cannot be agreed upon, the Company will set the rate it deems appropriate and advise the Union of the date this rate became effective. The Union may, within fifteen (15) calendar days following the date of notification, Ele a grievance contesting this rate of pay and such grievance shall be initiated at the second step of the grievance procedures. Should a grievance not be filed within this fifteen (15) calendar day period the rate of pay shall become final and will not be subject to further review.
The Company and Union agree to meet in the thirty (30) day period prior to each anniversary date of this agreement and seriously attempt to reach settlement of all grievances referred to arbitration under this Section that have not been arbitrated as of that date. Either party that ignores this obligation shall forfeit said grievances. Within thirty (30) days after meeting, the Local Union shall notify the Company of its intent to arbitrate those unsettled grievances or refer them to the next contract negotiations. In the event the Local Union elects to arbitrate, it shall request arbitrator panels within the thirty (30) day period and proceed to arbitration as soon as practical subject to the arbitrator's availability.
29
Section Ill
Those new jobs created under the provisions of Section II of Article 1 are not subject to the provisions of this Article nor Article Vn.
ARTICLE XI
OVERTIME AND PREMIUM PAY
Section I
Time and one-half shall be paid for the following:
1)	For all time worked in excess of forty (40) hours in any one (1) week.
2)	For all hours worked on the holidays specified in this Agreement, in addition to holiday pay if so entitled.
3)	For all time in excess of eight (8) hours in any one day. However, when the schedule is changed to a work, day of longer than 8 hours, the employees who work this new schedule will have daily overtime computed only on those hours worked beyond the schedule. If conditions require the Company to schedule shifts for less than a 40-hour week, the Company will revert to 8-hour schedules for computing daily overtime.
For the purpose of computing overtime under this Section, schedule changes will be for a full week except when conditions beyond the control of the Company cause a schedule change.
For application of this Article, the work week and the twenty-four (24) hour period that is a work day, a Sunday, or a holiday shall be as designated under Article XU, Hours of Work.
30
Section II
Overtime shall be paid on a daily or weekly basis whichever is greater, hut shall not be pyramided nor shall more than one basis of calculating overtime be used to cover the same hours.
Section HI
Employees will not be rescheduled for the sole purpose of avoiding payment of overtime.
Section IV
If a holiday falls on one of an employee's scheduled work days, the hours paid for but not worked shall be counted in computing weekly overtime.
ARTICLE XII
HOURS OF WORK
Section I
The normal work day shall consist of eight (8) hours of work and the normal work week shall consist of forty (40) hours of work. Nothing in this Article shall be construed as guaranteeing or limiting the hours of work per day or days of work per week.
Section U
The work week shall begin on Monday at 12:01 AM unless a different starting time is designated. Each work day shall begin at 12:01 AM, or other designated starting time, and shall end at 12:01 AM the following day.
Section III
Ilie designation of a new starting time for the work week shall, for payroll purposes, be understood to designate the starting time for Monday, the first day of the work week.
31
Section IV
To the extent possible, employees on rotating shifts shall, as a group, be allowed to choose their rotation period in increments of one week with a minimum of one and a maximum of four.
Section V
Employees are required to report for work at the designated starting time unless they have obtained prior approval from their foreman to be absent. Manufacturing plant employees, if unavoidably prevented irom reporting for work, shall notify the Plant Guard or the Shift Supervisor on duty before the designated starting time and give their name, their shift, the name of their foreman and the cause and probable duration of the absence. Timberlands employees shall furnish this information to their immediate Supervisors before the start of the shift they will miss. Employees who, because of an emergency, cannot give this notice will notify the Company as soon as possible following the emergency. If the Company has made arrangements for filling a vacancy due to an employee’s absence and the employee reports back to work without prior notice, or sufficient prior notice, he shall be sent home and shall not be eligible for reporting pay.
The time for the start of an employee’s shift may be changed at any time by the Company upon notification to the employee at least twenty tour (24) hours prior to the start of a new shift. This provision shall not be applicable to those Timberlands employees who arc normally assigned on a flexible daily schedule.
Weekly work schedules for the manufacturing facilities will be posted by noon Thursday for the following week. Work schedules for weekends will be posted by noon Thursday. It is recognized that weekly and weekend schedules are based on operating requirements and arc subject to change based on operating requirements, shutdown schedule, fluctuations in the demand for products, or to meet other conditions.
32
In operations with continuous shifts, no employee shall leave his work place at the end of his shift until relieved either by his mate or by permission of his Supervisor. If overtime results from the failure to be relieved, the vacancy shall be filled by the employee who was not relieved; however, when an employee is held over under these circumstances and requests to be relieved, the Company shall make an effort to find a suitable replacement. The Company shall not be obligated to pay two (2) persons for simultaneously filling the same job during shiftchange procedures.
Section VI
The Company shall offer direct deposit for employee paychecks into the bank of the employees choice (guaranteed Friday availability). For those employees who do not participate in direct deposit their checks will be mailed to their home address on record and delivery will depend on the timeliness of the US mail (Friday delivery not guaranteed).
By July 1, 2003 or as soon as practical thereafter, the Company will implement Biweekly payroll for all employees. Upon implementation of biweekly pay, an employee may receive a $500 pay advance. Titis advance will be deducted from the next four payroll checks in equal installments.
ARTICLE XIII REPORTING PAY AND CALL-INS
Section I
Employees who have not been notified not to report and who report for work on their regular shift and find no work available shall be entitled to four (4) hours work or four (4) hours pay at their straight-time rate. Employees who report and begin work shall be entitled to actual hours worked, four (4) hours work or four (4) hours pay at their straight-time rate. The above provisions shall not apply in cases of storms, floods, accidents, power breakdowns, and other causes beyond the control of the
33
Company, The Company, at its option, may work or not work the four (4) hours involved.
Section II
Any employee called into work at a time other than his designated shift shall be entitled to no less than four (4) hours pay at his straight-time rate, or time and one-half for hours actually worked, whichever is greater. Employees called in at a time other than their designated shifts who work into their scheduled shift shall be paid at their regular rate and shall continue to work their scheduled hours in addition to the hours for which they were called in early. Such employee may be relieved before completing his scheduled hours upon request to and approval by his supervisors.
ARTICLE XIV
SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL
A shift differential of twenty cents (20) per hour will be paid for each hour worked by an employee on his/her scheduled shift which starts between the hours of 12:00 noon and 5:59 p.m.
A shift differential of twenty-five cents (25) per hour will be paid for each hour- worked by an employee on his/her scheduled shift which starts between the hours of 6:00 p.m. and 4:59 a.m.
Shift differential shall only be applicable on those jobs where shifts are utilized. Day workers held over will be paid the appropriate shift differential if for one (1) hour or more.
ARTICLE XV J TEMPORARY TRANSFERS
Any employee temporarily advanced to a higher rated job shall receive the higher rate of pay for so long as he performs the job for one (1) hour or more. Employees advanced for the sole
34
purpose of training shall receive their regular rate of pay. Employees temporarily transferred to a lower rated job for the convenience of the Company shall continue to receive their regular rate of pay; otherwise they shall receive their regular rate of pay; otherwise they shall receive the rate of the job to which they are temporarily transferred. Employees who are temporarily transferred to such lower rated jobs without being given the option of layoff in lieu thereof, are transferred for the convenience of the Company.
A bargaining unit employee who is temporarily set up as a supervisor shall not be considered for overtime work in his/her bargaining unit job classification during the shift before the setup, the shift of the set-up and the shift after the set-up. Shift, as used herein, shall mean the time period of a shift whether or not any work is actually scheduled or performed during the shift. In other words, this provision specifies a period of time related to the set-up rather than the performance of work.
Temporary vacancies that exist for more than thirty (30) calendar days, on those jobs which are normally filled by the bidding procedure, shall be filled by the senior (Company seniority) qualified employee in the department who desires to fill the vacancy. This employee shall be identified through bidding procedure. Such employee shall not accrue seniority on this job and shall be returned to his/her regular job when the absent employee returns.
ARTICLE XVI HOLIDAYS
Section I
The holidays listed below will be considered paid holidays under this Agreement:
New Year's Day, Martin Luther King Jr. Birthday, Easter Monday, Memorial Day, Fourth of July, Labor Day,
35
<
Thanksgiving Day, Day after 'fhanksgiving, Christmas Eve, Christmas Day
Section H
Holiday pay shall be governed by Exhibit K, Memorandum of Agreement, between the parties. Holiday pay is subject to the following eligibility requirements:
In order to be eligible for holiday pay, an employee must have successfully completed their probationary period and must have worked his scheduled workday preceding, the day of if it is scheduled, and' his scheduled workday following any such holiday unless absent for justifiable cause.
It is understood and agreed that an employee shall be considered absent for justifiable cause if;
1)	He is away on vacation.
2)	He is so sick that he is unable to report for work and is able to prove such sickness.
3)	The sickness of some member of his immediate family makes his absence necessary and he is able to prove such sickness.
4)	He has been advised by his Supervisor that his services are not required.
5)	He is otherwise absent because of direct action initiated by the Company.
6)	He is oh leave of absence, not to exceed approximately thirty (30) days, in service of a recognized branch of the Armed Services Reserve.
Section III
In the event one of the designated holidays occurs on Sunday, the Company shall observe such holiday on the following Monday. When Sunday is a normal scheduled workday for a crew and one of the designated Holidays falls on Sunday or
36
Monday, the Company and Union by mutual agreement may designate which day the holiday is observed.
Christmas Eve and Christmas Day shall be considered no-work holidays and on those dates crews will be limited to only such employees as are required for the protection of life and property. By January 1 of each year, either Martin Luther King or Labor Day shall be designated as a no work holiday. Other work on these two holidays will be assigned on a voluntary basis.
On all other holidays the Company may, at its option, work or not work its employees.
Non-production work and non-maintenance work scheduled on a holiday for less than a full shift will be assigned on a voluntary basis.
Holiday pay for employees whose normal work schedule is more than 8 hour shifts shall be:
•	Normal scheduled hours for holidays falling on an employee's scheduled workday, and
•	8 hours for holidays falling on an employee’s scheduled
day off.
•	Holiday pay will be eight (8) hours for employees working on a holiday.
*	When employees are not scheduled to work but are called out to work, they shall receive the holiday pay allowance that would have been received had they not been called out.
37
ARTICLE XVII VACATIONS
Section I Eligibility
TJ Upon completing twelve (12) months continuous employment — one (1) week paid vacation.
2)	Upon completing three (3) years continuous employment -— two (2) weeks paid vacation.
3)	Employees who, on their anniversary date which occurs after the effective date of this agreement, attain eight (8) years of service and are otherwise eligible will receive three (3) weeks of vacation.
4)	Employees who, on their anniversary date which occurs after the effective date of this agreement, attain fifteen (15) years of service and are otherwise eligible will receive four (4) weeks of vacation.
5)	Effective March 4, 1996, employees who, on their anniversary date attain twenty (20) years of service and are otherwise eligible, will receive five (5) weeks of vacation.
Section II Vacation Qualification
In order to qualify for vacation with pay, an employee must have worked 1,200 hours during the twelve (12) month period immediately preceding the anniversary date on which he became eligible for the appropriate vacation whether it be 1, 2, 3 or 4 in Section I above. Time lost due to a compensable injury will count toward completion of the 1,200 hours.
Section UI Qualifying Dates and Vacation Pay
7C Employees eligible for one (1) week vacation pay:
1)	Such employee will be paid an amount that equals forty-eight (48) hours pay at his classified wage rate or temporary bid rate on his anniversary date.
B.	Employee eligible for two (2) w Jeks of vacation pay:
1)	Such employee will be paid an amount that equals ninety-six (96) hours pay at his classified wage rate or temporary bid rate on his anniversary date.
C.	Employee eligible for three (3) weeks of vacation pay:
1)	Such employee will be paid an amount that equals one hundred forty-four (144) hours pay at his classified wage rate or temporary bid rate on his anniversary date.
D.	Employee eligible for four (4) weeks of vacation pay:
1)	Such employee will be paid an amount that equals one hundred ninety-two (192) hours pay at his classified wage rate or temporary bid rate on his anniversary date.
E.	Employees eligible for five (5) weeks of vacation pay:
1)	Such employee will be paid an amount that equals two hundred and forty (240) hours pay at his classified wage rate or temporary bid rate on his anniversary date.
Section TV
In the event a paid holiday, as defined under the "Holiday" Article found elsewhere in the Agreement, falls within any employee’s vacation, if otherwise qualified, he shall be entitled to such holiday pay in addition to his vacation pay.
Section V
The Company reserves the right to schedule the vacation period for each employee as well as to generally administer the vacation plan in accordance with any and all of the above
39
provisions. Insofar as is possible, however, consideration will be given to individual employee preferences in scheduling vacations, provided such employee submits a vacation request at least fourteen (14) days in advance of the date the vacation is to commence. In conflicting requests, the employee with greater Company seniority shall be given preference provided the request is filed at least thirty (30) days prior to the start of a scheduled vacation of a less-senior employee.
Section VI
Should the employee elect time off with pay, he may be granted said pay on any day he may elect after his employment anniversary date. Should the employee elect pay in lieu of time off, he shall receive same on the first pay day following his employment anniversary date. Vacation pay shall appear in the appropriate regular paycheck and tax deductions will be made by an averaging method.
Section VII
An employee who has completed five (5) years or more of continuous employment as of his anniversary date of such continuous employment, but has failed to work. 1,200 hours during the previous year, will be paid vacation pay upon a prorata basis of one-twelfth (1/12) per month for the months he did work, provided he is otherwise eligible for vacation pay. One hundred seventy-three (173) hours shall constitute one (1) mouth.
Section VIII
For application of this article, one (1) week is defined as seven (7) consecutive days.
40
ARTICLE XVIH
LEAVES OF ABSENCE
Section 1
A leave of absence (not to exceed twenty-four (24) months) shall be granted to an employee unavoidably kept from work by reason of personal sickness or non-occupational accident. If an employee is disabled due to non-occupationai illness or accident, coverage for the employee and dependents will continue until the first day of the month following twelve weeks of disability. Employees must pay their normal monthly contribution as long as he or she continues to receive a paycheck, after which time the company will cover the cost for the remainder of the twelve-week period. When the employee reaches the end of the twelve-week period, he or she and his or her dependents may continue coverage through COBRA by paying only their normal monthly contribution amounts until the anniversary date of his or her disability or until he or she ceases to be disabled (whichever occurs first). Upon return from such leave, the employee will be re-instated to his former or equivalent position (without loss of seniority) provided that such personal sickness or accident does not prevent the employee from satisfactorily performing said job. The Company, at its option and in its best judgment, may require the employee to submit to a physical examination by a Company-chosen physician and at Company cost, prior to returning the employee to work, for the purpose of determining physical ability following absences of this type. Employees and or their dependents may continue coverage for the balance of the 18 or 29 month COBRA period by paying the full cost of coverage.
Section EI
Permanent employees who leave the employ of the Company for the purpose of entering the Armed Forces of the United States of America, either by enlistment or conscription, will be
41
ARTICLE XX
DISCIPLINARY PROCEDURES
The Company rules listed below are designated to fairly and impartially regulate employees’ actions in order to obtain and maintain an orderly and proper operation of the facility.
Since the violations of some rules are more serious than the violation of others, the rules have been divided into two (2) groups governed by the seriousness ofthe offense.
The employee and Local Union shall be informed of action taken by the Company as a result of violation of these rules within five (5) working days after the violation is known to the Company. When a disciplinary layoff, including discharge, is to be given, a Shop Steward or Committeeman will be present provided one is on duty and working in that department at that time.
GROUP ONE
•	One violation of these rules - Instructions and Warning in Writing
•	1’wo violations of these rules - One Day Suspension
•	Three violations of these rules - Three Day Suspension
•	Four violations of these rules - Discharge
a)	Negligent damage to property of the Company or another employee.
b)	Neglecting duty or failing to maintain reasonable work standards.
c)	Disorderly or immoral conduct.
d)	Indulging in horseplay or participation in practical jokes which may endanger himself or other employees or Company property.
e)	Reading on duty except when required by work.
f)	Garnishment within provisions of applicable law.
44
g)	Violation of safety rules or instructions.
h)	Habitual tardiness or habitual absenteeism.
i)	Failure to notify the Company when absent from work unless unavoidably prevented from doing so or failure to give reasonable reason for such absence.
j)	Posting or circulation of unauthorized material on plant premises.	(
k)	Refusal to permit inspection by Plant Guards of objects brought in or taken out of plant.
I)	Sleeping on duty. f
m)	Using abusive or threatening language to anyone while on duty.	j
_n) Smoking in non-smoking area.
GROUP TWO	I
First Offense — Discharge	I
a)	Willful smoking in non-smoking areas.
b)	Raffling, operating punch boards, or gambling on the Company premises. 1
c)	Bringing intoxicants or narcotics into the mill or their use or consumption in the mill or reporting for duty under the influence of intoxicants or narcotics, or possession of intoxicants or narcotics on Company property.
d)	Being grossly insubordinate or disobedient.
e)	Intentional damage to property of the Company or an employee.
f)	Offering or taking a bribe of any kind in connection with work.
g)	Deliberate sleeping on duty.
h)	Sabotage.
i)	Absent for three (3) consecutive working days without notifying the Company or without reasonable excuse.
j)	An employee found guilty of being the aggressor in a fight on Company mill site property including the parking lot or by Timberlands employees while at the job site.
45
k)	Unauthorized possession of explosives or firearms on Company mill site property including the parking lol or by Timberlands employees while at the job site.
1)	Theft of property of Company or any other employee, m) Deliberate falsification of Company records.
n) Leaving the plant site during scheduled working hours without being properly relieved or without proper authorization.
When a statement against an employee is to be entered into the disciplinary record of the employee, the Company will furnish the employee and the Union with a copy of such statement.
When an employee has received no disciplinary action for a period of one (1) year, prior disciplinary warnings for minor offenses will not be used against him. However, reprimands or warnings which have been given through leniency in lieu of suspension or discharge for serious offenses justifying suspension or discharge as set forth above, in Causes for Discharge, will be considered in determining the disciplinary penalty to be applied in cases of subsequent serious offenses.
ARTICLE XXI FIRE FIGHTING
Employees shall be paid their regular base rate for tire fighting so long as such rates are not regulated by the laws of the States of Arkansas and Oklahoma and so long as employees do not abuse this practice. Should either or both states establish laws providing compensation lor fire fighting, the parties agree that the rates of the state where the fire fighting is conducted shall prevail.
Should any employee or employees willfully set a woods fire or fires, the parties agree that, for the remainder of the contract term, fire fighters shall be paid their regular rate of pay for the remainder of the shift in which the fire fighting started;
46
thereafter, the entry-level rate shall be paid all men engaged in fire fighting except that employees operating machinery shall be paid the regular operator's rate ofthe machinery involved. Normal proof of arson will be required.
ARTICLE XXII WORK BY SUPERVISORS
No supervisor will perform any work usually done by employees in the bargaining unit except to demonstrate the manner in which the work is to be done, when a breakdown occurs, for the temporary relief of an employee or in cases of emergency.
ARTICLE XXI ri UNION OFFICERS’ ACCESS TO PLANT
The President and Business Agent of the Local Union shall, after execution of the proper forms, be issued an annual pass which may be utilized to enter the mill premises provided that they do not interfere with the Company's business or operation. On entering the mill premises they shall sign in with the security guard at the main entrance and shall specify the area to be visited.
Other local Union Officers, Shop Stewards and Committeemen may enter the mill premises at times other than their regular working hours whenever the business of the Union shall require, provided that they shall not interfere with the Company's business or operation. Said employee shall be required to obtain a pass from the Plant Personnel Supervisor or his authorized Representative.	1
International Representatives ofthe Union shall be permitted to visit the mill upon request to and approval of the Plant Personnel Supervisor or his authorized Representative.
47
Other than the changes recognized herein all other provisions relating to plant visitation shall remain in effect.
ARTICLE XXIV CONTINUOUS EMPLOYMENT
Voluntary separation, discharge for cause, and layoff due to lack of work for a continuous period of more than two (2) years shall constitute a complete break of continuous employment and no past service shall be credited in event of re-employment, except for pension benefits which shall be as specified in the Pension Plan.
ARTICLE XXV SHOP TOOLS
Shop tools and equipment, including tools peculiar to Company operation, shall be furnished by the Company. Hand tools normally required by the employee in the performance of his work shall be furnished by the employee.
ARTICLE XXVI BREAKS
In existing manufacturing facilities, the Company agrees to provide employees with reasonable periods (not to exceed ten (10) minutes each) away from their job stations during the work day. For employees working scheduled shifts often (10) hours or more, a break period not to exceed fifteen (15) minutes will be provided. One such period will be provided in each half shift. It is the intent of the Company that these breaks be given within one (1) hour of the midpoint of eaphhalf shift. Granting of this depends upon the availability of relief and noninterruption of the normal production schedule.
4k
There are' no formal break periods in non-manufacturing operation; however, reasonable break periods will be granted those employees on an informal basis.
ARTICLE XXVII
COMPENSABLE IN.TURTES
An employee who sustains a compensable injury and who is advised by the attending physician not io return to work that day will be paid the remainder oi’his shill at his regular rate.
ARTICLE XXVIII
NON-DISCRIMINATION
It is the intent of both the Company and the Union that there shall be no discrimination against any employee or Union member, and that each will cooperate folly to abide by all applicable laws, including ADA, and regulations prohibiting discrimination because of race, creed, religion, color, sex, national origin, age, union activity, failure’to participate in such activities, the presence of a physical or mental handicap, or whether an individual is a veteran of the Vietnam Era.
ARTICLE XXIX SAFETY DEVICES
The Company will provide the following safety devices where needed:
Safety Hats Goggles* Rubber Gloves*
Aprons*
Ear Protectors*
Non-Prescription Safety Glasses
♦These items fiimished only to employees at manufacturing installations.
49
No charge will be made for safety devices provided they are turned in to the supply room when worn out or when the employee is terminated. Safety devices issued to employees shall be worn at al] appropriate times.
Any employee who is required to wear prescription safety glasses will be reimbursed 50% of the cost of lenses and frames that meet Company specifications if ordered through the Company.
ARTICLE XXX SAFETY COMMITTEEMEN
The Company and Union recognize the desirability of reducing injuries arising out of employment and, to that end, agree that the Union shall select one (1) employee from each shift from each plant or operation with a minimum of two (2) employees from each plant or operation, as named in Article VI, who shall be certified to the Company, in writing, to act in the capacity of Safety Committeemen.
Safety Committeemen shall be allowed time off from their duties during paid work hours, at the discretion of their supervisor, to carry on their duties in the field of safety. Safety Committeemen shall be granted access to the plant under the provisions of Article XXIII, only for the purpose of performing the duties of that position and shall not interfere with other employees' work or interrupt normal production while performing these duties.
Safety Committeemen will be advised of accidents and, if available, will be utilized to participate on committees established to investigate accidents in their plant or operation.
("If available" means on duty at the time.)
Safety Committeemen shall repiesent the employees and shall act in an advisory capacity to the Company.
50
ARTICLE XXXI INSURANCE
Section I
The Company will, during the term of this Agreement, provide/make available life insurance, Voluntary Group Life, Flexible Spending Accounts and a non-occupalionai accident and sickness weekly benefit for all active employees.
Effective March 1, 1998 the amount of life insurance will be equal to approximate annua! base salary rounded up to the nearest $2,500, with a minimum of $25,000. Voluntary Group Life shall be offered on a voluntary self-pay basis for the employee, spouse, and children. Nou-occupational accident and sickness benefit will be 60% ofthe individual's classified hourly rate times 40 hours.
Section II
The hospital-surgical-medical insurance plan tor employees and dependents shall be continued and, during the term of this agreement. Effective 1/1/05, employees shall pay premiums as follows on a pretax basis;
Employee Only	$5.00 /month
Employee +1	Si 0.00 /month
Employee+2 or more	$15.00/month
Each January 1st, future increases or decreases in gross premiums to be. shared 50/50 with an annual increase or decrease maximum of $5/$10/$ 15 per month for the employee depending on the level of coverage. Decreases cannot go below $0 premium contribution.
Section III
'Ilie dental insurance plan (J 99K version) shall remain in force. The premium for coverage for active employees shall be paid
51
by the Company. Dependent premiums of $15.00 per month shall be paid by the employee.
ARTICLE XXXII PENSION PLAN
The present Pension Plan, a? amended, shall be continued in effect and, effective March 1, 2003, the pension benefit shall be $28.00 per month per year of service, the benefit level will be unreduced at age 62.
•	Effective March 1, 2004 this benefit shall be increased to $29.00 per month per year of service.
•	Effective March 1, 2005 the benefit shall be increased to $30.00 per month per year of service.
•	Effective March 1, 2006 the benefit shall be increased to $31.00 per month per year of service.
The Company shall provide and make available for participation its approved standard 401K plan to employees with a company match of 50 cents per dollar up to the first 5% of eligible base pay.
ARTICLE XXXIII HEALTH, SAFETY AND SANITATION
The Company shall make reasonable provisions for the health, safety and sanitation of its employees during the hours of their employment. The parties will cooperate in investigating health, safety and sanitary conditions and will carefully consider any reasonable recommendations made by the Union in respect thereto. The parties will cooperate in assisting and maintaining the Company’s rules regarding health, safety and sanitation.
Problems arising out of this Article will be reported by the Union Safety Committeeman as provided in Article XXX in writing to the appropriate Company Safety Coordinator
52
involved and if this problem is not resolved within a reasonable time period, the Union Safety Committeeman may present a grievance concerning the problem lo the Plant Manager where the problem exists. The grievance, once filed with the Plant Manager, shall then by handled the same as all oilier written grievances as provided under Article VII of this Agreement.
ARTICLE XXXIV SUBSTANCE ABUSE
Weyerhaeuser and Local Lodge W15 have formed a "Substance Abuse Policy" Committee to provide leadership in educating all employees regarding the hazards, risk, and consequences of substance abuse. All Union stewards and all Company supervisors will be expected to participate in training for detecting possible drug and alcohol abuse. Employees with drug and alcohol problems are encouraged to self-identify and take advantage of the Employee Assistance Program counselors and other resources provided to help them get free of drug or alcohol problems.
Employees who voluntarily seek help through the Employee Assistance Program will not have their job security and promotional opportunities jeopardized by such selfidentification. All requests for assistance, the results of treatment and counseling shall be kept strictly confidential.
ARTICLE XXXV TIME OFF FOR VOTING
Employees working all hours while the polls are open and who are qualified to vote and desire to do so, will be given time off, with pay, co vote on election day.
53
ARTICLE XXXVI FUNERAL LEAVE
When death occurs to a member of an employee's immediate family, the employee will be granted an appropriate leave of absence and he shall be compensated at his regular straight time rate of pay for his scheduled hours of work on the day before the funeral, the day of the funeral, and the day following the funeral, subject to the following limitations:
a)	Members of an employee's immediate family are limited to the employee's spouse, mother, mother-in-law, father, father-in-law, brothers, sisters, sons, daughters, stepchildren, grandchildren and grandparents. Proof of relationship may be required.
b)	No compensation will be granted where the employee does not attend the funeral.
c)	Compensation during funeral leave will not be counted as hours worked for the purpose of computing overtime.
d)	Regular straight time rate of pay means the straight time at which the employee would have worked had he not been on funeral leave.
ARTICLE XXXVII JURY DUTY
Section 1
An employee who is required to serve on a jury for the Federal, State or County Government shall be given leave of absence for the duration of such service and shall be paid by the Company for each day which he serves on said jury a sum equivalent to the difference between eight (8) times his regular hourly base rate and his jury fees. No pay will be received for jury duty if such duty is performed on hours in which the employee is not scheduled to work, except as otherwise provided in this Article. The Company shall be entitled to
54
require proof of qualification when application for payment is made.
Section II
An employee scheduled for jury duty whose work schedule is on the graveyard shift will be excused from his work shift immediately preceding the scheduled jury duty, and shall be paid for time lost just as though jury duty had been performed during scheduled work hours.
An employee whose work schedule is on the swing shift and who performs jury service past 11:00 a.m. will be excused from his work shift that day, and shall be paid for time lost just as though jury duty had been performed during scheduled work hours.
Section III
Hours paid for jury service will not be counted as hours worked in the computation of weekly overtime and will be given only for scheduled work time lost.
Section IV
'Ihe employee must return to work if there are four and one-half (4-1/2) hours or more remaining on his regular scheduled shift at the time he is released.
ARTICLE XXXVID LEADMAN
Section 1
The-leadman classifications are to be filled on an "as needed" basis as determined by the Company. When such need exists, the job shall'be posted for bid through application of the posting and bidding procedures as specified in Section II, B-l of Article VIII; however, in filling this job, the job will be filled by the best qualified applicant of those possessing the necessary minimum standards of
55
qualifications and ability. In the event that two, or more, appEcants possessing equal qualifications are being considered, the one with the most Company seniority will be given preference.
Section II
During the time an employee is assigned to the Plant Maintenance Leadman classifications, shall not be subject to the terms ofthe Maintenance Training Program; but in case of temporary assignment as Leadman, time spent in that capacity shall count toward the employee's promotion review date upon his return to the Maintenance Training Program.
Section III
Since assignments to the Leadman classification are on an "as needed" basis and, therefore, may be for a short term, an employee who is removed from the Leadman Classification, if for other than disciplinary reasons, shall be returned to the job he held immediately prior to being promoted to Leadman, provided he retains the skills and ability necessary to perform the job to which he is rctumuig.
ARTICLE XXXIX DISTRIBUTION OF OVERTIME
The Company shall be entitled to require that the employees work a reasonable amount of overtime either as additional hours per day or as additional days per week. The Company shall give reasonable notice of the need for overtime work, employees shall be entitled, on an individual basis, to be excused upon presentation of valid personal reasons to their foreman reasonably in advance.
Production overtime of a daily nature will normally be assigned to the employees in the classification when the overtime commences. If more than one employee qualifies under this general rule, the overtime shall be assigned to the most Company senior employee desiring to work. If none of these quahfied employees desires to work, the overtone will be
56
assigned to the least Company senior employee in the classification in the department.
If the production overtime is to be worked as an extra day or days, employees in classifications scheduled to work will work their normal shift and their specific job assignment if it is operating. The Company will make reasonable efforts to balance the overtime by rotating which shifts arc required to work.
Maintenance overtime of a daily nature, will be performed by the employee who has been working on that job that day. Overtime work, as an extra day, will be performed by the employee who performs that specific task in that area on a normal basis. (Work areas are as defined in Exhibit 1.) If more than one employee qualifies tinder this general rule, the overtime shall be assigned to the most Company senior employee desiring to work. If none of these qualified employees desires to work, the overtime will be assigned to the least Company senior employee. Employees from Central Maintenance will be assigned, as required, to perform work throughout the complex.
Filing and Grinding overtime of a daily nahire will be performed by the employee who had been working on that job that day. Overtime work, as an extra day, will be performed by the employee who performs that specific task in that work area on a normal basis. If more than one employee qualifies under this general rule, the overtime shall be assigned to the most Company senior employee desiring to work. If none of these qualified employees desires to work, the overtime will be assigned to the least Company senior employee.
The Company may, when it deems it necessary, assign overtime work at its discretion. The Company agrees to do all in its power to limit the use of this discretionary provision, and to prevent partiality in the application of this article.
57
ARTICLE XL
SHIFT PREFERENCE
An employee working in a particular job classification in which there is an open job to be permanently tilled may exercise shift preference on the basis of his Company seniority in the job classification, and the job posted for bidding under (Article VIII, Section II) will be on the shift that is open after exercise of shift preference rights under this Section. Shift preference rights may be exercised under this paragraph only to move to open shifts and not to displace other employees except in the case of a layoff. In the event of a layoff or shift reduction, those employees impacted shall be allowed to exercise shift preference within their classification.
For the purposes of this Article, to insure an orderly filling of job openings, an employee will be required to exercise shift preference within forty-eight (48) hours after the opening takes place. The Company will make available to all employees a shift preference form which may be filled out by the employee prior to an opening occurring stating the employee's shift preference. Such forms when filled out will be filed with the Department Supervisor.
Shift preference for maintenance employees shall be exercised within the specific work area. (Work areas are as defined in Exhibit I.)
Employees in base rated classifications may_exercise shift preference to move to vacancies in their classification in their department.
It is understood that, to insure an efficient maintenance force, a balance of necessary skills must be maintained on each shift of the maintenance . department; therefore, the Company may assign employees from one shift to another to maintain this balance of skills. When such shift assignments tire necessary, the least senior qualified employeefs) in this affected classification in the department will receive such shift assignments.
58
ARTICLE XU
CONTRACTING OUT
The Company may place work with outside contractors except that manufacturing and plant maintenance work ordinarily performed by bargaining unit employees for which they have the necessary skills and for which the Company has the necessary equipment, materials, manpower and available time, will not be placed with outside contractors if the placing of said work will result in the direct displacement of a then permanent employee(s) on the day(s) said work is performed. Prior to the commencement of such work by a contractor, the Company will notify the appropriate Union official of the nature of the work, the reason for contracting out and the date such work is scheduled to commence. Where an emergency exists and giving of prior notice is not feasible, such notice shall be given at the earliest opportunity thereafter.
ARTICLE XLII TIMBERLANDS TRAVEL PAY
If a Forestry Department employee reports to his designated marshalling point and loads or sei vices equipment or performs any other similar work at the marshalling point prior to leaving such point for his job site, he shall be paid his regular hourly rate of pay for that day from the time he begins performance of such work until he ceases work at the end o f the clay.
ARTICLE XU II BULLETIN BOARDS
Bulletin boards shall be made available for notices of Union meetings and elections. Any other Union notices or materials must be approved by management before posting.
59
ARTICLE XLIV
CHANGE OR MODIFICATION
Section 1
IT either party shall desire tv change any provision of this agreement, it shall give written notice of such desire to the other party at least sixty (60) days in advance of March 1, 2003, or any anniversary date thereafter.
Section II
The giving of notice provided in Section I above shall constitute an obligation upon both parties to negotiate m good faith, all questions at issue, with the intent of reaching a written agreement prior to the anniversary date.
Section III
If the parties have not reached an Agreement on or before the anniversary date, all provisions of the Agreement shall remain in effect unless specifically terminated in accordance with the provisions below.
ARTICLE XLV TERMINATION
At any time after the anniversary date, if no agreement on the question at issue has been reached, either party may give a ten (10) day written notice to the other party of intent to terminate the Agreement. All the provisions of the Agreement shall remain in full force and effect until the specified time has elapsed. During this period, attempts to reach an agreement shall be continued and there shall be no strikes or lockouts.
If the parties fail to resolve their differences before the specified time nas elapsed, all obligations under this Agreement are automatically canceled at the expiration thereof.
60
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have executed this Agreement:
WEYERHAEUSER COMPANY*
Lynn Endicott - Vp, SWL Sales & Mktg.
Rod Dempster - VP, Plywood
Mike Branson - VP, Timberlands
WOODWORKERS DISTRICT W-2, INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MACHINISTS & AEROSPACE WORKERS, & ITS LOCAL LODGE W1S*
Randall Rice - Grand Lodge Representative
Leon Blocker-District President, DBR
Jolin Morgan - President Local Lodge W15
Alfred Hobbs, Jr. - Business Agent, Local W15
Darrell Tharp - Business Representative
NEGOTIATING COMMITTEES*
Jerry Cheshire Scott Stapp Chris Blackwell Chad Stephens
Ratified 6/20/03 ★Signatures on file
Brooks Burton Marsha Paslay Ron Endicott Bill Snyder Debbie Burk Phil Hays
61
MISCELLANEOUS WAGE RATE PROVISIONS
The wage rate schedule provides scheduled increases for certain jobs at six (6) month intervals. It is understood between the parties that these increases will be automatic; however, it is also understood that these increases are based upon the presumption the employees in those jobs will progress in knowledge, experience, and proficiency. Should it develop that an employee is unable or unwilling to so progress, the parties will meet and adopt remedial measures.
EXHIBITS MAINTENANCE TRAINING PROGRAM
The Maintenance Training Program is hereby made a pan of this Agreement and is identitied as Exhibit B.
EXHIBIT C TIMBERLANDS TRAINING AND PROGRESSION GUIDELINES
The Timbcrlands Training and Progression Guidelines is hereby made a part of this Agreement and is identified as Exhibit C.
EXHIBIT D PENSION PLAN
Tlie Pension Plan as amended during negotiations in 1998 is hereby made a part of this Agreement and is identified as Exhibit D.
62
EXHIBIT E SKILLS TRAINING PROGRAM FOR FILERS & Grinders
The Skills Training Program for Filers and Grinders is hereby made a part of this Agreement and is identified as Exhibit E.
EXHIBIT F ASSISTANT SUPPLY CLERKS OJT & PROMOTION PROGRAM
The Assistant Supply Clerks OTf and Promotion Program is hereby made a part of this Agreement and is identified as Exhibit F.
EXHIBIT G ENERGIES/UTILITIES PROGRAM
The Energies/Utilities Program as agreed by the parties is hereby made a part of this Agreement and is identified as Exhibit G.
EXHIBIT I MAINTENANCE WORK AREAS FOR DISTRIBUTION OF OVERTIME AND SHIFT PREFERENCE
DIERKS COMPLEX
Green Lumber
Dry Lumber
Centra! Maintenance*
Mobile Equipment Shop
Machine Shop
Powerhouse
Mercher
Veneer
63
MOUNTAIN FINE COMPLEX
Plywood —
Mobile Equipment Shop
Powerhouse
UPRIGHT CITY COMPLEX
Green Lumber
Dry Lumber
Central Mechanical*
Mobile Equipment Shop - includes Truck Shop and
Hyster Shop
Machine Shop
Powerhouse
Mercher- (Will become part of Green Lumber and
Plywood when cut-up system becomes operational) Hardwood Sawmill /Mercher
Plywood
D&E SHOP
Machine Shop
Car Repair Shop
Locomotive Repair Shop
TREATING PLANT
Central Maintenance*
*Empioyees from Central Maintenance (Mechanical and Electrical) will be assigned, as required, to perform work throughout the complex.
64
EXHIBIT J GE OGRAPHIC AREAS
1.	DeQueen Treating Plant - DeQueen Shop
2.	Wright City - Plywood - Lumber - Raw Materials -Oklahoma Timberlands
3.	Mountain Pine - Plywood - Raw Materials -Mountain Pine Timberlands
4.	Dierks - Veneer - Lumber - Raw Materials - Dierks Timberlands
EXHIBIT L HEALTH CARE
Medical Steering Committee
The Medical Steering Committee will be charged with the responsibility of proactively managing healthcare-related issues with the objective of providing excellent health care coverage for employees represented by IAM Local W15, while controlling costs to both employees and Weyerhaeuser Company.
65
LINES OF PROGRESSION (Applicable to Article VIII)
LUMBER (All)
Kiln Operator
Transfer Operator & Ki hi Helper
606 Set up Specialist
211 Matcher Set tip & Feed Opr (30 Mos)
PLYWOOD (All)
Lathe Operator
Lathe Deckman
TREATING PLANT
Treating Operator
Trainee
DIERKS
Powerhouse (Dierks Only)
Powerhouse Operator
Powerhouse Operator Helper
,	966 Operator & Fuel Tender Helper
Raw Materials
Yard
Portal Crane
Circular Crane
Pine Mercher
Large Log Mercher Operator
Small Log Mercher Operator
Top (Slasher) Saw Operator
66
MOUNTAIN PINE
Raw Materials
Pine Mercher
Large Log Mercher Operator
Small Log Mercher Operator
Rdie['Operator Pine
WRIGHT CITY
Lumber
Matcher Set-up & Feed Head
Matcher Set-up & Feed
Curve Saw
Handy Relief
Raw Materials
Pine Mercher
Large Log Mercher Operator
MDS Operator
Top Saw Operator
Hardwood Sawmill
Green Grader
Rip Saw/Chipper Operator
Yard
Large Stacker Operator
Small Stacker Operator
Woodroom (Pine & Hardwood)
Woodroom Operator
Woodroom Helper
67
WAGE SCHEDULE
WRIGHT CITY
WRIGHT CITY - GREEN ENI) (INCLUDES		EITcc 3-3-03	EITrc 3-1-44	EITec 2-28.05	Eller 2-27-06
HAW	! MATERIALS, SAWMILL. KILNS)				
101	CLEANUP	10.70	10.9!	11 19	11.47
106	CURVE SAW OPERATOR	15.61	15.92	16 32	16.73
109	CHIP CAR LOADER	12.15	12.39	12 70	13.02
1 15	CHIPPER SYSTEM OPERATOR	11.25	11.48	11.76	12.06
125	DUAL DEBARKER OPERATOR	13.06	13.32	13.65	14.00
130	BOB CAT OPERATOR	1 1.15	1 1.37	11.66	11.95
142	STACKER/STICK LAYER OPERATOR	12 16	12.40	1271	13.03
146	CURVE SAW HANDY RELIEF - START	12 87	13.13	13.46	13.79
157	OPTIMIZER OPERATOR	12 96	13.22	13.55	13.89
1 58	CURVE SAW HANDY RELIEF - 6 MO	13.37	13.64	1 3.98	14.33
159	CURVE SAW HANDY RELIEF - 12 MO	13.93	14 21	14 56	14 93
177	unscrambler operator	1 1.20	11.42	11.71	12 00
203	SMALL LOG MERCHER-MDS	14.64	14.93	15.31	15.69
230	singulator operator	12.61	12 86	13.18	13.51
232	auto-trimmer operator	1261	12.86	13.18	13.51
233	13 STATION	11 08	11.30	11.53	11.87
274	#2 CHIP-N-SAW FEEDER	15 !0	15.40	15.79	16 18
313	WET STORAGE/BARK WASH SYSTEMS OPR	13.14	13.40	13.74	14 08
316	ASST SUPPLY CLERK START	10 70	10.91	11.19	11 47
321	SERVICE CLEAN-UP	10 70	10.91	11.19	11.47
332	FORK LIFT-LARGE	11.18	J 1.40	11.69	11.98
340	UTILITY OPERATOR	1 1.51	11.74	12.03	12 33
359	CHIP LOADERMAN	12.15	12.39	12.70	13 02
361	WEIGHMASTER	12 68	12.93	13 26	13.59
371	CHIP LOADERMAN	12 30	12.55	12.36	13.18
373	DECK SORTER OPERATOR	12.68	12 93	13 26	13 59
380	BOBCAT OPERATOR	11.15	11.37	11.66	11.95
382	SORTER OPERATOR - WC HDW ONLY	13 41	13.68	14 02	14 37
383	MOBILE LOG LOADER OPER	13.23	13.49	13 83	14 18
396	UTILITY	10.94	11.16	11.44	11 72
397	mercher top slasher operator	13.08	13.34	13.68	14 02
398	MERCHER SINGULATOR	12 15	12.39	12.70	13.02
6K
399 LABORER	10 70
400 LARGE STACKER OFER	1165
486 LARGE LOG MERCHER OPR 240 DAYS 15 11
487 MERCHER OPR LONG LOG TRAINING 13 37
488 MERCHER OPR LONG LOG 60 DAYS	13 65
489 MERCHER OPR LONG LOG 120 DAYS 13 92
490 MERCHER OPR LARGE LOG 1 SO DAYS J 4 24
492 WOODROOM OPERATOR HELPER-WC 1 1.31
HRDWOOD ONLY
493 LUMBER CUT UP SYSTEM TECH 14 2,8
494 HANDY RELIEF LBR CU TUP SYSTEM 1 1 31
496 ROTATOR PINE SAWMILL	12 51
498 SMALL STACKER CTOR	12 6.5
535 WOODROOM OPERATOR-! IWD	12 68
536 WOODROOM OPERATOR	13 30
552 MERCHER OPR SHOR !' LOG 6U DAT'S 13 05
553 MERCHER OPR SHORT LOG 120 DAYS 13 37
554 MERCHER OPR SHORT LOG 180 DAYS 13.65
555 MERCHER OPR SHORTLOG 24tl DAYS 14 20
572 MOTOR PATROL OPERATOR	12,60
573 TRUCK DRIVER	11.95
735 KILN OPERATOR - WC ONLY	14 [<J
736 GREEN SORTER OPERATOR	11 81
757 TRANSFER OPER/KILN HELPER PINE 11 70
& HDW
760 PINB/HARDWOOD TRANSFER OPR 11 48
764 PINE * HDW LOG LOADER/	13 37
MERCHER/SLASIIER
910 MATERIAL STAGING SUPPLY CLERK 12.53
911 PRE-GRADE 1-ASST SUPPLY CLERK 11 26
912 ASST SUPPLY CLERK GRADE 1	1158
913 ASST SUPPLY CLERK GRADE 2	11 92
914 ASST SUPPLY CLERK GRADE 3	12 53
915 ASST SUPPLY CLERK GRADE 4	1304
916 ASST SUPPLY CLERK GRADE 5	1354
917 ASST SUPPLY CLERK GRADE 6	14.19
943 INVENTORY CONTROI ./SUPPLY CLK 14 55
10.91	11.19 11.47
13 92 14 27 14 63
1541 15 80 16.19 13.64 13 98 14.33 13 92 14 27 14.63 14 20 14 55 14,92 14 52 14 89 15.26
II 54 H 82 12.12
14.57 14 93 15.30 1 I 54 11.82 12.12 12.76 13 08 13.41 12.9 3 13.26 13.59 12 93 13.26 13.59 13 57 13.91 14 25 13 31	13.64 13 98
13.64 13.98 14.33 13 92 14 27 14 63 14 48 f4S5 15.22 12 85 13,17 13.50 12.19 1249 1281 [447 14.84 15.2! 12.05 12 35 12 66 1 1.93 12 23 12 54
11 71 12 00 1230 13.64 13 98 14.33
1278 13 10 13.43 1149 11.77 12 07 11.81	12 11 12.41
1216 1246 1277 1278 13.10 1343 13.30 13.63 13.97 13 81 14 16 14.51 14 47 14 84 15.21 1484 15.21 15.59
WRIGHT CITY - PLANER MILL 170 TAKEDOWN OPR
173 STICK SYSTEM OPERATOR
10.94 11.16 11.44 11.72
10 87 11 09 11.36 1 I 65
69
174 S TACKER A TRAY OPERATOR
11.54 I).77 17 07 17 37
IKI CLEAN UP
211
214
219
223
279 230
235
236 2S7 2X3
239 332 606
612
613
614 94-1 947
961
962
965
966
10.70 10.91	1 1 19 11.47
MATCHER SETUP & FEED OPR 30 Mess	14.19	14.47	14 84	15.21
HEAD PULLER7SET-UP	11.75	11.99	1D	12 59
FORKLIFT I STRADD1 E TRUCK OPR	11,41	11.64	11.93	12 23
LUMBER PULLER	10 70	10.91	11.19	H 47
SORTER OPERATOR	11.82	12 06	12 36	12.67
STRAPPING MACHINE	1 1.59	11.82	12 12	12.42
SHORT GRDR/SHVNCrSYCHPER	11.39	11 62	1 1.91	12 21
MONITORAVC ONLY				
MATCHER SETUPiFEED OPR START	1 1.14	1 1.36	1 1 65	1 1 94
MATCHER* SETUP FEED OPR 6 MOS	11.54	11.77	1207	12 37
MATCHER SETUP.tFF.FD OPR I YR	12.02	12 26	12 57	12.88
MATCHER SETUP * FELD OPR 18 MO	12.31	12 56	12 87	13 19
MATCHER SETLTTWFEED OPR 2 YR	12.84	13.10	1 3.42	1376
FORK LIFT-LARGE	J I.IS	1 1.40	11.69	1 1.9S
SET-UP SPECIALIST	14 94	15.24	15 62	16 01
CLTOFF/SEPARTOR UTILITY	10 94	11.16	11.44	1 1.72
FOR1CLIFT/CUTOFF SAW	11 36	1 1.59	1 1.S8	12 17
CLT SET UP AND FEED,1 EMO	13 85	U 13	14 48	14 8,4
UTIL1TY/FORKLIFT	10 94	11.16	1 1.44	1 1.72
SEND-IN-OPERATOR	10 87	11.09	1 1.36	11.65
BIN SORTER OPERATOR	I 1 54	11.77	12 07	12 37
BIN SORTER FEEDER/GRADE	1 1 54	1 1 77	12 07	12.37
READER OPERATOR				
LUMBER GRADER-A	13 47	13.74	14.08	14 43
LUMBER GRADER-AA	15.11	15,41	15.80	16.19
WRIGHT CITY - SHIPPING
731 CHECKER DPJVER
12.68 12.93 13.26 13 59
WRIGHT CITY - POWERHOUSE & YARD CREW (UTILITY)
13 7 HOG FUEL RECLAIMER OPR (WC)	11.12 11.34 11.63
299 OPERATOR B, START (WC ONLY)	12.22 J 2.46 12 78
300 OPERATOR 13, 6 MONTHS (WC ONLY)
315 OPERATORB, I YEAR (WC ONLY)
327 LEAD OPERATOR
12 72 1297 13,30
13.2S 13 55 13. S8
1607 16 39 16S0
11.92
13,10
13.63
14 23
17.22
329 OPERATORB
13.82 14.10 14 45
14.81
70
WRIGHT CITY - MAINTENANCE 42 ELECTRICAL
402
405
406
407
408
409
411
412
413
414
415
416
417
418
419
420
421
422
423
424
425
426
427
428
435
437
438
441
465
466
MECHAN1C/ELECTRICI AN APPRENTICE GRADE I MECHANICELECTRICIAN APPRENTICE GRADE II MECHANICELECTRICI .AN .APPRENTICE GRADE III MECHANICELECTRI CI AN APPRENTICE GRADE IV MECHANI CELECTRICI AN .APPRENTICE GRADE V ELECTRICAL INSTRUMENT TECH MECHANICS LECTR1C1AN .APPRENTICE GRADE VI MECHANICELECTRICIAN .APPRENTICE GRADE 7 MECHANICELECTRICIAN APPRENTICE GRADE 8
LUB. SPECIALIST APPRENTICE GR 1 LUB. SPECIALIST APPRENTICE GR II LUB SPECIALIST APPRENTICE GRID LUB. SPEC! AU ST APPRENTICE GR IV PAY FOR SKILLS LEVEL 1-A PAY FOR SKILLS LEVEL 1-B PAY FOR SKILLS LEVEL l-C PAY FOR SKILLS LEVEL 2-A PAY FOR SKILLS LEVEL 2-B PAY FOR SKILLS LEVEL 2-C PAY FOR SKILLS LEVEL 3-A PAY FOR SKILLS LEVEL 3-B PAY FOR SKILLS LEVEL 3-C PAY FOR SKILLS LEVEL 4-A PAY FOR SKILLS LEVEL 4-B PAY FOR SKILLS LEVEL 4-C PAY FOR SKILLS LEVEL 5-A PAY FOR SKILLS LEVEL 5-B PAY FOR SKILLS LEVEL 5-C MECHANIC/ELEC. CERTIFIED JOURNEYPERSON B MECHANICELEC. CERTIFIED JOURNEYPERSON C
11 82
12 30
12 79
13 29
13 77
16 30 14 28
14 93
15 58
11.82 12 30 12 79 14 60 16 97 17 70 17.92 17.55 18 27 18.50 18 13 18.84 19.06 18.70 194!
19 65 19 27 19 98 20.22 17.12
17.36
12 06
12 55
13 05
13 56
14 05
16 63 1457
15 23
15 89
12 05 12 55 13.05 14.89 1731
18.05 18 28
17 90 18.64 18 87
18 49 19.22 19.44 19.07 19.81
20 04 19.66 20.38 20.62 17.46
17.71
12 36
12 86
1 3 37
13.89
14.40
17 04 14.93
15 61
16.29
12 36
12 86 13 37.
15 26 17.74
18 5!
18.74
18.35
19.10
19.34
13.95
19.70 19.93
19.55
20.30
20 54 20.15
20.89
21 14
17 90
18.15
12 67
13.18
13.71
14 24
14.76
17 47 15.30
15.00
16 70
12 67
13.18
13.71
15.65
18.19
18.97
19.20
18.81
19.58
19.83
19.43
20.19
20 43 20.04
20.81
21.06
' 20.65
21.41
21.67
18 35
18.60
71
469 LUB. SPECIALIST CERTIFIED JOURNEYPERSON
473 MECHANICZELECT. CERTIFIED JOURNEYPERSON
475 MAINT LEADMAN
476 MECHANTC/ELECTRICIAN CLASS A JOURNEYMAN
16.40 16 73
16 40 16.73
16 56 1689
15.61 15.92
17.15 17.57
17.15 17.57
17 31 17 75
16 32 16.73
WRIGHT CITY - FILING & GRINDING
352 SKILLED FILER & GRINDER
353 FILER & GRINDER-CLASS A
354 FILER & GRINDER-CLASS B
355 FILER & GRINDER-CLASS C
356 FILER & GRINDER-CLASS D
357 FILERS A. GRINDERS APPRENTICE I
358 FILERS & GRINDERS APPRENTICE II
750 DOUBLE CUT FILER .AND GRINDER
14.94
14.11
13.09
1261
11.95
11.36
10.99
15.60
15.24
14.39
13.35
12.86
12.19
11.59
11.21
15 91
15.62
14 75
13 69
13,18
12 49
11 88
11.49
16 31
16.01
15.12
14.03
13.51
12.81
12.17
11.78
16.72
WRIGHT CITY - HARDWOOD SAWMILL
922 RIP SAW/CHIPPER OPERATOR
923 TIE GRADER/STACKER
924 HARDWOOD DEBARKER OPERATOR
925 LOGINSPECTOR/GRADER
926 EDGER OPER A TIB INSPECTOR
927 HARDWOOD RELIEF GRADER
929 HARDWOOD TRIMER OPERATOR
930 UNSCRAMBLER OPERATOR
932 GREEN CHAIN PULLER
933 HEAD GREEN CHAIN PULLER
937 RELIEF OPERATOR
938 HARDWOOD HEAD CAR LINE CHECKER
940 HDWD BAND SAW SAWYER DC SAW STWKS &CHIP
941 NHLA GRADER
11.26 11.49
12 41 12.66
13.08 13.34
11.86 1210
14 19 14.47
12 25 1 2 50
11.26 11.49
11.26 11.49
10.70 10.91
10.87 1109
16 75 17.09
1203 12.27
17.75 18,11
14.57 14.86
11.77 12.07
12 97 13.30
13.67 14.01
1240 1271
14.84 15 21
1281 13.13
11 77 12 07
11.77 12.07
11.19 11.47
11.36 11.65
17.51 17.95
12 58 12.89
18.56 19.02
15.23 15 61
WRIGHT CITY - PLYWOOD GREEN VENEER (INCLUDES DRY VENEER)
275 CHIPPER/CORE FEEDER
495 PLYWOOD CUT UP SYSTEM TECH
675 CANTBRZSTACKER OPR - WC ONLY
713 LATHE DECKMAN - WC ONLY
11.18 11.40 11.69 11.98
14 28
13.05
12.56
14 57
13.31
12.81
14.93
13.64
13.13
15.30
13.98
13.46
72
715	TRASH GATE OPERATOR	1 1.27	11.50	11.78	12 08
716	VAT OPERATOR	11.33	11.56	11.85	12 14
718	LATHE OPERATOR	14.24	1452	14.89	15 26
720	GREEN CLIPPER OPERATOR	1 1 51	11.74	12.03	1233
721	OOL DRYER TENDER	12 14	12 38	12 69	13 01
72 ?	handyman	J J. IS	1) 40	JL69	13 93
724	DRYE.R FEEDER	11.03	11.30	11.53	11 87
729	FORKLIFT DRIVER	11.18	11.40	11.69	11 98
730	PLYWOOD UTILITY	10.70	10.91	J L19	11 47
732	SKOOO OPERATOR	11.08	11.30	11.53	11 87
756	AUTO STACKER OPERATOR	11.53	11.76	12 05	12 36
766	PULLER GRADER	11.18	11.40	>1.69	11.98
772	STACKER/GRADER	11.53	11.76	12 05	12 36
773	VENEER WELDER	11.82	12 06	12.36	12 67
785	MOBILE EQUIPMENT OPERATOR	11.41	11.64	11.93	12 23
800	OOL HANDYMAN	11.18	11.40	11.69	11 98
824	OOL DRYER FEEDER	11 OS	11.30	11.58	11 87
880	TENDER/PULLER	12.45	12 70	13 02	13 34
WRIGHT CITY - PLYWOOD LAY-UP					
729	FORKLIFT DRIVER	11.18	11.40	11.69	11.98
730	PLYWOOD UTILITY	10.70	109)	11.19	11 47
738	GLUE MIXER	12.24	1 2 43	12.30	13 12
770	SHEET LAYER STATION #7	12 74	12 99	13,32	13 65
790	CORE LAYER/FEEDER	12 89	13 15	13 48	13 81
798	PRESS OPERATOR	12 89	13.15	13.48	13 81
799	LINE TENDER	13 33	13.60	13.94	14 28
WRIGHT CITY - PLYWOOD FINISHING & SHIPPING
729	FORKLIFT DRIVER	11 18	11.40
730	PLYWOOD UTILITY	10.70	10.91
739	PANEL SAW OPERATOR	12 41	12 66
742	PANEL PATCH	11.05	11.27
743	sander/specialty saw opr	12 74	12.99
744	CHECKERTORI VER-PL YWD (WC Only)	11.81	1205
767	STRAPPER	11.26	11.49
11.69
11.19"
12.97
11.55
13 32
1235
11.77
1 L9S
11 47
13 30
11
13.
12.
1207
S3S
73
DIERKS
Eflcc Eftec Etfee Effec
DIERKS - RAW MATERIALS
361 WEIGHMASTER
3? 1 CHIP LOADERMAN-DKS ONLY
375 MDS LOADER OPERATOR
3 KO BOBCAT OPERATOR
381 PORTAL CRANE OPERATOR
383 MOBILE LOG LOADER OFER
388 CIRCULAR CRANE OPERATOR
395 YARD HANDYPERSON
396 UTILITY
400 LARGE STACKER OPER
474 MERCHER TOP SLASHER OPR-DKS & WC ONLY
498 SMALL STACKER OPER
505 MERCHER TECHNICIAN-1 s' Level
506 MERCHER TECHNICIAN-2«d Level
507 MERCHER TECHNICIAN^ Level
529 WOODROOM/CHIP LOADER
536 WOODROOM OPR (DKS ONLY)
539 SMALL LOG MERCHER OPERATOR
DIERKS-SAWMILL
101 CLEANUP
105 EDGER OPERATOR C-N-S
115 CHIPPER/LOADER
121 TRIM SAW OPERATOR & FEEDER
125 DEBARKER & PRENTICE LOADER OPR
130 BOB CAT OPERATOR
136 STICKLAYER GREEN CHAIN
142 STACKER/ST1CK LAYER OPERATOR
149 STACKER OPERATOR
143 DROP SORTER OPR GREEN CHAIN
145 BUGGY DUMP/UN SC RAMBLER
153 SHARP CHAIN OPERATOR
154 GANG SAW OPERATOR
240 SUCKS & TRUCKS
.1-3-0.1 3-1-04 2-20-05 2-27.06
13.29 13.56 13.89 14.24 12 30 12 55 1286 13.18 1292 13 18 13 51 13.85 11.15 11.37 11.66 11.95 14 24 14 52 14 89 15.25 13 23 13.49 13.83 14 18 14 03 14.31 14 67 15.04 13 18 13.44 13.78 14 12 10.94 H.16 H.44 1172 13.55 13.92 1427 14 63
13.08 13.34 13.6.8 14 02
12 68 12 93 13.26 13.59 11.29 11.52 11.80 12.10 11.90 12 14 1 244 12.75 12 50 12.75 13.07 13.40 13.84 14 12 14 47 14.83
13.30 13.57 13.9! 14.25 14.64' 14.93 15.31 15.69
10.70
12 96
1 1.52 1261 11.78
11.15
10.70
12 16 11.15 11.54 I!.27
15.10
13 29
10.70
10.91
13.22
11375
12 86 12.02
11.37
10.91
1240
11.37
11.77
11.50
15.40
13 56
10.91
11.19 13.55
12 04 13.18
12 32
1 1.66
11.19 12.71
11.66 12.07
11.78 15.79
13 89 11.19
I 1.47 13.89 12 35 13 51 12.62
11.95 1 1.47 13.03 11.95 12 37
12.08 16 18
14.24 11.47
74
601 SAWMILL TECHNICIAN LEVFL I
602 SAWMILL TECHNICIAN LEVEL II
603 SAWMILL TECHNICIAN LEVEL III
616 S-6 HANDY
620 DROP ATTENDANT
621 SORTER ATTENDANT
HIS 1140 1169 11.98
11.78 12 02 12 32 12 62
12.38 12 63 1 2 94 1 3 27
11.IS 1140 11.69 1198
11.15 11.37 11.66 1 1 95
11.15 11.37 1166 11.95
DIERKS - FILING & GRINDING
351 SAW FILERS &. GRINDERS LEADMAN
352 SKILLED FILER & GRINDER
353 FILER A GRINDER-CLASS A
3 54 FILER A GRINDER-CLASS B
355 FILER & GRINDER-CLASS C
356 FILER & GRINDER-CLASS D
357 FILERS & GRINDERS APPRENTICE I
358 FILERS & GRINDERS APPRENTICE II
15.89 16.21 16.61 17.03
14 94 15 24 15.62 16 01
14.11 14 39 14 75 15.12
13.08 13 34 13 68 14 02
12.61 12 86 13.13 13 51
11.95 1 2 1 9 1 2 4 9 1 281
11.36 1159 11.88 12 17
10 99 11.21 11.49 11.78
DIERKS - KILNS, POWERHOUSE A UTILITY CREW
151 LUMBBR/STACKER AREA LEADMAN
155 GREEN SORT YARD FORKLIFT
306 POWERHOUSE CLEAN-UP
3)9 LARGE DUMP TRUCK OPERATOR
320 BLDG & GROUNDS UPKEEP
340 UTILITY OPERATOR I '
345 POWERHOUSE UTILITY
346 966 OPBR & FUEL TENDER HELFER
347 DRYER OPERATOR & FUEL TENDER
348 POWERHOUSE OPERATOR HELPER
350 POWERHOUSE OPERATOR
13 54
12.30
10.70
11 95
10 94
11.51
10.93
12 69
12.24
13.42
15.28
13.81
12.55
10.91
12 19
11.16
11.74
11.15
12.94
1248
1 3.69
15.59
3 64 KILN OPERATOR	14 19 14 47
365 TENS OPER & KILN OPER HELPER
11.70 11.93
771 LARGE BUGGY TRANSFER OPR	11 51 11-74
911 PRE GRADE 1-ASST SUPPLY CLERK	11.26 11.49
912 ASST SUPPLY CLERK GRADE I 9 J 3 ASST SUPPLY CLERK GRADE 2 914 ASST SUPPLY CLERK GRADE .3 915 ASST SUPPLY CLERK GRADE 4 916 ASST SUPPLY CLERK GRADE 5 917 ASST SUPPLY CLERK GRADE 6 945 SUPPLY TRUCK DRIVER
11.58 11.81
11.92 12.16
12 53 12.78
13.04 13.30
13.52 13.79
14 19 14 47
11.30 1153
1416 145 12 86 13.1
11.19 11.4 12 49 12 8
11.44 11.7 12 03 12 3 11.43 11.7
13.27 13 6
12.80 13.i
14.03 14 3
15.98 16 3 14 34 15.2
12 2.3 12 5 12 03 12 3
1177 12C
1211 124 1246 12
13.10 13
13.63 13
14.14 ]4
14.84 15
11.81 12
75
DIERKS - PLANER & STUPP INC
170	TAKEDOWN OPR	10 94	11.16	11.44	11.72
174	STACKER & TRAY OPR	11.54	11.77	12.07	1237
211	MATCHER SETUP & FEED OPR 30 Mos	14 19	14.47	14 84	15 21
220	PLANER TECH I	11.18	11.40	11.69	11.98
221	PLANER TECH II	It 78	12.02	12 32	12.62
233	LUMBER PULLER	10.70	10 91	11.19	1 1.47
242	CUT-OFF SAWS-MATCHER	1 1.11	11.33	11.62	11.91
255	SHORTS GRADER	11 11	11.33	11.62	1 1.91
278	STRAPPING MACHINE/TICKET PRINTER	11.59	11.82	1212	12 42
285	MATCHER SETUP.tFEED OPR START	11.14	11.36	1 1.65	11.94
286	MATCHER SETUP&FRED OPR 6 MOS	11.54	11.77	12 07	12.37
287	MATCHER SETUP&FEED OPR 1 YR	12 02	12 26	12.57	12.88
283	MATCHER SETUP&FEED OPR 18 MOS	1231	12.56	12 87	13.19
289	MATCHER SETUP&FEED OPR 2 YRS	12.84	13.10	13.42	13.76
332	FORK LIFT-LARGE	11.18	11.40	1 1.69	1 1.98
606	SET-UP SPECIALIST	14 94	15.24	15.62	16.01
781	CHECKER DRIVER	1268	12.93	13.26	13.59
867	PRECISION END TRIM SAW	12 68	1293	13.26	13 59
944	FORKLIFT UTILITY	10.97	11.19	11.47	1 1 76
952	UTILITY	10.70	1091	11.19	11.47
963	APPRENTICE LUMBER GRADER	1 1.86	12.10	12.40	12.71
964	LUMBER GRADER-B	12 68	12.93	13.26	13.59
965	LUMBER GRADER-A	13.47	13.74	14 08	14.43
966	LUMBER GRADER-AA	15.11	15.41	15 80	16 19
DIERKS -MAINTENANCE & ELECTRICAL
366 FIRE PROTECTION MAJNT	13 12
402 MECH/ELEC APPRENTICE GRADE 1	11. B 2
405 MECH/ELEC APPRENTICE GRADE 2	12.30
406 MECH/ELEC APPRENTICE GRADE 3	12 79
407 MECH/ELEC APPRENTICE GRADE 4	13.29
408 MECH/ELEC APPRENTICE GRADE 5 13.77 4H MECH/ELEC APPRENTICE GRADE 6	14 23
412 MECH/ELEC APPRENTICE GRADE 7	14.93
13 MECH/ELEC APPRENTICE GRADE 3	15,58
14	LUB SPECIALIST APPRENT GRADE I 11.82
15	LUB SPECIALIST APPRENT GRADE 2	12.30
16	LUB SPECIALIST APPRENT GRADE 3	12 79
’7 LUB SPECIALIST APPRENT GRADE 4	12 79
13.38 13.72 14 06
12.06 12.36 12 67
12.55 12.36 13.18 13.05 13.37 13.7!
13.56 13.89 14 24 1405 1440 14 16 14 57 14 93 15 30
15.23 15.61 16 00
15.89 16 29 16.70
12.06 12.36 12.67
12.55 12 36 13.18
13.05 13.37 13.71
13.05 13.37 13,71
76
418 PAY FOR SKILLS LEVEL 1 -.-X
419 PAX' FOR SKILLS LEVEL 1 -B
420 PAY FOR SKILLS LEVEL l-C
421 PAY FOR SKILLS LEVEL. 2-A
422 PAY FOR SKILLS LEVEL 2-B
423 PAY FOR SKILLS LEVEL, 2-C
434 PAY FOR SKILLS LEVEL 3-A
425 PAY FOR SKILLS LEVEL 3-B
426 PAY FOR SKILLS LEVEL 3-C
427 PAY FOR SKILLS LEVEL 4-A
428 PAY FOR SKILLS LEVEL 4-B
435 PAY FOR SKILLS LEVEL. 4-C
437 PAY FOR SKILLS LEVEL 5-A
438 PAY FOR SKILLS LEVEL 5-B
441 PAY FOR SKILLS LEVEL 5-0
465 CERTIFIED JOURNEYPERSON B (MECH ANALYSIS)
466 CERTIFIED JOURNBYPERSON C (LEADMAN)
469 LUB SPECIALIST CERTIFIED JOURNEYPERSON
473 CERTIFIED JOURNBYPERSON
475 MAINTLEADMAN
476 CLASS A/ JOURNBYPERSON
556 MECHANALYSIS TECHNICIAN
DIERKS-VENEER
330 FORKLIFT DRIVER
715 TRASH GATE OPERATOR
718 LATHE OPERATOR
719 LATHE DECKMAN
720 GREEN CLIPPER OPERATOR
722 HANDYMAN
723 VATTENDER (DIERKS ONLY)
724 DRYER FEEDER
725 DRYER TENDER
726 AUTO STACKER
729 FORKLIFT DRIVER
730 PLYWOOD UTILITY
731 STACKER CHASER
734 SWEDE ROLL / UTILITY
16.97 17.31 1774
17.70 18.05 18 51
17.92 18.28 13.74
17.55 17.90 18 35
18.27 18.64 19.10
18.50 18.87 19.34
18.13 18.49 18.95
18.84 19.22 19.70
19.06 19 44 19.93
18.70 19 07 19.55
19.41 19.81 20.30
19.65 20.04 20 54
19 27 19.66 20.15
19.98 20.38 2O’S9 20 22 20.62 21.14 17.12 17.46 17 90
17.36 17.71 IS 15
16.40 16.73 17.15
16 40 16.73 17.15
17.35 17.70 18.14
15.61 15.92 16.32
1630 16.63 1704
18.19
18 97 19.20 18,8!
19.53
19 83
19 43
20 19
20 43
20 04
20 8)
21.06 20.65
21 41
21 67
18 35
18.60
17 57
17 57 18.59 16 73
17 47
115!	1174	1203
11.27 11.50 11.78 14 24 1 4 52 1 4 59 11.80 12.04 12.34 11.51 11 74 1203 11.18 11.40 11.69 11.34 11,57 11.36 11.08 1L30 11.58 12 27 12 52 12.33 11.53 11.76 12 05 11.18 11.40 11.69 10.70 10.91 11.19 11.04 11.26 11.54 1087 11.09 11.36
12 33 12 08 15.26 12 65 12.33
11 98 12 IS 1 1.87
13 15 12.36 11.98
11.47
11.83 11.65
77
7 3 5 GREEN END HANDY	11.18	11.40	11.69	11.98
744 CHECKER/DRIVBR	11.81	12.05	12 35	12 66
756 AUTO STACKER OPERATOR	11:53	11 76	12.05	1236
759 STUD MILL OPERATOR	13.05	13 31	13.64	13.98
762 GREEN VENEER/GREEN CHAIN	10.87	1 1 09	1136	11.65
765 HAND STRAPPER	11.15	1 1 37	1 1.66	11.95
766 PULLER GRADER	11.18	11.40	1 1.69	11 98
767 STRAPPER	11.26	11.49	11.77	12.07
783 DECKMAN I CORE TRIM	12.24	12 4.8	12 80	13.12
785 MOBILE EQUIPMENT OPERATOR	11 41	11 64	11.93	12 23
DEQUEEN TREATING				
	Eflec	Eflet	EITec	Effec
DEQUEEN TREATING-POLE PEELER	3-3413	3-1414	1-28-05	2-27-66
380 BOBCAT OPERATOR	11.15	11.37	11.66	11.95
436 POLE PEELER OPERATOR	14.05	14 33	14.69	15.06
439 SORTER OPERATOR	12.18	12 42	12 73	13.05
5 69 SCALER GRADER 18 MO	12.83	13 14	13.47	13.80
DEQUEEN TREATING - FRAMING				
442 FRAMER	10.73	10 94	11.22	11.50
594 CLASSIFIER - FRAMING	12.70	12 95	13.28	13.61
DEQUEEN TREATING - KILNS				
136 STICK LAYER	10 85	11.07	11.34	11.63
282 LOGLOADER OPERATOR	12.12	12 36	12.67	12.99
DEQUEEN TREATING - MANUFACTURING TRANSPORTATION				
401 FORK LIFT DRIVER (22000*)	11.57	11.80	12 10	12.40
472 CHECKER/DRIVBR DEQUEEN TREATING - TRE ATING	12.63 1	12 93	13.26	13.59
452 TREATING ROOM OPR START	1264	12.89	13.22	13.55
453 TREATING ROOM OPR 6 MO	12 92	13.18	13.51	13.85
454 TREATING ROOM OPR 1 YR	13.35	13.62	13.96	14 31
455 TREATING ROOM OPERATOR	14.24	14 52	14.89	15.26
456 TREATING ROOM HELPER	10.75	10.97	11.24	11.52
460 TREATING TRAINEES	Il 23	11 45	11.74	12 03
78
DEQUEEN TREATING-SHIPPING
472 CHECKER'DRIVER
1268 12.93 13.26 13 59
DEQUEEN TREATING - EFH.UENT/ENVIRONNFENTAL
145 HEAD EFFLUENT OPERATOR - 18 MO 13.35 13.62 13.96 14 H
146	LEAD EFFLUENT OPERATOR	14 15	14.43	14 79	15.16
457	EFFLUENT SYSTEM OPR START	11.27	11.50	11.7S	12.08
458	EFFLUENT SYSTEM OPR 6 MO	11.70	1 1.93	12 23	12 54
459	EFFLUENT SYSTEM OPR 1 YR	12 18	12.42	12 73	13 05
DEQUEEN TREATING - SERVICE CREW
371 EQUIPMENT OPERATOR
373 LICENSED LANDFILL OPERATOR
374 VAC-ALL OPERATOR
404 UTILITY
462 SERVICE CREW
464 BOBCAT DRIVER
12.12
12 75
11 89
12.36
13.01
12.13
12 67
13.33
12.43
12 99
13.66
12.74
10 50 10.71 10 9.8 11.25
1043 1064 1090 11 18
10.50 10.71 1098 11.25
DEQUEEN TREATING-MAINTENANCE & ELECTRICAL
402 APPRENTICE GRADE 1	11.60 11.83 12.13
12 43
405 APPRENTICE GRADE 11
406 APPRENTICE GRADE III
407 APPRENTICE GRADE IV
408 APPRENTICE GRADE V
409 ELECTRICAL INSTRUMENT TECH
12 11	12 35	12 66	12	98
1 2.58	12 83	13.15	13	48
13.05	13.31	13.64	13	98
13.54	13.81	14.16	14	51
15.62 15 93 16.33 16 74
411 .APPRENTICE GRADE VI
412 APPRENTICE GRADE VII
413 APPRENTICE GRADE VIII
414 LUBRICATION SPEC APPRENT GRI
415 LUBRICATION SPEC APPRENT GR II
416 LUBRICATION SPEC APPRENT GR DI
417 LUBRICATION SPEC .APPRENT GR IV
418 PAY FOR SKILLS LEVEL 1 -A
419 PAY FOR SKILLS LEVEL 1 -B
420 PAY FOR SKILLS LEVEL 1 -C
421 PAY FOR SKILLS LEVEL 2-A
422 PAY FOR SKILLS LEVEL 2-B
423 PAY FOR SKILLS LEVEL 2-C
424 PAY FOR SKILLS LEVEL 3-A
425 PAY FOR SKILLS LEVEL 3-B
426 PAY FOR SKILLS LEVEL 3-C
14.02 14.30
14.6'6 14.95
15.31 15.62
11.60 11.83
12.11 12.35
12.58 12 83
1435 1464
16.70 17.03
17.41 17.76
17.64 17 99
17.26 17 61
17.97 18 33
18.21 18 57
17.83 18.19
18.54 18.91
18.79 19.17
14 66 15,02
15 33 15 71
16 01	16 41
12 13 12 43
12.66 12 98
13.15 13.48
15.00 15.38
17.46 17.90
1.8.20 18.66
18.44 18.90
18.05 18.50-
18.79 19.26
19.04 19.51
18.64 19.11
19.38 19.87
19 64 20 14
79
427 PAY FOR SKILLS LEVEL 4-A
428 PAY FOR SKILLS LEVEL 4-B
433 CLASSIFIER / POLE PEELER
435 PAY FOR SKILLS LEVEL 4-C
437 PAY FOR SKILLS LEVEL 5-A
438 PAY FOR SKILLS LEVEL 5-B
441 PAY FOR SKILLS LEVEL 5-C
473 CERTIFIED JOURNEYMAN
475 LEADMAN
476 CLASS A MECHANIC OR ELEC
911 PRE GRADE 1 -ASST SUPPLY CLERK
915 ASST SUPPLY CLERK GRADE 4
916 ASST SUPPLY CLERK. GRADE 5
917 ASST SUPPLY CLERK GRADE 6
DEQUEEN SHOPS
18.42 18.79 1926 19.74
19.13 19.51 2000 29.50 11.82 12.06 12 36 12 67 19 36 19.75 20 24 20.75 18.99 19.37 19 85 20.35 19.71 20.10 2061 21.12
19.94 20 34 20 85 21.37
16.12 16 44 16 85 17 27 16.27 16.60 17 01 17.44 15.32 15.63 16 02 16.42 11.06 11.28 1156 11.85 12 79 13.05 13 37 13.7!
13.30 13 57 13 91 14 25 13.90 14 18 14 53 14 90
DEQUEEN-SHOPS
402 APPRENTICE GRADE I
405 APPRENTICE GRADE II
406 APPRENTICE GRADE III
407 APPRENTICE GRADE IV
408 APPRENTICE GRADE V 411 APPRENTICE GRADE VI 412 APPRENTICE GRADE VII
413 APPRENTICE GRADE VIU
418 JOURNEYMAN PAY FOR SKILLS 1A 419 JOURNEYMAN PAY FOR SKILLS IB 421 JOURNEYMAN PAY FOR SKILLS 2A 422 JOURNEYMAN PAY FOR SKILLS 2B 424 JOURNEYMAN PAY FOR SKILLS 3A 425 JOURNEYMAN PAY FOR SKILLS 3B 427 JOURNEYMAN PAY FOR SKILLS 4A 428 JOURNEYMAN PAY FOR SKILLS 4B 437 JOURNEYMAN PAY FOR SKILLS 5A 438 JOURNEYMAN PAY FOR SKILLS 5B
467 LEADMAN JOURNEY PERSON
Effcc EfTec EITec EfTcc J-3-03 3-1-04 1-28-05 2-27-06
12 23 12.53 12 84 13.16 12.79 13.05 13.37 13.71 13 30 13.57 13 91 14 25 13.81 14.09 1444 14.80 1432 14.61 1497 15.35 14 83 15,13 15.50 15.89 15.52 15.83 16,23 16 63 16 20 16 52 16 94 17.36 17.62 17.97 18.42 18.88 18.57 1894 19.41 19.90 18 09 18.45 18.91 19.39 19.04 19.42 19.91 20.40 18 77 19.15 19.62 20 11 19.72 20.11 20.62 21.13 19.35 19.74 20.23 20.74 20.30 20.71 21.22 21.75 19.92 20.32 20.83 21.35
20.87 21.29 21.82 2237 17,23 17.57 18.01 18.46
80
468 LEADMAN CERTIFIED JOURNFY PERSON
473 ' CERTIFIED JOURNEY PERSON
540 GENERAL UTILITY
550 APPRENTICE MECH 1
593 QUALITY ASSURANCE INSPECTOR
827 RELOAD TECHNICIAN
911 ASST SUPPLY CLERK PRE-GRADE I
912 ASST SUPPLY CLERK GRADE I
9 i 3 ASST SUPPLY CLERK GRADE II
914 ASST SUPPLY CLERK GRADE III
915 ASST SUPPLY CLERK GRADE IV
916 ASST SUPPLY CLERK GRADE V
917 ASST SUPPLY CLERK GRADE VJ
18 04
17.05 10 94
I 1 65 17 75 16.25 11.26 11.57
11.93
1251
13.04
13.54
14.19
18.40
17.39
11.16 11.88
18.11
16 58
11 49
11.80
12 17 12.76
13 30
13 81
14 47
18.86
17.83
11 44
12 18
18 56 I 5 99
11 77
12 10
12 47 13.08
13.63
14.16
14 84
19.33
18.27
11.72
12.48
19.02
17.41
12.07
12 40
12 78
13 41
13.97
14.51
15.21
MOUNTAIN PINE
Effec
3-3-03
MOUNTAIN PINE - GREEN VENEER (INCLUDES
Effec Effec EfTec 3-1-04 2-28-05 2-27-06
RAW MATERIALS & DRY VENEER)
360	RELIEF OPERATOR	13.05
361	WEIGHMASTER	13.46
373	DECK SORTER OPERATOR	12 68
379	FRONT END LOADER	12.68
380	BOBCAT OPERATOR	11.15
383	MOBILE LOG LOADER OPERATOR 13.23
400	LARGE STACKER OPER	13.65
13.31 13.64 13.98
13 73 14.07 1442
12.93 13.26 13.59
12.93 13.26 13.59
11.37 11.66 11.95
13.49 13.83 14 18
13.92 14 27 14 63
486 LARGE LOG MERC HER/CR OSS OVER
15.38 15.69 16.03 1648
240 DAYS
487 MERCHER OPR LG LOG TRAINING
488 MERCHER OPR LARGE LOG-60 DAYS
489 MERCHER OPR LG LOG-120 DAYS
490 MERCHER OPR LG LOG 180 DAYS
491 LG LOG MERCHER OPR 240 DAYS
498 SMALL STACKER OPER
535 WOODROOM OPR
570 LARGE LOG LOADERMAN
609 SINGULATOR OPERATOR
714 ASSISTANT STUDMILL OPERATOR
13.37
13.65
13.92
14.24
15.11
12.68
12.68
12.68
12.68
11.41
13.64 13.92 14.20 14.52
15.41
12 93 12.93 12.93 12.93
11.64
13.98 14.27
J 4.55 14 89 15.80 13.26 13.26 13.26 13 26 11.93
14 33
14 63
14 92
15.26
16.19
13.59
13.59
13.59
13.59
1223
81
715	TRASH GATE OPERATOR	11.27	11.50	11 78	12.08
716	VAT OPERATOR	10.94	11.16	11.44	11.72
718	LATHE OPERATOR	14.24	14 52	14.89	15.26
719	LATHE DECKMAN	12 23	12.47	12 79	13 II
720	GREEN CLIPPER OPERATOR	11.52	11 75	12 04	1235
721	OUT Or LINE DRYER TENDER	12.14	12 38	12 69	13 01
724	DRYER FEEDER	11.08	11.30	11.58	11.87
725	DRYER TENDER	12 27	1252	1283	13.15
729	FORKLIFT DRIVER	11.18	11.40	11.69	11.98
730	PLYWOOD UTILITY	10 70	10.91	1 1.19	11,47
732	SKOOG OPERATOR	11.08	1 1.30	11.5,8	1 1.57
734	SWEDE ROLL / UTILITY	10 87	11.09	11.36	11.65
736	GREEN END HANDY	11.13	1 1.40	1 1.69	1 1.98
746	CHIPPER OPERATOR	10.87	11.09	11.36	11.65
756	STACKER GRADER	1 1 53	11.76	12.05	12 36
759	STUD MILL OPR	13 05	13.31	13.64	13.98
762	GREEN VENEER GREEN CHAIN	10.93	11.15	11.43	11.7]
766	PULLER GRADER	11.18	11.40	11.69	11 98
774	STRING MACHINE OPERATOR	11.03	11.30	11.58	11.87
785	MOBILE EQUIPMENT OPERATOR	11 41	11.64	11.93	12 23
800	OUT OF LINE - HANDYMAN	11.18	1 1.40	11.69	11 98
824	OUT OF LINE - DRYER FEEDER	1 1 08	11.30	11 58	11.87
366	OUT OF LINE - PULLER GRADER	11 13	11.40	11 69	11.98
830	TENDER/PULLER	I	12.45	12.7Q	13 02	13.34
947	SMALL LOG MERCHER GPR-60 Days	13.46	13.73	1407	14.42
948	SMALL LOG MERCHER OPR 129 Days	13.80	14.08	14 43	14 79
949	SMALL LOG MERCHER OPR 180 Days	14.08	14 36	14 72	15.09
950	SMALL LOG MERCHER OPR-240 Days	14.64	14 93	15 31	15.69
MOUNTAIN PINE - FILING A GRINDING					
351	SAW FILERS &. GRINDERS LEADMAN	15.89	16.21	1661	17.03
352	SKILLED FILER & GRINDER	14.94	15.24	15.62	16.01
353	FILER & GRINDER-CLASS A	14.11	14.39	14.75	15.12
354	FILER & GRINDER-CLASS B	13.09	13.35	13.69	14 03
355	FILER & GRINDER-CLASS C	12.61	12 86	13.18	13.51
356	FILER & GRINDER-CLASS D	11.95	12.19	12.49	12.8!
357	FILERS A GRINDERS APPRENTICE I	11.36	11.59	11.88	1217
358	FILERS & GRINDERS APPRENTICE E	10.99	11.21	11.49	11.78
82

MOUNTAIN PINE-LAY-UP
729	FORKLIFT DRIVER	I! 18	11.40	11.69	1L98
730	PLYWOOD UTILITY	10.70	10.91	1 I 19	11.47
738	GLUE MIXER	12 24	12 48	12.80	13.12
770	SHEETLAYER#3	12 74	12 99	13.32	13.65
771	SHEET LA YER	12 06	12 30	1261	12 92
790	CORE LAYER/FEEDER	12 89	13 15	13.48	13.81
798	PRESS OPERATOR	12.39	13 15	13.43	13 81
799	GLUE CONTROLLER	13 33	13 60	13.94	14 28
MOUNT AI N PINE - FINISHING & SHIPPING					
385	FINISHING CHECKER DRIVER	11.81	12 05	12 35	12 66
729	FORKLIFT DRIVER	) 1.18	11.40	11.69	1 1.98
730	PLYWOOD UTILITY	10.70	10.9)	IL19	11.47
739	PANEL SAW OPERATOR	12 41	12.66	12.97	13 30
740	PLYWOOD STRAPPER	10.87	11.09	11 36	11.63
743	SANDER MAN	12.4!	I 2.66	12 97	13.30
744	PANEL PATCH/HOT PATCH-MP ONLY	11.18	11.40	11.69	11.98
748	SPECIAL SERVICES SET-UP	12.75	13 01	13.33	13 66
763	S’ANDERMAN A SPECIALITY SAW	13.04	13 30	13 63	13.97
775	STRAPPER	11.26	11 49	11.77	12 07
MOUNTAIN PINE - MAINTENANCE & ELECTRICAL					
402	MECH/ELEC APPRENTICE GRADE I	11.82	12.06	12.36	126
405	MECH/ELEC APPRENTICE GRADE 2	12 30	12 55	12 86	13 I6
406	MECH/ELEC APPRENTICE GR.ADE 3	12.79	13.05	13.37	13.71
40?	MECHZELEC.APPRENTICE GRADE 4	13.29	13 56	13.89	14 2
408	MECH/ELEC APPRENTICE GR.ADE 5	13.77	1405	14 40	14.71
411	MECH/ELEC APPRENTICE GRADE 6	14 28	14 57	14 9?	15.31
412	MECH/ELEC APPRENUCE GRADE 7	14 93	15 23	15.61	16.0i
413	MECH/ELEC APPRENTICE GRADE 8	15.5.8	15.39	16.29	J6 7i
414	LUB SPECIALIST APP GRADE 1	11.82	12 06	12 36	12.6
415
416
417
418
419
420
421
422
423
LUB SPECIALIST APP GRADE 2
LUB SPECIALIST APP GRADE 3
LUB SPECIALIST APP GRADE 4
PAY FOR SKILLS LEVEL 1A
PAY FOR SKILLS LEVEL 1B
PAY FOR SKILLS LEVEL IC
PAY FOR SKILLS LEVEL 2A
PAY FOR SKILLS LEVEL 2B
PAY FOR SKILLS LEVEL 2C
12.30 12 79 14 60
16 97 17.70 17.92 17.55
18.27
18.50
13.05
14 89
17.31
18.05
18.28
17.90
18 87
12.86 1 3.37
15.26 17 74
18.51
18.74
18.35
19.10
19.34
13.1
137
18.1
39
18.'
19.'
19 '
83
424 PAY FOR SKILLS 1-EVEI. 3A
425 PAY FOR SKILLS LEVEL 3B
426 PAY FOR SKILLS LEVEL 3C
427 PAY FOR SKILLS LEVEL 4A
428 PAY FOR SKILLS LEVEL 4B
435 PAY FOR SKILLS LEVEL 4C
437 PAY FOR SKILLS LEVEL SA
438 PAY FOR SKILLS LEVEL 5B
441 PAY FOR SKILLS LEVEL SC
465 CERTIFIED JOURNBYPERSON B
466 CERTIFIED JOURNEYPERSON C
469 LUB SPECIALIST CERTIFIED JOURNEYPERSON
473 CERTIFIED JOURNEYPERSON
476 CLASS A MECHZELEC/ JOURNEY PERSON
18.13 18.84
1 9.06 18.70 19.4]
I 9.65 19.27 19.98 20.22 17.12 17.36 16.40
16 40 15.61
18.49
19.22
19.44
19.07
19.81
20.04
19.66
20.38
20.62
17.46
17.71
16 73
16 73
15.92
1 8.95 19.70 19.93 19.55 20.30 20.54 20.15 20.89 21.14 17.90 18.15 17.15
17 15 16.32
19 43
20 19
20 43
20 04
20 81 21.06 20 65
21.41
21 67
18 35
18 60
17.57
17.57
16.73
1
MOUNTAIN PINE- POWERHOUSE N UTILITY
306 POWER HOUSE CLEAN-UP	10 70
307	ENERGY / UTILITIES OPR GRADE I	10 94
308	ENERGY / UTILITIES OPR GRADE 2	11.41
309	ENERGY / UTILITIES OPR GRADE 3	12.16
310	ENERGY / UTILITIES OPR GRADE 4	12 86
311	ENERGY/UTILITIES OPR GRADE 5	1382
3)2	ENERGY/UTILITIES OPR GRADE 6	15.11
335	966 OPERATOR (UTILITY) MP ONLY	12 68
340	UTILITY OPERATOR	11.51
372	LANDFILL OPERATOR	12 12
377	LICENSED LANDFILL OPERATOR	12 75
191	MASTER OPERATOR	15.72
170	FIRE SYSTEMS TECH MP ONLY	15.85
>11	PRE GRADE 1 -ASST SUPPLY CLERK	1 1.26
>12	ASST SUPPLY CLERK GRADE 1	i 1.58
i3	ASST SUPPLY CLERK GRADE 2	11.92
14	ASST SUPPLY CLERK GRADE 3	12.53
15	ASST SUPPLY CLERK GRADE 4	13.04
16	ASST SUPPLY CLERK GRADE 5	13.54
17	ASST SUPPLY CLERK GRADE 6	14 19
109! 11 19 11.47 11.16 11.44 11.72 11.64 11.93 1223 12 40 12 71 13.03 13.12 13 45 13.78 14.10 1445 14.81 15.41 15.80 16 19 12.93 13.26 13 59 1174 12 03 12.33 1236 1267 12.99 13.01 13 33 13.66 1603 16.44 16 85 16.17 16.57 1699 11.49 11.77 1207 11.81 12.1! 1241 12.16 1246 12 77 12 78 13.10 13 43 13.30 13.63 13 97
13.8)	14.16	1451
14.47 14.84 15.21

TIMBERLANDS
Effec Effec EITec Effec
TLMBERLANDS
871 FORESTRY TECHNICIAN I
872 FORESTRY TECHNICIAN II
873 FORESTRY TECHNICIAN III
874 FORESTRY TECHNICIAN IV
875 FORESTRY TECHNICIAN V
876 FORESTRY TECHNICIAN VI
877 ROAD TECHNICIAN I
878 ROAD TECHNICIAN II
879 ROAD TECHNICIAN III
880 ROAD TECHNICIAN IV
88! ROAD TECHNICIAN V
882 ENGINEERING TECHNICIAN I
883 ENGINEERING TECHNICIAN II .
884 ENGINEERING TECHNICIAN Ill
885 ENGINEERING TECHNICIAN IV
886 ENGINEERING TECHNICIAN V
3-3-03 3-1-04 2-78-05 2-27-0*
11.49	11 72 12 01 12.31
13.55	13.82 14.17 14 52
13.32	13 59 13.93 14.27
14.23	14.51 14 88 15.25
15.50 15.81 16.21 16.61
17.34 17.69 18.13 18 58
11.49	11.72 12 01 1231
12 38 12 63 12 94 13.27
13.32	13 59 13.93 14 27
14.23 14.51 14 88 15.25
15.49
11.49
12.38
13 32
14.23
15.49
15.80
11.72
12.63
13.59
14.51
15.80
16.19
12 01
12 94
13 93
14 88
16 19
16.60
1231
13.27
14 27
15.25
16.60
85
notes