

Between
SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA GENERAL CONTRACTORS
and
ELEVEN SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA COUNTIES CEMENT MASONS
July 10, 2008
MASTER LABOR AGREEMENT
Between
SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA GENERAL CONTRACTORS and
ELEVEN SOUTHERN
CALIFORNIA COUNTIES
CEMENT MASONS
JULY 10, 2008
CEMENT MASONS TABLE OF CONTENTS
TITLE	ARTICLE	PAGE
Administrative Dues	 XXIII Agreement, Binding Entities	 1 Apprentice Ratio	 XVIII Apprentice Training	 XVIII Apprentice Wage Rates	 XXIV Business Representatives	 VII Classifications	 VIII Contract Administration Fund 	 XXVI Contributions Payable to Trust Funds	Attachment	No. 1 Coverage	 I Davis-Bacon Act	 XXIX Definitions	 I Drinking Water	 X Delinquencies & Collections	 XXVIII Emergencies	 XVI Foreman	 XVII Fund for Construction Industry Advancement	 XXV General Provisions	 I General Savings Clause	 XIII 'Grievances and Disputes, Procedures for Settlement... VI , Health and Welfare	 XIX Hiring Provisions	 Ill 'Holidays	 IX Individual Retirement Trust	 XXII Injury at Work	 IX Jobsite Transportation	 X 'Jurisdictional Disputes	 IV Material, Supplies, Equipment, Purchase of	 XVI , Meal Periods	 IX Other Agreements	 XII Overtime, Shift	 XVI Overtime, Rates	 XXIV	29 2 27 26 32 12 13 33 38 2 36 2 17 33 23 26 32 2 19 10 27 5 15 29 16 17 8 25 16 18 20 30
Parking............................................. X	17
Payment of Wages.................................... IX	15
Pension Plan........................................ XXI	28
Pre-job Conference.................................. XXVII	33
Public Works Project................................ XXIX	36
Qualifications...................................... XI	17
Recognition......................................... II	4
Reporting for Work.................................. XVI	23
Safety.............................................. X	16
Saturday Make-up Day................................ XVI	21
Shifts:
Single.................................... XVI	20
Special................................... XVI	22
Multiple.................................. XVI	21
Shops............................................... I	4
Show-Up Time........................................ XVI	23
Signing of Documents................................ X	17
Strikes, Lockouts, Jurisdictional Disputes.......... IV	8
Subcontracting, Employee Rights, Union Standards and Work Preservation.............................. V	9
Subsistence......................................... XVI	24
Starting Time....................................... XVI	20
Stewards............................................ VII	12
Term, Termination and Renewal....................... XIV	19
Tide Work Schedule.................................. XVI	22
Tools............................................... XVI	25
Transfer of Employees............................... Ill	8
Union Recognition................................... II	4
Vacation............................................ XX	28
Yards............................................... I	4
Wage Scales......................................... XXIV	30
Warehouses.......................................... I	4
Warranties.......................................... I	4
Work Assignments.................. ................. IV	8
Working Rules....................................... XVI	20
MASTER LABOR AGREEMENT
between
SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA GENERAL CONTRACTORS
and
ELEVEN SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA COUNTIES CEMENT MASONS
This Agreement entered into this first day of July, 2006, by and between the Associated General Contractors of California, Inc., the Building Industry Association of Southern California, nc., the Engineering Contractors' Association and the Southern California Contractors Association, Inc., on behalf of their respective eligible members, hereinafter referred to as the CONTRACTORS; and the Eleven Southern California Counties Cement Masons; Local Unions: 500 and 600, hereinafter referred to as the UNION.
PURPOSE
The Contractors are engaged in construction work in Southern California and in the erformance of their present and future operations, are employing and will employ workmen under le terms of this Agreement. The Contractors want to be assured of their ability to procure orkmen in the geographic area hereinafter defined in Article I, in sufficient number and with Efficient skill to assure continuity of work in the completion of their construction work. The Union d the Contractors, by this Agreement, intend to establish uniform rates of pay, hours of iployment and working conditions for the employees covered by this Agreement. The Union and ; Contractors further intend by this Agreement to provide, establish and put into practice an ective method for the settlement of misunderstandings, disputes or grievances, with the thought I mind that the Contractors are assured continuity of operation and the employees of the lontractors are assured continuity of employment and industrial peace is maintained.
Il
[ The parties to this Agreement recognize the necessity of assuring the competitive bsition of the parties within the industry during the term of this Agreement. Consistent with that (cognition, the parties will continually monitor the effectiveness of this Agreement relative to oecific geographic or market areas and will endeavor, by mutual agreement, to initiate such
-CM1-
modifications to the agreement during its term as may be necessary to assure the work opportunities of the employees and the competitive position of the individual employers.
ARTICLE I
General Provisions
101.	Definitions:
101.1	The term "Contractor” or “Employer”, as used herein, shall refer to an Employer party to or bound by this Agreement.
101.2	The term “Association”, as used herein, shall refer to the Associations previously named and signatory to this Agreement.
101.3	The term “Union,” as used herein, shall refer to the Negotiating Committee, and Local Unions in the Eleven Southern California Counties affiliated with the Eleven Southern California Counties Cement Masons which have jurisdiction over the work in the territory covered by this Agreement.
101.4	The term “Workman" or Workmen," as used herein, shall refer to a person, or persons, in the labor market who are not employed.
101.5	The term “Employee(s)," as .used herein, shall refer to the employed person, or persons, working in the craft jurisdictions covered by this Agreement.
101.6	All personal nouns and pronouns refer to the male and female gender.
102.	Coverage
102.1	. This Agreement shall apply to and cover all hours of employment of each employee of the Contractors, including, Developers, Builders or Construction Managers and to Owner-Builders to the extent permitted by law within the territory as described in this paragraph, employed to perform or performing any construction work within the jurisdiction of the Union, as such employees and construction work are respectively defined hereinafter in this Agreement in the area known as Southern California and more particularly described as the Counties of Lo$ Angeles, Inyo, Mono, Orange, Riverside, San Bernardino, Imperial, Ventura, Santa Barbara, San Luis Obispo, Kern and in addition: Richardson Rock, Santa Cruz Island, Arch Rock, San Nicholas Island, Santa Catalina Island, San Miguel Island, Santa Barbara Island, San Clemente Island, Santa Rosa Island, Anacapa Island, including the Channel Islands Monument.
102.2	This Agreement is made for and on behalf of and shall be binding upon all eligible persons, firms or corporations who at the time of execution of this Agreement are, or during the term hereof become eligible members of the Associations.	i
-CM2-
. 102.3 Each individual contractor whether corporate, or other legal entity, or its successor, shall be liable under, subject to and bound by the Agreement. It is agreed that the wages, hours and working conditions of this Agreement are the wages, hours and working conditions in the areas covered by this Agreement.
102.4	This Agreement is separate and distinct from and independent of all other Agreements entered into between the Union and other Contractor organizations irrespective of any similarity between this Agreement and any such other Agreements, and no acts or things done by the parties to such Agreements or notices given pursuant to the provisions hereof, shall change or modify this Agreement or in any manner affect the contractual relationships of the parties herein, except as otherwise provided in the Article covering existing and other Agreements.
102.5	This Agreement shall cover and apply to all Cement Masons work falling within the recognized jurisdiction of the Union signatory to this Agreement.
102.5.1	It shall cover work on building, heavy highway, and engineering construction, including the construction of, in whole or in part, or in improvement or modification thereof, including any structure or operations which are incidental thereto, the assembly, operation, maintenance and repair of all equipment, vehicles, and other facilities, including helicopters used in connection with the performance of the aforementioned work and services and including without limitation the following types or classes or work:
102.5.2	Cellular cement mason, chipping, patching, grinding, setting all concrete forms and perimeter forms, including catch basin structures and drain inlets, curb forms and planks, setting of lines, stakes and grades; setting screeds, which includes screedpins; cutting, scoring and sawing new concrete, plugging, filling Shee-Bolt holes; dry packing concrete and EMBECO; , tending material hose on slabs, floors and decks; tending mixer-truck chute on slabs, floors and decks; bush hammering; patching and sacking, rodding, tamping, bid well and similar type rodding machines, bull floating.
( New innovative materials, techniques, compounds, equipment and/or processes which t require the skills of a Cement Mason Journeyman, or which supplement or supplant the existing workof the Cement Mason Journeyman, shall remain and continue to be the recognized work of the Cement Mason Journeyman.
?
. 102.5.3 Street and highway work, grading and paving, excavation of earth and rock, grade separations, elevated highways, viaducts, bridges, abutments, retaining walls, subways, airport ’ grading, surfacing and drainage, electric transmission line and conduit projects, water supply, 1 water development, reclamation, irrigation, draining and flood control projects, water mains, pipe lines, sanitation and sewer projects, dams, aqueducts, canals, reservoirs, intakes, channels, J levees, dikes, revetments quarrying of breakwater or riprap stone, foundations, pile driving, piers, locks, river and harbor projects, breakwaters, jetties, dredging, tunnels, soil testing and building inspection.
I
S	- CM 3 -
102.5	.4 The construction, erection, alteration, repair, modification, demolition, addition or improvement, in whole or in part, of any building structure, including oil or gas refineries and incidental structures, solar energy installations and appurtenances thereto, also including any grading excavation, or similar operations which are incidental thereto, or the installation, operation, maintenance and repair of equipment, and other facilities used in connection with the performance of such building construction except where such structures are an incidental or supplemental part of highway and engineering construction, as defined in this Article.
102.5	.5 All work performed in the Contractor's warehouses, shops or yards which have been particularly provided or set up to handle work in connection with a job or project covered by the terms of this Agreement and all of the production or fabrication of materials by the Contractor for use on the project shall be subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
102	.6 Repairs necessitated by defects of material or workmanship or adjustments of newly purchased and/or installed equipment and machinery will not be subject to this Agreement where such repairs and/or adjustments are made by the manufacturer thereof or his agent or employees pursuant to the terms of a manufacturer’s guarantee and the Union will not hamper such manufacturer or his agents or employees on such excepted work.
102	.7 It is agreed that work covered by the Operative Plasterers Agreement is considered part of the work description covered by this Agreement, and, as such, is part of the bargaining unit work covered by this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
Union Recognition
201.	The Contractor hereby recognizes the Union as the sole and exclusive collective bargaining representative of all employees and persons employed to perform work covered by this Agreement. It is understood that the Union does not at this time, nor will it during the term of this Agreement, claim jurisdiction over the following class of employees; executives, civil engineers and their helpers, superintendents, assistant superintendents, master mechanics, time keepers, messenger boys, office workers or any employees of the Contractor above the rank of craft foreman. Employees and persons employed to perform work covered by this Agreement specifically include Craft Foreman. This recognition of majority support is based on an equivocal request for recognition by the Union as the majority representative, along with the Union having shown or offered to show evidence of its majority support.
202.	The Union recognizes the Associated General Contractors of California, Inc., the Building Industry Association of Southern California, Inc. and the Southern California Contractors Association, Inc. The Association of Construction Employers, The United General Contractors Association and the Engineering Contractors Association as the sole and exclusive bargaining representatives for their respective eligible members, present and future, who are or whom become bound by this Agreement and agree that during the term of this Agreement they will not negotiate or enter into any agreement with such individual members of the Association relative to part or all of the subject matter covered by this Agreement.
-CM 4-
203.	This Agreement shall be binding upon each and every eligible member of the Associated General Contractors of California, Inc., the Building Industry Association of Southern California, Inc., and the Southern California Contractors Association, Inc., with the same force and effect as if this Agreement were entered into by each eligible member individually. All eligible members of the Associated General Contractors of California, Inc., the Association of Construction Employers, the United General Contractors Association, Engineering Contractors Association, and the Southern California Contractors Association Inc., shall remain jointly and severally liable under this Agreement for the term of the Agreement irrespective of whether any eligible member shall resign or be suspended from any of the Associations prior to the expiration date of this Agreement and such liability shall survive the termination or suspension of membership and remain in force during the term of this Agreement provided, however, that as to such former or suspended members, the provisions of Article IV and Article VI shall not apply, from the time when such member resigns or is suspended from any of the Associations. Such former or suspended member shall be bound by any renewals, modifications, extensions of this Agreement or any subsequent new or renegotiated Agreement, unless he gives the appropriate Association and the Union at least sixty (60) days written notice prior to June 30,2009, and June 30 of any subsequent year, of his intent not to be bound by any new or renewed Agreement. The Associations will advise the Union of any new or resigned or suspended members within thirty (30) days after admission to membership or change in membership status.
204.	Employees employed by one or more of the Contractors for a period of eight (8) days continuously or accumulatively under the work jurisdiction of a particular Union as the term is defined herein shall be or become on the eighth (8th) day or eight (8) days after the effective date of this Agreement, whichever is later, members of such Union and shall remain members of such Union as a condition of continued employment. Membership in such Union shall be available upon terms and qualifications not more burdensome than those applicable at such times to other applicants for membership to such Union.
205.	The Contractor shall discharge any employee.pursuant to the foregoing section upon written notice from the Union of such employee's non-payment of initiation fees or dues. Such written notice shall indicate the amount of initiation fees or dues which are in a state of delinquency and shall give the employee the remainder of the day within which to cure the delinquency. The Contractor agrees to furnish a copy of such notice to the employee forthwith. If the employee is rehired by the same employer while in a state of delinquency, the employee may be removed by a Union Representative from that jobsite.
ARTICLE III
Hiring Provisions
301.	In the employment of workmen for all work covered by this Agreement the following provisions shall govern:
301.1	Each Local Union shall establish and maintain open and non-discriminatory employment lists for use of workmen desiring employment on work covered by this Agreement within the area of the Local Union. Any workman who so requests shall have his name placed on the dispatch list.
-CM 5-
Workmen's names shall be entered on said list in the order in which they present themselves for registration on the list.
301.2	After each workman's name is entered on such list there shall be entered a designation corresponding to the type or types of work in which the workman certifies he has had experience and is best qualified to perform. Such designations shall refer to the following classifications:
Cement Masons Journeyman, including but not restricted to the following: Cellular Cement Masons, chipping; patching; grinding; setting all concrete forms and perimeter forms, including catch basin structures and drain inlets, setting curb forms and planks, setting of lines, stakes and grades; setting screeds, which includes screed pins; cutting, scoring and sawing new concrete; plugging, filling Shee-Bolt holes; dry packing concrete and EMBECO; tending material hose on slabs, floors and decks, tending mixer-truck chute on slabs, floors and decks; bush hammering; patching and sacking; rodding, tamping, bid well and similar types rodding machines, bull floating.
Cement Masons (magnesite, magnesite-terrazzo and mastic composition, Epoxy, Dex-O-Tex, Urethanes and Exotic Coatings), floating and troweling machines, curb and gutter machines, Clary and similar types of screed machines, grinding machines (all types), Jackson vibratory, Texas Screed, and similar type, screed machines, scoring machines.
301.3	Whenever a Contractor requires Cement Mason employees, he shall first call upon the Local Union in the area in which the job is being performed and shall request the Local Union to furnish workmen to him and the Local Union shall do so strictly in accordance with the provisions of this Article. (See also paragraph 307, this Article).
301.4	It shall be the responsibility of the Contractor, when ordering workmen, to give the Local Union all of the pertinent information regarding the workmen’s employment. The Contractor agrees that all work covered by this Agreement shall be performed by Cement Masons, who the Contractor or the Union agree are employees of the Contractor or subcontractors employed under the terms of this Agreement.
301.5	The Local Union will furnish, in accordance with the request of the Contractor, each such qualified and competent workman from among those entered on said lists to the Contractor by use of a written referral in the following order of preference and the selection of workmen for referral to jobs shall be on a non-discriminatory basis:
301.5.1	The Contractor so requesting workmen shall have the absolute right to designate the workmen to be furnished him by name and the Union shall comply with such request without regard to where their names appear on the list if the workmen requested have caused their names to be entered on the lists, provided for herein, and are available for employment. The requests of Contractors provided for in this subparagraph 301.5.1 shall be made in writing, or orally, followed by a written confirmation. In the event an employer requests a particular workman not be sent from the lists, this request must be confirmed in writing stating the reasons for such request.
-CM 6-
301.5.2	If the Contractor does not designate workmen by name, or if workmen designated by name are not available for employment or have not caused their names to be entered on the list, the Contractor shall inform the Union of the number of workmen he requires, the type of work to be performed, the date the job is to commence and its approximate duration. In dispatching workmen under the provisions of this subparagraph 301.5.2 preference in the order in which their names appear on the list shall be given to those workmen whose designations correspond to the classifications for which the Contractor has requested workmen. The Union shall use its best efforts to furnish the number of qualified and competent workmen according to the request of the Contractor. If the Union is unable to furnish qualified workmen within twenty-four (24) hours after a Contractor calls for them, the Contractor shall be free to procure workmen from any other source or sources. He shall in such event, promptly notify the local union in the areas where the job is located of the names and addresses of workmen so hired.
302 The individual contractor is the judge as to the competence of all his employees and applicants for employment. All employees must perform their work to the satisfaction of the Contractor. No employee shall be discharged or discriminated against for reasons of sex, age or race or for activities in behalf of, or in representation of, the Union not interfering with the proper performance of his duties. Any discharge may be subject to the grievance procedure. The first five (5) days of employment of any employee shall be a probationary period during which time any termination will not be challenged.
303.	Selection of applicants for referral to jobs shall be on a non-discriminatory basis and shall not be based on, or in any way affected by, Union membership, by-laws, rules, regulations, constitutional provisions, or any other aspect or: obligation of Union membership policies or requirements.	:j
304.	For each workman furnished, the Union shall send to the contractor with the workman, or by mail, a written referral slip. The Contractor shall have the right to reject any workman referred by the Union for any reason. The Contractor may discharge any employee for just cause which the Contractor may deem sufficient, provided there shall; be no discrimination on the part of the contractor against any employee, nor shall any such employee be discharged by reason of any Union activity not interfering with the proper performance of his work.
304.1	New employees on their first day of work shall be paid from the time of job arrival provided there has been an eighteen (18) hour advance request made for said workman. Otherwise he will be paid from the beginning of the shift.
305.	Employees employed by one (1) or more of the Contractors for a period of eight (8) days continuously or accumulatively from the date of employment or the date of this Agreement, whichever is later, shall be or become after the eight (8) day period members of the Union and shall remain members of the Union as a condition of continued employment. Membership in the Union shall be available upon terms and qualifications not more burdensome than those applicable at such times to other applicants for membership in the Union.
305.1	The individual Contractor shall not be required to discharge any employee pursuant to
-CM 7-
this section until a written notice from the Union of such employee’s non-compliance with this section, stating all pertinent facts showing such noncompliance, shall have been served upon such individual Contractor.
306.	Employees employed by the Contractor pursuant to the terms of this Agreement shall
not be removed or transferred by the Union signatory hereto or any of its Local Unions covered by the terms of this Agreement unless the prior approval of the Contractor has been obtained.
307.	Transfer: An employer may transfer employees, within the area of the Agreement, who have been employed by the individual contractor desiring to make such transfer anytime within the preceding thirty (30) working days prior to such transfer.
ARTICLE IV
Strikes, Lockouts and Jurisdictional Disputes
401.	It is the purpose and intent of the parties that all grievances or disputes arising between them over the interpretation or application of the terms of this Agreement shall be settled by the procedures set forth in Article VI and that during the term of this Agreement the Union shall not cause or engage in, sanction or assist in a strike against, or any slow-down, or stoppage of work of the Contractor. During the term of this Agreement, a Contractor shall not cause or permit any lockout of the employees covered under this Agreement.
402.	Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, there shall be no strike, lockout or work stoppage by any signed hereto or any individual Employer.
403.	No employee covered hereby may be discharged by an individual Employer for refusing to cross a primary picket line sanctioned by the Building and Construction Trades Council, or the Local Union in the area or for engaging in any conduct protected by Sections 7 or 502 of the Labor-Management Relations Act of 1947, as amended.
403.1	If work on a project is declared to be unfair as the result of a primary dispute by a Building and Construction Trades Council in the area and the work thereon is stopped for that reason, the Union shall not be deemed to have violated this Agreement if, during the period of said work stoppage, the members of the Union fail to perform their work for the Contractor or their subcontractors.
404.	During the term hereof, there shall be no strikes, slowdowns or stoppages of work occasioned by jurisdictional disputes between the Union signatory hereto and any other Union and that all employees covered by this Agreement shall perform the work customarily performed by them and will cooperate and work with members of other organizations affiliated with the Building and Construction Trades Department, AFL-CIO, or the International Brotherhood of Teamsters of America without regard to past, present or future disputes or jurisdictional claims.
405.	When making work assignments, the Contractor shall assign the work in accordance
-CM 8-
with existing inter-craft agreements. In the absence of such inter-craft agreements, then past practice or the prevailing practice in the locality shall apply. The Unions will furnish the Association with approved inter-craft Agreements. The locality for the purpose of determining the prevailing practice shall be defined as the geographical area covered by this Agreement. If a dispute arises prior to the assignment of work, or where there is no predominant practice in the locality or intercraft agreement, the Contractor shall consult the representatives of the contesting trades regarding any arguments of facts the trades may. wish to present to their claim to the work. Craft jurisdiction is neither determined nor awarded solely by classifications or coverage descriptions appearing in this agreement.
406.	The parties hereto agree that where a problem develops involving Unions not signatory to this Agreement, the representatives of the Unions involved will meet with the representatives of the contractors to resolve the particular problem. Any resolution by the unions shall be put into effect immediately.
407.	Jurisdictional disputes which cannot be resolved at the local level shall then be referred to the International Unions involved for determination and the work shall proceed as assigned by the Contractor until such determination by the International Unions has been confirmed to the disputing Unions and the Contractors.
ARTICLE V
Subcontracting, Employee Rights, Union Standards and Work Preservation
501.	The purposes of this Article are to preserve,and protect the work opportunities normally available to employees and workmen covered by this Agreement, maintenance and protection of standards and benefits of employees and workmen negotiated over may years, and preservation of the right of Union employees, employed hereunder, from being compelled to work with nonunion workmen.
502.	Definition of Subcontractor:
A subcontractor is defined as any person (other than an employee covered by this Agreement), firm or corporation, holding a valid state contractor’s license where required by law, who agrees orally or in writing to perform, or who in fact performs for or on behalf of an individual Contractor or the subcontractor of an individual Contractor, any part or portion of the work covered by this Agreement.
503.	Neither the contractor nor any of his subcontractors shall subcontract any work to be done at the site of the construction, alteration, painting or repair of a building, structure or other work coming within the jurisdiction of the Union except to a person, firm or corporation signed to an appropriate current labor agreement with the Union. .
504.	Any dispute involving this Article will be resolved under the grievance procedure of this Agreement. An award of the Cement Masons' Joint Adjustment Board may be judicially enforced.
-CM 9-
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Agreement, the Union shall not have the right to use strike or any other economic action to enforce any provisions of this Article on subcontracting.
505.	The Contractor shall provide in his contract with the subcontractor the following provisions: “The subcontractor accepts and agrees to be bound by the procedures for settling jurisdictional disputes as set forth in Article IV of this Agreement. The subcontractor agrees that he will bind his subcontractor to said procedures in the same manner and to the same effect as provided with respect to him."
506.	The contractor and his subcontractors shall have freedom of choice in the purchase of materials, supplies and equipment, except that every reasonable effort shall be made by the Contractor and his subcontractors to refrain from the use of materials, supplies or equipment, which use will tend to cause any discord or disturbance on the project.
507.	In the event the Contractor is required to subcontract work on a public works project to a certified MBEAVBE/DBE subcontractor to meet requirements contained in governmental rules or regulations, the Union will sigh an agreement with such subcontractor.
ARTICLE VI
Procedures for Settlement of Grievances and Disputes
601.	The Craft Steward, if any, is to receive grievances or disputes from employee members of his craft and shall immediately report them to his business agent or special representative, who shall immediately attempt to adjust said grievance or dispute with the Contractor or his representative.
602.	In cases of violation, misunderstanding or differences in interpretation of this Agreement by either party, there shall be no cessation or stoppage of work, except as in the case where the Employer or subcontractor or a subcontractor of a subcontractor fails to pay wages or is delinquent in contributions to any Trust Fund established under this Agreement. No dispute, complaint or grievance shall be recognized unless called to the attention of the individual Contractor or by the Contractor to the Union within fifteen (15) days after the Union or the involved employee had knowledge or reasonably should have had knowledge of the occurrence of the facts giving rise to the alleged violation except on notice of discharge in which case it shall be within seven (7) working days after notice.
602.1	In the event that the Joint Adjustment Board shall fait to convene within seven (7) days, for lack of Union representation then time shall be suspended with respect to any damages accruing herein, and shall commence to run when the Joint Adjustment Board convenes.
603.	In the event a grievance or dispute cannot be satisfactorily adjusted on the job between the representative of the Union and the Contractor, or his representative, within twenty-four (24) hours, then the same may be referred to the Cement Mason Craft Joint
-CM 10-
Adjustment Board.
604.	There is hereby established a Cement Mason Craft Joint Adjustment Board, to be composed of four (4) regular and four (4) alternate representatives of the Contractors and four (4) regular and four (4) alternate representatives of the Union. The Cement Mason Craft Joint Adjustment Board shall have authority to perform the functions set forth in paragraph 801, Article VIII and this Article VI of this Agreement. Each of the parties shall, within ten (10) days after the execution of this Agreement, appoint its representatives and immediately notify the other party, in writing, of the name and business address of each representative appointed. The Cement Mason Craft Joint Adjustment Board shall thereafter meet within ten (10) days, select its Chairman and Secretaries, adopt its rules of procedure, and thereafter it shall meet at the call of the Chairman.
605.	The Cement Masons Craft Joint Adjustment Board shall meet and act, by majority vote, upon such matters referred to it, but, in no event later than thirty (30) working days after the referral. A decision shall be rendered within three (3) working days after the Cement Masons Craft Joint Adjustment Board meets. In the event no majority decision can be reached within three (3) working days, or if either party disagrees with the decision made, then either party may, within five (5) working days, request the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service to furnish the names of five (5) persons qualified to act as Impartial Chairman. When said list has been presented, the representatives of the Contractors and the representatives of the Union comprising the Cement Mason Craft Joint Adjustment Board shall each have the choice of rejecting two (2) names of the five (5) persons listed. The remaining, or fifth person, shall be selected as Chairman within five (5) days. The Joint Adjustment Board and the Impartial Chairman shall meet and render a decision within forty-eight (48) hours thereafter. The time limits specified in this paragraph may be extended by mutual agreement. Any and all decisions reached at any step of the grievance procedure which have not been appealed within the prescribed time limit, made by the Cement Masons Craft Joint Adjustment Board or the Impartial Chairman shall be final and binding upon both parties to this Agreement.
606.	. All expenses incurred and approved by the Cement Mason Craft Joint Adjustment Board, including the fees and expenses of the Impartial Chairman, necessary for the consideration and determination of the grievance or dispute submitted to.it, shall be borne by and divided equally between the Union and the Contractors.
607.	No jurisdictional disputes shall be submitted for determination to any grievance procedure provided in this Article.
608.	All grievances, or disputes, other than jurisdictional disputes, arising out of the interpretation or application of any of the terms or conditions of this Agreement shall be submitted for determination and shall be determined by the procedure set forth in this Article VI but no grievance body established under this Agreement, including the Cement Mason Craft Joint Adjustment Board and the Impartial Chairman, in determining any grievance, shall have the authority to modify, vary, change, add to or remove any of the terms or conditions of this Agreement, except that the Cement Mason Craft Joint Adjustment Board shall function with respect to the use of classifications and wage rates as provided in Paragraph 801, Article VIII of.this Agreement.
-CM11 -
ARTICLE VII
Craft Steward and Business Representative
701.	The Union business agent or special representative shall have access to the project
during working hours and shall make every reasonable effort to advise the Contractor or his representative of his presence on the project.
702.	The craft job steward, if any, shall be a working employee appointed by the Union, who shall, in addition to his regularly assigned work, be permitted to perform during working hours, such of his steward duties as outlined in Paragraph 705, as cannot be performed otherwise. The Union agrees that such duties shall be performed as expeditiously as possible and the Contractor agrees to allow the performance of such duties as herein set forth. The Union shall notify the Contractor or his representative, in writing, of the appointment of a craft job steward, and send a copy to the Contractor's home office address.
703.	It is recognized by the Contractor that the employee selected as the job steward shall remain on the job as long as work is being performed in a classification in which he is qualified to perform, except under the following conditions:
703.1	It will not be necessary to retain the job steward for overtime work, when the crew to which the steward is assigned is not required to perform the overtime work.
703.2	At the completion of the job, the Contractor shall not be required to retain the steward
in lieu of the foreman or key man upon reduction in force.
704.	The Contractor or his representative, before laying off, or discharging the job steward for any cause other than stated in Paragraph 705 shall notify the Union in writing of his intent to do so two (2) full working days prior to such intended layoff or discharge. The Contractor or his representative will meet with the representative of the Union during this two (2) day period and attempt to resolve the matter. The job steward shall not be discharged or laid off for the performance of his agreed upon duties when performed in accordance with this Article, or without just cause.
705.	To promote harmony between the Union and the individual Contractor, the craft job steward shall be limited to and shall not exceed the following duties and activities:
705.1	Check the job referral of each employee dispatched under the terms of this Agreement to the Contractor.
705.2	Work with the Contractor's designated representative in charge of the job in an attempt to resolve disputes prior to the application of the grievance procedure.
705.3	Report to the Contractor’s designated representative any employee covered by this Agreement who works for less than the negotiated wage scale, for less than the overtime rate
-CM 12-
or who goes to work without a referral.
705.4	Report to the Contractor's designated representative any work belonging to his craft being done by non-dispatched men or workmen of another craft.
705.5	Report to his Business Representative infractions of the Agreement which have not been resolved between himself and the Contractor’s designated representative.
705.6	Make a complete job check during working hours no more often than once a week.
705.7	Report to his Business Representative any employee covered by this Agreement who leaves the jobsite without giving the Contractor and the craft.job steward prior notice.
705.8	Report any reckless or unsafe employees covered by this Agreement on the jobsite to the Contractor's designated representative or his Business Representative.
705.9	The craft job steward shall not:
705.9.1	Stop the Contractor’s work for any reason.
705.9.2	Tell any workmanor any employee covered by this Agreement that he cannot work on the job.
705.9.3	Initiate any physical altercation with any person on the jobsite.
706.	Infraction of any of the rules in subparagraphs of 705.9 shall be cause for immediate dismissal of the craft job steward without any prior notice and this shall be the exclusive remedy for a violation of this section.
707.	Any dispute in connection with this Article VII shall be referred to the grievance procedure
outlined in Article VI of this Agreement.
ARTICLE VIII
Classifications
801.	Should the Contractor or subcontractors, as defined in Article I, paragraph 101, and Article V paragraph 502 of this Agreement, employ employees in the prosecution of work covered by this Agreement in occupations or upon equipment which is not covered by one of the classifications herein specified, such employment shall, within three (3) working days after a work assignment is made or the equipment is operated,, be temporarily classified by the Contractor Association and the Union under the classifications contained herein which will more nearly fit the particular character of the employment. Temporary classifications and wage rates shall be immediately referred to the Cement Mason Craft Joint Adjustment Board which shall, at its next meeting, review and recommend usage of the proper classifications and wage rates. Either party
-CM 13-
shall thereafter have the right to submit a dispute under this section in the manner set forth in Article VI of this Agreement.
802.	The number of employees and the number of classifications of employees required to perform any operation covered by this Agreement shall be determined by the Contractor; provided that if a Contractor, in determining the number of employees or the number of classifications of employees, shall lessen the number of employees or the number of classifications customarily used to perform any such operation, the Union may have the issue of such reduction in employees or in classifications determined by the grievance and arbitration procedure provided in Article VI of this Agreement. In determining such disputes, consideration shall be given to the necessity for additional employees or classifications as well as to other pertinent factors.	’
803.	Because the Contractor and the Union recognize the necessity of eliminating restrictions on production and promoting efficiency, nothing shall be permitted that restricts production or increases the time required to do the work, and no limitation shall be placed upon the amount of work which an employee shall perform, nor shall there by any restrictions against the use of any kind of machinery, tools, or labor saving devices, provided, however, that such machinery or power equipment shall be furnished by the Contractor, and provided further that no employee shall be required to work under any conditions that are injurious to his health or safety in conflict with a present well-established custom regulating such use where the work is being performed.
804.	The Contractor agrees to recognize and observe craft jurisdiction insofar as possible and practicable and that wage scales apply to classifications rather than to men, and the Union agrees to permit the occasional or temporary transfer of employees of one classification to any other classification or between crafts; provided that, when such transfers are made the employee shall be paid for the entire day on the basis of the rate of the highest paid classification in which he worked during the day. Abuse by any Contractor of the privilege granted in this paragraph 804 shall subject him to withdrawal of the privilege for an appropriate period through the procedures established in Article VI of this Agreement.
805.	Each employee employed in accordance with the terms of this Agreement shall receive the minimum hourly wage rates specified in Article XXIV of this Agreement. Any other method of paying employees, such as the use of piece work, bonus systems, quota setting, or lumping of the work, shall be deemed a violation of this Agreement. Grievances shall be settled in accordance with Article VI of this Agreement.
806.	Work performed under this Agreement shall be done by the employees of the Contractor or prime builder direct with the Cement Masons on an hourly basis, except as provided in the subcontractor provisions of this Agreement. The Cement Masons Craft Joint Adjustment Board or the Impartial Chairman may assess penalties for violations of Paragraph 805, this Article.
-CM 14-
ARTICLE IX
Holidays, Payment of Wages, Meal Periods
901.	HOLIDAYS
The following holidays shall be observed on the date designated by Federal Law: New Year’s Day, Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day, Veterans' Day, Thanksgiving Day, the day after Thanksgiving Day, and Christmas Day. If any of the above holidays should fall on Sunday, the Monday following shall be considered a legal holiday. Work on such days shall be paid for at the holiday overtime rate provided herein. No work shall be performed on Labor Day except in case of extreme urgency when life or property is in imminent danger.
902.	PAYMENT OF WAGES
902.1	All wages shall be paid on a designated weekly payday and in no event shall the Contractor withhold more than five (5) working days. If the regular payday falls on a holiday, the employees shall be paid on the next regular workday. Employees shall be paid prior to the ending of their regular shift.
902.2	When men are laid off or discharged, they must be paid wages due them at the time of layoff or discharge. At such times as an employee is paid, he shall be furnished a personal record showing straight time and overtime hours paid and all deductions itemized for the current pay period. Such record shall show the employee’sname, and the Employer's name and address. In the event the Employer fails to pay employees laid off or discharged, they shall be paid waiting time at the straight time rate of eight (8) hours per day five (5) days per week, until the time such payment has been made.	• -
902.3	An employee who quits shall be mailed his pay in full by certified mail to his last known address within seventy-two (72) hours, or be paid prior, to leaving the job or project. In the event these stipulations are not met, he shall receive waiting time as noted above.
902.4	If a Contractor pays an employee by check, draft or voucher, which check, draft or voucher is subsequently refused payment because the-Contractor has no account with the bank, institution or person on which drawn, or insufficient funds to his account at the time of presentation, the Contractor shall be required to issue only certified checks for al employees working under this Agreement on that job for the duration of the job on. which said check was issued, and shall reimburse the employee immediately by certified check for the insufficient fund check issued and for the bank charges assessed.
902.5	When Employees covered under the terms of this Agreement are employed at a higher rate of pay than the minimum established herein during any shift, the higher rate of pay shall apply on all time worked during that day.
-CM 15-
902.6	The Employer shall not discharge or discriminate against an employee under this Agreement because of any industrial injury incurred prior to employment, or the filing of a claim for workmen's compensation benefits.
902.7	When an employee is injured while at work to the extent of being unable to work for the balance of the day, he shall be paid for a full day at his regular rate. His ability to work or not to work shall be determined by a qualified physician.
903.	MEAL PERIOD
Employees shall not work more than five (5) consecutive hours without a one-half (1/2) hour meal period. When employees work over five (5) hours without being provided with a one-half (1/2) hour meal period, they shall receive one-half (1/2) hour pay at the time and one-half (1/2) rate, provided that the employee completes at least six (6) hours of work that day. When an employee is required to work overtime for more than three (3) hours over the regular eight(8) hours, the Employer agrees to provide a meal period each five (5) hours thereafter and the employee shall have sufficient time to eat the meal without loss of pay. In the event an employee is required to work through any overtime meal period, then the employee shall receive pay for an additional one-half (1/2) hour at the time and one-half (1-1/2) rate. Meal periods may be staggered to meet job requirements.
904.	The parties of the agreement recognize industrial Wage Order 16-2001 covering “On Site Construction, Mining, Drilling and Logging Industries". Any dispute or grievance arising from this Wage Order shall be processed under and in accordance with Article VI, Procedure for Settlement of Grievances and Disputes of this agreement. The grievance process of Article VI shall be the exclusive method of resolving all alleged violations of this Wage Order and the time limitations of Article VI shall apply.
ARTICLE X
Safety, Parking, Drinking Water, Jobsite Transportation, Signing of Documents
1001.	SAFETY
The Union shall cooperate (1) with the individual Contractor and with each other in carrying out all of the individual Contractor’s safety measures and practices for accident prevention; and (2) employees shall perform their duties in each operation in such a manner as to promote efficient operations of each particular duty and of any job as a whole. The individual Contractors must post the name and address of their doctor and the compensation insurance carrier on the jobsite.
1001.1	All Federal and State safety rules, regulations, orders and decisions shall be binding upon the individual Contractor and shall be applied to all work covered by this Agreement. No worker shall be required to work under unsafe conditions.
1001.1.1	An employee who has been found, through the grievance procedure, to have been
-CM 16-
unjustifiably disciplined or discharged for refusing to perform work which would endanger his health or safety, or the health or safety of any other employee, shall be reinstated in his former classification. This is not to be construed as a waiver of the employee’s rights under Section 502 of the Labor Management Relations Act of 1947, as amended..
1001.2	The individual contractors shall be solely responsible for implementation and maintenance of such safety laws, rules, regulations, standards, orders and decisions. Neither the Union nor any local Unions or District Councils are responsible for such implementation or maintenance.
1002.	PARKING
In the event free parking facilities are not available within three hundred and fifty (350) yards of a jobsite, the individual Employer will provide such facilities and the individual Employer shall have the right to designate parking areas to be used. Where, because of congested parking conditions, it is necessary to use public facilities, the Employer shall reimburse the employee for the cost of such parking upon being presented with a receipt or voucher, certifying to the cost thereof, such reimbursement to be made on a.weekly basis or at the conclusion of the project, whichever occurs earlier. Designated parking areas shall be reasonably level and graded to drain.
1003.	DRINKING WATER
The Contractor shall furnish cool and portable drinking water in sufficient quantities for the needs of the employees and make available sanitary drinking cups, salt tablets and adequate toilet facilities in accordance with California State Law, .. ,
1004.	JOBSITE TRANSPORTATION
Whenever, because of remoteness of parking areas, hazardous road conditions or security restrictions, the Employer is required to furnish transportation for men within the jobsite to the place of their “work”, this transportation shall be equipped with seats and handrails.
1005.	SIGNING OF DOCUMENTS
Workmen and/or employees shall not be required to sign any documents other than those required by law and any document contained in this Agreement. Under no circumstances will an employee be required to sign any other document and the Union shall not be held in violation of this Agreement for ceasing to work on a job or project where such demand is made by the Employer.
ARTICLE XI
Qualifications
1101.	Each of the parties hereto warrants and agrees that it is under no disability of any kind whether arising out of the Provisions of its Articles of Incorporation, Constitution, By-Laws, or
-CM 17-
otherwise, that will prevent it from fully and completely carrying out and performing each and all of the terms and conditions of this Agreement and, further, that it will not, by the adoption or amendment of any provisions of its Articles of Incorporation, Constitution, or By-Laws, or by contract or by any means whatsoever, take any action that will prevent or impede it in the full and complete performance of each and every term and condition hereof. The warranties and agreements contained in this paragraph are made by each of the signatories hereto on his own behalf and on behalf of each organization for which it is acting hereunder. The individuals signing this Agreement in their official capacity and the signatories hereto hereby guarantee and warrant their authority to act for and bind the. respective parties or organizations and each of their eligible members and the Unions on whose behalf the said parties are signing the said Agreement.
1102.	Nothing contained in any other Agreement will change the conditions as set forth in this Agreement pertaining to use of equipment or the working rules and classifications of employees when said equipment is owned by the Contractor and operated or used on any work on which he is the prime or subcontractor. Nothing contained in this Agreement shall relieve any Contractor or subcontractor from his contractual obligations under such other agreements.
1103.	No agent or representative of either party has authority to make, and none of the parties shall be bound by nor liable for, any statement, representation, promise, inducement or agreement not set forth herein. Any provision in the working rules of the Union with reference to the relations between the Contractors and their employees, in conflict with the terms of this Agreement shall be deemed to be waived and any such rules or regulations which may hereafter be adopted by the Union shall have no application to the work covered herein.
1104.	A party to this Agreement shall not cancel this Agreement because of a claimed breach thereof or file any claim for damage^ because of a claimed breach of this Agreement, without giving notice in writing to the other party and allowing ten (10) days thereafter to such other party for redress or correction. Nothing contained in this Section shall be deemed to limit the right of the Unions under Article IV of this Agreement.
ARTICLE XII
Existing and Other Agreements
1201	. In the event the Union establishes special conditions for work covered under this Agreement when performed in specified areas covered by this Agreement, those same conditions shall be made available to any Employers who wish to perform that designated work in that same area.
1201	.1 The provisions of this paragraph will not apply to any Special Project Agreements which may be negotiated in any area cdvered by this Agreement.
1201	.2 The Union will promptly notify the employer, in writing, of any special conditions which are negotiated in any specified area covered by this Agreement between the Union and any
•CM 18-
Employer or group of Employers.
ARTICLE XIII
General Savings Clause
1301.	It is not the intent of either the Contractors or the Union to violate any laws, rulings or regulations of any governmental authority or agency having jurisdiction of the subject matter of this Agreement, and the contractor and the Union agree that, in the event any provision of this Agreement is finally held or determined to be illegal or void, as being in contravention of any such laws, ruling or regulations, the remainder of this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect, unless the part so found to be void is wholly inseparable from the remaining portion of this Agreement. The Contractors and the Union agree that if and when any provision of this Agreement is held or determined to be illegal or void they will then promptly enter into lawful negotiations concerning the substance thereof. In the event the parties are unable to reach agreement within sixty (60) days following the beginning of such negotiations, the parties agree to submit the issue to final and binding arbitration. Selection of an arbitrator shall be made in the manner prescribed in Article VI of this Agreement. The Arbitrator shall render decisions only on the specific issue submitted to him, and shall have no authority to change or abrogate other conditions of this Agreement. Any fees and/or expenses of the Arbitrator shall be borne by and divided equally by the Union and the contractors. The decision of the Arbitrator shall be final and binding bn the parties. The no-strike, no-lockout provisions of Article IV shall not apply if either party fails to comply with the decision of the Arbitrator.
ARTICLE XIV
Term, Termination and Renewal
1401.	The term of this Agreement is July 1, 2006, to June 30, 2009, and from year to year a thereafter unless either the Union or the Associations give written notice received by the others no less than sixty (60) days prior to June 30, 2009, or sixty (60) days prior to June 30 of any subsequent year, of a desire to change, amend, modify or terminate the Agreement.
ARTICLE XV
Equal Employment Opportunity
1501.	The Employer and the Union will not discriminate against any person with regard to employment or Union membership because of race, religion, color, sex, age, national origin, or ancestry and hereby declare their acceptance and support of existing laws. This shall apply to | hiring, placement, training during employment, rates of pay or other forms of compensation, layoff or termination, and application for admission to Union membership.
1502.	In the event the Union is unable to refer applicants for employment to an employer in I sufficient number, or sufficient type, from the minority groups represented within the local area as
-CM 19-
may be necessary to enable the:Employertofully comply with minority hiring requirements imposed by his construction contract with any Federal, State or governmental body, commission or agency, or to enable the employer to fully comply with all Federal and State laws, Presidential Executive Order, regulations, rules, directives or orders which cover minority hiring and which are applicable to the Employer, then in any such event the Employer shall be free to directly recruit from any source such number of minority applicants acceptable to the Employer as may be necessary to satisfy the Employer's needs to effect such compliance.
1503.	It is understood, the Employer shall submit to the Union, in writing, any such request for minority or female applicants for employment, together with a copy of the order, directive, rules or regulations pursuant to any such Presidential Executive Order, Federal, State or local law; the construction project number; and a copy of the compliance order.
ARTICLE XVI
> Working Rules
1601.	The following working rules shall govern the employment of employees performing any
work under the terms of this Agreement? •
1601.1	Method of Delivery of Notices; The method of delivery of notices required in Article X’VI shall be satisfied by one of the following means of delivery; certified letter, facsimile or electronic transmission given to the union twenty-four (24) hours in advance.
1602.	SINGLE SHIFTS:
1602.1	Eight (8) consecutive hours, exclusive of meal period, between 5:00 A.M. and 5:00 P.M. shall constitute a day’s work. Fortyi(40) hours, Monday 5:00 A.M. through Friday 5:00 P.M., shall constitute a week's work provided that if the starting time is changed during the course of the work, notification shall be fumlshed to the Local Union in the jurisdiction where the work is being performed twenty-four (24) hours in advance.
1602.2	The starting time of single shifts shall be at 5:00 A.M., 5:30 A.M.,6:00 A.M.,6:30 A.M., 7:00 A.M., 7:30 A.M., or 8:00 A.M., Monday through Sunday. Starting time may be changed to meet job requirements, including maximum utilization of day light hours. Starting time shall not be staggered. Twenty-four (24) hour notice shall be given to the Union, in cases of deviation from the original starting time. - '•••
1602.3	All time worked before 5:00 A.M. and after 5:00 P.M., or all time worked in excess of eight (8) consecutive hours, exclusive of meal period, and all work performed or hours paid on Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays, shall be paid at the appropriate overtime rate.
1602.4	When so elected by the Contractor, four (4) consecutive ten (10) hour days may be worked from Monday through Thursday, or Tuesday through Friday at the straight time rate. Ten (10) consecutive hours, exclusive of. meal period, between 5:00 A.M. and 5:00 P.M..shall constitute a day's work. Forty (40) hours Monday, 5:00 A.M. through Thursday 5:00 P.M., or
- CM 20 •
Tuesday 5:00 A.M. through Friday 5:00 P.M;, shall constitute a week's work.
1602.4.1	It is understood that if any employee’s shift is changed, during a particular week, from a ten (10) hour shift to an eight (8) hour shift the 5-8's overtime provision as set forth in 1602.3 shall apply and the employee will be paid at the appropriate rate or rates for the entire week.
1602.4.2	The Contractor shall notify the Union in advance in writing of any change from an eight (8) hour shift to a ten (10) hour shift, or from a ten (10) hour shift to an eight (8) hour shift.
1603.	MULTIPLE SHIFTS:
1603.1	When so elected by the Contractor, multiple shifts may be worked for three (3) or more consecutive days, provided that the Union is notified twenty-four (24) hours in advance of the effective date of the starting of such multiple shift operations, Saturdays and Sundays excluded for this notification. Contractors shall have the right to designate the craft or crafts on any project or portion thereof, who shall work on a multiple shift basis, provided, however, that men working on multiple shifts shall not be interchangeable with those working on a single-shift basis. All employees on multiple or single shifts commencing work prior to the established starting time, shall be paid at the appropriate overtime rate. In no event shall the regular hours of different shifts overlap, nor shall any interval between shifts exceed the reasonable time necessary to change shifts, and in no event shall such interval exceed one (1) hour except when a special shift is established in accordance with Paragraph 1605 Special Shifts.
1603.2	It is understood that a single and a multiple shift may work concurrently on a project.
1603.3	When two (2) or three (3) shifts are worked, the first and second shift shall work eight (8) consecutive hours, exclusive of meal period, for which eight (8) hours of straight time shall be paid Monday through Friday and the third shift shall work seven (7) consecutive hours, exclusive of meal period, for which eight (8) hours straight time shall be paid, Monday through Friday. All time worked or hours paid for, after seven (7) hours worked or paid for, on the third shift, in one (1) day on Saturday, Sunday and holidays shall be paid for at the appropriate overtime rate.
1603.4	Any time worked from Friday midnight to Sunday midnight, or on holidays or in excess of the regular shift hours or hours paid for shall be paid for at the appropriate overtime rate, except as provided in Paragraph 1603.5.
1603.5	The Friday graveyard shift ending on Saturday morning will be considered Friday work. The Saturday graveyard shift ending Sunday morning will be considered Saturday work. The Sunday graveyard shift ending on Monday morning will be considered Sunday work.
1603.6	Saturday Make-up Day: In the event, due to inclement weather or similar Act of God, or a situation beyond the control of the contractor, it is not reasonably possible for any individual employer on a particular jobsite to complete forty (40) hours of work, on either an eight (8) hour day shift or ten (10) hour day shift, Monday through Friday, during the same calendar week, the employer shall notify the Local Union of the necessity and reason for a make-up day . ;and the balance of the forty (40) hours may be worked on Saturday at the straight time rate. No employee
- CM 21 -
will be terminated for refusing to work on Saturday at the straight time rate of pay".
A violation of this provision shall be subject to the grievance procedure.
1604.	It is agreed that the Contractor and the Union may mutually agree, in writing, upon different starting and quitting times for any of the above shift arrangements.
1605.	SPECIAL SHIFTS
1605.1	When the Contractor notifies the Union twenty-four (24) hours in advance of a bona fide job requirement that work can only be performed outside, or in addition to, the regular day shift due to safety conditions or other requirements, an employee shall work eight (8) consecutive hours, exclusive of meal period, for which he shall receive eight (8) hours' pay at the straight-time rate of pay. Monday through Friday. All time worked or hours paid for Saturday, Sunday and holidays shall be paid for at the appropriate overtime rate. In addition, when the above conditions exist and it is necessary to begin or end a shift during the hours specified in Paragraph 1603.5 of this Article, but no earlier than 10:00 P.M. Sunday, in order for an employee to complete a forty (40) hour work week, the overtime rate will not apply; otherwise, all time worked or hours paid for Saturdays,.Sundays and holidays shall be paid for at the appropriate overtime rate. This paragraph does not allow work in excess of forty (40) hours per week without payment of overtime. It is agreed, however, in the operation of this shift, no employees will lose a shift's work.
1605.2	When maintenance or remodeling work cannot be performed on the regular shift because of the fact that establishments cannot suspend operations during the day, a special single shift may be employed starting , at a time designated by the operations of the establishment, Monday through Friday,., and ^employees on this shift will work eight (8) consecutive hours exclusive of meal period, for which they will receive eight (8) hours' pay at the straight-time rate.
1606.	TIDE WORK SCHEDULE:
The following provisions shall apply to employees on jobs working a single shift only:
1606.1	When employees are called out,to work broken time or tide work, Monday through Friday, the minimum pay for such work shall be eight (8) hours at the applicable, regular straight-time rate. Subject to the above minimum, in computing the time to be paid for under this provision, eight (8) hours or less worked between 5:00 A.M. and 5:00 P.M., shall be paid for at the applicable straight-time rate, and time in excess of eight (8) hours worked between 5:00 A.M. and 5:00 P.M. and any time worked before 5:00 A.M. or after 5:00 P.M. shall be paid for at the applicable overtime rate.
1606.2	When employees are called-put to work broken time or tide work on Saturdays, Sundays or holidays, the minimum pay for such work shall be eight (8) hours at the applicable overtime rate.
- CM 22 -
1607. EMERGENCIES:
16	07.1 When it is mutually agreed that an emergency exists, such as earthquakes, floods or fire, starting time for the shift may be made to fit the emergency and eight (8) hours in any twenty-four (24) hour period may be worked at straight time. All other terms and conditions of this Agreement shall apply.
1608.	Any time worked on Saturday, Sunday or holidays outside of the shift hours provided in this Agreement shall be paid for on the basis of the actual hours worked at the overtime rate, except that any employee reporting for work at the stipulated time and for whom no work is provided shall receive pay for two (2) hours at the overtime rate, any employee who reports for work and for whom work is provided shall receive not less than four (4) hours pay at the overtime rate, and if an employee works more than four (4) hours, he shall be paid for the actual hours worked at the overtime rate.
1609.	Any workman or employee reporting for work at the regular starting time for whom no work is provided shall receive pay for two (2) hours at the stipulated rate and all fringe benefits for his classification for so reporting unless he has been notified before the end of his last preceding shift not to report; and any employee who reports for work and for whom work is provided shall receive not less than four (4) hours' pay; and all fringe benefits for his classification and, if more than four hours are worked in any one (1) day, shall receive not less than a full day's pay therefor, unless prevented from working for reasons beyond the control of the employer, including, but not limited by, such factors as inclement weather, or breakdown causing discontinuance of a major unit of the project during which time employees are not required or requested to remain on the project by the employer or his agent. Workmen or employees referred under Article III of this Agreement to the Employers’ job who arrive in an unfit condition for work without proper tools, credentials, or who are not ready to go to work or who are not otherwise qualified shall not be paid show-up time, or subsistence. The employee shall furnish the Employer with his current address and phone number, if any. The Employer shall furnish the employee with the Employer’s current address and telephone number at the time of employment. Cement Masons who voluntarily quit shall receive pay only for hours worked.
With respect to Section 1602.4, any employee who reports for work and for whom work is provided shall receive not less than five (5) hours' pay, and, if more than five (5) hours are worked in any one (1) day, shall receive not less than ten (10) hours' pay, except, however, if after five (5) hours the project or portion thereof is shut down, the employee, or employees, affected by such shut down shall receive pay for the actual hours worked.
1609.1	When it is necessary to shut down a job or project because of a bomb threat, employees will be compensated as follows:
1609.1.1	If such an event occurs before the regular starting time, all workmen or employees who have not been notified not to appear for work and who show up at the jobsite shall receive two (2) hours’ pay and subsistence at the applicable rate.
- CM 23 -
1609.1.2	In order to qualify for this two (2) hours' pay (and subsistence if applicable) the employee and/or workman must remain on the job available for work during the two (2) hour period of time for which he receives pay unless released sooner by the Employer or his representative. Time spent in a holding area as directed by the Contractor shall be considered as time worked and paid accordingly.
1610.	Employees shall travel to and from their work on their own time and by means of their
own transportation.
1611.	SUBSISTENCE:
1611.1	In the subsistence area as hereafter defined in 16.11.3 and subject to the exceptions noted below, subsistence shall be paid at the rate of thirty dollars ($30.00) per scheduled workday. There shall be no prorating of subsistence. Subsistence shall apply to workmen and/or employees who report to work and for whom no work is provided.
1611.2	An employee or workman who is required to report or perform any work in a subsistence area for any portion of the day or shift shall receive the established subsistence rate for the entire day or shift.
1611.3	Subsistence as provided in this Paragraph shall be paid on projects on the following
off-shore islands:
San Miguel Island
Santa Rosa Island
Anacapa Island (Channel Island Monument) Santa Barbara Island San Clemente Island
Santa Catalina Island Richardson Rock
Santa Cruz Island Arch Rock
San Nicholas Island
1611.3.1	Employees reporting at the embarkation point for travel to the above named islands, shall be paid travel time from the mainland to the islands and return at the straight-time rate and in no event shall the travel time be less than one (1) hour, regardless of mode of travel. Travel time shall start and end at the point of embarkation at the time and place designated by the Contractor.
1611.4	In lieu of subsistence, the Contractor may provide and maintain acceptable room and board, on or immediately adjacent to the project, seven (7) days per week, in compliance with California State laws.
1612.	The Contractor shall provide, at each jobsite, a tool shed or other adequate storage space for the storage of Cement Masons' tools. Loss of tools resulting from a violation of this
- CM 24 -
paragraph shall be subject to the grievance procedure. .
1613.	Cement Masons shall not furnish or. transport any power tools, Fresno trowels, or troweling machines or other tools such as tamps. Cement Masons, at the discretion of the Contractor, shall be required to furnish or transport customary hand tools, which shall be construed to be the tool set listed herein as a guideline only:
Hard Hat
Work boots
12', 14”, 18°, and 20° Finishing Trowel
Pointer or Margin Trowel
Mixing (dipping) Trowel
Hand Joiners (curb or sidewalk)
16° Wood or Laminated Float and Sponge Float
Carborundum Hand Stone 6’ x 2“ x 2"
1/4°, 1/2“, 3/4°, Radius Hand Edgers
3/4° Radius Nose and Cove Step Tools
3/4° Radius Nose and Cove Curb Tools
Cotton and Rubber Gloves
Rubber Boots (4 Buckle or better)
Knee Pads, Pair of Knee Boards and Sliders
Hand Saw (Disston or equal)
Claw Hammer, Sledge Hammer or Stake Maul
Chalk Line
Nail Apron
Cold Chisel
25' or 30' Measuring Tape and Engineer's Tenth Tape
Hand Level 24° or longer and Torpedo Level
All applicable cement, finishing hand tools shall be Marshalltown or equal.
1614.	Special Tools: Special tools and all tools other than tools customarily furnished by the Cement Masons shall be furnished by the Contractor,, including walking tools, all tools larger than three-quarters (3/4) inch radius, mission jointer and step corrugator.
1615.	It shall be considered a violation of this Agreement for the Contractor to rent equipment from Cement Mason employees or to make employment conditioned upon providing or furnishing equipment.
- CM 25 -
ARTICLE XVII
Foreman
1701.	The selection of the Cement Mason employee who will be Cement Mason foreman is at the sole discretion of the Contractor. It is understood that a Cement Mason Foreman shall be an employee of his craft and shall receive the Cement Mason Foreman’s wage rate. Such Cement Mason Foreman may work with the tools of the trade. Only Cement Mason Foreman who normally work with the tools of the craft during straight-time periods, in addition to the performance of Cement Mason Foreman duties, may work with the tools of the craft during overtime periods. It is understood that in certain cases, by reason of custom and practice established by the parties hereto, a craft foreman may be foreman over the work and workmen of more than one craft. If a dispute arises with respect to the application of this understanding, such dispute shall be determined according to the procedure set forth in Article VI of this Agreement on the basis of such custom and practice.
1702.	Employees not covered by this Agreement, as set forth in Paragraph 201 of this Agreement such as superintendents, assistant superintendents or master mechanics, shall not act in the capacity of a craft foreman or work with the tools of the Union signatory to this Agreement, except in case of emergency.
1702.1	Any person working with the tools of the trade shall be covered by all terms and conditions of this Agreement including the provisions of Paragraph 201 of this Agreement as is legally permissible (or) except for Trust Fund restrictions on participation.
1703.	When three (3) or more Cement Masons are employed on a job, one (1) shall be employed as a Foreman and shall receive Foremen scale of wages and use the tools of the trade.
ARTICLE XVIII
Apprentice Training
1801.	The Contractors and the Union recognize the need for apprentice training and to this end shall indenture apprentices in full conformity with Section 1777.5 of the Labor Code of the State of California governing employment of apprentices upon public work. Apprentices shall be employed in accordance with the standardsas established by the Cement Masons' Statewide Joint Apprenticeship Committee. The cost of the apprenticeship program in the eleven counties covered by this Agreement will be shared by the parties, as recommended and agreed upon by the Joint Committee of the Contractors and the Union. The Contractors will appoint members to the Joint Apprenticeship Committees and participate in their activities.
1802.	When the job crew size is four (4) men or less, an apprentice may be hired on a “one (1) apprentice to one (1) journeyman basis." No additional apprentice may be added to the job crew until that crew reaches eight (8) men, then the eighth man may be an apprentice.
-CM 26-
Apprentices may be added to the job crew at the rate of one (1) apprentice per three (3) additional journeymen thereafter. It is mandatory, however, that when a crew is composed of four (4) journeyman the next crew member or fifth employee must be an apprentice if available, as must the tenth, fifteenth, twentieth, etc., crew members. It is understood that the limited transfer provisions of Paragraph 307 will not apply to the first apprentice who becomes a member of the job crew.
The ratio is to be interpreted to allow the following apprentice to journeyman ratio on any job.
No. of	No. of	Crew	No. of Apprentices
Journeyman	Apprentices	Size	Required on Crew
on Crew Permitted	of this Size		
1 +	1 =	2	
2 +	1 =	3	
2 +	2 =	4	
3 +	2 =	5	1
4 +	2 =	6	‘ 1
5 +	2 =	7	1
5 +	3 =	8	1
6 +	3 =	9	1
7 +	3 =	10	2
8 +	3 =	11	2
8 +	4 =	12	2
9 +	4 =	13	2
10 +	4 =	14	2
10 +	5 =	15	3
1803.	Contractors shall contribute the amount designated in Attachment 1 to this Agreement for all work covered by this Agreement into the Cement Masons Joint Apprenticeship Trust.
1804.	The parties agree that the apprenticeship Trustees should spend the available apprenticeship monies for apprenticeship training as recommended by the Joint Apprenticeship Committee provided such recommendations are in accordance with the terms of the Trust.
ARTICLE XIX
Health & Welfare
1901.	Contractors signatory to this Agreement agree to pay to the Cement Mason's Southern California Health and Welfare Plan, covering Cement Mason Local Unions 500 and 600 affiliated with the Southern California District Council of Operative Plasterers and Cement Masons International Association, AFL-CIO, at its principal Trust Office located in the county of Los Angeles, California. The sum designated in Attachment No. 1 of this Agreement for each hour worked by employees or for which they receive pay, for all employees covered by this Agreement.
- CM 27 -
1901.1	In the event of a National Health Plan, the Union and the Contractors shall meet to discuss and evaluate the cost impact upon the Contractors by the National Health Plan.
1901.2	The Union and the Contractors shall devise a payment plan that conforms to Section 1901.1 so that there will be no additional cost for Health and Welfare above the amount the Contractor is obligated to pay under the Master Labor Agreement.
1902.	The participation of the Contractor in the above-cited Trust shall be for the duration of this Agreement and any renewals or extensions thereof, or for the terms of the Trust, whichever shall be the greater. (This money paid into the Health and Welfare Trust Fund is to be used for health and welfare benefits, pursuant to that certain Trust Agreement referred to for convenience as the Cement Masons Southern California Health and Welfare Plan.)
ARTICLE XX
Vacation
2001.	The Contractors and the Union agree to establish a Vacation Plan for Cement Masons.
2002.	The Contractor shall make payment in the amount designated in Attachment No. 1 of this Agreement for each hour worked by employees or for which they receive pay, for all employees covered by the terms of this Agreement to the Vacation Plan.
2003.
The Vacation Plan shall be self-supporting from income other than the contributions, such as interest and forfeitures, and the employee shall be entitled to receive the full amount of the Contractor contribution made to his account. Any expenses incurred, including the cost of professional assistance, shall be paid from the Vacation Trust. Said Vacation Plan shall comply with all pertinent legal requirements.
ARTICLE XXI
Pension
2101.	The Contractors and the Union agree to establish a Defined Benefit Pension Plan for Cement Masons.
2102.	The Contractor shall make payment in the amount designated in Attachment No. 1 of this Agreement, for each hour worked by employees or for which they receive pay, for all employees covered by the terms of this Agreement to the Defined Benefit Pension Plan.
2103.	The parties recognize and agree that the Defined Benefit Pension Trust and Plan was created, negotiated and is intended to continue to be permitted by law under ERISA, a Defined Benefit Plan and Trust and that each individual Contractor’s Contractual liability,
- CM 28 -
exclusive of statutory obligations, with regard to this Plan is for payment of negotiated contributions as specified from time to time in Collective Bargaining Agreements. The Union and the Employer Associations agree to do all things necessary to amend the Agreement and Declaration of Trust establishing the Defined Benefit Pension Trust, as follows:
2103.1	The Union agrees that sufficient monies from the negotiated wage fringe package will be allocated to the Defined Benefit Pension Trust Fund to guarantee no more than a seven and one-half (7.5) year amortization period.
2103.2	The Trustees shall cause all official Trust documents and booklets, including the pension plan and summary plan description, to prominently disclose to the plan participants and beneficiaries the following (unless prohibited by law):
IMPORTANT
PENSION BENEFITS ARE NOT AND HAVE NEVER BEEN GUARANTEED. THEY ARE PAYABLE ONLY TO THE EXTENT THAT THE FUND HAS ASSETS TO PAY BENEFITS. NEITHER YOUR EMPLOYER NOR YOUR UNION HAS ASSUMED ANY LIABILITY, DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY, TO PROVIDE MONTHLY PENSION BENEFITS. YOUR EMPLOYER’S SOLE OBLIGATION IS TO MAKE THE CONTRIBUTIONS CALLED FOR IN ITS COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT. THE PENSION PLAN HAS ALWAYS BEEN CONSIDERED BY THE EMPLOYERS, THE UNION AND THE TRUSTEES TO BE A DEFINED CONTRIBUTION PLAN.
ARTICLE XXII
Individual Retirement (Defined Contribution) Trust
2201.	The Agreement and Declaration of Trust establishing the Cement Masons Southern California Individual Retirement Account (Defined Contribution) Trust dated January 1,1982, is continued in existence.
2202.	Contractors signatory to this Agreement shall make payment in the amount designated in Attachment No. 1 of this Agreement for each hour worked by employees or for which they receive pay, for all employees covered by the terms of this Agreement.
ARTICLE XXIII
Administrative Dues
2301.	Subject to the following conditions, the Contractor agrees that he shall, if he is furnished with his employee's written authorization to do so, deduct the sum of one dollar and sixty six cents ($1.66) from the amounts required to be paid by the third paragraph of Attachment No. 1 to this Agreement for each employee covered hereby for each hour worked or paid for in each payroll
- CM 29 -
period as administrative dues. In implementing the foregoing, the parties have heretofore established the Vacation/Dues Reconciliation Trust (hereinafter “Dues Trust”) as agent for the purpose of receiving and holding written authorization cards and for receiving, holding, allocating and distributing the dues monies.
2302.	Said administrative dues shall be transmitted to the Dues Trust concurrently with, but not as a part of, the employer’s monthly vacation contributions with respect to his employees covered by this Agreement to the Eleven Counties Cement Masons Vacation Savings Plan. All sums deducted by the employer pursuant to the provisions of this Article shall, from the instant of their deduction, be considered dues if proper authorization shall have been furnished. All other sums transmitted by the employers pursuant to the provisions of this Article shall, from the instant of their transmittal, be considered vacation-holiday contributions if no such proper authorization shall have been furnished, and shall be held by the Vacation Savings Plan for the account of the employee. Prior to deposit in the separate bank accounts of the Dues Trust, on the one hand, and accounts of the Vacations and Savings Plan on the other, these Trusts’ bank shall separate the funds transmitted into dues and vacation-holiday contributions, respectively, based upon whether or not a proper dues deduction authorization shall have been filed. The bank shall then deposit such sums in the account of the appropriate Trust referred to in this Article. The Union shall bear the entire responsibility for furnishing the written authorization referred to above. All costs incident to receipt, administration and remittance to the Union of the administrative dues payments shall be borne solely and entirely by the Union. This provision shall not reduce the obligations of the Contractor to pay the full amount of vacation contributions specified in this Agreement. All written authorizations referred to above shall be irrevocable for a period of one year from the date of the execution and shall renew automatically from year-to-year thereafter, unless the employee, by written notice served upon the Local Union and/or the Dues Trust, as agent from the Contractor, within fifteen (15) days following the first year or any year thereafter, revokes such authorization.
ARTICLE XXIV
Wage Scales
2401.	The following hourly wage rates shall apply to the following classifications on all work covered by the terms of this Agreement performed within the Cement Masons' jurisdiction.
2402.	Overtime Rates: Four (4) hours overtime at time and one-half (11/2) per day after 5:00 a.m„ Monday through Saturday. All other overtime, per day, Monday through Saturday, at double time. Sundays and Holidays at double time.
2403.	All Foreman shall be paid not less than two dollars ($2.00) an hour more than the hourly Cement Mason Journeyman rate.
2403.1 CLASSIFICATIONS
- CM 30-
CLASSIFICATIONS	07/01/06	07/01/07	07/01/08
Cement Mason Journeyman, including but not restricted to the following:	$1.05	$2.12	$2.25 $ . 95(benefits)
Cellular cement mason: chipping; patching, grinding; setting all concrete forms and perimeter forms, including catch basin structures and drain inlets, setting curb form and plank, setting of lines, stakes and grades; setting screeds, which includes screed pins; cutting, scoring and sawing new concrete, plugging, filling Shee-Bolt holes; dry packing concrete and EMBECO; tending material hose on
slabs, floors and decks; tending mixer truck chute on slabs, floors and decks bush hammering; patching and sacking, rodding, tamping, bid well and similar type rodding machines, bull floating		$26.05
Cement Mason (Magnesite, magnesite-terrazzo and mastic composition, Epoxy, Urethanes and Exotic coatings, Dex-O-Tex)		•. L ■ $26.1.7
Troweling Machine Operator		$26.30
Curb and Gutter Machine Operator		$26.05
Clary and Similar Type of Screed Operator (Cement Only)		$26.05
Grinding Machine Operator (all types)	$26.05
Jackson Vibratory, Texas Screed and Similar type Screed Operator		$26.05
Scoring Machine Operator		$26.05
* Upon sixty (60) days written notice the allocation of all changes with respect to (1) Hourly Wage Rates, contributions to (2) Health & Welfare, (3) Pension and/or Individual Retirement Account, (4) Vacation, (5) Apprenticeship, (6) Administrative Dues, (7) any combination thereof, is to be reviewed by labor and management jointly prior to final determination by the Union.
- CM 31 -
2404.	Cement Masons on a swinging stage, Bosun Chair, or suspended scaffold, whether swinging or rigid, above or below ground, shall receive twenty-five cents ($0.25) per hour over the applicable rate. All employees working from Bosun Chairs shall wear a safety belt provided by the Employer.
2405.	Apprentices shall be paid the following percentages of the Cement Masons Journeyman hourly wage rates:
I5'6 months............................................................40%
2nd 6 months........................................................   45%
3rd 6 months.......................................................... 50%
4lh 6 months.......................................................... 55%
5916 months..........................................................  60%
6” 6 months........................................................    70%
7”6months............................................................  80%
81” 6 months.......................................................... 90%
240	5.1 Apprentices will do all work relating to concrete construction and all work designated in Article 1, Section 102.5.2.
240	5.2 Contractors will make contributions only to the Health and Welfare Trust Fund, the. Apprentice Training Trust, Administrative Dues, Industry Advancement, and Contract Administration Fund while an Apprentice is in the first, second and third six-month periods. Contributions to the Vacation Trust will be made beginning with the forth six-month period. When advanced to the fifth six-month period, the Employer shall submit contributions for all established Trusts.
ARTICLE XXV
Fund for Construction Industry Advancement
2501.	The parties to this Agreement recognize that to protect and expand the interests of the Construction Industry, to be aware of modes and methods of improving the efficiency of the industry and to protect the industry from harmful legislation whose impact is detrimental to both the employees and the Contractors and without regard to whether such employees are employed by members of Contractors the individual employer will contribute the sum of six cents ($0.06) per hour for all hours worked or paid for by all employees employed under the terms of this Agreement to the FUND FOR CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY ADVANCEMENT, an employer established and administered Trust formed and created for this purpose, and the individual employer hereby adopts and agrees to be bound by the terms of that certain Trust Agreement establishing the FUND FOR CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY ADVANCEMENT, and further agrees to observe and be bound by the actions-and determinations of the Board of Trustees of said Trust.
2502.	It is understood that independent of any other provisions contained in this Agreement
- CM 32 -
which provide for its termination, CONTRACTORS shall have the right and power to cancel unilaterally the provisions, solely of this Article at any time by delivering notice to the union in writing to that effect.
ARTICLE XXVI
Contract Administration Fund
2601.	A trust fund entitled “The Contract Administration Trust Fund for Southern California” shall be used only to provide compensation to the Contractors for negotiations and administration of the provisions of this Agreement, including Article VI, for the Industry. All individual Employers shall contribute into the Contract Administration Trust Fund six cents ($0:06) per hour for each hour paid for or worked and an additional two cents ($0.02) per hour may be allocated during the term of the agreement. The trust fund shall be administered solely by Trustees selected by the Contractors in accordance with a trust agreement to be executed by the contractors. The Union shall have the right, not more than one (1) time per year, to independently audit the Trust Fund.
2602.	Contractors covered by the terms of this Agreement approve and consent to the appointment of the Trustees designated pursuant to the Declaration of Trust establishing the Contract Administration Trust Fund for Southern California and further ratify, confirm, and consent to all acts heretofore taken in the creation and administration of said Trust by its Trustees, its agents and representatives, and agree to be bound by all the terms, conditions, provisions, privileges and obligations provided for by said Agreement and Declaration of Trust as same may be constituted in its original form, as amended, and as may be subsequently amended.
ARTICLE XXVII
Pre-Job Conference
2701.	It is agreed there will be a pre-job conference prior to the start of any job or project at the option of either party where the agreed or estimated cost is two million dollars ($2,000,000) or more.
2702.	If the Contractor is a member of a signatory association, the pre-job conference will be arranged through the appropriate Association with the Building and Construction Trades Council in the area of the project.
2703.	The individual Contractor shall, upon request, advise the Union, in writing, of the names and addresses of all subcontractors employed or contracted with for services to be performed under this Agreement.
ARTICLE XXVIII
Delinquency and Collection Procedure
- CM 33 -
2801. The Trustees of the Trust Fund shall furnish the Contractor Associations and the Union with a list of delinquent contractors each month. In addition, the Trustees of the Trust Fund shall make available to all contributing Employers, upon subscription, a list of delinquent contractors each month. The Contractor agrees he will not subcontract any portion of his job to any subcontractor whose name appears on the delinquent list until such subcontractor has paid all delinquency monies to the various Trust Funds. In the event the Contractor subcontracts to any such delinquent subcontractor in violation of the foregoing, the Contractor shall remove such subcontractor from the job immediately, unless such delinquent subcontractor immediately makes full payment for all delinquencies to the Trusts.
28	01.1 For failure to remove the delinquent subcontractor, the Contractor shall become financially responsible for all fringe benefits owed to any funds established by this Agreement by him or by his subcontractor or the subcontractor of his subcontractor for work performed on the Contractor's job or project in accordance with the requirements set forth below.
2802.	The term “contractor”, for delinquency purposes only, shall include all entities of the delinquent contractor, change of name, or change of entity, provided that the delinquent contractor holds at least ten (10%) percent ownership in the new entity.
2803.	The Trust Office shall notify the Contractor Associations of any delinquency of any subcontractor within ninety (90) days of the date the delinquency first occurred and in no case shall the Contractor be liable for fringe benefit contributions of a subcontractor for more than ninety (90) days prior to the date the Trust Office notice is sent to the Contractor Associations.
2804.	Where a Contractor contracts with a listed delinquent subcontractor or subcontractors and the Contractor fails to terminate the subcontract of such delinquent subcontractor, or subcontractors the Contractor shall become financially responsible for the liability of the delinquent subcontractor’s fringe benefits on that job from the commencement of the work under the subcontract to the date of termination of that subcontract.
2805.	Where the General Contractor fails or refuses to make any payments required under the above provisions and the Trust has established the delinquent amount, the Union shall have the right to enforce this Article by all lawful means on any or all jobs of such General Contractor.
2805.1	Where there is no General Contractor on the jobsite, the right to withhold service by the Union shall apply to the project as a whole.
2806.	The Trust Office shall send delinquency notices to Contractors whose contributions are not paid as required. The Trust Office shall notify the Union of those Contractors who fail to pay within five (5) days of such notice and the Union shall within forty-eight (48) hours after receipt of such notice withhold service from the Contractor involved until contributions are paid or satisfactory arrangements made with the Trustees for payment.
- CM 34 -
2806.1	Any employee rendered unemployed by reason of the foregoing shall not be deemed engaged in a work stoppage or labor dispute but shall be deemed constructively laid off by the Employer by failure to pay monies due for the benefit of the employees. The Employer agrees that such employees are entitled to unemployment insurance and warrants that he will take no action to interfere with the employee's application for unemployment insurance. Any dispute in connection with this Article is subject to the grievance procedure.
2806.1.1	The Trust Office shall issue delinquency notices and clearances to Contractors confirmed in writing.
2807.	All employees shall be covered by this Agreement and the provisions applicable to Trust Funds. The Trustees shall have authority to audit Contractor records to determine the appropriate contributions and shall have specific authority to examine the Contractor's time cards, Federal W-2 Forms, 1099 and 1096 forms, Quarterly State Tax returnsand cash disbursement ledger or all canceled checks. In addition the Trustees shall have authority to examine specific canceled checks and/or invoices in connection with individual items. If a Contractor refuses to furnish the foregoing, the Union may take economic action.
2808.	Each individual Employer upon request of a Trustee of any Trust Fund specified in this Agreement shall permit the Trust Fund auditor to review any and all employee compensation records relevant to the enforcement of this Agreement. Such review shall be permitted not less than five (5) working days after demand.
2809.	Each individual employer found to be delinquent may be required to pay all legal fees, court costs and audit costs in connection with such delinquency. Liquidated damages may also be assessed at the rate of twenty-five-dollars ($25.00) qr ten (10%) percent of the amount due each Trust, whichever is greater.
2809.1	For the purposes of this Agreement, delinquency in failure to make the required reports and contributions to the Trust Fund as determined by the Trustees, shall consist of the following:
2809.1.1	Failure to submit trust report forms.
2809.1.2	Failure to report on all employees.
2809.1.3	Failure to make the payments as required on time.
2809.1.4	Failure to pay audit amounts and audit fees and other costs and damages as determined by the Trust.
2809.1.5	Failure of the bank to honor checks submitted.
2809.1.6	Failure to submit to an audit and/or failure to schedule an audit within one (1) month of notification in accordance with paragraph 2808.
- CM 35 -
2810.	Every Contractor or subcontractor agrees to accept, assume and be bound by all of the terms and conditions and obligations imposed by and under the Cement Masons Southern California Health and Welfare Fund, 11 Counties Cement Masons Vacation Savings Plan, Cement Masons Southern California Pension Trust, Individual Retirement Account, and Cement Masons Joint Apprenticeship Trust executed pursuant to the aforementioned multipleemployer agreements and any other trust agreement similarly negotiated, and any modifications, alterations or amendments made thereto. The Contractor or subcontractor agrees to make all payments to the Southern California Cement Masons Trustees at their place of business, in the county of Los Angeles.
2811.	The Contractor or subcontractor further agrees that he does irrevocably designate and appoint the employers mentioned in said Trust Agreement as his attorneys in fact for the selection, removal and substitution of Trustees as provided in said Trust Agreements.
ARTICLE XXIX
Public Works Project Davis-Bacon Act and Related Statutes
2901.	In the event that the Employer bids and contracts for a public job or project by a federal, state, county, city or other public entity which is to be performed at a predetermined and/or prevailing wage rate established by the California Department of Industrial Relations or the Secretary of the United States Department of Labor, the predetermined or prevailing wage rate established for the project shall be adopted as the wage and fringe benefit contribution rates required to be paid under this Agreement for the project only. In the event that the predetermined or prevailing rate for a project changes during the life of the project, any such change shall immediately be adopted as the wage and fringe benefit contribution rates required to be paid under this Agreement.
If there is an increase in fringe benefit contribution rates under this Agreement during the life of a public works project, the fringe benefit contribution rate increase shall not apply to contractors working on predetermined or prevailing wage rate projects unless the fringe benefit contribution rate increase is incorporated into the predetermined or prevailing wage rates established for the project.
- CM 36 -
ARTICLE XXX
3101. IT IS AGREED by the parties hereto that all matters of wages, hours and conditions, whether or not specifically set forth in this Agreement, are closed for the term of this Agreement.
Signed by: Art Martinez-Jr
Z. /7- OG .
Date
& - / 7 - o £
Date
Building Industry Association of Southern California
Signed by: Pamela Ackrich
- CM 37 •
ATTACHMENT NO. 1
Contributions Payable to Trust Funds
Effective 07/01/06:	$ 1.05 toWages
Effective 07/01/06
$ .45 to Health & Welfare
$ .40 to Vacation
$ .05 to Administrative Dues
$ .05 to Defined Contribution, Individual Retirement (IRA)
Effective Date 07/01/06
Cement Mason Southern California Health and Welfare Plan (Article XIX)........................... $4.99
Vacation Plan (Article XX)..............................  $3.45
Administrative Dues (Article XXIII)...................... $1.66
Pension Plan (Article XXI)............................... $4.50
Defined Contribution Plan (Article XXII)................. $1.30
Apprentice Training (Article XVIII)...	............$0.38
Industry Advancement Fund (Article XXV).................. $0.06
Contract Administration Fund (Article XXVI).............. $0.06
Total Benefit Package................. $16.40
The above contributions will be,made for each hour worked by employees or for which they receive pay, for all employees covered by this Agreement.
FUTURE INCREASES
07/01/07 $2.12 to be allocated by the Union*
07/01/08 $2.25 to be allocated by the Union*
'Upon sixty days written notice the allocation of all changes with respect to (1) Hourly Wage Rates, contributions to (2) Heath & Welfare, (3) Pension and/or Individual Retirement Account, (4) Vacation, (5) Apprenticeship, (6) Administrative Dues, (7) any combination thereof, is to be reviewed by labor and management jointly prior to final determination by the Union.
-CM 38-
to be bound by the procedures of the Plan for the Settlement of Jurisdictional Disputes.
(D.1) In the event the Plan for Settlement of Jurisdictional Disputes is not operating, local jurisdictional disputes will be referred to the local Arbitrator in accord with the provisions of Article E.
Article E. In lieu of the provisions of the multiple-employer agreement which are expressly excluded from this Agreement the parties mutually agree to meet and attempt to settle all such grievances and claims of contract violation by direct negotiation between duly authorized representatives of each of the parties.
(E.1) If the parties are unable to settle or adjust any such grievance or claim of contract violation, nothing contained in this agreement expressly or by implication shall in any way limit or modify the right of each party to enforce this agreement or adjust grievances by means of legal or economic procedures except as to the subcontracting of work covered by this Agreement and the applicable multiple-employer agreement, in which event such disputes shall be resolved in court proceedings.
(E.2) Except as otherwise modified in this Agreement at Section E. 1. all questions, disputes or controversies arising out of the interpretation or application of this Agreement or the Master Labor Agreement shall be settled as follows:
(EXI) Representatives of the Local Union and the Employer shall meet and endeavor to settle the dispute.
(EX2) Failing settlement, the party desiring to submit the unsettled dispute to arbitration shall proceed before the Impartial Dispute Arbitrator, as the Arbitrator shall be available in this order Edgar A. Jones, Jr., Mark Burstein, Roger Frommer or such others as the arbitrators shall designate.
(EX3) All notices by the Union to the Employer shall be given in the manner and form prescribed in Article B, Sections S.1.1,5.1.2 and 5.1.3 ol this AgreemenL
(E2.4) The Arbitrator shall have all powers as specified in Article B. Section 5.1.4, and shall be limited as in Section 5.1.5 of this Agreement.
(E-2.5) The compensation and expense of the Arbitrator and of the arbitration proceedings shall be paid by the losing party. The Arbitrator shall determine which is the losing party.
(E.2.6) The decision of the Arbitrator shall be final and binding bn all parties.
(E2.7) All conditions of Article B, Sections 5.1.6,5.1.7 and 5.13 shall apply herein.
(E.3) Upon notice to arbitrate to any party, the matter shall proceed to a conclusion, In the event it is necessary to proceed in court to compel confirmation of the award, the Employer involved shall pay all reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses of litigation and investigation necessary for such court action.
(E.4) The Arbitrator shall have final authority, as between the parties, to determine the arbitrability of any question, dispute and controversy under this Agreement.
(E.5) The procedure for dispute settlements outlined in Article E shall not be deemed to be mutually exclusive, and the use of one procedure shall not be deemed a waiver of the other.
Article F. It is agreed that no employee working under this Agreement need work under any conditions which may be, or tend to be, detrimental to his health, morals or reputation, or cross any primary picket line or enter any premises at which there is a primary picket line authorized by any of the Building & Construction Trades Councils, AFL-CIO County Federation, or AFL-CIO Central Labor Councils in the area above described.
Article G.	This Agreement shall be binding on the Employer's successors, purchasers, assigns, transferees, heirs, administrators, or executors.
Article H.	The provisions of the Agreement shall be binding upon the Employer, and upon any firm, partnership, company or corporation in which the Employer or any of its owners, partners, officers or stockholders has a financial interest
others as the arbitrators shall designate.
(B.5.1) Not	ices of the dispute or controversy shall be given to the Employer by the Trustees or their representative in accord with the procedures set forth herein.
(B.5.1.1)	The Trustees or their Field Representative shall first attempt to settle the dispute by contacting the Employer.
(B.5.1.2)	If the parties cannot resolve the dispute the Trustees shall notify the available Arbitrator and the Employer in writing by certified mail, setting a date for hearing, at least ,10 days after notice. Unless otherwise arranged between Employer and Trustees the arbitration shall proceed on the noticed day,
.	(B.5.1.3) The Arbitrator shall hear and determine the dispute and make an award in conformity with this Agreement.
I The Arbitrator, or a person designated by him, shall notify, by certified mail, return receipt requested, the Trustees and the J Employer of his decision within 30 days after the hearing.
(B.5.1.4)	The Arbitrator shall have the nghtto devise an appropriate remedy including the posting of bond, awarding | of costs, interest, and attomeys’.tees. The Arbitrator shall have the power to determine if the cited Employer is signatory to the Agreement; whether the Employer was property cited; whether the notice complied with the provisions of this Agreement, and whether the dispute is subject to this grievance procedure. The Arbitrator shall have the power to determine any and all defenses or contentions, legal.or otherwise,raised by the Employer. The decision of the Arbitrator shall be final and binding upon all parlies to this Agreement and may be specifically enforced in any Court of competent jurisdiction.
(B.5.1.5)	The Arbitrator shall have no authority to alter, amend or revise the amount of contributions due, or the terms and conditions of this Agreement, or the Declarations of Trust or the Rules and Regulations promulgated by the Trustees in the exercise of their duties. The cost of arbitration shall be borne by the losing party.
(B.5.1.6)	The Employer agrees that service, of the charges, notice of hearing before the Arbitrator, notice of the Arbitrator’s decision, and any other notices incidental to this Agreement shall be deemed to have been property served upon the cited Employer if it is sent by certified, mail, return receipt requested, to the Employer's last known address maintained in a master roster by the Trustees, compiled from the signature page of each collective bargaining agreement. The Employer agrees that the address appearing on the cited Employer1;? collective bargaining agreement signature page shall be the last known address of the Employer cited, and the Employer piled agrees that service at this address will be deemed sufficient. It shall be the affirmative duty of each Employer to keep the Trustees advised of the last known address. The Employer waives any claim that service was not property made if service of any notices or documents was made as required herein.
(B.5.1.7)	In the event it is necessary to proceed in court to compel confinnation of the award, the Employer involved shall pay all reasonable attorneys’ fees, costs incurred and court costs.
(B.5.1.8)	In the event it is necessary to proceed in Court, service ol the petition, papers or documents required by the Court shall be deemed served in accord with the law if the Trustees or their representatives have conformed to the requisites of Section 5.1.6.
Article C. The Employer further agrees that he shall be responsible and personally liable tor the failure or refusal of any contractor or subcontractor to make wage or fringe benefit contribution payments incurred on the Employer’s job.
(C.1)	In the event the Employer subcontracts to any person, entity, firm, partnership, corporation or other, in violation of this Agreement, the measure of liability for the payment of fringe benefit contributions shall be the contribution value of the hours worked by the subcontractor, or the employees of the subcontractor (or any sub-tier contractor) and for this purpose, the Trustees ol the Cement Masons Trust Funds may calculate such damages by applying any reasonable formula within their discretion and such rule or regulation adopted by the Trustees shall be final and binding upon the Employer.
Article D. The Employer agrees that in regard to any jurisdictional dispute which may arise between the signatory union and any other union affiliated with the AFL-CIO the same shall be determined and resolved in the manner and in accordance with the procedure established by .the Plan for the Settlement of Jurisdictional Disputes. The signatory Employer recognizes that certain employer associations signatory to the current multiple-employer agreement contend that they are not so bound, but despite the position taken by said signatory employer associations, the signatory Employer hereto does agree
MEMORANDUM AGREEMENT
Article A. It is agreed between the undersigned, hereinafter referred to as the Employer, and the Cement Mason Local Unions of the Operative Plasterers and Cement Masons International Association, having jurisdiction in the Counties of Los Angeles, Inyo, Mono, Orange, Riverside, San Bernardino, Imperial, Ventura, Santa Barbara, San Luis Obispo, San Diego, and Kern, namely Local Union Nos. 500 and 600, all in the State of California, hereinafter referred to as the Union.
The Employer hereby recognizes the Union as the sole and exclusive bargaining representative of all employees of the Employer performing work as set forth in the classifications and as described in the current multiple-employer agreement referred to as the Southern California Master Labor Agreement between the Southern California General Contractors and the Twelve Southern Counties Cement Masons, and further agrees that all employees performing any and all such work shall be represented by the Cement Masons Union. This recognition of majority support is based on an unequivocal request for recognition by the Union as majority representative along with the Union having shown or offered to show evidence of its majority support.
The Employer, not being signatory to any recognized Cement Mason multiple-employer agreement, hereby agrees to accept and be bound by all of the terms and conditions of the above current multiple-employer agreement applicable to the Employer's operations and in effect in the area in which the work is performed as recognized, modified, renewed and renegotiated from time to time through collective bargaining between the Union and the applicable multiple-employer group. Such multiple-employer agreement is hereby adopted in its entirety, except those provisions which may be specifically modified herein, and except that the provisions of Article IV, except Sections 403,403.1,404,405 and Article VI, shall not be a part of this AgreemenL The Employer acknowledges receipt of the applicable multiple-employer agreement and acknowledges that he has read same and is familiar with all of the terms and conditions contained therein. Wherever such conflict exists the provisions of this Memorandum Agreement shall apply. This Agreement shall be limited in jurisdictional coverage solely to the craft specified herein.
Article B. The Employer further agrees to accept, assume and be bound by all the terms and conditions and obligations imposed by and under the Cement Masons Southern California Health and Welfare Fund, 11 Counties Cement Masons Vacation Savings Plan, Cement Masons Southern California Pension Trust Cement Masons Southern California Individual Retirement Account (Defined Contributions) Trust, and Southern California Cement Masons Joint Apprenticeship Trust for work in San Diego County; San Diego County Cement Masons Pension Trust San Diego County Cement Masons Apprenticeship Trust and San Diego County Group Insurance Trust (Health and Welfare) executed pursuant to the aforementioned multiple-employer agreement and any other trust agreements similarly negotiated, and any modifications, alterations or amendments made thereto.
(B.1)	The Employer agrees to make all payments to the proper Trustees at their place of business in Los Angeles County or San Diego County. The Employer shall pay benefits to the Trustees (at the rate they established) for the Trusts which are the Home Trusts for the area from which the employee is employed.
(B.2)	The Employer further agrees that he does inevocably designate and appoint the employers now in office or subsequently appointed in accord with said Trust Agreement as his attorneys in fad for the selection, removal and substitution of Trustees as provided in said Trust Agreements. The Employer further agrees to be bound by all roles and regulations promulgated by the Trustees in the administration of the Trosts.
(B.3)	Upon a request Irom the Trustees of the Cement Masons Trost Funds the Employer shall present all his pertinent records relating to payments for labor, which shall include without limitation, time cards, payroll ledgers, quarterly payroll tax returns to the State and Federal Authorities, cash disbursement journal and worker's compensation reports. For purposes of audit, the Employer expressly waives the provisions of Section 19282 and 19283 of the California Revenue and Taxation Code, Sections 1094 and 2111 and 2112 of the California Unemployment Insurance Code, and Sections 6103,7213, and 7216 of the Internal Revenue Code.
(B.4)	For a failure to do so within five (5) days of demand, the Union may shut down each job of the Employer until there is compliance with the demand.
(B.5)	Any dispute or controversy regarding the delinquency, default or liability for contributions, reports, audits or bonds required by this Agreement shall be submitted to the Fringe Benefit Contribution Arbitrator in the manner prescribed in this section. The Arbitrator, as available, shall be in this order Edgar A. Jones, Jr., Marit Burstein, Roger Frommer, or such
In the event of any change of ownership, or in the form of the Employer's business organization, the terms and obligations herein contained shall continue in full force and effect as to such organization.
Article I. This Agreement shall become effective as of the date shown below and shall continue in effect for the same terms as the applicable multiple-employer labor agreement and for any renewals or extensions or renegotiations thereol, and shall automatically renew itself for each subsequent term of the multiple-employer agreement unless the parties terminate in the manner provided herein.
Article J. II as a result of renegotiations. Articles or Sections of the multiple-employer agreement are renumbered, this Agreement shall be read as if the paragraphs referred to herein were renumbered and as if the subject matter remained in its logical context to preserve the full meaning of this Agreement.
Each party, not more than sixty (60) days nor less than thirty (30) days next preceding the termination date of the multiple-employer agreement, must give written notice to the other of Ils intention to terminate the Agreement, by certified mail, return receipt requested, the Employer to send notice to the Cement Masons Negotiating Committee, 5811 E. Aorence Avenue, Bell Gardens, California 90201. Any notice given in any other period of time, shall be untimely. Any renewals or extensions or renegotiations of the applicable multiple-employer agreement shall automatically be binding upon the Union and the Employer where the required written notice to the other party is not given.
Signed this day_______________________________________________________________________________________________________
By--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(Print Name)
Title_________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
Contractor or Firm____________________________________________________________________________________________________
(Printed exactly as listed with State License Board)
License No.___________________________________________________________________________________________________________
Address_______________________________________________________________________________________________________________
City__________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
State______________________________________________________________Zip________________________________________________
T elephone Fax
Capacity of Employer Partnership Sole Owner Corporation Joint Venture
By____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
Local Union No._______________________________________________________________________________________________________
NOTE: Signature by one Local Union binds all Local Unions mentioned herein and binds the Employer to all other Local Unions mentioned herein.
Note:
Both the Employer and the Union sign this Agreement
Negotiating Committee Copy
MEMORANDUM AGREEMENT
Article A. It is agreed between the undersigned, hereinafter referred to as the Employer, and the Cement Mason Local Unions of the Operative Plasterers and Cement Masons International Association, having jurisdiction in the Counties of Los Angeles, Inyo, Mono, Orange, Riverside, San Bernardino, Imperial. Ventura. Santa Barbara, San Luis Obispo, San Diego, and Kern, namely Local Union Nos. 500 and 600, all in the State of California, hereinafter referred to as the Union.
The Employer hereby recognizes the Union as the sole and exclusive bargaining representative of all employees of the Employer performing work as set forth in the classifications and as described in the current multiple-employer agreement referred to as the Southern California Master Labor Agreement between the Southern California General Contractors and the Twelve Southern Counties Cement Masons, and further agrees that all employees performing any and all such work shall be represented by the Cement Masons Union. This recognition of majority support is based on an unequivocal request lor recognition by the Union as majority representative along with the Union having shown or offered to show evidence of its majority support.
The Employer, not being signatory to any recognized Cement Mason multiple-employer agreement, hereby agrees to accept and be bound by all of the terms and conditions of the above current multiple-employer agreement applicable to the Employer's operations and in effect in the area in which the work is performed as recognized, modified, renewed and renegotiated from time to time through collective bargaining between the Union and the applicable multiple-employer group. Such multiple-employer agreement is hereby adopted in its entirety, except those provisions which may be specifically modified herein, and except that the provisions of Article |V, except Sections 403,403.1.404,405 and Article VI, shall not be a part of this Agreement. The Employer acknowledges receipt of the applicable multiple-employer agreement and acknowledges that he has read same and is lamiliar with all of the terms and conditions contained therein. Wherever such conflict exists the provisions of this Memorandum Agreement shall apply. This Agreement shall be limited in jurisdictional coverage solely to the craft specified herein.
Article B. The Employer further agrees to accept, assume and be bound by all the terms and conditions and obligations imposed by and under the Cement Masons Southern California Health and Welfare Fund, 11 Counties Cement Masons Vacation Savings Plan, Cement Masons Southern California Pension Trust, Cement Masons Southern California Individual Retirement Account (Defined Contributions) Trust, and Southern California Cement Masons Joint Apprenticeship Trust; for work in San Diego County; San Diego County Cement Masons Pension Trust, San Diego County Cement Masons Apprenticeship Trust and San Diego County Group Insurance Trust (Health and Welfare) executed pursuant to the aforementioned multiple-employer agreement and any other trust agreements similarly negotiated, and any modifications, alterations or amendments made thereto.
(B.1)	The Employer agrees to make all payments to the proper Trustees at their place of business in Los Angeles County or San Diego County. The Employer shall pay benefits to the Trustees (at the rate they established) for the Trests which are the Home Trests for the area from which the employee is employed.
(B	J) The Employer further agrees that he does irrevocably designate and appoint the employers now in office or subsequently appointed in accord with said Trest Agreement as his attorneys in fact for the selection, removal and substitution of Trustees as provided in said Trust Agreements. The Employer further agrees to be bound by all rules and regulations promulgated by the Trustees in the administration of the Trusts.
(B.3)	Upon a request from the Trustees of the Cement Masons Trust Funds the Employer shall present all his pertinent records relating to payments tor labor, which shall include without limitation, time cards, payroll ledgers, quarterly payroll tax returns to the State and Federal Authorities, cash disbursement journal and worker's compensation reports. For purposes of audit, the Employer expressly waives the provisions of Section 19282 and 19283 of the California Revenue and Taxation Code, Sections 1094 and 2111 and 2112 ot the California Unemployment Insurance Code, and Sections 6103,7213, and 7216 of the Internal Revenue Code.
(B.4)	For a failure to do so within five (5) days of demand, the Union may shut down each job of the Employer until there is compliance with the demand.
(B.5)	Any dispute or controversy regarding the delinquency, default or liability for contributions, reports, audits or bonds required by this Agreement shall be submitted to the Fringe Benefit Contribution Arbitrator in the manner prescribed in this section. The Arbitrator, as available, shall be in this order Edgar A. Jones, Jr., Mark Burstein, Roger Frommer, or such
In the event of any change ot ownership, or in the torm of the Employer's business organization, the terms and obligations herein contained shall continue in full force and effect as to such organization.
Article I. This Agreement shall become effective as of the date shown below and shall continue in effect tor the same terms as the applicable multiple-employer labor agreement and for any renewals or extensions or renegotiations thereol, and shall automatically renew itself for each subsequent term of the multiple-employer agreement unless the parties terminate in the manner provided herein.
Article J. II as a result of renegotiations, Articles or Sections of the multiple-employer agreement are renumbered, this Agreement shall be read as if the paragraphs referred to herein were renumbered and as if the subject matter remained in its logical context to preserve the full meaning of this Agreement
Each party, not more than sixty (60) days nor less than thirty (30) days next preceding the termination date of the multiple-employer agreement must give written notice to the other of its intention to terminate the Agreement, by certified mail, return receipt requested, the Employer to send notice to the Cement Masons Negotiating Committee, 5811E. Florence Avenue. Bell Gardens, California 90201. Any notice given in any other period of time, shall be untimely. Any renewals or extensions or renegotiations of the applicable multiple-employer agreement shall automatically be binding upon the Union and the Employer where the required written notice to the other party is not given.
Signed this day_______________________________________________________________________________________________________
By-------------------------------------------------:----:-------------------------------------------------------------
(Print Name)
Title__________________i__________________________________________________________________________________________
Contractor or Firm____________________________________________________________________________________________________
(Printed exactly as listed with State License Board)
License No.___________________________________________________________________________________________________________
Address_______________________________________________________________________________________________________________
City__________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
State_____________________________________________________________Zip_________________________________________________
Telephone Fax
Capacity of Employer Partnership ’" Sole Owner Corporation Joint Venture
By____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
Local Union No._______________________________________________________________________________________________________
NOTE:	Signature by one Local Union binds all Local Unions mentioned herein and binds the Employer to all other Local
Unions mentioned herein.
Note:
Both the Employer and the Union sign this Agreement
Trust Copy
to be bound by the procedures ol the Plan for the Settlement of Jurisdictional Disputes.
(D.1) In the event the Plan for Settlement of Jurisdictional Disputes is not operating, local jurisdictional disputes will be referred to the Local Arbitrator in accord with the provisions of Article E.
Article E. In lieu ol the provisions ol the multiple-employer agreement which are expressly excluded from this Agreement the parties mutually agree to meet and attempt to settle all such grievances and claims of contract violation by direct negotiation between duly authorized representatives of each of the parties.
(E.1) II the parties are unable to settle or adjust any such grievance or claim of contract violation, nothing contained in this agreement expressly or by implication shall in any way limit or modify the right of each party to enforce this agreement or adjust grievances by means of legal or economic procedures except as to the subcontracting of work covered by this Agreement and the applicable multiple-employer agreement in which event such disputes shall be resolved in court proceedings.
(E2) Except as otherwise modified in this Agreement at Section E.1, all questions, disputes or controversies arising out of the interpretation or application of this Agreement or the Master Labor Agreement, shall be settled as follows:
(E 7.1) Representatives ol the Local Union and the Employer shall meet and endeavor to settle the dispute.
(EX2) Failing setdemenL the party desiring to submit the unsettled dispute to arbitration shall proceed before the Impartial Dispute Arbitrator, as the Arbitrator shall be available in this order Edgar A. Jones, Jr., Marit Burstein, Roger Frommer or such others as the arbitrators shall designate.
(E.13) All notices by the Union to the Employer shall be given in the manner and tom prescribed in Aitide B. Sections 5.1.1,5.12 and 5.1.3 of this AgreemenL
(E-2-4) The Arbitrator shall have all powers as specified in Article B, Section 5.1.4, and shall be limited as in Section 5.1.5 01 this Agreement
(E2.5)The compensation and expense of the Arbitrator and ol the arbitration proceedings shall be paid by the losing party. The Arbitrator shall determine which is the losing party.
(E.2.6) The decision of the Arbitrator shall be final and binding on all parties.
(E2.7) All conditions of Article B. Sections 5.1.6.5.1.7 and 5.1.8 shall apply herein.
(E.3) Upon notice to arbitrate to any party, the matter shall proceed to a conclusion, In the event it is necessary to proceed in court to compel confinnation of the award, the Employer involved shall pay all reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses of litigation and investigation necessaty for such court action.
(E.4) The Arbitrator shall have final authority, as between the parties, to determine the arbitrability of any question, dispute and controversy under this Agreement.
(E.5) The procedure for dispute settlements outlined in Article E shall not be deemed to be mutually exclusive, and the use of one procedure shall not be deemed a waiver of the other.
Article F. It is agreed that no employee working under this Agreement need work under any conditions which may be, or tend to be, detrimental to his health, morals or reputation, or cross any primary picket line or enter any premises at which there is a primary picket line authorized by any of the Building & Construction Trades Councils, AFL-CIO County Federation, or AFL-CIO Central Labor Councils in the area above described.
Article G.	This Agreement shall be binding on the Employer's successors, purchasers, assigns, transferees, heirs, administrators, or executors.
Article H.	The provision of the Agreement shall be binding upon the Employer, and upon any firm, partnership, company or corporation in which the Employer or any of its owners, partners, officers or stockholders has a financial interesl
others as the arbitrators shall designate.
(B.5.1) Not	ices of the dispute or controversy shall be given to the Employer by the Trustees or their representative in accord with the procedures set forth herein.
(B.5.1.1)	The Trustees or their Field Representative shall first attempt to settle the dispute by contacting the Employer.
(B.5.1.2)	If the parties cannot resolve the dispute the Trustees shall notify the available Arbitrator and the Employer in writing by certified mail, setting a date for hearing, at least to days after notice. Unless otherwise arranged between Employer and Trustees the arbitration shall proceed on the noticed day.
(B.5.1.3)	The Arbitrator shall hear and determine the dispute and make an award in conformity with this Agreement. The Arbitrator, or a person designated by him, shall notify, by certified mail, return receipt requested, the Trustees and the Employer ol his decision within 30 days after the hearing.
(B.5.1.4)	The Arbitrator shall have the right to devise an appropriate remedy including the posting of bond, awarding of costs, interest, and attorneys' tees. The Arbitrator shall have the power to determine it the cited Employer is signatory to the Agreement; whether the Employer was property cited; whether the notice complied with the provisions of this Agreement, and whether the dispute is subject to this grievance procedure. The Arbitrator shall have the power to determine any and all defenses or contentions, legal or otherwise, raised by the Employer. The decision of the Arbitrator shall be final and binding upon all parties to this Agreement and may be specifically enforced in any Court of competent jurisdiction.
(B.5.1.5)	The Arbitrator shall have no authority to alter, amend or revise the amount of contributions due, or the terms and conditions of this Agreement, or the Declarations of T rust or the Rules and Regulations promulgated by the Trustees in the exercise of their duties. The cost of arbitration shall be borne by the losing party.
(B.5.1.6)	The Employer agrees that service of the charges, notice of hearing before the Arbitrator, notice of the Arbitrator's decision, and any other notices incidental toJhis Agreement shall be deemed to have been property served upon the cited Employer if it is sent by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the Employer's last known address maintained in a master roster by the Trustees, compiled from the signature page of each collective bargaining agreement. The Employer agrees that the address appearing on the cited Employer's collective bargaining agreement signature page shall be the last known address of the Employer cited, and the Employer cited agrees that service at this address will be deemed sufficient. It shall be the affirmative duty of each Employer to keep the Trustees advised of the last known address. The Employer waives any claim that service was not property made if service of any notices or documents was made as required herein.
(B.5.1.7)	In the event it is necessary to proceed in court to compel confirmation of the award, the Employer involved shall pay all reasonable attorneys' fees, costs incurred and court costs.
(B.5.1.8)	In the event it is necessary to proceed in Court, service of the petition, papers or documents required by the Court shall be deemed served in accord with the law if the Trustees or their representatives have conformed to the requisites of Section 5.1.6.
Article C. The Employer further agrees that he shall be responsible and personally liable for the failure or refusal of any contractor or subcontractor to make wage or fringe benefit contribution payments incurred on the Employer's job.
(C.	1) In the event the Employer subcontracts to any person, entity, firm, partnership, corporation or other, in violation of this Agreement, the measure of liability for the payment of fringe benefit contributions shall be the contribution value of the hours worked by the subcontractor, or the employees of the subcontractor (or any sub-tier contractor) and for this purpose, the Trustees of the Cement Masons Trust Funds may calculate such damages by applying any reasonable formula within their discretion and such rule or regulation adopted by the Trustees shall be final and binding upon the Employer.
Article D. The Employer agrees that in regard to any jurisdictional dispute which may arise between the signatory union and any other union affiliated with the AFL-CIO the same shall be determined and resolved in the manner and in accordance with the procedure established by the Plan for the Settlement of Jurisdictional Disputes. The signatory Employer recognizes that certain employer associations signatory to the current multiple-employer agreement contend that they are not so bound, but despite that position taken by said signatory employer associations, the signatory Employer hereto does agree
to be bound by the procedures of the Plan for the Settlement of Jurisdictional Disputes.
(0.1)	In the event the Plan for Settlement of Jurisdictional Disputes is not operating, local jurisdictional disputes will be referred to the local Arbitrator in accord with the provisions of Article E.
Article E. In lieu of the provisions of the multiple-employer agreement which are expressly excluded from this Agreement the parties mutually agree to meet and attempt to settle all such grievances and claims of contract violation by direct negotiation between duly authorized representatives of each of the parties.
(E.1)	If the parties are unable to settle or adjust any such grievance or claim of contract violation, nothing contained in this agreement expressly or by implication shall in any way limit or modify the right of each party to enforce this agreement or adjust grievances by means of legal or economic procedures except as to the subcontracting of work covered by this Agreement and the applicable multiple-employer agreement, in which event such disputes shall be resolved in court proceedings.
(E	J) Except as otherwise modified in this Agreement at Section E. 1, all questions, disputes or controversies arising out of the interpretation or application of this Agreement or the Master Labor Agreement, shall be settled as follows:
(E2.1)	Representatives of the Local Union and the Employer shall meet and endeavor to settle the dispute.
(E2.2)	Failing settlemenL the party desiring to submit the unsettled dispute to arbitration shall proceed before the Impartial Dispute Arbitrator, as the Arbitrator shall be available in this order Edgar A. Jones, Jr.. Mark Burstein, Roger Frommer or such others as the aibitrators shall designate.
(E.22)	All notices by the Union to the Employer shall be given in the manner and form prescribed in Article 8, Sections 5.1.1.5.12 and 5.1.3 of this Agreement
(E2.4)	The Arbitrator shall have all powers as specified in Article 8, Section 5.1.4, and shall be limited as in Section 5.1.5 of this Agreement
(E2.5) The compensation and expense of the Arbitrator and of the arbitration proceedings shall be paid by the losing party. The Arbitrator shall determine which is the losing party.
(E.2.6) The decision of the Arbitrator shall be final and binding on all parties.
(E.2.7) All conditions of Article B, Sections 5.1.6.5.1.7 and 5.1.8 shall apply herein.
(E.3) Upon notice to arbitrate to any party, the matter shall proceed to a conclusion, In the event it is necessary to proceed in court to compel confirmation of the award, the Employer involved shall pay all reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses of litigation and investigation necessary for such court action.
(E.4) The Arbitrator shall have final authority, as between the parties, to determine the arbitrability of any question, dispute and controversy under this Agreement.
(E.5) The procedure for dispute settlements outlined in Article E shall not be deemed to be mutually exclusive, and the use of one procedure shall not be deemed a waiver of the other.
Article F. It is agreed that no employee working under this Agreement need work under any conditions which may be, or tend to be, detrimental to his health, morals or reputation, or cross any primary picket line or enter any premises at which there is a primary picket line authorized by any of the Building & Construction Trades Councils, AFL-CIO County Federation, or AFL-CIO Central Labor Councils in the area above described.
Article G.	This Agreement shall be binding on the Employer's successors, purchasers, assigns, transferees, heirs, administrators, or executors.
Article H.	The provisions of the Agreement shall be binding upon the Employer, and upon any firm, partnership, company or corporation in which the Employer or any of its owners, partners, officers or stockholders has a financial interesL
others as the arbitrators shall designate.
(B.5.1) Not	ices of the dispute or controversy shall be given to the Employer by the Trustees or their representative in accord with the procedures set forth herein.
(B.5.1.1)	The Trustees or their Field Representative shall first attempt to settle the dispute by contacting the Employer.
(B.5.1.2)	If the parties cannot resolve the dispute the Trustees shall notify the available Arbitrator and the Employer in writing by certified mail, setting a date for hearing, at least 10 days after notice. Unless otherwise arranged between Employer and Trustees the arbitration shall proceed on the noticed day.
(B.5.1.3)	The Arbitrator shall hear and determine the dispute and make an award in conformity with this Agreement. The Arbitrator, or a person designated by him, shall notify, by certified mail, return receipt requested, the Trustees and the Employer of his decision within 30 days after the hearing.
(B.5.1.4)	The Arbitrator shall have the right to devise an appropriate remedy including the posting of bond, awarding of costs, interest, and attorneys' fees. The Arbitrator shall have the power to determine if the cited Employer is signatory to the Agreement; whether the Employer was property cited; whether the notice complied with the provisions of this Agreement, and whether the dispute is subject to this grievance procedure. The Arbitrator shall have the power to determine any and all defenses or contentions, legal or otherwise, raised by the Employer. The decision of the Arbitrator shall be final and binding upon all parties to this Agreement and may be spedficalty enforced in any Court of competent jurisdiction.
(B.5.1.5)	The Arbitrator shall have no authority to alter, amend or revise the amount of contributions due. or the terms and conditions of this Agreement, or the Declarations of Trust or the Rules and Regulations promulgated by the Trustees in the exercise of their duties. The cost of arbitration shall be borne by the losing party.
(B.5.1.6)	The Employer agrees that service of the charges, notice of hearing before the Arbitrator, notice of the Arbitrator's decision, and any other notices incidental to (jiis Agreement shall be deemed to have been property served upon the cited Employer if it is sent by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the Employer's last known address maintained in a master roster by the Trustees, compiled from the signature page of each collective bargaining agreement The Employer agrees that the address appearing on the cited Employees collective bargaining agreement signature page shall be the last known address of the Employer cited, and the Employer cited agrees that service at this address will be deemed sufficient. It shall be the affirmative duty of each Employer to keep the Trustees advised of the last known address. The Employer waives any claim that service was not properly made if service of any notices or documents was made as required herein.
(B.5.1.7)	tn the event it is necessary to proceed in court to compel confirmation of the award, the Employer involved shall pay all reasonable attorneys' lees, costs incurred and court costs.
(B.5.1.8)	In the event it is necessary to proceed in Court, service of the petition, papers or documents required by the Court shall be deemed served in accord with the law if the Trustees or their representatives have conformed to the requisites of Section 5.1.6.
Article C. The Employer further agrees that he shall be responsible and personally liable for the failure or refusal of any contractor or subcontractor to make wage or fringe benefit contribution payments incurred on the Employer's job.
(C..1)	In the event the Employer subcontracts to any person, entity, firm, partnership, corporation or other, in violation of this Agreement, the measure of liability tor the payment of fringe benefit contributions shall be the contribution value of the hours worked by the subcontractor, or the employees of the subcontractor (or any sub-tier contractor) and for this purpose, the Trustees of the Cement Masons Trost Funds may calculate such damages by applying any reasonable formula within their discretion and such role or regulation adopted by the Trustees shall be final and binding upon the Employer.
Article D. The Employer agrees that in regard to any jurisdictional dispute which may arise between the signatory union and any other union affiliated with the AFL-CIO the same shall be determined and resolved in the manner and in accordance with the procedure established by the Plan for the Settlement of Jurisdictional Disputes. The signatory Employer recognizes that certain employer associations signatory to the current multiple-employer agreement contend that they are not so bound, but despite the position taken by said signatory employer associations, the signatory Employer hereto does agree
MEMORANDUM AGREEMENT
Article A. It is agreed between the undersigned, hereinafter referred to as the Employer, and the Cement Mason Local Unions of the Operative Plasterers and Cement Masons International Association, having jurisdiction in the Counties of Los Angeles, Inyo, Mono, Orange, Riverside, San Bernardino, Imperial, Ventura, Santa Barbara, San Luis Obispo, San Diego, and Kern, namely Local Union Nos. 500 and 600, all in the State of California, hereinafter referred to as the Union.
The Employer hereby recognizes the Union as the sole and exclusive bargaining representative of all employees of the Employer performing work as set forth in the classifications and as described in the current multiple-employer agreement referred to as the Southern California Master Labor Agreement between the Southern California General Contractors and the Twelve Southern Counties Cement Masons, and further agrees that all employees performing any and all such work shall be represented by the Cement Masons Union. This recognition of majority support is based on an unequivocal request for recognition by the Union as majority representative along with the Union having shown or offered to show evidence of its majority support.
The Employer, not being signatory to any recognized Cement Mason multiple-employer agreemenL hereby agrees to accept and be bound by all of the terms and conditions of the above current multiple-employer agreement applicable to the Employer's operations and in effect in the area in which the work is performed as recognized, modified, renewed and renegotiated from time to time through collective bargaining between the Union and the applicable multiple-employer group. Such multiple-employer agreement is hereby adopted in its entirety, except those provisions which may be specifically modified herein, and except that the provisions of Article IV, except Sections 403,403.1,404,405 and Article VI, shall not be a part of this Agreement. The Employer acknowledges receipt of the applicable multipie-employer agreement and acknowledges that he has read same and is familiar with all of the terms and conditions contained therein. Wherever such conflict exists the provisions of this Memorandum Agreement shall apply. This Agreement shall be limited in jurisdictional coverage solely to the craft specified herein.
Article B. The Employer further agrees to accept, assume and be bound by all the terms and conditions and obligations imposed by and under the Cement Masons Southern California Health arid Welfare Fund, 11 Counties Cement Masons Vacation Savings Plan, Cement Masons Southern California Pension Trust. Cement Masons Southern California Individual Retirement Account (Defined Contributions) TrusL and Southern California Cement Masons Joint Apprenticeship Trust; for work in San Diego County; San Diego County Cement Masons Pension Trust San Diego County Cement Masons Apprenticeship Trust and San Diego County Group Insurance Trust (Health and Welfare) executed pursuant to the aforementioned multiple-employer agreement and any other trust agreements similarly negotiated, and any modifications, alterations or amendments made thereto.
(B.1)	The Employer agrees to make all payments to the proper Trustees at their place of business in Los Angeles County or San Diego County. The Employer shall pay benefits to the Trustees (at the rate they established) for the Trusts which are the Home Trusts for the area from which the employee is employed. ''-
(B.2)	The Employer further agrees that he does irrevocably designate and appoint the employers now in office or subsequently appointed in accord with said Trust Agreement as his attorneys in fact for the selection, removal and substitution of Trustees as provided in said Trust Agreements. The Employer further agrees to be bound by all rules and regulations promulgated by the Trustees in the administration of the Trusts.
(B.3)	Upon a request from the Trustees of the Cement Masons Trust Funds the Employer shall present all his pertinent records relating to payments for labor, which shall include without limitation, time cards, payroll ledgers, quarterly payroll tax returns to the State and Federal Authorities, cash disbursement journal and worker's compensation reports. For purposes of audit, the Employer expressly waives the provisions of Section 19282 and 19283 of the California Revenue and Taxation Code, Sections 1094 and 2111 and 2112 of the California Unemployment Insurance Code, and Sections 6103,7213, and 7216 of the Internal Revenue Code.
(B.4)	For a failure to do so within five (5) days ol demand, the Union may shut down each job of the Employer until there is compliance with the demand.
(B.5)	Any dispute or controversy regarding the delinquency, default or liability for contributions, reports, audits or bonds required by this Agreement shall be submitted to the Fringe Benefit Contribution Arbitrator in the manner prescribed in this section. The Arbitrator, as available, shall be in this order, Edgar A. Jones, Jr., Mark Burstein, Roger Frommer, or such
In the event of any change of ownership, or in the form of the Employer’s business organization, the terms and obligations herein contained shall continue in full force and effect as to such organization.
Article I. This Agreement shall become effective as of the date shown below and shall continue in effect for the same terms as the applicable multiple-employer labor agreement and for any renewals or extensions or renegotiations thereof, and shall automatically renew itself for each subsequent term of the multiple-employer agreement unless the parties terminate in the manner provided herein.
Article J. If as a result of renegotiations, Articles or Sections of the multiple-employer agreement are renumbered, this Agreement shall be read as if the paragraphs referred to herein were renumbered and as if the subject matter remained in its logical context to preserve the full meaning ol this Agreement
Each party, not more than sixty (60) days nor less than thirty (30) days next preceding the termination date ol the multiple-employer agreement must give written notice to the other of its intention to terminate the Agreement, by certified mail, return receipt requested, the Employer to send notice to the Cement Masons Negotiating Committee, 5811 E. Florence Avenue, Bell Gardens, California 90201. Any notice given in any other period of time, shall be untimely. Any renewals or extensions or renegotiations of the applicable multiple-employer agreement shall automatically be binding upon the Union and the Employer where the required written notice to the other party is not given.
Signed this day_____________________________________________________________________________,_________________________
By--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(Print Name)
Fide__________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
Contractor or Finn____________________________________________________________________________________________________
(Printed exactly as listed with State License Board)
License No.___________________________________________________________________________________________________________
Address_______________________________________________________________________________________________________________
City__________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
State______________________________________________________________Zip
Telephone Fax
Capacity of Employer Partnership Sole Owner_____________________________Corporation Joint Venture
By_____________._____________________________________________________________:________________________________________
Local Union No________________________________________________________________________________________________________
NOTE:	Signature by one Local Union binds all Local Unions mentioned herein and binds the Employer to all other Local
Unions mentioned herein.
Note:
Both the Employer and the Union sign this Agreement.
Employer Copy