2002 - 2007
LABORERS
Heavy/Highway, Building and Utility
MASTER LABOR AGREEMENT
Covering
OREGON
Between
Oregon-Columbia Chapter
The Associated General Contractors of America, Inc.
And
The Oregon, Southern Idaho & Wyoming District Council of Laborers
• Oregon Columbia ► Chapter
ASSOCIATED GENERAL CONTRACTORS
OREGON LABORERS
2002 - 2007 MLA INDEX
Article	Title	Page
Preamble		1
1	Definitions	2
2	Purposes of this Agreement	2
3	Territory	2
4	Work Affected Defined	2
5	Effective Date - Duration - Modification	4
	No Strike, No Lockout Provisions	4
	Termination of Agreement	4
6	Craft Jurisdiction	5
7	Subcontractors and Other Employers	5
	Non-Signatory Subcontractors	5
	MBE- WBE Subcontractors	5
	Vendors	5
8	Mutual Recognition and Union Membership	6
	Non-payment of Dues	6
9	Hiring	6
	Government Requirements	7
	Notification to Local Union	7
	Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA)	7
	Pre-Job Conference	7
	Composite Crew	8
	Request for Key Personnel	8
	Transfer of Specialty Workers	8
	Hiring from Three (3) Groups/Lists	8
	Ratio of Apprentices to Journeymen	9
	Registration of Applicants	9
	Dispatching	10
	Union Unable to Refer	10
Article
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
AGC-Orcgcn
Title	Page
Hiring (Continued) Joint Hiring Committee	11
' 'Not Eligible for Rehire"	11
Shifts - Houri of Work - Overtime	11
Hours of Work - Overtime	11
Workweek	12
Four-Ten Hour Shifts	12
Federally Funded Work (Overtime) 12
Make-Up Day	12
Single Shift - Heavy Highway	13
Single Shift - Building	13
Two Shift Operation	13
Three Shift Operation	13
Special Shifts	13
Lunch Period	14
Overtime
Servicing/Repair of Equipment	14
Non-produet ion Personnel	15
Emergency Work	15
Special (foerations	15
Reporting Pay, Minimum Pay and Standby Pay 15 immigration Reform and Control Act	15
Reporting Expense	15
Minimum Pay	15
Rain Sensitive Work (Standby)	16
Call Baek	16
Non-Recurring Work	16
Holidays	16
Payday	17
Protests/Claims/Adjustments	17
Wage Scales	17
Old Work Protection	17
Monetary Increases	18
Transportation - Camp Requirements	18
Travel Time	18
Toll Fees - Bridges/Ferries	18
Jobsite Transportation	19
UborenMLA 2002- 2007
Index 2
Article
Title
Page
17	Health and Safety Drug & Alcohol Testing	19 19
18	Health and Welfare	20
19	Pension	20
20	Credit Union	21
21	Training	22
	Training for Journeymen	22
	Special Needs Training	22
	Foreman Training	22
	Foreman Premium	23
22	Trustee Qualification Criteria	23
23	Reciprocity	23
24	Prevailing Wage Law Enforcement (PWLE)	24
25	Contract Administration Fund (CAF)	24
26	Oregon-SW Washington Fair Contracting	
	Foundation (FCF)	24
27	Laborers-Employers Cooperation &	
	Education Trust	25
28	Safety-Sanitation	25
29	Government Requirements	26
30	Public Works Wages	26
31	Authorization	27
32	Strikes and Lockouts	27
	No cessation of work	27
	Unauthorised pickets	27
33	Jurisdictional Disputes	28
AGC-Orcgon Laborers MLA 2002- 2007
Index 3
Article	Title		Page
34	Settlement of Noo-Jurisdictiona) Disputes	28
	Grievance Procedure	28
	Board of Adjustment	29
	Arbitration	29
35	Union Admission to Job	30
36	Union Dues Deduction	31
37	Special Agreements	32
	Memorandum of Understanding	32
38	Mutual Guarantee	32
39	Adoption of Addendums	32
40	Hazardous Waste Removal Agreement	33
41	Saving Clause	33
42	Guarantee of Authority	34
	Signatures Schedule “A”	34
	Summary	35
	Special Conditions	36
	Wage and Fringe Benefits Scales	38
	Special Notes	39
	Apprenticeship	39
	Apprenticeship Training Program	39
	New Entry Rates (Percentages)	39
	Apprenticeship Rates	39
	Classifications	40
	Foreman Premium	42
	Zone Pay Differential	43
AGOOregoo Laborers M LA 2002- 2007
Index 4
Article	Title	Page
Definitions
General
Sewers. Water <t Gas Lines, Telephone.
& Electric Underground
Manhole Excavation & Construction
Tunnels
Cofferdam Work
Compressed Air Work Projects Wage Rates and Conditions
Schedule “C”
List of Signatory Local Unions	47
Trust Fund Office Addresses	47
ADDENDUM AGREEMENTS
(Under Separate Cover)
Utilization of Manpower Agreement Hazardous Waste Removal Agreement Drug & Alcohol Policy - Amended 6/1/97

AGC-Oregon Laborers MLA 2002- 2007
index 5
PREAMBLE
ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
This Agreement, made and entered into as of the	day of June, 2002 for the
period June 1, 2002 to May 31, 2007 by and between certain members of the Oregon Columbia Chapter of the Associated General Contractors of America, Inc. (AGC), whose names are set forth in Schedule "B", and referred to as the Employer or Contractor,
and
The Oregon, Southern Idaho & Wyoming District Council of Laborers, for themselves and on behalf of the local unions whose names are set forth in Schedule "C" or any supplement thereto, and hereinafter referred to as the "Union".
For purposes of this Agreement, the Associated General Contractors is not acting as a multi-employer bargaining agent in a single multi-employer unit, but is acting for and on behalf of the Employers who have individually requested the Associated General Contractors to act as their individual and separate bargaining agent in individual Employer units.
The Agreement constitutes a continuation and extension of the contractual relationship heretofore existing between the Contractor, the AGC, and the Union as evidenced by prior labor agreements between the AGC and the Union.
AGC-Oregon Laborers MLA - 2002-2007
Page 1
ARTICLE 1
DEFINITIONS
A.	Association. The term "Association" as used herein shall mean the Oregon-Columbia
Chapter, The Associated General Contractors of America, Inc.
B.	Employer. The tern "Employer" as used herein shall mean the members of the
Association whose names are set forth tn Schedule "B" or any supplements thereto and employers who are not members of the Association but who have subscribed to terms and conditions of this Agreement.
C.	Employee. The term "Employee" as used herein shall mean any person, without
regard to age, race, creed, color, sex or national origin who is employed under the terms of this Agreement by an Employer.
D.	Worker. The term "Worker" as used herein shall mean any person without regard to
age, race, creed, color, sex or national origin who is in the labor market.
E.	Union. The term "Union" as used herein shall mean the Oregon, Southern Idaho &
Wyoming District Council of Laborers, representing and acting for all their local unions whose names are set forth in Schedule "C" or any supplements thereto.
ARTICLE 2
PURPOSES OF THIS AGREEMENT
2.1	The purposes of this Agreement are to promote the settlement of labor disagreements
by conference, in accordance with Articles 32 and 33 Settlement of Non-Jurisdictional Disputes Procedures, to prevent strikes and lockouts, to prevent avoidable delays and expense. Both parties pledge their efforts to these purposes.
ARTICLE 3
TERRITORY
3.1	This Agreement shall cover the entire State of Oregon.
ARTICLE 4
WORK AFFECTED DEFINED
4.1.	This Agreement shall cover and apply to ail on site activities of the Employer in the
area and territory named in Article 3. This Agreement shall also cover and apply to all
AGC-Oregon Uborm MLA - 2002-2007
Page 2
subcontractors of the Employer at whatever tier in the area and territory named in Article 3, subject to and in accordance with the provisions of Article 7, tilled "Subcontractors and Other Employers".
To clarify the scope of this Labor Agreement and to thereby avoid future misunderstandings, highway and heavy construction work is defined as including but not limited to the following: Construction of roads, streets, highways, alleys, sidewalks, guard rails, fences, parkways, parking areas, athletic fields, airports, railroads, railways, bridges, overpasses, underpasses, grade separations, grade crossings, track elevations, elevated highways, sewers, water mains, foundations, piledriving, sanitation projects, irrigation projects, flood control projects, reclamation projects, reservoirs, dams, dikes, levees, revetments, channels, aqueducts, channel-cutoffs, jetties, breakwaters, harbor developments, docks, piers, abutments, retaining wails, transmission lines, pipelines, duct lines, subways, shafts, tunnels, excavation of earth and rock, clearing and grubbing, land leveling, quarrying, grading and paving, airport grading, electric telephone and TV cable transmission lines, (both above and below ground), (opened ditch and/or plowed), all common ditches, locks, drilling, demolition and site clearing, industrial plant construction other than building construction as defined below, including operation, maintenance and/or repair of land and floating plant equipment, vehicles and other facilities used in connection with the described work and services, including but not limited to by inference or otherwise is work relating to off shore drilling and pipelines, handling of ammunitions, loading and unloading of trucks, railcars, planes, barges and ships, and all other work of similar nature.
4.2.	Building construction is defined as construction of any building structure, including
modifications thereof or additions or repairs thereto, intended for use for shelter, protection, comfort, and convenience.
The building conditions of the Agreement shall apply to the construction of all buildings starting with footings and/or foundation walls.
The building conditions of this Agreement shall not apply to the construction, repair, alterations or razing of any buildings incidental to heavy, highway, or utility construction projects as described in Section 4.1. above, except the construction of permanent residential housing constructed at the site of these projects.
4.3.	In the event of any disagreement between the parties hereto as to the proper
classification of any project, said dispute shall be resolved under the Settlement of Disputes procedure of this Agreement.
4.4.	a.	Il is expressly understood and agreed by all parties hereto that the Association does
not purport to represent through this Agreement any individual, firm or corporation engaged in a commercial operation of material processing and supplying, therefore, such commercial operations of material processing and supplying to and including the first drop at the job site, are specifically excluded from coverage of this Agreement. If the first drop at the job site includes the distribution of material to numerous locations in the close proximity of the point of installation and the distribution work described is assigned to the building trades, it is understood the Laborers lay claim to this work.
AGC-Oregon Laborers MLA - 2002-2007
Page 3
4.4.	b. It is further agreed, however, that where and when operations of material processing are established al the direction of the Employer as a part of the construction contract for the purpose of supplying materials to the Employer for his construction work, such operations shall be covered by this Agreement in accordance with this Article. It is also expressly understood and agreed that this Agreement shall apply in accordance with this Article to the operation of quarries, sand and gravel plants, pre-cast and pre-stress plants, asphalt plants, ready-mix concrete or batch plants established by an Employer or subcontractor to process or supply material for the Employer or when any such operation is established primarily to supply materials to the Employer.
4.5.	This Agreement covers all work described tn this Article performed by the Employer,
its successors, and/or assigns.
4.6.	Craft jurisdiction is neither determined nor awarded by classification or scope of work
coverage in any AGC Labor Agreement.
ARTICLE 5
EFFECTIVE DATE-DURATION-MODIFICATION
5.1.	When executed by parties hereto, the terms and conditions of this Agreement shall
become effective June 1, 2002 and shall remain in full force and effect through May 31, 2007, The "no-strike, no-lockout” provisions of the Agreement shall remain in full force and effect during the entire five (5) year duration of this Agreement. The monetary considerations, i.e. wages, fringe benefits, etc., shall be as set forth in Schedule "A" for rates to be effective June 1, 2002.
5.2.	Any party hereto desiring termination or modification of the Agreement to take effect
June 1, 2002, must serve, by Certified or Express Mai) written notice to the other of a desire to change, amend, modify or terminate this Agreement on or before March I, 2007. If no such written notice is given, this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect from year to year. It is agreed that in the event that either party should exercise its rights under this paragraph to amend or modify, the parties will, for a period of ninety (90) days prior to the expiration of the Agreement, bargain exclusively with each other with respect to all wage rates, working conditions and hours of employment for the work herein covered.
If no Agreement has been entered into at the expiration of said ninety (90) day period, this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect until a new Agreement is reached or either party notifies the other by Certified or Express Mail of termination. If such termination notice ts given, its effective date must be more than twenty-four (24) hours after the other party receives such notification.
AGC-Oregon Laborers MLA - 2002-2007
Psge 4
ARTICLE 6
CRAFT JURISDICTION
6.1.	The work covered by this Agreement shall be that which is recognized as properly
coming under the jurisdiction of the Laborers' International Union of North America. (Sec Article 33 - Jurisdictional Disputes).
ARTICLE 7
SUBCONTRACTORS AND OTHER EMPLOYERS
7.1.	a. A subcontractor is one who takes over any part or a complete section of a general contract, including both the furnishing of materials for and the performance of labor on the job, or the performance of labor only. No Employer or joint venture covered by the terms and conditions of this Agreement shall subcontract any job-site work to a subcontractor or employer who is not signatory to this Labor Agreement except as provided below. The Employer or joint venture shall be held responsible for the payment of Wages, Travel Pay, Pension, Health and Welfare, Credit Union, Dues Deduction, Training, PWLE, CAF and FCF incurred by the subcontractor and shall see that the subcontractor adheres to the working conditions, except as provided below.
7.1.	b. Section 7.1.a. shall not be operative when potential union subcontractors are not available. When a subcontractor is not signatory to a labor agreement, there shall be a pre-job conference between the Local Union, a representative of the District Council, the Contractor, the subcontractor and the Association if affected. The parties will attempt to reach agreement regarding this section before the subcontractor performs any work on the project.
7.1.	c. In order to comply with this Article, the Union may make available an agreement for the duration of the project or subcontract to cover only the subcontracted work.
7.2.	In the event an Employer is unable to find qualified competitive union MBE-WBE
subcontractors when the Employer is obligated to satisfy MBE-WBE recruiting requirements, the Union and the Employer shall waive this article provided the applicable portions of Sections 7.1 .b., 7.I.C., or 7.3. are complied with by the Employer and the Union.
7.3	Where the general contractor receives bids that show the non-union subcontractor five
percent (5%) or more lower than the union subcontractor, the Employer and the Union shall waive this Article, provided however the pre-job conference referred to in 7.1.b. above is utilized. The Union and the Employer shall review the prices submitted before signing the non-signatory subcontractor.
7.4.	A vendor, who makes delivery of materials, supplies or equipment and who, incidental
to or as part of the furnishing or delivery of material, supplies, or equipment, does any work at the
AGC-Oregon Laborers MLA - 2002-2007
Page i
job-site, shall be a party to a collective bargaining agreement with the Union, containing the full terms of this Agreement. In the event a vendor is not a party to such an agreement, he/she shall not perform any job-site work except that deliveries may be made by such vendor to job-site.
ARTICLE 8
MUTUAL RECOGNITION AND
UNION MEMBERSHIP
8.1.	The Association recognizes the Union as the sole collective bargaining agent for all
workers and employees falling within the jurisdiction of this Agreement and the Union recognizes the Association as the sole bargaining agent for its members as listed on Schedule "B" hereof and supplements thereto. The jurisdiction of this Agreement shall not include employees of the Employer as defined and excluded by the Labor Management Relations Act of 1947, as amended, or their transportation (it is further understood that the employees so listed as excluded from this Agreement shall not be employed to use the tools of the craft or to perform the work covered by this Agreement).
8.2.	All employees employed by the Employer to perform work within the properly
determined craft jurisdiction of the Union involved shall become members of such Union not later than the eighth day following the beginning of such employment or since the inception of this Agreement, and thereafter shall maintain membership in good standing in said Union as a condition of employment subject, however, to the provisions of Sections 8.3. and 8.4. of this Article.
8.3.	The Union accepts al) obligations for the continued membership of its members as
provided in Section 8.2. of this Article, and for the collection of their initiation fees and dues. There shall be no stoppage or slow-up of work because of disciplinary action on the part of the Union, except that the Union shall have the right to require the removal of employees for failure to pay or tender initiation fees and dues as required by this Agreement.
8.4.	All requests by the Union for removal of an employee for nonpayment of or failure to
tender initiation fees and dues shall be made to the contractor in writing, in which event, the Employer agrees to remove the employee involved at the end of the shift providing a replacement is available.
ARTICLE 9
HIRING
9.1.	a.	There shall be no unlawful discrimination by the Employer or the Union with respect
to the hiring, tenure, or discharge of any worker or employee, and any requirements as to membership or non membership in any union shall be in accordance with the National Labor Relations Act of 194 7 as amended, and the appropriate Executive Orders.
AGC-Oregon Laborers MLA - 2002-2007
Page 6
9.1.	b. The Employer and the Union recognize that they are required by law not to discriminate against any person with regard to employment or Union membership because of age, race, religion, color, sex, national origin, or ancestry and hereby declare their acceptance and support of such laws. This shat) apply to hiring, registration for employment, placement for employment, rates of pay or other forms of compensation, lay-off or termination, and application for admission to Union membership.
9,i.	c. The Employer and the Union recognize that an Employer should not lose jobs because of Government requirements which are in conflict with the hiring hall. Therefore, when a government contract or Government Agency requires a different hiring hall arrangement to meet Federal or State requirements, the hiring hall arrangement will be modified to meet the demands of those requirements. It is understood that the hiring hall will be followed as closely as possible without being in conflict with the Government requirements.
9.1.	d.	The Employer will notify the Union in advance of the commencement of the job of the
Government requirements, and upon request will provide the Union with a copy of pertinent provisions.
9.1	.e. American Disabilities Act (ADA) language. The parties to this Agreement recognize the mandate to accommodate the disabled and agree that, other provisions of the Agreement notwithstanding, the Contractor may take reasonable actions as necessary to accommodate an individual who is or may be disabled. The Union agrees that it will conduct the affairs of its operations consistent with the requirements of the American with Disabilities Act.
It is also further understood and agreed that this section is not intended to create jobs where none exist.
9.2.	Employees covered by this Agreement have certain accrued rights or benefits for
themselves and their dependents under Health and Welfare and Pension Plans which accrue to them by virtue of length of employment with Employers party to this Agreement, and such rights are generally continuous while under employment and remain effective until a certain period of time after lay-off or discharge.
9.3.	a. It is recognized within the construction industry that the Union affords the prime source of qualified workers (Laborers). The Employer must hire qualified Laborers by calling the Union. Whenever the Employer requires Laborers on any job, he/she must notify the Local Union office by telephone stating the location, starting time, approximate duration of the job, the type of equipment to be operated and the work to be performed and the number of workers required.
9.3.	b. Pre-Job Conference
Upon request by the union or employer a pre-job conference shall be held regarding any project on which the employer anticipates five (5) or more employees will be employed. However, if an employer conducts a pre-job conference with any other craft on work that will employ one (1) or more employees the union will be notified. Such pre-job conference shall be held at AGC or at a location on or near the project.
AGC-Oregon Laborers MLA - 2002-2007
Page 7
9.3.	c.	Composite Crew. Employers may establish for a project or job a crew or crews
known as a "composite" which shall consist of the required crafts in such proportions as are respective to the type of work to be performed. In performing its work, the "composite crew" shall be allowed relaxation from strict craft jurisdiction, provided the employees from each craft are assigned to their craft's jurisdiction as far as practical and possible, but not inconsistent with the provision of this agreement.
The aforementioned provision shall first be arranged at a pre-job conference or subsequent meetings of the employer and crafts involved. Any disagreement over this provision may be appealed to the chief representatives of the respective five crafts and AGC. If a pre-job conference is not held between the employer and the involved crafts, the "composite crew" provisions will not exist.
9.4.	a. Key Workers. Any Joint Venture shall have the rights of any of its component individual Employers, and any reorganized company shall retain the privileges of its former position under this Section.
The individual Employer shall have the right to request key workers on specialty crews (such as tunnel, fencing, guard rail, paving, concrete laborer) and other workers represented by this Agreement by name who have been previously employed by said Employer as a Laborer within the last forty-eight (48) months under the jurisdictional territory of the District Council of Laborers provided said worker is registered at the Union hall and not on the payroll of another Employer. Workers hired under this 9.4.a., except specialty crews as noted above, shall not constitute more than fifty percent (50%) of the Laborers employed on each project.
9.4.b	. An Employer shall be allowed to transfer an unlimited number of specialty workers from one local’s jurisdiction to another local’s jurisdiction within the State of Oregon. The Employer shall also have the right to transfer no more than fifty percent (50%) of its other laborers from one local's jurisdiction to another local’s jurisdiction with the State of Oregon. Layoff procedures shall maintain the fifty percent (50%) ratio.
9.4,c	. The Employer and the Union shall mutually agree on a reasonable number of workers to be brought into the territorial jurisdiction of the Local Union for each job and such workers may be employed without reference to the hiring provisions of Article 9 and such workers shall register with the Local Union.
9.4.d	. Notwithstanding (a) above the individual Employer shall have the right to request any laborer who was employed by said Employer as a laborer on work within the jurisdiction of a Local Union for work within the jurisdiction of the same Local Union.
9.4.e	. In addition, the Employer may request fifty percent (50%) of his crew by name from the “A" fist regardless of his position. This must be confirmed in writing.
9.5.	Al) Laborers, except as noted in Section 9.4 of this Article, shall be hired and/or
rehired in accordance with length of service with Employers in the collective bargaining unit from the following three (3) groups/lists.
AGC-Oregon Laborers MLA - 2002-2007
Page 8
"A"	List. Laborers who have been employed by an Employer or Employers, party or parties lo this Agreement (as hereinafter defined), who have worked for any such Employer or Employers for an aggregate time of at least four thousand (4,000) hours during the period of ten (10) years immediately preceding the registration date on the out-of-work list; provided that all applicants on the "A" List as of July 1, 1984 shall continue to retain their eligibility for "A" List dispatch standing after the effective date of these amendments,
"B"	List Laborers who have been employed by an Employer or Employers, party or parties to this Agreement (as hereinafter defined), who have worked for such Employer or Employers for an aggregate time of less than four thousand (4,000) hours during the preceding period often (10) years immediately preceding the registration date on the out-of-work list, and employees and workers who have completed the Laborers Training School unless otherwise qualified for the ’A" List; provided that aS] applicants on the "B" List as of July 1, 1984 shall continue to retain their eligibility for "B" List dispatch standing after the effective date of these amendments.
"C” List. All other applicant Laborers for employment. The Employers and the Union shall make up and prepare the roster for preference of rehire by grouping all Laborers who come within the above groups and shall utilize the Health and Welfare and Pension records in establishing these accrued rights based on length of employment.
Apprentices - Unless agreed by mutual agreement, the number of apprentices shall exceed the ratios established below;
-	One (1) Apprentice after the first joumeyperson (1: 1 Ratio)
-	Second Apprentice after five (5) more joumeypersons (1:5 Ratio)
-	Any additional Apprentices will be at a 1:10 Ratio to a maximum of ten (10) Apprentices per employer.
The same ratios will be maintained when reductions in the work force occur.
"Employers" under this Article means:
(1)	any Employer party to this Agreement, or
(2)	any Employer who employs Laborers under the terms of this Agreement and is a contributing Employer within the meaning of the Health and Welfare and Pension and Credit Union Plans.
9,6.	Registration or re-registration of applicants for referral shall be accepted by the Union
at any time during its customary office hours. AH applicants shall be registered in the order of time and date of registration. To remain on the registration list, an applicant for referral must renew his registration not later than thirty (30) days from the date of his last registration or re-registration. There shall be three (3) groupings of the out-of-work list. All Laborers with accrued rights shall be registered in either "A" List or "B" List and all other Laborers without accrued rights shall be registered in "C" List. Each applicant for employment shall be required to furnish such data, records, names of Employers and length of employment and licenses as may be deemed necessary, and each applicant shall complete such forms or registration as shall be submitted to him.
AGC-Oregon Laborers MLA - 2002-2007
Page?
9.7.	a.	Upon the request of an Employer for employees, the Union shall refer qualified
Laborers to that Employer in sufficient number required by the Employer in the manner and under the conditions specified in this Agreement from the list in the following order of referral:
1.	Applicants shall be referred from the "A" List in successive order as their names appear on the out-of-work list, and, when the "A" List has been exhausted.
2.	Then, applicants from the "B" List in successive order as their names appear on the out-of-work list, and, when the "B" List has been exhausted.
3,	Then, applicants from the "C List in successive order as their names appear on the out-of-work list.
9.7.	b, All dispatching will be done by telephone. It shall be the applicant’s responsibility to maintain a current telephone number with the Local Union dispatch office.
9.7.	c. Any applicant who is dispatched from the hiring hall in which work is provided must re-register at the bottom of the appropriate list, for his group, unless Employer submits request for up to five (5) days only, if Employer submits request for five (5) day’s work, the applicant after the fifth day will retain his position on the appropriate list for his group. Applicants who work over five (5) days must re-register at the bottom of the appropriate list.
9.7.	d. Any applicant who turns down two (2) consecutive job referrals, for which such applicant is qualified, shall be automatically re-registered at the bottom of the appropriate list for his group. It shall be the applicant's responsibility to maintain a current list of job classifications and skills for which he is qualified.
If applicant accepts a job referral from the Union and does not accept the job, he/she shall be re-registered at the bottom of the appropriate list.
9.7.e	. Should the Union be unable to refer qualified workers for employment to the Employer within twenty four (24) hours from the time of receiving the Employer's request (Saturdays, Sundays and Holidays excepted) or at the time mutually agreed upon at time of request, or if a worker fails to report to the job site in the agreed time, the Employer shall be free to secure the workers from any source. The Employer shall notify the Local Union promptly of the names, social security numbers and the date of hire of such employees.
9.7.f	. Any employee employed by the Employer in violation of this Article shall forfeit all priority rights, including Section 9.4 of this Article, shall be removed from the job and re-registered at the bottom of the appropriate list for his group. Should the Employer fail to terminate such employee after receipt of written notice, the Union may take any economic action against the Employer and shall not be in violation of this Agreement.
9.8.	The parties to this Agreement shall create a Joint Hiring Committee, composed of an
equal nunioer (not to exceed three (3) each) of Employer and Union representatives, to supervise and
AGC-Oregon Laborer; MLA - 2002-2007
Page 10
control the operation of the job referral system herein. The Joint Hiring Committee is empowered to hear and determine any and all disputes or grievances arising out of this Article and is also empowered to impose remedies. Any applicant or registrant shall have a right of appeal of any dispute or grievance arising out of and related to the operation or functioning of the job referral plan to the Joint Hiring Committee.
All decisions of the Joint Hiring Committee shall be final and binding on all parties including applicants.
9.9.	When an employee is discharged and the Local Union has been notified by the
Employer, in writing, that the employee is "not eligible for rehire" said employee shall not be dispatched to that Employer for ninety (90) days from the date of termination. The employee may return earlier only by consent of the Employer. Any employee may appeal the denial of consent by the Employer to the Joint Hiring Committee. After two (2) such notifications in writing from two (2) different Employers within a one (1) year period, the affected employee will no longer be eligible to register on the out-of-work list. Notwithstanding the above, upon receipt by the Union of a letter signed by an officer of an Employer firm (or one of its off-site managers) stating that an employee is not eligible for rehire, the employee will not again be referred to the Employer. (For appeals see Section 9.8 above).
9.10.	Whenever an employee is discharged for cause, including failure to pass a substance abuse test, not able to perform the assigned work due to lack of skills or as unsatisfactory, the Employer agrees to send a termination notice to the Union stating the reasons for termination. If no notice of cause is provided, the individual shall be eligible for rehire without exception.
9.11.	When a registrant has been terminated as unsatisfactory or has been discharged for cause by at least three (3) employers within a twenty-four (24) month period, he/she shall be denied further use of all hiring halls covered by the District Council provided the employers have furnished the District Council in writing the reasons for such termination or discharge. Members may appeal to the Joint Hearing Committee.
9.12	When a registrant has been terminated for lack of possessing the necessary skills to
perform the assigned duties, by at least three (3) employers within a twenty-four (24) month period, satisfactory completion of additional training will be required before hiring hall privileges are restored in the classification in question.
ARTICLE 10
SHIFTS-HOURS OF WORK-OVERTIME
(The official time for the purposes of this Agreement shall be applicable legal time).
10.1.	The hours of work per week or month shall be as regulated by particular contract which the Employer has to perform and shall be arranged to meet the requirements of the Employer as best suits the calendar time allowed by the contract for completion.
AGC-Oregon Laboren MLA - 2002-2007
Page 11
10.2.	a. The workweek shall be forty (40) hours, Monday through Friday, and the workday shall not exceed eight (8) hours per day. All time worked in excess of the foregoing shall be paid for at the rate of time and one-half (114X). Work performed on Saturdays shall be paid for at the rate of time and one-half (1!4X). Sunday, Holiday and work in excess of twelve (12) hours in any workday shall be paid for at the rate of double time (2.OX).
On Heavy Highway, only work performed on Sunday and Holidays shall be paid for at the rate of double time (2.OX).
10,2.	b. Notwithstanding the above, the Employer may, at his option, establish ten (tO)hour shifts for a minimum of any four (4) consecutive scheduled work days, Monday through Friday, on some or all operations on a project, without being required to pay overtime. Anything over ten (10) hours shall be subject to the provisions above. Failure to work the four (4) day minimum shall require overtime unless such failure is caused by actual inclement weather or other conditions definitely beyond the control of the Employer.
10.2.	C. Four ten (4-10) hour shifts at the straight lime rate may be established Monday through Thursday. In the event the job is down due to weather conditions or equipment breakdown, then Friday on a voluntary basis may be worked as a make-up day. In the event Friday make-up day can't be worked due to conditions beyond the control of the Employer, then Saturday on a voluntary basis may be worked as a make-up day at the straight time rate. Make-up day applies to the crew so effected.
On work that is entirely federally funded, the workweek shall be forty (40) hours, Monday through Friday. All work in excess of forty (40) hours in one (1) week, or ten (10) hours one (1) day shall be paid for at the rate of time and one-half (1 L/jX). The Contractor shall not employ a second crew to circumvent overtime pay after forty (40) hours. This shall not prohibit the Employer and the Union from negotiating "rolling" four ten (4-10) hour shifts on a project by project basis.
In the event the job is down due to equipment breakdown or weather conditions, Monday through Friday, then Saturday may be worked as a voluntary make-up day at the straight time rate. Four ten (4-10) hour shifts at the straight time rate may be established Monday through Thursday. In the event the job is down due to weather conditions or equipment breakdown, then Friday may be worked as a voluntary make-up day. In the event Friday make-up day can't be worked due to conditions beyond the control of the Contractor, then Saturday may be worked as a voluntary make-up day at the straight time rate. Make-up day applies to the crew so effected.
10.2.	d. Notwithstanding the language in Section 10.2.a, if the particular public works contract which the Employer has to perform causes a normal shift to begin Sunday night after 6 PM, the work shall be paid for at the rate of time and one-half (1 1/2X) until 12:00 midnight and at the straight time rate for the following eight (8) hours thereafter.
AGC-Oregon Laborers MLA - 2002-2007
P.ge 12
10.2.	e. All applicable state laws will apply to break times.
(a)	SINGLE SHIFT:
HEAVY HIGHWAY
Eight (8) hours work per day between the hours of 5:00 a.m, to 7:00 p.m. and five (5) days per week, Monday through Friday, shall be the normal working time of all employees covered by this Agreement, Starting and quitting times may be expanded by mutual consent.
BUILDING
Eight (8) hours work per day between the hours of 6:00 a.m, to 6:00 p.m. and five (5) days per week, Monday through Friday, shall be the normal working time of all employees covered by this Agreement. Starting and quitting times may be expanded by mutual consent.
MINIMUM TIME BETWEEN SHIFTS, When an employee has worked the regular shift and then is required by the Employer to work at the overtime rate, the Employee shall not go to work again for the regular rate until the employee is relieved for a period of al least eight (8) hours.
(b)	TWO SHIFT OPERATION: On a two (2) daylight and consecutive shift operation, no shift penalty is involved for work performed in either of these two (2) shifts. Each shift must be scheduled for at least eight (8) hours except as provided for in the Reporting Pay/Minimum Pay requirements of this Agreement,
(c)	As an exception to the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) above, a starting time earlier than 5:00 a.m. may be established by mutual Agreement between the Employer and the Union, which shall be confirmed in writing and copies filed with representatives of both parties.
(d)	THREE-SHIFT OPERATIONS: On a three (3) shift operation, the first shift of eight (8) hours (exclusive of meal period) shall start between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 8.00 a.m., and eight (8) hours work shall constitute the first shift for which eight (8) hours will be paid. The second shift shall consist of seven and one-half (7‘/i) hours for heavy-highway-utility work and seven (7) hours for building work (exclusive of meal period) for which eight (8) hours at the straight time rate shall be paid. The third shift shall be seven (7) hours (exclusive of meal period) for which eight-(8) hours at the straight time rate shall be paid. Thirty-five (35) hours shall constitute a week's work on the third shift.
(e)	SPECIAL SHIFT: A special shift may be established at any time, at the option of the Employer, on any job or project. Said shift shall not be started until the union has been notified. There shall be no premium or penalty for working a special shift.
(f>	On new building construction there shall be three (3) or more consecutive days work (exclusive of Saturdays, Sundays and Holidays) for each shift, provided, however, that in the
AGC-Oregon Laborers MLA - 2002-2007
Page 13
event of any emergency where an extra single shift is necessary to prevent delay in the scheduled progress of work, such as the completion of forms for pouring concrete or the completion of a concrete pour, such single shifts will be permitted upon prior notice to the Union, and providing such shift must be worked the full shift time of seven and one-half (7'/i) hours for eight (8) hours pay.
(g)	For the purposes of this Article, a full shift shall be considered the regularly scheduled hours of work established for each shift, and the second and third shifts shall be considered as a part of the working day on which the first shift started. The total allowable time for a two (2) or three (3) shift operation shall not be in excess of twenty-four (24) hours from the regular starting time of the first shift. The regularly scheduled shift hours shall not be changed during the workweek without two (2) day’s prior notice and not more than once during the workweek.
(h)	Should an Employer elect to start a shift before the regular starting time, the Applicable overtime rate shall be paid until the regular starting time, and the eight (8) hours of continuous employment (exclusive of meal period) following the regular starting time shall be at the regular straight time rate and/or in accordance with Section 10,2 of this Article. Should an Employer elect to start an employee prior to his regularly scheduled hours of work, such employee shall receive the applicable overtime rate up to his regularly scheduled hours.
(i)	A regular lunch period of not less than one half (1/2) hour or more than one (I) hour shall be established within one (I) hour of midshift but in no event longer than five (J) hours from the beginning of the shift. If an employee is required to work more than five (5) hours from the beginning of the shift without a lunch period, hc/she shall be paid a half (1/2) hour at the applicable overtime rate and in addition given adequate time to eat his/her lunch. If the employee is not given adequate time to eat, he/she shall then receive an additional one half (1/2) hour at the applicable overtime rate.
Employees who have been given sufficient time to eat during the regular shift may be allowed to work twelve (12) hours without a second lunch period penalty. If the employee works over twelve (12) hours, he/she shall be paid one half-hour penalty at the applicable overtime rate. If the employee is not given sufficient time to eat his/her lunch during his/her regular shift, an additional one hal f (1 /2) hour penalty shall be paid if required to work longer than ten (10) hours.
10,3	The Employer shall furnish when necessary heated change rooms of ample size
equipped for drying clothes and with benches. They will be situated as close as practical to the work area and will not be used for storage of material or equipment. The determination as to necessity shall be made by Agreement of the Employer and the business representative of the Local Union concerned. In the event the works of one of the other 5-eraft unions are provided facilities for eating, the Laborers shall be entitled to the same.
10.4	. (Applies to heavy-high way-utility work only). Moving of all equipment from job to job, set-up and tear-down work, and servicing and repair work done by operating crews on Sundays and Holidays shall be paid for at one and one-half times (I 1/2X) the straight time rate provided for the classification concerned.
AGC-Oregon Laborers MLA - 2002-2007
Page 14
10.5	.	(Applies to heavy-highway-utility work only). When it is necessary to keep flaggers
or other non-production or non-operating employees on duty on Saturdays and Sundays when no other activities (other than such maintenance work which is being done by other crafts) are in progress, such employees shall be paid at the overtime rate of one and one-half times (1 1/2X) the basic rate of wages.
10.6	. EMERGENCY STARTING TIME. When it is mutually agreed that an emergency exists, such as earthquakes, floods or fires, starting time for the shift may be made to fit the emergency and eight (8) hours in any twenty-four (24) hour period may be worked at straight time when mutual agreement with the Union shall be received in writing.
10.7	Foremen or employees from other crews cannot be used to complete a job or work
assignment which continues or requires overtime work. Nothing in this section shall prevent the expansion or reduction of a work crew by the Employer.
10.8	. On operations such as green sawing, dewatering, curing and protection of concrete, all overtime pay shall be time and one-half (1 1/2X), including Sundays and Holidays.
ARTICLE II
REPORTING PAY, MINIMUM PAY AND STANDBY PAY
11.1.	Immigration Reform and Control Act (IRCA). Any referral who is unable to qualify for employment under the provisions of the IRCA shall not be eligible for employment and the attendant benefits therein.
11.2.	Reporting Expense. When qualified workers report for work as directed and for whom no work is provided, they shall be paid four (4) hours pay unless prevented from working by causes not under the control of the Employer. Upon proper notification to the employer at the lime of dispatch, an applicant who travels more than fifty (50) miles from his/her domicile to the jobsite and is not put to work shall be paid eight (8) hours at the dispatch rate of pay, plus fringe benefit contributions. It being understood that the above reimbursements are for the inconvenience of reporting to the job site and are not to be construed as wages for work performed and that workers entitled to reporting expense shall not be required to remain on the job site except as provided below.
11.3.	Minimum pay. Employees who work less than four (4) hours shall be paid for four
(4)	hours and if worked more than four (4) hours shall receive pay for the actual time worked unless they are working directly with Cement Masons and they will receive eight (8) hours of pay if worked in excess of four (4) hours.
If an employee leaves or quits of his own volition, he/she shall be paid for actual time worked at applicable straight and overtime rates. If a new hire is put to work and judged by the Employer to be unsatisfactory, that person shall be paid only for the actual time worked.
AGC-Oregon Laborers MLA - 2002-2007
Page 15
11.4.	Stand by. On rain sensitive work such as Dirt Work, Slab Work, Asphalt Work or in such cases as equipment breakdown, the Employer may request the employees to remain on the job for up to two (2) hours on a stand by basis. If not put to work during this two (2) how period, the employee shall receive two (2) hours wages plus fringes but shall not receive the forty dollars (S40.00) reporting expense. If put to work, employees shall receive pay for actual hows worked in accordance with the minimum pay requirement of this article.
11.5.	Call Back. When employees have completed their scheduled shift; and have left the job-site; and are "called back" to perform work of a casual, incidental or irregular nature, they shall receive a minimum of two (2) hours pay at the applicable daily overtime rate.
ARTICLE 12
NON-RECURRING WORK
12.1.	When an Employer docs not have regular employees available at the job site, he/she may employ without regard to craft jurisdiction when the following conditions exist:
(a)	Unexpected vacancies caused by sickness or other unavoidable absences beyond the control of the Employer, and/or
(b)	Where less than one (I) day's work must be performed and members of this Union are not immediately available.
12.2.	In such cases the employee shall be paid the rate for the classification of the work which he/she is required to do, or the rate for the classification under which he/she was working immediately prior to the temporary assignment, whichever rate is higher.
12.3.	In no event, will the above conditions be permitted beyond one (1) day nor will the temporary assignment be considered as a permanent assignment of work. Employers found violating this Article shall be considered in breach of contract and subject to Settlement of Non-Jurisdiciiona! Disputes, Article 33.
ARTICLE 13
HOLIDAYS
13.1.	HOLIDAYS shall be:
New Year's Day	Thanksgiving Day
Memorial Day	Day following Thanksgiving
Fourth of July	Christmas Day
Labor Day
AGC-Oregon Laborers MLA - 2002-2007
Page 16
Should any of these Holidays fall on Sunday, the following Monday shall be considered a legal holiday. If a Holiday falls on a Saturday, the previous Friday shall be considered as the Holiday.
Should an employee be required to work on Presidential Election Day, arrangements shall be made to allow him ample lime to vote. However, the Employer will not be required to pay for any time not worked.
ARTICLE 14
PAYDAY
14,1,	Payday shall be once a week. Employees shall be paid on the job at a mutually
convenient location. Employees discharged or terminated shall be paid by check or cash with a written check stub or statement to include hours, deductions and hourly rates of pay immediately on such discharge or termination, and if required by the Employer to go to some other point or to the office of the Employer to pick up termination check the employees shall be paid for the time required to go to such places, at the regular straight time rate of wages, provided that payment by check to the employee, or mailed and postmarked to his residence address, within twenty-four (24) hours after such layoff or discharge, shall be deemed compliance with this section. If the Employer does not comply with the above procedure as to payment for discharge, the employee shall be paid for eight (8) hours additional pay at his straight time rate for each day (Saturdays, Sundays and Holidays excepted) until paid. When employees quit of their own accord they shall receive the pay due them no later than the next regular payday. Payments will be assumed to be correct and there shall be no adjustments made unless the employees file a protest within fifteen (15) days after receiving check.
14.2.	All employees employed under this Agreement must first establish all claims in writing against the Employer, contractor or Association through their Bargaining Agent and under the provisions of this Agreement or hereby waive all legal rights to claims processed otherwise.
14.3.	When proposed wage increases have been delayed for reasons beyond the control of the parties, such retroactive wages will be due and payable at the earliest payroll period but not to exceed thirty (30) days from the date of notice from the Association and/or Union to the employers.
ARTICLE 15
WAGE SCALES
15,1,	Old Work Protection, All private sector work in progress or bid, which was covered
by the scope of the previous agreement, shall be guaranteed the protection of the appropriate wage and fringe benefit rates in effect in the previous agreement.
Private Work bid after the effective date shall be at the new wage and benefit rates as noted. Private work bid under this agreement which extends beyond May 31, 2007 shall be guaranteed the protection of the appropriate wage and fringe benefit rates in effect under this
AGC-Oregon Laborers MLA - 2002-2007
Page 17
agreement for twenty four (24) months from the award of the bid, except that the contractor will pay all health and welfare increases up to fifty cents ($0.50),
Public Work performed under the provisions of a prevailing wage statute shall be administered in accordance with Article 30, Public Works Wages.
15.2.	a.	The classifications of employment, wage scales, Health and Welfare, Pension,
Training and Credit Union, as set forth in this Agreement and Schedule "A" attached shall be applicable for the period covered as set forth in Article 5.
15.2 .b. Monetary increases in the total wage and fringe packages for the life of this five (5) year agreement are effective on the dates indicated below:
June 1,2002 - Two percent (2%) with allocation: SO.25 to H&W, $0.05 to Training, $0.28 to Wages
June 1, 2003 - Two and one half percent (2.5%) with allocation to be determined by mutual agreement of the parties
June 1, 2004 - Three percent (3%) with allocation to be determined by mutual agreement of the parties.
June 1,2005 - Wage and fringe benefit opener only
June 1,2006 - Wage and fringe benefit opener only
15.3.	Additions of classifications and applicable wage scales for the purpose of clarification
or supplying omissions may be made from time to time when signed by the parties hereto, and shall be confirmed by written supplements to the attached Schedule "A".
ARTICLE 16
TRANSPORTATION-CAMP REQUIREMENTS
16.1.	No travel time, transportation reimbursement, or subsistence is payable under this Agreement except as provided in this Article 16. The Employer agrees to pay only those loll fees on bridges and ferries which the employee must use in traveling the shortest route to and from the job from the nearest dispatch point of zone pay reference point provided the employee furnishes said daily receipts to the Employer.
However, if employees of other basic crafts, who have agreements with the Employer, receive reimbursement for loll fees those employees with like circumstances (i.e, live in the same area and travel the same route) shall also be reimbursed for their toll fees and ferry charges.
AGC-Oregon Laborers MLA - 2002-2007
Page 18
16.2.	Any employee engaged in the transportation of material or machinery on long hauls
and held away from his home terminal overnight shall be paid the cost of his lodging and meals, or a reasonable allowance, provided that the employee shall furnish receipts for same.
16.3.	Where and when standard camp facilities dr trailer court facilities are provided by the Employer at or near the job site the Employer and the Union will mutually agree on cost to the employee and the hourly wage rate will prevail. The Employer will be the sole judge as to where and when job circumstances justify the establishment or discontinuance of camp facilities.
16.4.	Job Site Transportation: Whenever, because of remoteness of parking areas, hazardous road conditions, or security restrictions, and it is necessary for the Employer to furnish transportation for employees within the job site to the place of their work, the project management and representative of the Union shall meet to discuss any special conditions surrounding such man* haul operations. When the Employer furnishes such transportation to the employee without cost to him, the equipment shall include seats and protection from the elements, and definite pick-up and discharge points shall be determined. If there are more than thirty (30) minutes in time consumed from pick-up points to work site, the employee shall be paid for any time over thirty (30) minutes. If there are more than thirty (30) minutes time consumed from work site to pick-up points, the employee shall be paid for the full amount of time spent in travel from work site to pick-up point at his regular rate.
ARTICLE 17
HEALTH & SAFETY
17.1.	Drug and Alcohol Testing. Labor and Management agree that it is in the best interests of all to promote an alcohol and drug-free working environment and pledge both to work within their own areas of influence and to cooperate to that end.
17.2.	The Employer has the right to screen employees for alcohol and drugs as a condition
of employment, as long as the above is in compliance with state and federal laws. Drug and Alcohol Testing is permitted under the conditions as outlined in Sections 17.3 and 17.4. of this Article.
17.3.	Testing will be conducted in accordance with the Construction Industry Drug-Free
Workplace Program (CIDFWP). All testing will be paid for by the Employer. If test results are negative, the Employee will be paid Fifty Dollars ($50.00) and will be issued a Drug Card.
17.4.	Notwithstanding Section 17.3, above, a signatory contractor may choose to not
participate or pay the contribution for the CIDFWP provided employees are covered by a Department of Transportation-approved program. The Employer shall submit a copy of his/her DOT approved program to the Union for review.
17.5.	PROSPECTIVE EMPLOYEE/MEMBERS: Prospective employees/members who
AGC-Oregon Laborers MLA - 20C2-2007
Page 19
test negative for a Drug and Alcohol Test conducted in compliance with the aforementioned policy, will be reimbursed fifty dollars (S50.00) for taking such test. This expenditure is not for time worked, but for the undetermined amount of expense by the prospective employee/member prior to being put on an employer’s payroll,
17,6.	It is the intent of the parties that all contractors and subcontractors, regardless of tier, shall have a drug and alcohol program equal to or better than the CIDFWP.
ARTICLE 18
HEALTH AND WELFARE
J8.1. In addition to the wage scales listed in Schedule "A" herein, all persons, firms and corporations as listed on Schedule "B"; who are signatory parties to this Agreement, shall pay into the existing trust fund, Oregon Laborers-Employers Health & Welfare Trust Fund, or its successor, for the purpose of providing health and welfare benefits to all eligible employees covered by this Agreement, such payment to be made in accordance with the requirements of the trust agreement. The applicable provisions of the existing trust document arc hereby adopted for the period covered by this Agreement, and the fund established by prior contributions under former agreements between the parties shall be recognized as a fund held in trust and therefore an appropriate depositary for the contributions referred to herein above. The Employers accept, as their representatives, the Employer Trustees presently serving on said fund’s Board of Trustees and their duly appointed or elected successors.
18.2,	It is further agreed that the trust fund established for the purpose of providing health and welfare benefits shall be one that is jointly estab fished and equally administered by trustees from the Association and the Union.
18.3.	After due notice to the individual Employer involved (and if a member of the
Association also to the Association) by the Union it shall not be deemed a violation of this Agreement for employees covered by this Agreement to refuse to work for and to take economic action against the individual Employer who has failed to make proper contributions to the Health and Welfare Fund in accordance with this Agreement.
ARTICLE 19
PENSION
19.1.	In addition to the wage scales listed in Schedule "A" herein, all persons, firms or
corporations as listed in Schedule "B" who are signatory parties to this Agreement, shall pay into the existing trust fund, Oregon Laborers-Employcrs Pension Trust Fund, or its successor, for the purpose of providing pension benefits for all eligible employees covered by this Agreement, such payment to be made in accordance with the requirements of the trust Agreement. The applicable provisions of the existing trust document are hereby adopted for the period covered by this Agreement, and the
AGC-Oregon Laborers MLA - 2002-2007
Page 20
fund established by prior contributions under former agreements between the parties shall be recognized as a fund held in trust and therefore an appropriate depositary for contributions as referred to herein above. The Employers accept, as their representatives, the Employer Trustees presently serving on said fund's Board of Trustees and their duly appointed or elected successors.
19.2.	It is further agreed that the trust fund established for the purpose of providing pension benefits shall be one that is jointly established and equally administered by trustees from the Association and the Union.
19.3.	After due notice to the individual Employer involved (and if a member of the Association also to the Association) by the Union it shall not be deemed a violation of this Agreement for employees covered by this Agreement to refuse to work for and to take economic action against the individual Employer who has failed to make proper contributions to the Pension Fund in accordance with this Agreement.
19.4.	The Employer shall provide for a voluntary deduction on an individual basis and
forward to the employee's designated individual 401 (k) account through the administrator of the existing Trust at no cost to the employer. Employees shall designate the amount to be decided and shown on the dispatch slip. The employee shall be able to change the deduction only once per year.
19.5.	a. Three Dollars and Fifteen Cents (S3.15) per compensable hour to the Oregon Laborers Pension Plan trust fund (Pension I). (Defined Benefit).
ARTICLE 20
CREDIT UNION
20.1	.	It is agreed that all Employers employing employees within the geographic area
covered by this Agreement shall subtract a sum, as listed in Schedule “A” from each employee’s net pay check (after taxes), for each hour worked by its employees performing work covered by this Agreement regardless of union membership. Said contributions will be made to a Credit Union. Contributions will be made on the same form as Health & Welfare payments and that the pro-rata costs of such forms and the collection and accounting thereof will be paid by the Union to the fringe benefit administrator.
20.2	After due notice to the individual Employer involved (and if a member of the
Association also to the Association) by the Union, it shall not be deemed a violation of this Agreement for employees covered by this Agreement to refuse to work for and to take economic action against the individual Employer who has failed to make proper contributions to the fringe benefit administrator in accordance with this agreement.
AGC-Oregon Laborers MLA - 2002-2<X)7
Page 21
ARTICLE 21
TRAINING
21.1.	In addition to the wage scales listed in Schedule "A" herein, all persons, rums or corporations as listed in Schedule "0", who are signatory parties to this Agreement, shall pay into the Oregon Laborers Training Trust Fund, or its successor, for the purpose of training Laborers for work in the classifications covered by this Agreement. The applicable provisions of the existing mist document are hereby adopted for the period covered by this Agreement, and the fund established by prior contributions under former agreements between the parties shall be recognized as a fund held in trust and therefore an appropriate depositary for contributions as referred to herein above. The Employers accept, as their representatives, the Employer Trustees presently serving on said fund's Board of Trustees and their duly appointed or elected successors.
21.2.	It is further agreed that the trust fund established for the purpose of providing training shall be one that is jointly established and equally administered by trustees from the Association and the Union.
21.3.	After due notice to the individual Employer involved (and if a member of the Association also to the Association) by the Union it shall not be deemed a violation of this Agreement for employees covered by this Agreement to refuse to work for and to take economic action against the individual Employer who has failed to make proper contributions to the Laborers Training Trust Fund in accordance with this Agreement.
21.4.1.	The Parties will design procedures to identify and set three (3) year goals to continually improve all Journeyman Upgrade and Apprenticeship Training Programs; and work on the development of Safety Training Program(s) etc.
2L4.b. Training for Journeymen. The Association and Union jointly agree that increased available training for the Laborer workforce is a goal during the life of this agreement. This joint endeavor is conditional upon available training resources and is intended to be attained without unreasonable cost burdens to the Training Trust. These Training goals are categorized as follows:
21.4.	c.	Special Needs Training: When the Employer has a need for Special Needs
Journeyman training, consistent with the semi-annually published Laborers Program schedule of classes, training will be provided at no cost to the Employer when a sufficient number of employees are available for classes and a program curriculum exists. In those circumstances where a program curriculum does not exist, the employer may request through the Training Board of Trustees (Laborers-Employers Training Trust), that consideration be given to the development of an industry program.
21.5.	a. Foreman Supervisory Skills. The Association, the Union, and the respective training affiliates agree to commence efforts on Journeyman upgrade training programs which focus on Foremen's supervisory skills and responsibilities.
AGC-Orejon Laborers MLA - 2002-2007
Psge 22
21.5.	b. Premium for Accredited Foreman. An increased Foreman's Premium of thirty*five cents ($0.35) will be provided for:
Individuals who successfully complete a jointly agreed upon annual Foreman's Training Curriculum; and
When the individual is assigned as a Foreman by his/her employer.
ARTICLE 22
TRUSTEE QUALIFICATION CRITERIA
22.1.	The Trust funds shall continue to be controlled and administered by Joint Boards of Trustees composed of equal representation from the Union and the Employers who are signatories to the Trust Agreements.
22.1.	a.	Each Trustee appointed by the Union shall be an active member of the Union
22.1.	b.	Each Trustee appointed for the Employer shall be cither;
•	An active Employer
•	A full time non*bargaining unit employee of an active Employer
•	A regular officer of an active Employer
•	A full-time employee of the Association
22.1	.c. “Active” Employer shall mean an Employer who is making contributions on compensable hours to the Trust funds.
ARTICLE 23
RECIPROCITY
23.1	A signatory employer shall make fringe benefit contributions to the trust fund(s), and
at the state’s applicable rates, in the state where the work is performed.
23.2	Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 23.1, such contributions shall be
transferred by the receiving trust fund(s) to the home trust fund(s) of the applicable employee provided that the employee: (1) is properly cleared by the local union who has jurisdiction over the work; and (2) has executed an Authorization to Transfer Contribution Form.
AGC-Oregon Laborers MLA - 2002-2007
Page 23
ARTICLE 24
PREVAILING WAGE LAW ENFORCEMENT
(PWLE)
24.1.	In addition to wage scales listed in Schedule "A" herein, all persons, parties, firms or corporations as listed in Schedule "B" or otherwise coming under the scope of this Agreement, who are, or may become signatory to this Agreement agree effective June 1, 1993 to pay monthly in accordance with the applicable Management Trust Agreement, an amount of Two Cents ($0.02) per compensable hour for the purpose of enforcing the Federal and State Prevailing Wage Laws. Contributions will be made on the same form as other Trust payments.
The enforcement process will be administered through a Joint Labor/Management Board,
ARTICLE 25
CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION FUND (CAF)
25.1.	Effective June 1, 1991, a Contract Administration Fund (CAF) shall be established within AGC by virtue of this agreement and shall continue in full force and effect during the term of this agreement. Alt employers signatory to this Collective Bargaining Agreement, or who become signatory, or otherwise come under the scope of this agreement, shall contribute the sum of Three Cents ($0.03) per compensable hour worked by employees covered under this agreement into said fund. An employer shall not be required to contribute more than a total of One Thousand Dollars ($1,000.00) in any contract year (i.e. June 1st to May 31st) to the Fund, but amount erroneously paid in excess of said $1,000.00 Yearly Maximum shall be deemed to be voluntarily paid without right of refund. Contributions will be made on the same form as other Trust payments.
ARTICLE 26
OREGON-SOUTHWEST WASHINGTON FAIR CONTRACTING FOUNDATION (FCF)
26.1.	a. Effective June 1, 1993, herein, all persons, parties, firms or corporations as listed in Schedule "B" or otherwise coming under the scope of this Agreement who are, or may become signatory to this Agreement, agree to deduct from the net pay after taxes of each employee performing work covered by the terms of this Agreement a sum of Three Cents ($0.03) for each hour worked and remit same to Oregon-Southwest Washington Fair Contracting Foundation (FCF). Contributions will be made on the same form as the Health and Security payments.
AGC-Orcgoa L*borm MLA - 2002-2007
Psge 24
26.1	,b. The pro-rata costs of such forms, collection and accounting will be paid by the FCF to the fringe benefit administrator.
26.1.	c.	The respective District Councils reserve the right during the life of this agreement to
disaffiliate from the Foundation and reallocate the monies dedicated for this endeavor,
ARTICLE 27
LABORERS-EMPLOYERS COOPERATION AND EDUCATION TRUST
27.1.	The Employer and the Union recognize that they must confront many issues of mutual concern, which are more susceptible to resolution through Labor-Management Cooperation than through collective bargaining. To seek resolution of these mutual concerns and to advance mutual interests through Labor-Management Cooperative efforts, the Employer and the Union agree to participate in the Labor-Management Cooperation Committee described herein which is established in accordance with Section 302(C)(9) of the Taft-Hartley Act.
27.2.	The Employer shall contribute to the Seattle Region Labor Management Cooperation Committee as of the effective date of this Agreement and for each month thereafter for the term of this Agreement, including any extensions or renewal thereof. The Employer shall contribute to the Regional Cooperation Committee at the rate of Five Cents ($0.05) for each hour or portion of an hour for which each employee covered by the Agreement is entitled to receive pay. The Employer shall submit all contributions to the Regional Cooperation Committee in accordance with the requirement of the Committee. The Employer and the Union hereby adopt the Agreement and the Declaration establishing the Regional Cooperation Committee. Contributions will be made on the same form as the Health and Security payments.
27.3.	The pro-rata costs of such forms, collection and accounting will be paid by the
committee to the fringe benefit administrator.
27.4.	The Association reserves the right during the life of this Agreement to disaffiliate from making the contribution to the LECET and reallocate the monies dedicated for this endeavor.
ARTICLE 28
SAFETY-SANITATION
28.1.	Employees shall not be required to work on portions of any construction job that is
declared unsafe by a State Safety Inspector. The Employer will exert every reasonable effort to provide and maintain safe and sanitary working conditions in accordance with National and State Laws. The Unions will cooperate to that end and encourage their members to perform their work in a safe manner. Employers shall be required to provide sanitary facilities consisting of a reasonable number of toilets and urinals regardless of availability of sewers. When employees are assigned to
AGC-Oregon Laborers MLA - 2002-2007
Page 25
perform work that requires foul work gear such foul work gear shall be furnished by the Employer and the employee will be held responsible for the reasonable care and return of such gear. This clause is not to be construed to require Employers to furnish employees protection from natural elements.
ARTICLE 29
GOVERNMENT REQUIREMENTS
29,1.	The Union and the Employer recognize that an Employer should not lose jobs because of government requirements which are in conflict with the provisions of this Agreement. The Union and the Employer pledge their mutual cooperation in complying with provisions in any contract which the Employer may bid for or enter into with any public or quasi-public or governmental body for the performance of work covered by this Agreement. If the Employer believes that a government requirement is in conflict with the Agreement, they shall request a pre-job meeting with the Union to seek alternatives. The Union will not withhold agreement unnecessarily.
ARTICLE 30
PUBLIC WORKS WAGES
Public Works Project Davis-Bacon Act and related statutes - ORS 279.348 to 279.361.
30.1.	a.	In the event an individual Contractor bids a public job or project being awarded by a
federal, state, county, city or other public entity which is to be performed at a predetermined and/or prevailing wage rate established or established by the Secretary of the U.S. Department of Labor (pursuant to Public Law 74-403 as amended by Public Law 88-349 whose regulations are contained in 29 CFR Parts 1,3,5 and 7, and which determinations arc published in The Federal Register), or by the Commissioner of the Oregon Bureau of Labor and Industries (pursuant to ORS 279.348 to 279.361). The predetermined wage and fringe rate shall apply for the first twenty-four (24) months of the project from the award date.
30.1.	b. The Health & Welfare contribution rate can be increased to a maximum additional Fifty Cents ($0.50) during the life of a project worked under the terms of this Public Works Provision. Increases will be only for maintenance of benefits.
30-l.c. In the event a Contractor utilizes this Article on a job or project, whose duration is longer than the duration of this agreement, the Contractor shall enter into a project agreement for the duration of the job or project. The project agreement shall incorporate the terms and conditions of this agreement.
AGC-Oregon Laborers MLA - 2002-2007
Page 26
ARTICLE 31
AUTHORIZATION
31.1,	In accordance with the provisions of Article 5, this Agreement shall become effective
when signed by the Oregon-Columbia Chapter, The Associated General Contractors of America, Inc.; by the authorized representatives of the Oregon, Southern Idaho & Wyoming District Council of Laborers, affiliated with the Laborers international Union of North America, as set forth in Schedule "C" attached hereto.
31.2.	The Association has attached hereto Schedule "B" setting forth the names of its members subscribing to this Agreement at the date of signing this Agreement. The name of any new Employer subscribing to the Agreement shall be promptly filed by the Association with the Union, as a supplement to Schedule "B", and with such filing, such new Employer automatically becomes bound by the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
31.3.	The Union shall file with the Association promptly the name of any Employer who subscribes to the terms and conditions of this Agreement. It shall be understood that any dispute settled between the Union and any such non-member Employer shall in no way be binding on the Association signatory hereto nor to be interpreted as establishing an area practice unless the signatory Association is represented in and a party to such settlement.
31.4.	The Union, signatory hereto, agrees that any new Local Union established within the territory and jurisdiction covered by this Agreement, as long as it shall be effective, will automatically become bound by the terms and conditions of this Agreement from the official date of its charter. The Association shall be notified of the establishment of such new Local Union.
The Union shall also notify the Association if any Local Union is discontinued and/or merged with another Local Union. Such action by the Union shall not adversely affect the Employer's rights under the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 32
STRIKES AND LOCKOUTS
32.1	.a. It is mutually agreed that there will be no strikes or lockouts, or cessation of work, by cither party, for the duration of this Agreement, and all disputes arising under this Agreement shall be submitted to the procedures for the settlement of disputes as provided in this Agreement. The parties agree that there will be no cessation or stoppage of work because of jurisdictional disputes.
32.1	.b. The Union will not recognize an unauthorized picket line. It shall not be a violation for the Union to refuse to cross a picket line established by a building trades craft when approved by the authorized building trades labor body and the Oregon, Southern Idaho & Wyoming District Council of Laborers or a non-building trades craft if approved by the Oregon, Southern Idaho & Wyoming District Council of Laborers.
AGC-Oregon Laborers MLA — 2002-2007
Page 27
ARTICLE 33
JURISDICTIONAL DISPUTES
33.1.	Employers shall make all work assignments as follows:
(a)	In accordance with the terms of an existing labor Agreement providing for such work.
(b)	In accordance with the terms of any International and/or Local Agreements and/or Memorandum of Understandings between the signatory Union and any other Union.
(c)	In accordance with area practices of local building trades.
33.2.	If the Employer has complied with the provisions of Section 29.1. and receives written notification of two or more Unions contesting the work assignment, the Employer shall maintain his work assignment until the dispute has been resolved in accordance with the following procedure:
(a)	Contesting Unions and the contractor shall attempt to resolve disputes. If unable to do so within forty-eight (48) hours (Saturday, Sunday and Holidays excluded) then;
(b)	The parties to this Agreement shall meet for the purpose of resolving the dispute. If unable to resolve said dispute within forty-eight (48) hours (Saturday/ Sunday and Holidays excluded) then;
(c)	The parties to this Agreement shall have exhausted their internal remedies and may then seek resolution through the NLRB and/or the courts. No legal action may be initiated before such internal remedies are exhausted.
33.3.	The parties agree that there will be no cessation or stoppage of work because of
jurisdictional disputes. Failure to follow the above procedures shall be a breach of contract.
ARTICLE 34
SETTLEMENT OF
NON-JURISDICT1ONAL DISPUTES
34.1.	Each party shall have the right at all times to enforce the specific provisions of this
Agreement. The failure of either party to require enforcement of any specific term shall not be considered a modification or waiver of any of the specific terms of this agreement.
34.2.	In cases of violation, misunderstanding, or differences in interpretation of this Agreement, both parties pledge their immediate cooperation in following the Grievance Procedure set forth herein.
AGC-Oregon Laborers MLA - 2002-2007
Page 28
34.3.	In the settlement of disputes arising out of violation, misunderstanding or difference in
interpretation of this Agreement, the following procedure shall be followed;
STEP 1
Any employee having a grievance shall present it to the Job Steward or Business Representative. The Job Steward or Business Representative shall present in writing, such grievance or grievances occurring on the job to the Employer's local representative. Employer grievances shall be presented to the Business Representative of the Union.
STEP II
If no settlement is reached under Step 1, then it shall be referred to the authorized representative of the Union and the authorized representative of the Employer within fifteen (15) days. Both of these parties shall use their best efforts to resolve the dispute immediately. This may be accomplished either by phone or a meeting. Should these authorized representatives fail to satisfactorily resolve said dispute within forty-eight (48) hours then either party may, by letter, demand a hearing before the Board of Adjustment convened at the AGC (if affected) or Union headquarters unless mutually agreed to be convened elsewhere.
The Board of Adjustment which shall be composed of two (2) persons appointed by the Union and two (2) persons appointed by the Association, none of which shall be a party to the instant case. This Board shall hear the matter within seventy-two (72) hours and render a decision within forty-eight (48) hours, which decision shall be reduced to writing, signed by the Board of Adjustment and, mailed to alt affected parties. If no settlement is reached in Step II, either party may request arbitration as provided for herein.
STEP III
In addition to the days listed above or any additional time as mutually agreed upon, the grievance shall be submitted to an arbiter who shall be selected by the parties. The parties shall stipulate to the arbiter the issue or issues to be decided. If the parties do not agree upon a single arbiter within forty-eight (48) hours from the expiration of the time limits specified under Step II, either party may request the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service or the American Arbitration Association to submit a list of five (5) proposed arbiters. The Employer's authorized representative and the Union's authorized representative shall each alternately strike from this list the names of the proposed arbiters, one at a time until only one name remains on the list. The name of the arbiter remaining on the list shall be deemed accepted by both parties. The decision or decisions of the arbiter shall be announced, in writing to. the parties within fifteen (15) days following the hearing of the arbitration and shall be final and binding on both parties. The expenses of arbitration shall be borne by the losing party.
It is further understood and agreed that the arbitrator's decision may provide retroactivity not to exceed thirty (30) calendar days from the date of the written filing of the complaint as set forth in Step I of this Article.
AGC-Oregon Laborers MLA - 2002-2007
Page 29
34.4.	The jurisdiction of the arbiter shall be confined in all cases exclusively to questions involving the interpretation and application of existing clauses or provisions of this Agreement.
34.5.	Saturday, Sunday and Holidays are deemed excluded from time limits contained in
this Article.
34.6.	Should the parties involved fail to comply with the findings within five (5) days after
such written notification by cither party or fail to comply with any of the provisions and/or time limits established in this Article, unless mutually agreed to extend such limits, then all means of arbitration shall be considered exhausted.
Either party may take such action as they deem necessary to enforce the Endings and time limits and they shall not be considered in violation of any part of this Agreement.
34.7.	Where written notification is required in this Article it shall be by Certified or Registered Mail.
ARTICLE 35
UNION ADMISSION TO JOB
35,1.	The Business Manager of the Local Union or his/her Field Representative having jurisdiction and the Business Manager or his/her Field Representative of the District Council will be permitted to visit any project at any time to solicit membership, collect dues, investigate conditions and work with the authorized representative of the Employer to correct violations existing on any job at any time, but he/she shall in no way unnecessarily delay the work on the job site.
35.2.	Should the Employer refuse the authorized representative admission to the job at any
time, the Business Manager of the appropriate District Council of Laborers of the Union is free to take any economic action against such Employer it deems necessary and such action shall not be considered a violation of this Agreement.
35.3.	On projects which are under security regulations, the Employer will cooperate with the Union officials in this regard as far as regulations permit.
35.4,	a.	There will be no discrimination against any employee because of past or present union
activities. However, no employee, unless he/she has been designated as the steward on the job, is to use the Employer's time for union activities.
35.4.	b The Union shall appoint a job steward or stewards whenever it deems it is necessary or appropriate. Job stewards shall be working employees who shall in addition to their regular assigned work, be permitted to perform the duties set forth herein, without disrupting others at work.
AGC-Oregon Laborers MLA - 2002-2007
Psge 30
The Union shall notify the Employer in writing of the appointment of any job stewards. The Steward shall not be discharged or laid off for performing duties as job steward in accordance with this Article,
The Employer will notify the Union in writing and will be willing to confer with the Business Representative at least two (2) days prior to terminating the Steward. If the Steward is terminated, the Business Representative may appoint another Steward from the remaining crew and shall advise the Employer,
A Job Steward shall:
1.	Bring to the attention of the Employer and Business Representative any infraction of the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
2.	Check alt employees performing work covered by the terms and conditions of this Agreement to ascertain proper clearance and/or dispatch,
ARTICLE 36
UNION DUES DEDUCTION
36.1.	Upon presentation of a proper authorization form executed by the individual employee, the Employer agrees to deduct Union dues from net pay after taxes and remit same to the Union in accordance with applicable law. It is understood the Employers will remit each month the Union dues deducted in accordance with this Article on the transmittal forms used for fringe benefit contributions and that the pro rata costs of such forms and the collection and accounting thereof will be paid by the Union to the fringe benefit administrator.
The authorization forms shall be supplied by the Union and the Employer is under no obligations to solicit employees for authorization.
The Union guarantees that the Union dues to be deducted shall be the uniform amount applicable to all members of the Union covered by this Agreement as established by the membership through their duly elected delegates in accordance with the Union constitution. The Union guarantees that the Union dues collected in this manner shall not be used as a strike fund against the employer’s party to this Agreement. Should the Union violate either provision of this paragraph this Article shall be null and void for the remaining period of this Agreement.
This procedure shall not be applicable to initiation fees, fines or readmission fees.
AGC-Oregon Laborers MLA - 2002-200?
Page 31
ARTICLE 37
SPECIAL AGREEMENTS
37.1.	Special agreements and/or job agreements may be negotiated by the parties hereto by mutual consent.
If the Union negotiates special agreements for any work covered by this Agreement with any other Employer or Employer Association, all provisions of such agreements shall be made available and apply to any Employer signatory to this Agreement for the specific work and specific area covered by such special Agreement only.
A Memorandum supplement to this Agreement.
of Understanding dated August 9,
1988, is incorporated as a
ARTICLE 38
MUTUAL GUARANTEE
38.1.	It is mutually agreed that both the Association's and the Union's participation in this Agreement is based on the guarantee that each will use its best efforts to enforce the terms and conditions hereof upon the parties to this Agreement on all construction work performed by the Employer within the territory covered by this Agreement.
ARTICLE 39
ADOPTION OF ADDENDUMS
39.1.	The signatory parties adopt as a part of this Agreement any attached addendums or
supplements negotiated between the Oregon, Southern Idaho & Wyoming District Council of Laborers and the Oregon-Columbia Chapter, Associated General Contractors of America, Inc.
AGC-Oregon Laborers MLA - 2002-2007
Page 32
ARTICLE 40
HAZARDOUS WASTE REMOVAL AGREEMENT
40.1.	The Hazardous Waste Removal Agreement dated December 1, 1990 shall be considered as an addendum to this agreement and all terms and conditions of the Master Labor Agreement are, by reference, incorporated into and become a part of the Hazardous Waste Removal Agreement.
Anyone signatory to this agreement may exclude the Hazardous Waste Removal Agreement from the terms of this agreement by providing written notice to the Union within ten (10) days of the execution of th is agreement or its effective date, whichever is later.
ARTICLE 41
SAVING CLAUSE
41,1,	Should any part or any provision of this Agreement be rendered or declared invalid by reason of any existing or subsequently enacted legislation or by any decree of a court of competent jurisdiction, such invalidation of such part or provision of this Agreement shall not invalidate the remaining parts or provisions hereof, provided however, upon such invalidation the parties agree to meet without delay and negotiate such part or provision affected within thirty (30) days unless mutually extended. The remaining parts or provisions shall remain in full force and effect.
41.2.	The aforementioned Section 40.1. shall apply in the event of relevant actions by Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB).
41,3,	National Health Care Legislation; In the event of the enactment of National Health Care legislation which limits the deductibility of employer Health/Welfare contributions, the Association and Union will meet immediately to ensure the deductibility to the employer of the full compensation package.
If the method of adjustment cannot be mutually agreed upon within sixty (60) days, it will be referred to the grievance procedure.
AGC-Oregon Laborers MLA - 2002-2007
Page 33
ARTICLE 42
GUARANTEE OF AUTHORITY
42.1.	The individuals signing this Agreement in their official capacity hereby personally guarantee and warrant their authority to act for and bind the respective parties or organizations whom their signatures purport to represent.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Agreement has been executed by the parties hereto and ratified and accepted by the signatory members of the Oregon-Columbia Chapter, The Associated General Contractors of America, Inc., subscribing to this Agreement and by the Oregon, Southern Idaho & Wyoming District Council of Laborers on behalf of its respective Local Unions, this	day of June, 2002, at Portland, Oregon.
FOR THE UNION:
Oregon, Southern Idaho-, & Wyoming
District Council of Laborers
FOR THE ASSOCIATION:
Oregon-Columbia Chapter, Associated General Contractors
By' _	______
John Sutherland, Business Manager,
By______________________________
Craig Honeyman, Executive Director
AGC-Oregon Laborers MLA - 2002-2007
Page 34
SCHEDULE “A!
WAGE SCALES
HEAVY, HIGHWAY, UTILITY AND BUILDING CONSTRUCTION WORK
(JUNE 1, 2002 - MAY 31, 2007)
TERRITORY - This Agreement shall cover the entire State of Oregon.
DEFINITIONS - See Article I and details in this Schedule.
EFFECTIVE DATES - This Agreement shall become effective June I, 2002, and through May 31, 2007. (See Article 5 for details)
OVERTIME RATES: (See Article 10 for details)
Daily and Saturday - Time and one half (1 1/2X)
Sunday and holidays • Double time (2.0X).
Special Operations, (See Section 7), Time and one half (1 1/2X)
SHIFTS-HOURS OF WORK (See Article 10 for exceptions and details)
HEALTH AND WELFARE - (See Article 18)
Three Dollars and Ninety-Five Cents ($3.95) per compensable hour.
PENSION -(SeeArticle 19)
Defined Benefit Plan, Three Dollars and Fifteen Cents ($3.15) per compensable hour.
CREDIT UNION - (See Article 20)
One dollar and five cents ($1.05) per compensable hour deducted from wages.
TRAINING - (See Article 21)
Thirty Cents ($0.30) per compensable hour.
PREVAILING WAGE LAW ENFORCEMENT - (See Article 24)
Two cents ($0.02) per compensable hour.
CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION FUND (CAF) - (See Article 25)
Three cents ($0.03) per compensable hour.
LABORERS-EMPLOYERS COOPERATION & EDUCATION TRUST (LECET) - (See
Article 27)
Five cents ($0.05) per compensable hour.
AGC-Oregon Laborers MLA - 2002-2007
Page 35
DEDUCTIONS • from net pay afler taxes
OREGON-SOUTHWEST WASHINGTON FAIR CONTRACTING FOUNDATION - FCF) -(See Article 26
Three cents ($0.03) per hour will be deducted from net pay after taxes.
DUES - (See Article 36)
Ninety Cents ($0.90) per hour will be deducted from net pay after taxes only after proper authorization.
TRANSPORTATION-CAMP REQUIREMENTS (See Article 16).
JURISDICTION: Craft jurisdiction is neither determined nor awarded by classifications appearing in any AGC Labor Agreement. (See Article 6 and Article 33 for details).
TIME: Official time for the purpose of this Agreement shall be applicable legal time. ■
SPECIAL NOTE: HOD CARRIERS - With respect to building construction work as defined in Article 4 - (Work Affected Defined) for the duration of this Agreement, the wage scale applicable to Hod Carriers contained or to be contained in the labor contracts covering Oregon between the Laborers organizations involved, the Wall and Ceiling Contractors Association, and the Mason Contractors Association shall be recognized and abided by the parties hereto when hiring Hod Carriers.
SPECIAL CONDITIONS:
(1)	Any Laborer working in LIVE SEWERS shall receive Fifteen Dollars ($15.00) per
day in addition to his regular pay.
(2)	There must be al least one employee of the contractor on each project that holds a first
aid card.
(3)	HIGHEST RATE FOR HALF OR FULL DAY; When a laborer is pul to work at a
higher classification in any day, he laborer shall be paid for that day:
a.	the higher classification rate for four (4) hours if a laborer works at the higher classification for four (4) hours or less, and the balance of the day at the lesser rate or;
b.	the higher classification rate for the full day if he/she works al the higher classification for more than four (4) hours.
AGC-Oregon Laborers MLA - 2002-2007
Psge 36
(4)	Isolated workers will be contacted periodically by a supervisor or other employee (of
any craft or management representative).
(5)	All special safety equipment required for the performance of the work wilt be
furnished by the Employer and the employee will be responsible for, and take care of, such equipment until the employee is terminated. If the employee does not return the equipment to the Employer in good condition, subject to normal wear and tear, the employee will be required to pay for such items at cost.
AGC-Oregon Laborers MLA - 2002-2007
Page 37
OREGON LABORERS
WAGES AND FRINGE BENEFITS
(per compensable hour)
EFFECTIVE: JUNE 1,2002 THROUGH MAY 31,2003
NOTES:	See Schedule "A" for classification Groups. See Schedule "A" for Zone Wage Scale Information.
Group	Zone A	Zone B ($0.65)	Zone C ($1.15)	Zxme D ($1.70)	Zone E ($2.75)
1	22.18	22.83	23.33	23.88	24.93
2	22.69	23.34	23.84	■ 24.39	25.44
3	23.08	23.73	24.23	24.78	25.83
4	23.41	24.06	24.56	25.11	26.16
5	19.61	20.26	20.76	21.31	22.36
Foreman A Premium: One Dollar (SI.00) above highest classification supervised.
Foreman 8 Premium: One Dollar and Thirty-Five Cents ($1.35) above highest classification supervised.
FRINGE BENEFIT PACKAGE
(per compensable hour)
Health & Welfare Pension Training	3.95 3.15 0.30
PWLE CAF LECET Drug Testing	0.02 0.03 0.05 0.10
DEDUCTIONS from net pay after taxes:
FCF DUES CREDIT UNION	0.03 0.90 1.05
Note: Dues, FCF and Credit Union arc included in above Group/Zone rates of pay
AGC-Oregon Laborers MLA - 2002-2007
Page 38
June 1, 2003 - 2.5% increase on total package with distribution to be determined by mutual agreement of the parties.
June 1, 2004 - 3% increase on total package with distribution to be determined by mutual agreement of the parties.
June I, 2005 - Wage and Fringe Benefit opener only. June 1. 2006 - Wage and Fringe Benefit opener only.
SPECIAL NOTES
NOTE # 1:	If any laborer work other than the above is performed during a shift, the basic labor
rate is paid for the full shift.
APPRENTICESHIP NOTES
Apprentice Wage Rates:
The parties signatory hereto agree to establish an indentured training program. This would be accomplished by enlarging the existing training program into a full indentured training program. The rates of pay shall have increments as a percentage rate of journeyman scale, as listed below. Apprentice fringe benefits are one hundred percent (100%) of the applicable job r^te.
Apprenticeship Training Program:
Section 1.	Recognizing the need for an adequate supply of qualified Laborers, the Association and the Union mutually agree to actively promote and participate in a Joint-Training program'designed to meet this need.
Section 2.	Such programs which exist or are developed to achieve this end are supported in whole or in pan from funds derived from this agreement and shall:
(a)	Be jointly administered by equal representation of management as appointed by the Association and tabor as appointed by the Union.
(b)	The employment of Apprentices shall be in accordance with the ratios as outlined in Article 9 Hiring.
(c)	Provide wages as follows as a percent of Group 1 Laborer for the project:
Apprenticeship Rates:
Group	Percent
Group 1 0-1000 Hrs	63%
1001 -2000	70%
2001 -3000	80%
3001 -4000	90%
AGC-Oregon Laborers MLA ~ 2002-2007
Page 39
CLASSIFICATIONS
GROUP 1
INCLUDES: General Laborers and the following:
*	Asphalt Spreaders
*	Asphalt Plant Laborers
*	Batch Weighman
*	B roomers
*	Brush Burners and Cutters
*	Car and Truck Loaders
*	Carpenter Tender
*	Change-House Man or Dry Shack Man
*	Choker Setters
*	Clean-Up Laborers
*	Curing, Concrete
*	Demolition, Wrecking, and Moving Laborers
*	Driller Helpers
*	Dumpers, Road Oiling Crew
•	Dumpman (for Grading Crew)
•	Elevator Feeders
Erosion Control Specialist (Certified)
•	Fine Graders
*	Fence Builders
*	Form Strippers (not Swinging Stages)
*	Guard Rail, Median Rail, Reference Post, Guide Post, Right-Of-Way Marker
*	Landscaping or Planting Laborer
*	Leverman or Aggregate Spreader (Flaherty and similar types)
GROUP J
INCLUDES THE FOLLOWING:
*	Applicator (including Pol Power Tender for same), applying protective material by hand or nozzle on utility lines or storage tanks on project
*	Brush Cullers (Power Saw)
*	Burners
*	Choker Splicer
*	Clary Power Spreader and similar types
*	Clean Up Nozzleman - Green-Cutter (Concrete, Rock, etc.)
*	Crusher Feeder
*	Demolition and Wrecking Charred Materials
*	Dopping and Wrapping Pipe
Loading Spotters
Material Yard Man - (including Electrical) Pittsburgh Chipper Operator or similar types Powderman Helper
Railroad Track Laborers
Ribbon Setters (including Steel Forms)
Rip Rap Man (Hand Placed)
Road Pump Tender
Sewer Labor
Scaffold Tender
Signalman
Skipman
Slopcrs
Sprayman
Stake Chaser
Stockpilcr
Tie Back Shoring
Timber Faller and Bucket (Hand Labor)
Toolroom Man (at Jobsite)
Traffic Control Supervisor Weight-Man-Crusher (Aggregate when used) All other work classification not specifically listed shall be classified as General Laborer
Group I
Handlers or Mixers of All Materials of an irritating nature (including cement and lime) Post Hole Digger, Air, Gas or Electric Pressure Washing Ribbon Setter, Head Rip Rap Man (Head), Hand Placed Sand Blasting (Wet) Stake Setter
Tampers
Too) Operators (includes but not limited to): - Dry Pack Machine - Jackhammer
-	Chipping Guns
AGC-Ortjon Laborers MLA - 2002-2007
Page 40
Gunite Nozzleman Tender
Gunite or Sand Blasting Pot Tender
- Paving Breakers
CROUP3
INCUDES THE FOLLOWING:
*	Asbestos Removal	*
*	Bit Grinder	♦
*	Concrete Saw Operator	*
*	Drill Doctor	*
*	Drill operators, Air Tracks, Cat Drills,	*
Wagon Drills, Rubber-mounted Drills, and	*
other similar types, including at crusher plants	*
*	Hazardous Waste Laborer (see HWRA also)	*
*	Laser Beam (Pipe Laying) - Applicable	*
when Employee assigned to move, set up,	*
align Laser Beam	*
*	Manhole Builder
*	Mold Remediation Laborer
GROUP4
. INCLUDES THE FOLLOWING:
*	Asphalt Rackers
*	Concrete Pump Nozzleman
*	Head Pipelayer (Only 1 per crew)
*	Grade Checker
*	Gunite Nozzleman
*	High Scalers, Strippers and Drillers (Covers work in Swinging Stages, Chairs or Belts, under extreme conditions unusual to normal drilling, blasting, barring-down or sloping and stripping
*	Pipe Layers (all types)
*	Powderman
*	Pumpcrete Nozzleman
*	Loop Installation
Nippers and Timberman
Nuclear Plant Worker - Lead Shield
Power Saw Operators (Bucking and Falling)
Sand Blasting (Dry)
Sewer Timberman
Track Liners, Anchor Machines, Ballast
Regulators, Multiple Tampers, Power Jacks
Tugger Operator
Vibrators (all types)
Vibrating Screed
Water Blaster
Welder
LASER BEAM:
Laser Beam (Tunnel) - Applicable when Employee assigned to move, set up align Laser Beam
TUNNELS:
Miner - Tunnel
Powderman - Tunnel
Motorman - Dinky Locomotive
Shield Operator
Tunnel Bullgang (above ground)
Tunnel - Chuck Tenders
Tunnel - Muckers, Brakeman, Concrete Crew, Bull Gang (Underground)
GROUP 5
*	Confined Space (hole) Watch
*	Final Clean-up - detailed clean up such as but not limited to cleaning floors, ceilings, walls, windows, etc., prior to final acceptance by the owner
* Fire Watch
* Traffic Flaggers
AGC-Oregon Laborers MLA - 2002-2007
Page 41
FOREMAN PREMIUM: When one of the Laborers is designated to act as foreman, he/she shall receive One Dollar (SI .00) per hour above highest classification supervised. The contractor shall have the right to determine in his sole discretion the need for and the number of Laborer Foremen. It being further understood, that al) crews that are made up of a majority of Laborers shall be supervised by a Laborer Foreman.
When a Group 3 Powder Man ora Group 4 Tunnel Powderman is designated to act as foreman he/she shall receive One Dollar ($1.00) per hour above his/her Group Rate.
Foreman Training.
•	An increased Foreman's Premium of thirty-five cents (350) will be provided for;
•	Individuals who successfully complete a jointly agreed upon annual Foreman's Training Curriculum and;
•	When the individual is assigned as a Foreman by his/her employer.
AGC-Oregon Laborers MLA - 2002-2007
Page 42
ZONE PAY DIFFERENTIAL
(A)	The parties to the Agreement recognize that because of remoteness of area and other
reasons, there is a great inequity between the living expenses of an employee providing for himselffherself and his/her family in the major metropolitan areas and those of an employee working in the remote areas within the large geographical area of this Agreement, and therefore, adopt the following provisions for wage scales.
FOR THE FOLLOWING CITIES:
Albany Astoria Baker Bend Bums Coos Bay Eugene Grants Pass
Hermiston Klamath Falls Medford
Newport Portland Roseburg Salem The Dalles
1,	All jobs or projects located WITHIN 30 MILES of the respective city hall of the above mentioned cities shall receive the basic rate of pay for all classifications (Zone A) as listed in Schedule "A".
2.	All jobs or projects located MORE THAN 30 MILES and less than 40 miles from the respective city hall of the above mentioned cities shat) receive Zone "B" allowance. The basic rate of pay shall be increased by 65(t per hour.
3.	Al) jobs or projects located MORE THAN 40 MILES or less than 50 miles from the respective city hall of the above mentioned cities shall receive Zone ”C" allowance. The basic rate of pay shall be increased by $ 1.15 per hour.
4.	All jobs or projects located MORE THAN 50 MILES and less than 80 miles from the respective city of the above mentioned cities shall receive Zone "D" allowance. The basic rale of pay shaJJ be increased by $1.70 per hour.
5.	All jobs or projects located MORE THAN 80 MILES from the respective city hall of the above mentioned cities shall receive Zone "E" allowance. The basic rate of pay shall be increased by S2.75 per hour.
NOTE #): When suitable arrangements for daily transportation of an employee are made by the Employer, at no cost to the employee and the employee avails himself/herself of this opportunity, no zone pay shall be paid.
AGC-Oregon Laborers MLA - 2002-2007
Page 43
(B)	It is agreed that for the purpose of determining the proper wage scale under this Agreement:
1.	All job or project locations shall be computed (determined) on the basis of road miles and in the following manner. A mileage measurement will start at the entrance to the respective city hall, facing the project (if possible), and shall proceed by the normal route (shortest time, best road) to the geographical center on highway, railroad, and street construction projects (end of measurement). On all other project contracts, the geographical center where the major portion of the construction work is located, shall be considered the center of the project (end of measurement).
2.	All related jobs or projects (such as a crusher's location) shall, for the purpose of determining the proper pay zone rates, be considered as a part of the prime job, with the exception of jetties which for the purpose of this Agreement, will have separate locations and may, therefore, have a different pay zone for the quarry and jetty sites.
DEFINITIONS
A.	GENERAL. In any excavation, other than Item B-Sewers, etc., and Item C-Tunnels,
the classifications and rates of Item C-Tunnels, shall apply wherever the depth of excavation exceeds twice the largest horizontal dimension.
B.	SEWERS, WATER AND GAS LINES, TELEPHONE AND ELECTRIC
UNDERGROUND. Sewer pipe laying or monolithic sewer construction in open excavation or in completed tunnels (raises or shafts) shall be defined as sewer work.
MANHOLE EXCAVATION AND CONSTRUCTION, up to six feet in largest horizontal dimension, shall be defined as sewer work, to maximum depth of twenty feet, and defined as tunnel (shaft) beyond twenty feet in depth. Manhole excavation and construction, over six feet in largest horizontal dimension, shall be defined as tunnel (shaft) when the depth is more than twice the largest horizontal dimension.
C.	TUNNELS. A "Tunnel" shall be defined as a subterranean excavation, lined or
unlined, which because of its length, necessitates an employee or employees working underground for a distance of ten feet or more. On all work classified as "Tunnel" the tunnel classification and rates shall apply to the entire length of the tunnel, from portal to portal.
A tunnel whose horizontal grade is over 30 percent and less than 60 percent shall be defined as a “Raise”. A tunnel whose horizontal grade is greater than 60 percent, and whose depth is more than twice its largest horizontal dimension, shall be defined as a "Shaft. ”
The above definitions of work shall apply also to the work of timbering and lining of tunnels (raises and shafts) as described above.
D.	COFFERDAM WORK. Where workers are required to work inside Cofferdams
AGC-Oregon Laborers MLA - 2002-2007
Page 44
which are confined areas without easy means of escape and where extreme hazards abnormal to ordinary operating conditions exist, the workers shall receive premium pay of Fifteen Cents (S0.15) per hour above their regular rate.
COMPRESSED AIR WORK PROJECTS
WAGE RATES AND CONDITIONS
On any compressed air work that may arise during the term of this Agreement, it is agreed that a Special Job Agreement will be negotiated prior to the bid or the start of the project between the Union and the Association.
AGC-Oregon Laborers MLA - 2002-2007
Page 45
SCHEDULE C
Local Uuions Signatory to the 2000-1001 Oregon Laborers Agreement
Oregon, Southern Idaho & Wyoming
District Council of Laborers,
10245 SE Holgate Blvd.
Portland. OR 97266
(503) 760-2933
Local #1241
Environmental Remediation
10245 SE Holgate Blvd.
Portland, OR 97266
(503) 760-2933
Local No. 121 265 SE Scott Bend, OR 97702 (541)382-4872	For Springfield, Klamath Falls, Hermiston and Coos Bay, Oregon, call Bend Local 121 (541)382-4872
Local No. 1400 4480 N Pacific Hwy #16 Central Point, OR 97502 (541)664-2643	For Roseburg, Oregon call Central Point Local 1400(541-664-2473)
Local No. 320 (Heavy Construction	For Salem, The Dalles, Astoria, Oregon call Local No. 320 (503) 253-4800
PO Box 16790
Portland, OR 97292 (503) 253-4800
Local No. 296
Building Construction 4545 NE 102nd Avenue
Portland, OR 97220 (503) 256-5716
Associated Administrators 2929 NW 31st Avenue
Portland, OR 97210 (503) 222-9603 (503)224-8961 (FAX)
AGC-Oregon Laborers MLA - 2002-2007
Pife 46