SHOP AGREEMENT
between
MANUFACTURING WOODWORKERS ASSOCIATION OF GREATER NEW YORK INCORPORATED
THE DISTRICT COUNCIL OF NEW YORK CITY AND VICINITY OF THE UNITED BROTHERHOOD OF CARPENTERS AND JOINERS OF AMERICA, AFL-CIO
ULY 01, 2007 - JUNE 30, 2012
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Article
PREAMBLE
I	JURISDICTION AND UNION SECURITY	2
Section 1.	Covered Employees	2
Section 2.	Non-Discrimination	2
Section 3.	Contract Rate	2
Section 4.	Recognition of Exclusive Bargaining Agent	2
Sections.	Labor Force	2
Section 6.	Union Security	2
11	TRADE ASSOCIATION	3
Section 1.	Membership Lists	3
Section 2.	Recognition by the Trade Association	3
Section 3.	Changes in Membership	3
Section 4.	New Members	4
Ill	TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF EMPLOYMENT	4
Section 1.	Employment of Covered Employees	4
Section 2.	The Work Week	4
Section 3.	The Work Day	4
Section 4.	Overtime and Holiday Work	4
Sections.	Touch-up Work	4
Section 6.	Deliveries	5
Section 7.	Lay-off	5
Section 8.	Second Shift	5
Section 9.	Installation of Custom Mill work	
	Manufactured in the Employer’s Shop	5
IV	OUTSIDE CONSTRUCTION WORK OR INSTALLATION OF	
	ANY WORK NOT COVERED BY ARTICLE III, SECTION 9	6
V	HOLIDAYS	10
Section 1.	Contract Holidays	10
Section 2.	Work Performed on Holidays	10
Section 3.	Labor Day	11
VI	WAGES	11
Section 1.	Wage Rates	11
Section 2.	Increases and Allocations of Increases	13
Section 3.	Pay-Checks	13
Section 4.	Drivers	13
VII	UNION LABEL	14
Section 1.	The Union Label	14
Section 2.	Application	14
VIII	APPRENTICESHIP SYSTEM	14
Section L	Apprenticeship Training Plan	14
Section 2.	Ratio of the Apprentices to Journeymen	14
Section 3.	Conformity with Prevailing Law	14
DC	SHOP STEWARD	15
X	FRINGE BENEFITS	15
Section 1.	Contributions	15
Section 2.	Welfare and Pension	16
Section 3.	Apprenticeship Fund	16
Section 4.	Vacation Fund	16
Section 5.	Annuity Fund	16
Section 6.	Supplemental Funds	16
Section?.	The National Labor Management Committee	
	For the Custom Woodworking Industry Fund	17
Section 8.	Audits	17
Section 9.	Re-allocations	17
Section 10.	Trust Agreements and Bylaws	17
Section 11.	Default and Breach	17
Section 12.	Arbitration	18
Section 13.	Fringe Benefit Voucher Plan	19
Section 14	Hours Worked	19
XI	BONDING	20
XII	DUES CHECKOFF	20
Section 1.	Dues Deduction	20
Section 2.	Remittance of Dues	21
Section 3.	Renewal of Authorizations	21
XIII	HARDSHIP AND ADVISORY COMMITTEE	21
Section 1.	Establishment of Board	21
Section 2.	The Committee and its Purpose	21
ii
XIV	grievance and arbitration	22
Section 1.	Grievance	22
Section 2.	Lock-Outs and Strikes	22
Section 3.	Lay-Off of Shop Steward	22
Section 4.	Prevention of Job Discrimination	22
XV	LOSS OF TOOLS AND CLOTHING	23
XVI	DEATH BEREAVEMENT	23
XVII	WORK WEEK MODIFICATION	23
XVIII	CONTINUITY OF CONTRACT	24
XIX	JOINT VENTURE	24
XX	OTHER OPERATIONS	24
Section 1.	Work Preservation Clause	24
Section 2.	Fees and Costs	25
XXI	UNION ACCESS	25
XXII	PRIOR BENEFITS	25
XXIII	ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION	26
XXIV	CONFORMITY OF AGREEMENTS	26
XXV	INDUSTRY PROMOTIONAL FUND	26
XXVI	MANAGEMENT RIGHTS	27
XXVII	AUTOMATIC RENEWAL AND EXPIRATION	27
XXVII	SAVINGS CLAUSE	27
XXIX	RETROACTIVITY	28
XXX	EFFECTUATING CLAUSE AND SIGNATORIES	29
iii
AGREEMENT made and entered into this 1st day of July 2007 and effective as of July 1, 2007, between:
MANUFACTURING WOODWORKERS ASSOCIATION OF GREATER NEW YORK INCORPORATED ON BEHALF OF ITS EMPLOYER MEMBERS HEREIN REFERRED TO AS
(THE “TRADE ASSOCIATION” and/or THE “M.WA.” and/or the “EMPLOYER")
and the
DISTRICT COUNCIL OF NEW YORK CITY AND VICINITY OF THE UNITED BROTHERHOOD OF CARPENTERS AND JOINERS OF AMERICA AFFILIATED WITH THE AFL-CIO, WASHINGTON, DC HEREIN REFERRED TO AS (THE “UNION" and/or THE “DISTRICT COUNCIL”)
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual promises and covenants hereinafter set forth, the parties agree as follows:
PREAMBLE
This Agreement is entered into: (a) to prevent strikes and lockouts; (b) to facilitate the peaceful adjustment of grievances and disputes between the Employer and the Union; (c) to prevent waste, unnecessary and avoidable delays which incur costs and expenses to the Employer and lost wages and benefits to the employees covered by this Agreement; (d) to enable the Employer to secure at all times sufficient forces of skilled employees in the continuous employment of labor; (e) to provide that employment hereunder shall be in accordance with conditions and at wages herein which are agreed upon, and by reason of this Agreement and the purposes and intent hereof, to bring about stable conditions In the Industry; and (f) to keep labor costs in the industry as low as possible, consistent with fair wages and proper working conditions, as provided for hereunder.
1
Article I
JURISDICTION AND UNION SECURITY
Section 1. Covered Employees As used in this Agreement, the words employees “covered by this Agreement* and ‘covered employees” include all foremen, journeymen mechanics, carpenters, bench hands, machine men, cabinet makers, model makers, sprayers, varnishers, wood finishers, wood carvers, and turners, kalamein men, apprentices, helpers, unskilled and semi-skilled production workers, metal workers and all other employees doing production and maintenance work, except a caretaker of a building.
Sectlon2. Non-Discrimination
(a)	The parties agree that there shall be no discrimination in the employment, hiring or training of employees in the bargaining unit on the basis of race, creed, color, sex, national origin, age, disability, marital status, citizenship status, sexual orientation or affectional preference in all employment decisions, or Union activity as defined In applicable federal, state or local laws. For the purposes of this Section 2, "citizenship status" means the citizenship of any person, or the immigration status of any person lawfully residing in the United States who is not a citizen or national of the United States.
(b)	The provisions of this Agreement shall apply to all employees covered by this Agreement without regard to Union membership, by-laws, rules, regulations, constitutional provisions or any other aspect or obligation of Union membership, policies or requirements except as provided herein.
Section3.	Contract Rate It is hereby understood and agreed that all of the employees covered by this Agreement shall work at the rate of wages and hours provided for In this Agreement
Section 4.	Recognition of Exclusive Bargaining Agent The Employer recognizes the Union as the exclusive bargaining representative for all covered employees referred to in Article 1, Section 1.
Section 5.	Labor Force The Union shall furnish, until the expiration of this Agreement, or any renewal Agreement in a reasonable time after request, except in cases of strikes and other circumstances over which it has no control, all foremen, journeymen mechanics, carpenters, bench hands, machine men, cabinet makers, model makers, sprayers, varnishers, wood finishers, wood carvers, and turners, kalamein men, apprentices, helpers, unskilled and semi-skilled production workers, metal workers and all other employees doing production and maintenance work.
Section 6.	Union Security All employees who are members of the Union at the time of the signing of this Agreement shall continue membership in the Union. All other employees must become members of the Union thirty (30) days following the beginning
2
of employment or the date of this Agreement, whichever is later, and must maintain their membership in the Union as a condition of continued employment. The Employer shall notify the Shop Steward or the Business Representative when a new employee is hired. If the provisions for Union Security clauses are modified by Congress during the term of this Agreement, this clause shall automatically be modified to conform to such changes.
Section 7.	The Union shall utilize it's best efforts to monitor all woodwork installed within its jurisdiction and confirm that said woodwork was manufactured by a shop, which either is a signatory to this agreement or in the alternative manufactured by a shop that Is paying equal to or better than the wages and fringe benefits provided for in this agreement. The Union shall not allow the installation by any of its members of any woodwork, which Is identified as not being furnished and/or manufactured by a signatory to this agreement or in the alternative which is not furnished and/or manufactured by a shop that is paying equal to or better than the wages and fringe benefits provided for in this agreement subject to applicable law.
Article II
TRADE ASSOCIATION
Section 1.	Membership Lists The Employer, who is the Trade Association, will provide to the Union a list of its members who have designated the Employer as their exclusive bargaining agent and who has agreed to be bound by the terms and conditions of this Collective Bargaining Agreement. The Employer shall furnish the Union with an affidavit from each member it represents or may represent, authorizing it to represent said member.
Section 2.	Recognition by the Trade Association The Trade Association hereby recognizes the Union as the exclusive Collective Bargaining Agent on behalf of those employees covered by this Agreement and the Union recognizes the Trade Association as the Collective Bargaining Agent on behalf of those Employers who have heretofore or who will hereafter authorize the Association to act on their behalf. It is agreed that for all purposes of this Agreement, the Association and the Union are the principle parties and the individual employees and Employers are the secondary parties.
Section 3.	Changes in Membership The Employer will notify the Union of any changes in its membership. If any Employer resigns or is expelled from the Trade Association, all obligations of the Association with respect to such Employer shall terminate and come to end simultaneously with the termination of the departing Employer's membership. The Union may either continue the binding force of the Agreement with respect to such Employer (without the Association) with the same force and effect as if this Agreement had been entered into between the Union and such Employer directly, or terminate this Agreement and bring it to an end insofar as it may
3
affect such Employer by giving the Employer five (5) days notice thereof; and, thereafter, bind such Employer to a new Agreement.
Section 4.	New Members The Employer agrees that it will not accept any Employer as a member of the Trade Association unless the Union has indicated, in writing, that at the time of application for membership, said Employer is current on its fringe benefit contributions to the New York City District Council of Carpenters Benefit Funds and has posted a surety bond or escrow with the Fringe Benefit Funds, if applicable.
Section 5.	The Union shall notify the Trade Association of any new signatories to this agreement in reasonable time.
Article III
TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF EMPLOYMENT
Section 1.	Employment Of Covered Employees The Employer shall employ, until the expiration of this Agreement (or any renewal agreement), all of the employees covered by this Agreement upon the tollowing terms and conditions.
Section 2.	The Work Week The work week shall be five (5) days from Monday to Friday, inclusive.
Section 3; The Work Dav Eight (8) hours shall constitute the working day. Hours shall be from 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., unless altered by mutual consent, with one (1) hour for lunch, which may be reduced to one-half (%) hour upon mutual consent of the parties. When a signatory Employer is performing installation, the Employer may increase the work day from seven (7) hours to eight (8) hours a day with prior notice to the District Council to account for job site conditions and said established day shall be maintained for the duration of the job.
Section 4. Overtime And Holiday Work When work shall be performed on any other day or outside the hours specified herein or on contractual holidays, the employees shall be paid time and one-half for all work performed outside the hours specified. Work performed on Contractual Holidays shall be paid at the double time rate. Work performed on Sundays shall be paid at the double time rate. Work performed on Saturdays shall be paid at the rate of one and one-half (114) times the regular hourly wage rate as herein provided.
Sections. Touch-up Work Touch-up work shall be permitted at the installation site and shall be permitted to be performed by inside shop employees covered by this Agreement at the rate or rates as herein provided based upon eight (8) hours pay for seven (7) hours work provided such touch-up is mutually agreed to be done pursuant to
4
a punch list given by the Employer's client, general contractor or architect, as the case may be. Finishing and refinishing at the job site shall be payable at the rates provided in Article III, Section 9(a).
Section 6.	Deliveries The Employer may deliver the manufactured woodwork product to its final destination at the job site using employees covered by this Agreement at rates provided herein.
Section 7.	Lay-Off Employees covered by this Agreement shall be given one (1) hour notice before being discharged or laid off and shall be paid all accrued wages, by check, and provided accrued fringe benefits vouchers for hours worked, at once. If employees covered by this Agreement are hired, they cannot be discharged or laid off until or after the first day's work is completed. This does not apply to any temporary suspension of work during any pay week for reasons beyond the Employer’s control.
Section 8.	Second Shift A second shift may be established with the written permission of the Union, provided that all of the following conditions are met:
(a)	The Employer shall make application for a second shift to the District Council two (2) weeks prior to the commencement of said shift;
(b)	No employee who has worked during the first shift in a twenty-four (24) hour period shall be permitted to work any time during the second shift;
(c)	The proposed second shift shall be no less than one (1) week's duration, with eight (8) hour work periods not to begin earlier than 5:00 p.m. and providing for a half-hour dinner period;
(d)	The Employer shall provide separate lockers for tools and clothing for each employee on the second shift; and
(e)	All employees on the second shift shall not receive less than ten (10%) percent additional wages over the wage rate in Article VI of this Agreement.
Section 9.	Installation of Custom Millwork Manufactured in the Employer's Shoo A signatory Employer who is currently and actively engaged In the manufacturing and installing of custom millwork shall pay employees covered by this Agreement to install said manufactured produces) at the rates provided herein, provided eighty (80%) percent of said produces) to be installed was manufactured in the Employer's shop. Twenty (20%) percent of said produces) to be installed may be obtained from other sources, provided said produces) should bear the Union label.
(a)	A signatory Employer who meets this criteria shall install said products by selecting two (2) employees at the journeymen wage rate as provided in this Agreement plus twenty-three (23%) percent of said rate, and the applicable fringe benefit rate as provided in this Agreement All other employees shall be paid at the current prevailing outside construction hourly wage and benefit rates.
(b)	The District Council, or such other designated affiliated local Union, shall refer the third employee if needed, who the District Council will appoint as shop steward and said employee shall be paid the current prevailing outside construction hourly wage and benefit rates. Thereafter, the job will be manned on a fifty-fifty (50/50)
5
basis between the Employer and the Union. The Employer will have the right to request by name providing the requested worker's name appears on the list of the local whose jurisdiction the job is in as per the Consent Degree.
(c)	One of the Employer's selection referred to the job site to install the produces) may be an apprentice and shall be paid the applicable wage rate as provided in this Agreement plus twenty-three (23%) percent of said rate, and the applicable fringe benefit rate as provided in this Agreement.
Article IV
OUTSIDE CONSTRUCTION WORK OR INSTALLATION OF ANY WORK NOT COVERED BY ARTICLE III, SECTION 9
The Employer shall notify the District Council when the Employer performs any work: (a) in outside construction covered by the respective agreements between the Associations and the District Council; or
(b) installs product or products that do not meet the criteria of Article III, Section 9 and shall abide by the following conditions:
(1)	All employees who are members of the Union at the
time of signing of this Agreement shall continue membership (2) All employees who are members of the Union at the time of signing of this Agreement shall continue membership in the Union. All other employees must become members of the Union seven (7) days following the beginning of employment or the date of this Agreement, whichever is later, and must maintain their membership In good standing in the Union as a condition of continued employment If the provisions for Union Security clauses are modified by Congress during the terms of this Agreement this clause will automatically become modified to conform to such changes.
(3)	The Union or its representatives shad not discriminate against a foreman or workers. Maintenance of Union membership shall be evidenced by the current working card which shall indicate the current dues have been paid to the Union.
(4)	Ail employees covered by this Agreement shall have the privilege of working for whomever they see fit, in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, and the Employer is to be at liberty to employ or discharge whomsoever it sees fit, in accordance with the terms of the agreement.
(5)	Employees covered by this Agreement shall not refuse to work with persons who, after seven (7) days' employment, have complied with the Union Security
6
provisions of this Agreement However, employees covered by this agreement are not required to work with persons who do not comply with the Union Security provisions of this agreement. The parties agree that additional mechanics secured by the Employer shad be eligible for and shall comply with requirements of Union membership set forth herein.
(6)	Where a third Carpenter is required, the third Carpenter on the job site shall be referred by the Union and shall be the working job steward. All other employees shall be referred by the Employer to perform the work covered by this Agreement and should any additional employees be needed they shall be requested by the Employer from the Union. The Union will cooperate, in order to meet all legal requirements, and furnish qualified Carpenters when requested
(7)	The Intent is to maintain the seven hour work day, thirty five hour work week. During the term of this Agreement the work day may be increased to eight hours work at straight time pay hours and a forty hour work week at straight time pay to attempt to provide additional work hours for the employee members and the signatory Employer to manage its project and provide increased work opportunities. Overtime hours Monday through Friday shall be paid at time and one-half. Saturday pay shall be at the time and one-half. The Employer is expected to establish and maintain a consistent work week schedule allowing for unusual job-site conditions. Refusal to work the additional hours shall not be grounds for dismissal for just cause.
(8)	Flexible Starting Time The normal work day shall start at eight (8) a.m. and may be changed by the Employer due to work site conditions to start between seven (7) a.m. and nine (9) a.m. for all or a portion of the employees. Notification to the Union will be given by the Employer when changed from the normal eight (8) a.m. starting time.
(9)	Shift Work The Employer may work two shifts with the first shift starting at the established time to the end of the shift at straight time rate of pay. The second shift will receive one hour at double time rate of pay for the last hour of the shift (eight for seven, nine for eight). In addition, members of the second shift shall be allowed one-half (%) hour to eat, with this time being included in the hours of work established. There must be a first shift to work the second shift. All additional hours worked shall be paid at the time and one-half rate. The Employer shall notify the Union in
7
advance of beginning the shift schedule. On shift work, the Job Steward shall work no more than the shift hours. There shall be a Job Steward on each shift who shall be appointed by the Union. There shall be a predob conference with the Union before the commencement of any shift work.
(10)	Off-hour Work on Alteration and Repair Work When performing alteration or repair work in an occupied budding, and when it is not possible to perform said work during regular working hours, said work shall proceed during off hours, as scheduled by the Employer, but starting no later than 8:30 p.m. The work day and the rate of pay shall be the same as the second shift provisions. In addition, members of the off-hour crew shall be allowed one-half (%) hour to eat, with this time being included in the established work day. All additional hours worked in excess of the shift hours shall be paid at the time and one-half rate. The Employer shall notify the Union in advance of beginning said off-hour work, which shall be performed subject to the provisions of this Section and subject to notification to the Union. There shall be a preJob conference with the Union before the commencement of off-hours work.
(11)	The Employer may start a portion of the crew one hour prior to the established start time at straight time wages due to unusual job site conditions. The Employer will determine the number of employees necessary. The working steward will be part of the early crew. It is understood this is not intended to establish a continuous staggered work day. (12) It is further agreed that no work shall be performed on Sundays or Legal Holidays, except In the case of emergency or necessity, and that no work shall be performed then unless notice is given to the District Council on the previous workday, stating location of building where work is to be performed and the number of men required. DOUBLE TIME SHALL BE PAID FOR ALL WORK ON SUNDAYS, AND LEGAL HOLIDAYS, except as otherwise noted. Emergency work, INVOLVING DANGER TO LIFE AND PROPERTY, may be performed without permission from the District Council.
(13)	In all cases, the Holidays referred to in this Agreement shall be observed on the day and date established for the State of New York. When permission is granted to work on such Legal Holidays, double time shall be paid.
(14)	Employees employed on the last legal working day before Christmas Day and before New Year’s Day and who
8
report to work on such days, shall receive three (3) hours1 afternoon pay without working. Work performed on the afternoons of said days shall be paid at the double-time rate only. Fringe Benefit Contributions will be payable on the half-holidays referred to above only on hours actually worked.
(16)	When a Legal Holiday falls on a Sunday and the following day is declared a Legal Holiday, then double-time shall be paid for all hours worked.
(16)	No work shall be performed on Labor Day.
(17)	The Employer agrees that all installation work covered by this Agreement shall be contracted or subcontracted only to an Employer who is signatory to or agrees to become signatory to a collective bargaining agreement with the Union. The parties hereto mutually agree with respect to work falling within the scope of this Agreement that is to be done at the site of construction, alteration, maintenance, or repair of any building, structure, or other works, that if the Employer should contract or subcontract any aforesaid works falling within the trade jurisdiction of the Union involving installation as set forth herein, said Employer shall contract or subcontract such only to firms which observe the standards of wages and fringe benefits and working conditions established herein to insure the observance of the wages, benefits, hours, and other items and conditions of employment provided herein. The fact that the subcontractor is signatory to an agreement with the Union is deemed compliance with this provision.
9
Nothing herein shall be construed to prohibit and/or limit the Employer's right as of July 1,2007 to purchase up to thirty five percent (35%) of any custom millwork or product of allied nature from any source in the use of its business, in an arms-length transaction. Such right can be exercised provided the Employer does not have an ownership interest, or management, or significant controlling interest of the company from whom the purchase is being made. Effective July 1,2008 said percentage shall be increased to forty-five percent (45%). Effective July 1,2009 said percentage shall be increased to fifty-five percent (55%). Effective July 1, 2010 said percentage shall be increased to sixty-five percent (65%). Effective July 1,2011 said percentage shall be increased to seventy-five percent (75%) An Employer availing himself of this provision shall not have the benefit of any wage concessions provided in Article III, Section 9 and all employees installing said custom millwork or product shall be paid the prevailing outside construction wage and employee fringe benefit contribution rate provided in the Independent Building Construction Agreement
A committee shall be formed with equal members from the Unton and Management The Committee shall meet on a timely basis to enforce the collection of monies due to signatory employers and the District Council of Carpenters. The parameters and duties of this committee will be finalized at a later date.
Article V
HOLIDAYS
Section 1.	Contract Holidays The following holidays shall be unpaid holidays:
New Year's Day President's Day Good Friday Memorial Day Independence Day (July 4th)
Labor Day Columbus Day Thanksgiving Day Day after Thanksgiving Christmas Day
Section2.	Work Performed On Holidays
(a)	Employees who work on such holidays shall receive double time for all hours worked on a holiday.
(b)	In the event a holiday falls on a Saturday or Sunday, it shall be observed on the following Monday. All work performed on the Monday after the holiday
io
and all work performed on the holiday shall be paid at the double time rate and single time benefits.
(c)	All employees employed on the last legal working day before Christmas and before New Year's day and who report to work on such days, shall receive four (4) hours' afternoon pay and benefits without working. Work performed on the afternoons of said days shall be paid at the double-time rate and single time benefits.
Section 3.	Labor Dav No work shall be performed on Labor Day.
Article VI
WAGES
Section 1.	Wage Rates. Except as provided hereafter, the minimum rates for employees covered by this Agreement are as follows:
(a)	Journeymen This journeyman wage rate applies to Journeymen Mechanics, Carpenters, Bench Hands, Machine Persons, Cabinet Makers, Wood Finishers, Model Makers, Wood Carvers, Turners, and Kalamein Persons and Metal Workers including Mechanic On Shears Or Brake (either Hydraulically or Hand Powered), Burner, Welder, Spot Welder, Mechanic On Bench or any other Metal Machine.
(b)	Foremen Journeyman Scale per hour plus 32 %. Foremen in charge of metal workers shall receive the same weekly wage as the Shop Journeyman Carpenter Foremen.
(c)	Apprentice First Year 60% Second Year 70% Third Year 80% Fourth Year 85% Fifth Year 90% (pre-joumeyman)
(d)	Helpers and Unskilled Workers The rates for Helpers and Unskilled Workers assisting mechanics doing metal work shall be the same as the Carpenter Apprentice as provided in this Article VI Section 1 Subsection (c).
(e)	Starting Helper First Year 45% Second Year 55% Third Year 70% Fourth Year 75% (top scale) All rates in Article VI Section 1 (b) - (e) are calculated as a percentage of the Journeyman wage rate.
CARPENTER - FORKMAN
Eff Date 07/01/07 07/01/08 07/01/09 07/01/10 07/01/11
11
Wage rate
per hour CARPENTER	$34.49				
	- JOURNEYMAN				07/01/11
Eff Date	07/01/07	07/01/08	07/01/09	07/01/10	
wage rate per hour	$26.13				
CARPENTER	- APPRENTICE FIRST		(18T) YEAR -	60%	
Eff Date	07/01/07	07/01/08	07/01/09	07/01/10	07/01/11
wage rate per hour	$15.68				
CARPENTER	- APPRENTICE SECOND		(2”) YEAR	- 70%	
Eff Date	07/01/07	07/01/08	07/01/09	07/01/10	07/01/11
Wage rate per hour	$18.29				
CARPENTER	- APPRENTICE THIRD		(3rd) YEAR -	80%	
Eff Date	07/01/07	07/01/08	07/01/09	07/01/10	07/01/11
wage rate per hour	$20.90				
CARPENTER	- APPRENTICE FOURTH		(4th) YEAR	- 85%	
Eff Date	07/01/07	07/01/08	07/01/09	07/01/10	07/01/11
wage rate per hour	$22.21				
CARPENTER	- APPRENTICE FIFTH		(5th) YEAR -	90%	
Eff Date	07/01/07	07/01/08	07/01/09	07/01/10	07/01/11
wage rate per hour	$23.52				
CARPENTER	- HELPER	FIRST (1st) YEAR - 45%			
Eff Date	07/01/07	07/01/08	07/01/09	07/01/10	07/01/11
Wage rate per hour	11.76				
CARPENTER	- HELPER	SECOND (2”	)YRAR - 55%		
12
Eff Date 07/01/07 07/01/08 07/01/09 07/01/10 07/01/11 Wage rate per hour $14.37
CARPENTER - HELPER THIRD (3™) YEAR - 70%
Eff Date 07/01/07 07/01/08 07/01/09 07/01/10 07/01/11 Wage rate per hour $18.29
CARPENTER - HELPER FOURTH (4th) YEAR - 75%
Eff Date 07/01/07 07/01/08 07/01/09 07/01/10 07/01/11 Wage rate per hour $19.60
Section 2.	Increases and Allocation of Increases All journeymen shall receive the following annual increases, which shall be allocated to wages and/or benefits contributions within the sole discretion of the Union.
July 1, 2007	5%	$2.05 per hour
July 1, 2008	4%	$1.64 per hour
July 1, 2009	4%	$1.64perhour
July 1,2010	6%	$2.45 per hour
July 1,2011	7%	$2.86 per hour
Employees in all other categories shall receive a pro-rata increase based on their percentage of journeymen wages.
Sections. Pav-Checks
(a)	Wages shall be paid in the shop before 5:00 p.m. on Friday. Said wages shall be paid by check, in envelopes, upon which shall be plainly maiked the employee's name, number, social security number, the hours worked, and the amount of money enclosed. Any deductions from wages now or hereafter required by law shall also be marked on the face of the pay envelope.
(b)	If employees are not paid as specified above, time and one-half shall be paid for Friday between the hours of 5:00 p.m. and 7:00 p.m. and single time for working time thereafter, until paid, not exceeding fourteen (14) hours; provided however, that the employees report to and remain in the shop during the said fourteen (14) hours.
Section 4. Drivers Where a member of the United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of America, AFL-CIO fulfills the duties of a chauffeur or truck driver, his rate of wages shall be that of a shop journeyman Carpenter as provided in Article VI, Section 1 above or a Union Teamster.
13
Article VII
UNIQfl label
Section 1.	The Union Label The Union Label, when furnished by the Union must appear on all work manufactured in the shop or mill of the Employer. This label is to be held in the possession of the Shop Steward to be appointed by the Union.
Section 2.	Application. It is hereby understood and agreed by the Employer and the Union that an application shall be made for the Union Label to the First General Vice President of the United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of America, AFL-CIO (“U.B.C."). If the application is approved* and the Union Label is issued by the U.B.C., to be placed upon the Employer's products, it is understood and agreed that the Label shall remain the property of the U.B.C. and shall be at all times in the possession of a member of the U.B.C. Said Union Label shall at no time be used in a manner that will be detrimental to the interests and welfare of the United Brotherhood, and upon evidence that said Union Label is being used in a manner detrimental and harmful to the members of the U.B.C., then use of said Label shall immediately be withdrawn from the mill, shop, factory, or manufacturing establishment of the Employer at any time, and at the discretion of the U.B.C.
Article VIII
APPRENTICESHIP SYSTEM
Section 1.	Apprenticeship Training Plan The Employer and the Union shall take prompt action to set up and maintain an apprenticeship training plan and/or system, which will insure an adequate force of skilled mechanics. The system shall be set up and supervised by a Joint Apprenticeship Council consisting of an equal number of five (5) representatives of the Employer and an equal number of five (5) representatives of the Union.
Section 2.	Ratio of the Apprentices to Journeymen Where four (4) to ten (10) Journeymen are employed, there shall be one (1) apprentice. Where fourteen (14) to twenty (20) Journeymen are employed, there shall be two (2) apprentices. Where twenty-four (24) to thirty (30) Journeymen are employed, there shall be three (3) apprentices.
Section 3.	Conformity with Prevailing Law It is the understanding of the parties, as set forth above, that the use of apprentices shall be mandatory and in conformity with applicable Federal and New York State laws.
14
Section 4.	The Employer shall use it’s best efforts so that the Apprentices work a minimum of fifty (50%) percent on the tools with Journeyman while employed on a regular basis.
Article IX
SHOP STEWARD
There shall be a certified Shop Steward who will be appointed by the Union or its representatives to attend to the interests of the Union, and for the performance of such duty, the Employer shall allow reasonable time. When the Shop Steward has completed his work on behalf of the District Council, he shall perform any work within his trade assigned to him by the Employer.
Article X
FRINGE BENEFITS
Section 1.	Contributions. Each Employer shall make contributions on behalf of all employees covered by this Agreement and employed by said Employer within the scope of this Agreement, from the first day of employment to the New York City District Council of Carpenters Welfare Fund; Pension Fund; Annuity Fund; Apprenticeship Journeymen Retraining Educational and Industry Fund; Vacation Fund; New York City and Vicinity Labor Management Cooperation Fund; Supplemental Funds (Scholarship Fund, and Charity and Relief Fund); the National Labor Management Committee for the Custom Woodworking Industry; and Industry Promotional Fund of the Manufacturing Woodworkers Association of Greater New York Inc., all in an amount or amounts called for in this Agreement
Wage rates and fringe benefit contribution within the bargaining unit shall be determined and/or reallocate bv Union at Ite sole discretion
ALL SHOP PERSONNEL CATEGORIES
7/01/07 7/01/08 7/01/09	7/01/10	7/01/11
WELFARE	$6.64
PENSION	$4.44
ANNUITY	$1.50
A.J.R.E.I.F.	$0.51
VACATION	$2.61
NYCDCC LABOR/MNT	$0.08
SUPPLEMENTAL	$0.04
CSTM WDKIND-CWI	$0.01
15
SUPPLEMENTAL PENSION
TOTAL PER HOUR
PROMO
PROMO
$1.00
$16.83
$0.15 for MWA members
$ 0.35 for all independent shops
Section 2.	Welfare and Pension Every signatory Employer shall contribute to the New York City District Council of Carpenters Welfare and Pension Funds on behalf of all covered employees under this Agreement for each hour worked as provided in Article X, Section 1.
Section 3.	Apprenticeship Fund Every signatory Employer shall contribute to the New York City District Council of Carpenters Apprenticeship, Journeymen, Retraining, Education and Industry Fund (A.J.R.E.I.F.) on behalf of all covered employees under this Agreement for each hour worked as provided in Article X, Section 1.
Section < Vacation Fund Every signatory Employer shall contribute to the New York Qty District Council of Carpenters Vacation Fund on behalf of all covered employees under this Agreement for each hour worked as provided in Article X, Section 1.
Sections. Annuity Fund Every signatory Employer shall contribute to the New York City District Council of Carpenters Annuity Fund on behalf of all covered employees under this Agreement for each hour worked as provided in Article X, Section 1.
Section 6.	Supplemental Funds
(a)	Every signatory Employer shall contribute to the New York City District Council of Carpenters Supplemental Funds (Carpenters Relief and Charity Fund & Scholarship Fund) on behalf of all covered employees under this Agreement for each hour worked as provided in Article X, Section 1. The Supplemental Funds shall be established in accordance with applicable law, and any employee authorization that is required shall be secured by the Union.
(b)	The Carpenters Relief and Charity Fund. The purpose of the Carpenters Relief and Charity Fund is to enable the parties to make charitable donations from time to time. Said donations shall be made to duly recognized tax exempt institutions within the meaning of the Internal Revenue Code and to provide emergency assistance to bona fide victims of disaster, catastrophe and community projects for the good of the general public. The contributions shall be included in the payment of the Fringe Benefits Vouchers. The Fund shall be administered by two persons, one designated by the Union and the other by the Employer Associations. Both shall serve without pay and shall be bonded as required by law. All Funds
16
received shall be deposited in a bank selected by the two administrators and shall be disbursed only by a check signed by both administrators. At least once a year the entire balance of the Fund on hand shall be disbursed to organizations and persons who meet the qualifications set forth above. The administrators shall keep such books or records as may be necessary. Once a year the administrators shall account for all monies received and disbursed.
Section 7.	The National Labor Management Committee for the Custom Woodworking Industry Fund Every signatory Employer shall contribute one ($.01) cent to the National Labor Management Committee for the Custom Woodworking Industry Fund on behalf of all covered employees under this Agreement for each hour worked as provided in Article X, Section 1.
Section 8.	Audits The Trustees shall have the authority to have an audit of the payroll and wage records of the Employer for the purpose of determining the accuracy of contributions to the Funds, and failure to make proper and timely contributions hereunder may subject the Employer to the procedures set forth herein for collecting delinquencies. AH Employer's books and payroll records shall be made available at all times upon the demand of the Trustees of the said Funds for audit and inspection by a representative of the said Trustees during all reasonable business hours.
Sections. Re-allocations If any of the above allocations are determined to be, In the opinion of Counsel, legally improper, then in that event, said allocations may be reallocated by the Union to a presently existing Fringe Benefit Fund, or to another fund to be established by the Union and the Employer.
Section 10.	Trust Agreements And Bylaws The Employer shall be bound by all the terms and conditions of all the Agreements and Declarations of Trust establishing the Fringe Benefit Funds, and by all by-laws regulating each of the said Funds provided same are not inconsistent with any of the terms and conditions of this Agreement. The Employer acknowledges that he has received copies of the various and respective Agreements and Declarations of Trust and any Plans thereunder pertaining to the aforementioned Funds, and is fully familiar with the terms and conditions of all the said documents, and agrees to be folly bound thereby as though the said Agreements and Declarations of Trust and Plans thereunder were fully set forth herein, and are all deemed to be incorporated within the framework of this Agreement If during the life of this Agreement, the Trustees of any fringe benefit fond adopt a rule which provides for personal liability of an owner of an Employer corporation to pay fringe benefit contributions due under this Agreement such Rule of the Trustees will not be a basis for enforcing personal liability for said payment under this Agreement
Section 11.	Default And Breach
(a)	The breach of or default in any of the terms and conditions of the aforementioned Agreements and Declarations of Trust and Rans thereunder shall be considered to be a breach of this Collective Bargaining Agreement. The Trustees of the
17
Funds shall provide fourteen (14) days prior written notice for each and every delinquency up to three (3) per calendar year declared hereunder in order to permit the Employer to comply with all conditions in said notice of default in a timely fashion. If the Employer requests a meeting of the Joint Collection Committee, the Committee shall meet within three (3) business days. No work stoppage shall occur unless and until a decision of the Joint Collection Committee has been rendered. The fourteen (14) day written notice must be sent via overnight matt.
(b)	For each and every job action that the District Council may initiate , whether in the shop or at the job site, the District Council must provide the affected M.W.A. signatory contractor with fourteen (14) days prior written notice as hereinabove described of its intent to engage in such job action. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the District Council shall not be required to provide more than three (3) written fourteen day (14) notices to any one (1) shop during any calendar year.
(c)	In the event that formal proceedings are instituted before a court of competent jurisdiction by the trustees of a Benefit Fund or Funds to collect delinquent contributions to such Fund(s) the Employer shall pay to such Fund(s), in accordance with the judgment of the court, and in lieu of any other liquidated damages, costs, attorney's fees and/or interest, the following:
(1)	the unpaid contributions; plus
(2)	interest on the unpaid contributions determined at the prime rate of Citibank plus 2%; plus
(3)	an amount equal to the greater of -
(a)	the amount of the interest charges on the unpaid contributions as determined In (2) above, or
(b)	liquidated damages of 20% of the amount of the unpaid contributions; plus
(4)	reasonable attorney's fees and costs of the action; and (5) such other legal or equitable relief as the court deems appropriate.
(d)	In the event proceedings are to be instituted before an arbitrator under Section 12 of this Article X to collect delinquent contributions to a Benefit Fund or Funds, and if such arbitrator renders an award in favor of such Fund(s), the arbitrator shall be empowered to award such interest, liquidated damages, and/or costs as may be applicable under this Agreement and the Declaration of Trust establishing the Fund(s), or as permitted by law.
Section 12.	Arbitration
(a)	Should any dispute or disagreement arise between the parties, hereto, or between the Union and any Employer-member signatory hereto, concerning any claim arising from payments to the Fund of principal and/or interest which is allegedly due, either party may seek arbitration of the dispute before the impartial arbitrators) designated hereunder by filing a notice of intent to arbitrate in writing with said impartial arbitrators) and serving a copy of said notice on the Association, or the Union, as the case may be.
18
(b)	Unless a waiver is mutually agreed to in writing by the parties hereto* a hearing shall be convened and the arbitrator shall submit his award within twenty (20) days of the close of the hearing. The arbitrator shall have full and complete authority to decide any and all issues raised by the submission and to fashion an appropriate remedy including, but not limited to, monetary damages. The arbitrator's award shall be final and binding upon the parties hereto and the individual Employer, if any, and shall be wholly enforceable in any court of competent jurisdiction. The cost of the arbitration, including the fees to be paid to the arbitrator shall be included in the award and shall be borne by the losing party.
(c)	The Employer agrees to obtain a list of arbitrators from the American Arbitration Association at its cost, upon execution of this Agreement. The District Council and Employer shall each select two arbitrators to act as permanent impartial arbitrators hereunder. The list of four permanent arbitrators wHI be appended hereto and incorporated herein as Exhibit “A.” In the event none of the arbitrators are willing or able to serve as impartial arbitrator, the New York State Employment Relations Board shall designate an impartial arbitrator to serve in his place and stead.
(d)	The agreement of the parties to submit said matters regarding the payment of contributions to an arbitrator does not excuse the Employer from any statutory, civil or criminal liability which may attach to his actions under Municipal, State or Federal law. The submission of a matter to arbitration is in no way meant to affect the right of the Union to remove its members from an Employer's premises, as provided for in this Agreement.
Section 13.	Fringe Benefit Voucher Plan
(a)	A Fringe Benefit Voucher plan has been established which provides for the payment of contributions to the New York City District Council of Carpenters Welfare Fund; Pension Fund; Annuity Fund; Apprenticeship Journeymen Retraining Educational and Industry Fund; Vacation Fund; New York City and Vicinity Labor Management Cooperation Fund; Supplemental Funds (Scholarship Fund, and Charity and Relief Fund); the National Labor Management Committee for the Custom Woodworking Industry; and Industry Promotional Fund of the Manufacturing Woodworkers Association of Greater New York Incorporated through the purchase of fringe benefit vouchers.
(b)	The Employer will comply with the procedures established by the Benefit Fund Trustees to assure that the employee receives the fringe benefit voucher with his pay. The Voucher shall be purchased through facilities established by Automated Data Processing (A.D.P.) or other such agency authorized by the Trustees.
Section 14.	Hours Worked The Employer agrees that in the event that the Employer In its discretion, pays an employee for hours not worked, it will not be required to submit employee fringe benefit contributions for said hours, provided that the Employer notifies the District Council within four (4) days of the payment of said wages.
19
Article XI
BONDING
Every Employer covered by this Agreement required to post a surety bond shall provide a Surety bond to guarantee payment to the respective Funds for all fringe benefits. Bonds shall be in the following amounts:
Employer employing 1 to 5 employees Employer employing 6 to 10 employees Employer employing 11 to 25 employees Employer employing over 25 employees Employer employing over 150 employees
$ 5,000.00
$ 10,000.00
$ 15,000.00
$ 25,000.00 $100,000.00
If the Employer falls delinquent in its payments to the Fringe Benefits Funds for a period in excess of three (3) months, then its Surety Bond requirement shall be increased as follows:
Employer employing 1 to 5 employees Employer employing 6 to 10 employees Employer employing 11 to 25 employees
Employer employing over 150 employees
$ 5,000.00 $ 10.000.00
$ 15,000.00 $150,000.00
The Employer shall be permitted to remit fringe benefit contributions as follows: Sixty (60) days for the shop and two (2) weeks for the field provided the employer has a bond posted with the Union in the amounts set forth in the Building Contractors Association (BCA) collective bargaining agreement, i.e.
Employers employing 26 to 49 employees $125,000.00
Employers employing 50 or more employees $175.000.00
For the purposes of determining when contributions are due, the pay date shall control.
Article Xll
DUES CHECK OFF
Section 1.	Dues Deductions The Employer agrees to deduct the Union's monthly dues and initiation fees imposed from the pay of each employee from whom it received written authorization, and shall continue to make such deductions while the authorization remains in effect.
20
Section2.	Remittance Of Dues Such deductions shall be made from the first full pay period worked by such employee following receipt of this dues deduction authorization) and thereafter shall be made the first payday each month and forwarded to the Union not later than the third Friday in each and every current month. The dues deductions shall constitute trust funds while in the possession of the Employer.
Sections. Renewal Of Authorizations If an employee does not revoke his authorization at the end of the year following the date of authorization or at the end of the current Agreement, whichever is earlier, it shall be deemed a renewal of authorization, irrevocable for another year or until the expiration of the next succeeding Agreement, whichever is earlier.
Article XIII
HARDSHIP AND ADVISORY COMMITTEE
Section 1.	Establishment of Board The Committee is to replace the “Joint Adjustment Board” as established in this Section and assume all it’s duties. In addition the new Committee will have authority to address, in a timely fashion, any undue hardships this Agreement may impose on the Union, an Employer or the Association on an issue by issue basis. The Committee may modify terms and conditions to allow the said Employer manage its particular project or to compete against unfair contractors on a site by site basis. All issues the Hardship and Advisory Committee reviews will be submitted in writing and its actions will be decided by a simple majority. All concerns brought before the Committee will be reviewed periodically. Repetitious issues can be recommended for inclusion in a subsequent Collective Bargaining Agreement The Committee will meet upon written request by the Employer or the Union within three (3) work days. Such request, by fax or letter, shall state the project location, local Union, Contractor, Sub-Contractor and brief summary of the question to be discussed.
Section 2.	The Committee and its Purpose The Committee shall consist of an equal number of representatives of the Union and the Employer, and being at all times no less than three (3) nor more than five (5) on each skte, respectively, and is hereby established for the purpose of meeting and consulting with each other from time to time in connection with any problems or disputes that may arise in the Industry, or under this Agreement, and for the purpose of resolving same when they shall so arise.
21
Article XIV
GRIEVANCE AND ARBITRATION
Section 1.	Grievance. Any grievance or dispute arising under the terms and conditions of the Agreement, except ciaims related to fringe benefits contributions, must be brought to the attention of the Employer in writing within thirty (30) calendar days of its occurrence or when the dispute arose, otherwise such grievance or dispute shall be barred. If at any time, however, there arise any differences or disputes under this Agreement respecting the interpretation or construction of any clauses herein, or with respect to the breach of performance hereof, then the same may, on demand of either of the parties hereto, shall be submitted for decision and award to an arbitrator designated by the American Arbitration Association, pursuant to its rules and regulations, and the expense of such arbitration shall be bome equally by the parties.
Section 2.	Lock-Outs and Strikes During the term of this Agreement, and pending the adjustment of any disputes by the contract arbitrator, there shall be no sit-downs, work stoppages, or lockouts by either the Union or the Employer, except in the case of failure by either of the parties to abide by such arbitration award as aforementioned, or as provided in this Agreement.
(a) It is expressly agreed by and between the Union and the Employer that when the Employer is engaged in installations, if work is interrupted due to lack of material availability, or any other reason beyond the control of the Employer, and no work is performed on that day(s), same shall not be construed as a lock-out and/or layoff, provided that the Employer notifies its employees and the District Council the last working day before.
Section 3.	Lay-Off of Shoo Steward When a signatory Employer wishes to layoff a Shop Steward during a continuous employment, the Employer must notify the Union and have a meeting on the job with the Union within twenty-tour (24) hours. If termination takes place, a letter must be sent to the Union.
Section*. Prevention of Job Discrimination In accordance with the desire of the parties hereto to provide equitable terms of employment and conditions of labor satisfactory to Employer and covered employees and to provide methods for fair and peaceful adjustment to all disputes that may arise between the parties hereto, the Union and the Employer recognize the principle of fair working conditions for the protection of the employees. Should any employee claim discrimination, the following procedure will apply in processing a grievance:
(a)	Within twenty-four (24) hours after the grievance has arisen, the employee shall submit to the foreman and shop steward the details of the grievance in writing, and signed by such employee, which they will attempt to resolve in twenty-four (24) hours.
(b)	If the efforts to settle such grievance shall fail, then within twenty-four (24) hours thereafter, the grievance will be discussed between an official of the
22
Employer and a Union Representative who will attempt to resolve the issue within no later than forty-eight (48) hours.
Article XV
LOSS OF TOOLS OR CLOTHING
The Employer shall be responsible for loss of tools or clothing in the shop. Such liability shall be limited to sums not to exceed the following:
Tools Overcoat Clothing Shoes
$750.00
$150.00
$150.00
$100.00
Article XVI
DEATH BEREAVEMENT
Employees in the employ of an Employer for one (1) consecutive year shall receive three (3) days off with pay for death in the immediate family, which includes mother, father, brother, sister, child or spouse only.
Article XVII
WORK WEEK MODIFICATION
The parties agree that by mutual consent they will discuss the reduction In the length of the work week should economic conditions in the Industry indicate that there will be an excess of labor and a shortage of work. However, it is understood that should the work week be reduced, it is not intended that the Employer will suffer financially through Increased cost.
23
Article XVIII
CONTINUITY OF CONTRACT
Should any signatory Employer relocate its plant or business establishment in a geographical area outside of the jurisdiction of the Union, the terms and conditions of this Agreement shall remain in effect during the term of this Agreement, or until its expiration date.
Article XIX
JOINT VENTURE
When an Employer enters into a Joint Venture with an Employer who is not bound by this Agreement, then said Joint Venture shall sign an agreement as joint Venturers with the District Council before they can employ any members of the District Council. Each Joint Venturer shall comply with the Bonding provisions in Article XI.
Article XX
OTHER OPERATIONS
Section 1.	Work Preservation Clause
(a)	In order to protect and preserve, for the employees covered by this Agreement, all work heretofore performed by them, and in order to prevent any device or subterfuge to avoid the protection and preservation of such work, it is hereby agreed that if and when the Employer shall perform any work of the type covered by this Agreement, under its own name or under the name of another, as a corporation, company, partnership, or any other business entity, including a joint venture, wherein the Employer exercises either directly or indirectly any significant degree of ownership management or control, the terms and conditions of this Agreement including Fringe Benefits shall be applicable to all such work.
(b)	All charges of violations of Subsection (a) of this Section 1 of Article XX shall be considered a dispute under this Agreement and shall be processed in accordance with the procedures for the handling of grievances and the final binding resolution of disputes, as provided in Article XIV of this Agreement. As a remedy for violations of this Article XX, the contract arbitrator provided for in Article XIV, is empowered, at the request of the Union, to require an Employer
(1)	to pay to affected employees covered by this Agreement, including registered applicants for employment, the equivalent of wages tost by such employees as a result of the violations and
24
(2)	to pay into the affected joint trust funds established under this Agreement any delinquent contributions together with interest, penalties and liquidated damages to such funds which have resulted from such vtolation(s).
Provisions for this remedy herein does not make such remedy the exclusive remedy available to the Union or the Trust Funds for violation of this Section; nor does it make the same, or other remedies unavailable to the Union or the Trust Funds for violations of other Articles or Sections of this Agreement.
Section 2.	Fees And Costa If, as a result of violations of this Article XX, it is necessary for the Union and/or the Trustees of the Benefit Funds to institute court action to enforce an award rendered in accordance with Article XX Section 1 Subsection (b) above, or to defend an action which seeks to vacate such award, the Employer shall pay any accountants' and attorneys' fees incurred by the Union and/or fund trustees, plus costs of litigation, which have resulted from the bringing of such court action.
Article XXI
UNION ACCESS
The Employer shall permit the Business Representatives of the Union to have immediate access to the shops of the jobs of the Employer at all times. The Union Representative should advise the owner or a representative of the owner, when entering the shop area.
Article XXII
PRIOR BENEFITS
This Agreement shall not be construed to deprive any covered employee presently employed by the Employer of any better benefits, excluding wages and overtime, that said employee might have had prior to the signing of this Agreement The Employer shall not enter into any individual agreement that would have had the effect of diminishing any of the rights, privileges or benefits of the covered employees under this Agreement
25
Article XXIII
ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION
The Union and the Trade Association agree to explore other forms of worker’s compensation insurance, such as Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR), to help our Union Contractors be more competitive.
Article XXIV
CONFORMITY OF AGREEMENTS
Should the union knowingly allow its members to work for competitors of the employers for a wage less than the wages established by this agreement, or work for competitors of the employer under any conditions less than those conditions as established by this agreement, then the wages and/or conditions contained in this agreement shall Immediately be changed to conform to the more favorable conditions as shown to exist However, notwithstanding the foregoing, all members of the MWA as of the execution date of this agreement shall be grandfathered In for purposes of the application of this clause.
Article XXV
INDUSTRY PROMOTIONAL FUND
All Employers who are members of the MWA covered by this Agreement shall contribute fifteen ($. 15) cents for each hour of employment of covered employees to the Industry Promotional Fund of the Manufacturing Woodworkers' Association Of Greater New York, Inc. All Independent Employers covered by this Agreement shall contribute thirty-five ($.35) cents for each hour of employment of covered employees to the Industry Promotional Fund of the Manufacturing Woodworkers' Association Of Greater New York, Inc. The District Council agrees to cooperate with the Employer to ascertain that all signatory Employers that contribute to the M.W.A. Promotional Fund have made proper contributions to the Promotional Fund, provided that such accounting does not interfere with the day-to-day operations of the New York City District Council of Carpenters Benefit Funds.
26
Article XXVI
MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
The operation of the Employer's business and the direction of the employees are the sole and exclusive responsibility of management. The Employer shall therefore have the right to hire, maintain order and efficiency, transfer, discipline or discharge for just cause. The Employer may regulate and control the number of employees and their duties necessary for the operation of the Employer's business, promulgate reasonable rules and regulations, layoff, direct and supervise the duties and starting time of the employees and take all other steps and actions not specifically limited by this Agreement. The failure of the Employer to exercise any of these rights, among others, shall not be construed as a waiver of such rights.
Article XXVII
AUTOMATIC RENEWAL AND EXPIRATION
This Agreement shall be binding on the Employer and the Union, their successors and assigns. This Agreement constitutes the complete understanding between the parties as to the subject matter herein. All other agreements made or entered into prior to the date of execution by both parties hereof are superceded and merged into this Agreement. The duration of this Agreement shall continue until June 30,2012 and shall be renewed automatically for one year intervals thereafter unless notice to the other at their last known address has been provided by either party by certified and regular mail no more than ninety (90) days nor no less than sixty (60) days before this Agreement's expiration that such party seeks to negotiate a new agreement or modify or amend this Agreement through negotiations. Once negotiations have commenced, neither party will seek to alter unilaterally the terms or conditions of employment of employees covered by this Agreement until such terms have been changed by execution of a newly negotiated agreement. Neither party shall have the right to waive or modify any provision of this Agreement without the mutual consent of both parties.
Article XXVIII
SAVINGS CLAUSE
In the event that any of the provisions of this Agreement shall now or hereafter be declared or held to be in violation of any law or regulation, then, the parties agree to meet within seventy-two (72) hours to bargain in good faith and to reach agreement on a new provision to accomplish the lawful purposes of the stricken provision to the greatest extent permitted. The new provision shall be deemed retroactive to the
27
effective date of this Agreement. If the parties fail to agree on a substitute provision within seventy-two (72) hours of commencing negotiations, the parties agree to resolve this dispute pursuant to the Grievance and Arbitration procedures set forth in Article XIV of this Agreement.
Article XXIX RETROACTIVITY
It is mutually agreed that all wages, contributions and terms and conditions of employment as herein contained is retroactive and effective as of July 01,2007.
28
Article XXX EFFECTUATING CLAUSE AND SIGNATORIES
The parties hereto make and enter into this Agreement, in witness whereof, we, their duly authorized and empowered representatives, have hereunto set out hands and seal this lrt day of July. 2007.
The Trade Association and/or the Employer, signatory to this Agreement, hereby acknowledges receipt of copies of the Agreement and Declaration of Trust of the New York City District Council Carpenters Welfare Fund; Pension Fund; Annuity Fund; Apprenticeship Journeymen Retraining Educational and Industry Fund; Vacation Fund; New York City and Vicinity Labor Management Cooperation Fund; Supplemental Funds (Scholarship Fund, and Charity and Relief Fund); and the National Lajbor Management Committee for the Custom Woodworking Industry Fund.
c
By:Date
29