K 12.00
^(,00
1999-2005
JOINT LABOR AGREEMENT
(Effective May 1,1999 Through April 30,2005)
between	I ^y/o 5
CONSOLIDATED PAPERS, INC.
and
PAPER, ALLIED-INDUSTRIAL, CHEMICAL & ENERGY WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION
and Its Locals Numbered
Located at
7-0094	Biron, Kraft, Paperboard Products, R&D, Support Services, Wisconsin Rapids
7-0116 7-0187 7-0359 7-1306	Stevens Point Biron, Wisconsin Rapids Wisconsin River Wisconsin River
This Booklet Belongs To:
Name
Division
Clock No.
Dept.
1999-2005 JOINT LABOR AGREEMENT
PARTIES TO THE AGREEMENT
Joint Labor Agreement by and between Biron, Kraft, Paperboard Products, Research and Development, Support Services, Stevens Point, Wisconsin Rapids, and Wisconsin River Divisions of Consolidated Papers, Inc., hereinafter referred to as the Company, and Paper, Allied-Industrial, Chemical and Energy Workers International Union and its affiliated Locals Nos. 7-0094, 7-0116, 7-0187, 7-0359, and 7-1306; hereinafter referred to as the Union(s). The above organizations are affiliated with the AFL-CIO and CLC.
SECTION 1	- GENERAL PURPOSE OF AGREEMENT
The general purpose of this Agreement is to provide and promote a harmonious relationship and cooperation between the Company, the Unions, and the employees. It is recognized by the parties to this Agreement that it is the duty of the Company, the Unions, and the employees to cooperate fully, individually, and collectively for the advancement of the following conditions:
A.	Economic welfare of the Company and thereby its employees.
B.	Safety and health of employees.
C.	Quality and quantity of output.
D.	Economy of operation and reduction of waste.
E.	Cleanliness of plant to provide pleasant and safe places to work.
F.	Protection of the Company and personal property.
SECTION 2	- MEETINGS
A.	The Union committee from each division shall meet at fixed times each month with the division management to discuss subjects which do not require immediate attention and are not subject to the Grievance Procedure.
-1-
The Company will take records of such meeting and furnish the Union minutes and disposition of matters, if possible, within a reasonable time before the next scheduled meeting.
Div./ Corp.	Local No.	Day	Time
B	7-0094, 7-0187	’3rd Friday	9:00 a.m.
K	7-0094 ’	3rd Thursday	7:45 a.m.
PBD	7-0094	2nd Friday	9.00 a.m.
SP	7-0116	1st Thursday	9:00 a.m.
		after 1st Wednesday	
WR	7-0094, 7-0187	4th Friday ' .	9:00 a.m.
WRIV	7-0359. 7-1306	3rd Wednesday	9:30 a.m.
A maximum of 4 Union members from each local will be paid for the full day, regardless of what shift they are on, to attend the meeting. Any other Union member required to attend the meeting will be paid for time lost from work while in attendance at the meeting. If by mutual agreement no meeting is necessary, such monthly meeting may be canceled.
Audit committee pay practices at the Wisconsin Rapids Division will continue in effect as currently practiced.
Pay practices for off-shift workers at the Biron Division will continue in effect as currently practiced.
B.	Company and Union apprenticeship committee representatives shall meet semiannually (January and June) to discuss the apprenticeship program, progress of apprentices, and other subjects pertinent to the apprenticeship program. Other meetings will be held on an as-needed basis when requested by either the Company or the Union to deal with problems and subjects directly related to the apprenticeship program.
-2-
C.	Department meetings as may be called by the Company for times after shift hours will be announced at least 48 hours in advance with notification given to the Local Union President outlining the subject to be discussed.
For meetings covering subjects other than training, first aid, safety, and fire brigade, mutual consent between the Company and the Union is required in order to provide for mandatory attendance. However, one mandatory meeting per quarter on the subject of quality and/or production may also be scheduled. Employees will not be required to attend safety, production, or quality meetings unless they are scheduled immediately prior to, during, or immediately after their regular shift.
SECTION 3	- RECOGNITION
Consolidated Papers, Inc. recognizes the Union as sole and exclusive collective bargaining agent governing wages, hours, and other terms and conditions of employment for its employees who are employed within the job classifications set forth in the wage schedules attached hereto and made part of this Agreement.
SECTION 4	- UNION MEMBERSHIP
A.	Membership Requirements
General: In order to carry out the purposes of this Agreement:
1.	As a condition of employment, employees working within a bargaining unit shall become members of the respective local Union and maintain such membership.
2.	All eligible employees who are not members on the ’	effective date of this Agreement shall join one of the
respective local Unions 41 workdays after the
-3-
effective , date, or the signing of this Agreement, whichever is later.
3.	All new bargaining unit employees shall be notified by the Company, at the time of hiring, that they must join one of the respective local Unions 41 workdays after the beginning of their employment. The Company shall notify the Financial Secretary and President of the Union when a new employee has completed 40 workdays of employment.
4.	Failure by any bargaining unit employee to pay the initiation fees and/or dues shall be just cause for termination of employment when requested by the local Union. The Company shall be notified in writing through certified mail by an officer of the local Union.
B.	Checkoff Agreement
The Company agrees to maintain for the term of the Labor Agreement a checkoff of regular monthly Union membership dues for those persons who have properly authorized such deductions.
Revocations shall be in the form of a signed letter directed to the Company consistent with the Form of Authorization.
The Union shall indemnify and save harmless the Company against any claims or suits instituted against it, arising out of any action of the Company made pursuant to the provisions of this Checkoff Agreement.
It is understood and agreed that the Company's sole responsibility in regard to checkoff is to make deductions pursuant to the Agreement and to forward the monies so deducted to the person designated by the Union. It is understood and agreed that the Company
-4-
has no responsibility of any kind in connection with the procurement of authorizations.
It is understood and agreed that the assignments are valid only as to the Local of which the employee is a member and that such assignments are not transferable.
All authorizations, in order to be effective, shall be prepared in duplicate in the following form, signature witnessed, and delivered to the appropriate person designated by the Company.
"To Consolidated Papers, Inc.:
"I,•	 hereby authorize
and request you to deduct from my first paycheck each month my monthly Union dues and to pay same to the Financial Secretary of Local as my
regular monthly dues for the month in which the deductions are made.
"The effective date of this authorization shall be
"This authorization shall continue to be effective and irrevocable by me so long as by agreement between the Union and the Company a checkoff of Union dues is in effect, except that in each calendar year during the 15 days immediately preceding the anniversary of the termination date of the contract, I shall have the right to revoke this authorization as of the contract termination anniversary date. Such revocation shall be in the form of a signed letter directed to the person designated by the Company.
"I hereby agree that the Company shall not be liable for any monies paid in accordance with this assignment,
-5-
and shall be saved harmless by me for any such payments."
Witness  Employee Date Date
SECTION 5	- JURISDICTION
A. The Unions herein involved will make available to the Company any agreements between them, setting forth jurisdiction of work, to assist the Company in making the best decision possible. The Unions involved are the Paper, Allied-Industrial, Chemical and Energy Workers International Union Locals 7-0094, 7-0116, 7-0187, 7-0359, and 7-1306; International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, Local No. 1147; International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers, Lodge No. 655; United Association of Journeymen and Apprentices of the Plumbing and Pipefitting Industry, Local No. 807; and Office and Professional Employees' International Union, Local No. 95.
B.	The Company shall continue to assign work to Locals 7-0094,7-0116,7-0187,7-0359,and 7-1306 based upon their traditional Local Union jurisdiction, regardless of any and all international affiliations. If any questions arise on jurisdiction of new or changed jobs, the Company will discuss the matter with the Unions involved prior to implementation.
C.	The Company will make the assignment of work to Unions on the basis of its best knowledge of Union jurisdiction. Such assignment will be carried out by the Union involved.
D.	Should a question of jurisdiction arise between Labor Unions, it shall be resolved by the respective International Unions involved or their duly authorized representatives.
-6-
The decision shall be communicated to the Company who will then see to it that it is implemented.
SECTION 6	- STRIKES AND LOCKOUTS
There shall be ho strikes or lockouts during the term of this Agreement.
It is understood and agreed that refusal by any employee covered by this Agreement to cross an authorized picket line shall not'be considered sufficient cause for disciplinary action.
It is understood and agreed that it shall not constitute a breach of this Agreement for any employee to refuse to cross a picket line of another company where a strike exists. In the event either Company negotiates a satisfactory arrangement with the management of the struck plant and the striking union to release material retained in the struck plant, such arrangement shall be made known to the Union, who will cooperate with the Company to obtain such material when requested.
SECTION 7-SENIORITY
A.	New or Rehired Employees' Probationary Obligations
1.	Permanent
All new employees (as herein defined) shall serve a probationary period of 40 workdays with the Company and shall not accrue seniority during that period.
During the 40-workday probationary period, the Company may, at its option, lay off or dismiss the probationary employees. Eligible employees retained at the expiration of the 40-workday period shall become permanent employees and shall be credited with seniority from the last date of hire.
-7-
A new employee shall be defined as follows:
a.	A person having no previous employment with the Company (former employees of construction not included as being employed by the Company).
b.	A person rehired after discharge, voluntary separation, or involuntary separation.
c.	A person who fails to report within the required 6 days following a recall from lack of work without good and sufficient reason.
d.	An employee whose term of layoff exceeds the time limits set forth in this Section under Loss of Seniority. ,
e.	An employee terminated in accordance with paragraph C - Loss of Seniority, subparagraph 3.
Whenever more than 1 person is employed on the same day, the individual responsible for placing employees on the payroll shall assign the Code 01 to the first employee placed on payroll and the Code 02 to the second, etc. and this code shall become part of the seniority date.
2.	Seasonal Vacation Relief
Seasonal vacation replacements may be employed during the period of May 1 through September 30 and they shall not accrue seniority. Such employees may be laid off or terminated at the Company’s discretion. The employee must be terminated by September 30 unless an extension as a temporary employee is mutually agreed upon or the employee is made permanent. If made permanent, the employee's Company seniority date and other rights
-8-
as provided for by this Agreement shall be retroactive to the most recent date of permanent hire.
Summer vacation relief employees are required to sign a waiver making them ineligible for all Company benefits (except as required by ERISA), including seniority, but requiring Union membership upon satisfactory completion of a one-time 40-workday period.
3.	Extending Probationary Periods
. The Company and the Union may, by mutual agreement, extend probationary periods. In such cases, a written notice shall be sent to the employee . and to the Union President.
B.	Definition of Seniority
1.	Company Seniority
A new employee's Company seniority shall be established after s/he has completed 40 workdays with the Company. Company seniority shall be retroactive to the most recent date of hire.
2.	Division Seniority
A new employee's division seniority shall be established after s/he has completed 40 workdays at that division. Division seniority shall be retroactive to the permanent date of entry at that division.
A permanently transferred.employee's division seniority shall be established after s/he has completed 30 workdays at that division. Division seniority shall be retroactive to the permanent date of entry at that division.
-9-
3.	Department Seniority
A new employee's department seniority shall be established after s/he has completed 40 workdays in that department and department seniority shall be retroactive to the permanent date of entry into that department.
A permanently transferred employee's department seniority shall be established after s/he has completed 30 workdays in that department and department seniority shall be retroactive to the permanent date of entry into that department.
4.	Job Seniority
A new employee’s job seniority shall be established after s/he has completed 40 workdays in that job. Job seniority shall be retroactive to the permanent date of entry into that job.
A permanently transferred employee's job seniority shall be established after s/he has completed 30 workdays in that job. Job seniority shall be retroactive to the permanent date of entry into that job.
5.	Relief Employees
All employees trained in relief jobs will retain their seniority in their home department.
C.	Loss of Seniority
Seniority shall be lost by any one of the following specified acts;
1.	- When an employee voluntarily terminates employment
-10-
2.	A proper dismissal.
3.	After having been laid off a period of time related to seniority as follows:
Up To_______
Years' Seniority
Recall Rights From Date Layoff Occurred
2	1 year
5	2 years
10	. 3 years
Over 10	5 years
4.	After having been laid off, the employee does not report for work within 6 days after written notice by certified mail is forwarded to the employee at the address on the Company's records and copy of notice of the call in writing having been delivered to the Union.
5.	When an employee retires from the Company.
6.	Employees transferring to jobs outside the signatory unions but protected by another union, shall, after 60 days lose their seniority, with the exception of Company seniority, under the Labor Agreement.
7.	An employee promoted to a nonunion position within the Company over which the Union has no jurisdiction, and in good standing with the local Union, shall lose their seniority if s/he does not return to their previous bargaining unit position within or before the conclusion of 60 days from date of transfer to the nonunion position.
-11-
D.	Administration of Seniority
1.	Promotions - Transfers
General: When selecting, promoting, or transferring employees to jobs, the Company policy is to recognize seniority with qualifications and ability.
a.	Job Posting Procedure
Whenever a vacancy arises in a permanent position (not filled by progression), or a new position is created, a "Notice of Job Opening" is to be issued and posted on the bulletin boards in the following progression until the job is filled:
Step 1.. Within the department from Friday through Tuesday. Department vacation . relief are considered to be part of the department for job posting procedures. Then if unfilled,
Step 2. With the respective Union and within the division (divisionwide) from Thursday through Tuesday. (At Wisconsin River Division for Step 2, post and select on a divisionwide basis.)
The Company is to give the appropriate Union a copy of each notice posted and a copy of the list of applicants. The list of applicants obtained from any job posting will be maintained up to 60 calendar days from the date a selected employee first begins the new job. A later opening in the same job would then require another posting. An
-12-
employee may apply for more than 1 job opening, but in the selection process the employee will be awarded the job, (1) paying the higher rate, or (2) for which s/he first bid.
b.	Employees with less than 3 years' Company seniority having bid for and successfully completed the probationary period on a job will not be entitled to bid and transfer to another job for a period of 1 year. This applies to employees (with less than 3 years' seniority) who are assigned to jobs when there are insufficient bidders, but excludes craft job postings.
c.	Craft Hiring Policy
Electricians, millwrights, pipefitters, machinists, welders, sheet metal workers,, garage mechanics, and instrumentation positions will be filled in the following manner:
(1)	An apprentice or journey-level posting will be made at the division where the vacancy exists.
(2)	If there are no qualified candidates, then the position will be posted on a corporatewide basis.
(3)	Failing to find candidates under steps (1) or (2), the Company may elect to hire from the outside.
d.	Guidelines
(1)	Ariy job may be temporarily filled pending selection of a permanent employee.
-13-
(2)	This procedure does not prohibit any employee from contacting the person handling employment at the appropriate division at any time to discuss job openings and opportunities.
2.	Exempted Positions •
Due to the Company's need of positions for limited service employees, the following jobs are exempt from posting:
Division	Department B	Cleaning*	Job Title (1) Main Locker Room Cleaner-Shift 1 (1) Main Locker Room Cleaner -Shift 2 (1) Washroom Cleaner
K	Cleaning	Cleaner Mail/Services
Crane Storeroom	Caretaker Salvage Utility
PBD Custodial	Lead Cleaner Cleaner - Class "A"
SP Cleaning	Cleaner
WR Cleaning	Cleaner
WRIV Materials Handling Mill Services & Sanitation	Material Handler Helper Cleaner Mail Carrier/Cleaner
‘Refer to Local 7-0094 Side Agreement No. 05-01 for details.
-14-
3.	Conditions of Transfer
General: If there should be any difference of opinion as to the qualifications and ability of an employee being considered for transfer, the committee and the management shall take the matter up for adjustment and settle such differences. Failing to agree upon a settlement, the Company may proceed with its selection, subject to the Grievance Procedure ‘ (Section 22).
a.	Probationary Period
Employees who are transferred or promoted shall be on probation for 30 workdays or 60 calendar days, whichever comes first, for determination as to whether or not they can meet the job requirements. This probationary period may be extended by mutual consent in cases requiring more than 30 workdays or 60 calendar days. Employees may at any time during this probationary period, at their option, return to their former position without loss of seniority. If, during the probationary period they fail to qualify, they shall be returned to their former position without loss of seniority.
Employees returning to their former jobs due to » circumstances beyond their control will:
(1)	Be paid the rate of pay in the rate progression schedule in accordance with the time elements which they had completed at the time they left that position.
(2)	Not be required to serve a probationary period if such probationary period had been fully served prior to their leaving that job.
-15-
These provisions are applicable when an employee returns to their former position within 12 months from the date s/he left that job as indicated by their personnel record.
b.	Discontinuance of Positions
In case an employee's position is discontinued within 1 year of the date of transfer, their prior job rights shall be reinstated without loss of seniority.
(1)	Any employee demoted because of a discontinuance of a position within a progression and/or department within 1 year of the' date of transfer shall have their prior job rights reinstated without loss of seniority.
(2)	Any employee displaced because of (1) above shall be reinstated to their former job without loss of seniority within 1 year.
c.	Re-establishment of Positions
If a job classification is eliminated or combined, or the number of employees in a job classification is permanently reduced, and if the job classification is re-established or the number of employees in it is increased within 2 years, the job will be posted within the division. Employees previously holding that job will get preferential consideration for it (within the same 2-year time period) if they bid and are qualified. Department and job seniority would start anew.
-16-
d.	Interdivisional and Interdepartmental Transfers
Employees transferred from one division or department to another shall be identified as temporary or permanent with written notice of permanent transfers given the proper Union. Temporarily transferred employees shall retain their seniority in the division or department from which they are transferred. Employees shall have the right to accept or reject a permanent transfer between divisions. Continuous service records with the Company shall not be interrupted as a result of a permanent transfer.
. e. Employees who desire to transfer to any other division shall fill out an application form which is available in the Human Resources Department. These employees may be given the opportunity to transfer at the discretion of the Company and will retain their Company seniority.
4.	Promotions - Line of Progression
General; Vacancies occurring in the normal line of progression will not be posted; in this case, the posting will be for the relief position for the bottom job in the line of progression. Qualifications and ability being equal in making promotions in a line of progression, seniority will apply first by job; if job seniority is equal, department seniority will apply; if department seniority is equal, division seniority will apply; if division seniority is equal, Company seniority will apply.
-17-
a.	Employees entering a line of progression are required to advance to each job in that line of progression as openings occur.
b.	Bypasses
Any bypass must be mutually agreed to by both the Company and the Union. Normally, bypasses will be granted only in case of medically certified illnesses or limitations beyond the employee's control.
. An employee who has been bypassed in a line of progression shall become junior to those who bypass that employee. In cases of demotion, employees who have bypassed an employee shall back down around such employee in the order in which they were promoted.
5.	Layoffs and Displacements
General: Seniority and ability shall govern layoffs and recalls after layoffs.
For purposes of layoffs and recalls after layoffs, the locals of the Paper, Allied-Industrial, Chemical and Energyworkers’ International Union will be considered as one unit at each plant and the following layoff procedure applies to the locals. (The Kraft Division is covered by separate agreement.)
Members of the respective locals shall, if laid off, be employed at those divisions wherein they are recognized as the bargaining unit, before members of other local unions are so employed.
Exception: Weekly schedules shall not be interrupted during the week to Implement this
-18-
provision. Any change required shall be made only at the beginning of the week. The aforementioned provision and exception do not preclude the assignment of members of the respective locals to other divisions as might be required to satisfy staffing requirements in these divisions.
a.	Layoff Procedure
(1)	An employee laid off from their own department as a result of a temporary reduction in the working force may exercise their plant seniority in the unassigned labor pool for the balance of that workweek.
(a) If work is not available, or their seniority does not entitle them to work, they shall be sent home for the balance of that workweek. If additional employees are needed forthat week, they will be recalled according to their seniority.
(2)	Employees who have not been employed in the unassigned labor pool through exercising Step (1) may exercise their plant seniority to cause layoffs of employees having least plant seniority subject to the following conditions:
(a)	Exercising of such seniority rights shall be allowable on Thursdays when the work schedules are determined for the following week. Should changes be required after work schedules are posted, the Company shall have up to 2 working days
-19-
(excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays) in which to organize the changes, implementing them no later than the beginning of the third day.
(b)	Replacements will be assigned to single or beginning jobs which they can perform with a minimum of training.
(c)	Employees being transferred as a ■ result of layoffs do not have a choice > of jobs.
(d)	Employees having valid, medically certified restrictions shall be handled as individual cases.
(3)	When the Company finds that it cannot follow the principles of seniority in layoffs as herein described, the Union shall be given an opportunity to consider the case prior to any final decision. Also, if the Company makes an error in implementing the layoff procedure, the Union must bring the error to the attention of the Company within 1 workweek (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays).
(a)	In the event that the Union protests the final decision within 1 workweek (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays), the Grievance Procedure may be followed.
(b)	The Company agrees to furnish the Union in advance with a roster of the
-20-
least senior employees at the various divisions and a roster of employees • placed in layoff status.
b.	Recall Procedure or Recall from Curtailment of Operations
(1)	Employees displaced will retain recall rights in their former job and must return when an opening occurs unless they have successfully bid to another job.
(2)	To exercise recall rights, the old jobs must be scheduled to operate for a full workweek.
c.	Permanent Shutdowns
(1)	Division
In the event of the permanent shutdown or sale of a division, in total or in part, such employees affected shall be given hiring status in the filling of job vacancies over other applicants at other operating locations of the Company.
(a)	Employees must make application. They must meet the requirements of the job and be cleared through Health Services prior to being employed. Employment will be offered on the
. basis of Company seniority with qualifications and ability.
(b)	Employees who are hired must serve a 40-workday probationary period.
-21-
(c)	The probationary period may be extended by.mutual consent in cases requiring more than 40 workdays. Employees retained at the expiration of the probationary period shall become permanent employees. If employees fail to qualify for a job ■during the probationary period, they will be returned to the bottom of the hiring status list for a maximum of 12 months from the date returned to hiring status or the balance of their rights under Section 7, D, 3, whichever occurs earlier.
(d)	When hired at another division, Company seniority shall be maintained for benefits provided where Company service is a requirement.
(e)	Division and job seniority and all rights associated therewith shall begin with the date of entrance into the new division, department, and the job.
(f)	. Employees shall lose all their seniority rights if they fail to accept a job offered to them within 5 days of the offer. The offer of employment in this section shall be in writing by certified mail. A copy of any offer of employment made shall be directed to the president of the appropriate local Union.
(g)	Employees may retain hiring status as herein provided if the employee
-22-
. cannot report for work because of valid documented medical reasons at the time of the offer.
6. Layoffs, Displacements, and Scheduling Procedure ~ Paperboard Products Division
Employees who are permanently assigned to a department will be scheduled on their assigned job.
Any open jobs within the department will be filled by qualified department employees. Preference for the day shift on these jobs will be governed by department seniority whenever possible, without jeopardizing plant operations.
Employees declared surplus from their department will fill any open jobs after schedules have been made out. These surplus employees will have preference for the day shift per division seniority. Employees who have worked 3 consecutive full weeks of nights will have preference for the day shift before an employee with division seniority.
The weekly schedule of shifts, as posted on Thursday of each week, will remain for the entire week unless there is a step-up or a cutback. When a cutback occurs, employees will move in their line of progression. Any surplus employees, by department seniority, will bump non-line of progression and/or non-department employees and will fill any available job vacancies. If there are no vacancies, the least senior division employees will be laid off providing there is a trained, qualified replacement. When a step-up occurs, employees will return to their line of progression.
-23-
Seniority within a line of progression will prevail in assignment of Sunday work. If additional help is needed in bottom-type jobs, it will be filled by department employees with preference to department seniority.
*
Employees signing a Saturday work slip will have 3 choices:
. a. Work in their line of progression only by job seniority.
b.	.Work any job in their home department by - department seniority.
c.	Work in any department and be scheduled within their own department and into another department only if additional help is needed by division seniority.
After all assigned employees signing the Saturday work slip have been scheduled, unassigned employees may work in a line of progression if qualified. .	' '
If there are not enough employees signing the Saturday work slip, the least senior qualified department employees will be scheduled.
Employees who have a scheduled birthday holiday or floating holiday on Friday or are scheduled for vacation the following week and have not signed the Saturday work slip will be scheduled to work Saturday, only after all other qualified department employees have been scheduled.
Employees who have been on a layoff during the week will be scheduled on jobs that they are already
-24-
qualified for. Any employee who has lost 6 hours or more in any day of a normal workweek will have preference for Saturday work if such absence is due to sickness or injury provided they sign the Saturday work slip.
SECTION 8-WAGES
General: The wage rate shall be paid in accordance with the Wage Schedule attached hereto and made a part hereof.
Individual wage rates for new jobs or substantially changed jobs will be considered by special negotiation at any time during the term of the Agreement. In the event of any adjustments or changes made affecting this Agreement, a copy of said adjustments or changes shall be furnished the Union and made a part of this Agreement
A.	Establishment of Rates
Whenever new jobs are created or significant changes are introduced involving established jobs, the Company will, to the best of its ability, provide the Union with 90 days’ advance information, including such items as anticipated duties, shift schedules, rates of pay, start-up procedures, new equipment installation or significant modification of existing equipment, etc. Whenever job sampling is to be used, the Union will be notified 1 week (7 days) in advance. The rate of the new job shall be retroactive to the date the employee first entered the job.
At the Union's request, a meeting will be held for the purpose of clarification and discussion. In the event of disagreement following such a meeting, the job(s) will be filled in the prescribed manner and the job rate(s), as established by the Company, will be placed in effect.
-25-
After the newly created or significantly changed job has been filled for a period of 60 days, the Company shall, upon receipt of a written request from the Union, meet with representatives to negotiate concerning the job rate. If such a request is not made within 90 days after the newly created or significantly changed job has been filled, the job. rate established by the Company shall be considered permanent.
The question of retroactivity is negotiable at the time an adjustment is agreed to.
The Company agrees that all existing jobs in the wage schedules or any new positions created during the term of this contract shall not pay a rate less than the laborer's rate providing such jobs are within the bargaining unit as defined herein and within existing locations. Any new jobs that are established through acquisition shall be exempted from this provision.
B.	Rates When Changing Jobs
Whenever employees change from one job to another, they will receive the rate of pay for such job from the first day worked, except where such job is covered by a rate progression (painters and apprentices).
C.	Night Shift Differential
Night shift workers on all work from 3:00 p.m. to 11:00 p.m. will receive a 2nd shift differential over their regular hourly rate. Night shift workers on all work from 11:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. will receive a 3rd shift differential over their regular hourly rate.
1.	The 2nd shift differential is $.35 per hour ($.40 effective 5-1-01 and $.45 effective 5-1-03).
-26-
2.	The 3rd shift differential is $.55 per hour ($.60 effective 5-1-01 and $.65 effective 5-1-03).
3.	Employees eligible for the night shift differential are as follows:
a.	Shift workers working 3-11 and 11-7 or other established night shift.
b.	Where only 2 shifts are involved, the last shift will be paid the second shift differential after 3.00 p.m.
c.	Whenever shift workers have to work 12 hours, the employees working 7:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. receive the 2nd shift differential from 3:00 p.m. to 7:00 p.m. and employees working 7:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. will receive the 2nd shift differential from 7:00 p.m. to 11:00 p.m. and the 3rd shift differential from 11:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m.
d.	When employees working last shift (11-7) are asked to continue working, the Company considers this a continuation of the night shift and the 3rd shift differential will be allowed, except if the continuation is the result of changing a regularly scheduled weekly shift.
e.	A 1st shift (7-3) worker working overtime will be eligible for and paid the 2nd shift differential beginning at 3:00 p.m. A 2nd shift (3-11) worker . working overtime will be eligible for and paid the 3rd shift (11-7) differential beginning at 11:00 p.m.
f.	Employees on paper machines who are customarily called to put on wires will not receive the night shift differential. This work is purely
-27-
an overtime proposition and adequate compensation has been awarded to employees who have been asked to put on the wires.
g.	The night shift differentia) for shift workers is only given where an employee actually works. Vacations, taken at this time, or any other loss of time do not include the night shift differential allowance.
h.	Day workers who work overtime are eligible for the appropriate shift differential if they work a minimum of 1 hour beyond their normal quitting time. If they work the 1 hour, they will be eligible for shift differential for all hours beyond their normal quitting time. This will not apply to situations wherein workers are called in.
i.	Day workers (4th shift) required to work during the 11-7 shift will receive the 3rd shift differential for hours worked up to, but not beyond, the regular starting time of their day shift. This provision does apply to situations wherein day workers are called in.
D.	Special Payments
1.	Retention of Regular Rate of Pay
Whenever an employee is temporarily transferred to a job paying a lower rate per hour, solely for the convenience of the Company, their regular rate of pay will not be reduced. Employees transferred to jobs paying a lower rate per hour due to equipment breakdown or necessary shutdowns shall continue to earn their current rate of pay for the balance of that scheduled shift providing they work the balance of the shift.
-28-
Persons being bumped down will receive their regular job rate if they have started their shift at the higher rate before being bumped down. This will not apply to situations where replacements are made before the shift starts and employees are bumped down into lower paid jobs at the start of the shift.
2.	Travel Time
Hourly employees who are regularly employed at one division or the other and are temporarily assigned to another division will travel on Company time.
This does not apply to employees traveling between Wisconsin Rapids, Biron, Paperboard Products, and Kraft Divisions and it does not apply to employees who are transferred permanently. Travel time will not be allowed to employees between DuBay and Stevens Point and Wisconsin River .Divisions. Normally, the amount of time to be allowed to and from Wisconsin Rapids, Biron, Paperboard Products, and Kraft Divisions to the points as listed is as follows:
a.	1-1/4 hours - Castle Rock
b.	1 hour - Petenwell
c.	3/4 hour - Stevens Point
d.	1 hour	- DuBay
e.	1/2 hour	- Wisconsin River
The Company and the Unions expect employees to use good judgment in carrying out this policy.
3.	Training Rates
Any employee who trains with an incumbent on a position within the employee's line of progression will be paid the higher of: (a) the rate of the job they
-29-
would have otherwise worked if not assigned to train (for as long as work would have been available in such job for the employee), or (b) their regular rate (rate 1). The training must be either assigned or scheduled to be for a full shift and the trainee must be in addition to the scheduled crew for the equipment/funotion. This provision does not apply to maintenance or painters.
SECTION 9 - HOURS OF WORK AND RUNNING SCHEDULE
General'. It is understood and agreed that while the hours of work set forth herein shall be established as our standard workday and workweek, the Company does not guarantee full-time employment to any employee.
A.	Definition of Workweek
The specific starting time for the workweek commences at 7:00 a.m. Monday and ends at 7:00 a.m. Sunday.
B.	. Definition of Workday
The workday is the 24-hour period beginning at 7:00 a.m. and ending at 7:00 a.m. the following day.
C.	8-Hour Tour Workers
Hours of employment for 8-hour tour workers shall be from 7:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m., identified as the 1st shift; from 3:00 p.m. to 11:00 p.m., identified as the 2nd shift; and from 11:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m., identified as the 3rd shift.
D.	Day Workers
Schedule of hours for day workers shall be 7:00 a.m. to 12:00 noon and 12:30 p.m. to 3:30 p.m., identified as the 4th shift, unless changed by mutual agreement.
-30-
Regular hours of employment for day workers shall be 8 hours per day, 5 days per week.
E.	Adding on of Shifts
When the demands of the Company require it, the Company has the right to add on the additional shifts required to meet the demand. When this occurs to regular day jobs, the shifts shall be as above noted in the paragraph entitled, "8-Hour Tour Workers." The Company shall have the responsibility for calling a meeting in advance to discuss the need for additional shifts.
F.	Paper Machines
1.	The specific start-up time for paper machines following a Sunday not operated shall be at 7:00 a.m. Monday. Paper machine crews may be scheduled to allow for stock on the wire at 7:00 a.m. Monday.
2.	Changes in the above start-up time can only be made by mutual consent, which will not be unreasonably withheld. Failing to reach mutual consent to change the start-up time, paper machine crews will not be scheduled prior to 7:00 a.m. Monday.
3.	The Company will agree that if someone is needed for paper machine functions, the most senior employee(s) from the machine crew available from the unassigned labor pool will be selected and will be paid the rate of their regular job for the time spent performing that job. Such rate will be retained for the balance of the shift.
G.	Schedule of Operations
1.	The regular schedule of hours for all employees shall be 8 hours per day, 40 hours per week. Changes in the above schedule of hours shall be made by mutual consent.
-31-
2.	The Company and the Unions agree that workweeks of 40 hours or less do not require the service of relief employees. Any workweek over 40 hours will require the service of relief employees. If any department is operating less than 40 hours, the services of relief employees will be discontinued in accordance with the layoff procedure.
Exception: If a schedule is posted for a 5-day operation, 1 additional shift can be added without relief. A posted 5-1/3 operation does not require the use of relief personnel. Any shifts added to 5-1/3 operation will require the service of relief personnel. Any posted schedule of 5-2/3 operation or more must incorporate the use of relief personnel.
3.	Shift Rotation
Shifts may operate in reverse rotation in any of the Company's divisions by departments, by mutual agreement of the Company and the Union.
4.,	Posting Work Schedules
Weekly and Sunday work schedules will normally be posted by noon on the preceding Thursday.
5.	Day Off
All employees who work on their day off at the Company's request will have the privilege of working through the week without the necessity of taking a day off.
6.	Saturdays and Sundays Off
a.	It should be understood that production employees can be off any Saturday (applicable only to 6-day operations) or Sunday (applicable
-32-
only to 7-day operations) they wish (except continuous operations) provided:
(1)	Adequate relief is available to take their place and that quality and quantity of production will not suffer.
(a)	If adequate relief is not available, the employee must receive the approval of the supervisor to split the shift and the employee must, in turn, make the necessary arrangements with their partners. The supervisor must be informed of the arrangements so made.
(i)	Sundays Off
Splitting of shifts, or working 16 hours, in order to receive a Sunday off is permissible. Employees must make the necessary arrangements with their partners. Arrangements must be approved by supervision in advance of taking the actual time off.
(b)	Sunday Work - Long Weekend Off
If an employee notifies their supervisor prior to Thursday that s/he wishes to have the long weekend off, then supervision will arrange for relief or schedule split shifts.
b.	For employees in departments with continuous operations, Sundays off are permissible as specified in Section 9,G,6,a(l),(a),(i) above.
-33-
7.	Relief - Vacations
Where a regular employee of a department is on . vacation, the department will continue to staff the job with a qualified vacation relief employee in preference to operating with a reduced crew if it is a regular operating day or week.
During the period of time May 1 through September 30, Cleaners at the Wisconsin Rapids Division and Biron Division and workers in the Corporate Services Department at the Wisconsin Rapids Division will be replaced when such workers) is on vacation.
8.	Converting - Wisconsin Rapids Division
The Company agrees to operate the Converting operations from 7:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. December 24, if the Wisconsin Rapids white paper machines operate.
9.	Sunday Manning - When Running Full
Biron - 4 Cleaners - if necessary, 1 can be utilized for Yard work in order for employee to work full shift.
-	1 Wicket Tender
Kraft - 1 Wicket Tender
Wisconsin
Rapids - 4 Cleaners - if necessary, 1 can be utilized for Yard work.
-	1 Wicket Tender
-	4 Oilers (PACE)
-	1 Core Department
-34-
Wisconsin River - 1 Wicket Tender - 2 Cleaners - additional Cleaners and Yard personnel will be scheduled as needed.
- 1 Oiler (3-11)
Stevens Point Division will have staffing comparable to Wisconsin River Division.
Wisconsin Rapids Division, when it operates on Sunday, will be staffed comparable to the Biron Division.
10.	Storeroom Manning
Whenever the Maintenance Department is scheduled for extended hours at Wisconsin Rapids, Biron, and Kraft Divisions, the Storeroom will be manned by at least 1 Storeroom employee. All other divisions will be handled as in the past.
11.	One-In-Seven Waiver
Upon ratification of this agreement, each Local agrees to make joint-application with the Company to the State of Wisconsin for waiver of the One Day of Rest in Seven Law for the term of the contract.
SECTION 10	- PREMIUM TIME AND OVERTIME
A.	Overtime
1.	There shall be no pyramiding of overtime.
2.	Time and one-half shall be paid for all work performed by employees as follows, except when changing regularly scheduled weekly shifts:
-35-
a.	In excess of 8 consecutive hours except when changing regularly scheduled weekly shifts; but not again for over 40 hours per week.
b.	In excess of 8 hours per day or 40 hours per week but not both.
c.	When worked on their regular scheduled day off except when employees are scheduled to work a 6-day week.
d.	On 6 days on and 2 days off schedule when required to work on their regular day off due to a Company request.
e.	On 7-4,7-2,7-1 schedule when required to work on their regular day off, except when permanently transferred.
3.	Double Time
Double time will be paid on the following conditions:
a.	All hours worked on Sundays.
b.	All hours worked on agreed-upon holidays.
B.	Special Premium Payments
1.	. Reporting Time
When an employee reports for work on their regular scheduled shift and work is not available, and said employee has not been notified not to report for work, said employee shall receive 2 hours’ pay or at least 4 hours’ work at their regular hourly rate.
2.	Call Time
Call time shall be construed as 3 hours' pay at the regular hourly rate and shall apply only if the
-36-
employee was properly relieved, has punched out his/her timecard, and if the employee received less than 24 hours' notice.
a.	Employees called in to work at any time other than the start of their scheduled shift shall be paid 3 hours' call time plus the actual time worked but not less than 6 hours’ pay on any 1 call.
Three hours' call time shall be allowed to paper machine crews called in on emergency change of wires.
b.	Call time will not apply when employees work under the following provisions:
(1)	Employees are called back to work after a layoff period.
(2)	When employees are called back to work . after an emergency causing a' shutdown of department or division in excess of 1 day.
(3)	Call time will not apply, but a minimum equal to 6 hours' straight-time pay shall be allowed employees who, after having completed their regular day's work, have been notified before being properly relieved and punched out their timecard that they are to go home and return to work later.
(a) The 6-hour minimum does not apply if an employee works into their regular shift.
c.	Calkins After Shutdowns
As a matter of policy on call-ins after shutdowns of less than 24 hours, the following will apply:
-37-
(1)	If 2 hours or more of a shift are remaining to be worked, the employee originally scheduled to be working that shift will be called.
(2)	If less than 2 hours of a shift are left to be worked, the employee scheduled to work the succeeding shift will be called to report for work in advance of their regular starting time,
(3)	The foregoing policy is based on having an employee receive a minimum of at least 4 hours' pay for reporting and working following shutdowns.
3.	Wire Time
General; Wire time shall be allowed to all employees who assist in changing the wire or who are reassigned during the wire change at the Company's convenience but would customarily assist in the wire change.
a.	Six hours' time will be allowed when changing ordinary wires and 8 hours' time will be allowed when changing synthetic wires.
b.	Eligible employees will be paid the regular hourly rate of the job performed.
c.	Employees coming in after the wire is strung will receive time and’one-half. The wire is strung when it is draped over the couch.
d.	The wire time allowance, when changing ordinary wires, for Sundays and holidays, shall be 12 hours. When changing synthetic wires, the allowance shall be 16 hours.
-38-
(1)	Sunday wires shall be determined as those where the wire is cut off or falls off between the hours of 7:00 a.m. Sunday and 7:00 a.m. Monday.
(2)	Hours spent in changing a wire before 7:00 a.m. Sunday or after 7:00 a.m. Monday shall be paid as straight-time wire.
(3)	When'a straight-time wire change continues into the Sunday hours, the actual hours worked after 7:00 a.m. shall be paid at double-time rate.
e.	The crew on duty at the time of the wire change is not to have the actual time spent in putting on the wire deducted from the wire time.
f.	Additional Wire Time
If the wire should have to be taken off whole, .6 hours' extra time shall be allowed. It is understood further that the wire change shall be considered as having been completed when the wire is ready to turn over for the production of paper.
g.	Exclusion of Wire Time
All other work, such as changing felts, major repair work, and general maintenance work, shall be paid for at the regular hourly rate of employees.
h.	Delay Time
Delay time of 29 minutes or less is to be accepted as part of wire time. If the delay time is 30 minutes or more, waiting time will be
-39-
allowed from the beginning. Therefore, for delay time of 30 minutes or more:
(1)	If the crews called in are affected by the delay, this allowance will give them extra time.
i.	The Company will avoid scheduling wire changes on Mondays following a run Sunday during the first shift starting 7:00 a.m., except in the event of an emergency,
4.	Needled Felts
When a needled felt is changed, the crew on duty will receive their norma! pay plus an amount equal to 3 hours' pay at their regular straight-time rate. In the event the change carries into 2 shifts, the 3 hours' equivalent payment shall be prorated.
5.	Noon Lunch Period
Employees asked and who work through their noon lunch period will be paid the equivalent of 3/4 hour if they do not complete their normal day. However, employees completing their normal day will be paid the equivalent of 1 hour for working their noon lunch period and will not be required to punch out early.
6.	20-Minute Lunch
Fourth shift workers scheduled in advance to work more than 8 hours per shift shall be allowed a 20-minute paid lunch period.
SECTION 11	- HOLIDAYS
In the event any of the agreed-upon holidays fall on a Sunday, the following Monday shall be observed as the holiday unless indicated otherwise in the holiday schedule.
-40-
A.	Eligibility
1.	All employees (excluding SVRs) who have completed their 40-workday probationary period covered by this Labor Agreement shall receive 8 hours' pay for each of the agreed-upon holidays at their regular straight-time hourly rate.
2.	Employees who have worked their last scheduled shift prior to, and the first scheduled work shift after such holiday will be eligible for holiday pay unless prevented from doing so by reason of necessary absence as hereinafter defined or excused by their supervisor.
3.	Definition of Necessary Absence as it Relates to Holiday Eligibility
Necessary absence shall be defined as follows:
a.	Illness, accident, or death in the immediate . family. Immediate family is defined in Section 12, E, 2.
b.	Weddings in the immediate family.
c.	Business in connection with CEBP, signatory Unions, or Company.
d.	Jury duty.
e.	When called by the Veterans Administration in connection with a service disability.
f.	When called by the Selective Service Board for medical examination.
g.	National Guard and Reserve Unit training.
4.	Eligible employees absent because of a nonoccupational illness or injury will be paid for all
-41-
contractual holidays occurring during the first 180 calendar days commencing on the first day of absence caused by such nonoccupational injury or illness.
5.	Eligible employees absent because of an occupational illness or injury will be paid for all contractual holidays occurring during the first 12 months commencing on the first day of absence caused by such occupational injury or illness.
6.	Eligible employees in layoff shall be paid holiday pay for all holidays occurring within the 30 calendar days following the end of the pay period in which the employee was laid off. Such holiday pay is to be paid the employee upon return to work.
7.	Eligible employees who are scheduled to work on a holiday contractually approved and fail to report for work, unless precluded from doing so consistent with the provisions contained in Section 11, A, 2 and the definition of necessary absence in Section 11, A, 3, shall not receive holiday pay for any such holiday.
8.	Holiday pay shall be paid to eligible employees who are absent on vacation and such holiday pay will be paid to employees consistent with the pay period in which the holiday falls.
B.	Holidays
Holidays during which overtime applies for work performed are as follows:
-42-
1.	1999-2000 AGREEMENT YEAR
Holiday	Day	Hrs,	Beginning	Date
Memorial Day	Monday	24	7:00 a.m.	May 31, 1999
Independence Day	Saturday	24	7:00 a.m.	July 3, 1999
Day After				
Independence Day	Monday	24	7:00 a.m.	July 5,1999
Labor Day*	Monday	32	11:00 p.m.	September 6,1999
Thanksgiving	Thursday	24	7:00 a.m.	November 25, 1999
Christmas Eve	Friday	24	7:00 a.m.	December 24, 1999
Christmas Day	Saturday	24	7:00 a.m.	December 25, 1999
New Year's Day	Saturday	24	7:00 a.m.	January 1,2000
Easter	Monday	24	7:00 a.m.	April 24, 2000
2.	2000-2001 AGREEMENT YEAR
Memorial Day	Monday	24	7:00 a.m.	May 29, 2000
Day Before				
Independence Day	Monday	24	7:00 a.m.	July 3, 2000
Independence Day	Tuesday	24	7:00 a.m.	July 4, 2000
Labor Day*	Monday	32	11:00 p.m.	September 4, 2000
Thanksgiving	Thursday	24	7:00 a.m.	November 23, 2000
Christmas Eve	Sunday	24	7:00 a.m.	December 24, 2000
Christmas Day	Monday	24	7:00 a.m.	December 25, 2000
New Year’s Day	Monday	24	7:00 a.m.	January 1, 2001
Easter	Monday	24	7:00 a.m.	April 16, 2001
3.	2001-2002 AGREEMENT YEAR
Memorial Day	Monday	24	7:00 a.m.	May 29, 2001
Day Before				
Independence Day	Tuesday	24	7:00 a.m.	July 3, 2001
Independence Day	Wednesday 24		7:00 a.m.	July 4, 2001
Labor Day*	Monday	32	11:00 p.m.	Septembers, 2001
Thanksgiving	Thursday	24	7:00 a.m.	November 22, 2001
Christmas Eve	Monday	24	7:00 a.m.	December 24, 2001
Christmas Day	Tuesday	24	7:00 a.m.	December 25, 2001
New Year's Day	Tuesday	24	7:00 a.m.	January 1,2002
Easter	Monday	24	7:00 a.m.	April 1,2002
4.	2002-2003 AGREEMENT YEAR
Memorial Day	Monday	24	7:00 a.m.	May 27, 2002
Independence Day	Thursday	24	7:00 a.m.	July 4, 2002
Day After				
Independence Day	Friday	24	7:00 a.m.	July 5, 2002
Labor Day*	Monday	32	11:00 p.m.	September 2, 2002
Thanksgiving	Thursday	24	7:00 a.m.	November 28, 2002
Christmas Eve	Tuesday	24	7:00 a.m.	December 24, 2002
Christmas Day	Wednesday 24		7:00 a.m.	December 25, 2002
New Year's Day	Wednesday 24		7:00 a.m.	January 1,2003
Easter	Monday	24	7:00 a.m.	April 21,2003
-43-
5.	2003-2004 AGREEMENT YEAR
Holiday	Day	Hrs,	Beginning	Date
Memorial Day	Monday	24	7:00 a.m.	May 26, 2003
Day Before				
Independence Day	Thursday	24	7:00 a.m.	July 3, 2003
Independence Day	Friday	24	7:00 a.m.	July 4, 2003
Labor Day*	Monday	32	11:00 p.m.	September 1, 2003
Thanksgiving	Thursday	24	7:00 a.m.	November 27, 2003
Christmas Eve	Wednesday 24		7:00 a.m.	December 24, 2003
Christmas Day	Thursday	24	7:00 a.m.	December 25, 2003
New Year's Day	Thursday	24	7:00 a.m.	January 1, 2004
Easter	Monday	24	7:00 a.m.	April 12, 2004
6.	2004-2005 AGREEMENT YEAR
Memorial Day	Monday	24	7:00 a.m. May 31,2004
Independence Day	Saturday	24	7:00 a.m. July 3, 2004
Day After			
Independence Day	Monday	24	7:00 a.m. July 5, 2004
Labor Day*	Monday	32	11:00 p.m. September 6, 2004
Thanksgiving	Thursday	24	7:00 a.m. November 25, 2004
Christmas Eve	Friday	24	' 7:00 a.m. December 24, 2004
Christmas Day	Saturday	24	7:00 a.m. December 25, 2004
New Year's Day	Saturday	24	7:00 a.m. January 1, 2005
Easter	Monday	24	7:00 a.m. March 28, 2005 .
*Even though the holiday extends over parts of 2 contract days, employees who work on both contract days are eligible for holiday pay or banking only once during this holiday.
7.	Operating Guidelines
a.	The above schedule represents the minimum hours for holiday shutdowns. Shutdown periods may be shortened or lengthened by mutual agreement.
On run holidays, the Company will staff jobs in the manner that they have been staffed on previous run holidays.
b.	The Company reserves the right to operate at the following limes:
(1)	Memorial Day - all holiday hours
(2)	Labor Day - all holiday hours
-44-
c.
(3)	Thanksgiving - all holiday hours
(4)	Day before Christmas - from 7:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m.
(5)	New Year’s - all holiday hours
(6)	Easter - all holiday hours
(7)	July 4 and either the day before or after, whichever is selected
Banking Holidays Worked
Employees required to work 4 or more hours on a contractually recognized holiday will have the option of;
(1)	Receiving holiday pay plus the specified premium for work performed; or
(2)	Receiving only the specified premium for work performed and banking 1 day (8 hours) for each holiday worked.
Banking of holidays worked is limited to a maximum of 6 days (48 hours) within a contract year.
Banked holiday hours will be paid at the employee's permanent job rate in effect at the time the hours were earned. The election to bank must be noted on the timecard for that worked holiday.
Banked holidays may be withdrawn from the bank in cash or in time off with pay in full-day (8-hour) increments. When withdrawn either in cash or in time off with pay, the paid hours do not count as time worked.
-45-
Banked holidays must be used before employees will be granted personal time off.
Arrangements for taking banked holidays off are subject to supervisory approval. Employees will not be permitted to take banked holidays if the effect will be to deny vacation to another employee.
Banked holidays must be redeemed within 1 year of being banked.
d.	Holidays Operated
During weeks when a paid holiday occurs and the plants operate, only regular department employees are to be scheduled for work on the holiday Work schedules will be checked to see that no vacation or sick relief employees work on the holiday, except ■ in case of an emergency. This may cause rescheduling to change day off of vacation or sick relief employees who are not a part of the department. This paragraph does apply to all departments that are normally scheduled through the week, but will not apply to continuous operations on a 7-4, 7-2, 7-1 shift schedule and 6-2 shift schedule.
e.	Holidays Not Operated
During the weeks when a paid holiday occurs and the plants do not operate, regular department employees have the privilege of working without vacation relief employees. When a permanent member of the department takes a vacation during a shutdown holiday week, other members of the department can work 5 days and receive 6 days' pay, including holiday pay for that week. In line with
-46-
the above, no. vacation relief is needed in the department unless there are too many vacations or absences for other reasons. This paragraph does not apply to continuous operations on a 7-4, 7-2, 7-1 shift schedule and a 6~2 shift schedule.
8.	Holiday Restrictions - PACE Mechanics
a.	Restricted Workdays
On the following restricted workdays it is desired that maintenance personnel not be required to work:
Day before Christmas (after 3:00 p.m.) and Christmas Day; necessary work may be performed for the reason listed:
(1)	Extreme emergency work or the need to supply steam power or electricity.
Employees are to be given the option of working or not working provided, however, that if there is an insufficient number of voluntary workers, the youngest in seniority who are qualified must perform the work.
b.	Non restricted Workdays
On holidays other than those listed above, maintenance and repair work may be performed.
c.	General
Employees may be brought in to work on the last shift of these days to start essential equipment.
d.	The Company’s right to determine whether any PACE craft department will work during run Sundays and to designate the number of craftspeople, if any, to be assigned work during run Sundays shall not
-47-
be abridged except as follows: If the Company determines that work within a craft department is to be performed on a run Sunday, the Company shall assign not fewer than 2 craftspeople to perform such work. The Company may assign the following work without regard to the 2-person minimum:
(1)	Machinist
(2)	Welding
(3)	Tinning
(4)	Garage Work (Mechanical)
(5)	Oiling
(6)	Shift Electrician
(7)	Instrumentation (Wisconsin River Division)
(8)	Painters
(9)	Slitter-Grinder
The craft departments are: millwright, pipefitting, electrical, and instrument.
The shift electrician will count as one of the 2-person minimum at the Wisconsin River Division.
9.	Employee Birthday and Floating Holiday Provisions
The employee's birthday and the floating holidays shall be nonwori<ed holidays. They will be consecutive days off with the floaters being taken immediately preceding or following the birthday holiday. Employees shall be given these days off, or alternate days off, with pay at straight time. If employees opt to work on their birthday holiday, they will select other days off in either the month before, month of,
-48-
or month after their birthday, and other than their day off. The 3 days must be consecutive within the contract week and such time off arranged with and approved by supervision.
If an employee's birthday falls on a regular scheduled day off, a contractual down day, holiday, or vacation, the employee shall be given another day off. When employees work on their actual birth date they shall be paid at straight time.
Any employee not taking the days off shall forfeit birthday holiday and floating holiday pay. SVRs will not be eligible for any of the above-identified holidays.
Pay for the birthday holiday and the floating holidays will be provided employees on the days taken off.
10.	Floating Holiday
Conditions associated with this holiday are as follows:
a.	It will be an individual holiday for each individual employee in the bargaining unit.
b.	Advance notice is to be given to the supervisor and supervisory approval must be received before the floating holiday can be taken.
c.	This holiday cannot be banked nor deferred into another contract year.
d.	If not used, the holiday will be lost.
SECTION 12 - ABSENCES
General: Employees are expected to report for work at the designated starting time unless they have obtained prior approval from their supervisor to be absent from the job.
-49-
Employees who fail to give adequate notice as determined by divisional policy or who are absent without clearance shall be subject to the disciplinary procedure under the work rules.
Before an employee will be allowed to return to work following an absence, the employee must give due notice according to divisional policy.
The regular scheduled workweek begins at 7:00 a.m. on Monday. Employees absent from work Monday through Saturday due to illness or injury will not be allowed to work on Sunday. They will report back to work as scheduled for the following workweek.
Employees returning to work without proper notification will not be entitled to reporting time.
A.	Illness or Injury
1.	Employees who have been off on illness in excess of 7 consecutive days, or who have been absent as a result of an injury may be required to have a Health Services' release prior to their returning to work.
2.	Employment Status
An employee off work due to illness or nonoccupational injury will continue their seniority until s/he is medically certified as being physically capable of returning to their former position, subject to a maximum of 3 years from last day worked.
In the event the absence continues for a period greater than 6 months, the employee will be placed on suspension, with a continuity of seniority, subject to a maximum of 3 years from last day worked; however, the employee will cease to qualify for vacation allowance and holiday pay with the
-50-
Company with the exception of any benefits s/he may be entitled to under the terms of the Employees' Benefit Plan and the Retirement Plan.
B.	Military Absences
1.	When an employee is called by the Veterans Administration in connection with a service disability, or when called by the Selective Service Board for medical examination, or when serving in the National Guard or Reserve Unit service, the employee shall have the responsibility to prearrange with their supervisor such absences. In addition, it is expected that the employee will submit to the supervisor a copy of the instructional letter which necessitates this absence.
a. National Guard and Reserve Unit Service
This provision is intended to cover fulfillment of minimum National Guard or other Reserve Unit requirements. Longer terms of military training entered into voluntarily by the employee will not be covered.
2.	The Company and the Union desire to comply with all present and future laws and regulations established by Federal and State Governments with regard to employment of discharged veterans. Disputed cases will be jointly referred to the Veterans Administration for interpretation and will not be subject to the Grievance Procedure.
C.	Leave of Absence
1.	Leaves of absence of 4 weeks or less in duration will not require approval of the Human Resources Department. Such leaves may be granted with the consent of supervision and/or mill management.
-51-
2.	Leaves of absence in excess.of 4 weeks may be granted at the option of the Company for reasons deemed valid by the Company and shall not exceed 6 months in duration. Under extenuating circumstances, such leaves of absence may be extended.
a.	Such leave of absence requests shall be made in writing to the supervisor with a copy to the Human Resources Department and the President of the local Union involved.
b.	The decision arrived at by the supervisor and Human Resources Department shall be put in writing by the Human Resources Department and submitted to the employee and the President of the local Union involved.
c.	During the term of any approved leave of absence, the employee will continue to accrue seniority and shall maintain membership in good standing by the payment of monthly Union dues to the local Union. The employee will not be entitled to paid holidays, jury duty, funeral leave, and in order to be entitled to vacation privileges, s/he must meet all of the requirements as set forth in the section dealing with vacations.
3.	Leaves of absence will be granted for employees elected to public office for 1 term only.
4.	The Company agrees to follow the provisions of the Federal and State Family Medical Leave Acts.
5.	An employee who becomes employed full time with the International will be granted a leave of absence not to exceed 1 year after having given the Company at least 3 weeks' notice in writing. No more than 1
-52-
such leave will be granted at one time, nor will the same employee be granted more than 1 such leave. The time spent on such leave will be without loss of seniority rights, but such employee will have no other benefits provided by this agreement or the Company.
D.	Jury Duty
1.	The purpose of jury duty pay is to enable an employee to maintain their regular earnings, but not to make a profit while fulfilling their civic responsibility.
2.	Permanent employees are eligible providing they have completed their probationary period, presented proper certification, and followed the jury duty pay procedure as set forth.
3.	The employee, upon receiving notice that s/he is to serve on jury duty, and on each separate day that v s/he will be serving, shall notify their supervisor at the earliest opportunity.
4.	In order to receive the proper reimbursement, employeeswill be required to submit Form 141-93 A (Application for Jury Duty Pay). This form is to be completed and signed by the appropriate court officials showing the date and time served on jury duty, and the amount s/he was paid (excluding reimbursement expenses such as meals, mileage, etc.).
5.	The regular straight-time rate of pay will be applicable (exclusive of shift differential). The make-up pay shall be based on the employee's regularly scheduled workday.
a.	If an employee works a partial shift, and their earnings for those hours worked plus jury duty
-53-
pay are equal to, or exceed, their normal dayshift earnings, s/he would not be eligible for jury duty pay.
b.	Time spent on jury duty shall not be considered as time worked for the purpose of computing overtime. In order to receive overtime pay, regular hours must exceed 40 hours. If an employee returns to work for a partial shift s/he shall not be paid overtime until s/he has actually worked the number of hours equivalent to their regular shift.
c.	The employee scheduled to work 11-7 has the option of taking off the scheduled shift before or the scheduled shift on the day of jury duty, but not both. Employees scheduled to work the 11-7 shift on the day preceding the first day of jury duty are allowed to be off that shift, even when the first day of jury duty occurs on an employee's scheduled day off.
6.	Jury duty pay will not be allowed for the following:
a.	Temporary shutdowns, while on strike, layoff status, or during a lockout.
b.	Illness.
c.	Vacations.
d.	While collecting sick benefits, CEBP, or Worker's Compensation.
e.	During a day off (except as provided for in 5-c above) or when on personal time off.
f.	Sunday, if an employee was not prescheduled to work as a part of their regular weekly schedule.
-54-
g.	An employee in a change of shifts, or changes their day off so as to take advantage of jury duty pay.
7.	All employees must report back to work when the ‘ jury is excused early in the week, or when court is not in session. However, it is not necessary that an employee report to work on the same day of jury duty.
8.	An employee on jury duty and who does not work during their scheduled shift that day is excused for the total workday.
E.	Funeral Leave
1.	. The term funeral as used herein includes a funeral service, memorial service, burial service, interment service, or other bereavement service. Funeral leave benefits are available for one such event or service per covered relation.
2.	In the case of a death involving an employee's wife, husband, daughter, son, mother, father, sister, brother, mother-in-law, father-in-law, sister-in-law, brother-in-law, daughter-in-law, son-in-law, granddaughter, grandson, grandmother, grandfather, grandfather-in-law, and grandmother-in-law, the Company will pay for the employee's lost wages for 3 consecutive workdays, except as excluded in number 3 following. In addition, only 1 of the 3 days may be taken following the day of the funeral.
Sister-in-law is defined only as an employee’s spouse's sister or the employee's brother's wife. Brother-in-law is defined as only an employee's spouse's brother or an employee's sister's husband.
-55-
Even though an employee's in-law relationships have been terminated by death or divorce, for purposes of payment under funeral leave, eligibility will continue until the employee remarries.
Employees, at their option, may elect to have funeral leave benefits provided for a stepmother or stepfather instead of their birth mother or father. For example, an employee can select to use their funeral . leave benefit for a stepfather, and, therefore, would not be eligible for funeral leave benefits for their birth father or another stepfather.
The terms son and daughter, above, include stepson and stepdaughter even though the step relationship has been terminated by death or divorce, as long as the employee has not remarried.
For a relative not covered above, a maximum of 1 day of personal time off will be allowed to attend the funeral without having to first use a banked holiday
3.	Funeral leave eligibility as identified in number 1 preceding is subject to the following conditions:
a.	Funeral leave is paid based on the straight-time . rate of an employee’s regular job.
Relief employees are paid on the basis of their average wage rate exclusive of shift differential and overtime.
b.	The employee must have completed the appropriate probationary period.
c.	Pay will be allowed only if the employee attends the funeral.
d.	The employee must make application for pay
-56-
within 2 weeks after the funeral.
e.	Funeral leave pay is not allowed for the following:
(1)	Sunday, if employee was not prescheduled to work as part of his/her regular weekly schedule.
(2)	Holidays.
(3)	Days off.
(4)	Personal time off.
(5)	Absence for illness or injury, family leave, or Worker's Compensation.
(6)	Employees in layoff status.
(7)	Employees off due to temporary shutdowns.
f.	Payment is limited to a maximum of 8 hours per day at straight-time rate.
g.	Funeral leave hours are not used to calculate overtime pay. Funeral leave hours plus time worked are not to exceed the scheduled hours (40 or 48 according to the schedule set up on the previous week) for the week in which the leave occurs.
h.	If a death or funeral occurs involving an employee's family member (as defined in E,2) between Monday through Friday while an employee is on vacation, a maximum of 3 consecutive days' funeral leave pay in addition to their vacation pay, will be provided.
-57-
F.	Company or Union Business
1.	AH Union committee members and/or stewards are subject to all of the plant rules and regulations regarding the conduct of employees on the premises of the Company. It is understood and agreed by the parties hereto that each will cooperate with the other tn reducing to a minimum the actual time spent by the committee members and/or stewards in investigating, presenting, and adjusting grievances or disputes or other problems related to the Agreement.
a. Committee members and/or stewards will inform their supervisor before they perform any of the Union work described above.
G.	Personal Time Off
1.	The Company will provide employees with personal time off for emergency and/or valid reasons. It is understood that persons granted personal time off will not receive pay for such time off. Additionally, the Company is not obligated to incur penalty or premium costs in granting personal time off. The granting of personal time off requires the cooperation of the employee and such cooperation may require that s/he:
a.	Make arrangements with their partners to change shifts and/or to change their day off, and
b.	Give as much advance notice as is reasonably possible consistent with the need for the requested personal time off. Supervisory approval of such requests shall not be unreasonably withheld.
-58-
' 2. In case of illness or injury to a member of the immediate family, an employee may'arrange to be excused on personal time off without pay provided s/he keeps their supervisor informed.
3.	Weddings.in the Immediate Family
The'immediate family is defined as including the following only: the employee,’the employee's son, daughter, brother,.sister, half brother, and half sister.
- Employees should make their own arrangements ■ well in advance to be off, for weddings in the ,	\ immediate family. Failing to successfully arrange
• . time off through their own efforts, the employees and their supervisors will schedule such personal time off: । In such cases, this may result in working ■ ■ ' without normal relief. Employees do not have to use "■ 4 a banked holiday before PTO to attend a wedding as specified in this subsection.
'................. <>'	i ■ '	*	.
H. Pay for Time Lost on Day of Injury ,	' '. .	’ '> r’ ’( f ■	.
1; ■. An employee who suffers an occupational injury that . p. j requires medical attention shall be paid for the time lost on the day of the injury while.obtaining first aid or emergency medical treatment. If the doctor recommends that s/he should not return to work, s/he shall be paid for the remaining time to the end of .their prescheduled shift on the .day of injury. If the , employee returns to work after receiving medical x attention and suffers side effects and has to leave the job, s/he shall return for further medical attention. If excused, s/he shall be paid for the remaining time *	' to the end'pf their prescheduled shift. ‘
,, An employee shall be paid for all time worked up to the time of the injury at the rate in effect at the time
-59-
2.	lime lost within the year beginning May 1 of the current Agreement year to May 1 of the following Agreement year because of illness or accident for a , period not to exceed 6 months that the employee is covered by either CEBP or Worker's Compensation, ‘ shall be included in calculating the minimum actual hour requirements and in accumulating the 12 work months.
3.	When a Company employee is serving as a bona fide Union representative of a bargaining unit within the Company, and s/he is on approved non-
. Company Union business, s/he will be credited with such hours, not to exceed their scheduled hours, in establishing the minimum hours to qualify for a vacation. Hours lost due to temporary shutdowns will also be credited in establishing minimum hours ' -/to qualify for a vacation.
Vacation Allowances and Pay
1.	Eligible employees shall earn full weeks of vacation .. based on accumulated service as of May 1 of that vacation year as outlined below:
Accumulated Years'Service As of May 1	■ Allowed , Vacation, Weeks	Vacation Hours' Pay
1 r	"l	48
3*	2	96
8*	3 , .	- 144
12*	. 4	192
18*’ ,	... 5	240
25* ,u	. 6 . •	.< 288
30‘	. 7	336
*As of 05-01-2000, or if anniversary falls within vacation season immediately following.
-62-
2.	Vacation pay of regular department employees will be based on the rate of pay for their regular job. Day-off relief employees will be paid on the basis of their average wage rate exclusive of shift differential and overtime.
3.	Scheduling of Vacations
Vacations will have to be scheduled uniformly throughout the year. During summer months when seasonal vacation replacements are working, as many vacations will be allowed as is possible without interrupting the production and quality of operations.
Any vacation which is not taken or has not been arranged for by January 1 of the current Agreement year will be scheduled for a specific time by the employee's supervisor.
a.	Choice of vacations will be given in accordance with the seniority rights of the employees as follows: first by department, then by division, then by Company seniority. An employee may exercise their seniority only once whether it be for part or all of their vacation allowance. In any instance, s/he will circle their first choice. If only a portion of their total vacation allowance is selected on this first choice, then all other employees in the department must be allowed . to exercise their seniority for their first choice, before this employee can exercise their seniority for the balance of their vacation remaining.
b.	It is preferred that vacations be taken without a break to give the employees a longer rest.
4.	Guidelines
a.	No employee is to be called into work from vacation except in an extreme emergency.
-63-
b.	If the Company requests the employee to work in an extreme emergency straight through without a vacation, then the employee may be paid vacation pay in lieu of time off.
c.	Employees will be permitted to take their vacation time off provided the Company has available labor supply to replace them. The Company cannot permit employees to be off where added financial responsibility is imposed upon the Company, namely, time and one-half.
(1)	An employee's chosen and approved vacation may be changed by virtue of an extreme emergency or an added financial responsibility which would be imposed upon the Company if it were to allow the employee to take their vacation at this time, then the employee may, if dissatisfied with the subsequent arrangement of the vacation, refer the matter to their Union. If the Union can suggest to the Company an employee who can act in the capacity of relief to let someone go on vacation, then the qualifications of this employee must be satisfactory to the supervisor before such vacation will be allowed,
d.	The number of vacations allowed in any given department will be determined by the operating conditions of that department.
e.	Employees working on the 6 days on and 2 days off schedule are to be permitted to take their . vacations by either of the following methods:
(1)	One week of vacation is to be for 7 consecutive days. This permits the
-64-
. employee to start their vacation on the first day of their 2 days off and continue their vacation through the next 5 scheduled workdays and return to work on the 6th scheduled day of work,
(2)	Take vacation as in the past, a total of 10 days off, made up as follows: 2 days off, 6 days of work as scheduled, and 2 days off.
f.	Vacations will run for 7 consecutive days, Monday through Sunday, regardless of whether or not a holiday happens to be in the week the vacation is taken. The day off also counts as a day's vacation. Vacations will start in the middle of the week by special permission only. If in any case an employee has received special permission to take less than 7 consecutive days, s/he will not receive their vacation pay unless s/he has completed at least 1 week.
g.	Employees will not be allowed to change their vacation with another employee without permission from their supervisor.
5.	Illnesses - Vacation
An employee who is ill may take their vacation at that time. An employee may receive CEBP and vacation pay at the same time. The vacation will be allowed only in units of full weeks. If this uses up all their vacation allowance and at a later time the employee desires personal time off, such time off will be prearranged with their supervisor in accordance with the section dealing with personal time off.
-65-
6.	National Guard and Reserve Unit
Temporary training for active duty requirements will not result in cancellation of approved vacations selected by other employees. The Company will ascertain National Guard and Reserve Unit commitments in advance of each May 1 and will allow a reasonable number of vacations during these periods which will not result in overtime penalties.
7.	Special Requirements
The Company reserves the right to ask employees to take their vacation by departments or in groups if operating conditions are such that it would be advisable to do so.
D.	Relief Employees
All departments of all divisions will adhere to a 40-hour workweek and use relief employees at all times during vacations. (The only exception to the use of relief employees at all times is in those situations wherein circumstances occur over which the Company has no control.)
E.	Employees Removed from Payroll
Eligibility: Underthe following conditions, employees who are eligible for earned and/or pro rata vacation shall ' receive either upon removal from payroll. Employees in layoff.shall not be paid their earned and/or pro rata vacation until the first pay period following May 1. Employees may request such vacation pay earlier than May 1; however, such vacation pay will then be paid to them in the next payroll period.
1.	Layoffs. Employees permanently laid off by the Company.
-66-
2,	Employees who leave of their own accord after giving the Company 2 weeks' notice of termination of employment.
3.	Employees on. approved leaves of absence, i.e., . Armed Services.
,	*	<1
. 4. Employees who die during the vacation year. If such . . employees have completed the minimum hours' requirement, they will be entitled to their full.yacation allowance.
5.	Retirements. If such employees have completed the minimum hours' requirement, they will be entitled to their full vacation allowance.
6.	Employees terminated for cause shall be entitled to earned vacation as of May 1 of the prior year as well as pro rata vacation.
F.	Employees Reinstated with Continuous Service
, When an employee has been on an approved leave of absence, or in military, service and eligible under the Veterans Re-employment Act and subsequently reinstated to the payroll without loss of continuous service credits, s/he shall be entitled to pro rata vacation pay from May 1 of the year in which s/he returns until May 1 of the subsequent Agreement year minus any J pro rata vacation pay already credited at the time of their removal.
> 1; Pro rata payments will be made to the employee on ‘ the first payday in the pay period following May 1 of the subsequent calendar year.
G.	Banking	<4‘ '*
Employees with more than 2 weeks of annual vacation, may bank vacation (in excess of 2 weeks) up to 10 weeks
-67-
than 6 hours' pay for any call-in when mechanics are called in on repair work at any time other than their normal daily work schedule. The minimum is satisfied when employees come in early and are told at time of call-in to work into their regular '■ schedule. ' -	- • •1
' 3. Call time will not apply when mechanics are called to work after an emergency causing a shutdown of a department or division in excess of 1 day.
E.	Clean-up Time ’
Mechanics, including painters, and other employees working with tools and/or equipment will be allowed to collect their tools 10 minutes before mealtime and termination*of the day's work. •
F.	Transfers
•i
When it becomes necessary to transfer mechanics and \ helpers to other work around the plant, such employees will'be given preference to'return to their former jobs and retain seniority rights.
G.	Reporting Time	f
Two hours' time shall be allowed to all mechanics reporting for work and being sent home. If a mechanic starts work, s/he shall be paid a minimum of 4 hours.
H.	20-Minute Lunch ■
Maintenance workers, which include painters and apprentices scheduled in advance to work more than 8 hours per shift, shall be allowed a 20-minute paid lunch period. In the event laborers are assigned to work with the employees mentioned in the foregoing, they shall be entitled to the 20-minute lunch period.
-72-
I.	Craft Promotion Posting
For any premium-paying permanent positions, a posting will be made in the respective craft group having the vacancy. Premium-paying jobs refer to jobs which are not achieved as the result of time in grade or ratio but are jobs which pay a rate over and above that listed in the wage schedule.
The placement will be made as a result of qualification, ability, and seniority.
J.	Work Assignment - Painters
Painters will be assigned the painting of all buildings and facilities owned and occupied by Consolidated Papers, Inc. as hereinafter listed:
1.	Biron Division
Company Houses
Power Company Gates
Biron Mill Physical Property ‘
R&D Division
2.	Stevens Point Division
Well
Powerhouse - Pump House
Sales Office
Parking Lot
Stevens Point Division Mill Property
Joern's Warehouse
3.	Wisconsin Rapids Division
Du Bay Powerhouse
Main Office
Baldwin Building
Wisconsin Rapids Division Mill Property
River Block Office
-73-
4.	Wisconsin River Division
Wisconsin River Division Mill Property
Dam Gates
Waste Clarifier
Well House
Company Houses
5.	Paperboard Products Division
Paperboard Products Division Property
6.	Kraft Division
Corporate Transportation Center
Kraft Division Property Water Quality Center
K.	Apprenticeship System
1.	Extent of Period of Apprenticeship
The Company shall notify the Union in writing at the time an employee enters into an apprenticeship training program and thereby begins serving their probationary period.
An employee transferred to a craft position as an apprentice will be on probation for 60 days. Within this 60-day period it will be determined by supervision and the Human Resources Department whether or not the employee is qualified to continue in the apprenticeship training program.
If an employee does not continue in the apprenticeship, s/he shall be returned to their previous position if the decision to terminate their apprenticeship job is made within or before the conclusion of the 60-day probationary period. If the decision is made after 60 days have expired, the
-74-
employee will be permitted to return only to base or entry-level positions available.
2.	Union Membership
It is agreed that an employee entering an apprenticeship into any craft position and upon completion of their probationary period shall join the appropriate Union at the respective division wherein s/he is employed.
3.	Apprenticeship Progress
Semiannually during the 4 years of the apprentice's training, the apprentice's progress will be evaluated by their supervisor, a Human Resources Department representative, and the apprenticeship committee.
4.	Completion of the Apprenticeship Training
If, at the end of 4 years, the apprentice satisfactorily passes an appropriate examination, s/he will be rated as journey level and entitled to journey-level pay.
5.	Pay While Training
Apprentices will -be paid for time spent taking accredited courses toward the State Indenture at the applicable scheduled rates on a straight-time basis. When employees work on the 6th day, the hours spent in school will be considered as hours worked for weekly overtime purposes.
6.	Too) Allowance
a. Machinist, millwright, welder, pipefitter, electrician,.etc. apprentices and newly hired journeypersons who have served a satisfactory 60-day probationary period are entitled to a $250
-75-
per year tool allowance. All other joumeypersons will receive a $200 per year tool allowance.
Apprentices will have the opportunity to request a 4-year tool allowance advance to enable them to purchase all of the tools on this list immediately, upon completion of the appropriate probationary period. This will enable the apprentice to have a basic set of tools necessary to perform their job duties early in the apprenticeship. If employment is voluntarily/non-voluntarily terminated, the apprentice must pay back the unearned portion of the tool allowance advance.
Apprentice Tool Lists by Craft (see agreed-to lists of tools by designation)
6.a.(1) Millwright/Tinner Apprentice Tool List
6.a.(2) Machinists Apprentice Tool List
6.a.(3) Auto Mechanics Apprentice Tool List 6.a.(4) Electrical/lnstrument Apprentice Tool List 6.a.(5) Pipefitter Apprentice Tool List
b.	Painters who have served the satisfactory 60-day probationary period are entitled to a $75 per year tool and uniform allowance.
c.	Employees may purchase new tools as an addition to their tool boxes. After receipt of approval from their supervisor, employees can make their purchase locally, or, if it is not available locally, the Storeroom will order the special tools for them.
d.	In order to receive payment, employees are to present the bills to their supervisor. The supervisor is to check the tools received against
-76-
the invoice to see that they are on the approved list, after which s/he can approve the bill. The employees can then present the bill to the Storeroom office where it will be processed for payment, which the employees will receive by check in a few days.
e.	Since tools are the property of the employees, repairing such tools is their responsibility and is not to be done on Company time or at Company expense. Any parts furnished through the Storeroom are to be charged to their existing allowance, or if depleted, directly to the employees.
f.	Standard expendable items and tools furnished to employees on loan by the Company Storeroom such as large wrenches, etc. are not to be approved for purchase by employees. Standard lists of tools furnished by the Company, as well as those approved for purchase by the various crafts, are available.
7. Apprenticeship Committee
A committee will be established to administer the Apprenticeship System and shall consist of no more than 3 representatives of the Union. This committee shall meet with Company representatives.
SECTION 16	- KRAFT DIVISION
Operation of the Kraft Division will be on a standard week of operation from 7:00 a.m. Monday to 7:00 a.m. the.following Monday. The division consists of the following departments: Chip Handling, Cleaners, Crane, General, Painting, Power, Recovery, Stock Process, Storeroom, Technical, Wet Machine, Wood Processing, and Yard.
-77-
Of the above-listed departments, the Power, Recovery, Stock Process, and Technical Departments are currently operating on a 7 days on, 4 days off; 7 days on, 2 days off; 7 days on, 1 day off repeating swing schedule. Any department changed to a different operating schedule, by mutual agreement, and those departments that are on a different schedule will not be required to follow the provisions that apply to 7-4, 7-2, 7-1 scheduled operation.
Necessary shutdowns for maintenance will be limited to a minimum number throughout the year but the Company will attempt to schedule such shutdowns over important recognized paid holidays, i.e., Christmas Eve Day (December 24); and Christmas Day (December 25). Apart from these necessary shutdowns, the provisions of Section 11 concerning restriction of operation on certain holidays will not apply at this division. Kraft Division employees who work on the 2nd and 3rd shift on Christmas Eve and Christmas Day will be paid 15% over their straight-time rate for hours worked. This is not to be 15% of their double-time rate.
SECTION 17	- RATE RETENTION
General: The purpose of this section of the Labor Agreement is to provide for a red-circle rate when the Company:
A.	Institutes labor-saving equipment or machinery,
B.	Abandons an entire department or a job classification,
C.	Institutes revised production methods or job procedures, which permanently eliminates the job, combines it with another job, or permanently reduces the number of employees in the job and results in the employee being
* permanently-reassigned to a lower job rate. Any employees displaced but who were not in the line of
-78-
progression affected by the change shall not be entitled to a red-circle rate. Day off relief employees who spend more than 50% of their time in the affected line of progression will be given a red-circle rate, However, employees remaining in the line of progression, but who have been bumped to lower paying permanent jobs within that line of progression shall be entitled to the red-circle rate.
Rate retention shall not apply to:
A.	Any employee displacement consistent with the seniority provisions of the Labor Agreement caused by business conditions.
B.	Shutdowns for plant repairs and/or temporary interruptions of work.
C.	Governmental actions.
D.	Abandonment of an entire operation.
Any employee who is displaced and has accrued less than 5 years of Company seniority at the time of the job change shall be established at a rate 50% between the former job rate and that of the job rate to which s/he is assigned.
Any employee who is displaced and has accrued 5 years or more of Company seniority at the time of the job change shall be established at a rate equal to their former job rate.
The Company will notify the employee(s) whose job classification is to be changed and the appropriate Union as far in advance of the change as is possible. The Company will apply the seniority provision of the contract when reassigning an employee(s) to a job classification with a lower rate of pay.
-79-
The red-circle rate so established shall in no event continue in excess of 12 months from the date of its establishment, at which time it will revert to the wage rate called for in the wage schedule for the job actually being performed.
In the event the employee bids to another job, their red-circle rate will be canceled as soon as the rate of the new job equals the rate of the former job.
It is understood that an employee may be assigned to any open position within the jurisdiction of the Union to which s/he belongs; and for which job s/he is qualified, then their red-circle rate will be canceled as soon as the rate of the assigned job equals the rate of their former job.
In the event an employee working with a red-circle rate is subsequently displaced as a result of another job elimination or combination, effective the date of the second displacement, their wage retention period would be extended an additional 12 months from that date and a new red-circle rate would be established to become effective after the initial period expired.
In the event of a general wage adjustment or job rate adjustment during the period the red-circle rate is in effect, such adjustments will be added to the red-circle rate. Such adjustments will be computed on the basis of the job wage rate schedule of the current Labor Agreement.
Employees earning 2 different rates as a result of working a fixed schedule at one rate and the remainder of their schedule at another rate shall have their rates calculated on a weighted average; the end resultant figure shall be the hourly earnings rate by which the red-circle rate shall be calculated.
An employee with a red-circle rate in effect who is placed as temporary relief on a job with a higher rate than their red-
-80-
circle rate shall receive the higher rate of pay while performing such temporary relief. Temporary relief on the higher rate job alone shall not terminate the employee's red-circle rate.
In the event an employee working with a red-circle rate is subsequently displaced as a result of a work force reduction due to business conditions, the red-circle rate shall be continued.
The foregoing provisions shall not apply when an employee is in a layoff status from their division.
SECTION 18 - EMPLOYEE RULES
The Company's rules for employees are mutually adopted by the Company and the Union. In order to accomplish the best results in our work and to preserve, at the same time, a spirit of fairness and justice, it shall be the duty of both parties to see that such rules are enforced.
These rules, and others which may be established from time to time, are hereby published to provide and promote understanding of what is considered unacceptable conduct, and to prompt consistent disciplinary action for violations of these rules.
Any of the following conduct will be considered in violation of Company rules and unacceptable. Any employee who engages in such misconduct may be disciplined, including discharge from employment, either after a warning or immediately without warning, depending on the seriousness, nature, and circumstances of the violation(s). Repeated violations of the same rule, or compounded violations of more than 1, shall be cause for accelerated disciplinary action. The purpose of disciplinary action is not for punishment, but to discourage repetition of misbehavior by the offender.
-81-
1. Refusing to follow instructions of the supervisor or to perform assigned work, except that which would endanger himself/herself or other employees.
■ 2. Leaving one's job assignment, location, or department, except in the line of duty, or leaving the premises without express permission of supervision.
3.	Sleeping on the job.
4.	Malicious damaging, destroying, mutilating, or defacing any property on Company premises.
5.	Stealing Company property or that of another employee, or removal of Company property or records without supervisory permission.
6.	Falsifying Company records.
7.	Reporting for work or being on Company premises under influence of an intoxicating beverage or a drug which has not been prescribed by a physician; or possessing or consuming same on Company premises.
8.	Excessive absenteeism or tardiness without satisfactory reasons.
9.	Disregarding established or normal safety, fire, and health regulations, practices, and precautions.
10.	Failing to report immediately to the supervisor any accident which caused an injury or damage to property regardless of the severity.
11.	Smoking in unauthorized areas on Company premises.
12.	Notifying the family or relatives of an injured or seriously ill employee's condition without express Human Resources Department or management authorization to do so, excluding member of the immediate family as defined in Section 12, E, 2.
“82-
13.	Fighting, physically assaulting any person, or acting with intent to do bodily injury to anyone on Company premises.
14.	(a) Threatening other employees or directing such behavior toward anyone on Company premises. •
(b) Directing vile, abusive, or insulting remarks to or . . about another person on Company premises.
15.	Bringing firearms, concealed weapons, or explosives onto Company premises.
16.	Committing immoral or indecent acts on‘Company premises.
17.	All employees are required to punch the clock upon entering or leaving mill property for work purposes, and are required to be on their respective jobs at the time their pay starts and shall not quit work in advance of the time their pay stops.
18.	Each shift worker is required to stay on the job until relieved by their partner or released by their supervisor. Shift workers on continuous 24-hour operation jobs are permitted to leave their department 15 minutes before quitting time and may punch out during this period when properly relieved by their partner. On 2-shift operations, the 1st shift employees will be permitted to leave their department 5 minutes before quitting time and may punch out during this period when properly relieved by their partner.
The foregoing are not all-inclusive. There are other examples of unacceptable conduct which shall not limit management in its prerogative to maintain discipline and to apply disciplinary action for misconduct that is not listed but which is properly and customarily the subject of disciplinary action. If it becomes necessary to establish additional rules,
-83-
employees will be notified of such mutually adopted rules by posting them on the bulletin boards.
Violation of employee rules herein will result in disciplinary action as outlined in the Standard Application-Frequency Guide.
The Company will give full consideration to any excuse supported by a doctor's written statement when disciplining employees for poor attendance.
EMPLOYEE RULES
STANDARD APPLICATION FREQUENCY GUIDE*
Rule No,	Violation				
	1st	2nd	3rd	4th	Time Factor
1	3	4	-	-	1 year
2	1	2	3	4	1 year
3	3	4	-		1 year
4	3	4	-	-	1 year
5	4	•	-	-	None
6	3	4	-	- ■	1 year
7	3	4	-	-	1 year
8	1	2	3	4	1 year
9	2 .	3	4	-	1 year
10	2	3	4	-	1 year
11	2	3	4	-	1 year
12	1	2	3	4	1 year
13	4	*	-	-	None
14(a)	3	4	-	-	1 year/1st offense
					3 years/2nd offense**
14(b)	2	3	4	-	1 year
15	4	-	-	-	None
16	3	4	-	-	1 year
17	1	2	3	4 ,	1 year
18	1	2	3	4	1 year
-84-
VIOLATION CODE: ,1 -iVerba) warning
. •-» 2 - Written warning
3	- Disciplinary suspension
4	- Discharge
*	Disciplinary action may be given up to and including the violation code listed under each frequency column, , dependent upon severity.
*	* If the 2nd offense is outside of the 1 -year window from the 1st offense.	-
SECTION 19 - SUPERVISORS WORKING	t,
•*	< I	I H
Salaried supervisors or relief salaried supervisors shall not perform work regularly performed by employees in the recognized.bargaining unit for the purpose of displacement of an employee or for,the purpose of avoiding thes'cheduling of additional workers. It shall not be considered doing bargaining unit work for a salaried supervisor or relief salaried supervisor to engage in training employees, experimentation, or to provide for the safety of the employees’ arid Company property.	'	. .
SECTION 20 - CONTRACTING OUT
Work covered under the jurisdiction of PACE will not be contracted out providing qualified employees and appropriate equipment are reasonably available. J ' A	■	• J.	’
The Company agrees to review any job or jobs it may contemplate assigning to an outside contractor with PACE, and a sincere effort will be made to utilize PACE employees. If, after such discussions, the Company determines it is necessary to assign such work to outside contractors, the Union shall be so notified in writing, giving'a detailed description of the work to be contracted out and reasons why.
-85-
3.	Glove Program
The glove, program for Consolidated Rapers, Inc. .shall be effective for all divisions. * • »'
Providing gloves to employees shall be in * accordance with established criteria which have been predetermined and incorporate ■ the ' consideration of hazards inherent in a particular type of work. The memorandum dated January 23,1968, entitled "Glove Program" supplements this section, and becomes a part thereof.
4.	Safety Shoes
f -	■*
a.	Safety shoes shall be worn by all employees of Consolidated Papers, Inc. asa condition of employment. Exceptions to thisprogram will be
■ permitted upon the presentation of a letter signed by a doctor stating the employee cannot wear - safety shoes for health reasons.
' b. Safety Shoe'Allowance
The Company shall contribute up to $80 per ' » .contract year to each employee as T- reimbursement for the purchase of approved safety shoes (seasonal vacation relief will be allowed one pair for every 2 summers of employment) which are purchased and worn by the employee.
Employees may take 2 "shoe allowances" (current year’s and previous year's) and use them combined as $160 toward the purchase of safety shoes.
Requests for reimbursement may only be submitted once per year ($80) or once every 2
-88-
years ($160). If the shoes selected cost less than • the allowance, the balance shall not be paid to the employee in cash or credit.
c.	The safety shoes shall comply with the American National Standard Z41-1991, Classification 75. The safety shoes shall carry an identifying stamp indicating compliance.
d.	The safety shoes shall be of a type and style most suitable for the type of work in which the employee is engaged as determined by the division safety supervisor.
5.	Heat Problems
The Company will observe the following procedures when doing cleaning or maintenance work on paper machines where heat stress is a problem:
a.	Scheduled Dryer Maintenance Work - there shall be a delay of 1 hour and 15 minutes before employees are required to perform work in the dryer sections of paper machines. By "in the dryer" is meant: an area within the bounds from ' the No. 1 dryer to the last main dryer and from the outside dryer gears on the front side to the outside dryer gears on the back side. The 1 hour and 15 minutes shall be from the time the dryer section is shut down and the steam valve to the section is turned off. (The exception being on steam driven paper machines where the steam cannot be shut off.) Fans shall be directed into the work area.
b.	Scheduled and Unscheduled Dryer Work -whenever it is necessary to work inside the dryer
*89-
section on a paper machine without a minimum delay of 1 hour, protective clothing suitable to the particular job shall be furnished and fans shall be directed into the work area. Also, the maximum length of time any employee shall be permitted in this section without rest is 15 minutes. The work and rest periods shall be alternated on 15-minute intervals until the job is completed or the 1 hour waiting period is satisfied.
The Company agrees to comply with the provisions of the Occupational Safety and Health Act as they relate to heat stress standards.
D.	Equal Employment Opportunity
The Company and the Union agree to continue their policy on nondiscrimination in the hiring of employees, or in their training, upgrading, promotion,'transfer, layoff, discipline, discharge, or otherwise, because of race, color, creed, sex, national origin, marital status, sexual preference, handicap, age, disabled veterans, or veterans of the Vietnam Era as required by Federal and/or State law.
Where the context admits in this Labor Agreement, words in the masculine gender shall include the feminine and neuter genders.
E.	CEBP
Consolidated Employees’ Benefit Plan for employees covered by this Agreement and enrolled in the Plan shall be as set forth in the Plan booklet and amendments approved thereto. Any increases in the cost of the Plan during the term of this Agreement will be paid by the Company.
-90-
F.	Consolidated Employees' Retirement Plan
The provisions of the Consolidated Employees’ Retirement Plan for all employees covered by this Agreement and enrolled in the Plan shall be as set forth in the Plan booklet.
SECTION 22 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
Definition of Grievance - for the purpose of this Agreement the term "grievance" means any dispute with the Company initiated by the employee and/or the Union concerning the effect, interpretation, application, claim of breach, or violation of this Agreement
It is recognized that it is to the best interest of ail parties to settle ail grievances as promptly as possible. The use of makeup work will not be a consideration in the settlement of valid,grievances except where contractual procedures provide for equalization of work. Settlements reached will be on a straight-time pay basis only.
The local Union shall select from its membership a standing committee and the necessary stewards to handle all grievances that may arise for members of their Union. These standing committees shall represent their Signatory Unions as the bargaining representatives. The names of the committee members and stewards shall be filed with the Company.
Grievances are to be settled in the following steps:
Step 1. Grievances requiring immediate attention shall be first discussed verbally between the employee and/ or the Union representative with the employee's immediate supervisor. If the grievance is not resolved, then the grievance shall be reduced to writing by the Union and the answer reduced to writing by the supervisor. If an answer has not been
-91-
received within 3 working days,* the written grievance may move to Step 2.
Step 2. The grievance will then be referred within 3 working days* to the Division Manager. The grievance will be taken up in conference with the Division Manager, the supervisor whose direct action gave rise to the grievance, Union representatives, and an employee relations representative from the . Human Resources Department. A written answer will be provided by the Division Manager.
Step 3. Then if the grievance is not satisfactorily settled within 5 working days,* it will be referred in written form to the Employee Relations Director. The grievance will be taken up in conference with the Union and the Human Resources’ employee relations representative participating in Step 2. If no settlement is reached within 5 days*;
Step 4. The grievance may be taken up within 15 days* in conference by the President of Consolidated Papers, Inc., and the International Representative of the Union or with their duly authorized representatives and if no settlement is reached within 10 days*;
Step 5. It may be referred to arbitration by the Union. A written request shall be made within 10 days* for the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service to submit the names of 5 qualified arbitrators, including personal history and arbitration experience of each. Upon receipt of such list of arbitrators, the parties shall meet, and upon failure to agree on the arbitrator, the parties shall alternately strike 2 names from the list. The person whose name remains on the list after 4 have been stricken shall be the arbitrator. The Federal
-92-
Mediation and Conciliation Service shall be advised of the choice of the parties, and request that such arbitrator be assigned to the grievance.
The arbitrator will render a decision within 15 days to be final and binding upon both parties.
* Excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays.
Each party shall bear the expense of presenting its case and shall share equally the expense of the arbitrator.
Discharge
When an employee has been discharged or suspended, the Company shall immediately notify, in writing, by certified mail, the president and steward of the local Union of the discharge or suspension.
If the employee and Union feel that the employee has been unjustly discharged or suspended, they shall file a written grievance within 48 hours. The 48-hour period shall begin from the time the employee first learned of the disciplinary action and shall not include Saturdays, Sundays, or holidays. Any such grievance shall be introduced at the 3rd step of the Grievance Procedure.
An employee found to be unjustly discharged or suspended shall be reinstated with full seniority. However, in the event that in the course of the Grievance Procedure, the parties hereto agree (or an arbitrator determines) that the penalty was unduly severe because of the circumstances involved, a lesser penalty may be established.
SECTION 23	■ POWERS OF THE ARBITRATOR
It is understood that the function of the arbitrator shall be to interpret and apply this Agreement. However, the arbitrator shall have no power to add to or subtract from, or to modify and extend any of the terms of this Agreement, or any
-93-
agreement made supplementary hereto except by mutual consent of the Company and Union involved.
General wage increases, or adjustment of existing job classification rates, shall not 6e subject to arbitration; however, any dispute regarding application of established rates as specified in the Wage Schedule shall be subject to arbitration.
SECTION 24	- AMENDMENTS, MODIFICATIONS, INTERPRETATIONS, AND SIDE AGREEMENTS
It is understood and agreed that all side agreements, and any other agreements in effect between the parties prior to contract negotiations shall remain in full force and effect during the term of the Labor Agreement.
Side agreements and any other agreements which have been negotiated and entered into the Labor Agreement during contract negotiations shall be eliminated as a side agreement.
All side agreements, and any other agreements remaining in effect after .the contract negotiations will be assembled in booklet form and be made available to each local Union involved.
Amendments, modifications, or interpretations of this Agreement may be made by mutual consent of the parties hereto and will become a part of this Agreement. Such amendments, modifications, or interpretations of this Agreement will be reduced to writing and must be approved by the Human Resources Director and the International Representative to have any validity. All signatory local Union representatives will be notified of such changes.
-94-
SECTION 25	- TERM, RENEWAL, OR CHANGES OF AGREEMENT
This Agreement shall be in effect May 1, 1999, and shall remain in effect through April 30, 2005, and from year to year thereafter, unless terminated in accordance with the provisions of Section 26 below.
If either party shall desire to change any provision of this Agreement, it shall give written notice to the other party at least 60 days in advance of the termination date.
The giving of notice provided in the above paragraph shall constitute an obligation upon both parties to negotiate in good faith all questions at issue, with the intent of reaching written agreement prior to the anniversary date.
In the event that the new Agreement is consummated after May 1,2005, all provisions of said Agreement shall be made retroactive to May 1, 2005, provided the Unions have requested a conference 60 days prior to May 1,2005 for the purpose of negotiating the renewal of this Agreement.
If the parties have not reached agreement on or before the termination date, all the provisions of the Agreement shall remain in effect unless specifically terminated in accordance with the provisions of Section 26 below.
SECTION 26	- TERMINATION OF AGREEMENT
At any time after the termination date, if no agreement on the questions at issue has been reached and provided Section 25 has been complied with, either party may give written notice to the other party of intent to terminate the Agreement in (not less than) 6 days. All the provisions of the Agreement shall remain in full force and effect until the specified time has elapsed. During this period, attempts to reach an agreement shall be continued.
-95-
If the parties have failed to resolve their differences before the specified time has elapsed, all obligations under this Agreement are automatically canceled.
Consolidated Papers, Inc. and Paper, Allied-Industrial, Chemical & Energy Workers International Union ratified and accepted this Agreement effective October 1, 1999.
For the Company:
Gorton M. Evans, President &
Chief Executive Officer
Kenneth A. Ebert,
Human Resources Director
John B. Steele, Vice President
Free-Sheet Operations
John A. Conigatl
Employee Relations Director
For the Union:
Michael H. Bolton,
International Representative Thomas J. Dorshorst, President Local 7-0094
Timothy J. Mathys,
President Local 7-0116
John R. Nelson,
President Local 7-0187
Donald F. Zalewski,
President Local 7-0359
Mark M. Brillowski,
President Local 7-1306
SUPPLEMENT "A" TO JOINT LABOR AGREEMENT
The trucking agreement for Consolidated Papers, Inc., Corporate Transportation, is contained as a side agreement in the Wisconsin Rapids Division’s side agreement book and is a separate procedure.
For the Company;
Gorton M. Evans, President & Chief Executive Officer
Kenneth A. Ebert, Human Resources Director
For the Union:
Michael H. Bolton, International Representative
Thomas J. Dorshorst,
President Local 7-0094
-96-
PACE LOCAL NO. 7-0094 BIRON DIVISION
Weekly Hour Schedule 40 Hours
Job	Rates Per Hour
Code job Title	- - As of May. 1 of Each Year
CLEANING • 0102001300		1999 16.30 16.20 16.12	2Q2Q 16.79 16.69 16.60	2201 17.29 17.19 17.10	2002 17.81 17.71 17.61	2003 18.34 18.24 18.14	2004 18.89 18.79 18.68
26452 26472 21702	A. Power Scrubber Operator A. Vacuum Cleaner Operator A. Cleaner						
21732	Head Cleaner	16.59	17.09	17.60	18.13	18.67	19.23
29812	Window Washer	16.20	16.69	17.19	17.71	18.24	18.79
26462	Power-Vacuum Cleaner CORES - 0102009200	16.16	16.64	17.14	17.65	18.18	18.73
22052	Core Processor FILTER PLANT - 0102000800	16.40	16.89	17.40	17.92	18.46	19.01
25362	Operator FINISHING & SHIPPING - 0102009500	16.67	17.17	17.69	18.22	18.77	19.33
17332	A. Head Roll Processor	16.98	17.49	18.01	18.55	19.11	19.68
16522	A. Power Truck Operator (Grab)	16.55	17.05	17.56	18.09	18.63	19.19
11202	A. Car Bander	16.45	16.94	17.45	17.97	18.51	19.07
17982	A. Senior Roll Wrapper GRINDER ROOM - 0102003000	16.44	16.93	17.44	17.96	18.50	19.06
13152	A. Head Grinder Operator	16.94	17.45	17.97	18.51	19.07	19.64
17252	A. Ring Grinder Operator	16.40	16.89	17.40	17.92	18.46	19.01
19652	A. Utility Conveyor Operator MAINTENANCE - 0102002200	16.19	16.68	17.18	17.70	18.23	18.78
26082	Head Painter	17.85	18.39	18.94	19.51	20.10	20.70
26042	* Interior Decorator	18.12	18.66	19.22	19.80	20.39	21.00
26062	Painter - Mill	16.12	16.60	17.10	17.61	18.14	18.68
26022	Painter Helper MILL LABOR POOL- 0102000100	16.30	16.79	17.29	17.81	18.34	18.89
23602	Laborer	16.12	16.60	17.10	17.61	18.14	18.68
28782	Seasonal Vacation Relief SAEEIX-0102001700	10.92	10.92	10.92	10.92	10.92	10.92
27502	Safety Equipment Maintenance	16.32	16.81	17.31	17.83	18.36	18-91
24302	Mill Mall Carrier STEAM POWER PLANT - 0102000500	16.20	16.69	17.19	17.71	18.24	18.79
21802	A. Coal Passer	16.40	16.89'	17.40	17.92	18.46	19.01
21812	A. Coal Passer Helper	16.23	16.72	17.22	17.74	18.27	18.82
Coal Service Relief
Various rates
' Rate is paid as determined by supervision when interior decorating skills are being utilized.
-97-
PACE LOCAL NO. 7-0094 BIRON DIVISION (Con’t) Weekly Hour Schedule 40 Hours							
Job		Rates Per Hour					
	Job Title' STOCK PREPARATION - 0102005000	1999	_As.pLMay 1 oLEach .Year . _ 2000 2001 2022 2003 2004				
13682	‘ A. Lap Pulper	16.42	16.91	17.42	17.94	18.46	19.03
13822	A. Liebeck Operator No. 25	16.38	16.87	17.38	17.90	18.44	18.99
13832	A. Liebeck Operator Nos. 23 & 24	16.24	16.73	17.23	17.75	18.28	18.83
10772	A. Beater Operator No. 21 STOREROOM - 0102001000	16.18	16.67	17.17	17.69	18.22	18.77
23432	A. Head Inventory Clerk	17.19	17.71	18.24	18.79	19.35	19.93
21512	A. Checker	17.02	17.53	18.06	18.60	19.16	19.73
23422	A. Inventory Clerk (part-time)	17.01	17.52	18.05	18.59	19.15	19.72
29802	A. Wicket Tender TM PLANT - 0102003100	16.44	16.93	17.44	17.96	18.50	19.06
19012	A. TM Operator	18.57	19.13	19.70	20.29	20.90	21.53
17822	A. Screen Plant Operator	17.84	18.38	18.93	19.50	20.09	20.69
19002	A. TM Helper	17.37	17.89	18.43	18.98	19.55	20.14
12142	A. Decker Operator	17.05	17.56	18.09	18.63	19.19	19.77
17802	A. Screen Helper WOODROOM - 0102002000	16.47	16.96	17.47	17.99	18.53	19.09
153S2	A. Head Operator	17.36	17.88	18.42	18.97	19.54	20.13
15382	A. Operator YARD - 0102000300	17.01	17.52	18.05	16.59	19.15	19.72
24172	Head Materia) Handler	16.82	17.32	17.84	18.38'	18.93	19.50
24152	ABC. Material Handler (Material Handling)	16.19	16.68	17.18	17.70	18.23	18.78
19842	Woodscaler (Transportation)	16,60	17.10	17.61	18.U	18.68	19.24
20432	A. Auto Truck Driver - Platform	16.83	17.33	17.85	18.39	18.94	19.51
20422	A. Auto Truck Driver - Pickup (Power Trucks)	16.44	16.93	17.44	17.96	18.50	19.06
26552	B. Power Truck Operator (7-3:30)	16.43	16.92	17.43	17.95	18.49	19.04
26562	B. Power Truck Operator (shifts) (Mobile Equipment)	16.43	16.92	17.43	17.95	18.49	19.04
24442	C. Mobile Crane Operator-Woodroom 17.66		18.19	18.74	19.30	19,88	20.48
24452	C. Mobile Crane Operator - Yard	17.08	17.59	18.12	18.66	19.22	19.80
29152	C. Trackmobile Operator	16.54	17.04	17.55	18.08	18.62	19.18
22372	C. Endloader Operator	16.43	16.92	17.43	17.95	18.49	19.04
29142	C. Trackmobile Helper (Special Rates)	16.33	16.82	17.32	17.84	16.38	18.93
29172 20042	Tractor Operator Air Hammer (part-time)	16.40 16.89 17.40 .15 above base			17.92	18.46	19.01
' Progresses to Local No. 7-0187, Second Helper - Stock Preparation.
-98-
PACE LOCAL NO. 7-0187 BIRON DIVISION
Weekly Hour Schedule 40 Hours
Job	Rates Per Hour
Code Job Title	As of May 1 of Each Year
COATING MAKEUP - 0102005400		1999 19.14 17.85 17.28	2020 19.71 18.39 17.80	2QQ1 20.30 18.94 18.33	2002 20.91 19.51 18.88	2003 21.54 20.10 19.45	2004 22.19 20.70 20.03
11B52 18522 18862	A. Head Coating Operator A. Starch Cooker A. Tank Operator						
17812	Coating Worker OFF-MACHINE COATER - OW200S100	16.51	17.01	17.52	16.05	18.59	19.15
15422	A. Operator	19.63	20.22	20.83	21.45	22.09	22.75
10102	A. Assistant Operator	18.23	18.78	19.34	19.92	20.52	21.14
13202	A. Helper	16.79 17.29 17.81 16.34 Coater Relief Unassigned (See Paper Machines) Various rates OILING - 0102002296					18.89	19.46
25222	A. Head Oiler	18.11	18.65	19.21	19.79	20.36	20.99
25232	A. Paper Machine Oiler PAPER MACHINES - 0102006000	17.09	17.60	. 16.13	18.67	19.23	19.81
14032	B. Machine Tender No. 23	22.05	22.71	23.39	24.09	24.81	25.55
10632	B. Back Tender No. 23	20.79	21.41	22.05	22.71	23.39	24.09
18932	B. Third Hand No. 23	18.98	19.55	20.14	20.74	21.36	22.00
12932	B. Fourth Hand No. 23	18.41	18.96	19.53	20.12	2D.72	21.34
17032	B. Relief Fourth Hand No. 23	18.41	18.96	19.53	20.12	20.72	21.34
12632	B. Fifth Hand No. 23	16.91	17.42	17.94	18.48	19.03	19.60
14042	C. Machine Tender No. 24	22.26	22.93	23.62	24.33	25.06	25.81
10642	C. Back Tender No. 24	20.99	21.62	22.27	22.94	23.63	24.34
18942	C. Third Hand No. 24	19.24	19.82	20.41	21.02	21.65	22.30
12942	C. Fourth Hand No, 24	18.65	19.21	19.79	20.38	20.99	21.62
17042	C. Relief Fourth Hand No. 24	18.65	19.21	19.79	20.38	20.99	21.62
12642	C. Fifth Hand No. 24	17.02	17.53	16.06	18.60	19.16	19.73
14052	D. Machine Tender No. 25	22.61	23.29	23,99	24.71	25.45	26.21
10652	D. Back Tender No. 25	21.33	21.97	22.63	23.31	24.01	24.73
18952	D. Third Hand No. 25	18.98	19.55	20.14	20,74	21.36	22.00
12952	0. Fourth Hand No. 25	17.14	17.65	18.16	16.73	19.29	19.87
17052	D. Relief Fourth Hand No. 25	17.14	17,65	18.18	18.73	19.29	19.87
14062	E. Machine Tender No. 26	23.42	24.12	24.84	25.59	26.36	27.15
10662	E. Back Tender No. 26	22.09	22.75	23.43	24.13	24.85	25.60
18962	E. Third Hand No. 26	20.18	20.79	21.41	22.05	22.71	23.39
12962	E. Fourth Hand No. 26	19.54	20.13	20.73	21.35	21.99	22.65
17062	E. Relief Fourth Hand No. 26	19.54	20.13	20.73	21.35	21.99	22.65
12662	E. Fifth Hand No. 26 ABCDE. Coater Relief (Unassigned)	17.44	17.96 18.50 19.06 Various rates			19.63	20.22
11782	Clothing Tender	17.58	18.11	18.65	19.21	19.79	20.38
■99-
PACE LOCAL NO. 7-0187 BIRON DIVISION (Con’t)
Weekly Hour Schedule 40 Hours
Job			Rates Per Hour				
Code	Job Title		As of Mav 1 of Each Year					
		1239	2000	2001	2002	2003	2004
	BEW1NBESS - 0102008000						
15502	A. Rewinder Operator 86-2	19.39	19.97	20.57	21.19	21.83	22.48
15512	A, Rewinder Operator 86-1	19.39	19.97	20.57	21.19	21,83	22.48
15592	A. Rewinder Operator 88	18.57	19.13	19.70	20.29	20.90	21.53
15552	A. Rewinder Operator 85	18.11	18.65	19.21	19.79	20.38	20.99
15522	A. Rewinder Operator 82	18.11	18.65	19.21	19.79	20.38	20.99
13232	A. Rewinder Helper 86-2	17.56	18.09	18.03	19.19	19,77	20.36
13212	A. Rewinder Helper 86-1	17.56	18.09	18.63	19.19	19.77	20.36
15532	A. Rewinder Operator 83	17.36	17.88	18.42	18.97	19.54	20.13
15542	A. Rewinder Operator 84	17.36	17.88	18.42	18.97	19.54	20.13
13242	A. Rewinder Helper 88	16.91	17.42	17.94	18.48	19.03	19.60
19532	A.' Rewinder Utility 86	16.70	17.20	17.72	18.25	18.80	19.36
13292	A. Rewinder Helper 85	16.68	17.18	17.70	18.23	18.78	19.34
13222	A. Rewinder Helper 82	16.68	17.18	17.70	18.23	18.78	19.34
	STOCK PREPARATION ■ 0102005000						
10682	A. Blender Operator	19.01	19.58	20.17	20.78	21.40	22.04
12702	A. First Helper	17.11 -	17.62	18.15	18.69	19.25	19.83
17952	* A. Second Helper	16.58	17.08	17.59	18.12	18.66	19.22
	SUPERCALENDERS - 0102007000			■			
15692	A. Supercalender Operator 79	19.98	20.58	21.20	21.84	22.50	23.18
15612	A. Supercalender Operator?!	19.98	20.58	21.20	21.84	22.50	23.18
15662	A. Supercalender Operator 78	18.84	19.41	19.99	20.59	21.21	21.85
15672	A. Supercalender Operator 77	18.84	19.41	19.99	20.59	21.21	21.85
15652	A. Supercalender Operator 75	18.40	18.95	19.52	20.11	20.71	21.33
15632	A. Supercalender Operator 73	18.40	18.95	19.52	20.11	20.71	21.33
15662	A. Supercalender Operator 76	18.40	18.95	19.52	20.11	20.71	21.33
15622	A. Supercalender Operator 72	18.40	18,95	19.52	20.11	20.71	21.33
13392	A. Supercalender Helper 79/71	18.13	18.67	19.23	19.81	20.40	21.01
13382	A. Supercalender Helper 78	17.28	17.80	18.33	18.88	19.45	20.03
13372	A. Supercalender Helper 77	17.28	17.80	18.33	18.88	19.45	20.03
13352	A. Supercalender Helper 75	16.94	17.45	17.97	18.51	19.07	19.64
13332	A. Supercalender Helper 73	16.94	17.45	17.97	18.51	19.07	19.64
13362	A. Supercalender Helper 76	16.94	17.45	17.97	18.51	19.07	19.64
13322	A. Supercalender Helper 72	16.94	17.45	17.97	18.51	19.07	19.64
	TECHNICAL - 0102000800						
29432	A. T-3A Tester	17.55	18.08	18.62	19.18	19.76	20,35
29442	A. T-3C Tester	17.30	17.82	18.35	18.90	19.47	20.05
29422	A. T-2 Tester	16.90	17.41	17.93	18.47	19.02	19.59
29412	A. T-1 Tester	16.40	16.89	17.40	17.92	18.46	19.01
* From Local No. 7-0094," Lap Pulper - Stock Preparation.
-100-
PACE LOCAL NO. 7-0094 KRAFT DIVISION
Weekly Hour Schedule 40 Hours Unless Otherwise Noted (b) 7-4, 7-2, 7-1
Job	Rates Per Hour
Code Job Title	As of May 1 of Each Year
		1999	2QQ2	2001	2CQ2	2223	2004
21609	CHIP HANDLING - 0109002100 Chip Handier	16.42	16.91	17.42	17.94	18.48	19.03
11629	Chip Conveyor Attendant	16.19	16.68	17.18	17.70	18.23	18.78
24109	CLEANING - 0109001300 MaiVServices	16.32	16.81	17.31	17.83	18.36	18.91
21709	Cleaner	16.12	16.60	17.10	17.61	18.14	18.68
27509	Safety/Filter Maintenance	16.32	16.81	17.31	17.83	18.36	18.91
12829	CRANE-0109000400 A, Flume Crane Operator	18.03	18.57	19.13	19.70	20.29	20.90
13519	A. Jammer/Mobile Crane Operator	17.75	18.28	18.83	19.39	19.97	20.57
11649	A, Chip Reclaim Operator (b)	16.62	17.12	17.63	18.16	18.70	19.26
11269	Caretaker	16,37	16.86	17.37	17.89	18.43	18.98
21809	GENERAL-0109001400 Coal Passer	16.43	16.92	17.43	17.95	18.49	19.04
19539	Service Utility	16.19	16.68	17.18	17.70	18.23	18.78
16539	LABOR POOL - 0109000100 Power Truck Operator (part-time)	16.43	16.92	17.43	17.95	18.49	19.04
23609	Laborer	16.12	16.60	17.10	17.61	18.14	18.68
28789	Seasonal Vacation Relief	10.92	10.92	10.92	10.92	10.92	10.92
20049	Air Hammer (part-time)	0.15 above base when working 2 hours					
26089	PAINTING.-0109002250 Head Painter	18.84	or more 19.41	19.99	20.59	21.21	21.85
26069	Painter - Mill	'	16.12	16.60	17.10	17.61	18.14	18.68
15459	RECOVERY - 0109005000 A, Operator (b)	21.67	22.32	22.99	23.68	24.39	25.12
10139	A, Assistant Operator (b)	20.07	20.67	21.29	21.93	22.59	23.27
12709	A. 1st Helper (b)	19.24	19.82	20.41	21.02	21.65	22.30
17959	A. 2nd Helper (b)	17.74	18.27	18.82	19.38	19.96	20.56 ‘
18979	A, 3rd Helper (b)	16.30	16.79	17.29	17.81	18.34	18.89
13879	Liquor Transfer Attendant	16.43	16.92	17.43	17.95	18.49	19.04
18669	STOCK PROCESS ■ 0109004000 A. Stock Process Operator (b) ■	21.04	21.67	22.32	22.99	23.68	24.39
18679	A. Stock Process Assistant Operator (b) 20.49		21.10	21.73	22.38	23.05	23.74
12209	A. Digester Cook (b)	19.76	20.35	20.96	21.59	22.24	22.91
18689	A. Process Assistant (b)	18.68	19.24	19.82	20.41	21.02	21.65
10849	A. Chemical Preparation Operator (b)	18.57	19.13	19.70	20.29	20.90	21.53
11999	A. Washing & Screening Operator (b)	18.18	18.73	19.29	19.87	20.47	21.08
11399	A. Slock Process Helper No. 1 (b)	17.63	18.16	18.70	19.26	19.84	20.44
11409	A. Stock Process Helper No. 2 (b)	16.59	17.09	17.60	18.13	18.67	19.23
-101
PACE LOCAL NO. 7-0094 KRAFT DIVISION (Con’t)
Weekly Hour Schedule 40 Hours Unless Otherwise Noted {b) 7-4,7-2, 7-1
Job	Rates Per Hour
Code Job Title	As of May 1 of Each Year
		1999	2000	2001	2Q22	2003	2004
11419	STOCK PROCESS - 0109004000 (Con’t) B. Caustic Operator (b)	18.57		19.13	19.70	20.29	20.90	21.53
19519	B. Utility (b)	16.30	16.79	17.29	17.81	18.34	18.89
14519	Material Unloader	16.43	16.92	17.43	17.95	18.49	19.04
28759	STOREROOM - 0109001000 A. Stores & Inventor/ Clerk	17.08	17.59	18.12	18.66	19.22	19.80
16539	A. Power Truck Operator	16.43	16.92	17.43	17.95	18.49	19.04
27549	Salvage Utility	16.24	16.73	17.23	17.75	18.28	18.83
29459	TECHNICAL - 0109000900 A. Lead Shift Tester (b)	17.19	17.71	18.24	18.79	19.35	19.93
26769	A. Pulp Tester (b)	16.47	16.96	17.47	17.99	18.53	19.09
23579	A. Lab Helper	16.19	16.68	17.18	17.70	18.23	18.78
19789	WET MACHINE - 0109004700 A. Wet Machine Operator	17.56	18.09	18.63	19.19	19.77	20.36
19779	A. Wet Machine Helper	17,05	17.56	18.09	18.63	19.19	19.77
19769	A, Wet Machine Trucker 92	16.64	17.14	17.65	18.18	18.73	19.29
19799	A. Wet Machine Trucker	16.52	17.02	17.53	18.06	18.60	19.16
19829	WOOD PROCESSING - 0109002000 A. Wood Process Operator	18.57	19.13	19.70	20.29	20.90	21.53
10799	A. Belter	16.78	17.28	17.80	18.33	18.88	19.45
16929	A. Refuse	16.43	16.92	17.43	17.95	18.49	19.04
19609	A. Reclaim	16.37	16.86	17.37	17.89	18.43	18.98
15709	A. Outside Operator	16.34	16.83	17.33	17.85	18.39	16.94
19529	A. Utilitiy	16.32	16.81	17.31	17.83	18.36	18.91
28809	YARD-0109000300 A. Switch Engine Engineer	17.19	17.71	18.24	18.79	19.35	19.93
21889	A. Conductor	16.42	16.91	17.42	17.94	18.48	19.03
28819	A. Switcher	16.37	16.86	17.37	17.89	18.43	18.98
23669	B. Landfill Operator	16.93	17.44	17.96	18.50	19.06	19.63
20459	B. Truck Driver - Dump	16.91	17.42	17.94	18.48	19.03	19.60
22379	B. End Loader Operator	16.43	16.92	17.43	17.95	18.49	19.04
20929	B. Bobcat Operator	16.40	16.89	17.40.	17.92	18.46	19.01
29119	C. Track Leader	16.88	17.39	17.91	18.45	19.00	19.57
20339	C. Assistant Track Leader	16.47	16.96	17.47	17.99	18.53	19.09
29109	C. Track Helper	16.19	16.68	17.18	17.70	18.23	18.78
27769	Scaler	16.62	17.12	17.63	18.16	18.70	19.26
16539	Power Truck Operator	16.43	16.92	17.43	17.95	18.49	19.04
-102’
PACE LOCAL NO. 7-0094 PAPERBOARD PRODUCTS DIVISION
Weekly. Hour Schedule 40 Hours
Job Code 10697 10957	Job Title CARTON Cutting -0107005004 D-2 Bobst C&C Operator D-1 Bobst C&C Assistant Operator	1999 16.44 14.66	Rates Per Hour				2004 19.06 17.00
			As of 2000 16.93 15.10	May 1 2001 17.44 15.55	of Each Year		
					2002 17.96 16.02	2QQ3 18.50 16.50	
16327	Bandsaw Operator Cutting (In-Line) - 0107005001	13.86	14.28	14.71	15.15	15.60	16.07
1148?	A-4 Operator “A"	17.31	17.83	18.36	18.91	19.48	20.06
13387	A-3 Operator “B"	15.77	16.24	16.73	17.23	17.75	18.28
13467	A-2 Sheeter Operator	14.10	14.52	14.96	15.41	15.87	16.35
11497	A-1 Takeoff	13.25	13.65	14.06	14.48	14.91	15.36
16887	Ream Cutter-Operator (part-time) Die Making - 0107005002	13.25	13.65	14.06	14.48	14.91	15.36
12177	B-2 Die Maker Folding Cartons - 0107005008	17.20	17.75	18.25	18.80	19.36	19.94
12817	Fiexo/Laminator Operator Gluing ■ 0107005006	18.03	18.57	19.13	19.70	20.29	20.90
13067	E-5 Gluer Operator "A"	16.43	16.92	17.43	17.95	18.49	19.04
13077	E-4 Gluer Operator “B"	16.00	16.48	16.97	17.48	18.00	18.54
13087	E-3 Gluer Operator “C*	15.83	16.30	16.79	17.29	17.81	18.34
13097	E-2 Gluer Operator “D'	15.07	15.52	15.99	16.47	16.96	17.47
13047	E-1 Gluer Helper Feeder Pasting ■ 0107005007	12.96	13.35	13.75	14.16	14.58	15.02
16227	F-3 Paster Operator	16.07	16.55	17.05	17.56	18.09	18.63
16217	F-2 Paster Helper	14.98	15.43	15.89	16.37	16.86	17.37
16207	F-1 Paster Cutoff	14.87	15.32	15.78	16.25	16.74	17.24
12127	Crane Ope ratort Roll Storage	14.76	15.20	15.66	16.13	16.61	17.11
10357	Auto Case Sealer	14.01	14.43	14.86	15.31	15.77	16.24
13027	Glue Mixer/Tester	13.07	13.46	13.B6	14.28	14.71	15.15
10737	Baler Opera tort Ba Ie Handler Printing-0107005003	13.05	13.44	13.84	14.26	14.69	15.13
15157	C-5 Offset Press Operator - 7C	20.61	21.23	21.87	22.53	23.21	23.91
15167	C-4 Offset Press Assistant Operator-7C 18.84		19.41	19.99	20.59	21.21	21.85
15127	C-3 Offset Press Operator - 2C	18,79	19.35	19.93	20.53	21.15	21.78
15177	C-2 Offset Press Helper - 7C	15.51	15.98	16.46	16.95	17.46	17.98
15107	C-1 Offset Press Helper - 2C	15.01	15.46	15.92	16.40	16.89	17.40
-103'
PACE LOCAL NO. 7-0094 PAPERBOARD PRODUCTS DIVISION (Con’t)
Weekly Hour Schedule 40 Hours
Job		Rates			Per Hour		
Code	Job Title		As of Mav 1 of Each Year				
	1999 CARTON (Con’t) Stripping & Miscellaneous - 0107005005		2002	2001	2002	2003	2004
10067	Air Hammer Stripper	13.01	13.40	13.80	14.21	14.64	15.08
12397	Equipment & Materials Handler '	13.19	13,59	14.00	14.42	14.85	15.30
18647	Stock Handler	12.24	12.61	12.99	13.38	13.78	14.19
13557	Jogger/Aerator Operator	13.07	13.46	13.86	14.28	14.71	15.15
11337	Carton Spare Hand CORE CAPPING - 0107007700	12.18	12.55	12.93	13.32	13.72	14.13
14777	Operator CORE CUTTING- 0107007400	13.10	13.49	13.89	14.31	14.74	15.18
19977	A-8 209 Auto Core Cutter Operator	16.13	16.61	17.11	17.62	18.15	18.69
19957	A-7 205 Auto Core Cutter Operator	15.70	16.17	16.66	17.16	17.67	18.20
19947	A-6 204 Auto Core Cutter Operator	15.43	15.89	16.37	16.86	17.37	17,89
19937	A-5 203 Auto Core Cutter Operator	15.32	15.78	16.25	16.74	17.24	17.76
19967	A-1 206/207/208 Auto Core Cutter Operator	15.22	15.68	16.15	16.63	17.13	17.64
13207	A-3 Hand Core Cutter Operator	13.87	14.29	14.72	15.16	15.61	16.08
13307	A-2 Holzem Core Cutter Operator	12.95	13.34	13.74	14.15	14.57	15.01
15867	A-1 Packer CORE WINDING - 0107007300	12.88	13.27	13.67	14.08	14.50	14.94
14937	A-19 No. 23 Core Winder Operator	16.57	17.07	17,58	18.11	18.65	19.21
14917	A-18 No. 21 Core Winder Operator	16.45	16.94	17.45	17.97	18.51	19.07
14927	A-17 No. 22 Core Winder Operator	16.42	16.91	17.42	17.94	18.48	19.03
14747	A-16 No. 14 Core Winder Operator	16.42	16.91	17.42	17.94	18.48	19.03
14767	A-15 No. 16 Core Winder Operator	16.23	16.72	17.22	17.74	18.27	18.82
14727	A-14 No. 12 Core Winder Operator	14.76	15.20	15.66	16.13	16.61	17.11
14737	A-13No. 13 Core Winder Operator	14.76	15.20	15.66	16.13	16.61	17.11
14717	A-12 No. 11 Core Winder Operator	14.76	15.20	15.66	16.13	16.61	17.11
14867	A-11 No. 23 Core Winder Helper A	14.01	14.43	14.86	15.31	15.77	16.24
14837	A-10 No. 23 Core Winder Helper	14.01	14.43	14.86	15.31	15.77	16.24
14857	A-9 No. 21 Core Winder Helper A	14.01	14.43	14.86	15.31	15.77	16.24
14817	A-8 No. 21 Core Winder Helper	14.01	14.43	14.86	15.31	15.77	16.24
14827	A-7 No. 22 Core Winder Helper	14.01	14.43	14.86	15.31	15.77	16.24
14647	A-6 No. 14 Core Winder Helper	14.01	14.43	14.86	15.31	15.77	16.24
15037	A-5 No. 23 Core Winder Takeoff	13.39	13.79	14.20	14.63	15.07	15.52
15017	A-4 No. 21 Core Winder Takeoff	13.39	13.79	14.20	14.63	15.07	15.52
15027	A-3 No. 22 Core Winder Takeoff	13.39	13.79	14.20	14.63	15.07	15.52
14667	A-2 No. 16 Core Winder Takeoff	13.25	13.65	14.06	14,48	.14.91	15.36
14627	A-1 No. 12 Core Winder Takeoff	13.25	13.65	14.06	14,48	14.91	15.36
15537	0-3 Rewinder Operator 71-2	14.50	14.94	15.39	15.85	16.33	16.82
15547	B-2 Rewinder Operator 71-1	14.38	14.81	15.25	15.71	16.18	16.67
15687	B-1 Rewinder Helper 71-1 & 71-2	13.05	13.44 '	13.92	14.34	14.77	15.21
-104-
	PACE LOCAL NO. 7-0094 PAPERBOARD PRODUCTS DIVISION (Con’t) Weekly Hour Schedule 40 Hours						
Job Code	Job Title CORE WINDING • 0107007300 (Can’t)	1999	Rates Per Hour As of Mav 1 of Each Year ZQQfi 2001 2002 2003				2QQ4
12807	Flexographic Operator - 4C	15.63	16.10	16.58	17.08	17.59	18.12
18577	Stock Core Handler - Core Winding CUSTODIAL- 0107001300	12.95	13.34	13.74	14.15	14.57	15.01
21737	A-2 Lead Cleaner	12.46	12.83	13.21	13.61	14.02	14.44
21707	A-1 Cleaner Class “A'	12.26	12.63	13.01	13.40	13.00	14.21
23007	Gardener MAINTENANCE - 0107002200	12.20	12.57	12.95	13.34	13.74	14.15
25207	Oiler	13.84 POWER TRUCK SERVICES - 0107009000		14.26	14.69	15.13	15.58	16.05
16557	A-2 PowerTruck Opr. Grab -Core Winding	12.67	13.05	13.44	13.84	14.26	14.69
16577	A-1 PowerTruck Opr. - Core Cuffing QUALITY - 0107001100	12.46	12.83	13.21	13.61	14.02	14.44
13367	Auditor	13.89 SHIPPING & WAREHOUSING - 0107009500		14.31	14.74	15.18	15.64	16.11
16527	A-2 PowerTruck Operator	12.98	13.37	13.77	14.18	14.61	15.05
13617	A-1 Dock Laborer SHREDBEBZBALER.- 0107003500	12.18	12.55	12.93	13.32	13.72	14.13
10747	Baler Operator STOREROOM- 0107001000	13.05	13.44	1384	14.26	14.69	15.13
28747	A-2 Storekeeper Helper	13.09	13.48	13.88	14.30	14.73	15.17
24197	A-1 Materials Controls ALL DEPARTMENTS • 0107001400	12.75	13.13	13.52	13.93	14.35	14.78
23607 20047	Laborer (all duties not covered) Air Hammer (part-time)	12,11 12.47 12.84 0.15 above base			13.23	13.63	14.04
28787	Seasonal Vacation Relief (regardless of job performed)	9.19	9.19	9.19	9.19	9.19	9.19
-105-
PACE LOCAL NO. 7-0094 R&D DIVISION
Weekly Hour Schedule 40 Hours
Job	Job Title					Rates Per Hour As of May 1 of Each Year				
	GENERAL- 011B001400	1999	2000	2001	2002 2003		2004
2954G	A. No. 1 Utility	16.38	16.67	17.38	17.90	18.44	18.99
2955G	A. No. 2 Utility	16.32	16.81	17.31	17.83	18.36	18.91
2956G	A. No. 3 Utility	16.20	16.69	17.19	17.71	18.24	18.79
-106-
PACE LOCAL NO.			7-0116				
	STEVENS POINT DIVISION						
	Weekly Hour Schedule 40 Hours						
Job			Rates Per Hour				
Code	Job Title		As of Mav 1 of Each Year				
		1999	2202	2221	2022	2023	2224
	BOILERHOUSE - 0103000500						
25473	Operator	17.67	18.20	18.75	19.31	19.89	20.49
	CLEANING - 0103001300						
27S03	Safety Equipment Maintenance (part-time) 16.3016.79			17.29	17.81	18.34	18.89
26463	A. Power Sweeper Operator (part-time) 16.30		16.79	17.29	17.81	18.34	18.89
26453	A. Power Scrubber Operator (part-time) 16.20		16.69	17.19	17.71	18.24	18.79
21703	A. Cleaner	16.12	16.60	17.10	17.61	18.14	18.68
	COATING MAKEUP - 0103005400						
14423	A. Mixer No. 34	17.75	18.28	18.83	19.39	19.97	20.57
14433	A. Assistant Mixer No. 34	16.90	17.41	17.93	18.47	19.02	19.59
14403	* B. Mixer No. 1	17.14	17.65	18.18	18.73	19.29	19.87
14413	* B. Mixer No. 2	16.82	17.32	17.84	18.38	18.93	19.50
11B53	OMC Coating	17.53	18.06	18.60	19.16	19.73	20.32
14443	C. Mixer No. 35	17.75	18.28	18.83	19.39	19.97	20.57
14453	C. Assistant Mixer No. 35	16.90	17.41	17.93	18.47	19.02	19.59
	FINISHING - 0103007100						
15393	A. Operator 72	18.44	18.99	19.56	20.15	20.75	21.37
15383	A. Operator 7T	>	18.22	16.77	19.33	19.91	20.51	21.13
15593	A. Rereeler Operator	17.41	17.93	18.47	19.02	19.59	20.18
13223	A. Helper 71/72	17.06	17.57	18.10	18.64	19.20	19.78
155S3	A. Winder Operator	17.05	17.56	18.09	18.63	19.19	19.77
13233	A. Winder Helper	16.32	16.81	17.31	17.83	18.36	18.91
	LABOR POOL - 0103000100						
23603	Laborer	16.12	16.60	17.10	17.61	18.14	18.68
28783	Seasonal Vacation Relief	10.92	10.92	10.92	10.92	10.92	10.92
20043	Air Hammer (part-time)	0.15 above base					
	MAINTENANCE - 0103002200 Millwrights. Garage Mechanics						
	“Working Leader	0.50 above J+S rate					
	Journeyman +8 Years	22.15	22.81	23.49	24.19	24.92	25.67
	Journeyman +5 Years	21.26	21.90	22.56	23.24	23.94	24.66
	Journeyman	19.76	20.35	20.96	21.59	22.24	22.91
	Apprentice Sth 6 mos. (95%)	18.77	19.33	19.91	20.51	21.13	21.76
	Apprentice 7th 6 mos, (90%)	17.78	18.32	18.86	19.43	20.02	20.62
	Apprentice 6th 6 mos. (87.5%)	17.29	17.81	18.34	18,89	19.46	20.05
	Apprentice 5th 6 mos. (85%)	16.80	17.30	17.82	18.35	18.90	19.47
	Apprentice 4th 6 mos. (82.5%)	16.30	16.79	17.29	17.81	18.35	18.90
	Apprentice 3rd 6 mos. (80%)	15.81	16.28	16.77	17.27	17.79	18.33
	Apprentice 2nd 6 mos. (77.5%)	15.31	15.77	t6.24	16.73	17.24	17.76
	Apprentice 1st 6 mos. (75%)	14.82	15.26	15.72	16.19	.16.68	17.18
* Wars 6-hour four workers; now are fl-hour tour workers on 6 & 2 schedule. The additions) * $.05/hour Is to be continued for these jobs.
'* Applies only when supervision authorizes its use.
107'
PACE LOCAL NO. 7-0116 STEVENS POINT DIVISION (Con’t)
Weekly Hour Schedule 40 Hours
Job	Rates Per Hour
Code	Job Title	______As of May 1 of Each Year
26083 26003	MAINTENANCE.- 0103002200 (Con’t) painters Head Painter Painter	1S92 18.84 16.13	2000 19.41 16.61	2001 19.99 17.11	2002 20.59 17.62	2QQ3 21.21 18.15	2004 21.85 18.69
25223	A. Head Oiler	17.49	18.01	18.55	19.11	19.68	20.27
25203	A. Oiler MATERIALS HANDLING - 0103000200	17.09	17.60	18.13	18.67	19.23	19.81
24173	A. Head Materials Handler	16.72	17.22	17.74	18.27	18.82	19.38
16523	A. Power Truck Operator	16.43	16.92	17.43	17.95	18.49	19.04
22373	A. End Loader Operator (part-time)	16.30	16.79	17.29	17.81	18.34	18.89
23123	A. Glue/Latex (part-time)	16.19	16.68	17.18	17.70	18.23	18.78
23603	A. Laborer	16.12	16.60	17.10	17.61	18.14	18.68
20433	Auto Truck Driver - 5T Platform	16.83	17.33	17.85	18.39	18.94	19.51
	Auto Truck Driver - Pickup (part-time) OFF-MACHINE COATER - 0103006100	16.44	16.93	17.44	17.96	18.50	19.06
15423	A. Operator	18.80	19.36	19.94	20.54	21.16	21.79
10103	A. Assistant Operator	17.75	18.28	18.83	19.39	19.97	20.57
15573	A. Winder Operator No. 82	17.05	17.56	18.09	18.63	19.19	19.77
13203	A. Helper	16.51	17.01	17.52	18.05	18.59	19.15
15683	A. Winder Helper No. 82 PAPER MACHINES - 0103006000	16.32	16.81	17.31	17.83	18.36	18.91
14013	‘ AB. Machine Tender No. 31	20.01	20.61	21.23	21.87	22.53	23.21
10613	‘ AB. Back Tender No. 31	18.85	19.42	20.00	20.60	21.22	21.86
18913	* AB. Third Hand No. 31	17.99	18.53	19.09	19.66	20.25	20.86
12913	’ AB. Fourth Hand No. 31	16.82	17.32	17.84	18.38	18.93	19.50
14023	* AB. Machine Tender No. 32	20.01	20.61	21.23	21.87	22.53	23.21
10623	* AB. Back Tender No. 32	18.85	19.42	20.00	20.60	21.22	21.86
18923	* AB. Third Hand No. 32	17.99	18.53	19.09	19.66	20.25	20.86
12923	* AB. Fourth Hand No. 32	16.82	17.32	17.84	18.38	18.93	19.50
11843	* AB. Coater Tender (Blade)	16.42	16.91	17.42	17.94	18.48	19.03
19513	Utility	17.30	17.82	18.35	18.90	19.47	20.05
14043	C. Machine Tender No. 34	21.50	22.15	22.81	23.49	24.19	24.92
10643	C. Back Tender No. 34	20.20	20.81	21.43	22.07	22.73	23.41
18943	C. Third Hand No. 34	19.02	19.59	20.18	20.79	21.41	22.05
12943	C. Fourth Hand No. 34	18.06	18.60	19.16	19.73	20.32	20.93
12643	C. Fifth Hand No. 34	17.08	17.59	18.12	18.66	19.22	19.80
15603	C. Sixth Hand No. 34	17.02	17.53	18.06	18.60	19.16	19.73
Were 6-hour tour workers; now are 8-hour tour workers on 6 & 2 schedule. The additional $.05/hour is to be continued for these jobs.
-108-
PACE LOCAL NO. 7-0116 STEVENS POINT DIVISION (Con’t)
Weekly Hour Schedule 40 Hours
Job		Rates Per Hour					
Code	Job Title	issa	As of May 1 of Each Year 2CQQ 2001 2QQ2 2000				2004
14053	PAPER MACHINES - 0103006000 (Con’t) D. Machine Tender No. 35	21.50		22.15	22.81	23.49	24.19	24.92
10653	D. Back Tender No. 35	20.20	20.81	21.43	22.07	22.73	23.41
18953	D. Third Hand No, 35	19.02	19.59	20.18	20.79	21.41	22.05
12953	D. Fourth Hand No. 35	18.06	18.60	19.16	19.73	20.32	20.93
12653	D. Fifth Hand No. 35	17.08	17.59	18.12	18.66	19.22	19.80
15653	D. Sixth Hand No. 35	17.02	17.53	18.06	18.60	19.16	19.73
15533	A. Rewinder Operator No. 63-2	17.05	17.56	18.09	18.63	19.19	19.77
15543	- A. Rewinder Operator'	16.51	17.01	17.52	16.05	18.59	19.15
13263	* Salvage Winder Helper	16.32	16.81	17.31	17.83	18.36	18.91
13763	SHIPPING- 0103009500 A. Shipping Leader	17.01	17.52	18.05	18.59	19.15	19.72
13783	A. Assistant Leader	16.76	17.26	17.78	18.31	18.86	19.43
16543	PowerTruck Operator (Grab)	16.51	17,01	17.52	18.05	18.59	19.15
13733	B. Roll Process Operator	-	16.80	17.30	17.82	18.35	18.90
16553 10773	AB, Shipping Relief STOCK PREPARATION - 0103005000 ** A. Stock Preparation Leader	18.92	19.49	Various Rates 20.07 20.67 21.29			21.93
16793	** A. Pulper Operator	16.86	17.37	17.89	18.43	18.98	19.55
16843	** A. Utility Operator	16.46	16.95	17.46	17.98	18.52	19.08
13213	" A. Utility Helper	16.43	16.92	17.43	17.95	18.49	19.04
11113	** A. Broke Tender	16.37	16.86	17.37	17.89	18.43	18.98
21753	STOREROOM - 0103001000 A. Clerk No. 1	17.09	17.60	18.13	18.67	19.23	19.81
21763	A. Clerk No. 2	16.44	16.93	17.44	17.96	18.50	19.06
29433	TECHNICAL - 010300900 T-3A Tester	17.43	17.95	16.49	19.04	19.61	20.20
This job and rate will only apply when employees are performing the work of Salvage Winder Helper.
Were 6-hour tour workers; now are 8-hour tour workers on 6 & 2 schedule. The additional $.05/hour is to be continued for these jobs.
-109-
PACE LOCAL NO. 7-0094 SUPPORT SERVICES
Weekly Hour Schedule 40 Hours
Job	Rates Per Hour
g«te Job Title	_______&s of .May _1 of Each Year
		1SS2	2000	2001	2002	2003	2QQ4
	SUPPORT SERVICES - 0114001400						
2343S	A. Head Inventory Clerk	17,42	17.94	18.48	19.03	19.60	20.19
2342S	A. Inventory Clerk	17.19	17.71	18.24	18.79	19.35	19.93
2954S	B. No. 1 Utility	16.43	16.92	17.43	17.95	18.49	19.04
2955S	B. No. 2 Utility	16.12	16.60	17.10	17.61	18.14	18.68
2360S	Laborer	16.12	16.60	17.10	17.61	18.14	18.68
-110-
PACE LOCAL NO. 7-0094 WISCONSIN RAPIDS DIVISION
Weekly Hour Schedule 40 Hours
Job	Rates Per Hour
Code , Job Title	As of May 1 of Each Year
		1999	2UQQ	2001	2QQ2	2003	2QQ4
11071	BROKE HANDLING- 0101005100 A. Broke Leader	17.10	17.61	18.14	18.68	19.24	19.82
11121	* A. Broke Pulper Operator	16.19	16.68	17,18	17.70	18.23	18.78
11041	A. Broke Handler	16.14	16.62	.17.12	17.63	18.16	18.70
21551	CORPORATE SERVICES - 0112301400 A. Check-in Clerk	16.60	17.10	17.61	18.14	18.68	19.24
25801	A. Packaging Clerk	16.38	16.87	17.38	17.90	18.44	18.99
22231	A. Vehicle Operator	16.35	16.84	17.35	17.87	18.41	18.96
26941	A. Relief Clerk	16.32	16.81	17.31	17.83	18.36	18.91
25601	Cleaner	-	16.60	17.10	17.61	18.14	18.68
26401	Postal Clerk	16.16	16.64	17.14	17.65	18.18	18.73
26411	Mail Carrier	16.16	16.64	17.14	17.65	18.18	1873
** CLEANING - 0101001300 26461 Power Sweeper Operator		16.30	16.79	17.29	17.81	18.34	18.89
20021	Air Filter Maintenance	16.30	16.79	17.29	17.B1	18.34	18.89
22411	Equipment Operator	16.20	16.69	17,19	17.71	18.24	18.79
21681	Area Cleaner	16.12	16.60	17.10	17.61	18.14	18.68
21701	Cleaner	16.12	16.60	17.10	'17.61	18.14	18.68
21711	Cleaner/	16.12	16.60	17.10	17.61	18.14	18.68
	Safety Equipment Maintenance	16.32	16.81	17.31	17.83	18.36	18.91
21731	Working Leader/Mill Service Cleaner	0.10 above Mill Service Cleaner rate					
21691	Mill Service Cleaner	16.26	16.75	17.25	17.77	18.30	18.85
21705	CONVERTING CLEANING - 0101009102 Cleaner	16.26	16.75	17.25	17.77	18.30	18,85
11115	CONVERTING GENERAL * 0101009100 A. Broke Pulper Operator	16.26	16.75	17.25	17.77	18.30	18,85
11035	A. Broke Handler.	16.14	16.62	17.12	17.63	18.16	18.70
17345	CONVERTING SHIPPING - 0101009500 A. Wrapper Operator	17.22	17,74	18.27	18.82	19.38	19.96
17355	A. Roll Handling	16.72	17.22	17.74	18.27	18.82	19.38
17375	A. Shipping Operator	16.67	17,17	17.69	18.22	18.77	19.33
19515	A. Utility	16.38	16.87	17.38	17.90	18.44	18.99
23435	CONVERTING STOREROOM - 0101009600 A. Head Inventory Clerk	17.19		17.71	18.24	18.79	19.35	19.93
29805	A. Wicket Tender	16.44	16.93	• 17.44	17.96	18.50	19.06
Employee in this job classification working 64*1/66-1 job assignment will receive a rate of $. 10 over the A. Broke Pulper Operator rate.
Employees designated and authorized by supervision to act as Working Leader will receive $.’10 above the employee's job rate.
-111-
	PACE LOCAL NO. 7-0094 WISCONSIN RAPIDS DIVISION (Con’t)						
	Weekly Hour Schedule		40 Hours				
Job Code	. Job Title		Rates Per Hour As of Mav 1 of Each Year				
22071	CORE- 0101009200 A. Supplier	1999 16.75	2000 17.25	2221 17.77	22Q2 18.30	2003 18.85	2024 19.42
22061	A. Assistant Supplier	16.61	17.11	17.62	18.15	18.69	19.25
26151	CORPORATE GARAGE - 0101001600 A. Parts A	17.11	17.62	18.15	18.69	19.25	19.83
26161	A. Parts B/Utility	16.52	17.02	17.53	18.06	18.60	19.16
26091 26001	CORPORATE PAINTING - 0101002251 Working Leader (part-time) Painter	.30 above Painter rate 16.12 16.60 17.10 17.61				18.14	18.68
10461	CORPORATE TRANSPORTATION - 0101001500 A. Auto Truck Driver - Semi	18.03 18.57			19.13	19.70	20.29	20.90
10431	A. Auto Truck Driver - 5T Platform	16.83	17.33	17.85	18.39	18.94	19.51
10401	Auto Truck Driver - Dempster Dinosaur	17.36	17.88	18.42	18.97	19.54	20.13
23601	LABOR POOL - 0101000100 Laborer	16.12	16.60	17.10	17.61	18.14	18.68
28781	Seasonal Vacation Relief	10.92	10.92	10.92	10.92	10.92	10.92
29031	MAINTENANCE - 0101002200 Tool Room Attendant	16.34	16.83	17.33	17.85	18.39	18.94
23781	MATERIALS HANDLING - 0101000200 Leader	16.82	17.32	17.84	18.38	18.93	19.50
16501	A, Lead PowerTruck Operator	16.82	17.32	17.84	18.38	18.93	19.50
16531	A. PowerTruck Operator	16.43	16.92	17.43	17.95	18.49	19.04
26551	Power Truck Operator	16.68	17.18	17.70	18.23	18.78	19.34
27301	No. 13 Machine (3-11) Roll Handler	16.43	16.92	17.43	17.95	18.49	19.04
26531	Power Truck Operator - 6T	16.54	17.04	17.55	18.08	18.82	19.18
29171	Tractor Operator	16.43	16.92	17.43	17.95	18.49	19.04
23601	* Laborer	16.12	16.60	17.10	17.61	18.14	18.68
20041 26051	Air Hammer (part-time) PAINT SHOP - 0101002250 Sign Painter	0.15 above base 18.12 18.66 19.22			19.80	20.39	21.00
26041	Interior Decorator	18.12	18.66	19.22	19.80	20.39	21.00
26061	Painter-Mill	16.12	16.60	17.10	17.61	18.14	18.68
16741	PULP & WASTE TREATMENT - 0101002800 A. Pulp Receiving Operator	16.90		17.41	17.93	18.47	19.02	19.59
16731	A. Pulp Receiving Helper	16.67	17.17	17.69	18.22	18.77	19.33
Employees assigned to lumber scaling will receive a rate of $.24 over the base rate while performing that function.
-112-
PACE LOCAL NO. 7-0094 WISCONSIN RAPIDS DIVISION (Con’t) Weekly Hour Schedule 40 Hours							
Job Code	Job Title		 1229 RAW MATERIAL UNLOADING - 0101004600		Rates Per Hour As pf May 1 of Each Year 2QQQ 2001 2QQ2 2003				2004
19501	A. Operator	17.51	18.04	18.58	19.14	19.71	20.30
19491	A. Assistant Operator STOCK PREPARATION - PAPERBOARD - 0101005300	16.86	17.37	17.89	18.43	18.98	19.55
10771	A. Beater Boss	16.83	17.33	17.85	18.39	18.94	19.51
16791	A. Pulper Operator	16.69	17.19	17.71	18.24	18.79	19.35
12701	A. First Helper STOREROOM - 0101001000	16.52	17.02	17.53	18.06	18.60	19.16
23431	A. Head Inventory Clerk	17.19	17.71	18.24	18.79	19.35	19.93
21511	A. Checker	16.91	17.42	17.94	18.48	19.03	19.60
20061	A. Assistant Checker	16.55	17.05’	17.58	18.09	18.63	19.19
29801	A. Wicket Tender TECHNICAL - 0101000900	16.44	16.93	17.44	17.96	18.50	19.06
28121	A. Shift Pulp Tester	16.34	16.83	17.33	17.85	18.39	18.94
25051	A. No. 3 Board Tester WOODWORKING - 0101002600	16.24	16.73	17.23	17.75	18.28	18.63
20D85	A. Assistant Leader	17.07	17.58	18.11	18.65	19.21	19.79
28215	A. Skid Saw Operator	.16.59	17.09	17.60	18.13	18.67	19.23
27725	A. Saw Operator	16.42	16.91	17.42	17.94	18.48	19.03
23945	A. Machine Setup	16.41	16.90	17.41	T7.93	18.47	19.02
28185	A. Skid Nailer	16.37	16.86	17.37	17.89	18.43	18.98
29855	A. Woodworker	16.25	16.74	.17.24	17.76	18.29	18.84
-113-
PACE LOCAL NO. 7-0187 WISCONSIN RAPIDS DIVISION Weekly Hour Schedule 40 Hours							
Job		Rates Per Hour					
Code	Job Title COATING MAKEUP - 0101005400	1902	As of Mav 1 of Each Year 2Q2Q 2001 2002 2323 2004				
11901	A. Lead Coating Processor	18.98	19.55	20.14	20.74	21.36	22.00
11911	A. Coating Processor	17.85	18.39	18.94	19.51	20.10	20.70
11921	A. Assistant Coating Processor CONVERTING CARTON PACKAGING -0101009107	16.86	17.37	17.89	18.43	18.98	19.55
11335	A. Case Packer Operator	17.77	18.30	18.85	19.42	20.00	20.60
11325	A. Carton Leader	17.19	17.71	18.24	18.79	19.35	19.93
11315	A. Carton Handler	17.01	17.52	18.05	18.59	19.15	19.72
11305	A. Carton Packer CONVERTING CUTTERS • 0101009101	16.40	16.89	17.40	17.92	18.46	19.01
12205	A. Sheeter Operator	18.27	18.82	19.38	19.96	20.56	21.18
12215	A. Cutter OperatorA	18.09	18.63	19.19	19.77	20.36	20.97
10195	A. Sheeter Assistant Operator	18.03	18.57	19.13	19.70	20.29	20.90
12195	A. Cutter Operator B	17.60	18.13	18.67	19.23	19.81	20.40
12185	A. Cutter Operator C	17.41	17.93	18.47	19.02	19.59	20.18
13555	A. Jogger/Aerator Operator	17.41	17.93	18.47	19.02	19.59	20.18
12175	A. Cutter HelperA	16.84	17.35	17.87	18.41	18.96	19.53
17365	A. Sheeter Helper	16.46	16.95	17.46	17.98	18.52	19.08
12165	A. Cutter Helper B	16.41	16.90	17.41	17.93	18.47	19.02
12155	A. Cutter Helper C	16.34	16.83	17.33	17.85	18.39	18.94
12145	A. Cutter Helper D	16.17	16.66'	17.16	17.67	18.20	10.75
10705	Backstand Loader CONVERTING GENERAL - 0101009100	16.35	16.84	17.35	17.87	18.41	18.96
18245	A. Lead Skid Banker	16.84	17.35	17.87	18.41	18.96	19.53
18175	A. Skid Banding Operator	16.51	17.01	17.52	18.05	18.59	19.15
18235	Utility Trucker CONVERTING QUALITY ASSURANCE -0101009103	16.20	16.69	17.19	17.71	18.24	18.79
17615	QualityAssuranceAuditor CONVERTING TRIMMERS - 0101009104	16.86	17.37	17.89	18.43	18.98	19.55
19335	A. Trimmer Supplier	17.77	18.30	18.85	19.42	20.00	20.60
19345	A. Assistant Trimmer Supplier	17.46	17.98	18.52	19.08	19.65	20.24
19355	A. Trimmer Operator	17.42	17.94	18.48	19.03	19.60	20.19
19375	A. Trimmer Helper	17.35	17.87	18.41	18.96	19.53	20.12
11525	A. Trimmer Loader CONVERTING TRUCKERS - 0101009113	16.79 I	17.29	17.81	18.34	18.89	19.46
19295	Converting Trucker LUBRICATION ■ 0101002296	16.33	16.82	17.32	17.84	18.38	18.93
25221	Paper Machine Oiler	17.09	17.60	18.13	18.67	19.23	19.81
-114-
Job Cote
11831 11821
11811
15641
13341 13441
15551 15591
13261
13271
13291 12401
14061 10661
18961 12961 17061
12661
14211
14231 14251 14271
15381 10111
12731 17951
15431 10121 12751
17961
PACE LOCAL NO. 7-0187 WISCONSIN RAPIDS DIVISION (Con’t)
Weekly Hour Schedule 40 Hours
Rates Per Hour Job Title	As of May 1 of Each Year_
1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004
NO. 16 COATING KITCHEN ■ 0101005406
A. Coating Operator No. 16
A. Assistant Coating Operator No. 16
A. Coating Utility No. 16
NO. 16 FINISHING- 0101007600
A. Operator 74 -1 & 2
A. Helper 74 - 1 & 2
A.	Sparehand 74 -1 & 2
■ B. Operator 85-01
B,	Operator 89-02
B.	First Helper 85-01
B. Second Helper 85-01
B. Helper 89-02
AB. Finishing Relief
NO. 16 MACH INE/M ATE RIALS
- 0101006600
A. Machine Tender No. 16
A. Back Tender No. 16
A. Third Hand No. 16
A. Fourth Hand No. 16
A, Relief Fourth Hand No. 16
A.	Fifth Hand No. 16
B.	Materials Operator No. 16
B. Materials Processor No. 16
B. Materials Helper No. 16
AB. Machine/Materials Relief
18.98	19.55	20.14	20.74	21.36	22.00
17.85	18.39	18.94	19.51	20.10	20.70
16.86	17.37	17.89	18.43	18.98	19.55
19.66	20.25	20.86	21.49	22.13	22.79
17.82	18.35	18.90	19.47	-20.05	20.65
17.02	17.53	18.06	18.60	19.16	19.73
19.47	20.05	20.65	21.27	21.91	22.57
17.77	18.30	18.85	19.42	20.00	20.60
17.44	17.96	18.50	19.06	19.63	20.22
17.02	17.53	18.06	18.60	19.16	19.73
16.52	17.02	17.53	18.06	18.60	19.16
Various rales
23.42	24.12	24.84	25.59	26.36	27.15
22.02	22.68	23.36	24.06	24.78	25.52
19.56	20.15	20.75	21.37	22.01	22.67
18.78	19.34	19.92	20.52	21.14	21.77
18.78	19.34	19.92	20.52	21.14	21.77
17.30	17.62	18.35	18.90	19.47	20.65
19.61	20.40	21.01	21.64	22.29	22.96
16.11	18.65	19.21	19.79	20.38	20.99
16.96	17.47	17.99	18.53	19.09	19.66
Various rates
NO, 64 OFF-MACHINE COATER • 0101006164
A. Operator No. 64
A. Assistant Operator No. 64 -
A. First Helper No. 64
A, Second Helper No. 64
NO. 65 OFF-MACHINE COATER -0101006165
A. Operator No. 65
A. Assistant Operator No, 65
A. First Helper No. 65
A. Second Helper No. 65
20.14	20.74	21.36	22.00	22.66	23.34
18.64	19.20	19.78	20.37	20.98	21.61
17.24	17.76	18.29	18.84	19.41	19.99
16.68	17.18	17.70	18.23	18.78	19.34
19.70	20.29	20.90	21.53	22.18	22.85
18,34	18.89	19.46	20.04	20.64	21.26
17.07	17.58	18.11	18.65	19.21	19.79
16.54	17.04	17.55	18.08	18.62	19.18
-115-
Job Code
15441
10131
12761
17971
11871
11881
11891
12771
16971
14011 10611 18911
12911 17011
14021 10621 18921
12921 17021
19551
14031
10681 18931
12931 17031
14041 10641 18941
12941 17041 19561
14051
10651 18951
12951 17051 19571
11781 17701 11841
PACE LOCAL NO. 7-0187 WISCONSIN RAPIDS DIVISION (Con’t)
Weekly Hour Schedule 40 Hours						
Job Title	Rates Pef Hour As of Mav 1 of Each Year						
	1999	2QQQ	2001	2GQ2	2003	2004
NO. 66 OFF-MACHINE COATER - 0101006166						
A. Operator No. 66	19.96	20.56	21.18	21.82	22.47	23.14
A. Assistant Operator No. 66	18.55	19.11	19.68	20.27	20.88	21.51
A. First Helper No. 66	17.17	17.69	18.22	18.77	19.33	19.91
A. Second Helper No. 66	16.59	17.09	17.60	18.13	18.67	19.23
NO. 67 QFF-MACHINE COATES						
-0101006167 A. Coater Tender No. 67	20.60	21.22	21.86	22.52	23.20	23.90
A. Blade Operator (2) No. 67	19.20	19.78	20.37	20.98	21.61	22.26
A. Blade Operator (1) No. 67	18.40	18.95	19.52	20.11	20.71	21.33
A. Coater Helper No. 67	17.43	17.95	18.49	19.04	19.61	20.20
A. Reel Handler No. 16	16.51	17.01	17.52	18.05	18.59	19.15
PAPER MACHINES - 0101006000						
A. Machine Tender No. 11	20.92	21.55	22.20	22.87	23.56	24.27
A. Back Tender No. 11	19.69	20.28	20.89	21.52	22.17	22.84
A. Third Hand No. 11	17.85	18.39	18.94	19.51	20.10	20.70
A. Fourth Hand No. 11	16.69	17.19	17.71	18.24	18.79	19.35
A. Relief Fourth Hand No. 11	16.69	17.19	17.71	18.24	18.79	19.35
A. Machine Tender No. 12	21.63	22.28	22.95	23.64	24.35	25.08
A. Back Tender No. 12	20.37	20.98	21.61	22.26	22.93	23.62
A. Third Hand No. 12	18.17	18.72	19.28	19.86	20.46	21.07
A. Fourth Hand No. 12	16.82	17.32	17.84	18.38	18.93	19.50
A. Relief Fourth Hand No. 12	16.82	17.32	17.84	18.38	18.93	19.50
AB. Utility No. 12	16.42	16.91	17.42	17.94	18.48	19.03
C. Machine Tender No. 13	18.89	19.46	20.04	20.64	21.26	21.90
C, Back Tender No. 13	17.64	16.17	16.72	19.26	19.66	20.46
C. Third Hand No. 13	16.84	17,35	17.87	18.41	18.96	19.53
C. Fourth Hand No. 13	16.51	17.01	17.52	18.05	18.59	19.15
C. Relief Fourth Hand No. 13	16.51	17.01	17.52	18.05	18.59	19.15
D. Machine Tender No. 14	22.25	22.92	23.61	24.32	25.05	25.80
D. Back Tender No. 14	20.98	21.61	22.26	22.93	23.62	24.33
D. Third Hand No. 14	18.65	19.21	19.79	20.38	20.99	21.62
D. Fourth Hand No. 14	17,09	17.60	18.13	18.67	19.23	19.81
D. Relief Fourth Hand No. 14	17.09	17.60	18.13	18.67	19.23	19.81
D. Utility No. 14	16.42	16.91	17.42	17.94	18.48	19.03
E. Machine Tender No. 15	21.63	22.28	22.95	23.64	24.35	25.08
E. Back Tender No. 15	20.37	20.98	21.61	22.26	22.93	23.62
E. Third Hand No. 15	18.17	18.72	19.28	19.86	20.46. 21.07	
E. Fourth Hand No. 15	16.82	17.32	17.84	18.38	18.93	19.50
E. Relief Fourth Hand No. 15	16.82	17.32	17.84	18.38	18.93	19.50
E. Utility No. 15	16.42	16.91	17.42	17.94	18.48	19.03
F. Clothing Tender Nos. 11, 12, 14,15	17.58	18.11	18.65	19.21	19.79	20.38
F. Saveall Operator	16.51	17.01	17.52	18.05	18.59	19.15
ABDEF. Coater Utility (unassigned)		Various rates				
-116-
PACE LOCAL NO. 7-0187 WISCONSIN RAPIDS DIVISION (Con’t)
Weekly Hour Schedule 40 Hours
Job		Rates Per Hour					
Code 15531	Job Title REWINDERS ■ 0101008000 A. Operator No. 83	1999 18.27	As of May 1 of Each Year 2000 2001 2002 2023 18.82 19.38 19.96 20.56				2004 21.18
15541	A. Operator	17.77	18.30	18.85	19.42	20.00	20.60
15671	A. Re-reeler Operator	17.55	18.08	18.62	19.18	19.76	20.35
13241	A. First Helper No. 83	16.91	17.42	17.94	18.48	19.03	19.60
13251	A. Second Helper No. 83	16.79	17.29	17.81	18.34	18.89	19.46
13211	A. Helper	16.52	17.02	17.53	18.06	18.60	19.16
15691	A. Re-reeler Helper	16.43	16.92	17.43	17.95	18.49	19.04
23711	SAMPLE ROOM - 0101009300 A. Operator	16.94	17.45	17.97	18.51	19.07	19.64
23231	A. Helper	16.49	16.98	17.49	18.01	18.55	19.11
19261	STOCK PREPARATION-COATED -0101005000 A. Trimbey Operator	18.92	19.49	20.07	20.67	21.29	21.93
19251	A. Trimbey Helper	16.76	17.26	17.78	18.31	18.86	19.43
13681	A. Lap Pulp Operator	16.49	16.98	17.49	18.01	,18.55	19.11
15681	SUPERCALENDERS - 0101007000 A. Operators 77, 78, & 79	18.88	19.45	20.03	20.63	21.25	21.89
15631	A. Operator	18.25	18.80	19.36	19.94	20.54	21.16
13381	A. Helpers 77, 78, & 79	17.12	17.63	18.16	18.70	19.26	19.84
13201	A. Helper	16.90	17.41	17.93	18.47	19.02	19.59
18401	A. Spare Hard	16.40	16.89	17.40	17.92	18.46	19.01
19511	A. Utility	16.23	16.72	17.22	17.74	18.27	18.82
29431	TECHNICAL ■ 0101000900 A. T-3A Tester	17.55	18.08	18.62	19.18	19.76	20.35
29441	A. T-3C Tester	17.43	17.95	18.49	19.04	19.61	20.20
29421	* A. T-2 Tester	16.90	17.41	17.93	18.47	19.02	19.59
* From Day Pulp Tester, Local No. 7-0094.
-117-
PACE LOCAL NO. 7-0359 WISCONSIN RIVER DIVISION
Weekly Hour Schedule 40 Hours							
Job Code 18526 18876 18866	Job Title COATING MAKEUP - 0106005400 A. Starch Cooker A. Tank Operator No. 4 A. Tank Operator Nos. 1 & 3	Rates Per Hour 	As of May 1 of Each Year						
		1999 17.64 17.09 17.01	2000 18.17 17.60 17.52	2001 18.72 18.13 18.05	2002 19.28 18.67 18.59	2003 19.86 19.23 19.15	2004 20.46 19.81 19.72
11866	Coating Worker OILING - 0106002296	16.43	16.92	17.43	17.95	18.49	19.04
25226	A. Head Oiler	17.49	18.01	18.55	19.11	19.68	20.27
25206	A. Oiler PAPER MACHINES - 0106006000	17.09	17.60	18.13	18.67	19.23	19.81
14046	A. Machine Tender No. 64	23.09	23.78	24.49	25.22	25.98	26.76
10646	A. Back Tender No. 64	21.81	22.46	23.13	23.82	24.53	25.27
18946	A. Third Hand No. 64	19.73	20.32	20.93	21.56	22.21	22.88
12946	A. Fourth Hand No. 64	19.06	19.63	20.22	20.83	21.45	22.09
12646	A. Fifth Hand No. 64	17.42	17.94	18.48	19.03	19.60	20.19
17046	A. Relief Fifth Hand No. 64	17.42	17.94	18.48	19.03	19.60	20.19
14016	B. Machine Tender No. 61	19.77	20.36	20.97	21.60	22.25	22.92
10616	B. Back Tender No. 61	18.47	19.02	19.59	20.18	20.79	21.41
18916	B. Third Hand No. 61	17.53	18.06	18.60	19.16	19.73	20.32
12916	B. Fourth Hand No. 61	17.30	17.82	18.35	18.90	19.47	20.05
12616	B. Fifth Hand No. 61	16.42	16.91	17.42	17.94	18.48	19.03
17006	B. Relief Fifth Hand No. 61	16.42	16.91	17.42	17.94	18.48	19.03
14036	C. Machine Tender No. 63	21.92	22.58	23.26	23.96	24.68	25.42
10636	C. Back Tender No. 63	20.71	21.33	21.97	22.63	23.31	24.01
18936	C. Third Hand No. 63	18.85	19.42	20.00	20.60	21.22	21.86
12936	C. Fourth Hand No. 63	18.40	18.95	19.52	20.11	20.71	21.33
12636	C. Fifth Hand No. 63	17.02	17.53	18.06	18.60	19.16	19.73
17026	C. Relief Fifth Hand No. 63 REWINDERS - 0106008000	17.02	17.53	18.06	18.60	19.16	19.73
15566	A. Operator No. 4	19.06	19.63	20.22	20.83	21.45	22.09
15556	A. Operator No. 3	18.17	18.72	19.28	19.86	20.46	21.07
15576	A. Operator No. 5	17.93	18.47	19.02	19.59	20.18	20.79
15546	A. Operator Nos. 1 & 2	17.50	18.03	18.57	19.13	19.70	20.29
13256	A. Helper No. 4	17.32	17.64	16.36	16.93	19.50	20.09
13236	A. Helper No. 3	16.94	17.45	17.97	18.51	19.07	19.64
13226	A. Helper Nos. 1 & 2	16.59	17.09	17.60	18.13	18.67	19.23
19526	A. Utility Worker STOCK PREPARATION - COATED - 0106005000	16.59	17.09	17.60	18.13	18.67	19.23
18646	A. Stock Preparation Leader	19.60	20.19	20.80	21.42	22.06	22.72
10246	A. Assistant Stock Preparation Leader	17.74	18.27	18.82	19.38	19.96	20.56
16796	A. Pulper Operator	16.83	17.33	17.85	18.39	18.94	19.51
-118
PACE LOCAL NO. 7-0359
WISCONSIN RIVER DIVISION (Con’t)
Weekly Hour Schedule 40 Hours							
Job Code	Job Title	1999	Rates Per Hour				
			As of 2000	May 1 2001	of Each Year		
					2022	2203	2004
19516	STOCK PREPARATION - COA1EU -0106005000 (Con’t) A. Utility Worker	16.68	17.18	17.70	18.23	18.78	19.34
11006	A. Broke Beater Nos. 3 & 4	16.26	16.75	17.25	17.77	18.30	18.85
11016	A. Broke Beater Nos. 1 & 2	16.20	16.69	17.19	17.71	18.24	18.79
11606	Chemical Mixer	16.70	17.20	17.72	18.25	18.80	19.36
15656	SUPERCALENDERS - 0106007000 A. Operator Nos. 4 & 5	19.77	20.36	20.97	21.60	22.25	22.92
15646	A. Operator Nos. 2 & 3	18.87	19.44	20.02	20.62	21.24	21.88
15636	A. Operator No. 1	18.12	18.66	19.22	19.80	20.39	21.00
13246	A. Helper Nos.4&5	17.95	18.49	■19.04	19.61	20.20	20.81
12706	A. Helper Nos. 2 & 3	17.29	17.81	18.34	18.89	19.46	20.04
12726	A. Helper No. 1	16.82	17.32	17.84	18.38	18.93	19.50
29436	TECHNICAL ■ 0106000900 A. T-3A Tester	17.53	18.06	18.60	19.16	19.73	20.32
29446	A. T-3C Tester	17.14	17.65	18.18	18.73	19.29	19.87
29426	A. T-2 Tester	16.84	17.35	17.87	18.41	18.96	19.53
29416	A. T-1 Tester	16.43	16.92	17.43	17.95	18.49	19.04
-119-
PACE LOCAL NO. 7-1306 WISCONSIN RIVER DIVISION Weekly Hour Schedule 40 Hours							
Job		Rates Per Hour					
Code	Job Title AUTO TRUCKS - 0106001600	1999	As of Mav 1 of Each Year 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004				
20436	Auto Truck Driver - Platform	16.83	17.33	17.85	18.39	18.94	19.41
20446	Auto Truck Driver (part-time) BOILERHOUSE- 0106000500	16.83	17.33	17.85	18.39	18.94	19.51
25486	A. Operator No. 5	19.34	19.92	20.52	21(14	21(77	22.42
25476	A. Operator No. 4	18.63	19.19	19.77	20.36	20.97	21.60
23246	A. Helper No. 4	18.25	18.80	19.36	19.94	20.54	21.16
23256	A. Helper No. 5	18.11	18.65	10.21	19.79	20.38	20.99
27186	Repair Worker (part-time) ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL -0106002800	17.07	17.58	18.11	18.65	19.21	19.79
25686	Operator	18.94	19.51	20.10	20.70	21.32	21.96
29516	Utility Worker (part-time)	16.58 FINISHING ROLLS. CORES & SHIPPING -0106009000		17.08	17.59	18.12	18.66	19.22
13756	A. Head Roll Processor	17.02	17.53	18.06	18.60	19.16	19.73
16526	A. Power Truck Operator (Grab)	16.51	17.01	17.52	18.05	18.59	19.15
17346	A. Roll Wrapper Machine - Operator	16.45	16.94	17.45	17.97	18.51	19.07
12056	Core Processor	16.40	16.89	17.40	17.92	18.46	19.01
11206	Car Sander GROUNDWOOD - 0106003300	16.24	16.73	17.23	17.75	18.28	18.83
23156	A. Groundwood Plant Operator	18.34	18.89	19.46	20.04	20.64	21.26
23166	A. Groundwood Plant Helper	17.39	17.91	18.45	19.00	19.57	20.16
29576	Utility INDUSTRIAL HEALTH & SAFETY -0106001700	16.44	16.93	17.44	17.96	18.50	19.06
27506	Safety Equipment & Maintenance LABOR POOL • 0106000100	16.54	17.04	17.55	18.08	18.62	19.18
23606	Laborer	16.12	16.60	17.10	17.61	18.14	18.68
28786	Seasonal Vacation Relief	10.92	10.92	10.92	10.92	10.92	10.92
	Auto Truck Driver - Pickup (part-time) MAINTENANCE - 0106002200	16.44	16.93	17.44	17.96	18.50	19.06
26086	Head Painter	18.84	19.41	19.99	20.59	21.21	21.85
26006	Painter Machinists, Millwrights. Welders Sheet Metal Workers. Auto Mechanics Working Leader	16.12 16.60 17.10 17.61 0.50 above J+8 rate.				18.14	18.68
	Journeyman +8 Years	20.96	21.59	22.24	22.91	23.60	24.31
	Journeyman +5 Years	20.20	20.81	21.43	22.07	22.73	23.41
	Journeyman	19.50	20.09	20.69	21.31	21.95	22.61
-120-
PACE LOCAL NO. 7-1306 WISCONSIN RIVER DIVISION (Con’t)
Weekly Hour Schedule 40 Hours
Rales Per Hour
_____As of May 1 of Each-Yeac_____
1999 2022 2001 2022 2003 2004
MAINTENANCE - 0106002200 (Con’t) Machinists, Millwrights. Welders Sheet Metal Workers, Auto Mechanic)
Apprentice Blh 6 mos. (95%)
Apprentice 7th 6 mos. (90%)
Apprentice 6th 6 mos. (87.5%)
Apprentice 5th 6 mos. (85%)
Apprentice 4th 6 mos. (82.5%)
Apprentice 3rd 6 mos. (80%)
Apprentice 2nd 6 mos. (77.5%)
Apprentice 1st 6 mos. (75%)
(Con’t)
18.53	19.09	19.66	20.24	20.85	21.48
17.55	18.08	18.62	19.18	19.76	20.35
17.06	17.58	18.10	18.65	19.21	19.78
16.58	17.08	17.59	18.11	18.66	19.22
16.09	16.57	17.07	17.58	18.11	18.65
15.60	16.07	16.55	17.05	17.56	18.09
15.11	15.57	16.03	16.51	17.01	17.52
14.63	15.07	15.52	15.98	16.46	16.96
Pipefitters
Working Leader
Journeyman +8 Years
Journeyman +5 Years
Journeyman ■
Apprentice 8th 6 mos. (95%)
Apprentice 7th 6 mos. (90%)
Apprentice 6th 6 mos. (87.5%)
Apprentice Sth 6 mos. (85%)
Apprentice 4th 6 mos. (82.5%)
Apprentice 3rd 6 mos. (80%)
Apprentice 2nd 6 mos. (77.5%)
Apprentice 1st 6 mos. (75%)
Working Leader
Journeyman +8 Years
Journeyman +5 Years
Journeyman
Apprentice 8th 6 mos. (95%)
Apprentice 7th 6 mos. (90%)
Apprentice 6th 6 mos. (87.5%)
Apprentice 5th 6 mos. (85%)
Apprentice 4th 6 mos. (82,5%)
Apprentice 3rd 6 mos. (80%)
Apprentice 2nd 6 mos. (77.5%)
Apprentice 1st 6 mos. (75%)
Ptumbors
Working Leader
Journeyman +8 Years
Journeyman +5 Years Journeyman
0.50 above J+B rate.
21.35	21.99	22.65	23.33	24.03	24.75
20.72	21.34	21.98	22.64	23.32	24.02
19.69	20.28	20.89	21.52	22.17	22.84
18.71	19.27	19.85	20.44	21.06	21.70
17.72	18.25	18.80	19.37	19.95	20.56
17.23	17.75	18.28	18.83	19.40	19.99
16.74	17.24	17.76	18.29	18.84	19.41
16.24	16.73	17.23	17.75	18.29	18.84
15.75	16.22	16.71	17.22	17.74	18.27
15.26	15.72	16.19	16.68	17.18	17.70
14.77	15.21	15.67	T6.14	16.63	17.13
Electricians, Shift Electricians. Instrumentation
0.50 above J+8 rate, 21.51	22.16	22.82	23.50	24.21	24.94
20.58	21.20	21.84	22.50	23.18	23.88
19.69	20.28	20.89	21.52	22.17	22.84
18.71	19.27	18.95	20.44	21.06	21.70
17.72	18.25	,18.80	19.37	19.95	20.56
17.23	17.75	18.28	18.83	19.40	19.99
16.74	17.24	17.76	18.29	18.84	19.41
16.24	16.73	17.23	17.75	18.29	18.84
15.75	16.22	16.71	17.22	17.74	18.27
15.26	15.72	16.19	16.68	17.18	17.70
14.77	15.21	15.67	16.14	16.63	17.13
0.50 above J+6 rate.
21.35	21.99	22.65	23.33	24.03	24.75
20.72	21.34	21.98	22.64	23.32	24.02
19.69	20.28	20.89	21,52	22.17	22.84
-121
PACE LOCAL NO. 7-1306 WISCONSIN RIVER DIVISION (Con’t)
Weekly Hour Schedule 40 Hours
Job			Rates I		Per Hour		
Code	Job Title MATERIALS HANDLING - 0108000200	1922	As of May 1 2222 2001		of Each Year 2002 2003 2004		
23776	A. Leader No. 1	16.70	17.20	17.72	18.25	18.80	19.36
23786	A. Leader No. 2	16.69	17.19	17.71	18.24	18.79	19.35
29656	A. Vehicle Operator	16.43	16.92	17.43	17.95	18.49	19.04
24156	A. Material Handler	16.19	16.68	17.18	17.70	18.23	18.78
21436	Cement Worker (part-time)	16.49	16.98	17.49	18.01	18.55	19.11
24606	Motor Cleaner (part-time)	16.19	16.68	17.18	17.70	18.23	18.78
23006	Groundskeeper MILL SERVICES & SANITATION ■ 0106001300	16.19	16.68	17.18	17.70	18.23	18.78
24336	A. Mill Service Canvas Leader	16.55	17.05	17.56	18.09	18.63	19.19
24356	A. Mill Service Leader	16.43	16.92	17.43	17.95	18.49	19.04
24346	A. Mill Service Helper	16.25	16.74	17.24	17.76	18.29	18.84
24106	Mail CarrierJCIeaner	16.20	16.69	17.19	17.71	18.24	18.79
21706	Cleaner SCALING ■ 0106000400	16.12	16.60	17.10	17.61	18.14	18.68
19766	Wood Scaler/Trackmobile Operator	16.51	17.01	17.52	18.05	18.59	19.15
19756	Wood Scaler/Trackmobile Helper (part-time) STOREROOM - 0106001000	16.33	16.82	17.32	17.84	18.38	18.93
21516	A. Head Inventory Clerk	17.19	17.71	18.24	16.79	19.35	19.93
21526	A. Freight Checker	17.02	17.53	18.06	18.60	19.16	19.73
29806	A. Wicket Tender TM PLANT - 0106003100	16.44	16.93	17.44	17.96	18.50	19.06
19016	A. TM Operator	18.57	19.13	19.70	20.29	20.90	21.53
19006	A. TM Helper	17.95	18.49	19.04	19.61	20.20	20.81
17806	A. Utility WOODROOM - 0106002000	17.29	17.81	18.34	18.89	19.46	20.04
15396	A. Head Operator	17.36	17.88	18.42	18.97	18.54	20.13
15386	A. Operator	17.01	17.52	18.05	18.59	19.15	19.72
11656	A. Chip Handler YARD-0106000300	16.43	16.92	17.43	17.95	18.49	19.04
14446	A. Mobile Crane Operator No. 1	17.36	17.88	18.42	18.97	19.54	20.13
14456	A. Mobile Crane Operator No. 2	17.08	17.59	18.12	18.66	19.22	19.80
-122-
1 9 9 9
2 0 0 0
2 0 0
1
2 0 0
2
s “ W F 5 1 2	S M 1A(V F S 1 2 3	5 " JutY6 7 F S 1 2 3	5WT<x?rTFS 1 2
3 4 5 6 7 8 9	4 5 6 7 8 9 10	4 5 6 7 8 9 10	3 4 5 6 7 8 9
10 11 12 13 14 15 16	11 12 13 14 15 16 17	11 12 13 14 1516 17	10 11 12 13 14 15 16
17 18 19 20 21 22 23	18 19 20 21 22 23 24	18 19 20 21 22 23 24	17 18 19 20 21 22 23
24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31	25 26 27 28 29 30	25 26 27 28 29 30 31	24 25 25 27 28 29 30 31
FEB	MAY	AUG	NOV
1 2 3 4 5 6	1	1 2 3 4 5 6 7	1 2 3 4 5 6
7 8 9 10 11 12 13	2 3 4 5 6 7 8	8 9 10 11 12 13 14	7 8 9 10 11 12 13
14 1516 17 18 19 20	9 10 11 12 13 14 15	15 16 17 18 19 20 21	14 15 1617 18 19 20
21 22 23 24 25 26 27	16 17 18 19 20 21 22	22 23 24 25 26 27 28	21 22 23 24 25 26 27
28	23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31	29 30 31	28 29 30
MAR	JUNE	SEPT	DEC
1 2 3 4 5 6	1 2 3 4 5	12 3 4	12 3 4
7 8 9 10 11 12 13	6 7 8 9 10 11 12	5 6 7 8 9 10 11	5 6 7 8 9 10 11
14 15 1617 18 19 20	13 14 15 16 17 18 19	12 13 14 15 1617 18	12 1314 15 16 17 18
21 22 23 24 25 26 27	20 21 22 23 24 25 26	19 20 21 22 23 24 25	19 20 21 22 23 24 25
28 29 30 31	27 28 29 30	26 27 28 29 30	26 2? 28 29 30 31
’“LaV^ 1	SM7a^7FS’ 1	S M JutY7 F S 1	1 2 3 4 5 6 7
2 3 4 5 6 7 8	2 3 4 5 6 7 8	2 3 4 5 6 7 8	8 9 10 11 12 13 14
9 10 11 12 13 14 15	9 10 11 12 13 14 15	9 10 11 12 13 14 15	15 16 1 7 18 19 20 21
16 17 18 19 20 21 22	16 17 18 19 20 21 22	16 17 18 19 20 21 22	22 23 24 25 26 27 28
23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31	23 24 25 26 27 26 29 30	23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31	29 30 31
FEB	MAY	AUG	NOV
1 2 3 4 5	1 2 3 4 5 6	1 2 3 4 5 -	12 3 4
5 7 » 9 10 11 12	7 8 9 >0 11 12 13	6 7 8 9 10 11 12	5 6 7 8 9 10 11
13 14 15 16 17 18 19	14 15 161? 18 19 20	13 14 151617 18 19	12 13 14 15 16 17 18
20 21 22 23 24 25 26	21 22 23 24 25 26 27	20 21 22 23 24 25 26	19 20 21 22 23 24 25
27 28 29	28 29 30 31	27 28 29 30 31	26 27 28 29 30
MAR	JUNE	SEPT	DEC
12 3 4	1 2 3	1 2	1 2
5 6 7 8 9 10 11	4 5 6 7 8 9 10	3 4 5 6 7 8 9	3 4 5 6 7 8 9
12 13 14 15 16 17 18	11 12 13 14 15 16 17	10 11 12 13 14 15 16	10 11 12 13 14 1516
19 20 21 22 23 24 25	18 19 20 21 22 23 24	17 18 19 20 21 22 23	17 18 19 20 21 22 23
26 27 28 29 30 31	25 26 27 28 29 30	24 25 26 27 28 29 30	24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
SMTjfl7FS	5 H afT f s'	S “ JutY7 F S	s M oct' F s
1 2 3 4 5 6	1 2 3 4 5 6 7	1 2 3 4 5 6 7	1 2 3 4 5 6
7 8 9 10 11 12 13	8 9 10 11 12 13 14	8 9 10 11 12 13 14	7 8 9 10 11 12 13
14 15 16 17 1819 20	15 16 17 18 19 20 21	15 16 1 7 18 19 20 21	14 1516 17 1819 20
21 22 23 24 25 26 27	22 23 24 25 26 27 28	22 23 24 25 26 27 28	21 22 23 24 25 26 27
28 29 30 31	29 30	29 30 31	28 29 30 31
FEB	MAY	AUG	NOV
1 2 3	1 2 3 4 5	12 3 4	1 2 3
4 5 6 7 8 9 10	6 7 8 9 10 11 12	5 6 7 8 9 10 11	4 5 6 7 8 9 10
11 12 13 14 15 16 17	13 14 15 16 17 18 19	12 13 14 15 16 17 18	11 12 13 14 15 16 17
18 19 20 21 22 23 24	20 21 22 23 24 25 26	19 20 21 22 23 24 25	18 19 20 21 22 23 24
25 26 27 28	2? 28 29 30 31	26 27 28 29 30 31	25 26 27 28 29 30
MAR	JUNE	SEPT	DEC
1 2 3	1 2 3	1	1
4 5 6 7 8 9 10	4 5 6 7 8 9 10	2 3 4 5 6 7 8	2 3 4 5 6 7 8
11 12 13 14 15 16 17	11 12 13 14 15 16 17	9 10 11.12 13 14 15	9 10 11 12 13 14 15
13 10 20 2122 23 24	18 19 20 21 22 23 24	16 17 IS 19 20 21 22	16 17 IS 19 20 21 22
25 26 27 28 29 30 31	25 26 27 28 29 30	23 24 25 26 27 28 29	23 24 25 26 27 28 29
30
30 31
jaJj
APR
s w Juty
btfrT F
6 7 6 9 10 11 12
13 14 15 16 1718 19
20 21 22 23 24 25 26
27 28 29 30 31
7 6 9 10 11 12 13
14 15 16 17 18 19 20
21 22 23 24 25 26 27
28 29 30
7 8 9 10 11 12 13
14 15 16 17 1819 20
21 22 23 24 25 26 27
28 29 30 31
6 7 8 9 10 11 12
13 14 15 16 17 18 19
20 21 22 23 24 25 26
27 28 29 30 31
FEB
MAY
AUG
NOV
10 11 12 13 14 15 16
17 18 19 20 21 22 23
24 25 26 27 28
5 6 7 8 9 10 11
12 13 14 15 16 17 18
19 20 21 22 23 24 25
26 27 28 29 30 31
11 12 13 14 15 16 17
18 19 20 21 22 23 24
25 26 27 28 29 30 31
10 11 12 13 14 15 16
17 18 19 20 21 22 23
24 25 26 27 28 29 30
MAR
JUNE
SEPT
DEC
10 11 12 13 14 15 18
17 18 19 20 21 22 23
24 25 26 27 28 29 30
31
0 10 11 12 13 14 15
16 17 19 19 20 21 22
23 24 25 26 27 28 29
30
8 9 10 If 12 13 14
15 16 17 18 19 20 21
22 23 24 25 26 27 28
29 30
i 9 ID 11 12 (3 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
-123-
S M T W r F s JAN
2 0 0
3
2 0 0
4
2 0 0
5
2 0 0
6
5 6 7 8 3 10 11
12 13 14 15 15 17 18
19 20 21 22 23 24 25
26 27 28 29 30 31
sut0(?ttfs	;
12 3 4
5 6 7 8 9 10 11
12 13 14 15 16 17 18
19 20 21 22 23 24 25	]
26 27 28 29 30 31
NOV
7 8 9 10 11 12 13
14 15 18 17 18 19 20
21 22 23 24 25 26 27
28 29 30
DEC
5 6 7 8 9 10 11
12 13 14 15 16 17 18
19 20 21 72 23 24 25
26 27 28 Z9 30 31
AUG
JUNE
DEC
5 6 7 8 9 10 11
1! 13 14 15 16 17 18
19 20 21 22 23 24 25
26 27 28 29 30
11 12 13 14 151617
18 19 20 21 22 23 24
25 26 27 28 29 30 31
s M JutV
9 10 11 12 13 14 15
16 17 18 19 20 21 22
23 24 25 26 27 28 29
30 31
AUG
1 2 3 4 5
6 7 8 9 10 11 12
13 14 15 16 17 18 19
20 21 22 23 24 25 26
27 28 29 30 31
JUNE
SEPT
11 12 13 14 15 16 17
18 19 20 21 22 23 24
25 26 27 28 29 30
10 11 12 13 14 15 16
17 18 19 20 21 22 23
24 25 26 27 28 29 30
-124
2 0 0
2 0 0
8
s M tjaV f 5 12 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 1819 20 21 22 23 24 25 28 27 28 29 30 31	8 M	F S 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30	S « JuCyT 7 8 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31	s M Toc?r’ F s 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
FEB 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 1516 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28	MAY 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 1516 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31	AUG 12 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31	NOV 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30
MAR 1 2 3 4 5 8 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 1516 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31	JUNE 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30	SEPT 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30	DEC 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
S M	F	5 1	2	3 4	5 6 7	8	9	10 11	12 13 14	15	16	1718	19 20 21	22	23	24 25	26 27 28 29 30 31	8 M 7^7 F S 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30	8 M JuCyT 7 8 1 2 3 4 5 6' 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 1718 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31	S M Tofr T F 8 12 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
FEB 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 1415 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29	MAY 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 1516 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31	AUG 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31	NOV 1 2 3 4 5 6 7. 8 9 10 11 1213 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30
MAR 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 1314 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31	JUNE 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30	SEPT 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 16 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30	DEC 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
2 0
0 9
s m IjaV f S 1 2 3	S M	F 8 12 3 4	S M W F 8 12 3 4	’ “ bft’ F 5 1 2 3
4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 1516 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31	5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30	5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31	4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 ’ 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
FEB 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 1213 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28	MAY 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31	AUG 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31	NOV 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30
MAR 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 1213 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31	JUNE 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 1516 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30	SEPT 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 1516 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30	DEC 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
a M tjaV F 5	a u W f s	S « Tutv7 F S	a m 7oifrT f a
1 2	1 2 3	1 2 3	1 2
3 4 5 6 7 8 9	4 5 6 7 8 9 10	4 5 6 7 8 9 10	3 4 5 6 7 8 9
10 11 12 13 1415 16	11 12 13 14 1516 17	11 12 13 14 1516 17	10 11 12 13 14 15 16
17 18 19 20 21 22 23	18 19 20 21 22 23 24	18 19 20 21 22 23 24	17 18 19 20 21 22 23
24 25 26 27 28 29 30 11	25 26 27 28 29 30	25 26 27 28 29 30 31	24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
J 1 FEB	MAY	AUG	NOV
1 2 3 4 5 6	1	1 2 3 4 5 6 7	1 2 3 4 5 6
7 8 9 10 11 12 13	2 3 4 5 6 7 8 ■	8 9 10 11 12 13 14	7 8 9 10 11 12 13
14 15 16 17 1819 20	9 10 11 12 13 14 15	15 16 17 18 19 20 21	14 15 16 1718 19 20
21 22 23 24 25 26 27	16 1 7 18 19 20 21 22	22 23 24 25 26 27 28	21 22 23 24 25 26 27
28	23 24 25 26 27 28 29	29 30 31	28 29 30
	30 31		
MAR	JUNE	SEPT	DEC
1 2 3 4 5 6	1 2 3 4 5	12 3 4	12 3 4
7 8 9 10 11 12 13	6 7 8 9 10 11 12	5 6 7 8 9 10 11	5 6 7 8 9 10 11
14 15 16 17 1819 20	13 14 1516 17 18 19	12 13 14 15 16 17 18	12 13 14 1516 17 18
21 22 23 24 25 26 27	20 21 22 23 24 25 26	19 20 21 22 23 24 25	19 20 21 22 23 24 25
28 29 30 31	27 28 29 30	28 27 28 29 30	26 27 28 29 30 31
-125-
INDEX
Absences......................:.......................41-42,	49-60
Company or Union Business.................................58
Military..................................................51
Agreement General Purpose of....................................... 1
Parties to................................................ 1
Term, Renewal, or Changes of..............................95
Termination of.........................................95-96
Amendments, Modifications, Interpretations, and Side Agreements...............................................94
Apprenticeship System......................................74-77
Committee...............................................2, 77
Arbitrator, Powers of......................................93-94
Birthday Provisions........................................48-49
Bulletin Boards...............................................87
Bypasses .................................................... 18
Call-In....................................................37-38
Call Time........................................... 36-37,71-72
Checkoff Agreement...........................................4-6
Clean-Up Time.................................................72
Consolidated Employees' Benefit Plan (CEBP)..............65,	90
Consolidated Employees' Retirement Plan (CERP)................91
Contracting Out............................................85-86
Craft Hiring Policy.......................................... 13
Craft Promotion Posting...................................... 73
Day Off................................................. 32,	36, 71
Day Workers................................................30-31
Death in Immediate Family..................................55-57
Deer Hunting..................................................60
Discharge.................................................... 93
Disciplinary Guideline ....................................84-85
Discontinuance of A Position.............................16,	78-81
Double Time...................................................36
EBP (See CEBP)
Emergency Shutdown.......................................37,	71-72
Employee Birthday Provisions...............................48-49
-126-
Employee Health And Welfare................................86-91
Employee Rules.............................................81-85
Employment, No Full-time Guarantee............................30
Equal Employment Opportunity..................................90
Exempted Positions (From Postings)..........................  14
First Aid Attendants..........................................87
Funeral Leave..............................................55-57
Glove Program.................................................88
Grievance Procedure........................................91-93
Heat Problems (On Paper Machines)..........................89-90
Holidays...................................................40-49
Banking.................................................45-46
Floating................................................48-49
Nonrestricted..............................................47
Not Operated............................................46-47
Operating..................................................46
Pay.....................................................41-42
Restrictions - PACE Mechanics...........................47-48
Schedules...............................................43-44
Hours of Work and Running Schedule.........................30-35
Adding on of Shifts........................................31
Illness or Injury.............................................50
Job Discontinuance.....................................16,78-81
Job Posting............................................12-13, 73
Jurisdiction.................................................6-7
Jury Duty..................................................53-55
Kraft Division...............      ■................-......77-78
Layoff-Displacements-Recalls...............................18-23
Paperboard Products Division........................... 23-25
Leave of Absence...........................................51-53
Line of Progression........................................17-18
Lunch
Lunch Period for Day Workers...............................86
Noon Lunch Period..........................................40
20-Minute........................................... 40, 72, 86
-127-
Maintenance Shutdowns - Kraft................................78
Mechanical Department and Painters - All Divisions .......71-77
Meetings....................................................1-3
Apprenticeship Committee..............................2, 77
Memorandum of Agreement......................................96
Military Service.............................................51
Monday Start-up (Paper Machines)............................ 31
National Guard and Reserve Unit........................41,	51, 66
Needled Felts................................................40
New Jobs, Establishment of................................25-26
One-In-Seven Waiver........................:.................35
Operations, Schedule of...................................31-35
Overtime..................................................35-36
Painters..................................................71-77
Paper Machines...............................................31
Paperboard Products Division Layoff Procedure......................................23-25
Replacement Procedure.................................69-70
Pay for Time Lost on Day of Injury........................59-60
Personal Time Off.........................................58-59
Picket Une....................................................7
Powers of the Arbitrator..................................93-94
Premium Time and Overtime.................................35-40
Probationary Period...............................7-9,15-16, 22
Promotions......................................12-14,	17-18, 73
Pyramiding................................................35-36
Rate Adjustment...........................................25-26
Rates When Changing Jobs.................................... 26
Rate Retention.................................... 28-29, 78-81
Rate (Wages)............................................. 25-30,	35-40
Recalls...................................................21-23
Recognition...................................................3
Red Circle Rate...........................................78-81
Re-establishment of Position................................ 16
Relief Employees.................................... 10, 34, 66
Replacement Procedure - Paperboard Products Division .....69-70
Reporting Time............................................ 36, 72
-128-
Retirement Plan (See CERP)
Return-to-Unit Rights.................................... 15-16
Return to Work Following Necessary Absences...............49-60
Run Sundays - Scheduling of Craftsmen.....................47-48
Safety....................................................87-90
Shoes..................................................88-89
Saturdays and Sundays Off.................................32-33
Seasonal Vacation Relief....................................8-9
Selective Service Examination.............................   51
Seniority..................................................7-25
Seven-Day Operation................................... 32-33,	78
Shifts
Adding on of..............................................31
’ Differential, Night .:............................... 26-28
Rotation......................................••..........32
Special...................................................71
Shutdown
Emergency....................................... 37-38,	71-72
Maintenance (Kraft).....................................  78
Permanent..............................................21-23
Side Agreements..............................................94
Special Shift Schedule............................'28-29, 36-40, 71
Step-ups and Filling of Vacancies.........................68-70
Storeroom Manning............................................35
Strikesand Lockouts...........................................7
Sunday
Manning - When Running Full............................34-35
Pay....................................................;■■■ 36
Running - Scheduling Craftsmen.........................47-48
Work.................................................. 33,	71
Off....................................................32-33
Supervisors Working..........................................85
Supplement A.................................................96
Suspension.................................................  93
Temporary Replacement.....................................13-14
Term, Renewal, or Changes of Agreement.......................95
Tool Allowance............................................75-77
-129
Tool Repair..................................................77
Tour Workers, 8-Hour.........................................30
Training Rates............................................29-30
Transfers............................................. 12-17,	72
Travel Time..................................................29
Trucking Agreement...........................................96
Union Membership.........................................3-6,	75
Vacancies, Filling..................................13-14, 68-70
Vacation..................................................60-68
Allowances and Pay..............................60-68,	62-66
Banking...............................................67-68
Employees Reinstated with Continuous Service...........  67
Employees Removed from Payroll........................66-67
Guidelines............................................63-65
Illnesses................................................65
National Guard and Reserve Unit..........................66
Relief...................................................34
Relief Employees........................................ 66
Rights Date...........................................61-62
Scheduling...............................................63
Veterans Administration......................................51
Wage Schedules........................:..................97-122
Wages.....................................................25-30
Establishing New Jobs, Changes Jobs, and Adjustments......................................25-26,	78-81
Wire Time.................................................38-40
Work Assignment - Painters................................73-74
Work Schedule, Posting of................................'...32
Workweek and Workday.........................................30
-130-