MASTER AGREEMENT
By and Between
CONAGRA FOODS COMPANY INC. DBA CONAGRA FROZEN FOODS GROUP
and
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION
and
INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF TEAMSTERS
JULY 21, 2003 through JULY 16,2006
INDEX ARTICLE
INDEX BY SUBJECT
Article	Title	Page	Subject	Articte/Section	Page
Article 1	Recognition and		Arbitration	Article 7, Section 4	49
	Union Security			Bulletin Boards	Article 14, Section 3	86
			Call-Back/Call-ln	Article 10, Section 5	62
Article 2	Stewards			12	Casual Workers	Article 4, Section 12	40
Article 3	Leaves of Absence			14	Check-Off	Article 1, Section 4	5
Article 4	Seniority			22	Classifications/		
Article 5	Maintenance of Standards 			42	Rates of Pay	Article 9, Section 1	53
Article 6	Discharge and Disciplinary		Credit Union	Article 9, Section 6	56
			Daily Report-ln	Article 10, Section 4	62
	Action			44	Discharge and	Article 6, Section 1	44
Article 7	Grievance Procedure and		Disciplinary Action		
	Arbitration 			45	Doctor Visits	Article 14, Section 6	88
Article 8	Meal and Rest Periods	 Classifications and Rates of Pay ...		50	Electronic Funds Transfer	Article 9, Section 8	56
Article 9			53			
			Emergency	Article 17	99
Article 10	Workweek and Hours			58	Reopening		
Article 11	Holidays			66	Examination of	Article 9, Section 5	56
Article 12	Vacations			73	Records		
Article 13	Health & Welfare		Extra Contract	Article 5, Section 2	43
	and Pension			81	Agreements First Aid	Article 14, Section 2	85
Article 14	Health and Safety			84	Grievance Procedure	Article 7, Section 3	47
Article 15	Management Rights			97	Health and Safety	Article 14	84
Article 16	Savings Clause			98	Health & Welfare	Article 13	81
Article 17	Emergency Reopening			99	Benefits	Article 11, Section 1 Article 4, Section 5	
Article 18	Term of Agreement			100	Holidays Job Bidding		66 25
			Jurisdiction	Article 1, Section 9	11
INDEX BY SUBJECT
INDEX BY SUBJECT
Subject	Article/Section	Page	Subject	Article/Section	Page
Labor/Management	Article 1, Section 11	12	No Strike/No	Article 7, Section 1	45
Meetings			Lockout		
Layoff and Recall	Article 4, Section 3	24	Notice of Layoff	Article 10, Section 9	65
Lead Classification	Article 4, Section 10	27	Overtime	Article 10, Section 2	58
Leaves of Absence			Payroll Week	Article 10, Section 3	61
Medical Leaves	Article 3, Section 4	18	Pension	Article 13, Section 2	84
Funeral Leave	Article 3, Section 5	21	Product Purchase	Article 9, Section 9	57
Granting of Consent	Article 3, Section 1	14 ■	Physical	Article 14, Section I	84
Jury Duty	Article 3, Section 6	21	Examinations		
Time Off for Union	Article 3, Section 2	16	Plant Closing	Article 4, Section 2	23
Activities			Plant Visits	Article 1, Section 10	12
Union and	Article 3, Section 3	16	Processing	Article 4, Section 8	27
Supervisory Leaves			Department		
Local Union Defined	Article 1, Section 8	11	Recognition	Article 1, Section 1	2
Loss of Seniority	Article 4, Section 7	25	Renegotiation	Article 16, Section 2	98
Maintenance	Article 4, Section 11	28	Rest Periods	Article 8, Section 2	52
Department			Restricted Work	Article 14, Section 7	90
Maintenance of	Article 5, Section 1	42	Program		
Standards			Right to Grieve	Article 6, Section 2	45
Management Rights	Article 15	97	Safety Committee	Article 14, Section 5	88
Master/Local	Article 1, Section 7	10	Savings Clause	Article 16	98
Addendum			Schedule Change	Article 10, Section 11	65
Meal Periods	Article 8, Section 1	50	Seniority	Article 4, Section 1	22
New Classifications	Article 9, Section 10	57	Seniority Lists	Article 4, Section 4	24
New Employees	Article 1, Section 5	7	and Protests		
Non Discrimination	Article 1, Section 6	8	Shift Differential	Article 9, Section 3	54
			Starting Rates	Article 9, Section 2	54
INDEX BY SUBJECT
AGREEMENT
Subject	Article/Section	Page
Starting Times	Article 10, Section 10	65
Stewards	Article 2	12
Stock Purchase Plan	Article 9, Section 7	56
Temporary Transfers	Article 10, Section 8	64
Temporary Vacancies	Article 4, Section 6	25
Term of Agreement	Article 18, Section 1	100
Time Clocks	Article 10, Section 12	66
Transfer of Tile	Article 1, Section 2	3
Union Liability	Article 7, Section 2	46
Union Security	Article 1, Section 3A	4
Union Shop	Article 1, Section 3	3
Utility Processor Classification	Article 4, Section 9	27
Vacations	Article 12, Sections 1-9	73
Validity of Agreement	Article 16, Section 1	98
Wearing Apparel	Article 14, Section 4	86
Work by Supervisory Employees	Article 9, Section 4	55
Workweek and	Article 10, Section 1	58
Hours
THIS AGREEMENT is effective the 21st day of July, 2003, by and between CONAGRA FOODS INC., doing business as CONAGRA FROZEN FOODS GROUP, hereinafter referred to as the “Company,” the UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION or such of its chartered Local Unions as it may designate, and the INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF TEAMSTERS, or such of its chartered Local Unions as it may designate, hereinafter jointly referred to as the “Union” for the purposes and interpretations of this Agreement.
NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants, understandings, addenda, and exhibits herein contained, the parties hereto agree to enter into covenants of a Labor Agreement and hereby agree as follows:
i
ARTICLE 1 - RECOGNITION AND UNION SECURITY
Section 1	- Recognition
The Company hereby recognizes the Union as the sole and exclusive collective bargaining agent for all its production, maintenance, and truck driver employees at the Company plants in Marshall, Macon, and Milan Fab Shop in Missouri; and Batesville, Arkansas excluding research and development employees, office and clerical employees, as well as administrative employees, sales people, guards, watchmen, and supervisors as defined by the National Labor Relations Act.
The recognition of the Union’s right to represent defined employees of ConAgra Frozen Foods Group and the imposition of the Master Agreement shall be limited to expansions at any of ConAgra Frozen Foods Group current plant locations. Specifically, it shall not apply to any operations which may subsequently be acquired by ConAgra Frozen Foods Group.
Section 2	- Transfer of Title
This Agreement shall be binding upon the parties hereto, their successors, administrators, executors, and assigns.
Section 3	- Union Shop
It shall be a condition of employment that all employees of the Company who are members of the Local Union in good standing on the effective date of this Agreement shall be, and remain, members of the Local Union in good standing during the life of this Agreement, and those employees who are not members on the date on which this Agreement becomes effective shall, on the thirty-first (31st) day following the date on which this Agreement becomes effective, become and remain members in good standing in the Local Union. It shall also be a condition of employment that all employees covered by this Agreement and hired on or after the date on which this Agreement becomes effective shall, on the thirty-first (31st) day following the beginning of such employment, become and remain members in good standing in the Local Union.
2
3
Section 3-A - Union Security
applicable state and/or federal law.
Section A ConAgra Frozen Foods Group agrees that, as a condition of employment, each employee shall become and remain a member of one of the Unions in good standing within thirty-one (31) days following the date of his employment.
Section A ConAgra Frozen Foods Group further agrees to recommend to each employee that he become a member of one of the Unions and maintain such membership during the life of this Agreement, to refer each new employee to the Unions, and to recommend to each delinquent member that he pay his dues since he is receiving the benefits of this Agreement.
Section A Subsection (I) above shall become effective thirty (30) days following the date it becomes lawful under the
Section 4	- Check-Off
A.	The Company agrees to deduct from the pay of all employees covered by this Agreement the dues, initiation fees, and/or uniform assessments of the Local Union having jurisdiction over such employees and agrees to remit to said Local Union all such deductions prior to the end of the month in which the deduction is made, provided, however, that the Local Union presents to the Company signed authorization from the employees for such deductions. No deduction shall be made which is prohibited by applicable law.
B.	Changes in Amount of Dues/Agency Fees. The Union shall be privileged to change the amount of monthly dues for agency fees upon thirty- (30) days written notification to the appropriate Plant Human Resources Manager or Plant Manager. Request for changes in the amount of monthly dues or agency
4
5
fees must be calculated consistent with the Company’s payroll software. Calculations not consistent with Company Software will be mutually corrected by the parties.
C.	Active Ballot Club - DRIVE: Upon receipt of a signed and voluntary written authorization requesting it to do so, the Company agrees, once a year, to deduct from the employee’s pay and forward to the president of Local Unions or other as designated by the Unions, the amount specified by the employee as a contribution to the Local’s Active Ballot Club and the Teamsters DRIVE. It will be the Union’s obligation to see to it that such authorization, deductions, and payments do no violate any applicable law.
D.	Indemnification of Company. The Union hereby agrees to indemnify and hold the Company harmless from and against any loss, liability, damages, costs, attorney fees, penalties or interest arising out of the Company’s compliance with the terms of this Section. ,
Section 5	- New Employees
A.	When the Company needs additional employees, it shall give the Local Union equal opportunity with all other sources to provide suitable applicants.
B.	Probationary Periods: A new employee shall work under the provisions of this Agreement but shall be employed only on a trial basis for his first sixty (60) calendar days during which period he may be discharged without recourse. This probationary period may be extended by mutual agreement between the Company and the Union. After such trial period, the employee shall be placed on the seniority list, and his seniority shall date back to the date of hire.
C.	New employees will be introduced to their Union steward by their supervisor not later than the fifth (5th) working day.
D.	The Company will provide one (1) union steward a fifteen (15) minute period at the end of new employee’s
7
orientation to speak to new employees concerning union membership. The steward will suffer no loss of pay for time spent during the regular hours.
Section 6	- Non-Discrimination
A.	No Discrimination. The Company and the Union are committed to maintaining a work environment that is free from discrimination. In the administration of this agreement and, in accordance with applicable federal and state law, neither the Company nor the Union will harass or discriminate against any employee because of that employee’s race, color, sex, religion, national origin, age, marital status, veterans status, or disability.
B.	Complaint Procedure. If the employee feels they have been the subject of discrimination or harassment whether by other employees, supervisors, vendors, customers or other third parties while on Company premises, they should immediately notify their immediate supervisor. If the supervisor is unavailable or if the employee believes
it would be inappropriate to contact their supervisor, the employee should immediately contact the Human Resources Department. The Company will investigate all such complaints thoroughly and promptly. To the fullest extent practicable, the Company will keep complaints and terms of their resolution confidential. If an investigation confirms that harassment has occurred, the Company will take corrective action, up to and including immediate termination of employment of any employee found to have violated the provisions of this Article. The Company forbids retaliation against anyone who has truthfully reported harassment.
C.	Union Responsibilities. The Union acknowledges the Company has a policy that prohibits discrimination or harassment of employees. If any bargaining unit employee notifies the Union of an alleged violation of this Article, the Union will encourage the employee to bring the matter to the attention of the Company in
9
accordance with the Company’s policy. Once a complaint has been presented to the Company, the union will cooperate with the company in its investigation.
Section 7	- Master/Local Addendum Jurisdiction
The Master Agreement shall apply to all plants as specified by Article 1, Section 1, and shall be considered the prevailing document. However, there may be local deviations to the Master Agreement which will be administered on a plant-by-plant basis. Any local provision or modifications for a specific location will be recognized as the governing provision for that location and shall be so specified in the addenda to the Master Agreement. The parties agree that where a need arises to modify the Local Addendum, the National Panel must give approval to reopen negotiations. Thereafter, any understanding reached between the parties will be subject to final approval by the National Panel and minutes issued to all parties concerned. Where there is an agreed upon deviation at a plant location, the local deviation shall control at that location only.
In all other cases, the Master Agreement shall control. The commitment of maintaining a parity relationship between ConAgra Frozen Foods Group and its defined competition will continue to be pursued. The definition of “parity" shall be defined as: having an equality between competitors, including base rates, negotiated fringes, shift premiums, and time paid but not worked; i.e., vacation, holidays, and guaranteed minimum hours.
Section 8	- Local Union Defined
The term “Local Union” as used herein refers to the specific Local Union which represents the employees in a particular department at the particular plant to which this Agreement and Supplements, if any, are applicable.
Section 9	- Jurisdiction
There shall be no jurisdictional disputes between the Unions which are parties to this Agreement during the term of this Agreement.
io
n
Section 10	- Plant Visits
Representatives of the Union shall be permitted at all times to enter upon the Company’s premises to conduct the affairs of the Union. They shall notify the Company of their presence and shall not interfere with the peaceful operation of the Company’s business.
Section 11	- Labor/Management Meetings
Each plant location shall have regularly scheduled Labor/Management meetings with the schedule to be determined by each respective location.
ARTICLE 2	- STEWARDS
The Company recognizes the rights of the Local Union to designate Union stewards from the Company’s seniority list. The authority of Union stewards so designated by the Local shall be limited to and shall not exceed the following duties and activities:
A.	The investigation and presentation of grievances to his Employer or the designated Company representative in
accordance with the provisions of this Agreement;
B.	The collection of dues when authorized by appropriate Union action;
C.	The transmission of such messages and information which shall originate with, and are authorized by, the Union or its officers, provided such messages and information:
1.	have been reduced to writing, or
2.	if not reduced to writing are of a routine nature and do not involve work stoppages, slow downs, refusal to handle goods, or any other interference with the Company’s business.
D.	The Union steward shall be present when employees are disciplined or at any time an employee requests the presence of a steward during an investigatory interview which could potentially lead to discipline. If there
12
13
is no steward on duty, an employee is to be used in place of a steward.
Union stewards have no authority to take strike action or any other action interrupting the Company’s business, except as authorized by official action of the Union.
The Company recognizes these limitations upon the authority of Union stewards and shall not hold the Union liable for any unauthorized acts. The Company in so recognizing such limitations shall have the authority to impose proper discipline, including discharge, in the event the Union steward has taken unauthorized strike action, slow down, or work stoppage in violation of this Agreement; except the Union steward may use Article 7 to challenge whether he so took any such unauthorized action.
ARTICLE 3	- LEAVES OF ABSENCE
Section 1	- Granting of Consent
A.	All personal leaves of absence without pay of one (1) week or more may be granted for good and sufficient reasons, provided the
employee makes a written request to and has permission granted in writing from the Plant Manager or his designee. Requests must be submitted at least three (3) working days prior to the requested starting date of the leave. In emergency requests for leaves of absence, the Company must be notified within 24 hours of failure to report to work. For personal leaves of absence (without pay), except disability leaves, the Company will notify the Local Union office.
B.	Failure to comply with the provisions of this Section shall result in the complete loss of seniority rights and job of the employee involved. Any employee using a leave of absence as a subterfuge shall forfeit his seniority rights and job. An employee shall not accept employment elsewhere when on leave of absence without Company approval. The Company will notify the Local Union office.
14
15
Section 2	- Time Off for Union Activities
Employees designated by the Local Union will be granted the necessary time off without loss of seniority rights and without pay to attend a labor convention or serve in any other capacity or other official Union business. In submitting application for such leave in accordance with Section 1, the employee will specify the necessary length of time off. The Local Union agrees that in making its request for time off for Union activities, due consideration will be given to the number of employees affected in order that there will be no disruption of the Company’s operation due to the lack of available employees.
Section 3	- Union and Supervisory Leaves
A.	When an employee requests a leave of absence for the purpose of accepting employment with the Union or Management, a meeting will be held between the Union and the Company to discuss the employee’s rights under this Section of the Agreement. A leave shall be granted for a period not to exceed six (6)
months. No more than six (6) months’ leave shall be approved in a twelve (12) month period. Seniority shall accrue during the leave period should the employee return to a job classification covered by this Agreement within the six (6) month period, with such leave time credited as time worked under the various provisions of this Agreement. An employee who fails to return to full-time employment in a job classification covered by this Agreement at the end of six (6) months shall forfeit all seniority and employment shall be terminated. Benefit coverage may be continued during the leave under existing personal leave benefit continuation provisions.
B.	The Company shall be under no obligation to an employee on leave of absence except to return him to work in accordance with the provisions of this Section. If an employee returns to work, he will be returned to the classification, work area, and shift he occupied prior to the leave.
16
17
Seniority shall accrue during the leave period should the employee return to a job classification covered by this Agreement within the six (6) month period, with such leave time credited as time worked under the various provisions of this Agreement. An employee who fails to return to full-time employment in a job classification covered by this Agreement at the end of six (6) months shall forfeit all seniority and employment shall be terminated. Benefit coverage may be continued during the leave under existing personal leave benefit continuation provisions.
C.	The Company shall be under no obligation to an employee on leave of absence under this Section except to return him to work in accordance with his agreed seniority.
Section 4	- Medical Leaves
A.	If an employee is unable to work because of sickness or non work-related injury, the Company shall
grant such employee a medical leave of absence. The Company, however, may require such an employee to fumish a certificate from a physician verifying the reason for the medical leave of absence. Such physician’s statement must state the approximate length of absence from work that the employee requires, not to exceed ninety (90) calendar days. Leave will be extended upon physician’s recommendation for ninety (90) calendar day intervals. Employees so required must also submit to the Plant Manager or designee a physician’s release statement prior to returning to work. Employees who desire to return to work prior to expiration of an approved leave must notify the Company of their intent no later than 12 noon the previous day. Failure of an employee or a member of his immediate family to promptly fumish such certificate and release shall result in his immediate discharge.
B.	FMLA Leaves. An employee may also be entitled to leave under the Family and Medical Leave Act of
18
19
1993 (FMLA), for circumstances other than those described in paragraph A above. In order to be eligible for an FMLA leave, the employee must have been employed by the Company for 12 months, and completed 1,250 hours of work during the twelve-(12) month period immediately preceding the commencement of the leave for which they are applying.
Employees who are on an FMLA leave will be required to use up to (5) five days of earned but unused vacation in a calendar year towards their approved FMLA leave.
C.	An employee who is absent from work due to the above for a period of twelve (12) consecutive months shall accumulate no seniority beyond the twelve (12) month period. If the employee returns to work after the twelve (12) month period, his seniority shall resume from the time at which it was stopped, eliminating the period of time he was absent after the twelve (12) month period.
Section 5	- Funeral Leave
Employees shall be paid for three (3) consecutive working days, with the day of the funeral occurring within that time period, for attendance at the funeral of a relative which shall only include, for the purposes of this provision, his spouse, children, mother, father (or previously designated guardian, but not both), mother-in-law, father-in-law, grandparents, sister, brother, sister-in-law, brother-in-law, and grandchildren. The Company may request from an employee proof of attendance at a funeral. If an employee does not attend the funeral, time off may be granted without pay. The intent of funeral pay is to provide for loss of income encountered by an employee when a covered death in the family occurs during a period of time when the employee would have been scheduled to work.
Section 6	- Jury Duty
The Company will pay an employee serving on a jury the difference between fees paid him by public authority for such service and straight time earnings for the time which such service forces him to lose his regularly
20
21
scheduled hours of work. The time of such jury service shall be counted as time worked.
ARTICLE 4 - SENIORITY
Section 1	- General
The Company agrees to the principles of seniority.
The provisions-of this Master Agreement shall take precedence over any conflicting or inconsistent provisions of any addendum including plant closing, layoff and recall, seniority lists and protests, job bidding, temporary vacancies, loss of seniority, and the various departments processing, utility processing classification, lead classification, maintenance, and casual workers.
The provisions of this Master Agreement shall apply to all plant locations as defined in Article 1, Section 1.
Seniority rights shall prevail as provided for in each plant local addendum within the various departments/work area as specified in each supplemental addendum as part of this Master Agreement.
The seniority of an employee shall be departmental within each department and shall be defined as that period of
employment with the Company occurring after an employee’s most recent date of hire.
An employee who is hired at a plant of the Company after having formerly been employed at another plant (there will be no obligation on the part of the Company to rehire such an employee) shall have his length of service protected for the purpose of calculating vacations, pension entitlements, and health and welfare entitlements if he is employed at the new plant within one hundred twenty (120) days of termination from the former plant.
Section 2	- Plant Closing
In the event of a plant closing, the Company will commit to discuss the impact of said closing upon the employees of the affected plant. An employee who has been displaced as a result of a plant closing will be eligible for employment at other ConAgra Frozen Foods Group plants, if they are qualified for vacancy, in preference to other job applicants, if the displaced employee makes application in writing. The displaced employee’s length of service will be protected for the purposes of calculating vacations’ pension entitlements, and health
22
23
and welfare entitlements, if they are employed at the new location within twelve (12) months.
Section 3	- Layoff and Recall (See the applicable local addendum.)
Section 4	- Seniority Lists and Protests
The Company agrees to post lists of employees in order of their department seniority on the various area bulletin boards and to send to the Local Union complete seniority lists within ninety (90) days of the effective date of this Agreement. The Company further agrees to revise such seniority lists each ninety (90) days during the period of this Agreement. The Company and the Union shall establish rules for the determination of the relative seniority of employees hired on the same date. Controversies regarding seniority shall be processed under the grievance procedure of this Agreement. Each employee shall have the right to protest his seniority as posted only if such seniority date differs from that posted. However, the Company will not be liable for wages, vacation pay, or damages
beyond the protested seniority list posting date.
Section 5	- Job Bidding (See the applicable local addendum.)
Section 6	- Temporary Vacancies (See the applicable local addendum.)
Section 7	- Loss of Seniority
The seniority of an employee shall not be affected because of absence due to illness, injury, pregnancy, approved leave of absence for personal reasons, or layoff, except as herein provided. The seniority of an employee shall be considered broken and all rights forfeited when he:
(i)	voluntarily leaves the services of the Company; or
(ii)	is discharged under the terms of this Agreement; or
(iii)	has not been recalled to work at the end of twenty-four (24) consecutive months of layoff; or
24
25
(iv)	fails to report for work or notify the Company and is absent without a reasonable excuse for three (3) consecutive days; or
(v)	works at another job for another employer while on a leave of absence unless mutually agreed upon between the Company and Union; or
(vi)	using a leave of absence as a subterfuge; or
(vii)	has not returned to work at the end of an approved leave of
. absence; or
(viii)fails to return to work from layoff within five (5) working days of notification of recall; or
(ix)	retires; or
(x)	has been approved for Retirement Disability or Social Security Permanent Disability.
Section 8	- Processing Department
In the event it becomes necessary to transfer employees out of their work area due to a reduced production schedule, the Company will make every effort to transfer the least senior employee. Transfers resulting from line shutdown or line breakdown during a work day would be exempt from this procedure.
Section 9	- Utility Processor Classification (See the applicable local addendum.)
Section 10	- Lead Classification
Prepare and maintain all required records and reports relating to products and line time, with the exception of the recording and computing of hours worked on employee’s timecards or handing out paychecks. Assign employees in accordance with supervisor’s instructions. Train and assist employees. Replace employees who are temporarily absent from their work area due to authorized breaks, emergencies, etc. Perform any of the duties within the area for which they are the Lead. Report any situation necessitating the involvement of
26
27
the Supervisor as it relates to the operation of the line immediately to the Supervisor. In the absence of the regular Supervisor, the Lead will report to the designated replacement. Leads will not take down names or keep track of time when employees are on emergency relief breaks. Lead employees will not perform supervisory duties (i.e., hire, discipline, layoff/recall, promote, administer grievances) or other functions outside the normal scope of lead-type duties.
Section 11	- Maintenance
A.	General and Overtime
1.	When an opening exists in the Maintenance Department, a notice of such vacancy will be posted. Any employee who applies for the opening by furnishing a written summary of qualifications will be interviewed prior to the employment of new employees.
2.	Employees in the Maintenance Department may submit in advance a written request expressing interest in
future openings in Maintenance on any shift. The Company will allow shift transfers by senior Maintenance employees requesting transfer to another shift, provided they have the skill and ability required to do the work of the vacancy, and personnel with equal skills and ability are available to replace the transferred employee. •
3.	Employees in the Maintenance Department shall be permitted to move to other departments when proven unable to fulfill their duties in the department.
4.	The Company will furnish all tools necessary to employees in the performance of their duties. In accomplishing this, those personal tools now in use will be replaced at Company expense when broken, lost, or stolen.
5.	It will not be the intent of this Agreement to require Management to schedule extra or unnecessary Maintenance personnel on an
28
29
overtime basis solely for the purpose of obtaining a lower seniority employee who has the skill or ability required to perform a particular job assignment.
6.	It is not the intent of the parties for premium pay work hours to be used for on-the-job training purposes.
7.	Selection for overtime work will be made from those who perform the work on a normal basis during the regular workweek who sign a volunteer list. However, in the event two (2) or more are equally qualified, then the most senior would be offered’ the work, subject to discipline due to a lack of ability to perform the assigned work. If a dispute arises on “equally qualified,” the issue will be referred to the grievance procedure.
8.	The volunteer list will be posted prior to the available overtime work, which indicates:
*	the work to be performed,
*	when the work will occur, and
*	a request for qualified volunteers.
9.	In the event that no qualified volunteers indicate a desire to work, the least senior qualified person from the shift on which the work is being performed, who normally performs the work, will be required to work under the conditions of previously agreed to mandatory overtime.
10.	If a non-qualified person signs the volunteer list, the parties agree that they will not be provided the posted overtime work.
11.	In the event any arbitration arises out of this section, the arbitrator will be selected from a panel of persons who are skilled in maintenance.
B,	Skill Level and Advancement
1.	Employees working in maintenance positions perform work in a broad range of	skill	categories to
accomplish the assigned work. As such, they have been and will continue to be classified as General
30
31
Maintenance Mechanics. They will continue to be required to perform work across these broad maintenance skill categories.
For pay purposes, employees may advance themselves to higher skill levels within the General Maintenance Mechanic classification. The General Maintenance Mechanic Skill Levels are Entry Level, Grade 1, Master and Master A. See Plant Supplements for their locations’ skill level wage information.
2.	The initial determination of an employee’s skill level will be based on a demonstration of skills against an established set of skill criteria.
3.	The Company agrees that each employee in the Grade #1, Master, and Master A shall be reviewed annually for the purpose of evaluating skill level and job performance.
4.	Employees in the Entry, Grade 1 and Master skill levels may request, in writing, evaluation for the next higher
level any time after completing a minimum of 180 calendar days in their current skill level. Employees that successfully complete the skill evaluation for the next higher level will receive pay for that higher level commencing from the first full pay period after they have completed the time in grade requirement or the date of request if later. The employee will be ineligible to re-test for advancement for 180 calendar days upon failure to successfully pass their requested evaluation.
5.	The basis used to determine the employee’s skills and abilities to progress from initial placement level to the next level and on up through the Master A Mechanic Level, will be determined by a skill level evaluation demonstration. The skill level evaluation will be established through “hands on” demonstrations of skills against a set of skill criteria for the next level. This evaluation can be through a combination of observed daily work assignments or during a scheduled demonstration. The skill
32
33
demonstration portion of the evaluation will be on apass/fail basis. It will evaluate the employee’s skill and ability to perform the task in a safe manner, within expected time frames and performance levels. The skill evaluation will be against applicable standards such as but not limited to government codes, industry standards, company policies, manufacturer’s standards, plant practices, etc. The Plants Maintenance Management will conduct the overall evaluation and is responsible for the employee’s final evaluation. However, to expedite the evaluation, the evaluator may elect to accept documented observations from other maintenance supervisors, who are qualified in the applicable subject matter, to aid in deciding on a specific portion of the employee’s evaluation. Should a skills evaluation hands on demonstration be needed, a Master A Mechanic familiar with the skill being demonstrated will also observe the demonstration. Any dispute resulting from such evaluation shall be processed in accordance with the
grievance procedure of this Agreement. In the event of any arbitration arising out of such evaluation, the arbitrator will be selected from a panel of persons who are skilled in maintenance.
6.	The skill criteria requirements for Entry and Grade 1 levels will focus on skills needed for general Plant wide tasks. Employees seeking Master or Master A skill level, can elect evaluation in any one of the established skill set categories. The employee may select their evaluation in the skill category in which they are the most comfortable. For example, they can request evaluation in the category associated with the type of work to which the employee is frequently assigned or in any one of the other categories as all employees must still perform the broad range of work of a General Maintenance Mechanic. The skill criteria categories are labeled for reference purposes only as Line Maintenance, Millwright/Machine Shop, Electronics,
34
35
Power/Electrical,Boiler/Refrigeration and General Factory/Welding Fabrication. These categories are only for determining skill level. They will be upgraded jointly by each location to ensure needed skill levels for that location. Upon joint recommendation from the location, the Master Panel can periodically agree to modify these categories.
7.	Employees must perform work proficiently for their skill level or they may be subject to reduction in grade because of lack of demonstrated ability to perform the necessary work. If this occurs, they will accept reduction in skill level until passing the entire evaluation for the higher skill level. The employee may request one (1) reinstatement evaluation within thirty (30) calendar days of reduction in grade. If the employee did not re-qualify for the former skill level, the employee will be considered placed at the lower skill level and must apply for advancement the same as any other employee and in accordance with the
above. Employees may remain in the Entry Level Skill Level for no longer than 180 calendar days. If the person does not re-qualify for Grade #1 or above Section 11, A (3) will apply. Wage amounts will be based on the designated skill level for the time period worked.
C.	Superior Skill Recognition
1.	Employees who demonstrate achievement of superior skills and ability in any one (1) of the below six (6) “Superior Skill Categories” will be recognized as having attained this superior skill level and will receive a pay “Add-on”. Such recognition is in addition to the employee’s demonstrated skill level, as described above. Any employee, regardless of his skill level, can earn such recognition by demonstrating his skill and ability against a pre-established skill set. If the employee earns the recognition by successfully passing an evaluation, the recognition continues for 360 calendar days from date of recognition. If the employee
36
37
did not pass the evaluation, the employee must wait 180 calendar days before requesting another evaluation, regardless of skill category. The employee must re-qualify annually thereafter to maintain superior skill recognition and pay “Add-on”. The employee may seek recognition in the same or different categories and in multiple categories. However, the pay “Addon” will be limited to recognition for only one current superior skill category. See Plant Supplements for that location’s Superior Skill Recognition pay “Add-on” information.
2.	The superior skill categories are Electronic, Electrical, PLC, Mechanical, Refrigeration/Boiler and Millwright. These categories are labeled for reference purposes only and their purpose is only for use in determining superior skill levels. They will be upgraded jointly by each location to ensure needed skill levels for that location. Upon joint recommendation from the location,
the Master Panel can periodically agree to modify these categories.
3.	The employee must submit a written request for an evaluation to demonstrate attainment of superior skills. Employees that successfully complete the skill evaluation for the next higher level will receive pay for that higher level commencing from the first full pay period after they have completed the time in grade requirement or the date of request if later. The employee will be ineligible to re-test for advancement for 180 calendar days upon failure to successfully pass their requested evaluation. The employee will demonstrate his skills against a pre-established set of skill criteria and the evaluation will be conducted under principles similar to those in Section 11, Paragraph B, (5) and (6), above.
4.	Any dispute resulting from such evaluation shall be processed in accordance with the grievance procedure of this Agreement. In the event of any arbitration arising out of
38
39
such evaluation, the arbitrator will be selected from a panel of persons who are skilled in maintenance.
D.	Training
1.	Training will be offered periodically to maintenance employees, to better their skill performance in grade and in exceptional skills criteria by offering programs such as Industrial Maintenance, Industrial Electronics, vendor training, etc.
2.	The Company will provide up to four (4) hours of training each week. Company approved training scheduled outside the normal eight (8) hour workday will be paid at straight time.
3.	Mandatory training will be required based upon business needs.
Section 12 - Temporary/Casual Workers
The temporary/casual status will be defined and practiced in the future as follows:
•	employees to be used for vacation coverage during the months of May, June, July, and August;
•	employment for a maximum of ninety (90) calendar days or less, not attaining seniority privileges during or for this period of time;
•	subject to layoff or termination at any time without recourse to the Grievance Procedure;
•	no entitlement to benefit coverage; i.e., holidays, funeral, health and welfare, pension, etc.;
•	union security/check-off procedures would be applicable as defined in the contractual Agreement between the parties;
•	would be offered job vacancies before new hires; and
•	if permanent employment status
. would be attained, all contractual provisions would be initiated from that date and carried forward (prior
40
4)
temporary/casual time would not be counted).
ARTICLE 5 - MAINTENANCE OF STANDARDS
Section 1	- Maintenance of Standards
The Company agrees that all conditions of employment not specified in this Agreement relating to wages, hours of work, overtime differentials, and general working conditions shall be maintained at not less than the highest minimum standard in effect prior to the signing of this Agreement. The conditions of employment shall be improved wherever specific provisions for improvement are made elsewhere in this Agreement.
If the Company shall dispute the existence of any alleged standard, the matter shall be referred directly to Step 2 of the Grievance Procedure and shall be processed through the remaining steps until a decision is reached.
Any standard initiated by the Company subsequent to the effective date of this Agreement over and above those standards required under the provisions of this
Agreement will be required to be maintained thereafter, if such standard is kept in effect for a period of ninety (90) days after its initiation.
Section 2	- Extra Contract Agreements
The Company agrees not to enter into any other Agreement of contract with its employees, individually or collectively, which in any way conflicts with the terms and provisions of this Agreement.
The Company is permitted to make and enforce any reasonable Company rules by mutual agreement with the Union which do not conflict with the provisions of this Agreement. If unable to agree on such rules, they shall be submitted to the Grievance Procedure as established by this Agreement. All such rules shall be posted for a period of six (6) days before becoming effective and the Union shall be furnished a copy of such rules.
42
43
ARTICLE 6 - DISCHARGE AND DISCIPLINARY ACTION
Section 1	- Discharge and Disciplinary Action
The Company shall not discharge or suspend an employee without just cause and shall, under normal disciplinary action, give at least two (2) warning notices of the complaint against such employee with a copy given to the employee and Local Union. Warning notices shall have no force or effect after nine (9) months from the date hereof. Copies of warning notices shall be mailed to the Local Union office within seven (7) calendar days from the date the warning notice was issued.
Where a major infraction of normal rules takes place and the safety of employees or proper operations of the plant is at stake, such as drinking of alcoholic beverages while on duty, possession of narcotics on Company property, or engaging in brawls or fights, the Company retains the right to discharge immediately. In such cases, the Union must be notified immediately, but in no event later than twenty-four (24) hours.
Section 2	- Right to Grieve
An employee shall have the right to grieve a warning notice, suspension, or discharge by presenting a grievance in writing to the Company within five (5) working days, excluding Saturday and Sunday, of such warning notice, suspension, or discharge. Such grievance shall be processed under the provisions of the Grievance and Arbitration Procedure set forth in Article 7; provided, however, that a warning notice shall be processed only through Steps 1 and 2 of the Grievance Procedure and thereafter directly to Arbitration if requested by either party.
ARTICLE 7 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE AND ARBITRATION
Section 1	- No Strike/No Lockout
The Union and the Company agree that there shall be no strikes, lockouts, tie-ups, or legal proceedings without first using all possible means of a settlement, as provided for in this Agreement, of any controversy which might arise.
44
45
Section 2	- Union Liability
A.	It is further agreed that in all cases of any unauthorized strike, slowdown, walkout, or any unauthorized cessation of work, the Union shall not be liable for damages resulting from such unauthorized acts of its members. The Union shall undertake every reasonable means to induce any such employees to return to their jobs during any such period of unauthorized stoppage of work mentioned above.
B.	The Company shall have the right to immediately discharge any Union member participating in any unauthorized strike, slowdown, walkout, or any other unauthorized cessation of work, and such Union member shall not be entitled to or have any recourse to any other provisions of this Agreement, except the employee may use this Article to challenge whether he participated.
C.	It shall not be a violation of this Agreement, and it shall not be cause
for discharge or other disciplinary action, if an employee refuses to go through a legal picket line of a Union.
Section 3	- Grievance Procedure
A.	Should any grievances, disputes, or complaints arise over the interpretation or application of the contents of this Agreement, there shall be an earnest effort on the part of both parties to settle such promptly; provided, however, that any grievance shall be presented in writing no later than five (5) working days, excluding Saturday and Sunday, after the infraction. The Union shall reply to the Company’s grievance answer within ten (10) days, unless an extension of this time limit is mutually agreed upon. A Union steward and/or employee is to be present during Steps 1 and 2 and may be present at Step 3 of the Grievance Procedure.
Step 1: Conference between employee and supervisor shall be answered within
46
47
three (3) working days.
Step 2: Conference between Local Union .Official and Plant Manager or designee will be answered within three (3) working days.
Step 3: Conference between Company representative and Union representative shall be answered within ten (10) calendar days.
Step 4; Conference between designees of the International President and designees of the Company President shall be scheduled each ninety (90) days. Grievances appealed to Panel should be submitted with a joint statement of facts ten (10) days prior to the Panel meeting. Written decisions of these conferences shall be submitted within ten (10) days.
Contract interpretations can only be scheduled at Step 4. Each representative (both Company and Union) at each step of the Grievance Procedure must have authority to settle the grievance.
B.	Discussions of grievances between a Union steward and an employee shall be limited to periods before and after a shift or to rest and lunch periods, emergencies excepted. The steward and employee, when present during his work schedule for Steps 1, 2, and 3 of the Grievance Procedure, will not suffer loss of pay.
Section 4	- Arbitration
A.	■ Where the parties involved in Step 4 above are unable to agree or come to a decision on the case submitted to them, said case shall, on the request of either party, be submitted to an arbitrator for decision. The Union and the Company shall request the Federal Mediation and Conciliation
48
49
Service, U.S. Department of Labor, to submit a list of five (5) arbitrators. The parties shall strike alternately from said list until one (1) name remains. The name remaining on the list shall be chosen to be the official arbitrator. The expense of the arbitrator shall be borne equally by the Union and the Company. The decision of the arbitrator shall be final and binding on both parties to this Agreement.
B.	If either party to this Agreement refuses to abide by a decision of an arbitrator rendered hereunder, such refusal shall be a breach of this Agreement and the other party may then take any legal, or lawful, economic action, and the Union shall have, among other rights, the right to strike.
ARTICLE 8 - MEAL AND REST PERIODS
Section 1	- Meal Periods
The Company agrees to grant each
employee a minimum of one-half (1/2) hour and a maximum of one (1 ) hour, without pay, for meals to be taken between the fourth (4th) and sixth (6th) hours of duty. Production schedules permitting, starting times for meal periods will be stabilized as much as feasible.
It is understood that due to unexpected situations that may occur, at various times it may be beneficial to the Company or the employees at individual plant locations to move the meal period ahead prior to the present four (4) hour restriction. Unexpected situations would be product delivery delays, packaging delivery delays, line breakdowns, and USDA/FDA shutdowns. Individual plants may do so from time to time to accommodate the unexpected situations. The Supervisor will notify the steward(s) in the area affected as soon as they are aware of such needed change. It is not the intent nor shall it be the intent of this understanding to set any precedent outside of the intent of the original Master language. Based on this understanding, meal periods may be moved in fifteen (15) minute increments, however, no more than one (1) hour earlier than the present two (2) hour window.
Should a Local Union believe that this
50
51
understanding be deemed pattern type or being abused from its intent, they shall immediately express their concerns to the respective Plant Manager. The Plant Manager shall immediately attempt to resolve this issue. Upon a failure to resolve the issue, the Union shall immediately notify the Panel by written notice expressing the problem. The Panel, through a majority or deadlocked vote, may revoke this understanding and additionally set a time frame of up to one (1 ) year suspension for each violation for the plant in which the violation occurred.
Section 2	- Rest Periods
The Company agrees that each employee shall be given a fifteen (15) minute paid rest period during the first (1st) half and a fifteen (15) minute paid rest period during the second (2nd) half of his shift each day. Rest periods shall be scheduled as near to the middle of each half of the shift as possible, but in no event earlier than the end of the second (2nd) hour nor later than one (1) hour before the meal period or end of the regular scheduled shift. In the event that the second (2nd) half of work shift extends beyond the
end of the tenth (10th) hour of work, each employee shall be granted an additional fifteen (15) minute rest period. Should the Company experience a line breakdown, product delivery delay, packaging delivery delay, or USDA/FDA shutdown, they may move the rest period up; however, no more than one-half (1/2) hour earlier than the two (2) hour limit described above. Should the Company move the meal period earlier than the four (4) to six (6) hour window period as provided for in Section 1 of this Article the second rest period must be scheduled in the middle of the remaining hours of that portion of the shift.
ARTICLE 9 - CLASSIFICATIONS AND RATES OF PAY
Section 1	- Classifications and Rates of Pay
Job classifications and applicable wage rates for each particular facility are itemized in the individual local supplement addendum.
52
53
Section 2	- Starting Rates
Each employee hired on or after the ratification date of this Agreement shall be paid in accordance with a new hire wage progression schedule, as outlined in each local supplement addendum.
Section 3	- Shift Differential
In addition to his regular rate, each employee whose shift commences between the hours of 1 P.M. and 7 P.M. (second shift), or whose seniority shift selection is second shift, shall be paid a shift differential of ten cents (100) per hour worked [maintenance department employees to receive thirty-five cents (350) per hour].
In addition to his regular rate, each employee whose shift commences between the hours of 7 P.M. and 2 A.M, (third shift), or whose seniority shift selection is third shift, shall be paid a shift differential of fifteen cents (150) per hour worked [maintenance department employees to receive forty cents (400) per hour].
Section 4	- Work by Supervisory Employees
No employee excluded from the bargaining unit of this Agreement shall be used on work of the same nature that is normally performed by employees within the bargaining units, except as herein provided on temporary and necessary assignments to assure continued production:
A.	for the purpose of training and working with employees on a new or different job or operational method change by the Company, or experimental work; or
B.	for the purpose of filling an employee’s job temporarily, such instances as failure to report to work (limited to 30 minutes), or for those who had to be relieved due to injury or sickness for the work shift; or
C.	in an emergency; or
D.	for necessary temporary relief for an employee.
54
55
Section 5	- Examination of Records
The Union shall have the right to examine time sheets and any other records pertaining to the computation of compensation of any employee whose pay is in dispute. Upon written authorization from the concerned employee, who has grieved, and in accordance with lawful practices, Union officials (paid Union Officers and Business Representatives) shall have the right to examine that employee’s other records.
Section 6	- Credit Union
ConAgra Frozen Foods Group employees will be eligible to participate in a Company endorsed Credit Union.
Section 7	- Company Stock Purchase Plan
ConAgra Frozen Foods Group employees will be eligible to participate in the Company Stock Purchase Plan.
Section 8	- Electronic Funds Transfer
If the Company makes available an Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT) system,
also referred to as direct payroll deposit, employees as of the date of ratification may participate in such program. However, employees hired after the date of ratification of this Agreement can be required to receive Electronic Funds Transfer, where permitted by law.
Section 9	- Product Purchase
ConAgra Frozen Foods Group employees, and those employees who retire and are eligible for a pension from ConAgra Frozen Foods Group, will be eligible to purchase products every two (2) weeks at each location. The product purchase is intended for use by the employee and his immediate family. All products currently within ConAgra Frozen Foods Group’s distribution system will be made available for purchase. As new products are added to ConAgra Frozen Foods Group’s distribution system, these will also be made available for purchase.
Section 10	- New Classifications
When new classifications are added, the rates shall be mutually agreed to and
56
57
included in the supplements to this Agreement.
ARTICLE 10 - WORKWEEK AND HOURS
Section 1	- General
The Company shall endeavor, but not guarantee, to provide each employee with at least forty (40) hours of work each week, except in those weeks in which a specified holiday occurs.
An employee’s normal workweek shall commence on Monday, unless otherwise specified by proper notice to the employee.
Section 2	- Overtime
A.	Eight (8) or ten (10) hours shall constitute the normal workday, and forty (40) hours shall 'constitute the normal workweek. Variations to a “normal” workday or workweek may be discussed and implemented, upon mutual agreement between Company and Union. All hours worked in excess of eight (8) or ten (10) hours, but less than twelve (12) hours, in any
workday, and forty (40) hours in any workweek, shall be compensated for at one and one-half (1 1/2) times the employee’s straight time hourly rate. An employee who works more than twelve (12) consecutive hours of work in any workday shall be compensated at two (2) times his straight time hourly rate. The employee shall receive daily or weekly overtime, whichever is greater, but not both.
B.	All worked performed by an employee during the sixth (6th) day of his workweek shall be compensated for at one and one-half (1 1/2) times his straight time hourly rate, provided the employee has previously worked at least three (3) days during such week and has not previously been absent at any time during such week. Jury Duty, Industrial Injury, Funeral Leave, and Union Leave shall be counted as a workday. All work performed by an employee during his seventh (7th) day of his workweek shall be compensated for at two (2) times his
58
59
straight time hourly rate.
Seventh (7th) day overtime will continue to be paid at double time, except for the employee who has been absent during such week, and said employee is currently in the disciplinary process for absenteeism. In this event, the employee will receive straight time pay up to forty (40) hours, and then one and one-half (1 1/2) times his straight time hourly rate for up to forty-eight (48) hours of work. The schedule for Saturday work will be posted twenty-four (24) hours in advance, except in emergency cases.
C.	Overtime in each department shall be offered on the basis of seniority within each classified job and shift; provided, however, that if sufficient employees do not accept the overtime on the above basis, employees in the reverse order of seniority in the classified job and shift shall be required to work.
Non-classified entry level classifications
will be filled by the most senior employees capable of performing the work required; provided, however, that if sufficient employees do not accept the overtime on the above basis, employees in the reverse order of seniority within their non-classified entry level classifications shall be required to work.
On daily overtime, there shall be no requirement to replace any employee on a line which is to continue in operation past the end of the shift. Employees will be notified of the need to work overtime as early as possible, but in no event later than the start of the employee’s last break, except in an emergency.
Section 3	- Payroll Week
The normal payroll week shall commence at 12:01 A.M. Monday and end at 12 Midnight on the following Sunday, unless revised locally. An employee’s entire shift of work shall be considered to be in the day or week in which his shift was scheduled to commence. Each employee covered by this Agreement shall be paid in full each week. Not more than seven (7) days shall be held on an employee. Each employee shall be
60
61
provided with an itemized statement of his earnings and of all deductions made for any purpose. Also, all paycheck deductions, both regular and voluntary, will be taken out of an employee’s vacation paycheck.
Section 4	- Daily Report-In
Each employee who reports for work in accordance with his schedule shall be entitled to the following minimum number of hours of work, or pay in lieu thereof, at his straight time hourly rate:
A.	Normal Work Day—seven (7) hours.
B.	Sixth (6th) and Seventh (7th) day of their respective workweeks—four (4) hours.
Section 5	- Call-Back/Call-ln
A.	Call-Back: There shall be no split shift at any time. If an employee is called back to work after he has completed his shift and he reports within a period not less than six (6) hours before the start of his next scheduled work shift, he shall be
entitled to six (6) hours’ penalty pay at one and one-half (1 1/2) times his straight time hourly rate; or two (2) times his straight time hourly rate if it is his sixth (6th) day of work; or two and one half (2 1/2) times his straight time hourly rate if it is his seventh (7th) day of work.
B.	Call-In: If an employee is called in to work after he has completed his shift and he reports within a period of six (6) hours or less before the start of his next scheduled work shift, he shall be entitled to penalty pay for all hours worked up to the start of his next scheduled work shift at one and one-half (1 1/2) times his straight time hourly rate; or two (2) times his straight time hourly rate if it is his sixth (6th) day of work; or two and one half (2 1/2) times his straight time hourly rate if it is his seventh (7th) day of work.
Section 6
An employee shall be paid overtime or penalty pay, whichever is greater, but not both.
63
62
Section 7
Section 9 - Notice of Layoff
Guarantees set forth in this Agreement shall not apply in the event the Company is unable to furnish work by reason of strike flood, fire, storm, or other Acts of God; or any other act completely beyond the control of the Company, Wherever possible, the Company will make every effort to notify those employees prior to the start of their shift.
Section 8 - Temporary Transfers
A.	If an employee is temporarily transferred to a lower-paid classification, he shall be paid at his higher rate for the balance of that shift.
B.	If an employee is temporarily transferred to a higher-paid classification, he shall be paid at the rate of the higher classification for all hours of work performed in the higher classification.
It is the Company’s intent to provide employees a timely notice of permanent layoffs. If an employee is to be laid off because of slack business, he shall be given at least two (2) days’ notice in writing thereof. This shall not apply in the case of an employee who is to be laid off for seven (7) calendar days or less.
Section 10	- Starting Times
The Company agrees to establish regular starting times for daily operation. In the event of a change in a starting time, the Company agrees to post the following day’s schedule no later than the beginning of the scheduled meal period on the current day’s shift.
Section 11	- Schedule Change
Employees whose work schedule is other than Monday through Friday will be considered, if they so request it, for transfer to the Monday through Friday work schedule, seniority and qualifications to perform the work permitting.
64
65
Section 12 - Time Clocks
A daily record shall be maintained by the Company with the use of adequate time clocks at each plant.
ARTICLE 11 - HOLIDAYS
Section 1 * Holidays:
A. In any week in which one (1) of the following holidays occur, each employee, except as hereinafter provided, shall receive eight (8) hours’ pay at his straight time hourly rate, including any applicable shift differentials, in addition to any other pay earned during such week:
New Year’s Day Good Friday Memorial Day Independence Day Labor Day
Thanksgiving Day Day After Thanksgiving Day Before Christmas Christmas Day Employee’s Birthday
B. The following rules shall govern the receipt of holiday benefits:
(i) An employee must work the last scheduled workday before and the
66
first scheduled workday after a holiday, as well as the holiday itself, if he is scheduled to report for work on those days, unless:
a.	The employee is absent due to proven illness within a fourteen (14) day period of the holiday, which shall be verified by a doctor’s excuse.
b.	The employee works any part of the day before or any part of the day after the holiday and is granted written permission by his supervisor to leave his job, or is granted written permission by his supervisor for clocking in late.
c.	The employee is absent to attend the funeral of a member of his family, including spouse, children, mother, father, mother-in-law, father-in-law, grandparents, sister, brother, sister-in-law, brother-in-law, and grandchildren. If an employee is absent to attend a funeral for
67
other than the above, or is absent for personal reasons, he will not qualify for holiday pay.
d.	The employee has worked in two (2) of the previous four (4) payroll weeks prior to the holiday and is on layoff status or a written leave of absence.
e.	Any exceptions to the eligibility requirements may be requested by an employee, in advance when possible, for only an extenuating or emergency situation. Such request may only be approved by the Plant Manager or his designee.
(ii)	If an employee quits or is discharged for any reason prior to the holiday, he will not receive holiday pay.
(iii)	If one of the above holidays fall within an employee’s vacation, the employee shall have the option of receiving one (I) extra day’s vacation with pay or eight
(8)	hours’ pay at his straight time hourly rate in lieu thereof, provided the employee notifies the Company of his option prior to taking the vacation.
(iv)	Holiday pay will be included with the regular pay for the week in which the holiday occurs, unless the employee has already failed to meet the eligibility requirements. If an employee is paid holiday pay and fails to meet the rules governing the receipt of holiday pay, the overpayment will be deducted from his next check.
C.	An employee’s regularly scheduled workday shall not be changed temporarily for the purpose of avoiding holiday pay.
D.	All scheduled work performed by an employee on a holiday shall be paid for at two (2) times the employee’s straight time hourly rate, which shall be in addition to the holiday pay provided in Section 1 (A) of. this Article.
68
69
E.
The manner in which the Employee Birthday holiday is celebrated will vary on a plant by plant basis. Facility management discretion will determine whether the Employee Birthday holiday will be celebrated for each employee on his particular birthday; or celebrate the Employee Birthday holiday on the Friday of the payroll week in which the employee’s birthday actually occurs; or celebrate all plant Employee Birthday holidays by establishing one (1 ) day during the year in which the plant will be shut down, and such shutdown day will be deemed as a holiday. Each facility management will determine the method of celebrating the birthday holiday and will notify the employees of the method by December 31 of each calendar year.
Utilizing the method of celebrating the Employee Birthday holiday on each employee’s birthday: if the birthday falls on Sunday, it will be celebrated on the first succeeding workweek day which is not a holiday. If the birthday falls on a holiday
(other than Sunday), it will be celebrated on the first succeeding workweek day which is not a holiday. If the birthday falls on Saturday, it will be celebrated on the preceding Friday. However, if the employee is scheduled to work on Saturday that is the employee’s birthday, he shall have the option of taking off work on such Saturday instead of the preceding Friday, provided the employee notifies the Company of such option in writing no later than Wednesday preceding the Saturday birthday. It shall, additionally, be the responsibility of the employee to be aware of schedule changes for Saturday work. If the birthday holiday falls on a holiday during a vacation period, the employee will receive two (2) extra days of vacation. No employee will be entitled to force his employer to allow the employee to work on the day to be celebrated as the Employee’s Birthday holiday, or vice-versa.
Utilizing the method of celebrating the Employee Birthday holiday on the
70
71
Friday of the payroll week in which the birthday actually occurs: if Friday is already a holiday, the birthday will be celebrated the first preceding workweek day which is not a holiday. If an employee’s birthday falls on a Saturday and he is scheduled to work on Saturday, he shall have the option of taking off work on such Saturday instead of the preceding Friday, provided the employee notifies the Company of such option in writing no later than Wednesday preceding the Saturday birthday. It shall, additionally, be the responsibility of the employee to be aware of schedule changes for Saturday work.
F.	If the Christmas Eve day holiday falls on Sunday, it will be celebrated on the following Tuesday.
G.	Schedule permitting, and except as provided above, holidays that occur on Saturday will be celebrated on the preceding Friday. Holidays that occur on Sunday will be celebrated on the following Monday.
ARTICLE 12 - VACATIONS
Section 1
For the purpose of vacations only, each employee of the Company shall be considered to have been hired on January 1 of the calendar year in which his employment with the Company began. This shall apply to present and future employees.
Section 2
As of January 1 of each calendar year, each employee of the Company shall be considered to have earned a vacation which he shall take in that calendar year if in the previous calendar year he shall have received at least thirty (30) paychecks (regardless of when the work was performed) from the Company. A maximum of ten (10) Workers’ Compensation and five (5) vacation checks may be included in arriving at the required thirty (30) paychecks.
Any employee who shall have received at least thirty (30) paychecks (regardless of when the work was performed) from the Company on a cumulative basis (under
72
73
Section 6 of this Article) shall likewise be considered to have earned a vacation for which he shall be paid in lieu of time off. Workers’ Compensation checks shall not be counted under Section 6 of this Article.
Section 3
Any employee hired by the Company on or after January I of any calendar year shall for the first calendar year, or fraction thereof, of his employment become entitled to vacation benefits on the basis set forth in this Section. Thereafter, his vacation entitlement will be determined under Section 6 of this Article.
A.	If he shall receive at least thirty (30) paychecks from the Company in the first calendar year of his employment, he shall become entitled to a vacation (time off with pay) in the following calendar year.
B.	If he shall receive fewer than thirty (30) but at least eight (8) paychecks from the Company in the first calendar year of his employment, he shall become entitled to pay in lieu of
time off (subject to the condition stated below)—such pay to be calculated at his regular straight time hourly rate (including any applicable shift differential) for the number of hours determined as follows:
Divide the number of hours of work for which the employee received pay in his first calendar year of employment by fifty-two (52); provided, however, that the employee shall be entitled to receive such pay for such number of hours only if and when the employee is actively employed by the Company on or after March 1 of the calendar year next succeeding the calendar year of his original employment and has not quit or been discharged in the interim.
Section 4
The length of an employee’s vacation shall be based on the length of service with the Company calculated from January 1 of the year in which the employee was employed by the Company to January 1 of the year in which the vacation is to be taken. One (1) week’s vacation for one (1) year.
74
75
Two (2) weeks’ vacation for three (3) years. Three (3) weeks’ vacation for eight (8) years. Four (4) weeks’ vacation for fifteen (15) years. Five (5) weeks’ vacation for twenty-five (25) years.
All vacation checks will be issued separate from regular payroll checks.
The Company shall not have the right to request that one (1 ) or two (2) week vacations be taken in separate periods; the Company shall, however, have the right to require that four (4) and five (5) week vacations be taken in separate periods—each period not to exceed three (3) weeks. Any request for three (3) consecutive weeks of vacation will be granted only for the months of September through April, provided operating requirements permit.
Eligible employees may take up to (10) days vacation earned, one day at a time, provided (24) hours written notice is given and is subject to supervisory approval. Employees who are on an FMLA leave will be required to use up to (5) five days of earned but unused vacation in a calendar year towards their approved FMLA leave.
Section 5
Except as is provided in Section 3(B) of this Article (covering new employees), each week of vacation benefit shall be compensated for as follows:
A.	For any employee receiving thirty (30) paychecks or more in a calendar year: Divide the number of hours of work including the previous year’s vacation hours (excluding vacation lieu hours) which pay was received in that year by fifty-two (52); pay at the employee’s current straight time hourly rate (including any applicable shift differentials) will be made for such number of hours but with a minimum of forty (40) hours.
B.	For any employee who shall not receive thirty (30) or more paychecks in any calendar year but who shall as of December 31 of any calendar year have accumulated (as provided in Section 6) thirty (30) or more paychecks: Divide the total number of hours of work for which pay was received in accumulating such
76
77
paychecks by fifty-two (52) multiplied by the number of calendar years over which the accumulation has been made. [For example, if the thirty (30) or more paychecks are accumulated over a two (2) calendar year period, the hours worked in accumulating such paychecks would be divided by one hundred four (104).]
Section 6
Any employee (except new employees covered under Section 3) who shall not receive at least thirty (30) paychecks in any calendar year shall be entitled to accumulate paychecks for vacation entitlement until, as of December 31 of any calendar year, such employee shall have accumulated a minimum of thirty (30) paychecks; provided, however, that an employee must receive at least eight (8) paychecks in a calendar year before such paychecks may be used for accumulation purposes. Workers’ Compensation checks will not be counted for the purposes of (this) Section 6.
Section 7
The Company shall have the right to determine the vacation period during which vacations shall be taken by eligible employees. Departmental seniority (actual date of last hire) shall prevail in the choice of vacation periods, subject to the Company’s right to reasonably restrict the number of employees in each department who shall be off at any one time.
All requests for vacation during the year must be, submitted to the Human Resources office not later than February 1. Requests after that will be scheduled as they are received in accordance with this Section, but without a right to claim any vacation time previously scheduled.
The Company may provide for a one (1 ) or two (2) week period each year during which time appropriate plant operations shall cease, and employees with sufficient vacation eligibility for that year who are not scheduled to work shall take that time off as paid vacation. Each plant location will determine the shutdown period and will notify employees of the dates for plant shutdown by February 15 of each calendar year.
78
79
Section 8
In addition to as provided in Section 3(B) and 5(B) of this Article, an employee may request pay in lieu of vacation, provided he takes a minimum of one (1) week of actual time. The request must be made at the time vacation requests are turned in. Vacation benefits may not be carried from one calendar year to the next, except under the provisions of Section 5(B).
If any employee is laid off or granted a leave of absence in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement, or after January 1 of any calendar year gives notice of resignation and has qualified for a vacation benefit, then such employee shall be paid an amount equal to such accrued vacation benefit in lieu thereof. No such payment in lieu of vacation, however, shall be made to an employee who is terminated by reason of discharge.
Employees who retire from the Company (immediately eligible to receive an early or normal retirement pension from Banquet Employees/Unions Pension Fund) during the year will receive a pro-rated vacation if they otherwise qualify.
If an employee has at least one (1 ) year of
service and gives the Company at least one (1 ) week advance notice of resignation, the employee will be provided pro-rata vacation on the same basis as retirees who receive pro-rata vacation.
Section 9
Checks for vacation pay will be available for eligible employees on their last pay day prior to their vacation, emergency/non-previously scheduled vacations excepted.
Schedule permitting, employees upon written request shall not be required to work the sixth (6th) or seventh (7th) day of the week prior to their vacation. Employees shall not be required to work on what would normally be their sixth (6th) or seventh (7th) workday during the week of their vacation.
ARTICLE 13 - HEALTH & WELFARE AND PENSION
Section 1	- Health & Welfare
A.	Group Benefits.
1.	During the term of this Agreement, the Company will provide eligible
80
81
bargaining unit employees with Group Health & Welfare benefits. The nature and level of benefits to be provided under this program and the claims/dispute resolution procedure will be generally described in the applicable Summary Plan Description(s) (SPD). A copy of the SPD or SPDs will be made available to the Union and to employees.
2.	The Company reserves the right to contract with an insurance provider or providers of its choice or to substitute a private plan to provide benefit levels comparable to those that have been agreed to under this Labor Agreement. The method of funding for and the administration of the Health & Welfare benefits covered under this Labor Agreement are the sole responsibility of the Company.
B.	Employees Eligible for Coverage. Employees shall become eligible for Health & Welfare benefits on the 91st
consecutive calendar day following their date of hire.
C.	Employee Contributions. Eligible employees and the Company will share the cost of providing medical benefits (includes Rx & dental). Beginning with the effective date of this Agreement, eligible employees shall pay the following amounts toward medical, Rx and dental benefits:
Type of Coverage	Employee Con intuition Effective 7/21/03	Employee Contribution Effective 7/19/04	Employee Contribution Effective 7/18/05
Single	$6.00 per week	$8.00 per week	$8.00 per week
Family	$12.00 per week	$15.00 per week	$15.00 per week
Employee contributions will be deducted from the employee’s weekly paycheck. If, for any pay period, there are insufficient wages due and payable to the employee to cover the Employee Contribution, the employee must, unless he/she is on an approved FMLA leave, pay directly to the Company, not later than the employee’s normal payday, the
82
83
amount of the contribution owed by the employee.
D.	Benefit Claims and Disputes. Benefit claims must be submitted according to the claims procedure for the applicable benefit plan. No dispute over any benefits arising under or relating to this Article shall be submitted for consideration under the grievance and arbitration provisions of this Agreement.
Section 2.	Pension
Refer to Summary Plan Description of Pension Booklet.
ARTICLE 14 - HEALTH AND SAFETY
Section 1	- Physical Examinations
Physical or mental examinations shall be promptly complied with by all employees, provided, however, the Company shall pay for all such physical or mental examinations. The Company reserves the right to select its own medical examiner or physician and the Union may, if in its opinion an injustice has
been done an employee, have said employee re-examined at the Union’s expense.
If the two (2) physicians disagree, they shall mutually agree on a third physician whose decision shall be final and binding. The expense of the third physician shall be equally divided between the Company and the Union.
Section 2	- First Aid
A.	The Company will provide, during periods of production, an Industrial Health Supervisor who is trained and certified.
B.	Supplies for first aid treatment will be available at all times. Either prior to, or upon completion of, self-treatment of minor injuries, such injury shall be reported to the employee’s Supervisor immediately. In the event of abuse or availability of first aid supplies for self-treatment of minor injuries by the employee, this policy will be subject to modification.
C.	CPR/first aid training will be provided on an annual basis for each
84
85
plant location, and required training will be on a timely basis to assure recertification. The method and number of people selected to participate in the training will be determined by local plant management.
Employees who are required to receive training will do so without loss of wages when training is provided on the shift they would normally be expected to work. Should employees be required to be trained at a time other than that which they would normally be at work, they will be paid at straight time wages for hours spent in required training.
Section 3	-.Bulletin Boards
A bulletin board will be provided where notices pertaining to official Union business may be posted. Such notices will be approved and posted by the Plant Manager or his designee.
Section 4	- Wearing Apparel
The Company will furnish and launder the following items of wearing apparel, where
the employee is required to wear such items, at no cost to the employee:
Aprons—White Cloth
Shirts
Coveralls
Hair Nets Pants Uniforms, Ladies’ White Uniforms, Line Maintenance Shop Coats—Long; Short Gloves—Plastic Palm; Full Plastic; Yellow
Wool; White Cotton
Aprons—Plastic; Rubber
Paper Caps
The Company will share the cost on a 50-50 basis of freezer suits, freezer boots, and freezer gloves where the employee is required to wear such items.
The Company will arrange to fumish rubber boots at cost to employees where such employees are required to wear boots. On an annual basis, however, the Company will pay the cost of a single pair of approved rubber boots. New hires, however, will, as a condition of employment, continue to be required to fumish their initial pair of approved boots.
The Company will provide one (1) pair of Company approved rubber boots, to be used
86
87
for Company purposes, per year for all drivers, if requested. Company provided boots must be returned in order to receive the next pair.
Section 5	- Safety Committee
A joint Labor-Man age me nt Safety Committee will be established at each plant. The Committee shall meet once a month. The Union, and employees covered by this Agreement agree to cooperate fully with management in the administration of the Company safety policies. The Company shall pay for safety equipment required by the Company, federal, and/or state regulations. Safety shoes will be furnished at cost to employees.
Section 6	- Doctor Visits
A.	Industrial—An employee who is scheduled to work and reports to work and is required to take time off as a result of an industrial injury for treatment at the doctor shall be paid for such time lost from work. The initial visit shall be approved by the plant Industrial Health Supervisor in advance
and may take place at any time after the report of injury is filed.
B.	It is specifically understood that an employee who is injured while on duty can be required to provide a certificate from the attending physician, nor shall his seniority be limited.
The Company shall furnish transportation to and from the place of medical treatment when determined necessary by the Industrial Health Supervisor. The employee shall be paid for the balance of the regular shift if unable to return to work.
C.	Non-Industrial-Employees who are receiving a doctor’s treatment during working hours shall be permitted to take time off without pay on such days subject to the following conditions:
1.	The employee makes arrangements with his supervisor on the previous day.
2.	The Company shall permit the employee to work prior to and after a
88
89
doctor’s appointment, provided the employee is physically capable of performing his work after such appointment.
3.	In such instances, there shall be no guaranteed minimum number of hours of work.
D. A spouse, who is also a ConAgra Frozen Foods Group employee, of an injured employee may accompany the injured employee to the hospital and receive pay for the balance of the shift, if the injured employee does not return to work.
Section 7 - Restricted Work Program:
A. A restricted work program shall exist for designated employees who have incurred work-related injuries which temporarily prevent them from performing the duties of their normal job assignment. Assignments shall be made based not upon seniority, but in line with disability, as determined by the Company physician (where appropriate and not in conflict with
state laws). The Company will make job assignments within the doctor’s restrictions. Restricted job assignments shall be made in the following manner:
1.	By classification.
2.	Supplemental in and out of classification without displacement of employees.
3.	Make work.
The Industrial Health Supervisor will monitor the progress of all employees on work restricted jobs. When an employee is placed in the restrictive work program, the employee upon request will be given a copy of the restrictions. A discussion will be held with the employee, the employee’s immediate supervisor, and the Industrial Health Supervisor in regard to the work assignment. The Union steward will be advised of the employee’s assignment to the restrictive work program no later than the end of that work day, provided the steward is available.
90
91
The steward will be updated on the status of the restricted work assignment by the Industrial Health Supervisor upon request.
Employees in the restricted work program will be permitted to work daily overtime (continuation of shift). Sixth (6th) and seventh (7th) day overtime will be awarded based on seniority, work restrictions, and staffing requirements for that day’s production.
B. To provide a fair, consistent method for handling employees who incur work-related injuries and who become unable to ultimately return to their regular, normal job. This program must not only address the employee’s occupational injury considerations, but also must recognize the need for maintaining operation efficiency and flexibility.
•	After an employee suffers a work-related injury.
•	The employee will either be working on a restricted duty
assignment or will be on a leave of absence receiving Temporary Total Disability (TTD) payments.
•	Once a doctor indicates the injured employee has reached “full healing status”; i.e., “you’re as good as you are going to get” as far as recovery is concerned (“permanent and stationary” for California).
•	The employee must return to his regular job or contractual bid to a job that is open and is within the employee’s medical restrictions.
•	If the employee cannot do either of the foregoing, he will be placed on layoff status.
•	Once placed on layoff status, the employee will be entitled to:
—remain on layoff status for up to two (2) years;
—the employee will receive thirteen (13) weeks of Company-paid group medical insurance and
92
93
thirty-nine (39) weeks of employee paid group medical insurance;
— the employee may receive vacation checks by meeting all vacation eligibility requirements;
— while on layoff, the employee will be subject to recall and may be recalled, provided the employee can perform the available	job, given	his
medical/physical limitations.
Unemployment Compensation (UC) - the Company will not automatically protest, or accept, UC claims from employees involved in this Program. The Company will simply give the UC personnel factual answers to any of their questions and will abide by their decision as to whether the employee receives UC or not.
If during the two (2) year layoff period an employee presents a medical statement indicating the
employee is able to return to work, the Company will not automatically return him to work. The employee will be evaluated by a medical professional selected by the Company.
In the event of a disagreement, refer to Article 14, Section 1.
C. Restricted Duty Agreement
1.	The parties agree that, all work-related injuries or illnesses will continue to be recorded by the Industrial Health Supervisor when reported.
2.	The parties agree that working conditions or areas should be considered when assigning restricted duty employees to work areas; i.e., do not assign someone on crutches to the wet floor area.
3.	The parties agree that restricted duty employees will be assigned work within their restrictions.
4.	The parties agree that employees
94
95
should be paid for lost time when going to a doctor during the employee’s work shift, and they missed work to attend both initial and follow-up doctor visits.
5.	The parties agree that for recognized work related injuries or illnesses, the Industrial Health Supervisor should continue to treat these conservatively. During the course of this conservative treatment if the employee requests to be seen by the Company physician, the Company will make such appointment.
6.	The parties agree the Industrial Health Supervisor should follow up on restricted duty employees as outlined in the current collective bargaining agreement.
7,The parties agree that communications between the Industrial Health Supervisor, Supervisors, and Stewards would take place as outlined in the current collective bargaining agreement.
8.	The parties agree that restricted duty employees should be allowed to work the same number of hours as the line and/or area they are assigned.
9.	The parties agree that restricted duty employees should be allowed to work Saturday or Sunday when the whole plant is scheduled to work.
ARTICLE 15	- MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
The management of the Company’s business and the direction of the working forces including the right to: establish job classifications; hire, suspend or discharge for cause; to transfer, promote, or demote; and the right to relieve employees from duty because of lack of work, or for other legitimate reasons, is vested exclusively in the Company; provided, however, that none of the powers reserved to the Company shall be used for the purposes of discrimination because of an employee’s membership in the Union or to abrogate any specific provision of this Agreement.
96
97
ARTICLE 16	- SAVINGS CLAUSE
section during the period of invalidity or restraint.
Section 1	- Validity of Agreement:
If any article or section of this Agreement, or of any riders thereto, should be held invalid by operation of law or by any tribunal of competent jurisdiction, or if compliance with or enforcement of any article or section should be restrained by such tribunal pending a final determination as to its validity, the remainder of this Agreement, and of any rider thereto, or the application of such article or section to persons or circumstances other than those to which it has been held invalid or as to which compliance with or enforcement of has been restrained, shall not be affected thereby.
Section 2	- Renegotiation
In the event that any article or section is held invalid or enforcement of or compliance with which has been restrained, as above set forth, the Company shall enter into immediate collective bargaining negotiations, upon the request of the Union, for the purpose of arriving at a mutually satisfactory replacement for such article or
ARTICLE 17	- EMERGENCY REOPENING
In the event of war, declaration of emergency, or imposition of economic controls during the life of this Agreement, or the passage of any minimum wage laws which force adjustment of wage rates, either party may reopen the same upon sixty (60) days’ written notice and request renegotiation of matters dealing with wages and hours. If governmental approval of revisions should become necessary, all parties will cooperate to the utmost to attain such approval. The parties agree that the notice provided herein shall be accepted by all parties as compliance with the notice requirements of applicable law. Failing to reach agreement in the negotiations resulting from any above-mentioned reopening, either party may resort to economic action.
98
99
ARTICLE 18	- TERM OF AGREEMENT
Section 1	- Term of Agreement
This Agreement shall be in full force and effect from July 21, 2003, to and including July 16, 2006, and shall continue in full force and effect from year to year thereafter, unless written notice of desire to cancel or terminate the Master Agreement is served by either party upon the other party at least sixty (60) days prior to the date of expiration.
Section 2	- Negotiations
It is further provided that where no such cancellation or termination notice is served and the parties desire to continue said Agreement but also desire to negotiate changes or revisions in this Agreement, either party may serve upon the other notice at least sixty (60) days prior to July 16, 2006, or July 16 of any subsequent contract year. The respective parties shall be permitted all legal or economic recourse to support their request for revisions if the parties fail to agree thereon.
Section 3
It is further agreed that no provision of this Agreement shall apply retroactively to a person who is not an employee of the Company upon the date of ratification of this Agreement.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties have caused this Master Agreement to be executed by their duly authorized officials and representatives.
United Food and	ConAgra Frozen	Intematkxtal
Commercial Workers	Foods Group	Brotherhood
International Union	of Teamsters
100
10!
BATESVILLE;
Cooking-Plant'Ope rations
W «* t >v .to ,V ft w , I ’ V? / r, fl; A >.«•' * Si v ♦' '-r r.^u *,
^UPPLEMiOAL-
Ta/Ae,
/MASTBRAGRraiXtENT ’
■//n	t?="<^£4/ c <.
ByaSd Bciwoea-
CONAGRAipODSt^NlPzXNY^NODB^V
"gonagram^o^^
tnwwasoj*;
Annd ^and
i M^AHQNAliWOTHmHQOp.OF
fti‘C-r-:0Arv?v
j * *■ * f	'Kt,/, A' "-/r: A
. Mfaisaflta
Foods?
\GroupX Batesville: ^Cooking' 'Plantx, Operation,-): . rep^tS inures / C<^: ite^^tniaiicrtiala Drtdserhood/df1
l'~‘''-'-'J'-jr-'7'-- *tvik.w.-iU'Sj'-'sa;* -;-AtrJe
.TtanjsUf3;.CteuiTcun;W^t^wtnw;.^,Hclper$ off
cC^mwrcml^ ‘Woitcrf. *;I ntcnprtional^i/nicwu , brid* ii^jConA'gm Frown
(inoioesifuhvrraQli^-la^conlractuidww’nrknracticc-* 1**V J it *	"*• j	*1 *£	~ • -tr ri •<?" •
.iicnty ^rhe tiKKr ruajof, ortsigmQcmU iienn from inE i
J planlarcj included :.h£thBl pmiknj^’sup^anaiL^The^ ofihe
**£,;* >>**’* s **fc<	***r>
/and. 2003 locnl d jscti wkm ngrccnKnisarerctaihed by: ;b«hConipanynpdUnWDlocxil. representative* fijr aaV)'; . future jitccdcdtnferetice^p-Biii-for • the; purpose; ofthis., t fMrticuhir«{iiiilcd'. suppcmcut^onJy»tbc^nxMc^ninJqr.v
S^iohj^':-^FrincridU^£avcr- Ari'Xa^oy^imy.. . request in udv6ncc< ewie (1 ) bPH:paid duy toTCCT&tife?
fM^^thcri'^epmotM^Mm'1^ wife, * fe^daiijghtcr'sS ;hustianit-Thisiime off will not count in assessing, dayr* CwdL^plMry^pinposci.	•
;A^cUji{,SENibRfg
t j;S6c^»v>fi'dcnemL’f^’nie'^nipanyragn^s toyhe > pni^pl^i^r;s^?nt^aj	• ^a^Arv
A gree me n L '
^z/
_ ‘Ifencnty ngbts shall
W;i^ftfcdU^^jdu^Ajp^Efiwrii'sATihin tt^ftvIlQsving three py 'dcpartmcni.'c PrbcckKm g., Klinlomixi^^nnd
Plant Tract Driver.-
^Qa&fidMmns^ftnr;cd^^’t^Ta&vc' depurtinciiis
khiatlhercfcreoced nrArtStffi
and<>showerin'’ ihc^'applicabic" individual* local
irA* *>	i'0‘1
Mipplcinenlsr;
witliinTcwii JdrpartrDeat^nnd :shall be.>defined ?n$i- that: pedodipf - employment Avtih^thc (Company-; occurring ^lrran_cmployocy, n^jrere^fwc^hliS
ProccisHig Department:-* »« .
CasePacker bpenirdr
Emploj cc Services Clerk :
Foilliff Operator
Fraczcf Fmddilf Operator J
Freezer FortUft Opcraior IK
Fu^CTJ^cisiogSpcciallsi:
trad. Prod act idn'' ‘ * *" ’
.Larf^aiior’
l3
'Uk;$e^i£r iOaTratmenr'Opem.' ^nid^fi^'^Ojra^r* rProce^or',^‘ /""
^Slii^ing&'Rrcchin^ LraiVClisit'J 3imr^E^aci6^dhc^
•Wtfch&McPrtiSibr>
JV'i^-^W’^Y.sAS'jS-
\£l^caanc^'B
v't.C^ Yr?i	^'V
rPInntTnick OliverJ>pratmem
^ij\;t^rvCT.
^ij^Drfvcr’S witeher -■; '♦»
t^S
eliisxtiicariioiii rtse plnitl opcraiiona wil) be chvuJrdinin ttirre;(3);cfcpartmqrtK .Proccxjun^, MninicnaiKC, nnd H&lTriKk'.^
CrossSlin
the nffcdrd taxtiranl shift Xvill1 Wtm -W.
"■a; jfc^’ i • 1-'.- .’i ■>."	*>"d« ■ •itSM'y.tx vw?x» w’»-wi<-
;Af<™yCT.ih«i,jviti‘tit made nvmja&c farcm^ioyrCT •* wfa^oT/^B. i ^Ztw&Vkis^4iiU;*wmsi^wiU
-- ► stij	L'’J,r fVj“ * £*4ilC*	-X J ' '/-‘A**’.-**•*JCK» C-X < j' . *
bcihobMcd-.^bSCiiKmiy, iSuebnvaivcryshecis’i'AilJ remain effcclive fctr a minimum of tfirev
. ..^Ijniybfr^':. <jif fcifiJtiL ,(8>'AyprtViJa>i» or,- nioirc..) be i ^mpanyfahab > observe': tbcj jnoici^^ob'tlejraitmoUal 5cn«^feprovi(^1dKi5cniwrpcnan’liM (tie abiiity,and
provtS^^re^od
t^p^^'jte'avhhablc ywk4n^nn^<^ci^nKinncT:
. Kdnrafcr(^process ’of jnella^bfh ■ tuivc; beenMrwflcrral ftp\<^n'wm.i'ji^J6r-rdincrcrit
niwlhs from tEednUof.hvx^/rkctnimXCTnKhiashall
■' ■-' ’ ft J T'i	7 4 ‘^r	; it: K AVC'; V~v ■«*: V,:Ty?« »
oc‘tippliCabJc tnuy lo - uumc cnjplpyres who rnniiiii-on 'ifticilre;pay roUja^er'b^ng dUsptaca^ lo another>hift.: pitnmiinbni
^x*iCo.<»*0' «-£*\,•{;#«■ .ijii’s*%*;- ,te-j-iY»-i£'i?<-■ ty-»:-'''	£<■«x?£$<v;
workforce rcductiotL1 ;§ ochre transfer ri ghifshall apply
;fmrncaialdy'prior , to?his/.present. campation;;, •!&
. rctn^fcr.ri'gHts; when the first /SrodiMni^'cxtinu^ ll*6yi tt'.W* '* <T! *X ^T^*V'lV * «AXO '/ >5;■	*'t^W Y"W
/iboll forfaODCb ,reiraD*fCr;ngh3;for .future^use-i. ?^6liciuni6n.?or?rctrQiSf^^^ig^>r«hMuV'^^$opnid^ib^
>•
In thc ciSe of an indrfiniiE.lnjrin'.in rmybcpiartmcn!,, dltoduplac^ employees may ttppty.rnr Mryyucancyrar -‘whlfch they areqiintificilnnd have the ability to perform? in otherdepartments tn the'pliraL’.Stich'cmploycCsshaU’ $l&gltfcrt ^Rmt^ayj^D^^mres^fill fu^-vtopey^ <& - accSda^^Thr; theiry pS’^ii^yv^'An^'JBch t reni[4o'ycc wjtoii^	sychajs
fyacuncy;*i	’’	*';'_J
l^pldjte&^'pj^^	{Inybfl';,/wjto.46^
icmploynWfto.Ui^
^cb'mplctij?^ Rbcalfsbnll1 tib.ncami pits bed; it) j seniority1’ •on&i
•S- <c»e_>V
In recalling nJmd-bfl’ crnploycc^Uto^	;
^temj^it^^ni^jmBd'jnp^y Jucjj^anpioyiw Jy;i
<«y
eou^iuUid^ffc^^w^iutiic^cm^'cmpioycer In&bcai'cc^wialmiiij^uciiSl 'to*return to’;<««£'■ bill
rcqu^t.rnlLerntribymeitt-Hehlk. ofisuch enwtoyeij; ri^y
\v-^v;wxh4?Tip/4W1'^l± ^wp/lhcj
f ts■ • '. .'.yH\ rXTTT**'j»]!>?ft'-■*/•<_*t*’*	A ?^<***'»• "*'•»,***”5i
tekphonenumlxruttomajliDg ttodivssfhaHrcliinethc i
•'.Section 5yJob Bidding-.AVKcriu pcniiancatAnrancy, occurs j within i the) Ptoccsm ng cDcpartmctito notice of iuch..vacancy- s hill .beposod-eja^orb^oreduj fourth %mwww becomes1 know nto •'iht^CMi^^y^^aci^'ito^rbe' Gllcd./ln, cases; of. retirement. Crt’^bcre,an’employee ^«»^^ti^'niwfceof ihcir.ihtcnt to vtttsiic'a’poihtcn,. a mxiceofsuch.vtiaincy.inav bejp6$icdtKxmorvAtum tcn\( IOjid^^pnifr<iD the ■ cmplc^&*sylast arched olid wwit'J duy.7;Such notice;shMI bc^prated: for n; pcriod off
dc^l^uii^1b: wKiehrmSTv^^t^I^^O^inftjilcsiring
$cmor cmployec »
'witttfni^cn/( IO|^^jkuig' dtjjy^^fea^CT^^n?^a jhc V jtw^sfui'^ind^^
nix<HUing'to'lhc.<rOTuin:mciitfmdJh?ctontniirisaD‘to .odtKrcmpJtpTx^pcifaiTmng u»Bamcjob nMfrcnpaNci. <fo lrumlngto\idixh^	i tjcjob?'
Shijppingi) tawip{
;7
jtttt^^.V^Vm^ft',da-t!te^iit:Bterv^^''a!^tti^. ^prescntdiinng the interview [IxatU ■ will ;bcrequircd i^^HAG^wOfi^ ‘ * "’■‘’™’*r'i“ •”•-*• v‘
^s'^T^^ningy<^Qfehhfo»; fcrll^y^wiit^ rca^iyctool^rittilSbftmjngandRbcw'ing LoiVClafce .^poiitictiinrc b^nds'nted^tia^mucstiilMKt'witt teqpcsird ? ■pitfonnlng\employees’.’ of the position land ? duties ,* winsnSc^th^rinib^l’.
i<Kiihin4bcwwk-Mca signin^llwi iitcrcsi < shicctwilI ’ bc|
•, utilized iorc&vcVrw^
jirfweniDC. for. traning pwp&ei..
l^SelciSAontltacisr (some);
i^TrainipgV.
■*-*,*• ’ ’
ArInterest sheers (Kame).
^pyaiWoh^g tb^nftfo fin tentporury’-vafcaiic}e<p
Ci-ltifnrwjiailcr cmployuctiiiii intatbearca; ^5^--: request.
^ni^lU^fore^be'traiiM^^Howc^'cqtnuning'uiUz
•? have bccxi triunrd kavcs thal uwk’rtrea? •
» S. -h<-.Zh.* > k r-L ..T.aZ^ *»; *^ *•*./' A- ^r.’'.J> - >? +T’a'*k/*J » 4.’ z ; b S'J' V*
<T^(^ntpQny^bMrfunihh
^dx^fa wT^^tb^tte^U^qn^w^will^nwK^^lin itb& *
'jin pdstiDgyticahcics; ti£1cicntfon'tfkt&vwricaacy will bejibwn ontboHd ihsfclcdy'for'Sc'jobs identifiedby
-i -1 f ’••■¥4T1 ' 7J' ? '-'*•1 i-' -u* tf’*r	MKIK'** j i'iK ' *1 l	* *
ibcct-by'dcjKirtmcBtas ayircedtoby. (hcLiniotraitd the ’
Qjntpany. “'	'T"	;r‘"'
£ln htkliuoa'totfib other niJcs^vcntinc.tbcbiddirifi
ofjpcnnniiEni vikudciclatite; fdtlcwinjj rules shall apply.
•I 4Syh'enrwjOll eLi 'byv«, stiix&sful:btd?repl^ unlii l^^iO'cntty^lwei?o^afng
Ttic;dhinl	fi^wbieci^'o ibid
ix?(Q months.
sfiecwBJiij'iliiadw1!^U?ribtrbfe'’ cwStt^dft&bH
eliminnltdoTbchasan opportunity. tobid7anajob?
:wiih a hig^raiepCjMy/dnto ruio^r shift
?8.i
3>
i^^^en^mw'sKHUftic'ipMSdLSBd to hid' iimiii 'roch‘5
"*	P$|&. ,
t pro tttlio wary'	J
f liS’ji&wilt ,bc'&i»Mercd'^wwh’widMiq^ M*0/*»i*rr Ti’> -i^., x^»wj.-*-vza<¥j?ku.*Aw<v
f:*-/rr;	**	;r,	r.y
^iTbcxicniOT^cnipkyai^wlw;Unwanted1 a;j6bjtbiUj
><jpcning>s After the cmpfojre n dremed mrallfioL . ?a replacement hid will be postrd.' Thii fivc^) day , mhualTagjecmiraly
thelaaVwo ^yy^fthc’fi^c'^day'qi^ fpenod^dbesTOt appi); ',‘'>	:
; bcj5M would rcturn lo hivhcr prcviouaitnsk und
^3^^^^wprrpcnM\v«ild^’^tigwJd” from^;
H Vibc.ori^nAi ;liid;s&et?‘mi3iW’cJiid ’bb?fiKca up Joj qualify? *' ’ z’
XsW^ctp tiTf uo^»fiub;bidd£h ti (pV’artfed^	\
Cdunc#
-‘previbm- wittAfec?,rc»hHc(ca5&' i^B^p[M^1bWing‘f^nj]iwwid^'f»ur"(4^^jS^^ awanUdr>'
to .tjfflih^anje^ 'f^ir^^4)'m^a!i^
ito;
'mil be permitted ibbid nfi'a’job	a:highrrruic; t
xVS®WfeW .T7» .V'-'J-V^	l.r
4 tf^ihej'vocancy’ls ;< noi .fitted? ixiid^/lbd yprbviiiot^ outlifflxl tilwvfCl^iviii Jte^erey to thettotiorquribCcd bidder on the umwfdiin.
dischiirgc.jtninsrcr.pn'inujtiou.oricslabli.'ihrneniorn newjob,AA pemmneni^vacimcy'analltfc further, defined nsnvtx^mrywhiebwttl.bc po^<xifdrjob biddinguftcr ? idlnjebi^fj^r': nghik/lbltlw lOpcinng-'Ksh'c' dliit*tb^cttiiolicil^i in Mtmonty order,:
'^O^Di^UAXlln^TO^
^ih the'event uncrnplbycccun ■ no' longcrpcrforru fib job/^y^icnjprtn;cn^aoaHc^
tlhs$ifi«l 'jo^ae\f^jw'ing; nife^Qllfn^y;
? 1 ^Whcn‘fiic’^ijnpaiiy;. reco^nkes^auii etnpioj'bt.^
'"■ ‘J.
^jW^^^^^wSbief^^jxt^drm.jfiw^jotitj/lhc i anp^yecwbj^Si’ ^inijnty^ qtedificutibhs^and ahiUiyto^pc'rftmn tber jbb?iwjwiviicgcd'to:	"■’■ '’'
11
\ebaAlcfr^

Sic&ml®*> tcxnporafy^Vaismcj:■■/’tn-case of*am^ UimponiiyAticniM^'rc^ukjnsfrqmuh^oceSj-lanci^or.
^Gi^SS^ariuwsi?: "" ’jr'A' ,5sz"i<,;”ry-” • -tf-'^‘'- ~JV '
L AU pcrsotts aii pamanEiU iDOTjwiH-bc!»ren Uje . bppdrtuauy.to ftman; mitres!; ihcctjd.be trained 5
2?-Whira<i^h\K<vaCTiM^^acciOT/ih^thc'jup^ri^V
;KK
Jreiilnccrrie nt^wiij ■ lw. filial jiy:
>vWanib^r.
**!* v-' <c :>» A^r
-C ty ^^T \' Z 77;	>*'
TLlbc kastscnior avulbblccrtry-lcvclinanothcr.'-; iwidttttircn
A A, - ’W,«*Vr
T4^llh the event'df aj^'ctinfiii&tiqQ^im'cm^ajve will ;lrcpcnniltaj'if^tefslKcicstrc^'tostarihcjjr/namc.
w ar eliminated. ThtJ provision'will provide that
•^S^la ;■ case j such. *v«3incj^: cjax^ij-'.-Tojirtecn; ^(14) i wu&rag	vnewi^^ti^^b^tG^rtL' ip
<or'<leave f,of~'
Intbc cremjir, bcc&nes7fliec^^iy to-teacher cn^os'tes out-*c»f\ their f^:. w*vs-t;' sssss ■*’*■K	r''L v	*-'»>*”■'*•<' “ ■ 'vi <'■;• *»
wnrk^nKa.uuc.tD /a* reduced > productinn 'Mrlicd tile,-the., :rmke?CTC^ effort: to;6TOifer:the’"lc^sl ’ ’ &euidr;.'.cniployee.' 'Transfers resulting/from fine.
13'
Seel Join -1 f£Mnlntcnancc^
?Firturc'vocancies^ortbe^V(,aMeAVutertraitriicnt.<''iIl'bcX' i poMoJ ^?<,^<^rtcn^>^rrcahncn} jOpchito^^th; o, ■'Maihtxman«^Entnf’;Lcvd^i^a/of/nny;$ tirnployecs^ M"IK"'	MSg
must
;W’hhiirrl8-24nxmlhs;.,Cunciu^‘rtalmchl Operators.
.Operator dassificatkxi andingoingHawould ot'iubjcci'.. ilpltw. sauxs,conditions us; future employees,'
:Tfc;.7eraponir)-?ca3ua1 x jtias •• wilflbc /defined [- and-; :prt>cticed in tbi’ future as fdlowi: £
*•,Tcmpo^V_^^unl?xinplo);ees tuwkip^;6g£ ^work^'/d^A*'^
teE Bi
vW^iW^&l&sa; - '
<■ <rfJ'’--^rtTFr~r.’i.r~ .*<srr*
;{• Retiree? ■ wiii ?’bc :'i t$6w*& Kto •? worfc^ nk^ a/ t ton^MWyraat^. an|doyra,^uiniugh^l&^rirap, ; J^^nc'^'il^lbeJ^Con^^^P discretion ’:Snd3
jt/ictnpaniryJ(?tKual ^cmploi-ECtSw'ittJ^tt'tjricyany part-or □,workday jujwJkbctcaraidered.to.linrc I
tfc^tVrni|lJcd	-
: with tlib cmplcycc'?Danics’nnd the dav$ w afkcd. wijrce? wprldhg wTcmponii^TCas^ employees ’ wo idd be 'cicrnpl from hu,nmaclih^m'{ttrcmEat;
’SA1' * - ***	H •	• >	•-»**!»
;?/SabjcctCto .;iayxifU^	td 'imy.iiirnc t
'uijh^''rcO(X^^
:• .No^cfltillcnwnt to' benefit1.tcoyefagc;* ‘.lo!; 'holidays,', 'furj«^,yhealih4 ;ind7wifare.Jpci&iOQ',
•_Unimi>srcunly?chr^5ifl‘;prDccdures'wr>uld bc > upjm^^m^lmn^int^^cnntrwcli^-AgrccineHt il^wcci^dic/gartics; I
^WqdS^fcibiQrticrta	vacaneita^ befere 1 new
Wfofand .
CJll’Rtnnitacnv employment ‘jsudu?i;would ? fie t ;uitiiincd,^ii13 controctiKiJ/provisions> wTmid ^bcu ■iniiia^from'lMtdtite unii’cnrricd fnrwwlfprtjr1'
♦ *?!■ t£5U' rrt!iJ »<**f - *	;* ■ v v*‘ * * **	‘ ■	■
icnmorajy/rartuU UmB;w3tildrii6l be emitted):
*	n - *. i xm-?i X' XPajvX^ < f h : < C € vWr - W; ;A

15*
/ARTICLES^ MEAi’ ANbRESTPERlbbs/
*a	v1 r XJ <<* fa-»'3a» cvx *a *V>x*\ t»/-* v **' r •- «">■* .iy*-: »& t«‘. i>r v
*'■' 4-	■■v?
Section-lv-M^Penc^
•^^fc^h'cniplov^ ^^oimum^<M<>ti^fi(|/2jhodrv
^o?&Wcn tetwocn
■ ARTICLR-10 ‘ WORKWEEKAND HOURS';
/will beoiTcrCiioa thebaSis ofsinionlyw’ii^'ilii^'w't)’^
^'■•*lJ^'!k5f'5' '/>- p** * prj*KB.'V w^V”* O SK'^T/^ £J ttV'’*< * ’ ^;i*'"'> f «X m i.*v*C ^5 W ~ 1
-. area :r and &hin<for?air/non-clQssifi6d entry-level idassificiiicmsp
. „	defined ^^Frjtejr;Dinner - Une.,
t(bui^up/;Pikjh^^Dcbo7»^lcitch^Rudni;C<idJcr;/uBd';
ftiS&r	-	'-
^J^ucUou'.? ^ycekcad /overtime
itwsii^.prj sciiiority/i^withiri^/ther ^epw^MU£ J^r, j^i^tp'p^nCTnHtiwrami^ci|^
r*1* ' V'',,,, "*"** *	.■•v**».*\*M	'"■ ■'1' " vn ••‘**2*' >*^ , —' • <
S^^ag^j^ivi^^&vMtwy^wor^ art^mm^ ’daj} gijiU p£ dfeiUfciad fg j$e7
■16S
'ARTICii'E;ti^ HOtibAYS
Section j ■$Holidays:;
rw^'r
^G)£Sclw4tf e1 pcrriiittwg/hdltday^/t^ioedirfdii^,.
}	<>.-a-v	j: t r* 41; -z•-* <* ; *ry y<*- * **•>?• - ’•
Satuj^^wiW^wwbr^
■ilwhitiiihchiinDc'nijdSnnitaiim’cniptoy^ccs^liolidpyS
Avnliwcxicbraled cnVhe'prtd^^
Itert occurOn thccmpldjces s&vctith (7lh) day ofwwk will be celebrated on ihc following uxwt day.
»j>	:.--z
^Fb^’dBCR^Vwni^
j: •£xZ*K■ >*-*><1*,- >5^rr»,<	• •■< v• *»x'» A>v\ f sx'-^s ► <
and.SimHajoo^mptoyciw^dy?whkhisday''win-tbc <
»TCl«»^;'--h'<wp'cr,yMnintcnHn<x n^^Similation wtwldw&Ui®'
#* •x v'' 1	‘	*J	: ^*> ' i* yr j c\	e^-r? i *? vx^k f v
wimfl ooS^WWietKNidayK^
Xim^5iirryAwio^^
ySection gtejai r^ition^to U5 prendcdin Sectiob 3'(B),
Ifcdof’'
Vik^^/^yim'i^4ic’ti^esja/&H«^iuttfoLia}e''(lj wmk^O^actiwitvn^tint^^m£ Tl^r<»arat furyiny-in
X7,jvV;'i'	<*<:>	■, -v/-'■l"i’vft-"*''
Iren of vacalion muKi be made to the Supcn'isor at least twp(l.lw-eirksinmlyanox^VacationberiefiLs jnayiKifbc >
k <* *	’ ••'; * ’.V i? <• * x\ i Z* * i*•* *j ■	er-.’ * a
17-1
swill be'tw'udred ona GrsToomcifi&YficrVe basis ityiSork*
4 ii k~44 * r’-*«►,**•- ’a*^sr*■*♦) «jt.“j Mi*** r.-V*	~fwi* *i*J>V* *r-Vt*' • -*1
‘"rtViimftc
.Vf"" *. r>'»#e.*
wwk^
^iteirjV^csrtionn
X<*T/A‘t Tf'><	F'1
1 *, Wj	r •* ; • ► T	/ >'R7 > * /
. ARTICLE 14 r Hcnilh and Srfdy
'S«tk>a'4-,W«;hne,ApMrcl.';
Tbc 'Qxupany. jhall1 fiintfsK' one - pair '& prcsctiptknjr Jwfcty-gliitseicverytu'oycarRto thawcmploycwuto.
~4iliiirw~oci wdli^c ($100) «>c bundjrod 'dtliniK'
rRATBQFfAYc ■ARK^SAS COOKINGS
- ■: . . .
B^^A^odftnt?
<Cbwtl>ikarC" ' .OperSippi
:CityDHvcr SwiidjcF^
gjSTkF**
TV.^1J- £».■'*#< C •>-■•- J.T,V-> * .
silos:
j$J04$ $11^6
iSlliW;
$10.65
$i®£
I1K06
[$11'46;
’XiW
Suite

iB/
		$)iU2’	
Fr&tixr EorUih '	£$'10771	SlsJ	$1137
^pag&rl^'’ '■			
lj^c«r^6rklift	{■$10.82]	$11122	$ir:62 > <*? wc/ /
u>’-‘ Fiiuflihcr,Procc*sit>(	3	Sjg98	
* 5pixuili5f*?r ' KiAftSharp^cr,'		siL’ii:	$O
ij^.l’^uctiod; l^l^i^torj*^ '	it* vty* '\ । r H..» 3li;12e	$'l1&2;	$U&2 $11^2
Uo&Xc^fc*^?’	S$iO;52)	$ia^2'	siiss
	■fSiO.6^	snfdi;	.$>U2
Mjxamppcrator	•($ja7$		$1132
M^cinTrimmcr' pilTrcainJcnl *» ^Srtai>e4ii^r	•;$ia58;	!h'p^' $U.G2,	$iii38
.^vpgraujj	.<-•	* *	
dpCOTljDnSJ;	'$10.52;	$10,93	Si 132
	•*5 "*	<	* F<	’fc,’	»
II&cjlfrccMX1 On*mftir'		$UM	$11^*7
.	Procxiiiri j Special is P	£ ' $1038’	$10.98	$1138
		$10.92:	$1132
QWitytCtiotrei ■TtxhnfciHn	^JL<T7?:		sTijri
si£&p^‘ Shipping <!ci		$H.(E; sn^z	SIMS ■$11187'
_. Rttavingixfiaf( ^twkroiMn’ClntT	2tBri£” 3j'W		/■?<> *<X ,$IX12
,Truvf&'liack’Wasl		$11.02	Al1^2
T^n^i'Opciitt .'.’iSV/'tOX J <«T^ 4* vi '"W,' ।		$>ES#	StaSsi
Tichtrhcfll Operate ;Wttrelwj^ Preczc	^U$lf34:i		S12J4
	r <$T^	siW	$H32 $1137
; Maintenioc® Departnimti
fNtotwKMcchahic’ $'j"^54; । AffttiAr	«■ £ 13'24 ‘	; Si3!&t	
',pl<S3K«l4*iVA|MwJv/	*	¥13£B	IWSM’?
i’EnlrySlivel	$12,42		^2^
^Mvcbanic^	^T/l"	^v***^VA*	.rx^'.sj^Z
,.k$lX42 ;T«i»ntnwirTt	'V-‘- ■«■•£	■$IW •WW	SSi3l22£ ha'-TAWM •
^^^I^SW^Adi^^liOO;
;1^le^midLF^ilci^^)V
, t:»v^et>Z£^x“■>’•■ *J
S*St ’7^1 S.- V* v<-^-» '1. ■,•.■*< 7A- <V J A A t W< K •* ■>«£.*> * W* ‘	<
NEWHIREWAGERATEANDPROGRESSION
^'NEWHIREBASERATE:
;- ihall' continue -MjUrihcir cuirem jtift^te^ioa^and^
2>; I$rJcinpidyve5-hirwl on ;w; aftw. ibex tCtttnjffl^^m u£ idle ducrctiotv ifhirc'’bwt5^s)'ta' rcipiJatii to ’J
ar.' r>LV^ «atxi ? £•> »• &’	t >jvWt
:20J
Tm»vbocbnies
fdTwrtTv^ *	''"’^
.\ThtULrac>ton>^ly-i6 tJlcmploj-ccshicaJdftjcr’''
■a tw^iS‘fcyis'establ«hedr(iiQ!(tndividunl nitc#).'’
•^.^hn^^<wlUic^cnby^lc?cl;’wa^ ftiirt' this
^'ssF ........................ ..
-i,w -st >	.>{	<?<>--, rjjtl.
.^.•Fogull employee^ regardless ofHrpdate:;
*A!|f ibe;d>mjpnay IricreaMw tho 'oew hire bask; niic ;
-WcTAUwicslablisEed . rate, the.?iamc incrca.se * amount (up to bin no! to exceed nrtc)’wili bc civca To;? alf;The$n will
to'raie^
f^ec^\artilfji^/6ti^i^«iwi‘m6f:'ra^tontin
' rcgufcaurprogressionjneteMe ti theregulartnlcnal up to, r&t? '
2I<
NE Will RETROGRESSION:^
a Rcgariilzss
?ihrouglr progress^ fbllcux:
7	■___:_■_________________________________________________ill.
Ncw'hinftww Mgr'' ’w,y	etTcfethxO mciinh** * ~; rKradtth.dV Mrei’ix „.,, progTSsitxi,},. ttKfcasd in the ittbowiioftf^ J		.	Effectively (twrjilwVr^J utdiStibniill uwowtt totht »mpurn7af:*'f’j	ru<Whi*Cf«n duleafhire
CXintefitnitir titfauilhc' Pfant^-cyfiblisnci a ocw'raieiir1 tfe/.ScictKXM’f aticfei?j-	'®^.j	.'J^w	J’oS^ *,™w
,^xalcudar'diiyj
&tfaylr£JUndjM'^.65;^^»'tia80^^.^85^
S>?	'
.■2ti

23;
?MAfcpN
- it* r. a*-
WmS^NOSEr
WM;
MASTERAGREEMENT.
'*■» J’tJX.' **X*~ *
-CONAGRATOODSCOMPANY’INC.DBA
• AiK'/y-/*'.1 > *-/ *.«v *5 *L '✓/A*;1 J i' * *t t	*s:
^g^f^p^D^MMERGUtj
'*wprk™<i^rn^
AFL-CIO
INTTRNATIONAL BRbTHERHtMJDOF, ;TEAMSTERS^
:JULY 21.^003!^
(SiS^itliicofl*Plti^repra&tliU^es^tliit»iSoaiAud^
(yjflttM;.fox)-jffld^C^^crc^
.rcsnlv'cd Local Contaetual orwoncpmcucc tlcrai.Tbc; 'more major^orM^nincant.itrms'friMn thru985/1988// ^^l.^^^^^lwV^andrpS/foadVdisc^SijoQS^
local ■ discussion asrccaKdU/ure, rctaiocdtby ibuib" SWRto^SgSwWSHSteSfe^ < future, heeded-rvfercoce.i But J for-tbc/pmpoic.of4tuip L jmrticuhir< printed -SuppienicnUiaaly^: tbejiDDitt' major# ";ileras which mcMcrcgulurfy irnnacflhc daily opcrattoualf ;itfpocuof t& Plant Kavc"becii’ iuduik<t;
c'ARTICXE J -XEA^iS AKSElTGE
^Section '5Z FuncralLcase;
>tcuruthcL*4tcpnMMhcr;'Iio'n,'if;,wilcConzdnughtcr'sf ;hustiand;.’rhis.tinic mraov
^Aim^E^sSEN'ldRlfy, fV »t * i'.' <	J *♦ '>i > i>r v*f ■ V<
Sect km d?*Gcncriil >( DqmrtmcnlaTSenlori ly)' r 'i’r
' ^^orfiy^hujs'^ii
•prevail j’on^fl^itepiiirtnMDWl $£& ^a}jxwidcd;fc^n'i^w
1‘rwc^ne?/NlaIntriwicr,iHmityTrax:k'’I>ivcn.,nnd
Prb^t^^j5i'|eaiip^J;
/ -i 4~^i*aa?^ £V;*S-	i -k v<%-
SanTtLtionbeiKtrtmcnt
Slti^attt^DqKutia^i^
Tnak^DriviugiDcpaTtrncnt
„, i c^bS i ficM t<5n<Ry<i
jhdl' fe^refcicn^^n^{h’^K^jerZ
Agrca^tir^^oW^
jjBwjcpra^atbcnviyc: provided;	*J>£minority <if
adfyanplckce.-shin ’[be ' dCTiahnir'Mni /'witHia^iich ijtliid ypjnail *bf * ’
M<	*jAwfr?.-, v. J A-c I- *•*;,.'»:
cmptnyrncnl^witb’ tbcyjucnnpany^occBrnn^ oner /an qnpfc»yce*s .most recent datcofhin:?, ;'
A)idding>^«ja^
'■•" S •j',-i*<T:	J1; <	''; ~ J*-	**
i&pfeE&Oti^A&^wi^^
7*’ • </*Ar^.*•jf 2* 3^V‘***$i**•$**vj^!<X?tVr.^j?.'v :Proccsiing,f:Xlaintrtuui£c,^P1dnl-\Trock.’Dnving'mil'’ £S^la&m? bcpurtincniallnjai-vnii ,‘noi;bc> crossed .in.
..........
reflecting forcedrcdtKHonsr
: Section ‘VTfemporary Layoff Av* Z
''^'<’~y---:f\e^.^<-^-i.•.-.-aS,^c<-v™^vZ
5 the bargaining agreement:
In^:lii£TcvcmJof;n;TcmTCf^>I^TOfft<prercrcnce;
fd&fcifi&jOT^wiu^
jupon.thctrrcnfonty.providcdtt^^aie'decnicdiobcj
......* 1 x r J J
^iritay;^ibto ^crd»A^io^rity; tojbump.^
?2^Ernploye>«%uiiii b^uirtriwi ihiirttiicir clarification ;amjjucafim;putppQMudartfication. a ifTcrcntDreai’if niinblc to’toMownarax.?*
.B^Oninmng^Unnt^beancwcd between Ttac&smjt
t‘ ■'	s; r- ■.r;i^K>.‘Wfr'.®w7^-«pt, xr\-i f	>’ ’."
nnd SnintnunzL^
^/PiierefantttV^lwtU^’fWfl >■ ;j^ywTO^ver'oectm:fiwL":If cmplQyM^es not; i i^^e«inikfiitcly.
t51>ftncfcnmcC ShwU<^4UHbcKiippticdl■ for>clKxJuim^
or? morew-thc^Pira^ii^	following
proccduie;willbejrtilizid btfadisplaccd cmployccia'ta
*;IiyExcrcbic..'ngainsi ■tbc.isamc dafisrficulion; saruc t-
lirerriie against the'^ainc'cti>s^Gc^Mmrand’iir^
<rppojitexhirt,or
«■>
^aSai^^Sifiti^^
j - j j;	!.jK-^>r. i;»v.r<-A	r.;.:? ?;•> uc-Vj •
4,'IiicrciMcaxiuiirilhc least senior entry level J based; iap^-lta.^^^ws^/ar^fShccU-Icn^meJ
‘rfr?
^ NfOTC^totd^ ExUn\B<iuxlipiiDraiml’lb' Item tS x»fc UIsc t'Atni Hdonl Agrtcmcnlr^
t* -X?
Rref^riw^Sljtttl rZ;»1Mj;-dve^^bim^«^thX'
fci^s'i&Mioorl^il^dft'iuJ'wHiib'tbCT-.wiUtw1 be clacedX f«-» r*r	lyi.11*'	"IJ-TA ‘.	r*.‘'*?Vl1
;kEpd,ppofli.seniority. Jn7he.;cvcrit5of''a.;Pcniiancn1<
ISEvci^onpioycc^ will :havc j^:cp^rtuniiy^of2 ^MgningnlYrmarxrnH^
l^Any^tnjilpjxw^yiy ‘toi^.ih^b^^^iy^ctuSingp^
^imd^ag^.,
• oflcrh LayolT Nolicchnsbeco' posted io'tlicPlani,. r 4.'u an employee fails to file a pcrrruijnenlPrvfercncx! ■■
(Shcdt;nr i» nmiblc:tjD;hold'ixn entry Icvctpajaiion} prcfartax^&eKsuch'^phccd (
''l^-.Cwrarmny^dmli) recall luidofT,cmplbycesrin’lie t
rc^liytaU'retra^^^
llx/!ajofr;''Savebc^n4raMfcrrcd^a'3incrc'ni^i^dr< Reiransfcr^iri ghts *,shali
tue!vermdn’th5f^'thnjdMc nfltij^Rei^fcr rigbls ibalTbe a ppi j^Mc<Mi!yto‘tbo^'crapJoycCTnjio'rcnraiu cm; ft»;aclivejpay-roii, diet bcing~displaced t^f another^ shill; .clitsuHcirhon, ar .nrcn -.dunng ;theicourse of. n pcrmancHt work faiuc jedublicn? Such.retrunsfer rights 'idi^^^l^j^^^c!aw6£^tiii;<ishift;.. or^orea^thc i <fiiptad&l‘r 6mpiby«!;[ncld immfaiUaici^ * prior ^tdjjhis
pct-lO^wrci^
ctussificatipn; and orca^whcp'tbc dmopportuoity.exists.
^cliHwioirJirf^^
. i>'; n- <f--:^ v'vA :v }r> ;--,...---ilr.; j ;•=£J•; y-^rxvr^'-i in scaronlyonlcr.
I
^^pl_oy«Sj^QB '/nV^nnaarot, layrilT; ^h’twwci’* employiijentVstatiis hSfcl^»&; frorn^that’fofs(£& ve'' ^fH^'mcidjipjJ^^tnaan;e^[Jo^^/.»nalbb& >
c»mp|ctai^Rc^P'shali^^MbSMnpli she'd: ^ijen^Jiiy
;<ln7^^	(Jampmy'shall
tttlei^^to4ran^^^[^^ify^$:li^cnqi^r^ci;^liy
Iclcplibncor, f4Hng'lLjI?by<xrlitietl’pun) ।_ril 'tlicir Jiaap kn^Vntdii^k ■ Itf	.
wunid'a laiW^^efflpi^^OT’id'i^^jM^iimpio^fi

*iMw^s^wtfr$ff?<»c^'f®StiaiL^irtiMlc^.t^two^i^
. !^w'ca;frarnYbcJ&Mlbe^
<■ ■ * ^1? K ‘ “1 T	f* *	I |/Jr I *	■ > *^ « ■ ** *!
^Tha*c.SigringtbeibUervst;Sh£Cl:AvilI^bc’obligated:to / iign . tmi*/ on futurc opening*. 6n janie shiiVNo ,5Bch-oMigabou.oa oppwHe: 5hin.^Tbe_nio«t_5Ciiior
t^;	\i**	2' ."rl ”7 !*J	*'J ^T1
m. jn^gtgaoiiic^^^l^^	^aomcyA
4 ^Hlkl^Ssl&vtha .^^iftrid<^«htV^iyi,1
.k^tiiificdm tlwHd ftiittt by u"oi4an;as usagfeedto b>’,,
-X* y Kj,-" \J S	—’ *• ‘V
Job posting* w ill cxxihnncto be polled indicalingjlhtP 'AVoriArcu. xShinancl'Job'QaxsUicaiion;' ifnn employee; *6|tnicrcrt«J $ beanng’;m^etpira^oa	the;
'.should imjuire Milh'tl^llumcm?fiL«o?urtS Impart ineni-fj
.diwha^cof tiajzntjj^ee, .jr^jgricyMrt; w^Rj^onic} ■ rci^7reinxlBicd ftii'crmilayttKnf 'ri^^uW^^bKjifial^
.thal Job ClxBWiticuiinn upon his reiiKUtcmcni.
in'aiidiii^M ^th^athtf-ibidding /
!1QJ
MKXxstfuUtaiailfQ^^^^
r-iiJ .^vw.'M.wj'ir^'v.-A'w '■,i'^?r* «?• "f«,>3f',-~*r>'*:" !vacancy^ wt 1 the.filledby, posting jtae replnccmeni; : b&ifhe
^yJBy^^^^:^wh»cb;^i^w^vraufij
"iyA'-SiKX^Vui^d^'^nnot^tec^i!^tarbid ■ anotherjobuar’M.v;nwnlh<^iuc55' thrir.joblu ^cljnunalcdcrthcyjinvchn oppwrtuniiy.tD bid oo as job; with a1 higher /rate; oftpofrAo ’ cmptayccfchkll
n•«<&>	W4.v.-' -■---«• r<-<■ - ■ i
?3;fNoemployee shall bp pcn&^lo%& laterally or fdowS^uikii^j^h^^Qpi^^Vii^^accnmM^dcclT'1*1* ■taat$y ^niljr:Bcinwrh);
•4jK'prV^.vacancy.- createdUby .the lcrminationn;or ^nlW’^t^	ft»T titr subject
T^Wticn^hn wnploy^ tK^jtxien	omln,
‘hid ithm sjpb'claysifjciiubn .for ’nine tnonths; from '&te diujualifiiccl;
■i In j the 5 rvenl ri thcFVacdnc)'-/ ii? no*1, filled - trader^ the i piopcdurc. i outiln^}-! abovci^ thefCompany * will £ hbnarv ^i^&^^sa^'exiiii'il^Qrd «rriplpyw (in i^-jSift^ahlerit^f j ^bmi^^ib^^wcir^''wini^;
< \1 Vi •> ’7r' >’ ;**>■' a t	> *j<* t A*?	M
II
tmign^/k ln ''the extra -board J has i been v ’exhausted cm the.shift in.questloa/.the.Company may/ ^fin^tbieAv^Mcj^r
r/ , A^pcm^cnt ■ vaciBhcy, ba.vacan^<ca'u9^:by.a ;wv3^WA^pOTtn^d^wa^<st^i^"fet^<imie4^
'^£8^W^^Bpl^d'^cE^pl^tc^^tmhoid<TSnn^f«‘.¥
: Section 6;Temporary Vacnncie*. ri tW
iutacri^'of'^to^^
< m-^oTortlo nnike sucnauugnmcnl byasinglhcnwslf
ydM^ficai^M.J^-lte^l^t/jogn^Brml^ie^a^ptaya^
upgraiielitt for
“Dj^^o'^njbetij^dcIrUwpmhly jilacc'anote J
>rx Iflfcrcjis'ijoranior^mpldyecan" thcupgfa^shert/?
5prctedhrdTi
:12£
r./UtilizxthS'sciUDrrarnilahlc^quali Qcdtu enraloyeet" frorir ilie^wltyt^VwIjb^taititMlMM^.thHr^ interest outhc upgrodeJhccti
L*'	senior■’’
^minblc; JquaUHcd :^pioy«;'\froni '*
-having jiigjwd'.uic ppgmdc^fwct will be millgeit
‘Bccompl whang ;thii inpgraij^qualified/G-'tra . BciJir^^KirrssoanJcl Jw-JIi tfe" utilized to fili viicnncics?
w’
V A1 Z’ *4 1 •	’r- ;*■ /**7 1 * t* i* ’ 1' IS J ’V ‘A* ? ;
'fm^ot-^itra^K ^qn^ftbejunior.'QVuiliihic.,
J • • 'X •': A■ V?*&■	: rV■ * V**-Vrr f2,*^* V** * 4‘717‘ •"* * •
qualified - employee, from f tho> work"area Swfll toe •’.
'trtiiizcd/ ?i-
(^^.'PKM^^o1in^iKli^^Bcy/^n:^od:n0np exceed
cxcr1rd5rfninh*cu( 14)?wwkrag days^ttm j vacancy ^tidiU be filiod in aceprduncc* witb tbc pn>v ttixins o f Scdlon 5 ;
cx^sJcMj^^by^fck^i^iVtti^io^pV^l^ye^oF-atwence^ iiij^iiioll^^bji^totSd/cXc^ix^^J^erwbw provttickJ klw:	'*	5'-
:UKnu^cnB^7iimy > utirotc; pepirnniei: fromthe ^SnriHrdicih
V'*'-.'zw*?.'-;i->-frf*<i*{;C XwaiCitgg.e-t?
:&xira:BoaniS£
► fc» *	7^	“?■ J"1'"3'" '
tEx^ltaards;w^&jut^^^^
emditiotwr bneoflCfirsVjiiift(i^ludin^ SnniitiikMi);otbc'
w% W•'■"• - ‘-zs *< ’’'* ■'’*** f- < ' - *•> ■•* ’	* *'* ■*&*» ’• ' ♦ /■ *-AVK .•*•. SVJ
JSamtatioiiX
’♦ rSTi ". ',*’'* * ’
to thcI^tin'fkMud on/'tJ&^&i ft ’tbcjftw^ Ini dafrf.
’»Wft;junk«n\wiirbc nu>vcd tolhfi opposite shift'
’’.*•■	’ "-av
Ik (b) If die CfiintJ^tlctiidai (o lijrcaJditicrual: &in&
fcwffl? ha vc'dbei. option Uo .movc.To :ExtrafBoard7t
2) Rxlnr Hoant crnp3oyccs; vni!_!;tnic ;fitl^VDaincieM'i ’ ’ uxxasiixxxl.bydfliiyj dl«cutcciim,YiJculion; ;lcavc7;
.'Ofttabftnee;\nnd/or> MuppIcniailntiOti i loMhc^ ^wQititinfe; when‘Contacted 4o do ■«>. m scmpnNL. ipruer.i
Eiira
righi!o7qucstimilK^.iiniit^kihio\\fterAhc/cnni|)uny<'
Bofid^ o^ploy«e* tornibnmiil ■" ivixGiDC^’iM^or suppJcincnlAliantothcworiYave<!
;y/lujiployccs. Qu^a^raie^lwctUaMl iUtffiiy
* ’*’	aiilizing
'Extra Boards:
J#Enip	Wttma 4“5Wjeo;fnvday
‘lay^ffsh&iiw&wf^tothc Extra P^rajoo,thar>J
filled t)iji. cninlnyrc,vinirnol bc'rrcnticd until their' (< r< r*v 74v?	£>■$**	? 'S'MW f
area1 find clnssificritians nre ovtiilnhlci
■?’5j-I5niployw:'ii1nfTcttedh iA^w^i^llayTofl’,<h&J ^a^i^t^T^lhSExtm-BSMrilai^miiflg t3rl?(a)i
*;r*P».14:-71 *>*>n>/-* ■ *<•■ ■“'•MW: •«: 5»; J; < v?5X* %
$)\ditoiBoarii -people^^a^>1d^3^yc<jo^ P^J tn^ Jindiu(uwiJcil
J ' ......................
7) IT-job posung ha* no succcwfd biddcr/lfic icuwrv
Fjdm;.Baam>,cmtrfpjTe-rwtM»1<foav«x. have.-m, pcruHineal; pos moil pjB ihflbshiftsluill ;bc-a^igncd 'to	’
<jmpJ0jxc* w^'^bw^jxciimke£a'-1 permanent ;.x'ac5Dcy',wifi*bci&iawal' w\tjid^ijitbcr?3 ;tol^iy“^’4^wTa^^diuSing^tiiic^;^tfm£(6) jyTwmthy/
ExlHiB<Mrdr,

15;?
9) lf.tb£ Dccd oocurr to redDOe\Extra r ncnnanrjU' bosis; Utmwr-craplojcca currctitly<on
rl^Ua Boardjnwfojlowicg umfrframcr l^ployc^tni
’'*^*^m'3IHm^	:^.._	,j.
EmplDyrts.qn^ca^aiMiithmJshif^KxiraEkKirdr^ ■s vj v •»„•<•	£ -*4/>X< o v'i * * < Kvw f • •. r ?z	t' *££<’
'l:0a.PJ4;jd;3:3^^
?iwnicday wj^xx^U day. work. *
lk ,	*h/.	f ^*j	s' *n	**/-!	'/"*■
Employees (hat are called Tdr,£hitaai;n^varanci(«s
'shall havc seven hour (7) guarantee if docked In .with in J <oiw and,onehalfhou^after nolificutjon..
**«?j »i	*3^ y* V*1	*J*HH'*'	T'~
lf5tl^^m|^y,;^toniit»\to^^nctftfK^^pk^cc-.; jdtiring'
Board:	classUjcrnjoni
^dorTn|'pa^i*^"’tCT\7(b)>’wiKirag-d3yslcn^n/
*5 ’iV" '"'' ■"’ ■"’■*' "•■ •■ " itrmparan-x2iiMicy<
#«•■»’;•:.’■■>	*“	.» ’Vw;*,	8i
12)Peni^ail.empk^^rafrcrfcdpj;an;ixxirniij(o ExiniBoaitlwiilf
>!6j
^3$ :'onrobcii‘ (tuft'}"	....................
■ irt J ;:<'>-&» >>T
Eitra, -8&r^a£r&&^&
M > SA■ 1*W. ? V*V« •
^1 1 A^1 \ **V	4' ■**?? ^"* •”'"^	J-4 **	,1.1 ?s>'
:ia)!A!t»^(2):pCT^^nit^^^^^^^;.win^»i ■;fonnukrioth by; canvwtiing'ttfccstnblJshcdyExtra . ' Boards try aaxfety.unuf^Scy'mwt. bc.qualiftcd.to • ‘do vibe^fe’Extra: Baird JaBn’^^e^i "upon 'ngrrancntbetwxaCompany andUnjan.-
j>Tdcpi»iJt!caU'timexfwiJI ;b^Trtiin-7VI’M ti>ld£3O•' ■- f- ■■'.■w*4.‘	■ Zz.'< iWut^ss*.
J^iilimion Extra BwtC’>
:.d) ^guiar^jmibjrs whl,onaJcmpomry’/UjxjlT/gt} •
■xi '■<	.■.*}•.\	£v; f.x ;■	; ■
Sections. ProccswDgDepartmcnt ‘;
$la i^be)rcvW$Vl&omc£
z.*.*/'-r7:>-»>7;-y-<;	-1	*<*>■*j$7?
wnfe^'<rap^TO? \’3,,Ji“tera remiting-yfrain line > 'idraida^'<arl^:Ercaldi0^^n^g^xw!^^£^ttid be cxcraptfnxn'thisproecxlur^'
ITi
iliflieloc Switchenij'.
*3^ z	<s<*4>	F>y
t Tltt.C^rt^xny and Unioij'.mirtuaHyjngrecd'w4U£w>
t<W^on;w^0;fo11^T^Vww|tFpi^wyfiEl^iirtsa5 (positions., vacation,; iihsctKX, and J'ItavcstoRnbsciicrj • fnmij^witBLin Ihc plmjt.yEmployccs^entering ;tne /InirTp^lTaick'Ekjvrng Gruupfrom Mncoonnist turci'. '.wci^iyiq^l^cath^s! ~
<SeeikM) 9; UtllityProctssor Classification
'Company/aid t fn'^ txTOniiihx\wiih'SaniDn"'5,'of this’ j£rticJc< -'
,. TbarOjMrbeiiwfsw’orityfrfi^
IProcessor class ificairon tis . to * w art assignmcali ; as ■ sct\ itortirbelow,	Zt<'
Eqpipytwflotit? U^it^Pipc^jwrc^itk^iiiifwillh
?H»“Qliin£rnira'a^fe^ld«^sklaai^.rii^iarii;lihw'cr , of< absence, or other, emergency. .
JThc dasSiff^M,^Udii^PnKcs sorwill bfruuft .to; ffifivaaincici ui' the PivOeSSing' derartnhxt ’iri'ciimnitl & /pnicucid dtid w IB ha ve the ability.to exercise touil Plint,?
:18’
onty^etcc^xng1tx^jq^ai’ ^.Planl;T riicit1 Driving
StttfonJ1 .Maintenance
1	•< ,• v *-x..., f,	v. Zr r.' * ;> XV
nHwHhg XlhirtoiniK'ccmnio\i^'to'r^;cfo'shifti^Hal wc morc ifeirabic'Jar lhctn^birt tit'thc sarnc thnc. lhc. i Cbmpany musl tnaintaiti qualifier! coverage on aUihifli
K.V?*% *> '	' V ■' ’ rX> * X>’."-Vh ■ A® ^7^•?' tf *'M £
farlhc,Pl^^te\^
.^fr'iSusingr^^t&fl	and
l^cotiragcs; ahi/ideas >fronit be. Union; regarding^ this isww.y It £w«nfurthcrrccogmzcdany /STaijonai »thls7 &, uc
* r	- rV^’ * s .<•%; 7 w -j- 'v.jT'“r. — * »♦ -*■ >; ■*; _ vHr*x t	. «a- <*.»«
■AmCL^lO^WpR^
Sect J?o <lv QveHlme
I^^0}\»’s/rci^w7c'gdGi^2?^iy^^iifrito4h^ '^iiub'miSeil/ ^r^A'»Snwi^^win*l)cr 'irp^ivc/lKcj1 foiihwing Monday-nnd be’ in ‘cITa^Vrgi; o'nunimufn of-•
Ttn’tHb applicniinn’cfUAth'liid'sm'^h'tlay overtime., «ry	ks» n» . •.-- > sTjK £z.v» vv’'A.,w'» ’»■'i >	* "aM*	«
provisjorLS..:qualificd^crhpkvyc^>7whb\-havc>i(.igncd ' ■Bpgr^sl^wai^a^-^^^ ittVciiib'da^wiartime.^ ^cl^rKatton^
l»b
* i ML-XJ' J' :-' " ” *!.j’>:' .. •'•-• ♦i <• < i * ’ ’ v " ■; •4O**'>P '■'/»■	••• 'y .. "t’ !;' it '> i>'< t)^v^.^Hi
■advance’ oftht lujadj breakpcriod. employteauiUbe
•**£3f	iy-* A'5*?*%iAV.u?■X
.WeriiendEx^
l^E^lra Bcard anpidyECM can sign up for lixih(6ti) J :nnd swyr^’(7tb);<l^^tm^;wai£;	" I""
\IeastscBiorqualified.’,	‘'"~"
</slw^>iwiYe<jbec»>xjii^-«tii^^«>cireVp«5'ple'-.;iijre>'atiHSi ;.weeded"'«• classified 'jxwitioasv.thedcast>senior; ! classified employee vyjll bc droned kifwark joxih'y
1'"'r' " .........
v‘tfi«rair^fi^.--y	**
.<	a-
Seetkxi A’WcaringGfApparel x.-ii JJvi-’
W *WL^?r/
i; SaiftinfS;’and < :X:ta^teniHiik5i!rei£^>liCl5'iMi< tin vc'tilrEEHiy been L<sued tiw (2) pair o7 muformsaiidifmaiui^crnenL;
Tbc Conipanj' rtat<xl‘ that they jvould irivestigarezlhe;
fhr^fliatiarhDKt
c’W^5jry.“*'
SaaitofswULbcfamishcdh^vyduiyplastic uprvns
Algfer_<■
-Area- Safety' Mecttiigs iA'ill be eOnducted otiCax
21
.‘SectioaS; Doctor, Visits/
/L	Z' 'J
7^;Company^tni^^ihdl-;jhc74,txlu'UnaI^H6alth' ■ Sup<in:iflWy.(IH5s) would c-xercisi rraidnaNe'rnedica! j tjQaggMgttTta 'dctconming .wbahc^qr not^nn^employce, 7t^ij{&2Wnt trcto^^iqj^^AX^thcy.C^jwhyfirtai^tUl^itwp;
i	*JiW ,v-j;
^two:Doctdrs bare,been scJectBa^cniptoyixSTnny-sdccl pvfciich'ZlfectorZtbcy-prefer/to Visit^iworferclakdi
Secikxi7/JpbRota(loa
: cliisSfltiMion it# will'ar rotate employees fcqr cr^mmnicH “^Vz	Ai'" r
-purposes:
.jRATKiQFiPAY/j i Mncon. MIssourl -fEffMtix-e^iiiW rCtOTMCTCion; ~ ffikMrifefrr <7-18415 ^tyjr^ver	$H^	>1^'	iSi^i'^ ibook£; “'\ ,	$11147■	3h#7	<$1X2^1 T-QtiiinX'imiCT’	$’iiiiir	$i:i’83 7;;- ^fw^errar^ih?;	Slj^-	;$H$2	iSU&’l®
■tFwibcrProcessing $11,28	;$I Ii68
iSbcclfillst**
♦/	h	1 *	J1: ■ ♦ •	L •	,-_ tluvoild^Sfcciailitt $ilJ2! $lld>2 £1232#
“*’	..22;
Jiiiipdry,Xlnchme\,	$1L675 '$12j37
‘/$n^	ilia?
LradProtliKdildh' ?;$1H57 ^W?-7	;; *<V*,	/>*/ **■>•’* Lead janitor? k r$1 i 157; lane.SerrU^**	$n^i‘ ^197' >1237 $11162; :$11O2
Mixer;	f$n£$ qitaifty.dcmtrol	SSIlWi 'Tccluifcian ;SuW_tor-"'."'	?$!!£?< Stiippinfl^'	:l$li32; ReceivingClitri:	. .Tractor S witclier.	$$) 11472 (Jtiiily.lSrxxKSar	^$l!^USh JVarehDUK* **;i	2;$!	£	$H&2; 'SjitB SH&7 $1237 $12iJ2 $lf£i 31232 $11.87, 3122? $ftw ‘sjgiS $V® $?t?92
	$iw ’^K'.-.v
»- ‘ p-i,;>•;* '	-**>v'* Malnt cnnncc Dqjart rnentJ	
Ktastef Mechanic A . $14.251 GnMkT Mechanic f t$i3.©-Hntry'lxvcj 'Mcctemict	$1-165	$1'5.05 $14^' '$f4J4 Xw $I3;52-	$13J2
Superiors jail
t t*<Indu^y'Bpx^Xtukcr/CajlwiifornKr^ Carton Kl^hh^OjKmibr^^siny ^1ac^^^0pe^6n 4 lurid .C^cE'Scic^^m'jOi^i1^
^.••■WiU bedcfiodd as cnuy-Icvcl occupations.
23‘:
^wUwwZgk&trXw
uExrlucMsGeDeruthLiiniinuince Mechanics)
’^B^IffiB^sSBATE;
<<«h4urc^inj^;AvrthiUictfvcn^irt;^^
1‘fiVi'? ‘> I '.^> a KV^SV V'. .-V > I t'ifej'jn
2*>Fwr<crnpicnecs ihti^Z-cmVnti
.■'^at^raj^n
foi&v iifgfe**
• •LT^^i5D&^ will riieJi^OTm^ ^(‘-U>e',i^bf«iKd>
■•■^	V^i'ZAV^i^rkVJ
^cRecliyci: r'
ne^vral’eiscsuiblishcd•	r'
♦ ‘	t-y
ShBS? "'....................................
*^J£-* *:'	’•'*’*	fi	x**
$»!fo all aii^ojeesrejanllessofhire datef;
24=
,_ihr(.sa‘meiXScrctwer ^gK^^^Tbeyj^iU . c^tinue ldSrt'cdvS‘ tfi&r:next regular progn^ion
r-? ’<
J’/I^thocompany, csuiblishcs ancw.hirvbascnuc> .ctirirml'Icyel,
"cmn^yccS'.Mnih^lhe'' S^ariwam^w-tn; 'o6i.^t&, - aficWcu^wad:>han;notf receive iany;.rcauctioiivuj . wages’ 'ITjey.; wilEccnttnucaa, receive - their; ncxi;
'up t^ritteF * ‘ " " .............
B. NEW HIRE PROGRESSION:
'ttroagS.F^^i*iOT'^^to’butf^yin?extt^*Raic^.?iH fcttqwK. ■	*'’’'
biS^rofcr^ l 1 		 J	EITcciiveG fnkndalEor1 jsogresx&fi tnenase inj -thp'aE&ouqt ^77^.1 J	;areaiwcu>' .aipntHi*rrara tn wkllliwud'j ’thijMCUhi. •-adr\	|2T«th<18-moaltn’fnxn
Ciirrem'.imu?; wfleti tbc? «i±t{icha#; n^tU1	.^X'hr. ,		$«•’
WVhf&SC.Si j^r.Sccdwi’A ah#e*^‘-\ 1			
25;^
• Far■] cmplcAccs/hirctl'faflcr‘ 18-61 $ ^aYcbtaM&r :da& i Bchcduic will to r^^nsToiiow*:; 6 mi»thi is ,t rtphadp
^UICRdar^dajT},, f^ual^'tnc^ey wni£^p&d£( rmmcdiftulyjfollowing the nbovc 'eflcctfoa ^racOf)/” ~’
~^$d«20 il 3/k)'ihy's^$805;?idffftnr^^Lb'RnJc'af540J.
:36$
^Notes'
2N
. zlMARSHALD . SUPPliEMENTAL;
toihit
^Xl^crAiretmciii
By nnd Between, 'V
CONAGRA'1WI5S COMPAN^V^cl^A;
?and .•
1/tuled Food and ComiiK’pckil .Worker*
.Vanil
\rutcraaiiond;Br(^Tboo3^^
/thnwfhJtrty-16^2006
J. */\-xS• Jj^ ^rj^UsV- - M 1->Ay i -*T,	-J81-7 - : ?£< *NJV
120W2.it^;^Vui5»oos ’^^^^pa^^!Fru«a:Fwd!i? (<5roup^Xh&Pj	"dt"fi^|
/iotercuktioiuif ‘Brotherhood $^T ]T<Sinistei>'. und> '< tcpresOitivcs of tfjc ;Qarted F6o<d ’andCdniniicroial fi «^5xt^:lfl^fluMwaal?tma-mcmbcrj' a thcCcmAgnia ‘ IFwzciTroo^^l tMrslBdl <MarM^'mcut^^uss<xlJ :'andV«i>c^^ulty’Zrewlvcd>local7.c6ntn)Stid>or,''5V0rk': .iiEttB^nOTdbt^uiKnnsuinriwt^h'rclntetolhcaaily.
14uii^art;iniluiied *in?Ui tif^rtiimlnr-’'-?*upplcmenL The cnUrc Ujt frflhew^lx)^;C^U3stm)^ tAg^a^^VMcvnSinu^ci,/
lEcKal Representatives far any:fmure o66ikd:tcicrtoei^_ ,..r.f f 1	-^VTSV /• *'!<<* *’-'1 >4" 1 * '1 ■*•■* ,•I*'1' j-flt*W>.'£W♦■ V‘ ^’•Q*--'
;But^ffor'lithic •$putpbuJ <M\'thi«>’particular/? printed
A RTICLE 1 - RECOG NITION AND UN ION-fSECLjiil^k
’ training ^wl^-forie^toy^^t&i^atcbeginniag pfp^v
Ogi^
V^y,-. > ■**. -> ?4	>-
; Sec I kxi5..Probnlionary; Employees ■4 w
Ttibn^wlll >na ■ lnn^?hc'rayru^c^du£i'plae«l;tmim>/ .■Miindtiemcnt trs ’rctoie^to the assigntnenr and‘overall . > rV*h. <'V,'	r"4 t»^Aj* 'Apt^ Tj**“	V^VTf
•Manag^nxuHvd': Ihotokmaryjlinipl^rcs :dmn|;thctr-; 3ixty ^(b^Jvi&codar*^	Tlrn^
tou^y cr/1^ tto Maiwt|^MiTL5[iid3
overall ^utilization 6T Probationary!' luuployera Avould notadrcrsdy mtpia anysenumtycinplpyeaa
~ A ft^a^Prokiiicn^’^Eaipioycc>has <c<jyripleicd’,ill ■ ’*7»iC> «* rii*; > * ft 9	k- ■ t <> v; ■* * y'* *’ ■ *< 7^ - +>* * r? *■ $ i ; i
Lc^vc Requests wiirbc ooits'kiercd byManagement .an a casc-byycnscbasis,
X"
fi«tiotvl 1,...Lntw/AlaSagOT^TMeeLln^
114(1 ‘ ^ rnnftrtrirrt rm a, ,
will Ix poslrd in'thd’ nfcil. AU»"t t	x-*tf *
ARriCLR3:.LEAVES;ORABSENCEi
Section :5.: i, Funeral, Leave^ xr/ZV-lW
An employee; may request/tir odvancc, onc' (Tj non-f	r '.:' %U * *’ ■*• ***	'</♦ *■*<** *i-1
paiddnyto nltcndthcifu«^x>f;his^l^'Cant/imdcor'' paid 'foy^ojiitcnd the funeral
/ARTICLE 4 -SENIORITY.
SectKMi J ./General;(Dcniirtmentbl Seniority): W^VVvMi^;	v* =v ■* *
/Tbe awnpany^ugrocs to jhii princ!piils! atseniority us a part of	~
‘3
-ttsprovnlcd farm .thisAgrocnicuiwrlhin the (hUomnaTr
^cuioriry-lJepOrtincnts,r^vahithe
lwqAW:
♦*>K’ iktX'!* .-V
■rad ;Cifel&vc»)'
< .T’."ir* .■» *>■' 5 .>••«• *?ts ■»>»:■ , ,■	t...
-vsoAnra-Iky .Warehouse
i.-Boilcn1 Refrigeration',
.4/Xttiinteritmcc
fSxf^cinciira
j^wikare^-Bag’'
-u'orknrra-SnDckBv
Qiiaiiiy'l’i-cpniroi '^C)j	j»7
??»*
wQukl all bc assigned to Ibe Dinncr wort area.; nrra/
*r<>i ■^,a' •»•	*•»)	*» •*■*'»■'’*•’(	'■*'	~	*
;* Classi Cent ran: for^coch tf it tbc labaveclcpartmaits v^k-	e^r.
k^sopplcmtflisa
^'e!
wtidn^l^»i'a4^a^^-u^i»£Snrbip^dcfiMU3iw?Uiat. period ? of: emri oymcntfwiih4‘ihe fCornnany „occurring A£v;:.;;.?^r7;£3r-^	---- ■■ *
tiflrr on employee*, most recent dude nfhiifc.
iTW&plairt
^Itoiona 1 will^^vWJi^oifivc 4$
’AS'mrehmtit^ /Rm'kmRcfrigcriittuih.'’ ^SonltBiipn, ................................... ..
?>	;‘	;-;<s -^,-j-
■j— *•;	-\[ r~J‘- ‘r^-, it •	c^cl. v.sr. »;• i,'<
>.; r^'z	.k	~,' y. .'.;,u
Ji DisplaccjjthcL'kasl scmor.cmployecYin-’jUeiri ;’clasiiri<Miiiai^,fi’iihin ,)their Department (for
::cla^M(iCTiionjn thciEworiirar«2>).*''' ' *
iTbe.djBplaocd rq^tloy cc(ji), fraiir t^Prcd^km; ^l^pnrtniralABtnfc'iij^^nbc^-c) wdi'tx: senldonny« „otl^vkwtare;^‘ifmtditMmaJhcipis needed,?
3fe I^lOTixsf'may' '> be; «dntZ h^iie^&*.;Tcin»SrtW
■<;»--3a<4.«wr?K;nsJIs , Iriyoffifno HOrkiM provided?
‘Vlkjr layoff	-j
! A>i ■. i-SW-W•*“•',	? ezrvf
Evth^pnxuiclimi'nrcas; of-thc-plani? if addilicmul -, /hcip'ii^nccdwli'i bysubnuttinffniwritten request do j
, «in rtmam5 tn effect; for; a numinmn ol three■	J.
-months,
’ situation .willT * • ’ ‘v"*'	'’ *•"J*' ' *- -.
I; bisp^c^dhcfleast ^niw^m^yce-;ii-thcu^; (^j^kiGadiba' iw tbbir rdepmrtairni^fdQrt^ridtknikrn^ •;lX'partrnenl m^oyccj^placemiati is
; 2hThc;dixjrfaccdcninloy«(s); Hbove.uiU. fuivclhci * ^op^rtuttity-^ttiiiMtJCC^tbc >;lctslii»cararyn^ttar ^iM^lfl^K^on'tlMSr ihl(?‘i ti tiieir be^rtrrithi?1 z<>
>5,^: Ir4Xtmiicaliic. rtbc 'riwet^movtement'Vt ii' that Dcpartmcnlisagainstcithcn< v ijJf„
ih^tmflcrist^niOTEntty'Jicyci^njiMijshilVr
Z USTlicn > Ute r'erriplojrc^rhay'-VeKendse'; his;; seniority lyqxmn^nt.,-	<	“
.'The Company^^imlKrecall ’laid'Off.cmployccs in Ute * rcverscon^rofrth^rhyxin'iaDdinuccomprLshing'thc, •<r:.* * '.‘••s'tfiJv'-s ?; »;<7_ «3»- ji,v.'<v;^	J®,
joi dilTcrcnt •jobsor-q ^fTcremJihiffi^^Rb^n^Dntri^tlsVi^^wfttrc^ihcr?^ twelves (12).^ raoihiwjjip^^	Rc;
(Transfer wpio^cs Vi'j^^niai n'oVd* acGvc jrayirdl^dicrfbcing 'disp^i^yanpt^r?^ft<o't/Xiccq&mC^*j™tt^ihc ■» oouric^of	, ^pch‘ r5
4i$ptac^'}cmpk>y&bfjjeld,‘tnuitedwtcly .priorijtj jw^i odcupation.’ '"'' ’’r = ' ’'..», h.
■r'f	r V
s': if Jiiisplactti crnpldytes'idinlPciccl^ooti ta 'cAcfcbio. (heirrcUififtsfcr nghi^when' thr GrU GppOTtunjty cxist^ tfKy.ah^farftrilJs^b^
ienidiriiy6Kter'
*■*•«/!r s’4

7
jlajT)iE^wbdae>
'cniployrtiiu^io	'tics.
-/onfcrir •>■* -•■’• ■ -■* '-m -’  .'*>-“ j-<- '■■•■•• «’ - -
in^Ta^ltttf~8.lmd^^cnmlOT /tbcChstnpahy fshtdC :ullcrupl'.to ;contii£t-and?tinlify yucb:: employee by, ‘tcfaml^e?fw> Ctmme /ibat^byi cciiiGc^r mni3 "n£i hn^tnsfc, gSWafet
; r^lsUo/jowi-within ’ <0 vex&\caicftiar;daysi oXsiKhr
jcnrunaicd: Fniltrreqf^an'ysnployyc •tb^keepj.thc/ ’, Company /in formed i nl/; all _’f iimes's cf■ bbangcsT-Iri VhuS
ro^fwny.1rt^y'^^naibU^^0reddriu^^^^)x^;
Section
Wfco^pcr^	, wwa^thc,
''Prodiicfion
.Keii ipc>dpJfcnnpcrioddf^r^(3)wmkjng<tay^tntdrmy> ^employ eemthe depurtmentinwbidi>tbe;Vilieancy'!ia»/, /occurred dcsinng loMthmil abid far suchvacaacy'.tnusi ■'.
?8*
-TV	'-**•’ a ^Jvr"> ’'**■ •' >**VZ’’’ «r it’*' V-'t''-	M * 4* A*i5\V *k* * i <* *
Kamr employeeswlw;bubJfijrand)•vacancy, ihalf be;' 1 -aV ^--"*1 ■& J-•;	•’<s?i’'/ f*-'■' *’AV- J v<:*/	''s',''r
aisigncd	■By*
proyidod' tori/ablejaiid^^
tad^deciion\Of’'
itw&ijr«J;«n , tacjvicwyrp^ificntious'fij^^umnfyi'ln. iheeyentof ’cqially^miJmddcnploycx^;	I^Tht •
ihnx stcw-nid/if nvaltaHr', cri tbcihiflinlcnricwcd shall -**f.-r	--p W.-.4-/:I '■<«*'
iKspctacnl*dunng<u>o.uilcniewf.rA5j fariasytrnhung opportunities for tlxadT^ aa^^^njdlty/^culrai
will bcnoslcd infonnihgcmiduytxstTf.thjefx’Kitxinund duliM;-'n)o»c(cmployccs rigning the ItttettstSbeci and being scl^lcd hs'>^Kiincc- wili tw^bligated to-sign fmi^bi^in';ucKobligiuidn *
^paifiMpi'^a etnfi'lc^w’S‘‘9f^thc t ibiA: Thc/’CxMnpaxiy/iibdl-^ fiin^b/a'eiipy.'rifj iiic; tui posljng nnd:|hp;^w^^llic^fl^;ffi»d indicated ^n&yp^^ji^f«n^^K(t):mvnramrlteibKl;
_ ^Vfcn ihere'is an opctung for.a Sbipping(Reccivtng
wriueu;‘■'n^s^Uw'
-Sc'A inten’icwxxi; prior7 to r
Jifriiig;'	-"^
,In thc'eiient iiii' employee :am’ nd/lmgcr.perfiMm bis $ob: wy.when	k<?P
•S
/d^u&jotr pcjfqrmanee.2
rr^m^'cc^br^^diw^i&mi^^iidividi^;
'■ cini'sii fitxl' EntryJ-licvcl
^provided; employee ,_luid ;bccn assignedto;pncKenl ?.
3Xircm|>lGjacc lusbecn oopreaentshinf^aper^-.
• of Icssthan poc'(t j yearandhasbeen dlsqwffiicd''
frrrijm'sGo^^
:inuucdinlcJy/prior tabui,
...■-*■'■■
^;rdr;ia?1 tiainiijg^	'
i$ii^'&i^‘'i(>c£^lcy^
'tiidicalc thhir interest tolr^n ftff the jxisitic^Vrhc’tiuist; fwnrar^cinplbjj!?'w;itnm\Uw^<fcpartaiimt signing <s|he^ ’itilerclsl^Sii^ isin ^mili^Jtpfn^vfefGr^o^Gorn^^ f absences/ or leaver of nlH^u«^r6r\training puqx»«^
:io;
•'1	wilfiie likSd fled i»i 'thebid ibbet; by ■wwk
f/io ^iiioutd5he^c'rrdesit^;cming.ii^'blddin£ of pcrmancai Vaawfeics, llw followingrules sbullopply:
'Wficji -■'upermanent ; vaamejg bi-cretatedybiy^ri "wic^iifdr^l^rip^or,'. down, :bjdi :.^ihSuiting Au^ncy wlihfbc^nilcd^lw	i)
're^hecmnii'tiid^TtM}"nstd ling' vacancy^ wiil J be, i
•subject ^to;bid,only^bj^cinplojrcs.fQr ^whKrh; the i
^2?As^cfsrurMd<kr/SlMirnMsbC'Catill^rtobid
■anabcTjQb> fw4dkj(0^ clW^i^^rbe<iws;u^df^bfl^y?»Qf^d^yQb, with. higher, rate (of- pay. ./A^cmnloYcci shiill- bc < uecmcd ■usucccskTuIbidder., wten'i employee, has been tKKijncdikijhc job.	'" ’ “
jib w‘q 7 until i! suchi< employee y bbs^acctttnuUt^d h>i ■ >lcaast^^
\r«t^A:;Yacancy^cfeatcaj^ tbo^dminaiion'riif.i'an ’ ?<^j^Qyw^wwJtiiw, (3) moi^y ofj)w
'f‘S:- When'iih' cmplbywi1 has"teerfdisqualified fruin' nx job chss^^u^e^ai-uait^e pwmiiiftiiELbjii (luiljiitF	inbaSi^rrani
’date dt wjuallfidl/
II
IKIIsBSS
’J .Wy	-.-p;
.Inzcasc^bT-'tuiy-lcOTporary^yacancyA
’ ataenct ;0r QL^Y^'^o^the ■'CMi^y/wlUl
yfor tl^cc^'[Mying orifarn&&?Krfd: dnssifications'^fn; ease or’ lcTnoorary - vacnncics in P the PrpccsMWg-tp^rtmi^^tKe^Ctorijjm^^may^awj^
vndm^X^aperiodno* to auoced;
&rtfcta:?i^idcd;ipwCTW^^^
W^W.-iiZ.' -V.^aS-ZS»’:i;-^’vrT!t’V'5;-/£.'.-<^-frSfjOfW*-v .L.b>y«ickncwk.vacaiii>n,:Qr leave: or utecocojdiaH:»nt be / fwss&,
*’• Z. r*	/ '	*f. ■'1>>*Z	•*'	*•
Senioranpioyecs ou thc upsrnde^sbectinuuraccept;
5h^^\qrt^f<di^iag'wcel£ w
^Swtlon^^Producilon^■^pwtmari?
In. >'1Hd uevcniitU' £ ti^OTi^^SsaryrUb' tiaiisfer'-: .ernpwyrajoui^wdlKU^vjnt^arrn^diKfJojnfrcdiKxd^
{^ort^tu^ranHrei^'the iea^ce&pr^enqdo^ee byvi
:14i
ar li h^bi^^ki^wn'dun ng* uu'xwtdny/would'bc: ckcnipi from ths procedure/
., <Tbc Clawi(iCTUan7orp(iJiiyProccswir>haIlbe'ltl!cd w«t^;l^t<mcnniwa^
Article..
>n.Y*iv--i
£>4*. Jjr.;ri >	*r*z-	?'S J' T*'**;*!^
Tbcirtstai&bcf no sinuaritVrigtarwiilxin thciUGKty
“.■rA-r?.
-jl^jrfoya^inihcXUUiiyProcessor cl;i$siScatjon wiU
be	iiribc Pruccssin^;IX’parimcut
afnbsciicc/or oibrr emergency:
ilSt !?p^iwIar,(ii^zi^tM:r than Mahagement. toning to ..........................................-........
JlS	A* »*j“W‘
Sectioa 1 r/Maintenance,.
^■Sup^r^'SMU^R^fi^on^
‘ki'Employees^ w&>. dcnHinsirato^iKhicyCTnenl; > of'
rwperiOT?il&&\^£^
’M»V*:-'*'v "sAj/•?*'»li.T!T? * r'r/i’i■'t J. »
bclow8h.(6) 7StiiX:rior SkilfCntcgSrks^wiUb'c
15?
sr^gmtiira^i»74n^ad^^^tQ^tKe?anpIpj;ee>^
\employw;! regaiUld» of;l»« sbll level,, can •'earn> bcL re^gmtwa by:
r Ability; nguiBsLo^K^£^ti§l£sknf-St.''ihtii^ ;ramiDg.un_crnl«aiJt«i,tlicrrccognitfan. continuer'' jcnl^OTlectawi^Jii'&pJ^
<cn^»JojJ6el’;did not tpaA*£thercvaiuauan.'^the;
.«ri^ucsiingJniKHhcr. evalimioorreganikMof;skin
^qualifyanoDaliy.1
ricwgiiiuon mtbcsamcnrdiilcrcut culcgonesjuja;. } in multiple cntcgarics.r; Honcvcrf;thc: pay£Add~.i
onwiubclirrntcd tnrrcugniUotf’ fori only one;
'^Kta^cnli-PUX;Xfcchrini^;;Rc<ng^iQb?i^lcr^ ;«nd Miilwrighi,. ^Tt^joaS^am^'^iatided ifcr^ >; reference; purposes cinly ana ltosr purpose fa anly, s : 'fo£i^in1t,lrtr^iung snpSrib^skill sj^^’rirey > ^«ill be up pnidi^ jointly by cach’loGdiOn to cos two.,
•16}
^T^e^kij’ce. nwstsulnmtn
'craliMW;ti''^
jnccclvixi’pay,for'tW^bigtarjlcm
coinpldcd.thejthhc ;ln: gnutef requirement: orlhc. i
Tl»-tciiap!oyce'.wiir/bt ।
j The«nployee:«'ni demonstrate his skills against’a pro^siablisbcd scl j ior^iki'UrHcirjicria aocl-'
•r>fts.'./<i,3^A'-; ;:$*•,■u*,m ■ afeve.'' ' “>'
^4l?Ajn^'<^rau£rf6tt£^RilTi«im^HMEir4^^iuai^Sn^UI ;tej: processed;. mjiKicrKuance.wiih: wj^wyon&n ■
'arWttaiipfl	•
;who uro sWW ip MUUcwuicc.
SectionlXy.LIseaDil Assignment afRmplavees ;tjob Rotation?;)
17:

***■ 4*\f* UtV'	713^/7^’
> Further; lhwc^m.ppc»tar^
f^j^^^afw^mol^cl^fl^^p’wcjWd^^ycnj ..................... ’’^..... ’
5«SeFrwzcrOpcraitcir^
** < i
Aa’ relSaCto PlaiePre^r'Orkirtaooifthc'Cinn'puny.’ p Mated, they^uould ;bid: lhc,ckKiifitalioo(Plaic' Freezer; yOpoaip^Tw'iti^thc utxJc’f^Unding(i>clcttstscniqr(na!b ;■ ?FR^f/opOTtto^^Ul :^5on^ t ^f^^pOTon i
*AR'riCLE?6-:DlSCHARGEANDDISCIPLLKARV?
^CTIO!?;
... Ttic Company agreed dial o.Uruoa Steward would bej/ ^^oj^.^iw^ngjci^fronu^^^blenWi^rtif’ ^di^cipyac.'
'ARtlH£16'>:W6^
"A**-/. M"i;v	'VK-I.wv>‘«xnv v,L ;'>rS	.^^ZT
Sectionl lOWorkWeek
Nqri^AVnrkwccIc
;strai^^
Daily Reportreport^'	W)
fc^cn^jj^^^bgW^^o^^^and^four 3 (J^houM;for	St fthfand	•
rwortwo^-	13
QW)^5n^n^l^S^^ecJc1v?fn '.He w’&p^nMied atiljp litne* tba^ncnwilistraigtiiht^inwJ.hgwi^'raifci^An JIxiuri w^r&’ia'&baw'aftcii'GO) Itb^tHurl^'iHiin'tiiTefvc (12) bouii..in M^workday,^sHidr^mn^umtedl^-rt 1 lw’times thc'CT^ojTtie’sstrin^jil. tiirehourlynite.’1An employee w!io /warks;- more?/t huin-lwehe/'f 12)
■; .1 >• x' %.■**• MrM •*» ii '£vi ■ / r *Si-J*'H' !*,**> ’ *M f^CrV3 4 <'Si * ' c- 1 * *' *y conxccutne hounw»w*tn‘iLiiy.'workdiiy shfUl-be
oompCDSidcxl al luo (2) lirne3 hw slraightootirly^ratc.
:ayailaNcj0.hl^wwitpc^^^
jic licciuiccl, day"oft-’aciti	; (2nd 'wbcdulcd ?<&
-ofQ/. will^^7 ni	t IC- ,diYK»> oormalsiniighi
^wiirfyniteT ~'r' ”’. ‘ ’*
iXiij^wcSs^^pc^onwd’^^^r’.il^day ?((3rtf
jilwdi/^y^T^meflt'wilTtS'MiUconutxwmal lea
ihciricbcdukd < nwku'cct ’v if/holiitay ■ sboidd»faff’• & qtiKT.tlira^ioiT^^wQid^’cc^lp^in&^vwiiFpclmapc^D eight ^R) h’diir basif^^cbcdulc 'pennittiug; tolfdsy & that occur cm a Prufayor Saiurday xvill bc’orlcbratcd'Dnilhc , p^^n^Tbtnuhy;;:
'J^Punedd Pay Paymcnrwill bc nxute on'a riorittal lcu (Iby
3 ^jchixkKlXliv^
* -a.'Z: XL’-Xi: rs>■,	•vait--*-?;/ i
•***; 15<wl <”<• •?W,<*.?,•'V.ev
NVcfangC; uv.towfdffilyoy
mrcasj;1	iCTtediin $
ftaaM^togfeOfe dmftcd. in/lhr- n:vcrsc^ordCT^Df»-tfer?^io«ify t by:* ^cLusiCcatiTO-.wiihj'^^l^nxutiiKintTif^^Pnxlnicticni
■;employees from. thc;l>partm^ iwttbbu ^idccdJW
The’ Cojnrumy uud Uiikri agiccd thal ibe Warehouse > '*4	,'*V	* at	-i" ~	S‘«?.’.--.
(OvertimeFAsrexrtnctd^«ueatcd\m{Fclmsin-, I986,haiy rwurird tu tincfiiacnl manacj and ,w dl bc Htcnrpa rated ; jinto tj>c-Mu®Kall S u	- tests!’: ’
; p.mtd‘n tJccded Ov crtime wurkutualion expected ; tn> ^incSc’.ti^tJ^rt^j
oocxJnunodBtc liut Ovcrtitnc^VCTkiituiiiioric
^'.'1 •, -. -rtr•* •>V-’ * t' -'.■Vx*-j‘S-^ w?t T* I'-’M jT--‘ Vr* A- * v**! ,•>%«’. th-* w *< r U»
ITl^lhun ihirtyfWj	ncal^?$
..	also apply to^a $ca>fld
v;.> J*: ;> ♦ •»	■
« -L'-
Sectkxi 4r;DndyRq»rt’In.< M bSS
with	tw^lo^^if^ 1^> ^liilcd it o' tfib''lojioiv^g
minimum; number, 4C^oiHS\^%xn£<(or>|Qy..!fe;^
»cvco ’" (7)1 homa’ 'Snnitiit»n'Dcmartmcm.;(ifnljvtdihils(H£rBd ;am or--..............................................
/. y~Agr‘ 7-;*f	-;■	-*	“•	.J,; -jt^
.b£^ixih^(6tlb)_a[nd^ seveaih *0$) -;ddy£af\ ihar.^
. tBiLftite' Dock Area,'
Nthat	«ninr ;cmployTr ;
jyithtn tbc arfca	-siniting
Gme wilhinAbc:6hift khoJd a;Vncan£jr <KX:tir. prior to,
21,
«. k * „•• »,V» ‘ •> * /< ‘Hi -IA ii W J Xr J X	W
? < -sc ”	*VVV*
Section 2<: First AldY
-Indus: riid'lk^thSupcnisors: ’<‘	•*
t
■■Sectioilji. Wearing Appartd^
In .rccogni iSmof■’tKunecii tfor «r^?uxit^dn^jln,
avhile.wxMung ■in;th(iS.frtczcr..'areAi,/Jlte Conipouy.;. ^icut^a^^JiQ^cjfaltoiprOv^iMi^todjcmdnilb? tandJor?insuIiitod -bib■amf coarof& -choosing.-tViiiiicc. /affected
;tnsuialcd b<b'tuid CT.ia! are; returned at ’thc.samc tinjc or-; .upon tcnmradiOO!of-cntt}l6ynM:nt/ir:ac:'re(un*xl.;the;
ebeck?" ' ‘ **"’’l* '*"■"‘
Tbc^C^^iny/a'grtcdj to'purchic?
cmjHoyccSrequired tp w^ryuckitans’at -ioiffi bv^2 7
■’reiurned tAl3 iHcTsahfcti^^w.^nmra ‘ tcraimdito^dC
? will' be deducted from£*" "
Hwup^j^y^
k *s *x-; jwc	.-x.-.-*,■<‘---*vi^7”'.V^Zs-r^o^n-A--.
>22;
■snrciv^J*ram«j.tindK’|jens«ti:aiicc-i'av>ycar>rpr?itl)£is^* nmntenanccjanplrnccv required to<»car; prcscnptKm
rV- s<^T=ii!>)N .'ictr' * .r-.i
v’
SttllOD’5:'{Siifeiy Coaimluee?
•**-.'w	■:» v !»/£, . sf; r'-'Ari
>: wiD ijwj; Im^ooG^a,,; ni^^An^t^fihc'McSug'dwcwjjl be sent'out try’ the’Indnstna);1 Icallh Sunrrvi3or..',{Onc (lJ stcwunl,pcr'! Uwan nu cachshift.win tie invited toSufcty^Camnullrc : Meetings onndj;wcli stewards iviUjjrrvc’.onjiiich ttmwtodtttj forup dirMV. (^),nwi)ihs;;VviLh ^rotatign^f''' MCwiiriB-tq'fdliS^	^M^iu^tu'in ;be,
* W ' rj;» J VI ■ < >F- *<>*'< x*'	"*** f* t> - ■ Ij > h 4 A*r	9v *J 'J* - •
»cul.tOJhc'<Unioi) ■ BusincsSrAgcntsiastatusi updateof.v
9*»J*V	♦■•fit’ t«j rv^-t^Szwi (ixv’ -1*	«.>.*? r ^>0
Kdety itcim wi[J be iitcludcd in tbe Xiinntc8; i,Copies of Uw; Safety.Minutes;will*be rnadruvnibblc tlirdugh thc
J^^tocirJi5>;Jrcpair>
Mifctv-reiaLcd ilcrrn in uw Flant uw'&'&rc»qui^y mpossibftL'	xt
£«ATESOF;PAY? -' rir~t>z-“^-v'^XFT
7*1^5
lAddMi.vcr )>$nd>7^	^11-9^ :$.12^7
:Craii;SpiwL.	$11'97,	$1237
b&S&£‘-	*1X22 '$>2#
‘IBB; W? W W?
Shipping[	..	<$11x52?. $11.92	$1232
*	*	*~
rrD^Forkii^V>' £$1£523 $11’2X2	$1232
■?O'rrarSnr.nty'A
23*:
rtv'f^fTtfirt urtl	iiif^		
^ft£hmctah;^		•T&5&	> <if Ur '*. -^i
iHractSr Sw^c^ct: >■ 1 Zfl'jW ’LL'"lVz ’4' ■*■ **■4 '**	iii^ian	Mm flC:jrP/.d,Z	t$iSl «"3 ifcST'X**;'
:CcxiL7 f<3t^£Wcr	® si®38’	'$«£« '$Ti:j§	i$1248£ tsWiW
^pttWuf*.-j^m^Processor	$h&8;	•iiivre	?$lXi8i:
	Sii^^	.’siig®	
	$H32:		A 'x4*TG<<i
	sife	sin’n	$1212$
^Spei&&i5*I’4f''	'••.vriir/	Mti. --	CJE
LincPfvccswr	$jf32 iiWTs'l	Lsn;72	j$!2;l;2* l^'i	1
;Xuundry Machine;	Sii43;	$!Lt!	;$IXU5
^pcra^fir^*	t A«;^ fM7z	,$x^	
?DtnxnoK Ptcossgi	? MUX?	$fi;&	''sifinl
	’’ iYi^2;	"$ii;^2	. .Vr’X**'! :$ 12,02^
; MAINTENANCE ♦\r«^OvsiCk'>? * •dV**)* ?rt •-	DEPARTM **-♦' - #*1 rvt- xt-’rt	e§t'^	
Classification	y7-2faKU	7-1£O4 '<	S-	7-iaios 	<3
' S linter A -Mtihatiic " > ; *■;	A r ^ft^ttxMcewift 11	SM.Zd1 si®;	Sf4&4 $i4$4	<$M7£A
.Grade’: fMcchartic' .Er^binxl	$1342 «^s •*..■)*.W’4'<	$13^93 $1332	314 W so*
kS'locbHhic;'
»,*/■<.’t;’•>:-*> w-r-'.i
NE W;Hl»H'\WAGfi-fcll^ANbJWiCkfR^ldjM (Exoodes' Genera! Kuta teoaaccMedumcs) >
^®wR&i^wrE$;
;t^cfr.CTiic«:prog^fon^a{^
Wi^^anMiunLlij	levels
..- "-'■
ris'dw^^p^c^tniTd.au^^'^CT^-l^^l^thc,
'C^ptawti its'4^^sc^ii^^i?e^SLcfe^
WK-J: ^ntrt-w^'J •? wrf
oondntoos m accordancewith the following:.’ >
* Xj	..* *'5 v X?1	« *;A*VS **'■' ■vr	1 ■Jf ।' ‘ - *4>* •*&<*£■'' ^'*1 -
loh'm/lcastOP' ■
calendar ’fdHyivbHr^^if^ciiEi^cdfcratcjj becomes dTectivc,-; *	''''
> Thal culc *liillirtjbi>ly id riffeniptoyccs hired after vr^T* ■< ’^' rv • *■- •	*■*•• tt "r ■*“*' - p ■4 *^* '♦V’’ ■ ' ’ ** $ * s
0 new<niteLse<.tabliihcd(no indiyklualralcs).
jwn^£jfar^uiis k^i6O;(L£‘P^^
i; Icmji'^tifniiyt^j	equal -
JOWBT - —
*'’<W- s Ci ■-•{*	y£Vt~; ■t{^'
^Foivnll‘cm^ojwi fC£amte&3 ofWdMe::
-	hir^tjascrait
25:?
24;
Jovcr* the-c$tab!iBhdl?nitc,;th£;5Jimc<jincnise!. uunouidfup w.bul nnt.to.cxceou Bte)>w,M#irau
■(to^s^a^^^^^gu|^tocrval^ptantfe.
r^jr-tlw ccmpany^suNishw'^
■JihiU^i i>jen ''thnn^ttKB
^sifccic^&sii^l *
"UDgt^lGThiy-v^U’continuc'to-nxrtvctKrir.. next'..
• Rw cihplbyTCshiredBftcr?M84H/0.c^cridir' day schedule.n ill bc uied tts folkws; 6 months is
. * 'vJY p ’■ * 4 *' -’'+^	- V- • s ’’kV i f*' «***'T>1" ’-ffr- '*r
rejHhcMXM
'replaced Uitti'3^^endai?diiy» ^ud:1^rnaudbs ii replaced.with
payr pcriWT^mpKMlistciy^foltowiof tJ m^abrnre. >
^lrcctn'5>dirtjc(iy J '
lxwtpjyc:IIirednl$7.65;^$0.20ntl80ilay’»zi>$7.&S;
+j$O^20’nt d^-s	(Hffcrcncc; to Rate ui'Sdbjj
^feX4’
B-NEVVUIREPROGRESSiON:^
follows:"
Ncwhlrc bote met?’"'’ ' l	BFcctlyc.^ BwmhiS;" jrogrtstfnru incrtasfjnlV’® amouhtof:'	Effcc^c'iifl mutithi?ftan ■nrdifitianiiJj !n^^u(the aiiiduttt^:, |	EflTcctlvetl^^ mbnlhs*(r<.xn rto^pTHrp;
Cunvnt rate/T imli^ihc? ’ PtinlX^ ■■ tvu»rn»as/ perSccti6iiA\ ahidw# ■ |	f )	w w 	£	/4d2Mir.	1SKS
■261
27.;
.WiANFABRIC ATIONSHOP5
SUPPLEMENTAL
/.MASTER AGREEMENT5-:
■fly arid SeTwewfir i
' *?4sc ’>r * O •>■>.’*£• i
6.jw:<XJ4sC At*'?X'l<r7<A"< Jtrjf tj,s^* l , u
CONAGRA; r<CDS'(X)MPzVNY;INCL4)BA;
iCQMaRAjmWTOPsaRQVE:
iUNlf^F^QANP GOKlXIBtia^t..
\ttod
~mM$rERS<CHAVFm&S;
<f^hWL^is.w;
i included witHn^lbe .ConAgra' FrazCjj^F^5- ?j&iftHm’J* ■Master Agrvemau^RtpreMinnuivaorthe Interantidual ,f zrtww?	.sw-:	«a»“ wav-**
■ Brvthcrfuxri <tf,Tcums WW/Chauffeurs;,^^^^ r.ondlkd|^n?orAmcncKoxMlnKmto^
^sew^iimdi iwyej^lnU^a^BfdUs ilwfplkwtugjh^ f
•fnjfToctJn^gStipp^
!•.-:■'X —
^Objective;!
:tbc.\abihty lo^fabmiaso^shxxij/nictal-.to support-.
■■niaoiUpicturing; facility; occdi as: deemed economically;, (fcwtlft
LEAVES OFkSsENC^
&&&&'£’ Funcra*[jEavc^
An:cmpipyec may.nsquMi^n.advan^>,.on&(1)joons; fpaid iGy tc> mtiadf Hfeiutfend,	uncle;oh
'Mcp’grandparcnW. uixl three (3) noarpsrid days to attends rtlfii^fntKi^whts^^cpfwter^cpT^iiha;-!an^ *de,;.
$21r
p*	>" * *■- •* ‘T-. > sr t>* •''■j-j
Section!; General
'C^pra* rw^enFoodj
^^^W'McrwicwanJ^ta their;fh^nhcility^f^Of, pCT^^rf^j^flwl^iwwkMJ ij^r^pu^wi^'t^^^y’itin^l^v^'lfe^nrcraed scriiofity ■ tiianytimcdurin। JiKcfurly-fi ve (45) ’t vvoiicd dayj^ pcrodLlf Subsequently;1 aimby^irfoyraTAy^i^bc t pnviteged to’fm^te^pplic^iiin fcr/M0dittttmce <k ^^rtmchtJ^^nS^^ck a^h^r^^rmcr^plxwi ^iiit^Iii’iitic'wititCpronsfons'ufAjrticia^'Scc^ou i'oP> thc-XlaMci“'Agrccnicnt ta;lhe;cvcijtsiKb;cmpioyceijti hired. Utc'mpiojw^ll ■fcirfcit itii^bcr^ciiiomy?«;U)fc WanjFffcricmtOTi^
carry’lijck^inlo tlicirjpiwcrfitpijily'iHc raiEjoffpy'phd Bcnkm^^bciij^'Ciix^timQt&y^ft^be^fonncnplini;
hcciwi/tmorihf t mIthcirffpnnprfrjpiiiiy»aad Jrnun; bc>' treated trt;o-new ’Mna if 41wy^'iih39'rcturn^to'ihm1 wcutty;and an opening cstybe; cAccpt ny pravidcd nixfcr.. thconi* limccxocption'sct. feiihi owneJr
,.,• Jin the cyenbof a*layoff:within lhc'FdtfriHrtiiin• Shop> hiit s
'•■''■:■ ......
3
Those[re(fa'ttSl;wiU> iuirv£
>^fe:^:lti^C^t^fd^5-tf^/fllJ<iw'h-;opcfliu^,'.i1
,.,' £ bofcecmpiojccs-lakkiff^hai^t«ircadlS?t0‘j^e(
iStop ut tbrttime if (bey wish to do sclv
t,	vJ
TB<?4.Unit>o ^tt»/Wih^ti»e^nttc^ii- tt^Joti;
Continual son.'
^acUgq;1^ Job’ Bidding,
are'-fcfl^tcd V
'	"X^---"' ‘
Z (1S^Jbdowfor cuFi^l^i^^'a^ cUkSMtificariQas/^ii'
1-Scni^^U^bricntpr; innd,; ’ ^bnedhir? rjotj$
i4’l
*£ f’UpauY;tlusr?X'^!i:n«ni^rail
Mj>ig^jtb^‘U^'Mw>j^''cI^iflcaGSa‘fpLSie!SiM*z jSyplt Jjcrcaflcjfv fcVaffc^cdjlic.w&rtanity/wz
•' throcghthcLpmlifiadion'and tc^ling-procedure?’'J i“i *:	*<<7.
^S^'rcvicw^ttil triting pnxxtfnrc’will tie,iitllixci!1 to' upgnjdcjrniplbycci': to^tbc^Majilrp: I-abncnior, Senior rFahricnior,-nnd * Fahricmar. classical tiou’r 4-tJ rf*'< TV	•rt' - V4-y-**	ssy
;Thc review tad icsiiig tfiU lwyaoiic^
basodupon their proven skill^nnd^qiralificatjons.;
* *A' ^fiK^-ly<'wrt^ed»f^iiio^7S1^tiSat-^tiri^brZ w^te^fln^izcijJ within jh^ty/C^Oj^iwfc&Lg^j-s
‘7.An;Fahric3t<wTraince»willtencaproteili(Mtary 'pcncri .o^m, months front> lucb^classininiion;irvlinej uilh ther prov iMot) sor; jintciej
i'8k?AU-Miislcr’Fnhncnfno'widlicfm'ic^i^ainittally jtocnsOTC.rompilnncciwitb) Ibt: quaiifiratrarisfor' (hc^hustcT^FiHmdntar^ fcrcL (tAnyope/m Isuch d^siriaiioniwho,;Witm*tiSr<y (30) iijysofsucH 'fi^Uw;'f^ Io^nidaS^i^''i^quIred skills and 'abilities; (o;;retain?xuch i ’claisiDdnkm*^ wilK 6c
■5
rateofpaW
Mll^xVFABRICATiONSHOP
,v^4iGg‘
; NIasicrFabricstar; $i|§5 ‘^555 ;$I&51 $1439 SWS ''$15(107 ”'	$6*05	(Sijife	$13.85'1
:FaliJiti?nrTnrincc. ^TlW: ^1150 ^$12?60>
Wh^ferfprmhg
M^g^ledM^^^&^on^ite'k^iraT
;Th^provtsiaflS^apjd:a^ttppfy(tp ^"■
_ .'-i bt -IS'' ~ Si fr K;' “