Cornell University
ILR School
BLS Contract Collection - Metadata Header
This contract is provided by the Martin P. Catherwood Library, ILR School, Cornell University. The information provided is for noncommercial educational use only.
Some variations from the original paper document may have occurred during the digitization process, and some appendices or tables may be absent. Subsequent changes, revisions, and corrections may apply to this document.
For more information about the BLS Contract Collection, see
http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edu/blscontracts/
Or contact us:
Catherwood Library, Ives Hall, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 14853 607-254-5370 ilrref@cornell.edu
Contract Database Metadata Elements (for a glossary of the elements see -http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edU/blscontracts/2/)
Title: Kimberly-Clark Corporation and Paper, Allied-Industrial, Chemical and Energy Workers International Union (PACE) AFL-CIO-CLC Local 7-482 (2000)
K#: 1217
Employer Name: Kimberly-Clark Corporation
Location: WI Neenah
Union: Paper, Allied-Industrial, Chemical and Energy Workers International Union (PACE) AFL-CIO-CLC
Local: 7-482
SIC: 2621	NAICS: 322121
Sector: P	Number of Workers: 1200
Effective Date: 06/01/00	Expiration Date: 05/31/05
Number of Pages: 55	Other Years Available: Y
For additional research information and assistance, please visit the Research page of the Catherwood website - http://www.ilr.cornell.edu/library/research/
For additional information on the ILR School, http://www.ilr.cornell.edu/
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Section
Section One	Statement of Operating Philosophy........
Section Two	Principles of Team Organization.........4
Section Three	Seniority and Service............... ...E
Section Four	Transfer Procedure....................  ?
Section Five	Mill Layoff and Recall................. S
Section Six	Issue Resolution...................... 1J
Section Seven	Arbitration............................ K
Section Eight	Hours of Work........................  IX
Section Nine	Pay and Benefits........................r
Section Ten	Vacation...............................2f
Section Ele	ven	Holidays....................  31
Section Twe	lve Leave oi Absence.................... 3*
Section Thi	rteen Learning and Skill Development...3*
Section Fourteen Subletting Maintenance, Construction, and Installation Work...................................  3f
Section Fif	teen Union Recognition and Administration... 3f
Section Sixteen	Duration of Agreement................  3"
Section Seventeen Rates of Pay.............................3£
Addendum 12-Hour Work Schedule...........................  42
COOPERATIVE AGREEMENT
BY ANO BETWEEN KIMBERLY-CLARK CORPORATION, NEENAH, WISCONSIN, HEREINAFTER REFERREDTO AS THE CORPORATION, AND PAPER, ALLI ED-INDUSTRIAL. CHEMICAL AND ENERGY WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, AFL-CIO, CLC, AND LOCAL 7-482, HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AS THE UNION.
THIS AGREEMENT CONTINUES TO GUIDE OUR WORK SYSTEM AND GOVERN THE RELATIONSHIPS AND DEALINGS BETWEEN THE PARTIES UNLESS BOTH AGREE TO CHANGE IT.
SECTION ONE; QUR OPERATING PHILOSOPHY
All employees, the union and fhe company, at Kimberly-Clark’s Lakeview facilities, have shared a proud history, made possible by our hard work, determination, and commitment to the success of our products In the marketplace. It is a heritage not only to be proud of, but to carry forward and build on. However, our Industry and its competitive environment are changing, and this demands that we alter the traditional relationships between people and their work. This Philosophy Statement will guide us to create new and more productive relationships as we face the challenges of today and tomorrow. It will help us build on our strengths, and focus on setting the directions and taking the required actions that will result in the continuous improvement necessary to ensure our future as envisioned by the founding fathers at this, the birthplace of Kimberly-Clark Corporation. It will make Lakeview facilities effective and rewarding places to work.
BUSINESS OBJECTIVE
Our business objective is to manufacture and distribute products which satisfy the needs and expectations of our customers as they perceive them and to do this better than any other company or Kimberly-Clark location. Our customers include those who buy and use our products, the corporation's stockholders and employees, the business sectors we serve, and society. Ultimately, customer satisfaction determines oursuccess. Only satisfied customers provide Job security.
1
VALUES
Our business objective can only be obtained by mutually establishing a work place based on the following values:
Safety
Both parties to this agreement support the concept that safety Is a joint responsibility and each individual is ultimately responsible for his/her own safety. Local 7-482 and Lakeview facilities are pledged to cooperate fully to support the letter and spirit o! the following: "We are equally committed to safety in the workplace. Working safely should be our number one priority at ail times at Kimberly-Clark. In fact nothing is more important than safety. There is no production goal, there is no cost or timesaving measure and there is no competitive advantage that is ever worth an injury at any kind. In other words, our goal Is an accident-tree workplace. This goal is difficult but can be accomplished by providing continuing employee education on safe operating practices and by ensuring that our work environment meets or exceeds ail governmental requirements for health and safety” (taken from Kimberly-Clark’s Code of Conduct dated May 1994).
Eaocls
People in our operations are trustworthy, deserving of respect, and committed to the success of the business. They take pride in work well dona and want to perform to the best of their abilities. People are most effective when they have influence on all issues affecting them. We recognize the need for our people to have a rewarding lifestyle at work, at home, and In the community al large.
The most productive relationships are based on mutual respect, openness, and cooperation in which differences in status are minimized, people are recognized for their Ideas and their achievements, there are no limits placed on the contributions they make, and teams of individuals work together effectively with minimal direction.
WorkDpsign
The most effective work designs are those which create and encourage teamwork by making certain that Individuals and
2
teams have the necessary information, competency, self-sufficiency, freedom, and responsibility to make decisions and take action to achieve common goals. People perform at their fullest potential when they are a pan of creating their vision and direction, when they know their role, and when their work is challenging, meaningful, flexible, and when their tasks are focused on specific business objectives.	,
£gnll&
In order to reach Hie best possible decisions, where all points tri view are considered, an atmosphere in which questioning and openly discussing differences is encouraged and valued. Opposing views, handled in a problem-solving manner, result in better, more balanced solutions by ensuring that a full spectrum of ideas has been considered and developed.
Teams/indivictuals are expected to resolve conflict. Informal one-on-one discussions are recommended as the first step. If unsuccessful, one of the following procedures will be used: Go-worker issue Resolution issue Resolution-Section Six, or Local 7-492 Trial and Appeals Process.
Learning and Skill Development
Learning and skill development are critical because we understand that change is continual. People have both the right and the accountability to learn and practice the skills needed to perform tasks safely and proficiently. The needed learning opportunities to promote long-term development and continued growth for our people and the company will be provided.
Qomtnuriications
Successful communication is the cornerstone of a strong organization. The most productive communication is continuous, timely, open direct, and occurs where actions are consistent with communications. People need accurate and prompt feedback on both operating and personal levels to be effective members of the organization. People make good decisions when provided with the necessary training and information to know and understand their jobs. To promote commitment, ownership, and understanding of the business, vital information will be shared. Everyone’s contribution counts.
3
Continuous Imp rove me nt
The application of this operating philosophy is a process which will evolve as changes occur and as learning and experience are gained. This requires a dimate in which problems are identified and resolved early, and setbacks are viewed as valuable learning experiences. This process should promote creative initiative, innovation, and the generation of new Ideas essential for businesssuccess.
The union and the company are committed to an ongoing dialogue to ensure continuous improvement in everything we do.
SECTION TWO	: PRINCIPLESOF TEAM ORGANIZATION
A.	Lakeview facilities are organized into business units to encourage a focus on teamwork, innovation, and process improvement around a complete process, product, or business,
B.	Business unit structure will not limit or restrict Individual or group contributions to the unit ■
C.	Business units are designed around teamfs) which possess the following characteristics;
1,	Team has complete task: Input transformation or production output so that a product or service is produced.
2.	The work is designed so that team members cooperate in order to complete tasks, make a unique contribution to results, and work in proximity such that team identity is maintained and observable.
3.	Team members will have the necessary knowledge and skills to complete a whole task.
4.	Teams will be self-sufficient, with as few support tasks as possible outside of operating teams.
4
5.	Team members and hourly leaders will have responsibility and authority to determine who does what by when for daily activities, and will participate in decision making and goal setting for the teams and business unit. Team members are expected to taka direction from designated leadership.
6.	Everyone on a team must possess some minimum number of skills and demonstrate the flexibility to utilize those skills on a regular basis, focusing on the proc ess/business unit rather than a job or task.
7.	The training process is continuous and includes a team-building curriculum.
8.	The compensation system is designed to encourage and reward the development and utilization of multiple skills.
9.	Teams will give and receive accurate and timely information a be Ut results, operating standards, and new developments.
D.	In order to effectively manage our business we need productive daily team meetings. The format and content will vary to meet the specific needs of individual business units and teams.
E.	Operating schedules will be designed to meet business needs and employee preferences to the extent possible.
F.	Teams are exp e cted to d evel op new, innovative approaches
to problem solving and decision making.
SECTION THR	EE: S^flORffY AND SERVICE
A.	Senia city
1.	Definition: Seniority refers to the rank order of bargaining unit employees relative to other bargaining unit employees. Rank order is determined by the time spent with the Lakeview facilities, Business Unit, and Team. Mill seniority is retroactive to the employee’s start date on the hourly payroll.
5
The following definition of team seniority will be applied across the facility:
Team seniority will refer to the rank order of an entire business unit team (ail shifts) in a particular function; i.e., the Lakeview Plant includes a business unit that has an operations team, stores team, and quality team.
Shift crews will be rank ordered according to team seniority. Employees who change shift crews within a team will carry their team seniority with them.
Employees who join the team from another team within the business unit or from another business unit will be assigned to the last position on the team seniority list. (Exception: All maintenance tradespersons within Lakeview facilities are considered one team. Maintenance employees transferring from one business unit to another carry their maintenance team seniority with them.)
2.	Principles: The corporation has the responsibility to determine who and how many persons it will employ. New hires will have a ninety (90) calendar day probationary period. Probationary, temporary, and summer employees do not accrue seniority during their probationary, temporary, and summer employment. Mill seniority prevails if business unit and team seniority are equal.
3.	An employee absent due to illness or off-duty accident who returns to work within one (1) year stiali be returned without loss of seniority. In unusual cases, by specific agreements of the parties, an employee's seniority can be protected beyond the one (t) year without loss of seniority. An employee absent due to an on-duty accident shall be returned to work without loss of seniority, regardless d the length of the absence. This time off shall be included in computing service time and seniority as if It were time worked.
6
Employees temporarily transferred outside at the bargaining unit shall have their seniority protected for a period established by agreement between the union president and management.
B.	Service
Service Is defined as the actual time spent employed by Kimberly-Clark Corporation. Service is considered broken by discharge or resignation. For purposes of computing vacation privileges and other benefits tor which continuous employment Is a factor, service is not broken by absences due to off with permission, authorized leave, certified leave of absence, illness, military service, or layoff. However, the actual time spent on certified leave of absence (as defined in Section 12) or a layoff in excess of thirty (30) days will be excluded in computing length of service.
The period of absence during any layoff shall be excluded in computing pension service in accordance with the Kimberly-Clark Corporation Hourly Employees' Standard Retirement Plan.
SECTION FOU	R: TRANSFER PROCEDURE
When permanent vacancies exist, the following procedure will be used:
A.	The vacancy will first be filled from within the business unit based on business unit seniority and providing the employee can successfully perform the necessary minimum skill blocks.
B.	if the vacancy is not filled from within the business unit, the vacancy will be announced (via posting) to all Lakeview facilities including the Lakeview Feminine Care Plant. In formational meetings will be held to discuss specifics ol the posltlon(s). A minimum of two informational meetings will be held, the second meeting being held at least 48 hours prior to the end of the pasting period. The posting period will be for ten (10) calendar days. Employees who Wish to transfer must call the facility contact by the designated date/time specified on the posting, and place their name on the
7
posting fist. When an employee places their name on the posting list, they have accepted the vacancy if they are one of the senior qualified employees. Employees will not be able to remove their name from the list. Employees can place their names on as many posting fists as they wish. Notification will be sent to each business unit regarding who responded to the posting and the employees who filled the vacancy. Positions not included within the current transfer procedure will be handled through jointly developed posting procedures (e,g., trades apprentice). Employees must have six months of mill seniority before being eligible for signing on the transfer procedure. Employees will be selected on the basis of their mill seniority, past performance, the ability to perform the necessary minimum skill blocks for that business unit and, in the case of the Lakeview Feminine Care Plant, the ability to meet selection criteria.
C. Involuntarily transferred employees displaced from their business unit due to reductions will be given priority placement on the business unit transfer list from which they were displaced. Involuntarily transferred employees wilt be displaced by business unit seniority. These employees will select from available vacancies by mill seniority. Employees involuntarily displaced from more than one business unit will have one priority placement choice. These displaced employees will accumulate seniority in the new business unit on the effective date of the first transferred employee. When permanent vacancies exist, these employees will be given one opportunity to return; if they decline they will lose their priority position.
□. Employees with long-term, substantiated medical limitations will be given priority consideration for eelection and placement.
E.	Vacancies created by a mill layoff will be filled by this transfer procedure.
F.	Physical transfers should be mads within six weeks unless unusual circumstances arise; then a consensus action plan will be devatoped between union and management representatives. TeanVbusiness unit seniority begins on the effective dale of the first transferred employee.
a
An employee who is unable to perform the duties within the new business unit because of substantiated medical limitations may return to the former business unit with no loss of seniority within a period of thirty days cf the transfer date.
G.	The Intent of the company is to staff new Lakeview opera Hons, where possible, with current bargaining unit employees. The selection process for staffing new or expanded Lakeview operations will be discussed in advance.
Where no permanent vacancies exist, the following procedure will be used:
Excess employees will be loaned out to other business units by business unit seniority. Loaned employees will select from available business units by mill seniority. Loaned employees will maintain their pay rote and will not accrue seniority in the new business unit
SECTION FIV	E: MILL LAYOFF AND RECALL
A.	Mill Layoff and Recall - lakeview
1.	When a reduction in the workforce is required and no . alternative to a layoff is found, employees will leave Lakeview in reverse order of their mill seniority. Employees with maintenance skills needed to maintain the business may be retained outside of mill seniority order. Lakeview employees are not eligible to displace Lakeview Feminine Care Plant employees Alternatives to consider would include voluntary layoff by mutual agreement.
2.	Vacancies created by junior employees being laid off will be filled by utilizing the transfer procedure ap plied to Lakeview employees.
3.	Employees will have recall rights of two years (probationary, summer, and temporary employees do not have recall rights).
9
4,	Lakeview employees In layoff status will have first opportunity to openings in Lakeview before going to Lakeview Feminine Care Plant employees on the transfer list or hiring. Lakeview employees will be recalled In the order of their mill seniority. (Exception: Employees with maintenance skills needed to maintain the business may be recalled outside of mill seniority order.)
5.	Prior to hiring, Lakeview Feminine Care Plant employees in layoff status win have priority consideration to openings in other business units, in accordance with the transfer procedure.
6.	Employees wilt return to work with no rights to their former business unit.
7.	Lakeview employees’ recall rights will be fulfilled when they have been given the opportunity to return to Lakeview, Lakeview employees may turn down Feminine Care Plant openings without losing their recall rights.
8.	The employee will be notified of an opportunity for recall by registered mail sent to the last address furnished to the mill. The empioyee will be given seventy-two (72) hours after receipt of the recall notice to notify the mill of the employee's intent to return to work and two (2) weeks to actually report for work, unless the period is extended by the business unit. Failure to comply with either of the above will result in the loss of ihe employee's recall rights.
B.	Mill Layoff And Recall - Lakeview Feminine Care Plant
1.	When a reduction In the workforce Is required and no alternative to a layoff is found, employees will leave Lakeview Feminine Care Plant In reverse order of their mill seniority. Employees with maintenance skills needed to maintain the business may be retained outside of mill seniority order. Feminine Care employees are not eligible to displace Lakeview employees.
10
t
Alternatives to consider would include voluntary layoff by mutual agreement.
2.	Vacancies created by junior employees being laid ofl will be filled by utilizing the transfer procedure applied to Lakeview Feminine Care Plant employees.
3.	Employees will have recall rights of two (2) years (probationary, summer and temporary employees do not have recall rights.)
4.	Lakeview Feminine Care Plant employees in layoff status will have first opportunity to openings in the Lakeview Feminine Care Plant before going to Lakeview employees on the transfer list or hiring. Lake view Feminine Care Plant employees will be recalled in the order of their mill seniority. (Exception: Employees with maintenance skills needed to maintain the business may be recalled outside of mill seniority order.)
5.	Prior to hiring, Lakeview employees in layoff status will have priority consideration to openings in the Lake view Feminine Care Plant, in accordance with the transfer procedure.
6.	Employees win return to work with no rights to their former business unit
7.	Lakeview Feminine Ca re Pla nt employees' recal I rights
will be fulfilled when they have been given the opportunity to return to the Lake view Feminine Care Plant Lakeview Feminine Care Plant employees may turn down Lakeview openings without losing their recall rights.
a. The employee will be notified of an opportunity for recall by registered mail sent to the last address furnished to the mill. The employee will be given seventy-two (72) hours after receipt of the recall notice to notify the mill of the employee’s intent to return to work and two (2) weeks to actually report for work, unless the period Is extended by the business unit. Failure to comply with either of the above will result In the loss of the employee’s recall rights.
11
SECTION SIX	: ISSUE RESOLUTION
A, The Company and the Union have established the following principles:
1,	Informal handling of grievances and other conflicts within the framework of our agreements.
2.	Expeditious investigation and disposition of such ghav-ances or conflicts.
In the event a conflict occurs, the parties concerned will use the following procedure (Exception: Disciplinary action involving discharge will be referred directly to Step 3):
Step 1: FACT-FINDING REVIEW AND RESOLUTION
The involved parties will meet to discuss the issue, ascertain ail tacts, and make a genuine attempt to resolve it. This may necessitate more than one meeting using whatever resources are available. The individuai(s) involved should be present at these meetings. A facilitator should be utilized on an as-needed basis to aid in mutually resolving the issue. The facilitator, by mutual agreement, can be any hourly or salaried person possessing the necessary skills.
Resolutions that arrive out of conflicts Involving this or other union-management agreements will be covered with the appropriate union-management representatives.
Step 2: INFORMAL RESOLUTION
it the conflict has not been resolved in Step 1, the business unit leader and the union area vice-president will meet with the parties involved in Step 1 and be apprised of all pertinent facts.
A mutually agreed-upon facilitator may be utilized in at) discussions to ted in resolution.
Normally, It Is expected that Step 1 and Step 2, if needed, would be completed within one week.
Any resolution resulting from the informal discussion portion of this procedure need not be precedent setting.
12
Step 3: FORMAL AESOLimON
Issues that were hot resolved in Steps i or 2 may be submitted to the business unit leader (in writing) within five (5) working days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays).
Procedure;
The mill/plant manager or representative, a representative of the international union, and the local bargaining committee shall discuss the issue. These parties may be assisted by such mill personnel as appropriate. The agreed-upon facilitator, if utilized in Step 2 of the informal discussion, may also be utilized in the formal discussions. If the parties are unable to agree upon a satisfactory settlement within ten (to) working days (Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays excluded) from the date of referral, the grievance may be submitted to the impartial arbitrator as outlined below.
.When circumstances warrant, the time limits specified may be extended by agreement between the parties.
SECTION SEV	EN: ARBITRATION
A.	Either party desiring to arbitrate a grievance which has not been Battled satisfactorily according to the provisions of Issue Resolution, Shall notify the other party in writing within twenty (20) days (Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays excluded) of the completion of Step 3 of the Issue Resolution procedure, unless extended by agreement between the parties.
B.	The Union and Corporation shall endeavor to select the impartial arbitrator by mutual agreement within ten (10) days after request for arbitration has been received. For such purpose, each party shall submit to the other party a list containing the names of at least three (3) persons considered qualified to serve in such a capacity.
C.	II the parties are unable to reach mutual agreement In the selection of the impartial arbitrator, the parties shall then jointly request the Federal Mediation and Conciliation
13
Service to submit a panel of five (5) qualified arbitrators from which the impartial arbitrator may be selected, in the first arbitration case which arises between the parties, the Union shall first strike two (2) names and the Corporation shat) then strike two (2) names, and the one (1) name remaining shall be selected as the impartial arbitrator. In subsequent arbitrating cases which arise, the right of Initially rejecting any two (2) of the five (5) names submitted shall alternate between the parties.
D.	It is understood that the function of the arbitrator shall be to interpret and apply this Agreement and any supplements to the Agreement. The arbitrator has no power to extend the duration, add terms or provisions, arbitrate a dispute concerning a general wage adjustment, nor to enlarge his/her own jurisdiction except upon mutual consent of the Corporation and the Union.
E.	The decisions of the arbitrator concerning any matter properly arising out of this Agreement shall (if not contrary to State or federal law) be final and conclusive upon the employees, the Union, and the Corporation.
F,	Each party shall bear the expense of preparing and presenting its own case, including witnesses and attending employees, before the arbitrator. The fees and expenses of the arbitrator shall be borne equally by the parties to this Agreement.
SECTION EIG	HT: HOURS OF WORK
A. Definitions
t. A shift worker Is an employee whose schedule involves rotation.
2.	A day worker is an employee whose schedule does not rotate and whose regularly scheduled hours every week fall between 5:30 a.m. and 7:30 p.m.
3.	A night worker is an employee whose schedule is such that more than one-half of the regularly scheduled hours each week fall between 6:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.
14
4.	A mutual agreement is an arrangement approved in advance by the crew in which qualified employees agree to change hours or shifts within the same week
,	-	and where no other additional premiums are caused.
’ B. Daily. Weekly Schedules [see addendum for clarification on 12-hour work schedule}
'	The basic workweek for five-day workers is Monday through
Friday, for seven day workers it Is Monday through Sunday. The basic daily schedule will be eight and one-halt (8 16) hours per day which wilt include a daily team meeting and ' thirty (30) minutes of unpaid relief period, with no fixed or designated lunch time.	-
Unusual production schedules will be discussed with the appropriate management and union representatives.
Employees should not be expected to work more than twelve andona-half(1214) hours In any 24-hour period. Crewswill agree on how to provide coverage. For pay purposes, the workday (24-hour period) and the workweek will begin with the regular starting time for the crews.
The necessary facilitating services to support Saturday, Sunday, and holiday operations will be provided.
C.	nellgf Period^
Employees who are on eight and one-hall (016) hour schedules will receive fifteen (15) minutes of paid relief time and thirty (30) minutes of unpaid relief period, with no fixed or designated lunch time.
Employees scheduled to work beyond their regular workday will be provided a fifteen (15) minute paid relief for every four (4) additional hours scheduled.
■	Employees who are eligible to receive inconvenience pay
or who are held over or called in/second round trip on Sunday or their day of rest will bp provided with a paid
,	relief period.
15
D.	Business Meetings (see addendum for clarification on 12-hour work schedule)
1.	Voluntary
Voluntary meetings outside of employee’s regular work schedule will be paid at time and one-half rates. The call time, second round trip, and pay for work on scheduled days off provisions of this agreement are not applicable to these meetings. These hours will be offset against FLSA overtime. Employees who voluntarily change their work schedule to attend a meeting will be paid at straight time unless weekly or daily overtime applies.
2.	Required
From time to time, business meetings, including training, may require the attendance of the full crew. Employees who attend these required meetings will be paid at time and one-haff rates for the actual hours spent in the meeting if ft is scheduled outside of the employee's regular working hours cron the employee's scheduled day of rest. The cal! time, second round trip, and pay for work on scheduled days off provisions of this agreement will apply to meetings which require attendance of the full crew. These meeting hours will not be offset against FLSA overtime for seven-day shiftworkers.
Employees will be required to attend meetings called by the team or business unit except when they are off work due to vacation, Illness, leave of absence, accident, union business, or when they are excused by the crew. Meetings in which the attendance of the full business unit is required will be scheduled no more than once a quarter.
E.	Collective Bargaining Meetings
Employees attending meetings with the company to negotiate a renewal, amendment, or modification of this cooperative agreement, or a general wage level change, will be paid a daily allowance of eight (8) hours per day at the employee’s straight-time rate.
1b
Shifl workers may elect to be off work the day before or the last day of the bargaining session and will receive the dally allowance for that meeting.
Union representatives and employees will be compensated for attendance at issue resolution meetings (as outlined in Section Six) if they would otherwise be at work.
F.	Travel and Work Outside of the Mill
Employees traveling on company business will be compensated per the Lakeview Compensation Guidelines - Travel By Hourly Employees (dated March 20, 2000}.
Employees working on company business outside of the mill on a regularly scheduled workday will be paid for actual hours worked, ar eight (B) hours, whichever is greater. Employees working outside of the mill on company business, on a nonscheduied workday, wilt be paid only for hours worked at the applicable rate.
G.	Reporting Time
Employees who have not received at least two (2) hours’ notification that their services are not required for their regularly scheduled day ar shift will receive a minimum of four hours' work or, if no work is available, be given two (2) hours of pay. Pay will be at the employee’s regular rate, with premium rates applicable to work on Sundays and holidays.
SECTION NINE; PAY ANP BENEFITS
A, EfiX
1.	Oefinition/Principfes
In the Lakeview pay system, employees are compensated for the job-related skiffs they possess and can demonstrate rather than the work assignment they are performing. For pay purposes, groups of skills are organized into skill blocks. Once an employee has demonstrated competency on a skill block and has performed those skills for a period of time (mastery period), they will be paid for possessing that skin as long as they maintain mastery and are performing or applying those skills on a regular basis. Pay systems have evolvedand are applied differently in each business unit to best meet the needs of that business unit.
17
The specific rates of each business unit’s pa/ system are described in Section Seventeen.
2.	Hiring Rate
New employees, except summer hires and temporary employees, will receive the following rates:
Stmtinaftete	Effective Date
$14 61 $15.04 $15.49 $15.96 $1044	a/i/oo 6/1/01 6/1/02 e/1/aa 8/1/04
After satisfactory performance of ninety <SOJ days, employees wit) receive the following rates;
Batea	Effective Date
$15.66 $18.13 $16.61 $17.11 $17.62	6/1/00 6/1/01 6/1/02 6/1/03 6/1/04
Temporary employees will be paid ninety percent (90%) of the starting rate. Summer hires will be paid $10.50 throughout their period of employment.
Maintenance Tradespetsons' starting rate is;
Start	30-day	60-day	90-day Effective Date
			Tradespersons' Base Rate
$18.81	$19,51	$20.21	$20.90	6/1/00 $19.38	$20.10	$20.82	$21.53	6/1/01 $19.95	$20.69	$21.43	$22.17	6/1/02 $20.56	$21.32	$22.08	$22.84	6/1/03 $21.17	$21.95	$22.73	$23.52	6/1/04 All tradespersons including new hires are eligible for the rnaio-enance continuity block, in addition lo base rale, after they neet the two-year requirement.			
18
'	3.
Assessment and Qualification
The qualification process for acquiring skill blocks will Include five steps: training, competency assessment, mastery, mastery assessment, and follow up. Employees will receive the pay tor a skill block after they have trained on the tasks associated with a skill block, have spent a minimum mastery period practicing these skills, and have demonstrated mastery of that skill.
a.	Training
Training periods will not be fixed, but wilt be based on business unit requirements and on an individual's capacity to learn a particular skill. Opportunity to train will be based on team seniority, ability to successfully perform the skill, and the distribution of required skills within the team.
b.	Competency Assessment
Employees wfff be assessed prior to the beginning of their mastery period to demonstrate the tasks on the skill checklist safely, efficiently, and effectively.
c.	MasteryiReassessment
Once an employee has demonstrated the ability to competency perform the skills on the skill checklist, they will begin a minimum mastery period. During this period, the employee wifi be expected to develop and utilize the skill on a regular basis. After completing this mastery period, the employee win be reassessed. Once the employee ' has bean reassessed and has demonstrated mastery the pay associated with the skill block will be rewarded, An employee may not be In a mastery period in more than one skill block.
19
I
If an employee is off work thirty (30) consecutive days or less, that time will be credited toward the mastery period or time/grade system. Time off exceeding thirty (30) consecutive days (excluding vacations) will not be credited toward mas. tery or time/grade system.
d.	Follow up
To maintain the rate of pay associated with all skill blocks, employees must maintain mastery and perform the skills on a regular basis. Followup assessments may be required of employees to demonstrate ongoing mastery, Employees who are unable to demonstrate such mastery will lose the pay for the skill block,
4.	Transfers
The following principles will apply to the treatment of skill-based pay in transfers or other movement.
a.	Voluntary Transfer from Team to Team
When an employee transfers from one team to another, they rnay be credited for skill blocks acquired on the previous team if the skills are directly applicable in the new team and the em-ptoyee Is able to maintain mastery and perform these skills on a regular basis.
Employees transferring to another team will transfer in at the entry rate ($15.66 eff. 6/1/00, $16.13 aft. 6/1/01, $16.61 efl. 6/1/02, $ 17.11 eff. 6/1/ 03, $17.62 eft. 6/1/04.) During the first thirty (30) days on the new team, the employees will be ■ reassessed as to their directly applicable skills and the mastery level In those skill blocks. Training and mastery periods will be waived tor any directly transferable skill blocks the employee can perform completely, and the employee will receive the pay associated with these skill blocks retroactive to the date of transfer.
Employees transfering from one team to another may choose to give up the pay for skill blocks if they no longer wish to perform these skills and 20	.
the team does not require these skills tor efficient operation.
Employees returning to a former team within two (2) years will transfer in at the entry rate ($15.66 eft. 5/1/00. $16.13 etf. 6/1/01, $16.61 etf. S!V 02, $17.11 efl. fi/1/03, $17.62 etf. 6/1/04). During the first thirty (30) days on the team, employ' ees will be assessed on the sKlH blocks they previously held. Training and mastery periods will be waived for any previously held skill blocks the employee can perform completely, and the employee will receive the pay associated with these blocks retroactive to the date of transfer. Employees returning to a former team after two (2) years will not be given credit for any skill blocks they previously held. Maintenance tradespersons voluntarily transferring to a different business unit (WP, LVFCP, and KCWest) will have their rate returned to the base rate for a two-year period, if an employee transfers and returns to the same business unit within two (2) years, the maintenance continuity block will be restored.
This restriction will be discussed as a separate issue for new or expanded facilities.
b.	involuntary Transfer - Team to Team
When employees are involuntarily transferred from one team to another, they will have their rate maintained for a period of two (2) years from the date of transfer if a rate reduction would ordinarily result. During this period, employees wilt receive wage increases only when the pay for the skill blocks attained in the new team equals or exceeds the retained rate. After two (2) years employees will be paid for those skills that they have mastered in the new team. (Exception: see employees returning to former team.) The ■ rate of Involuntarily displaced maintenance tradespersons will be maintained for a period of two (2) years from the date of transfer. Time spent during this involuntary displacement win be credited toward the maintenance continuity block.
21
5,	Physical Limitations - On Duty
When employees cannot perform all the skills for which they are being paid due to a work-related physical limitation, they will have their current rate maintained for up to thirty (30) days From the date of the limitation. If the limitation is greater than thirty (30) days and the team can utilize the individual, employees will receive pay for those skill blocks which they are able to fully perform as determined by the assessment process.
Once physical restrictions have been lifted, employees will receive ths pay lor skill blocks relinquished during the period of limitation providing they can demonstrate mastery on those blocks.
6.	Rate Adjustments
When significantly new skills are required to perform the work in a business unit, or when the current skills are rendered obsolete, management and union may discuss the anticipated change in the area work design and the pay system.
a.	New or Changed Skill Blocks r
tf new or changed skill blocks are required, the area vice-president and business unit manager may negotiate a pay rale based on a comparison of similar skills, across and within the Lakeview facilities. Rates negotiated will be retroactive to the date of the change to the skill-based pay system, but not to exceed one-hundred eighty (180) days. The establishment of new rates will not be a subject oi arbitration.
b.	Obsolete Skills
When current skills are judged to be obsolete, affected employees shall receive the pay lor that skill block for a period of one (1) year from the date the skill became obsolete.
22
B.	PREMIUM PAY fsaa addendum for clarification on 12-iwur work schedule)
1.	Monday through Saturday Overtime
Overtime will ba paid at time and one-halt tor al) time worked in excess of the basic schedule of eight (8) hours per day or weekly hours in excess of forty (40), whichever is greater, bu! not both.
2.	Sunday and Holiday Premium
Double time will be paid for work performed during a twenty-four (24) hour period on Sundays and holidays. Employees scheduled to work on a Sunday or holiday will receive a minimum of three (3) hours at the premium rata, exclusive of work that carries over into their next regular shift
Weekday overtime does not apply to hours worked on Sundays or holidays except when the basic daily schedule on a Sunday or holiday is worked and the employee continues to work consecutive hours info the next work day. When this occurs, the employee will be ■ paid weekday overtime of time and one-half lor the hours worked after the Sunday or holiday premium period. This is not applicable unless the hours worked are consecutive hours.
3-	Night Differential
For eight (8) hour day workers, a night work differential of forty-six (46) cents per hour [fifty (50) cents eff. 8/1/ 03] will be paid for all hours worked between 6:00 p.m. and 6:00 a m., except as described in the section on temporary change in work schedules.
For employees on eight (6) hour shift schedules, a twenty-six (26) cents per hour [twenty-eight (28) cents eff. 6/1/03] night differential will be paid for work performed on the "S’ shift and a forty-six (46) cents per hour [fifty (50) cents per hour eff. 6/1/03] differential will be paid for work performed on the “C" shift.
4.	Temporary Changes in Daily or Weekly Work Schedules (This applies only to day workers, and shift workers who are moved to days for more than a week).
23
A temporary change from day to night work is one which does not extend through one (1) workweek. If the temporary change continues into the next workweek, it will not ba considered as a second change In schedule but a continuation of the original change. Payment tor temporary changes in schedule win be as follows;
a.	Time and one-half wilt be paid tor the first two (2) days (excluding Sundays and holidays) tor all hours worked between 6:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. The premium pay of time and one-half tor two (2) days will not be offset against overtime payable under FLSA.
b.	No night differential will be paid during a change in schedule.
5, Call Time/Second Round Trip
Call time is applicable when employees ate asked to work hours in addition to their regular schedule, and the employee is net In the mill when the request to work additional hours is made. The mill/plant entrance is the point of reference for being in or out of the mill.
Second round trip is applicable when employees are called or scheduled to make an additional round trip to the mill during the same day.
The following guidelines explain the premium time associated with call time or second round trip.
a.	if the time worked on the call is greater than two (2) hours, the employee will receive two hours of call time at Straight time rates plus time and one-half for hours worked. (Exception: Sunday and holiday hours worked are paid at double time.)
b.	if the time worked on the call is less than two (2) hours, the employee win receive two (2) hoots of call time at straight time rates plus two (2) hours of minimum pay. [Exception: Sunday and holiday pays two (2) hours of minimum pay at double time.}
24
Call time and second round trip provisions do not apply when coming into the mill to remove a lock-out lock, or attend a meeting or lire brigade training,
6.	Pay for Work on Scheduled Daye Off
Time and one-hart wftf be paid for any hours worked on an employee’s scheduled day of rest. This premium pay will not be offset against overtime payable under FLSA- This applies to seven-day swing operations only.
All employees scheduled in advance to come in for work on iheir scheduled day off will be allowed a minimum of four (4) hours pay when the pay for the actual time worked is fess than four (4) hours. This minimum allowance does not apply to work which begins prior to and extends into the employee's next scheduled shift, or to holdover work from the employee’s previous shift.
These provisions are not applicable to voluntary meeting hours,
7.	Distribution of Overtime
The opportunity for available overtime work will be distributed among qualified employees in each business unit. Business units wfii determine guidelines for distribution in their respective teams.
C INCONVENIENCE pay
When employees work tha following overtime hours, inconvenience pay will be applicable:
1.	Eligible hours
The following hours worked wifi be accumulated far each November 1 through October 31 time period:
a.	Employees called in - See Section Nine B.5
b.	Additional round trip - See Section Nine B.5
25
c.	Employees held over beyond their scheduled quitting time (Emergency Holdover)
d.	Inconvenience pay does not apply to Sundays or days of rest.
2.	Pay Calculation
Total hours accumulated in C.1 above will be multi' plied by $2.20.
3.	Payment will be made by November 15 tollowing the November 1 through October 31 time petted.
4.	In no case shall employees receive inconvenience pay for holdovers when notified prior to leaving the mill on their previous workday, or it they are absent due to accident, illness, permission off, or a mutual agreement and they are notified when they normally would have been at work.
D.	SEVERANCE PAY
Severance pay is applicable to layoffs due to lack of work, it is not applicable to interruptions of operations due to fire, flood, strikes, or curtailment of service.
After ninety (90) days from the date of layoff, an employee will receive a payment equal to seventy-five dollars ($75) tor each fun year of employment
Should the employee return to work, the period of employment on which the severance pay is based will be excluded in determining future severance pay.
No severance pay wilt be paid to an employee who accepts or rejects an opportunity to return to work within ninety (90) days of the date of layoff.
E.	FPHEPAkPAY
1.	Eligibility
Employees will be compensated for time lost from their scheduled hours Of work associated with the funeral of an Immediate family member or relative.
26
In the event of an absence due to a death in the immediate family or of a relative (spouse, son, daughter, mother, father, mother-in-law, father-in-law, brother, sister, grandparent}, the employee may receive up to twenty-four (24) hours of paid time off for time associated with the funeral.
Stepparents, step-in-laws, or stepchildren may be considered immediate family members if individuals involved are one of the two main parental figures and raised the child. '
2.	Pay
Employees will be paid at straight time for their scheduled hours for the day(s), excluding overtime. Funeral pay will not be counted as time worked for the purpose Of overtime computation. The employee shall apply for funeral pay upon return to work.
F.	JURY DUTY fsee addendum for clarification of f2-hour work schedule)
1.	Eligibility
Employees required to serve on arty municipal, county,. state, or federal jury or subpoenaed to appear at one of the above hearings will be excused for such service.
2.	Pay
Employees will be entitled to reimbursement for their basic scheduled hours per day excluding overtime.
Employees must present a signed statement to their crew from the court showing the day(s) served In order to be eligible tor pay.
Employees whose regular schedule is the *& shift the day preceding a necessary court appearance will have . the option of being scheduled off either the day preceding or the day of tha appearance.
27
G. BENEEDS
1.	General
Employees will be eligible tor the following benefits as applicable to Lakeview bargaining unit employees. Summer hire and temporary employees are excluded from all benefits except tor vesting service under the Pension Plan and Incentive Investment Plan.
a.	Hourly Employees’ Standard Retirement Benefits under the Kimberly-Clark Corporation Pension Plan
b.	Kimberly-Clark Corporation Group Life Insurance Plan
c.	Kimberly-Clark Corporation Dental Plan (including Care Pius Dental Plan benefits}
d.	Kimberly-Clark Corporation Medical Plan (Includ-
ing Preferred Provider Access Plan, Comprehensive Medical Plan, and two Health Maintenance Organizations)
0.	Health Care Spending Account Plan and Dependent Care Spending Account Program
f. Kimberly-Clark Hourly Employees' Incentive investment Plan
g Military Service and Military Leave benefits
h. Weekly Disability Income Plan
I.	Long-Term Disability Plan
j.	Lakeview KimEd - Tuition Reimbursement Pro-
gram
Details of each benefit are available to aft employees.
28
2,	Clothing
Where the Corporation requires the wearing of uniforms, such uniforms will be furnished and laundered.
3.	Safety Shoes
In the interest of promoting safety, the Corporation agrees to contribute up to one hundred {$100) dollars per contract year ($110 per contract year effective June A, 2CC3) towards the purchase of employees’ safety shoes, providing the shoes are purchased from the safety shoem chile or designated vendor.
4.	Safety Glasses
In the interest of safety, the Corporation wit! provide safety glasses far employees in accordance with the Lakeview Safety Glasses Policy (dated March 31, 2000).
SECTION TEN: VACATION (see addendum for clarification on 12-hour work schedule)
A, Eligibility
Employees will become eligible for paid vacation according to the following schedule;
Years of Employment	Weeks of paid vacation during calendar year	Number of weeks can be taken as day-at-a-time vacation
1	1	1
3	2	1
8 .	3	2
12	4	3
18	5	4
25	6	6
29
B Vacation. Pay
1.	Vacation pay will be forty-eight (48) hours per week. Pay will be at the employee's straight time hourly rate. Exception: Night work employees on paid vacation will be paid the night differential for their regularly scheduled shift.
2.	One week of day-at-a-time vacation equals six (6) days.
3.	Day-at-a time vacation will be paid at eight (8) hours.
4.	Employees with eight (8) or more years of service are eligible for one (1) week of pay for unused vacation. Payment will be made In February of the following year based on the employee's December 31 pay rale.
C. Administration
1.	Team vacation liability should be managed in consideration of employee preferences and business needs.
2.	Vacations/days off shall be scheduled by mill seniority by the business unit crews.
3.	Vacation will not be cumulative from year to year.
4.	Employees who become eligible for vacations in the calendar year may take vacation prior to their anniversary date and will be entitled to vacation pay. if the employee leaves the company before their anniversary date, the employee will reimburse the company for the vacation pay.
5.	On the last day of the calendar year an employee becomes eligible for the vacation for the next calendar year.
6.	Any employee in layoff status for mere than thirty (30) days will have the period of time in layoff status excluded in determining vacation eligibility,
30
7.	Employees eligible for paid vacation who leave the payroll will be paid for unused vacation for that calendar year. Employees laid off will be given the option of receiving vacation pay at the time of the layoff or at the time scheduled for vacation.
8.	When an employee attends collective bargaining meetings during their scheduled vacation, the employee will be eligible for the bargaining allowance and their vacation will be rescheduled.
9.	In cases of transfers, crews will make every effort to honor the vacation dates the employee had originally signed for,
10.	Unless otherwise agreed to, the following principles should apply in signing lor vacations.
a.	First two weeks - employees may sign for two weeks on their first sign-up date,
b.	Remaining weeks - employees may sign up for each remaining week one week at a time until all vacation weeks have been exhausted.
c.	Day-at-a-time vacations - employees may sign for two days on their first sign-up. They may then sign for single days until their day-al-a-time vacation has been exhausted.
d.	Vacations must be signed during the annual signup period. Vacations may be changed by approval.
e.	Crew vacations/days off should be scheduled in the foilawing order;
1.	Weekly vacation
2.	Personal holiday
3.	Day at a time
4.	Banked day
f.	Vacation liability will not be reduced by employee selection of payment for unused vacation.
31
11.	Employees will not be permitted to work or attend meetings while off on vacation. Any exceptions must be approved by the Union President and Mill/Plant Manager.
SECTION ELEVEN: HOLIDAYS (see addendum for clarification on 12-hour work schedule)
A.	Rpcogril^ed Holidays and Shutdown Periods
The following are recognized twenty-four (24) hour holidays. The intent of holidays is for employees to have a day off from work. The Corporation may operate, however, on a voluntary basis during the holidays noted, and employees who are needed for continuous operating services such as boiler house, water treatment plant, security, etc., may be required to work.
Hplidfly	OperationStatus
New Year's Eve Day	Voluntary - first 12 hours
New Veer's Day	Down
Easter Sunday’1	Voluntary
Memorial Day	Voluntary
July 3 or 5	Voluntary
July 4	Voluntary
Labor Day	Down
Thanksgiving	Voluntary
2 Floating Holidays	Voluntary
Christmas Eve Day	Down
Christmas Day	Down
Persona! Holiday	N/A
When July 4, Christmas Day, or New Year’s Day fall on a Sunday, seven-day shift workers who would have worked on Sunday will recognize their holiday on Sunday. These employees will work on the next Monday on a scheduled basis and be paid double time. Seven-day swing shift workers on their day of rest wilt recognize the holiday on Sunday. All other employees will recognize the holiday on Monday.
Personal holidays will be scheduled by teams by mill seniority within business units according to business needs and employee preferences. Any employees on the payroll as of January 1 ace eligible for a personal holiday in that I calendar year.
32
B.	Easter Sunday Holiday*
Seven-day swing shift operations shall be shut down for a twenty-four (24) hour period on Easter Sunday, and those employees whose basic weekly work schedule would normally require the employee to work during this period shall be allowed eight (8) hours holiday pay at the employee's regular straight time rate, excluding night differential.
C.	Pay for Holidays Not Worked
Employees will be paid eight (8) hours for holidays at the employee's regular straight time day rate, excluding night differential. Seven-day swing shift employees whose regular days off, paid vacation, or leave of absence coincide with Easter Sunday will not receive Easter Sunday holiday pay.
Employees off due to personal illness or off-duty accident will receive holiday pay. Employees who are on Inactive status at the time of the holiday will not receive holiday pay. This will not be applicable to the personal holiday.
Employees receiving worker's compensation will not receive holiday pay.
D.	Premium Pav for Work on Holidays
Employees working on recognized holidays will be paid double time plus the holiday allowance for which they are eligible. Double time hours worked on a holiday [not to exceed eight (8) hours] will be included in determining ' FLSA overtime premiums if the holiday falls on a regular scheduled workday for the employee.
Employees working on recognized holidays may elect to bank their holiday pay. Banked holiday hours may be applied to receive a day off within the calendar year or following calendar year of the worked holiday. Hours applied to the day off will be included In the FLSA computation for the week.
33
SECTION TWEL	VE: LEAVE OF ABSENCE
A.	Union Business
Any employee selected by the union for an assignment necessitating their absence from work can be granted a leave from work without loss of seniority. A equests for leave of greater than one month will be made to the Mill or Plant Manager.
B.	Time Off for Personal Reasons
Requests for personal leaves shall be classified as follows:
1.	Off with Permission - Unpaid absence for a period of
seven (7) calendar days or less. Authorized by crew. Benefits are unaffected.
2.	Authorized leave - Unpaid absence for a period of more than seven (7) days, but less than three (3) months. Authorized by business unit manager. Benefits are unaffected.
3.	Certified Leave of Absence - Unpaid absence for a period of more than three (3) months. Authorized by business unit manager. The time off is not counted in computing benefits for which continuous employment is a factor.
C.	Military-Service and Leave
The Corporation will abide by all state and federal taws, and joint union-management agreements concerning military service and leave.
SECTION THIR	TEEN: LEARNING AND SKILL DEVELOPMENT
A.	Apprenticeship Program
The Union and the Corporation agree to the need for selecting and training employees as tradespersons through a State-indentured Trades Apprenticeship training program. The Company further agrees that this program will be the primary vehicle for filling trade vacancies in the mill.
34
lb accomplish this objective, an apprenticeship advisory committee consisting of equal management and union representation will review future manpower needs, establish apprenticeship classes, develop curriculum to meet business requirements, and guide apprentices through the program.
Applicants will be selected from among the bargaining unit employees.
B.	Tuition Reimbursement
Employees will receive tuition reimbursement In accordance with the Lakeview KimEd program.
C.	Other
From time to time, salaried employees may temporarily work with teams of hourly employees tor training purposes. No hourly employee shall lose any seniority nor be deprived of any hours of work because of this program. These situations will be communicated to the appropriate union representatives.
Opportunity for training will be offered by team seniority.
35
SECTION FOURTEEN: SUBLETTING MAINTENANCE. CONSTRUCTION ■ AND INSTALLATION WORK
The business unit maintenance manager/buslness unit manager will review the requirements tor the project with appropriate maintenance support team(s) Including union leadership in advance of making a decision to sublet work. Our intent is to effectively utilize our maintenance resources to accomplish our business objectives.
SECTION FIFTEEN: UNION RECOGNITION AND ADMINISTRATION
A.	Collective Barpaining Unit
The Corporation recognizes the Paper, Allied-Industrial, Chemical and Energy Workers International Union, AFL-CIO, CLC, and Local 7-402, as the sole collective bargaining agent representing all employees in the Corporation in the Lakeview facilities included in the certification of the National Labor Relations Board, dated April 19,1944, and April 16, 1946, and including certain trades and warehouse employees located at Kimberty-Clark Corporation West Office building, and employees in other warehouse facilities who have been Included in the unit by mutual agreement of the parties, excluding guards as defined in the National Labor Relations Act as amended, in all matters pertaining to wages, hours of work, and working condition.
Crews will provide for union officers to attend union-management meetings.
B.	All Union Shoo
The Corporation reserves to itself the exclusive right tc determine who and how many persons it will employ. Who and hew many persons the Corporation will retain shall be determined in accordance with the provisions relating to seniority.
36
As a condition of continued employment, all current and ■future employees must apply and become members of the signatory Union forty-five (45) calendar days after their respective dates of employment.
C.	Dues Collection
The Corporation agrees to deduct the regular monthly Union dues from earned wages of those employees who Individually authorize such deduction In writing on “Authorization Cards" mutually agreed upon by the Union and the Corporation, and send such to the Financial Secretary of Local 7482 of the Paper, All led-Industrial, Chemical and Energy Workers International Union, AFL-CIO, CLC, within ten (10) days of the said deduction.
SECTION SIXTEEN; DURATION OF AGREEMENT
A.	Change or Modification of Agreement
This agreement shall be in effect 6/1/2000. and shall remain in effect until 5/31/2005 inclusive, and from year to year thereafter, unless terminated as outlined below.
If either party shall desire to change any provision of this agreement, it shall give written notice of such desire to the other party at least sidy (60) days in advance of the anniversary date.
If the parties have not reached agreement on or before the anniversary date, all the provisions of the agreement shall remain in effect unless specifically terminated in accordance with the provisions as outlined below.
B.	Termination of Agreement
At any time after the anniversary date, if no agreement on the questions at Issue has been reached, either party may give written notice to the other party of intent to terminate the agreement in (not less than) six (6) days. Al! the provisions of the agreement shall remain in full force and effect until the time set forth has elapsed. During this period, attempts to reach an agreement shall be continued.
37
If the parties have failed to resolve their differences belote the time set forth has elapsed, all obligations under this agreement are automatically cancelled.
C.	Interruption of Work
The Paper, A Hied-Industrial, Chemical and Energy Workers International Union, Local 7-482, at the Lakeview facilities, agrees that there will be no strikes during the term of this agreement.
Any strike not expressly authorized by the Union In accordance with its International Constitution, Bylaws, Standing Rules and General Laws, shall be an unauthorized strike for which there shall be no financial liability on the part of the Paper, Allied-Industrial, Chemical and Energy Workers International Union, its local Union, or officers.
In the event of an unauthorized strike, the Paper, AlliedIndustrial, Chemical and Energy Workers International Union and the local Union will declare publicly that such action is unauthorized, will promptly order its members to return to work, and assist the Management to take such steps as may be deemed necessary to correct the situation.
The Corporation agrees that there shall be no authorized lockout of employees. The Union, on behalf of itself and its members, agrees that the Corporation shall not be liable for any unauthorized lockout by representatives of the Corporation, provided the Corporation, after receiving notice, promptly disavows such acts and terminates such iockoul.
The Corporation and the Union mutually agree that the existing collective bargaining agreement shall govern all relations between the parties unless such provision conflicts with existing or future federal or state statutes and regulations and Executive Orders, in which event such statutes, regulations, and orders shall control.
38
SECTION SEVENTEEN; RATES OF PAY
Lakeview includes the following units;
MAINTENANCE
	671/00	6/1/01	6/1/02	6/1/03	6/1/04
TRADESPERSON					
					
Base Rate	$20,90	$21.53	$22.18	$22.85	$23.54
Continuity Block	$0.66	$0.68	$0.70	$0.72	$0.74
					
APPRENTICE					
					
First Year	$17.31	S17.B3	$18.36	$18.91	$19.48
Second Year	$17.95	$18.49	$19.04	$19.61	$20.20
Third Year	$18.80	$19.36	$19.94	$20.54	$21.16
Fourth Year	$19.86	$20.48	$21.07	$21.70	$22 35
Apprentices will be eligible for maintenance continuity adjustment one (1) year after all terms of Apprentice indentureshlp are satisfied and/or they are officially recognized as a tradesperson by Lakeview.
LAKEVIEW PLANT DISTRIBUTION
	8/1/DO	8/1/01	6/1/02	6/1/03	6/1/04
Level 1	$15.66	$16.13	$16.61	$17.11	$17 62
Level 2 (12 months)	$16.98	$17.49	$18.01	$18.55	$19.11
Level 3 (6 months)	$17.64	$18.17	$18.72	$19.28	$19.86
Level 4 (6 months)	$18.31	$18.86	$19.43	$20.01	$20.61
Semi rate	$0.59	$0.61	$0.63	$0.65	$0.67
Level 5	$18.59	$19.15	$19.72	$20.31	$ 20.92
Level 6	$19.11	$19.68	$20.27	$20.88	$21.51
3b
LAKEVIEW PLANT PRODUCTION
SKILLS	671/50	6/1/01	6/1/02	6/1/03	6/1/04
Entry Rate=	$15.66	$16.13	$16.61	$17.11	$17.62
Operations Team Top Achievable Rate Per Contact Year=	$20.04	$20.64	$21.26	$21.90	$22.56
6 months	$16.46	$16.95	$17.46	$17.98	$18.52
12 months	$17.28	$17.78	$18.31	$18.86	$19.43
18 months-	$18.05	$18.59	$19.15	$19.72	$20.31
24 months	$18.85	$19.42	$20.00	$20.59	$21.22
30 months	$19.64	$20.23	$20.84	$21.47	$22.11
36 months	$20.04	$20.64	$21.26	$21.90	$22.56
Day Cleaner	$16.44	$16.93	$17.44	$17.96	$18.50
Quality Team Top Achievable Rate Per Contact Yaar=	$17.38	$17.90	$18.44	$18.99	$19.56
Basic Quality (4 months)	$0.54	$0.56	$0.58	$0.60	$0.62
Expert Quality	$1.18	$172	$126	$1.30	$174
Stores Team Top Achievable Rate Per Contract Year=	$18.46	$19.01	$19.50	$20.17	$20.78
U till ty/Cheml cal (2 months)	$0.28	$0.29	$0.30	$0.30	$0.32 i_ _	,
Customer Service (4 months)	$0.51	$0.62	$0.54	$0.57	$0.57
Receiving Services (S months)	$0.66	$0.68	$0.69	$0.72	$0.74
Stores System Specialist (2 months)	$0.28	$0.29	$0.30	$0 30	$0.32
Planning Director -Stores	$0.51	$0.52	$0.54	$0.57	$0.57
Team Administrator -Stores	$0.28	$0.29	$0.30	$0,30	$0.32
Training Coordinator -Stores	$0.28	$0.29	$0.30	$0.30	$0.32
40
FEMININE CARE PLANT
	6/1/00	6/1/01	6/1/02	6/1/03	6/1/04
Entry	$15.66	$16.13	$16.61	$17.11	$17 62
6 months	$16.33	$16.82	$17.32	$17,84	$18.38
12 months	$16.98	$17,49	$18,01	$16.55	$19.11
18 months	$17.64	$18.17	$18.72	$19.28	$19.86
24 months	$18.31	$18.86	$19.43	$20.01	$20.61
30 months	$18.97	$19.54	$20.13	$20.73	$21.35
36 months	$19.65	$20.24	$20.85	$21.48	$22.12
KC-WEST WAREHOUSE
	6/1/00	6/1/01	6/1/02	6/1/03	6/1/04
Entry	$15.66	$16.13	$16.61	$17.11	$17.62
Utfflty (6 months)	$16.98	$17.49	$18.01	$18.55	$19.11
Top Achievable Rate (12 months)	$18.46	$19.01	$19.58	$20.17	$20.78
LEADERSHIP PAY
	6/1/00	6/1/01	6/1/02	6/1/03	6/1/04
Per hour increase	$0.83	$0.85	$0.87	$0.90	$0.93
41
ADDENDUM
12-hour Work Schedule
Schedule:
•	The basic daily schedule will be twelve (12) hours and fifteen (15) minutes per day with a fifteen (15) minute preshift meeting and a fifteen (15) minute unpaid relief period.
•	The specific rotation (i.e., 3 on, 3 off) will be determined by the area working the twelve (12) hour schedule.
Premium Pay:
*	Hours worked on day of rest (DOR) will be paid at time and one-half except Sunday which will be paid al double time:
•	Unscheduled overtime will be non-offsettable on day of rest. "Unscheduled" Is defined as "call time" per the current labor agreement.
•	Scheduled overtime on day of rest is offsettable.
■	Unscheduled overtime hours will apply to inconvenience pay (indudes DDR and Sundays).
■	No mandatory overtime (except quarterly crew meetings), and no partner responsibility.
Hgliday_Fay:	'
•	Employees will have the ability to draw from a pool of ninety-six (96) hours [twelve (12) holidays, including a personal holiday, at eight (8) hours] as follows:
A.	Pay for Holidays Not Worked
• Employees who do not work the holiday can elect to draw zero (0), six (6), eight (8), or twelve (12) hours of holiday pay.
B.	Pav for Holldays.Worked
■ An employee who works a holiday can elect to draw and be paid zero (0), six (6), eight (8), or twelve (12) hours of holiday pay. .
OR
• An employee who works a holiday can elect to drew and bank six (6), eight (B), or twelve (12) hours, no greater than . the number of hours worked, of holiday pay.
42
OR
If an employee who works a holiday has depleted the ninety-six (96) hour holiday pool, the employee will be allowed to bank six (6), eight (6), or twelve (12) hours, no greater than the number of hours worked, for a future day off without pay.
C.	Pay for Personal Holiday
An employee can elect to draw zero (0), six (6). eight (fl), or twelve (12) hours of holiday pay from the pool for a personal holiday.
Employees whose regularly scheduled workday falls on a holiday will be given the opportunity to work an additional four (4) hours if the plant Is down and they cannot work or if they choose not to work.
Employees scheduled to work the Easter holiday will be paid twelve (12) hours of holiday pay.
Vacation'.
•	Weekly vacation by calendar week will be paid forty-eight (46) hours.
•	One week of DAAT vacation equals forty-eight (46) hours [four (4) days at twelve (12) hours] which can be taken In twelve (12) hour blocks.
•	Employees will be able to take five (5) DAAT vacation days in six (6) hour blocks.
Crew Meetings;
•	One mandatory crew meeting can be held each quarter, which will last a minimum of four (4) hours and a maximum of six (6) hours. TTie Area Manager and the Union Area Vice-President must agree upon any exceptions.
Shift Differential:
•	Twenty-four (24) cents per hour [twenty-six (26) cents etf. 6/ 1/03] will be paid as shift differential for day and night shifts.
43
Jury Duty:
Pay
•	Employees will be entitled to reimbursement for their basic scheduled hours per day, excluding overtime.
•	Employees must present a signed statement to their crew from the court showing the day(s) served in order to be eligible for pay.
•	Employees can elect to take the last six (6) hours off the night before jury duty and/or six (6) hours oft at the beginning of the shift on the day of jury duty; or an employee can elect to take the shift off either the night preceding or the day of the appearance.
Trial:
•	Trial of twelve (12) hour schedules in any area will be by mutual agreement between the Union and Management. The vote to go to twelve (12) hour shifts must pass by a two-thirds (2/3) majority.
•	After one (1) year, employees working a twelve (12) hour schedule will vote to stay on the twelve (12) hour.schedule or change back to an eight (8) hour schedule. The vote to stay on twelve (12) hour shifts must pass by a two-thirds(2/3) majority.
*	After one (1) year, Management may elect to change back to eight (8) hour schedules,
•	Every two (2) years (for areas already on a 12-hour schedule), the Union President and Area Vice-President, or Site Manager can call for a vote to return to an 8-hour schedule. The vote to return to eight (8) hour shifts must pass by a two-thlrds (2/3) majority.
•	At any time, if twelve (12) hour shifts are having a negative impact on the business, the Plant Manager and the Union President can make a decision to return to eight (8) hour shifts.
44
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be executed at Neenah, Wisconsin this 21 st day of September 2000.
FOR THE CORPORATION:
Jav D. GoWeibfa/______
LVP Plant Manager
Julia S. Bahlman/s/___
LVFCP Plant Manager
LVP HR Manager *
Robert J. Page! 1st LVFCP HR Manager
Bradlev S. Conn fa/____
LVP-CC Plant Manager
FOR THE UNION.
PAPER, ALLIED-INDUSTRIAL, CHEMICAL AND ENERGY WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, AFL-CIO, CLC
Boyd Young, President
Jon Geenen /si________________
International Representative
Robert W. Ekdahl/s/ President, Local No. 7-482
Michael R. Helnritz Isi
Secretary, Local No. 7-482
Ganv L. Turner Isl___________
Area Vice President, Local No, 7-482
Kelly L. Burr Isf____________
Area Vice President, Local No. 7-482
Todd A. Sawver fa/__________
Area Vice President, Local No. 7-482
Kenneth J. Allcox fa/_______
Area Vice President,
Local No. 7-482
James H. Vanevenhoven/s/ Area Vice President, Local No. 7-482
45
INDEX Addendum - 12-hour work schedule..........................42
Arbitration...............................................13
Apprenticeship Program....................................34
Assessment and Qualification..............................19
Benefits.............................................     ,28
Change of Cooperative Agreement...........................37
Clothing..................................................29
Collective Bargaining Meetings............................16
Collective Bargaining Unit................................36
Conflict..................................................3
Daily Work Schedules.................................      15
Day Worker - Definition...................................14
Distribution of Overtime..................................25
Dues Collection...........................................37
Duration of Agreement.....................................37
Funeral Pay,..............................................26
Hiring Rate................................................. 18
Holidays..................................................32
Pay for Holidays	Not	Worked.................  33
Pay for Work on	Holidays........................33
Inconvenience Pay..........................................25
Interruption of Work.......................................38
Issue Resolution........................................... 12
Jury Duty.................................................27
Layofl from Mill..........................................9
Leave of Absence...............  :.........................34
Military Leave..................................34
Personal Reasons.................................. 34
Union Business..................................34
Military Service and Leave................................ 34
Movement Within a Business Unit - Pay......................20
Mutual Agreement - Definition...........................   15
Night Differential,......................................  23
Night Worker - Definition.................................14
Operating Philosophy........................................ 1
46
INDEX
Overtime (Premium Pay)..............................  23
Call Time,..........................................  24
Pay Rates.............................................. 39
Pay • Definition and Principle........................17
Physical Limitations..................................22
Rate Adjustments......................................22
Recall from Mill Layoff...............................9
Relief Periods........................................15
Reporting Time........................................17
Required Business Meetings............................16
Safety................................................2
Safety Glasses....................................... 29
Safety Shoes......................................    29
Second Round Trip...................................  24
Seniority and Sendee..................................5
Severance Pay.........................................26
Shift Worker- Definition............................  14
Subletting............................................36
Summer Hire Rate....................................  18
Team Principles.......................................4
Temporary Change in Schedule........................  23
Temporary Employee Rate...............................18
Termination of Agreement..,.........................  37
Transfer Procedure....................................7
Transfer ■ Involuntary................................21
Transfer - Voluntary..................................20
Travel and Work Outside of	Mill.......................17
Tuition Reimbursement..............................   35
Union Shop........................................    36
Vacation Policy.....................................  29
Eligibility.................................29
Pay.........................................30
Administration..—...........................30
Voluntary Business Meetings..............;..........  16
Weekly Work Schedules................................ 15
Work on Scheduled Day Off	- Pay..,.,..................25
47
2000
January
5	M	T	W	T	F	S
1
2	3	4	5	6	7	$
9	10	u	U	13	14	!5
16	17	IS	19	20	21	21
23	24	25	26	Z?	28	29
1Q 31
July
S	M	T	W	T	F	8
1
Z	3	4	S	6	J	«
9	10	11	U	B	14	15
18	17	IS	19	20	21	22
13	24	25	2*	27	28	29
30 JI
February
S	M	T	W	T	F	S
113	4	5
6	7	6	9	W	11	12
11	14	U	16	17	18	19
20	Zl	22	23	24	25	28
27	28	29
August
S	M	T	W	T	F	S
1	2	3	4	5
6	7	8	9	10	11	IZ
13	M	15	16	17	IB	19
20	21	22	13	24	Z5	26
2?	28	29	30	31
March
8	M	T	W	T	F	S
12	3	4
5	6	7	8	9	10	11
13	[J	14	15	16	17	18
19	20	21	22	21	24	25
26	27	28	29	30	31
September
8	M	T	W	T	F	S
I 2
3	4	5	6	7	8	9
10	I]	LZ	13	14	15
17	IB	19	20	21	22
24	25	26	27	28	29
8BS
April
S	M	T	w	T	F	S
1
2	3	4	5	6	7	8
9	10	11	12	□	14	15
16	17	18	19	20	21	22
23	14	25	26	17	26	19
30
May
S	M	T	W	T	F	8
12	3	4	5	6
7	6	9	10	]1	12	13
14	15	16	17	18	19	20
21	22	23	24	25	26	27
28	29	30	31
October
S	M	T	W	T	F	S
1	2	3	4	5	6	7
8	9	10	II	12	13	14
15	16	17	U	19	20	21
22	23	24	25	26	27	28
29	30	31
November
S	M	T	W	T	F	S
12	3	4
5	6	7	6	9	10	U
13	13	14	15	16	17	18
19	20	21	22	23	24	25
26	27	28	29	30
June
8	M	T	W	T	F	S
I	2	3
4	5	6	7	6	9	10
H	12	B	14	15	16	11
18	19	20	21	22	23	24
23	26	27	28	29	30
December
S	M	T	W	T	F	S
1	2
3	4	5	6	7	8	9
10	U	12	13	14	15	16
17	18	19	20	21	22	23
24	25	26	27	28	29	30
31
2001
	January				July
8 M	T W T	F 3	3	M T	W T F 8
1	2 3 4	5	6	1	2 3	4 5 6 7
? 8	9	10 II	12 13	8	9 ID	LI 12 13 14
14 15	16 17 18	19 20	15	16 1?	18 19 20 21
21 22	23 24 25	26 27	22	2J 24	25 26 27 28
28 29	3O 31		29	30 31	
	February			August	
S M	T W T	F S	S	M T	W T F 8
	1	2	3			t 13	4
4	3	6 7 a	9	10	5	6	7	8	9	10 11
11 12	13 14 15	16 17	12	13 14	15 16 17 18
IS 19	20 21 22	23 24	19	20 21	22 23 24 25
29 26	27 28		26	27 28	29 30 31
	March			September	
S M	T W T	F S	S	M T	W T F S
	J	2	3			1
4	5	6	7	8	9	10	2	3	4	5	6	3	8
11 12	13 14 15	16 17	9	10 11	12 13 14 15
18 19	20 21 22	23 24	16	17 U	19 20 21 22
15 26	27 28 39	30 3L	23	W is	26 27 28 Z9
			30		
	April			October	
S M	T W T	F S	3	M T	W T F S
1 2	3	4	5	6	7		1 2	3	4	5	6
8	9	JO JI J2	13 14	7	8 9	JO 11 12 U
15 16	17 18 J?	20 21	14	15 16	17 IB 19 20
22 23	24 25 26	27 28	21	22 23	14 25 26 27
29 30			28	29 30	31
	May			November	
8 M	T W T	F 3	S	M T	W T F 3
	1	2	3	4	5		2	3	113	4
6	7	8	9	10	11 12	5	6	7	8	9	10 11
13 14	15 16 L7	LB 19	12	13 14	15 16 17 18
20 21	22 Z3 24	25 26	19	20 21	22 23 24 25
27 28	29 30 JI		26	27 28	29 30
	June			December	
S M	T W T	F S	S	M T	W T F S
		1	2			1
3	4	5	6	7	a 9	2	3 4	5 6	7	8
1	10 H	12 13 14	15 16	9	10 JI	12 13 J4 J5
[	17 18	19 W 21	22 23	16	17 18	19 20 21 22
|	24 25	26 27 18	19 30	23	24 25	26 27 26 29
			30	JI	
2002
	January					July	
£ M	T	W T	F	S	S	M T W T F	8
	1	2	3	4	5		1	2	3	4	5	6
6	7	8	9	10	11	12	7	8	9	10 11 12	n
13 14	15	16 17	18	19	14	15 16 17 M 19	20
ZC 21	22	23 24	25	26	21	U 23 24 Z5 26	27
27 28	29	30 31			28	29 30 31	
	February					August	
S M	T	w r	F	S	5	M T W T F	$
			1	2		1	2	3
3	4	5	6	7	8	9	4	5	6	7	8	9	10
10 H	12	B U	15	16	11	12 B 14 B 16	11
17 18	19	20 21	22	23	18	19 20 21 22 23	24
24 25	26	27 26			25	26 27 28 29 30	31
		March				September	
S M	T	w r	F	S	S	M T W T F	8
			1	2	1	2	3	4	5	6	7
3	4	5	6	7	8	9	8	9	10 ri n 13	14
10 li	ta	13 14	15	16	15	16 17 18 19 20	21
17 18	19	20 21	22	23	22	23 24 25 26 27	285
24 25	26	27 28	29	30	29	30	
31							
		April				October	
S M	T	W T	F	S	S	M. T W T F	S
1	2	3	4	5	6		12	3	4	5
7	8	9	IP 11	12	13	6	7	6	9 IO H	12
14 IS	16	17 18	19	20	13	14 B 16 17 18	19
21 22	23	24 25	26	27	10	21 22 23 24 25	26
28 29	30				2?	28 29 30 31	
		May				'November	
S M	T	W T	F	S	S	M T W T F	8
		]	2	3	4		1	2
5 6	7	8	9	10	11	3	4	5	6	7	8	9
12 13	14	15 16	17	18	10	Ll 12 13 14 15	16
19 20	21	22 23	24	25	17	18 19 20 21 22	23
26 27	28	29 30	31		24	25 26 27 28 39	30
		June				December	
S M	T	W T	F	8	8	M T W T F	S
				1	1	2	3	4	5	6	7
2	3	4	5	6	7	a	8	9	10 11 U 13	14
9 tO	11	12 13	14	15	15	16 17 18 19 20	21
16 17	18	19 20	21	22	22	23 24 25 26 27	28
23 24	25	36 27	28	29	29	30 31	
30							
2003
^January
S	M	T	W	T	F	S
12	3	4
5	6	7	8	9	10	11
11	13	14	15	16	17	18
f9	20	21	22	23	24	23
26	27	JB	29	to	31
July
S	M	T	W	T	F	S
12	3	4	5
6	7	5	9	10	11	11
13	14	15	16	17	18	19
20	21	22	23	24	25	26
27	2B	M	30	21
February
3	M	T	W	T	F	S
i
2	3	4	4	6	7	8
9	10	11	12	13	14	15
16	17	18	19	20	21	22
23	24	25	26	27	28
March
3	M	T	W	T	F	8
I
2	3	4	4	6	7	8
9	10	11	12	13	14	25
16	17	16	19	20	21	22
23	24	«	26	27	28	29
30	31
April
5	M	T	W	T	F	S
12	3	4	5
6	7	8	9	10	11	12
[J	14	15	16	17	ft	19
20	21	22	23	24	25	2*
27	28	29	30
AUBJUM
3	M	T	W	T	F	S
1	2
3	4	3	6	7	8	9
10	II	12	13	14	15	16
17	18	19	20	21	22	23
24	25	26	2?	28	29	30
31
September
S	M	T	W	T	F	S
12)4	56
7	8	9	IO	H	12	13
14	15	16	17	18	19	20
21	22	23	24	25	26	21
26	29	30
October
s	m	t	w	t	F	s
12	3	4
5	6	7	8	9	10	11
12	13	14	15	M	1?	18
19	20	21	22	23	24	23
26	27	28	29	30	31
May
S	M	T	W	T	F	S
1	2	3
4	5	6	7	8	9	W
if	12	i3	14	IS	16	17
18	19	M	21	22	23	24
23	26	27	28	29	30	31
June
S	M	T	W	T	F	8
12	3	4	5 6	7
8	9	10	11	12	13	14
15	16	17	18	19	20	21
22	23	24	23	26	27	28
29 30
November
S	M	T	W	T	F	S
1
2	3	4	5	6	7	8
9	10	11	12	13	14	15
16	17	18	19	20	21	22
23	24	15	26	27	28	29
30
December
S	M	T	W	T	F	S
J 2	3	4	5 6
7	8	9	10	11	12	13
14	15	16	17	18	19	20
21	22	23	24	25	26	27
28	29	30	31
2004
January
S	M	T	W	T	F	$
I	2	3
4	5	6	7	3	9	10
JI	12	13	H	15	16	17
IB	19	20	2t	22	23	24
25	26	27	28	29	36	31
Jufv *
S	M	T	w	T	F	S
- E	2	3
4	5	6	7	8	9	It)
11	12	13	14	15	16	17
IB	19	20	21	22	23	24
25	26	27	18	»	30	31
February
S	M	T	W	T	F	S
12	3	4	5	6	7
8	9	10	11	12	!3	14
15	16	17	18	19	30	21
22	23	24	35	26	27	28
29
August
3	M	T	W	T	F	S
13	3	4	5	6	7
8	9	10	11	12	13	14
15	16	17	18	19	20	21
23	23	24	25	26	2?	28
29	30	31
March
S	M	T	W	T	F	S
12	3	4	5	6
7	8	9	10	11	12	13
14	15	16	17	18	19	20
21	22	23	24	25	26	27
28	29	30	31
April
$	M	T	W	T	F	S
1	2	3
4	5	6	7	8	9	W
tl	13	13	14	15	16	17
IS	19	20	21	22	23	24
25	26	27	28	29	30
September
S	M	T	W	T	F	5
12	3	4
5	6	7	B	9	10	11
12	13	14	15	16	17	16
(9	20	21	22	23	24	25
26	27	28	29	30
October ”
S	M	T	w	r	F	s
1	2
3	4	5	6	7	8	9
IP	11	12	13	14	15	16
17	18	>9	30	21	22	23
24	25	26	2?	28	29	30
31
May
8	M	T	W	T	F	S
1
2	3	4	5	6	7	8
9	10	n	u	u	14	15
16	17	18	19	20	21	22
23	34	25	25	27	28	29
30 31
June
S	M	T	VZ	T	F	S
1	2	3	4	5
6	7	8	9	10	JI	12
13	J4	15	16	17	IB	19
M	21	22	13	M	25	26
27	28	29	30
November
S	M	T	W	T	F	5
1	Z	3	4	5	6
7	8	9	W	11	11	13
14	15	f6	17	18	19	20
21	22	23	24	25	26	27
28	29	30
December
S	M	T	W	T	F	S
12	3	4
5	6	7	8	9	10	JI
12	13	14	15	16	17	18
19	W	21	li	13	24	15
M	27	18	29	M	31
2005
January
5 M	T	W	T	F	S
1 2*	4	5	6	7	*
9	W	1]	12	13	14	B
16	17	LB	19	20	11	21
13	24	25	M	27	28	29
30 31
February
S	M	T	W	T	F	s
I	2	J	4	5
6	7	6	9	10	tt	12
13	14	B	16	1?	I*	19
20	21	22	23	24	25	26
27 »
July
S	M	T	W	T	F	s
I 2
3	4	5	6	7	8	9
10	II	U	B	14	15	16
17	18	19	20	21	22
24	25	26	17	28	29
31
BE
AugusC
S	M	T	W	T	F	S
t	2	J	4	5	6
7	8	9	10	11	12	13
14	15	16	17	18	19	20
21	22	23	24	25	26	27
28	29	30	3J
March
S	M	T	W	T	T	S
1	2	3	4	5
6	7	8	9	10	11	12
U	14	15	16	17	IB	19
20	21	22	23	14	25	26
27	28	29	30	31
September
S	M	T	W	T	F	S
1	2	3
4	5	6	7	8	9	10
11	U	13	14	15	16	1?
18	19	30	21	22	23	24
35	26	27	28	29	30
April
5	M	T	W	T	F	S
I 2
3	4	5	6	7	8	9
W	!1	12	IJ	14	15	16
17	IS	19	20	21	22	33
24	25	26	27	38	29	30
October
S M T WT F S 1
2	3	4	5	6	7	8
9	10	J1	12	J3	14	15
16	17	18	19	20	21	U
23	24	25	26	27	28	29
30 31
May
S	M	T	W	T	F	8
12	3'4567
8	9	10	11	U	13	14
15	16	17	18	19	20	21
22	23	24	25	26	27	28
29	JC	31
June
S	M	T	W	T	F	5
12 3	4
5	6	7	6	9	10	11
12	13	14	15	16	17	18
19	20	21	21	23	24	25
M	27	28	29	30
November
8	M	T	W	T	F	S
12	3	4	9
6	7	8	9	10	H	12
13	14	15	16	17	IB	19
20	21	22	23	14	25	36
27	28	29	30
December
S	M	T	W	T	F	S
1	2	3
4	5	6	7	8	9	10
11	12	13	14	13	16	L7
1?	18	20	21	22	33	24
25	26	17	28	29	30	31