K Hso j^OO Mrifa/itJ
AGREEMENT
between
AGC/CCIA BUILDING CONTRACTORS LABOR DIVISION OF CONNECTICUT, INC.
and
CONNECTICUT LABORERS' DISTRICT COUNCIL
of the
LABORERS' INTERNATIONAL UNION OF NORTH AMERICA
AFL-CIO
BUILDING AGREEMENT
APRIL 1, 2002 through MARCH 31, 2005
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ARTICLE TITLE	PAGE
Preamble	1
Protection of Rights	1
I	Territorial Jurisdictions of Local Unions	2
n	Union Recognition, Union Security and Employment	2
III	Wage - Hours - Classifications - Shifts	4
IV	Holidays	8
V	Coverage and Description of Laborers Work	8
VI	Heaters	9
VII	Reporting Time Pay	10
VIH	Conditions of Agreement	11
IX	Business Manager, Field Representatives, Stewards, Foreman	12
X	Fringe Benefit Funds	13
XI	Dues Check-Off and Payroll Deduction	15
XII	Association Program	17
XIII	Several Liability	18
XIV	Procedure and Adjustment of Disputes	18
XV	Construction Manager	20
XVI	Duration of Agreement	21
Letter of Understanding	22
Market Recovery Agreement	22
Schedule I	23
Appendix "A"	25
Index	32
THIS AGREEMENT is made and entered into on this 1st day of April, 2002 by and between AGC/CCIA BUILDING CONTRACTORS LABOR DIVISION OF CONNECTICUT, INC. referred to hereinafter as the "Association", acting for and in behalf of and under the authority of its members whose names appear on Schedule "I" and any other member joining said Association during the term of this Agreement it is authorized and has agreed to represent and such other Building Contractors who execute an Acceptance of the Terms and Provisions of this Agreement, hereinafter referred to as the "Employer"'; and the CONNECTICUT LABORERS DISTRICT COUNCIL, hereinafter referred to as the "UNION", acting for and in behalf of Local Union No. 56, Greenwich; 146, Norwalk; 230, Hartford; 390, Waterbury; 449, Stamford; 455, New Haven; 547, New London; 611, New Britain; 665, Bridgeport; and 675, Danbury and their successors and assigns, each of which is hereinafter referred to as the "Local Union" or "Unions". The Council and the Local Union or Unions shall be collectively referred to herein as the "Union".
PREAMBLE
The purpose of the Agreement is to determine the hours, wages, fringes and other conditions of employment, and to adopt measures for the settlement of differences and maintaining a cooperative relationship so that the contractors may have sufficient capable workers and the workers may have as much continuous employment as possible, without interruption by strikes, lockouts, or other labor-management troubles.
PROTECTION OF RIGHTS
There shall be no discrimination against any employee by reason of age, race, creed, color, sex, national origin, disabilities and reasonable accommodation to disabilities under the American with Disabilities Act and union or concerted activities, or membership or non-membership in the Union. The Employer will employ and use all means of safety for the protection of the employees in compliance with the health and safety regulations in accordance with applicable Federal and State Laws. The Employer may decline to arbitrate grievances dealing with the above matters, unless the parties and the employee(s) enter into an agreement which provides: (1) that the Employer shall not discriminate; (2) that statutory issues are covered by this Agreement and will be arbitrated; and (3) that employee(s) are waiving their right to go to an administrative agency or court and further, this agreement results in the arbitration hearing being final and binding.
1
■ ARTICLE I '
TERRITORIAL JURISDICTIONS OF LOCAL ''-UNIONS '	-
This Agreement shall apply to and be effective within all areas of the State of Connecticut. Territorial Jurisdiction of Local Unions ate as follows:
Local Union 56. Greenwich, Connecticut'	'
Greenwich	'	.t..-..;:--.-4
Local Union 146. Norwalk. Connecticut
Norwalk, Westport,'Wilton and Weston "
Local Union 230 Hartford Connecticut '
Tolland, Windham and Hartford Counties (with the exception of Berlin, East Berlin, 'Bristol, Kensington, Forestville, Milldale, New Britain, Newington, Plainville, Plahtsville, Rocky Hill and Southington)
Local Union 390. Waterbury, Connecticut
Waterbury, Wolcott, Prospect, Middlebury, Watertown, Cheshire, Beacon Falls, Thomaston; Woodbury, Southbury, Terryville^ Roxbury, Oxford, Naugatuck
Local Union 449. Stamford. Connecticut
Stamford, Darien and New Canaan
Local Union 455. New Haven; Connecticut
New Haven, West Haven, East Haven, North Haven, Derby, Ansonia, Seymour, Woodbridge, Bethany, Orange, Hamden, Branford, North Branford, Madison, Guilford, Northford, Meriden, Wallingford, Yalesville
Local Union 547. New London'Connecticut
New London, Waterford, East’Lyme, Old Lyme, Lyme, Ivoryton, Old Saybrook, Westbrook, Essex, Deep River, Chester, Salem, Montville, Groton, Stonington, Pawcatuck, and Fishers Island, New York, Norwich, Taftville, Occum, Baltic, Versailes, Plainfield, Moosup, Wauregan, Voluntown, Central'Village; Colchester, Jewitt City, Lebanon, North Stonington, Yantic, Franklin, Canterbury
1 Local Union 611 New Britain, Connecticut - ;
New Britain, Basham, Berlin, Bristol, Clinton; Cobalt, Cromwell, Durham, East Haddam, East Hampton, Forestville,Haddam,> Haddam Neck, Higganum, -Killingworth,'Kensington, Little Haddam, Middlefield, ‘ North ? Plain,' Plainville, Portland, Rocky Hill, .
■ Southington; Middle Haddam, Middletown, Millington,
: • • ■'Milldale, Moodus,Newington ’	. >
- LOcal Union 665; Bridgeport, Connecticut < ■ - Bridgeport; - Fairfield, Southport, Easton, Trumbull, iMbirroe,'Stratford, Devon, Newtown, Shelton, Milford
Local Union 675 Danbury Connecticut
■ Danbury, Bethel, New -Milford, Bfookfield, b -Bridgewater,' -New Fairfield, < Sherman; Redding,
Ridgefield, Georgetown, West1 Redding, Torrington, Harwinton, Litchfield, Morris, Bethlehem, Washington, Warren, Sharon, Cornwall, Goshen,-New Hartford, Barkhamsted,'Winchester, Norfolk, Canaan, Salisbury, North Canaan, Colebrook, Lakeville, Kent, Winsted
< ARTICLE II
' * UNION RECOGNITION, UNION SECURITY AND EMPLOYMENT
SECTION 1.	The Employer hereby recognizes and acknowledges that the Union is the exclusive - representative of all employees in the classifications and categories of work Covered by this Agreement for ■’ thepurpbse of Collective Bargaining as provided by the
Labor-Management Relations Act of 1947, as amended.
SECTION 2.	All present employees who are members of the Union on the effective date of this Agreement - shall remain members in good standing by the payment ’ 'Of their: regular' monthly dues-as,:a condition of .	Continued employment; All present employees who are
; 11 ndt members of the Union and all employees who are ' hired hereafter for work ifi the classifications specified . ’ herein Shall bdcbme and remain members in good standing by tender of the'required initiation fee and regular monthly dties on the 8th day following the execution of this Agreement or the date of employment,
2
whichever js later,;and. ,shallvtb.ereaffer maintain. such
. good.st^dingfQy!i^t0^nrQffisrAgreeipeu^’'-3/
,	f;zsUUn i: LI /n.UL ''w-'-
SECTION 3.	Upon request of-written notice from the
• Union, the Emplpyershalldischargeanyempiloyee.who ‘ fails to. become or-is not a member of the;Unionon the .prescribed, day, provided membership was-available under the same terms.7and';Conditip.ns’; asfr-ggnerally applicable to other members. Further, all employees who fail to maintain their Union membership in good dues standing, shall b§. summarily.' discharged -bg the Employer. The Union agrees to indemnify and hold the U Employer harmless .from any claimr arising from, any discharge as provided herein.
um. - T-Uhf'-L.: ;u* Umi.
' SECTION 4. .."Membership in good standing" as referred to herein m§ans-rsplely the tender, or,payment
. of, normal dues and the standard initiation) fee. fl u
’■ rU jjucfri ,.;a m.4 U ifrw ’
- SECTION 5. -Should -the .presentFederal -Law be , amended during the{ term. of this Agreement to, allow compulsory membership in the Union on fee date of employment, or on any period less than eight (8) days from the commencement of employment, this clause is hereby automatically charged to include such amendments as, of feeieffectiye date of the law.
SECTION 6. The Local Union having jurisdiction shall i. , be recognized as the principal source of laborers and :., shall, be (given the first opportunity to- refer qualified : -.’applicants for employment, The Emplqyprishallfep the
■ sole judge as to whether or not the men furnished are qualified. ThnEmployerreseryestherighttofransfer or rehire laborers, provided that for those laborers rehired, the Employer shall notify the Union of the rehiring within forty-eight (48).feours of theydate. of rehiring.
3 ‘ . ;■ fr '■ - A /cAjfrfU m'1 -z, n ’ I %■’. 'io
J SECTION 7..Subcontracting: The-tEmptey^r-Sgrees ;-i > that,the wages, including heqlfe andjwelfareqpension, training, legal servipps jfimdvand^pfeer ppntributjons, hours and worJringrqppditigns-pfpvidedn&Ji Jhy this i.v Agreement shall encompass-fee gntirew9rk,ppy^-qd by f this Agreement, , thereby - applying equally tq r any subcontract let by the Employer-on ; work covered by
i thisAgreement atthe;siteofqnyjob-oo -Umm
v- r ■ 'As-. cj-ju "j-rm.m,Ar-'U
The Employer further agrees to refrain from doing business with any subcontractor for work to be done at ,<the, rsite jof a-:constructionj project. .covered;;by this
Agreement, except where such contractor subscribes and agrees in writing to be bound by this Agreement uignd.co;mpli?stw^th-all of fee terms apd;conditions of . this Agreement. . ■ ,
This segtiqm shqll, not, apply; to .. vendors furnishing material solely, or to any person furnishing trucking or transportation. GfJ:/■">	. ■
This Section 7 shall not apply to subcontractors who are bound by or parties to a collective bargaining agreement with .either the Laborers, International Union of North America, or, any,, of’• ijjsf.-:affiliates having jurisdiction in the State of Connecticut nor shall this Section 7 apply when .the work, jcoyered herein is -; awarded ferectly to. subcontractors, pursuant to a pre-, t- filed-or,assignedbitdprocedure, .	: —
■ SECTION 8. The parties agree; that there .shall be no circumvention of this Agreement.
SECTION 9.	In mo event -shall the Employer be required topay. higher rates of wagesmr fringe benefit contributions or be subject, to more unfavorable working rules than those established by the Union for any other employer engaged in similar work.
SECTION 10.	When an Employer hereunder engages in independent site .work, highway and heavy construction OJ5 other work covered under the, Heavy-Highway, -Tunnel-and Utility Agreement: by and , -between the Union and the Connecticut Construction ■ ,Industries,Association, ,Inc., he shall pay wages and fringe benefit contributions and shall abide by hours and working conditions provided in said Heavy-- Highway, Tunnel and Utility -Agreement	,
SECTION 11? Any -provision of this Agreement -, adjudged to .be unlawful by a court of competent - jindsdiptioir-shall/be null and ..void, -but all. other ; provisions of this- Agreement shall continue, in full
force and, effect for the term of this Agreement. ;
SECTION 12. When a contractor has a contract of more than $2,000,000 on a construction project, he shall call the District Council to determine whether a
3
pre-job conference should be scheduled and to notify the District Council of the follo wing information:
(a)	Location of job site; :	; ~	;
(b)	Approximate starting date and duration;
(c)	Type of job;
(d)	Approximate manpower requirements. C
(e)	Subcontractors '	.
The Union may elect to accept a telephone call as a prejob conference or it may require a pre-job conference meeting to be held at a mutually 1	\ C
agreeable time and place > to ^discuss the anticipated hiring procedures, Work assignments, shift work, safety, health hazards and accident prevention. c
SECTION 13; Joint Venture: If and when the .. : employer performs any job site construction work of the type covered by this agreement with:another, corporation, company, partnership, or any other entity in a joint venture, wherein the employer has either directly or indirectly any significant degree of . ■ ownership, management or control, the terms and conditions of this agreement shall be applicable to. all such work and to the joint venture as a signatory ; employer. ■ ' '	■ ■■■'■ • - i.
ARTICLE III
■ WAGES - HOURS CLASSIFICATIONS ■ ■ ■ ' SHIFTS '
SECTION 1. The regular straight time hourly rate of pay for employees covered under this Agreement shall be as follows:
Classifications and Wage Rates
Laborers
Carpenter Tenders ;
Wrecking Laborers
Fire Watchers
4/1/02	-3/31/03	$20.75
4/1/03	-3/31704	$21.75
4/1/04	-3/31/05	$22.75
Should there b e need to increase the rate of contribution payable to the health and/or pension benefit funds
provided for in ARTICLE X, . Section L of this Agreement during the term of this Agreement, the appropriate regular straight time hourly rate ;of pay
C provided in this Article III, Section 1 above shall be -reduced by such amount and the appropriate health '; and/or pension benefit fund contribution rate provided in ARTICLE X, Section 1, of this Agreement shall be ■ increased by such amount after adequate time for notice to Employers. The parties agree to execute amendments to this agreement to accomplish the objectives of this
c .paragraph should the need arise.:.	; ■<
SECTION 1 a. For all non-prevailing rate work, there : shall be a rate for clean.up work available only to ; general contractors and contract managers.of $11.75
> per hour; Effective April I,2000 the rate shall increase to $12.75. Effective April.!, 2001, the rate shall increase to $13.75.	.	;	■
SECTION 1 bi It is agreed .and understood that the practice and usage of “traffic control signalman” by each individual employer shall continue to prevail. Any laborer “traffic control signalman” covered by the agreement shall be paid a minimum, hourly rate of $13.00 per hour, 4/1/02-3/31/03; $14.00 per hour 4/01/03-3/31/04, $15.00<perhour, 4/01/04-3/31/05.
SECTION 2. The rate to be paid for intermediate classifications shall be as follows. The amounts indicated shall be the amounts to be paid per hour, over and above the basic wage rate referred to above:
Mortar Mixer, Pipelayers*, Plaster Tenders, Power Buggy Operators, Powdermen, **Fireproofer/
Mixer/Nozzleman r.	;	$0.25
Jack Hammer operator.:	$0.50
Mason Tenders/Forklift Operators (Masonry) $0.50
Licensed Pipelayer* P6-P7 License	$0.85
Forklift Qperator (Mas.onryL<	: x $0.50.
> T*The>pipelayef rate shall .apply only.to the one (1) or ? two (2) employees of the total crew, whose primary task : tis1 toactually perform the mating of pipe sections.
’ **Solely the employee running the mixer and spraying file; fireproofing. , ; >
4
Air Track Operators- Sand’BilasferS'-i -;n mb; .'4k(75
:S‘	0 'p';-.:/ A’ '"fn'-.ir
'Nuclear,-Toxic Waste*	Reino vers, ■’> imm s
Blasters - > :A;x • .-X ?j'J ni b.-;.r'.$3:00
‘ r - v ■; k ; A '-r::- r.yd b‘y:. vm
Asbestos and Lead Removal1 - 1 " r m; r; ■ §1,00
-V F <-• 1 ■ ., i i?'... <i .1 -I ' .1 s .A I-’
Nuclear Supervisor'-' j‘1 •' nr mm - . m25%over baserate • :	;',p' .-m . . Am;,^-/(Ar/A
- ■■ • ■' V; ' • • ' ' i 1.flhXX-’ ■/)	' A 0)
Asbestos Foreman i ! . ■ -■ „ ti< m mm2P%qver base rate
;	; ■■ 7^' ” A (A ■ q-fr : rk .7j..<-'-0LA;:m
*** "Toxic waste"' is defined to mean substances requiring the employees to Wear-OSH A level A, Ror C ■ personal protection and" for 'which training ' and a ■■ i? certificate is hecessary.: aft does not include'handling
contaminated materials.	> s
SECTION 3- -Open AirGaisson.CvlindricalWorkand
Boriiig-Grew:	- '- m”	■-	-A-. -
Classifications and Wage Rates.1;> i
Bottom Men ; < m ;	m
' 4/1/02-3/31/03 A 4/1/03-3/31/04 4/1/04-3/31/05	; ; $2L25.	' ' ' ' ■ v. $22.25 ' A. A.	a •' $23.25
- . Top Men 4/1/02-3/31/03 4/1703-3/31/04 4/1/04-3/31/05	$20.75	' . ... A A W ' $21.75 H-.h'; •.• - A $22.75 ■ , -	‘	’	'A	, j	t	1 - '	'
Foremen 4/1/02-3/31/03 ' 4/1/03-3/31/04 t-; 4/1/04-3/31/05;	'	- V .	• '	... $23.25 mA a A.;. — $24.257.;;,.;o mnmA ;A: /-$25;25.<- A.	A
'-’ y ;l>1	s~'’ 1“" ।i>_i
SECTION 4. Nothing herein Shall be construed as a
guarantee of the number of hours of work per day or the number' of days; of work'per week. Fortyj(40)’ hours shall constitute' 'ar regulat work .week; pightk(S)\iiours shall constitute a regular work day,.starting time' 6ia.m. to 8 a.m. on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday, The Local Union shall be notifiedwhen work is to be performed on Saturdays^ Sundays, and holidays. An unpaid lunch shall fall between one hour
(' before and one hour after the midpoint b.f the. shift. If work is providedTor any craft thattraditionally works with laborers, then laborers will be employed in appropriate amounts, at the contractor’s;discretion.
y. t. r 3.7 L m mm /.m
SECTION 4(a) The Employer shall h&vethe option of scheduling.four (4) ten (lO) houri'daysin a week at the regular rate of pay and the overtimerate of time and one-half shall be paid only for work over ten (10) hours ■■ in .a day and forty ,(40) hours in the-week, provided the : 'employer, obtains-; approvalfor the,., schedule -from the
Local Union that has jurisdiction io ver the jobDouble '.-.time shall be paid-for all .work performed on Sundays
'and Holidays. Saturday shall be a time and one-half day, except, that if work, is not performed on one or more days, Monday through Friday, because of inclement' weather or other' conditions beyond the control of the Employer, work on Saturday shall be at the straight' time. rate. The provisions of .the j. govemmenfe-owner restrictions and marketrecovery, if theyiapply, shall take precedencemver this.section of the Agreement. . ■ ...•••
' SECTION 5. When two. (2) or mote, shifts are used, they, shall continue for at. least five (5)' consecutive regular work days. The first shift shall be eight (8) hours, and the second and third shifts shall be seven (7) hours each, and eight (8) hours pay at the regular straight-time rate shallbe'received for each shift. When Working on Sufldays and holidays, the first shift shall work eight (8) hours and receive sixteen (16) hours pay at the straight-time rate and the second and third shifts shall work seven (7) hours each and receive sixteen ! . (16) hours pay at the straight-time rate. A shift which begins at or after 12 midnight Sunday, shall be considered the third shift.
SECTION 6. Overtime - Employees shall be paid one and one-half times the straight time hourly rate of pay (time and one-half) for time worked:., ; -
(1) in excess of eight;(8) hours on any regular work day and before regular starting and after regular quitting times;	..-A.	'
ci ;(2)’in, excess’of seven (7) hours on a,second, or third shift on regular work days; / -	, : :-
5
(3)	on Saturdays. Saturday shall bea tiihe and one-half day, except that if work is not performed on one or more days, -Monday through Friday, because of inclement Weather or other-conditions beyond the control of the Employer, work on Saturday shall be at the straight time rate. The provisions of Article III, Section 11, government-owner restrictions and the provisions of the Market Recovery Agreement, if they apply, shall take precedence over this section and all other sections of the Agreement.
(4)	Employees shall be paid the overtime rate of two times their regular shaiglit time rate of pay (double time) for time worked on Sundays and holidays.
SECTION 7.	Overtime: When Masons, Finishers, Carpenters and other building and construction crafts normally tended by laborers are employed on overtime work, an appropriate number of laborers (not less than one) shall also be employed if there is any laborers' work to be done.
SECTION 8.	During the morning working hours, at a time selected by the Employer, one or more laborer employees designated by the Laborer Foreman shall obtain coffee for each laborer. This privilege shall not be abused.
SECTION 9.	The wages set forth in this Agreement that are in effect'at the time when bids for jobs are submitted by the Employer' are the wage rates which shall remain and continue' in effect throughout the duration of the entire job, notwithstanding the provisions contained in Article XV hereof relative to the termination date of this Agreement, or any other terms of provision of this Agreement, or the provision contained in any successor Agreement.
The provisions of this Section 9 shall become effective only if and when a similar provision is entered into between the Association and'IUOE Local Union No.
478, the Connecticut State Council ‘ of the United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of America, and the Construction Division of Teamsters Joint Council No. 64 of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, or their successors or assigns.
SECTION 10.	Laborers performing work at a nuclear site or-fossil? fuel -plant ; under, an International Maintenance Agreement providing for less than; the full _ hourly wage rate established in this Agreement shall be paidj the wage increase negotiated ; herein as an additional Annuity Fund contribution for the term of their employment. .	?
SECTION 11.	With respect to jobs bid before April 1,2002, the wage carryover rate shall be at the -.'.$19,75 minimum rate. The wage .rate for jobs hid , prior to April 1,2002; stays,.at the .,$.19.75,rate until March 31,-2003 or when the job ends,-whichever is sooner.	?■	j
With'respect to prevailing rate jobs .bid on and after > April 1,2002,. the minimum; hourly wage rates shall be the wage rates set forth in the wage determination in the construction contract, which rates shall : ; continue in effect for one year beyond the expiration of the wage rates in this .agreement at the time the work starts. With respect to non-prevailing rate jobs bid on and after April ! , 2002, the minimum hourly wage rates that shall remain and continue in effect shall be the wage rates used to bid, which rates shall continue in effect for one year beyond the expiration of the wage rates in this Agreement at the time the work starts.
SECTION 12(a), Government Owner. On projects csubject'to a government agency’s or railroad’s prohibition, limitation or restriction of the-times and ; days i when work may be performed, the Employer ! may schedule work .in . accordance therewith and ? employees shall, be paid at the straight time rate for ' . the first forty hours of work performed in a week or -eight hours in : a day and time and one-half for hours , of work over (40) forty performed in a week or eight 8 hours in a day, regardless of thetimeof.the day or * i the pay of the week oh which.the, work is performed.
A make-up day may. be worked with mutual consent.
. .Consent shall not be unreasonably withheld. On ■ Building work, prior to the startof die work involving a prohibition, limitation or restriction, the Employer will .give notification and relevant documentation to the Union of the prohibition,
6
limitation or restriction.
U.!	gX. r ,1	■xkO-TJxxx
SECTION 12(b);--Private Owners Onprojects t.a where the bid documents-require the contractor to work hours other than the regdlar work hours setc • ■ forth in this agreement; employees maybe.aSsigned, with notification'Of the Union by the Employer; to. work these hours at eight (8) hours straight time^. If the restrictions are not in the bid documents the employer shall be-able to Work these houtsKitfifhU? mutual consents Consent-shalinotibe unreasonably withheld; There: shall be'no make-up days;; Fouri ten (10) hour days' fries a inake-upiday may be assigned, with'themutual OOttSent of theUnidn !aiid the’x;C Employer. Prior to the start of the work involving a prohibition, limitation or restriction, the Employer Will give notificatiomandyreleVant documentation to the UniOn"of the prohibition; limitation brrestriction.
■- (-xe x	-r? x njU ■ ■ ■■	k •• ■'
:r.;■’ x -'i jo xU xj. /■' x.
-The-provisions Of; Section'4 of- Article- HI'.of this Agreement, so far as it pertains to starting and quitting times and lunch breaks, shall'not' apply- where a governmental agency's' prohibition^ r limitation, or restriction of the Work tobe performed interferes with the starting time Or the regular work day based on the starting time, in whichevent the starting time shall be determinedby the Employer based on said prohibition, limitation, or restriction.
' Section 13. -Apprentice Program:	x F ix x J,
a. New applicants for membership; whO'cannot ' - provide reasonable proof of 4,000 ormore hoUrsof employment as a construction Craft
- Laborer (or, alternatively, cannot demonstrate equivalent skills in a piaceihent examination administered by the Jo int! Apprenticeship’and "	Training Committee^!ATC) shall;, whenever
,	possible-onterthe.Appfenticeship Program.
Any person entering by failing to maintain andCompldte'hisior her Apprenticeship.shall not be employed by the'EmplPyer-asia ■ /. Journey Worker under this Agreement. .The failure5 df any Apprentice -to maintain his' or her Apprenticeship status shall obligate the ' Employer to discharge suchperson -uippn' i - notice form the Union. ‘■ r•- so
o .i b... . The Apprenticeship and Training Standards
•; c •. • r ,i ' ( approved by .the Bureau Of Apprenticeship.
: -. - r-.... arid Training^onnectinut department of
■J ; ~	Labor am;herebyincorporatedby reference as
.; apart of this Agreement.-i ■
X.	q ---ri t;„;x.:	-
• , Ac. -The Apprentice wage rates;
, W l.Hoursof Credit ' Wage Rate -xi ■
■	;0-9.99	•'	60%;of Journey Worker
1,000-1,999	70 % of Journey Worker
■'-X "v o. -M	X; ; XX ’ ik - j ■:	■
U H ! ; > 2,000-2,999	80% of Journey Worker
3,000-3,999 90% of Journey Worker
over-4,000 Journey Worker
i.! -j ■: d. xThe-Empldyer may pay a higher rate, at its option.-However; the Apprentice must meet his or her commitments to the Joint Apprenticeship Committee regardless of the level being paid. -c .
'■	''' "■'! '■ ■■'■ ■■■'■ ,	. X v !C ■ .. 'X ’X. X "
■ :■ . . e.The Employer shall pay an. Apprentice the full ■’ ,x fiinge benefit package; as described in this contract.
u. x u f, -: Entry into the Apprenticeship.Program, shall
< ■ c : be Controlled by the JATC^which shall .
-	. employ appropriate testing; and screening
x y procedures. An Apprentice advances from . . . one hours-of-credit and wage-rate category to x ,x ' ■ another only upon determination of
x - satisfactory performance by the JATC, which । k x- x ■ . shall ..have the authority to grant accel erated credit where warranted by the performance of an individual apprentice.
< > tx	. g. On or before January 1,2004, the employer
x\: .; shall participate in the> Apprenticeship
b >; i - J.1 : :Program by accepting apprentices for \
5 i.r x .employment upon referral by the Union. The , xx J. : x employer ismot obligated To accept more than
■ x ■. x . : one (1) apprentice for every (5) journey;; workers commencing with the sixth laborer
7
employed per job site. -	' :
h.	The Employer may' not employ an Apprentice until'at least one Journey Worker is employed and thereafter may riot employ more than one (1) Apprentice for every additional three (3) Journey Workers.	r o
i.	An Apprentice should whenever possible, be rotated by the Employer through different types or work so as to become trained in a z variety of operations and work skills. Where the Employer is unable to provide an Apprentice with experience in the full range of Craft skills, the J ATC may request the. ' Local Union to reassign the Apprentice tb other employment in order tb provide that experience. For so long as the Employer is able tb provide the necessary range of employment experience, the'Employer may
. choose tb retairi the apprentice from job to job but shall not notify the Local Union and'*' JATC of all reassignments..	-	■ u
j.	An Apprentice shall not work on the jobsite unless supervised by a Journey Worker.
k.	An Apprentice shall not be penalized for taking off from work to attend offsite training (though time off for training is unpaid).
1.	It is the intent of the parties that this provision will not result in the displacement of Journey Workers.
ARTICLE IV HOLIDAYS
SECTION 1. Employees covered hereunder shall be entitled to take the following days off without pay: New Year's Day; Good Friday; Memorial Day; Independence Day; Labor Day; Thanksgiving Day;5 and Christmas Day. In the event a holiday falls on a Sunday, the following Monday will be observed as that holiday.
■ o J: ARTICLE V. -
COVERAGE AND DESCRIPTION OE } LABORERS WORK
j Section U: Laborers' work shall -include but not be limited to: all building Laborers': work necessary to tend the carpenters, such as unloading,, handling, and distribution of materials, and other building trades
! ^craftsmen, J alL clean up of. debris, grounds, and - buildings, and all General Laborers'work;.
: All Laborers'work in connection-with excavation for building for all other construction, including digging of trenches, piers, foundations, holes, caissons and
■ cofferdams. (This does not restrict the laborers from performing other work.) -s < A
All Laborers' work in connection with concrete work, 1 chipping, and grinding, mixing, handling,, shoveling, conveying, pouring, concrete pumps and similar type machines, grout pumps, nozzlemen, vibrating equipment, igniting.equipment and otherwise applying concrete whether done by hand or any other process; and wrecking, stripping, dismantling and handling concrete forms and false work. ,	. < ,
All Laborers' work in connection with excavation, grinding, preparation, concreting, asphalt and mastic paving, paving, ramming, curbingand flaggingof other stone materials.	;;'••• ; ■ -
- All Laborers' work in connection with the cutting of ■ holes, diggingof trenches, manholes, etc., handling and .. conveying of all materials for same/ concreting of same,-and the backfilling, grading and resurfacing of
- Same. J -J"
- All Laborers' work in construction of caissons, non-' metallic drains and Sewers, metallic drains and sewers, > - • any type of ' Conduit > and - cribbing, lagging, bracing,
! shbeting, trench j acking and handling of hand-guided • lagging hammers in open frenches, and ditches. .
8
All Laborers' work in connection with the shoring, underpinning and razing of all structures.
All Laborers' work .in donnfeCtion with drilling and loading, placing^, and blasting; 'of. all powder and explosives. . "j . LgJfUrtA '
All Laborers' workr in connection' with th© .slicing, handling and placing:of<all rip?r'ap,i rock and-i stbhe, retaining walls^orwhereverused.? ,? wxpjj ,;p
v :	w/ : ? wb;. k 'Ao
■All Laborers' wofkion.pre-castingorprefabricationyard at the constructionprojectidrte ^ori^atra^prercast prefabrication yard specifically established and i operated for that oneparticularconstruction job add in - Wrecking yard and1 wrecking work on construction.'
All Laborers' work in connection with the removal and disposal of asbestos, and the removal and; disposal of toxic waste.
All Laborers' wo'rk in connection with, the coringrand LsaWihg ofconerete. t n .	• w
. All Laborers'- - work tin 'connection; with the classifications of work set forth' in this Agreement.
The Employer further recognizes that the Union claims the work set forth in Appendix A attached hereto and •- made part hereof.	w’
-	^<5 11 ■■ : t? ‘ .w : ■....	■ ww urg
Section 2 Jurisdictional Dispute■ Procedure: y r:' ■ n„.
In the event a dispute involving jurisdiction arises; the disputing unions shall request the other union or unions involved to send' representatives to the job site to meet ' with representatives; of .the-Union and .the. employer to . settle the dispute. ■ .If unanimous iagreement including 1 the consent oU'theterpployerp'is not reached at the meeting, the Unions shall request their International Unions to assign a representative who shall make arrangements to i .nweto representedye$ i ofr thei Other International:^ Unitar .or-/Unions >. involved : > /and representativtes'of the Employee bn the job site torseek settlemerit of the dispute.. If the above procedure, or any Other mutually agreed, upon.procedure,-,fails to resolve the problem, then the Employer, at the request of the Union, agrees to participate in a tripartite
arbitration with all the disputing parties. Failure of any party to participate in said arbitration shall not prevent - the arbitration from proceeding* ^© impartial umpire . tojhear the dispute .shqll,-.be. selected in rotation from -,LarryiFpy,,MikdifWalsh and -Larry -Katz. Decisions rendered or-resolutions agreedtp by any of the above procedures shall be final, binding anti, conclusive on the Employer and the union parties. There shall be no ,strikes,picketing;; work stoppages,, slowdowns or lockout over -any jurisdictional-dispute; Apy alleged violation >; > of . this. agreement ■ involving disputes concerning Jurisdiction (.slaaJhnot bp >.-subject to the normal grievance ,qnd> arbitration process,,contained in Anticl©!. .V and shall- be- resolyed solely through the proc.ess.es .contained herein. The arbitrator shall determine jurisdiction based on industry practices, area practice, operational, efficiency and economy. In addition, the scope of the arbitration; shall be limited solely to the determination of jurisdiction .and any such decision or determination shall not-result in any rework, or double manningXi.e. requiring more employees than necessary to* perform the work). Nothing herein, however, shall prohibit the award, by the Arbitrator, of monetary damages.
■ . ARTICLE VI HEATERS
.When utilizing salamanders and other heaters within the jurisdiction of the Union: (1) Each such employer shall assign employees covered by this Agreement to :i service ''salamanders" in accordance with the following schedule;
Bulk Source
First Shift:
0 - men regardless of units in the System or the size of the System.
Secopd. and Third Shifts ;
. -il^.man regardless of the number of units.in the System . - . or the size, of the System.
Individual Units
9
All Shifts ■'..
0 - 5 units - 0 men >	< r
6-20 units - Iman ■ ■	...	:
21 - 35 units - 2 men 36 - 50 units - 3 men
each additional 15 units -1 man
""Individual Units" as set forth in the above schedule shall be defined as being fed by. a tank up to. one-hundred (100) pounds. •	/ ; :	;r
(2)	The Laborer, if any, assigned to service; the Bulk Source system shall be required to service and hook-up the individual units of the system at the beginning of and during its operation but shall not be assigned ,the work of repairing orinstalling the piping system as that work is assigned to other crafts.	T.
(3)	For the purpose of the work referred to above, Article III,- Section 5; of rthe Agreement shall be amended and interpreted to establish the following shift arrangement:
(a)	If salamanders or heating units referred .to above are to operate for seven (7) or more consecutive days, there shall be four six-hour shifts per day and any employee assigned to this work referred to above shall receive forty-four (44) hours pay at straight-time for forty-two (42) hours work. Each such employee shall be assigned to Work each day of the seven (or more) day schedule.
(b)	If salamanders or heating units referred to above are to operate for more than two (2) full days but. less; than seven (7) full days, then four six-hour shifts shall be established and employees so assigned shall be paid eight (8) hours pay for six (6) hours worked on the shift.
' ARTICLE VII ■ REPORTING TIME PAY
SECTION 1. After a person has been first hired and ordered to report to work at the regular starting time and no work is provided for him on the day that he is so ordered to report, he shall receive reporting time pay equivalent to two (2) hours at the regular straight-time
hourly rate. If the person has been working regularly, and the employer has failed to notify him not to report for work before leaving his residence, he shall be entitled to two (2) hours reporting time pay as provided -( jhereim The employee.must remain at the job site and
available for work unless told by the Employer that he may leave. ;	, ..
’ . SECTION 2. Employees shall furnish their Employer ; ..with current telephone or other,contact at the start of
each job, and advise the Employer of any subsequent z change onchanges in such contact during the courage of ; >thejob. ■	; ..
,. SECTION 3. Any employee who reports for work, and for whom work is provided, regardless of the time he works, shall receive the equivalent of not less than four
?. (4) hours pay .at the regular straight-time hourly rate , provided hp is available for work throughout such - period. .	’	...	•
. SECTION 4. Any employee who. reports for work and
.,. ; who works for more than four. (4) hours in any one day . shall receive the equivalent of not less than eight (8)
■. hours ।pay at; the regular straight-time hourly; rate ,. provided that he is available for work until the end of
. that regular work day.
SECTIONS. It is expressly provided, howeyer, that if > the employee leaves the job site without permission of
the Employer, .or when, a person refuses to work or , continue to work, or when work stoppages brought > about by a third party or parties prevent or make ill-
adyised, in the opinion of. the Employer, the performance or. continuance of .work, payment of reporting time pay for time not actually worked shall ,.J not be required., .	-
. ;: SECTION 6; -Where notification of the men is required
;. under this Agreement to the effect that work shall not j; be performed, on, a particular day, notification of such , ;.., faptto; the steward shall be sufficient notification to the omen, provided thq steward, is permitted enough time : during working hours to notify the men. . .
10 f
ARTICLE VIIIW- f - - toe.;
: CONDITIONS OF AGREEMENT 'v,' ■
SECTION 1.	All wages due under this Agreement shall be paid on the regular pay day designated > by the Employer in lawful U.S. currency, certified'check, or bank check or by direct deposit if agreed to by both the Employer and the employee, once each week during working hours,before 4:00'p.m. payment shalfbemfide / showing eniplbyefe's frame,’ hours4 ■ worked? amount
'■ earned, social4 Security deductibn-'>withh‘oldiiig''fax, employer's name and address. Any employer paying . wages to. an employee by check shall do so during ‘ . Wdrkihg hours, BeforeAiOO p.m. oh Monday, Tuesday,
Wednesday, or Thursday? ,z '■!; ''r' ■ -•
*	:	: j • • • - : t‘	■i.	.
' If the regular pdy day 'falls On a holiday’that is hot ' worked, the employee then shall b e' paid bn the day before the holiday in question. Also, any employer paying wages to an employee by check shall notify . employees of a bank of other 'facility at which checks \ can be cashed,'Within reasOriable'proximity to'the job site, without charge to’ the employees. The efnployer shall withhold riot more than three (3) days pay !in any one Week. If ah employee is discharged, or laid off for any reason, and he shall receive a full dayS ’pay for that day and he shall also be given a lay-off slip for unemployment insurance at the time oflay-off. If payment ismbt tirade expressly as provided herein, then ihe' employee who has beenterminatedshaUbe paid for ! all Waiting'fifrre until paid; Waiting tlme'to bebdmputed
at the regular straight-time rate. If dn employee’quits of his Own accord, he ’shall deceive wages' for the tifrie he worked on the next regular’pay day. ■ <
SECTION 2.	Raingear and slip oVer boots must be provided by the Employer if men are ordered to work in
1 rain, mud, concrete or SfibW. Men baririot bbfterininated ' if they are' unable"toW'Ork' because they‘;af& not furnished raingear and Slip Over bOdts: All tools,-boots, Hats and raingear arid other implements arid'equipment, other than thoke custbinarily furbished by employees, necessary to' the' performance of any1 of;the 'Work covered by this Agreement, shall be furnished by the Employer and shall remain the property of the Employer and shall be returned to the Employer when
not in use or upon leaving its employ. Each employee may be required to sign a receipt for such equipment at the time he receives it, and he shall.be liable for the cost of replacement of any equipmentwhich is .lost or otherwise not returned to the Employer. ; ■■ , ■
: ■■;’H •	. ’■
SECTION 3.	Clothes Room. The .Employee shall provide a clean comfortable heated shed or room of •■ suitable' size/ relative ritcr-'the- number of Laborers employed, for the Laborers to change their clothes and partake of their lunch. Such place shall not be used to - Wtoredools, equipment 'ormaterials. /
; <■ ■ ’r : '■ -	' ■- 'I i p- '■ e:.r!■ ■
1 SECTION 4, Drinking Water: The Employer shall provide aclean can of drinking water with paper cups, > readily .available to' each employee on the construction site. The water shall be , changed once in-the morning and once in the afternoon.
- SECTION 5..Toilets:' Clean, sanitary toilets: shall be f - provided for the employees use. . j ।
SECTION 6.	Telephone: A phone shall be made available‘on the job site,for the employees use in case of emergency. .	;
SECTION 7.	Lost Time Because of Accidents: There ’ shall be no lost-time on the day of a minor injury for the ■ employee Obliged to receive medical attention and treatment; 'provided he returns to work; within a reasonable time on that day. Employees seriously - ■ 'injured: on the job,, who have to obtain medical ’ treatment, shall not be required to work on the day of the injury to receive payment of wages for that day.- The < injured employee will notify the Employer, as soon as possible, of any injury; which operas on the, job and shall furnish the name and address of the physician consulted for medical attention as provided herein. When an employee is seriously injured on the job, the steward shall be. permitted to notify the Union of the injury. ;?■ '' 7 .i: T p■	“f..
. SECTION 8. Quitting Time; Each employee shall be ' / givensufficienttime at the end of the day to put away : v ' his tools, and be at the clothes room or change shack at - quitting time. s-.-.v..
11
SECTION 9.	Health, Safety,--and Welfare: The Employer, the Union and the employees shall abide by the provisions contained in the Federal Williams-Steiger Occupational Safety and Health Act and the Connecticut Safety CdristructiOii Act' as amended April 15, 1988, and adopted by the General Assembly. The Employer and the Union also agree to mutually cooperate with each other with respect to all aspects of safety, accident prevention/healthy medical facilities arid medical treatment, to the end that the health, Safety and welfare of the men Working oh the proj ect may be adequately and properly protected and promoted with the prosecution of the work efficiently carried' on in accordance with safety regulations previously described.
SECTION 10.	Employers may > conduct drug and alcohol testing of applicants and employees and'such testingmust conform to state law. Employers will notify the Union 21 days prior to implementing new drug testing policies. If drug testing is required by law, drug tests maybe administered in accordance With the law.	-
SECTION 11.	Electronic Devices: The Employer shall have the right to limit or prohibit the use of electronic devices.	?,;
SECTION 12.	Parking: Where free parking is unavailable within a half mile of the job site, the employer shall furnish or provide for transportation to or near the worksite by motor vehicles, carpools or otherwise, or, if unable or unwilling to do so, will pay fifty (50%) percent of the cost of the parking to employees, who pay for such parking, in an amount not to exceed $4.00 per day, provided the employee submits such receipt for parking. If the employee refuses the employer’s:offef to furnish transportation as provided herein, the employee shall not be entitled to reimbursement for parking. ■
SECTION 13.	Management Rights: The employer shall have the right and full authority to manage the business and the exclusive right to direct and assign the working forces including assigning work and decide all matters including but not limited to layoff, recall, hire, discharge, liquidate and Close down the business or any
part thereof, except to the extent the Employer is ■ ■ • specifically prohibited from doing so by the terms and
conditions ofthis Agreement < /	. <
- <■■ ARTICLEIX -■ - ‘ BUSINESS MANAGER-FIELD .
■■- REPRESENTATIVE-STEWARDS-FOREMEN
; t 1 " C.'	• J’	•, ' ■/, ..	■
'-EECTION 1. • The /Business? Manager or Field Representative of the Union shall be allowed to visit the job site during working hours. If there is a location r for visitors to sign in on the:project, the business agent < or ■ must sign in prior to entering any work area. .'
SECTION 2.	A steward shall be appointed by the Union Representative :of the Local Union which has territorial jurisdiction in the; ;mea. where the job is located. The steward shall be allowed a reasonable
■ amount of time-to check dues books grid, report any violations of the Agreement to the Union:
The steward shall remain on the job until completion of all the work covered by the terms of this Agreement and shall be given preference in working overtime. The Employer shall give the Union at least forty-eight (48) hours notice before laying off.the steward in all cases. There shall be no non-working steward's, j f
Except for paving jobs, the Local Union which has geographical jurisdiction of the area in which a job is performed shall have the right to furnish an employee, who may be named as < steward; provided, that the Employer requires four or more Laborers to work on the project and work on the project is scheduled to take longer than three months.
It is the intent of the parties that'this S ection 2 shall not be construed to require displacement of a laborer who performed the task (assigned for overtime) during the regular work day. f.U . . ..
The employer may discharge stewards without prior notice for just cause.
SECTION 3.	Laborer Foremen: Laborer Foremen must have been members of LIUNA in good standing
12
fora.period ofimdfc less' than one .-(I) year,,and?shall . receive not Jess’ than $2».O.0i abovfe the regular, straight time hourly rate payable^to. laborers or as negotiated.
For purposes of directing laborers on all projects where eight (8) or more laborers are employed, a laborer foreman shall be selected by the Employer. If the Employer decides thereisneed f?r additional foremen, such additional foremen shall be supplied by the Local / Union that.has. territorial'jurisdiction in the aTea'where r the job is located, r . r: ml:	;•... -mj.-w -.71
;	•' ' ’	■'	'> 'e„ n ’■ ■	m;
The laborer foreman shall not be compelled to work with the tofols.- when?there.? are .eight- (8)or more employees in the crew he is assigned to supervise.
‘-L -	L .’? L 'f? w ' ." '	‘	j■-
■ ARTICLE X	"
m : FRINGE BENEFIT FUNDS .
' SECTION, la.. - Employers hereunder .shall make contributions to. Lithe fringe /benefit trust1 funds enumerated, hereinafter referred to as the "Funds", in , the amounts set forth below for each hour worked by each employee covered'under this Agreement’On and after the effective dates indicated: <. -
Connecticut Laborers' Health Fund 4/1/2002-3/3172003 $3.34. 4/1/2003-3/31/2004 $3.59 4/1/2004-3/31/2005 $3,79	N
■ '■ ■■' :	■' ■	,.-J '■ ■, a - ' L‘ ■• r ,	?.
; Connecticut Laborers' Pension Fund : , <: ■.
. ; 4/1/2002-3/3.1/2003 $2.30. ; ,	. • ■
4/1/2003-3/31/2004 ,$2.40 '■ u. ?, - C. 4/1/2004-3/31/2005- $2.45 i .
Em.. n .m’.?;
New England Laborers' Training Fund
ic 4/1/2002-3/31/2005 ri $0135 p -Mu. -• -; . N fi
■■ - '	■ ■ ■ r.--rcrm<m m?!/”	\ wm? r?
Connecticut Laborers' .Legal Services Fund • -., , •< 4/1/2002-3/31/2005 $0Tl
Connecticut Laborers' Annuity Fund < i ,	m T
4/1/2002-3/31/2003 $1.50 . - L - a
4/1/2003-3/31/2005 $1.75
Labor Management ;.
? , Cooperative Trust Fund
4/1/2002-3/31./20Q5- $0.15,;
1 ■ New England- Laborers- Health ' > . . • and Safety Fund. -n .... ,	?
.4/1/2002-3/31/2005 .,$0.15	"
'■	M ui C-:,;: ,..C - AV,./":	.
SECTION IB, Employers signatory to, this Agreement hereby acknowledge and agree, to be bound by the Agreemeptr and Declaration, pf Trqst. and any / amendments, thereto, for each .respective Fund ■ \ enumerated in-Section la above.., , ,
It is recognized that the policies and procedures promulgated by the Trustees with regard to matters concerning the payment and collection of contributions • ; may change. . Signatory Employers hereby agree to be bound to such policy and procedures and changes set by
•. the Truste^.upless jn conflict with, this Agreement.
• ■•■w H-... • ..	/■ :	; < a w-., — .. ;	.
'.y AH such payments to, the Funds, are to be made in such manner and at such time as the Trustees of the respective Funds shall determine, but in no event shall i such contributions be required to be paid more often ■ ithanmonthly, or sooner than the 25 th day of the month following the month in which said contributions were earned except as subsequently set forth in this Article. Ho weyer,in the event that an Employer is delinquent in thq payment of contributions, the trustees of the / . respective, funds may5 upon written notice to the
. Employer, require that Employer make contributions to . the funds on. a weekly, schedule and that such weekly contributions may be . required for a period of up to
, .twelve (12) months.. If the Employer has not paid such weekly contributions. timely during the preceding -.,. ..period, the trustee^ of the. respective fiinds may require , weekly contributions' to be made for. periods- which : exceed twelve months. The trustees may also require Employers who are based outside the state of Connecticut, to make contributions on a weekly basis, . , ,a . Without [ regard to -the ■ payment : history of such Employers., , Interest on delinquent amounts may be
: /.required.,The Trustees shajl apply suchcontributions to . providej.such plan qr plans of benefits, for eligible ’..employees, as itfle -Trustees-, shalk determine.,.The .. ; Employer shall be liable to pay contributions provided
13
above only for hours worked in covered employment in the geographical jurisdiction covered by the respective Funds. In no event shall'the Employer be liable to make duplicate contributions ? to more, than one Fund providing the same type of benefits.
Fringe contributions shall be based on eight (8) hours of contributions for all shifts, provided the employee works the complete shift. '
The Union - and its members shall hot perform bargaining unit work for a signatory contractor who is sixty (60) days or more delinquent in Contributions required by the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
SECTION 2.	The Funds shall be maintained at all times as jointly administered Taft-Hartley trust funds with an equal number of employer and labor trustees herein referred to as the: "Trustees", selected and serving and with such powers and duties, all as may be provided from time to time By the applicable Trust Agreement. Upon request by the parties, the Funds shall furnish to the Association and the Union copies of their respective annual audit reports and annual actuarial or consulting reports.	'	'■
SECTION 3.	Each fund shall at all times be operated in conformance with applicable Federal and State laws and regulations, and 'shall be maintained as a tax exempt trust under the provisions of the Internal Revenue Code so that Employer Contributions to said Fund shall at all times be deductible as a business expense. The Employer shall not be liable to contribute to such Fund for hours worked during the period that contribution(s) are not deductible. '
SECTION 4.	At the discretion of a Fund's Trustees, an Employer determined to be delinquent in its payments as required herein may be held liable for all contributions due to the Fund and reasonable attorney's fees, court costs, audit fees and other expenses incurred incidental to collection of contributions due the Fund, including a reasonable rate of interest on contributions due. Appropriate payroll records of the Employer may be subject to audit by the Trustees or their authorized representative upon reasonable notice. The Trustees shall have all powers with respect to the audit of
/ appropriate;, payroll records and? the, collection of : delinquent contributions, interest, audit fees, attorney's . '. fees .? and other expenses, of collection as may be ;' provided from time to- time by the applicable Trust ; : Agreement. The. Employer shall berequired to maintain and make available such pay records that are necessary
'.for payroll audits. ?	.
; Once an Employer has been adjudged a delinquent to •■• any of the Funds; as provided herein, said Employer r may be required by the. Trustees,.- in addition to > .remitting; to the: Funds monies due for j past
’delinquencies A :;and ; appropriate ~ costs associated ? therewith; to furnish a surety bond equal to the average ■ of three previous months contributions rounded to the ; •'. ^ nearest thousand, but in no eventless than ten thousand ; dollars ($10,000) to thefTruste.es of each of the Funds
i to; Which contributions, are required to bepaid pursuant to this Article.	.	.
; SECTION 5. Inuaccordance with Section 5.02(g) of ERISA, as amended, the Trustees do establish,the rate
; of interest to be paid by Employer under Section 6621 . ofthe Internal Revenue Code of 1954 (currently twelve percent (12%) per annum); and further, liquidated r damages shall be assessed in an amount of twenty percent (20%) of the amount of the delinquency, or such higher percentage as may be permitted under federal or state law, plus reasonable attorney's, fees and
' costs ofthe action. ' b ; -u
'^Employers who are adjudged, delinquent by the Fund Trustees in their payments to the Health, Pension, Legal Services^ Annuity and Training Funds shall not have the privilege of employing Laborers under the terms of this Agreement if such payments have not been made after written noticeof such delinquency is given by the ■Union and seventy-two (72) hours have elapsed after . ' -such notice, ’ AIL. employees affected by such ' delinquency to any oftheabove-mentioned Funds, and • bwho havedost.work as: a‘ result thereof, shall be paid ; their normal wages, by the delinquent Employer, until - ■said delinquency is cured and the employees resume ■ their work, r--	■- . -v .
. ^SECTION 6. -Nothing in this. Agreement, the Trust Agreement, , a plan, of benefits; or, any other document
14
shiall be construe to-rimpOSeuporiiheEpipi'Q-yer:or other contributor any liability' Or obligation to contribute) or make any other payments to any, Fund toward: the cost of benefits or tho cost of administration -bf funding of the Plan beyond the obligation of theEmployer ,to make f contributions' and pay - expenses’;of collections as
specified in Sections 1 and 4 above except as requited by law. Except to the extent that the Association and the Uniohmay participate in' the. selection of trustees, neither the Association,' 'northeuUhioh mor 'any Employer Shall be'-responsible for the 'operation or administratiomofthe Funds. In ’ho event shall the
; - Association, the Uiiionor any Employer.be liable'for ’ any acti’oh or failure fo.act/of any trustee.. It is agreed and understood that thisSectionshall serve as a defense ' to any allegation dr course of action brought by any ' ^individual or- entity-which might jeopardize’..the employer's ori other; contributors position 'that' its liability is strictly limited as stated herein:A ■' ■' m
• The Pension Fund and Health and Welfare -Fund shall each -havfe a-Boardof ^Trustees' consisting of eight (8) Trustees, ’ four (4) of whom shall be appointed. By the Council, two (2) by the Association, and two (2i) by the Connecticut Construction Industries Association, Inc. (C.C.I.A).- The Legal' -Services FFimd and the Connecticut Laborers" Annuity shall have a Board of Trustees consisting of four (4) Trustees, two (2) of ■ whom shall be appointed by the Council, one (1) by the Association, and one (1) by the CCIA. The Board of Trustees shall administer the respective Funds. Representation On the Board of Trustees-of all. Funds
- referred to in this Agreement .shall*at;all times be equally divided between Union and. Management (Association and C. C .LA.) representatives'.	i; •
c SECTION 7. In the. eVent । that. ar. subcontractor is 1 delinquent in the paym'eht of wages or cbntributiohs to /: the fringe benefit funds as requited by this Agreement,
the General Contractor, upon .written notice .'from the
1 Union shallhelihble.itiwrefore,;providedhoweyer/that: ‘ ” 1. written notice of any suchdelinquency isseht to and ' ; ■ received by the General Contractor, -within two weeks of the time payment was due from the subcontractor; and, 2. the delinquency is for contributions for hours of •work performedon-the Employer’sprojecttonlyjand, 3. 1' ‘ amounts are or will.be due' to the subcontractor.
' . '	. ; 0 A. .0, ’-[•(? .	■■■
-ktoito ARTICLE XI
s DUES CHECK-OFF AND PAYROLL DEDUCTION
■; Section! , rThe Employer Agrees:to-deduct the amount of forty-five cents (S .45) for each fipur worked, from the weekly pay of each employee who shall-have authorized such deduction in writing as provided in this . ^ Section. ''Deductions, shall be made from the net pay of .<• reach employee who,is: or who bccomesa member of the cu. UnibnrWithm the scope of the bargaining unit and is covered;by fids A@eementi;proyidedtsp,ch: employee has voluntarily authorized the Employer to do so in writing with the .authorization forms to -be furnished to
. , : -the, Employer, as set forth below: ,
' ; • V- ' ''.-.Jr to t m •'	. am <.
/ -a-.; Forty-three .cents = ($.43) shall be used as hourly - ' ^membership.dues, tp support, the Local Unions and the . -.Counceticut Laborers’ District Council,
‘ L3.‘.	.. 1 , i ......	u'.
. ,’ LIUN.A	m -'-	' ; -
LOCAL UNION NO.
DUES DEDUCTION AUTHORIZATION
■: .	' ■ to a ' i .	' to. ./ .>
< ■ .To all Employers by whom I am employed during the ., terms ’of th© present or future-, collective bargaining
L ^agreements, ^either by and between , signatory ■ to Connecticut.. contractor j .associations and the ? Connecticut.Laborers' District Council and its affiliates, , dr by an employer, not a member of said Associations, 'which' has- an individual . collective bargaining agreement with the Connecticut Laborers' District Council and its affiliates.
- .rm-..,;:-to	_	1.A .;. ’/ ■ ■
. REFERRAL CARD ; Date
'r.■' --mr.' m ■	y-.: -r r ;
;■ Local UnionNo. . City - , f. • ,...;
Nam© of Company Project Site ; to
This will introduce ., ■	■	•	- ,, -
: . / u-... , t to Name r..	...
15
S.S.N. '-7'^ •'
Referred-as a 1 •■''■	: b per your request
Signature
AUTHORIZATION FOR DUES DEDUCTION
I hereby authorize ihy Employer to deductfrommy wages each week forty-three cents ($.43), effective the date of this authorization, for each hour worked to constitute what; are known as the hoiirly deductions as part of my membership dues for said week to maintain my membership in good standing in the Union as a condition of employment. Such deductions shall be made from my earned pay on each regularly scheduled pay day and shall be remitted to the designated depository at the same time arid along with the Health and Welfare, Pension, New England Laborers': Labor Management Cooperation Trust Fund, Legal Services, Annuity, New England Health and Safety Fund, and Trainirig Trust Fund contributions. This authorization and assignment shall continue in full force and effect whether or not I remain a member of the Union for a period of one year following the date it Was signed or until the current applicable collective bargaining agreement expires, whichever is sooner, and for any subsequent similar period thereafter unless revoked by me within fifteen (15) days immediately preceding such contract term or one year, whichever is sooner. The above revocation must be in writing, bear-the date and my signature, and be delivered to the Union and to the Employer with whom I am then employed.
DUES DEDUCTION
Employee's Signature ■
b. Two Cents ($.02) of the amount providedinSection 1 shall be used as a voluntary contribution payable to the Laborers’ Political League (LPL) to enable the Connecticut Laborers' DistrictCoundil aud its affiliated Local Unions to participate more fully in matters affecting the welfare of its members. .
LABORERS'POLITICAL LEAGUE DEDUCTION
I further authorize fee Employer to deduct fee sum of ? two cents ($ .02) per hour for each hour worked as a ■ voluntary contribution to the: Laborers' Political League (LPL), which I understand a constitutes a, separate aggregate fund used for the purposes allowed under the Federal r Election Campaign Act, ■ 2: ■■ U. S'.C. Section 441B.	p- :	6 a
k ::The two cents ($.02: per hour deduction authorization ; for icontribution to the LPL is: subject to revocation at any time. The above revocation must be ip . writing, bear fee date and my signature, and be delivered to the officers of the Local Union of which I am a member and to the employer with whom I am then currently employed.
Such deductions shall be made from my earned pay on each regularly scheduled pay day and shall be remitted to fee designated depository at the same time, and along .with the Health, Pension, Training, Annuity and Legal
Services Trust Fund contributions. All such deductions shall be reported on one form, included in; one check and sent along with all other funds provided for in, this Agreement.	■■■..
:LABORERS POLITICAL LEAGUE r PAYROLL CHECK-OFF AUTHORIZATION
~ I hereby authorize.and direct each employer signatory ’ ” to an agreement wife fee Laborers' International Union of North America or any of its affiliates for whom I work todeduct from my paycheck two cents ($.02) for each hour worked every pay period and to remit such ; amount to fee Laborers' Political League ("LPL") at ■ ■ such times as otherremittances aremade to fee Union..
z i This aufeorizationris voluntarily made. I understand that the signing of this authorization and the making of ’	payments to LPL are not conditions of membership in
j . the Union or of employment wife any employer, feat I >' have a right to refuse to: sign this' authorization and to contribute to LPL withoutreprisal and that LPL will use fee. money it receives to make political
16
expenditures and contributions in connection with federal, stateahd.lbdal&edtidW
this amount of money is merely a suggested guideline, that I am free to contribute more or less than this amount by ahy lawful means other, than thischeck-off i and that the Union cannot'Tavor op disadvantage me
because of the' amount of my contribution; or my - decision riot to c©ntribtrte;uc . ■> k./vy >	’>
'■'<r'.- if ■	.SC; "g S'' ■	<i
■ ■ This authorization shallremain in.effect luhtil revoked by me in writing.	'I?
' Contributions to the Laborers'; Political-League are: not 'deductible as-' charitable'..’contributions for .federal ' income tax purposes: .	,.wii ‘
'	: f- ■ ■ U	- '-p-	- p -J -J
■, Date ” i; Signature <■	!	c.' h-,,
Social Security Number - L ;
■ SECTION 2. Such ’ authorization form,; deduction, - practices and* 1 procedures enumerated in this :Article shall be in compliance with the .requirements of all Federal and State laws and regulations regarding same, - including Section 302 (c) of the Labor Management Relations Act of 1947, as amended.	■ r
SECTION 3; The Union agrees1 to indemnify and save the Enlployerand the Association hahnless/against any and all claims, suits or other forms of liability arising out of the Employers'partibipation in or performance of the provisions of the Article; The Uniomassum.es full responsibility for ther disposition of the-monies so deducted once they have been paid to the Union.
L SECTION; 4? Itishalftbd the sole responsibility ,of the .• ■ ■; Union to procure ^'pursuant tuthepto visions :of Section 302(c) of the Labor-Management Relations Act of 1947, as amended, the signed individual authorization j of every: employee, subject; to1 Wi$ Agreement/.both present and future; The Union shall indemnify and-hold harmless each Employerrfrpm any claim arising.under
' this Article'including die furnishing ■ of counsel to defend-against anytsuch.actions. :!i. I c. c mrx-
SECTION 5. Any Employer who fails to file his reports and remit the deductions when same is due and payable shall be considered in violation of this Agreement and subject to penalties set forth in Article X.
ARTICLE XII
''	' J.; ( ASSOCIATION PROGRAM
• SECTION L . The . Employer agrees to pay the ,; AGQ/CCIA Building^ContractqrspLabor Division of . । Connecticut, Inc>, itstsqcce^prsoriq§s.igns, hereinafter referred; to,, as ftieAsspciqtipn" the ,$um of eleven cents
. j (S: 11) per hour for each payroll hour worked by each of r- its employees covered by tf e terms of this Agreement.
SECTION 2.	Payments to the Association are due and payable on or before, the 20th day of the month next i succeeding the mpnth for \yhich the sqm is payableThe .. employers" repprt of payments tp the Association shall • ,be ..incorporated ,on; the .monthly "Employers'
Remittance Report" hi use by the Connecticut Laborers' . c Pension funfii or on sueh'pther report as the Association , shaft determine; ;such payments to be.made by separate
Checks, and,sent at, the same time and along with the , contributions^ payable. to the Connecticut Laborers'
Pension Fund, i.-or in such other manner as the Association shall determine, A copy of each monthly "Employers':. Remittance. ..Report", or other form as ■might be required by the Association shall be forwarded to the Association whether it contains : ,; information concerning payments to the AGC pursuant 1 fo this Article or not.	•
SECTION 3.	The Union agrees to furnish the Association with the following: (a) a copy of , every signed individual collective bargaining agreement and/or participation agreement and/or other acceptance of the terms and provisions of any collective bargaining agreement for work covered by this Agreement with each and every employer not represented by the .. c ' Association, hereinafter referred to as the "Independent > . Agreement"; ^id..(b)..up7tq-date lists, no,later than : monthly, ,of the.names npd'addresses of all employers i,: . signatory to an Independent; Agreement for jhe types of > . work covered under tins Agreement..
17
SECTION 4.	The Union, agrees: to propose that all the provisions • contained In this Article u XII, ASSOCIATION PROGRAM; shall be included in every Independent Agreement. The Union further agrees that the total hourly economic cost (i.e. hourly payments required),. including payments to the Association, for companies covered under such Independent Agreements shall-not be less than the total hourly economic cost for Employers covered under this Agreement; hi the event the total economic cost .for employers is greater than the total hourly economic cost for any employer covered-under an Independent Agreement, : all -b Employers1 covered: under /.this Agreement shall have the option to equalize the total hourly economic cost as provided in such Independent Agreement but shall not thereby be relieved' from making payments to the Association as provided in this Article.	\
SECTION 5.	If the Union (Local Union or theCouncil) accepts or is a party to any Independent Agreement with any employer for work covered under this Agreement that does not include all provisions of this Article Xll, the Association shall have the option, in its sole discretion, to delete Article XI, DUES CHECKOFF, in its entirety from this Agreement (for all ateas in the State of Connecticut or for solely the geographic territory of the Local Union that is signatory to the Independent Agreement that does not include all of the provisions of Article XU), and/or to delete this Article XII, ASSOCIATION PROGRAM, in: its entirety from this Agreement,-and to have all Obligations contained in the deleted Article or Articles immediately cease and determine.
SECTION 6.	In consideration bf the promises and obligations of employers to make contributions to the Association, and' in consideration- of services to be directly and indirectly provided for such employers by the Association as determined by the Association and for the benefit of the construction industry generally, and for other good and valuable consideration, such consideration being specifically acknowledged by each employer signatory to this Agreement : or an Independent Agreement, each Employer agrees to all of the provisions of this Article XII and acknowledges that said Contractual provisions were made for the express,
- direct ahdexelusive benefit of the: Association, a third j party benefici.ary under this Agreement, an Independent - - Agreement < or. any .other form ; of agreement or ■•understanding -with, any Employer for work covered -
under thisAgreement for the term of this Agreement.
-- -I ' a - / ' ' ■	4
c ARTICLE XIII < SEVERAL LIABILITY
.;/SECTION 1. The .obligation of each Employer member . ofthe Association shall be several and not joint.
-/X	-r.-.	?	•	...	.
■ .^SECTION -2.- -The.: Connecticut- Laborers' District
- Council, a party to this Agreement, shall not be held responsible for any unauthorized act committed by any
> ;=, affiliated Local Union or members thereof, unless the
: said. Connecticut Laborers' District Council has ordered ■ or ratified the same or condoned such act after official f - notice:. thereof.. The Connecticut Laborers' District
Council agrees that upon the receipt of notice from the . Association, or any employer member thereof, of any unauthorized act, It will exercise all of its power and > authority to correct same.
SECTION 3.	The obligation of each Local Union, affiliated with the Connecticut Laborer's District
-	< Council, shall be several and not joint. . \ ;
f ■:	J-,-/;--:/' a . . ARTICLEXIV ■- < L-J.
/ - - -j; • . . PROCEDURE AND ADJUSTMENT OF
.M-.	DISPUTES
SECTION 1(a). There tshall be, during, the term of this - Agreement and. as to-any work- covered hereby, no : strikes (except for non-payment of wages and fringe ■ ... benefit 'contributions' by the: Employer as provided '■ herein)^ no- work stoppages,: no. slowdowns, and no. . F 1 lockouts for, any reason', including interpretation of xo terms and conditions of this Agreement.	1 ,
-	; -. -SECTION 1(b).- If after, forty-eight (48) hours written :: i /■ notice:. to the Employer- and .the. Association, an b r Employer:shall fail to pay any wages: due. employees
.funder the terms-.of fins Agreement, and there-is no '-dispute concerning, the wages due; then,1 any other
18
provision notwithstanding^ the Union shall have .the right tb have the employees ofnthat Employer: cease work.'Payment by a check' that is . not honored by the bank upon which 'it'indrawn,'sha^^
evidence of nonpayment'of wages. Adispute'regarding classifications and rate of wages to be paid therefore, or actual hours due shall not be considered non-payment of wages and .shall 'be subject to the arbitration procedures .as- stmed.-herein. y >C .• i’j ’
SECTION-2. It is the-good faithintehtion of the parties hereto .that by 'the execution of this Agreement industrial peace shall be brought about and that the rUnion and the- Employer shall cooperate tp the end that work may be done efficiently and Without interruption.
;' SECTION '3. If any difference of opinion-nr dispute should arise between the parties afe to the interpretation ' or application of this 'Agreement,- .a complaint will be • made by the aggrieved party within two (2),-working days of the time the complaining party knew or reasonably should have known of the occurrence giving > - rise to the grievance. In edch case, the'first attempt at settlement shall be made between the' Business Manager of the Local Union and the Employer or his representative.-	.	...Cj',.
1 .' t ’	- ■ IJ	' ■	i‘.
SECTION 4.	Disputes which cannot be adjusted between the Employer and the Local Union within forty-eight (48) hours after they are made under Section 3, shall be referred lb„a Board of Adjustment. Such reference shall be On.the agreed upoii grievance form and shall contain abrief settlement of the dispute. Said notice shall be sent to the Association or the Union as appropriate, by facsimile -and first classUySUmail or certified mail postmarked within fifteen (15) working ' days after failure to-adjust'the'fiispute..between the 0 Employer and the Local: Union as .provided .by the c- section. :Copies of 'Saidp: notice/ shaftyrbe v'sent ‘Simultaneously-and'by facsimile.and- first. claSs>U.S.
mail or certified m-aihto itfieadversP'pmty/TheBoard of Adjustment shall be composed of two arbitrators selected by the-Association 'and tWo arbitratOmSelected : by the Connecticut'Laborers' District Council.'This
Board of Adjustment, shall hear all said-disputes within ten (10) Working days after. receipt of j the. notice provided for in this Sfectiomand shall issue itsjdecision
•;: -in writing within ten (10) working dhyslafter the close J-. of thehearihg. TheBoard of Adjustment shall be sworn ■ and ' shall admini'stef oaths of Such, Oaths ’ shall be v waived/; tin accordances with ’uthe .; provisions of ’ Connecticut law.Thc partiesmay-agree tp. extend any . of the time limits by mutual written agreement.
.< SECTION- 5.' If. uwithin: -fortv?eight (48) hours no a -adjustment or settlement is resolved by.the procedures . of . Section 4 above, the matter shallimmediately be ; ;/. referred, in writing tOjanArbitrationBoardconsisting of w: two (2) members appointed by the Asspciation and two ; !-’(2) members.': appointed-:'.by.!' the.: Council which J. appointments shall be made within forty-eight (48) v-. hours after referral. A neutral Chairman from the i 'followinglist:- s . ?. '* 1
Michael Walsh
M. Jackson Webber
Albert Murphy J I- , ,>
. .TimBomstein ,	,-c.	. -v
. i Harrison Warren ' -• V -	.it
J will be selected .by these appointees. In the event that the four (4) Arbitrators .so appointed fail to agree within forty-eight .(48) hours Jon the selection of a neutral Chairman, the parties shall select a Chairman from alist . furnished, by the American Arbitration Association.
.. SECTION. 6. In the event the-four .(4) .arbitrators so .. • appointed are unable to select the Chairman by mutual
- agreement, the Chairman shall be chosen by each party ' • alternately eliminating one name from, the above list, and the last name remaining on the list shall be the selected Chairman. The first party to eliminate a name
:, v .in the first case above shallbe the Council, add the next ! elimination that of th© Association and alternately thereafter. In the.following case the first elimination fe shallbe that of the Association, and in succeeding cases
the first elimination Shall continue to alternate between <■ J .the.Council and the Association.	. ;
d l SECTION 7. The. Arbitration Board shall be sworn and shall administer oaths-or such oaths shall be waived in ; accordance with the provisions of Connecticut law. The . Arbitration'Board shall, not have the power to amend, , - add to or alter the pro visions.of the Agreement, but
19
within thirty (3 0) days after the close of the hearing the	Council) may grant such relief and will deal with the
Board shall render a decision based on the evidence request in good faith.
submitted by the parties, which decision shall be
consistent with the term and provisions of, this-\-----A.s-(Kdt^tinissing)
Agreement. The majority or unanimous decision of the	.VAf A/i / A
Arbitration Board shall be binding upon both parties.
SECTION 8.	Each of the parties the Employer or the
Association, as the .Association may decide, on the one
hand and the Union oh the other-shall bear the expense	.
ofits appointed^Aihitrators and the parties shalljointly'	''’9^^	;
and equallybear the expense, if any, of the Chairman. ‘-
SECTION 9.	Nothing contained herein shall require the	r: 1 ■-	>.
Union to process any Local Union or employee \	! ?	‘1 .. u; -;
grievance whichinits opinion would be without merit, ■ ;;	,	::	r
and no employee shall have the right to arbitrate his grievance should the Union deem it without merit. ;	-to. :.h..
SECTION 10.	The Association shall have full right to determine whether or not it shall represent or continue to represent employers with respect to grievances filed	‘ ‘	■’
hereunder.
ARTICLE XV CONSTRUCTION MANAGER
SECTION 1 Whenever any signatory contractor performs work as a construction manager, owner/builder, or solicits bids frbm subcontractors, or coordinates work performed by subcontractors, it shall be deemed to be a general contractor or subject to the terms and conditions of the Agreement including the subcontracting provision, provided, however the signatory contractor shall not be deemed to be a general contractor or subject to the terms and conditions of the Agreement or bound to the subcontracting provision of the Agreement if: (1) said signatory contractor is an affiliated development company, or (2) said signatory contractor does not have the sole responsibility and authority to select and determine the retention of the subcontractor(s) on the job.
It is also understood that when a signatory contractor requests relief from the Agreement and this Interpretation, the Union (Local Union or the
20
ARTICLE XVI	...
DURATION OF AGREEMENT
./.l r I . ■	~ r	; v
SECTION 1. The terms and conditions of this Agreement shall be effective from April 1, 2002 through March 31,2005, except as provided in SECTION 2. r4 • , , ' ; j
SECTION 2. At the expiration of this Agreement as herein provided, the same shall continue to be effective from year to year unless either party, at least sixty (60) days prior to March, 31., 2005 orMarch. 31st of any year thereafter, gives notice in writing by facsimile and first class mail dr, certified mail tp the other party of its intention to terminate this Agreement and requests that negotiations be entered info for a successor agreement and, in the event that the parties hereto cannot reach-an agreement at least thirty (30) days prior to March 31 st of any year, such party shall give notice of the failure to reach such agreement to' the U.S Federal Mediation Service and the Connecticut Board of Conciliation gnd Arbitration.
p"'	* '	r' ’r , j- i. <	'	;.! , ,
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused these presents to. fie signed by their duly authorized representatives on theday of 2002.
-	f ■ . .	. .	1	. r-;	. .
‘	‘ ' i.	*. '■ ' ,	■ ' 1 .
AGC/CCIA BUILDING CONTRACTORS LABOR DIVISION OF CONNECTICUT, INC. ' ' ~ ' ' '
THE CONNECTICUT LABORERS' DISTRICT COUNCIL OF THE LABORERS’ INTERNATIONAL UNION OF NORTH AMERICA
21
B ' LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING ■ '■
Gentlemen:	;■ r;'.	> A. .7i--7	7'". •	•/	7.-:
In accordance with th© discussions during 1999 negotiations by and between the Labor Relations Division, The Associated General Contractors of Connecticut, Inc. and the Connecticut Laborers' District Council, the following interpretations and understandings were mutually agreed upon and they shall become a part of the Agreement reached between the parties.	-
MARKET RECOVERY AGREEMENT
A. This Agreement shall apply to all non-prevailing rate work bid on and after April 1,1999. It shall i apply automatically to projects with a general contract of $15 million or less or a subcontract or prime contract with the owndr's representative of $5 million or less. The Union, upon request of the Association or an Employer for private proj ects with larger contracts, may agree to apply this market recovery agreement. The market recovery wage rate shall be 90% of the basic hourly wage rate. •
1.	If the Employer fails to notify the Connecticut Laborers District Council this market recovery rate
shall not apply.
2.	All work covered by this market recovery agreement shall be performed at the straight time rate, except that work over 40 hours in a week shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half regardless’ of ; the day of the week or time of the day that the work is performed.
3.	Starting times shall be determined by the Employer.
4.	Effective April 1,2002, the employer shall call the affiliated local union that has jurisdiction Where
the job is located to request the market recovery provision. The local union must approve all requests for market recovery.	! .
AGC/CCIA BUILDING CONTRACTORS LABOR DIVISION OF CONNECTICUT, INC.
CONNECTICUT LABORERS' DISTRICT COUNCIL OF THE LABORERS' INTERNATIONAL UNION
OF NORTH AMERICA
22
SCHEDULE 1
THE ASSOCIATED GENERAL CONTRACTORS OF CONNECTICUT MEMBERS WHO HAVE AUTHORIZED THE AGC TO REPRESENT THEM
IN COLLECTIVE BARGAINING WITH CONNECTICUT LABORERS i J ■	;	-	Giordano Construction Co.,.Inc.
Bartlett Brainard &.Eacott, Inc.	? '• -l .	’ 1155 Main Street
70 Griffin Road South .	r,; I. •_	' P.O: Box 802	:
Bloomfield, CT 06002	Branford, CT 06405 ?■	, l
Bismark Construction Co., Inc.	Industrial Construction Company,' Inc.
100 Bridgeport Avenue	752 North Mountain Road
Milford, CT06460 ; ,■ ■ ?	Ao.v ‘Newington, CT 06111,-1496	.
■ r. - I	'■ < < i ■ A	.'v ■ ■ ■ ' ■.	-. a- ’
Ceco Concrete Construction .. . ;	rT ■ TheJosephE.KellyCQ.,Inc.'.-
23 A Old Windsor Rdc io...' .u ? ■ t ?:N C ? ; . 184 Front Avenue	-
Bloomfield,.CT 06002	A > t ■ . West Hayen, CT 06516 ..
ChapelConstruction. of New Haven, Inc. . C ■. 100 Ashmun Street
New Haven, CT 06511
. n ?.(-■? ' . c . ■: .
Civitillo Masonry, Inc.
28 Shepard Dr.	. r . j t
Newington, CT 06111
Deluca Construction Company, The 27 Crescent Street
P.O. Box 21-86
Stamford, CT 06906
J. DeLuca Construction Co., Inc. 414 Greenfield Street
Fairfield, CT 06430
Dexter II, Inc., B.W. 556 Westcott Rd.
Danielson, CT 06239
Frank E. Downes Construction Company, Inc; .. 200 Stanley Street
New Britain, CT 06050
John Filloramo Const. Company, Inc.
82 Glendale Rd.
South Windsor, CT 06074
.	। Lombardo Bros. Mason Contractors, Inc.
121 Elliott Street East	•.. ;
Hartford, CT 06114
Ci,1' 7;	■: ‘ • i --.’d ' .'f, . ‘ •
r ? b/ Marshall & Sons, Inc., J.L. -
< P.O. Box 2210 i .	-
Pawtucket, RI 02861
■ Y a’ •	Fr	.
Marshall & Sons, Inc., J.L.
3’Clara. Street
c„ . Seekok,MA:02771
Mercede & Sons, Inc., Frank 860 Canal Street Stamford, CT 06902
J ;	. Milazzo & Company, S.G.
148 Dividend Rd.
Rocky Hill, CT 06067
C.H. Nickerson & Co.., Inc.
, POBox808 i .	/ a
Torrington, CT 06790	: ’ ,!
O & G Industries, Ihp.
POBox 907	>-■ -,
Torrington, CT 06790 ’	'	'
23
River Pile & Foundation Co., Inc. 73 Alexander St.
Yonkers, NY 10701
Standard Builders, Inc. - / 52 Holmes Rd.
Newington, CT 06’111-1708 -
Taylor Precast, Inc.
120 Highwoods Drive
Guilford, CT06437
Tomlinson-Hawley-Patterson, Inc.: 2225 Reservoir Avenue ;
Trumbull, CT 06611
24
APPENDIX "A"
TENDERS: Tending masons, plasterers, carpenters and other building and construction crafts.
Tending shall consist of preparation of materials and the handling and conveying of materials to be used by mechanics of other crafts, whether such preparation is by hand or any other process. After the material has been prepared, tending shall include the supplying and conveying of said material and other materials to such mechanic, whether by bucket, hod, wheelbarrow, buggy, or other motorized unit used for such purpose, including fork lifts.
Unloading, handling and distribution of all materials, fixtures, furnishings and appliances from point of delivery to stockpiles and from stockpiles to approximate point of installation.
Drying of plaster, concrete, mortar or other aggregate, when done by salamander heat or any other drying process.
Cleaning and clearing of all debris, including wire brushing of windows, scraping of floors, removal of surplus material from all fixtures within confines of structure and cleaning of all debris in building and construction area. The general cleanup, including sweeping, cleaning, washdown and wiping of construction facility, equipment and furnishings and removal and loading or burning of all debris including crates, boxes, packaging waste material. Washing or cleaning of walls, partitions, ceilings, windows, bathrooms, kitchens, laboratory, and all fixtures and facilities therein. Clean-up, mopping, washing, waxing and polishing or dusting of all floors or areas.
The aging and curing of concrete, mortar and other materials applied to walls, floors, ceilings and foundations of buildings and structures, highways, airports, overpasses and underpasses,
tunnels, bridges, approaches, viaducts, ramps or other similar surfaces by any mode or method. '
CARPENTER TENDERS
Cords and Power Tools:	...
;' -	■ 'J .	।
The laying out and picking up of cords and power tools used by the carpenter is the work of the laborers (in its entirety). - ' , ;
Sheet Rock, Wallboard and Metal Studs:
The unloading, handling and distributing of sheet rock, wallboard and metal studs from the point of delivery to the stockpile and from the stockpile to the approximate point of installation is the work of the laborers (in its entirety).
Cleaning of Debris:
The cleaning and clearing of all debris caused by the installation of the sheet rock, wallboard, and metal studs by the carpenter is the work of the laborers (in its entirety).
The Unloading of Ceiling and Floor Tiles:
The unloading, handling and distribution of ceiling and floor tiles from the point of delivery to the stockpile and from the stockpile to the approximate point of installation is the work of the laborers (in its entirety).
Metal Doors and Metal Door Bucks:
The unloading, handling and stockpiling of metal doors and door bucks from the point of delivery to the stockpile and from the stockpile to the approximate point of installation is the work of the laborers (in its entirety).
25
Scaffolding:
Where self-supporting scaffolding or staging over 14 ft. in height dr specially designed scaffolds are built by carpenters; laborers •' shall tend such carpenters on erection, therefore, the dismantling of such scaffolds,’as-well as the preparation for foundation or mud sills for such scaffolding and maintenance of same shall be done by the laborers. When working with mason and plaster contractors, the unloading, handling and building of scaffolds in its entirety is the work of the laborers. :	’■"■■
Panel Forms:
The unloading of panel forms from the point of delivery to the stockpile and from the stockpile to the approximate point of installation is the wdrk of the laborers. The cleaning and oiling of said forms is the work of the laborers, ’
The erection and releasing of the forms up until the final stage when the forms are not to be reused in Its original form is the work Of the carpenters. The final stripping, cleaning, oiling and loading of the forms belongs to the laborers (in its entirety).
Flat Arch Stripping.
Flat arch stripping in its entirety is the work of the laborers.
Asbestos Removal and Encapsulation
Sub-Contractors1 Debris:
The cleaning and clearing of all debris by all Subcontractors working within the confines of-the building is the work of the laborers (iii its entirety).	’
SCAFFOLDS: Erection, planking and removal; of all scaffolds for lathers; plasterers, bricklayers, masons and other construction trades5 cfafts. Building, planking or installation and removal of all staging, swinging and hanging scaffolds, including maintenance thereof.	-’*•
EXCAVATIONS AND FOUNDATIONS. SITE PREPARATION AND CLEARANCE.
TRANSPORTATION AND TRANSMISSION LINES	-v ../.xy .Tv . <
'	■■ ’ ' - y -// ■. .f,’.: ■:-/	.. :/'f)
Excavation for building and all other construction: digging of trenbhes, piers, foundations- and holes; digging, lagging; sheeting, cribbing, bracing, and propping -of foundations, holes,:, caissons, cofferdams, dams, dikes:and irrigation-trenches, .canals,; and all handling, filling and placing of sandbags.-connected therewith. All (frilling, blasting and scaling pn the site or along the righfr-of-way,; as well as access’. roads,, reservoirs, ■including: areas 1 adjacent or.,. pertinenttb construction site; installation of temporary lines.
Preparation; and ;• compacting, of roadbeds for railtoad truck: laying, highway construction and -the preparation of trenches, .footings, etc. for ' cross-country transmissionby pipelines or electric transmission or underground lines or cables. .
On-site preparation and right-of-way for clearance for construction* of- any-structures or the installation, of traffic: and transportation facilities such as highways, pipelines, electrical transmission lines, dam sites and reservoinareas, access roads, etc. Clearing and slashing of brush or trees by. hand .or With mechanical cutting methods. Blasting for all purposes, such as stumps, rocks, general demolition. Falling, bucking, yarding, loading or burning of all frees or timber on construction areas. Choker setter, off bearers, lumber handlers and: all laborers connected with on-site portable sawmill ■'.operations connected:: with clearing,' erection, dismantling and/or reinstallation of all fences. ' Clean-up' of right-of-way, including tying on, - signaling, stacking of brush, trees; or other debris, and bunting where .required. /All. soil test operations of semi and unskilled labor, such as filling of sand bags, handling of timber and loading and unloading of same. / <
CONCRETE BITUMINOUS CONCRETE AND ? AGGREGATES: ' . - y- - - fr ' ■
(a)	Concrete, bituminous concrete; or aggregates ■ for walls; footings, foundations, floors or for any other construction. Mixing; handling; com eying, pouring, vibrating, gunniting and otherwise
placing concrete or aggregates whether , done by hand or any other process. Wrecking, stripping, dismantling and handling concrete forms and false work. Building of .?• centers? for. ' fireproofing purposes. . Operation of motorized wheelbarrows or buggies .or:: machines -ofi similar; .charaeteh, whether run: by: gas, diesel:or electric power. When-concrete: or aggregates are com eyed-by crane or derrick'or similar methods, the. hooking on, signaling, dumping and unhookingthebucket. Placing of concrete or aggregates1, whetherpoured, pumped, gunnited, orplaced by any other process. The assembly, uncoupling.'of all .connections, and parts’ of or to equipment {used in;mixihg'or-Gom eying concrete, aggregates or mortar, and the cleaning' of isuch {equipment,- > parts .and/or connections:.'All vibrating,, grinding, spreading, .flowing, puddling,- leveling and .strike-off;.of concrete or {aggregates, by floating,, rodding or screening, by hand or mechanical means-prior to finishing. Where pre-stressed or pre-cast concrete slabs, 'walls or sections are: usedjc all. loading, unloading, stockpiling hooking, - or signaling, unhooking, setting andbarring intoplace.of such slabs,walls or sections. Allmixing, handling, com eying,' placing and. spreading of grout. for any purpose. Green cutting of concrete or aggregate in any form, by hand, mechanical means, grindstones or air or water, a	,,
VI. te	f 1 ■ ’	■■ .	/ .'V;
(b)	The. filling and patching' of voids,^crevices, etc.,, to correct defects in concrete caused .by leakage, bulging, sagging, etc.r:- j cl -f
\	-m-	.j.' br >..>
(c)	The loading,1 unloading; carrying, distributing and handling of. all rods, mesh and material for use in reinforcing concrete. construction; The hoisting of rods, mesh- and'other materials::except when a derrick or outrigger operated by other than hand power is uiedz. :	iV:\: V; :• rjo/jB-a-c";
■1	i V' i-lfi ns.i ..’gfo hmO' 'fo
(d)	All work on- interior ..coricretej; flumps, foundations for engine and machinery beds.
. - 1 VI ..<ris.? .riririmriririvt rtJ. ■■.^■..vkOri (e) The stripping of forms other than panel forins which are to be re-used in their original form, and the strippingof forms on allflat? arch work. The moving, cleaning, oiling, .and carrying of allforfns to the next-point of erection.. iCiw.fo. c.r? crim
te- ■-.nimmo .yritete /
The snapping of wall ties and removalof tie rods. Handling, placing and operation of the nozzle, hoses, and pots ©rhoppers-pn sandblasting or other abrasive cleaning. The jacking, of slip forms,!-on all semi andunskilled wprk connectedtherewith.
'ri ’•	ri-C ' 'J ri’v ‘ri' ■ ry-.,?
STREETS, WAYS AND BRIDGES , .-<■
Work; in cexcavation, ..preparation, concreting, asphaltbituminousbconcretcandna'astic.paying, pavings'ramming, curbing,' flagging'and,. surfacing of streets.; ways, courts, underpasses, overpasses, bridges, approaches and slope walls andthe grading and landscaping thereof and all other labor connected therewith. Cleaning, grading, fence or guard rail installation and/or removal for streets; highways, roadways? aprons, runways, sidgwalks, parking areas, airports, approaches and . other . , similar; - > installations} t; Preparation, construction and maintenance or roadbeds and sub-grades for .all paying, including excavation, dumping and spreading of sub-grades material, ramming r pr otherwise., compacting.; Setting, ; foyeling! and securing <or bracing metal or other road fonns -and expansion joints, including placing of reinforcing, mats or wire mesh, for the aboyer work. Loading, . unloading, placing, handling and spreading of concrete aggregate or paving materials, including leveling of the . Surface. Strike-off of-concrete, when used as paving material by hand and floating or mechanical screening for strike-off. Cutting of concrete for .expansion joints and other purposes. Setting of curb fonns and the mixing, pouring, curing, flowing and strike-off of. concrete used therefore. Th© setting, leveling and grouting of all :pre,-cast-, concrete or stone curb . sections.
Installation of all joints, removal of forms and cleaning, stacking, loading, oiling and handling. Grading and landscaping in connection with , paying - work. All work in connection with loading; unloading, .handling, signaling,, slinging and? setting ©f all paying, blocks, -rip-rap .or retaining walls such as stone, wood, metal, concrete or other material and the preparation of surfaces to receive same.. 1■	..
TRENCHES, MANHOLES, HANDLING AND DISTRIBUTION OF PIPE, ETC.
Cutting of streets and ways for laying of pipes, cables or conduits for all purposes; digging of trenches, manholes, etb: handling and com eying all material's; coiicreting, backfilling, grading and resurfacing and all other labor connected therewith. Clearing and site preparation as described herein. Cutting or jackhammering of streets, roads, sidewalks or aprons by hand or the use of air or other tools. Digging of trenches, ditches and manholes and the leveling, loading, unloading, sorting, stockpiling, Wrapping, coating, treating, handling and distribution of water mains, gas mains and all pipe, including placing, setting and removal of skids. Cribbing, driving of sheet piling, lagging and shoring of all ditches, trenches and manholes. Handling, mixing or pouring of concrete and the handling and placing of other materials for saddles, beds or foundations for the protection of pipes, wires, conduits,' etc. Backfilling and compacting of all ditches, resurfacing of road, streets, etc., and/orrestoration of lawns-and landscaping.
SHAFTS AND TUNNELS. SUBWAYS - AND SEWERS - ■	; <■- A
Construction of sewer, shafts, tunnels,, subways, caissons, cofferdams, dikes, dams, levees, aqueducts, culverts, flood control projects arid airports. All underground work involved in mines, underground chambers for storage or other purposes, tunnels dr shafts for any purpose, whether in free or compressed air. Drilling and blasting, mucking and removal of material from the tunnels and shafts. The cutting, drilling and installation of material .used 1 for timbering or retimbering, lagging; bracing, propping, or shoring the tunnel or shaft. Assembly and installation of multiplate; liner; plate, ririgs, mesh, mats, or forms for any tunnel or shaft, including the setting of rods for same. Pouring, pump-creting or gunriiting of concrete in any tunnel or shaft. Operations, manual or hydraulic jacking of shields and the use of such other mechanical
' equipment as may be necessary. Excavation or digging and grading of footings and’foundations for bridges, overpasses, underpasses, aqueducts,
etc. and their approaches. All concrete work as. described above in addition, .the .hooking on,■ signaling and; dumping of concrete for tremie work over water on.caissons, pilings,;abutments, etc. Excavation,; grading, grade preparation =■ and landscaping of ^approaches; Installation, of pipe, gratings. and grill . work for drains or other purposes. Installation of well points or any other dewatering system. ;	. '
COMPRESSED;AIR ....'	<	-
In compressed air all? work underground or : in compression chambers, including tending of the outer aid lock.All work in compressed air construction, t including,: but not limited to, groutmen, trackmen, ? blasters,> shield drivers, miners, brakemen; miner's helpers, lock tenders, mucking machine operators,; motor' men, gauge tenders, rodmen, s compressed air electricians, setting of liner plate and ring sets, drill runners, powdetnieh or blastersj air hoist operators, form men, concrete blower! operators, cement (insert) operators, power knife operators, erector operators, keyboard operators, pebble? .placer operators, ear pushers^ grout machine operators, steel setters, cage .tenders, skinners, track layers, dumpmen, diamond drillers, timbermen and retimbermen, cherry, pickmen, nippers, chuckbenders and; cable tenders, vibratormen, jetgunmen, gunnite nozzlemen, reboundmen and all other work connected therewith. ; ,
SEWERS. DRAINS, CULVERTS AND MULTIPLATE
Unloading, sorting, stockpiling, wrapping, coating,! treating, n handling "distribution and •lowering or raising of all pipe or multiplate. All digging, driving .of sheet piling, lagging, bracing, ? shoring?-and dribbingf breaking of concrete backfilling, tamping, resurfacing..a^d-paving of all ditches in preparation for the laying of all pipe.
! Pipe laying, leveling and making? of the joint of ? . any pipe’used for main or side sewers and storm ’ sewers. \ All of the laying of clay, terra cotta, j ironstone, vitrified concrete orother pipe and. the - making of joints formain or side sewers an storm ; seivers and all pipe for drainage. Unloading, handling,' distribution, assembly in place, bolting
.28
and lining Upof sectional, metal or other pipe? including corrugated pipe, ductile iron, carbon ste'61, plastic? concrete. steel, steel lined concrete: and other pipe. Laying of lateral sewer pipe from main sewer or sidb sewer to building or structure except that employer may direct that this work be done under ’ 'proper 'supervision.;:. (Referee Hutchinson's decision/)? Layirig? leveling and making of the joint of all multipurpose pipe ©r multi-cell conduit. Cutting of holes in walls, footings, piers or other obstmctibnsdftomhthe passage of pipe or conduit for any purpose or other obstructions from the passage of pipe or conduit for any purpose and the pouring, of concrete to secure said holes. . Digging under streets, roadways, aprons of other paved surfaces for the passage of pipe, by hand, earth auger, or any other method and. manual and hydraulic •jacking of pipe under said surfaces? Installation,of septic tanks, cesspools !and drain fields. <
'■ - :i?	' z -z .•/!? t • w:- -■
-■ UNDERPINNING	LAGGING, BRACING.
■ PROPPING AND SHORING : .	-
Underpinning, lagging, bracing' propping and shoring, raising and moving of all structures;
■ raising of structure by manual or hydraulic jacks or other methods. , All work on house moving, shoring and underpinning of'structures? loading, signaling, right-of-way clearance along the route of movement.' Resetting, of structure in new location to include all site clearing, excavation for foundation and concrete work. Clean-up and backfilling, landscaping old and hew site.:, >
hwCAuUJ’-?
DRILLING AND BLASTING
, .mJ
All workof drilling,jackhammering and blasting. Operations' of. all! rockr ^d; • concrete; i drills, including handling? carrying, laying but. qf hoses, steel handling;.installation of .'ali tdmporaryliri.es and handlihg.andlajfngof.all blasting afrfats. All work in connection :wifh: blasting; handling and storage '.'of: explbsivesgr carrying ttp-..pbint<?bf blasting, 'loading: holes;-setting fuses;qmaking primers and exploding charges. . All securing of surfaces with wire mesh and ;ahy other:material :and setting of necessary bolts and rods-to anchor .same. All high scaling and. other; rock breaking arid removal after blast Hahdlihg;andglayingfbf
nets /.and? other safety devices ; and. signaling, flagging, road guarding. ; 'IO riCLl ri- . ••
SIGNALMEN' -. '■	w - ...
' ■ m ...A -C ,q ■ 'J- :W'W:	if, -J,
Signal- men. on ?alU consfructiofrE^^^
herein; including, traffic..control (.signal •x^en-. at construction-sites.	' w ;
GENERAL EXCAVATION AND, GRADING
•• 1 •' ■	' liri I U k‘ ‘	‘	... IS : f •’ f . -J. Jz ', '	,
The? clearing,, excavating;filling, .backfilling, grading, and landscaping -,pf all;Lsitqs,' for all purposes-, and;■ all . labor ’ .connected therewith, including chairmen,: rodmen,gradq 'markers, etc.
FACTORIES . ..	;
All work in factories; mills’and industrial, plants performed now or as may be-acquired hereafter, including packers, cutters, loaders, raw materials unloaders,. checkers, staffers, production line .personnel and stenciling of ipaterials. Handling of raw pigment; vessels cleaners and/or dryers; washing or cleaning laboratory glassware; stocking of materials in laboratories; the cleaning and/or scrubbing, washing, polishing of:all floors, glasses, windows, walls, rest rooms anddurniture.
GENERAL . ..... ; r, ( .
: Material yards, junkyards, asphaltplants, concrete . products plants, cemeteries,. landscape nurseries •and the f cleaning and reconditioning of streets, ways,, sewers and water lines and all maintenance
. work and work of an unskilled and semiskilled , nature, including > laborers. in shipyards, tank : cleaners, ;, ship,..;.scalers,, .shipwright j;helpers, ■ watchmen, flagmen, guards, security and safety . man, tool room men, part, sports arena and .all . recreational center employees, utilities employees, , horticultural; and agricultural workers, garbage and debris handlers .and ctoanera
-mm.'- .r:r nA	.■
. PITS. YARDS. QUARRIES. ETC. .
:	’ '■( ? •' . ■	' -p.-. r?	? ...
: All drillers, blasters and/or powdermen, nippers, ^.signalmen, .laborers ip..quarries, crushed stone yards and gravel and sand pits and other-similar
c 29
plants, including temporary and portable Batching Plants.
WRECKING
The wrecking or dismantling of buildings and all structures. Brealdng away roof materials, beams of all kinds, with use of cutting or. other wrecking tools as necessary'. Burning or otherwise cutting ■ all steel structural beams. Breaking away, cleaning , and removal of all masonry and wood or metal \ fixtures for salvage or scrap. All hooking on and unhooking and signaling when materials for salvage or scrap are removed by crane or derrick. All loading and unloading of materials carried away from the site of wrecking. AU work in salvage or junk yards in connection with cutting, cleaning, storing, stockpiling or handling of materials. All cleah-up, removal of debris, burning, backfilling and landscaping of the site of wrecked structure.
RAILROAD TRACK WORK
Right-of-way clearance as described above, excavation, grading, subgrading, ballasting and compacting of right-of-way. Loading, unloading stockpiling, handling and distribution of track and ties and placing of or jacking track and ties at point of installation. All burning or otherwise cutting of track. Setting of tie plates, bolting, leveling and gauging of rails and all spiking, whether by hand or mechanical means. Placing and tamping of ballast by hand or mechanical means. Construction and/or relocation of mainlines, shoe flies, sidings, grading, crossing, relocation of pipes and drainage and culverts connected with same and removal and replacing of all fences.
STUDIO UTILITY EMPLOYEES
All such work as herein described as may be pertinent to and part of the operation of Motion Picture and other related types of studios.
USE OF TOOLS
Operation of all hand, pneumatic, electric, motor, combustion or air-driven tools or equipment
necessary for the performance of work described herein.
HEATERS	"
All Laborers work in connection with heaters . . being fed by a propane tank, . : <
■ MISCELLANEOUS^ ' . ...
i AU sUch work and jurisdiction as;may have been acquired by reason of amalgamation or merger with former national or international unions and as may be hereafter acquired; including all such work and jurisdiction as declared by actions of the Executive Council pr conventions .of. the American Federation of Labor. ,	, ■' - ■ ,
30
Letter of Understanding
April 1,2002	H	/. m
Side Letter (CCLMC)
r i's m >j -mV ,J	, .!•'	".q jm-m' ;■ ■' ■
The parties agree thafibrie cent (10) of ihe eleven cent (110) Association Program Fund: contribution in Article XII of the 2002-2005 Building Agreement will be allocated by the Association to the work/of the Connecticut Construction Labot Management Council (CCLMC); However, upon writtenmutual agreement by the parties or by the Business Manager of the Laborers District Council and the Vice President-of Labor Relations of the Association;'the one cent(10)allocation will cease. .■ m. --mm 1 V m .	.
r'' ■■' 'i । ’V b.7!J	V m.. rrnmi'-b (V : V	.
■	V m mm	(-' a." m:	'..a.-, am; /. ■
V ■'	11	.V.O <,!'•;	.■ . ,(_■	?,£	?• ■*. '.b ’• j:'.::	'6	a iL,
''i —'	a j. o!r“am v mma: ; .■?	'•	:-ra •mV.a:r
ss. MarvinMorganbesser -	> V	.ss. CharlesJLeConche' ur;: moi: "
AGC/CCIA BUILDING CONTRACTORS LABOR CONNECTICUT LABORERS' -DISTRICT DIVISION OF CONNECTICUT, INC.	COUNCIL OF THE LABORERS'
. .INTERNATIONAL UNION. OF NORTH . AMERICA /	.. •	.	-
31
LABORERS BUILDING INDEX
Subject	.. ..................Page Numbers. :.
Accident.................;........................................................9,11 .....
Accident Prevention................................................................4, 9,12
Adjustment of Disputes   _________________________________________________________15.-18 ..
Alcohol Testing...................................   .............................   12
Annuity Fund...................I...;................................................6,13
Appendix A - Jurisdiction.....................................................      .25
Apprentice and Training Fund ......................................................7,13.
Apprentice Program................................................................. T.<
Arbitration............................................................................9,19
Association.............C........................................................      1	...
Association Program......^......................................................17-18, 31
Association Membership......................................................1,15,18, 23 ' f <
Attorney's Fees...............................................      ..................14.....
Bituminous Concrete..............................................................26,27.......
Blasting................".....................................9,26,27-29: .7
Board of Adjustment.................................    ............................19.
Bracing....................................................................... 8,26-29.......
Bridges................................................................25,; 27^28
Business Manager, Field Representatives,.Stewards, Foremen.................................12
Carpenter Tenders...................................................................4,25
Carpenters, State Council of...................................................       .5	,
Carryover of Wages  ...................................................      .........6
Checkoff	        1548	reclassification of Employees.................................................................          44. . .
Clean up Rate.........../................................................          ...4
Clothes Room..............................................................    ........11	: \
Coffee Break..................................................................       :7
Compressed Air Operations.................................................      .....28
Concrete and Aggregates............................................................   26	.
Conditions of Agreement...............    1, 3, 11-12,18, 20-21. .
Connecticut Laborers District Council............................................. 1, 22
Cords and Power Tools.....;......................................      ...............25	.
Culverts...................................................................      28,30.
Debris, cleaning up   .........................................................8,.25,. 26  
Delinquent Payments................................................................v 1345 -
Discharge..................................................................... 3* 7,1142 ; - /
Discrimination..............................................................> -
Disputes, Procedure and Adjustment...........................................      18-19	..
Doors and Door Bucks, Metal.............................................     J;.:.....25	T
Drains..............................................................            ..8^28v
Drilling and Blasting.......................................................      28-29
Drinking Water................................................................       1.1	■
Drug Testing............J..................................................          12
Dues Check Off...........................................................      ..15-18.
Dues Deduction Authorization Form.................................................. 16.	-.
Duration of Agreement................................................               21.
32
Employer, Definition...............X..............................................1
Employer, Liability (see Liability)
Employer's Remittance Report.....................................................17
Excavations and Foundations...................................................■..26
Factories..................... ...............................................■.. .29......
Field Representatives:.....k...L—......................... ......................... 12 v/pr;, ■
Flat Arch Stripping.....................................................       ..26^	io ;
Foremen.....................................................................5,12,13 ■
Forms........................................................... 8,.15,17,26-’27J.28-	...' t.
Foundations................................................................. 8,25£2& ;
Fringe Benefit Funds. ....................................................-LrlSi 15. ft
Funds (See Payment to Funds and Specific Funds)....................................  ■	? -
Government or Private' Limitations.............................................. 5-7.......
Grading................................................................8,27,29-30
Grievances and Arbitration .............................................  9,19’20
Health, Safety and Welfare ..,..;....'....................................   ..12
Health Fund.............. .....................................................13
Heaters.................................................................. 9,30	:
Heavy-Highway, Tunnel and Utility Agreement..................................3.... ■
Hiring...............£....................................................3,4
Holidays.................................................................5, 6, 8
Hours of Work and ShiftOperations....................................4-6,	9-10
Inclement Weather....'.;.............................£...................o..5, 6.; o
Independent Agreements..'...............................................17,18
Interest Penalties....;.................................................13*14
Intermediate Classification.................................................4
International Maintenance Agreement.............................................6	.
J acking Pipe..........................................................    29
Jurisdiction, Trade.................................................9,14, 22,30
Jurisdictional Claims.:.................................................... 9
Labor Management Cooperation Trust Fund................................    16
Laborers Political League............................................    ...16	'
Lagging..........................................................     8,28,29
Layoff...............:L.;i£..Lu..L...;L.A................................11,12'=..; '•
Legal Services Fund..U...1..........................................  .3,	13,15
Letters of Understanding.................................................22,31
Li ability............£..... i £...................................... 1.1,. 13 -15...
Lockouts.................................................................1, .18. c V-
Market Recovery Agreement.................................................6,22r । •. . •
Membership in Good Standing »•.....................................2,3, 12,16 ........
No-strike (See Work Stoppages)...................................................   ;	■■■
Notification.........;£.,..££...................................   ^...6i	7,10 -a <
Occupational Safety ahd Health Act.........................................12>	. ).
Overtime Hours and Work.....................................      ..,..5,	6,12 ......
Panel Forms..........L...i.£............................................26, .27 7•
Parties to Agreement£...................................................    1.	.
P ayment of Union DueS_________________________________________12,13,15 -16,18
Payment of Wages....££..........................................    4,	5, .11,. 15... . ..
Payment to Funds......;£.......................................:. 14, 15,/18£19oh .
Payroll Deduction....i..............  ...................................... 15; . ? ~.:.:
S33
Pension Fund.........................    ,...............-.................13,15,17
Pipelayers Rate.............................................................      4
Pits, Yards, Quarries, etc..................................      ...............29
Preamble..............  .........................................................1:
Pre-Job Conference..........................................     .................4
Pre-filed Bid..............................................................     6,7
Procedure for Adjustment of Disputes............................................. 18	?
Propping.................................................................26,28,29
Protection of Rights............................................................  1
Quarries................................ ....................................29
Quitting Time...............................................      ...J...	...:5, 7,T1 '■
Railroad Track Work.........................................................................30
Raingear and Slipover Boots...............................................      .11
Recognition...................................................................    2
Records and Reports ...J....................................................14,10,17 "
Rehire...................................................................      ...3
Reporting Time Pay.................................................   ..........	10
Safety...................................................................1,4,12,29.
Salamanders....................................................................9,10
Saturday Work...................................................................5,6
Scaffolds......................................................................  26
Schedule I - Companies Bound to the 1996-1999 Agreement..........................23
Scope of Agreement............................................................... 1
Setting and Stripping Forms...............................................    26-28
Several Liability...............................................................18
Sewers, Drains, Culverts, Multiplates...................................;........28
Shafts and Tunnels, Subways and Sewers...........................................28
Shifts.................................................................4,	5,9-10,14
Shoring.....................................................................9,28,29
Signal Men...................................................................... 29
Site Preparation.............................................................26,28
Starting Time........................................................  5,	7,10, 22
Stewards.........................................................................12
Streets, Ways and Bridges....................................................27,29
Strikes ..................................................................  1,	9,18
Studio Utility.................................................................  30
Subcontracting............................................................... 3,	20
Subcontractor............................................................3,4,15,20
Subway.....................................................................      28
SundayWork....................................................................5,	6, 8
Teamsters Joint Council No. 64..................................................  6
Telephone Number.................................................................10
Tenders..................................................................    .4,	25
Territorial Jurisdiction.................................................2,12, 13
Third Party Beneficiary......................................................    18
Tiles, Ceiling and Floor.......................................................  25
Toilets..........................................................................11
Tools, Clothing, etc............................................................11
Toxic Waste...............................................................    5,	9
Trade Jurisdiction.........................................................      30
34
Traffic Control Signalman.;................................................... ,...,.4
Training Fund.....................,.................,,,,.................,.,.,,....,,.13,14 ..
Transportation and Transmission.Lines.............. .....................,,..........26	ir-
Trenches, Manholes, Handling and.Distribution of.Pipe...............,..........,.,,8,28.......
Trustees of Funds.................................................................13-15	. < • ,t
Tunnels and Shafts in Free or Compressed Air......................28..........................
Underpinning, Lagging, Bracing, Propping and.Shoring..........
Unemployment Compensation,,  ., .,...  .......................  ..................... 11
Union(s) and Local Unions,..,.....,..,..,....,.,,.,,,.,.,.,....,.,..,,,............1,2
Union Liability.................................................................... 15
Union Recognition, Union Security and.Employment-.,,,—...................,.....,,,..,,.....2.
Union Membership...,..7,.....................................................   ..,,.2
Union Security..........<'..........................................................  2	<,
Wage Payment............v................................................3,4, 6,11,18, .
Wage Rates and Classifications.,,...........................................   ...4,. 5	- ,•
Work Day.................................................................,.5, 7,1.0,12..
Work Stoppages...............................................................9, 10,18
Wrecking.................................................................,....,,....29, 30....
35