AGREEMENT BETWEEN
Rexel USA, Inc., d/b/a Gexpro and
Teamsters Local Union 247 Rochester Hills, Michigan
August 1, 2019 through July 31, 2023
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Article 1 - RECOGNITION	1
Article 2-UNION SECURITY	1
Article 3	- CHECK-OFF	1
Article 4	- HIRING - WORK JURISDICTION	2
Article 5	- SCHEDULE OF HOURS AND OVERTIME	2
Article 6	-WAGE RATES	3
Article 7	- VACATION PLAN	3
Article 8	- HOLIDAYS	4
Article 9	- ABSENCE ALLOWANCES	4
Article 10	- EXTRA CONTRACT AGREEMENTS	5
Article 11	- JOB SECURITY	6
Article 12-DISCHARGE	7
Article 13 - ARBITRATION AND GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE	7
Article 14-STEWARDS	8
Article 15	- LEAVES OF ABSENCE	9
Article 16	- NO STRIKE/NO LOCKOUT	9
Article 17	- MANAGEMENT RIGHTS	9
Article 18	- PROTECTION OF RIGHTS	11
Article 19	- HEALTH AND WELFARE INSURANCE	11
Article 20	- MAINTENANCE OF STANDARDS	12
Article 21	- LOSS OR DAMAGE	12
Article 22-UNIFORMS	13
Article 23	- MILITARY SERVICE	13
Article 24	- DEFECTIVE EQUIPMENT	13
Article 25	- SEPARABILITY	13
Article 26-REOPENER	13
Article 27	- DISCRIMINATION	14
Article 28	- MODIFICATION	14
Article 29	- SUCCESSORSHIP	14
Article 30	- DURATION OF AGREEMENT	14
This AGREEMENT made and entered into this day of, 2019,
between Rexel USA, INC., d/b/a GEXPRO, located at 2727 Product Drive, Rochester Hills, Ml, and hereinafter termed the Employer, and TEAMSTERS LOCAL UNION NO. 247, an affiliate of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, Chauffeurs, Warehousemen and Helpers of America, located at 2741 Trumbull Avenue, Detroit, Michigan hereinafter called the Union.
WHEREAS both parties are desirous of preventing strikes and lockouts and other cessations of work and employment, and maintaining a uniform wage scale, working conditions and hours of employees of the employer; and of facilitating peaceful adjustments of all grievances which may arise from time-to-time between the employer and his employees and of promoting and improving peaceful industrial and economic relations between the parties.
Article 1	- RECOGNITION
The Union shall be the sole representative in collective bargaining with the Employer for employees in the following bargaining unit: All warehousemen and truck drivers employed by the Employer at its warehouse in Oakland County, Michigan, but excluding office employees, clerical employees, servicemen, professional employees, guards, and supervisory employees.
Article 2	- UNION SECURITY
The parties agree that the contents of the Union Security clause will not be enforced by either party unless and until it is lawful to do so under state and/or federal law.
Articles - CHECK-OFF
1.	The Employer for each of the employees included within the bargaining unit covered by this agreement who, individually in writing, duly authorizes the Employer to do so, will deduct from the earnings payable to such employee the monthly dues (including initiation fees, if any) for such employee’s membership in the Union and shall remit promptly to the Union all such deductions.
2.	Subject to applicable law, any such authorization shall not be revocable by the individual employee except by individual notice in writing mailed by registered or certified letter to the Employer and the Union at any time in the ten-day period preceding any anniversary date of such authorizations, or within ten days prior the termination date of this or any succeeding agreement between the parties hereto.
3.	Deductions will be made form the second pay of each month.
4.	Delinquencies - Dues unpaid because the employee had no earnings
1
during the second pay period of the month will be deducted from earnings in the succeeding month.
5.	Rehires - Employees who return to the active payroll from sickness, layoff or leave of absence, shall have dues deductions automatically reinstated upon return to work provided their individual written and signed deduction authorizations are still in effect. This paragraph does not modify paragraph 4 above.
Article 4	- HIRING - WORK JURISDICTION
1.	When the Employer needs additional help, it may give the Union an opportunity with other sources to provide suitable applicants but the Employer shall not be required to hire those referred by the Union.
2.	The Employer agrees to respect the jurisdiction of the Union and shall not direct or require persons other than the employees in the bargaining unit to perform work which is recognized as the work of the employees in said unit except, 1) during inventory period unless all warehousemen are working and, 2) those rights set forth in the Management Rights Clause, Article 17. There shall be no restriction whatsoever placed upon other employees handling merchandise for the purpose of displaying, exhibiting or showing said merchandise.
3.	All new hires and temporary employees shall be on a probation for no longer than one hundred and eighty days (180). Upon hire with Rexel USA, Inc. dba Gexpro, they will become a member of the union within thirty (30) days of employment. If it is found during the one hundred and eighty days (180) probation that any new employee is not satisfactory to the Employer, such employee shall be subject to dismissal without further recourse by the Union or the employee.
Article 5	- SCHEDULE OF HOURS AND OVERTIME
The regular work week shall be forty (40) hours per week, eight (8) hours per day, five (5) days per week from Monday to Friday, inclusive.
Seniority shall prevail in overtime opportunities for all represented employees who are qualified and available to complete the assigned work.
Time and one-half the regular hourly rate of pay shall be paid for hours worked in excess of forty (40) hours in any one week. Time and one-half the regular rate shall be paid for hours worked in excess of eight (8) hours in any one day. There shall be no pyramiding of overtime payments.
Work performed on Saturday shall be paid for at the rate of one and one-half times the
2
regular rate of pay.
Work performed on Sunday shall be paid for at the rate of two times the regular rate of pay.
Work performed on Holidays as set forth in Article 8 shall be paid for at the rate of two and one-half the regular rate of pay.
All employees covered by this agreement shall be paid for all time spent in service of the Employer. Rates of pay provided for by this agreement shall be minimums. Time shall be computed from the time that the employee is ordered to report to work and clocked in, and until the time he is effectively released from duty.
Article 6	- WAGE RATES
1.	Current employees as of the date of ratification of the 2019- 2023 Agreement will receive the following wage increases provided they are employed by the Company on the effective date of payment of the wage increase. The rates set forth are minimums:
Effective Date	Rate
On or about ratification of 2019- 2023 Agreement	$ 2,000 lump sum
August 1, 2020	$ 24.53
August 1, 2021	$ 25.28
August 1, 2022	$ 26.03
2.	Employees hired after date of ratification of the 2019- 2023 Agreement shall be paid in accordance with the following schedule:
Starting Rate	$ 15.00 per hour
12 months	$ 16.50 per hour
24 months	$ 17.50 per hour
36 months	$ 18.50 per hour
All regular employees covered by this agreement shall be paid bi-weekly. Each employee shall be provided with an itemized statement of his earnings and of all deductions made for any purpose.
Article 7	- VACATION PLAN
Section 1	- Accrual Rate.
Employees shall earn vacation according to the following schedule:
3
Years of Continuous Service	Annual Vacation Accrual Rates
0, but less than 6 years	Earn 3.08 hours per pay period (2 weeks)
6, but less than 15 years	Earn 4.61 hours per pay period (3 weeks)
15 plus years	Earn 6.15 hours per pay period (4 weeks)
Employees will be given credit for prior years of continuous service with the predecessor employer, GE Supply Company.
Employees may schedule and take their full vacation allotment for each year at any time beginning January 1st of that calendar year, with manager approval. Employees may take an advance against future vacation time yet to be earned. Vacation advance will be credited back to the employee as it is earned. The full vacation allotment must be used during the calendar year. Vacation hours will not carry over from one year to the next. Employees who leave the company and have taken less vacation time than they have earned to date will receive pay for their unused vacation. The company may withhold any amounts advanced but not earned from the employee’s final paycheck.
Section 2	- Vacation Scheduling.
Vacation should be scheduled in advance and is always subject to prior Company approval. Vacation preference shall be by seniority.
Section 3	- Leaves of Absence.
When an employee who is qualified for vacation allowance is granted a leave of absence, (such need to be granted only for emergency), the first two (2) weeks may be designated as vacation time and vacation pay allowance for which the employee is qualified will be paid.
Article 8	- HOLIDAYS
The Company shall provide the following paid holidays to all eligible employees:
New Year’s Day	Labor Day
Memorial Day	Thanksgiving Day
Independence Day	Christmas Day
Two additional holidays each year will be established at the discretion of the Company. Employees are also entitled to three ( 3 ) personal days per year. Personal day(s) shall be scheduled in advance and are subject to the approval of the Company.
Article 9	- ABSENCE ALLOWANCES
1.	Personal Illness.
4
Employees shall earn five (5) days of sick leave per year. Sick leave is accrued at .77 hours per week worked, five (5) days per year. As sick hours are earned, they are immediately available for use. As hours are used, they are deducted from the balance. Sick leave balances may accrue up to twenty (20) days. Maximum balances stop accruing until hours are used.
2.	Death in Family.
The Company provides paid bereavement leave for full-time employees when a death occurs in the employee’s immediate family. For the purpose of this policy, immediately family includes: spouse, children (including step-children), mother, father, brother, sister, grandparents, grandchildren, mother-in-law, father-in-law, sister-in-law, brother-in-law, stepparents, and legal guardians. The Company provides five (5) days of paid bereavement leave in the event an employee’s spouse or child dies, and three (3) days of bereavement leave in the event an employee’s other immediate family member dies.
3.	Jury Duty.
The Company recognizes your civil obligation to serve as a member of a jury. Therefore, time off to serve as a juror will be granted. Employees called to jury duty will receive regular pay for each day of jury duty up to a maximum of 20 days per year. An employee must provide his or her supervisor a signed release from the court clerk showing dates and hours served.
An employee must show the jury duty summons to his or her supervisor as soon as possible so that the supervisor can make arrangements to accommodate the employee’s absence. An employee must report for work whenever dismissed by the court during regular working hours unless the court orders otherwise.
Employees on jury duty are asked to keep in touch with their supervisors throughout jury duty to assist others in maintaining standard business operations.
Insurance benefits will remain in effect for the full term of the jury duty absence.
Employees who are absent from work as a result of testifying as a witness pursuant to a subpoena are not compensated for such absences under this jury duty leave policy unless state law provides otherwise or unless it relates to his or her employment. When not compensated for such absences under this policy, an employee may use his or her accrued vacation days or unused personal holiday for the absences.
Article 10	- EXTRA CONTRACT AGREEMENTS
5
1.	The Employer agrees not to enter into any agreement with another labor organization during the life of this agreement with respect to the employees covered by this agreement, or any agreement or contract with the said employees, individually or collectively, which in any way conflict with the terms or provisions of this agreement, or which in any way affects wages, hours, or working conditions of said employees, or any individual employee covered by this agreement. Any such agreement shall be null and void.
2.	The Employer agrees not to hire any casual labor to do warehouse work on the premises for a lower rate of pay than the minimum rates called for in this agreement.
Article 11	- JOB SECURITY
Layoffs and rehirings of regular employees in bargaining unit jobs shall be on the basis of seniority and qualifications including ability to do the available work in a satisfactory manner after a minimum amount of training. Where seniority and qualifications are equal, seniority shall be the determining factor. It is understood and agreed that employees with less than six months services are temporary employees and may be laid off without regard to seniority.
Open jobs will be filled in accordance with the procedure defined in Article 4 and Article 27, of this Agreement.
An employee shall cease to have seniority and his name shall be removed from the seniority list in the event:
(a)	He is discharged
for just cause.
(b)	He quits.
(c)	He exceeds a leave of absence granted by the Employer without reasonable excuse.
(d)	He gives false reasons for obtaining a leave of absence.
(e)	In the event he has more than a year of continuous service and remains off the payroll for any cause other than sickness or injury for one year.
(f)	He is notified to report to work after layoff and fails to notify the Employer within three days of his intention to report for work within five days.
(g)	He is unable to work because of proven sickness or injury for more than two years. Before an employee’s seniority and employment are terminated under this subsection (g), the employee may provide the Company with adequate medical documentation if he/she wishes to return to work. Upon submission of the medical documentation, the Company will evaluate the employee’s medical restrictions, if any, and determine if the employee can return to work with or without a reasonable accommodation.
6
A list of Union employees are arranged in order of their seniority shall be available for examination at any time at their place of employment.
Any employee to be laid off for lack of work will be given at least one week’s advance notice and the Steward will be notified of such layoff in advance.
Article 12	- DISCHARGE
The Employer reserves the right to discharge any employee for insubordination, inefficiency, dishonesty, drunkenness, recklessness, or any other just cause. Before an employees is discharged for inefficiency, he shall be given a written warning, copy of which shall be sent to the Union. Appeal from discharge must be taken within five (5) work days and a decision reached within ten (10) work days from the date of the appeal in accordance with arbitration and grievance procedure prescribed in Article 13 hereto.
The Employer reserves the right to institute and change work rules and regulations as needed. Nothing in this Agreement shall abrogate the Union’s right to challenge a penalty through the regular grievance machinery nor to prevent the Employer from adding rules and regulations provided, however, the Union shall have the right to challenge through the grievance procedure the reasonableness and application of such rules.
Article 13	- ARBITRATION AND GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
1.	Any grievance arising during the life of this agreement shall be adjusted as follows:
(a)	Any employee may take a grievance to his branch manager with his steward, or his steward may deal with the branch manager and receive an answer generally within twenty-four (24) hours, provided the Union shall be given an opportunity to be present at the time when the grievance is presented to the branch manager. All grievances must be presented under this step no later than 10 calendar days after the event giving rise to the grievance.
(b)	If a settlement is not reached, the steward may refer the grievance to the region manager in writing, provided the Union shall be given an opportunity to be present at the time when the steward presents the grievance to the region manager.
(c)	Should any question arise which under the regularly established grievance procedure cannot be settled by the steward with the region manager, such cases may be referred to the Union who may contact the Management.
2.	Any grievance that has been processed in accordance with Article 13.1 , above, but has not been satisfactorily settled, upon the written request of either party to
7
this Agreement, may be submitted to arbitration by an impartial arbitrator to be selected by the parties. In the event the parties are unable, within five (5) working days after such request, to agree upon an arbitrator, the Director of the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service shall be requested to submit the names of seven (7) arbitrators from the Detroit area. From such list, the Company and the Union shall each alternately, beginning with the party requesting arbitration, strike one name until all but one name has been eliminated and that person shall be selected to act as the arbitrator.
Each party shall have the right to strike the entire panel of arbitrators once. The parties shall follow the rules of FMCS. The arbitrator shall not have power to add to or subtract from or modify any of the terms of this agreement. The decision of the arbitrator shall be final and binding upon both parties. The expense of the arbitration shall be borne equally by the Union and the Company.
Article 14	- STEWARDS
1.	The Employer recognizes the right of the Union to designate a job steward and alternate to handle such Union business as may from time-to-time be delegated to them by the Union. Job stewards and alternates have no authority to take strike action or any other action interrupting the Employer's business in violation of this agreement or any action in violation of law. The Employer recognizes this limitation upon the authority of job stewards and their alternates. The Employer, in so recognizing such limitation, shall have the authority to render discipline including discharge without recourse to such job steward or his alternate in the event the job steward or his alternate has taken unauthorized action which results in a slowdown or work stoppage in violation of this agreement. Job steward and alternate shall be employees of the Employer.
2.	The Employer agrees to permit the Union Steward to post and maintain Union notices within the business establishment or premises when expressly authorized to do so by the Union. All such notices must first be approved by the Employer.
3.	In order to carry out the announced purpose of this agreement, the employee acting as Union steward shall be given preferred seniority during the period in which he acts in the capacity of steward in the event of a layoff, provided he is capable of performing work available and so long as the steward’s duties would permit such layoff deferment under applicable law.
4.	The Employer shall not require as a condition of continued employment that an employee purchase truck tractor, and/or trailer, or other vehicular equipment, or that any employee purchase or assume any proprietary interest or other obligation in the business.
Article 15	- LEAVES OF ABSENCE
8
1.	Any employee desiring a personal leave of absence from his employment shall secure written permission from both the Employer. The maximum personal leave of absence shall be for thirty (30) days and may be extended for like periods. Permissions for extension must be secured from both the local Union and the Employer. During the period of absence the employee shall not engage in gainful employment. Failure to comply with this provision shall result in the complete loss of seniority rights and employment for the employee involved.
2.	The Employer agrees to grant the necessary and reasonable time off without discrimination or loss of seniority rights and without pay to any employee designated by the Union to attend a labor convention or serve in any capacity on other official Union business, provided seven (7) days written notice is given to the Employer by the Union specifying length of time off which shall not exceed thirty (30) days. The Union agrees that in making its request for time off for Union activities, due consideration shall be given to the number of men affected in order that there shall be no disruption of the Employer’s operations due to lack of available employees. No more than one employee in the bargaining unit shall be given leave at any one time.
Article 16	- NO STRIKE/NO LOCKOUT
1.	It is agreed that neither the Union nor its members nor any employee it represents will instigate, participate in, or engage in any strike, sympathy strike, slowdown, stoppage of work, boycott or other interference with production or operations during the term of this Agreement. The Company agrees that during the term of this Agreement there will be no lockout of employees covered under this Agreement.
2.	Any individual employee or group of employees who willfully violate or disregard the section16.1 above may be summarily discharged by the Employer.
3.	The authority of the Union stewards shall be limited to acts or functions pertaining to Union business which said stewards are expressly authorized to perform by the Executive Board of the local Union.
4.	Upon request by the Employer by telephone, email, or registered letter, the Union agrees to immediately post a notice on the premises of the Employer notifying the employees that an unauthorized slowdown, suspension of work, or other unified work stoppage has not been authorized by the International or local Union, or any of their officers, and further stating that the employees are in violation of the provisions of this agreement unless they return to work or remain at work.
Article 17	- MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
9
1.	All statutory and inherent managerial rights and functions, except those which are expressly modified herein, are retained and vested exclusively in the Company, including but not limited to the rights and functions in its sole discretion: to determine the number of employees to be employed; to discharge or discipline employees for just cause; to hire employees, determine their qualifications and assign and direct their work; to promote, transfer, layoff, recall to work, evaluate, to set reasonable work standards; to maintain efficient operations; to determine the personnel, methods, means and facilities by which operations are conducted; to determine the duties to be performed by each classification; to set the number of hours and shifts to be worked; to close down or relocate the Company's facilities; to expand, reduce, alter, combine, transfer, relocate, assign or cease any job or operation; to create classifications; to abolish classifications; to establish or modify job descriptions; to issue, amend and revise policies and work rules including drug and alcohol testing; to subcontract work when the business necessitates; to take whatever action is necessary or advisable to manage and fulfill the mission of the Company and to direct the Company's employees including the right to use non-bargaining unit personnel for training, emergencies, or bargaining unit employees are not readily available to meet customer needs. The company will make a reasonable effort to contact bargaining unit employees to meet an immediate customer need. The Company shall have the right to administer all DOT requirements for safety and testing, including record checks, drug testing, etc, and employees must meet all DOT requirements.
2.	In order to improve the opportunities for upward mobility of all employees represented in the bargaining unit and to continue to assure an equal opportunity for such employees to express their interest in and be considered for upgrading to job openings without regard to race, color, sex, creed, martial status, age, national origin or other protected trait, the Company agrees to post a notice of all job openings in any classification of work covered by this agreement on the bulletin board which is used for notices to employees in the bargaining unit. All decisions as to replacements shall be made by the Company.
3.	There shall be no restriction whatsoever placed upon the employer by the Union as to whom it may solicit and serve as its customers, or from whom it may purchase its goods.
4.	The employer reserves the right to institute and change work rules and regulations as needed. Rules and regulations which establish significant changes in working conditions shall be transmitted to the Union and posted at least seven (7) days in advance before enforcing such work rule. Nothing in this agreement shall abrogate the Union’s right to challenge a penalty through the regular grievance machinery nor to prevent the Employer from adding rules and regulations provided, however, the Union shall have the right to challenge through the grievance procedure the reasonableness and application of such
10
rules. Any grievance challenging a policy or work rule must be brought no later than 10 calendar days after implementation of the rule or policy.
Article 18	- PROTECTION OF RIGHTS
In the event a picket line is established by any union facility covered by this Agreement, bargaining unit employees must cross the picket line and work unless there is a direct threat of injury to the employee(s).
The truck driver will not be required to cross a picket line at a customer’s worksite in order to deliver product to the customer. The Union agrees, however, that the Company can use any means necessary to make a customer delivery in situations covered by this paragraph.
ARTICLE 19	- HEALTH AND WELFARE INSURANCE
Schedule of Benefits. The following Company benefit plans and policies are provided to employees during the term of this Agreement. The benefits provided are subject to and shall be construed as being consistent with the provisions of the Company’s benefit plans and/or applicable policies, including any changes or modifications made to those plans or policies.
A.	Medical Insurance: the Rexel USA plan and any changes in the plan or rates during the term of this Agreement;
B.	Vision Insurance: the Rexel USA plan and any changes in the plan or rates during the term of this Agreement;
C.	Dental Insurance: the Rexel USA plan and any changes in the plan or rates during the term of this Agreement;
D.	Basic Life Insurance: the Rexel USA plan and any changes in the plan during the term of this Agreement;
E.	Optional Life Insurance: the Rexel USA plan and any changes in the plan or rates during the term of this Agreement;
F.	Basic Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance: the Rexel USA plan and any changes in the plan during the term of this Agreement;
G.	Optional Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance: the Rexel USA plan and any changes in the plan or rates during the term of this Agreement;
H.	Short Term Disability: the Rexel USA plan and any changes in the plan during the term of this Agreement;
I.	Long Term Disability: the Rexel USA plan and any changes in the plan during the term of this Agreement;
J.	Flexible Spending Account - Health Care: the Rexel USA plan and any changes in the plan during the term of this Agreement;
K.	Flexible Spending Account - Dependent Care: the Rexel USA plan and any changes in the plan during the term of this Agreement;
L.	Employee Assistance Program: the Rexel USA plan and any
11
changes in the plan during the term of this Agreement;
M.	Critical Illness Insurance: the Rexel USA plan and any changes in the plan or rates during the term of this Agreement;
N.	Legal Plan: the Rexel USA plan and any changes in the plan or rates during the term of this Agreement;
O.	Auto and Home Insurance: the Rexel USA plan and any changes in the plan or rates during the term of this Agreement;
P.	Veterinary Pet Insurance: the Rexel USA plan and any changes in the plan or rates during the term of this Agreement;
Q.	401 (k) Savings Plan: the Rexel USA plan and any changes in the plan or company match during the term of this Agreement;
Benefit Plans Not Arbitrable. The provisions of the Company’s benefit plans and policies shall not be arbitrable. Only the issue of whether the plan or policy was misapplied toward an employee shall be the subject of arbitration but only if the plan or policy does not have its own appeal procedure.
Article 20	- MAINTENANCE OF STANDARDS
The Employer agrees that all conditions of employment relating to working conditions, which includes break times, shall be maintained at not less than the standards in effect at the time of the signing of this agreement unless otherwise provided in this Agreement.
Article 21	- LOSS OR DAMAGE
Employees shall not be charged for loss or damage of company property unless clear proof of negligence is shown. This article is not to be construed as applying to charging employees for damage to equipment.
Article 22	- UNIFORMS
The Employer agrees that if any employee is required to wear any kind of uniform, such uniform shall be furnished free of charge by the Employer. No employee shall be required to wear a uniform that does not bear a single Union label.
Article 23	- MILITARY SERVICE
All employees will be eligible under all provisions of the corporate policy covering employee benefits upon entering and leaving military service.
Article 24	- DEFECTIVE EQUIPMENT
No employee shall be compelled to take out unsafe equipment that can cause
12
immediate harm to himself or others. When exercising his rights under this section, the employee must first notify his supervisor of the unsafe condition, the reasons why he is refusing to operate the equipment and work with management in resolving the unsafe condition. An employee is not excused from performing other available work by exercising rights under this section.
Article 25	- SEPARABILITY
It is mutually agreed that nothing contained herein is intentionally in conflict with any existing federal enactments or any rules or regulations made pursuant thereto or any states or local enactments. In the event that any article or portion of any article of this agreement proves to be in conflict with any action, only the conflicting article shall be abrogated, and all other terms and conditions of this agreement shall continue in full force and effect. In the event that any article or portion of any article of this agreement proves to be in conflict with the Labor Management Relations Act of 1947, or any other Act, the parties agree to negotiate upon thirty (30) days notice with respect to a replacement provision or provisions. If the parties do not agree on a mutually satisfactory replacement, either party may submit the matter to arbitration.
Article 26	- REOPENER
Upon agreement by both parties, any section of this Agreement may be reopened for negotiations during its term. In the event of mid-term negotiations, the provisions of Article 16 (no strike/no lockout) will remain in effect.
Article 27	- DISCRIMINATION
The Company and the Union shall not discriminate against any employee because of race, color, sex, age, religion, marital status, national origin, physical or mental disability, or because he or she is a disabled veteran or veteran or any other legally protected trait in regard to any position for which the employee is qualified.
Article 28	- MODIFICATION
This agreement is the only agreement between the Company and the Union with respect to the employees covered by this agreement. It incorporates all terms, provisions, and conditions agreed upon. No change, waiver, or modification of any provision of this agreement shall be binding unless made in writing and signed on behalf of the Company by its Manager-Distribution Operations and on behalf of the Union by an officer of the Union. This Agreement between the parties is intended to be and shall be in full settlement of all issues which were the subject of collective bargaining between the parties in the collective bargaining negotiations in 2019.
Article 29	- SUCCESSORSHIP
13
In the event that the Detroit facility is sold, the Company will require in the purchase and sale agreement that the buyer recognize the union as the exclusive bargaining agent for the employees covered by this collective bargaining agreement.
Article 30	- DURATION OF AGREEMENT
This Agreement shall be in full force and effect from August 1,2019 until 11:59 pm on July 31,2023 and thereafter from year to year, unless either party serves written notice of desire to terminate or modify upon the other at least sixty (60) days prior to July 31, or in any succeeding year. If the contract expires and no agreement has been reached, the No Strike/No Lockout provision under Article 16 will remain in effect until one party gives the other party at least 10 days notice of their intent strike or lockout.
IN WITNESS VyjHEREOF, the parties hereunder set their hands by their duly authorized signers this :	day of	, 2019.
REXEL USA, INC, d/b/a GEXPRO
TEAMSTERS LOCAL UNION NO. 247, of the International Brotherhood of
Caroline Becker
Sr. VP Human Resources
Teamsters, Chauffeurs, Warehousemen
(Title)
14