/5CC j?Ji4
LABOR AGREEMENT1^
Between

GEORGIA-PACIFIC CORPORATION CONSUMER PRODUCTS DIVISION NAHEOLA OPERATIONS
and
PAPER, ALLIED INDUSTRIAL, CHEMICAL & ENERGY WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION AFL-CIO
and
LOCALS 3-0950 (P & M), 3-0952, & 3-0966
MARCH 1 , 2001 - FEBRUARY 28, 2007
Patti Richmond
Sf. Executive Secretary Communications Specialist Refrigeration Products
ISO 9001 Certified
Major Appliance Division 1801 Monmouth Boulevard Galesburg. Illinois 61401 Tel: 309-343-0181, Ext. 2786 Fax: 309-345-1701
E-mail: prichm@maytag.com
LABOR AGREEMENT
Between
GEORGIA-PACIFIC CORPORATION CONSUMER PRODUCTS DIVISION NAHEOLA OPERATIONS
and
PAPER, ALLIED INDUSTRIAL, CHEMICAL & ENERGY WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION AFL-CIO
and
LOCALS 3-0950 (P & M), 3-0952, & 3-0966
MARCH 1, 2001 - FEBRUARY 28, 2007
TABLE OF CONTENTS
-----------------------------------------------Eaga
1.	General Purpose.....................................1
2.	Recognition.....................................    1
3.	Change or Modification of Agreement.................2
4.	Continuous Operations......-......................  3
5.	Non-Discrimination..................................4
6.	Contravention of Law................................4
7.	Entire Agreement....................................4
8.	Rights of Management..................................... 5
9.	Voluntary Check-Off.................................5
10.	Wages, Hours, and Job Classifications..............7
11.	The Work Assignment Flexibility Concept............8
12.	Attendance................,........................9
13.	Work Schedules....................................10
14.	Filling Vacancies.................................12
15,	Seniority - Promotions............................13
16.	Layoffs - Recalls.................................19
17,	Pay Practices.....................................21
18.	Holidays..........................................25
19.	Vacations.......................................  27
20.	Leaves of Absence.................................32
21.	Transfer Procedure................................33
22.	Disciplinary Procedure............................35
23,	Adjustments of Complaints.........................37
24.	General...........................................41
25.	Maintenance Overtime Procedures..........,.,.,,,.,.......>52
26.	Insurance, Pension................................59
Exhibit “A" Hourly Wage Rates......................................61
Exhibit “B” Lines of Progression.................................67
Local Agreements PACE Local 950.......................................71
PACE Local 966.....................................84
PACE Millwide......................................95
Side Agreements........................................99
Naheola, AL
This Agreement is entered into by and between Georgia-Pacific Corporation, hereinafter referred to as the “COMPANY”, for its mill at Naheola, Alabama, and PAPER, ALLIED-INDUSTRIAL, CHEMICAL & ENERGY WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, AFL-CIO and its LOCAL UNIONS NO. 3-0950 (P & M), 3-0952 and 3-0966, hereinafter referred to as the ‘UNION”.
ARTICLE 1 GENERAL PURPOSE
It is in the mutual interest of the Company, the Union and the employees, to provide for the uninterrupted operation of the plant under methods which will further, to the fullest extent possible, harmony, safety, welfare, health of the employees, economy of operations, quality and quantity of output, cleanliness and maintenance of the plant and the protection of the property.
It is recognized by all parties to this Agreement to be their individual and collective duty and responsibility to cooperate fully for the advancement of these conditions, looking forward toward a profitable operation.
ARTICLE 2 RECOGNITION
Section 1.	The Company hereby recognizes the Union as the sole and exclusive bargaining representative for the following employees at its present plant location in Naheola:
A.	All production and maintenance employees except those listed below under Section 2.
B.	The above-described bargaining unit shall constitute a single unit for the purpose of collective bargaining between the parties hereto.
Section 2.	The following categories of employees are excluded from the above-described bargaining unit:
A.	All probationary employees.
B.	AU IBEW Local 2048 members.
C.	All office & clerical employees, including maintenance scheduler and dispatcher, laboratory technicians, their assistants, watchmen, guards, professional employees and Supervisors as defined in the Labor Management Relations Act as amended.
- 1 -
It is understood that the Company will not be requested to act upon any question regarding jurisdiction which may arise between the Union and/or any other Union or organization, On this basis it is understood that the Company shall not act or take sides on any question regarding jurisdiction which may arise between any of the signatory unions in the mill regarding representation of employees.
Section 3.	Salaried employees will not be assigned or allowed (emergencies and training excepted) to perform work on the jobs covered by this Agreement so as to exclude from work personnel on such jobs. For the purpose of this paragraph, an emergency is defined as that work which can be neither anticipated nor postponed which may cause loss in production or endanger safety, life or property. Training situations not involving emergencies or in the classroom should include hands-on activity by employees where at all practicable.
Section 4.	The Company agrees at the time of hire to notify new employees of their opportunity to join the Union upon becoming eligible under this Agreement.
Section 5.	Successor Clause - The Company agrees that if, during the life of this Agreement, it discontinues operations, sells, leases, transfers or assigns the operations covered by this Agreement, it shall inform the purchaser, lessee, transferee or assignees of the exact terms of this Agreement and shall obligate the purchaser, lessee, transferee, or assignee to provide substantially equivalent wages and benefits while assuming all the remainder of the obligations of the Agreement until its expiration date.
ARTICLE 3
CHANGE OR MODIFICATION OF AGREEMENT
Section 1.	Duration of the Agreement-This Agreement shall be in effect from March 1, 2001 through February 28,2007 (the “expiration date”) and from year to year thereafter unless terminated in accordance with the provisions below.
Section 2.	Changes at Expiration of Labor Agreement - Either party may open negotiations for the purpose of changing the Agreement or writing a new agreement by giving written notice to the other party not less than sixty (60) days before the expiration date of this Agreement (or any anniversary thereof).
-2-
If the parties have not reached agreement before the expiration date of this Agreement, all of the provisions of this Agreement shall remain in effect unless specifically terminated in accordance with the provisions below.
Section 3.	Termination of Agreement - At any time after the expiration date (or anniversary thereof), if no agreement on the questions at issue has been reached, either party may give written notice to the other party of intent to terminate the Agreement in ten (10) days. All of the provisions of the Agreement shall remain in force and effect until the specified time has elapsed. During this period, attempts to reach an agreement shall be continued.
If the parties have failed to resolve their differences when the specified time has lapsed, all obligations under this Agreement are automatically canceled.
ARTICLE 4 CONTINUOUS OPERATIONS
Section 1.	During the term of this Agreement, and while negotiations for any change in or renewal of this Agreement are in progress (during which time the provisions of this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect), the Company agrees that there shall be no lockout of the members of the Union and the Union agrees, during said period, not to cause or permit its members to cause and that none of its members shall take part in any sympathy strike, or strike or work stoppage of any kind or description whatsoever, walkout, or in any other interference with or stoppage, total or partial, of the Company’s operations.
Section 2.	The Company agrees, however, that the Union, its officers, or agents shall not be liable in damages for strikes, sit downs, stoppages of work or any other acts of any nature that tend to interfere with production, unless the same shall be condoned, authorized or approved by the Union, its officers, or agents. In the event the threat of any interruption of work shall come to the Union’s attention, it will endeavor to avert it and in the event of any interruption of work the Union shall promptly publicly declare that such action is a violation of this Agreement and order its members to return to work and do everything else within its power to secure the immediate return of the employees to work.
-3-
Section 3.	The Union recognizes that any member who violates this Article subjects himself to immediate discharge or any other disciplinary measures deemed appropriate by the Company. Any disciplinary measures that the Company takes against employees who violate this Article shall not be reviewable through the grievance procedure except on the basis that the employee in fact did not violate this Article.
ARTICLE 5 NONDISCRIMINATION
The Company and the Union agree to abide by all applicable State and Federal laws regarding discrimination against any employee because of race, religion, creed, color, sex, age, national origin, disability, Vietnam Era and Disabled Veteran status and to cooperate with each other in this regard. Nouns and pronouns of either gender when used in this Agreement are not meant to designate either gender, but rather are used to refer equally and without discrimination to both male and female employees. The parties recognize their mutual obligations under the Family and Medical Leave Act and the Americans With Disabilities Act.
ARTICLE 6 CONTRAVENTION OF LAW
If any provision of this Agreement is in contravention of the laws or regulations of the United States or of the state in which the Mill covered by this Agreement is located, such provision shall be superseded by the appropriate provisions of such law or regulation, so long as same is in force and effect, but all other provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect.
ARTICLE 7 ENTIRE AGREEMENT
This Agreement represents the complete and total Agreement between the parties as of its effective date and supersedes all previous agreements, understandings, practices and customs, whether written or oral; and there shall be no other binding agreements, understandings, practices or customs unless, subsequent to the effective date of this Agreement, they are put in writing and signed by the parties. No agreements, understandings, practices or customs, whether written or oral, made prior to the effective date of this Agreement, shall be binding on the parties unless they have been expressly incorporated, in writing, into this Agreement.
-4-
ARTICLE 8
RIGHTS OF MANAGEMENT
Section 1.	Unless specifically abridged by the terms of this Agreement, the Company shall be vested with all of the rights that it would have in the absence of this Agreement, including those enumerated below but not to the exclusion of other rights which are not specifically enumerated but which normally belong to and are inherent to management.
Section 2.	Except as expressly limited by this Agreement, the management of the business, including the scheduling and assignment of work, the manning of the mill and direction of the working force, the right to establish, change or introduce new or improved methods, or quality and production standards, is the exclusive prerogative and responsibility of the Company. The Company is vested also with the right to promote, suspend, de-1 mote, transfer or relieve employees from duty because of lack of work or other just cause, discipline and discharge employees for just cause and establish and enforce reasonable safety and work rules.
The Company in exercising its rights under this Article will adhere to the provisions of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 9 VOLUNTARY CHECK OFF
A.	The Company agrees to maintain for the period of this Labor Agreement a check-off of initiation fees and regular monthly Union membership dues for those persons who have properly authorized such deductions. Deductions under this Agreement are expressly limited to initiation fees and monthly membership dues.
B.	It is understood and agreed that no deductions are to be made for fines, previous months* unpaid dues or assessments of any kind, and that monies deducted are not to be applied to any other financial obligation of the member to this Union except his initiation fees and his regular monthly Union membership dues for the month in which the deduction is made. The Company will make a dues deduction if the member receives a regular paycheck during the month.
C.	Authorizations shall continue to be effective and irrevocable for so long as, by agreement between the Union and the Company, a check-off of Union dues is in effect, except that during the period specified in the Authorization preceding any
-5-
anniversary date in a year in which a check-off is in effect, each individual shall have the right to revoke his authorization as of any anniversary date.
D.	Revocations shall be in the form of a signed letter directed to the person designated by the Company. All such letters postmarked or received within the designated period shall revoke the authorization as of any anniversary date.
E.	The Union shall defend, indemnify and save harmless the Company against any claims made or suits instituted against it, arising out of any action of the Company made pursuant to the provisions of this Check-off Agreement.
F.	It is understood and agreed that the Company’s sole responsibility in regard to check-off is to make deductions pursuant to the Agreement and to forward the monies so deducted to the person or persons designated by the Union. It is understood and agreed that the Company has no responsibility of any kind in connection with the procurement of authorization.
G.	It is understood and agreed that the assignments are valid only as to Local 950 (P&M), 952 and 966, and that such assignments are not transferable.
H.	Form of Authorization
All authorizations, in order to be effective, shall be prepared in the following form, signature witnessed and delivered to the appropriate person designated by the Company.
CHECK - OFF AUTHORIZATION
I hereby assign to my Local Union affiliated with the PACE International Union from any wages earned or to be earned by me, the amount of my monthly dues and initiation fee in said Union.
I authorize and direct any employer to deduct such amounts from my pay each month and to remit the same to the order of the financial secretary of my Local Union in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.
This assignment, authorization and direction shall be irrevocable for a period of one year from the date appearing below or until the termination date of the current collective bargaining agreement between the Company and the Union, whichever occurs sooner, and I further agree and direct that, regardless of my membership status in the Union, this assignment, authorization and direction shall be automatically renewed and shall be irrevocable for successive periods of one year each or for the period of each succeeding applicable collective bargaining agreement with
-6-
the Union, whichever shall be shorter, unless written notice is given by me to the Company and the Union not more than thirty days or less than ten days prior to the expiration of each period of one year or of each collective bargaining agreement, whichever occurs sooner.
Date Signature of Employee
Name (Print)______________________________________________
Address City and State
Social Security No.______________________
Employed by  Dept. ~
ARTICLE 10
WAGES, HOURS, AND JOB CLASSIFICATIONS
Section 1.	Wages and Job Classifications - The Job Classifications as of die effective date of this Agreement and the hourly wage rates are set forth in Exhibit “A” attached hereto and made a part hereof.
The matter of wages is not to be a subject for arbitration.
Section 2.	New or Changed Jobs - When major changes are made in the mill which create new jobs (through the installation of new equipment, the modification of old equipment, or major changes of methods of operations), or substantially change the duties of existing jobs, Management will meet the Unions concerned and receive from them their suggestions regarding appropriate rates of pay. If, after discussion, mutually satisfactory rates cannot be agreed upon, Management will set rates, but such rates will be subject to further discussion at the next general negotiations, and any changes agreed upon at that time shall be retroactive to the date of the job changes which occasioned the rate adjustments.
Section 3.	Hours of Work - When work is available, the normal work week shall begin at 6:30 a.m. Monday and end at 6:30 a.m. the following Monday. A normal work day is considered a twenty-four (24) hour period that begins with the start of an employee’s regular scheduled reporting time.
A normal work day will consist of eight (8) consecutive hours of work; a normal work week will consist of five (5) days per
-7-
week. The normal work week for day workers will be Monday through Friday. However, this is neither a guarantee of eight (8) hours per day nor of forty (40) hours per week.
The normal hours of work for rotating shift workers are 6:30 a.m. to 2:30 p.m.; 2:30 p.m. to 10:30 p.m. and 10:30 p.m. to 6:30 a.m. Under normal operations shift workers will eat their meal on a catch-as-catch-can basis without causing interruption of product or process flow. The normal daily work schedule for day workers is 7:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. Day workers will be permitted a 10 minute break in the morning and a lunch break of approximately 20 minutes. They will not be taken at a specific time, rather will be taken on a catch as-catch-can basis considering the level and nature of activity of the individual at the time.
Second and third shift maintenance schedules will normally be scheduled for 8 hour shifts, 7:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m., 3:00 p.m, to 11:00 p.m. and 11:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. and for 12 hour shifts 7:00 a.m. to 7:00p.m. and 7:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m.
ARTICLE 11
THE WORK ASSIGNMENT FLEXIBILITY CONCEPT
Section 1.	The Work Assignment Flexibility Concept is designed to improve the efficiency of the Naheola Mill, improve productivity and protect the job security of employees. It is an essential part of this Agreement. The individual’s safety is of paramount consideration in the application of this Article.
Section 2.	The elements of the Work Assignment Flexibility Concept are explained below and supersede any conflicting Labor Agreement provision, rule, commitment, understanding, practice, grievance settlement, arbitration award, and any other source of information regarding work jurisdiction or assignments.
(1)	In order to achieve efficiency of mill operations, employees may perform duties outside of their traditional job duties from time to time as operating conditions warrant. Maintenance mechanics will be expected to assist production employees and vice versa throughout the mill. Any employee may be assigned to perform any work which he is able to safely perform. The existing flexibility practices will continue.
(2)	Operating employees will perform equipment adjustments and repairs, and other work which they are able to perform. It is
-8-
not the intent to make trained mechanics out of production employees, but rather to have production employees fully utilize their own capabilities and concentrate the skills of maintenance mechanics where those skills are most needed.
(3)	Vacancies will be filled only when deemed necessary by supervision.
ARTICLE 12 ATTENDANCE
Section 1.	Each employee has an obligation to report for work as scheduled, or have a compelling and justifiable reason for not doing so. Regular and on time attendance is required. Therefore compliance with reasonable rules of attendance is a condition for continued employment. If an employee is unavoidably prevented from reporting for work as scheduled, he must call the Mill Guard Office to give his salaried supervisor or appropriate personnel as much advance notice as possible, as well as the reason why the absence is unavoidable. This advance notice should be at least four (4) hours in advance of the start of the employees scheduled shift or as soon as the condition exists. If four (4) hours notice is not possible, then the employee should also be prepared to present a reasonable explanation as to why the late notice is given.
Section 2.	After an employee has been absent from work for one day, at least four (4) hours notice must be given of the employee’s intent to return to work. In those instances of absences of more than one day, but not more than twenty-eight (28) days, at least sixteen (16) hours advance notice must be given of the employee’s intent to return to work. For absences of more than twenty-eight (28) days, if the returning employee notifies the Company by 10:00a.m. Thursday, he will go on the work schedule for the next week. In any case where an employee returns to work without providing the notices required above, particularly where a replacement is required, the returning employee may be denied the opportunity to work and will not be compensated.
Notice of unavoidable absence and expected date of return may be made at the same time.
Section 3.	The present absentee control policies will remain in effect for one (1) year from date of ratification. If, in the judgment of the Company, total absenteeism (for all reasons) is not at an acceptable level at that time, the Company and the Union
-9-
will discuss thecause(s) and measure(s) that will address them. Following such discussions, the Company will notify the Union and the employees of any changes that are being made in such Policy in advance of their effective date. If the Company determines that further changes need to be made at future dates, the same discussion and notification process will be used.
ARTICLE 13
WORK SCHEDULES
Section 1.	It is recognized that the daily and weekly schedules are based on operating requirements and subject to change based on product demand and operating efficiencies that the Company necessarily retains the right to schedule straight time and overtime hours and number of shifts, and that it is the obligation of employees to work as scheduled.
When a change in the weekly work schedule is made after that schedule has been posted and the revised schedule changes the shift of an employee absent due to layoff, illness, vacation, shift swap, or who has left the mill prior to the revised schedule being posted, such employee(s) will be notified of their changed schedule as soon as it is reasonable to give such notice. Such notification would not apply to those employees who work the weekend immediately following the posting of the revised schedule.
When necessary, the Company will contact employees at a telephone number provided by employees. In the case of a call-in, the Supervisor will attempt to contact the employee personally. If they are not available, the Supervisor will move on to the next employee. On schedule changes, the Supervisor will attempt to contact the employee personally. If they are not available, the Supervisor will only be required to leave a message.
There shall be no obligation to contact an employee for a work opportunity, neither shall any penalty pay be appropriate for individuals who do not provide the Company with a telephone number of their current residence. They will however be charged for any work opportunity for which they would have been eligible.
Section 2.	Employees assigned as shift workers will follow the normal rotation and shift schedules. Work schedules for operating departments for the following week will be posted on departmental bulletin boards by 2:00 p.m. on Thursday. It is the responsibility of each employee to know his own work schedule and report accordingly.
Section 3.	It is recognized that normally when overtime is required to provide training, the employee selected to .do the
- 10-
training will be scheduled on overtime. Management retains the right to select the employee to do the training. Training assignments will be divided as reasonably practicable among employees considered qualified to train. Overtime worked as a Trainer will be charged.
Section 4.	Shift workers may swap shifts for justifiable reasons within any one work day or work week with advance approval of their immediate salaried supervisors, providing such swap does not result in additional overtime costs to the Company. An employee on a shift swap will be considered available, based on his weekly work schedule, for call-in to fill an absence in his classification. The employee’s weekly work schedule will be used to determine order of priority as stated in Article 14, Section 2.
Section 5.	Extra overtime work, when scheduled or required, shall be equitably distributed as far as reasonably practical under plant operations among employees in the job classification in which the available overtime work arises. If an employee is scheduled or asked to work their off day and requests not to work, his request will be honored if alternate resources can be obtained to satisfy the requirements of the job. For Mechanical Maintenance overtime provisions, see Article 25. For Converting Maintenance overtime, see Article 24, section 6.
Section 6.	Doubling Over - Change In Classification.
When employees are temporarily set-up on shift or when employees change from one classification to another from Sunday to Monday, the following guidelines will apply:
Set-up on Shift ifOsgrtinK is Necessary
An employee can double over if unrelieved, unless that employee is scheduled in a different classification on that upcoming shift.
If the employee is relieved, he cannot double over in the setup classification. However, he will be considered for overtime in his scheduled classification.
Schedule Change Sunday to Monday if Overtime is Necessary
An employee can double over if unrelieved. The employee will be considered for filling vacancies on the 6:30-2:30 shift in the classification he worked 10:30-6:30 Sunday night, provided that employee is not scheduled for a different classification on that 6:30-2:30 shift.
- 11 -
ARTICLE 14
FILLING VACANCIES
Section 1.	At the end of a shift, no shift worker shall leave his designated work place until his relief has reported to take on the responsibility of the position. Should a shift worker not report for work on time, the employee then at work shall remain at work and notify his salaried shift supervisor or appropriate personnel that he has not been relieved. If the vacancy must be filled, first consideration will be to make a shift set-up or multiple shift set-up.
Section 2.	In the event none of the above is practical under plant operations at that time and the salaried supervisor or appropriate personnel determines that the vacancy is to be filled on an overtime basis, the overtime will be worked in the classification where the vacancy occurs and the procedure below will apply:
(1)	By allowing the unrelieved employee on the off-going shift to work a double shift.
(2)	By calling in the employee of the same job classification who would be coming in on the next shift.
(3)	By calling in the employee of the same job classification who is on his scheduled off days.
(4)	Employees in Step 1 and 2 above may elect to split the shift equally.
(5)	Any qualified employee.
♦Where there are multiple jobs within a classification before step (5), each employee on shift will be asked to stay in order of seniority.
Section 3.	In any event, if a shift worker does not report for his regular shift, the unrelieved employee will notify his salaried supervisor or appropriate personnel. He shall then remain at his post until relieved, and if necessary, he shall work the extra shift.
Section 4.	When overtime is required to fill a vacancy in the preparation of the weekly work schedule of rotating shift jobs the employee who would otherwise be scheduled off will be scheduled unless he notifies his salaried supervisor or other ap
-12-
propriate personnel by 3:00 p.m. Friday that he does not want to work. In such case, the employee will be allowed off without being charged with an absence and the employee on the off-going shift will be scheduled to double to fill the schedule. The affected employees may elect to cover the job in other ways, as described in Section 2 of this Article, with notification to their supervisor or other appropriate personnel.
ARTICLE IS
SENIORITY - PROMOTIONS
Section 1. Seniority - In the case of promotions, filling vacancies, or transfers, seniority will govern, providing the senior employee has the necessary qualifications and ability to perform the job with appropriate training. It is recognized that ability to perform in accordance with job requirements shall include the ability to cooperate and work in harmony with fellow employees.
For purposes of this provision there are three (3) types of seniority: Job, progression line, and mill.
(1)	Job seniority is the length of service in a given job classification. A Spare Hand will be considered a job in the application of this paragraph. Job seniority does not accrue when assigned temporarily to a job.
Job seniority for maintenance journeymen shall be considered as one job regardless of rate progression. Employees starting as helpers or apprentices in a craft after 11-1-77 will establish their seniority in their craft on the date they start as a helper or apprentice.
(2)	Progression line seniority is the length of service within a line of progression.
(3)	Mill seniority is the length of continuous service at the Naheola Mill on jobs within the bargaining unit.
New employees and those rehired after a break in service are considered probationary employees for sixty (60) calendar days following the date of hire, excluding layoff. The probationary period may be extended by a maximum of an additional thirty (30) days by agreement between the Company and the Union. If retained in the employ of the Company after the end of the probationary period, continuous service credit will be given back to the start of his probationary period. If during an employee’s pro
- 13-
bationary period the total of any time off exceeds continuous time already worked, the employee in any subsequent period of employment will be required to start his probationary period over.
Except as otherwise noted, length of service as used herein refers to the length of time employed at the NaheolaMill. If two (2) or more employees have equal service, the one who was bom first will be the most senior.
Any employee who temporarily works on a job not in the bargaining unit shall continue to accrue the seniority he would have had, had he continued working in the bargaining unit, provided that in any twelve (12) month period the time spent on non-bargaining unit jobs does not exceed twenty-six (26) weeks. The period of time specified may be extended by mutual agreement of the parties.
In determining the twenty-six (26) week maximum for normal eight (8) hour shifts, an employee who works five (5), six (6), or seven (7) days in a calendar week shall be charged for working one (I) week. If the employee is set-up for four (4) days or less during a week, such days of a partial week shall be added and each sum of five (5) days shall equal one (1) week. At the end of each calendar quarter, the Local Union President will be provided a report listing each employee who was set-up during the last four (4) quarters, and the dates and number of days set-up.
In determining the twenty-six (26) week maximum for twelve (12) hour shift rotation, an employee who works three (3), four (4), five (5), six (6), or seven (7) days in a calendar week shall be charged for working one (1) week. If the employee is set-up for two (2) days or less during a week, such days of a partial week shall be added and each sum of three and one-half (3 1/2) days shall equal one (1) week. At the end of each calendar quarter, the Local Union President will be provided a report listing each employee who was set-up during the last four (4) quarters, and the dates and number of days set-up.
An employee who works on a non-bargaining unit job will not work on a bargaining unit job within the twenty-four (24) hour period beginning with the shift on which he works on a non-bargaining unit job, except in each of the following situations:
- 14-
1.	An employee may revert back to his normal hourly schedule in less than twenty-four (24) hours to avoid the loss of a regular scheduled day of work once a week.
2.	At the beginning of a work week on Monday an employee may revert to a bargaining unit job in less than the twenty-four (24) hour period.
A day worker who works on a non-bargaining unit job for four (4) days or more during the week shall not be assigned to work weekend overtime that week until all others working in his regular classification have been asked to work that weekend overtime.
Employees accepting a permanent salaried position with the Company over which the Union has no jurisdiction may return or be returned to the bargaining unit with no penalty within the first sixty (60) calendar days. Between sixty (60) days and one-hundred eighty (180) calendar days, if the employee returns to the bargaining unit his job seniority will be reduced by the number of days over sixty (60) that he was out of the bargaining unit. Beyond one-hundred eighty (180) days, such employee will have no right to a bargaining unit job.
Section 2. Promotions - Promotions are made in accordance with recognized lines of progression. In cases of promotions, the Company will take into consideration seniority and qualifications, and, when the senior employee has the necessary qualifications, seniority will prevail. In applying seniority for promotions within a line of progression, job seniority will be considered first. When job seniority is equal, progression line seniority will prevail. And if job and progression line seniority are equal, mill seniority will prevail. In cases of promotions other than those involving the senior employee the Union will be notified before the promotion is made and will have an opportunity to discuss with the Company the qualifications of the employees.
When a new job not in a line of progression is created or the bottom job in a line of progression is open, notice of the new job and pertinent details will be posted on the bulletin board for fourteen (14) days. Employees may then file requests for the job within this period. Permanent filling of such jobs will not be made within the fourteen (14) day period. Copies of such requests for such jobs will be furnished to the local union. In selection, mill seniority shall prevail among qualified applicants. If the senior bidder is not selected, the Union will be notified
- 15-
before the promotion is made and will have an opportunity to discuss with the Company the qualifications of the employees. If there is no qualified bidder, the Company will assign the job to the senior qualified person in the replacement pool or, if there is no such person, may go outside to fill the job.
When an employee is promoted around a job in a line of progression, he or she will begin the accumulation of job seniority on all by-passed classifications at the same time he or she begins to accumulate seniority on the job to which he or she has been promoted.
Employees will advance to higher jobs in their Line of Progression unless they have signed a “Request to Freeze’ form. Employees on entry jobs in Lines of Progression, including Spare Hand employees, will not be allowed to freeze. An employee who freezes will not progress.
A “Request to Freeze” form can be completed and may be approved subject to the following conditions:
1)	The employee has been permanent on the job for a minimum of one (1) year.
2)	The freezing by the employee does not prevent a shift set-up.
3)	A frozen employee will perform other jobs as a part of flexibility, to the extent of the employee’s ability.
4)	There is an approved, valid reason to prevent moving up.
5)	In no event shall more than twenty-five percent (25%) of the employees per classification be allowed to freeze.
The “Request to Freeze" will not go into effect until it can be included in the posted weekly schedule.
Employees will remain frozen for a minimum of six (6) months and must give written notice that they want to unfreeze. They will be removed from frozen status on the work schedule for the fourth full week following notification. The employee will not be eligible to freeze again on the same job for a period of one (1) year.
Employees frozen prior to this Contract will be allowed to remain frozen subject to the six-month review provision of this Section, except that item 5) above will not apply.
When an employee becomes frozen he will become junior to any employee who bypasses him on a seniority set-up. Job se
- 16-
niority shall continue to accrue to the frozen employee for all jobs lower in the line of progression.
An employee who is unable to take the promotion because of temporary illness or temporary physical disability that is medically substantiated will not lose seniority.
All freezes will be reviewed every six (6) months.
Temporary openings on permanent jobs of not more than twenty eight (28) days duration may be filled without regard to seniority (shift set-up). Openings on permanent jobs which are known to extend more than twenty-eight (28) days will be filled by the in-the-line promotions starting with the next scheduled work week provided there are a sufficient number of qualified employees on each shift to perform all functions necessary for safe and efficient operations, and provided notice of such extension of absence is known prior to noon Wednesday.
In classifications where there are multiple employees on a shift, senior employees will have the opportunity to qualify for skill rates ahead of junior employees.
Section 3.	Seniority Termination. An employee shall be considered to have a complete break in continuous employment with the Company and no past service will be accredited in the event of re-employment under any of the following conditions:
1.	Voluntary separation.
2.	Discharge for proper cause.
3.	Failure to report to work at the expiration of a leave of absence granted by the Company.
4.	Performance of no work for the Company in any twenty-four (24) month period due to layoff.
5.	Absence of three (3) or more consecutive days without proper notice to the Company.
6.	Absence for more than twenty-four (24) months due to medical leave of absence, or thirty-six (36) months for Worker’s Compensation cases.
An employee who is terminated for any reason will forfeit his accumulated service record for purposes of determining benefits under this Agreement provided, however, that such an employee will continue to be eligible for such retirement benefits that are expressly provided by the terms of the Pension Plan. Any eligibility for vacation benefits upon termination is governed by Article 19.
- 17-
Section 4.	Qualified personnel may exercise seniority against employees within the same classification to move from day work to shift work or shift work to day work on February 1 of each calendar year or when a permanent opening occurs. In addition, employees who have been forced on to shift work may exercise their seniority against employees within the same classification to move from shift work to day work on February 1 and August 1 of each calendar year. No Mechanic in the Maintenance Department may displace or be displaced under this Section unless he is a journeyman who has been at top rate for at least six (6) months.
Mechanical maintenance employees desiring to transfer to a different crew or area should submit their request to the Mechanical Maintenance Department Manager. Management will consider such requests, basing their decision on the business needs of the Company and the desires of the employee.
In case of hardships, the Union and Company shall review the individual case and upon mutual agreement exceptions to the above may be made.
When a permanent vacancy occurs, one employee within the classification where the vacancy occurs and one employee in each classification below the original vacancy, in the same line of progression, shall have the opportunity of changing shifts, provided such change does not present operating problems. Said opportunity will be offered to the senior individual in the classification who has filed a written request to change shifts. Such change request must have been filed at least one week prior to the vacancy occurring and must indicate desired shift.
Section 5.	Summer Students. Summer students will not accrue seniority and their employment will end at the end of the term for which they are hired. If available overtime is needed which is of a general nature then the summer student shall be considered for overtime only after all permanent employees on that shift in the department have had the opportunity to work. This also applies to those posted jobs not in a Line of Progression.
- 18-
ARTICLE 16 LAYOFFS - RECALLS
Section 1.	Layoffs - Upon layoff, employees will be demoted in the descending order of progression levels in their respective lines of progression according to applicable job and line of progression seniority, and will be laid off from the bottom level job that is staffed in the line of progression according to mill seniority.
During the first seven (7) days of any layoff the senior employees will man the jobs in their lines of progression that are in operation on their respective shifts; however, where the Company has adequate prior notice (7 days) a seniority layoff will be made on the first day beginning at 6:30 a.m.
The overtime penalty, because of hours in excess of eight (8) in a twenty-four (24) hour period, shall not apply when caused by the shuffling up and down of employees according to seniority rights as a result of a partial shutdown, maintenance shutdown and/or curtailed operations.
Employees bumping back must have and demonstrate the necessary ability to properly, safely and efficiently perform the work with minimum training.
For.paper machine shutdowns due to business conditions and major mill equipment failures that last for more than seven (7) d?^s, excluding start-up, paper machine employees may bump back to the running machine in their department (Tissue or Board) provided they are qualified to perform that job.
J Employees who are laid off because of lack of work or re-i duction in force, and who have completed their probationary period, have the right to reinstatement without loss of seniority provided they report immediately any change of address to the Company’s Human Resources Office, in person or by certified mail, and signify their continuing desire to return to work. In the event any layoffs are for longer than two (2) years, the employee will be considered permanently separated from the Company.
In production departments, when layoffs or reductions in force are to exceed twenty-eight (28) days, the senior employees who are to be laid off will have the right to bump the most junior employees in the mill, excluding Mechanics in the Maintenance Department, by mill seniority provided they have the necessary qualifications to perform the duties of the job with minimum training.
- 19-
In the Maintenance Department, layoffs will be in accordance with seniority and qualifications. In making such reductions, consideration will be given to the skills to assure that an appropriate and qualified workforce remains in the maintenance department. When such layoffs or reductions in force are to exceed twenty-eight (28) days, employees that are displaced out of the maintenance department will have the right to bump the most junior employee in a job in the mill by mill seniority provided they have the necessary qualifications to perform the duties of the job with minimum training.
Progression line employees who are laid off from their line of progression will be assigned to the Mill Replacement Pool. They may be temporarily assigned in lieu of layoff to available jobs within the Mill regardless of whether the job is in this bargaining unit or the IBEW bargaining unit, with employees in each bargaining unit having priority for jobs in their unit. Employees shall be members of the International Union whose jurisdiction they hire in under unless they accept a permanent bid in the other union’s jurisdiction.
Section 2.	Recalls - After layoffs because of lack of work or reduction in force, the employees eligible for recall shall be recalled in the reverse order in which they are laid off provided they are qualified to perform the required work with minimum training. It is understood that only laid off maintenance employees shall be recalled to the Maintenance Department. In recalling employees to the Maintenance Department, the Company will give consideration to the skills needed to assure that the recalled employees possess the requisite qualifications to meet the department’s needs. If an employee is transferred to another job because of lack of work in his classification, he or she will, be entitled to the original job if and when it reopens. An em-' ployee who accepts a permanent job through a posting will relinquish recall rights to any other jobs.
If there is an extended lay-off of twenty-eight (28) days or more and the employee is recalled, he will have seven (7) days from the time notice of recall is given to indicate whether or not he wishes to return. If he decides to return, he will have fourteen (14) days from the time notice ofrecall is given to return to work. Failure to return to work will result in termination. The union will be notified accordingly, in writing.
In the event a certified letter for recall fails to reach a laid off employee at the last given address and is returned to the Company, the returned letter will be taken as proof that the employee
-20-
has failed to keep the Company posted of his address and all reinstatement rights will be forfeited. The union will be notified accordingly, in writing,
ARTICLE 17 PAY PRACTICES
Section 1.	Pay Practices - Overtime/premium pay, at the rate of time and one-half, will be paid:
(1)	For all work performed on paid holidays; except that employees who work during the four (4) shift period beginning at 2:30 p.m. on December 24th and ending at 10:30 p.m. on December 25th will be paid double-time for hours worked.
(2)	Employees who work in excess of eight (8) hours within a twenty-four (24) hour period beginning at the start of a designated shift, or in excess of forty (40) hours in any regular weekly work period, will be paid time and one half for the hours worked in excess of eight (8) hours on the daily basis or in excess of forty (40) on the weekly basis, whichever is greater but not both. In other words, overtime shall not be paid on overtime.
Holidays paid for but not worked will count toward the computation of weekly overtime provided the holiday falls on the employee’s scheduled workday.
Section 2.	Call Time - Call-Time shall be defined as two (2) hours pay at the straight-time hourly rate.
Employees called-in to work at any time other than the start of their established shift, or on their regular day off shall be paid two (2) hours call-time plus actual time worked, but not less than a total of four (4) hours of straight time pay on any one call.
Employees called-in to work shall be excused as soon as the specific purpose for which they are called-in has been accomplished except that in emergencies the employee may be required to perform such additional work as his Supervisor may determine. Emergency work is work that can be neither anticipated nor postponed, such as an unforeseen break down which will cause loss in production or endanger life or property.
A day Maintenance employee called back to work between 3:00 p.m. and 7:00 am, will receive in addition to the original call-in payment, a two (2) hour straight time payment for each job assigned beyond the work called-in to perform that is not of an emergency nature.
-21-
In interpreting and applying call-time, an employee will be considered out of the mill if he has clocked-out.
Call-time, as such, will stand alone and not be used in the computation of overtime for any other hours worked.
It is agreed that the start of an employee’s shift or day work schedule may be changed at any time by Management upon notification to the employee before the end of his last preceding shift or day work schedule and such change shall not be subject to call-time. If the employee is held over beyond the end of his scheduled work day and is notified of such change during the holdover period, he shall receive call-time.
However, employees notified prior to the end of their shift or day work schedule to come in four (4) hours or more prior to their shift or day work schedule the following day will receive call-time even though they will work into their next shift.
Section 3.	Current rest break practices will continue.
No employee shall be permitted or required to work in excess of sixteen (16) continuous hours except during an emergency situation where the preservation of life or property are at stake. Employees who work sixteen (16) continuous hours will not be allowed to return to the Mill without an eight (8) hour rest period. Pay will be double time for all such hours over 16 hours.
Section 4.	Shift Differential. A shift differential of thirty cents ($.30) per hour on the 2:30 p.m.-10:30 p.m. shift and forty-five cents ($.45) on the 10:30 p.m.-6:30 am, shift will be paid to employees:
1.	Who are working during these shifts on ajob on a rotating shift basis.
2.	Who are working on jobs whose scheduled hours fall completely between the hours of 2:30 p.m. and 6:30 a.m.
Day workers temporarily scheduled to work 7:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m, will receive the shift differential specified for the 10:30 p.m. - 6:30 a.m. shift for the entire twelve (12) hour schedule.
Section 5.	Pay Procedure. The Company reserves the right to change to a bi-weekly payroll (every 2 weeks), with pay periods ending with Sunday and pay days on Friday and to make payment in the form of direct deposit. If direct deposit is implemented, the Company may implement mail delivery of paychecks to the homes of any employees who do not elect direct deposit. Sixty (60) days advance notice will be given prior to the exer
-22-
cise of this option. Payroll errors in excess of $50 will be corrected as soon as possible with the check being delivered to the mill by next day mail.
Section 6.	Report Pay - Employees who report to work on one of their regular scheduled days of work and find no work available on their scheduled job or in their line of progression shall be entitled to four (4) hours pay at the straight time rate of the scheduled job unless there has been notification not to report for work.
However, employees accepting work outside of their line of progression will not receive reporting time pay but will receive at least six (6) hours of work at the rate of the job actually performed. Employees starting to work on their scheduled job or in their line of progression will be guaranteed a six (6) hour work minimum.
It is agreed that no reporting time payment or work guarantee will be due if any of the following situations apply:
1.	When notice has been posted on the bulletin board at least sixteen and one-half (16 1/2) hours before the start of such work and the employee was on duty to see the notice. An' employee absent without permission will be considered to have received notice.
2.	When an employee cannot be reached at the phone number on the Company records.
3.	When work is not available because of storms, fires, accidents, floods, disasters, power breakdowns or any other causes over which Management has no control.
Section 7.	Jury Duty - Permanent employees required to serve as jury members will be compensated for the period of jury duty on the basis of the amount of straight-time earnings, plus shift differential, the employee would have received had he not lost time.
Compensation under this Article will be limited to a maximum of eight (8) hours per day, forty (40) hours per week.
Employees will only be compensated for necessary lost time due to the performance of jury duty. Day workers or shift workers who are scheduled for jury duty only a portion of the day will be expected to work as scheduled the rest of the day. The employees on the second and third shift will be expected to work their shifts if they have had adequate rest.
Hours paid for jury duty will not be counted as hours worked for the purpose of computing overtime.
Employees will not be expected to work the 10:30 p.m.- 6:30 a.m., shift on the day prior to when they are on jury duty, how
-23-
ever, they will be expected to work their 10:30 p.m. - 6:30 a.m. shift the day they are required to serve provided they are excused from jury duty four (4) hours or more before the start of their shift, or six (6) or more hours if they are serving on a Federal Jury.
Whenever, after reporting for jury duty the employee is excused by the court, he will be expected to report to his Supervisor, by notice to the mill guard office, that he has been released from jury duty.
Section 8.	An employee requested to fill an absence on overtime on a job paying a rate lower than the rate of his scheduled job will be paid the higher rate.
Section 9.	Overtime will be computed at the straight time hourly rate of the job(s) performed during the overtime period plus shift differential, if any.
Section 10.	Employees who have reported prior to the start of their scheduled shift and who are assigned work before the start of their scheduled shift, except for early relief, shall receive one hour of straight time pay for all work performed up to the start of their shift.
Employees who are asked to perform work after the end of their scheduled day or after being properly relieved shall receive no less than one hour of pay, but the Company may work such employee the full hour for which they are paid. Such employees are not entitled to call time. Employees assigned work after being properly relieved shall have hours of time worked calculated from the time they actually began working.
Section 11.	Employees who work on their off days will not be deprived of any hours of work on dieir regular daily or weekly schedule because of such overtime. Employees who work on their off days will not be scheduled off on other normal working days simply to avoid the over eight (8) in a day or over forty (40) in a week overtime penalty. It must be understood, however, that there will be certain circumstances where employees have worked long hours and where the Company may well feel that it is in the best interest of the employee and the Company to schedule him off for purposes of rest. In other words, the Company’s agreement in principle here is not intended by the Company to limit its rights to send employees home who have worked long periods of hours and need rest. Neither is it intended to limit the Company’s right to lay off employees when no work is available for them.
-24-
Section 12-	On-the-job injuries - If an employee is hurt on he job, and a licensed physician certifies that he is unable to etum to work that day, he will be paid for the scheduled hours hat he would have worked on the day of the injury.
Section 13.	When an employee is permanently cut back from ns permanent job (progression line or non-progression) because ns job or a job in his line of progression was eliminated due to echnological change, job combination or reassignment of du-les by Management, that employee shall receive the rate of pay le was receiving prior to the change, or the rate of the job to which he is currently assigned, whichever is higher, for twenty-four (24) months.
This shall not apply to job elimination caused by fluctua-10ns or reduction in the production schedules.
Employees removed from a line of progression or a non-pro-gression job under the above provisions will:
1.	Be given a one-time opportunity to designate a preferred shift, or a preferred department, for being scheduled as a replacement employee.
2.	Be allowed to exercise their mill seniority when scheduling their vacation where they will be generally working. This could be their original line of progression, where relief status is held, or among replacement employees.
ARTICLE 18 HOLIDAYS
The following shall be recognized as paid holidays:
Memorial Day
July 4
Labor Day
Thanksgiving Day
December 23, 24, 25, 26
Personal Floating Holidays (3)
Shutdown Holidays (2)
Personal Floating Holidays will be taken by eligible employees during the calendar year in which they become eligible. These Floating Holidays will be scheduled by the employee with the approval of their Supervisor provided the employee gives written notice two weeks in advance. Shorter periods may be agreed to by the Supervisor and the employee.
Personal Floating Holiday eligibility of employees who complete their probationary period during a year will be based on the following hire dates:
Prior to April l-(3) Prior to August l-(l)
Prior to June l-(2) After August l-(0)
-25-
A.	Local 952 permanent employees who work on the two (2) shutdown holidays shall receive the day after Thanksgiving and a Personal Floating Holiday as holidays. All provisions of Article 18 as stated in Paragraphs C, D, E, F and G will be applicable in establishing eligibility and pay for these holidays. Permanent employees on jobs listed under Maintenance, Store Room and Mill Service crew in the Articles of Agreement will be covered.
Replacement employees working in these areas during the shutdown will have the two shutdown holidays as holidays.
B.	The Company retains the option of operating part or all of the Mill on Memorial Day, July 4, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day, December 23, 24, 25 and 26. The Company will post the schedule for the four (4) shift period starting at 2:30 p.m., December 24 through 10:30 p.m., December 25. Scheduled employees who do not want to work will notify Supervision and steps will be taken to try to obtain substitutes from unscheduled qualified volunteers from other classifications or qualified volunteers willing to work extra shifts. A scheduled employee will work if a qualified substitute cannot be obtained.
C.	The holiday shall be celebrated on the calendar date on which it falls and shall be for a twenty-four (24) hour period beginning with the first shift.
D.	For each recognized holiday an eligible employee shall receive eight (8) hours pay at the straight time rate of the job on which he worked on his last working day before the holiday.
E.	In order to be eligible for holiday pay an employee must meet the following conditions:
1.	He must have completed his probationary period as defined in Article 15.
2.	He must have worked the scheduled work day immediately before and immediately following the holiday unless absent for justifiable cause.
3.	He must have performed any work on the holidays for which he was scheduled unless absent for justifiable cause.
F.	An employee will be considered absent for justifiable cause: 1. If he is on vacation.
2.	If he is on his regular day off.
3.	If he is prevented from working by reason of non-occu-pational illness or accident and the holiday falls within the first 180 days of such absence or within the first year if the absence is the result of an occupational injury.
4.	If a holiday occurs during a period when an employee who otherwise is eligible for holiday pay is laid off, he
-26-
will receive pay for such holiday when he returns to work provided the entire duration of his layoff has not exceeded thirty (30) days.
5.	If he has been excused by his Supervisor.
G.	An employee will not be eligible for holiday pay if he is on leave of absence.
ARTICLE 19 VACATIONS
The purpose of this vacation plan is to give eligible employees a period of rest and relaxation during the year without the interruption of production and at a minimum cost to the Company.
A.	Vacation benefits under this plan are computed on a calendar year basis and will not be cumulative from year to year.
B.	Vacations must be taken in the calendar year.
C.	Eligibility:
One Week of Vacation
1.	An employee will be eligible for one week of vacation in any calendar year if as of the previous December 31 he was on the payroll and had completed at least one continuous year of employment and if he worked at least 1040 hours in the previous year.
2.	An employee who by December 31, has not completed one year of continuous employment but who has during his last period of continuous employment worked at least 1040 hours will become eligible for one week of vacation in the subsequent calendar year at the time he completes one Continuous year of employment. Notwithstanding the above, if in the calendar year in which an employee starts, he has not worked 1040 hours prior to December 31, he will nevertheless be eligible for one (1) week of vacation at the completion of one (1) continuous year of employment providing he has worked 1040 hours in that year.
Two Weeks of Vacation
1.	An employee will be eligible for two weeks of vacation in any calendar year if as of the previous December 31 he was on the payroll and had completed at least three (3) years of continuous employment, and if he worked at least 1040 hours in the previous calendar year.
2.	An employee who by December 31 has not completed three (3) years of continuous employment but who otherwise meets the conditions of eligibility for two weeks of
-27-
vacation will immediately be eligible for one week of vacation in the subsequent calendar year and he will become eligible for an additional week of vacation in the subsequent year at the time he completes three (3) years of continuous employment.
Three Weeks of Vacation
1.	An employee will be eligible for three weeks of vacation in any calendar year if as of the previous December 31 he was on the payroll and had completed at least eight (8) years of continuous employment, and if he worked at least 1040 hours in the previous calendar year.
2.	An employee who by December 31 has not completed (8) years of continuous employment but who otherwise meets the conditions of eligibility for three (3) weeks of vacation will immediately be eligible for two (2) weeks of vacation in the subsequent calendar year and he will become eligible for an additional week of vacation in the subsequent year at the time he completes eight (8) years of continuous employment.
Four Weeks of Vacation
1.	An employee will be eligible for four weeks of vacation in any calendar year if as of the previous December 31 he was on the payroll and had completed at least twelve (12) years of continuous employment, and if he worked at least 1040 hours in the previous calendar year.
2.	An employee who by December 31 has not completed twelve (12) years of continuous employment but who otherwise meets the conditions of eligibility for four (4) weeks of vacation will immediately be eligible for three (3) weeks of vacation in the subsequent calendar year and he will become eligible for an additional week of vacation in the subsequent year at the time he completes twelve (12) years of continuous employment
Five Weeks of Vacation
1.	An employee will be eligible for five weeks of vacation in any calendar year if as of the previous December 31 he was on the payroll and had completed at least eighteen (18) years of continuous employment, and if he worked at least 1040 hours in the previous calendar year.
2.	An employee who by December 31 has not completed eighteen (18) years of continuous employment but who otherwise meets the conditions of eligibility for five (5) weeks of vacation will immediately be eligible for four
-28-
(4)	weeks of vacation in the subsequent calendar year and he will become eligible for an additional week of vacation in the subsequent year at the time he completes eighteen (18) years of employment.
Six Weeks of Vacation
1.	An employee will be eligible for six weeks of vacation in any calendar year if as of the previous December 31 he was on the payroll and had completed at least twenty-five (25) years of continuous employment, and if he worked at least 1040 hours in the previous calendar year.
2.	An employee who by December 31 has not completed twenty-five (25) years of continuous employment but who otherwise meets the conditions of eligibility for six (6) weeks of vacation will immediately be eligible for five (5) weeks of vacation in the subsequent calendar year and he will become eligible for an additional week of vacation in the subsequent year at the time he completes twenty-five (25) years of employment.
D.	In determining whether an employee has met the 1040 hours minimum requirement for 2,3,4,5 and 6 weeks of vacation, 40 hours for each week of vacation taken the previous year and 8 hours for each holiday the employee received pay for in the previous year will be included with actual hours worked.
E.	Vacation Eligibility Credit for Lost Time Due to Injury or Illness
Lost time due to a work related injury or a non-occupational accident or illness will be considered as time worked in determining vacation eligibility for the year in which the employee starting losing time and the year in which he returned to work.
Lost time under this provision will be limited to absences which have been authorized by the attending Physician.
F.	Vacation Pay
1.	An employee who meets the eligibility requirements as outlined in this article will receive two percent (2%) of his gross earnings of the previous calendar year for each week of vacation eligibility or forty-eight (48) hours straight-time pay at the rate of the employees permanent job, whichever is greater.
2.	Lost time as outlined in paragraph E above and lost time due to illness covered by Sickness and Accident Benefits as outlined in the Insurance Benefit Section will be counted in computing vacation pay. A maximum of forty (40) hours per week at the
-29-
employees regular straight-time rate of pay at the time of his absence will be credited for each week lost in determining gross earnings for vacation pay computation.
Terminating Employees
An employee who terminates who has worked 1040 hours from January 1 of the calendar year of termination will receive vacation pay based on the following:
2% of gross earnings from January J to termination date times (X) the weeks of vacation the employee had earned based on years of service.
If the employee worked less than 1040 hours from January 1 to date of termination, he will receive vacation pay based on the following:
The vacation weeks he had earned based on years of service times (X) the percentage as computed by dividing 1040 hours into hours worked from January 1 to termination date times (X) 2% of gross earnings from January 1 to termination date.
Scheduling of Vacation
1.	The Company reserves the right to schedule the vacation period (including the right to designate any period of time during the year for shutting down of operations in any or all departments for the taking of vacations) for each employee as well as to generally administer the vacation plan in accordance with any and all of the above provisions. In so far as is possible, however, consideration will be given to individual employee preference in scheduling vacations provided that those employees who desire to exercise their seniority rights in the selection of their vacation must make their request not later than January 1.
Schedules will include any weeks for which an employee desires to receive pay without taking time off as well as those weeks which the employee desires to be off.
Employees who schedule vacations during a week to which the annual mill utility outage is moved, if it is moved, shall have the option of taking that vacation or moving it to another available week.
In exercising their seniority, employees who request vacation will be allowed to select a single week or two consecutive weeks of vacation. Seniority can be exercised for scheduling additional vacation only after all other employees in the department have had an opportunity to exercise their preference as outlined above.
-30-
2.	AU vacations will be scheduled to begin on Monday. If desired, an employee may draw his vacation pay at the beginning of his vacation period provided he requests such vacation pay one week in advance.
3.	Vacations shall consist of consecutive days in units of at least one week. However, employees can schedule one (1) week consisting of five (5) days as one (1) day at a time vacation. These days will be scheduled by the employee with the approval of their Supervisor, provided the employee gives written notice two weeks in advance. Shorter periods may be agreed to by the Supervisor and the employee. The full week will be paid when the first day is taken.
4.	Employees eligible for one (1) or two (2) weeks of vacation shall take vacation. Employees eligible for more than two (2) weeks shall take vacation for at least two (2) weeks and may receive pay for any additional weeks without taking time off.
An employee may count any three (3) consecutive days of lost time through illness, illness in the family, market conditions, layoffs, downtime of equipment, or military drills or leaves, as vacation time and draw one (1) week vacation pay on eligibility date.
5.	If a death occurs in an employee’s immediate family while on vacation, three days may be rescheduled as vacation to commence on the first scheduled day of work following the end of the vacation period. The employee may request to receive pay for these days in lieu of time off.
6.	Employees off on a scheduled vacation should be allowed an uninterrupted vacation without being called in to work. If the unusual circumstance arises where Supervision has no other practical way to get the work done and does call an employee to inquire if he wishes to come in to work during a period of time he had scheduled as vacation, it is understood that the employee has no obligation to come in and may refuse without prejudice.
If he does, however, agree to come in, the vacation day(s) will be rescheduled for a later date. The employee will not, however, receive duplicate paid vacation and when he does come into work his vacation will be deemed to have stopped and he will be on working time. When he takes his subsequent vacation time off, if he has already been paid for vacation he will not be paid again.
-31 -
ARTICLE 20
LEAVES OF ABSENCE
Section 1.	Personal Leaves - Leaves of absence up to three (3) months may be granted by management for good cause, and may be extended up to three (3) additional months if prior Management approval is secured not less than five (5) days before the expiration of the original leave. Leaves of absence extending beyond six (6) months duration may be granted only by the mutual agreement of the Company and the Union. The Local Union of which the employee is a member will be notified in writing of any leave of absence extensions granted by Management. An employee granted a personal leave of absence is prohibited to engage in other gainful activity for wage or profit during the period of such leave, if such activity would have prevented the employee from satisfying his obligations to the Company if the leave had not been granted.
Section 2.	Funeral Leave - When death occurs to a member of a permanent employee’s immediate family, the employee will be granted an appropriate leave of absence, and he shall be compensated for scheduled hours of work during a maximum of three (3) consecutive days, including the day of the funeral. Pay for funeral leave will be computed at the straight-time rate of the job the employee would have worked had he not been on funeral leave and the shift differential that would have been received. The above provisions are subject to the following limitations:
1.	Members of an employees’ immediate family are limited to the employees’ spouse, mother, father, step-parents, mother-in-law, father-in-law, brothers, sisters, sons, daughters, sons-in-law, daughters-in-law, grandparents and grandchildren.
2.	Proof of relationship may be required.
3.	No compensation will be granted where die employee does not attend the funeral.
4.	Compensation during funeral leave will not be counted as hours worked for the purpose of computing overtime.
5.	If a death occurs in an employee’s immediate family while on vacation, three (3) days may be rescheduled as vacation to commence on the first scheduled day of work following the end of the vacation period. The employee may request to receive pay for these days in lieu of time off.
-32-
Section 3,	Military Leave - Employees entering the armed forces of the United States shall be re-employed in accordance with the provisions of the Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Rights Act.
Employees who are members of the National Guard or military reserve unit of the United States, and are required to attend field training exercises and/or respond to civil disorders, as a member of an organized unit, shall be granted an unpaid leave of absence for this period.
Section 4.	Union Business - Leaves of absence, up to thirty (30) days without pay, will be granted employees upon request by the Union to attend to Union business.
At the request of the International Union, a leave of absence up to one year will be granted for the employee to work for the International Union. During this leave the employees will accrue only seniority.
Section 5.	Public Office Leave - Employees who are duly elected to the part-time political offices of State Representative or State Senator will be granted leaves of absence to serve in such capacity upon proper application in writing to the Human Resources Manager.
An employee duly elected to full-time public office or an employee appointed to fill an unexpired term of such office will be granted a leave of absence to serve in such capacity upon proper application in writing to the Human Resources Manager. Such leave will be limited to one (1) partial and/or one (1) full term of office.
Employees accepting leaves of absence for public office shall not be eligible to receive any benefits provided by this Agreement during the leave of absence period.
ARTICLE 21 TRANSFER PROCEDURE
Employees, with at least nine (9) months service may bid for posted jobs throughout the Mill. A vacancy will not be considered filled until a successful bidder or new hire completes the prescribed probationary period. An employee with less than nine (9) months seniority will not be assigned to a permanent job unless there are no successful bidders. An employee who bids to
-33-
or who is otherwise permanently assigned to a permanent vacancy will begin a departmental probationary period of sixty (60) days. An extension may be granted for good cause upon the agreement of the Company and the Union. If the successful bidder is not transferred to the new position within six (6) weeks of being awarded the bid, he will then begin receiving the rate of the new job if it is higher than the rate of his current job.
The Company will consider bids on the basis of Mill seniority provided that the senior employee has the necessary qualifications for the vacant job and subsequent jobs in the line of progression, The senior qualified bidder will be assigned permanently to the job. If there are no qualified applicants, the opening will be filled by assigning the senior qualified employee from the Replacement Pool, or if there is none, by hiring a new employee.
Priority for job postings will be as follows:
Job Postings in PACE Production & Maintenance: (1) By seniority PACE P & M. (2) IBEW.
Job Postings in IBEW: (1) By seniority IBEW (2) PACE P & M.
Employees in PACE P& M or IBEW who accept a job posting shall after sixty (60) days become permanent on that job. After sixty days, the employee gives up their recall rights.
Employees who have previously been transferred, will not be eligible to bid again for the nine (9) month period beginning on the date of their last transfer. This limitation will not apply to bids into Mechanical and E & I Maintenance.
New and rehired employees will not have the right to bid to other jobs for nine (9) months from their date of hire.
Employees who are absent from the Mill for two weeks for any reason will be considered for a job that is posted during this period if they have notified Human Resources in writing prior to leaving that they are interested in that job, provided they are available to begin work on the job within six weeks of the award.
When an employee has been allowed to transfer from one job to another, he shall have the right to transfer back to the job from which he originally transferred within sixty (60) days without the loss of seniority if, during that time, it is found that he is dissatisfied or unable to perform the work properly and efficiently. In such case, the next most senior qualified bidder will be awarded the bid.
-34-
ARTICLE 22 DISCIPLINARY PROCEDURE
Section 1.	When an employee is to be disciplined, or if during a discussion it appears that discipline may be involved, a Shop Steward or Local Union Officer from his Local Union shall be brought into the meeting. In the application of disciplinary action that involves layoff or discharge, the appropriate Union President (or his designee) and one of the department’s Stewards shall be present with the employee(s) involved. Corrective discipline will not be applied to situations that are outside of the employee’s control, such as chronic illness. Action may be taken, but such cases will be handled apart from the disciplinary procedure. The Union will receive written notice of discipline simultaneously with notice to the employee.
Discipline may be applied for the purpose of correction. Whenever appropriate, the Supervisor will attempt to correct by oral warning before turning to the steps of discipline. Discipline will be applied either as a written warning, a suspension, or termination. A Supervisor will apply that degree of discipline which is appropriate to the case and which, in the Supervisor’s judgment, is necessary to correct the action or conduct.
Employees may request a review of their disciplinary record once each calendar year, for the purpose of clearing their record of oral warnings and written disciplinary actions. During this review, employees who have had an isolated instance of oral warning or written discipline for a minor infraction and who have had at least twelve (12) continuous months without further disciplinary action, will have the discipline removed from their file. In no case will an employee with less than three (3) years service have their record cleared. It is not the intent of this paragraph to clear the record of an employee who has repeatedly exhibited disregard for established policies, procedures or appropriate industrial behavior. It is the intent to provide a conscientious and productive employee an opportunity to clear his record of an isolated instance.
Section 2.	Causes for Disciplinary Action including Discharge. An employee may be disciplined for cause arising out of, but not restricted to, the following:
A. Non-compliance with the following rules shall be considered good cause for disciplinary action or discharge, and will be administered by the Company according to the seriousness of the violations:
-35-
1.	All employees are required to be on their respective jobs at the time their pay starts and shall not quit work in advance of the time their pay stops.
2.	Each tour worker is required to stay on his job until relieved by the next shift or released by his Salaried Supervisor or appropriate personnel.
3.	After a worker has been absent one day he will give notice at least four (4) hours in advance to the Guard Office when returning to work. If the employee is absent for more than one day he shall notify the Guard Office as soon as possible but at least sixteen (16) hours in advance that he is returning to work.
4.	All injuries, no matter how trivial, must be reported immediately to the Salaried Supervisor or appropriate personnel, and to First Aid, if available.
5.	Smoking is allowed only in restricted areas.
6.	No employee shall cause a disturbance on Company property, such as might be caused by fighting, yelling, running or throwing things.
7.	The Company has the right to inspect all bundles and tool boxes when an employee enters or leaves the Mill.
8.	Firearms of any type are not permitted on plant property except those required by authorized personnel such as plant guards, except as authorized by the Company.
9.	It is the employee’s responsibility to provide the Company Human Resources Department with their current residence address and the current telephone number where they can be contacted.
B. Any of the following shall constitute a violation of Company rules and shall be cause for disciplinary action up to and including discharge:
1.	Bringing or consuming drugs or intoxicating liquor to the Mill.
2.	Reporting for duty under the influence of drugs or alcohol.
3.	Fighting or threatening of bodily injury.
4.	Neglect of duty, or insubordination (including failure to follow Supervisor’s instructions).
5.	Peddling, soliciting or selling anything on Company time or property without consent of Management.
6.	Gambling in any form on Company time or property.
7.	Repeated tardiness or irregular attendance.
8.	Absence from proper place of work without permission or disturbing other employees.
-36-
9.	Punching another employee’s time card.
10.	Any dishonesty on Company premises, including borrowing of money, property, or property of another employee without permission.
11.	Use of Company time, materials and equipment for other than Company business.
12.	Willful defacing or spoiling of Company property.
13.	Giving or taking inducements to obtain work or retain job.
14.	Leaving Company premises during working hours without permission, unless on regular Company business.
15.	Sleeping on the job.
16.	Failure to comply with established Company Safety Rules.
ARTICLE 23
ADJUSTMENT OF COMPLAINTS
Section 1. Grievance Procedure.
A.	A grievance is defined as being a complaint by an employee or a group of employees involving an alleged violation of this Agreement or a claim that the Company has taken disciplinary action without just cause.
B.	This grievance procedure constitutes the sole and exclusive means of resolving controversies between the parties and pending settlement of the controversy the employee or employees will continue to work as directed by the Company. Settlement of the controversy at any step in the grievance procedure shall be binding on all parties including the employee or employees making the complaint.
C.	The parties agree that pending the raising, processing and settlement of a grievance, and during the term of this Agreement, there shall be no slowdown, stoppage, or other interference of work or plant operations, as provided for in ARTICLE 4. CONTINUOUS OPERATIONS of this Agreement.
D.	Grievances shall only be processable through the grievance procedure by Union representatives and shall only be processable if action is taken within the time limit set out for each step. The settlement of a grievance in any case shall not be made retroactive for a period exceeding five (5) days prior to the date the grievance was first presented in writing.
Step 1. The employee shall, within (5) working days after its occurrence, take up his grievance with his immediate Supervisor and if so requested, the Shop Stew
-37-
ard in his department shall be given an opportunity to be present at a time to be fixed by the immediate Supervisor within the succeeding two (2) working days. Any settlement reached at this step shall be on a non-precedent basis.
Step 2. If the grievance is not settled in Step 1, the Union may appeal by presenting the grievance in writing to the immediate Supervisor, within five (5) days after the discussion with the supervisor. Upon receipt of the written grievance, the immediate Supervisor shall write on the grievance form the facts of the grievance as he knows them to be and his answer, and sign the grievance form, acknowledging receipt thereof. The grievance shall then be forwarded to the Human Resources Department and the Department Operations Leader.
Human Resources shall schedule a meeting of the following, during the second week of the month following the month in which the written grievance is presented to the supervisor: Human Resources Representative, Department Operations Representative, Local Union President or Vice President, and up to three additional Union representatives or employees, one of which may be the involved grievant. At the option of the Company, the involved supervisor may also attend the meeting. The Company shall give a written answer to the grievance within five (5) days after the end of the meeting.
Step 3. If the grievance is not settled in Step 2, it may be appealed in writing to the Human Resources Representative by the Union within (10) days of receipt of the Step 2 Answer. The Human Resources Representative shall arrange a meeting with the Human Resources Representative, Department Manager, up to two additional Company representatives, Intema-tional Union Representative, Local Union President or Vice President, and up to three additional Union representatives or employees (one of which may be the grievant) designated by the Union. The parties will meet during the first week of each month if grievances are pending. The Company shall give its written answer within ten (10) days after the meeting.
-38-
When grievances are discussed in Step 2 or Step 3 which involve multiple grievances concerning the same issue, or multiple grievants, the Local President or Human Resources Representative may request additional attendees.
Step 4. If the grievance is not settled in Step 3, it may be appealed by written notice of such appeal, given by either party to the other within thirty (30) days after the receipt of the written Step 3 answer, to Arbitration in accordance with the procedure and conditions set forth in Section 2 of this Article.
E.	The parties agree to follow each of the foregoing steps in the processing of a grievance and if in any step the Company’s representative fails to give his written answer within the time limits therein set forth, the Union may appeal the grievance to the next step at the expiration of such time limit.
E Grievances alleging unjust discharge must be registered by the Union in writing within seventy-two (72) hours from the date of discharge and may be taken directly to Step 3 of the grievance procedure. In such case, the parties will normally attempt to hear such grievance at a Step 3 meeting within ten (10) days after it is submitted.
G.	Saturdays, Sundays and holidays are excluded in computing the time limits specified in this Article. The time limits outlined in this Article may be extended by mutual agreement of the parties.
H.	1. Union grievance adjustment meetings will be scheduled by Management at a time that is reasonable for both parties and that minimizes or avoids lost working time. Grievance meetings shall be posted a week in advance next to the work schedules.
2.	Union representatives who have been excused from work by their Supervisors will be compensated for time spent during their regular straight-time working hours in attending grievance adjustment meetings or other authorized Union-Management meetings.
3.	Union representatives will not be compensated for time spent in Union meetings or conventions, in handling internal Union affairs or in preparing for Union Management meetings.
Section 2. Arbitration.
A.	Arbitrable issues are only those which meet each and all of the following tests:
-39-
1.	The issue must first have gone through the grievance procedure as outlined in this Agreement.
2.	All time limits within the grievance procedure itself must have been observed.
3.	Written notice of intent to Arbitrate must have been forwarded within thirty (30) days after issuance of the last answer of the Company following the last step in the grievance procedure.
4.	The issue must be one arising out of an alleged violation of this Agreement or a claim that the Company has taken disciplinary action without just cause.
B.	If the Union desires to submit an issue to Arbitration, the International Representative or Local Union official shall forward, within the time limit specified in A-3 of this Section, written notice of such intent to the Human Resources Manager. The notice shall stipulate the nature of the relief or remedy sought.
C.	Grievances arising in a single Local Union and which have been processed through all stages of the grievance procedure in accordance with the preceding provisions of this Agreement may be combined into a joint request to be presented to a single Arbitrator, but in no case shall the number of grievances so combined exceed three (3).
D, For the term of this Agreement, the parties shall select a standing pool of fifteen (15) Arbitrators, by submitting a letter jointly requesting the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service to supply a panel of forty five (45) Arbitrators. The Company and Union Representatives shall determine by lot the order of elimination, and shall alternately strike until a panel of fifteen (15) names remain. A second panel can be requested to supplement the first panel should the parties determine that fifteen (15) acceptable arbitrators cannot be developed from the initial list of forty-five.
At the option of either the Company or the Union, at the midpoint of the term of this agreement, the parties will select a new panel of arbitrators to replace the existing panel, in the manner described in the preceding paragraph. Any arbitrations for which an arbitrator has already been selected, will not be effected by the selection of a new panel of arbitrators.
Within five (5) days after receipt of notice of appeal to arbitration, the parties shall jointly select an Arbitrator from the standing pool. The parties shall determine by lot the order of elimination and thereafter each shall, in that order, alternately strike from the list fifteen (15) names each and the remain
-40-
ing name shall become the arbitrator. The last two struck shall become the first and second alternate should the selected arbitrator not be available. Once the Arbitrator is selected, he will be contacted by telephone conference within five days, and will be asked for a hearing date within sixty (60) days of notification.
E.	Written post hearing briefs may be filed by either party under this procedure. The Arbitrator shall agree to render a decision within thirty (30) days after the completion of taking evidence or the filing of post hearing briefs.
F.	The time limits specified herein may be extended by mutual consent of the parties.
G.	The arbitrator shall have no power to add to or subtract from or modify any of the terms of this Agreement or any agreement made supplementary hereto, nor to establish or change any rate, but shall interpret and adjust grievances in accordance therewith.
H.	The decision of the Arbitrator on the matter at issue shall be final and binding on both parties and on all individual employees involved.
I.	The cost of the arbitrator shall be borne equally by the Union and the Company. The expenses and fees of others in attendance at the hearing will be bome by the parties requesting their presence. If either party requests that the hearing be transcribed, each party who requests a copy of the stenographic record shall pay the cost of such copy.
J.	Pending the processing of the grievance and the award of the Arbitrator, and during the term of this Agreement, there shall be no stoppage, slow-down or other interference with work in accordance with ARTICLE 4. CONTINUOUS OPERATIONS of this agreement.
K.	If mutually agreed to by the Company and the Union, Mediation shall be used to attempt to resolve the matter before arbitration.
ARTICLE 24 GENERAL
Section 1.	Tools. The Company will replace broken and worn out tools. Where special tools are required, the Company will supply such tools.
Section 2.	Safety Shoes. The Company will reimburse up to $100 towards the purchase of ANSI approved safety shoes annually. In the year 2003, the allotment will be increased to $110, and increased by $5.00 per year, during the term of this agree
-41 -
ment. Safety shoes must be worn in all areas of the Mill except when in designated safety lanes.
Section 3.	Drug & Alcohol Policy. The Company is committed to providing a safe workplace for all employees. It is in the interest of the employees, the Company, the Union and the community that the Naheola facilities remain free from employees reporting for work or working under the influence of illegal drugs, controlled substances or alcohol. Acknowledging the need for action, the following alcohol and drug testing program will apply.
1.	In the event the Company has reasonable cause to believe that an employee is under the influence of alcohol or a controlled substance, the Company may request that the employee submit to an alcohol and/or drug screen test at the Company’s expense. If the employee refuses to take the test or, having taken the test registers a positive finding the employee shall be subject to immediate discharge.
2.	The above tests shall be administered at an approved facility. The sample shall be put in a sealed container to be signed by the employee. This sample shall then be sent to the approved facility to be tested. The results of the test shall be kept confidential.
3.	In the event the Company requests that an employee submit to breath, blood and/or urine tests (or other medically recognized tests for detecting alcohol or controlled substance use) and the employee chooses not to submit to such test or tests, then reasonable cause shall automatically exist to believe that the employee was under the influence and just cause shall exist for immediate discharge.
4.	The Company shall pay the cost of all drug and alcohol tests.
5.	Causing or contributing to an accident, or an incident that nearly results in an accident, or damage to Company equipment or products, shall automatically be considered reasonable cause to invoke immediate testing.
The Company will establish a “zero tolerance” random drug testing program for all Company employees at the Naheola facility. Random testing will not include testing for alcohol. At least 60 days prior to implementation, the Company will review all aspects with the Union and notify all employees of the plan’s effective date. An Employee Assistance Program will be available during such notice period.
-42-
Elements of the plan will include:
1.	An employee assistance plan, available to employees who seek assistance prior to being notified of their selection for testing.
2.	A Medical Review Officer review of all positive results.
3.	Random testing procedure.
4.	Continued use of “for cause” and post accident testing.
5.	Discharge for a positive test result. However, during the first twelve months following implementation of the program, for the first positive test result, the employee will be referred to the EAP and offered a Last Chance Agreement that provides for follow-up testing at times and frequency as determined by Management for a two year period. A second positive test will result in discharge. Failure to take a test as reasonably designated by Management would be considered a positive test result.
An employee who has been requested to submit to “for cause” testing may confer with his Union Representative before testing, provided that does not significantly delay the testing.
The Company will provide to the Union the names of the hourly employees and the number of salaried employees who have been randomly tested.
Section 4.	Contracting of Work. The Company will not contract normal and routine mill site maintenance work except in emergencies and other such work for which it does not have equipment or skills and/or work which would require the use of its own personnel to the extent that normal and necessary maintenance work would be curtailed or delayed. Prior to contracting out maintenance work, the Company will notify the Local Union of the nature of the work and the reasons for contracting it out. After such notice, the Union may provide input and the Company will consider any input that they provide. In those instances where the Company has previously described the nature of recurring work, subsequent notification is not required.
Support services work in and around the mill may also be contracted out.
The Company will not contract out maintenance work under this Article which will cause the layoff of its journeymen maintenance employees.
The emergency exception in this Article is only applicable if those employees normally performing work related to overcom
-43-
ing the emergency situation are not readily available on a timely basis in sufficient force to effectively cope with it.
Section 5.	Apprentice Program. The Company reserves the right to establish and maintain an Apprentice Program, and to modify or discontinue such program at any time. The existence of such program, and the participation of employees in it, does not limit the rights of the Company to determine the size of the workforce and to implement reductions in force.
If, during the term of this Agreement, the Company establishes an Apprentice Program, the program will initially be the same as the program that was in effect under the prior Labor Agreement, with any modifications to the eligibility and selection process, or other aspects of the program, that are necessary to satisfy current legal requirements and the needs of the Mill.
Section 6.	Converting Maintenance
Eligibility and Selection of Converting Maintenance Technician 5 Trainees:
When openings occur in the Converting maintenance training program, the opportunity to apply will be offered to the most senior Technician 4 employees by progression seniority, then by progression seniority to the most senior employees, in sequence, in the Technician 3, Technician 2, Technician 1 and Spare Hand classifications. Applicants will be tested (unless they chose to use their prior test results) and interviewed to determine qualifications and suitability for progression through the training program. The most senior employees who meet the qualification criteria will be selected for entry into the training program.
Overtime Guidelines:
Normally day to day work assignments will be by Area, however, the Company reserves the right to assign maintenance employees to the other Area as needed.
Shift maintenance vacancies will be filled per the agreement (Article 14: Filling Vacancies) with the following modifications to Section 2:
(1)	Unrelieved employee.
(2)	Previous shift, beginning with low employee.
(3)	Incoming shift, beginning with the low employee.
(4)	Off shift, beginning with the low employee.
-44-
(5)	Employees may elect to split the shift equally.
(6)	Unrelieved employee will be required to work, or find a suitable replacement with management approval.
Day maintenance overtime guidelines:
1.	Job continuity (may be required to stay when necessary).
2.	Then needs will be met by:
a.	Low overtime list by the area sign-up
b.	Low overtime list in the other area sign-up
c.	Any other bargaining unit resource may be used
3.	The first person forced to work will be the first person who had the opportunity to work.
Day maintenance call-in guidelines (weekdays):
1.	Overtime list in area, beginning with low employee
2.	Overtime list in other area, beginning with low employee
3.	Recognizing a preference for bargaining unit employees, any available resource may be used
Day maintenance call-in guidelines (weekend)
1.	Overtime list by department, beginning with low employee
2.	Recognizing a preference for bargaining unit employees, any available resource may be used
Twelve-hour schedules (day and night) will be posted by 2:00 p.m. of the prior workday utilizing the overtime list for selecting the required number of Technician 5 employees.
Day workers will sign-up for holdover overtime work by 12:00 noon.
The Shift Maintenance Team Leader
1.	The Shift Maintenance Team Leader will be responsible and accountable for keeping track of overtime on shift.
2.	They will record who stays, who should be charged, and why. This data will be forwarded to the Shift Maintenance Team Leader working days, who will be responsible and accountable for helping publish and posting the daily overtime sheet.
Other Items
By mutual agreement, the Company and Local 950 may modify the overtime agreement after one year.
-45-
Section 7. Safety Rules. The following is a list of safety rules that must be adhered to at all times throughout the Mill for the safety and health of yourself and others. The Company may adopt additional or revised rules at any time with proper notification to employees and the Union in advance of the enforcement of any new or revised rule. This list should not be construed as a complete set since it is impractical to write a rule for each situation that may develop which requires your immediate attention. You should therefore, stay alert and use common sense to avoid injury and ill health.
1.	All injuries, no matter how slight, must be reported immediately to your Salaried Supervisor or appropriate personnel, and to First Aid, if available.
2.	If your job calls for the wearing of safety equipment such as eye protection, safety hats, gloves, boots, etc., these must be worn.
3.	Unauthorized operating or tampering with equipment is prohibited.
4.	Plant lock-out policy adherence is the responsibility of each individual.
5.	Good housekeeping in your work area is your safety responsibility.
6.	Employees must never use compressed air to clean their clothing or person, and the air hose must never be pointed at anyone else.
7.	No machine shall be operated unless all guards are in place. If permanent guards are damaged, temporary measures must be taken to protect personnel. Permanent guards must be installed at the first opportunity.
8.	Running on plant property is not permitted except in case of emergency.
9.	Smoking is permitted only in designated areas.
10.	Know location of fire and safety exits. These exits will be properly identified.
11.	Fire prevention equipment, gas masks and other emergency equipment and exits must be kept free of obstacles.
12.	Loose clothing jewelry, loose neckties, etc. must not be worn while working around or operating moving machinery.
13.	Get help before attempting to lift something too heavy for you.
14.	Where climbing is necessary, secure a ladder that is equipped with safety shoes. Straight ladders must be tied off.
15.	Report and follow up on all unsafe working conditions with your Supervisor.
-46-
16.	Do not enter any tank unattended and without proper safety equipment following the Confined Space Entry Procedure.
17.	Only Electrical Department personnel will be allowed to reset motor overloads located in normally locked control centers.
18.	Employees utilizing motor equipment must operate such equipment exercising good judgment and proper safety considerations, especially as it pertains to speed of equipment and methods of transporting personnel.
19.	Employees must comply with the Company respiratory policy where applicable.
20.	Passing over, under, or between rail cars is prohibited unless it is part of an employee’s assigned duties.
21.	Employees must wear an approved life preserver when working from a boat, barge, or marine dock.
22.	When duties involve overhead work that present a fall hazard, a safety belt or harness that is securely tied off must be worn.
23.	The above safety rules are in effect throughout the.plant at all times. Specific safety rules pertaining to your job and area will be explained to you by your Salaried Supervisor.
Section 8.	Scheduling Errors. When employees have been denied work due to scheduling errors of any kind (including overtime, doubling over, holdover and call-ins), they will be made whole by providing them with the opportunity to work a comparable number of hours within seven days if practical. If supervision is notified prior to committing a scheduling error, the employee will receive two (2) hours penalty pay, providing the employee works all of the make-up work.
Section 9.	Family and Medical Leave. Employees who qualify for leave of absence under the Family and Medical Leave Act for a reason other than their own illness, shall be required to use any vacation and floating holidays to which they are eligible as the first part of such leave. An employee who has used all of his vacation as Family and Medical Leave will be allowed one (1) week of previously scheduled vacation time off without pay.
Section 10.	Mechanical Maintenance Step Progression. When Journeymen Mechanics are to be hired, the jobs will be posted inside the Mill prior to hiring Mechanics from outside the Mill. For Journeyman Mechanics hired from outside the Mill, or Journeyman Mechanics transferred from within the Mill, the Mechanic shall progress through a 4-step skills system. They must progress through Step 4 by attaining three levels of Journeyman skills within four (4) years of their hire or transfer date. They
-47-
can request to advance after six months in each step. They must attain Pipefitter and Millwright with basic welding skills. The third skill may be in either the Sheetmetal, Certified Welder or Machinist area.
Step 1. Entry Level Journeyman Mechanic in one skill.
Step 2. Mechanic that has worked six months in the Mechanical Maintenance Department at the Naheola Mill.
Step 3. Mechanic that has worked six months in Mechanical Maintenance at Step 2 and passes the required skills tests for Journeyman skills in a second area.
Step 4. Mechanic that has worked six months in Mechanical Maintenance at Step 3 and passes the required skills tests for Journeyman skills in a third area.
In Steps 3 and 4, the employee must make a written request to the Maintenance Manager stating that he wishes to be evaluated for the next step in the progression. The evaluation opportunity must be made available within four weeks of the request.
The Maintenance Manager will make arrangements for the Journeyman to take written, oral and demonstrated skills tests in other skill areas. Such tests for each step will be developed with input from a Mechanical Craftsman appointed by PACE Local 3-0952 and a member of management to demonstrate skills and proficiency. AUnion appointed representative will observe each skills test and the Union will be notified of the results.
The Maintenance Manager and the Mechanic’s immediate supervisor will review all data and determine whether the Mechanic is promotable. Should the Mechanic be found to be not promotable, he will be advised of the areas in which improvement is necessary and may apply for retesting after showing satisfactory improvement in those areas. If an individual does not demonstrate satisfactory progress toward completion of the four steps, he will be removed from the program. If such individual entered the program from within the Mill, he will be placed in the Mill Replacement Pool.
Section 11.	Bulletin Boards. The Company shall provide bulletin boards at locations to be designated by the Company on its premises for the purpose of posting official Union notices only. Bulletin boards shall not be used for posting material of a
-48-
controversial, political, or advertising nature, or for disseminating propaganda of any kind whatsoever. Said bulletin boards shall be glass-enclosed, and the Union President or Secretary shall be responsible for the posting of any notice in accordance with the foregoing.
Section 12, Health, Safety and Sanitation. The Company shall make reasonable provisions for the safety, health and sanitation of its employees during the hours of their employment, including providing professionally trained emergency response personnel on site during normal working hours. Employee’s suggestions for the improvement of health, safety and sanitation will be welcome. The Union and the Company will cooperate in maintaining the Company’s’ rules regarding health, safety and sanitation.
It is our intent to assign employees to tasks they can perform safely. If an employee is assigned a task and that employee states his belief that the assignment is unsafe for him, the Supervisor will consider those concerns and shall utilize those resources available to him to satisfy concerns. If the safety concerns of the employee(s) cannot be resolved, the final decision will be made by the Supervisor who may secure other resources to accomplish the task in the most effective manner.
Section 13.	Plant Visitation, Representatives of the Union shall, upon prior request to the Director, Human Resources or his designated representatives, be admitted to the Company’s premises during working hours for the purpose of participating in the adjustment of grievances, provided that such visits are not abused and do not interfere with production or with employees while at work.
Union officials should, whenever possible, arrange to conduct Mill Union business so that it will not interfere with their work schedule. It is recognized that on occasion a Union official will not be able to work his scheduled shift due to insufficient rest caused by conducting required Union business. To be excused from work under such circumstances, the Union officials must notify their Supervisor in advance of their shift starting time and the reasons for this absence. Union officials covered by this provision shall not exceed two from each Local Union, who will be designated in writing to the Manager of Human Resources.
-49-
Section 14.	Voting. All qualified registered voters whose work schedule does not permit them time to vote will be allowed a reasonable amount of time off without pay to vote between the opening and closing of the polls, and allowed to work the scheduled time missed. As for annual Local Union Elections, any employee who is working during all of the hours that the poll is open may be excused to vote without pay for time missed, and allowed to work the scheduled time missed.
Section 15.	Seniority Lists. The Company will furnish the Union with a copy of an up-to-date seniority list quarterly, upon request.
Section 16.	Joint Standing Committees. The following Joint Standing Committees and their purpose have been agreed upon to exist during the term of this Agreement:
Joint Labor-Management Committee
Purpose: A forum for the exchange of information relative to business performance, mill performance, and operational matters pertinent to the Labor-Management relationship in order to build a more constructive relationship and a safer, more secure, and profitable work place.
Membership: two (2) members from each Local Union The Mill Operations Leaders
Joint Safety Advisory Committee
Purpose: To audit Mill safety policy and performance and recommend policy and program revisions as needed.
Membership:
one (1) Union representative from each Local Union four (4) representatives of Management.
Employee Assistance Advisory Committee
Purpose: To promote the Company provided Employee Assistance Program through publicity and to encourage utilization where appropriate.
Membership:
one (1) Union representative from each Local Union two (2) representatives of Management
-50-
Departmental Labor Management Meetings
Purpose: A forum for the exchange of information regarding business performance, department performance and operational matters pertinent to the Labor-Management relationship in order to build a constructive relationship and a safe, more secure, and profitable work place.
Membership: To be designated by appropriate parties.
Section 17.	Logging Up. Supervision or other appropriate personnel in every area shall make a record of calls made in order to secure individuals for overtime (vacancies or extra work) as appropriate under their labor agreement. The form of this record may be a log book, notations on individual sheets, electronic or computerized records, or other appropriate documentation. If a dispute arises around an issue and the parties directly involved cannot agree on the facts, this record will dominate.
Section 18.	The current prescription safety glasses program will be continued.
Section 19.	Emergency Response Team - Participation Pay. Management will determine classifications for participation on the Emergency Response Team. The following pay policy will be in effect during the life of this Agreement:
Chief......................$48	per	meeting
Assistant Chief...............$44 per	meeting
Captain.......................$43 per	meeting
All Other ERT Members .... $42 per meeting
When Emergency Response Team members are assigned to work a scheduled fire watch they will be paid, in addition to their regular rate, the following:
Chief......................$1.10
Assistant Chief............$1.05
All other ERT Members $ 1.00
Team members will be covered by an additional Accidental Death and Dismemberment policy with a benefit level of $50,000.
The parties recognize the necessity of having an adequate well-trained Emergency Response Team in the Mill to protect Mill property and job security and all employees and mutually agree to work together to accomplish this. If an adequate number of
-51-
participating volunteers are not available from the classifications in which Emergency Response Team participation is permitted, to meet this need the parties will take the necessary action to correct this situation including assignment of additional employees from these classifications to the Mill Emergency Response Team, if necessary.
The ERT members will receive four (4) hours pay at their straight-time pay rate following completion of their annual physical.
ARTICLE 25
MAINTENANCE OVERTIME PROCEDURES
MECHANICS
•	All members of the Mechanical Maintenance crews are designated as Mechanics.
•	Mechanics will be assigned work based on business need, best utilization of the crew, and common sense.
•	The company will not administer the overtime procedure in an arbitrary and capricious manner.
OVERTIME GUIDELINES FOR
MECHANICAL MAINTENANCE
These guidelines are designed to equitably distribute overtime as far as reasonably practical. The Mechanical Maintenance Department will use Crew, Area and Mill Overtime lists in determiningcall-ins, scheduling, weekend scheduling, hold-overs, etc. The union is responsible for updating, maintaining, and posting the overtime list. The union designee that updates and maintains the list will be allowed eight straight time hours per week. A weekly overtime list will be kept for each day crew. The company will provide the union with a copy of each crew daily time sheet by noon Monday. The union will give management an updated overtime list the day before posting is due. Normally, updated overtime lists will be posted 2:45 p.m. Thursday and go into effect at the end of the regular scheduled work day Friday of each week. Corrections to the list will be posted the following week. Call-ins, refusal or acceptance, will not apply to OT calculations. Scheduled work, declining of opportunities to work, requests off and hold-overs will apply toward the OT calculations. Normally, charge hours will be based on pay hours. February 1st of each year, mill overtime will be zeroed out putting the low mechanic at zero and subtracting that number of hours from all others in the mill overtime list.
-52-
When special skills are needed, ie certified welder, machinist, automechanic, etc., the supervisor may go directly to that employee or those employees at any point in the overtime or rotation list for assignment, scheduling and call-ins. Management reserves the right to make assignments based on special skills needed.
In night shift assignments and hold overs, the assigned employee may find a suitable volunteer replacement if Management gives approval. The volunteer replacement will not be charged the overtime worked and will so indicate with the time keeping system. The employee who declined the overtime will be charged the overtime worked by the volunteer employee and will so indicate with the time keeping system.
By mutual agreement, the Company and Local 952 may modify the overtime agreement after one year.
NIGHT SHIFT ASSIGNMENTS
•FRONT
The Board and Tissue Mechanical Maintenance crews will normally use an area night shift rotation list for night shift assignments. All other front end crews, such as the pump shop, roll shop, basic care crew, etc., will normally use their crew night shift rotation list. The employee does not have the right to decline the assignment. The night shift rotation list will be maintained by a union designee.
•BACK
The back Mechanical Maintenance crews will use the crew rotation list for night shift assignments. The employee does not have the right to decline the assignment. The night shift rotation list will be maintained by a union designee.
OVERTIME AVAILABILITY
Continuity
Crew by low overtime
Loan outs by low overtime
Note: The first person required to work will be the first person who had the opportunity to work. Any supplemental needs will be from the Area overtime list. Polling of mechanics outside the crew is not required during the last 30 minutes of the mechanic's scheduled shift. Polling of mechanics within the crew during the last 30 minutes of the shift will be done to the extent practical.
-53-
CALL INS
Crew by low overtime
Area by low overtime WW
Mill by low overtime WW
Area by low overtime Mill by low overtime Shift Mechanics
Note: When calling in three or fewer mechanics, if there are insufficient positive responses from the crew and at least 10 additional mechanics, the Union Designee will be called, then any other available resources may be utilized to perform the work. When calling in four or more mechanics, if there are insufficient positive responses from the crew and at least 20 additional mechanics, the Union Designee will be called, then any other available resources may be utilized to perform the work.
A Will Work (WW) will be considered for call-in purposes only. The WW request must be submitted with the RO sheet for posting on the weekend/holiday schedules and weekly schedule. One WW will be considered for the weekend and that Friday night, one WW will be considered for the holiday period that does not fall on the weekend, and one WW will be considered for the week through Thursday. During the Christmas holiday period, one WW will be considered for each of the holidays that does not fall on the weekend and one WW will be considered for the weekend. The WW request indicates that the employee is committed to come to work when called. This WW request will not affect weekend, holiday, or weekly scheduling. In the event that WW’s do not accept calls they may be removed from future Will Work lists.
WEEKEND/HOLIDAY SCHEDULE
•	For general mill coverage, employees will normally be scheduled by:
Mill Overtime List
•	When scheduling for work that is specific to a crews normal coverage area, employees will normally be scheduled by: Crew by low overtime Mill by low overtime
•	Normally the weekend/holiday schedule will be posted by 2:45PM on Thursday and go into effect at the end of the regular scheduled work day Friday of each week.
•	When machine shop crew work is scheduled on weekends or holidays, the employees will be scheduled from the Machine Shop Crew OT list by low employee. If a night shift is sched-
-54-
□led in the machine shop, it will normally be the high mechanic(s) of those scheduled from the Machine Shop Crew OT list.
When Auto shop crew work is scheduled on weekends or holidays, the employees will be scheduled from the Auto shop Crew OT list by low employee. If a night shift is scheduled in the auto shop, it will normally be the high mechanic(s) of those scheduled from the Auto shop Crew OT list.
If a night shift is scheduled for general mill coverage on weekends or holidays, it will normally be the high employees of those scheduled from the Mill Overtime List.
If a night shift is scheduled for work that is specific to a crews normal coverage area, scheduled employees will normally be the high employees of those scheduled by:
Crew by low overtime
Mill by low overtime
The weekends before, during and after the annual outage, there will be no restrictions on scheduling.
There are no restrictions for scheduling during turbine rebuilds.
Requests Off (RO) will be considered once a week for the weekend and holiday periods. The employee’s RO must be submitted by 9:00A.M. Thursday. One RO will be considered for the weekend (Saturday and Sunday) and one RO will be considered for the other days of the holiday period. During the Christmas holiday period, one RO will be considered for each of the holidays that does not fall on the weekend and one RO will be considered for the weekend. The employee is responsible to Request Off (RO) if they are requesting to not be scheduled, otherwise the employee may be scheduled. Any RO will be charged the hours worked or declined by the higher employee.
A Will Work (WW) will be considered for call-in purposes only. The WW request must be submitted with the RO sheet for posting on the weekend/holiday schedules and weekly schedule. One WW will be considered for the weekend and that Friday night, one WW will be considered for the holiday period that does not fall on the weekend, and one WW will be considered for the week through Thursday. During the Christmas holiday period, one WW will be considered for each of the holidays that do not fall on the weekend and one WW will be considered for the weekend. The WW request indicates that the employee is committed to come to work when called. This WW request will not affect weekend, holiday, or weekly scheduling. In the event that WW’s do not accept calls they may be removed from future Will Work lists.
-55-
•	Before mechanics who RO the weekend are scheduled or called in, anyone who has been set-up to temporary Supervisor 4 or more days during the week and who did not RO should be scheduled or called in after all others that did not RO have been scheduled or called in.
•	Mechanics will not be scheduled or charged for weekend work if they are going on vacation the following week. The employee must indicate that they are going on vacation by marking the RO sheet.
•	Mechanics will not be scheduled or charged for weekend/ holiday work if they are on vacation.
•	Mechanics will not be scheduled or charged for weekend work if they are on funeral leave for either weekend day.
•	For overtime list purposes, time and one half is always charged for weekend/holiday work.
•	If an employee has National Guard Duty on a weekend and a higher employee is scheduled to work, the employee on National Guard Duty will be charged refused overtime. If an employee is on National Guard Active Duty or Summer Camp, the employee will not be charged for overtime worked by a higher employee.
•	Mechanics will not be scheduled or charged for weekend work if they are on jury duty Thursday and Friday of that week.
•	If an employee has Union Business on the weekend/holiday, the employee will not be scheduled or charged. The employee must indicate that they are going on Union business by marking the RO sheet.
OTHER RULES
•	Whenever a maintenance employee is absent for more than two weeks, the employee will be averaged back into the overtime Est by returning to the same overtime position he was in when the employee left. Vacations will not be considered absent. 1116 correction to the overtime list will be made by the union in time to get on the next normally scheduled Thursday posting.
•	Overtime will not be tracked for shift mechanics, shift reliefs while working shift setup, or employees with 40 hour restrictions.
•	If an employee misses scheduled work, two week or less, and would have had the opportunity to work scheduled overtime or a holdover, the employee will be charged as if the overtime was declined. This applies to weekdays, weekends, and holidays unless exceptions are noted. Contractual absences and absences granted by law will not be charged.
•	A mechanic set up to a salaried job will be charged for any overtime worked.
-56-
CREW-TO-CREW LOAN OUTS
Management will determine the mechanics available from each crew for crew to crew loan outs. From the available mechanics within a crew, the low overtime mechanic(s) will be loaned out where practical. Under special needs, the employee assigned on loan out may substitute a volunteer from their crew with approval of both supervisors involved. The volunteer replacement will not be charged the overtime worked and will so indicate with the time keeping system. The employee who declined the overtime will be charged the overtime worked by the volunteer employee and will so indicate with the time keeping system. The employee’s involved will be available for overtime in their home crew, following the Overtime Availability clause, and will need to check with their home supervisor to see if overtime is available.
The mechanic may be loaned out for the entire week, Monday through Friday.
SHIFT MECHANICS
If a shift mechanic is working a job at the end of his shift that the next shift can not handle, he will continue the job until help arrives and may be required to continue to support the work.
Shift mechanics can be doubled on shift when deemed necessary.
Shift vacancies may be filled as deemed necessary. A relief may be used if needed.
If all Shift Mechanics and Reliefs where the vacancy occurs have been used and additional mechanics are needed, then the junior qualified day mechanic may be used.
Shift Mechanics may be utilized to supplement day crews.
If a shift worker comes to days, the employee’s overtime will be averaged into the middle of the assigned crew.
When a mechanic works shift relief, the mechanic will return to the same overtime position in the crew as when the mechanic left.
PLANNING ASSIGNMENTS
Work that is required for planning work orders can be done by a Mechanic as part of the job assignment.
-57-
WELDER CERTIFICATION
Certified welders will receive $250 every 6 months to retain their certification. The Company will determine the number of certified welders needed.
CERTIFIED WELD INSPECTORS
Certified Weld Inspectors will receive $1.00 per hour above their regular rate of pay when inspecting welds.
SERVICE CREW OT
Job Continuity
Low Overtime by Classification
Replacement employees will be offered overtime after all permanent employees have been offered the overtime opportunity. The Service Crew union designee is responsible for tracking their overtime. February 1st of each year, crew overtime will be zeroed out putting the low employee at zero and subtracting that number of hours from all others in the crew.
MECHANICAL MAINTENANCE AREAS AND CREWS The present list of areas and crews is subject to change by management.
FRONT END AREA	BACK END AREA
1,4,5 Crew	Power
6,7, SP Crew	Utilities
2, PD Crew	Pulp Mill
3 Crew	Lime Kiln
Roll Shop	Woodyard
Vibration Front	Vibration Back
Fire Protection	Machinist
Auto mechanics
Building Basic Care Crew
Pump Rebuild
STORE ROOM
At the start of each calendar year the low overtime permanent employee in each classification is returned to zero and the hours of other employees in each classification is lowered by the number of hours of the low employee.
Employees are charged for overtime hours worked (Paid) or declined.
An employee temporarily set-up to another classification for vacations, military leave or absences of two weeks or less, will be offered overtime only after regular employees in the classifi
-58-
cation who are available on shift have been offered the opportunity to work. Any overtime worked or declined will be added to the employee’s overtime hours when he returns to his regular classification.
An employee set-up to a classification to cover an absence resulting from sickness, etc., for over two weeks will be averaged in with the regular employees in the classification. Hours worked or declined will be carried back when the employee is set back and added to his previous hours in that classification.
Overtime hours worked or declined in another classification will be added to the employee's overtime hours.
When a job vacancy occurs, the job vacancy will be posted in the Storeroom Department and filled by senior qualified employee from the Storeroom Department. If no bid is made to the posting within the Storeroom Department, the posting will go mill wide per the contract and filled per the contract. Certification will be mandatory after acceptance of the position.
ARTICLE 26
INSURANCE, PENSION
Section 1 - Effective January 1, 2003, coverage will be provided by the GP medical, dental and insurance plan as presented in booklet form during negotiations (deleting the Plan Amendment or Termination Clause on page 63). Employees will contribute 15% of the applicable dental and health care insurance premiums, pre-tax (employee only, employee and spouse, family, $500 deductible plan, etc.). Effective January 1, 2004, employees will contribute 20% of the applicable dental and health care insurance premiums. Effective January 1, 2007, employees will contribute 25%.
Section 2	- Life insurance and Accidental Death and Dismemberment insurance level will be:
Effective 1/1/03 - $33,000
Effective 1/1/04 - $34,000
Effective 1/1/05 - $35,000
Effective 1/1/06 - $36,000
Effective 1/1/07 - $37,000
Additional life insurance will be available for purchase. The Company’s Special Survivor program is in effect.
Section 3	- As presented in negotiations, Accident and Sickness benefits will become effective January 1,2003. The benefit level will be fifty percent of the employee’s base weekly rate
-59-
(classification rate of pay times forty hours times .5) with a minimum of $350, with a maximum duration of 36 weeks.
Section 4	- Effective March 1, 2002, the PIUMPF pension level will increase to 105 increments ($1370.05/month @ 25 years of service). The benefit level will increase as follows:
Effective 1/1/04 - 107 increments
Effective 1/1/05 - 109 increments
Effective 1/1/06- 111 increments
Effective 1/1/07 - 113 increments
Section 5	- Life Insurance for retirees will continue at the current benefit levels.
Thia Agreement is hereby executed by the undersigned dute authorized representatives of the parties hereto this day of	,
1002.	/
GEORGIA-PACIFIC CORPORATION L_	PAPER, ALLIED-INDUSTRIAL, CHEMICAL & ENERGY WORKERS international UNION For Loes) M(h For Local 9S2: For Local 56i:
-60-
EXHIBIT “A”
WAGE SCHEDULE - NAHEOLA MILL 2001 - 2007
OB TITLE	3/1/2002		3/1/2003	3/J./2QO4	3O/2QQ5	3/1/2006
Additive Trainer	25.28	25.88	26.62	27.38	28.16
leater Engineer (Certified)	24.03	24.63	25.37	26.13	26.91
3eater Engineer (Training)	23.19	23.77	24.48	25.21	25.97
boating & Chemical					
Operator (Certified)	23.03	23.61	24.32	25.05	25.80
Seating & Chemical					
operator (Training)	21.92	22.47	23.14	23.83	24.54
boating Operator (Certified)	21.56	22.10	22.76	23.44	24.14
boating Operator (Training)	20.46	20.97	21.60	22.25	22.92
Additive Technician (Certified) 19.10		19.58	20.17	20.78	21.40
Additive Technician (Training) 18.00		18.45	19.00	19.57	20.16
Spare Hand	16.08	16.48	16.97	17.48	18.00
VO. 3 FINISHING
OB TITLE		3/1/2003	3/1/2004	3/1/2005	3/1/2006
Scaleman	19.64	20.13	20.73	21.35	21.99
finishing Operator	18.53	18.99	19.56	20.15	20.75
“inishing Helper	17.34	17.77	18.30	18.85	19.42
Spare Hand	14.79	15.16	15.61	16.08	16.56
VoJI BOARD MACHINE
OB TITLE	3/1/2002		3/1/2003	3/1/2004	3/1/2005	3/1/2006
Vo. 2 Machine Trainer	27.88	28.55	29.37	30.21	31.08
Machine Tender (Certified)	26.63	27.30	28.12	28.96	29.83
Machine Tender (Training)	25.53	26.17	26.96	27.77	28.60
Dry End Operator (Certified)	23.93	24.53	25.27	26.03	26.81
Dry End Operator (Training)	22.83	23.40	24.10	24.82	25.56
Board Process Operator					
Certified)	20.34	20.85	21.48	22.12	22.78
Board Process Operator					
(Training)	19.24	19.72	20.31	20.92	21.55
Spare Hand	16.08	16.48	16.97	17.48	18.00
NO. 3 BOARD MACHINE
OB TITLE	3/1/2002 3/1/2003 3/1/2004 3/1/2005 3/1/2006
No. 3 Machine Trainer	28.99	29.68	30.53	31.41	32.31
Machine Tender (Certified)	27.74	28.43	29.28	30.16	31.06
Machine Tender (Training)	26.63	27.30	28.12	28.96	29.83
Dry End Operator (Certified)	25.79	26.43	27.22	28.04	28.88
Dry End Operator (Training)	24.69	25.31	26.07	26.85	27.66
Board Process Operator					
Certified)	21.38	21.91	22.57	23.25	23.95
Board Process Operator					
(Training)	20.26	20.77	21.39	22.03	22.69
Spare Hand	16.08	16.48	16.97	17.48	18.00
Board Mill Cleanup	14.47	14.83	15.27	15.73	16.20
-61 -
NO. 7 TISSUE MACHINE					
JOB TITLE	3/1/2002		3/1/2003	3/1/2004	3/1/2005	3»
#7 Machine Trainer	29.18	29.88	30.74	31.62	32.53
#7 Machine Tender (Step 2)	27.93	28.63	29.49	30.37	31.28
#7 Machine Tender (Base Rate)24.46		25.07	25.82	26.59	27.39
#7 Machine Back Tender					
(Step 2)	24.40	25.01	25.76	26.53	27.33
#7 Machine Back Tender					
(Base Rate)	22.32	22.88	23.57	24.28	25.01
#7 3rd Hand (Step 2)	22.27	22.83	23.51	24.22	24.95
#7 3rd Hand (Base Rate)	20.34	20.85	21.48	22.12	22.78
#7 4th Hand (Step 2)	20.28	20.79	21.41	22.05	22.71
#7 4th Hand (Base Rale)	17.90	18.35	18.90	19.47	20.05
Spare Hand (Step 2)	16.96	17.38	17.90	18.44	18.99
Spare Hand (Base Rate)	15.16	15.54	16.01	16.49	16.98
NOS. 1.4.5 & 6 MACHINES					
JOB TITLE	3/1/2002		3/1/2003	3AL2Q04	3/1/2005	3/1/2006
#1,4,5 &6Trainer	28.56	29.24	30.08	30.94	31.83
# 1,4,5 & 6 Machine Tender					
(Step 2)	27.31	27.99	28.83	29.69	30.58
#1,4,5 & 6 Machine Tender					
(Base Rate)	23.76	24.35	25.08	25.83	26.60
#1,4,5&6Back Tender					
(Step 2)	24.01	24.61	25.35	26.11	26.89
#1,4,5 & 6 Back Tender					
(Base Rate)	21.70	22.24	22.91	23.60	24.31
#1,4,5 & 6 Third Hand					
(Step 2)	21.96	22.51	23.19	23.89	24.61
#1,4,5&6Third Hand					
(Base Rate)	19.89	20.39	21.00	21.63	22.28
#1,4,5 & 6 Fourth Hand					
(Step 2)	20.66	21.18	21.82	22.47	23.14
#1,4,5 & 6 Fourth Hand					
(Base Rate)	17.56	18.00	18.54	. 19.10	19.67
#l,4,5&6Spare Hand					
(Step 2)	16.96	17.38	17.90	18.44	18.99
#1,4,5 & 6 Spare Hand					
(Base Rate)	15.16	15.54	16.01	16.49	16.98
All new employees entering the Tissue Mill Department will receive base rale for the first 60 days. In order for an employee to be eligible for promotion to Step 2 level pay within the same classification, he must have worked 60 days in the classification and be fully qualified to at least one level higher in the line of progression.
-62-
ONISHED GOODS SHIPPING					
JOB TITLE	3/1/2002	3/1/2003	3/1/2004	3/1/2005	3/1/2006
Team Leader	20.40	20.66	20.97	21.28	21.60
Finished Goods Shipper	19.53	19.77	20.07	20.37	20.68
Lift Truck Operator	18.00	18.45	19.00	19.57	19.57
Warehouse Operator I	16.02	16.42	16.91	17.42	17.94
Spare Hand	14.53	14.89	15.34	15.80	16.27
BOARD SHIPPING					
JOB TITLE	3/1/2002	3/1/2003	3/1/2004	3/1/2005	3/1/2006
Team Leader	20.91	21.43	22.07	22.73	23.41
Roll Shipper	20.02	20.52	21.14	21.77	22.42
Day Roll Shipper	19.75	20.24	20.85	21.48	22.12
Lift Truck Operator	18.00	18.45	19.00	19.57	20.16
Spare Hand	14.53	14.89	15.34	15.80	16.27
STOCK PREP					
JOB TITLE	3/1/2002	3/1/2003	3/1/2004	3/1/2005	3/1/2006
Stock Prep Trainer	25.36	25.96	26.7	27.46	28.25
Beater Engineer (Certified)	24.11	24.71	25.45	26.21	27.00
Beater Engineer (Training)	23.01	23.59	24.30	25.03	25.78
Stock Operator (Certified)	22.27	22.83	23.51	24.22	24.95
Stock Operator (Training)	21.17	21.70	22.35	23.02	23.71
Stock Prep Operator (Certified) 19.50		19.99	20.59	21.21	21.85
Stock Prep Operator (Training) 18.40		18.86	19.43	20.01	20.61
Spare Hand	16.08	16.48	16.97	17.48	18.00
PULPDRYER					
JOB TITLE	3/1/2002	3/1/2003	3/1/2004	3/1/2005	3/1/2006
Pulp Dryer Trainer	23.39	23.94	24.62	25.32	26.04
Pulp Dryer Operator (Certified)22.14		22.69	23.37	24.07	24.79
Pulp Dryer Operator (Training)21.03		21.56	22.21	22.88	23.57
Pulp Dry End Operator					
(Certified)	19.75	20.24	20.85	21.48	22.12
Pulp Dry End Operator					
(Training)	18.64	19.11	19.68	20.27	20.88
Pulp Process Operator “A"					
(Certified)	17.58	18.02	18.56	19.12	19.69
Pulp Process Operator “A"					
(Training)	16.94	17.36	17.88	18.42	18.97
Pulp Process Operator “B”					
(Certified)	16.77	17.19	17.71	18.24	18.79
Pulp Process Operator “B”					
(Training)	16.34	16.75	17.25	17.77	18.30
Spare Hand	16.08	16.48	16.97	17.48	18.00
-63-
CONVERTING
JOB TITLE	3/1/2002	3/1/2003	371/2004	341/2005	3/1/2006
Shift Technician 5 (Step 3)	25.45	26.09	26.87	27.68	28.51
Shift Technician 5 (Step 2)	24.27	24.88	25.63	26.40	27.19
Shift Technician 5 (Step 1)	23.63	24.22	24.95	25.70	26.47
Day Technician 5 (Step 3)	25.05	25.68	26.45	27.24	28.06
Day Technician 5 (Step 2)	23.81	24.41	25.14	25.89	26.67
Day Technician 5 (Step 1)	23.22	23.80	24.51	25.25	26.01
Tech 4 (Step 2)	22.71	23.28	23.98	24.70	25.44
Tech 4 (Step 1)	22.31	22.87	23.56	24.27	25.00
Tech 3 (Step 3)	21.75	22.29	22.96	23.65	24.36
Tech 3 (Step 2)	20.91	21.43	22.07	22.73	23.41
Tech 3 (Step 1)	20.09	20.59	21.21	21.85	22.51
Tech 2	19.26	19.74	20.33	20.94	21.57
Tech 1	18.50	18.96	19.53	20.12	20.72
Spare Hand	14.78	15.15	15.60	16.07	16.55
Day Broke Hauler	19.34	19.82	20.41	21.02	21.65
Day Cleaner	18.23	18.69	19.25	19.83	20.42
Glue Supply	19.21	19.69	20.28	20.89	21.52
Team Leader Rate + $0.59 per hour.					
To advance to the next step employees must complete the requirements detailed in					
the governing work redesign.					
	3/1/2002	3/1/2003	3Z1/2004	3/1/2005	3/1/2006
(Jnitizer Trainer	21.05	21.55	22.16	22.79	23.44
Unitizer Operator	19.80	20.30	20.91	21.54	22.19
Unitizer Helper	16.81	17.23	17.75	18.28	18.83
Spare Hand	14.53	14.89	15.34	15.80	16.27
UTILITIES (RECOVERY)					
JOB TITLE	3/1/2002	3/1/2003	3/IW	3/1/2005	3/1/2006
Recovery Lead Operator	27.17	27.85	28.69	29.55	30.44
Recovery Operator 1	24.50	25.11	25.86	26.64	27.44
Recovery Operator 2	22.95	23.52	24.23	24.96	25.71
Recovery Operator 3	21.79	22.33	23.00	23.69	24.40
Spare Hand (Skill Rate)	15.06	15.44	15.90	16.38	16.87
Spare Hand (Base Rate)	14.42	14.78	15.22	15.68	16.15
WOODYARD					
JOB TITLE	3/1/2002	3/1/2003	3/1/2004	3/1/2005	3/1/2006
Woodyard Trainer	26.64	27.27	28.05	28.85	29.68
Woodyard Team Leader					
(Skill Rate)	25.39	26.02	26.80	27.60	28.43
Woodyard Team Leader					
(Base Rate)	24.08	24.68	25.42	26.18	26.97
Tech 1: (Includes Crane Operators 1 & 2, Chipyard Operator 1 and Woodmill Operator)					
(Skill Rate)	22.87	23.44	24.14	24.86	25.61
(Base Rate)	21.70	22.24	22.91	23.60	24.31
Tech 2: (Includes Chipyard Operator 2, Groundman and Utilityman)					
(Skill Rate)	20.25	20.76	21.38	22.02	22.68
(Base Rate)	19.24	19.72	20.31	20.92	21.55
Sparc Hand (Skill Rate)	14.78	15.15	15.60	16.07	16.55
Spare Hand (Base Rate)	14.42	14.78	15.22	15.68	16.15
-64-
EimilLL JOB TITLE Caustic Line	3/1/2002	3/1/2003	3/1/2004	3/1/2005	3/1/2006
Caustic Team Leader	25.68	26.32	27.11	27.92	28.76
Caustic Operator	23.64	24.23	24.96	25.71	26.48
2nd Caustic Operator	21.39	21.92	22.58	23.26	23.96
Chemical Line	3/1/2002	3/1/2003	3/1/2004	3/1/2005	3/1/2006
Chemical Team Leader	25.68	26.32	27.11	27.92	28.76
Chemical Operator	23.64	24.23	24.96	25.71	26.48
2nd Chemical Operator	21.15	21.68	22.33	23.00	23.69
Spare Hand	14.78	15.15	15.60	16.07	16.55
Bleach Line	3/1/2002	3/1/2003	3/1/2004	3/1/2005	3Z1/2006
Bleach Plant Team Leader	26.31	26.97	27.78	28.61	29.47
Bleach Plant Operator	24.97	25.59	26.36	27.15	27.96
2nd Bleach Plant Operator	23.92	24.52	25.26	26.02	26.80
3rd Bleach Plant Operator	22.59	23.15	23.84	24.56	25.30
Brownstock Line	3/1/2002	3/1/2003	3/1/2004	3/1/2005	3Z1Z2QQ6
Brownstock Team Leader	26.31	26.97	27.78	28.61	29.47
Brownstock Operator	24.98	25.60	26.37	27.16	27.97
2nd Brownstock Operator	23.92	24.52	25.26	26.02	26,80
3rd Brownstock Operator	22.59	23.15	23.84	24.56	25.30
Assistant Brownstock 0perator20.00		20.50	21.12	21.75	22.40
Spare Hand	15.10	15.48	15.94	16.42	16.91
TECHNICAL SERVICE JOB TITLE	5 3/1/2002	3/1/2003	3/1/2004	3/1/2005	3/1/2006
Day Tester Process I	21.50	22.04	22.70	23.38	24.08
Level 1	20.07	20.57	21.19	21.83	22.48
Level II	19.77	20.26	20.87	21.50	22.15
Set-up	19.33	19.81	20.40	21.01	21.64
Process II	19.04	19.52	20.11	20.71	21.33
Spare Hand	14,78	15.15	15.60	16.07	16.55
MILL SERVICE CREW JOB TITLE	3/1/2002	3W2QQ1	3/1/2004	&1Z2QQS	3/1/2006
Shift Equipment Operator	19.21	19.69	20.28	20.89	21.52
Equipment Operator	18.12	18.57	19.13	19.70	20.29
Truck Driver	17.04	17.47	17.99	18.53	19.09
Laborer	16.02	16.42	16.91	17.42	17.94
-65-
MECHANICAL MAINTENANCE		3/M3	3/1/2004	3/1/2005	3/1/2006
JOB TITLE	3/1/2002				
Shift Mechanic	26,07	26.72	27.52	28.35	29.20
Mechanic (Days)	25.05	25.68	26.45	27.24	28.06
Fire Chief	26.10	26.75	27.55	28.38	29.23
Maintenance Apprentice					
Levels	24.37	24.98	25.73	26.50	27.30
Level?	23.82	24.42	25.15	25.90	26.68
Level 6	23.38	23.96	24.68	25.42	26.18
Levels	22.96	23.53	24,24	24.97	25.72
Level 4	19.42	19.91	20.51	21.13	21.76
LeveB	18.83	19.30	19.88	20.48	21.09
Level 2	18.32	18.78	19.34	19.92	20.52
Level 1	17.85	18.30	18.85	19.42	20.00
STOREROOM					
JOB TITLE	3/J/2Q02	3/1/2003	3/1/2004	3/1/2005	3/1/2006
Shift Stores Attendant	18.93	19.40	19.98	20.58	21.20
Converting Stores Attendant 18.67		19.14	19.71	20.30	20.91
Main Stores Attn. I	18.67	19.14	19.71	20.30	20.91
Main Stores Attn. 11	15.85	16.25	16.74	17.24	17.76
Summer Student	$2.00 less than the rate of the job performed.				
-66-
EXHIBIT “B” LINES OF PROGRESSION
* Pulp Dryer Line of Progression
Pulp Dryer Operator
Pulp Dry End Operator
Pulp Process Operator "A”
Pulp Process Operator “B”
Spare Hand
Utilities (Recovery) Line of Progression
Recovery Lead Operator
Recovery Operator 1
Recovery Operator 2
Recovery Operator 3
Spare Hand
Woodyard Line of Progression
Team Leader
Technician 1
Crane Operator 1
Crane Operator 2
Chipyard Operator 1 (Screen Room)
Woodmill Operator
Technician 2
Chipyard Operator 2
Groundman
Utility man
Spare Hand
Caustic Line of Progression
Caustic Team Leader
Caustic Operator
2nd Caustic Operator
Chemical Line of Progression
Chemical Team Leader
Chemical Operator
2nd Chemical Operator
Spare Hand (Chemical & Caustic)
-67-
Bleach Line of Progression
Bleach Plant Team Leader
Bleach Plant Operator
2nd Bleach Plant Operator
3rd Bleach Plant Operator
Brownstock Line of Progression
Brownstock Team Leader
Brownstock Operator
2nd Brownstock Operator
3rd Brownstock Operator
Assistant Brownstock Operator
Spare Hand (Brownstock & Bleach)
NO. 3 Board Machine Line of Progression
Machine Tender
Dry End Operator “A”
Dry End Operator “B”
Board Process Operator “C”
Board Process Operator “D"
Board Process Operator “E”
Spare Hand (Board Mill)
Additive Line of Progression
Beater Engineer
Coating & Chemical Operator
Coating Operator “A”
Coating Operator “B”
Additive Technician
Spare Hand (Board Mill)
No. 3 Finishing Line of Progression
Scaleman
Finishing Operator “A”
Finishing Operator “B”
Finishing Helper “C"
Finishing Helper “D”
Spare Hand (Board Mill)
-68-
No. 2 Board Machine Line of Progression
Machine Tender
Dry End Operator “A”
Dry End Operator “B”
Board Process Operator “C”
Board Process Operator “D"
Board Process Operator “E”
Spare Hand (Board Mill)
No. 6 & 7 Tissue Machines Line of Progression
#	7 Machine Tender
#	6 Machine Tender
#	7 Back Tender
#	6 Back Tender
#	7 3rd Hand
#	6 3rd Hand
#	6 4th Hand
#	7 4th Hand
Spare Hand(Tissue Mill)
No. 1,4 & 5 Tissue Machines Line of Progression
Machine Tender
Back Tender
3rd Hand
4th Hand
Spare Hand(Tissue Mill)
Finished Good Shipping Line of Progression
Warehouse Operator I
Spare Hand
Board Shipping Line of Progression
Team Leader
Roll Shipper
Lift Truck Operator
Spare Hand
Stock Prep Line of Progression
Beater Engineer
Stock Operator
Stock Prep Operator
Spare Hand
-69-
Converting Lines of Progression
Technician 5
Step 3
Step 2
Step 1
Tissue	Towel	Napkin
Technician 4	Technician 4	Technician 4
Step 2	Step 2	Step 2
Step 1	Step 1	Step 1
Technician 3	Technician 3	Technician 3
Step 3	Step 3	Step 3
Step 2	Step 2	Step 2
Step 1	Step 1	Step 1
Technician 2	Technician 2	Technician 2
Technician 1	Technician 1	Technician 1
Spare Hand	Spare Hand	Spare Hand
Technical Services Line of Progression
Day Tester
Process I
Finished Product Tester
Process Technician CMP
Spare Hand
Service Crew Line of Progression
Equipment Operator
Truck Driver laborer
Store Room Line of Progression
Level 1
Level 2(Entry)
Unitizer Line of Progression
Unitizer Operator
Unitizer Helper Spare Hand
-70-
LOCAL AGREEMENTS PACE LOCAL 950
-71 -
CONVERTING
Team Philosophy
The purpose of the team is to increase knowledge and improve skills in order to meet maximum production possible.
It is understood that the collective talents of all employees working as a Team are required for the Converting Department and Georgia-Pacific to be the best. Input from all employees when tackling various issues insures a more efficient and successful business.
A team may be defined as a group of employees (Technicians) performing all of the work in an area which might relate to a specific product or area of the production process, a physical area of the plant or any other logical grouping of jobs that provides a meaningful purpose.
Team Participation
All permanent certified team members will be a voting member of the team.
It is recognized that business needs will dictate team composition in the future. In addition, the effectiveness of teams will not be compromised due to persons unable to certify.
Team Responsibilities
The goal is to empower the team to be self-sufficient in day-to-day business operations. Team duties have been identified to accomplish this goal. Team responsibilities will be shared by all team members. Team duties will be reviewed periodically to ensure they are on target with business needs and goals. The duties expected of each team are outlined below:
Audit the process continuously, correct and/or report process problems, reduce waste, find a better way, monitor and control performance, adhere to safety rules and policies, keep overtime equalization records, support and help train team members, maintain a clean environment, problem solve (safety, quality, productivity, cost, etc.), coordinate with other teams, support personnel, etc., comply with Federal and State guidelines, assist in employee counseling, seek technical assistance when needed, set team norms, perform other duties that are consistent with the meaning and intent of Team Concept.
Personal Standards
Recognizing that individuals comprise a team, it is necessary to identify personal standards for each member of the team. Some of these are outlined below:
-72-
Participate in team concept, attend work regularly, produce quality work, conform to job requirements, follow safety policies and procedures, communicate problems and share knowledge, maintain a clean environment, improve skills and strive for continuous improvement/total quality.
Means of Resolving Issues
When issues arise, the following procedures have been established so that teams will have a common procedure for solving concerns. This method does not take the place of the current grievance procedure, but rather encourages teams and individuals to resolve issues before seeking resolution through the grievance process. If the issue is not settled by the team then neither party will use the outcome in arbitration.
Steps in Resolving Issues
1.	The team will develop and publish its own method of resolving issues as part of the team’s norms (i.e. team meeting, team consensus, seek supervisor help, etc.)
2.	The last step in the team’s norms for resolving issues will be a team vote. The team leader will only vote in the case of a tie.
Converting Operational Teams
These teams will be grouped by area and will be modified based on modernization, business or other needs. It is recognized that in order for teams to be successful, broad based skills are required for each work group. Therefore, employees will be assigned to teams according to job skills and seniority. The seven (7) current teams are outlined below.
TOWEL
Upstairs Team Downstairs Team
KAPKIN
TISSUE
ABT
Downstairs Team
C-2000
Magnum
-73 -
There are three (3) distinct Lines of Progression within the Converting Department. They are: Towel, Tissue, and Napkin.
Lines of progression will exist for the following reasons: Layoffs, Promotions, Job Bids for Permanent Openings.
Progression seniority will prevail when filling Technician V openings, comparing the most senior qualified Technician IV in each line of progression.
Converting Shift Maintenance Teams
The Technician V level will not be considered part of the operational teams. Shift Maintenance will work in any area, based on need.
The senior qualified progression Technician V on the team will be offered a chance to accept or decline the position of Team Leader. The most junior and qualified Technician V will be selected if no senior Technician V accepts the position.
Staffing
Targets for appropriate staffing and Technician level distribution for each Operational and Maintenance Team will be set; however, these targets will be constantly evaluated and adjusted to manage cost. In order to ensure continuous operations, a minimum of one (1) Technician IV will be maintained on each team. Before an employee can advance to the next level, an approved, permanent opening must exist.
It may be necessary to advance senior, qualified Tech III or Tech IV employees to the next Technician level before they have completed the necessary time requirements. These moves must be approved by the Converting Manager.
Grandfather Provision
All current Converting employees, at the time this contract becomes effective (February 22,2002) will be grand-fathered in the rights to progress under the Pay For Knowledge system developed in Work Redesign negotiations. All new Converting employees, new hires or transfers, after that date (February 22, 2002), will be subject to staffing limitations as designated in the Converting Pay System below.
Converting Pay System
The Converting pay system is designed to increase the utilization and flexibility of al) Converting employees. There are five (5) Technician levels in the process as shown below. Each level represents a set of skill blocks that are necessary to earn that rate of pay. The Spare Hand is defined as a new employee in Converting that will have up to 60 days to certify at the Tech
-74-
nician I level. Failure to certify will result in that new employee leaving the Converting line of progression. Employees who accept positions or are assigned as Converting spare hands will be assigned a progression seniority date. The progression seniority date will be the date the bid is awarded. If multiple employees are awarded the bid on the same date, their progression seniority order will be based on mill seniority.
Day - Technician V (Maintenance Mechanic)
Step 3......Complete 52 weeks at Step 2 rate
Step 2......Complete 52 weeks at Step 1 rate
Step 1......Complete 52 weeks at Tech IV rate, Step 2 & Tech
V skills requirements, and approved permanent vacancy
Shift - Technician V (Shift Maintenance Mechanic)
Step 3......Complete 52 weeks at Step 2 rate
Step 2......Complete 52 weeks at Step 1 rate
Step I......Complete 52 weeks at Tech IV rate, Step 2 & Tech
V skills requirements, and approved permanent vacancy
Technician IV
Step 2.......Complete 52 weeks at Step 1 rate
Step 1.......Complete Tech IV skills requirements, and ap-
proved permanent vacancy
Technician III
Step 3......Complete 52 weeks at Step 2 rate
Step 2......Complete 52 weeks at Step 1 rate
Step 1......Complete Tech ID skills requirements, and ap-
proved permanent vacancy
Technician II .CompleteTech IICertification Requirements, and approved permanent vacancy
Technician I.. Complete Tech I Certification Requirements
Converting Spare Hand
Trainers
See mi II-wide agreements.
Certification Process
See mill-wide agreements.
-75-
Annual Re-certification
Recertification will occur annually, each October. Recertification will be BY TEAM. Each team will review their skills and complete the Annual Recertification Form as a team.
If the Team determines that all of the necessary skills to operate effectively are present within the permanent members of the Team, the Team Leader will indicate that and sign off on the form.
If the team decides that they are lacking any of the necessary skills, those deficiencies should be noted in the appropriate place on the Recertification Form.
Teams that identify deficiencies should then discuss issues and try to develop potential solutions. These should be noted on the space provided on the form, for review by the Converting Labor-Management Committee.
Re-certification for Permanent Moves From Team to Team
When an employee makes a permanent move from one team to another, he/she must certify in that team. The employee will draw the rate of pay of original certification for 28 days. After that period, pay rate will be determined based on new certification. An employee who fails to re-certify within the 28 day period will be returned to his^e^ previous team.
Operation Team Leader Duties
The senior progression Technician IV on the team will be offered a chance to accept or decline the position of Team Leader. The most junior and qualified Technician IV will be selected if no senior Technician IV accepts the position. Team Leaders will serve in that capacity for a minimum of one year. Team Leaders may be removed for just cause at any time.
The duties required of the operations Team Leaders: Attend shift meetings to review production schedule and team vacancies, conduct team meetings for purposes of problem solving, insure team attendance/representation in meetings, insure that absences of Team Leader are covered and communicated to shift supervisor, insure that the process is audited continuously, support the team in finding a better way, monitor the measurement and tracking of team performance, adhere to safety rules and policies and maintain a clean environment, assist in maintaining overtime records, support and help train team members, problem solve (safety, quality, productivity, cost, etc.), have knowledge of and assist team in complying with Federal and State guidelines, promote information sharing within the team as well as with other teams/support groups, insure that the team norms are set and followed, perform other duties that are consistent with the meaning and intent of team concept.
-76-
The duties required of the shift maintenance Team Leader: All duties listed above, assign daily work duties to team members, record & report overtime daily.
Overtime
Overtime will be handled within each team. Operations overtime will be pro-rated each January 1, with the low person being zero (0).
Overtime Guidelines for Converting Operating Teams
Any job or assignment requiring overtime that falls outside the scope of defined team responsibilities will be assigned to the qualified low overtime person working the previous shift, by team.
Any job or assignment requiring overtime that falls inside the scope of defined team responsibilities will be assigned by the weekly schedule by team.
In case of overtime:
1.	Unrelieved person
2.	Qualified person in team by low hours
3.	Qualified person in line of progression on shift by low hours
4.	Person on job on-coming shift
5.	Person in line of progression qualified on-coming
6.	Person on job on off shift
7.	Person in line of progression qualified off shift
*The Company will make a maximum of 12 calls
Blow Down and Machinery Clean-up Coverage
The following procedure will be used to determine the proper people to use in a blow down.
Blow Down / Clean-up Crew: The senior employees on the affected shifts will be scheduled using progression seniority comparing the most senior employee in each line of progression.
Machinery Clean Up: Machinery clean up will normally be performed with the full scheduled crew. If additional people are needed, the senior person(s) losing scheduled day of work will be offered the opportunity to work, continue through seniority list until needs are met.
Filling Temporary Team Vacancies (Less than 28 days)
Temporary vacancies will be filled by assigning available Converting Spare Hands on shift by progression seniority. Team Leader will notify Shift Supervisor of vacancies. The Supervisor will assign available Spare Hand by progression seniority.
-77-
J
Day-to-day absences and floater holidays will be covered by working short-handed until the team reaches its minimum staffing level.
Filling Permanent and Long-Term (more than 28 days) Team Vacancies
Article 15 provisions will apply to Converting personnel.
TECHNICAL SERVICES DEPARTMENT
Line of Progression
Employees will fill any job assignment for which they are certified.
New employees who post bid to the Technical services line of progression will be required to successfully pass a basic skills pre-entry test. The spare hand must be able to certify in each leg of CMP within a reasonable length of time. Once certified in CMP, the spare hand must continue training to certify for set-ups to the Process Technician and/or Finished Product Tester positions within the Process I Classification. CMP is comprised of three separate task groupings. These are Converting, MeasuremenVCalibration and Pulp. Each task grouping has an assigned set of duties and responsibilities associated with it.
As employees prepare to move from Level II to Level I, the Company will direct them to either the Finished Product or Process Technician areas as the needs of the business dictate.
Certification Process
See mill-wide agreements.
Temporary Set-up rate
The rate will be awarded when an employee is certified and temporarily set-up to one (1) job. However, employees must certify in two (2) jobs as outlined in the certification document.
Continuous Certification Requirements
In order to maintain skills and keep up with a changing environment and new technology, employees are required to work 24 hours every six (6) months in each job for which they are certified.
A post certification slip will be used for documenting the appropriate number of hours worked in each job. Slips will be turned in each week by the employee with his time sheet. After reviewing the document, the Technical Manager will approve and sign the slip. Hours will be logged and records will be maintained by the Technical Service Department.
-78-
Long Term Vacancies (More than 28 days)
Long term vacancies will be filled with the senior, certified person. If the senior person is not trained in the area in which the vacancy occurs, it may be necessary for lateral movement to occur while the senior person in the classification below begins training on the job for which he is not certified. When the senior person becomes certified during the long-term vacancy, then this individual will be set-up in the vacancy on the next weekly schedule.
Permanent Shift Vacancies
When a permanent vacancy occurs within a classification and ' after all lateral movement by seniority ceases within that classification, then the senior person in the lower classification will take the vacant position.
If the person is not trained in the vacant position then the appropriate training will be given. Failure to certify within the allotted time will result in that person going back o his original job and the job being assigned to the next senior person. This will result in that person gaining seniority over the disqualified employee.
Permanent Day Tester Vacancies
A permanent Day Tester vacancy will be offered first to the other Day Testers (lateral movement) based on seniority. After all lateral movement ceases, the vacancy will be filled by the senior (line of progression) Process I employee. The Process I employee will be certified in the appropriate Day Tester area before filling the permanent vacancy.
Should the opening occur in the opposite area for which the Senior Process I employee is certified he will be given the appropriate amount of training and must certify in that area.
Day Tester Overtime
Day Tester overtime, when deemed necessary will be covered by Day Testers on extended hours.
Disqualification
Any new employee that cannot certify within the prescribed guidelines will go back to the Mill Pool.
Any current employee who cannot certify in the next level will be handled on a case by case basis.
-79-
PULP MILL AND RECOVERY
Brown Stock/Bleaching/Chemical/Caustic and Recovery Operational Personnel will function as needed to perform all duties required to operate their functional areas. The ultimate goal is for the work team to do activities related to the team’s operation.
There will be 5 Lines of Progression
1.	Bleach Plant
2,	Brownstock
3.	Caustic Area
4.	Chemical Area
5.	Recovery Area
/
A. Double set-ups will be certified.
Overtime Guidelines for Pulp Mill and Recovery
Available overtime work is any overtime that is beyond the normal weekly schedule and does not result from filling the vacancy of an absent employee under the provisions of Article 14.
All available overtime worked or refused will be charged and accumulated weekly. Arevised list will be posted each Thursday which will be used during the next week.
The overtime list will include all employees in each line of progression. Each employee’s hours will stay with the employee by name.
Work requiring the skills of a classification will be performed by employees within the classification in which it occurs. Employees offered the overtime will be charged.
“Extra Work’’ is that which is performed by all classifications in each line of progression. Extra work will be offered to the low overtime employee. If employees have to be called or if the work can be scheduled, the available overtime list will be followed.
If extra work requires calling-in an employee during a shift and the work continues into the next shift, employees working the off-going shift who are lower on overtime than the employee called-in will be asked to continue the work. This will not apply if the employee came in 2 or less hours before the end of the shift. If none of the low off-going shift employees accept the work, the employee who had been called-in will continue on the work.
At the first of each year, the employee with the lowest hours in each area will be set at zero and all others will be charged the difference between their hours and the hours of the low man at the end of the preceding year.
-80-
Recovery employees will revert back to zero hours at the first of each year, on January 1st.
If an employee does not have a phone number at which he can be reached he will be charged for the overtime which is worked. Temporary employees, spare hands, trainer position employees, and non-bargaining unit employees will be averaged with the top 3 employees when they come into (he line. Any employee out sick for 28 days or more will be averaged with the entire line hours worked while he is out.
A spare hand or replacement employee in all lines will not be asked to work overtime (available or operational) until all other permanent employees in the line of progression are given the opportunity to work first (exception to this will be when a spare hand or replacement employee is scheduled to work a line of progression with job pay rate above “spare hand” rate. In this case permanent spare hand will be asked before a replacement employee). A spare hand that had an expressed line of progression would be asked prior to another spare hand if the work was in that line of progression.
Training Guidelines
1.	If a person is set up for training on shift, he will revert to his regular scheduled job 30 minutes prior to shift change.
2.	If a person is training two or more jobs above his regular job and is certified for the job(s) in the middle of the two jobs, he will draw the rate of pay for the highest certified job while training.
Certification Program - Pulp Mill and Recovery Areas
See mill-wide agreements.
Promotion and Advancement
In order for any employee to be promoted or advance he must meet the certification criteria.
Protective Clothing Issue to Chemical Area Operators
The Chemical Operators and 2nd Chemical Operators will purchase their own protective clothing (maximum 2 pair/yr.) during the fiscal year and be reimbursed up to $35.OO/pair upon presentation of a paid receipt.
-81-
WOODYARD
The Woodyard Operational Team will perform functions required to operate the Woodyard.
Ultimate goal is for work team to do activities related to the team’s operations, fully trained at all levels.
Woodyard Overtime Guidelines
Available overtime work is any overtime that is beyond the normal weekly schedule and does not result from filling the vacancy of an absent employee under the provisions of Article 14.
All available overtime worked or refused will be charged and accumulated weekly. A revised list will be posted each Thursday which will be used during the next week.	f
The overtime list will include all employees in each line of progression. Each employee’s hours will stay with the employee by name.
Work requiring the skills of a classification will be performed by employees within the classification in which it occurs. Employees offered the overtime will be charged. “Extra Work” is that which is performed by all classifications in each line of progression.
Extra work will be offered to the low overtime employee. If employees have to be called or if the work can be scheduled, the available overtime list will be followed.
If extra work requires calling-in an employee during a shift and the work continues into the next shift, employees working the off-going shift who are lower on overtime than the employee called-in will be asked to continue the work. This will not apply if the employee came in 2 or less hours before the end of the shift. If none of the low off-going shift employees accept the work, the employee who had been called-in will continue on the work.
At the first of each year, the employee with the lowest hours in each area will be set at zero and all others will be charged the difference between their hours and the hours of the low man at the end of the preceding year.
If an employee does not have a phone number at which he can be reached he will be charged for the overtime which is worked. Temporary employees, spare hands, trainer position employees, and non-bargaining unit employees will be averaged with the top 3 employees when they come into the line. Any employee out sick for 28 days or more will be averaged with the entire line hours worked while he is out.
-82-
A spare hand or replacement employee will not be asked to work overtime (available or operational) until all other permanent employees in the line of progression are given the opportunity to work first. The exception to this will be when a spare hand or replacement employee is scheduled to work a job with a pay rate above "spare hand” rate. In this case a permanent spare hand will be asked before a replacement employee.
If a person is set up for training on shift, he will revert to his regular scheduled job 30 minutes prior to shift.
Woodyard Certincation
\ See mill-wide agreements.
I
Promotion and Advancement
A.	In order for any employee to be promoted or advance he must meet the certification criteria.
B.	Promotions and advancements will be by progression seniority.
C.	Weekly, as openings occur in the line of progression these openings will be filled from the Spare Hands by seniority-
Re-certification
Employees will be required to re-certify every 3 to 5 years. Re-certification will consist of demonstrating skills of a particularjob to maintain production. Length of time for demonstrating skills on a particular job will be dictated by the job. Recertification of Woodmill Operator job also re-certifies an employee on Groundman. Re-certification ofChipyard Operator I also re-certifies Chipyard Operator 2.
-83-
LOCAL AGREEMENTS PACE LOCAL 966
-84-
TISSUE, STOCK PREP & PULP DRYER
During periods when a Tissue Machine is down for a Yankee Grind, and personnel are needed to operate the steam system, necessary personnel will be secured by the following procedure:
1.	The opportunity will be offered to the permanent Machine Tenders on that machine.
2.	If additional personnel are required, it will be offered to the permanent Back Tenders on that machine.
3.	If sufficient volunteers are not secured in steps 1 or 2, the permanent Back Tenders on that machine shall be scheduled to fill the remaining openings.
Extra Work Guidelines
When extra help is needed to accomplish work which requires manpower in addition to that available on shift, but does not require the skill or expertise associated with a particular classification, the following procedure will be used:
1.	Additional personnel shall be secured by offering the low person on the overtime list on-shift the opportunity to work and going up the list.
2.	If sufficient personnel are not obtained, the on-coming shift will be offered the extra work assignment beginning with the low person on the overtime list and going up the list.
3.	If sufficient personnel are not secured by this method, the off-shift will be offered the extra work assignment beginning with the low person on the overtime list and going up the list.
4.	If this method fails, the low available employee on shift will stay.
When extra help is needed to accomplish work which requires manpower in addition to that available on shift, and requires the skill and expertise associated with a particular classification, the following procedure will be used:
a.	Ask the person on shift in that classification.
b.	Ask the person on the on-coming shift in that classification on the schedule.
c.	Ask the person on the off-shift in that classification on the schedule.
d.	Ask any qualified employee.
e.	If this method fails, the low employee in the classification will stay. If the low employee in the classification is not available (16 hours) then the low qualified employee will stay.
-85-
Extra work list will be kept for each line of progression and will be up-dated on a daily basis. The overtime list will be posted weekly with the work schedule. A spare hand or replacement employee will not be asked to work overtime until all other permanent employees in the line of progression are given the opportunity to work first, (exception to this will be when a spare hand or replacement employee is scheduled to work in a line of progression job above spare hand). A permanent spare hand will be asked before a replacement. When a spare hand moves into the base schedule, he will be adjusted with the highest employee in the line of progression. All employees will go back to zero (0) hours every January 1st.
Training Guidelines
1.	If a person is set up for training on shift, he will revert to his regular scheduled job 30 minutes prior to shift change.
#2 BOARD, #3 BOARD, ADDITIVES, PULP DRYER AND STOCK PREP
Compensation
1.	Two pay rates for each classification are established, a lower rate to be called “Training” and a higher rate to be called “Certified”.
2.	When an employee is placed into a position for training purposes or to fill a vacancy for which he/she is not yet certified, the pay rate shall be the training rate.
3.	The certified rate shall only be paid after an employee has completed the certification process or in the Grandfathered positions.
Grandfathering
Those individuals accruing seniority in a line of progression affected by this agreement will be Grandfathered for certification purposes in their current permanent or base job and in the next job above their permanent position provided they have already certified for that position. They will not be asked to certify in that position unless there occurs a significant change in the process or equipment.
Employees may only freeze in a job classification in which they can certify. They must be certified in all jobs within the classification. They are subject to Article 15 of this agreement.
Protective Clothing Issue to Additive Area Employees
-86-
The following employees will receive protective clothing (i.e. coveralls):
Coating & Chemical Operator - 2 pair/year
Coater Operator - 2 pair/year
Additive Technician - 2 pair/year
The clothing issue will be distributed as follows:
The employees will purchase their own protective clothing during a fiscal year and be reimbursed up to $35/pair upon presentation of a paid receipt.
BOARD MILL
A.	The DEO-A will have responsibility for direction of the Dry End Crew. #3 Board Process Operators will train to minimum skill levels in the Coating Operator classification, and vice versa. The #3 Machine Crew and Additive Crew will share responsibility for testing on the #3 Machine.
B.	Where multiple employees work in the same classification their relief will be specifically designated such that “A’s” will relieve “A’s” and “B’s* will relieve “B’s” and so on. This designation shall also govern overtime administration such that when employee “A” is absent, the on-shift employee “A” shall be given the first opportunity to work overtime.
C.	Employees working in the same classification will be allowed to exchange shifts with a co-worker having the same designation (EX.” “A" with “A” and “B” with “B” etc.). Employees will not be allowed to exchange shifts with a co-worker who is not of the same designation or with a co-worker who is not working in the same classification.
It is an expectation of all employees that they maintain skill levels on all tasks within their classification.
Overtime Administration - Vacancies - Board Mill
Board Mill vacancies will be filled per the labor agreement, (Article 14) with the following modifications:
1.	Ask the individual who will not be relieved (where more than one individual in a line of progression will not be relieved, fill the position highest in the line first.) If not filled then:
2.	Call the on-coming employee from the same classification with the same Alpha designation (i.e. “D” is out, call the oncoming “D”.) If not filled then:
-87-
3.	Call the off employee from the same classification with the same Alpha designation. If not filled then:
4.	Employees may elect to split the shift per Art. 14, Section 2, #4. If not filled then:
5.	Ask the remaining employees in the same classification on shift by seniority. If not filled then:
6.	Call the remaining employees on the in-coming shift in the same classification by seniority. If not filled then:
7.	Call the remaining employees on the off-shift in the same classification by seniority. If not filled then:
8.	Ask the remaining on-shift employees who are qualified to perform the work beginning with the Senior employee and repeat in descending order of seniority.
9.	The unrelieved employee may secure a qualified replacement, with management approval.
l	O.If the above procedure fails to yield a replacement then the unrelieved employee shall be required to fill the vacancy.
11	. If the unrelieved employee is not available (16 hours) then the junior qualified employee will stay.
Extra Work Guidelines - Board Mill
Overtime when necessary, excluding the filling of temporary vacancies, shall be separated into one of two categories as defines below.
a.	Classification Overtime - Work which, by necessity requires manpower in addition to that available on shift, and requires the skill and expertise associated with a particular classification. Necessary personnel shall be secured for Classification Overtime by starting with the low person on the schedule in the classification on shift, and going up. If more people are needed, offers will be made to those people on the schedule in that classification who are available. Hours offered/accepted will be charged.
b.	Out of Classification Overtime - Work which, by necessity, requires manpower in addition to that available on shift, but does not require the skill or expertise associated with a particular classification.
Necessary personnel shall be secured utilizing the overtime sheet, beginning with the low employee on shift and proceeding upward. If additional personnel is required, other employees will be called in low overtime order.
c.	Extra work list will be kept for each line of progression and will be up-dated on a daily basis. The overtime list will be posted weekly with the work schedule. A spare hand or replacement employee will not be asked to work overtime until all other permanent employees in the line
-88-
of progression are given the opportunity to work first, (exception to this will be when a spare hand or replacement employee is scheduled to work in a line of progressionjob above spare hand). A permanent spare hand will be asked before a replacement. When a spare hand moves into the base schedule, he will be adjusted with the highest employee in the line of progression. All employees will revert back to zero hours on January 1, of each year, d. When advancing to the next classification, for a permanent or temporary set-up an employee’s overtime will be adjusted to match that of the high employee in that classification for extra overtime.
e. When the employee reverts back to his classification, he/ she will return with the amount of extra work overtime they had before the set-up, plus the hours of extra work overtime they worked while set up into the next classification.
Training Guidelines
1. If a person is set up for training on shift, he will revert to his regular scheduled job 30 minutes prior to shift change.
BOARD SHIPPING
The Board Shipping Lead Person will have overall responsibility for coordinating and overseeing the total departmental operation with occasional assistance from salaried personnel. Some examples of the Board Shipping lead Person’s responsibilities and accountabilities are listed here, however, they are subject to change by management: Organize work for the unit, write work orders, troubleshoot problems, radio communications, process paperwork, crew communications, complete timesheets, coordinate orientation/training/qualification, assign overtime, determine staffing needs for current and on-coming shift(s), coordinate crew and safety meetings, perform any operating function necessary to meet the objectives of the department.
A training program will be established in order to accomplish the objectives set out above.
Minimum qualifications for set up to Lead Person are:
1.	Demonstrate the ability to read and write, interpersonal skills, conflict management and resolution, and knowledge of the Labor Agreement.
-89-
2,	Job will be offered by seniority in a line of progression until a qualified individual accepts the position. Should no employee voluntarily accept the position, the junior qualified employee will take the setup.
3.	On a temporary opening 2 above applies to the shift where the vacancy occurred.
The Team Concept is critical to success. Towards that end the individual employees in the Board Shipping area will contribute to the group decision making process in determining day-to-day work activity and the allocation of work objectives of the Department with infrequent intervention by salaried personnel.
Day Roll Shipper Assignments
A.	Overtime: Vacancies will be covered by shift set-up if personnel are available. If personnel are not available the vacancy will be covered per contract by asking within the Roll Shipper classification by seniority (previous shift, on-coming shift, off shift), then any qualified employee.
B.	The Day Roll Shipper will be used as a last resort to fill vacancies in the 4 shift operations. If the Day Roll Shipper fills a full shift vacancy in the 4 shift operation, he/she will have rights to overtime if unrelieved.
C.	The Day Roll Shipper will not take shift set-ups. He/she will only move on a seniority or permanent move.
D.	On January 1st of each year a senior employee may bump to the Day Roll Shipper slot or the incumbent may choose to go back to the 4 - shift operation. If no employee accepts this job, the senior LTO will be obligated to fill it.
Extra Work Guidelines
Overtime when necessary, excluding the filling of temporary vacancies, shall be separated into one of two categories as defines below.
a.	Classification Overtime - Work which, by necessity requires manpower in addition to that available on shift, and requires the skill and expertise associated with a particular classification. Necessary personnel shall be secured for Classification Overtime by starting with the low person on the schedule in the classification on shift, and going up. If more people are needed, offers will be made to those people on the schedule in that classification who are available. Hours offercd/accepted will be charged.
b.	Out of Classification Overtime - Work which, by necessity, requires manpower in addition to that available on shift, but does not require the skill or expertise associated with a particular classification.
-90-
Necessary personnel shall be secured utilizing the overtime sheet, beginning with the low employee on shift and proceeding upward. If additional personnel is required, other employees will be called in low overtime order.
c.	Extra work list will be kept for each line of progression and will be up-dated on a daily basis. The overtime list will be posted weekly with the work schedule.
A spare hand or replacement employee will not be asked to work overtime until all other permanent employees in the line of progression are given the opportunity to work first, (exception to this will be when a spare hand or replacement employee is scheduled to work in a line of progression job above spare hand). A permanent spare hand will be asked before a replacement. When a spare hand moves into the base schedule, he will be adjusted with the highest employee in the line of progression. All employees will revert back to zero hours on January 1, of each year.
d.	When advancing to the next classification, for a permanent or temporary set-up an employee’s overtime will be adjusted to match that of the high employee in that classification for extra overtime.
e.	When the employee reverts back to his classification, he/ she will return with the amount of extra work overtime they had before the set-up, plus the hours of extra work overtime they worked while set up into the next classification.
Training Guidelines
1. If a person is set up for training on shift, he will revert to his regular scheduled job 30 minutes prior to shift change.
FINISHED GOODS SHIPPING
The following is an amendment and restatement of the Memorandum of Agreement dated August 11,1999 between the Company and PACE Locals 3-0950, 3-0952 and 3-0966.
The portion of this agreement pertaining to the new warehouse became effective upon the date of start-up of the new warehouse, July 5,2000. Those sections are in effect for a period of ten (10) years from that date. Other sections became applicable on August 11, 1999.
-91 -
The organization of the new warehouse consists of a single job classification called Warehouse Operator I. The Warehouse Operator I is responsible for all warehouse functions including but not limited to: all loading and unloading of Mill product, minor maintenance as described in the labor agreement, cleanup, repack, waste retrieval and disposal, other duties as assigned.
Lift Truck Operators who were permanent as of July 05, 2000, will be granted negotiated general wage adjustments for a period of five (5) years. At the end of the five (5) years they shall receive any GWI in the form of a lump-sum based on last years W-2. At the end of the first five years they shall be paid the adjusted rate of the LTO position until such a time as the Warehouse Operator I rate equals or exceeds it. Finished Goods Shippers and Team Leaders who were permanent as of August 11, 1999, as well as any individual who became permanent in those classifications (FGS/TL) prior to July 05,2000, will receive 50% of any GWI adjustment in the form of it being applied to the base rate for the job and 50% to be paid in the form of a lump-sum based on last years W-2. This scenario will be in place for a period of ten (10) years starting on July 05, 2000. At the end of the ten (10) year period they will be paid the adjusted rate of pay and receive any GWI in the form of a lump-sum based on last years W-2. This will be paid until the Warehouse Operator rate equals or exceeds the former Team Leader rate. Any lump sum negotiated as a general wage increase will be paid in it’s entirety to chose employees referenced above. Included in the W-2 calculation will be lost wages made up by the Union. It will be the Union’s responsibility to provide appropriate documentation to support the Corporation’s calculation.
Those employees permanent in the Team Leader and Finished Goods Shipper classifications as of July 28, 1999 will be afforded the opportunity to load customer orders most of the time. There will be times when management determines that other assignments will best meet the needs of the business.
Extra Work Guidelines
Classification Overtime: Work which, by necessity requires manpower in addition to that available on shift, and requires the skill and expertise associated with a particular classification. Necessary personnel shall be secured for Classification Overtime by starting with the low person on the schedule in the classification on shift, and going up. If additional personnel are required, other employees will be called-in in low overtime or
-92-
der. Overtime offered-accepted under this provision shall be recorded on the overtime sheet, which shall be updated daily and posted each Thursday for the previous week’s over-time.
When a spare hand moves into a base schedule he will be adjusted even with the highest employee in the Line of Progression. All employee’s hours will revert back to zero hours on January 1, of each year.
Training Guidelines
1.	If a person is set up for training on shift, he will revert to his regular scheduled job 30 minutes prior to shift change.
UNITIZE RS
Extra Work Guidelines
Overtime when necessary, excluding the filling of temporary vacancies, shall be separated into one of two categories as defines below.
a.	Classification Overtime - Work which, by necessity requires manpower in addition to that available on shift, and requires the skill and expertise associated with a particular classification. Necessary personnel shall be secured for Classification Overtime by starting with the low person on the schedule in the classification on shift, and going up. If more people are needed, offers will be made to those people on the schedule in that classification who are available. Hours offered/accepted will be charged.
b.	Out of Classification Overtime - Work which, by necessity, requires manpower in addition to that available on shift, but does not require the skill or expertise associated with a particular classification. Necessary personnel shall be secured utilizing the overtime sheet, beginning with the low employee on shift and proceeding upward. If additional personnel is required, other employees will be called in low overtime order
c.	Extra work list will be kept for each line of progression and will be up-dated on a daily basis. The overtime list will be posted weekly with the work schedule. A spare hand or replacement employee will not be asked to work overtime until all other permanent employees in the line of progression are given the opportunity to work first (exception to this will be when a spare hand or replacement employee is scheduled to work in a line of progression
-93-
job above spare hand). A permanent spare hand will be asked before a replacement When a spare hand moves into the base schedule, he will be adjusted with the highest employee tn the line of progression. All employees will revert back to zero hours on January 1, of each year, d. When advancing to the next classification, for a permanent or temporary set-up an employee’s overtime will be adjusted to match that of the high employee in that classification for extra overtime.
e. When the employee reverts back to his classification, he/ she will return with the amount of extra work overtime they had before the set-up, plus the hours of extra work overtime they worked while set up into the next classification.
Training Guidelines
1. If a person is set up for training on shift, he will revert to his regular scheduled job 30 minutes prior to shift change.
-94-
LOCAL AGREEMENTS PACE MILLWIDE
-95-
Hourly Trainer Position
1.	Hourly employees utilized for special training needs will be considered part of the bargaining unit and maintain seniority rights.
2,	The Trainer position will be filled on an as needed basis.
3.	The Trainers will be selected by management based on the work requirements and seniority. The most senior individual in the line of progression will have the first opportunity and must be able to demonstrate proficiency in their permanent occupation as well as in areas such as public speaking, interpersonal relations, technical writing, etc.
4.	The applicant will have the opportunity to meet and discuss position requirements with Department and Union leadership.
5.	The Trainers will be allowed to work the same number of hours as their normal shift schedule.
6.	Individuals accepting trainer positions may elect to return to their permanent position at any time. When a trainer elects to return to his/her permanent position on a voluntary basis he/she shall have no right or preference to "bump” the newly selected trainer.
7.	Trainer pay rate is currently established at $1.25 per hour above highest rate in the progression line.
Certification Procedure
It is Management’s and the Union’s goal to assure employees possess the necessary knowledge, and can apply the necessary skills, to safely and effectively perform the tasks associated with their employment. To help achieve this purpose, we will use the principles of job certification. The Certification process will include objective assessment tools to include written and/or ora! tests, plus practical skill demonstration. Management will consider input from the union leadership, as well as from other bargaining unit employees, in the modification of the current certification process.
Certification should begin with the senior employees. Prior to certification, individuals must first complete the basic skill blocks or learning blocks for the position being certified. After completing that training, the trainee may be placed in the position alone when his/her seniority allows in order to gain working experience. When ready, the individual may request certification by submitting the ‘ready to certify' form.
-96-
Following receipt of the ‘ready to certify1 form, management will convene a Certification Team. The team will consist of no more than two hourly employees (for example...hourly trainer, certified operator, team leader, etc.) and no more than two salaried employees. Certification requires consensus. Upon request, the employee being certified may have a union observer present, if available. If an employee is not certified, he/she will be notified of those areas where improvement is necessary and will be allowed an opportunity for further training. Repeated failures to certify, after reasonable opportunities for training have been provided, could result in freezing or demotion. Employees currently certified in their present classification and higher classifications will not be expected to recertify (except as related to Georgia-Pacific Corporation Utilities certification requirements and job modification).
In order for any employee to be permanently promoted be must meet the certification criteria.
Training Pay, Meeting Pay, Special Assignment Pay
This policy shall be used to compute pay for individuals under the above circumstances, uniformly across the mill.
Training pay includes Company training off the job but in the proximity of the mill.
Meeting pay includes all Company meetings in the proximity of the mill.
Special Assignment pay includes Company assignments that require an individual to be away from the proximity of the mill.
If an individual’s schedule for any of the above functions requires that person be excused from his regular work schedule, the person shall be compensated an amount equal to what they would have earned had they worked their scheduled shift. Such compensation shall be based on one shift for each day involved, special circumstances such as extended meetings, training sessions, or assignments requiring extended travel time that may place an individual in an unsafe work/rest situation will be handled on a case by case basis.
Individuals attending scheduled meetings outside normal work, and which does not require being excused from the normal schedule, will be compensated for hours actually spent in the meeting at their scheduled rate of pay. Such payments shall be included in the computation of daily or weekly Overtime.
Individuals required to attend a session which requires the individual to come from home, and which session is not connected to their regular shift, shall receive a minimum of four (4) hours straight time pay. Compensation for the above shall be on the basis of this policy only.
-97-
Travel Pay
Employees scheduled to attend meetings and/or training sessions at locations other than the mill site will be compensated for necessary mileage driven over and above the mileage from the individual’s home to the mill. The mileage rate shall be that allowance currently provided by Corporate policy. Reimbursement shall be through the normal expense account process and shall be presented to and approved by the individual’s Supervisor.
-98-
SIDE AGREEMENTS
-99-
To: PACE Locals 3-0950(P&M), 3-0952 and 3-0966
March 28,2001
Re: EMERGENCY SHIFT SWAPS
In the case of an emergency need for a shift swap that can not be handled through the normal procedure, an emergency shift swap may be granted. In this case, “emergency” means that the need for the swap arises with such short notice that the employee is not able to reach his supervisor in time to pre-approve the shift swap.
Emergency shift swaps will be handled by filling out a shift swap form and turning it into supervision, at the earliest possible time. If the use of an emergency shift swap is improper, the employees making the swap will be properly dealt with.
GEORGIA-PACIFIC CORPORATION NAHEOLA MILL
-100-
To: PACE Locals 3-O950(P&M), 3-0952 and 3-0966
April 5,2001
Re: ABSENCE WITHOUT NOTICE
This will confirm the assurance given to you during our negotiations that, in the application of Article 15, Section 3 of our new Labor Agreement, the Company will give consideration to the circumstances of any employee who provides convincing evidence that it was impossible to give notice to the Company during the first three days of their absence from work, If that was the case, and the employee notifies us as soon as it was possible to do so, they will not be assumed to have quit.
GEORGIA-PACIFIC CORPORATION
NAHEOLA MILL
- 101 -
To: PACE Locals 3-0950(P&M), 3-0952 and 3-0966
May 03,2001,4:00P.M.
Re: RELIEF EMPLOYEES -
CONVERSION TO SPARE HANO
Effective upon the ratification of our new Labor Agreement, each Relief employee will be offered a Spare Hand position in the Line of Progression where they presently are a Relief. If they elect not to take the Spare Hand job, they will return to their permanent job. If they elect to become a Spare Hand, their seniority in the Line of Progression will be ranked in the order that they became a Relief.
GEORGIA-PACIFIC CORPORATION
NAHEOLA MILL
- 102 -
To: PACE Locals 3-0950(P&M), 3-0952 and 3-0966
May 18,2001
Re: DISTRIBUTION OF CONTRACTS
The Company shall have printed a sufficient number of the new Labor Agreement in booklet form to be furnished to each employee and all new employees. Extra copies of the booklet will be available to Local Union Officials at the Human Resources Office. The Company will arrange for the distribution of each new Labor Agreement to the employees then at work. The Company will endeavor to complete this process within 60 days after ratification or as soon as practicable thereafter.
GEORGIA-PACIFIC CORPORATION
NAHEOLA MILL
- 103-
To: PACE Local 3-0950(P&M)
June 20,2001 (Revised 02/05/02)
Re: CONVERTING MAINTENANCE
TECHNICIAN 5 TRAINING PROGRAM
This letter will confirm the understanding reached during our current negotiations regarding the application of Article 24, Section 6 of the new Labor Agreement to certain employees.
Those employees listed below will, if they apply for the Converting Maintenance Training Program, be excused from the initial test and interview process required to enter the program. Upon completing the training program, such employees will be required to pass the final testing process in order to qualify for approved permanent openings in the Converting Maintenance Technician 5 classification. The final testing for such employees will include testing developed with input from a Converting Maintenance Technician 5 appointed by PACE Local 3-0950 and a member of management to demonstrate skills and proficiency. A Union appointed representative will observe each skills test and the Union will be notified of the results.
The following are the employees to which this agreement applies:
BOBBY RIDGEWAY	2060	RON ROSS	2420
ROY PHILLIPS	2489	ALMAN JACOBS	2498
DANIEL COMBS	2324	GEORGE JAMES	2396
FREDDIE JOWERS	2356	JOHNNY HARRIS	2008
JAMES GORMAN	2118	DAVID LANDRUM	2158
EDDIE MARTIN	2029	FRED JONES	2031
DAVID DIAMOND	2190	HOLLIS COXWELL	2046
JERRY CLARK	2052	DOSS JOHNSON	2078
EDDIE CHESS	2328	FRANK SLATER	2480
DOUG KIKER	2228	CHARLES MOSS	2074
GEORGIA-PACIFIC CORPORATION NAHEOLA MILL
-104-
To: PACE Local 3-0952
August 15,2001 (Revised 02/13/02)
Re: MISCELLANEOUS SIDE AGREEMENTS
1.	Richard Harris will be on the Machinist Overtime List and is available for overtime on the Knife Grinder only.
2.	If a layoff should ever occur, James Tate will have job seniority over Jimmy Neese and those pipefitters who follow him.
3.	Local 952 employees currently assigned to the Converting Department will remain in the Converting Department and eventually leave through attrition as business conditions persist. The Local 952 employees (John Ott, Nelson Watkins, and Melvin Lewis) will perform maintenance work in the Converting Department until they leave through attrition. While assigned in the converting area, the employees will work with local 950 members in instructing them on mechanical work, e.g. oiling, pipefitting, etc.
4.	Local 952 employees currently assigned in converting will continue to report to backend maintenance supervision and Local 952 overtime guidelines will apply to 952 employees assigned to converting.
5.	The junior machinist will be assigned to the Roll Grinder on a straight time schedule, unless a senior machinist requests to be assigned to the roll grinder.
6.	If the Roll Grinder is on 12-hour shifts when the shop is on 8 hours, the 2 normally scheduled Roll Grinders will be assigned to the Roll Grinder.
7.	When an opening occurs for a Vibration Mechanic, management will fill the job from within Local 952 with the senior applicant, if all qualifications are met.
GEORGIA-PACIFIC CORPORATION
NAHEOLA MILL
- 105-
August 30,2001
To: PACE Locals 3-0950(P&M), 3-0952 and 3-0966
Re: NAHEOLA ABSENCE CONTROL PROGRAM (VALID FOR ONE (1) YEAR AFTER RATIFICATION)
Goals
The goals of the Review Panel are the following:
1.	To correct cases of excessive absenteeism.
2.	To insure the consistent application of corrective action on a mill wide basis.
3.	To recognize outstanding attendance.
Form
Each departmental team will have its own absentee review panel. Panel members should Consist of an equal number of Management and Union representatives as deemed appropriate by the departmental team. Specific data regarding employee attendance records will be provided to the departmental review panels for review.
Purpose
The Review Panel will review records of absenteeism. Labor and management will share specific information regarding employee absence. After the review, the Company and the Union will each exert its influence, separately, in an effort to correct the problem. Early detection and.early correction of an absentee problem will be the optimum method of operation for the panel.
Standards
The standard of allowable absence will be determined by the Management portion of the committee. This standard will serve as a “flag” to Management that will indicate a need to bring the record before the Review Panel.
1st Flag 4 unsubstantiated absences in a rolling six (6) month period.
2nd Flag 5 unsubstantiated absences
3rd Flag 6 unsubstantiated absences
4th Flag 7 unsubstantiated absences
5th Flag 8 unsubstantiated absences
- 106-
“Unsubstantiated’ will mean a reason without documentation, evidence, or merit, determined in part by the Supervisors knowledge of the employee's attendance history.
Corrective Action
The stated sequence of actions are: 1) Oral Warning; 2) Written Warning; 3) Three Day Suspension; 4) 30 Day Suspension; 5) Discharge. Corrective action will be administered by the level of Department Supervision as deemed appropriate. Department absence records will be monitored on a daily basis. The following course of events will take place as the individual record necessitates it:
1st Flag: The Company will alert the Union of an employee’s absence record that has been flagged for review. The Union will then meet with the employee to discuss the record and encourage improved attendance. The Company may at this time issue an Oral Warning as its corrective action,
2nd Flag: The Review Panel meets to review the records in question. Specific insight or additional information may be offered by the employee’s Steward, and Supervisor. The Company and Union then exert their separate influence with the employee in order to correct the problem. After this review, the Company may issue a Written Warning as its corrective influence.
3rd Flag: The Review Panel meets to review the records in question. Specific insight and information is again shared between the Company and the Union then each exert their corrective influence. After this review, the Company may issue a three (3) day suspension.
4th Flag: The Review Panel meets, reviews, shares information and then exerts its respective corrective influence. After this review, the Company may issue a 30 day suspension.
5th Flag: The panel meets, reviews, shares information, After this review, the Company may discharge the employee for cause.
Review Panel Resources
The Review Panel may utilize the following resources in evaluating an employee’s absence record:
1.	Consultation with Company Doctors concerning specific cases.
2.	Consultation of Company Records (Charts, Insurance Forms), however, this must be limited to access by Management only.
3.	Millwide absence reports.
-107-
Status of Current Employee Records
All employee records of absences and disciplinary actions remain intact However, from the date of the installation of the Review Panel, the course of corrective action is initiated as described in Section V above.
Clearing the Record
A.	If an employee’s attendance has improved to the level of “no unexcused absences" in a period of 6 consecutive months, the employee's record will be considered to be “cleared” for the purpose of applying any future corrective actions under this Policy.
B.	The history of records and actions will remain intact.
C.	Should a problem develop through the repeated individual use of the 6 month record improvement feature, the period required to “clear” the record may be lengthened or otherwise modified as deemed appropriate.
Record keeping shall be a function of the individual areas, with assistance provided as available and appropriate.
Absence Without Notification
It is the Company’s position that regular attendance is required as a condition of employment. When persons are employed by the Company, they know regular attendance is expected and required.
Employees who cannot report to work have a procedure to call in and let the Company know that they cannot work. An employee who does not call in or report to work within the first two (2) hours of their scheduled, shift will be considered an absence without notification. Extenuating_circumstances will be considered.
Any single day of Absence Without Notification constitutes a separate offense.
Three absences without notification during any twelve (12) month period will result in termination with or without lesser penalties having first been used.
Employees who have an Absence Without Notification will be subject to the following disciplinary action:
-108-
First Offense: Warning up to a One (1) Day Suspension without Pay.
Second Offense (within a twelve month period):
Five (5) Day Suspension without Pay
Third Offense (within a twelve month period):
Termination
GEORGIA-PACIFIC CORPORATION
NAHEOLA MILL
- 109-
To: PACE Locals 3-0950(P&M), 3-0952 and 3-0966
November 15,2001
Re: RE-CALL RIGHTS - CONVERTING SUPPLY GROUP
The existing permanent base supply group employees (Core machine operator, roll hauler, case hauler, broke hauler, cleaners) will enter lines of progression following the junior permanent person in each line of progression, those people being: Tissue, Willie Thompson; Towel, William Johnson,
In the event of bump backs, equipment removal or job eliminations: If the eliminated job is a supply group job the junior supply group person will be bumped. If the eliminated job is a wrapper or above (existing line of progression job, August 1, 1995 progression), the junior existing line of progression employee will be bumped.
GEORGIA-PACIFIC CORPORATION
NAHEOLA MILL
- 110-
To: PACE Locals 3-0950(P£M)
February 18,2002
Re: BLEACH PLANT - DISPLACED EMPLOYEES
The three (3) displaced employees in the Bleach Plant will remain as they are. They will retain recall rights to the Bleach Plant and may be used in the Brown Stock line after all other Spare Hands in the Brown Stock area have been utilized.
GEORGIA-PACIFIC CORPORATION NAHEOLAMILL
- Ill-
To; PACE Local 3-0966
September 18,2001
Re: Seniority Protection (split lines of progression)
1.	Shipping (Board and Finished Goods) February 1990
2.	Tissue Machines (1,4,5,6, & 7) July 1989
3.	Stock Prep / Additive November 1986
4.	Board, (#2 & #3 Machines) February 1990
Seniority protection will be given to permanent employees at the time of the splits on the dates identified above. In cases of permanent reduction or positions eliminated, employees will be demoted in inverse order of their progression in the previous single lines. Those incumbents who may be bumped from the lines of progression will be given the first opportunity to reenter either line in order of their seniority. Those individuals who have a choice of line of progression remaining will continue to have a choice of line of progression, when a permanent vacancy occurs in the other line of progression to which their seniority entitles them. Donald Ray will be junior to Arnold Sisson for seniority or permanent set-ups on #2 Board Machine.
GEORGIA-PACIFIC CORPORATION NAHEOLA MILL
-112-