iy Jim'11 liiBH ■	1
UNION AGREEMENT
* Th.
EAST RIVER PLANT FOX RIVER PLANT Green Bay, Wisconsin
June 27, 2001 - April 30, 2007
JOINT
LABOR UNION AGREEMENT
by and between
THE PROCTER & GAMBLE
PAPER PRODUCTS COMPANY
and
PAPER, ALLIED-INDUSTRIAL, CHEMICAL, & ENERGY
WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION
AFL-CIO
LOCAL NO. 7-0047
June 27, 2001 - April 30, 2007
Article No.
Page No.
1.	Duration - Change or Modification of Agreement	1
2.	Termination of Agreement	1
3.	Recognition	1
4.	Union Membership	2
5.	Check Off	2
6.	Seniority - Movement - Transfers - Reductions in Staff	3
7.	Leave of Absence	5
8.	Rotating Shifts and Single Shifts	. 5
9.	Hours of Work and Running Schedule	5
10.	Shift Differential	7
11.	Necessary Absence	7
12.	Call Time - Reporting Time and Overtime	7
13.	Vacations	8
14.	Holidays	10
15.	Pay for Unworked Holidays	10
16.	Wages (Also Appendix A, Page 22)	11
17.	Rules (Also Appendix B, Page 23	12
18.	Interruption of Work	12
19.	Bereavement Leave	12
20.	Jury Service	13
21.	Early Retirement	13
22.	Employee Group Insurance	13
23.	Monthly Labor Management Meeting	14
24.	Pay for Time Lost From Work	15
25.	Adjustment of Complaints and Disputes	15
26.	Board of Arbitration	16
27.	Lunch Period	17
28.	Agreement Subject to Laws	17
29.	Amendment to Agreement	17
30.	Interpretation of the Labor Agreement	17
31.	Profit Sharing Plan	17
32.	Disability Benefit Plan	18
33.	Individual Choice Plan	18
34.	Bulletin Boards	18
35.	Conditional Reinstatement & Alcohol/Drug Abuse Program	18
	Appendix “A” - Wage Schedule	22
	Appendix “B" - Rules for Employees	23
	Appendix “C" - Opportunity Posting Program	25
	Appendix “D” - Schedule of Insurance	26
	2001-2007 Calendars	27-33
This Labor Agreement...
by and between the PROCTER & GAMBLE PAPER PRODUCTS COMPANY, GREEN BAY WISCONSIN Plants (hereinafter called the ‘Company") and the PAPER, ALLIED-INDUSTRIAL, CHEMICAL, & ENERGY WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, AFL-CIO and its affiliated Green Bay Local No. 7-0047, (hereinafter called the “Union").
WITNESSETH:
This Agreement is based upon mutual understanding and cooperation with each other, both employer and employee recognizing their responsibility in matters of safety, sanitation, efficiency and economy of conduct, meaning by economy of conduct not to be destructive or wasteful in the use of time or material.
ARTICLE #1
DURATION * CHANGE OR MODIFICATION OF AGREEMENT
This Labor Agreement shall become effective June 27, 2001 and shall remain in effect until April 30, 2007, inclusive, and from year to year thereafter, unless terminated in accordance with the provision of Article #2 below.
a.	if either party shall desire to change any provisions of this Labor Agreement, it shall give written notice of such desire to the other party at least sixty (60) days in advance of any anniversary date.
b.	The giving of notice provided in subsection (a) above shall constitute an obligation upon both parties to negotiate in good faith with the intent of reaching a written agreement prior to the anniversary date.
c.	If the parties have not reached agreement on or before the anniversary date, al! the provisions of the Labor Agreement shall remain in effect unless specifically terminated in accordance with the provisions of Article #2 below.
ARTICLE #2
TERMINATION OF AGREEMENT
a.	At any time after the anniversary date, if no agreement on the questions at Issue has been reached, either party may give written notice to the other party of intent to terminate the Agreement in not less than ten (10) days. All the provisions of the Agreement shall remain in full force and effect until the specified time has elapsed. During this period attempts to reach an agreement shall be continued.
b.	If the parties have failed to resolve their differences before the specified time has elapsed, all obligations under this Agreement are automatically cancelled.
ARTICLE #3
RECOGNITION
The Company is favorable to collective bargaining and agrees to recognize the Paper, Allied-Industrial, Chemical, & Energy Workers International Union as the sole and exclusive collective bargaining agent governing wages, hours and working conditions tor all production and maintenance employees of the
1
Company’s East River Plant and Fox River Plant at Green Bay except office, clerical, engineers, chemists, laboratory technicians, managers and other supervisory employees as defined in the Labor Management Relations Act of 1947 as amended.
ARTICLE #4
UNION MEMBERSHIP
a.	It is agreed that all employees covered by this Labor Agreement shall, as a condition of employment, become a member of the signatory Local ninety (90) days after their respective dates of employment or the effective date of this Labor Agreement, whichever is later.
b.	The Company agrees, upon demand by the Union, to dismiss all employees who fail to become members or maintain membership in good standing in their Local. For the purpose of this agreement, a member will not be in good standing only if behind in payment of dues as defined by the International Constitution of the Union.
ARTICLE #5
CHECK OFF
a.	The Company shall, during the life of this Agreement, deduct bi-weekly from the pay of each of its employees who voluntarily authorizes such deductions in writing, on a form to be provided by the Company, the present Union dues, and shall promptly transmit them to the authorized representative of the Union.
b.	Employee Authorization for Payroll Dues Deduction
Sample Form
Subject to the terms of the Agreement between the Company and the Union the undersigned employee hereby authorizes the Procter & Gamble Paper Products Company at its Green Bay, Wisconsin Plants to deduct from his/her wages the bi-weekly dues beginning on and continuing after this date, for his/her bi-weekly dues in Local 7-0047 and requests the Procter & Gamble Paper Products Company to remit these dues to Local 7-0047. The undersigned employee also authorizes the initiation fee to be deducted from the first paycheck only. This authorization of the deduction of dues shall remain in force for a period of one (1) year or until the termination date of this Agreement whichever occurs first and shall automatically renew itself for a period of one (1) year or succeeding agreement periods, whichever shall be shorter, unless written notice by the employee to the employer and the Union revokes this authorization tn any ten (10) day period immediately following the expirations of each one (1) year or each applicable agreement period.
Date ______________________... __________________ , ,____________
Employee___________________________________________________________
Clock No.
2
ARTICLE #6
SENIORITY - MOVEMENT - TRANSFERS - REDUCTIONS IN STAFF
a.	Seniority
1.	All new employees shall serve a probationary period of ninety days (90) and shall not accrue seniority during that period. During said ninety (90) day probationary period, the Company may, at its option, terminate said probationary employees. Employees retained at the expiration of the ninety (90) day period shall become regular employees and shall be credited with plant seniority from the last date of hire. An employee shall be credited with department seniority from the date of his or her entrance into the department.
2.	Department seniority with qualifications will apply as referenced below in Sections 2. and 3. in filling opportunities, promotions, and demotions resulting from reduction of staffing levels. Plant-wide seniority with qualifications shall govern in transfers, layoffs, and recalls after layoffs.
3.	A new employee shall mean a person with no previous employment with the Company, or one who has lost seniority as otherwise specified in this article.
4.	Seniority shall be lost by any one of the following specified acts:
a)	A proper discharge.
b)	When an employee voluntarily quits work.
c)	When an employee fails to report for work after a Leave of Absence, except for absences excused by the Company.
d)	When after having been laid off, the employee does not report for work within a ten (10) day period of time after written notice is mailed simultaneously to the employee at the address on the Company records and the Recording Secretary of Local No. 7-0047 unless good cause is shown for not complying.
e)	Continuous absence from work for two (2) years because of layoff.
f)	Retirement.
5.	Employees promoted to positions with the Company over which the Union has no jurisdiction, and in good standing with the Union shall be entitled within twelve (12) months of the time of promotion, if still employees of the Company, to return to fheir previous position in case of a discontinuance of their new position or if they are unable to satisfactorily perform the duties of the new position.
6.	Whenever the Company finds it cannot follow the principles of seniority, the question is subject to negotiations between the Company and the Union. If a satisfactory solution to the question cannot be found, it is subject to appeal or adjustment under the provisions of the Grievance and Arbitration procedure contained in the Labor Agreement.
3
b.	Movement and Transfer
1.	The Company continues to have the responsibility to define, create, discontinue or combine work responsibilities and classifications, assign or reassign work or duties, assess performance and judge qualifications.
2.	The Company shall determine from time to time the specific skill or combination of skills it needs on each team and in each department; the number of employees it needs to possess each such skill or combination of skills on each team and in the department; the distribution of skills among the employees on each team and in the department; the opportunities on a team or in a department to acquire skills; and needs for additional employees on a team or in a department,
3.	When an opportunity exists to acquire a particular skill or combination of skills, notice will be provided to all employees on the team so that any employee who wishes may be considered. Those team members who want the opportunity shall be considered on the basis of their department seniority and the following:
a)	satisfactory work performance
b)	ability to satisfactorily acquire the skill needed
c)	distribution and balance of skills among the team’s members
d)	and the team’s plans for developing the skills of its members
If no such qualified team member wants the opportunity, the Company will fill the opportunity through its own choice. If the particular skill or combination of skills is needed in the department but not on any particular team, the opportunity may be offered to ail employees In the department, and wilt be filled using the same procedures described above.
4.	When an additional person is needed on a team, notice will be provided to all employees in the department so that any employee who wishes may be considered. Employees who want the opportunity shall be considered on (he basis of their department seniority and the following:
a)	satisfactory work performance
b)	having the skills needed or the ability to satisfactorily acquire the skills needed
c)	distribution and balance of skills within teams across the department
d)	and the department’s plans for developing the skills of its members
5.	At any time, the Company may fill an opportunity for a skill or combination of skills by assigning a partially disabled employee who, in the Company’s judgment, can perform consistent with the needs of that department.
4
6.	Attached to and made a part of this Agreement is Appendix “C" covering the Opportunity Posting Program.
c.	Reduction of Staffing Level
1.	When the Company determines that the staffing level on a team is to be reduced without requiring a reduction in the number of employees in the department where that team is located, then the Company may place the reduced employee(s) on a different team within the department. Normally the Company will place first from such team the employee with the least department seniority provided that the team's minimum skill profile can be maintained by doing so.
2.	When the Company determines that the staffing level in a department is to be reduced, then the Company will designate reduced employee(s), based on department seniority with qualifications. In determining qualifications, the Company will consider as the primary factor the skills needed within teams and within the department. Reduced employees will be assigned to any available work.
ARTICLE #7
LEAVE OF ABSENCE
Any Leave of Absence shall be in writing and subject to the approval of the Company and the Union.
ARTICLE #8
ROTATING SHIFTS AND SINGLE SHIFTS
Employees engaged in operations scheduled in advance for at least twenty-four (24) hours continuous operation, or where they succeed each other in continuous operation for twenty-four (24) hours or less, are considered to be performing shift work. Most work to be done on a single shift will be generally performed on the day shift unless business conditions require otherwise.
ARTICLE #9
HOURS OF WORK AND RUNNING SCHEDULE
Running time for departments, other than papermaking, maintenance support, power and service operations shall not be for a greater period than six (6) days in any one (1) week, but if the Company needs the production, it is understood that these departments will operate on Sunday after having been covered with an appropriate member of the bargaining committee.
a.	Nothing herein shall be construed as requiring the Company to keep the paper machines in continuous operation.
b.	The hours of work shall be as follows, including a thirty (30) minute unpaid lunch:
6-HOUR SCHEDULE	12-HOUR SCHEDULE
1 st Shift - 5:30 AM to 2:00 PM	Day Shift - 5:30 AM to 6:00 PM
2nd Shift -1:30 PM to 10:00 PM	Night Shift - 5:30 PM to 6:00 AM
3rd Shift - 9:30 PM to 6:00 AM
or
5
1st Shift - 6:00 AM to 2:30 PM 2nd Shift - 2:00 PM to 10:30 PM 3rd Shift - 10:00 PM to 6:30 AM
Day Shift - 6:00 AM to 6:30 PM
Night Shift - 6:00 PM to 6:30 AM
or
1st Shift - 6:30 AM to 3:00 PM 2nd Shift - 2:30 PM to 11:00 PM
3rd Shift -10:30 PM to 7:00 AM
Day Shift - 6:30 AM to 7:00 PM
Night Shift - 6:30 PM to 7:00 AM
Seven-Day 12-Hour Schedule
	Mon	Tues	Wed	Thur	Fri	Sat	Sun
1st Week	1st Shift (Days)	A	D	0	8	B	C	C
2nd Shift (Nights)	B	C	C	A	A	D	D
OFF	D	B	B	D	D	B	B
OFF	C	A	A	C	C	A	A
2nd Week	1 st Shift (Days)	C	A	A	D	D	B	B
2nd Shift (Nights)	D	B	B	C	C	A	A
OFF	B	D	D	B	B	D	D
OFF	A	C	C	A	A	C	C
3rd Week	1st Shift (Days)	B	C	C	A	A	D	□
2nd Shift (Nights)	A	D	D	B	B	C	C
OFF	D	B	B	D	D	B	B
OFF	C	A	A	C	C	A	A
4th Week	1 st Shift (Days)	D	B	B	C	C	A	A
2nd Shift (Nights)	C	A	A	D	D	B	B
OFF	B	D	D	8	B	D	D
OFF	A	C	C	A	A	C	C
c.	Changes to the above schedules can be made by the Company after having been thoroughly discussed with Local 7-0047.
d.	A workday shall be defined to be for 5:30 A.M., 6:00 A.M., or 6:30 A.M., to 5:30 A.M., 6:00 A.M., or 6:30 A.M. the following day. A workweek shall be defined to be for 5:30 A.M., 6:00 A.M., or 6:30 A.M. Monday to 5:30 A.M., 6:00 A.M., or 6:30 A.M. the following Monday. For pay purposes, the half hour that falls into a subsequent day or week will be considered part of the day or week that the shift ended.
e.	The Company will provide two (2) fifteen-minute relief periods for eight (8) hour schedules and three (3) fifteen-minute relief periods for twelve (12) hour schedules. Normally the breaks will be scheduled during the first and second four (4) hour blocks of the scheduled shift for eight (8) hour schedules and during the first, second, and third four (4) hour blocks of the scheduled shift for twelve (12) hour schedules. The Company will provide one (1) additional fifteen-minute relief period when employees are expected to work at least one (1) hour beyond their regular shift.
f.	The Company will schedule converting operations on a continuous or non-continuous basis (either not shutting down or shutting down for lunches and breaks) after schedule changes have been reviewed by management with the appropriate member of the Union bargaining committee.
6
ARTICLE #10 SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL
The eight (9) hour schedule shift differentia) rate for second shift is twentyseven (27) cents per hour, and forty-two (42) cents per hour for third shift. The twelve (12) hour schedule shift differential is forty-five (45) cents per hour for second shift, instead of paying shift differentials on specific hours during defined shifts, a schedule adder will be calculated that averages all the applicable shift differentials into an adder for all hours worked regardless of shift. The base hourly rate plus the schedule adder for a specific schedule will be called the schedule rate.
ARTICLE #11
NECESSARY ABSENCE
a.	Necessary absence will be construed to mean and include all absence due to the following conditions;
1.	Illness, or illness in family.
2.	Accidents, or accidents in family.
3.	Death of member of family.
4.	Funerals or weddings of members of family.
5.	On business in connection with the Union, Credit Union or the Company.
6.	Other necessary absences when approved by the Plant Leader more than one week in advance.
b.	Misrepresentation of any of the above will be just cause for disciplinary action including dismissal.
ARTICLE #12
CALL TIME - REPORTING TIME - OVERTIME
a.	Call Time
1.	Employees called in on Sundays or holidays shall receive double time for actual time worked with a minimum pay of four (4) hours at schedule rate.
2.	Employees notified to work at any time other than the start of their established shift without at least twelve (12) hours notice prior to reporting to work shall be paid time and a half of their scheduled rate for the actual time worked with a minimum pay of four (4) hours at schedule rate.
7
b.	Reporting Time
1.	When employees report for work on their regular shift and no work is available and the employees have not been notified at least one (1) hour prior to their regular starting time not to report for work, they will be offered a minimum of four (4) hours work or if business needs allow, they will be offered the day off without pay (employee’s option) and not be charged an absence. They will be paid at their schedule rate for any work performed.
2.	When employees are scheduled and report tor work on their day off, they shall receive a minimum of four (4) hours' work. This minimum allowance does not apply to safety meetings, training sessions, fire brigade meetings or similar type meetings. Neither does it apply to work which begins prior to and extends into the employee’s next scheduled shift nor to holdover work from the employee’s previous scheduled shift,
c.	Overtime
1.	Time and one-half for eight (8) hour schedules, shall be paid tor all work performed in excess of eight (8) hours per day or eight (8) consecutive hours, or forty (40) hours per week, whichever is greater. Time and one-half shall be paid for employees on the twelve (12) hour schedule for all work performed in excess of twelve (12) hours per day or twelve (12) consecutive hours or forty (40) hours per week, whichever is greater.
2.	Double time shall be paid tor all Sunday and holiday hours as set forth in this Labor Agreement.
3.	if overtime is necessary, the system in each department will provide the people with the necessary skills to do the work, will be balanced by work offered on an ongoing basis for employees with like skills, and be self-correcting on an opportunity basis.
ARTICLE #13
VACATIONS
Employees will be entitled to annual vacations during the year on the following basis and subject to the following provisions;
a. During an employee’s first calendar year with the Company, the new employee will receive forty (40) hours of paid vacation if hired and begins working before July 1st of that year. If hired on or after July 1st, there is no vacation during the first calendar year. On January 1 following the employee’s hire date, the employee will receive eighty (80) hours of paid vacation. Paid vacation will increase in the calendar year following completion of the number of full years service with the Company shown in the schedule below:
8
Full Years of Service On or Before December 31st
1 to 4
5 to 11
12 to 17
18 to 24
25 or more
Paid Vacation Hours for that Calendar Year
80 hours
120 hours
160 hours
200 hours
240 hours
b Employees with 40 or 80 hours of vacation wil) be allowed to take 40 hours in prime time if available. Employees with 120 hours of vacation will be allowed to take 80 hours in prime time if available. Employees with 160, 200 or 240 hours of vacation wifi be allowed to take 120 hours in prime time if available. Prime time is defined to be from the first Monday in May to the first Monday in October. Exceptions to this rule will be made, as previously, in those departments where the additional vacation time could be assigned without interference in other vacation scheduling or the interruption of normal production requirements.
c.	Vacation pay will be computed at the employee's scheduled rate in effect at the time of the vacation.
d.	In the case of loss of time caused by sickness or injury, such lost time will not be counted against the years of service for the year in which the sickness or injury occurs provided the employee works at least one day in that year. There shall be no lost time counted against the years of service for the year in which the sickness or injury occurs of employees for reason of on-duty sickness or injury.
e.	Vacations will be scheduled by department supervisors in cooperation with the Union, respecting plant seniority whenever possible in preparing the schedule.
f.	Employees may carry over up to 80 hours of vacation into the new calendar year. Employees will not be permitted to continue working in lieu of the regular vacation. The carry over hours must be taken by April 30 of the new year.
g.	Any employee whose services are terminated and who has unused vacation at that time shall receive compensation in lieu of the vacation.
h.	A day of vacation wil) begin at the completion of the last shift before the scheduled vacation day(s), and end when the first shift begins on the day following the vacation day(s), dependent upon the length of vacation.
i.	Employees not required for scheduled work during department shutdowns of one (1) week or longer will be permitted to take vacation beginning with the first day of the shutdown or at some other time designated by the Company and extending for a week.
j.	Vacations will be permitted over the year-end provided the total number of weeks does not exceed eight {8). However, any continuous vacation in excess of three weeks requires Plant Leader approval
k.	Employees may schedule up to two (2) days vacation in four-hour increments. All other time oft will be scheduled in full days, either 8-hours or 12-hours, based on their assigned work schedule. Any left over vacation hours may be added to any left over Personal Holiday hours to total a full day. If the total of these hours is fess than a full day, the time
9
may be scheduled in four-hour increments following departmental guidelines, as indicated above.
ARTICLE #14
HOLIDAYS
a.	New Year’s Day, Memorial Day, July 3rd or July 5th, Fourth of July, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day, December 24th, and Christmas Day shall be holidays on which no unnecessary work shall be performed. For ail necessary work on these days, premium pay of double times the scheduled rates shall be paid. Also, eligible employees shall receive forty-eight (48) hours for Personal Holidays to schedule tn advance. Hours for Personal Holidays shall be from 5:30 A.M., 6:00 A.M., or 6:30 A.M. to 5:30 AM, 6:00 A.M., or 6:30 A.M, the following day. Personal Holidays must be scheduled tor full days, following department guidelines. Leftover Personal Holiday hours may be combined with left over vacation hours to schedule an additional full day off.
b.	The shutdown period for all holidays shall be 24 hours from the end of the fast shift the day previous to the holiday to the beginning of the first shift the day following the holiday period.
c.	All employees will be allowed full time off on all holidays included in (he Labor Agreement. Exceptions to this rule shall be by mutual agreement of the Company and the Union.
ARTICLE #15
PAY FOR UNWORKED HOLIDAYS
Wage payments will be recognized for unworked holidays as follows: New Year’s Day, Memorial Day, July 3rd or July 5th, Fourth of July, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day, December 24th, Christmas Day, and the Personal Holidays, during the calendar year under the following provisions:
a.	Wage payments will be made at the employee's scheduled rate. Employees will be paid eight (8) hours' at straight time for each of the unworked calendar holidays.
b.	Employees obliged to work on any of the established paid holidays will receive in addition to holiday pay, double time wages for all hours worked. For pay purposes, the halt hour that falls into a subsequent day will be considered part of the day similar to Sunday premium pay.
c.	An employee on disability or on a leave of absence when one of the calendar holidays occurs, does not accrue the paid time for the hotiday(s). The number of Personal Holidays for new employees will be based on their date of hire for their first calendar year. If hired before July 1 they will receive forty-eight (48) hours for personal holidays. If hired on or after July 1 they will receive twenty-tour (24) hours tor persona) holidays.
d.	Personal holidays cannot be carried over to the next calendar year. They must be used or forfeited.
10
ARTICLE #16
WAGES
a.	Wage Schedule
Attached to and made part of this Agreement is Appendix “A", the Wage Schedule.
b.	Skill Levels
An employee’s hourly rate will be based on the employee’s successful qualification by the Company in the skills necessary for that rate of pay. Qualification wifi be based on demonstrated skills.
c.	Pay Levels
The system of skills for each department and the determination of how the pay levels from the wage schedule apply to the department’s system of skills will be developed with the involvement of employees and Union committee members in the department. The Company will retain responsibility for final approval.
d.	Movement Within a Department
Employees moving between teams within a department shall retain their skill pay rate, provided that the employee makes satisfactory progress in acquiring necessary skills to meet the pay level requirements on the new team. If these conditions are not met, then the employees' pay rate shall be reduced to the pay level of their demonstrated skiffs.
e.	Transfers Between Departments
Employees transferring into a new department shall retain their skill pay rate, provided that the employee makes satisfactory progress in acquiring necessary skills to meet the pay level requirements in the new department. If these conditions are not met, then the employees’ pay rate shall be reduced to the pay level of their demonstrated skills.
f.	Temporary Transfers
Employees assigned according to Appendix C, Posting of Opportunities, shall retain their skill pay rate for hours worked during the assignment period.
g.	Rate Retention
When the Company exercises its function to establish or change production schedules; creates, discontinues, or combines duties; assigns, reassigns, or rearranges duties or contracts out work, and as a result thereof, there are:
h.	Reductions from Departments
Employees with five years or more of continuous service with the Company who are declared reduced according to Article 6, Section c.2., and are transferred to available work on which there is no opportunity at their current pay level, will continue to receive at least the rate they were receiving at the time they were declared reduced.
11
1.	Rate retention will be paid from the date the employee was declared reduced.
2.	For the first twelve (12) months, the retained rate will be the rate of the employee’s former pay level at the time the employee was declared reduced.
3.	During this period, employees will not receive any wage increases of any kind until the rate of the pay level to which they are reassigned equals or exceeds their retained rate, or until they are reassigned or promoted to a pay level with a rate equal to, or higher than, their retained rate.
4.	Rate retention is based upon the cooperation of the employee in accepting work assignments consistent with the Labor Agreement, which will allow the Company to eliminate the retained rate.
5.	This agreement is not construed as conferring any right to any employee for continuation of employment which is not consistent with the provisions of the Labor Agreement.
i.	Rate Adjustment
When the Company creates new pay levels or jobs, or substantially changes the responsibility and skill of a pay level or job, the situation will be reviewed to determine if a new rate is justified and the Company and the Union will negotiate before establishing the new rate. If after negotiating, the Company and the Union cannot agree on a rate, the rate proposed by the Company will be put into effect. When a rate change is made, the effective date becomes the date the Rate Adjustment Request is received. A Rate Adjustment Request cannot be submitted prior to the date of the substantial pay level or job change. The Company will consider other requests tor rate adjustments. The Company will answer requests in writing in approximately thirty (30) days.
ARTICLE #17
RULES
Attached to and made a part of this Agreement is Appendix "0", the Rules governing the employees as issued by the Company.
ARTICLE #18
INTERRUPTION OF WORK
No authorized strike or lockout shall occur during the life of this Labor Agreement.
ARTICLE #19
BEREAVEMENT LEAVE
a.	In the event of the absence from work of an employee because of the death of a member of the immediate family of the employee, the Company will grant a paid leave of absence up to three (3) days for eight (8) hour schedules and up to two (2) days for the twelve (12) hour schedule for scheduled working time lost. A day shall consist ol the employee’s regular daily hours at the employee’s regular straight time schedule rate. The days off must be taken within two weeks from the date of death. One of the days must be the day of the funeral or memorial event.
12
b.	In the event of the absence from work of an employee because of the death of a son-in-law or daughter-in-law of the employee, the Company will grant a paid leave of absence for up to one (1) day for scheduled working time lost.
c.	This leave shall not be paid for those days on which an employee is laid off, on sick leave or Worker’s Compensation, leave of absence, or where a paid holiday falls.
d.	The immediate family for purposes of this Labor Agreement shall include the employee’s husband or wife, parents, grandparent, grandchild, children, brothers or sisters, fathers-in-law or mothers-in-law, and brothers-in-law or sisters-in-law.
ARTICLE #20
JURY SERVICE
a.	An employee wifi be paid for time necessarily lost from work when called for jury examination or service. Pay will be at the employee’s scheduled rate for the time lost (for up to eight (8) hours per day for eight (8) hour schedules and up to twelve (12) hours per day for the twelve hour schedule). The employee will furnish the Company with a written statement (signed by the appropriate court official) showing the date and time served on the jury,
b.	The employee shall notify a member from his/her department within a reasonable length of time before the start of his/her scheduled shift when he/she is called for jury service. An employee will be considered to be assigned to the day shift for any day on which he/she serves on the jury. On any day on which the employee is excused from jury service the employee will report on first shift.
ARTICLE #21
EARLY RETIREMENT
Hourly paid employees may retire from the Company upon reaching age 55. The employees must give the Company adequate advance notice to retire. To be eligible for retirement benefits, the employee must meet the requirements established for the various plans.
ARTICLE #22
EMPLOYEE GROUP INSURANCE
a.	The Procter & Gamble Paper Products Company has made available to all eligible employees a Group Insurance Program which includes Life Insurance, Accidental Death and Dismemberment, and comprehensive medical benefits for the employee and his or her dependents.
b.	These insurance plans become effective on an employee's first day of work.
c.	The premium costs are paid by the Company in full for the following coverage:
1.	Group Life Insurance.
2.	Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance.
13
d.	The Company agrees to continue such payments for any participant until the date the employee is no longer on the active payroll, or the date this Agreement expires, whichever is the earlier. The spouse of an eligible employee who is employed full time with another employer and who is eligible for health care coverage with his/her employer will be eligible to participate in one of the Company’s Medical Plans during the life of this Agreement by meeting one of the two following criteria:
1.	If he/she is enrolled in his/her employer’s health care plan,
2,	If not enrolled in his/her employer’s health care plan, then by the
employee making the monthly contribution which will be designated annually by the Company.
e.	Dental premiums and the Company's portion of the Medical premiums will be paid for surviving eligible dependents of a deceased employee participant for twelve (12) months.
f.	Attached to this Agreement is Appendix “D”, a schedule showing the coverages as issued by the insurance companies.
g.	The Company agrees to pay the total monthly premium in effect as of the effective date of this Agreement and any increases during the life of the Agreement for each employee who is a participant in the Dental Allowance Insurance Plan and is subscribing through the Company on an individual or family membership basis. The Company agrees to continue such payments for any participant until the date the employee is no longer on the active payroll, or the date this Agreement expires, whichever is the earlier. These insurance plans become effective on an employee’s first day of work.
h.	The Company agrees to pay the total monthly premium in effect as of the effective date of this agreement and any increases during the life of the Agreement for each employee who is a participant in the Vision Care Allowance Plan and is subscribing through the Company on an individual or family membership basis. The Company agrees to continue such payments for any participant until the date the employee is no longer on the active payroll, or the date this Agreement expires, whichever is the earlier. These insurance plans become effective on an employee’s first day of work.
ARTICLE #23
MONTHLY LABOR MANAGEMENT MEETING
Upon request of either party, the Union’s standing committee and the Plant Leader, or designated representative, will meet bi-monthly. A written list of topics submitted by one party to the other at least forty-eight (48) hours in advance of the appointed day will be considered as a request to meet. Another day for a requested meeting will be agreed upon if the last Tuesday of the month is a holiday. Special meetings between the Company representative and the Union standing committee may be called by mutual agreement on forty-eight (48) hours' notice. Either party shall give the other at least fortyeight (48) hours' written notice of matters to be discussed which may require investigation or research before answering.
14
ARTICLE #24
PAY FOR TIME LOST FROM WORK
a.	Pursuant to Section 8 (a) (2) of the Labor-Management Relations Act, tne Company shall compensate Union Officers, Committeepersons, Stewards and individual aggrieved employees at the schedule rates at which they are then employed, for all time actually spent with representatives of the Company in collective bargaining and adjustments pursuant to this Labor Agreement, when the Officers, Committeepersons, Stewards and employees otherwise would be at work.
b.	it is further agreed that the names of Officers, Committeepersons, and Stewards shall be filed with the Company.
ARTICLE #25
ADJUSTMENT OF COMPLAINTS AND DISPUTES
If an employee shall feel aggrieved, the employee shall present the matter in accordance with the following procedure, and it shall be handled by the parties to this Labor Agreement in the following steps until a settlement is reached.
A grievance is defined as being a complaint by an employee or group of employees arising out of interpretation, application or alleged violation of the express written provisions of the Agreement or a claim that the Company has taken disciplinary action without just cause. It is the intent of the parties that any such grievance be submitted promptly, processed with reasonable promptness and handled at the lowest step possible. Therefore, grievances, which are not submitted and processed in accordance with the time limits set forth below, shall not be considered nor processed further unless agreed to by both parties, if the Company’s response is not made within the time limits specified, it may be referred to the next step.
Step 1:The Operation’s Leader and the Aggrieved Employee
All complaints and/or disputes shall first be taken up by the aggrieved employee within five (5) working days of the occurrence of the events giving rise to the grievance with the employee's Operation’s Leader or designate. A meeting to hear the grievance will be held within fifteen (15) working days after such notice, on a mutually acceptable date. The employee, if desired, may have a Steward or Committeeperson from the department present. The Operation’s Leader or designate will give a written answer to the grievance within ten (10) working days of the final discussion of the grievance.
Step 2: The Plant Leader and the Aggrieved Employee
If the grievance is not settled in Step 1, the Union may appeal it to the Plant Leader by giving written notice of such appeal within five (5) working days after the Union receives the final written answer in Step 1. At this meeting both parties may bring such persons as they deem appropriate. The Plant Leader or designated representative shall discuss the grievance with the International Representative or designated representative. The Plant Leader will give a written answer to the grievance within ten (10) working days of the final discussion of the grievance. If the grievance has not been settled after completion of Step 2, the Union may appeal it to arbitration by giving written notice of such appeal to the Plant Leader within thirty (30) working days of receipt of the final Step 2 answer. Saturdays, Sundays and holidays are excluded in computing the time limit specified in this article. Time limits may be extended by mutual consent of the parties.
15
ARTICLE #26
BOARD OF ARBITRATION
a.	When any grievance shall not have been satisfactorily settled after Step 2 described above, the matter may then be submitted to a Board of Arbitration after written agreement between the parties as to the grievance to be arbitrated.
b.	In such cases the Company shall select one arbitrator, the Union shall select one arbitrator, and the two thus chosen shall select a third arbitrator.
c.	The third arbitrator wilt be selected by the Company and Union arbitrators from the pane) of nine (9) permanent arbitrators jointly established by the Company and the Union. Choice of arbitrators will be by alphabetical order in rotation,
d.	It is understood that the function of the Board of Arbitration shall be to interpret and apply this Labor Agreement and that the Board of Arbitration shall have no power to extend the duration thereof, nor to add terms or provisions thereto, nor to arbitrate a dispute concerning a general wage adjustment, nor to go beyond the issue as agreed upon in writing by the parties. The decision of the Board of Arbitration shall be final and binding on all parties to this Labor Agreement, Only disputes, complaints and grievances involving the interpretation and application of the terms of this contract are the subject of arbitration.
e.	The Company and the Union shall pay the expense of its respective arbitrator and shall pay equally the expense of the third arbitrator.
f.	If the Union feels that an employee has been discharged unjustly, it shall present the written grievance within five (5) working days after discharge excluding Saturdays, Sundays and holidays, requesting reconsideration of the action. The matter then shall be considered a grievance and shall be handled as provided in Step 2 of the Grievance Procedure. An employee proven to be unjustly discharged shall be reinstated to his or her job, full seniority shall be restored to the employee, and he or she shall be paid in full for all time lost. However, in the event that in the course of the grievance procedure the parties hereto agree (or an arbitrator determines) that the penalty of discharge was unduly severe for the offense committed but that some degree of discipline was warranted, a lesser penalty (but not a loss of seniority) may be established and the provisions of the preceding sentence shall not be construed as a prohibition against such an agreement or arbitration award.
g.	If the Company lays off or discharges an employee for disciplinary action, proper notice shaft be given the employee and the Union, stating the reason for such action, at the time of the discharge or layoff.
h.	Any grievance not appealed to the next succeeding Step in writing and within the time limits specified will be considered as settled on the basis of the last answer and shall not be eligible for further appeal, except, the parties may, in any individual case, by mutual agreement, extend the time limits in any Step.
16
ARTICLE #27 LUNCH PERIOD
When the work makes it impossible for an employee to have a lunch period during the shift, all time worked will be paid, including time and one-half, according to Article #12.
ARTICLE #28
AGREEMENT SUBJECT TO LAWS
a.	AGREEMENT SUBJECTTO LAWS
t	In the event any Federal or State law, regulation or final order of
appropriate authority conflicts with this Agreement, the provision or provisions so affected as well as any departmental procedures or interpretations shall no longer be operative or binding on the parties. The remaining provisions of the Agreement shall continue in full force and effect.
b.	NON DISCRIMINATION
Neither the Employer nor the Union will discriminate against any employee because of race, color, sex, religion, age, national origin or handicap.
c.	EMPLOYMENT OF VETERANS
The Company and the Union desire to and will comply with all present and future taws and regulations established by Federal and State Governments with regard to employment of discharged veterans.
ARTICLE #29
AMENDMENT TO AGREEMENT
This Agreement may be amended at any time by written agreement of the Company and the Union.
ARTICLE #30
INTERPRETATION OF THE LABOR AGREEMENT
It is understood and agreed that from time to time the Company and the Union will meet to consider interpretations under this Labor Agreement. Such , interpretations will be reduced to writing, filed and kept by the Company. The
Union will be provided copies of these interpretations.
.	ARTICLE #31
r	PROFIT SHARING PLAN
It is recognized and agreed that the Company's Profit Sharing Plan is not part of this Agreement or any other agreement with the Union and is not in any respect subject to the grievance procedure (Article #25) or to arbitration proceedings (Article #26). Irrespective of this clause, it is the Company’s right, without negotiating with the Union, to alter, amend or terminate the Profit Sharing Plan. However, in the event the Profit Sharing Plan is terminated prior to the expiration date of this Agreement, the Company and the Union thereafter will negotiate exclusively about other retirement arrangements for employees who retire before the expiration of this Agreement. Such negotiations for other retirement arrangements are not subject to the grievance
I	17
procedure (Article #25) or arbitration proceedings (Article #26) of this Agreement, and all other provisions of this Agreement will remain in foil force.
ARTICLE #32
DISABILITY BENEFIT PLAN
It is recognized and agreed that the Company's Disability Benefit Plan is not part of this Agreement or any other agreement with the Union and is not in any respect subject to the grievance procedure (Article #25) or to arbitration proceedings (Article #26). Irrespective of this clause, it is the Company's right, without negotiating with the Union, to alter, amend or terminate the Disability Benefit Plan. However, in the event the Disability Benefit Plan is terminated prior to (he expiration date of this Agreement, the Company and the Union thereafter will negotiate exclusively about other disability benefit arrangements tor employees. Such negotiations tor other disability benefits are not subject to the grievance procedure (Article #25) or arbitration proceedings (Article #26) of this Agreement, and ail other provisions of this Agreement will remain in full force.
ARTICLE #33
INDIVIDUAL CHOICE PLAN
The Company agrees to make an Individual Choice Plan (ICP) available to eligible employees for calendar years 2002, 2003,2004,2005,2006 and 2007. To be eligible, an employee must have received a profit sharing credit in the previous calendar year.
The ICP will provide money to be used for personalized benefits with any remainder to be taken as equal cash payments per pay period. The benefit options offered will be those allowed by the Company and IRS guidelines. Selections for each option will be in the previous calendar year for implementation the following calendar year.
The annual credit tor each employee will be $600 along with $21 per year of service.
ARTICLE #34
BULLETIN BOARDS
The Union may have one (1) bulletin board per department at places in the Plant to be agreed upon by the Company for the purpose of making announcements of the times and places of holding elections, nominations, meetings of the Union, social activities and for the announcement of results of nominations and elections which may be held. The Union agrees that said boards shall not be used for any other purpose without the consent of the Company.
ARTICLE #35
CONDITIONAL REINSTATEMENT & ALCOHOL/DRUG ABUSE PROGRAM
a.	The Company will allow employees who admit to substance abuse problems, through the grievance or disciplinary procedure, to participate in a conditional rehabilitation program on a one-time basis. In exchange for the opportunity to undergo rehabilitation, the Company will require all such employees to sign a “Conditional Reinstatement Agreement” which specifies what each employee must do tn the judgment of the E-A.P. Provider, to remain drug/alcohol free. The parties would understand that
18
the employee’s refusal to so agree or failure by the employee to follow the terms and conditions of the "Conditional Reinstatement Agreement" will result in disciplinary action up to and including termination.
b.	The concern and cooperation of both parties to this agreement is directed at helping people with the abuse of alcohol or drugs that could affect the safety of that employee, the safety of her or his co-workers, and/or interferes with job performance. The Company will not require an employee to submit to a test to determine if said employee is under the influence in the absence of objective facts that would establish reasonable suspicion or cause. When such facts are established, the Company will require employees to submit to a urinalysis and breathalyzer test. At the employee's request, the Company will conduct a blood examination in addition to the above tests. An employee's refusal to undergo such an examination will be considered as a presumption that the employee was under the influence and will result in discipline up to and including termination.
c.	If the urinalysis test results indicate positive at the first step, additional testing will be performed to verify results.
d.	An employee who takes a recognized test required by the Company whose specimen is screened or breath tested to determine whether negative or positive for the drugs or classes of drugs/alcohol listed, and who meets the level specified below, shall be presumed to be under the influence. The laboratory will provide a written report to the employee and an official of the Company stating whether the tests were positive or negative. In the event the tests are negative, the employee will be reimbursed for any lost wages due to the suspension, less disciplinary time off, if any.
INITIAL TEST
Marijuana metabolites
Cocaine metabolites
Opiates
Phencyclidine
Ampheta mines/Methamphetamines
Benzodiazepines
Barbiturates
Propoxyphene
Alcohol
LEVEL
As prescribed by the Federal Register and/or the FDA
.05 percent
When the initial test of a specimen is identified as positive, a confirmatory test will be conducted using gas chromatography/mass spectrometry (GC/MS) methods. The levels listed below are considered confirmation of a positive test:
CONFIRMATORY
Marijuana metabolites
Cocaine metabolites
Opiates
Phencyclidine
Amphetamines/Methamphetamines
Benzodiazepines
Barbiturates
Propoxyphene
Alcohol
LEVEL
As prescribed by the Federal Register and/or the FDA
Repeat the breath alcohol test after 15 minutes
19
If the confirmatory test is positive, a management referral to the E.A.P. will occur so that the employee will have the opportunity to undergo rehabilitation. The employee must enter the “Conditional Reinstatement” program. This will be offered on a one-time basis. Should the employee refuse to enter the above programs, such refusal will result in disciplinary action up to and including termination.
The Company will not implement a random drug testing procedure (except for individuals who are under a Conditional Reinstatement Agreement).
f. The Company will use a N.I.D.A. certified laboratory for urinalysis and blood examinations.
20
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parlies hereto have hereunder set their hands and seats the day and year first above written or otherwise recorded.
THE PROCTER & GAMBLE PAPER PRODUCTS COMPANY
R. E. Enripie
Director, Product Supply Manufacturing
Attest:
■"9	'
R. H. Conn
Associate Director. Human Resources
PAPER, ALLIED-INDUSTRIAL, CHEMICAL, & ENERGY WORKERS
INTERNATIONAL UNION. AFL-CIO
T B, Scmling President, Local 7-0047
M. K.'G rones
International Representative
21
APPENDIX “A” WAGE SCHEDULE EFFECTIVE JUNE 27, 2001 PAPER, ALLIED-INDUSTRIAL, CHEMICAL, & ENERGY WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, AFL-CIO LOCAL 7-0047
	June 30 2001	July 1 2002	June 30 2003	June 28 2004	June 27 2005	June 26 2006
Level 7			$23.61	$24.32	$25.05	$25.80	$26.57	$27.37
'Level 6			$22.68	$23.36	$24.06	$24.78	$25.52	$26.29
Level 5			$21.79	$22.44	$23.11	$23.80	$24.51	$25.25
Level 4			$20.66	$21.49	$22.13	$22.79	$23.47	$24,17
Level 3			$19.95	$20.55	$21.17	$21.81	$22,46	$23.13
Level 2			$19.08	$19.65	$20.24	$20.85	$21.48	$22.12
Level 1			$18.14	$18.68	$19.24	$19.82	$20.41	$21.02
Intermediate 2...		$16.74	$17.24	$17.76	$18.29	$18.84	$19.41
Intermediate 1...		$15.55	$16.02	$16.50	$17.00	$17.51	$18.04
Entry			$14.68	$15.12	$15.57	$16.04	$16.52	$17.02
Student			$11.99	$12.35	$12.72	$13.10	$13.49	$13.89
* Must be qualified in Leadership IL
22
APPENDIX “B”
RULES FOR EMPLOYEES
[n any large group working together, it Is necessary to have rules and procedures to govern any individual’s actions for the best interests of the entire group. Such rules protect you as well as P&G. Note the following rules carefully since their violation can lead to disciplinary action up to and including termination.
1.	Procter & Gamble insists on safe operation. Everybody is expected to promote cleanliness and safety. Safety rules are available in each operating department. Accidents or injuries, no matter how small, must be reported to the appropriate safety leader or the Health Services Office. Deliberate violation of safety rules is considered sufficient cause for dismissal.
2.	Employees are expected to accurately report their time worked or any absence on computerized pay sheets. Over reporting of time worked or deliberate falsification of payroll data is sufficient cause for dismissal.
Note: In the event employees are out of the plant and unable to access the SAP Pay system, they would be expected to contact their Time Administrator to make the proper entries before the pay data is processed for payment. The Time Administrators and Time Leaders are the only employees authorized to make an entry for another employee.
3.	It is not acceptable behavior for one employee to give another employee his/her payroll password. This is important to protect legal documents (pay records) and employee's personal and financial information.
4.	Washing up and changing clothes to begin or leave work must be done before and after work hours. Work must not be discontinued before the proper time.
5.	Employees must remain in their work areas unless a business reason requires them to leave. Notify your team if you leave the work area.
6.	Employees are required to stay on the job until it is determined that there is sufficient staffing on the succeeding team to run the business effectively.
7.	Never come to work while under the influence of alcoholic beverages or from a misuse or abuse of drugs. While on plant premises do not possess or use drugs of any type including alcoholic beverages except for legitimate medical reasons. Individuals will not engage in the distribution and/or sale of controlled dangerous substances on or off P&G premises. Violation of this rule is sufficient cause for dismissal.
8.	Employees will not intentionally damage P&G property, use abusive or threatening language, be insubordinate, fight or indulge in horseplay, disturb or interfere with any other employee. Harassment by anyone because of race, color, sex, religion, age, national origin, or handicap will not be tolerated in any form. Incidents that could lead to work place violence will not be tolerated. Violation of this rule is sufficient cause for dismissal.
23
9.	Never conduct outside business on P&G property during working time or the working time of others. Never distribute literature or written material of any kind in any work area on P&G property. This rule applies, for example, to soliciting of membership, pledges, and subscriptions, to the distribution of literature, and to collecting money and circulating petitions. Consent of the Plant Leaders is required for exceptions to this rule.
10.	Materials placed on P&G bulletin boards should only be those that are needed for the operation of the business or the performance of work.
11.	Never take, participate in taking, or have in your possession any P&G products or property without first obtaining permission from an appropriate leader specified by the Plant Leader. Never take, participate in taking, or have in your personal possession the property of other employees without their permission. The gate security guard and sometimes other designated employees are instructed to inspect all belongings and containers. Employees are expected to cooperate with the persons conducting the inspection, This protects not only P&G property but also your personal belongings. Violation of this rule is sufficient cause for dismissal.
12,	The use of tobacco will not be permitted anywhere on P&G property effective July 1, 2002, Prior to this date, smoking will only be permitted in authorized areas.
13.	Sleeping while on duty is sufficient cause for dismissal.
14.	Employees wilt only be on P&G premises for assigned work hours or for site approved functions.
15.	Employees may read books, magazines, newspapers or other written material only in designated break areas. Personal radios, TV's, CD players and similar electronic entertainment devices are not permitted in the Plant.
16.	Always report to work unless you are sick, disabled, or excused in advance by your Leader. If you are unable to work, call and speak to a member from your department within a reasonable length of time before the start of your scheduled shift. Employees who are instructed to specifically speak to their Leader or other designated leaders must do so. Excessive tardiness and unexcused absenteeism will not be tolerated.
17.	Any employee transferred to another department will do so, unless it is shown that such transfer is detrimental to his or her health. P&G will continue to employ only such employees who are wilting to perform the work and responsibilities assigned to them.
18.	Employees who are required to use scaffolds, staging or runways must have such equipment rigidly inspected by a qualified individual before proceeding with the work. The use of boats, swinging scaffolds and all labor in connection with live wires involves extreme hazard; therefore, a qualified individual must in afi cases pass upon the work to make sure of absolute safety.
19.	The possession and/or use of firearms or other dangerous weapons of al) kinds are strictly prohibited on P&G property.
24
This listing is by no means all-inclusive — rather it covers the most common actions or situations. Other actions, which are contrary to good conduct, will be dealt with as they occur. P&G will advise the Union before new rules are put Into effect. As maintaining harmonious working relationships is important to all ol us, cooperation by all employees is expected.
APPENDIX “C"
OPPORTUNITY POSTING PROGRAM
Transfers Between Departments
If an additional employee is needed in the department, the opening shall be made available outside the department through the Transfer File. Any employee desiring a transfer to another department must complete a Transfer Request Form at the Personnel Department. An employee may have only one Transfer Request on fife at any one time. Employees in the Transfer File will be considered on the basis of seniority with qualifications, as described in Article 6, Sections 2. and 3. Only employees whose names are in the Transfer File one (1) day or more previous to the date on which an opening occurs are eligible for consideration. When there are no requests on file for department openings which may occur, the Company will fill the openings through its own choice.
Employees selected will have up to a forty-five (45) day period or the pre-established training period as determined by the Company, whichever is greater, in which to qualify. If the Company determines that they are qualified, they may not return to their former department. If necessary, the qualification period may be extended, after having been covered with the Union.
Employees selected and transferred who fail to qualify may return to their former department, but may not be selected on any other transfers for a period of six (6) months. Any other employees who have moved as a result of the transfer will return to their former departments.
Posting of Opportunities
Opportunities as described in Article 6, Sections 2.c. and 2.d., will be posted so that the employees of the team and/or department in which the opportunity occurs may express interest. Posters will include a description of the opportunity, and will remain posted for fourteen (14) calendar days from the date of posting. If no one expresses interest within this period, the Company will fill the opportunity through its own choice. The names of all interested employees will be forwarded to the appropriate manager through the appropriate Union representative within twenty-four (24) hours after closing date of posting. The opportunity will be awarded as described in Article 6. Names of employees selected will be posted on bulletin boards.
The Company will take team recommendations into consideration when making temporary assignments and transfers. Employees so transferred will be notified accordingly. Employees who are temporarily assigned for over thirty (30) days, outside their department, shall be listed on a monthly report furnished to the Union Committeepersons of Local 7-0047.
25
2001	___			
	January		 February 				March
M	T W T F S S	_M_ T|W I d.s	MJL-W.T_L s s
1	2 3 4 5 6 7	12 3 4	12 3 4
8	9 10 11 12 13 14	5 6 7 8 9 10 11	5 6 7 8 9 10 11
15	16 17 18 19 20 21	12 13 14 15 16 17 18	12 13 14 15 16 17 18
22	23 24 25 26 27 28	19 20 21 22 23 24 25	19 20 21 22 23 24 25
29	30 31	26 127|2b|	LL	26 27 28 29 30 31 _
April		May	June _____
M	T W T F S S	M T W Tf S S	M T W T F S S
	1	1 2 3 4 5 6	1 2 3
2	3 4 5 6 7 8	7 8 9 10 11 12 13	4 5 6 7 8 9 10
9	10 11 12 13 14 15	14 15 16 17 18 19 20	11 12 13 14 15 16 17
16	17 18 19 20 21 22	21 22 23 24 25 26 27	18 19 20 21 22 23 24
23	24 25 26 27i28 29	28 29 30 31	25 26 27 28 29 30
30			
			
	July	_	August		September
M	T w t__f s s	M T W T F S S	MT W T__F_.ff _S
	1	1 2 3 4 5	1 2
2	3 4 5 6 7 8	6 7 8 9 10 11 12	3 4 5 6 7 8 9
9	10 11 12 13 ,14 15	13 14 15 16 17 18 19	10 11 12 13 14 15 16
16	17 18 19 20 21 22	20 21 22 23 24 25 26	17 18 19 20 21 22 23
23	24 25 26 27 28 29	27 28 29 30 31	24 25 26 27 28 29 30
30	31		
October			November				December
	T_ W J F S. S1	M_ J w JI F S _S	M T W T F S S
1	2 3 4 5 6 7	12 3 4	12
8	9 10 11 12 13 14	5 6 7 8 9 10 11	3 4 5 6 7 8 9
15	16 17 18 19 20 21	12 13 14 15 16 17 18	10 11 12 13 14 15 16
22	23 24 25 26 27 28	19 20 21 22 23 24 25	17 18 19 20 21 22 23
29	30 31	26 27 28 29 30	24 25 26 27 28 29 30
			31
2001 Holidays	
New Year's Day	Monday, 1/1
Memorial Day	Monday, 5/28
July 4*	Tuesday, 7/4 & Wednesday, 7/5
Labor Day	Monday, 9/3
Thanksgiving Day	Thursday, 11/29
Christmas Eve	Monday, 12/24
Christmas Day	Tuesday, 12/25
27
			 2002				
January			_ February^	March		
M 1 T W	T F S S		M I. W T F	_ s _s, M _L w~ _T t s s
1 2	3 4 5 6		1	2 3	123
7 8 9	10 11 12 13		4 5 6 7 8	9 10 456789 10
14 15 16	17 18 19 20		11 12 13 14 15	16 17 11 12 13 14 15 16 17
21 22 23	24 25 26 27		18 19 20 21 22	23 24 18 19 20 21 22 23 24
23 29 30	31		25 26 27 123j		 25j26|27 28 29 j30 31
April			May			 June		
M t w	I_ F. s. s		M T W T F	s s, w. T w ,T F, s.
1 2 3	4 5 6 7		1 2 3	4 5	12
8 9 10	11 12 13 14		6 7 8 9 10	11 12 34 5 6 7 8 9
15 16 17	18 19 20 21		13 14 15 16 17	18 19 10 11 12 13 14 15 16
22 23 24	25 26 27 28		20 21 22 23 24	25 26 17 18 19 20 21 22 23
29 30			27 28 29 30 31		 24 25 26 27 28 29 30
r 	 _ u -, x	, _	, „	^xx	■ • xxxxi—	X	V	B	_	XX—,		■ ^^X —■	.	X^^X—		X ^^x		X _x	
	July _			August,		 _	_ September
M T_ W	T _F J. S		M J VV T F	JLl-S m jl w[t f jL s
7 2 3	4" 5' 6 7		1 2	3 4’	"	"	1
8 9 10	11 12 13 14		5 6 7 8 9	10 11	2345678
15 16 17	18 19 20 21		12 13 14 15 16	17 18 9 10 11 12 13 14 15
22 23 24	25 28 27 28		19 20 21 22 23	24 25 16 17 18 19 20 21 22
29 30 31			26 27 28 29 30	31	23 24 25 26 27 28 29
					30				[_	
October			_ __ November	December
M T_ W	T F S S		M T W T _F_	|w i— I tn P IE
7 2	3 4 5 6		1	2 3	“i
7 8 9	10 11 12 13		4 5 6 7 8	9 10 2345678
14 15 16	17 18 19 20		11 12 13 14 15	16 17 9 10 11 12 13 14 15
21 22 23	24 25 26 2?		18 19 20 21 22	23 24 16 17 18 19 20 21 22
28 29 30	31		25 26 27 28 29	30	23 24 25 26 27 28 29
				30 31
2002 Holidays	
New Year's Day	Tuesday, 1/1
Memorial Day	Monday. 5/27
July 4*'	Thursday, 7/4 & Friday, 7/5
Labor Day	Monday, 9/2
Thanksgiving Day	Thursday, 11/28
Christmas Eve	Tuesday, 12/24
Christmas Day		Wednesday, 12/25	
28
—	January	2003		
		February		March
M	T W T F S S	M T W J F S 8		M T W T F S 3
	1 2 3 4 5	1 2		"1 2
6	7 8 9 10 11 12	3 4 5 6 7 8 9		3 4 5 6 7 8 9
13	14 15 16 17 18 19	10 11 12 13 14 15 16		10 11 12 13 14 15 16
20	21 22 23 24 25 26	17 18 19 20 21 22 23		17 18 19 20 21 22 23
27	28 29 30 31	24 25 26 27 28		24 25 26 27 28 29 30
				11 I I | |	
		April				May						June_
M_	f'l wl T~j F S „S_	M T W T F S S		M 1T w|t1FIs S
	1 2 3 4 5 6	12 3 4		1
7	8 9 10 11 12 13	5 6 7 8 9 10 11		2 3 4 5 6 7 8
14	15 16 17 18 19 20	12 13 14 15 16 17 18		9 10 11 12 13 14 15
21	22 23 24 25 26 27	19 20 21 22 23 24 25		16 17 18 19 20 21 22
28	29 30	26 27 28 29 30 31		23 24 25 26 27 28 29
				30 __ _	_ _
		 July	August						September
V	T_ W _T_ F S_ _S	M | W T F S S		_M T W T F S S
	1 2 ~3 4 5 6	12 3		1 2 3 4 5 6 7
7	8 9 10 11 12 13	4 5 6 7 8 9 10		8 9 10 11 12 13 14
14	15 16 17 18 19 20	11 12 13 14 15 16 17		15 16 17 18 19 20 21
21	22 23 24 25 26 27	18 19 20 21 22 23 24		22 23 24 25 26 27 28
28	29 30 31	25 26 27 28 29 30 31		29 30
	October^	November				December
M	T W T F S S	M l WT F S S		M T W T _F S S
	1 2 3 4 5	1 2		1 2 3 4 5 6 7
6	7 8 9 10 11 12	3 4 5 6 7 8 9		8 9 10 11 12 13 14
13	14 15 16 17 18 19	10 11 12 13 14 15 16		15 16 17 18 19 20 21
20	21 22 23 24 25 26	17 18 19 20 21 22 23		22 23 24 25 26 27 28
27	28 29 30 31	24 25 26 27 28 29 30	-	29 30 31
2003 Holidays	
New Year’s Day	Wednesday, 1/1
Memorial Day	Monday, 5/26
July 4,h	Thursday, 7/3 & Friday, 7/4
Labor Day	Monday, 9/1
Thanksgiving Day	Thursday, 11/27
Christmas Eve	Wednesday, 12/24
Christmas Day	Thursday, 12/25
29
2004 																							
		January								February								March				
M	T	W	T	F	S	S		M	T	W	T	F	_S_	S		M.	T	W	T	F	S	S
			1	2	3	4								1		1	2	3	4	5	6	7
5	6	7	8	9	10	11		2	3	4	5	6	7	8		8	9	10	11	12	13	14
12	13	14	15	16	17	18		9	10	11	12	13	14	15		15	16	17	18	19	20	21
19	20	21	22	23	24	25		16	17	18	19	20	21	22		22	23	24	25	26	27	28
26	27	28	29	30	31			23	24	25	26	?z	28	29		29	30	31				
			April							I	May							June				
M	T	W	T	F	S	S		M	T	W	T	F	S	,s		X	X	W	T	_F_	X	X
			1	2	3	4							1	2			i	2	3	4	5	6
5	6	7	8	9	10	11		3	4	5	6	7	8	9		7	8	9	10	11	12	13
12	13	14	15	16	17	18		10	11	12	13	14	15	16		14	15	16	17	18	19	20
19	20	21	22	23	24	25		17	18	19	20	21	22	23		21	22	23	24	25	26	27
26	27	28	29	30				24	25	26	27	28	29	30		28	29	30				
								31_														
			July							August								September				
"m	T	~W	T	F	S	S		M	T	W	X	F	S	X		M	T	W	T	F^	S	s’
			1	2	3	4								1				”l	2	T	4	5
5	6	7	8	9	10	11		2	3	4	r,	6	7	8		6	7	8	9	10	11	12
12	13	14	15	16	17	18		9	10	11	12	13	14	15		13	14	15	16	17	18	19
19	20	21	22	23	24	25		16	17	18	19	20	21	22		20	21	22	23	24	25	26
26	27	28	29	30	31			23	24	25	26	27	28	29		27	28	29	30			
								30	31													
		October								November								December				
M	_L	W	T	F	S	S		M	_t"	W_	T	_F	X	X		M	T	W	T	F	S	~s"
				r	2	3'		1	2	3	4*	5~	6	7				’1	2	3	4	5
4	5	6	7	8	9	10		8	9	10	11	12	13	14		6	7	8	9	10	11	12
11	12	13	14	15	16	17		15	16	17	18	19	20	21		13	14	15	16	17	18	19
18	19	20	21	22	23	24		22	23	24	25	26	27	28		20	21	22	23	24	25	26
25	26	27	28	29	30	31		29	30							27	28	29	30	31		
2004 Holidays	
New Year’s Day	Thursday, 1/1
Memorial Day	Monday. 5/31
July 4lh	Sunday, 7/4 & Monday, 7/5
Labor Day	Monday, 9/6
Thanksgiving Day	Thursday, 11/25
Christmas Eve	Friday, 12/24
Christmas Day	Saturday, 12/25 	
30
									2005												
		January							February								March				
M	T	W	T	F	S	S	M	T	W	T	F	S	S		M	T	W	T	F	S	S
					1	2		1	2	3	4	5	6			: 1	2	3	4	5	6
3	4	5	6	7	8	9	7	8	9	10	11	12	13		7	8	9	10	11	12	13
10	11	12	13	14	15	16	14	15	16	17	18	19	20		14	15	16	17	18	19	20
17	18	19	20	21	22	23	21	22	23	24	25	26	27		21	22	23	24	25	26	27
24	25	26	27	28	29	30	28								28	29	30	31			
31																					
		April							May								June				
M	f	W	x	F	S	S	M	X:	W	' T	x	S	S		M	T~	W_	T	x	S	x
				1	2	3							....				1	2	3		'5
4	5	6	7	8	9	10	2	3	4	5	6	7	8		6	7	8	9	10	11	12
11	12	13	14	15	16	17	9	10	11	12	13	14	15		13	14	15	16	17	18	19
18	19	20	21	22	23	24	16	17	18	19	20	21	22		20	21	22	23	24	25	26
25	26	27	28	29	30		23	24	25	26	27	28	29		27	28	29	30			
							30	31													
			July						August								September				
m	T	w	T	T	S	S	M	T	W	x	F	S	s’		JX	T		T	F	x	x
				l"	2	3	T	2	3	4’	5	6	7					1	2	3'	’4
4	5	6	7	8	9	10	8	9	10	11	12	13	14		5	6	7	8	9	10	11
11	12	13	14	15	16	17	15	16	17	18	19	20	21		12	13	14	15	16	17	18
18	19	20	21	22	23	24	22	23	24	25	26	27	28		19	20	21	22	23	24	25
25	26	27	28	29	30	31	29	30	31						26	27	28	29	30		
		October							November								December				
	T	W	x	F	S	S	M~	t’	W	T	x.	S	S		M	T	yy	x	F	S	S
					1	2		1	2	3	4	5	6					"1	2	3	4
3	4	5	6	7	8	9	7	8	9	10	11	12	13		5	6	7	8	9	10	11
10	11	12	13	14	15	16	14	15	16	17	18	19	20		12	13	14	15	16	17	18
17	18	19	20	21	22	23	21	22	23	24	25	26	27		19	20	21	22	23	24	25
24	25	26	27	28	29	30	28	29	30						26	27	28	29	30	31	
31																					
2005 Hoiidays
New Year's Day	Saturday, 1/1
Memorial Day	Monday, 5/30
July 4"'	Monday, 7/4 & Tuesday, 7/5
Labor Day	Monday, 9/5
Thanksgiving Day	Thursday, 11/24
Christmas Eve	Saturday, 12/24
Christmas Day	Sunday, 12/25	
31
2006
January				February __ ___		March _	_ _
M T W T F S S		M T W T F S S		M T W j T' F S ~S
1		1 2 3 4 1 5		1 2 3 4 5
2 3 4 5 6 7 8		6 7 8 9 10 11 12		6 7 8 9 10 11 12
9 10 11 12 13 14 15		13 14 15 16 17 18 19		13 14 15 16 17 18 19
16 17 18 19 20 21 22		20 21 22 23 24 25 26		20 21 22 23 24 25 26
23 24 25 26 27 28 29		27 28		27 28 29 30 31
30 31				
April			 May		__ June		
M_ T W T F S S		M T W T F S. S_		m I t | w t IfTsJ s
1 2		1 2 3 4 5 6 7		12 3 4
3 4 5 6 7 8 9		8 9 10 11 12 13 14		5 6 7 8 9 10 11
10 11 12 13 14 15 16		15 16|17 18 19 20 21		12 13 14 15 16 17 18
17 18 19 20 21 22 23		22 23 24 25 26 27 28		19 20 21 22 23 24 25
24 25 26 27 28 29 30		29 30 31 |	]	|		26 27 28 29 30 _ J __
J "Z'-'My. -		_ _ -August		September _ _
m tTvv t f I s'		M Y wI'tTf S' Ji.		M I- W _I. F 5 [ S
12		1 2 3 4 5'6		12 3
3 4 5 6 7 8 9		7 8 9 10 11 12 13		4 5 6 7 8 9 10
10 11 12 13 14 15 16		14 15 16 17 18 19 20		11 12 13 14 15 16 17
17 18 19 20 21 22 23		21 22 23 24 25 26 27		18 19 20 21 22 23 24
24 25 26 27 28 29 30		28 29 30 31		25 26 27 28 29 30
31		j				
October		November			December	 __
M T W T F S S		MTW11SS		_M T W J__F_ S S
1		1 2 3 4 5		1 2 3
2 3 4 5 6 7 8		6 7 8 9 10 11 12		4 5 6 7 8 9 10
9 JO 11 12 13 14 15		13 14 15 16 17 18 19		11 12 13 14 15 16 17
16 17 18 19 20 21 22		20 21 22 23 24 25 26		18 19 20 21 22 23 24
23 24 25 26 27 28 29		27 28 29 30		25 26 27 28 29 30 31
30 31				
2006 Holidays	
New Year’s Day	Sunday, January 1
Memorial Day	Monday, May 29
July 4’"	Monday, 7/3 & Tuesday, 7/4
Labor Day	Monday, 9/4
Thanksgiving Day	Thursday, 11/23
Christmas Eve	Sunday, 12/24
Christmas Day	Monday, 12/25
32
							2007																
Js			nuary				February								March						
M	T	W	T	F	S	S	M	T	W	T	F	_S_	S			T	W	T	F	S	S
1 8 15 22 29	2 9 16 23 30	3 10 17 24 31	4 11 18 25	5 12 19 26	6 13 20 27	7 14 21 28	5 12 19 26	6 13 20 27	7 14 21 28	1 8 15 22	2 9 16 23	3 10 17 24	4 If 18 25		5 12 19 26	6 13 20 27	7 14 21 28	1 8 15 22 29	2 9 16 23 30	3 : 10 17 24 31	4 11 18 25
			April							May								June			
	T	jy	T	F	S,	S_	M	_r„	W	T	_L.	_S	S		M	T	W	T	F	S ,	
2 9 16 23 30	3 10 17 24	4 11 18 25	5 12 19 26	6 13 20 27	7 14 21 28	1 8 15 22 29	7 14 21 28	1 8 15 22 [_29_	2 9 16 23 30	3 10 17 24 31	4 11 18 25	5 12 19 26	j S S		4 11 18	5 12 19 26	6 13 20 27	7 14 21 28 '	1 8 15 22 29	2 ' 9 16 23 30	3 10 17 24
			July						August								So	Member			
M_ 2 9 16 23 30	T 3 10 17 24 31	W 4 11 18 25	T 5 12 19 26	F G 13 20 27	S 7 14 21 28	S 1 8 15 22 29	M 6 13 20 27	T 7 14 21 28	W 1 8 15 22 29	T 2 9 16 23 30	F 31 10 17 24 31	S 4 11 18 25	s 5 12 19 26		M 3 10 17 24	T 4 11 18 25	W 5 12 19 26	T 6 13 20 27	F 7 14 21 2B	S 1 8 15 22 29	S 2 9 16 23 30
		October							November								December				
M	T	W	T	F	S	S	M_	T	W	T		S	S_		M	T	W_	T	F	S	S
1 8 15 22 29	2 9 16 23 30	3 10 17 24 31	4 11 18 25	5 12 19 26	6 13 20 27	7 14 21 28	5 12 19 26	6 13 20 27	7 14 21 28	1 8 15 22 29	2 9 16 23 30	3 10 17 24	4 11 18 25		3 10 17 24 31	4 11 18 25	5 12 19 26	6 13 20 27	7 14 21 28	1 8 15 22 29	2 9 16 23 30
2007 Holidays	
New Year’s Day	Monday, 1/1
Memorial Day	Monday, 5/28
July 4lh	Tuesday, 7/3& Wednesday, 7/4
Labor Day	Monday, 9/3
Thanksgiving Day	Thursday, 11/22
Christmas Eve	Monday, 12/24
Christmas Day		Tuesday, 12/25
33