Inside Wireman’s Agreement
June 3, 2002 - May 31,2005
June 3, 2002 - May 31,2005
INSIDE WIREMANS
AGREEMENT
Between
Orange County Chapter
National Electrical Contractors Association, Inc.
and
LOCAL UNION NO. 441
International Brotherhood Electrical Workers
IJOO

Inside Wireman’s Agreement
June 3, 2002 - May 31,2005
CONTENTS	PAGE
Agreement	I
Aircraft	17
Appeals Committee	12
Apprentices	(Article XII)	24
Apprent iceship Contri but ion 21
Apprentice Wage Scale	15
Basic Principles	1
Better Terms	5
Business Manager To Visit Jobs	6
Care of Tools and Property 7
Changes Of Agreement	3
Classification and Wage Scale	15
Contractor To Provide	9
Contracting For Work	4
Continuing Education 28
Defined Benefite Plan (Pension)	19
Defined Contribution Plan (Annuity)	20
Definitions	11
Delinquent Employers	23
DiscipI in ing Members 7
Dues Deduct	22
Eight Hour Job	16
Elect. Industry Adm. Maint. Fund	22
Effective Date Of Agreement	(Article I)	3
Employee Benefit Agreement NEBF(Article X)19
Employer Qualifications	5
Employer Rights	(Article II)	4
Gas Masks	17
Gricvances-Disputes	♦	4
Health And Welfare 21
High Time	16
Hot And Cold Clause	17
Hours of Work	(Article VI)	13
Work Day/Work Week, Holidays	13
Inclement Weather 16
Journeyman Wireman	12
Journeyman Technician	12
Labor-Mgmt Co-Op Committee	21
Layoffs	(Article IX)	18
Loaning Of Men 7
OffShore Work	17
Outside Firms	6
Overtime Remodel,	13
Meals, Shift Work, Tenant Improvement	14
Payroll	18
Inside Wireman's Agreement
June 3, 2002 - May 31,2005
AGREEMENT
Agreement by and between the Orange County Chapter, National Electrical Contractors Association and Local Union 441, Internationa) Brotherhood of Electrical Workers. It shall apply to all firms who sign a letter of Assent to be bound by this Agreement. As used hereinafter in this Agreement, the term "Association" shall mean the Orange County Chapter, National Electrical Contractors Association and the term "Union" shall mean Local Union 441, LB.E.W. The term "Employer" shall mean an individual firm who has been recognized by an assent to this Agreement.
BASIC PRINCIPLES
The Employer and the Union have a common and sympathetic interest in the Electrical Industry. Therefore, a working system and harmonious relations are necessary to improve the relationship between the Employer, the Union and the public. Progress in industry demands a mutuality of confidence between the Employer and the Union. All will benefit by continuous peace and by adjusting any differences by rational common-sense methods. Now, therefore, in consideration of the mutual promises and agreements herein contained, the parties hereto agree as follows:
SCOPE OF WORK
ELECTRONIC WORK
The Electrical-Electronic Contractor shall install all electrical-electronic work including the connecting of all fixtures, appliances, motors, equipment, electronic devices, electronic systems, communications systems, Photo-Voltaic systems, with all relating control wiring and devices, to and including a running test, and any related instrumentation work or radiation monitoring, under the prevailing construction scale. This shall also include such work as the putting in of new light bulbs, adjusting, focusing or refocusing or keeping in operation any pennanent flood lighting systems on steel towers or lighting structures, burning, brazing, bending, welding, drilling and shaping of all copper, channel iron, angle iron, I-beams, and brackets to be used in connection with the installation and erection of electrical wiring or equipment.
MAINTENANCE AND TEMPORARY WIRING
Workmen employed under the terms of this Agreement shall do all electrical construction, installation or erection work and all electrical maintenance thereon, including the final running tests. This shall include the installation and maintenance of temporary wiring and the installation and maintenance of all electrical lighting, heat and power equipment.
CABLE SPLICING
All work of joining, splicing and insulating and the placing of the flameproof covering, where wiped lead joints are necessary shall be performed by Cable Splicers. Journeymen only shall be used in assisting Cable Splicers. Cable Splicers shall not be required to work on wires or cables when the difference in potentials is over three hundred (300) volts between any two (2) conductors or between any conductor and ground unless assisted by another Journeyman. In no case shall Cable Splicers be required to work on energized cables carrying in excess of four hundred (400) volts.
1
Inside Wireman's Agreement
June 3, 2002 - May 31.2005
CONTENTS (continued)	PAGE
Radiation	17
Rebate Of Wages	19
Referral Procedure	(Article	V)	10
Removal of Men	7
Renting Or Leasing Of Equipment 9
Safety	(Article	XIII)	27
Scope of Work	1
Cable Splicing, Electronic Work, Maintenance and Temporary Wiring	1
Material Handling,	Power Equipment, Pre-Fab, Residential, Sound, Welding 2
Traffic 3
Separability Clause	28
Show-Up Pay	(Article	VIII)	16
Stewards	6
Subletting Work	7
Supervision (Article	XI);23
Foreman: to Direct,	Qualifications, Limitations, Transfer,	Crew,	23
Call by Name, Cable Splicer	24
General Foreman: to Direct, Crew	24
Driving Trucks	24
Temporary Employees 11
Temporary Layoff	18
Termination Slips	18
Term Of Agreement	3
Tenant Improvement	14
TimelinessOfGricvances 2 8
Tools	(Article IV)	9
Cable Splicer, Contractor, Journeyman, list	9
Travel Pay	17
Truck Signs	5
Under Water 17
Union Policy, 1BEW	7
Union Rights	(Article III)	6
Union Security	8
Vacation Fund	21
VoluntaryRecognition 8
Wages And Classifications	(Article VII)	15
Working Contractor	5
Workmanship	•	10
Work Preservation	8
Work Release, Sign, Clock	18
f;\jim\agr\inside\IO approvel 02-05 1999 Agr No. 004080
Inside Wireman’s Agreement
June 3, 2002 - May 31, 2005
When using stress cones and shields with all synthetic cables regardless of voltage when shielded, the splicing and connecting thereto will be done at the Cable Splicers’ rate set forth in this Agreement. The Employer will determine the necessity for a Cable Splicer helper when needed. This is in addition to the foregoing paragraph and should not alter it in any way.
When two (2) or more Cable Splicers are working under the conditions of the above paragraph, one shall be designated as Foreman. The Cable Splicer Foreman may work until a total of four (4) Splicers including ihe Foreman are employed.
PRE-FAB
When pipe cutting and threading machines are used under the terms of this Agreement on the job or in the shop, the cutting and threading of all conduit and the pre-fab of all materials to be installed other than catalogued-manufactured component parts shall be performed by workmen employed under the terms of this Agreement.
HANDLING MATERIAL
The handling and moving of all electrical material, equipment and apparatus shall be performed by workmen employed under the terms of this /Agreement
POWER EQUIPMENT
Workmen covered under the terms of this Agreement shall operate any and all power equipment necessary to install the electrical work only.
Installation, erection, maintenance and repair work, including the moving, lifting, and placing of electrical motors, generators, material, equipment on the job site or in the shop shall be done by workmen covered under the terms of this Agreement. This shall be understood that any and all power equipment necessary' to move, handle and install said electrical equipment shall be operated by workmen who are covered under the terms of this Agreement.
WELDING
Welding on electrical work shall be done by workmen who are covered under the terms of this Agreement and they shall receive Journeyman wages. Said welders to be certified if available.
SOUND WORK
Sound work, public address work, background work, animation work, radio and TV installation regardless of ■ > voltage or wattage, to come under the scope of this Agreement at the Journeyman Wireman rate of pay while on building and construction trade jobs. This shall also include the installation, maintenance and repair of electronic, x-ray, atomic and high frequency equipment.
RESIDENTIAL
It is mutually agreed that the provisions of this Agreement shall apply to all projects involving the construction, alteration, or repair of single family houses or apartment buildings of no more than,four (4) stories in height. This includes all incidental items such as site work, parking areas, utilities, streets and sidewalks. This scope of work applies even if there is an elevator in the structure.
2
Inside Wireman’s Agreement
June 3. 2002 - May 31, 2005
Intelligent Transportation Systems, Traffic Signals, Street Lighting and Underground Systems
-<	In Streets and/or Established Easements
The scope of work is intended to cover electrical work on public streets, freeways, toll-ways, etc., above or below ground. All work necessary for the installation, renovation, repair or removal of: Intelligent Transportation Systems, Video Surveillance Systems (CCTV), Street Lighting and Traffic Signal work or systems; weather underground or on bridges. This work also includes dusk to dawn lighting installations and ramps for access to or egress from freeways, toll-ways, etc.
Intelligent Transportation Systems shall include all systems and components to control, monitor and communicate with pedestrian or vehicular traffic; included, but not limited to: installation, modification, removal of all Fiber Optic Video Systems, Fiber Optic Data Systems, Direct Interconnect and Communications Systems, Micro wave Data and Video Systems, Infrared and Sonic Detection Systems, Solar Power Systems, Highway Advisory Radio Systems, Highway Weight and Motion Systems, etc.
/\ny and all work required to install and maintain any specialized or newly developed systems.
All cutting, fitting and “bandaging” of ducts, raceways and conduits. The cleaning, rodding and installation of “fish and pull wires”.
The excavating, setting, leveling and grouting of precast manholes, vaults and pull boxes; including ground rods or grounding systems, rock necessary for leveling and drainage, as well as pouring of a concrete envelop, iI needed.
ARTICLE I
EFFECTIVE DATE / CHANGES / GRIEVANCES / DISPUTES
Effective Date
SECTION 1.1 This Agreement shall take effect June 3, 2002, and shall remain in effect until May 31, 2005, unless otherwise specifically provided for herein. It shall continue in effect from year to year thereafter, from June 1 through May 31, of each year unless changed or terminated in the way later provided herein.
Changes
SECTION 1.2
(a)	Either party or an Employer withdrawing representation from the Chapter or not represented by the Chapter, desiring to change or terminate this Agreement must provide written notification at least ninety (90) days prior to the expiration date of the Agreement or any anniversary date occurring thereafter.
(b)	Whenever notice is given for changes, the nature of the changes desired must be specified in the . notice, or no later than the first negotiating meeting unless mutually agreed otherwise.
(c)	The existing provisions of the Agreement shall remain in full force and effect until a conclusion is , reached in the matter of proposed changes.
(d)	. Unresolved issues or disputes arising out of failure to negotiate a renewal or modification of this
agreement that remain on the 20th of the month preceding the next regular meeting of Council on Industrial Relations may be submitted jointly or unilaterally to the Council for adjudication. Such unresolved issues or disputes shall be submitted no later than the next regular meeting of the Council following the expiration date of this agreement or any subsequent anniversary date. The Council's decision shall be final and binding.
(e)	When a case has been submitted to the Council, it shall be the responsibility of the negotiating . committee to continue to meet weekly in an effort to reach a settlement on the local level prior to the meeting of the Council.
(f)	Notice of a desire to terminate this agreement shall be handled in the same manner as a proposed change.
3
Inside Wireman’s Agreement
June 3, 2002 - May 31, 2005
SECTION 1.3 This Agreement shall be subject to change or supplement at any time by mutual consent of the parties hereto. Any such change or supplement agreed upon shall be reduced to writing, signed by the parties hereto, and submitted to the International Office of the l.B.E.W. for approval, the same as this Agreement.
Grievances / Disputes
SECTION 1.4 There shall be no stoppage of work either by strike or lockout because of any proposed changes in this Agreement or dispute over matters relating to this Agreement. All such matters must be handled as stated herein.
SECTION 1.5 There shall be a Labor-Management Committee of three representing the Union and three representing the Employer. It shall meet regularly at such stated times as it may decide. However, it shall also meet within forty-eight (48) hours when notice is given by either party. It shall select its own Chairman and Secretary. The Local Union shall select the Union representatives and the Chapter shall select the management representatives.
SECTION 1.6 All grievances or questions in dispute shall be adjusted by the duly authorized representatives of each of the parties to this Agreement. In the event that these two are unable to adjust any matter within forty-eight (48) hours, they shall refer the same to the Labor-Management Committee.
SECTION 1.7 All matters coming before the Labor-Management Committee shall be decided by majority vote. Lour members of the Committee, two from each of the parties hereto, shall be a quorum for the transaction of business, but each party shall have the right to cast the full vote of its membership and it shall be counted as though all were present and voting.
SECTION 1.8 Should the Labor-Management Committee fail to agree or to adjust any matter, such shall then be referred to the Council on Industrial Relations for the Electrical Contracting Industry for adjudication. The Council's decisions shall be final and binding.
SECTION 1.9 When any matter in dispute has been referred to conciliation or arbitration for adjustment, the provisions and conditions prevailing prior to the time such matter arose shall not be changed or abrogated until agreement has been reached or a ruling has been made.
ARTICLE II
EMPLOYER RIGHTS / QUALIFICATIONS
SECTION 2.1 The Union understands the Employer is responsible to perform the work required by the owner. The Employer shall, therefore, have no restrictions except those specifically provided for in the Collective Bargaining Agreement, in planning, directing and controlling the operation of all his work, in deciding the number and kind of employees to properly perform the work, in hiring and laying off employees, in transferring employees from job to job within the Local Union's geographical jurisdiction, in determining the need and number as well as the person who will act as Foreman, in requiring all employees to observe the Employer's and/or owner's rules and regulations not inconsistent with this Agreement, in requiring all employees to observe all safety regulations, and in discharging employees for proper cause.
CONTRACTING FOR WORK
SECTION 2.2 The Union agrees that its members, except those meeting the requirements of an Employer, as defined herein, shall not contract or apply his trade on any electrical work except as an employee of an Employer.
4
Inside Wireman’s Agreement
June 3, 2002 - May 31,2005
Holders of currently active C-10 Licenses in the State of California shall not be allowed to work under the terms of this Agreement until submitting written evidence that such license has been or is in the process of being inactivated in accordance with the inactivation rules set forth by the California Contractors State License Board.
This shall not preclude any person from activating his license on a temporary basis to maintain his license and so notify the parties to this Agreement.
BETTER TERAIS
SECTION 2.3 The Union agrees that if during the life of this Agreement, it grants to any other Employer in the Electrical Contracting Industry on work covered by this agreement any better terms or conditions than those set forth in this Agreement, such better terms or conditions shall be made available to the Employer under this Agreement and the Union shall immediately notify the Chapter of any such concessions.
EMPLOYER QUALIFICATIONS
SECTION 2.4 Certain qualifications, knowledge, experience and responsibilities are required in order to qualify as an Employer under this Agreement. An "Employer" is a person, firm, company, partnership, or corporation whose principal business is Electrical Contracting. Any person, or persons, supplying contracting license or licenses, or any partner, or an officer of a corporation, shall be defined as a member of that firm. Circumventing the intent of "Employer" shall not be permitted by the pretense of ownership by an immediate member of the family or by other means.
An Employer is an Electrical Contractor, maintaining a recognized "ESTABLISHED PLACE OF BUSINESS", including telephone service, and possessing equipment and shop tools. He must have sufficient financial status to meet payrolls and other financial requirements of this Agreement. For all employees covered by this Agreement, the Employer shall carry Workmen's Compensation Insurance with a company authorized to do business in this State; Social Security and such other protective Insurance as may be required by the laws of the State and Federal Government; and shall also furnish satisfactory proof of such to the Union; and shall also make proper contributions to the California Unemployment Compensation Commission.
SECTION 2.5	Requirements for a joint-venture are the same as for a new Employer.
SECTION 2.6	Any person or company desiring to be an Employer under this Agreement, shall furnish satisfactory proof of his qualifications to the Union.
TRUCK SIGNS
SECTION 2.7 All vehicles owned or operated by the Employer to transport material, tools, equipment and man or men shall display a sign not less than 225 square inches 15" x 15" square or 17" in diameter on each side of said vehicle. Such signs shall bear, the firm name. This clause shall not include those vehicles normally used in an executive capacity.
WORKING CONTRACTOR
SECTION 2.8 He must employ one Journeyman regularly, including overtime work. Not more than one (1) member of a firm (Employer) shall be permitted to work with the tools at any time,, and such working member shall be designated, and such designation shall be furnished to the Local Union, in writing.
When eight (8) or more Journeymen are employed under the terms of this Agreement, no member of that firm, partnership or corporation shall be permitted to perform any work with the tools, but shall work in a supervisory capacity only, except on an emergency basis.
In no case shall a Contractor, regardless of the number of his employees, work on an overtime basis unless accompanied by a Journeyman.
5
Inside Wireman’s Agreement
June 3, 2002 - May 31. 2005
OUTSIDE FIRMS
SECTION 2.9 An employer signatory' to a collective bargaining agreement or to a letter of assent to an agreement with another IBEW Local Union, who signs an assent to this Agreement, may bring up to four bargaining unit employees employed in that Local Union’s jurisdiction into this Local’s jurisdiction and up to two bargaining unit employees per job from that Local’s jurisdiction to this Local’s jurisdiction for specialty or service and maintenance work.. All charges of violations of this section shall be considered as a dispute and shall be processed in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement for the handling of grievances with the exception that any decision of a local labor-management committee that may be contrary to the’ intent of the parties to the National Agreement on Employee Portability, upon recommendation of either or both the appropriate IBEW International Vice President orNECA Regional Executive Director, is subject to review, modification, or rescission by the Council on Industrial Relations.
ARTICLE HI
UNION RIGHTS I WORK PRESERVATION
BUSINESS MANAGER TO VISIT JOBS
SECTION 3.1 The representative of the Union shall be allowed access to any shop or job at any reasonable time where workmen are employed under the terms of this Agreement. Where abnormal conditions occur, the Contractor and Business Manager shall notify each other of said condition.
STEWARDS
SECTION 3.2 The Union shall have the right to appoint a Steward at any shop or on any job where workmen are employed under the terms of this Agreement. Such Steward shall see that this Agreement and working rules are observed, and so far as practicable, shall perform his duties outside of regular working hours. The Union will notify (he Employer in writing giving the name of the man appointed Steward to the job or shop.
Stewards shall be appointed by, may be removed by, and are subject to the authority of the Business Manager.
A STEWARD SHALL NOTIFY HIS EMPLOYER OR HIS EMPLOYER’S REPRESENTATIVE IMMEDIATELY OF ANY DISPUTES, GRIEVANCES OR DIFFICULTIES-ARISING ON A JOB. UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES SHALL THE STEWARD CAUSE A SLOW DOWN OR WORK STOPPAGE. IF UNABLE TO ADJUST, HE SHALL NOTIFY THE BUSINESS MANAGER.
When the Employer believes the removal of a Union Steward is necessary, he shall notify the Manager of the Employer's official bargaining representative as described in this Agreement, who, in turn, shall notify the Business Manager's office of the Local Union in an attempt to adjust any differences. If unable to do so, he shall notify the Business Manager of the Local Union; verification of which to be set fourth in writing, who shall then within forty-eight (48) hours of such time as grievances or disputes are voiced, refer the matter to the Labor-Management Committee for final solution. Under no circumstances shall any employee be discriminated against by an Employer, because of making complaint or giving evidence with respect to any alleged violation of any provision of this Agreement.
The Steward's interest and activity*shall be confined to the electrical industry and he shall with equal impartiality see that the working conditions of this Agreement are adhered to by both the Employer and Employee. The steward may be removed immediately for just cause for the following reasons:
1.	Drinking on the job
2.	Theft
3.	Sabotage.
6
Inside Wireman's Agreement
June 3, 2002 - May 31, 2005
DI sen* L IN ING M EM B E RS
SECTION 3.3 The Union reserves the right to discipline its members for violations of its laws, rules and agreements.
REMOVAL OF MEN
SECTION 3.4 This Agreement does not deny the right of the Union or its representatives to render assistance to other labor organizations by removal of its members from jobs when necessary and when the Union or its proper representatives decide to do so: but no removal shall take place until notice is first given to the Employer involved.
CARE OF TOOLS AND PROPERTY
SECTION 3.5 When such removal takes place, the Union or its representatives shall direct the workmen on such job to carefully put away all tools, material, equipment or any other property of the Employer in a safe manner. The Union will be financially responsible for any loss to the Employer for neglect in carrying out this provision, only when a safe place is provided for these by the Employer.
LOANING OF MEN
SECTION 3.6 The Employer shall not loan or cause to be loaned the workmen in his employ to any other Employer without mutual consent of the Employer and the Union and then only when applicants possessing the required skill are not available under the Referral Procedure
I.B.E.W. UNION POLICY
SECTION 3.7 (a) The policy of the Local Union and its members is to promote the use of material and equipment manufactured, processed, or repaired, under economically sound wage, hour, and working conditions by their fellow members of the I.B.E.W.
(b) Employment by the Local Union, the JATC, or a related entity bound by a subscription agreement to the trust funds established by this agreement shall be considered employment under the terms of this agreement for purposes of referral.
SUBLETTING WORK SUBJECT TO CANCELLATION
SECTION 3.8
Subsection L The Local Union is a part of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, and any violation or annulment by an individual Employer of the approved Agreement of this or any other Local. Union of the I.B.E.W., other than violations of Subsection 2 of this Section, will be sufficient cause for the cancellation of his Agreement by the Local Union, after a finding has been made by the International President of the Union that such a violation or annulment has occurred.
Subsection 2. The subletting, assigning or transfer by an individual Employer of any work in connection with electrical work to any person, firm, or corporation not recognizing the I.B.E.W., or one of its Local Unions as the collective bargaining representative of his employees on any electrical work in the jurisdiction of this or any other Local Union to be performed at the site of the construction, alteration, painting or repair of a building structure, or other work, will be deemed a material breach of this Agreement.
Subsection 3. All charges of violations of Subsection 2 of this Section shall be considered as a dispute and shall be processed in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement covering the procedure for the handling of grievances and the final and binding resolution of disputes.
7
Inside Wireman’s Agreement
June 3, 2002 - May 31, 2005
UNION SECURITY
SECTION 3.9	All employees covered by the terms of this Agreement shall be required to become and remain members of the Union as a condition of employment from and after the eighth (8th) day following the date of their employment, or the effective date of this Agreement, whichever is later.
SECTION 3.10 In the event that the Labor-Mana gem ent Relations Act of 1947 is amended or it is interpreted by the National Labor Relations Board or the courts legally to permit the inclusion of Article II, Section 3, of the Agreement of 1945, said Article shall be reincorporated in any collective bargaining agreement between the parties and the above provision shall forthwith become inoperative.
WORK PRESERVATION
SECTION 3.11
Subsection A. In order to protect and preserve, for the employees covered by this Agreement, all work heretofore performed by them, and in order to prevent any device or subterfuge to avoid the protection and preservation of such work, it is hereby agreed as follows: If and when the Employer shall perform any on-site construction work of the type covered by this Agreement, under its own name or under the name of another, as a corporation, company, partnership, or any other business entity, including a joint venture, wherein the Employer, through its officers, directors, partners, or stockholders, exercises either directly or indirectly, management control or majority ownership, the terms and conditions of this Agreement shall be applicable to all such work. All changes or violations of this section shall be processed in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement covering the procedure for the handling of grievances and the final and binding resolution of disputes.
Subsection B As a remedy for violations of this Section, the Labor-Management Committee, the Council on Industrial Relations for the Electrical Contracting Industry and/or an independent arbitrator, as the case may be, are empowered, in there discretion and at the request of the Union, to require an Employer to (1) pay to affected employees covered by this Agreement, including registered applicants for employment, the equivalent of wages lost by such employees as a result of the violations; and (2) pay into the affected joint trust funds established under this Agreement any delinquent contributions to such funds which have resulted from the violations. Provision for this remedy herein does not make such remedy the exclusive remedy available to the Union for violation of this Section, nor does it make the same or other remedies unavailable to the Union for violations of other Sections or other Articles of this Agreement.
Subsection C. If as a result of violations of this Section it is necessary for the Union and/or Trustees of the Joint Trust Funds to institute court action to enforce the award rendered in accordance with Subsection ,B above, or to defend an action which seeks to vacate such award, the Employer shall pay any accountant’s and attorney's fees incurred by the Union and/or the fund trustees, plus the cost of litigation which have resulted from the bringing of such court action. If an Employer is successful in a court of competent jurisdiction in vacating the arbitration award the accountant's fees, legal fees and court costs will be awarded by said court.
VOLUNTARY RECOGNITION LANGUAGE
SECTION 3.12 The employer agrees that, if it has not previously done so, it will recognize the Union as the exclusive collective bargaining agent for all employees performing electrical work within the jurisdiction of the Union on all present and future jobsites, if and when a majority of the employers/employees authorizes the Union to represent them in collective bargaining.
8
Inside Wireman’s Agreement
June 3, 2002 - May 31. 2005
ARTICLE IV
TOOLS, EQUIPMENT AND WORKMANSHIP
JOURNEYMAN TOOLS
SECTION 4.1 Journeymen shall provide themselves with an adequate set of personal hand tools necessary to perform the average classification of work, not requiring the use of what are generally classified as "shop tools."
The minimum tool list shall be as follows:
Toolbox with lock	Screwdrivers	Hacksaw frame	Tri-square
Side cutting pliers	Size 0 Phillips	Drywall saw	Knife
Diagonal pliers	Size 1 Phillips ■	Straight claw Hammer	Wire stripers
Long-nose pliers	Stubby Phillips	Flashlight	Tin snips
Stele rule, 3/4x12’ min.	5” common blade	1 set Allen wrenches	Protractor
2 pair channel lock	8” common blade	Awl	Torpedo level
10” crescent wrench	Stubby common	Center punch	Plumb bob
1 set of spin tights	Voltage tester	Tic tracer	Code book
CABLE SPLICER TOOLS
SECTION 4.2 Journeyman Cable Splicers shall furnish only hand tools. The Employer is authorized to inspect a workman’s tools before and when leaving his employ. Workmen shall wear overalls, aprons, or other apparel suitable for the work to be performed.
RENTING OR LEASING OF EQUIPMENT
SECTION 4.3 No workman or employees shall lease or rent vehicles or equipment and tools to any Employer. No workman shall use any automobile, tools, or equipment in any manner detrimental to the best interest of other workmen, nor shall any workman use his automobile to transport the Employer's tools, materials or blueprints.
SECTION 4.4 Employees shall not use (heir personal premises for the purpose of conducting their Employer’s business in any manner.
CONTRACTOR TOOLS
SECTION 4.5 The Employer shall furnish all hickeys, vises, ladders, boring machines, hammers over regulation claw, dies, fish steels, electric screwdrivers, pipe wrenches over fourteen (14) inches, pipe cutters, hack saw blades, bits, drills, knock out punches and all special tools and all other necessary tools or equipment. Ladders shall be of sufficient height to enable workmen to perform their duties without using the last three steps of any ladder. All such tools and equipment must be in good mechanical condition as a safety factor. Workmen shall be responsible for all tools or equipment issued to them provided the Employer furnishes the necessary tool box, locker or other safe place for storage. The Employer shall furnish a suitable place for the employees to leave their tools during the time that the employees are off the job or project.
CONTRACTOR TO PROVIDE
SECTION 4.6 If the Employer directs an employee to leave his tools on said job, that-said Employer shall cover such employee's tools with burglary insurance in the amount of not less than FOUR HUNDRED ($400.00) DOLLARS during the period of time they are left on job. On all jobs where extreme dirt due to oil, grease, etc. are present, rags and cleaning materials shall be supplied by the Employer.
On jobs requiring the handling of grease filled or oil filled cables, the Employer shall furnish overalls and gloves and shall have such clothing laundered or otherwise cleaned at least twice a week.
9
Inside Wireman’s Agreement
June 3, 2002 - May 31,2005
WORKMANSHIP
SECTION 4.7 Workmen shall install all electrical work in a safe and workmanlike manner and in accordance with applicable code and contract specifications.
SECTION 4.8 A Journeyman shall be required to make corrections on improper workmanship for which he is responsible on his own time and during regular working hours, unless errors were made by order of the Employer or the Employer's representative. The Employer shall notify the Union of workmen who fail to adjust improper workmanship and the Union assumes responsibility for the enforcement of this provision, correction to be made only after a fair investigation by the Employer and the Business Manager of the Union.
ARTICLE V
REFERRAL PROCEDURE
SECTION 5.1 In the interest of maintaining an efficient system of production in the industry, providing for an orderly procedure of referral of applicants for employment, preserving the legitimate interest of the employees in their employment status within the area and of eliminating discrimination in employment because of membership or non-membership in the Union, the parties hereto agree to the following system of referral of applicants for employment.
SECTION 5.2	The Union shall be the sole and exclusive source of referral of applicants for employment.
SECTION 5.3	The Employer shall have the right to reject any applicant for employment.
SECTION 5.4 The Union shall select and refer applicants for employment without discrimination against such applicants by reason of membership or non-membership in the Union and such selection and referral shall not be affected in any way by rules, regulations, bylaws, constitutional provisions or any other aspect or obligation of Union membership policies or requirements. All such selection and referral shall be in accord with the following procedure.
SECTION 5.5 The Union shall maintain a register of applicants for employment established on the basis of the Groups listed below. Each applicant for employment shall be registered in the highest priority Group for which he qualifies.
JOURNEYMAN WIREMAN/JOURNEYMAN TECHNICIAN
GROUP I All applicants for employment who have four (4) or more years’ experience in the trade; are residents of the geographical area constituting the normal construction labor market; have passed a Journeyman Wireman’s examination given by a duly constituted Inside Construction Local Union of the I.B.E.W. or have been certified as a Journeyman Wireman by any Inside Joint Apprenticeship and Training Committee; and who have been employed for a period of at least one (1) year in the last four (4) years in the geographical area covered by the collective bargaining agreement.
GROUP II All applicants for employment who have four (4) or more years’ experience in the trade and who have passed a Journeyman Wireman’s examination given by a duly constituted Inside Local Union of the I.B.E.W., or has been certified a Journeyman Wireman by any Inside Joint Apprenticeship and Training Committee.
GROUP III All applicants for employment who have two (2) or more years’ experience in the trade; are residents of the geographical area constituting the normal construction labor market; and who have been employed for at least six (6) months in the last three (3) years in the geographical area covered by the collective bargaining agreement.
10
Inside Wireman’s Agreement
June 3, 2002 - May 31. 2005
GROUP TV All applicants for employment who have worked at the trade for more than one (1) year.
TEMPORARY EMPLOYEES
SECTION 5.6 If the registration list is exhausted and the Local Union is unable to refer applicants for employment to the Employer within forty-eight (48) hours from the time of receiving the Employer's request, (Saturdays. Sundays, and Holidays excepted) the Employer shall be free to secure applicants without using the Referral Procedure, but such applicants, if hired, shall have the status of "temporary employees."
SECTION 5.7 The Employer shall notify the Business Manager promptly of the names and Social Security numbers of such "temporary employees," and shall replace such "temporary employees" as soon as registered applicants for employment are available under the Referral Procedure.
DEFINITIONS
SECTIONS 5.8 "Normal construction labor market" is defined to mean the following geographical area plus the commuting distance adjacent thereto, which includes the area from which the normal labor supply is secured:
ORANGE COUNTY IN ITS ENTIRETY.
The above geographical area is agreed upon by the parties to include areas defined by the Secretary of Labor to.be the appropriate prevailing wage area under the Davis Bacon Act to which this Agreement applies.
SECTION 5.9 "Resident" means a person who has maintained his permanent home in the above defined geographical area for a period of not less than one (1) year or who, having had a permanent home in this area, has temporarily left with the "intention of returning to this area as his permanent home."
SECTION 5.10 "Examinations." An "examination" shall include experience rating tests if such examination shall have been given prior to the date of this procedure, but from and after the date of this procedure, shall include only written and/or practical examinations given by a duly constituted inside construction Local Union of the I.B.E.W. Reasonable Intervals of time for examinations are specified as ninety (90) days. An applicant shall be eligible for examination if he has four (4) years' experience in the trade.
SECTION 5.11 The Union shall maintain an "Out of Work" list which shall list the applicants within each Group in chronological order of the dates they register their availability for employment.
SECTION 5.12 An applicant who has registered on the "Out of Work" list must renew his application every thirty (30) days or his name will be removed from the "List".
SECTION 5.13 An applicant who is hired and who receives, through no fault of his own, work often (10) days (weekends and holidays excluded) or less shall, upon re-registration, be restored to his appropriate place within his Group.
SECTION. 5.14 Employers shall advise the Business Manager of the Local Union of the number of applicants needed. The Business Manager shall refer applicants to the Employer by first”referring applicants in GROUP I in the order of their places on the "Out of Work List" and then referring applicants in the same manner successively from the "Out of Work List" in GROUP II, then GROUP III, and then GROUP IV. Any applicant who is rejected by the Employer shall be returned to his appropriate place within his GROUP and shall be referred to other employment in accordance with the position of his GROUP and his place within his GROUP.
11
Inside Wireman’s Agreement
June 3, 2002 - May 31,2005
(a) An applicant who is discharged for cause three times within a twelve month period shall be referred to the neutral member of the Appeals Committee for a determination as to the applicant’s continued eligibility for referral. The neutral member of the Appeals Committee shall, within three business days, review the qualifications of the applicant and the reasons for the discharges. The neutral member of the appeals committee may, in his/her sole discretion: (1) require the applicant to obtain further training from the J.A.T.C. before again being eligible for referral; (2) disqualify the applicant for referral for a period of four weeks, or longer, depending on the seriousness of the conduct and/or repetitive nature of the conduct; (3) refer the applicant to an employee assistance program, if available, for evaluation and recommended action; or (4) restore the applicant to his/her appropriate place on the referral list.
SECTION 5,15 The only exceptions which shall be allowed in this order of referral arc as follows:
(a)	When the Employer states bonafide requirements for special skills and abilities in his request for applicants, the Business Manager shall refer the first applicant on the register possessing such skills and abilities.
(b)	The age ratio clause in the Agreement calls for the employment of an additional employee or employees on the basis of age. Therefore, the Business Manager shall refer the first applicant on the register satisfying the applicable age requirements provided, however, that all names in higher priority Groups, if any, shall first be exhausted before such overage reference can be made.
(c)	Employment by the Local Union, the JATC, or a related entity bound by a subscription agreement to the trust funds established by this agreement shall be considered employment under the terms of this agreement for purposes of referral.
APPEALS COMMITTEE
SECTION 5.16 An Appeals Committee is hereby established composed of one (1) member appointed by the Union, one (1) member appointed by the Association or the Employer, as the case may be, and a Public member appointed by both of these members.
It shall be the function of the Appeals Committee to consider any complaint of any employee or applicant for employment arising out of the administration by the Local Union of Section 5.4 through 5.15 of this Agreement. The Appeals Committee shall have the power to make a final and binding decision on any such complaint which shall be complied with by the Local Union. The Appeals Committee is authorized to issue procedural rules for the conduct of its business, but is not authorized to add to, subtract from, or modify any of the provisions of this Agreement and its decisions shall be in accord with this Agreement.
SECTION 5.17 A representative of the Employer or the Association, as the case may be, designated to the ’ Union in writing, shall be permitted to inspect the Referral Procedure records at any time during normal ' business hours.
SECTION 5.18 A copy of the Referral Procedure set forth in this Addendum shall be posted on the Bulletin Board in the offices of the Local Union and in the offices of the Employers who are parties to this Agreement.	• *	.
SECTION 5.19 Apprentices shall be hired and transferred in accordance with the apprenticeship provisions of this Agreement between the parties.
12
Inside Wireman's Agreement
June 3. 2002 - May 31,2005
ARTICLE VI
HOURS OF WORK
WORK DAY / WORK WEEK
SECTION 6.1(a) Eight (8) hours work between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 3:30 p.m. with thirty (30) minutes for lunch period shall constitute a work day. A one-hour variance in starting time is permissible with the mutual agreement of employer and employee.	*
Forty (40) hours within five (5) consecutive days, Monday through Friday, inclusive, shall constitute a workweek.
SECTION 6.1(b) The Employer, with twenty four (24) hour prior notice to the Union, may institute a work-week consisting of four (4) consecutive ten (10) hour days between the hours of 7:00 a. m. and 6:00 p.m., Monday through Thursday or Tuesday through Friday, with one-half hour allowed for a lunch period. There shall be no make-up day. After ten (10) hours in a workday the applicable over time rate shall be paid.
SECTION 6.1(c) Every employer shall authorize and permit all employees to take rest periods. Rest periods may be staggered to avoid interruption in the flow of work. The authorized rest period time shall be based on the total hours worked daily at the rate of ten (10) minutes rest break for every four (4) hours worked, or major fraction thereof. Rest periods shall take place at employer designated areas, which may include or be limited to the employees immediate work area.
HOLIDAYS
SECTION 6.2 The rate of pay for all work performed outside of regular hours shall be one and one half times the straight time rate of pay except that double time shall be paid as follows:
1.	All hours worked in excess of 12 hours in one day (except as specified in 6.3A and 6.3B).
2.	Sundays
3.	Holidays as follows: New Year's Day, Memorial Day, Fourth of July, Labor Day, Veteran's Day (November 11th), Thanksgiving Day, day after Thanksgiving, Christmas Day or days celebrated as such.
No work shall be performed on Labor Day except in case of emergency and then only after permission is granted by the Business Manager of the Union.
OVERTIME
SECTION 6.3 Employees required to work during the regular lunch period shall be paid time and one-half the straight time rate of pay except in case of emergency or pre-arranged work schedule. Pre-arranged work schedule must be approved at least one (1) hour prior to the established lunch period the day the work is to be performed.
REMODEL
SECTION 63A Men from any shop may be used on Saturdays between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 4:30 p.m. and Monday through Saturday between the hours of 4:30 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. only at the rate of time and one-half the regular straight time rate of pay when remodeling an existing structure.
Overtime as specified in Section 6.2 shall apply to overtime worked when making electrical installations in the types of buildings mentioned above, which may be necessary to care for the electrical installations in a new addition to such occupied buildings erected on the premises adjacent thereto.
13
Inside Wireman’s Agreement
June 3, 2002 - May 31. 2005
TENANT IMPROVEMENT
SECTION 6.3B The overtime rate in Item A shall apply to suite development or suite improvement work defined as new construction or remodel of office space in new or existing single story or high rise structures where multiple owners or tenants have occupied the structure.	; '
OVERTIME MEALS
SECTION 6.4 When more than two (2) hours have been worked after the normal quitting time, a meal break of at least one-half hour shall be taken by the employee. A meal check must be turned in to the Employer for reimbursement of said meal. Reimbursement of a meal check shall not exceed one-half hour of the normal straight time rate of pay for Journeyman Wireman. Meal times shall be every four (4) hours thereafter.
Meal times are subject to variation so that continuous sendee may be maintained.
When instructed before quitting time to report for the next regular days starting time, the workmen shall provide their own lunch.
SHIFT WORK
SECTION 6.5 When so elected by the Contractor, multiple shifts of at least five (5) days duration may be worked. When two (2) or three (3) shifts are worked:
The first shift (day shift) shall consist of eight (8) consecutive hours worked between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 4:30 p.m. Workmen on the “day shift” shall be paid at the regular hourly rate of pay for all hours worked.
The second shift (swing shift) shall consist of eight (8) consecutive hours worked between the hours of 4:30 p.m. and 1:00 a.m. Workmen on the “swing shift” shall be paid at the regular hourly rate of pay plus 17.3% for all hours worked.
The third shift (graveyard shift) shall consist of eight (8) consecutive hours worked between the hours of 12:30 a.m. and 9:00 a.m. Workmen on the “graveyard shift” shall be paid at the regular hourly rate of pay plus 31.4% for all hours worked.
The Employer shall be permitted to adjust the starting hours of the shift by up to two (2) hours in order to meet the needs of the customer.
If the parties to the Agreement mutually agree, the shift week may commence with the third shift (graveyard shift) at 12:30a.m. Monday to coordinate the work with the customer’s work schedule. However, any such adjustment shall last for at least a five (5) consecutive day duration unless mutually changed by the parties to this Agreement.	.	■ . y
An unpaid lunch period of thirty (30) minutes shall be allowed on each shift. All overtime work required before the established start time and after the completion of eight (8) hours of any shift shall'be paid at one and one-half times the "shift" hourly rate.
There shall be no pyramiding of overtime rates and double the straight time rate shall be the maximum compensation for any hour worked. There shall be no requirement for a day shift when either the second or third shift is worked.	.
SECTION 6.6 When work extends from overtime to regular time, if eight (8) hours have been worked at overtime, the rate of pay shall be the overtime rate until a break of at least eight (8) hours is given.
14
Inside Wireman's Agreement
June 3. 2002-May 31.2005
ARTICLE VII
WAGES. CLASSIFICATIONS AND WAGE SCALE
SECTION 7.1 The wages per hour shall be: CLASSIFICATION			EFFECTIVE			
	6/3/02	12/2/02	6/2/03	12/1/03	5/3 1/04	11/29/04
General Foreman	$38.13	39.05 pay scale shall be 1.226 times Journeyman wage scale.			40.27	41.40	42.42	43.34
Foreman	$ 34.61	35.45 pay scale shall be 1.113 times Journeyman wage scale.			36.56	37.40	38.51	39.34
Cable Splicer Foreman pay scale shall be 1.113 times	$36.21	37.09 Cable splicer wage scale.		38.24	39.12	40.28	41.16
Journeyman Wireman	$32.53	33.32	34.36	35.15 (when cable splicing) pay scale shall be 1.046 times Journeyman wage scale.					36.19	36.98
Journeyman Wireman pay scale shall be	$31.10	31.85	32.85	33.60	34.60	35.35
Journeyman Technician pay scale shall be	$31.10	31.85	32.85	33.60	34.60	35.35
Journeyman Wireman	$31.10 (when welding) pay scale shall be		31.85	32.85	33.60	34.60	35.35
Residential Wireman	$20.00	12/2/02	wage opener only			
Any portion of the scheduled wage increase(s) may be allocated to the existing benefit fund(s) at the option of the local union.
APPRENTICE WAGE SCALE
EFFECTIVE *
	6/3/02	12/2/02	6/2/03	12/1/03	5/31/04	11/29/04
40%	$12.44	12.74	13.14	13.44	13.84	14.14
45%	$14.00	14.33	14.78	.15.12	15.57	15.91
50%	$15.55	15.93	16.43 .	16.80	17.30	17.68
55%	$17.11	17.52	18.07	18.48	19.03	19.44
60%	$18.66	19.11	19.71	20.16	20.76	21.21
65%	$20.22	20.70	21.3.5	21.84	22.49	22.98
70%	$21.77	22.30	23.00	23.52	24.22 ■	24.75
75%	$23.33	23.89	24.64	25.20	25.95	26.51
80%	, $24.88	25.48	26.28	26.88	27.68	28.28
85%	$26.44	27.07	27.92	28.56	.29.41	30.05
15
Inside Wireman’s Agreement
June 3, 2002 - May 31.2005
		EFFECTIVE			
	6/3/02	12/2/02	6/2/03	12/1/03	5/31/04	11/29/04
Unindentured Wage Scale					
35%	$10.89	11.15	11.50	11.76	12.11	12.37
Storekeeper/ Material Handler Wage Scale $ 8.50
SECTION 7.2 Apprentices will be cleared to the job at the percentage rate of pay established for them by the Joint Apprenticeship and Training Committee. This rate shall be the minimum and maximum rate of pay.
Note difference in Pension Contribution (See Section 10.2).
SECTION 7.3 Storekeepers shall be permitted to deliver and distribute tools and materials to and around a jobsite, perform jobsite cleanup and trash removal, provide jobsite tool and materia! inventory and control, including the boxing and unboxing of tools, fixtures and materials. The storekeeper is not to hand fixtures or material to journeymen for installation, nor prepare or distribute conduit or materials for installation nor install fixtures or materials. The storekeeper shall be hired to the shop, not the jobsite. An employer may employ shop employees who are not cleared under this agreement, but such non bargaining unit employees may not perform jobsite duties permitted in this section.
Note difference in Health & Welfare contribution (See Section 10.7).
ARTICLE VIII
SHOW-UP PAY I HAZARD PAY/TRAVEL PAY
SHOW-UP PAY
SECTION 8.1 When men are directed by the Employer to report for work and do not start work for reasons beyond their control, they shall receive two (2) hours' show-up time.
EIGHT HOUR JOB
SECTION 8.2 No Employer shall employ man or men for less than an eight (8) hour job, and any employee laid off on his first day of employment before having worked eight (8) hours shall receive eight (8) hours pay. This clause is not applicable to any man being discharged for just cause.
INCLEMENT WEATHER
SECTION 8.3 When inclement weather conditions prevail, a two (2) hour show-up pay shall be paid for the first day only of a continued inclement period unless notified. Any man being temporarily laid off after having worked four (4) hours or less shall receive pay for the four (4) hours and if temporarily laid off after having worked more than four (4) hours he shall receive pay for eight (8) hours.
HIGH TIME
SECTION 8.4 Where workmen are required to work 40' to 70' from the ground or supporting structures (such as trusses, stacks, towers, tanks, bosun's chairs, swinging, standing or rolling scaffolding, silos, and open platforms) which are not securely safeguarded, and the workman is subjected to a direct fall or where he has to work 40' to 70' from the ground on a ladder or other type of support on a platform, which is within 5' of an unprotected direct fall opening, he shall be paid a bonus of one-half (1/2) times the regular straight time rate of pay. One (1) hour minimum or fraction thereof.
When workmen are required to work 70' or more from the ground or supporting structures as above, the bonus shall be doubled. The elevation of the actual work installation to be performed under the above conditions governs the applicability of the bonus.
16
Inside Wireman's Agreement
June 3. 2002 - May 31, 2005
USE OF GAS MASKS
SECTION 8.5 Where electrical workers are required to work under compressed air or in areas where injurious gasses, dust, or fumes or spray painting are present in amounts necessitating use of gas masks or respirators by the electrical workers, they shall be paid a bonus of one-half (1/2) the straight time rate of pay. Thirty (30) minutes or more on such work entitles the workman to the premium rate for that half day. This section to apply if dangerous effect has been determined by the use of the applicable State safety standards.
HOT AND COLD CLAUSE
SECTION 8.6 Where workmen are required to work where temperatures (other than climatic) exceed 125 degrees Fahrenheit or are less than 30 degrees Fahrenheit, they shall be paid double the straight time rate of pay for the hours worked with a minimum one (1) hour, or a fraction thereof.
AIRCRAFT
SECTION 8.7 When workmen are required to work in conjunction with any type of aircraft in motion, they shall be protected by a Life and Casualty Insurance Policy in the amount of ONE HUNDRED THOUSAND ($100,000.00) DOLLARS in addition to regular workmen's compensation coverage and will be paid nine (9) hours at the straight time rate of pay for eight (8) hours worked.
UNDERWATER
SECTION 8.8 When workmen are required to work underwater and/or use any type of diving equipment, they shall be paid a hazard bonus of two (2) times the regular straight time rate of pay. One (1) hour minimum or fraction thereof.
OFF SHORE WORK
SECTION 8.9 Where men are directed to report to a job daily, they shall be paid mileage if applicable, to point of embarkation. Men shall be paid the required rate of pay from point of embarkation to job site and from job site to the point of embarkation. There will be a bonus of FIFTY CENTS per hour applicable to all wages paid on this type of work.
SECTION 8.10 Where man or men are subjected to work installing electrical or electronic work including sound work under piers over the ocean, either on existing piers or to be installed on new piers, there will be a bonus of FIFTY CENTS per hour applicable to ail wages paid on this type work.
RADIATION
SECTION 8.11 Where workmen are subject to the hazardous effects of any atomic operation where special clothing is required as determined by a competent official regulatory authority, they shall receive two (2) times the regular straight time rate of pay. Minimum of one (1) hour or fraction thereof.
TRAVEL PAY
SECTION 8.12 When workmen are directed to report to the job, such workmen shall be on the job ready to commence work at the regular starting time at no cost to the employer.
Workman shifting from one job to another or from shop to job or. job to shop during regular work hours shall be paid travel time and be furnished transportation or be paid mileage at the rate of twenty-five cents ($.25) per mile.
SECTION 8.13 Whenever free parking or transportation is not available within 500 yards of the reporting location (shop or job site), the Employer shall reimburse employees for actual parking expenses, provided the employee presents a signed and dated receipt for each expenditure.
17
Inside Wireman’s Agreement
June 3, 2002 - May 31,2005
ARTICLE IX
LAYOFFS / TERMINATIONS / PAYROLL CHECKS
SECTION 9.1 Workmen who are to be laid off shall be notified and paid one-half (1/2) hour before normal' quitting time and shall be paid eight (8) hours for seven and one-half (7 1/2) hours work, or eight and one-half (8 1/2) hours for eight (8) hours work at the straight time rate of pay. Any workman laid off by the Employer shall be paid all his wages immediately. In the event he is not, waiting time at the straight time rate of pay shall be charged until full payment is made.
SECTION 9.2 If an employee voluntarily quits his employment, his wages shall become due and payable not later than seventy-two (72) hours thereafter unless the employee has given seventy-two (72) hours previous notice of his intention to quit, in which case the employee is entitled to his wages at the time of quitting.
If the Employer and employee agree that the employee's check is to be mailed, the employee shall supply written authorization to the Employer which shall also designate the employee's proper mailing address.
SECTION 9.3 The Employer shall have the right to determine the competency and qualifications of its employees and the right to discharge such employees for any just and sufficient cause. The Union may institute a grievance procedure under the terms of this Agreement if it feels any employee has been unjustly discharged.
In applying the above provision, the Employer shall not discriminate against employees in regard to hire or tenure of employment by reason of Union membership; provided however, all workmen (Union or otherwise) shall be classified and receive the wage scales as provided under Article VII, Section 7.1 of this Collective Bargaining Agreement.
TERMINATION SLIPS
SECTION 9.4 The Union shall keep a record of all terminations. Termination blanks shall be prepared for use by the Employer and shall be correctly filled out in quadruplicate with one (1) copy for the employee, one (1) copy for the Employer, and one (1) copy for the Union and one (1) copy for the Labor-Management Committee.
TEMPORARY LAYOFF
SECTION 9.5 Any man being temporarily laid off after having worked four (4) hours or less, shall receive pay for four (4) hours and if temporarily laid off after having worked more than four (4) hours, he shall receive pay for eight (8) hours.
PAYROLL
SECTION 9.6 Wages shall be paid weekly; the work week shall begin Monday a.m. and end Sunday p.m. Pay day shall not be later than Wednesday quitting time and not more than three (3) days shall be withheld. However, when Monday, Tuesday, or Wednesday is celebrated as a Holiday, the Employer shall have one (1) additional day of grace in preparing his payrolland delivering the pay to the men.
Payroll may be paid by: cash, check or if approved by the employee electronic transfer, however termination pay shall be by either cash or check.
All pay must have a stub or statement showing all amounts withheld. All pay stubs or statements must show the total straight time hours or units and overtime hours or units worked.
WORK RELEASE, SIGN, CLOCK,’’BRASS IN”
SECTION 9.7 No employee shall sign any type of work release. No employee shall sign, clock, or "brass in" on any job, except on company time.
18
Inside Wireman’s Agreement
June 3, 2002 - May 31,2005
REBATE OF WAGES
SECTION 9.8 No Employer or workman or their agents shall give or accept, directly or indirectly, any rebate of wages. Any Employer found violating (his provision shall be subject to having this Agreement terminated upon written notice thereof being given by the Union.
ARTICLE X
FRINGE BENEFITS
EMPLOYEES BENEFIT AGREEMENT
SECTION 10.1 It is agreed that in accord with the Employees Benefit Agreement of the National Electrical Benefit Fund ("NEBF"), as entered into between the National Electrical Contractors Association and the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers on September 3, 1946, as amended, and now delineated as the Restated Employees Benefit Agreement and Trust, that unless authorized otherwise by the NEBF, the individual employer will forward monthly to the NEBF's designated local collection agent an amount equal to 3% of the gross monthly labor payroll paid to, or accrued by, the employees in this bargaining unit, and a completed payroll report prescribed by the NEBF. The payment shall be made by check or draft and shall constitute a debt due and owing to the NEBF on the last day of each calendar month, which may be recovered by suit initiated by the NEBF or its assignee. The payment and the payroll report shall be mailed to reach the office of the appropriate local collection agent not later than fifteen (15) calendar days following the end of each calendar month.
The individual employer hereby accepts, and agrees to be bound by, the Restated Employees Benefit Agreement and Trust.
An individual employer who fails to remit as provided above shall be additionally subject to having his agreement terminated upon seventy-two (72) hours notice in writing being served by the Union, provided the individual employer fails to show satisfactory proof that the required payments have been paid to the appropriate local collection agent.
The failure of an individual employer to comply with the applicable provisions of the Restated Employees Benefit Agreement and Trust shall also constitute a breach of his labor agreement.
PENSION FUND
DEFINED BENEFIT PLAN
SECTION 10.2 Each signatory Employer shall contribute to the Southern California IBEW-NECA Pension Fund on behalf of each employee covered by this Agreement the sum of ($3.70) for each hour worked.
Except as follows:
(a)	Apprentices Pension contribution shall be based on their percentage rates, commencing with 50% (i.e., 50% apprentice pension contribution to be $3.70 times 50%, etc.).
(b)	Residential wireman shall be $.50 for pension and $.50 for plan "B" as defined in Section 10.3. (c) Storekeepers shall not receive pension benefit.
The employer contribution rate shall be $4.70 per hour, $ 1.00 of which shall be applied to plan "B". This Pension Fund and Trust Document shall comply with and conform to all applicable laws.
Contributions to the Pension Fund shall be due and payable on or before the tenth (10th) day of each month covering hours worked by each employee through the last payroll period in the prior calendar month. Each Employer shall file a monthly report with the Fund in the form established by the Fund, and such report shall be filed regardless of whether an Employer has employed any employees in the month covered by the report.
19
* ' *
/
Inside Wireman’s Agreement	June 3, 200^ - May 31, 2005
/
" I
Any Employer who fails to report or to make contributions due to this Fund before the fifteenth (15th) day of the month in which it is due shall be considered delinquent. Payment‘shall be by electronic transfer.	'	/
The Pension Trust Agreement is binding on all Employers employing persons covered by this Agreement.	*■	'
DEFINED CONTRIBUTION PENSION	।
Section 10.3 Contributions required to be made on behalf of each classification shall be as follows:
Effective:	July 1,2002	y
Classi $1.00
Class II $3.00 [All Class II employees will have their base hourly wage reduced by $2.00 per hour]
Class III $5.00 [All Class III employees will have their base hourly wage reduced by $4.00 per hour]
(Request for initial change shall be completed by June 1.2002)
Definition:
Class I shall include all second, third, fourth, and fifth year apprentices and all employees not identified as Class II or III. [NOTE: Apprentice contribution shall be based on their percentage rate, i.e. 50% apprentice pension contribution shall be $1.00 times 50% etc.]
Class II Employees shall consist of employees who have performed at least six months work at the trade at the journeyman level or above.
Class III Employees with five years or more employment in the industry.
Each employee shall submit to the Local Union by May 1 or November 1 of each year any classification change request. Notification shall be made on an approved form and in accordance with the rules and regulations adopted by the Union and approved by the Chapter.
Upon notification by the Union to the employer of an approved classification change, the employer shall pay wages and fringe contributions at the approved classification level until and unless notified by the Union of a classification change.
In no event, however, shall a classification change be implemented except by proper notification and no more than two classification changes may be effected annually and shall be June 1 or December 1. An employee may select Class I, II, III status at the time of dispatch without restriction.
SECTION 10.4 All disbursements shall be in accordance with the Plan adopted by the Board of Trustees. The cost of implementing and the administration of the Southern California IBEW-NECA Defined Contribution Plan shall be borne by the Southern California IBEW-NECA Defined Contribution Plan.
SECTION 10.5 This Southern California IBEW-NECA Defined Contribution Plan, including Employer contributions, shall be irrevocable except by mutual consent of the parties to this collective bargaining agreement. The provisions of the plan trust and documents shall control as to plan benefits and rights not specifically addressed herein.
SECTION 10.6 This Southern California IBEW-NECA Defined Contribution Plan shall comply with and conform to all applicable laws.	■’
20
Inside Wireman's Agreement	June 3, 2002 - May 31,2005
\
HEALTH AND WELFARE
SECTION 10.7 (a) The Employer agrees to pay Health & Welfare benefits for each employee subject to this Agreement. These payments shall be made each month into the Orange County Electrical Industry' Health and Welfare Trust Fund, jointly established for this purpose and administered in compliance with Federal and State regulations governing' health and welfare plans.
(b) The Employer agrees to pay Health & Welfare benefits for all workmen employed under the terms of this Agreement and in accordance with the following in addition to the basic wages:
Effective:	June 1, 1994, $3.30 per hour for all hours worked
Exception	.
Effective:	June 3. 2002. $2.55 per hour for all hours worked by Storekeeper and Residential Wireman.
Health & Welfare benefits shall be paid by the fifteenth (15th) day of the month following the month in which the hours were worked. Payments shall be made by electronic transfer, payable to the proper depository in accordance with Article X, Section 10.7 (a).
SECTION 10.8 (This section is intentionally left blank)
VACATION FUND
SECTION 10.9 Each individual Employer, upon substantiation of voluntary authorization, shall withhold seven percent (7%) of each covered employee's gross pay to be forwarded monthly to the American First Credit Union in a form and manner prescribed by the parties to the Agreement. These deductions are due no later than fifteen (15) days following the last day of the month in which the labor was performed.
These deductions shall be deposited to individual accounts at the American First Credit Union, maintained in the name of each individual covered employee.
The employer's sole responsibility under this Section shall be to pay the amounts described above. Liquidated damages at the rale of seven percent (7%) for late payments shall apply.
Effective:	July 1, 2002 (request for initial change shall be completed by June 1,2002)
[request for change shall be the same as tired-annuity]
APPRENTICESHIP CONTRIBUTION
SECTION 10.10 Each Employer subject to the terms of this Agreement shall contribute thirty-five cents per hour for each hour worked by all employees covered under the terms of this Agreement into the Orange Country Electrical Joint Apprenticeship and Training Trust Fund in a manner prescribed by the Trustees of said Fund.
Each Employer shall make the thirty-five cents per hour contribution for each hour worked and shall forward the total amount for all employees covered by this Agreement on a monthly basis in a manner prescribed by the Trustees of said Fund.
ORANGE COUNTY IBEW-NECA
LABOR MANAGEMENT COOPERATIVE COMMITTEE
SECTION 10.11
Subsection 1. The parties agree to participate in a Labor Management Cooperation Fund, under authority of Section 6(b) of the Labor Management Cooperation Act of 1978, 29 U.S.C. § 175(a) and Section 302(c)(9) of the Labor-Management Relations Act, 29 U.S.C. § 186(c)(9). The purposes of this Fund include the following:
1)	to improve communications between representatives of Labor and Management;
2)	to provide workers and employers with opportunities to study and explore new and innovative joint approaches to achieving organizational effectiveness;
21
Inside Wireman’s Agreement
June 3, 2002 - May 31.2005
3)	to assist workers and employers in solving problems of mutual concern not susceptible to resolution within the collective bargaining process;
4)	to study and explore ways of eliminating potential problems which reduce the competitiveness and inhibit the economic development of the electrical construction industry;
5)	to sponsor programs which improve job security, enhance economic and community development, and promote the general welfare of the community and industry;
6)	to engage in research and development programs concerning various aspects of the industry, including, but not limited to, new technologies, occupational safety and health, labor relations, and new methods of improved production;
7)	to engage in public education and other programs to expand the economic development of the electrical construction industry';
8)	to enhance the involvement of workers in making decisions that affect their working lives; and, 9) to engage in any other lawful activities incidental or related to the accomplishments of these purposes and goals.
Subsection 2. The fund shall function in accordance with, and as provided in, its Agreement and Declaration of Trust, and any amendments thereto and any other of its governing documents. Each Employer hereby accepts, agrees to be bound by, and shall be entitled to participate in the LMCC, as provided in said Agreement and Declaration of Trust.
Subsection 3. Each employer shall contribute five (5) cents per hour for each hour worked. Payment shall be forwarded monthly, in a form and manner prescribed by the Trustees, no later than fifteen (15) calendar days following the last day of the month in which the labor was performed. The Orange County Chapter, NEC A, or its designee, shall be the collection agent for this fund.
Subsection 4. If an Employer fails to make the required contributions to the Fund, the Trustees shall have the right to take whatever steps are necessary to secure compliance. In the event the Employer is in default, the Employer shall be liable for a sum equal to 15% of the delinquent payment, but not less than the sum of twenty dollars ($20,000, for each month payment of contributions is delinquent to the fund, such amount being liquidated damages, and not a penalty, reflecting the reasonable damage incurred by the Fund due to the delinquency of the payments. Such amount shall be added to and become a part of the contributions due and payable, and the whole amount due shall bear interest at the rate of ten percent (10%) per annum until paid. The Employer shall also be liable for all costs of collecting the payment together with attorneys’ fees.
DUES DEDUCT
SECTION 10.12 The Employer agrees to deduct and forward to the Financial Secretary of the Local Union —upon receipt of voluntary authorization - the additional working dues from the pay of each IBEW member. The amount to be deducted shall be the amount specified in the approved Local Union Bylaws. Such amount shall be certified to the employer by the Local Union upon request by the Employer.
ELECTRICAL INDUSTRY ADMINISTRATIVE MAINTENANCE FUND
SECTION 10.13 Administrative Maintenance Fund - Effective June 1, 1996, each employer signatory to this agreement shall contribute twelve cents ($.12) per hour for all hours worked by all employees covered by this agreement to the AMF.
The fund shall be administered solely by the Association and shall be utilized to pay for the association’s costs of the labor contract administration including negotiations, labor relations, disputes and grievance representation performed on behalf of signatory employers. In addition, all other administrative functions required of management such as service on all funds as required by federal law.
The AMF contribution shall be submitted with all other fringe benefits as delineated in the Labor Agreement by the fifteenth (15th) of the following month in which they are due to the Administrator
22
Inside Wireman’s Agreement
June 3, 2002 - May 31,2005
receiving funds. In the event any Employer is delinquent in submitting the required Administrative Maintenance Fund to the designated Administrator, the Administrator shall have the authority to recover any funds, along with any attorney fees, court costs, interest at one percent (1%) per month and liquidated damages receiving such funds. The enforcement for delinquent payments to the fund shall be the sole responsibility of the fund or the employer and not the Local Union. These monies shall not. he used to the detriment of the IBEW.
DELINQUENT WAGE AND FRINGE PAYMENTS BOND
SECTION 10.14 Any employer who fails to report or to make contributions due pursuant to Section 10.1, 10.2, 10.7, 10.8, 10.9, 10.10, 10.11 10.12 or 10.13 of this Agreement by the fifteenth (15th) day of the month in which it is due shall be considered delinquent.
Any Employer remaining delinquent for a period of thirty (30) days or who becomes delinquent more than three (3) times in any calendar year in wages or fringe payments shall be required to post a bond in the amount of FIVE THOUSAND DOLLARS ($5,000.00) and maintain said bond until he has been without a delinquency for a twelve (12) month period.
Any Employer failing to provide a bond as required above, shall be required to pay wages and fringe benefits by cashier's check until said bond is posted.
Employees of any Employer required to post a bond shall be notified by the Local Union.
It shall not be a violation of this agreement for the Union to refuse to permit persons covered by this agreement to work for a delinquent employer until all such wages and fringes are paid, subject to the approval of the Labor Management Committee.
ARTICLE XI
SUPERVISION
FOREMAN TO DIRECT
SECTION 1 LI On jobs having a Foreman, workmen are not to take directions or orders or accept the layout of any job from anyone except the Foreman.
FOREMAN QUALIFICATIONS
SECTION 11.2 A Foreman is a Journeyman who is designated by the Employer to lay out work and supervise a job and accept the responsibility of acting in this capacity under the terms of this Agreement.
A Foreman must be qualified as a Journeyman Wireman and shall be a workman covered by the terms of this Agreement.
FOREMAN LIMITATIONS
SECTION 11.3 A Foreman of one (1) job or section shall not at the same time supervise another job or section or take orders from a Foreman of another job or section.
FOREMAN TRANSFER REGARDING OVERTIME
SECTION 11.4 A Foreman shall not be transferred from one (1) job to another for the purpose of working as a Journeyman on overtime work.
FOREMAN CREW
SECTION 11.5 A Foreman is an employee in charge of a job or a section of a job. A Foreman shall be employed on all shop to job and job to shop work where there is in excess of one (1) Journeyman and an apprentice and on all site work projects where the duration of the job exceeds five (5) consecutive work days, exclusive of holidays, which eventually will require two (2) or more Journeymen. A Foreman may work with the tools. No Foreman may direct more than nine (9) Journeymen.
23
Inside Wireman’s Agreement
June 3, 2002 - May 31, 2005
GENERAL FOREMAN TO DIRECT
SECTION 11.6 On jobs having a General Foreman, Foremen are not to take orders, directions or accept layout of work from anyone other than their General Foreman.
DRRING TRUCKS BY SUPERVISION
SECTION 11.7 General Foreman and Foreman may drive Employer's vehicles and carry blueprints, specifications, plans and other paper work and equipment necessary to the proper control and management of a job or jobs. It shall be permissible and proper for them to transport men, tools, materials, and equipment. The occasional handling of light tools and materials shall not be construed as working with the tools.
GENERAL FOREMAN CREW
SECTION 1L8 A General Foreman is an employee in charge of a job or jobs. General Foreman shall be employed on all jobs having in excess of nine (9) Journeymen, and one (1) Foreman and on all jobs having more than one (1) Foreman regardless of the size of his crew. A General Foreman shall be permitted to supervise a second crew, not to exceed four (4) Journeymen. A General Foreman shall at no time have under his direct supervision more than forty-four (44) men, including Foremen. On jobs having in excess of forty-four (44) men, a second (2nd) General Foreman shall be employed. A General Foreman shall act in a supervisory capacity only. lie shall be a Journeyman Wireman and shall be a workman covered under the terms of this Agreement.
CABLE SPLICER FOREMAN
SECTION 11.9 On any job having two (2) Cable Splicers, one (1) shall be designated as a working Foreman by the Employer. This applies to lead splicers only.
FOREMAN CALL BY NAME
SECTION 11.10 The employer shall have the right to call Foreman by name provided:
a)	the employee has not quit his previous employer within the past two weeks.
b)	the employer shall notify the business manager in writing of the name of the individual who is to be requested for employment as foreman. Upon such request, the business manager shall refer said foreman provided the name appears on the highest priority group.
c)	when an employee is called as a foreman he must remain a foreman for 1,000 hours or must receive a reduction in force.
ARTICLE XU
APPRENTICES	\
SECTION 12.1 There shall be a local Joint Apprenticeship and Training Committee (JATC) having a total of eight (8) members who shall also serve as trustees to the local apprenticeship and training trust. An equal number of members shall be appointed, in writing, by the local Chapter of The National Electrical Contractors Association (NECA) and he Local Union of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (IBEW).
The local apprenticeship standards shall be in conformance with national guideline standards and polices. All apprenticeship standards shall be registered with the NJATC and thereafter submitted to the appropriate registration agency.
The JATC shall be responsible for the training of apprentices, journeymen, installers, technicians, and all others (unindentured, intermediate journeymen, etc.).
24
Inside Wireman’s Agreement
June 3. 2002 - May 31.2005
SECTION 12.2 All JATC member appointments, reappointments and acceptance of appointments shall be in writing. Each member shall be appointed for a (3) three year term, unless being appointed for a lesser period of time to complete an unexpired term. The term shall be staggered, with one (1) term from each side expiring each year. JATC members shall complete their appointed term unless removed for cause by the party they represent or they voluntarily resign. All vacancies shall be filled immediately.
The JATC shall select from its membership, but not both from the same party, a Chairman and a Secretary' who shall retain voting privileges. The JATC will maintain one (1) set of minutes for JATC committee meetings and a separate set of minutes for trust meetings.
The JATC should meet on a monthly basis, and also when called by the Chairman.
SECTION 12.3 Any issue concerning an apprentice or an apprenticeship matter shall be referred to the JATC for its review, evaluation and resolve; as per standards and policies. Jf the JATC deadlocks on any issue, the matter shall be referred to the Labor-Management Committee for resolution as outlined in Article 1 of this agreement; except for trust fund matters, which shall be resolved as stipulated in the local trust instrument.
SECTION 12.4 There shall be only one (1) JATC and one (1) local apprenticeship and training trust. The JATC may, however, establish joint subcommittees to meet specific needs, such as residential or telecommunications apprenticeship. The JATC may also establish a subcommittee to oversee an apprenticeship program within a specified area of the jurisdiction covered by this agreement.
All subcommittee members shall be appointed, in writing, by the party they represent. A subcommittee member may or may not be a member of the JATC.
SECTION 12.5 The JATC may select and employ a part-time or full-time Training Director and other support staff, as it deems necessary. In considering the qualifications, duties and responsibilities of the Training Director, the JATC should review the Training Director's Job Description provided by the NJATC. All employees of the JATC shall serve at the pleasure and discretion of the JATC.
SECTION 12.6 To help ensure diversity of training, provided reasonable continuous employment opportunities and comply with apprenticeship rules and regulations, the JATC, as the program sponsor, shall have full authority for issuing all job training assignments and for transferring apprentices from one employer to another. The Employer shall cooperate in providing apprentices with needed work experiences. The local union referral office shall be notified, in writing, of all job training assignments. If the Employer is unable to provide reasonable continuous employment for apprentices, the JATC is to be so notified.
SECTION 12.7 All apprentices shall enter the program through the JATC as provided for in the registered apprenticeship standards and selection procedures.
An apprentice may have their indenture canceled by the JATC at any time prior to completion as stipulated in the registered standards. Time worked and accumulated in apprenticeship shall not be considered for local union referral purposes until the apprentice has satisfied all conditions of apprenticeship. Individuals terminated from apprenticeship shall not be assigned to any job in any classification, or participate in any related training, unless they are reinstated in apprenticeship as per the standards, or they qualify through means other than apprenticeship, at some time in the future, but no sooner than two years after their class has completed apprenticeship, and they have gained related knowledge and job skills to warrant such classification.
SECTION 12.8 The JATC shall select and indenture a sufficient number of apprentices to meet local manpower needs. The JATC is authorized to indenture a total number of apprentices not to exceed a ratio of one (1) apprentice to three (3) Journeyman Wireman normally employed in the jurisdiction, unless they
25
Inside Wireman's Agreement
June 3, 2002 - May 31,2005
are authorized and instructed to increase the number by the parties to the local IBEW/NECA collective bargaining agreement. The JATC shall indenture a larger number of apprentices provided the individuals are entering the program as the result of direct entry through organizing; as provided for in the registered apprenticeship standards.
SECTION 12.9 Though the JATC cannot guarantee any number of apprentices; if a qualified Employer requests an apprentice, the JATC shall make reasonable efforts to honor the request. If the JATC is unable to fill the request within ten (10) working days, and the JATC has less than a one (1) to three (3) ratio indentured; they shall select and indenture the next available person from the active list of qualified applicants. An active list of qualified applicants shall be maintained by the JATC as per the selection procedures.
SECTION 12.10 To accommodate short-term needs when apprentices are unavailable, the JATC shall assign unindentured workers who meet the basic qualifications for apprenticeship. Unindentured workers shall not remain employed if apprentices become available for OJT assignment. Unindentured workers shall be used to meet job site ratios except on wage-and-hour (prevailing wage) job sites.
Before being employed, the unindentured person must sign a letter of understanding with the JATC and the employer, agreeing that they are not to accumulate more than two thousand (2,000) hours as an unindentured, that they are subject to replacement by indentured apprentices and that they are not to work on wage-and-hour (prevailing wage) job sites.
Should an unindentured worker be selected for apprenticeship, the JATC will determine, as provided for in the apprenticeship standards, if some credit for hours worked as an unindentured will be applied toward the minimum OJT hours of apprenticeship.
The JATC may elect to offer voluntary related training to unindentured; such as Math Review, English, Safety, Orientation/Awareness, Introduction to OSHA, First-Aid and CPR. Participation shall be voluntary.
SECTION 12.11 The Employer shall contribute to the local health and welfare plans and to the National Electrical Benefit Fund (NEBF) on behalf of all apprentices and unindentured. Contributions to other benefit plans may be addressed in other sections of this agreement.
SECTION 12.12 Each job site shall be allowed a ratio of two (2) apprentices for every three (3) Journeyman Wireman or fraction thereof as illustrated below.
Number of Journeymen	Maximum Number of Apprentices/Unindentured ■
1 to 3 .4 to 6 7 to 9 ■	- . -	2 4 6
97 to 99 „ etc.	66 etc.
The first person assigned to any job site shall be a Journeyman Wireman.
A job site is considered to be the physical location where employees report for their work assignments. The employer’s shop (service center) is considered to be a separate, single job site.
All other physical locations where workers report for work are each considered to be a single, separate job site.
26
Inside Wireman's Agreement
June 3. 2002 - May 31,2005
SECTION 12.13 An apprentice is to be under the supervision of a Journeyman Wireman at all times. This does not imply that the apprentice must always be in-sight-of a Journeyman Wireman. Journeymen are not required to constantly watch the apprentice. Supervision will not be of a nature that prevents the development of responsibility and initiative. Work may be laid out by the employer's, designated supervisor or journeyman based on their evaluation of the apprentice’s skills and ability to perform the job tasks. Apprentices shall be permitted to perform job tasks in order to develop job skills and trade competencies. Journeymen arc permitted to leave the immediate work area without being accompanied by the apprentice.
Apprentices who have satisfactorily completed the first four years of related classroom training using the NJATC curriculum and accumulated a minimum of 6.500 hours of OJT with satisfactory' performance, shall be permitted to work alone on any job site and receive work assignments in the same manner as a Journeyman Wireman. An apprentice shall not be the first person assigned to a job site and apprentices shall not supervise the work of others.
SECTION 12.14 Upon satisfactory completion of apprenticeship, the JATC shall issue all graduating apprentices an appropriate diploma from the NJATC. The JATC shall encourage each graduating apprentice to apply for college credit through the NJATC. The JATC may also require each apprentice to acquire any electrical license required for journeymen to work in the jurisdiction covered by this agreement.
SECTION 12.15 The parties to this Agreement shall be bound by the Local Joint Apprenticeship and Training Trust Fund Agreement which shall conform to Section 302 of the Labor-Management Relations Act of 1947 as amended, ERISA and other applicable regulations.
The trustees authorized under this Trust Agreement are hereby empowered to determine the reasonable value of any facilities, materials or services furnished by either party. All funds shall be handled and disbursed in accordance with the Trust Agreement.
SECTION 12.16 All Employers subject to the terms of this Agreement shall contribute the amount of funds specified by the parties signatory to the local apprenticeship and training trust agreement.
The current rate of contribution is as delineated in Section 10.10 This sum shall be due the Trust Fund by the same date as is their payment to the NEBF under the terms of the Restated Employees Benefit Agreement and Trust.
ARTICLE XIII
SAFETY / SEPARABILITY / TIMELINESS
JOB SAFETY	-
SECTION 13.1 On ail energized circuits or equipment carrying four hundred and forty (440) volts or over, as a safety measure, two (2) or more Journeymen must work together, one (1) standing by wearing rubber gloves. When pulling and installing conductors, proper rubber goods, such as blankets, rubber snakes, etc., must be available and used.
When one (1) or more Journeymen are working on street lighting or traffic signals, and are required to be in a hazardous position due to passing vehicles, a signalman shall be employed. Said*signalman shall be equipped with a red or orange jacket and a red flag.
An employer shall not permit an employee to use a powder-actuated tool until he has received training as prescribed by the manufacturer and carries a valid operator's card for the tool which he uses.
Exception: A person who is receiving training may be permitted to operate a powder-actuated tool when he is under the supervision of his qualified instructor.
27
Inside Wireman’s Agreement
June 3, 2002 - May 31,2005
The employer shall assure that each operator is familiar with and abides by the provisions of this Article.
All job sites, trucks, gang boxes, and shops shall be equipped with first aid kits comparable to the manpower involved.
All workmen employed under the terms of this Agreement shall observe all safety precautions in accordance with the safety orders of the State of California. They shall also observe instructions of the Employer in the matter of safety, provided such instructions are nol in conflict with the safety orders of the State of California.
It is recognized that the employer has the exclusive responsibility-' to provide a safe and healthful workplace and conditions of employment.
SECTION 13.2 On all jobs and in all shops there shall be a tailgate safety meeting at least once every ten (10) working days, to be conducted by the Foreman.
RADIATION HAZARDS
SECTION 13.3 On any job where workmen are exposed to radioactive materials and/or radiation in excess of one-tenth (1/1 Oth) of the Maximum Permissible Limits (MPL) as established by the International Commission of Radiation Protection, the Employer shall employ a qualified Journeyman Radiation Monitor when necessary, whose wage scale shall be equivalent to that of a Journeyman Wireman. Such Radiation Monitor(s) shall determine the location of hazardous zones and shall be responsible for the radiation hazards therein. He shall also be in charge of any decontamination of personnel, their tools, materials or equipment. The Radiation Monitor(s) shall make reports to the supervising electrician on the job for safety and coordination purposes.
SEPARABILITY CLAUSE
SECTION 13.4 Should any provision of this Agreement be declared illegal by any court of competent jurisdiction, such provision shall immediately become null and void, leaving the remainder of the Agreement in full force and effect and the parties shall thereupon seek to negotiate substitute provisions which are in con-fonnity with the applicable laws.
TIMELINESS OF GRIEVANCES
SECTION 13.5 The Labor-Management Committee shall not recognize any grievance or dispute unless adequate notice is given to both parties to this Agreement within forty-five (45) days after reasonable knowledge that a violation of this Agreement may have been committed.
CONTINUING EDUCATION
SECTION 13.7 Eight (8) hours of continuing education, in the electrical industry, will be required of all Journeyman Wireman each year. Any course or program covering safety, code, CPR, first aid technical training, management or foreman training, or industry relations training offered by the Local Union, NECA, the JATC, LMCC, or any contractor or outside source approved by the Chapter or the Local Union will qualify. This program will be developed under the guidance of the Mobius Action Group responsible for education and training.
28
Inside Wireman’s Agreement
June 3. 2002 - May 31,2005
SIGNED FOR THE EMPLOYER:
Orange County Chapter, National Electrical Contractors Association
President
Stephen E, Brown, Manager
Date
Date
SIGNED FOR THE EMPLOYEE:
Local Union 441, International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers
President
Business Manager
Date
Date
29
Attachment to form 105
Inside Agreement 2002 - 2005
Bureau of Labor Statistics Summary
Changes in the Agreement that may affect Davis Bacon determination.
Pg. 1	Photo-Voltaic systems	Added to Electronic Scope
Pg. 2	Residential	Added to over all Scope (old Residential Agreement Canceled)
Pg. 14	Shift work	Modified for simplification
Pg. 15	Modification of Wages	Section 7.1
Journeyman Wireman:
Date	6/3/02	12/2/02	6/0/03	12/0/03	6/0/04	12/0/04
Wage	$31.10					
Raise	(1.00)	(.75)	(1.00)	(-75)	(L00)	(.75)
Residential Wireman: $20.00
It should be noted the $.75 increase for 12/2/02 was allocated:
$.45	Health & Welfare
$.30	Defined Benefit Pension
g:\jim\agr\inside\summary 02-05 bls -2
1