
Memorandum of Agreement
,X OuAi
This Memorandum of Agreement entered into this Z/ day of Sc	by and
between The General Contractors Association (hereinafter referred to as Employer) and Local
VfP'
3b
46 Metallic Lathers Union and Reinforcing Ironworkers of New York City and Vicinity as
follows:
(1)	The Employer and the Union desire to reach agreement upon the terms of a new Collective Bargaining Agreement to become effective July 1, 2002. The Employer and the Union agree that both parties shall be bound by all of the terms and conditions of the Collective Bargaining Agreement in effect from July 1,1999 through June 30,2002 except for the following increase in wage rates, allocations and other changes in terms and conditions of employment which shall become effective July 1,2002.
(2)	The following changes are to be made in the Collective Bargaining Agreement effective July 1> 1999 and are to be full force and effective as of July 1,2002:
(a) Wage increases: Effective July 1,2002 an additional $3-00 per hour to be allocated by the Local 46 membership plus $0.10 IAP per houry plus $0.10 per hour additional to Local 46 Joint Apprenticeship and Journeymen Upgrading Fund, plus $0,10 per hour to create a Labor Management Cooperative Trust TOTAL = $3.30 per hour.
Effective July 1, 2003 an additional $3.00 per hour to be allocated by the Local 46 membership plus $0.10 per hour additional to Local 46 Joint Apprenticeship and Journeymen Upgrading Fund, plus $0.10 per hour to Labor Management Cooperative Trust.
TOTAL = $3.20 per hour
Effective July 1, 2004 an additional $3.00 per hour to be allocated by the Local 46 membership plus $0.10 per hour additional to Local 46 Joint Apprenticeship and Journeymen Upgrading Fund, plus $0.10 per hour to Labor Management Cooperative Trust
TOTAL - $3.20 per hour
TOTAL FOR 3 YEARS = $9.70 per hour
(3)	The reimbursement for cashing payroll checks shall remain at up to $8.00 per check.
I SWIOWNOO 1WN30 WVEM 1MI '81'130 ny3Q’1	9ZZT6f?zzTz er:0r ZBazVat/a'i
All Foremen shall receive $3.00 per hour above scale.
The Off Hour Start and Shift Work Rate shall be increased, to S12.00 per hour above scale in the envelope.
Apprentices will have one (1) week at the Local 46 Educational Center for each six (6) months worked. They shall be paid from the Local 46 Joint Apprentice Fund.
All overtime past ten (10) hours worked in a day shall be paid at double wages and double fringe benefits.
The existing Collective Bargaining Agreement shall be rolled over with the following
(a)	A bond of $50;000,00 for benefits'MUST be posted and maintained by
all signatories to this Agreement If an employer does not post such a bond, the Union shall have the right to engage in an economic strike against that employer or to refuse to refer Journeymen Lathers to that employer's jobs.
(b)	This shall be a guarantee contract; it shall be lived up to by all parties.
(c)	H a party to this Agreement employs a sub-contractor, the subcontractor shall be bound to all the provisions of this Agreement
(d)	If any Employer subcontracts work to a contractor who is a party to a Collective Bargaining Agreement with Local 46, both the Employer and the subcontractor shall be bound by all the provisions of this Collective Bargaining Agreement If the subcontractor fails to make fringe benefit contributions required by the Collective Bargaining Agreement in a timely fashion the Employer, upon receipt of written notice, shall be responsible for future fringe benefit contributions and also for wages, which are not paid by the subcontractor,
(e)	Fiduciary responsibility - subject to agreed upon language with the Association.
(f)	If an Employer becomes delinquent in the payment of fringe benefits and wages, said Employer shall pay a penalty at the rate of 9% per annum.
(g)	All reinforcing and post-tension hardware and cables shall be handled and installed by Lathers covered by this Agreement. Any reinforcing related material or device used in conjunction with any phase of reinforcing concrete shall be handled and installed by Lathers covered by this Collective Bargaining Agreement. This shall include all
•£ 'J—Hsrou.
.S8C1WNO9 TOdN35____:6 JOOS ’81 ’DO
Z0 39Vd
9t> IVDOI
9ZZl6t>ZZT2 £T :gi Z90Z/8I/0I
brushing, painting or any job site preparations of the concrete reinforcing and all splicing and coupling devices.
(h)	A shanty shall be provided with heat and electric light
(i)	The parties agree that the Joint Apprenticeship Committee shall provide training to Journeymen Lathers and Apprentices in the classification of Detailing. When the Journeymen Lathers become competent in this classification, the Employer may hire all such Detailers from the Union's Hiring Hall in accordance with the terms of this Agreement
0)	Successor Clause - subject to agreed upon language with the association.
(k)	New York State Disability Benefit shall be utilized along with the Local 46 Trust Fund Disability Plan. The cost of this benefit shall be borne by the Employee,
(1)	The Employer shall notify the Union Business Agent of any job start and any transfer of any Employees covered by this Collective Bargaining Agreement.
(m)	If a MSB? (Member Selective Benefit Plan) is adopted by the Local 46	j
membership, it shall become a part of this Collective Bargaining	|
Agreement.	i
(n)	AI! addendum's to the current Collective Bargaining Agreement shall be incorporated as a part of this contract, including language for our inside work.
(o)	The LMCT shall pursue the promotion of our Industries and all other activities, which will help cnir Industry to grow and help us to combat the non-union.	i
i
(p)	All benefits MUST be up-to-date before a layoff or firing. No Lather	!
shall be laid off or fired unless his salary and benefits are paid.
(q)	Apprentice ratios shall constitute 1 out of 4 Journeymen on the job site,	i
in accordance with the appropriate provisions of the Ironworkers	|
International Constitution.
(r)	Instead of Ninety (90) days before expiration of the CBA, the appropriate section shall read One hundred twenty (120) days.
(s)	The Rules and Regulations of Local 46's Hiring Hall shall be considered as part of this Collective Bargaining Agreement.	ilz
_w 'on wm mm zoonnoo
00 39 Vd
9f W1	-----------
~--------- 9ZZ T6t?ZZ TZ	E T : 01 z&QZ /8 T /01
(t)	The Off-Hour Start and Shift Work shall be compensated at $12,00 per hour above scale in the envelope. When a shift is worked overtime or during a Saturday the wage, fringe and differential shall be paid at time and a half. When the shift is worked during a Holiday or Sunday the wage, fringe and differential shall be paid at double time.
(u)	The Union will teach in its Apprentice School the need for Hard Hats and a safe work environment.
(v)	Unless Prefabricated Reinforcing Mats greater than 3/8" in diameter are in the original specifications of the project they shall not be permitted on the job site.
(5) The Employer and the Union agree that they will be bound by all of the above terms and conditions. The Employer further agrees that it will execute the new Collective Bargaining Agreement when it is prepared and this Memorandum is intended to bind the Employer to all wages, hours of employment and terms and conditions of employment negotiated by Local 46 to become effective July 1,2002 and to remain in full force and effect through June 30,2005.
 S8O13WNO3 1VH3K39___ SOOS 91 LOO
£1=01 Z00S/0T/0I
£0 39Vd
9t> 3V003
9ZSI&t7ZZIS
GENERAL CONTRACTORS ASSOCIATION - METALLIC LATHERS 1999
AGREEMENT
between
GENERAL CONTRACTORS ASSOCIATION OF NEW YORK, INC.
and
LOCAL #46 METALLIC LATHERS UNION AND REINFORCING IRON WORKERS NEW YORK AND VICINITY
JULY 1,1999 - JUNE 30, 2002
LOCAL 46
INDEX	PAGE
Addendum #1	29
Alcoholic Beverages	25
Applicability	24
Area Practice	27
Auditing of Employers' Records	22
Coverage of Additional Employees Under the
Welfare & Pension Funds	22
Coverage of Lathing Work	27
Drug Testing	12
Dues Checkoff	25
Duration of Agreement	23
Foreman	9
Heavy Construction Industry Fund	11
Jurisdictional Disputes	19
Legal Holidays	13
List of Signatories to the Collective
Bargaining Agreement	28
Manning of Jobs	13
Marking of Pay Envelopes	11
New York Plan Trainees	8
Non-Discrimination	12
Off-Hours Shift	7
Overtime Rates
12
Paying by Check	10
Picket Line Clause	25
Shift Work	7
Standard Work Day	7
Recognition & Union Security	2
Removal of Employees Due to Failure to
Pay Fringe Benefits	22
Tide Work	7
Trade Board	18
Timekeeping Devices	8
Validity	24
Wage and Fringe Conditions	8
Working Conditions
15
G.C.A. METALLIC LATHERS LOCAL 46 - 1999
ART. I
AGREEMENT made this 30th day of June, 1999 by and between the members of the General Contractors Association of New York, Inc., and other Employers (hereinafter referred to as "Employer") and Metallic Lathers Union Local 46 (hereinafter referred to as "Union").
WHEREAS, the Employer and Union have entered into an Agreement for Heavy Construction Work dated the 1st day of July, 1969 (hereinafter referred to as "Agreement"); and
WHEREAS, the Employer and Union have conducted extensive and exhaustive collective bargaining negotiations; and
WHEREAS, the Employer and the Union on February 20, 1918 entered into an Agreement setting forth the conditions of employment, rates of pay, and hours to be observed between the parties; and
WHEREAS, said Agreement has continued uninterrupted, subject to amendatory changes from time to time with respect to rates of pay and hours of employment; and
WHEREAS, the parties now desire to again supplement and amend the Agreement of February 20, 1918 with respect, among other things, to rates of pay and hours of employment for the period commencing July 1, 1999 and terminating June 30, 2002.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing, it is mutually agreed as follows:
ARTICLE I
Jurisdiction and Territory Covered
This Agreement covers work performed by the Employer in jurisdiction of the Union on Heavy Construction Work. Said jurisdiction includes the five boroughs of New York City, Nassau, Suffolk, Westchester and the southern section of Rockland County.
If the Employer engages in any class of work not embodied in Heavy Construction Work, as hereinafter defined in Article III, both parties shall comply with all of the Union conditions then existing in that class of work.
1
G.C.A. METALLIC LATHERS LOCAL 46 - 1999
ART. II, III
ARTICLE II
Recognition and Union Security
1.	The Employer recognizes the Union as the sole and exclusive bargaining representative for all lathers in its employ, including foremen, journeymen, apprentices and trainees.
2.	All Employees covered by this Agreement who are not members in good standing of the Union shall be required to become and remain members in good standing of the Union, as a condition of continued employment, on or after the seventh day of such Employee on any job site, or on or after the seventh day following the effective date of this Agreement, whichever is later. All Employees who are members of the Union shall be required to remain members in good standing as a condition of continued employment. If the Union elects not to accept any individual into membership in the Union and elects not to require the payment by such individual of the union's uniform initiation fee and periodic dues, such individual shall be required to pay to the union the uniform and periodic service fees representing the individual's share of the cost of the Union's operation of its Hiring Hall. If any individual fails to comply with the union security requirements of this article, the Employer shall discharge such individual after the Union advises the Employer of such failure by formal written notification.
ARTICLE III
WORK COVERED
The Employer agrees that the work set forth hereinafter is covered by this Agreement and falls within the Union’s exclusive jurisdiction. Such work shall be contracted for by the Employer and assigned to and performed by journeymen lathers represented by the Union. Such contracting and such assignment shall be a term and condition of employment under this Collective Bargaining Agreement.
2
G.C.A. METALLIC LATHERS LOCAL 46 - 1999
ART. Ill
Heavy Construction Work where referred to in this Agreement is hereby defined as the Construction of Engineering Structures and Building Foundations, exclusive of the Erection of Building Superstructures, since this latter work is agreed to be a separate and distinct branch of the Construction Industry.
This Agreement shall apply on the laying and setting of iron and steel and mesh used in fireproof construction, on the cutting and bending of all iron and steel and metal and wire lath or mesh, or sheets for floor arches, and on making of hangers, clips and stirrups; on the fabrication and assembling of all columns, beams and girders of metal or wire lath, iron or steel; on the cutting, bending and setting of all iron and steel and of metal or wire lath or mesh used in construction of reinforced concrete, including the making of hangers, clips and stirrups; on cad welding in all phases such as preheating and grinding of rebars, field prestressing and field post tensioning in all its systems and phases. The foregoing provision shall also apply to fiberglass or any other material when used in the reinforcement of concrete in conjunction with or in place of any of the aforementioned materials. When frames of reinforcing steel, iron or metal lath, or wire lath, or mesh, are made and assembled at the shop by heating processes that cannot be made on the job, the same shall be handled after arriving at the building solely by journeymen lathers; the final and flush cut on all systems except G-lock.
In addition to the aforementioned, small reinforced units such as catch basins and manholes, including covers for same and similar types of units, shall be precast or cast in place on the job site.
When it is within the Employer's control in connection with Precast Concrete Units called for under a construction contract, the Union will endeavor to demonstrate to an Employer that the total cost is less expensive to pour in place, or precast on the job site, rather than use Precast Units manufactured off the job site. This section shall not apply to Prestressed Precast Concrete Units.
3
G.C.A. METALLIC LATHERS LOCAL 46 - 1999
ART. Ill
The Employer will notify the Union in writing of major precast items included in its construction contract, and request a meeting with the Union to discuss this clause.
The Employer and the Union agree to form a committee empowered to make and implement a joint action plan for dealing with precast concrete.
The Employer agrees to endeavor to purchase reinforcing steel from a supplier that has a current collective bargaining agreement with Local 46.
Contractor will endeavor to purchase accessories from shops and manufacturers that employ a lather, providing it is competitive with market prices of other manufacturers.
In addition, the following work shall be under the jurisdiction of Local 46:
(1)	The cutting, assembling, installation and/or erection by any and all methods, of all metal furring, framing, bracketing, studding etc., connected with the construction or installation of the following type of work:
Metal Lath and Plaster Ceilings;
Gypsum Lath and Plaster Ceilings;
All Iron Furring and Gypsum Lath Construction;
Acoustic Ceilings and Iron Furring in connection with same;
Molded Cornice Work;
False and Furred Beams;
Wall, Plaster or Column Furring;
Steel Fireproofing;
Hangers and Inserts for all Ceilings;
Setting Frames to Receive Recessed Lights;
and any and all other types of work involving the use of metal framing and all furring of any and all types; for attaching and/or applying a plastic or precast material or a base therefor.
4
G.C.A. METALLIC LATHERS LOCAL 46 - 1999
ART. Ill
All isolators or insulation material in connection with all types of furring and lathing, or any and all material that take the place of same.
The installation of any and all work in the erection of veneer plaster ceiling systems, soffits and fascia. This work will include the metal track, any and all studding, inserts hangers and carriers, furring channels, which receive boards or lath and is covered by any type of veneer plaster regardless of how plaster substance is applied.
(2)	The attaching, installation and/or erection, by any or all methods of all metal lath or mesh, gypsum lath, plaster board or any other type of base to which plastic or precast material is to be applied or attached.
(3)	The assembling, attaching, installation and/or erection, by any or all methods, of all metal beads, screeds, grounds, molding, plaster stop and casing beads, comer guards, partition ends, casings, base, or any other metal specialty of any description intended to establish a finished line for a plastic material.
(4)	The assembling, attaching, installation and/or erection, by any or all methods of all work incidental to, or directly related to the contents of the foregoing subdivisions 1,2, and 3 of this Article. The foregoing includes work of unloading, carrying, hoisting materials and building scaffolds on the job sites.
(5)	The cutting, bending, fabrication, installation, construction and erection of all hangers and carriers (purlins) used in the construction of all ceiling systems, suspended or not, including all acoustical and drywall fascias and soffits.
(6)	The fabrication and installation of all the components involved in the assembly, erection and construction of wire lath walls, ceilings and partitions.
(7)	The fabrication and installation of all the components involved in the assembly, erection and construction of all veneer coated fascias, soffits and ceilings.
5
G.C.A. METALLIC LATHERS LOCAL 46 - 1999
ART. Ill
(8)	The fabrication and installation of all the components involved in the assembly, erection and construction of all suspended ceilings.
(9)	The installation of any and all types of isolators used in conjunction with any type of ceiling system.
(10)	Frames of reinforcing steel or units made of iron, metal lath, wire lath or mesh, which have been made and assembled before arriving at the job shall be handled after arrival at the job by employees covered by this agreement.
(11)	Each employee covered by this agreement shall keep himself provided with all the tools necessary for the proper performance of the work which he is called upon to do, excepting machines, cutters, punchers, vises, lasers, water levels, reels and belts.
(12)	The Union agrees that there shall be no restrictions on the use of machinery, tools, appliances or methods. Foreman, journeymen and apprentices shall operate and maintain all machinery, tools and appliances used by them in their work; including but not limited to diameter discs, cutting blades, punches and air and gas valves and welding equipment.
(13)	Compensation for the theft of tools must be submitted to and settled by the Trade Board provided for in this agreement.
(14)	It is agreed that shanties, or lockers, will be provided at the job site so that employees may change their clothes and store clothes and tools.
(15)	The Employer further agrees that the work set forth hereinafter is covered by this agreement, and that such work shall be contracted for by the Employer and assigned to and performed by Journeymen lathers and that such contracting and such assignments shall be a term and condition of employment under this agreement.
The Employer agrees that all of the above referenced work is work falling within the traditional jurisdiction of employees represented by the Union and such work will be assigned to and performed by Journeymen lathers represented by the Union.
6
G.C.A. METALLIC LATHERS LOCAL 46 - 1999
ART. IV
ARTICLE IV
Standard Workday
(1)	Hours
The Workday shall be seven (7) hours, to wit: from eight (8:00) A.M. to three-thirty (3:30) P.M. Lunch shall be taken between eleven thirty (11:30) A.M. and one (1:00) P.M., but no later than five (5) hours after the commencement of work. The normal working days shall be Monday to Friday, inclusive.
(2)	Flextime
An Employer may start all of his Lathers at either seven (7:00) A.M. or eight (8:00) AM and work a seven hour day and shall be paid seven (7) hours at the straight time rate. Lunch shall be one half (1/2) hour and shall be taken no later than five (5) hours from the start of work. The Employer must notify the Union two (2) days prior to start of flextime and it shall be for five (5) consecutive days for a total of seven (7) days.
13)	Tide Work
All or part of the work crew may commence any time between seven (7:00) A.M. and nine (9:00) A.M. on tide work at the straight time rate for seven (7) hours of work.
(4)	Shift Work
On 2 or 3 shift jobs, Lathers shall work eight (8) hours, with one half (1/2) hour for lunch and shall receive nine (9) hours pay at the straight time rate.
(5)	Off Hour Start
An Employer may work an off-shift, which must begin after 3:30 P.M. and end before 6:00 A.M. The wage for the first seven hours of the off-shift shall be paid at the straight time rate plus ten dollars ($10.00) per hour; fringes shall be paid at the straight time rate. All hours after seven (7) hours shall be paid at the time and one-half rate.
7
G.C.A. METALLIC LATHERS LOCAL 46 -1999
ART. IV, V
6)	Timekeeping devices
The Employee shall not be required to set up or operate any timekeeping device except during the normal workday.
ARTICLE V
Wage and Fringe Benefits
(1)	Wages: The following increase in wage rates or fringe benefits will be effective for foremen and journeymen on the following dates with the understanding that the Union shall have the right to allocate to fringe benefit contributions any portion of the amount set forth below on the dates set forth below. Any amounts so allocated by the Union to fringe benefit contributions shall not be considered to be wage increases due to Employees and shall not be considered to be a reduction in wages. Provided, however, that the right of allocation shall be that of the Union, and any determination by the Union that an amount shall be allocated to fringe benefit contributions shall not constitute said amount as any wage increase. The amount so allocated shall not be considered wages and shall not be considered as part of the income of Employees. The Union shall also have the right to determine that any portion of said wage increase might be used to increase the amount of dues checkoff:
Effective July 1,1999 $ 1.80 per hour
+ $0.10 Apprentice Training
Effective July 1, 2000 $2.50 per hour + $0.10 Apprentice Training
Effective July 1,2001 $2.90 per hour +$0.10 Apprentice Training
Effective July 1, 1999, the Employer shall contribute ten cents ($0.10) per hour worked
or paid for to the Heavy Construction Industry Fund.
The wage rate for Apprentices and Trainees during their first year of training shall be set at the rate of $ 19.12. Apprentices and Trainees in their second year of training shall be set at 50% of the hourly rate of pay of journeymen lathers inclusive of Vacation, Annuity, Dues & PAC. Apprentices and Trainees in their third year of training shall be set at the rate of 60% of
8
G.C.A. METALLIC LATHERS LOCAL 46 - 1999
ART. V
the hourly rate of pay of journeymen lathers inclusive of Vacation, Annuity, Dues & PAC. Apprentices and trainees in their fourth year of training are to be paid at the rate of 70% of the journeymen’s rate inclusive of Vacation, Annuity, Dues & PAC. Such rates shall become effective during the first year of apprenticeship or training and at the beginning of an individual’s second and third years of apprenticeship and training.
The following table sets forth the wage rate and fringe benefit contributions effective July 1, 1999:
		7/1/99
I.	Hourly Rate	$28.40
II	Hourly Vacation Rate	$4.00
III.	Hourly Contribution to Annuity Fund	$7.25
IV.	Hourly Welfare Contribution	$6.31
V.	Hourly Pension Rate	$4.35
VI.	Hourly Contribution to New York Lathers	
	Apprenticeship Fund	$0.53
VII.	Hourly Contribution to Scholarship Fund	$0.08
VIII.	Hourly Contribution to Promotional Fund	$0.02
IX.	Industry Advancement Fund (HCIF)	$0.10
X.	Dues Checkoff	$ 1.30
XI.	Union Security Fund	$ 0.05
xn.	PAC	$0.02
XIII.	Iron Workers Political Education Fund	$0.03
This Agreement is based on the principle that the Employer is entitled to seven hours
actual work for seven hours pay. Any unreasonable failure to work these hours gives the Employer the right to pay only for the hours actually worked.
(2)	A foreman shall man every job. It is agreed that a single Journeyman lather can be employed on preliminary work, in which case he shall be paid foreman's wages, which shall be two dollars ($2.00) per hour above the Journeyman’s rate. Foreman shall receive two dollars ($2.00) per hour above the Journeyman's rate. In the event of overtime, said foreman's pay shall be prorated. In order for the foreman
9
G.C.A. METALLIC LATHERS LOCAL 46 - 1999
ART. V
to receive the straight payroll week’s salary, he must be employed for three consecutive payroll weeks before qualifying for the straight payroll weeks salary, but he shall be paid holidays and for inclement days. Such preliminary employment, however, shall not restrict the Employer’s right to bring in another foreman at a later date.
If said Employer requests that his employees work on Saturday, Sunday or a holiday and due to inclement conditions they are unable to work, the Foreman shall be paid 7 hours for said day at the appropriate overtime rate.
The Union shall have the right to designate a Shop Steward on each job.
(3)	The Employer shall have the right to pay Employees by check, provided that checks shall be delivered to Employees not later than three (3) days after the end of the work week, as defined hereafter, and provided further that the Employer has complied with the bonding provisions of this agreement. If an Employer does not provide check-cashing facilities for Lathers, the Employer shall reimburse Lathers up to $8.00 per check when the Lather provides proof of incurring this expense for the cashing of the check.
If an Employer issues a check to an Employee and the check is returned for insufficient funds or negligence on the part of the Employer, exclusive of bank error, a penalty of fourteen (14) hours shall be imposed.
If for any reason the Employer terminates the services of any Employee working under this Agreement, the accrued wages including benefits of that Employee shall be paid to him before the end of the workday. Otherwise, waiting time shall be charged for accrued wages. If any Employee shall, of his own volition, leave the service of his Employer, then his Employer may retain his wages and stamps until the next regular pay day.
Unless delay is caused by conditions beyond the control of the Employer, if men are not paid as specified above, they shall be paid waiting time until paid not to exceed fourteen (14) hours. The Employer agrees that lay-off checks shall be on the job-site before the end of the
10
G.C.A. METALLIC LATHERS LOCAL 46 - 1999
ART. V
working day. Otherwise, waiting time shall apply.
(4)	The workweek shall begin at 8:00 A.M. on Monday and end at 7:59 A.M. on the following Monday. If an Employer elects to pay employees by check, Employees must receive such checks on the Wednesday following the close of the workweek.
An Employer is not permitted to change the workweek or its method of payment of wages to Employees once such method is adopted, unless approval for such change is secured in writing from the Union.
(5)	The Employer agrees that all fringe benefits, including but not limited to, contributions to the Metal Lathers Local 46 Trust Fund, Metal Lathers Local 46 Pension Fund and others, shall be paid on pay day at the job site by check payable to the Metal Lathers Fund, and such payment must be accompanied by the reporting forms required to be filed by the Employer. The present system for Employer contributions to the Vacation and Annuity Funds shall remain in effect.
(6)	The Employer shall be required to mark plainly all pay envelopes with the Employee's name and number, the number of hours he has worked, his social security number, all deductions made from his wages for social security, taxes, or any other legitimate or proper purpose, and the net amount of the Employee's pay. The Employer shall be required to post in the shanty on the job site the insurance company or other carrier, which is responsible for its workmen's compensation coverage. The Employer shall not make any deductions from the wages of Employees for or on account of New York State Disability Insurance. If it is not paid by the Trust Fund, the Employer shall be permitted to make appropriate and legal deductions.
(7)	Commencing July 1, 1999, all Employers covered by this Agreement shall voluntarily contribute ten cents ($0.10 cents) for each hour worked by or paid to Lathers to the Heavy Construction Industry Fund. All Employer contributions to the Heavy Construction Industry Fund shall be remitted to the office of the Metal
11
G.C.A. METALLIC LATHERS LOCAL 46 - 1999
ART. V,VI
Lathers Local 46 Trust Fund, which shall provide the Employer with payroll reporting forms for such purpose. The office of the Fund shall deliver all such contributions to the Heavy Construction Industry Fund after verifying that the Employer has correctly computed the amount of each such contribution.
The Heavy Construction Industry Fund shall reimburse the Metal Lathers Local 46 Trust Fund for all expenses incurred in receiving, recording, auditing, etc. in connection with receipt and transmittal of these contributions.
DRUG TESTING
The Employer and Union agree that when required by a contract of any City, State, Federal and/or quasi-public agency or public utility to test the Employees covered by this Agreement for drugs and/or alcohol abuse, they shall comply.
NON-DISCRIMINATION
The parties to this agreement agree that neither they, nor any of the representatives of any of them, shall discriminate in any manner, against any worker, foreman or other individual by reason of race, color, creed, religion, national origin, age, sex, union membership or nonmembership, marital status, citizenship status, disability or sexual orientation.
ARTICLE VI
Overtime Rates
Time and one half shall be paid for all work performed on Saturday and for all work performed in excess of seven (7) hours on a week day, except when work is being performed under Article IV, Section (4). Double time shall be paid for all work performed on Sunday and all legal holidays.
12
G.C.A. METALLIC LATHERS LOCAL 46 - 1999
ART. VI, VII, VIII
In the event that a man shall be transferred from his regular job at 3:30 P.M. to another of the Employer's job sites, to which he reports as soon as is reasonably possible and proceeds to work, he shall be deemed to have been continuously employed during that time and shall receive the overtime rate therefor.
ARTICLE VII
Legal Holidays
The term "Legal Holidays" or days observed as such by the Nation or State of New York,
or by proclamation, where used in this Agreement shall mean:	
New Year's Day	Labor Day
Washington's Birthday	Columbus Day
Good Friday	Election Day (in Presidential year only)
Memorial Day	Thanksgiving Day
Fourth of July	Christmas Day
Work on Christmas Eve and New Year's Eve will terminate at 12:00 Noon, but the men will be paid for the full day. If the men are required to work after 12:00 Noon, they will be paid at double time for hours thereafter worked. If Employees do not show for work they will not receive any pay for the said day. If an Employee reports to work on Christmas Eve or New Year's Eve and cannot start for any reason, including inclement weather, he shall receive three (3) hours pay at the straight time rate. If Christmas or New Year's Day falls on a Sunday or Monday, men will work on Friday until Noon and receive a full day's pay.
ARTICLE VIII
Manning of Jobs
Whenever the Employer notifies the Union that employment vacancies exist and requests the Union to furnish workmen, the Union agrees that within forty-eight (48) hours from said request such workmen shall be furnished in the manner set forth:
13
G.C.A. METALLIC LATHERS LOCAL 46 - 1999
ART. VIII
(1)	The Union shall establish and maintain an open employment list for the employment of competent workmen in accordance with the Rules and Procedures For Operation of Hiring Hall dated August 17, 1971, and presently in effect, and all referrals shall be made pursuant to said Rules and Procedures.
(2)	The Employer shall retain the absolute and unconditional right with just cause to reject any workmen referred by the Union. The Employer shall have the absolute right to lay off any employee from any job either because of a lack of work or because of the Employer's determination that the Employee does not have the ability to perform the required tasks. The Employer’s judgment as to an Employee's ability to perform a particular job shall not be subject to any dispute by the Union.
(3)	The cost and expense of establishing and maintaining the open list and of the referrals therefrom shall be borne by all of the registrants thereon. In the case of registrants who are not members of the Union their share of such costs and expenses shall not exceed a sum equal to the pro rata share of the cost and expense of operating the employment list and the referrals therefrom which is being borne by members of the Union by the payment of Union dues. Within seven (7) days from the date of this agreement or of the date of registry on the list, whichever is later, the Union may require that registrants incur the obligation of making monthly payments of their share of such cost and expenses. Failure of a registrant to make payment to such cost and expenses shall constitute grounds for removal from such list and shall nullify any prior referral therefrom.
(4)	The parties to this Agreement shall post in places where notices to Employees and applicants for employment are customarily posted, this entire Article VIII.
(5)	The Hiring Hall shall be the exclusive source of workmen and no hiring shall be done at the job site.
14
G.C.A. METALLIC LATHERS LOCAL 46 - 1999
ART. IX
ARTICLE IX
Working Conditions
There shall be a Working Shop Steward on each job. Said Steward shall be the first man employed on the job subsequent to the Foreman and shall be appointed by the Business Agent from among any qualified member in the Union, whether or not he is employed by that particular company. The Working Shop Steward will man all concrete pours, which cover reinforcing steel on the job while the concrete is being poured. This shall not apply to road mats and mesh on roads and in curbs where there is no right angle steel. This shall be the practice except when it is obvious that less or more men shall be required. The use of safety equipment by the Employee is mandatory and the failure to use such equipment and appliances shall be grounds for immediate dismissal.
The Employer shall notify the Union when a job is started. Every job shall be manned by a foreman. It is agreed that a single journeyman lather can be employed for preliminary work, in which case he shall be paid foremens wages. Such preliminary employment however does not establish foremanship nor shall it restrict the Employer’s right to appoint as foreman any lathers subsequently employed.
The cutting of all reinforcing steel rods 5/8" or over in thickness, may be done at the mill if desired by the Employer not including the final or flush cut on G lock or similar systems.
The cutting of all reinforcing steel rods under 5/8" in thickness, only when same are 8 feet or over in length, may be done at the mill, if desired by the Employer.
When desired by the Employer, with written permission of the Union, the cutting of reinforcing steel rods may be done in a shop where lathers are employed for same, instead of on the job.
Employees shall provide themselves with a suitable kit of tools necessary for the proper carrying out of the work.
15
G.C.A. METALLIC LATHERS LOCAL 46 - 1999
ART. IX
However, the Employer shall provide gloves and aprons for Employees on bench or machine work, and the Employer shall supply hard hats, reels and belts. There shall be no restrictions on the use of any machinery, tools, appliances or methods.
Neither party during the life of this Agreement is to adopt any by-law or attempt to enforce any working rule or regulation which is contrary to any of the clauses in this Agreement. Neither shall either party attempt to enforce any working rules, which have not been approved by the Joint Trade Board.
No person representing the Union, except its business representatives, shall have the right to interview the workman during business hours. The business representatives shall comply with all general conditions of the job regarding passes, entrance to be used, etc. The journeymen shall have the privilege of working for whomever they see fit, according to the terms of this Agreement, and the Employers are at liberty to employ, transfer, or discharge whomever they see fit, according to the terms of this Agreement.
The business agents of the Union shall have access to the work at all times and be responsible for the action of the Union hereunder.
The Union or its representatives shall not order a strike or stoppage of work nor shall the Employees strike against any Employer, or collectively leave the work of an Employer. The Employer shall not lock out Employees prior to filing a complaint or pending the adjustment of any existing disputes. The only exception shall be caused by the failure of the Employer to comply with Article XII, Section (6).
The foregoing does not deny the right of the Union to render assistance to other labor organizations by removing its members from jobs, when combined action by all trades is officially ordered; but no removal shall take place until formal notice is first given to the Secretary of the Trade Association involved.
16
G.C.A. METALLIC LATHERS LOCAL 46 - 1999
ART. IX
Lathers will operate all machines and equipment used by them in the performance of their work. They will replace all diameter discs, cutting blades and punches used in the performance of their duties and they shall operate and/or set air and gas valves used in the performance of their duties.
There shall be three (3) men on a bending machine.
All welding of any items pertaining to reinforced concrete shall be performed exclusively by lathers on the job site. The handling of such materials and equipment that is provided by the Employer shall be the exclusive work of lathers covered by this collective bargaining agreement; provided that this does not include the handling of welding machines.
Lathers shall not be required when additions to concrete (i.e., Fiber) do not replace mesh or reinforcing steel.
Prefabricated Reinforced Mats greater than 3/8" in diameter shall not be permitted on jobsites without being in the original specifications of the project.
Any product which replaces reinforcing steel in concrete shall be the exclusive work of Local 46.
All cutting and bending of steel shall be done on the jobsite.
The Employer agrees that it will not subcontract any work covered by this Agreement and to be performed at the job site to a contractor who does not have a collective bargaining agreement with the Union. Any subcontracting of work covered by this Agreement and to be performed at the job site shall only be to a contractor, who is a party to a collective bargaining agreement with the Union.
The Union Work Rules are attached to and made part of this Agreement as Addendum #1 on page 29.
17
G.C.A. METALLIC LATHERS LOCAL 46 - 1999
ART.X
ARTICLE X
Trade Board
A Trade Board shall be established consisting of three (3) members of the Association and three (3) members of the Union. Within two (2) weeks after the signing of this Agreement, each of the parties hereto shall appoint or elect its representatives on the Trade Board. These representatives shall hold office until their successors are appointed or elected.
The function of the Trade Board shall be the general enforcement of this Agreement. It shall interpret the provisions and shall adjust all disputes arising hereunder, regardless of the sources of the complaints. Its decisions shall be final and binding on the parties hereto.
In every case, complaints and charges shall be presented to the Trade Board in writing.
The Trade Board shall meet upon the call of its Chairman or Secretary.
At all meetings of said Trade Board, both sides shall have an equal number of votes on all questions, whether all their members are present or not. Upon request by any directly interested party, said Trade Board shall meet within twenty-four (24) hours after a complaint or charge, and shall render a decision as promptly as consistent with the circumstances.
Any Employer Member of the Trade Board directly involved in any case shall withdraw from the Board until the case is settled, and an alternate shall be selected by the remaining Employer Members to fill the said temporary vacancy.
18
G.C.A. METALLIC LATHERS LOCAL 46 - 1999
ART. X, XI
Any Union Member of the Trade Board directly involved in any case shall withdraw from the Board until the case is settled, and an alternate shall be selected by the remaining Union Members to fill the said temporary vacancy.
In the event of a tie vote or failure to reach a decision upon any complaint or charge brought before it in the matter, the matter shall be submitted to an impartial arbitrator to be mutually agreed upon by the parties. If such selection is not made within a reasonable time, the Chairman of the New York State Employment Relations Board will designate the additional member. Said arbitrator shall render his decision as speedily as possible thereafter, and said decision shall be final and binding on the parties hereto.
An accurate record of all proceedings of said Trade Board shall be kept by a Secretary appointed by the Board from among its members, and a copy of same shall be furnished to each of the parties hereto.
Each party hereto shall pay one-half the expenses of the said Trade Board. It is mutually agreed that there shall be no cessation of any work in connection with which there may be a complaint or charge, but that all such work shall regularly proceed pending the decision of the Trade Board.
Any penalties, which may result from the findings or decisions of the Trade Board, are to be fixed and imposed by the Association or the Union, as the case may be, to which the member affected may belong.
ARTICLE XI
Jurisdictional Disputes
Disputes between trades and disputes relative to questions of jurisdiction of trades shall be adjusted in accordance with the principles of the New York Plan for the Settlement of Jurisdictional Disputes, as set forth in the Joint Arbitration Plan of the New York Building Trades as adopted on July 9, 1903, and amended on April 22, 1905, and as
19
G.C.A. METALLIC LATHERS LOCAL 46 - 1999
ART. XI, XH
thereafter amended, and all decisions rendered thereunder determining disputes arising out of the conflicting jurisdictional claims of various trades shall be recognized by and be binding upon the parties hereto, except to the extent that Section 3 of the said Joint Arbitration Plan requires the Employer to employ only members of the Union, directly or indirectly, through subcontractors, or otherwise.
Pending the determination of any dispute under the New York Plan for the Settlement of Jurisdictional Disputes as stated in the preceding paragraph, the members of the Union shall remain at work on the project without change in status.
ARTICLE XII
Welfare and Pension Funds; Vacation, Annuity and Scholarship Funds; New York Lather Apprenticeship and Promotion Funds
(1)	(a) Employers shall contribute to the Metal Lathers Trust (Welfare) Fund Local 46 established by the Agreement and Declaration of Trust entered into as of the 2nd of May, 1946 at the stipulated hourly rate as shown in Article V, Paragraph (1) of this Agreement.
(b)	Employers shall contribute to the Pension Fund Metal Lathers Local 46 established by the Agreement and Declaration of Trust entered into as of the 30th day of June, 1950, at the stipulated hourly rate as shown in Article V, Paragraph (1) of this Agreement.
(c)	Employers shall contribute to the New York Lathers Apprenticeship Fund and the Promotion Fund at the stipulated hourly rates as shown in Article V, Paragraph (1) of this Agreement.
20
G.C.A. METALLIC LATHERS LOCAL 46 - 1999
ART. XII
(d)	Employers shall contribute to the Metal Lathers Local 46 Vacation Fund established by the Agreement and Declaration of Trust entered into as of the 1st day of January, 1961 at the stipulated hourly rates as shown in Article V, Paragraph (1) of this Agreement.
(e)	Employers shall contribute to the Metal Lathers Local 46 Annuity Fund established by the Agreement and Declaration of Trust entered into as of the 1st day of January, 1965 at the stipulated hourly rate as shown in Article V, Paragraph (1) of this Agreement.
(f)	Employers shall contribute to the Metal Lathers Local 46 Scholarship Fund at the hourly rate set forth in Article V, Paragraph (1) of this Agreement.
Employers shall be bound by all of the provisions of said Agreements and Declarations of Trust creating said Funds as the same may be written or amended by the parties hereto. The aforesaid hourly rates shall be applied only to straight time hourly rates of pay as provided in Article V of this Agreement. Contributions to the Welfare Fund, Pension Fund, Vacation Fund, Scholarship Fund, Apprentice Fund, Annuity Fund, Job Training Fund and Working Assessment, including the premium portion of overtime, shall be computed on the basis of hours paid. Contributions to the Heavy Construction Industry Fund and the Promotional Fund shall be made on the hours paid including the premium portion of overtime.
(2)	The Employer agrees that all contributions to all Funds referred to herein shall be paid on payday at the job site by check payable to the Metal Lathers Fund, which check shall be accompanied by the reporting forms required to be filed.
(3)	No Employer shall at any time be or become responsible for the contribution of any other Employer.
21
G.C.A. METALLIC LATHERS LOCAL 46 - 1999
ART. XII
(4)	Every Employer covered by this Agreement shall provide a Surety Bond to guarantee payment of contributions to the Welfare, Pension, Vacation, Annuity and Scholarship Funds as provided for herein.
Said Surety Bond shall be in the following amounts:
An Employer employing 1 to 5 Employees	$ 5,000
An Employer employing 6 to 10 Employees	$10,000
An Employer employing 11 to 15 Employees	$15,000
An Employer employing 16 to 25 Employees	$25,000
An Employer employing 26 and over Employees	$50,000
Any Employer who is delinquent in paying his fringe benefit contributions shall
pay six percent (6%) on all late payments per annum.
(5)	Whenever an Employer is in default to the Welfare and Pension Funds, the New York Lathers Apprenticeship and Promotion Fund, the Vacation Fund, Annuity Fund, or Scholarship Fund, the Union may remove Employees covered by this Agreement from the work of such Employer. If such men who are removed remain at the job site during regular working hours, they shall be paid for lost time not to exceed three (3) days' pay.
6)	In addition to providing coverage for those persons employed as lathers under the provisions of this Agreement, the Metal Lathers Trust Fund, Local 46, and the Pension Fund Metal Lathers Local 46, covers those officers, business agents and employees of the Union for whose benefit the Union pays Employer contributions in the same amounts as are contributed by Employers on the wage of employees working a full work week.
22
G.C.A. METALLIC LATHERS LOCAL 46 - 1999
ART. XII, XIII
(7)	If an Employer fails to send in monthly and/or weekly reports or sends in incorrect reports to the Metal Lathers Local 46 Funds, the Union shall have the right to have a certified public accountant, designated by the Union, conduct a full and complete examination of the Employer’s payroll books and records, and the Employer shall bear the full cost of any fees or charges of such certified public accountant.
(8)	The first time a benefit check is returned for insufficient funds, if not corrected within three (3) days, the Employer shall be required to pay weekly by certified check for the remainder of the job.
(9)	The Employer agrees that, by the execution of this collective bargaining agreement, it has agreed to abide and be bound by the agreements and declarations of Trust establishing the Metal Lathers Local 46 Trust Fund, the Metal Lathers Local 46 Pension Fund, the New York Lathers Apprentices Foreman, the Metal Lathers Local 46 Annuity Funds, the Metal Lathers Local 46 Scholarship Fund; as such agreements and declarations of Trust may now exist or be hereafter amended. The Employer also agrees to accept and approve the designation of the Employer trustees by the various Employers and associations, and be bound by the actions of said Employer trustees as designated in and said agreements and declarations of trust their successors; as if the Employer had originally consented to the appointment of such trustee.
The Employer also agrees to make the contributions referred to in this agreement to all of the aforesaid funds and/or trusts and to make it said contributions in accordance with the agreements and declarations of Trust for each of the said trusts and/or funds, together with such interest and penalties as may be provided for in said
23
G.C.A. METALLIC LATHERS LOCAL 46 - 1999
ART. XII, XIII
agreements and declarations of Trust if payments are delinquent. The Employer also agrees to the rules and regulations adopted by the trustees of each of the said funds and further agrees to recognize and abide by the right of the trustees of each of the aforesaid funds to audit the books and records of the Employer to ascertain that the Employers contributions are being properly made to all of the said funds. The Employer agrees to pay the costs of such audit and all expenses involved therewith.
(10)	Subcontracting - In the event that any subcontractor, or subcontractor of a subcontractor, fails to make timely contributions to the Local 46 Welfare Fund, Pension Fund, Vacation Fund, Scholarship Fund, Apprentice Fund, Annuity Fund, Job Training Fund and Working Assessment, as required by this Agreement, and if the Union, by an officer, upon written notice, notifies the Employer and the Association that the subcontractor is not in compliance, the Employer shall be responsible for such non-compliance for the period beginning two (2) working days after the receipt of such notice.
ARTICLE XIII
Duration of Agreement
(1)	This Agreement shall become effective July 1, 1999 and shall remain in full force and effect from July 1, 1999 to and including June 30, 2002 and shall continue thereafter for periods of three (3) years, unless written notice to modify or terminate the agreement is served in writing by either party upon the other at least ninety (90) days before June 30, 2002, or any subsequent date, for three (3) year periods thereafter.
(2)	This Agreement may not be amended, altered or modified, except by an
24
G.C.A. METALLIC LATHERS LOCAL 46 - 1999
ART. XIII, XIV, XV
instrument in writing signed by both parties hereto. It is further agreed that neither party, during the life of this agreement, will adopt or attempt to enforce any By-Laws, Working Rules or Regulations, which is contrary to any of the terms of this Agreement, unless the same has been agreed upon and approved by an instrument in writing signed by both parties hereto.
ARTICLE XIV
Validity
If the Court shall decide any part of this Agreement is illegal, it shall not invalidate other portions, it being the sole intent and purpose of this Agreement to promote peace and harmony in craft along lawful lines.
Any provision in this Agreement, which provides for union security or employment in a manner and to an extent prohibited by any law or determination of any Board or Government Agency shall be and hereby is declared to be of no force during the term of such prohibition. In the event that there shall be any change in applicable laws as to union security, the parties shall renegotiate any provisions concerning union security.
ARTICLE XV
Applicability
The Employer will provide the Union with a list of its members and any other Employers who have designated it as their bargaining agent and who have agreed to be bound by the terms and conditions of this collective bargaining agreement. In addition, the Employer will notify the Union of any changes in membership either by the addition of new members or of the dropping of members during the period of this agreement. It is further agreed that all members of the Employer Association are bound by this collective bargaining agreement, entitled to its benefits, and subject to its obligations until the
25
G.C.A. METALLIC LATHERS LOCAL 46 - 1999
ART. XV, XVI, XVII, VIII
termination date, whether or not they retain their membership in the Employer Association for the full period of this Agreement.
ARTICLE XVI
Dues Checkoff
It is agreed that the Union institute a dues checkoff from wages as set forth herein after thirty (30) days' notice to the Association. Said dues checkoff shall provide for Employee authorizations and shall be in conformity with all applicable laws.
ARTICLE XVII
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Alcoholic beverages, including but not limited to beer and wine, shall not be permitted on the job during working hours.
ARTICLE XVIII
Picket Line Clause
It shall not be a violation of this Agreement, and it shall not be cause for discipline or discharge, if employees covered by this Agreement refuse to cross a primary picket line of a labor organization affiliated with the Building and Construction Trades Council of New York, or any other Building and Construction Trades Council.
26
G.C.A. METALLIC LATHERS LOCAL 46 - 1999
ART. XIX
ARTICLE XIX
Coverage of Lathing Work
It is agreed that if any Employer contracts for work or performs lathing work falling within the jurisdiction of this Union, as such jurisdiction is set forth in the Union’s collective bargaining agreement with the employing of metallic furring and lathing contractors association of New York, the Employer agrees that all the terms of this collective bargaining agreement shall be applicable to the performance of such work.
ARTICLE XX
Area Practice
The Employer agrees that all area practices followed and observed in the Union’s jurisdiction by contractors having collective bargaining agreements with the Union shall be followed and observed on all job sites of the Employer on which journeymen lathers represented by the Union are employed.
Dated July 1, 1999
27
G.C.A. METALLIC LATHERS LOCAL 46 - 1999
FOR, AND ON BEHALF OF AND AUTHORIZED BY, THE MEMBERS OF THE GENERAL CONTRACTORS ASSOCIATION OF NEW YORK, INC. AND OTHER EMPLOYERS, WHO HAVE APPOINTED THE GENERAL CONTRACTORS ASSOCIATION OF NEW YORK, INC. AS THEIR COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGENT, WHOSE NAMES ARE ATTACHED HERETO IN EXHIBIT I
FOR THE METALLIC LATHERS UNION LOCAL 46
ADDENDUM #1
WORK RULES LOCAL 46
1.	A minimum of three men on the cutting and bending machine.
2.	On beams and columns all number six bars or over will be tied with #14 gauge wire or #16 gauge wire doubled.
3.	All decks will be marked and subsequent decks remarked.
4.	All mats on horses will be tied securely.
5.	Slab chairs will be placed 4’0” on center and high chairs 3’0” on center, except where plans indicate otherwise.
6.	There will be no broken time (lay-off is pay-off).
7.	The lather will fabricate his own wall spreaders and place them 4’0” on center and
1	’0” from top and bottom. If the footing dowels are utilized, the bottom spreaders may be eliminated.
8.	All columns will be centered in form.
9.	All bars on walls #8 and over will be tied with double wire or #14 gauge wire, the
setup will be saddled, there will be no snap tieing on walls. Walls shall be tied solid when spacing is over 10” or over.
10.	Slabs shall be tied solid when bars are 10” or over on center.
11.	Foremen and contractor will check with the B.A. at the start of a job in reference to the Shop Steward, Tag-Writer and other positions in accordance with Section 21 of the Local Union Constitution.
12.	Only Local 46 Lathers shall be involved when placing fabricated work.
13.	When placing bars, individual columns, beams or any other fabricated product by crane, the hooking up signal and placing of same shall be performed by Local 46 Lathers.
14.	No Lather shall work more than one job per day without permission of the Business Agent.
15.	Bar spaces on spiral columns shall be placed by Local 46 members on jobsite.
29
Affiliations
Aw Kir AN l:l III R MIPM Of Mix'* ttrii king Th mu a IIiimumhi «n
Ami RICAN' Il PI R A I TON t>l Laih>i
N.Y. Si ah Fti>i MtroNoi I,amor Dl'fl KING A NIT Cl ins I Rl't'IIIIN i'«ADI X < '< >«N< <1
N ASSAtf ANpSl'f I III «. CtH'NIr lllltl PING I rAPI S ClUINl It
Wl 11*111 M I R (*I>1<NIY illlll HING TmahisCppni it
l-l Pl RA1IHN Pl I.AIMIR III WtSioiistin GinNn
JlUNI l.AnOR CilMMIl It I UN III AVV (.'IINSIMPCIKIN ANH It All RllAP WoRfc. Al HI IAII D wihi tin Ami khan t'l 111 R A III IN III I.ARPR
'tin 11 AMI I licit PING I'm API S C<IIIN« II 11 RUNS 111 IA HP III 111'SINI ss Al.f NtS
LOCAL No. 46 METALLIC LATHERS ONION AND REINFORCING IRON WORKERS New York and Vicinity 1322 THIRD AVENUE NEW YORK, N.Y. 10021 Telephone: UEgent 7 — 0500-0501-0502
JAMES IJINCAN. Prcsi.lrnt
EtlEll LE MOtNK, BuainrM Manager & Financial Secy-Treat.
llutineta Agrnlit lUlBEim.EhWrril. MIKE EHENCH. TEK11Y MUOUE. KENNY ALLEN
Regular Meeting Second Tuesday
Special Meeting Fourth Tueiday of Each Month
Executive Meeting)
First and Third Friday
of Each Month
Mdiil I.at hers Trust, Pension A Vacation I'unds — Telephone LE 5-2J2J
STANDARD AGREEMENT WAGES AND FRINGE BENEFITS JULY 1. 1999 TO JUNE 30, 2000
$28.40 BASE WAGE
1.30 DUES CHECK-OFF .02 P.A.C. CONTRIBUTION .03 IPEF CONTRIBUTION .05 UNION SECURITY FUND
4,00 VACATION CONTRIBUTION $33.80 HOURLY TAXABLE WAGE .
FOREMEN MAKE AN ADDITIONAL $2.00 MORE PER HOUR
TRUST FUND CONTRIBUTION FOR JOURNEYMEN" BENEFIT CHECK IS TO BE SENT TO JOBSITE WITH PAYROLL AND APPROPRIATE TRUST FUND PAPERWORK
$4.35 PENSION
6.31 WELFARE
.53 APPRENTICE FUND
.02 PROMOTIONAL FUND
.08 SCHOLARSHIP FUND
.11IAP PROGRAM
.01 DRUG PROGRAM
$ 11.41 FRINGE BENEFIT
1.30 UNION DUES
,05 UNION SECURITY
.05 POLITICAL ACTION
4.00 VACATION
7.25 ANNUITY
$24.06 TOTAL AMOUNT PER HOUR
OVERTIME IS TIME AND A HALF ON EVERYTHING
SUNDAY & HOLIDAYS DOUBLE TIME ON EVERYTHING
APPRENTICE WAGE ON SEPARATE SHEET