> Laborers - Kansas City
4-1-03 - 3-31-07
LABORERS JOINT AGREEMENT
J, S'tiQlwtlM

THIS AGREEMENT is entered into by and between THE BUILDERS’ ASSOCIATION, hereinafter referred to as the "Association", and LABORERS LOCALS NO. 264 and NO. 1290 and the WESTERN MISSOURI AND KANSAS LABORERS’ DISTRICT COUNCIL OF THE LABORERS INTERNATIONAL UNION OF NORTH AMERICA, AFL-CIO, hereinafter referred to as the "Union".
DECLARATION OF PURPOSES
To prevent strikes and lockouts and to facilitate peaceful adjustment of grievances and disputes between employers and employees,
To prevent waste and unnecessary and avoidable delays and expense,
To aid in securing for the employers sufficient skilled workmen at all times, ,7 To provide for Labor continuous employment insofar as possible, such employment to be in accordance with the conditions herein set forth and at the wages agreed upon,
To stabilize conditions in the construction industry so that construction costs may be as low as possible consistent with fair wages and conditions,
To preserve and continue the past friendly relations between the parties hereto, To establish the necessary procedure by which these ends may be accomplished.
DECLARATION OF PRINCIPLES
Both parties to this Agreement believe that a uniform agreement, if and when adopted by all employers and all Unions, would further the interests of the construction industry, and agree to use their best efforts to bring about such actions, and further believe that such a uniform agreement should contain the following principles:
That there shall be no limitations as to the amount of work a man shall perform during his working day, That there shall be no restrictions of the use of machinery, tools or appliances, ' That there shall be no restrictions of the use of any raw or manufactured materials, except prison made,
That no person shall have the right to interfere with workmen during working hours,
That the foreman shall be selected by and be the agent of the employer, That the workmen are at liberty to work for whomsoever they see fit, but they shall demand and receive the wage agreed upon as hereinafter set out, That the employers are at liberty to employ and discharge whomsoever they see fit, through the foreman, or direct if there is no foreman in charge, That in order to give the public the lowest possible construction costs, consistent with fair wages and fair conditions of employment for workers, jobs shall not be created to afford employment.
It is mutually understood that the following terms and conditions relating to the employment of workmen covered by this Agreement have been decided upon by means of collective bargaining and that the following provisions will be binding upon the parties to this Agreement during the term of this Agreement and any renewal thereof.
1
- Laborers -Kansas City	4-1-03-3-31-07
N «	*
, : ARTICLESOFAGREEMENT
Therefore, with the DECLARATION OF PURPOSES and DECLARATION. OF PRINCIPLES as part of and fundamental to. this Agreement,, the .parties hereby agree to the following: .
■ article I
‘1’. ' Union Security. It is understood'and agreed by and between the parties hereto that, as a condition of continued employment, all persons who are hereafter employed by the employer in the unit which is the subject of this Agreement shall become members of the'Union not later than the eighth day following the beginning of their.employment or the execution date of this Agreement, whichever is the later; that the continued employment by. Ihe. employer in said unit of persons who. are already members in good standing of. the Union shall bp conditioned ‘ upon those, persons..‘continuing their payment of the periodic dues of the Union; and.that the continued employmerit’of persons who were in the employ, of the employer prior.to the date of this Agreement and who are not now. members of the Union, shall be conditioned upon those persons'becoming members .of the Union not" later than the eighth day following the execution of this Agreement. The‘failure of any' person to become a member of the Union at such required times shall obligate,the;employer upon written notice from the.Union to siich effect and to the further effect that Union membership was’avajlable to such person on the same terms and conditions generally available to other members tofo'rthwith discharge such person. Further the failure of any person to maintain such person's Union" membership in good standing as required herein shall, upon written notice to the employer by the Union to. such effect, obligate the employer to discharge such person.
2. Agency Shop. In states in which the foregoing provisions may not lawfully be enforced the following provisions to the extent that they are lawful shall apply. Each employee who would be required to acquire or maintain membership in 'the Union if the foregoing Union security provisions could lawfully be enforced, and who fails’voluntarily irtd acquire or maintain , membership in the Union shall be required as a condition of employment, beginning on the eighth day, following the beginning of such employment or the effective date of this Agreement, whichever is later/ pay to the Union each month a . service charge . as a contribution toward. the administration of this. contract and the representation of such employees. The service charge for the first month.shall be in an amount equal to ninety percent (90%) of the Union's regular and usual initiation fee and dues, and for each month thereafter in an. amount equal to ninety percent (90%) of the regular and usual monthly dues.
. ., 3. The.Union agrees to indemrii^theEmployer and hold the.Employer harmless from any final determination of liability to any’ employee .:by 'reason of. the' discharge’ of'such employee if such discharge was caused and effected by a request by the . Union as . provided for. in the preceding paragraphs of this’Agreement. At a written‘request from the Union for an individual laborer's date of' starting.of^employment,.the Employer agrees to give, in writing to the. Union, the laborer's starting date. The Union shall not, however, be obligated to indemnify the/employer for any. damages, expenses, or costs accruing, .or incurred in . the defense of .any claims which may be/made without merit or justification.	,	' .	’ J ,
4. The Union security provisions in Paragraph 1 above shall not be effective in any state which prohibits union security, and shall in no event permit or require any greater union security in any state than is permitted by the laws of that state.
. ARTICLE II -
"	JURISDICTION OF AGREEMENT
4	“ f
The. jurisdiction of this Agreement shall extend to and include the work performed in the counties of: Carroll, Cass', Clay, Jackson, Lafayette, Platte, Ray and.Saline in Missouri; and, Johnson, Leavenworth, Miami and Wyandotte in Kansas.
2
r Laborers - Kansas City	4/1-03 - 3-31-07
ARTICLE IU ,	..
RECOGNITION AND WORK JURISDICTION
The'Association hereby recognizes the Union as .the exclusive. bargaining agent for all employees of the Employer performing any type7 of construction work which" has historically and traditionally been performed heretofore by Laborers, in.the geographical area of this Agreement.
Construction work shall be construed to cover all work done on the site, and such other work as might be done as a part of theworicpn the site; and all work pertaihihg to Laborers in connection with all public utilities work inside the construction;property site. /// :'	' '
1	The word ‘'work" means alF private arid, public building ^construction? Building construction is
hereby' defined ’ to include,, but riot limited to/ building. structures,' including, modifications. thereof _ or... additions thereto, intended for use for Shelter’, protection, comfort or convenience. Building construction shall 'also include the demolition of .and foundations for building'construction. ^ All
7 excavation/site grading, clearing', backfilling 'and compaction, required to.be performed within the building and on the building site shall' be defihed;as Building cpnst.^
Building work'shall include, but not be’ limrtedto, all' work on refineries, 'pump houses, lift // stations, sewerage disposal plants/water treatment plants, ail towers, .power houses,/utilities, all t pollution abatement or control facilities1, and all storage/tahks and elevators? ;
The following shall be covered when on building sites: :
. Docks	Sewers t	.. /	,,	.
/ /‘Pile Driving . Water Mains	/*/ ./
■!:pjers	Black .‘Topping_ 7; ■ 7' ../	/	:	:
• . Tunnels'; ‘;/.;; / ; ‘ Parking Lots and Facilities / ’....... ’ ’ ■' °	"
Retaining Walls ' . Sddding' ’7/7/,//? 7 7	. 7. /	7	’ 77
.	/ ;	' - ' Sidewalks3 //7?' 7/‘	7 77
7 •	Nothing contained elsewhere jri tin is. Agreement shall be cphstruedftg/defihe or determine any
craft jurisdiction or the recognition the?eofby.the employe?.’ ' ' . 7~‘ '-7Ni7:. ; ‘ ’’
"Stick-Built Commercial Cohstruction" is hereby defined as all hon-resideritiil construction with
/ wood-framed load-bearing walls... There are no restrictions on height or end-use of such structures. Examples of this type of cpris/tructiqn include, but are hot limited to/stick:builf nursing homes, motels,
/ strip shopping centers . and77'tow-rise office and/ commercial buildings: Stick-built commercial / construction includes all bargaihirig unitWork^ whiqh is used in constructing the structure-. , ' ./-
It is also agreed that1 if a;jurisdictibnal ‘ dispute should /occur, involving ’ the Union:‘and Another.
, Union affiliated with the Building ah# Cgnstryctidri Trades'bepartirlent; AFL-CIO, that there shall/be no stoppage of work because of such dispute. If the'unions involved and the Association are unable to ' settle the dispute, the disputed work shall proceed as assigned by the Employer, and the problerh shall ■ be referred to the International Presidents of the unions involved for a final determination by them or their assigned representatives:	J / /	/	11 /	- '
ARTICLE IV
GENERAL CONDITIONS
The Union is hereby recognized. as. sole arid exclusive bargaining agent for all employees coming within the terms of this Agreement. -
The local union's representatives shall be allowed to go on jobs at. all places and at all times wherever employees represented by the Union are employed.
3
Laborers - Kansas City	4-1-03 - 3-31-07
It shall not constitute a breach of this Agreement.for any employee covered hereinunder to refuse to cross'a lawful primary‘picket line of a Building Trades Union at the job site.
The Employer shall be required to furnish names of new employees who are not referred by the Union provided:1 (1) that the request for any such list of names shall be in writing, and (2) that the job site does not have an appointed steward. '	' ‘	‘
Workmen are1 to be paid‘the wages applicable to the work performed, and in return the Employers are to receive a fair and honest day’s work without any slowing down or stoppage of work.,
’ :	;	L	‘	*
'	ARTICLE V
/'	SUBCONTRACTING . \
■ I. The Employer agrees that whenever any work covered' by this Agreement in the Missouri counties ofCass, Clay, Jackson and Platte, and in; the Kansas counties, of Johnson arid; Wyandotte to be done'at a site of; construction, alteration or repair-of buildings, structures' or other work is subcontracted, it will be subcontracted only to employers who are'a party to, dr agree to becorrie a party to, a current written Agreement with the above-named local unions or the Laborers’ District Council covering these counties.	' ~	‘ \	/	' '
2/The'Employer agrees that whenever any work'covered; by/this Agreement in the Missouri counties’of Carroll, Lafayette, Ray or Saline and the Kansas counties of Leavenworth'and ’Miami io be done at a' site of construction, alteration pr repair of buildings’/ Structures/’or other work is subcontracted, it shall‘be subcontracted only to employers Whose employees performing such work receive wages and fringe benefits collectively and other conditions of employment equal to or better than those contained in this Agreement.
’	-3. The Union agrees' to give/due corisideration’for allowances or variance from the signatory
clause inthose .instances/wherb ‘ a contractor is endeavoring’to' comply with minority business enterprise?requirements' arid women's business Enterprise Requirements of the specifications on a given project.	’
>	ARTICLE VI '	’	" :	?
WORKING REGULATIONS
1.	Monday’throughSunday "shall constitute the work week. Regula/ starting time shall be 8:00 A.M., with onC-half (1/2) hdurfor lunch between 11:30 A.M. and 1:00 PM, except when'the work week is scheduled’as a week with starting time advanced or delayed. Starting time may be advanced or delayed by the employer up to two (2) hours from the regular starting time.
Eight (8j/hours?shall constitute the work day1. All work performed prior to or'after the regular eight (8) hour work day, as described above, and all work performed on Saturday, shall be paid at time and one-half the regular rate. In the event that' a scheduled eight (8) hour work day is’ missed (not to include contractual holidays) because of events put of the control of the contractor, then that missed work day may be made up at straight time the following Saturday.' This Saturday make-up is strictly voluntary and no employee shaH.be discriminated against if the employee.chooses not to work on said make-up day. It is recognized that not all employees‘working on a, Saturday make-up day will have workedrfhe same number of hours during the regular work week. It is further recognized that any work after forty hours in a week must be paid at time and one-half. Saturday make-up day shall not be used to make up for time lost due to the contractual holidays set forth in this agreement.
The employer may establish a 4-10’s..schedule on projects (4 days with 10 hours per day). In order to use a 4-10’s schedule, the employer must use the 4-10’s schedule for a minimum of one week and the entire crew for that employer must be under the 4-10’s schedule. If using a 4-10’s schedule, a Friday make-up day is allowed. With the consent of the; Union and the Association, the employer may switch to a 4-10 schedule in the middle of a work week. If using a 4 (10) schedule, any work more than
4
• Laborers * Kansas City	4-1-03 - 3-31-07
ten hours in a day or forty .hours in a work week shal! be paid at the time and one-half. rate. Friday make-up day shall hot be usedto make up for time lost due to the contractual holidays set forth in this agreement.
All work performed on, Sundays .on holidays shall be paid at the double time-rate. Shift work shall be governed as provided elsewherd in this agreement.	....
If any other craft working on the ,same project for the same employer is receiving an-overtime rate, then the Laborers shall also receive the appropriate overtime rate. ;
On jobs that cannot be performed during the regular work day, including heavy traffic areas such as.offices, retail stores and shopping center^, work, may be performed at the regular hourly rate and the time limitations set forth above ; shall not- be applicable. All other work rules and other provisions of this Agreement shall apply when such work is being performed. Before starting any such project prior, notification must be made to the appropriate local .union office. All such work in excess of eight hours daijy (or 1,0 hours if working a 4-1 O’s. schedule) shall be at the appropriate overtime rate. This paragraph ’. shalj. not apply to, .any. project .where .work'. is being, performed under’ international Agreement, Project Agreement, Maintenance Agreement, etc. / /'	/ , \	/
2.	The following days shail be recognized as legal holidays: New Year's Day, Decoration Day, Fourth of July, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day and Christmas Day, and when the holiday falls on Sunday, the .following .Monday shall.pe .observed. When any of the above holidays fall on Saturday, the preceding .Friday .shall be\observed. No work, shall be. done, on'Sunday on any of the above holidays except to sayejifelor property arid, then only ^with permission of .the Local lipion-in-whose, jurisdiction trie vyork is being performed.'- No. employee.shall be discriminated against for observing the Martin Luther King, Jr ,national holiday.	”..///' /■	1 v •
3.	Employees working through the lunch period shall be paid time arid one-half for working the lunch period, and shall be allowed.thirty (30).minutes.off,to e?t.;.Lunch pe.ripdjs defined.as "any time between'3-1/2 to 5 hours after the beginning’.of*the shift."/ Employees working overtime, shall,.after working in excess of ten (,10) 'hours, be. allowed ian\additidri'alAhirty.,(3b)/ minutes at time and one-half for lunch without deduction of pay. '	•’......
4.	No employee shall be required to carry any articles crosswise of the employee’s hod, twelve inch concrete blocks or twelve inch cinder blocks. . ■’./ ..	. - .
5.	All mortar men. and tenders,starting to work thirty^(3.0) minutes.ahead of thejegular starting time shall be paid for starting time at the rate of time and oneThalf, regardless of the number of hours worked. ’	. - / .	‘	./.'•' /’’	’/ • ■ ’ .s-,
6.	Men ordered to. work shall be put to work at the time ordered to report Tor work or be allowed two (2) hours pay, weather permitting,,and men starting to, work must be allowed not less than four (4) hours pay,, weather permitting. ‘When laborers are unable to work because of the sfrike:pf;some other craft, the showup time provisions of this. Agreement shall hof apply/ .	.	"/
7.	Laborer Foremen:/Fordmen ;or Pushqr$.are to be chosen by the Employer and.are working foremen or pushers at the discretion Of. the‘Employer. Where as many‘as.six (0) laborers 'arei employed on a job, one'Laborer. must be designated’ as a Labor.Foreman.or Pusher, and shall'.receive. a minimum of One Dollar and fifty ($1.50) per hour above the highest classification of employees working under that Foreman or Pusher’s jurisdiction. If and when Foremen are removed from the contracts of the other General Trades, they will automatically at thattime be removed from the terms"of this contract.
Mason and Plasterer Tender Foremen: Where five or more hod carriers,, mason or. plasterer, tenders are employed on a job, there shall be a Foreman or Pusher. The Foreman or Pusher, duties shall be to look' after the classes. Of work in general and to see that the masons and plasterers are properly tended and shall be responsible for same. The Foreman or Pusher shall receive orders from 5	.	-
Laborers - Kansas City	4-1-03 - 3-31-07
the bricklayer or plasterer foreman or superintendent of the job. If shall be the duty of all mason and plasterer tenders to obey the orders of the Mason Tender Foreman or Pusher. All employees shall perform any part of the work requested of them by the bricklayer or plasterer foreman or superintendent without returning to the Mason Tender Foreman dr Pusher for approval. No employee shall refuse to perform any duty requested of the employee by journeyman brick masons or plasterers. The Mason Tender-Foreman or Pusher shall receive a minimum of One Dollar and fifty cents ($1.50) per hour above the highest classification of employee working under the Foreman or Pusher’s jurisdiction.
'	;8.’ An employee shall act as Steward on every job and the Steward shall be designated by the Business Manager who shall advise the Superintendent or Project Supervisor of such appointment. The Steward shall be from the local in whose jurisdiction the work is being performed. The Steward shall be subject to the same terms of employment as ahyother employee upon thewbrk, bufshall not be penalized for performing duties as Steward. In reducing the working force, the Steward shall be the last man on the job except for-the Foreman, provided the Steward isrqualified Tor the remaining work. After the Foreman, the^ Steward shall be permitted to work when there-is bargaining unit work being performed by the employer on the job, including overtime;-provided the Stewards qualified to perform the work. ’ :	■■	"■ ' ■	■■'■/	" r .
"... J	. '-p-	■ "l . :
The Steward or any other-laborer shall not stop or in any manner obstruct any work operation; any violation of this clause will subject the violator to immediate discharge. This clause does not in any manner apply where immediate safety is involved.
9.	Should the Steward and the Ernployef or the Employer’s representative-be unable to adjust any grievance, dispute or complaint without delay, the Steward shall immediately notify the Business Manager of the Steward’s Union. The Business. Manager of the Union and the Employer or the Employer’s representative shall then attempt to adjust-the'grievance, dispute or complaint.
v' '/ ’ *r	; J' -	\
10.	The Employer shall furnish rubber boots or overshoes when employees are working in water, sloppy concrete,-or mud that warrants the same, also rubber coats when employees are working in fain "or where Water drips ori/them.^ The Employer shall furnish a suitable'place for employees to change' their clothes' and eat lunch, properly heated when necessary. The Employer shall furnish ice water no later thah sixty (60) .minutes after starting time, and provide sanitary means of-distribution. Reasonable toilet facilities shall be provided and same shall be kept clean and sanitary.
.11. If the Employer requires the employees to remain on the job during a stoppage of work, they must be paid continuous'time. ’’No time^shall be docked while waiting for material after once the work has been started. - .	‘ -	. -	• ’	"
J - " 12. - The Foreman shall report to the-craft-Steward and to the Employer, any accident which’ may occur-upon'the work;' The Employer :shall notify the Employer’s insurance company in writing of all lost-time accidents involving employees covered by this Agreement	’
1	'13/'Any employee who incurs an injury on the job shall not lose'any time that day while
securing medical treatment for such injury at a doctor’s office or hospital.	-
14.	The Employer shall furnish all necessary tools, except brick hod, and any employee found willfully misusing or destroying any tools of the Employer shall pay for the same, or be discharged. The employee will not be'required to carry leaky hods’. -	' '	'
15.	Two (2) or three (3) shifts shall be permitted/provided such shifts are scheduled for a minimum of three (3) consecutive days. The second shift shall begin at 4:30 P.M. and end at 12:30 A.M. with one-half (1/2) hour for lunch between 7:30 P.M. and 9:00 P.M. and shall receive eight (8) hours' pay. The third shift shall begin at 12:30 A.M. and end at 8:00 A.M. with one-half (1/2) hour for lunch between 3:30 A.M. and 5:00 A.M. and shall receive eight (8) hours’ pay.
6
Laborers - Kansas City
4-lr03 - 3-31*07
16.. No work shall be let by piece work,, contract or lump sum, direct with laborers for labor services only.. .	-	■ <-.
17	.' When an,employee is requested to. report to an employees yard, shop,-or office,, in lieu of reporting to a job site, the employee’s Time shall, commence at that place .of reporting, in ;the-same manner as though the employee had been requested to,, report-;at a job. site. Similarly, when an employee is requested to report back to such yard,- shop or office; the employee’s time shall continue while complying with such request or instruction.
18	. No employee shall remain1 at the shop or job site whenmot employed, and no employee shall report to work earlier than thirty (30) minutes* before starting time. •	..	;
.1	9. Flag persons £ha)Lbe furnished bright colored jackets or vests by the emplpyer.
.20. A" ten-minute break period shall be allowed for each employee to be taken between one and one-half; hours to two and. one-half hours after, start time if any other craft working on the same immediate crew yyith .Labprers .also is provided. a; morning break. Jhe break shall be scheduled by the foreman and taken'at the employee’s place of work on the jobsite, Breaks shall not be scheduled or taken on those mornings during which a concrete pour is taking place. The break is not intended to be a general, shut down of the project and employees shall •not.leave^their work area to congregate for the break, nor.shall they go totheir cars...h,
21, The parties agree that there will be no employee referral system. This is not meant to preclude the identification of employees when filling requests for job applicants.- <	- .
■	J	. ....	' V-1 ’ ' J'.'	\	■	..	'■
ARTICLE VIL	' , -	.
PAY DAV AND PAYROLL CHECKS
'•: r ’V~:?	< -J
1.	All employees shall be paid in full by check- by quitting time on the job withinjiye (5) days of the end of the regular, work week (i.e.., Sunday) for. all time worked?up to ,andt including; quitting time the Sunday preceding.'pay.day; if not,paid .by quitting time. the;employer shalh be .charged waiting time,at the rate of straight time,, until the employees are paid,; a maximum of::eightT8)t. hours for ea.ch twenty-four (24) hour waiting period,Including Saturdays arid Sundays.;‘ ,.jir .
2.	All employers shall include-.a detachable, check stub with .all payroll .checks, showing the number of straight time hours and the,number of overtime.hours .worked by the employee, in that pay period. If more than one wage rate'is paid the employee during a pay period, the Employer, must specify on the check stub, or attachment thereto, the classification, amount of pay, and hours worked at each pay rate. This stub shall also shpw.the amoupLof each ^authorized payroll deduction and the amount .of each fringe benefit payment accruedt during the .pay period in behalf pf.the- employee. All payroll checks and check stubs shall have the employer's name and. address printed thereon.
All payroll checks will be consecutively numbered and each check and .its corresponding stub will carry identical number. Furthermore, each check stub, will show the„employee's,name exactly as it appears on the check.
3.	When an employee .is discharged or'laid off the employee shall be paid by check on the job at the time of such discharge or layoff. When an employee is.paid by time check, the person giving such time check shall add two (2) hours to same. When an employee is kept waiting for the employee's money, the employee shall be paid straight time for.waiting until paid. When an employee quits work on the employee's own accord, .the. employee shall receive the employee’s pay at the next regular pay day.	•	.	\ ■.
7
Laborers - Kansas City
4-1-03-3-31-07
ARTICLE VIII
FRINGE BENEFITS & SUPPLEMENTAL DUES
1.	FRINGE BENEFIT PAYMENTS - The parties hereto have agreed to provide a fringe benefit program as set but herein which prog ram isto be maintained by contributions from employers under the terms -of this'Agreement and is established for the benefit of employees of members of the Association.- The Association and the Union, further agree that employees of employers, other than members of the Association and their employees; may participate and share iii the benefits of this fringe benefit program jointly administered by the Union and the Association; providing, however, that said-rion-member employers sigma Stipulation on a form approved by all parties to this Agreement and fully comply with all the provisions of this Labor Agreement.	* ■'
A. On all work covered herein each employer shall pay to-the'Fringe Benefit'Program the amounts per hour set forth in Article XII for each hour worked (whether regular or overtime) to each, employee covered' by this-Agreement to sUch Repository as may be designated by the. Union, the' Trustees and the Association; eacri mbrith' this contract’is irii effect, which payment shall be: made within ten (IO)’days after the last day of the preceding month for the hours paid during: said preceding month. Simultaneously'with making said payment the employer shall also file a .written report with said Depository setting forth the names; sobial security numbers, the hours paid and the county work was performed for each employee for .whom payments shall have been made during said period and such other information as the fringe'benefit program trustees desire. Upon receipt of these payments the Depository shall credit to the account1 of the GREATER KANSAS CITY LABORERS' WELFARE FUND, the; GREATER KANSAS CITY LABORERS' PENSION FUND, the GREATER KANSAS CITY LABORERS' VACATION-PLAN,'the GREATER KANSAS CITY-LABORERS' TRAINING FUND and the MO-KAN CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY SUBSTANCE ABUSE FUND,'the per hour amounts for each as set forth in Article* XII of this Agreement. Each of .these funds are established in accordance with the terms of Trust Agreements;; cdhsdmrhated'between the Union arid’the Association and all the parties participating hereunder agree tb*be .bound'by the; terms' and provisions of such Trust Agreements. (The hourly Vacation monies ah'1 shown in Article XII shall be added to wages in making the required statutory'deductions and the full'hourly amounts "shall b’e remitted with the other fringe benefit payments.) One cent (10) per hour, as set. forth in Article XII of this Agreement, shall be credited by the Depository to the account , of the Association (LABORERS.', ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSE ACCOUNT)? The purpose of this‘One, cent'(10) contribution is tp^assist the Association in partially defraying its costs dffurni^hihg’the7management's share in jhe Association's costs in time and effort in establishing1 and^maintaining^ all.the records provided for in this Agreement. Twenty-five cents ($.25) per hour, as set forth iri Article XII of thisAgreement; shall be credited by the Depository to the account of the Association (LABORERS' INDUSTRY ADVANCEMENT FUND). Such Fund is to be' administered by a committee appointed by the Association. This Fund is created in general to improve general conditions’and relationships; of’tHe construction industry as a whole, which shall include, but not be limited to, industrial relations,;'public relations,Jabdr relations, safety and any .other function which is! designed to advance* and promote the interests of the buildiriglndustry'generally.	\ .
, .B. Each Employer shall, upon request of an official designated agent of the fringe benefit program, permit'such agent or designee during regular business hours to .inspect.and make copies of any and all records of the employer pertaining to compensation paid to employees, hours paid for employees, monies, withheld from employees for taxes paid, on account of employees and all other records relevant to and of assistance in determining whether the Employer's .obligations hereunder to make payments to the Depository have been faithfully performed.
, ' C. No employee shall have the option to receive, instead'of the benefits provided for by the Agreements and Declarations of Trust, any part of the payments df ah employer. No employee shall have the right to assign any benefits to which the employee may be or become entitled under the terms of the Agreements and Declarations of Trust, or to receive a cash consideration in lieu of such benefits either upon termination of the trust herein created or through severance of employment or otherwise,
8
Laborers - Kansas City
4-1-03-3-31-07
D.	It is further agreed by and between the parties hereto that all the funds and all parts of the fringe benefit program will be used and operated at all times in such a manner that payments to the funds by the employer contributors will be deductible as,expense, items of-said employers for income taxing purposes with all governmental taxing units.
E.	Employers are hereby put oh notice that the trustees of .this fringe benefit program have broad powers to insure the collectiphs of contributions and the preservation of the trust, including, but not limited, to, requiring employers to put up a/dvance cash deposits, impositiori.pf assessments and/or > liquidated damages, recovery, of. costs, and instituting legal action in the courts against delinquents. If it becomes necessary for the trustees to file, suit against ap employer for .delinquent fringe benefit monies due, the.employer agrees.to. pay, in..,addition to.liquidated darnages, all litigation costs, including a reasonable attorney fee.	. / V	.
In the event that an employer has failed, to pay in full the amount owing to the fringe .benefit funds under, this Article and such failure has continued fifteen (15) days, the Union may after at .least one (1) weeks' notice in writing to the employer's plain office, with a copy to the Association and the. Laborers'* District'Council, direct the . empfoyees .of such employer to^’discontinue or.refusertb work for such employer'until all sums due. from, that' employer have been paid in full? This remedy shall; be in addition to. all other, remedies available to the Union and.to.the. Trustees and may. be exercised by the Union notwithstanding the arbitration provisions.set.forth in.Article.XI. \	-	.<
F.	. It .is .agreed by and between, the parties,: hereto, that, all employers working under this Agreement .will.Vprby.ide 'the.'statutory workmen's compensation..and .the..statutory unemployment compensation'for a)[,; employees, working -for’tb^.rrt funder this Agreement. It is further agreed by.and between the parties^ hereto that the Association will .keep ap up-to-date list of all employers working under this'Agreement and that all employers will furnish jthqAssociatjpn satisfactory evidence thattheir employees are protected by the above, insurance cjYefage'1'the/qrpprpy^rs will furnish.the Association. with certificates. showing theii; Workmen's C.pmperi^atiqn‘/cpyerage and, their . Unemployment Compensation Numbers and ‘all the, employers/.. hereby/assume /the. obligation ,dt.informing ...the Association when there is any change whatsoever, ip/thc^e ,policies/in;that coverage. - These records: will be kept and maintained by the ^soc^fibo.apd^jnfoMfto’qantaf^;.^relnwhl./te available to the Union. • _..'/,	’’"’/a"... V ' . . /.V ‘ '-/7"’’',/A" .....	’	.
2. SUPPLEMENTAL DUES.- In accordance wjth the terms qf,,an. individual!voluntary written authorization and check-off of membership, dues jp a form permitted/by jfhe'prQvision^df Section 302(c) of the Labor Management Relations Act, as.amended, the erhployerjshqll deduct fromThe wages .of all employees covered by this.AgreemenLseventy-five cents (750)/per.hour for eaph/payrpll hour as Supplemental Dues.	/,‘, 7 7	.7 /.	•	:	. .. '... ' '	.
A.	.' In view of the mobility and transitory nature otthe.qrnploye.es covered.by.this Agreement' and, to' facilitate an orderly. procedure .for/,/effecting a, Dues ’Check-off for. empldyees who .have authorized such deduction,;.the Association, as Agent fqr the employers, shall.operate pnd/maintain a central file and account of all employees who have authorized employers to make such deduction'as payment for their dues. ALL EMPLOYERS ACCORDINGLY SHALL DEDUCT THE AFOREMENTIONED. SEVENTY?FIVE CENTS (750) PER HOtlR, FROM THE WAGES. OF EACH EMPLOYEE COVERED HEREBY AND REMIT SUCA PAYMENT ON THE FORMS PROVIDED FOR THE PAYMENTS OF THE FRINGE BENEFIT PROG RAM "AND. THE AMOUNTS THEREOF SHALL, BE CREDITED BY THE DEPOSITORY. TO A SEPARATE ACCOUNT OF THE ASSOCIATION, PARTY HERETO. The Association will check the authorizations in its file and either remit the arhoynt received in behalf of the employee to the appropriate Ideal union (based on the jurisdiction of the job location), or to the employee if no authorization card is in. the Association file. The above payments by the Association shall be made by the end df each month for all monies received in its account by 10th of that month.	’ / ‘1
B.	The Union agrees that it shall indemnify and hold harmless the Association and its members for any judgement or costs (up to and including reasonable attorney fees) resulting from any lawsuit brought under the Supplemental Dues provisions of this Agreement.
9
Laborers - Kansas City	4-1-03 - 3-31-07
; ARTICLE IX
OTHER AGREEMENTS .
It is agreed by the parties hereto that when the Business Manager or any officer of either of the local unions, party to this contract sign. a. Stipulation on a form approved by all parties to this Agreement with any employer, said stipulation will bind both ideal unions and the employer to the entire area of the contract.
It is further agreed by the parties hereto that, when any of thelocal unions sign a stipulation with any employer, said stipulation will be signed.in triplicate and the Association furnished with a copy thereof. Furthermore, when any of the local unions make any kind of a contract with any employer covering any kind of similar work as that covered by this Agreement, then the Association will be furnished with a signed copy thereof. It is further agreed that the Association shall automatically be given the advantage of any lower rate of wages or better terms and, working conditions, than those resulting through this Agreement if obtained by an employer, of employees represented .by. the Union on similar work done within the jurisdiction of this Agreement. ^ . / /.'	’?./
ARTICLEX	' V - \
Any employer not a member of The Builders' Association may receive the benefits and assume the obligations of this Agreement by becoming, a member,of the Association _.and accepting this Agreement, and, accordingly assigning that employer’s'exclusive bargaining rights !to the Association. Before having the right to. accept this Agreement in this manner such contractor must be accepted to membership by the Builders' Association.
i । *	'	t * ?
L-1'	I ‘i ; I	■ ("•r- >’ . 1	‘	ri':	,■ ■ •	•	.
.	,	.	.. .ARTICLEXI “1;
•/;"7..	77; . arbitration \	(	\
Thereshall be noj stop page.'of work, for any reason .whatsoever... Any differences that may occur between an employer or employers and the Union or'differences between the Association and the Union shall be handled in accordance with the following procedure:	1 ' '
Any differences will first be "discussed by and between the parties involved and/or the steward, superintendent or employer. Any dispute or grievance of an employee, not reported to the employer within ten (10) working days after the occurrence of same shall be declared invalid and not processed. If the matter cannot.be adjusted at the job level, it shall be referred by either party to a representative of the Union, and a.representative of the Association. Any agreement reached in this second step will be final and binding oh all parties. If, however, the representatives of the Union and the Association cannot settle the matter satisfactorily, it may be referred by either party to the third step Arbitration Board consisting of three members appointed by the Association and three members appointed by the Union. The Association and the Union may mutually agree to waive any. step or steps of this grievance procedure.
If these Arbitration Board members cannot settle the matter within ten (10) days they will choose a neutral third party who shall act as arbiter and the decision of the arbiter shall be final and binding upon both parties and must be in writing. If the six member Arbitration Board cannot agree on an arbiter, either the Association or the Union may request a list of five potential arbiters from the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service, and after each side Kas struck two names the remaining name on the list will become the arbiter and the arbitrator's decision will be final and binding and must be in writing.	*
Any expenses involved in meetings or arbitration from the third step on will be paid by the losing party.	■ - ■
10
• Laborers - Kansas City
4-1-Q3- 3-31-07
ARTICLE XII WAGE RATES & CLASSIFICATIONS
AREA I shall be comprised of the counties of’Cass, Clay, Jackson and Platte in Missouri and Johnson and Wyandotte in Kansas. .	• . . . .
AREA I) shall be comprised, otthe counties of Lafayette arid Ray. in Missouri, and Leavenworth and Miami counties in Kansas. 1 '	*	' ” ' '	' ’’ ' '
AREA III shall be comprised of Carroll and Saline counties in Missouri..
Fringe Benefits ^ Supplementary pues Paymerit Schedule'	7
■ 1	*•	*	‘	‘ 1 ■ .■> ■ ■	1	‘	i..
1	Y Y*	4-1-03
. LABORERS, HEALTH'S'WELFARE. FUND	' * $3.10'
. LABORERS PENSION FUtto ' . ‘	\	• 3.25 ' 1
LABORERS ADMINISTRATIVE ACCOUNT *’/	' /OV ’	:
LABORERS INDUSTRY ADVANCEMENT ‘	':	‘	'	.25	;;
CISAP DRUG PROGRAM	.09
LABORERS TRAINING FUND	. .. .	.35
LABORERS VACATION FUND*	;	1.30
;	.. . ..... .,	.... . . / . . .	8.35
SUPPLEMENTAL DUES (Deduct from Wages)*\r. : ;Y.' YY. Y5 . ' •	'	4
. .-H ”	J '?■ Y$9-10	\
*See instructions - Article VIII	’	' ! ;j 1 - -
It is agreed that a portion of the wage ipcrease^of$1.30 per hour to be effected April 1, 2004t $1.25 per hour to be effected April 1, 2005 arid '1:20.'per'hour to be effected April ..1, 2006 may be apportioned to payments to the established fringe’ benefit programs provided the Union gives a written notice to the Association to such effect jhirty (30) days prior to those anniversary dates. In this event, the wage increases to ineffective;on such.date,.in any siidh'arpa,1 ^hail be'adjusted downward to conform with the changes so’made'. ;;' ; .*Y Yl? YY.YYY’ '
Effective both April 1, 2004, 2005, and 2006, add one cent (10) to the Laborers Industry Advancement Fund. ' ' Y " l' '■
'■ AREAP	' •' -'r ' ”'r' ■	' 1 .■ ■
■' ‘	1 ■	1 'F^TEOF-PAYPER
.Classification	" -------' ' - ''■ HOUR: EFFECTIVE- '
: ■ •. ..'	. .	’^'Y’’ r Y YY;V5 Y Y' ? 4^-°3
General Laborer .	?	;	1	:	: $20.70	: j
Air Tamp Operators	_ _ b ‘	r " J *	*' ''
Brush Feeders or Pulverizers	-	.. . .	■
Carpenter Tender	-	;
Chain Saw Operators
Concrete Saw Operators '	. Y :	Y	?
Ditch Witch Operators.
. Fork Lift	’	(
Georgia Buggies Self Propelled '	\ '
Hose Person „	, "Y'	* ■"	'	* '
Insulation Person	.	1	'
Jackhammer and Chipping Hammer Operators
Landscape Persons
Pier Hole Diggers (Over 10 feet)	'
Plumber Laborers (Conduit Pipe, Sewer Work, Drain
Tile and Duct Lines, Digging'and Back Filling)
11
Laborers - Kansas City
4-1-03-3-31-07
Power Tool Operators	‘	‘
Reinforcing Steel Handlers-	' ,
Salamander Tenders
Signal Person
Sod Layers
Swinging Scaffolds	'
Track Persons
Wire Mesh Handlers or Setters	.
Wreckers (For Alterations or Entire Projects) .
Hod Carrier/Tender	$21.10
Fork Lift (Masonry), Brick Tender, Plasterer Tender,	"	...	' "
Stone Mason Tender (includes all Hod Carrier classifications	'
previously shown as Mortar person and Scaffolding)
Specialist Laborer	_, ,	. $21.50 ,
Asphalt Rakers	’ ’	*
Barco, Jackson or Similar Tamp Operators
Cuttino Torc^ nr Riimer Person
, Grade Checker	.....• ’ ’
Lead Removal Person .. 4 ....	'	',, ' .
Mastic Hot Kettle Person ........  '	.	' '/■	.. . .
Powder Person	c,: “	‘ .....	*'
Removal of Hazardous Waste and/or Asbestos
Sandblasting and Gunite Nozzle Person	, .
Straight Edge'Person	‘'
Vibrator Operator	.... *. . .‘
Wagon and Churn Drill Operators	y >	‘ c ..
1	, - ■
On all projects located in Areas II and III that are prevailing wage jobs/i.e:, have, prevailing wages set by a governmental agency), if said prevailing wages are less than the wages set forth in this Agreement, the prevailing wages as set forth shall, be the .minimum, wage required to be paid by this Agreement, not withstanding wage rates included'herein. The then current fringe benefits, for the project shall be paid and if increases to fringe benefits are necessary during the’project, that amount shall be added to the total economic package.	L ‘'
AREA II
'aLL'cLASSIFICATIPNS,$1.00 LESS THAN THOSE IN AREA I :
1	■ *	*	'	»	»	** ** *** ***** * *	-	-	■	1
!	-	1	:	1	’	AREA 111, ;	
	■ . . ■ ■ ■■ ■. ■;	RATE OF PAY PER
Classification		HOUR EFFECTIVE
		4-1-03
General Laborer		$18.35
Air Tamp Operators		*
Brush Feeders or Pulverizers		
Carpenter Tender		
Chain Saw Operators		
Concrete Saw Operators		
12
Laborers - Kansas City
4-1-03 - 3-31-07
Ditch Witch Operators	..	.	„
Fork Lift	t,............... -
Georgia Buggies Self Propelled	, .
Hose Person	‘ 7
Insulation Person	r •
Jackhammer and Chipping Hammer Operators	. ..t .	7
Landscape Persons	" ..7
Pier Hole Diggers (Over 10 feet) Plumber Laborers (Conduit Pipe, Sewer Work, Drain .
Tile and Duct Lines, Digging and Back Filling) Power Tool Operators
. Reinforcing ..Steel Handlers Salamander Tenders	-
Signal Person	7	•
Sod Layers	.■
Swinging Scaffolds Track Persons Wire Mesh Handlers or Setters	- ;	,
Wreckers (For Alterations or Entire Projects)	,
■. ■ ■{ j	/
Hod Carrter/Tender	$18.75
Fork Lift (Masonry), Brick Tender, Plasterer Tender,	. •7.
Stone Mason Tender (includes all Hod Carrier classifications	,7.
previously shown as Mortar person and Scaffolding)	7 7?
Specialist Laborer	_ , $19.15 .	,
Asphalt Rakers	’	... 7..-
Barco, Jackson or Similar Tamp Operators	. . i „ .77,.
Cutting Torch or Burner Person	. !	“ ' ‘ ;
Grade Checker Lead Removal Person /, . ,	•
Mastic Hqt Kettle Fferspn 7,77 7.. 7-.77 '*77,-7777 77'7,..77" 7. . ■ Powder Person 7." 7 ‘ 77	' .	.	-777.' 77 7 7 7-, .7
Removal of. Hazardous'Waste and/or Asbestos ’	'.7	... ,•
Sandblasting and Gunite Ndzzle Person _t	. < 7 . 7 77'
Straight Edge Person ' ’	'	' \ . ,7", " 7\...	7-	■
Vibrator Operator	’ !	.............
Wagon and Churn Drill Operators
STICK-BUILT, WOOD-FRAMED CONSTRUCTION - The rate for all stick-built, wood-framed construction, not covered by the residential agreement between the Builders' Association and, the Western Missouri and Kansas Laborers' District Council.of.the Laborers' International Union of North America, AFL-CIO, and Laborers' Locals No. 264 and No. 1290, shall be 75% of the appropriate area base rate plus full fringes for the full duration of this agreement in all areas. This rate shall cover all bargaining unit work to be performed on the above-referenced construction. This wage rate may be reviewed annually, and upon the agreement of both the Union and the Association, adjusted for. future work not yet bid. ...
DRYWALL CONSTRUCTION for purposes of this Agreement is defined as all .work, involved in. installing sheetrock, metal and wood studs, sheetrock and acoustical ceilings,, and drivet-type exterior panels.
13
Laborers - Kansas City	4-1-03-3-31-07
\ -
On ^projects where the Laborer is servicing another craft* or crafts working for the same employer, and that’craft or those'crafts have agreed to make a wage concession in order to maintain their competitiveness, the Laborer shall make the same concession; with the same restrictions, if any.
Hourly rates for employees whose primary duties are of flag person will be $2.00 per hour less than the general laborer in all areas. ' ' ■
It is further agreed that a scale for compressed air workers will be negotiated between the parties hereto for each particular job.	.
- Projects which straddle county lilies-shall receive the'wage rate of the higher county, if there is a differehtial between them.'	~ ‘	J *'' *
The Union and the Association, at the request of either party, will hold a pre-bid conference for the purpose of considering and making agreed to adjustments 'of- wages 'and working conditions for individual' projects where-the overall'circumstances-and conditions relating to such'projects are mutually deemed to be warranted.
Provisibns-of the National Stack Agreement shall be'applicable to this contract.
Laborers working in boilers where the temperature is in excess ’of One'Hundred (100) Degrees shall work thirty (30) minutes and rest thirty (30) minutes out of each hour.	\ . ..
- '-•/>’ ’	’ ARTICLE XHI	■	> v
‘ ; ‘ ;	APPRENTICESHIP1 ,	’
T. 'An-apprenticeship program "established effective "'November 1, 1987 as set forth in the Standards of Apprenticeshiprwas developed by The Builders'Association and Laborers' International Union bf North'America,. Locals'No. 264'ahd No. '1290, for the trade of-Construction Craft Laborer who are further .’.defined' and named under Article Xl.l, sub-sectibn;"Classificati'qns" of this Agreement. This apprenticeship” program was placed into effect Jupon formal approval of the Department of Labor, Bureau of Apprenticeship;and Training (BAT.) and appropriate s|ate agencies.' This apprenticeship program shalP be a '‘’’Letter of Intent" type of program; and shall be administered by the Joint Apprenticeship Committee comprised by an equal number of members-of the Builders’Association and the Laborers' District-Council. The Apprenticeship Standards.' of the Western Missouri and Kansas Laborers’ District Council Joint Apprenticeship Committee approved by the Kansas Apprenticeship Council and/or the Bureau of Apprenticeship Training of the United States Department of Labor are hereby-ihcorporated'by reference as part of this Agreement Effective April 1, 2003, all new applicants for 'membership Shall enter the Apprenticeship "program. Any applicant that can provide reasonable proof of previous employment as a Construction Craft Laborer (or, alternately, demonstrate equivalent skills inva placement examination-administered by th'e Joint Apprenticeship and Training’Committee [JATC])'shall- enter the Apprenticeship program at a percentage of no'higher than eighty percent (80%).	’	-
■ 2. Apprentice wage rates: ;	~
0- - 800 hours of credit	60% of Journeyman scale
801 - 1,600 hours of credit	70% of Journeyman scale
1,601 - 2,400 hours of credit ;	80% of Journeyman scale
2,401 - 3,200 hours of credit	■ 90% of Journeyman scale*
- Over 3,200 hours of’credit	Journeyman scale
The definition of hours of credit is hours of actual work hours plus credit for school attendance as defined in the Apprenticeship Standards.
14
• Laborers -Kansas City	4-1-03 -3-31-07
The rates of wages for Apprentices are;based on a reduction from the. General Laborer, Hod, Carrier/Tender and Specialist Laborer classification rates of pay as established in the area Collective Bargaining Agreement. The flag person reduction does not apply to Apprentices. .
3.	Employers shall pay apprentices the full fringe benefits package as-described in this contract, except that the pension contribution for all apprentices shall be one:half ,(1/2) o^the normal pension contribution.
4.	The employer may employ one (1) apprentice whenever three (3) journeymen (including a foreman) are. employed within the jurisdiction of this Agreement and at a ratio of three to one thereafter. Any Employer.who does not,normally employ-three (3); journeymen may employ one (1) apprentice, under the terms of this agreement; for up to 25% of the total journeyman hours worked inf the previous year.
5.	It is agreed.'that apprentices .should, when possible, be moved by the employer to.different' types of operations so as to become adept in a.variety of operations and construction craft laborer skills. '	'’ ' ”•	'	"	. •;	.. . . . t. .• i;
6.	No person .who. has previously -worked as a journeyman laborer, shall be eligible for this apprenticeship program. Decisions concerning apprentice wages and advancements shall be made by the Joint Apprenticeship Committee.. ...	.. '
7.	No apprentice shall be eligible for journeyman status until they complete their apprenticeship as required by the Apprenticeship Standards as administered by the Western Missouri and Kansas Laborers’ District Council Joint Apprenticeship-Committee. ■ Upon the failure of any apprentice to maintain his or her apprenticeship status?, in ^accordance'.with the apprenticeship standards of the Western Missouri and Kansas Laborers' District Council Joint Apprenticeship Committee, the Joint Apprenticeship. Committee shall notify, .in writing.and -by certified-,(Tiajh return-receipt.requested, the Union, the Employer and the..Apprentice ofsuch/failure;.Any , pe^soh failing to maintain .and complete-, their apprenticeship'in accordance withj.fhe" apprenticeship; agreement ?and, the apprenticeship standards, of the Western Missouri ^andr KansasLaborers;’:.pistrict Coupcil Joint-.Apprenticeship Committee shall not be employed by. the employer as’a iourneyman.under this agreement. The. failure of any apprentice to maintain his- or her apprehticestjipf s'tat’us\ in ;accorda.nce.with -the apprenticeship standards of Western Missouri and'Kansas Laborers’ District Council; Joint,Apprenticeship Committee, shall obligate the employer, to discharge.such person, upon- notice'^gmtl^..)j!niQh,fthat>said person has failed to maintain his or her apprenticeship .status. 'An-Apprentice shall not be penalized for taking off from work to attend offsite apprenticeship training (though time off for training is .unpaid.)
.8., The Western Missouri and Kansas Laborers' District Council Joint .Apprenticeship,. Comrinittee may, upon seven (7) days’written’notice To an employer, party to this agreement, transfer any and al) apprentices arid/qr/refuse to permit employment -ot apprentices by any" employer which , employs any person who has faded to maintain their’status as; an’ apprentice, ’.in accordance with the. Apprenticeship Standards adopted by the Western Missouri and,.Kansas, Laborers’ District. Council Joint Apprenticeship Committee and in violation of this Artidie XIII.	?
9. The Union agrees to indemnify the Employer and hold the employer harmless from any final determination of liability to any employee, by reason of the discharge of .such employee if such discharge was caused and effected by a request by the Union, as provided for in the preceding paragraphs of this Agreement. At.a written request from the Union for an individual laborer’s date of starting of employment, the Employer agrees to give to the Union, in writing, the Laborer’s starting date. The Union shall not,, however,, be obligated to indemnify .the employer for any damages, expenses, or cost accruing, or incurred in the defense of any claims which may be made without merit of justification.
15
Laborers - Kansas City
4-1-03-3-31-07
ARTICLE XIV DRUG & ALCOHOL POLICY
It is understood that no employee shall consume or be under the influence of drugs or alcohol while at work. The .joint, apprenticeship committee may institute a pre-employment drug testing program for apprenticed.,.	.. „	' "	,
The parties agree to incorporate herein by this reference the Mo-Kan Construction .industry Substance Abuse Program (CISAP) Agreement they have entered into and dated April 1. 2003. As a condition of employment, all employers will require all employees to be in good standing in the CISAP program.
In order to assure that all Laborers employed under the terms of-this Agreement specifically meet the CISAP Drug Card qualifications for employment, all Laborers hired after August 31,2003, will be required to contact the.Union office .for. CISAP Drug Card verification before: reporting to work. Emplqyers.will be. at liberty to. hire* whomsoever 4hey see fit, regardless of placement of any' registry maintained by, the Union, subject "only, to" the'Union’s verification that the specified Laborer meets the Drug Card qualifications .established"by ;the<CISAP Agreement. In response to all requests for Laborers, whether they are for .specific Laborers, by name or not, the Union will ascertain the good status of the Laborers’ CISAP Drug Card and will promptly issue a CISAP Verification Certificate to this effect, where appropriate, in order that the Laborer can commence work without delay.
In the event that for any reason CISAP ceases to operate relative to providing a drug and alcohol program for. the Laborers during’rthe term of this Agreement, the parties will, in good faith, attempt to establish an alternate drug and alcohol testing program.
ARTICLE XV SAVINGS CLAUSE
It is the intention of the parties in connection with the execution of this Agreement to comply with all laws, state and federal, relative to the subject matter of this Article, and in the event that any clause of this Article should be contrary to any law, state or federal, said clause shall be inoperative in such state and the remainder of the Agreement shall remain in full force and effect.
ARTICLE XVI
The employers and the Union agree that they will not discriminate against any employee or applicant for employment because of sex, race, religion, creed, color, age or national origin, and that they will comply with all provisions of Executive Order 11246, the rules, regulations and relevant orders of the Committee on Equal Employment Opportunities established by the President of the United States. Any statement in this agreement referring to the masculine gender or one gender is hereby agreed to be interpreted as applying.to both genders.
16
* Laborers - Kansas City
4-1-03 - 331-07
ARTICLE XVII
TERM .	,	.........
THIS AGREEMENT shall be effective April 1, 2003 and shall remain in full force and effect until March 31, 2007 and shall be automatically, renewed from year to year thereafter unless opened by either party hereto for changes or termination by a notice to the other party at least sixty (60) days prior to the: expiration-date.- ' ■ ;!
THE BUILDERS' ASSOCIATION	' LABORERS'LOCAL UNIONS NO. 264 AND
f	' NO. 1290 OF THE WESTERN MISSOURI AND
' !'- KANSAS LABORERS'DISTRICT COUNCIL, ' -	INTERNATIONAL-UNION OF NORTH
17
Laborers - Kansas City
4-1-03-3-31-07
ADDENDUM NO. 1
CUTTING & CORING LABORERS' JOINT AGREEMENT
This agreement is entered into by and. between THE BUILDERS' ASSOCIATION hereinafter referred to as the "Association'', and LABORERS' LOCALS NO. 264 AND NO: 1290 and the WESTERN MISSOURI AND KANSAS LABORERS'‘ DISTRICT COUNCIL OF THE LABORERS' INTERNATIONAL UNION OF NORTH AMERICA, AFL-CIO, hereinafter referred to as the "Union" and is an addendum to the joint agreement between the same parties subject to the current collective bargaining agreement, and shall be referred to as "The Joint Agreement" and except as specifically modified by this addendum all other terms of said joint labor agreement.shall be in full force and effect.
This addendum, is to apply only for laborers engaged in concrete cutting, sawing, coring and removal on building and residential projects only, not heavy and highway projects.
The wage rate for commercial jobs shall be the same as "The Joint Agreement."
All time worked in excess of ten (10) hours a day or forty (40) hours per week, Monday through Saturday, shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half the houriy rate. Work performed on Sunday, New Year's Day, Decoration Day, Fourth of July, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day and Christmas must be paid for at double time.
The wage rate for all "Residential Work" shall be Three dollars ($3,00) less than the commercial scale as described in "The Joint Agreement."
"Residential Work" is hereby defined as any wood frame residential structure of three stories or less. In addition, "Residential Work" is also defined to be repair and rehabilitation work on existing buildings (not new construction) in which the contractor is contracting directly with the owner rather than a prime contractor, there is no other union contractor on the site when the work is being done, and the owner employs less than thirty employees at the job site.
Fringes, as required in "The Joint Agreement" shall be due on ail hours of work, both commercial and residential.
Contractors doing cutting, coring and sawing of concrete on commercial and residential jobs will be allowed one laborer trainee or apprentice for every two journeymen employed by the contractor. Said trainees shall be referred by the Union at all times, however, the employer shall at all times be able to employ any person the employer desires as a trainee by signing a letter of intent to hire said individual as a laborer trainee and the Union shall in no way restrict who the employer may hire as a trainee other than as is already stated in "The Joint Agreement."
Trainees shall be paid the following percentages of current wage rates of a journeyman doing similar work, plus all required fringes as provided by "The Joint Agreement." This trainee scale is only applicable to Trainees referred by the Union and to individuals who have not previously worked as a journeyman laborer, nor drawn journeyman scale. (Apprentices shall be paid according to the schedule for apprentices in Article XIII.)
18
t Laborers- Kansas City
4-1-03 •• 3-31-07
1st 6 months of employment 2nd 6 months of employment' • 3rd 6 months of employment - - ■ 4th 6 months of employment Thereafter
60% of scale
70% of scale
80% of scale
90% of scale
100% of scale
, The provisions of this Addendum shall become effective for any laborer employer who- becomes signatory to "The,Joint Agreement- through either The Builders’ Asspciatiorror the Union. ,-
19
Laborers - Kansas City
4-1-03-3-31-07
ADDENDUM NO. 2
FINAL CLEANUP LABORERS' JOINT AGREEMENT
This agreement is entered into by and between THE BUILDERS’ ASSOCIATlON'hereinafter referred to as the “Association”, and LABORERS LOCALS-NO. 264 and NO? 1290 and the WESTERN MISSOURI AND KANSAS LABORERS’ DISTRICT COUNCIL OF THE LABORERS’ INTERNATIONAL UNION OF NORTH AMERICA, AFL-CIO, hereinafter referred to as the “Union" and is an addendum to the joint agreement between the same-parties subject to theJcurrent-collective bargaining agreement, and shall be referred to as “The Joint Agreement” and except as specifically modified by this addendum all other terms of said joint labor agreement shalf’be'in fuli'force’iand effect/
* J	1 1 I' i 1	1 '
This addendum is to apply only for5 Labofefs-ehgaged in?Final sCleariup/ ^Eirial Cleanup is; herein defined as the last sweeping’; 'Vacuuming of mopping of floors Jr preparation-for the Maying of carpet, tile, or other floor covering materials/ Final Cleanup is-also defined as including,- but'not limited to, the final sweeping, vacuuming, mopping; dusting of -walls?; floors -and ceilings or cleaning; of windows, mirrors, toilets or other bright work and’fijttUres irf preparation for turning-over the' pfoje'ct, i.e. buildings, to the owner. Hourly rates for employees engaged in Final Cleanup shaii be ai the rate of $2.00 less per hour than the General Laborer in all areas. ; Fringes-as required in the “Joint Agreement" shall be applicable on all hours worked.	■■ ’: C--/...

20
50. 08a-03
LABOR BULLETIN The Builders’ Association Serving Missouri and Kansas
Administrative Offices at 632 West 39th Street
Kansas City, Missouri 64111	•	(816) 531-4741
Dan Morgan, President
April 10, 2003	REVISED LABOR BULLETIN
(To Add CISAP Drug Testing Program)
TO: CONTRACTORS SIGNATORY THROUGH THE BUILDERS' ASSOCIATION TO THE JOINT (COMMERCIAL) AGREEMENT WITH LABORERS' LOCALS NO. 264,AND 1290 AND THE WESTERN MO AND KS LABORERS' DISTRICT COUNCIL (CONTRACT TERM: EFFECTIVE APRIL 1, 2003, EXPIRING MARCH 31,2007)
As a result of recent negotiations between The Laborers' District Council and The Builders' Association, a new four year agreement has been reached with annual increases of $1.35, $1.30, $1.25 and $1.20. The Laborers have advised us that they wish to distribute their April 1, 2003 economic increase of $1.35 as follows: wages shall be increased by fifty-five cents ($.55) per hour, the Pension contribution shall increase by twenty cents ($.20) per hour, the Health and Welfare contribution shall increase by fifty-five ($.55) cents per hour and the Training Fund shall increase by five cents ($.05) per hour. In addition, the Industry Advancement fund will increase by one cent ($.01) per hour. In addition, a new drug testing program (CISAP) has been instituted and employers shall provide nine cents ($.09) per hour to start the program. (See attached Labor Bulletin No. 14-03)
AREA I (Missouri counties of Clay, Cass, Jackson and Platte; Johnson and Wyandotte in Kansas) Effective April 1, 2003, the General Laborer classification wage rate will be $20.70 per hour; Hod Carrier/Tender, $21.10 per hour; and a Specialist Laborer/Vibrator Operator, $21.50 per hour.
AREA II (counties of Lafayette and Ray in Missouri, and Leavenworth and Miami in Kansas) All classifications in Area II are $1.00 less than the rates of Area I, above.
AREA III (counties of Carroll and Saline in Missouri) Effective April 1, 2003, the General Laborer classification wage rate will be $18.35 per hour; Hod Carrier/Tender classification, $18.75 per hour; and Specialist Laborer/Vibrator Operator, $19.15 per hour.
In addition to Wages listed above, effective April 1, 2003: fringe benefit contributions will be: Health and Welfare, Three Dollars and ten cents ($3.10) per hour; Pension, Three Dollars and twenty-five cents ($3.25) per hour; Vacation, One Dollar and thirty cents ($1.30) per hour; Industry Advancement, twenty-five cents ($.25) per hour; Training, thirty-five cents ($.35) per hour; Administration, one cent ($.01) per hour, and CISAP (Drug Testing Program), nine cents ($.09) per hour. The hourly Vacation monies shall be added to wages in making the required statutory deductions and the full hourly amounts shall be remitted with the other fringe benefits. Supplemental Dues, (to be DEDUCTED from Wages), shall be seventy-five cents ($.75) per hour.
The Foreman wage rate shall be $1.50 above the highest classification of employee working under his jurisdiction.
NO. 08a-03
Work Rule Changes:
1.	All new applicants for membership who cannot provide reasonable proof of 4,000 or more hours of employment as a Construction Craft Laborer or, alternatively, cannot demonstrate equivalent skills in placement examination administered by the Joint Apprenticeship and Training Committee (JATC), shall enter the Apprenticeship program.
2.	A ten-minute break period shall be allowed for each employee to be taken between one and one-half hours to two and one-half hours after start time if any other craft working on the same crew with Laborers also is provided a morning break. The break shall be scheduled by the foreman and taken at the employee's place of work on the jobsite. Breaks shall not be scheduled or taken on those mornings during which a concrete pour is taking place. The break is not intended to be a general shut down of the project and employees shall not leave their work area to congregate for the break, nor shall they go to their cars.
3.	A new and innovative, industry-wide drug-testing program (called the “Construction Industry Substance Abuse Program", CISAP) has been approved. Details of this exciting new program, how it will be implemented, and how this will benefit our industry will be addressed in a further bulletin. The employer shall provide $.09 per hour for the cost of the program.
If you have any questions, please call The Association office.
Sincerely yours, THE BUILDERS' ASSOCIATION
Jeffrey L. Chaikin Labor Relations
JLC/mm