
ti 1-A /J (	* i-’i
'	. H '
ip®”1 (’) WJ-: ’flfr.■ f /.Y’-" I;L” lT c-f "4^'' c^mejp j fli: vw;urr w-km-WD1
<- ?K;’' ■: ZXJT fam fiW'f
INDEX
rticle	Page
I Recognition - Right to Hire
Notification - Referral for Employment
Job Labor Standards Pre-Job Conference......................  1
II	Area Limit..................................5
III	Intent and Purpose..........................5
IV	Union Security..............................5
V	Wages - Working Rules.......................7
VI	Grievance Procedure and Arbitration........35
VII	Strikes....................................37
/III	Picket Lines...............................37
IX	Jurisdiction - Job Description.............38
X	Exoneration................................41
XI	Legal Compliance...........................42
XII	Management.................................42
<)ll	Termination................................43
<IV	Territorial Jurisdiction
Locals 42, 53 and 110..................43
XV	Pre-Bid Conference.........................44
<VI	Substance Abuse............................45
AGREEMENT
This Agreement, made and entered into, effective the first of March, 199S, by and between the Site Improvement Assoclat for and in behalf of companies who have designated that Associs as their collective bargaining agent, hereinafter referred to as Employer and Locals Nos. 42, S3 and 110 and the Eas Missouri Laborers' District Council, and the Labor International Union Of North America, A.F.L.-C.I.O., herein referred to as the Union.
For and in consideration of the mutual promises he contained and for other good and valuable consideration, the re of which is hereby acknowledged, the parties agree and contrac follows:
ARTICLE 1 Recognition - Right to Hire Notification - Referral for Employment Job Labor Standards Pre-Job Conference
Section 1.01 Recognition-Right to Hire: The Empl recognizes the Union as the sole collective bargaining agency respect to wages, hours, and other conditions of employment in unit consisting of Site, Building and Highway & Heavy Laborers" are employed byTfietmployer on its constructionwork, located in City and County of St. Louis, State of Missouri and as ottien specified herein. Reference to employees in this Agreement mean employees of the unit above described.
Section 1.02 The Employer reserves and shall have the rig accept or reject, to employ or not to employ any persons furnishe the Union, or to discharge for cause any employee who has b accepted but who subsequently proves unsatisfactory, to Employer.
Neither the Union nor the Employer shall discriminate in referring or hiring of employees because of age, race, color, relig sex, national origin, or status as a Vietnam-Era Veteran nor aga qualified disabled Veterans or qualified individuals with handicap disabilities. Any reference to the masculine gender in this agreen shall also be understood to mean the female gender.
1
No employee shall be required as a condition of employment to his personal vehicle in the performance of his duties.
Section 1.03 The Employer shall be the sole judge of, and a the right to determine the number of employees required on any or any portion of the work being done by the Employer. There I be no limitation as to the amount of work a man shall perform, re shall be no restrictions as to the use of machinery, tools or ■ances.
Section 1.04 Notification-Referral for Employment: The n office provides a valuable and essential service to the loyer and the industry in maintaining a supply of experienced <men. In recognition of this service, and in order to maintain its ency, the Employer shall give definite consideration to the Local n Office having territorial jurisdiction over the job site in the jring of qualified, experienced employees, especially as regards e hiring of new and additional employees.
Employers may hire any member of the bargaining unit for work in the area limits of this Agreement. However, attempts shall be e to secure qualified employees from the Local Union Office ng territorial jurisdiction over the job site for new, additional, or porary employees, especially temporary employees for work ng the summer months The Employer shall have the right to est employees by name and these employees shall be atched by the Union Office. However, Employers shall not est employees by name exclusively.
No Employer shall loan out employees covered under this gaining agreement (general foreman, foreman, laborers, etc.} to out of town Employer performing work in the jurisdictional area ered by this Agreement without prior mutual agreement between Business Representative of the Local Union and the Employer ived.
Provided an agreement has been reached between the ployer and the Local Union to employ out of town laborers on a -ect, such laborer will be required to register with the Local Union ce having territorial jurisdiction over the job site within 24 hours of g employed on the project.
2
Failure on the part of any Employer to give definite, posi consideration to the Local Union Office having territorial jurisdic over the job site as regards the hiring of new and tempor employees (especially during the summer months) shall considered a violation of this Agreement. If the Uniorvalieges that Employer has violated this Section then the Union shall issu warning notice to the Employer and his Association (if any). If Employer is guilty at any violation of these provisions after s warning, then the Union shall have the right to order cessation of Employer's work until such violation has been corrected.
Section 1.05 Job Labor Standards: The Employer agr that it is in the best interest of job progress and efficiency to, insc as possible, develop and encourage a uniform labor policy on particular jnh.
Nothing in this Article shall be construed to limit or restrict any way, the Employer's right to determine which portion of the wc if any, he may perform with his own employees or may subcontrac others.
Solely to preserve bargaining unit work and to protect we levels and fringe benefits of the employees covered hereunder, Employer agrees that when subcontracting on site construction w requiring laborers at jobsites covered by this Agreement, Employer will obtain the written agreement of the subcontractor: That the subcontractor will pay to or provide for employe performing such subcontracted work on such jobsites wages e fringe benefits in an aggregate dollar cost no less than the aggreg dollar cost of wages and fringe benefits which an Employer would required to pay or provide under this Agreement or, if less, under other agreement to which the Union is a party covering the same t) of work in the same area, to the end that the total labor cost of subcontractor for such work is no less than the total labor cost of Employer performing such work under this or another Agreement w the Union. For purposes of the preceding sentence, the aggreg dollar cost of wages and fringe benefits which an Employer would required to pay or provide under this or another Agreement with Union shall include any payments required by Sections 5.01, 5 5.03, 5.04, 5.06, 5.07, 5.14 through 5.23, 5,28 through 5.38, 5 5.410 and 5.43 of this Agreement, or similar provisions of such ot Agreement; but a subcontractor shall not be required to agree to bound in any other respect to the provisions listed and referred above. (2) That the subcontractor will, on the Union's reque
3
omptly furnish or make available to the Union copies of such payroll d other records as are necessary to verify the subcontractor's impliance with the foregoing agreement regarding wages and nges and, at the Union's option and request, will permit the Union's rents or accountants to audit and examine such of the ibcontractor's payroll records as necessary to verify compliance, the xst of such audit shall be borne by the Union unless the audit scloses underpayment, in which case the cost shall be borne by the ibcontractor to the extent of such underpayment unless resulting rm inadvertent or immaterial error, or clerical mistake. (3) That the ibcontractor shall be directly liable to the Union for any violation of e subcontractor's agreement and that the Union's rights may be nforced by a suit for appropriate equitable and monetary relief eluding interest, a reasonable attorney's fee and costs of suit, rovided the Employer has obtained the foregoing agreements from subcontractor, the Union shall pursue enforcement of such greements directly against the subcontractor, and shall assert no aim or demand against the Employer with respect to the ubcontractor's performance or non-performance of such greements. On each occasion when the Employer subcontracts on te construction work requiring laborers at jobsites covered by this greement, the Employer will promptly notify the Union of the project ame and location and the identity of the subcontractor and will rovide the Union with a copy of the subcontractor's written greements required by this paragraph. An Employer may comply ith the obligations of this paragraph by using the form attached as Appendix A' to this Agreement to obtain the required agreements om subcontractors, but use of such form shall not be required for ompliance. None of the obligations imposed on the Employer by is paragraph shall apply to subcontracting of work to a ubcontractor whose employees performing such work are covered y a collective bargaining agreement between the subcontractor and ny construction-related union affiliated with the AFL-CIO, so long as uch collective bargaining agreement remains in effect.
Section 1.06 Pre-Job Conference: Either the Union or the mployer may call a pre-job conference on all projects of 1,000,000.00 or more.
4
ARTICLE II Area Limits
Section l.trt This Agreement shall apply only to work of if Employer on construction sites located in the City or County of S Louis, Missouri, or as otherwise specified herein.
Section 2.02 The Union agrees that any Employer who is party to this Agreement shall have the privilege, and shall opera under the existing labor agreements, or extensions thereof, whic exist between the Eastern Missouri Laborers' District Council an other Employers covering construction work in the territon Jurisdiction of the Council, other than St. Louis and St. Louis County Missouri provided they accept and sign such agreements.
ARTICLE Hi
Intent and Purpose
Section 3.01 It is the desire, intent and purpose of the partie hereto that this Agreement shall promote and improve their Industrie and economic relationship and make it one that is harmonious an profitable.
Section 3.02 It is the intention of the parties hereto that thi Agreement shall make provision for the orderly and expeditiou consideration and settlement of rates of pay, wages, hours, workin conditions and adjustments of grievances.
ARTICLE IV Union Security
Section 4.01 It is understood and agreed by and between the parties hereto that as a condition of continued employment, al persons who are hereafter employed by the Employer in the uni which is the subject of this Agreement shall become members of the Union not later than the eighth (8th) day following the beginning o their employment or the execution date of this Agreement, whicheve is the later, that the continued employment by the Employer in said unit of persons who are members of the Union shall be conditioned upon those persons continuing their payment of the periodic dues of the Union; and that the continued employment of persons who were in the employ of the Employer prior to the date of this Agreement and who are not now members of the Union, shall be conditioned upon those persons becoming members of the Union not later than the
5
jhth (8th) day following the execution date of this Agreement. The lure of any person to become a member of the Union at such ;uired times shall obligate the Employer, upon written notice from i Union to such effect and to the further effect that Union ambership was available to such person on the same terms and editions generally available to other members, to forthwith ,charge such person. Further, the failure of any person to continue jyment of the periodic dues of the Union as required herein shall, on written notice to the Employer by the Union to such effect, ■ligate the Employer to discharge such person.
The foregoing requirement of "Union membership" may be met, espective of actual membership in the Union, by paying an amount juivalent to the Union's regular initiation fees and periodic dues.
Section 4.02 The Employer shall not be required to discharge ly employee for noncompliance with this Article until such time as ch employee is replaced by a qualified employee, and if the Union quests (in writing) the discharge of any employee for incompliance of the foregoing, the Union agrees to indemnity the nployer and hold the Employer harmless of arty liability or claims erewith in connection with the termination of the employment of ich employee in compliance with the request of the Union. All such quests by the Union for discharge of any employee shall be written.
Section 4.03 Should the Labor-Management Relations Act of 47 be amended at any time during the term of this Agreement in ch manner as to provide for other types of or provisions relating to rrart Security, then in such event this Agreement shall automatically nend as of the effective date of such amendment of the Act to nbody such changed provisions relating to Union Security as quested by either the Employer or the Union.	‘
Section 4.04 It is agreed that the Employer and the Union will mply with all of the rules, regulations, and provisions of Executive ■der No. 11246 established by the President of the United States on ual Employment Opportunity effective October 24,1965.
6
ARTICLE V Wages - Working Rules Basic Rate - Building and Highway/Heavy
Section 5,01 Building construction is hereby defined to inclu building structures, including modifications thereof and additions repairs thereto, intended for use for shelter, protection, comfort convenience. Building construction Shall include the demolition and foundations for, building construction; however, not preparation, grading, and improvement of the property or site. Act excavation for building basements, footings or foundations a backfilling of building basements, footing or foundations shall considered building construction.
Commercial, Industrial or Institutional Building or Buildings sh include factories, warehouses, hotels, churches, svhoois and multi unit rental housing projects but shall not include subdivisions unle the majority of the building lot areas in the subdivision are devoted Commercial, Industrial or Institutional Buildings.
Highway/Heavy is hereby defined to include excavatir grading and constructing of public highways and bridges, and pub heavy improvements, including roads, viaducts, airports, sewe streets, alleys; and railroad construction including grading and tra laying; retaining walls and culverts, canals, drainage projects, lever sidewalks, dams, pavements of all classes; water mains inctudr laying and caulking, and public utilities, and public utility projects, a other work of like character, not including, however, the acti erection of buildings.
It is agreed that the basic hourly rate of wages for employment of all employees in the unit, when employees a engaged in the general activities in conjunction with Buildi Construction and Highway/Heavy shall be;
7
(Basic Hourly Rate • General Laborers)
EFFECTIVE
3/1/99
$21.51*
$1.00 per hour to be paid with Vac. stamps in lieu of cash or to the Vacation rd and supp. dues of 2 1/2% of gross wages (taxable amt.
INGE
BENEFITS
$ 2.75 $ 2.85
$ .40
$ 12 $27.63
Welfare
Pension
Training and Apprentice
SAF
Total Package
ective March 6. 2000-$. 85 per hour increase (in Wages and/or fringes at Union's option)
active March 5, 2001-$.90 per hour increase (in Wages and/or fringes at Union's option)
ective March 4, 2002-$.05 per hour increase (in Wages and/or fringes at Union's option)
‘ective March 3, 2003-$ 1.00 per hour increase (in Wages and/or fringes at Union's option)
Basic Rate - Site Improvement
Site Improvement is hereby defined to include soil examination, cavating, grading and constructing of private sewers, sidewalks, ids, streets, and alleys and other work of like character, not Juding, however, the actual erection of buildings or building nstruction.
It is agreed that the basic hourly rate of wages for all ployment of GENERAL LABORERS in the unit, when employees 3 engaged in site improvement activities, and/or site improvement ivities in conjunction with building construction (building nstruction to Include residential construction more than four (4) ries in height) shah be;
8
(Basic Hourly Rate - General Laborers)
EFFECTIVE
3/1/99
$21.34*
'Inc $1.00 per hour to be paid with Vac. stamps in liau of cash or to the Vaca Fund and supp. dues of 2 1/2% of gross wages (taxable amt
FRINGE	$ 2.75	Welfare
BENEFITS	$ 2.65	Pension
	$ .40	Training and Apprentice
	$ .12	SAF
	$27.46	Total Package
Effective March 6, 2000-$. 85 per hour increase (in Wages and/or fringes at Union's option)
Effective March 5, 2001-$.90 per hour increase (in Wages and/or fringes at Union's option)
Effective March 4, 2002-$. 95 per hour increase (in Wages and/or fringes at Union’s option)
Effective March 3, 2003-$ 1.00 per hour increase (in Wages and/or fringes at Union's option)
Basic Wrecking Rate ■ Total
When engaged in the wrecking of building or structures in th entirety, including buildings having one or more party walls whi remain as enclosure of adjoining buildings (regardless of comm ownership or use) and regardless of salvage of materials from su wrecking, except those temporary ones built and used by contractc during construction of a new building, employees basic rate shall be
EFFECTIVE
3/1/99
$21,39*
*lnc. $1.00 per hour to be paid with Vac. stamps in lieu of cash or to the Vacat Fund and supp. dues of 2 1/2% of gross wages (taxable amt.
FRINGE	$ 2.75
BENEFITS	$ 2.85
$■ .40 $ .12 $27.51
Welfare
Pension
Training and Apprentice
SAF
Total Package
9
fective March 5, 2000-$.85 per hour increase (in Wages and/or fringes at Union's option)
fective March 5, 2001-$.80 per hour increase (in Wages and/or fringes at Union's option)
fective March 4,2002-5.95 per hour increase (in Wages and/or fringes at Union's option)
fective March 3, 2003--S1.00 per hour increase (in Wages and/or fringes at Union's option)
Basic Rate - Residential
Residential construction is hereby defined as construction of ngle family residences, including subdivisions, and apartments, indominiums or row housing limited to four (4) stories in height xdusive of the basement.
When employees are engaged in residential construction as efined above, the basic hourly rate for General Laborers shall be:
(Basic Hourly Rate - Residential)
EFFECTIVE
3/1/99
$16.52'
■ic. $1.00 per hour to be paid with Vac. stamps in lieu of cash or to the Vacation jnd and supp dues of 2 1/2% of gross wages (taxable amt.
RINGE	$ 2.75 Welfare
BENEFITS	$ 2.15	Pension
$21.42 Total Package
fective March 6, 2000-$.70 per hour increase (in Wages and/or fringes at Union's option)
ffective March 5, 2001-$.70 per hour increase (in Wages and/or fringes at Union's option)
fective March 4, 2002-$. 75 per hour increase (in Wages and/or fringes at Union's option)
fective March 3, 2003-$.75 per hour increase (in Wages and/or fringes at Union's option)
10
Basic Rate - Residential Laborer Helper
This rate covers all residential building work except excavatir footing, Foundations, concrete flatwork, sewers, curbs, gutte streets, plumber laborer work and brick mason tenders.
(Basic Hourly Rate • Residential Laborer Helper)
EFFECTIVE
3/1/99
$10.95’
"Ina $1,00 per hoir to be paid with Vac. stamps in lieu or cash or to the Vacate Fund.
FRINGE	$ 2.75	Welfare
BENEFITS	$ 2,00	Pension
$15.70Total Package
Effective March 6, 2000--$. 55 per hour increase (in Wages and/ fringes at Union's option) ■
Effective March 5, 2001-$.55 per hour increase (in Wages and/ fringes at Union's option)
Effective March 4, 2002-1.60 per hour increase (in Wages and/ fringes at Union's option)
Effective March 3, 2003-$.60 per hour increase (in Wages and/ fringes at Union's option)
The Union shall have the alternative to convert any of the cen per hour wage increases provided for in this Agreement from straig wages to additional cents per hour contributions to Welfare, Pensio Training, LECET or Vacation. If any conversion occurs, the cents pi hour straight time hourly rates listed will simultaneously be reduced the same amounts. If the Union desires to convert any of the wag increases to fringe benefits or to additional vacation stamp amoun in this manner, it will serve written notice to the Employer at least e days prior to the effective date of any annual wage installment due.
11
Section 5.02 Apprenticeship: The parties to this Agreement eby incorporate into this Agreement the Apprenticeship Standards the Apprenticeable Occupation of Construction Craft Laborer O.T. #869.463-580), as registered and approved on October 23, 95 by the Bureau of Apprenticeship and Training of the U.S. partment of Labor for the Eastern portion of the State of Missouri, uding the St. Louis metropolitan area, under Registration Number 3-002-0386, Including any amendments or modifications heretofore de, or which may be made, during the life of this Agreement, and Employer and the Union agree to be bound by the terms and visions thereof.
The Joint Apprenticeship Training Committee (hereinafter erred to as “Committee") referred to herein shall mean the Joint prenticeship Training Committee established under the rementioned Standards. The Apprenticeship Program shall be ministered by the Joint Apprenticeship Training Committee. The iployer and the Union agree to be bound by the decisions of the nt Apprenticeship Training Committee.
The Apprenticeship Program shall be a "letter of intent' type of gram which shall allow for persons to enter the apprenticeship gram provided they have an Employer willing to employ them for Term of Apprenticeship under the terms of the Standards, prentices enrolled pursuant to these Standards shall be indentured he Committee.
The Term of Apprenticeship shall be for two years (4,000 urs) of diversified work and on-the-job training, excluding time ent in off-the-job related instruction and training.
Apprentices must complete 288 hours of off-the-job related truction and training in an Individual Educational Program reinafter referred to as "IEP") as determined by the Committee, in er to successfully complete the Apprenticeship Program. PRENTICES MUST COMPLETE ALL OFF-THE-JOB RELATED STRUCTION AND TRAINING AS ASSIGNED AND SCHEDULED. PRENTICES NOT COMPLETING CLASSES TO WHICH THEY E ASSIGNED AND SCHEDULED SHALL BE TERMINATED OM THE APPRENTICESHIP PROGRAM. Any persons so minated shall not be eligible for employment In the apprenticeship ssification by any Employer signatory to a collective bargaining reement providing for such classification and negotiated by the stem Missouri Laborers' District Council or any of its affiliated cal Unions.
12
Apprentices shall not be entitled to payment of wages, nor s the Employer be responsible for payment of fringe be contributions, for time spent in off-the-job related instruction training - and no such time spent by an Apprentice shall considered in the hours of work for pay purposes.
APPRENTICES MUST COMPLETE ASSIGNED A SCHEDULED OFF-THE-JOB RELATED INSTRUCTION A TRAINING WITHIN PRESCRIBED WORKING HOURS" FOLLOWS:
0 ■ 500 hours of work 50% of general laborer hourly rate
0 - 500 hours of work and completion of 24-h "Apprenticeship and Orientation Safety Training" class
60% of general laborer hourly rate
1,500 hours of work and completion of minimum of additional hours of off-the-job related IEP instruction in "Basic Skills" classification
70% of general laborer hourly rate
2,500 hours of work and completion of minimum of additional hours of off-the-job related IEP instruction in "Basic or Advanced Skills" classification
80% of general laborer hourly rate
3,500 hours of work and completion of minimum of additional hours of off-the-job related IEP instruction in "Advanced or Environmental Skills" classification
90% of general laborer hourly rate
4,000 hours of work and completion of all off-the-job related I instruction	.
100% of general laborer hourly rate
Employers shall make full payment of al) fringe ben contributions provided far in this Agreement for each h worked by Apprentices in their employ.
13
Applications for apprenticeship will he accepted on Tuesdays, Wednesdays or Thursdays between the hours of 9:00 a m. and 3:00 m. at the offices of the Laborers-AGC Training Center (High Hill AO). Receiving of applications shall be stopped by the Committee whenever it determines that sufficient apprentices are enrolled in the rogram to meet anticipated worker requirements, or it finds that excessive numbers of apprentices already in the program are nemplcyed, or the capability of the Laborers-AGC Training Center to rovide the off-the-job related instruction or training is exceeded. The ommittee will resume receiving applications when, In the opinion of re Committee, the condition or conditions warranting the cessation f receiving applications no longer exists.
Employers shall be allowed: one (1) apprentice when mploying three (3) or more general laborers; two (2) apprentices hen employing ten (10) or more general laborers; three (3) pprentices when employing fifteen (15) or more general laborers; ur (4) apprentices when employing twenty (20) or more general borers.
in the event of temporary reduction of workforce, the Employer hall reduce the number of apprentices in accordance with the above nd promptly notify the Committee of the name of the apprentice, pprentices so temporarily laid off will have their names placed in a ool and will be available tor employment by Employers desiring to mploy apprentices during times that the Committee is not accepting ew applications for apprentices.
Apprentices shall work at all times under the supervision of a impetent and qualified general laborer on the Job.
Employers shall not employ Apprentices on any jobsite unless a jmpelent and qualified general laborer is also employed by that ime Employer on that same jobsite.
Apprentices shall be subject to the same working conditions as a Employers General Laborers. However, it is expressly agreed and iderstood that Employers shall assign Apprentices to different job sks so as to allow them to become adept at a variety of operations d work skills.
No person who has previously been employed as a General iborer shall be eligible for employment as an apprentice.
14
Should any provision of this Article be contrary to or in violatio of any applicable existing law or statute hereafter promulgated, the in that event such provision shall be void and of no force and effec but all other provisions of this Article shall continue in full force an effect
Section 6.03 Welfare: In addition to the per hour wage rate the Employer will contribute (specific amounts will be noted on wag schedules) per hour for each actual hour worked by each employe covered by this Agreement to the Greater St Louis Constructio Laborers' Welfare Trust Fund.
Section 5.04 Pension: In addition to the per hour wage rate and the contributions to the Greater St. Louis Construction Laborer* Welfare Fund, the Employer shall contribute (specific amounts will t> noted on wage schedules) to the Construction Laborers' Pensio Trust of Greater St. Louis, for each actual iiour worked by employee covered under this agreement.
Section 5.05 Vacation: The parties hereto agree that the S Louis Laborers' Vacation Fund will be revised to eliminate the use c vacation stamps and to establish in lieu thereof a vacation fun system in which Employers contribute a contractually establishe portion of the employees' wages to a fund from which the employee receive their vacation pay. This revised system, subject to the fine approval of the parties hereto, shall be placed in effect not later tha August 1, 1999, unless the time period is extended by mutus agreement. Until the revised Vacation Fund is in effect, the Employe shall segregate one dollar ($1.00) of the employee’s wages as se forth in Article 5 of this contract for each hour worked to be paid th employee with vacation stamps in lieu of cash. When the revise vacation fund system goes into effect, the use of stamps shall b discontinued, and the Employer will, upon notice thereof, deduct On Dollar ($1.00) for each hour worked from the basic wage rate and pa the same to the St. Louis Laborers' Vacation Fund to provid vacation benefits for its employees. The amount segregated fc vacation purposes or paid to the Vacation Fund is part of wages included in the laborers' wage rates, and shall be so considered i computation of withholding, taxes and insurance, etc. The reporting payment, and administration of the current stamp program, and of th newly established vacation fund system, shall be governed by th terms of the Trust Agreement creating the St. Louis LaborerVacation Fund, and any amendments thereto, and by its duly adopte rules and regulations, by which an Employer shall be bound by virtu of being party to or bound by the terms of this Agreement.
15
Upon three (3) weeks prior notice the Employer and the Union, employee may. with the Employer's concurrence, take a leave of sence not to exceed two (2) weeks for a vacation from the job on hich he is employed, without jeopardizing future employment on the b, provided, however, that the laborers’ work on that job is in ogress on his return and that no more than one of the employees such job shall be on vacation leave at any one time.
Section 5.06 Training and Apprentice: In addition to the per ur wage rate, the Employer shall contribute (specific amounts will t noted on wage schedules) per hour for each actual hour worked each employee covered by this Agreement to training.
Section 5.07 Site Advancement Fund: In addition to the per jur wage rate, the Employer will contribute twelve cents ($.12) per 5ur for each actual hour worked by each employee covered by this greement to the Site Advancement Fund.
The reporting, payment and administration of such contribution all be governed by the terms of the Trust Agreement creating the und.
Primary purpose of the Fund as set forth in the Trust greement shall include advanced training and education, safety ducation and other educational and informational programs for mployee and industry betterment and programs for employee and mployer, industry betterment and industry promotion.
Section 5.08 Supplemental Dues: The Employer shall educt and withhold from wages of all employees covered by this greement supplemental dues in an amount equal to two and one-alf percent (2 %%) of the gross wages (taxable income).
It is specifically understood that no supplemental dues shall be educted from any employee's wages unless and until such time as e Employer has physically in his possession an authorization card gned by the employee providing for such deduction and payment to e respective Local Unions.
Reporting and payment of such sums so deducted will be made n forms furnished by the Union.
16
Section 5.09 Funds: Employers who accept and sign th Agreement also agree to accept and be bound by the Agreement ar Declaration of Trust creating the Greater St. Louis Constructs Laborers' Welfare Trust Fund, by the Trust Indenture creating tt Construction Laborers' Pension Trust of Greater St. Louis, by tf amended Agreement and Declaration of Trust creating the AGC Eastern Missouri Laborers' Joint Training Fund, by the Tru Indenture creating the Greater St. Louis Laborers’ Vacation Fun and Declaration of Trust creating the Laborers-Employe Cooperation and Education Trust, and by the Trust agreeme creating the Site Advancement Fund, including any amendmen heretofore made or which may be made during the life of th Agreement to any of said trust instruments.
Section 5.10 Reporting and Delinquent Contribution Contributions to Greater St. Louis Construction Laborers' Welfa Fund (hereinafter called "Welfare"), Construction Laborers' Pensio Trust of Greater St. Louis (hereinafter called "Pension"), AGC Eastern Missouri Laborers' Joint Training Fund (hereinafter calle "Training"), Site Advancement Fund (hereinafter called "Fund1 Laborers’ International Union of North America AFL'CIO Local No 42-53-110 Supplemental Dues Fund (hereinafter calle "Supplemental Dues"), and Eastern Missouri Laborers' Distnc Council Laborers-Employers Cooperation and Education Tru. (hereinafter called "LECET1), shall be paid monthly, with eac month's contribution covering work ending with the last payroll perio in that month. Reporting shall be on forms furnished by Welfare Pension, Training, Fund, Supplemental Dues and LECET, and a forms shall be Signed by a person authorized to sign for the reportin Employer. Employers who have been making contributions shal during periods of inactivity, make monthly reports showing "n laborers" if no laborer worked during that month. Contributions to th Greater St. Louis Laborers' Vacation Fund shall be made i accordance with the procedure adopted by the Trustees (hereinafte called 'Vacation').
17
Contributions are due by the 15th day of the month following month reported or which should be reported, and any itributions not received by the last day of the month during which itributions are due shall be considered delinquent. The Employer ngnizes that the Employer's failure or refusal to make itributions when due causes additional bookkeeping, rreapondence, telephone calls, loss of use of funds, delay In king entries in record keeping and other expenses to those to om contributions are due. Therefore, the Employer agrees that on contributions becoming delinquent, said Employer will pay. In dition thereto and as liquidated damages, a sum equal to twenty rcent (20%) of such delinquent contributions. Further, when there delinquent contributions due, the Union, notwithstanding any er provision in this Agreement to the contrary, following seventy-b (72) hours written notice by Welfare, Pension, Training, Fund, cation, Supplemental Dues or LECET trustees or by the Union, to sh delinquent Employer, may order cessation of all work covered the Employer on ail jobs of Employer until such reports are made d the contributions together with liquidated damages are paid.
Section 5.11 Audits and Sults to Collect Contributions: a Employer agrees that Welfare, Pension, Training, Fund, cation, Supplemental Dues and LECET shall each have the right to -rfy the accuracy of reports and contributions made by the tployer, by having their respective employees, agents, resentatives or accountants audit and examine during the ployer's regular business hours, the Employer's weekly payroll mal, individual earnings records of employees, copy of Federal /roll tax returns and other payroll records as may be necessary to tw such examiner to determine whether the Employer is making and complete reports and contributions as required by the ployer's collective bargaining agreement with the Union.
If such examination discloses that the Employer has not made reporting and payment, the cost of the examination and audit shall paid by the Employer provided that such allocation of cost to the ployer shall not apply in the case of Inadvertent or immaterial or, or clerical mistake.
18
In addition to all other remedies on account thereof available Welfare, Pension, Training, Fund, Vacation, Supplemental Du LECET and/or the Union, suit to recover unpaid contributions a liquidated damages due and owing, if so, and/or to enforce tl Section concerning audit and examination, may be brought by t respective Trustees of Welfare, Pension, Training, Fund, Vacatic Supplemental Dues, LECET and/or the Union, and in the event such suit the Employer agrees to pay in addition to the amount fou due and owing, interest at the maximum rate allowed by I computed from the due date of each month's contribution, plus reasonable attorney's fee payable to the attorney or attorneys fill such suit in an amount fixed by the Court, but in no event less th thirty-three and one-third percent (33 1/3%) of the total amount which judgment is rendered.
Section 5.12 Surety Bond and Insurance: The Employ shall secure and maintain surety bond in the minimum amount $10,000 to guarantee payment of all wages, fringes and contributio provided for herein and shall furnish to the Union evidence of t procurement and maintenance of bond in such amount. Contractc who do not secure and maintain a wage and welfare bond sh contribute a ten percent (10%) fringe benefit premium through tl same procedure as regular monthly contributions as referenced Section 5.10.
Should the Employer be, at any time, unable to fulfill t obligation as above provided, he shall be required to pay all wag due in cash, instead of by check.
Section 5.13	Insurance: The Employer shall provi Workmen's Compensation Insurance against injury a Unemployment Compensation protection for all employees ev though not required to do so by Missouri State Law.
The Employer shall furnish to the Union satisfactory evidence his compliance with such provisions of this Section.
Section 5.14	Foreman Rate: Fifty cents ($.50) per ho above applicable basic rate.
Section 5.15	General Foreman Rate: One dollar ($1.00) p hour above applicable basic rate.
19
1
(When Employer determines that a foreman is required to direct he work of other foremen, he shall be designated as a General "oreman. Designation as General Foreman shall not relieve employee of his duties as a foreman.)
Section 5.16	Dynamiter or Powderman Rate: Fifty cents $.50) per hour above the applicable basic rate. Dynamiter shall provide himself with license where required.
Section 5.17	pier Hole Rate: Employee who must enter or work Inside or at bottom of machine drilled pier holes with minimum lepth of six (6) feet from where drilling begins, while working in or at txrttom of such pier holes shall receive twenty-five cents ($.25) per hour above applicable basic rate.
Section 5.18	Stack Rate: When working on smokestack work smokestacks on separate foundations) the following rate shall apply:
1	to 25 feat
$.25 per hour over basic rate
25 to 50 feet $.50 per hour over basic rate
50 to 75 feet $.75 per hour over basic rate
75 to 100 feet $1.00 per hour over basic rate
100 to 150 feet $1.25 per hour over basic rate
150 to 200 feet $1.50 per hour over basic rate
200 to 250 feet $1.75 per hour over basic rate
250 feet or higher $2.00 per hour over basic rate
Section 5.19	Water Boy Rate: Applicable basic rate.
20
Section 5.20	Flagman Rate: The applicable basic hourly ra shall apply for flagman. If a flagman is required, he shall be a labor under this bargaining unit. The Employer shall furnish flagman jacke to flagman who shall be responsible for return of such jackets.
Section 5.21	Compressed Air Rates and Rules Compressed air rates and additional rules over and above norm contracf conditions to apply to caisson work and tunnel work unde air.
Present schedule for all men working in air pressure:
Alt Categories: General Laborers'Wages
0 to 10 pounds:
4 hours on-1/2 off-3 1/2 on
10 to 18 pounds:
3 'A hours on-1 off-3 '/> on
18 to 24 pounds:
3 hours on-3 off-3 on
24 to 30 pounds:
2 hours on-4 off-2 on
30 to 36 pounds:
1 14 hours on-4 % off-1 'A on
36 to 42 pounds:
1 hour on-5 off-1 on
42 to 48 pounds:
*A hour on-5 'A off- % on
48 to 52 pounds:
'A hour on-7 'A off- 'A on
In the light of current research and investigation into healt aspects of work under air pressure, if future determination indicate revision of work schedule and rules would be desirable for the healt of the men, this schedule and rules shall be revised and corrected t conform with recommended practices. Wages for men working unde air pressure shall be increased by the yearly contractual wag increases as outlined in Section 5.01.
21
Hours of work will commence at the low air side of the air lock xcept when the distance from the top of the shaft to the air lock xceeds 3,500 feet. If distance from the top of the shaft to the air ick exceeds 3,500 feet, a travel allowance of one-half (1/2) hour's ay per shift (at straight time) will be allowed.
Inside lock tenders same rate and hours as pressure men.
An additional fifty cents ($.50) per shift shall be paid pressure nen only when sealing or concreting lock chamber.
Outside lock tenders and medical lock tenders same rate as ressure men except for an eight (8) hour shift. One each per eight B) hour shift.
Dressing Room Attendant and all other outside laborers at ormal current contract conditions and rates applying to heavy and ighway construction.
Lockers, hot and cold water, benches, towels, coffee and sugar, hall be furnished by the Employer.
Crew leaders shall be paid three dollars ($3.00) per shift above ressure men.
Section 5.22 Free Air Tunnels and Shafts: Laborers wage ate per hour for all work in tunnel and shafts leading to tunnel except the powderman) will be twenty-five cents ($.25) per hour bove the basic wage rate.
The powderman will receive a rate of fifty cents (S.50) per hour ver the wage rate paid the tunnel laborer.
Hours of work will commence at the heading and will end at the eading except when the distance from top of shaft to heading xceeds 3,500 feet. If distance from top of shaft to heading exceeds 500 feet, a travel allowance of one-half (1/2) hour's pay per shift (at traight time) will be allowed, but the crews shall change at the eading.
22
This applies to jobs which are primarily tunnel projects a would not apply to tunnels Incidental to open cut sewer installatic or highway drainage projects, unless these tunnels are worked or shift basis.
Section 5.23 Heating: When temporary heating is done w salamanders or any portable, self-contained heater, employe working on same shall receive the basic rate at straight time for time worked not to exceed eight (8) hours in any calendar day forty (40) hours in period Monday through Friday, irrespective whether or not the time worked falls within the regularly schedul workday hours. For all time worked in excess of eight (8) hours any calendar day or in excess of forty (40) hours in period Mond through Friday (including not only heating work, but all other wor and for all such time on Saturdays, Sundays, and Holidays su f>mninv£A$ shs!! rscsivs contrsctuol overtime.
On Saturdays, Sundays, or Holidays, the minimum pay ( heating only) shall be for two (2) hours.
Plumber Laborer Work
DEFINITIONS AS USED HEREIN:
Section 5.24 Structure: Any concrete, brick, or other ty installation including, but not limited to, tunnels and raceway throu which pipes and lines are to be installed which prevent immedia contact of the lines with the backfill material or complete encaseme of the lines by the backfill material. Pipe wrapping, insulation or sf tile which merely protect the line and are actually part of the line a not to be classed as structures. Backfilling with wet mix concre shall not be classed as a structure.
Section 5.25 Site: The word "site" as used herein shall defined as the total tract of land including the land provided for U building or buildings and/or for all attendant Heavy and Highw Construction. In subdivisions, however, the tract shall include or the individual lots provided for each individual dwelling but n streets, alleys, or easements or similar common approaches ground.
Section 5.26	Junction: Connections such as Y's, To a Manholes.
23
Section 5.27	Excavation: Hand excavation only and not eluding structural concrete work and pouring, form work, backfilling, the removal from site or from proximity of excavation of excavated laterial or surplus dirt.
Section 5.28..........Heat, Power, Water and Cooling Lines Rate: and excavation and hand backfilling for lines in trench not to be in a iructure.............Plumber Laborer Rate.
Excavation and all Laborer work for lines in trench to be in a tructure.........applicable Building or Heavy/Highway Laborer
late.
Excavation and hand backfilling for and laying of drains below tructure.........Plumber Laborer Rate.
In a "street job", such as utility distribution systems lines, etc., vhether or not to be in a structure, in its entirety, excavation and all aborer work for lines to be in a trench.............
Heavy/Highway Laborer Rate.
Sectton 5.29 Drain Tile Rate: Excavation for (not including jeneral or footing excavation) and laying of drain tile around and jnder building................Plumber	Laborer Rate.
Section 5.30	Storm and Sanitary Sewer Rates: The excavation, laying and hand backfilling tor storm and sanitary sewer aterals of any size (diameter), limited however to such work on the Site of and within the Site of Commercial, Industrial, Institutional or Residential Building or Buildings, and further limited to such work rom the Building to the first junction on the site.............Plumber
.aborer Rate.
AN other sewer work shall be done in accordance with Site -Heavy and Highway Construction.
It is expressly agreed that all work covered herein at the rates per hour shown for the various types of work has been and shall :ontinue to be done by the Laborers employed by the contractors who are parties to this Agreement and under these Employers' direction and direct supervision and the direction and supervision of heir regular supervisory employees.
24
Section 5.31	Miscellaneous Rates: It the general contracts furnishes laborers to service any of the following mechanical c subcontractors, namely: Boilermakers, Electricians, Plumbers, Stear Fitters, Sprinkler Fitters, Brick Masons, and Plasterers, such labor; shall be paid the laborers' hourly wage rate applicable to th respective type of work performed.
Section 5.32	Foreman: When ten (10) or more laborers at employed by the Employer on one job. one (1) of them shall b designated by the Employer as foreman and he shall receiv foreman's rate.
Such foreman, when employed, shall be the agent of th< Employer and he shall be considered an employee within th bargaining unit.
Section 5.33	Workday: Eight (S) hours shall constitute thi regular workday, between the hours of 6:30 a.m. and 5:30 p.m except when Employer elects to work four 10-hour days as describe below.
This adjustable starting time can, at the Employer's option, b staggered to permit starting portions of the work force at variou1, times within the prescribed hours.	;
However, it is the intent of this Agreement that whenever an’ laborers can be gainfully employed, there wilt be sufficient laborers ot the job site during the workday established for the project. A luncl period of one-half (34) hour duration shall begin not later than four ant one-haif (4 14) hours after starting time.
Section 5.34	Ability To Work Four 10-Hour Days: Tht Employer may have the option to schedule his workweek fron Monday through Thursday at 10 hours per day at the straight time rate of pay with all hours in excess of 10 hours in any one day to be at the applicable overtime rate.
If the Employer elects to work from Monday through Thursday and is stopped due to inclement weather (rain, snow, sleet falling) he shall have the option to work Friday at the straight time rate of pay tc complete his 40 hours. However, should a holiday occur, Monday through Thursday, the Employer shall have the option to work Friday at the straight time rate of pay to complete his 40 hours.
25
However, if Friday or any portion of the day is used to complete the workweek, each employee will be guaranteed at least B hours work and not over 10 hours at the straight time rate of pay, unless work is halted due to inclement weather (rain, snow, sleet failing).
When an Employer works a project on a four (4) ten (10) hour day work schedule, the Employer will not bring in any other crew for a fifth workday on the project while not calling in the normal crew that had been scheduled for that project.
If the Employer has opted to work the ten (10) hour days, the following provision shall apply: If employees begin working the morning and work for less than five (5) hours, they shall be paid for five (5) hours work unless stopped due to weather or other reasons as stated in Section 5.43, If they begin work in the afternoon and work for less than five (5) hours, they shall also be paid for five (5) hours work unless stopped due to weather or other reasons stated in Section 5.43.
If, after starting work, the Employer elects not to continue due to rain, snow or sleet falling, employees shall be paid for the actual hours worked, with a minimum of one (1) hour. Employees shall remain on the job until released by the Employer, and such waiting time shall be counted as hours worked and paid as such.
If a crew of another trade of the Employer working on such job is receiving overtime pay, then Laborer will receive applicable overtime pay.
Section S.34A On residential work only, all work performed after 40 hours in any workweek or after ten (10) hours during any workday and all work performed on Satui4ay shall be compensated at time and one-half the regular hourly rate of pay for the work performed, except as modified herein, tf an employee has worked less than forty (40) hours from Monday through Thursday, and the Employer elects to work Friday, then the Employer will be required to work or pay the employee for the full scheduled shift on Friday or until the hours worked on Friday plus the hours worked Monday through Thursday total forty (40) hours, whichever is less, and provided further that the employee will be paid or work a minimum of four (4) hours on Friday, unless prevented by inclement weather. If a crew is prevented from working two (2) workdays or any part thereof Monday through Friday by reason of inclement weather, Saturday or any part thereof may be worked as a make-up day at the straight time rate. If
26
Saturday is worked as a make-up day, work shall proceed for a f shift, unless prevented from working by inclement weather, if i employee declines to work Saturday as a make-up day, he shall n be penalized but can be replaced by another employee at the straig time rate. Employees who are part of a regular crew on a make-u day, notwithstanding the fact that they may not have been employe the entire week, shall work Saturday at the straight time rate,
Section 5.35	Lunchtime: If the starting of employees one-ha i'/i'i hour lunch period is delayed beyond four and one-half (4 ’/ hours after starling time on the job, by the Employer, employee whose lunch period is so postponed shall be paid one-half (’/>) hour contractual overtime rate for such lunch period.
Section 5.35 Supportimo: Employees are to be allowed one half iv,\ Hnnr r<jr supper with pay at contractual Overtime rale if the work two (2) hours overtime after the end of their regular workda and if they are to continue to work after this supper period. In th event of additional overtime, employees will be allowed one-half ('/ hour mealtime with pay as provided above after each additional foi (4) hours overtime beyond the previous overtime plus mealtime provided they are to continue working after such additional mealtime
Where possible employees shall arrange to eat alternately t permit work to proceed continuously but this shall not be construed t deprive an employee of mealtime privilege and payment.
Section 5.37 Overtime: Time and one-half (1 ’Z) shall be pai (except for work performed on heating for which provision is mad above, and work performed on projects that cannot be performe during the regular workday for which provision has been made belcv and modified in Section 5.34A and 5.34) for work performed i excess of eight (8) hours on any regular workday or outside the hour limiting a regular workday, Monday through Friday. Time and one-hal {1 ’/>) shall be paid for work performed on Saturdays except a modified in Section 5.34A. Double time shall be paid for wor performed on Sundays and Holidays. Overtime shall be computed a one-half ('/>} hour intervals.
27
Projects That Cannot Be Performed During Regular Workday: If required by owner, the contractor may perform work outside the normal work hours and employees shall be paid applicable straight time hourly wage rate plus a premium of $1.50 per hour for the first eight hours worked. Any hours worked in excess of eight hours shall be paid at the applicable overtime rate plus the $1.50 per hour premium. Overtime is computed after the premium has been added to the hourly wage rate. The $1.50 per hour premium does not apply on highway work, only if any other trade on such job is not receiving the $1.50 per hour premium.
AH other work rules, guaranteed payment and other provisions of this collective bargaining agreement shall apply when such work is being performed.
Section 5.38	Show Up: An employee shall receive no less han four (4) hours’ pay at straight time rate or two (2) hours at overtime rate for any day (at the prevailing rate for such day):
(a)	when employed on a job and upon reporting for work the following morning employee is notified there is no work to be done,
(b)	or when ordered out and upon reporting on the job, or work, at the time as ordered, and not put to work,
(c)	or when employee starts the day and is stopped or laid off before working at least four (4) hours,
unless prevented from starting or stopped from working by the failure of other employees to appear, or by failure of the Employer to receive materials, or on account of bad weather, ground conditions, or by other causes beyond the control of the Employer.
If an employee is requested to report to the Employer’s yard and perform laborer's work prior to being transported to job site, he shall be paid for the work. When laborers report to the yard solely for transportation his time shall start at the regular starting time.
Any employee unable to work because of physical condition, lack of safety apparel as required, or inability to perform work assigned shall not be entitled to show up time.
28
Section 5.39	Payday: The Employer shall pay on the job when employees are working on the job at the time herein specified every Friday at or before 4:30 p.m., in currency or by payroll check for any work performed through Sunday prior to payday. In the even of bad weather on Friday, checks will be on the job no later then 12:00 noon unless unavoidably delayed.
The Employer shall furnish check stub or receipt which includes the Employer's name and address, showing gross amount of check itemized deductions, and hours worked and amounts for both regula and overtime.
Wafting Time: Waiting time shall be paid to all employees who do not receive their wages within thirty (30) minutes after quitting time, if said delay is occasioned by the fault of the Employer, at straight tijn* rates.
Any employee laid off more than one (1) day or discharged shall be paid in full at once. If an employee is sent to the office for his pay. and the office is not on the job site, he shall be paid one (1) hour straight time.
Any Employer who fails to have sufficient funds in the bank to meet all paychecks issued to employees shall be liable also for the cost of collecting the amount due, and the defaulting Employer is to be deprived of the right to pay by check.
Section 5.40	Holidays: Double time shall be paid for work performed on the following holidays: New Year’s Day, Memorial Day Fourth of July, Labor Day, Veterans Day, Thanksgiving and Christmas. When a Holiday occurs on a Saturday it shall not be observed on either the previous Friday or the following Monday Such days shall be regular workdays. If such a Holiday occurs on Sunday it shall be observed on the following Monday.
Section 5.41	Shift Work: When shifts are desired, notification must be made to the Business Manager of the District Council. Shifts may be established when considered necessary by the Employer Shift hours and rates will be as follows:
A.	FIRST SHIFT: Eight (8) hours plus one-half (%) hour for lunch.
SECOND SHIFT: Seven and one-half (7 ’/a) hours plus one-half (%) hour for lunch.
29
unch.
THIRD SHIFT: Seven (7) hours plus one-half (%) hour for
B.	Shifts shall be established for a minimum of three (3) consecutive workdays.
C.	If only two (2) shifts are to be worked, the Employer may egulate starting times of the two (2) shift operation to permit the maximum utilization of daylight hours.
D.	The first shift will be paid at eight (8) hours' straight time or eight (8) hours' work. The second shift will be paid eight (8) hours straight time plus a ten cents ($. 10) per hour premium for seven and one-half (7 %) hours work, and the third shift shall be paid eight (8) hours straight time plus a fifteen cents ($.15) per hour premium for seven (7) hours work. Overtime is computed after the premium has been added to the hourly wage rate.
E.	Nothing above prohibits the working of two (2) shifts at greater than eight (8) hours with excess hours to be paid at overtime rate.
Section 5.42	Voting Time for Employees: RS Mo. Section 115.639. Any person entitled to vote at any election held within this State shall, on the day of such election, be entitled to absent himself from any services or employment in which he is then engaged or employed, for a period of three (3) hours between the time of opening and the time of closing the polls for the purpose of voting, and any such absence for such purpose shall not be sufficient reason for the discharge of or the threat to discharge any such person from such services or employment; and any such employee, if he votes, shall not, because of so absenting himself, be liable to any penalty or discipline, nor shall any deduction be made on account of such absence from his usual salary or wages; provided, however, that request shall be made for such leave of absence prior to the day of election, and provided further, that this Section shall not apply to a voter on the day of election if there are three (3) successive hours while the polls are open in which he is not in the service of his Employer. The Employer may specify any three (3) hours between the time of opening and the time of closing the polls during which such employee may absent himself.
30
If required, employee shall have form signed at polling place indicate vote has been cast. Form shall be furnished by th Employer.
Section 5,43 Non-Loss Time Accident: On the day of a injury resulting from a job site accident the employee shall not suffe any loss for time spent receiving medical attention or, if the attendin physician will not permit his return to work, for the remainder of th shift. On one (1) additional day subsequent to the accident th employee shall not suffer any loss for time spent receiving furthe medical treatment provided the doctor requires a return visit durin working hours. Employee will obtain a written memorandum from th doctor showing the time of appointment and the time of treatment an will provide a copy to the Employer.
Section 5.44	Transferring: When employees are transferre from one job location to another during the regular workday they mus be paid for such time.
Section 5.45	Safety Provisions:
(a)	On all pier holes, curbs shall be maintained aroun perimeter on holes of sufficient height to prevent debris an excavated materials from falling or being kicked into pier holes. A men working pier holes must wear safety hats at all times.
(b)	On all trench excavations of five (5) feet in depth or over a trench walls will be either sloped from the five (5) foot point or in th event that sloping is impractical will be braced or shored to protec the workmen in the trench.
(c)	The employee shall furnish hard hat and proper safet) shoes (except where job conditions require special footwear such a rubber boots) and shall wear such safety items, as required by th Employer, at all times and shall be subject to immediate discharge fo failure to do so.
(d)	Employees shall not be required to work with unsafe tool and equipment or without safety appliances at any time nor shal employees be required to work under unsafe conditions.
31
(e)	The Employer in recognition of the fact that an effective „ident prevention program is essential, not only to the safety and Ifare of the employees but to the efficient prosecution of the work, ees to make effective use of accident prevention information and s available from the American Red Cross or equivalent, and to ure that such information and educational materials are made aitable to employees on the job site.
(f)	On any job where there Is a serious accident, if it resulted m unsafe job conditions, these conditions shall be corrected before rk is resumed in the unsafe area.
(g)	The Employer shall furnish safety goggles, respirators, aring protection, toe guards and cutting goggles or helmets when ning or welding. If employee is to be performing cutting or welding an extended period of time, the Employer shall provide safety ves and vest.
(h)	The Employer shall furnish a first aid kit on the job site and addition will maintain a list of emergency services (i.e., fire partment, police department, ambulance, hospital, doctors, etc.) ere professional help when needed may be immediately obtained.
(i)	In addition, the Employer and his employees shall strictly mply, at all times, with all applicable local, state and federal safety gulations and standards.
Section 5.46	Supplies Furnished: The Employer shall nish all tools, raincoats, rain hats, rubber gloves, goggles, and rilized boots required in the performance of employees' duties, ice ter during the summer months and when needed, sanitary drinking ps, and shall provide or arrange for access to suitable toilet and sssing room facilities.
Section 5.47	Steward: The steward, selected by the siness Representative, shall be selected from the employees on e job or in any event from employees of the Employer. The nployer shall neither be required to hire an additional employee nor replace a man with a new employee by reason of such selection as sward. The Employer agrees in the event of reduction of the work ce, that the employee appointed as steward remain on the job as tg as there is work of his craft which he is capable of performing, the event the steward is to be transferred, the Employer shall notify e Union and secure concurrence of the transfer from Union's siness Representative. The Employer shall be advised of such award's name.
32
The steward shall be subject to the same terms of employm as any other employee on the job and shall not be discrimlna against by reason of the fact that he is serving as the steward. 1 steward shall be permitted to perform during working hours such his duties as steward including the adjustment of grievances. 1 Union agrees that such duties shall be performed as expeditiously possible. Employees shall not be discharged, nor be discrimina against because they are acting as or performing the duties o steward but may be discharged for just cause. Such cause shall discussed with the Business Representative of the Union bef discharge of the steward.
If any employee shall be taken sick on a job or meet with accident while at work, the steward shall see that he is properly ca for, and the Employer shall pay the steward for his lost time.
The steward al rail atteriu personally and see fo It that injured employee is immediately given proper medical care hospitalization and that the injured employee's family is noti without loss of pay to the steward for such service.
If such loss of time extends after 4:30 p.m., the steward shall reimbursed for such loss of time after 4:30 p.m. at contract overtime rates but not to exceed one (1) hour.
The steward shall be notified before the end of any shift if of the employees are going to be required to work overtime, overtime work is required, the steward shall be one of the workrr who shall perform the work, provided he so desires and is capable performing the work.
Appointment as steward shall in no way relieve the employee his duties as a laborer.
All employees under this bargaining unit shall be required register with the job steward on the date of hire. . Such registra shall consist of employee furnishing to the steward his name, addr and telephone number. The steward shall also be allowed to requ to see the employee's Union card and ask him to voluntarily fill ot supplemental dues authorization check-off card. In the event employee does not have a Union card, the steward shall be allow to promptly notify the Union.
33
1
No steward has the right to call a work stoppage, slow down, or like and such conduct by a steward shall be held to be without the etherization of the Union.
Section 5.40	Visiting Jobs: Duly authorized representatives, arrying proper credentials, shall be allowed to visit jobs during orking hours to interview the Employer or the men, but shall in no ay hinder the progress of the work.
Union Representatives shall inform contractor representative of ny problems or difficulties on the job, and the contractor presentative shall take steps to resolve any problems or difficulties rought to his attention by the Union Representative.
Section 5.49	Selection of Labor: The Employer shall have e right to select their own employees. When called upon by Ute mployer, Hie Union shall furnish competent employees. There shall e no discrimination on account of unionism against any member of ie Union by the Employer.
Notwithstanding the provision as to Union Security herein set ut it is expressly agreed that supervisory and clerical employees of ie Employer shall not be required to become members of the Union, mployees shall take orders and instructions from the Employer and •om supervisory employees designated by the Employer and refusal 3 perform work covered by this Agreement as so ordered or istructed shall be cause for discharge.
Section 5.50	Declaration of Principles: The following ndertying principles shall apply to all labor relations of the parties ereto and all employees covered hereunder:
1.	That there shall be no limitations imposed as to the amount f work any employee shall perform during his working day.
2.	That there shall be no restriction with respect to the use of nachinery. toots or appliances.
3.	That there shall be no restriction with respect to the use of ny raw or manufactured materials.
4.	That no person, other than the Employer or its agent, shall rave the right to interfere with employees on their work during working hours.
34
5.	That employees are at liberty to work for whomsoever the see fit. They shall be entitled to demand and receive the wage agree upon as herein set out.
6.	That the Employers are at liberty to employ and dlscharg for just cause, whomsoever they see fit.
Section 5.51	Limitation of Agreement: This Agreement sha not be construed to bind any party hereto with regard to any work i any locality other than that covered or provided for by this Agreemen
.The Union agrees that if, at any time during the term of thi Agreement (hereafter referred to as Agreement *1), it should ente Into another Agreement (hereafter referred to as Agreement #2) wit any other person, firm or corporation employing laborers on like won within the territorial boundaries of mis Agreement contalnin provisions which differ from those herein set forth, then such mon favorable provisions will be made Immediately available to th Employers signatory to this Agreement
ARTICLE VI
Grievance Procedure and Arbitration
Section 6.01 All grievances, disputes or claims (herelnafte called "grievance") except jurisdictional disputes which may arise with respect to wages, hours or conditions of employment or tht enforcement or interpretation of any of this Agreement are to be promptly processed and settled in accordance with the provisions o this Article.
Step One: The party raising the grievance Is to first present it to the Union Representative and then by the Representative to the supervisor. If the dispute is not satisfactorily settled within one (1) working day at this level, it shall be referred to the second step.
Step Two: Any grievance not resolved at step one shall be reduced to writing. The Employer and the Union's Business Representative shall meet within five (5) days and seek to settle the grievance. If the grievance is not settled at such meeting, a written reply to the written grievance shall be given by the Employer or his representative within five (5) working days thereafter.
35
Step Three: Arbitration: In the event the dispute is not settled within ten (10} days at step two, either the Employer or the Union may refer the matter to arbitration at any time within ten (10) days after the step two written reply, by mailing written notice of intention to arbitrate to the other party. If no written notice of intention to arbitrate is given within the time required, or if any of the preceding steps are not taken within the time and manner prescribed (unless longer times are mutually agreed upon), the grievance shall be conclusively presumed to be abandoned. The written notice shall name an arbitrator representative; the other party shall Immediately thereafter name an arbitrator representative. The Employer and the Union arbitration representative shall then seek to agree upon an impartial arbitrator. If within five (5) days after the notice of intention to arbitrate has been mailed, no impartial arbitrator has been agreed upon, the Union and the Employer representatives shall write to Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service, Washington, D.C., requesting a panel of five (5) arbitrators. Upon receipt, representatives shall alternately strike names until the panel has been reduced to one (1) person who shall then be requested to serve as impartial arbitrator; should he ba unable to serve, a new panel of five (5) shall be requested from FMCS.
Section 6.02 The impartial arbitrator shall be the chairman of t arbitration hearing and sole arbitrator of the dispute. The decision the arbitrator shall be final and binding upon both the Employer d the Union. The expense of conducting the arbitration hearing, Juding the services of the impartial arbitrator, Is to be shared ually by the Employer and the Union. The Union and the intractor will pay for their respective arbitration representatives.
Section 6.03 In cases where the arbitrator finds that an iployee was discharged or disciplined without just cause, the jltrator shall have the power to fashion such a remedy as may be r and equitable, taking Into consideration all aspects of the case, d such remedy may include restoration to his former position with »Employer, restitution of lost wages, or both.
36
Sectton 6.04 If either the Employer or the Union, after a dispute has been settled or finally decided by arbitration, refuses , abide by or comply with such settlement or final decision arbitration, then in the event of such occurrence, it shall not be violation of the Agreement for the Union to call and engage in a stn in the event of the Employer's failure to comply with such settleme or for the Employer to lock out the employees in the event of t Union's failure to comply with such settlement.
Section 6.05 No award in arbitration shall be retroactive for period exceeding thirty (30) days from the date of filing of writt complaint with the Employer or the Union in such arbitrati proceeding. Nothing-herein contained shall prevent an employee fro presenting his individual grievance, as provided for and guarante by the Labor-Management Relations Act of 1947.
ARTICLE Vtl Strikes
Section 7.01 Except as herein otherwise provided, employe shall not cease work, slow down, or engage in any strike or oth concerted interruption or interference with the work or business of tf Employer during the term of this contract, and the Employer shall n lock out any employee covered hereunder during said term.
ARTICLE VIII Picket Lines
Section 8.01 It shall not constitute a breach of this Agreeme for any employee covered hereunder to refuse to cross any pick line and perform work in any instance where:
(a)	The purpose of the picketing is lawful, is duly authorized b the Union picketing and the Building Trades Council of St. Louis, if s required, and
(b)	The establishment thereof is not contrary to, or in violafro of any law or this Agreement.
Section 8.02 The Union shall not be held liable for violation c this provision by any of its members.
37
ARTICLE IX
Jurisdiction - Job Description
Section 9.01 Mason Tenders shall build and take down all affolding, whether upright, pole, lookouts, or trestle scaffolds on rch Brick Masons or Mason Tenders work. Mason Tenders shall be ed exclusively in the distribution of all lintels and reinforcing steel ed by the Brick Mason. Mason Tenders shall operate all power uipment and machinery, including fork-lifts, mortar buggies, nveyors, mixers, pumps, brick buggies, front end steer loaders and lated equipment for the purpose of furnishing materials and uipment or otherwise servicing exclusively the Mason. Mason nders shall be used for all cleaning of Masonry and other type alls and windows.
Section 9.01A Excavation for building and all other nstruction; dredging, drainage, sewer and pipeline excavating; gging of trenches, piers, foundations, holes; digging, lagging, eeting, cribbing, bracing and propping of foundations, holes, issons, and cofferdams; digging of all conduits for electrical, lephone and telegraph lines and fence post holes; rodman for rveying; set up and operation of laser instruments; grade checking site work, building work and highway & heavy.
Section 9.01 B Preparation of concrete for walls, foundations, wrs and all other construction; mixing, handling, conveying, curing, vibrating, gunniting, and otherwise applying concrete, hether done by hand or by any other process; wrecking, stripping, smantling and handling of concrete, whether done by hand or by ny other process; wrecking, stripping, dismantling and handling of pncrete forms and false work, and building of centers for fireproof urposes; operating all concrete mixers; performance of all work ecessary in remedying defects in concrete caused by leakage, ulging, sagging or shifting of forms; hand mixing of all mortar for pncrete finish and tending to cement finishers in the construction of uiiding walls, bridges, curbs, fences, and machinery foundations; aking and grading footings, fireproof gutters, sidewalks, steps, oping and concreting around illuminating tile; servicing of all oncrete vibrators and handling, unloading, conveying of all concrete aterials and aggregates; all monumental work, concrete floors, astic floors, concreting under asphalt; paving in and out of building; ixing all cement and other compounds used for such purposes, eluding the cooking, handling, and preparation, raking and preading of asphalt, tar and other mastics on wooden blocks or
38
otherwise; handling of all materials to and from mixers and all devic and to convey materials to and from mixers; handling of all runwr and scaffolds for concrete, operating concrete motor buggi handling of concrete chutes and chute lines, hanging of metal chu and cleaning of all concrete chutes whether of wood or metal; cleaning of concrete mixers, skips, hoppers and towers; the rough of all concrete where spills are set and chipping tools are required cleaning, whether mechanical or hand tools, all leveling, tamping a spreading; all labor on cement guns, mixing, preparing and conveyi all gypsum and plastic materials; drying of concrete or other maten by salamander or other artificial heat of any kind; hoisting and setti Of precast slabs and concrete tile; concrete pumps set-up men a nozzle men.
Section 9jO1C Loading, unloading, cleaning, conveyin distributing, collecting and hoisting of all building and construct! materials and debris; covering (,f all tanks and stiudures complete incomplete and materials piles with tarpaulins; changing of all filte tanks, boilers and drums with catalytic and other materials; operati of motor buggies and conveyors.
Section 9.01D Excavation, preparation, concreting, asphalt a mastic paving; ramming, curbing, flagging and surfacing of streel ways, and courts; and the grading and landscaping thereof.
Section 9.01 E Cutting of streets and ways for laying conduits for all purposes; digging of trenches, manholes, et handling and conveying all materials for same, backfilling, gradir and resurfacing of same.
Section 9.01 F Construction of shafts, tunnels, subway caissons, and culverts.
Section 9.01 G All work performed in the construction of sew lines, water lines, drainage lines, conduit in connection with all pipin sewage disposal plants, purifying plants, water pollution plants, an pumping stations.
Section 9.01 H All demolition work and blastin jackhammering, pavement breaking, and drill running and start driliin when done by hand, mechanically or compressed air mechanist! sandblasting and gunnite work.
39
Section 8.011 Operating of compressed air devices, ompressed air or tunnel work, caisson work, lock tenders and gauge snders. The installation and maintenance of all dewatering quipment.
Section 9.01J The cleaning of all buildings, brick wails, .tructures, materials, windows, floors and all debris. The operation ind control of water blasters.
Section 9.01 K Signalmen and flagmen on all phases of juilding and construction work, including signaling and handling of xincrete buckets and auxiliary work In connection with the operation jf equipment; providing drinking water, groundmen, dumpmen, watchmen, lockermen, and guards.
Section 8.01L The wrecking and dismantling of all building and structures, walls partitions, tanks, shelves, fences and forms; and Jre use of acetylene torch, burning bar, and other welding equipment, tor work within the Union's jurisdiction.
Section 9.01 M Clearing, excavating, filling, backfilling, grading, sodding and landscaping Including operation of hydro-seeder and strawblower of all sites for all purposes.
Section 9.01 N The demolition, removal or encapsulation of hazardous waste material, including low-level radioactive contaminated materials.
Section 9.010 Skid Steer loaders (including all attachments) and tractors of 55 horsepower or less for the sole use of the signatory contractor.
Section 9.01P The laying of wire mesh and iron rods on residential and highway construction. On commercial or site and heavy work, the laying of wire mesh or iron rods at a job site must be for less than sbt (6) hours during any one day.
Section 9.01 Q The demolition, removal or encapsulation of asbestos material.
40
Section 9.01 R All common and semiskilled labor in connection with building and construction work; all material handling and helping and tending of building and construction crafts, and the handling of a tools, working equipment and appliances for the performance c= these functions; track laying; and retaining walls.
Section 9.01	3 The demolition, removal or encapsulation o lead.
Section 9.02	The Union will make available to the Site Improvement Association, copies of all jurisdictional agreements anc details of verbal understandings with other unions.
Section 9.03	When there are no decisions or agreements o record, or when no decisions or agreements of record apply, the Employers shall assign the work in a manner that is not contrary to decisions or agreements of record In accordance with the establishes practice in the local area of the majority of Employers in the area signatory to this Agreement.
Section 9.04 There shall be no stoppage of work because of a jurisdictional dispute.
ARTICLE X Exoneration
Section 10.01 That during the term of this contract the Union will not authorize, cause, induce, support or condone any strike whether general or sympathetic, or any work stoppage, or slowdown of work, or walkout by any of the employees covered hereunder, or the Union, or any members of the Union, nor will the Union in any way support any action of its members in engaging in any of the same, but on the contrary will do everything within its power to prevent such acts.
Sectton 10.02 The Union further agrees that should any of its members or its agents engage in such activities, without authority from the Union, the said Union will:
(a)	Request them to immediately return to work,
(b)	Advise them that they are violating the Union Agreement with said Employer, and
(c)	Grant them no assistance.
41
Section 10.03 It is understood and agreed that the Negotiating gent, (Association) shall in no event be bound as a principal or mployer hereunder or be held liable as a principal or Employer in ny manner for breach of this contract by any party hereto; that the ability of the Employer hereunder is several and not joint. That it is jrther agreed that the Employer shall not be liable for any acts of igents of Employer not authorized by the Employer. The Employer igrees it will, on written request by the Union, notify the Union within crty-eight (4B) hours after receipt of such request by the Union vhether or not the act of the agent complained of by the Union is ruthorized, and if not authorized, the Employer will take immediate >teps to rectify the situation complained of.
ARTICLE XI Legal Compliance
Section 11.01 This Agreement covers the entire understanding oetween the parties hereto. No oral or written rule, regulation or understanding which is not embodied herein shall be of any force or effect upon the parties hereto.
Section 11.02 Should any provision of this contract be contrary to, or in violation of, any applicable existing or future law, hen such provision in such event shall be void and of rto force and effect, but all other provisions of this contract shall continue in full force and effect and be binding upon the parties. It Is the intention of the parties to fully preserve the full force and effect of ail provisions of this contract not contrary to law.
ARTICLE XII Management
Section 12.01 The management of the Employers work and business and the direction of the working force, including the right to hire, suspend, transfer or discharge for proper cause, and the right to relieve employees from duty because of lack of work, or other reasons, is vested exclusively in the Employer, provided, however, that this shall not be exercised for the purpose of discrimination against any member of the Union or in any manner contrary to the provisions of this Agreement or law.
42
ARTICLE XIII Termination
Section 13.01 This Agreement shall be effective and bindir upon the parties from the date hereof until the first day of Marc 2004. This Agreement shall be automatically renewed for addition periods of one (1) year each, from year to year, from and after th termination of the original term of this Agreement, or any subsequei year for which the Agreement is in force, unless notice is given nc sooner than ninety (90) days nor later than sixty (60) days prior to th termination of the original period of this Agreement, or of th termination of any renewal thereof from time to time, either th Employer or the Union gives the other written notice of its intention I terminate, amend or modify this Agreement. Within thirty (30) day after any such notice is received, a committee of representatives c the respective parties hereto shall meet and endeavor to come to a agreement on any matters in issue, and during the negotiations tha follow with respect hereto there shall be no strike or stoppage o work.
ARTICLE XIV Territorial Jurisdiction Of Locals 42, S3,110
Territorial Jurisdiction of Local 42:
The jurisdiction of Local 42 shall be from the Mississippi River going west on Arsenal Street to Ellendale Avenue, north on Ellendale tc Manchester Road, west on Manchester to the County Line -everything NORTH of the above named streets including the NORTH side of Arsenal, the EAST side of Ellendale, and the NORTH side o Manchester to the County Line; from the Mississippi River going wes on Franklin Avenue to Dr. Martin Luther King Drive to St. Charles Rock Road to the Missouri River - everything SOUTH of the above named streets including the SOUTH side of Franklin, the SOUTH side of Dr. Martin Luther King Drive and the SOUTH side of St Charles Rock Road to the Missouri River.
43
Territorial Jurisdiction of Local S3:
The jurisdiction of Local 53 shall be from the Mississippi River going •vest on Franklin Avenue to
Dr. Martin Luther King Drive to St. Charles Rock Road to the Missouri River - everything NORTH of the above named streets including the NORTH side of Franklin, the NORTH side of Dr. Martin Luther King Drive and the NORTH side of St. Charles Rock Road to the Missouri River; bounded by the Missouri River on the WEST and the Mississippi River on the NORTH and EAST.
Territorial Jurisdiction of Local 110:
The jurisdiction of Local 110 shall be from the Mississippi River going west on Arsenal Street to Ellendale Avenue, north on Ellendale to Manchester Road, west on Manchester to the County Line -everything SOUTH of the above named streets including the SOUTH side of Arsenal, the WEST side of Ellendale and the SOUTH side of Manchester to the County Line; bounded by the Meramec River on the SOUTH and the County Line on the WEST,
ARTICLE XV
Pre-Bid Conference
Section 15.01 In areas where open shop work is predominant or nonunion contractors are known to be bidding, at the request of either party, the Association and the Union agree to hold a pre-bid conference prior to bidding. If the Union receives such request directly from an Employer, the Union shall notify the Association. The Union, at its sole discretion, may grant relief to the Employers if the Union feels relief is in the best interest of the parties. This issue shall not be arbitrable. All signatory contractors bidding on that same job shall be given the same relief.
Section 15.02 Composite Craw: When requested by the Employer, the Union shall meet and confer with other trades on jomposite crew work.
44
ARTICLE XVI Substance Abuse
Section 16.01 The Employer may require employees to subm to testing for alcohol or controlled substances to the extent and in th* manner required by applicable law or by a project owner.
The St. Louis Construction Industry Substance abuse Consortium, managed by a third party administrator, is agreed to be an acceptable method of establishing a pool of tested drug-fret employees.
45
APPENDIX A
SUPPLEMENTAL JOB LABOR STANDARDS AGREEMENT
Project: _________________________________
Location:_________________________________
Date of Subcontract: _____________________
ontractor) and_______________________________________________
ubcontractor) hereby contract and agrees as follows:
That, in compliance with Section 1.05 of the collective bargaining jreement (the "Agreement") In effect between the contractor and the astern Missouri Laborers' District Council and its affiliated local 110ns (hereinafter referred to jointly as the "Union"), the bcontractor will on this project, as to all on-site construction work 'quiring laborers, pay to or provide for its employees performing ch subcontracted work wages and fringe benefits in an aggregate sllar cost no less than the aggregate dollar cost of wages and fringe snefits which the contractor would be required to pay or provide ider its Agreement with the Union, or, if less, under any other jreement: to which the Union is a party covering the same type of ork in the same area so that the total labor cost of the subcontractor r this work is no less than the total labor cost of an Employer srforming such work under such agreements with the Union.
2.	For purposes of this subcontract agreement, the aggregate altar cost of wages and fringe benefits which an Employer would be squired to pay or provide under this or another agreement with the nion shall include any payments required by Sections 5.01, 5.02, 03, 5.04, 5.06, 5.07, 5.14 through 5.23, 5.28 through 5.38, 5.40, 41D and 5.43 of the Union's contract with the contractor or similar revisions of such other agreement, provided that the subcontractor tall not be required to agree to be bound in any other respect to the revisions listed and referred to above.
46
3.	The subcontractor wilt, on the Union's request, prompt furnish or make available to the Union copies of such payroll an other records are as necessary to verify the subcontractor' compliance with the foregoing Agreement regarding wages and fring benefits and, at the Union's option and request, will permit th Union's agents or accountants to audit and examine such of th subcontractors payroll records as necessary to verify compliance, th cost of such audit to be borne by the Union unless the audit disclose underpayment, in which case the cost shall be borne by th subcontractor to the extent of such underpayment unless resultin from inadvertent or immaterial error or clerical mistake.
4.	The subcontractor shall be directly liable to the Unlo for any violation of this subcontract agreement and the Union ma enforce its rights under this subcontract agreement directly agains the subcontractor by a Suit for appropriate equitable and monetan relief including interest, a reasonable attorneys' fee and me costs o suit.
Dated this day of, 19
SUBCONTRACTOR
By: __________
CONTRACTOR
By: _______
Name: __________________________ Name: _________________________________
Title:  Title: 
47
WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have hereunto affixed their mds this 5tt day of February 1899.
NEGOTIATING AGENTS
TE IMPROVEMENT ASSOCIATION
/s/ Raymond C. Daub
Raymond C. Daub, President
VBORERS' LOCAL UNIONS NOS, 42,53 AND 10
FILIATED WITH THE EASTERN MISSOURI
BORERS' DISTRICT COUNCIL, LABORERS'
TERNATIONAL UNION OF NORTH AMERICA, AFL-CIO
Isl Jim Henson
Jim Henson, Business Manager
tereby certify that this is a true copy of the foregoing Agreement as signed
Isl Jay Schultehenrich
JAY SCHULTEHENRICH SITE IMPROVEMENT ASSOCIATION
48
FOR USE BY CONTRACTORS NOT MEMBERS OF THE SITE IMPROVEMENT ASSOCIATION
The undersigned hereby agrees with the Union to accept a be bound by all of the foregoing Agreement, and also agrees to bound by all renewals, changes or extensions thereto made by t original parties, unless notice of termination is given to the Union the undersigned not less than sixty (60) days or more than ninety (S days prior to any termination date. TOBE SIGNED BY OWNER C CORPORATE OFFICER.
Company _____________________________________________________
(Print)
(Signature)	(Title)
Address ___________________________________________________________
(Print)
(City)	(State)	(Zip Code)
Telephone______________________________________________________
(Area Code)
Dated_________________________________.________________________
Business Agent_________________________________________________
Local Union No.________________________________________________
49
BUILDING AND HEAVY/HJGHWAY WORK
		these amounts INCLUDED In the Hourly Wage Rate		these amounts in ADDITION to the Hourly Wags Rate				
Effective Dato	Hourly Waga Rata	Vacation Fund Amount	Supplemental Dues Amount	Pension	Welfare	Training and Appr.	SAF	Total
March 1,1OM	*21.SI	$1.00		$2.85	*2.75	*0.40	$0.12	*27.63
March 6, 2000(a)		$1.00					$0.12	*28.43
March 6, 2001 (b)		*1.00					*0.12	*20.33
March 4, 2002 (c)		*1.00					*0.12	*30.33
March 4, 2003 (d)		*1.00					*0.12	*31.33
* 21/2% of groes wages (taxable Income).
(a) March 6,2000 - $.85 Increase to be taken In wages and/or fringe benefits at Union's option.
(b) March 5,2001 * $.80 Increase to be taken In wages and/or fringe benefits at Union's option.
(c| March 4,2002 - $.W OtenMse to be taken tn wages and/or binge benefits at Union's option.
(d) March 3,2003 - $1.00 Increase to be taken in wages and/or fringe benefits at Union's option.
GENERAL LABORERS* RATES SITE IMPROVEMENT WORK
		theee amounts INCLUDED In ths Hourly Wage Rate		these amounts In ADDITION to the Hourly Wage Rate				
Effective Dato	Hourly Wage Rate	Vacation Fund Amount	Supplemental Dues Amount	Pension	Welfare	Training and Appr.	SAF	Total
March 1,1999	$21.34	$1.00	•	$2.85	*2.75	$0.40	$0.12	*27.46
March 8,2000 {a)		*1.00	•				*0.12	*28.31
March 5, 2001 (b)		*1.00	•				$0,12	*29.21
March 4, 2002 (c)		*1.00	*				*0.12	*30.16
March 4, 2003 (d)		*1.00	•				*0.12	*31.16
* 21 f2% of grata wages (taxable income).
(a) March 0, 2000 ■ $.85 increase to be taken in wages and/or fringe benefits at Union's option.
(b) March 5, 2001 • $.90 increase to be taken in wages and/or fringe benefits at Union's option.
(c) March 4, 2002 - $.95 increase to be taken In wages and/or fringe benefits at Union's option.
(d) March 3, 2003 ~ $1.00 Increase to be taken in wages and/or fringe benefits at Union's option
SJCraCKML LMPUP.EM RA I CO TOTAL WRECKING
		these amounts INCLUDED in the Hourty Wage Rate		those amounts In ADDITION to the Hourty Wage Rate				
Effective Date	Hourty Wage Rate	Vacation Fund Amount	Supplemental Dues Amount	Pension	Welfare	Training and Appr.	SAF	Total
March 1,1999	$21.39	01.00		$2.85	$2.75	*0.40	$0.12	$27.51
March S, 2000 (a)		*1.00					$0.12	$28.36
March S, 2001 (b)		*1.00					$0.12	$29.26
March 4, 2002 (c)		*1.00					$0.12	$30.21
March 4, 2003 (d)		$1.00					$0.12	$31.21
* 21/2% of gross wages (taxable Income).
(a) March 6,2000 * $.85 increase to be taken in wages and/or fringe benefits at Union's option, (bj March 5,2001 * $.90 increase to be taken in wages and/or fringe benefits at Union's option.
(c) March 4.2002 - $,9$ increase to be taken in wages and/or fringe benefits at Union's option, (d) March 3,2003 - $1.00 increase to be taken In wages and/or fringe benefits at Union's option.
GENERAL LABORERS* RATES RESIDENTIAL WORK
		these amounts INCLUDED In the Hourly Wage Rate		these amounts In ADDITION to the Hourly Wage Rato				
Effective Date	Hourly Wage Rate	Vacation Fund Amount	Supplemental Dues Amount	Pension	Welfare	Training and Appr.	SAF	Total
March 1,1999	*16.62	*1.00	*	*2.1*	12.75			*21.42
March «, 2000(a)		$1.00	*					*22.12
March 5,2001 (b)		$1.00	*					$22.82
March 4. 2002(c)		$1.00	*					*23.57
March 4,2003 (d)		*1.00	*					*24.32
* 21/2% of gross wages {taxable Income).
(a) March 8, 2000	• $.70 increase to be taken	in	wages and/or fringe	benefits st Union's option.
(b) March 5, 2001	* $.70 Increase to be taken	in	wages and/or fringe	benefits at Union's option.
(c) March 4,2002 ’ $.75 increase to be taken	In	wages and/or fringe	benefits at Union's option.