
BUILDING LABORERS’ AGREEMENT
BUILDING LABORERS’
LOCAL UNION No. 310
CLEVELAND, OHIO 2001 -2005 . .
Affiliated with LABORERS' DISTRICT COUNCIL OF OHIO and LABORERS' INTERNATIONAL UNION OF NORTH AMERICA
INDEX
Page
ARTICLE I .................................. 5
Parties, Recognition, Jurisdiction and Security 5
Local No. 310 Jurisdiction................ 7
Scaffolding............................... 7
Excavating and Foundations ............... 7
Shafts and Tunnels, Subways and Sewers ... 8
General Excavation and Grading............ 8
Landscaping............................... 8
Waterworks, Sewage Disposal Plants,
Pumping Station, Reclamation Projects, Incinerator Plants, Power House and Air Pollution Plants, etc. ............. 8
Concrete, Bituminous Concrete and Aggregates .........................   8
Utilities and Pipe Lines.................. 9
Under Pinning, Lagging, Bracing, Propping and Shoring ...................   9
Drilling, Blasting and Lansing............ 10
Signal Men................................ 10
Mason Tender .............■.............. 10
Plasterer Tender.......................... 10
Cement Mason Tender....................... 11
Iron Worker Tender......................  11
Carpenter Tender.......................   11
Cleaning ................................ 12
General/Final Clean-Up .................. 12
Wrecking ...........................■.... 12
Asbestos, Lead and Hazardous Waste Removal 12
Heat Tender.............................. 13
Transfers or Layoff...................... 13
ARTICLE II	 13
Hours, Overtime, Holidays................ 13
Section 1	— Hours of Work................ 13
Section 2	— Shifts....................... 14
Section 3	— Sundays and Holidays.......... 15
Section 4	— Special Starting Time........ 15
Section 5	— Traveling Time............... 16
Section 6	— Overtime Permits............. 16
ARTICLE III		 16
Working Conditions.....................   16
INDEX
Page
Section 1	— Pay.......................... 16
Section 2	— Layoff....................... 17
Section 3	— Payoff Penalty............... 17
Section 4	— New Employee................. 17
Section 5	— Travel Pay................... 17
Section 6	— Guarantees................... 17
Section 7	— Wage/Benefits Bond........... 18
Section 8	— Union - Agent................ 18
Section 9	— Notification/Pre-Job......... 18
Section 10	— Foreman..................... 19
Section 11	— Seniority................... 19
Section 12	— Overtime Guarantee.......... 19
Section 13	— Laborers’ Trailer..........	19
Section 14	— Employer's Compliance.........20
Section 15	— Fire Loss................... 20
Section 16	— Steward’s Clause............ 20
Section 17	— Coffee Break................ 21
Section 18	— Parking Allowance........... 21
ARTICLE IV	22
Picket Lines.............................. 22
ARTICLE V	 22
Student’s Clause...........................22
ARTICLE VI......................	 22
Rates of Pay.............................. 22
Apprenticeship Program.................... 24
ARTICLE VII		 26
Fringe Benefit Funds ..................... 26
Section 1	— Participation in Funds......... 26
Section 2	— Pension Fund Contributions ... 26
Section 3	— Annuity Fund Contributions ... 26
Section 4	— Welfare Fund Contributions ... 26
Section 5	— Supplemental Unemployment
Benefit Fund (SUB) Contributions......... 26
Section 6	— Training and Upgrading Contributions ........................... 26
Section 7	— Working Dues and Building Assessment...................... 27
Section 8	— Scholarship	Fund.......... 27
Section 9	— Diversion of	Increase........ 27
INDEX
Page
Section 10	— Contributions and Delinquencies 27
Section 11	— Audits................... 28
Section 12	— Rights and Powers of Trustees. 29
Section 13	— Trustees ................ 29
Section 14	— Employers/CEA ........... 30
ARTICLE VIII		 30
Grievance and Arbitration............. 30
Jurisdictional Disputes .............. 31
ARTICLE IX	 32
Contract Clause....................... 32
ARTICLE X	 32
Construction Industry Service Program...32
ARTICLE XI	 33
General Provisions ................... 33
ARTICLE XII	 34
Safety and Training Education......... 34
ARTICLE XIII		 34
Favored Nations Clause ............... 34
ARTICLE XIV		 35
Market Retention ..................... 35
ARTICLE XV		 35
Mechanics of Other Trades............. 35
ARTICLE XVI		 35
Duration of Contract.................. 35
ARTICLE XVII		 35
Non-Discrimination Clause............. 35
ARTICLE XVIII	 35
Joint Labor-Management Uniform Drug/Alcohol Abuse Program............ 35
Massive Drug Testing ................. 36
ARTICLE XIX		 36
Sexual Harassment .................... 36
ARTICLE XX		 36
Signators to Agreement................ 36
APPENDIX B.............................. 37
Jurisdictional Agreement — Carpenters and Laborers............... 37
AGREEMENT
OF THE LABORERS’ INTERNATIONAL UNION OF NORTH AMERICA BUILDING AND CONSTRUCTION LABORERS' UNION
LOCAL No. 310
AND THE CONSTRUCTION EMPLOYERS’ ASSOCIATION
WHEREAS, the parties hereto desire to stabilize employment in the building industry and agree upon wage rates and conditions of employment and do away with strikes, boycotts, lockouts and stoppage of work.
THEREFORE, the Employer and Union sign this Agreement as the authorized agents of such membership in respect to all the matters set forth in this Agreement, and the provisions of this Agreement shall be binding upon both parties on Building Construction work in Cuyahoga and Geauga Counties, Ohio.
WITNESSETH:
THIS AGREEMENT made and entered into this Ninth Day of May, 1997, by the Association of Contractors who sign this Agreement, Mason Contractors, Cement Contractors, Carpenter Contractors, Plastering Contractors, the Construction Employers’ Association, A. G. C. of Ohio, Cleveland Division, any other Contractor, or Person, Firm, Corporation, Partnership, Company, Broker, or Owner acting as General Contractor, and each member thereof, who has assigned to it their bargaining rights, Subcontractor or Agent thereof and any other Contractors’ Association, who become signatory to this Agreement (hereinafter called the “Employer”), with Laborers’ Local Union No. 310 of Cleveland, Ohio (hereinafter called the “Union”).
ARTICLE I
PARTIES, RECOGNITION, JURISDICTION AND SECURITY
Section 1.	The term “Employer” shall be construed to include The Construction Employers’ Association, A. G. C. of Ohio, Cleveland Division, any General Contractor, or any Person, Firm, Corporation,
5
Partnership, Company, Broker or Owner acting as General Contractor and each member thereof, who has assigned to it their bargaining rights, Subcontractor or Agent thereof and each Mason Contractor, Cement Contractor, General Contractor, who becomes signatory to this Agreement. The term “Union” shall be construed to include Building Construction Laborers’ Local No, 310 of Cleveland, Ohio, its Officers, Agents and Members.
Section 2.	It is a condition of employment that all employees of the Employer covered by this Agreement who are members of the Union in good standing on the execution date of this Agreement shall remain members in good standing and those who are not members on the execution date of this Agreement, shall on the eighth day following the execution date of this Agreement, become and remain members in good slanding in the Union, It shall also be a condition of employment that all employees covered by this Agreement and hired on or after its’ execution date shall, on the eighth day following the beginning of such employment, become and remain members in good standing in the Union. During this probation period, the prevailing wage rate and fringes must be paid.
Section 3.	The parties jointly agree to encourage the use and introduction of any tools, equipment or methods as used by the Laborers’ which promote and encourage good work practices and production. In doing so, the parties further agree that there will be no piecework or limitations upon the amount of work that any employee shall perform during any working day, nor shall they place any restrictions against the use of any machinery, tools, or methods, nor against any materials, raw or manufactured, except prison-made materials. Whenever tools, equipment, and machinery are introduced to perform work within the Laborers’ jurisdiction, the operation and maintenance of said tools, equipment or machinery shall be assigned to employees covered by this Agreement.
Section 4.	This Agreement shall bind all subcontractors while working on the job site for an Employer upon whom this Agreement is binding. Any Employer who sublets any of his work must do so subject to all the terms and conditions of this Agreement. A breach of this provision by an Employer with regard to the subletting of his work on the job site shall after notice to the Employer of such breach, constitute the right for employees to
6
withhold their labor only on the job that the breach occurs until the breach is remedied. Each Employer agrees to withhold from any sums due from the Employer to any subcontractor for any particular job the amount of any contributions due from said subcontractor to any of the Fringe Benefit Funds provided for herein, provided that written notice of the approximate amount due is sent by the Administrator of the Fringe Benefit Fund by registered mail, return receipt requested, to the office of the Employer from which the subcontractor is regularly paid, and further provided that when said notice is received by the Employer there are amounts still owing to the subcontractor by the Employer,
Section 5.	If an Employer is continually delinquent in payment of deductions and contributions or fails to pay the negotiated wage scales, he is in violation of this Agreement. This violation is just cause of the Union to withhold the services of its’ members.
Section 6.	The Employer will make every effort to obtain men from the Local Union. Upon request, the Union will undertake to furnish the Employer with men to perform the work coming within the jurisdiction of the Union and covered by the terms of this Agreement, provided that the employment of these men is in accordance with the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
Section 7.	The Employer herewith recognizes the Union as the sole, exclusive bargaining agency for all the employees of the Employer in the following classifications or any other classifications of work over which the Union has jurisdiction.
LOCAL No. 310 JURISDICTION
Scaffolding: Building of scaffolds and staging for Cement Masons, Brick Masons, and Plasterers, including maintenance and removal of same regardless of height.
Excavating and Foundations; Excavating for buildings and all other construction, including airport construction, digging of trenches, pier foundations, holes, digging, lagging, sheeting, cribbing, bracing and propping of foundations, caissons, cofferdams, wells, cylinders, dams, dikes, subways, grading, pitman, driving sheeting by maul hand or jackhammer, also the signaling of all work described herein, including direction of traffic and flagmen on the job site. Handling and installation of well points or any other dewatering system. When a signal man
7
is required on excavation and backfilling when done in the blind, the signaling shall be performed by the Local No. 310 Laborers’.
Shafts and Tunnels, Subways and Sewers; Construction of sewer shafts, tunnels, subways, culverts, all underground work involved in mines, underground chambers for storage or other purposes, tunnels or shafts for any purpose, whether in free or compressed air. Drilling and blasting, mucking and removal of material from the tunnels and shafts. The cutting, drilling and installation of material for timbering, lagging, bracing, propping or shoring the tunnel or shaft. Assembly and installation of multiplate, liner plate and rings. Pouring, pumpcreting or guniting of concrete in any tunnel or shaft. Operation, manual or hydraulic jacking of shields and the use of such other mechanical equipment as may be necessary. All concrete work as described above and in addition, the hooking on, signaling and dumping of concrete and material. Installation of well points or any other dewatering system.
General Excavation and Grading: All clearing of sites, trees, brush and disposal of same, tamping, filling, backfilling, grading and landscaping; and all semi-skilled and unskilled labor work connected herewith.
Landscaping: Landscaping consists of preparing the soil, grading, backfilling, digging of holes, planting of trees, shrubs, seed, straw, sod and ail fertilizing, including the unloading, loading, distributing of all the above items and watering of all seed, sod, trees, shrubs, inclusive. Also, the installation of all sprinkling and irrigation systems for the sole purpose of landscaping maintenance.
Waterworks, Sewage Disposal Plants, Pumping Station, Reclamation Projects, Incinerator Plants, Power House and Air Pollution Plants, etc.; All work in connection with the above mentioned facilities, such as the pouring of concrete, laying of all sewers, backfilling, grading, digging, tenders, and all other semi-skilled labor work not mentioned shall be done by Laborers’ covered under this Agreement.
Concrete, Bituminous Concrete and Aggregates: Concrete, bituminous concrete and aggregates for walls, foundations, floors or any other construction. Mixing, handling, conveying, grouting, rough grading, pouring in, piling, vibrating, guniting and otherwise applying concrete, whether done by hand or any other process, including operation of motorized
8
wheelbarrows or buggies, or machines of similar character, whether run by gas, diesel or electric power, cutting of nails, wires, wall ties, carrying reinforced rods and mesh, chipping and roughing by hand or any other process, wrecking, stripping, dismantling and handling of concrete forms, pouring, repairing of sidewalks, driveways, filling stations, parking lots, preparing and grading, tamping of earth and excavating of all floors, sidewalks, etc., placing of concrete or aggregates whether poured, pumped, gunited or placed by any other process. The assembly, bracing, propping, uncoupling of all connections and parts of or to equipment used in mixing or conveying concrete, aggregates or mortar, and the cleaning up of such equipment, parts and/or connections. The aging, curing, other than curing compounds and sprinkling of concrete mortar and other materials applies to walks, floors, ceilings and foundations of buildings and structures. This includes temporary protective covering of all kinds, before or after any concrete pours. The building of runways, ramps, required to convey and place concrete or other aggregates shall be the work of the Laborers’. The cleaning of tools, machinery, equipment and the mixing of dry shake after the pour shall be the work of the Laborers’. When conveyors are being used for placing concrete and are being handled by hand sufficient number of Laborers’ will be used. All concrete work as described above, and in addition the hooking on, the unhooking of the bucket, placing, signaling of all concrete and other aggregates shall be the work of the Laborers*. Bush hammering work for all concrete work; all of the above and any other work in connection with concrete whether semiskilled or unskilled shall be the work of the Laborers’. The discharging of all concrete from the trucks to hoppers, concrete buckets, pumpers, buggies or any other method used in discharging concrete from trucks, shall be the work of the Laborers’.
Utilities and Pipe Lines: All sewer, gas, water, electric, steam and drainage, excavating, digging, laying of all sewers inside of curb line, backfilling when done by hand, shall be the work of the Local No. 310 Laborers’. Distribution of all materials used on the above work, also concreting and grouting. In no event will any Laborers’ be permitted to work in any depth that is considered hazardous without being properly sheeted, braced and made safe to work.
Under Pinning, Lagging, Bracing, Propping and Shoring: Under pinning, lagging, bracing, propping and shoring, operation of the air track and wagon
9
drill, the unloading of all materials, raising and moving of all structures; raising of structures by manual or hydraulic jacks or other methods. Shoring and under pinning of structures; loading, resetting of structures in new locations to include all site clearing, hand excavating for foundation and concrete work. Clean-up and backfilling, landscaping old and new site.
Drilling, Blasting and Lansing: All work of drilling, jack hammering and blasting. Operation of all rock and concrete drills, including handling, carrying, laying out of hoses, steel handling, installation of all temporary lines and handling and laying of all blasting mats. All work in connnection with blasting, loading holes, setting fuses, making primers and exploding charges.
Signal Men: Signal men for traffic control within the construction site.
Mason Tender: Distribution of all materials used by brick masons by any method including distribution by motorized wheelbarrows, power pulleys, walkalong forklift trucks, including stand on platform types, all terrain forklifts, or other machines of similar or like characteristics, whether driven by gas, diesel, or electric power, including the hooking on and signaling for the same shall be the work of the mason tender, including brick mortar, tile, blocks, stone, and ringing of signal bells on elevator hoists. The covering, hanging, placing of tarps, visqueen or any other type of material for the purpose of protection or other purposes, shall be the work of the Laborers’. The erection, dismantling and maintenance of all scaffolding regardless of height shall be the work of the Laborers’. The pouring, puddling and vibrating of all masonry walls, with concrete vermiculite, sand, insulation or any other materials shall be the work of the Laborers’.
Plasterer Tender: Distribution of all materials used by the plasterer, by any method shall be the work of the plasterer tender. When pumped, the assembly, uncoupling, bracing, propping of all connections in parts of or to equipment used in mixing or conveying. Also, operation of equipment used. Tending salamander, cleaning of plaster debris, which includes scraping, sweeping and any necessary washing of floors, walls, windows and ringing of signal bells on elevator hoists. The covering, hanging, placing of tarps, visqueen or any other type of material for the purpose of protection or other purposes, shall be the work of the Laborer. The
10
erection, dismantling and maintenance of all scaffolding regardless of height shall be the work of the Laborers’.
Cement Mason Tender: All distribution of all materials used by a cement mason by any method shall be the work of the cement mason tender, excavating, tamping and finished grading of all driveways, sidewalks, basements, floors, aprons, all concrete work for walls, foundations, floors or any other construction, mixing, handling, conveying, grouting, rough grading by a rake or shovel, pouring in piling, vibrating, guniting, and otherwise applying concrete whether done by hand or any other process, cutting of nails, wires, wall ties, raising reinforced rods, mesh, chipping, and roughing by hand or any other process and ringing of signal bells on elevator hoist. The covering, hanging, placing of tarps, visqueen or any other type of material for the purpose of protection or other purposes, shall be the work of the Laborers’*
Iron Worker Tender: Unloading to stockpile of reinforced rods, wire mesh, windows, window frames, doors, door bucks and angle irons when done by hand, also metal siding, lockers and uncrating of same.
Carpenter Tender: The Jurisdictional Agreement of February 26, 1971, incorporated as Appendix B in this Agreement, shall apply unless modified or terminated according to the Agreement. If the Agreement is terminated, the Employer agrees to meet with the Union to renegotiate the paragraph. But not in limitation of, Carpenter Tender shall also include the following:
When there is a continuous pour of concrete for construction where jacks are used, the Laborer shall be used to do all jacking on this type of work; all signaling or bell ringing on all hoists and cleaning of lumber and pulling of nails; all drilling for anchor bolts and dowels when drilling is done in concrete. The unloading of metal doors bucks to a stockpile or stockpiles shall be the work of the Laborers’. The stripping of forms that are wrecked or are not to be reused on the same job site shall be done by Laborers’.
Where power is used in the moving, loading or unloading of concrete forms and all other materials used by carpenters and handled by Laborers* including all handling, rigging and signaling to a stockpile or stockpiles shall be the work of the Laborers'. Any Employer not assigning work in
11
accordance with this Section shall be considered in violation of this Agreement.
Cleaning: Cleaning and clearing of all debris, including wire brushing of windows, scraping of floors, removal of surplus material from all fixtures within confines of structure and cleaning of all debris in building and construction area.
General/Final Clean-Up: Prior to the acceptance of the building by the Owner, sweeping, cleaning of fixtures, washdown and wiping of construction facilities, equipment and furnishings. Clean-up, mopping, washing, waxing and polishing or dusting of all floors or areas. The cleaning of windows, whether interior or exterior on all buildings, prior to the acceptance of the building by the Owner, shall be the work of the Laborer. AU of the above work shall apply not only to genera! contractors but to all subcontractors whose work comes within this jurisdiction, whether mechanical or otherwise.
Wrecking: The wrecking, cutting, burning, dismantling of partial or complete structures such as furnaces, boilers, stoves, gas washers, dust-catchers, stacks, precipitator, power house, slag pit, and etc. All hooking and unhooking, signaling when materials for salvage or scrap are removed by power or all other means.
The demolition of all asbestos, buildings, factories, etc. All loading and unloading of materials carried away from the site of wrecking. In all remodeling and renovation, the wrecking, dismantling and partial wrecking of all fixtures, counters, partitions, walls, floors, flooring, shelves, etc. when not salvageable or when scrap, shall be done by the Laborers’. The wetting down of al] debris in the processing of the demolition shall be done by the Laborers’.
All burning of debris on the job site will be tended by the Laborer for the safety of the public.
Asbestos, Lead and Hazardous Waste Removal: The removal, abatement or encapsulation of asbestos, lead and/or toxic and hazardous waste or materials within the Laborers* jurisdiction shall include the following:
The erection, moving, servicing and dismantling of all enclosures, scaffolding, barricades, etc., and the operation of all tools and equipment (including generators, compressors and vacuums) normally used in the removal or abatement of asbestos, lead
12
and toxic and hazardous waste or materials; the labeling, bagging, cartoning, crating, or otherwise packaging of materials for disposal; the transportation and disposal of all such materials to any authorized disposal; as well as the clean up of the work site and all other work incidental to the removal, abatement or encapsulation of asbestos, lead or toxic and hazardous waste materials.
Heat Tender: When temporary heat is required for concrete work, plaster work, masonry work or to supply protection for the workers or to heat shanties, the tending of these salamanders, propane heaters or any other means for curing process will be the work of Local No. 310 Laborers.
Under certain job conditions, a contractor utilizes temporary heating equipment at his option which requires periodic filling or switching of fuel tanks or repositioning of such heating equipment one or more times during an eight-hour period. In this situation, the tending of this equipment shall be performed by a member of Laborers* Local No. 310 and he shall be paid at the Building and Construction Laborers’ and Heat Tenders rate of pay.
Transfers or Layoff: Laborers tending specific crafts on a construction site shall not be transferred or laid off from the tending of these crafts and leaving the erafts untended.
ARTICLE II
HOURS, OVERTIME, HOLIDAYS
Section 1.	Eight (8) hours shall constitute a day’s work between the hours of eight o’clock (8:00) A.M. to four-thirty (4:30) P.M. with one-half (^) hour for lunch. The regular lunch hour will be between twelve o’clock (12:00) Noon and twelve-thirty (12:30) P.M. This shall be known as the regular working day and shall be time actually employed at work. The employees and/or crews can work flexible starting times between seven o’clock (7:00) A.M. and nine o’clock (9:00) A.M.
For concrete pours only, it is understood that at times the Employer’s need for productivity and efficiency on the job will not allow the crew to take their lunch at the regular time. Under such circumstances, the Employer may schedule parts of the crew to take their lunch between 11:30 A.M. and 1:00 P.M. If for any reason this is not possible and the employee is required to work through his lunch hour, he shall be paid time and one-half (1^) for
13
same and given a reasonable amount of time to eat his lunch, but at least fifteen (15) minutes to eat his lunch and the Employer will make arrangements so that no Laborer will eat his lunch later than one-thirty (1:30) P.M.
Section 2:	When two (2) shifts are employed, the first shift shall work eight (8) hours from eight o’clock (8:00) A.M. to four-thirty (4:30) P.M. The second shift shall be from four-thirty (4:30) P.M. to twelve-thirty (12:30) A.M. and the employees shall receive eight (8) hours pay plus Twenty-Five Cents ($.25) per hour.
A.	When three (3) shifts are employed, the first shift hours are from eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. to four-thirty (4:30) P.M. Second shift hours are from four-thirty (4:30) P.M. to twelve-thirty (12:30) A.M. The third shift hours are from twelve-thirty (12:30) A.M. to eight o’clock (8:00) A.M.
When shifts are required, the first shift shall work eight (8) hours at the regular straight time rate. The second shift shall work seven and one-half (7^) hours and receive eight (8) hours at the regular straight time hourly rate plus Twenty-Five Cents ($.25) per hour. The third shift shall work seven (7) hours and receive eight (8) hours at the regular straight time hourly rate plus Fifty Cents ($.50) per hour.
B.	When there are three (3) shifts worked, the regular work week will be from eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. Monday morning through eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. Saturday morning. When the Employer works any other hours or shifts other than the normal eight o’clock (8:00) A.M. to four-thirty (4:30) P.M. shift, a job conference shall be held to determine working time, lunch periods and other questions that may arise before he starts his job.
C.	All work performed before the hours of eight o’clock (8:00) A.M. and after four-thirty (4:30) P.M. shall be paid for at one and one-half (1M>) times the regular hourly rate of pay, except when an Employer is working a flexible work day where the hours are established between the hours of seven o’clock (7:00) A.M. and five-thirty (5:30) P.M.
D.	When Laborers’ are tending a craft on shift work, the starting time of the shifts shall be the same as that of the trades the Laborers’ are tending. Shifts shall not overlap. An employee may work a second and/or a third shift without a first shift as
14
long as the appropriate shift differential pursuant to this Section is paid.
E.	All other time worked before or after the regular established shifts set forth above shall be paid for at the rate of one and one-half (iy2) times the regular straight time hourly rate except for Sundays and Holidays when the rate shall be double the straight time hourly rate.
F.	A thirty (30) minute unpaid lunch period .shall be scheduled at the midpoint of the scheduled work shift.
Section 3.	When for reasons beyond the control of the contractor it is impossible to work a crew in the daytime, namely on work on occupied stores, hotels, office buildings, banks, hospitals, etc., the Employer may be permitted to work at second shift rates.
A.	All overtime work performed Monday through Friday shall be paid at one and one-half (iy2) times the straight time hourly rate.
B.	Saturday shall be paid at one and one-half (1V2) times the straight time rate.
C.	Work performed on Sundays and Holidays shall be paid at two (2) times the straight time rate.
D.	Double the straight time rate shall be the maximum compensation for any hour worked.
E.	The observed Holidays shall be New Year's Day, Memorial Day, July 4th, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day and Christmas Day. There shall be no work on Labor Day except in special cases of emergency.
F.	Friday Midnight until Sunday Midnight inclusive are considered Saturday and Sunday work days and shall be paid for at the appropriate overtime rate. When there are three (3) shifts worked, the third (3rd) shift from Friday twelve-thirty (12:30) A.M. to Saturday eight o’clock (8:00) A.M. shall be paid for at the regular rate of pay as specified in Article II, Section 2. All work performed beyond the shift hours as specified in Article II, Section 2, shall be paid the appropriate overtime rate of pay.
Section 4.	If a special starting time is required for any shift for circumstances beyond the control of the Employer, the Employer may request such a starting time from the Union which request shall not unreasonably be denied.
A.	The Employer has the option of working five (5) eight (8) hour days or four (4) ten (10) hour days to constitute a normal forty (40) hour work
15
week. The Union must be given at least three (3) calendar days notice of changing from one schedule to another which must be maintained for a minimum of one (1) work week. Proposals of less than three (3) days are to be considered with the Business Manager and the Contractor.
B.	In the event of lost time Monday through Thursday, while working the four (4) ten (10) hour days schedule, Friday may be worked as a make-up day at the straight time taxable hourly rate of pay. If an employee is called out on Friday, a minimum of four (4) hours is guaranteed.
Section 5.	There shall be no traveling time allowed in connection with employment within the confines of Cuyahoga and Geauga Counties, Ohio, except when men are moved from shop to job, or job to jOu during working hours.
Section 6.	When members are required to work on Saturdays, Sundays or Holidays, the Steward will notify the Union by telephone or facsimile transmission.
ARTICLE III
WORKING CONDITIONS
Section 1.	All employees shall be paid Friday and no more than three (3) day’s, pay shall be held back from the regular work week, which will be at the end of work Tuesday. Each employee shall be paid in currency or guaranteed payroll check and during the regular working hours, and if the job is not worked on payday because of weather or any other unforeseen circumstances, the employee will be paid no later than twelve o’clock (12:00) Noon.
Payroll checks shall have a wage statement attached to each check, and currency shall be in a sealed envelope which shall have a wage statement on its face. The wage statement must include the following items:
1.	The name and address of the Employer.
2.	The name of the employee.
3.	The date the weekly pay period ends.
4.	The number of straight time hours worked during the pay period.
5.	The number of overtime hours worked.
6.	The gross amount of wages.
7.	The amount of Income Tax withheld.
8.	The amount of Social Security Tax withheld.
16
9.	The net amount of money enclosed.
10.	Any other deductions.
11.	A statement that the proper credits to the Fringe Benefits Funds as per Agreement are being paid.
Section 2.	An employee discharged from work must be notified by the foreman or a representative of the Employer on the job during working hours and shall receive pay in full'at that time. Notification of discharge must be no later than one-half (%) hour prior to the end of the regular working day and after the employee has picked up his tools and belongings he shall then leave the job. Employees shall receive not less than a full day’s pay for the day of discharge, unless he is discharged for misconduct such as drinking, theft, or failure to comply with Management orders. All employees quitting work on their own accord will be paid on the next regular pay day.
Section 3.	When an employee is required to wait beyond quitting time, the employee’s pay shall continue until payment is made, not to exceed eight (8) hours straight-time pay for any twenty-four (24) hour period. If the employee’s pay is mailed within a twenty-four (24) hour period, the post-mark will govern.
Section 4.	Any new employee reporting to work at specified time in response to a request from an Employer and not put to work shall be guaranteed two (2) hour’s pay if weather permits work to proceed. If weather prohibits work, see Section 5, Article III.
Section 5.	When an employee reports to work and is not allowed to start work because of inclement weather and has not been notified before reporting to the job he shall be paid Fifteen Dollars ($15-00) travel expense.
The employee must remain on the job for one (1) hour ready to work in order to qualify. If the Laborer is instructed to remain after nine o’clock (9:00) A.M. or if he starts to work at any time then the Fifteen Dollars ($15.00) travel expense is waived and the 2-4-6-8 provision shall apply.
Section 6.	If the employee starts to work he shall be guaranteed two (2) hours pay. If he works more than two (2) hours he shall be guaranteed four (4) hours pay. If he works for more than four (4) hours he shall be guaranteed six (6) hours pay. If he
17
works for more than six (6) hours he shall be guaranteed eight (8) hours pay. This provision shall only apply to inclement weather, equipment breakdown or for reasons beyond the control of the contractor. In order to qualify for said guarantees the employee shall work unless to do so would create a safety hazard or endanger his health. In any case, he shall remain on the job ready to work for the guarantee period in order to qualify for said guarantees.
A.	Masonry Work Only: If the employee starts to work he shall be guaranteed two (2) hours pay. If he works more than two (2) hours he shall be paid to the next full hour. This provision shall only apply to inclement weather, equipment breakdown or for reasons beyond control of the contractor.
B.	Employees must sign out arid be responsible for tools issued by the Employer.
Section 7.	Wages may be paid by check provided the Employer has posted the following bond with the Union: Each Employer who has employed one (1) to three (3) Laborers’ shall post a Ten Thousand Dollar ($10,000.00) bond; each Employer who has in his employ three (3) to ten (10) Laborers’ shall post a Twenty Thousand Dollar ($20,000.00) bond; each Employer who has in his employ ten (10) to twenty (20) Laborers’ shall post a Forty Thousand Dollar ($40,000.00) bond. Each Employer of twenty (20) or more employees shall be required to negotiate with the Union an appropriate bond. Any Employer not able to post bond as aforesaid shall be required to post a cash bond in the amount to be determined by the Union, but in no event less than Four Thousand Dollars ($4,000.00). Any contractor who is required to post a Four Thousand ($4,000.00) cash bond, must pay his Fringe Benefits on a weekly basis in advance. Also when a contractor is continually delinquent in Fringe Benefit payments, a higher bond shall be set at the discretion of the Business Manager.
Section 8.	The Employer, Developer or Owner will not in any way act as the agent for the Union.
Section 9,	The Employer must notify the Union five (5) days prior to starting work. It is agreed that upon request of either party, a pre-job conference must be held at least five (5) days prior to comencing work to discuss any conditions which either party considers beneficial for that job. It is further agreed that the Union may request and hold
18
a pre-job conference with the contractor on an individual Union basis to achieve the intent of thia Agreement. At any time during the progress of the job, the contractor or Union can call for a meeting to discuss manning requirements, starting and quitting times as in Article II, of the current Agreement, and other work that may develop including the general/final cleanup. In all cases, the Owner shall be invited to attend these meetings.
Section 10.	The Laborer Foreman shall be selected by the Employer. On request by the Employer the Union will refer an individual capable of performing the duties of a Laborer Foreman, but the designation of the individual as a Foreman shall be made by the Employer and the Employer is free to reject any individual referred by the Union to hold the position of Laborer Foreman.
A.	In any event, the Laborer appointed Foreman must have continuously been working in the new jurisdiction of Local No. 310 for the minimum period of twelve (12) months.
B.	When there are three (3) Laborers’ on the job, one (1) shall be a working Laborer Foreman, when there are eight (8) Laborers’ on the job, the Foreman shall then be classified as General Foreman, and shall retain that position for the duration of the job.
Section 11.	On jobs employing six (6) or more Laborers’, preference in employment may be given to the Laborer who is fifty (50) years of age or over.
Section 12.	When an employee is called in to work overtime on Saturday, Sunday or Holidays, or when he is called back during the week after he has gone home, he shall be allowed at least two and one-half (2^) hours of work.
Section 13.	The Employer shall provide a shanty where employees may dress, keep their clothes, and eat their lunches. Said shanty or shelter house shall be heated no later than October 1st, kept clean and made comfortable at all times. When rainwear and other unusual clothing is needed, contractor will furnish one (1) set of such equipment. Personal items such as hard hat helmet webbing shall be new when issued. Employees shall be responsible for the cost of any furnished equipment not returned to the Employer. Palatable drinking water will be furnished by each Employer and in warm weather, Employer shall supply ice. The Laborers’ shanty shall not be
19
used for tool rooms or material sheds. The shanty may be shared with other trades if eight (8) Laborers or less are employed. The Employer shall furnish a suitable and sanitary toilet or toilets, properly secluded, on all work.
Section 14.	The Employer agrees at all times to comply with all State and Federal laws and statutes pertaining to Worker’s Compensation laws of Ohio, Unemployment Insurance, Withholding Tax and other Social Security Acts. The Employer agrees to comply with all Municipal, State and Federal safety codes.
Section 15.	In case of loss by fire of clothing on a job at any time, the Employer shall be responsible for such loss in the amount of One Hundred Dollars ($100.00) covering each individual’s loss. Proof of loss is required.
Section 1G. Stewai'usi
A. At the discretion of the Business Manager, a Steward will be sent to all jobs when the job first starts. It shall be the responsibility of those listed for the placement of the Steward. Any person, Construction Manager, Prime Contractor, General Contractor, Brokerage Firm, Corporation or Company that employs Laborers' directly or indirectly must accept the Steward sent out by the Business Manager, and he or his Field Representatives may visit and consult with the Steward and members on the job.
B.	When there is a General Contractor or Prime Contractor, the employment of the Steward shall be their responsibility with the approval of the Business Manager.
C.	The Construction Manager, General or Prime Contractor must employ the Steward or see that he is employed when there are multiple contractors on the job site.
D.	The Steward shall not be transferred from job to job, nor laid off without first notifying the Union.
E.	When an employee is injured in the shop or on the job, the Steward shall take charge of the employee and see that he is given first aid in the Employer’s office and if seriously injured, taken to the hospital or to his home. The Steward shall make a complete report of the accident to the Employer and the Union. A Steward shall, suffer no loss of time and be paid for his time while giving first aid to an injured workman and taking care of his tools
20
and clothing1, or taking him home. The injured employee, sent home or hospitalized by his doctor, will be paid a day’s pay for the day of injury.
F.	The Steward shall not be discriminated against, nor laid off for performance of his duty as a Steward, but he shall also perform the duties as a Laborer.
G.	The job Steward will be given time to check the job for compliance with the Agreement.
H.	The Steward shall be the last employee to be discharged when the job has been completed with the exception of one (1) Foreman. The Steward shall be the last employee laid off during a temporary work shortage and shall be the first employee called back when work resumes, with the exception of one (1) Foreman. The Steward shall not be transferred from a job while employees remain on the job.
I.	It shall be the duty of every member to show his check stub or check in payment of wages when requested to do so by the Business Manager, Field Representative or Steward. The purpose of this check is to ascertain if the proper wage scale is being paid by the Employer and if the proper deductions and contributions are being made for the employee’s account.
J.	The Employer and the Steward shall cooperate in all matters covered by the Agreement.
K.	The Steward shall be on the job on all days when Laborers’ work is being performed and will be notified of all overtime work.
L.	All grievances must be reported to the Union office as soon as possible. Members who fail to report grievances to the Steward, Field Representative or Business Manager within two (2) weeks, the grievance shall be deemed waived and abandoned.
Section 17.	The Employer shall at a time convenient to the company, grant to employees, a coffee break not to exceed five (5) minutes in the morning.
Section 18.	Employees shall be paid actual parking expenses incurred, up to three dollars ($3.00) per day per Employee, provided that transportation is not provided; or there is no free parking available within one-half (V2) mile of the job site and provided further that the Employee presents a valid parking receipt.
21
ARTICLE IV PICKET LINES
The Employer agrees that its* employees will not be required under penalty of discharge or discipline of any kind to walk through or cross, in any manner, a properly authorized picket line singly or in concert, and any refusal to cross a picket line singly or in concert shall not constitute a breach of this Agreement.
ARTICLE V
The parties hereto recognize that the temporary employment during the summer months of high school and college students is desirable, but should not reach proportions that will be of disadvantage to individuals who are permanently employed in the industry and rely upon it exclusively for their support and maintenance. It is agreed that no high school or college student will be employed un any construction project if to do so would deprive a regular full-time employee of his livelihood. In order to avoid conflict, it is agreed that before hiring a student, the subject of his employment will be approved by the Business Manager of the Union.
ARTICLE VI
RATES OF PAY
Section 1. The following rates of pay and classifications of work shall be in effect commencing May 1, 2001 with a $1.08 increase, a $1.05 increase May 1, 2002, a $1.05 increase May 1, 2003, and a $1.05 increase due May 1, 2004.
WORK CLASSIFICATIONS	FER HO UE
2001
Building and Construction Laborers* and Tenders ................ $21.58
Gunite Operating - machines of all type.	22.06
Blasters, Shooters, Caisson, Well Cylinder, Cofferdams, Mine Workers - without air.......... 22.08
Laborers’on Swinging Scaffolds......... 21.83
Drywall Stocking and Handling (Job Site Deliveries)............... 18.48
22
WORK
CLASSIFICATIONS
PER HOT JR 2M1
General/Final Clean-Up (Must perform clean-up duties for entire work shift, and excludes demolition work.).......... $18.13
Residential Work (Applies to single family units, duplex units and townhouses.) ....	13.48 *
Maintenance Landscaping (Maintenance means grass-cutting only.) ....	11.48
General Landscaping (Construction Sites)........................ 15.98
Asbestos Removal - Hazardous Materials	21.58
Unloading of Furniture and Fixtures ...... 21.58
Sewer Jet................................. 16.43
Heat Tender............................... 12.43
Acid Brick Tenders........................ 22.08
Air Track and Wagon Drill ................ 21.83
Tbp Man on Free Standing Radial Stack ....	22.23
Foreman - per hour above highest Laborers’ Classification ..................... .75
General Foreman - per hour above highest Laborers’Classification ..................... 1.25
Plus Health and Welfare for every hour paid.......................... 2.75
Plus Pension for every hour paid .......... 2.60
Plus Annuity for every hour paid........	2.00
Plus Supplemental Unemployment Benefit (SUB) for every hour paid .................... .35
Plus Training and Upgrading ................ .10
Plus C.I.S.P. for every hour paid........... .10
*Health and Welfare only
23
APPRENTICESHIP PROGRAM
The parties recognize the need to develop and maintain a high standard of workmanship in the industry and agree to the establishment of a Joint Apprenticeship and Training Committee (JATC).
By January 1, 1998, or as soon as practical, the JATC will develop the Apprenticeship Program in accordance with the Standards of Apprenticeship of the Ohio Laborers’ Training & Upgrading Trust Fund. These standards are in conformity with Ohio Revised Code 411,25-30 and Federal Labor Standards, Title 29 CFA29 and 29DFR30 which govern employment and training in apprenticeable occupations.
The JATC will consist of three (3) members of Laborers’ Local No. 310 and three (3) members of the C.E.A. These standards will apply to all signatory employers. An apprentice means “a person who has been accepted into the program and has signed a written apprenticeship agreement with the JATC.” The ratio will be one (1) apprentice to five (5) Construction Craft Laborers.
APPRENTICE WAGE PROGRESSION
FIRST PERIOD — 1 - 1,000 HOURS —
60% of Construction Craft Laborer rate plus full fringe benefits.
SECOND PERIOD — 1,001 - 2,000 HOURS — 70% of Construction Craft Laborer rate plus full fringe benefits.
THIRD PERIOD — 2,001 - 3,000 HOURS — 80% of Construction Craft Laborer rate plus full fringe benefits.
FOURTH PERIOD — 3,001 - 4,000 HOURS — 90% of Construction Craft Laborer rate plus full fringe benefits.
DEDUCTIONS MADE AFTER TAXES
The Employer will deduct the following from the taxable hourly rate after taxes.
WORKING DUES AND BUILDING ASSESSMENT AND SCHOLARSHIP FUND
The Employers will combine the contributions to the Welfare Fund, Pension Fund, Annuity Fund, Supplemental Unemployment Fund, Training and
24
Upgrading Fund, C.I.S.P., and the deductions for Working Dues Assessment, and Scholarship Fund, which shall be forwarded to Bank One.
APPENDIX A
FIREBRICK TENDERS AND REFRACTORIES
WORK CLASSIFICATIONS	PER HOUR
2001
Firebrick Tenders (On Blast Furnaces, Soaking Pits, Stoves, Stacks, etc.).... $21.73
Mason Tender Handling Carbon Block and Bottom Block for Blast Furnace Stoves, Stacks, etc................   21.98
Lansing Burners ........................ 23.08
Bellman and Bottom Man in Blast Furnace and Stove ............. 22.23
Foreman - Fire Brick - per hour above highest Laborer Classification ....... 1.00
General Foreman - Fire Brick per hour above highest Laborer Classification ............... 2.00
Plus all Fringe Benefits included in Rates of Pay.
A.	When Bellmen and Bottom Men are used in Blast Furnace and Stoves, they shall be classified as leadmen.
B.	The Gunite operating of all refractories by any type of machine shall be the work of the Laborers’.
C.	On all jobs of firebrick laying or firebrick demolition when a twelve (12) hour shift is worked, the employee shall receive an additional thirty (30) minute lunch period which shall be allowed and paid at the expense of the Employer. This lunch period shall be taken immediately after the normal shift hours have been worked, unless other arrangements are made.
SWINGING SCAFFOLD
Swinging Scaffolding shall be no greater than forty-two (42) inches in width and be suspended by one rope or metal cable from each support.
25
ARTICLE VII FRINGE BENEFIT FUNDS
Section 1.	Participation in the Fringe Benefit Funds: Each employer agrees that it is subject to the provisions of the Agreements and Declarations of Trust of the Laborers’ Local No. 310 Pension Fund, established March 30, 1966, Welfare Fund established March 30, 1966, and SUB Fund established May 3, 1973, Training and Upgrading Fund established May 1, 1993, Annuity Fund established May 1, 1995 and of the Construction Industry Service Program (C.I.S.P.) described in Article X hereof (collectively, the “Fringe Benefit Funds”). It is a condition of this Agreement that the Fringe Benefit Funds will continue in effect until expressly terminated in accordance with the methods provided in each Agreement and Declaration of Trust establishing said Funds. Each Agreement and Declaration of Trust is adopted and approved by the parties to this Agreement.
Section 2.	Pension Fund Contributions: Effective May 1, 2001 through April 30, 2002, the Employer shall contribute to the Pension Fund the sum of Two Dollars and Sixty Cents ($2.60) per hour per employee contribution for all hours paid.
Section 3.	Annuity Fund Contributions: Effective May 1, 2001 through April 30, 2002, the Employer shall contribute to the Annuity Fund the sum of Two Dollars and no Cents ($2.00) per hour per employee contribution for all hours paid.
Section 4.	Welfare Fund Contributions: Effective May 1, 2001 through April 30, 2002, the Employer shall contribute to the Welfare Fund the sum of Two Dollars and Seventy-Five Cents ($2.75) per hour per employee contribution for all hours paid.
Section 5.	Supplemental Unemployment Benefit Fund (SUB) Contribution: Effective May 1, 2001 through April 30, 2002,.the Employer shall contribute to the SUB Fund the sum of Thirty-Five Cents ($.35) per hour per employee contribution for all hours paid.
Section 6.	Training and Upgrading Contribution: Effective May 1, 2001 through April 30, 2002, the Employer shall contribute to the Training and Upgrading Fund the sum of Ten Cents ($.10) per hour per employee contribution for all hours paid.
26
Section 7.	Working Dues and Building Assessment: It is further a condition of this Agreement that the Working Dues and Building Assessment established pursuant to an Amendment to Agreement dated March 26, 1969, will continue in effect until expressly terminated.
Effective May 1, 2001 through April 30, 2002, there shall be deducted from the wages of employees the sum of Sixty-Three Cents ($.63) per hour Working Dues and Ten Cents ($.10) per hour Building Assessment from all hours paid.
Section 8.	Scholarship Fund: Effective May 1, 2001 through April 30, 2002, the Employer shall deduct from wages paid to employees and contribute to the Scholarship Fund the sum of Five Cents ($.05) per hour per employee for all hours paid.
It is the intent of the Union concurred in by the Employer, indicated by the execution of this Agreement, that the Working Dues and Building Assessment shall continue for the purposes intended with a minimum of inconvenience to the Employer, and the reports presently used or as may be amended hereafter covering contributions to the Pension, Annuity, Welfare, SUB and Training and Upgrading Funds will make appropriate provisions for reporting the deductions from wages for the Working Dues and Building Assessment and Scholarship Fund.
The voluntary individual wage deduction authorizations shall be recognized by each Employer as the authorization to continue deductions from the hourly wage rate of each employee covered by the terms of this Agreement, and new employees or those individuals who have not prior to employment executed such authorization, shall do so.
Section 9.	Diversion of Wage Increase to Fringe Benefit Program: It is agreed that any diversion of a scheduled wage increase to a fringe benefit program provided for in this Agreement may be made providing the Union gives written notice to the Employer at least sixty (60) days prior to the date wage increase is to be effective. Such notice to the Construction Employers’ Association shall be deemed sufficient notice.
Section 10.	Contributions and Delinquencies: Contributions to the Fringe Benefit Funds, in the amount fixed by this Agreement, are due on the 15th day of the month following the month in which the
27
hours are worked. The failure of an Employer to pay the contributions, payroll deductions or other monies required hereunder promptly when due shall be a violation of this Agreement as well as a violation of said Employer’s obligations under the Agreements and Declarations of Trust. Nonpayment by an Employer of any contributions, payroll deductions or other monies when due shall not relieve any other Employer of his obligation to make such payments when due.
Any Employer who is required to make weekly payments as herein provided shall send his payments on a weekly basis.
If the payments and monthly report are not received by the 20th day of the month following the month in which the hours are worked, the Employer will be considered delinquent in making the required contributions. If the payments and monthly *'eprirt are not received by the last day of the month following the month in which the hours were worked, the delinquent Employer will be subject to and agrees to pay a delinquency assessment of ten percent (10%) of the amount due plus one percent (1%) for each month the Employer remains delinquent, to cover the additional cost and expense of administration during the period of delinquency.
Whenever any Employer is delinquent, the Union may either (a) require such Employer to post a larger bond (reasonably calculated to provide for the wages and fringe benefit contributions and deductions called for by this Agreement, based on the number of employees of and hours of work for the Employer) or (b) require the Employer to pay its contributions and deductions payable by the terms of this Agreement under the provisions of any of the Agreements and Declarations of Trust of the Fringe Benefit Funds either in cash or by cashier’s check, certified check or money order on a weekly basis.
Whenever an Employer is delinquent, the representative of the Union, may with the approval of the Union, withdraw employees from the employment of the Employer without said withdrawal being considered a breach of any of the provisions of this Agreement.
Section 11.	Audits: Each Employer agrees to permit an audit or examination of such books, records, papers or reports of the Employer as may
28
be necessary to determine whether the Employer is making full and prompt payment of all sums required to be paid by it to the Fringe Benefit Funds. The audit or examination shall be performed by the Fringe Benefit Funds’ Administrator or payroll auditor or by their agents; provided, however, that at the Employer’s request and own expense, such audit or examination shall be performed by an independent certified public accountant acceptable to the Fringe Benefit Funds’ Administrator or payroll auditor. If as a result of said audit or examination a substantial deficiency or deliberate error in payments to the Fringe Benefits Funds is discovered, any cost to the Funds in performing the audit or examination will be the Employer’s responsibility, and said cost shall be collectible as any other amount due from the Employer to the Funds.
Section 12.	Rights and Powers of Trustees: The respective Trustees and their respective successors in office under each of the Agreements and Declarations of Trust of the Fringe Benefit Funds shall be deemed to be joint and several beneficiaries of this Agreement for the purpose of each or all of said Agreements and Declarations of Trust, and shall, in addition to and with or without the Union, have standing to sue on this Agreement to enforce the terms of said respective Agreements and Declarations of Trust and the payment by any Employer of all sums and contributions due to such respective Trustee of each of said Agreements and Declarations of Trust. A delinquent Employer shall also be liable for, and obligated to pay, the delinquency assessments provided for herein, reasonable interest, all court cost, attorney’s fees and other expenses incurred by the Trustees in the collection of contributions due from said delinquent Employer. The Trustees shall further have all such other relief (including temporary and permanent injunctive relief) and remedies against a delinquent Employer to which they may be entitled at law or in equity. The Trustees may compel and enforce the payment of contributions in any manner which they deem proper; and the Trustees may make such additional rules and regulations to facilitate and enforce the collection and payment thereof as they may deem appropriate.
Section 13.	The Board of Trustees of the Pension, Annuity, Welfare and SUB Funds shall, for convenience of administration, be the same individuals.
29
Section 14.	The provisions of this Article shall cover all Employer members of the Construction Employers’ Association, who has assigned to it their bargaining rights, all other Employers who hereafter become signatory to this Agreement and the members of any other association of Employers who by agreement are obligated to make contributions to the Fringe Benefit Funds.
ARTICLE VIII
GRIEVANCE AND ARBITRATION
Section 1.	Each of the parties agree that during the life of this Agreement, they will not engage in any Strike, Lockouts or stoppage of work affecting the other party.
Section 2.	Whenever any difference or dispute shall arise as to the interpretation or application of the terms of the Agreement, except jurisdictional disputes between the Union and any other Union, separate provision for which is covered under Article VIII, (2), such dispute or difference shall be resolved in the following manner:
1.	In conference between the Business Agent and the designated representative of the Contractor.
2.	In the event the dispute cannot be so resolved within twenty-four (24) hours, it shall then be referred to conference between designated officers of the Union, the Construction Employers’ Association and the Employer, as defined by Section 1 of Article 1.
3.	Pending the conclusion of the arbitration there shall be no stoppage of work. Should work be stopped by either party the officers of each party agree to carry out any decision of findings so made.
4.	Unless so resolved within forty-eight (48) hours, the matter shall then be submitted to a Board of five (5) arbitrators, who shall commence the arbitration talks, within forty-eight (48) hours after they have received notice of complaint; two (2) to be selected by the Construction Employers’ Association, two (2) to be selected by the Union, and the fifth (5th) to be chosen by the four (4) so selected. Upon failure to so select a fifth arbitrator within forty-eight (48) hours, the selection shall then be made in accordance with the rules and pro
30
cedures of the American Arbitration Association. The cost of such arbitration shall be borne equally by both parties to the arbitration.
The Board of Arbitration so selected shall hear all evidence and render its* decision by a majority vote based on evidence and the contract. The decision so rendered shall be final and binding* upon both the Union, the Contractor and the Employer.
JURISDICTIONAL DISPUTES
Section 1.	When a jurisdictional dispute arises or the Employer anticipates that a jurisdictional dispute may arise between the Union and another trade or craft on the job site, he shall notify immediately each Union affected by the dispute. Within fortyeight (48) hours after receipt of notice from the Employer, the Union shall appoint a representative and the representatives appointed by the other Union affected by the dispute shall confer with the Employer and attempt to resolve and settle the issues. If the dispute is not adjusted within twenty-four (24) hours after the meeting with the Employer, any party shall have the right to invoke arbitration by reference to an impartial arbitrator selected by agreement of all the parties. The parties shall have forty-eight (48) hours in which to agree upon an impartial arbitrator, failing which the Union together with the Employer and representative of the other Union involved shall request the American Arbitration Association to appoint an arbitrator to hear and determine the dispute. The decision of the arbitrator shall be final and binding upon all parties.
Section 2.	In order that there shall be no stoppage of work all affected parties shall attempt agreement upon a temporary work assignment within twenty-four (24) hours after receipt of notice from the Employer that a dispute exists. If within this period the parties are unable to agree upon a temporary work assignment the Employer shall have the right to make an assignment of the work after considering the respective contentions of the Unions involved, applicable decisions and agreements of record and area practices. This assignment shall continue without alteration unless changed by agreement of all parties or by the arbitrator.
Section 3.	If any Union fails to join in the request for arbitration, the Employer together with the representative of the other consenting Union shall request the American Arbitration Association, Cleve
31
land, Ohio to appoint an arbitrator. The failure to join in the request shall constitute a waiver of nonconsenting Union’s right to challenge the arbitrator’s appointment, his jurisdiction and the determination reached. The non-consenting Union shall, however, have the right to appear and present evidence at the hearing and the arbitrator is not precluded from deciding the dispute in its’ favor based upon the evidence presented.
ARTICLE IX
Upon written notice sixty (60) days prior to the anniversary date, this contract may be reopened to adjust the existing contributions and/or deductions.
ARTICLE X
CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY SERVICE PROGRAM
Employers subject to the terms of this Agreement who employ Laborers’ and apprentices within the jurisdiction of Laborers’ International Union of North America, Building and Construction Laborers' Local Union No. 310 of Cleveland, Ohio, shall abide by all terms and conditions of the Construction Industry Service Program as follows:
1.	A Declaration of Trust shall be prepared by the Construction Employers’ Association and copies shall be available for inspection by the parties or other interested persons at the office of the CEA. Said Trust shall be deemed as part of this Agreement.
2,	Each Employer covered by this Agreement shall pay to Said Trust Ten Cents ($.10) for each single time hour paid by the Employer to each journeyman or other employee within the bargaining unit; and shall pay the appropriate overtime rate for each overtime hour paid to each such employee by the Employer.
3.	The purpose of the Trust shall be to promote the common good of the Construction Industry in the Greater Cleveland area by providing financial support for various activities such as:
a.	Payment of management’s costs in connection with joint apprenticeship programs in Construction Industry.
b.	Payment of management’s expenses in creating, operating and maintaining of additional education and training facilities
32
for the benefit of the Construction Industry and its employees.
c.	Payment of expenses for the improvement of safety practices in the Construction Industry in the Greater Cleveland area.
d.	Payment of management’s expenses in connection with the administration of activities jointly administered with Unions in the Construction Industry in the Greater Cleveland area.
e.	Payment of expenses in connection with the establishment of a public relations program for the benefit of the Construction Industry in the Greater Cleveland area.
f.	Payment of expenses in connection with the collection and distribution of wages and related data to all segments of the Construction Industry in the Greater Cleveland area to insure conformity by all Employers with the terms and conditions of such wage agreements.
g.	Payment of management’s expenses for the maintenance of the office facilities and personnel engaged in the activities of the Construction Industry Service Program,
It is understood that the Construction Industry Service Program Trust Fund shall not be used by lobbying in support of anti-labor legislation of any kind at municipal, state or national levels or to subsidize any contractor or contractors association in connection with any work stoppage or strike.
The Trustees of said Program shall comply with all present and future federal laws governing the same.
Payments shall be in accordance with such instructions and on such forms as are furnished by the Trustees. Delinquent contributors shall be subject to such penalties as the Trustees may prescribe from time to time.
ARTICLE XI
GENERAL PROVISIONS
Se	ction 1. It is expressly understood that working rules, bylaws, conditions, practices or customs,
33
unless same are specifically mentioned in this Agreement, shall be interpreted as being a part hereof.
Se	ction 2. Should any working rule herein contained conflict in any manner with any article in the contract, then the article shall prevail.
Se	ction 3. It is further understood that the provisions of this Agreement shall govern the employment of and the conditions under which employees represented by the Union shall perform work for the Employer in Cuyahoga and Geauga Counties.
Se	ction 4. Construction work not covered by this Agreement shall be governed by the wages and working conditions contained in agreements which the Union has with the Employers in such other divisions of the Construction Industry. This shall not apply to jobs of one day's duration or less.
Se	ction 5. If an Employer is continually delinquent in payment of deductions and contributions or fails to pay the negotiated wage scales he is in violation of this Agreement. This violation is just cause for the Union to withhold the services of its members.
ARTICLE XII
SAFETY AND TRAINING EDUCATION
In accordance with OSHA Safety & Health Standards (29 CFR 1926/1910) requiring safety training and education. Laborers’ Local No, 310 shall provide each Union member the 16-Hour Outreach Program Safety Training certified by the U-S. Department of Labor in its Training & Upgrading Program.
ARTICLE XIII
FAVORED NATIONS CLAUSE
It has been agreed that the Union will not enter into any written or oral agreement with any contractor within the area of jurisdiction of this Agreement upon any more favorable wage rates and conditions than those contained herein. The Union agrees that such more favorable wage rates and conditions other than those contained in a market retention agreement shall automatically be extended to all Employers signatory to this Agreement. Special projects or classes of .work shall be excluded from operation of this provision.
34
ARTICLE XIV
MARKET RETENTION
For the purpose of preserving markets traditionally served by the construction industry, a Market Retention Program exists. For complete information on this program, contact the Business L Manager or one of his representatives or the Construction Employers’ Association.
ARTICLE XV
In the interest of public economy, and at the discretion of the Employer or Foreman, all small tasks covered by this Agreement shall be done by mechanics, or Laborers’ of other trades, if mechanics or Laborers* of this trade are not on the building or job site, but same are not able to be of longer duration than one-half (V2) hour in any one day.
ARTICLE XVI
DURATION OF CONTRACT
This Agreement shall become effective as of May 1, 2001 and will continue in force and effect until Midnight, April 30, 2005, unless either party desires to modify the Agreement and notifies the other party, in writing, of its desire to modify, at least sixty (60) days prior to May first (1st) of any subsequent year.
ARTICLE XVII
NON-DISCRIMINATION CLAUSE
The parties agree that applicants for employment shall be employed and employees shall be treated during employment without regard to their race, creed, color, religion, sex, national origin, or ancestry.
It is not the intent to discriminate by the use of gender; thus, use of the masculine gender or pronoun shall be construed to include the feminine gender, as well.
ARTICLE XVIII
JOINT LABOR-MANAGEMENT UNIFORM DRUG/ALCOHOL ABUSE PROGRAM
The Parties recognize the problems created by drug and alcohol abuse and the need to develop
35
prevention and treatment programs. The Contractors and the Union have a commitment to protect people and property, and to provide a safe working environment. The purpose of the program is to establish and maintain a drug free, alcohol free, safe healthy work environment for all of its employees. For details regarding this program, contact the Business Manager or the Association.
UNION CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY SUBSTANCE ABUSE PROGRAM
The Parties recognize the problem created by drug and alcohol abuse, the need to foster drug-free workplaces, and the importance of a prevention and treatment program. The Parties have a joint commitment to protect people and property and to provide a safe working environment.
The purpose of the Program is to establish and maintain a drug-free, alcohol-free safe and healthy environment for all employees. This Union Construction Industry Substance Abuse Program, is incorporated by reference and may be obtained, upon request, from the Union or Construction Employers’Association.
ARTICLE XIX
SEXUAL HARASSMENT
“The parties to this Agreement mutually agree that harassment of any nature is not to be tolerated. Every person working under this Agreement shall immediately notify the Employer and the Union when possibility of a problem happens or exists.”
ARTICLE XX
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, we the undersigned authorized representatives of the Construction Employers’ Association, A. G. C. of Ohio, Cleveland Division; the Mason Contractors; Cement Finishing Contractors; Carpenter Contractors; Plastering Contractors Association of Cleveland, Ohio and the Laborers’ International Union of North America, Building and Construction Laborers’ Union Local No. 310, Cleveland, Ohio hereto affix our hands at Cleveland, Ohio this first day of May, 2001.
<•>
36
FOR THE EMPLOYERS:
FOR THE UNION:
John Arsena
Rich DiGeronimo David Giambrone Mac Donley Armond Girardi John Porada
James Deane John T. Kilbane Thomas M. Byrne John O. Horton, Jr. Terence P. Joyce Raymond L. Clegg, III Sebastian Trusso
FOR THE CONSTRUCTION EMPLOYERS’ ASSOCIATION
Tbrry Donley
President
FOR THE A. G. C. OF OHIO, CLEVELAND DIVISION
John Porada
Executive Secretary

APPENDIX B
JURISDICTIONAL AGREEMENT
JURISDICTIONAL AGREEMENT covering Cuyahoga and Geauga Counties entered into by the Cuyahoga, Lake, Geauga and Ashtabula Counties Carpenters’ District Council, United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of America, AFL-CIO, and Building Laborers’ Local No. 310, Laborers’ International Union of North America, and The Construction Employers’ Association, Ohio Building Chapter, Associated General Contractors of America, Cleveland Division, and Carpenter Contractors’ Association. It is the. purpose of this understanding to eliminate jurisdictional disputes, to create harmonious relationships and understanding between these organizations.
1.	The stripping in its entirety of all deck forms, ceco pans or similar type pans, panel forms, plastic, fiberglass or paper forms, plywood decks, beam bottoms, beam sides and column forms shall be done by equal number of Carpenters and Laborers'.
2.	The stripping of Panel Forms, Allen Forms, and similar patented wall forms shall be done by Carpenters,
3.	The moving, cleaning, oiling and carrying of Concrete Forms to the next point of erection in a
37
stockpile or stockpiles, at the approximate point of installation designated by contractor’s representative shall be done by Laborers*.
4.	Drill Rigs: It is agreed that on drilled,poured in place piling, or vibro-floatations of Frankie Systems, that spotting of drilling, or other mechanism and alignment of same shall be work of Pile Driver, as well as direction of the job. If casing or caisson, all welding and burning involved is work of Pile Drivers. Removal of water, dirt and debris and pouring of concrete as well as general assistance in handling of casing, is work of Laborer.
5.	Sheet piling driven by mechanical means, such as hammer hung from crane, is work of Pile Drivers. Any piling driven by jack hammer held by hand or mallet or sledge, is work of Laborers’. The fabrication of wood sheeting is the work of the Carpenter,
G. Under the direction of Carpenters, Laborers' shall carry material to a stockpile in or near saw shed and after being processed they will then carry it to a stockpile at the approximate point of installation.
7.	Hand lines used to raise or lower forms and materials to actual point of installation shall be handled by Carpenters. Hand lines used to raise or lower material or forms to a stockpile shall be performed by Laborers’.
8.	On temporary installations (windbreaks, concrete protection or canopies) the building of the framework shall be done by Carpenters. Covers such as tarps or visqueen and/or other material shall be placed in position by Laborers’ and fastened by Carpenters. On the removal or dismantling of these installations, Carpenters shall remove batts, braces or other material sufficient to allow the complete removal of framework.
During this operation, Laborers’ will remove tarps, visqueen or other covering material. If protection is to be reused as built up panels or sections, Carpenters will remove and/or place in new position. When reduced to material, Laborers’ will complete operation of dismantling and reduce framework to material.
9.	In erection of scaffolding over fourteen feet in height, Laborers’ will excavate if necessary for mud sill, Carpenters will then place mud sill, align and level. Laborers’ will stockpile scaffolding in approximate position when sufficient height is reached to
38
required well wheel or hand line. Carpenter will install well wheel and/or rope. Laborer will then tie on material and Carpenter will pull to point of installation, including hand rail, planking, and all material necessary for completion of scaffolding. Ledger boards on final lift of scaffolding will be placed by the Laborers’, if applied loose; if nailed or secured in any other manner, Carpenters will place final ledger boards.
10.	Cofferdam: All mucking of dirt and bottom work is work of Laborers* including signaling of rig to excavate. If it is necessary to excavate in order to place whalers or ring sets while Pile Driver is setting ring sets or whalers, or to handle and lower ring sets and whalers, signaling of rig shall be done by Pile Drivers.
11.	Furniture that arrives on job site knocked down shall be unloaded and assembled and set by Carpenters. Furniture that is assembled when it arrives on job site, shall be unloaded by the Laborers’. Any leveling and aligning shall be done by the Carpenters.
12.	All crated, boxed, cartoned or wrapped items that are to be used or installed by Carpenters shall be unloaded to a stockpile or stockpiles at the approximate point of erection designated by contractor’s representative, by Laborers’. These items shall include but are not limited to cabinets, fixtures, trim materials, hardware, paneling, molding, doors, door jambs, etc. The uncrating shall be done by Carpenters. Laborers* shall clean up debris.
Crated, boxed, cartoned or wrapped cabinets that are to be installed on apartment buildings and cannot be stockpiled on the upper floors will be unloaded and placed on hoist or elevator by Laborers* and removed from hoist or elevator by Carpenters.
Those trim materials not crated, boxed, cartoned or wrapped such as cabinets, fixtures, hardware, paneling, molding, doors, door jambs, etc. shall be unloaded and installed by Carpenters. If a mixed load arrives it shall be unloaded by equal number of Carpenters and Laborers’.
13.	Floor tile and acoustical tile shall be unloaded to a stockpile or stockpiles by Laborers* if the total job requires more than three man hours of unloading time.
14.	Drywall, cooling tower materials, planking, shoring, scaffolding, framing materials, runways,
39
concrete forms, plywood not used for trim, shall be unloaded to stockpile or stockpiles by Laborers’.
15.	Pre-Fab Houses: If pre-fab panels are unloaded and simultaneously erected, unloading and erecting shall be done by Carpenters.
If panels are to be stockpiled at foundations, then Laborers’ shall unload to stockpiles,
16,	The unloading and handling of materials which are covered by understandings between Carpenters and other Building Trades Unions shall be unloaded by Carpenters.
17.	This Agreement will not affect any provisions relating to supervision in the respective collective bargaining agreements.
18.	The jurisdictional provisions of this Agreement shall take precedence over the collective bargaining agreements. Any problems arising out of this Agreement shall be referred to an arbitration board comprised of two (2) representatives of each of the parties to this Agreement and one member of each of the parties shall constitute a quorum. Any party to this Agreement may request a meeting and the board shall meet within five (5) days.
19.	Any party wishing to terminate this Agreement may do so by requesting a meeting of the abitration board in writing and this Agreement shall remain in effect until thirty (30) days after the date of the meeting.
40
February 26, 1971
CUYAHOGA, LAKE, GEAUGA AND ASHTABULA COUNTIES CARPENTERS’ DISTRICT COUNCIL
Thomas J. Welo
Louis Konya
BUILDING LABORERS’ LOCAL No. 310
Elso D’Eusanio
Joe F. Valente
CONSTRUCTION EMPLOYERS’ ASSOCIATION
Robert Dalton
Director of Labor Relations
OHIO BUILDING CHAPTER, ASSOCIATED GENERAL CONTRACTORS OF AMERICA, CLEVELAND DIVISION
Norman R. Prusa Executive Secretary
CARPENTER CONTRACTORS’ ASSOCIATION
J. E. Horner
41
We take great pride in this Union and its accomplishments. — It didn't come easy, however, remember, please, that unionism is not a heritage, but rather must be continually protected and fought for by its members.
Duty, honor, courage. Unify is through sacrifice!
YOUR UNION IS WHAT YOU MAKE IT