OCT 29 2002 09=37 RR C.I.C.
□14 G31 5172 TO 1202G91GG47
P.03X0B
IfiOO
II ■
UNITED BROTHERHOOD OF CARPENTERS & JOINERS OF AMERICA, EMPIRE STATE REGIONAL COUNCIL OF CARPENTERS
AGREEMENT
ON BEHALF OF ITS LOCAL UNION 11 AND LOCAL UNION 964
MAY 1, 2001 TO APRIL 30, 2004
AGREEMENT entered into this 1st day nf May, 2001, by and between EMPIRE STATE REGIONAL COUNCIL OF CARPENTERS, UNITED BROTHERHOOD OF CARPENTERS A JOINERS OF AMERICA, BY AND ON BEHALF OF ITS LOCAL UNIONS 11 & ?64 hereinafter referred to as the "Union" of ]0 Saw Mill River Road, Hawthorne, N.Y. 10532; 11 Kay Fries Drive, Stony Point, N.Y. 10980; and 270 Motor Parkway, Hauppauge, N.Y. J 1788 Md the	_________________________________ ■. _______________________-
hereinafter referred co as the "Association."
WITNESSETH:
WHEREAS, the parties hereto agree that harmonious relations and Intelligent working arntngemenis are essential to improve the relationship between the construction contractor or employer, the public and the Union, and that all concerned must benefit by Industrial peace and by the establishment and maintenance of fair contractual terms, conditions and provisions, and by the establishment and use of proper and fair methods of adjusting differences and of settling grievances, and
WHEREAS, the parties hereto have negotiated the terms, provisions and conditions of a successor Labor-Management Agreement far the ensuing thirty-six (36) months, to follow the previous Agreement and this successor Agreement, which shall, by Its terms, expire on the 30th day of April, 2004.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual promises and covenants hereinafter set forth, the parties stipulate and agree as follows:
SECTION 1. RECOGNITION
A. Recognition of Union
The Association and any employer that becomes a signatory to this Collective Bargaining Agreement, but is not a member of the Association, hereby acknowledge that the Union has claimed and demonstrated, and the Association or signatory employer is satisfied and hereby acknowledges, that the Union represents a majority of the Association members' carpenters or said signatory employer's carpenters In an appropriate bargaining unit for purposes of collective bargaining. The Association and Its members, a$ well as said signatory employer, accordingly recognize the Union as the exclusive bargaining agent under Section 9(a) of the National Labor Relations Act for all employees within the contractual bargaining unit herein collectively referred to as "Carpenters” With respect to wages, hours and working conditions. The Association and any employer that becomes a signatory to this Collective Bargaining Agreement who is not a member of the Association further agrees that any dispute concerning its obligation co recognize the Union as sole and exclusive bargaining agent for the carpenters will be resolved solely under Section 22 herein.
The Council and all Individual employers who sign or agree to be bound by this Agreement agree to establish and recognize a single multi-employer collective bargaining unit through an Association co be designated as the Association’s agent, also referred to as the "Association". In such case, each employer, by signing or agreeing to be bound by this Agreement, thereby authorizes the Association to act ns Its collective bargaining representative for all matters pertaining co this Agreement for subsequent negotiations covering this multi-employer bargaining unit, and thereby expresses Its unequivocal intention to be bound by group rather than individual action in collective bargaining, whether or not it joins the Association.
The employer agrees that, if it performs any service or work covered under this Agreement in the State of New York or the City of New York, it shall be bound by all the terms and conditions of the Trade Agreement applicable to the location where said service or work Is being performed for the period of time that said service or work is being performed in said location in the same manner as if It were a direct signatory to the applicable Trade Agreement,
This Agreement is binding upon each individual employer regardless of whether or nor he or It changes the name or style or address of his or its business. Each Individual employer shall give notice in writing to the Union of any Intent to change the name, style or address of his or its business or to perform business under more than one name or style or more than one address, prior to the adoption of a new or different name, style or address, or the addition of new names or styles or addresses, as specified herein. Failure to provide such information shall constitute a material breach of the Agreement and the Union shall have the right to exercise all those Lawful means to remedy any Such violation.
The parties hereby waive any right that they may have to repudiate this Agreement during the term of the Agreement or during the term of any extension, modification or amendment to this Agreement, or during the negotiation thereof.
/
914 G31 Meftlbdraoilhe Har^ipinc Unit
The following amMllufo the members of the bargaining unit who arc Covered by thb Agreement
1.	All Journeymen, apprentice carpenters and pre-apprtnticcs,
2.	Foremen are deemed to be Lead Men, end arc not management representatives. Foremen and General Foremen now bolding the positions In the present bargaining unit covered by this Agreement, and those to be hired in the future for these positions, are not Management Personnel or "Supervisors" as defined in the National Labor Relations Act
5.	In no event can ■ crew be comprised of more than twenty (20) carpenters for each Foreman.
4.	A General Foreman must be designated by the contractor when then are throe (5) or more Foremen employed on the Job. At no time may he supervise his own crew.
5.	Party Chiefs are designated Foremen In line and grade work, A Party Chief supervises and directs carpenters on any one Job. He Is directly responsible for the layout, from specifications and plana tq the direction and actual performance of die layout. He reads plans and spociflcatloni, makes sketches for performance of the layout of buildings, develops and maintains survey records, does the necessary computations, controls the layout on the fob and must be able to do the required duties of any carpenter. A Party Chief shall direct two (3) instrument men and two (2) rod nmn in his arw At no time shall he be required to direct more than four (4) men.
6.	An Instrument Man performs layout and runs the Instrument in a party under the direction of a Party Chief. He shall be able to set up, operate, and malm minor adjustments to surveying instruments, read plans and sketches, and teep surveying records. An instrument Man shall receive the ■ pay of a journeyman carpenter and must also know the duties of a rod mtn.
7-	A Rod Nan bolds the rod and generally assists a carpenter (Party Chief, instrument man). He can be an apprentice and assist in doing Layout.
8.	Nothing in this Agreement shall prevent a carpenter from performing the duties in any other category when not engaged In Une and grade work.
SECTION a. JURISDICTION
A. Geographical jurisdiction end Coverape
J. The Union has jurisdiction over all work for all purposes as defined In this Agreement as performed in the territory described as follows: All of Rockland County, all of Vustcbester County and all of Putnam County
2, Lathing Jurisdiction.
Lathing work is the jurisdiction of Carpenters Union j64 in Rockland County. The work is defined as 1 1/2 black channel, don bar, nail bar, hung with and desonbed wire or rods; Includes wire lath or any mesh or hub of composition materials, used to receive plaster, cement or any substitute thoeof, related tn the put or future to the plastering industry but nor limited thereto. Wire mesh and rod work (re-bar) shall be part of this category.
The work herein described la covered by this Agree men t with regard to wans, fringe benefits, and working conditions and all enforcement procMures specified in this Agreement There candllfons do not limit the carpenters from doing other work u so noted in this contract.
Ceiling wires far runners, channels, one and 1/2 inch black iron and other material are to be ait to tength on site. Clips or any other devices used Will be Installed on site. It is mutually agreed between the parties that no violation of this contract exists should carpenters refuse to install this material if it comes on site procut or pre-assembled.
Violation of this provision shall be a breach of this AgrccmcnL
B. Work and Trade Jurisdiction
The work jurisdiction covered by this Agreement includes, but is nor limited to.* heavy-highway and bridge work; commercial and Industrial construction work; recovery/recydlng plants; all carpentry work related to residential home-building and housing construction work; the handling, milling, fashioning, joining, assembling, erecting and/or dismantling of materials of wood, metal, plastic fiber, or of any substitute material or materials; tile laying of all cork or composition flooring, robber tile, mastic tile, cork tile, all backer board, (dens-shield or similar), linoleum; the application of all asphalt or fiberglass shingles, atrip, roll roofing, roll formed canopy and roofing systems, or all asbestos (fiberglass) shingles; the erection and the dismantling of machinery; the erection of modular homes; the manufacture of ell wood and substitute materials where the skin, knowledge and training of ■ carpenter ore required, either by the operation of machinery or hand tools; the unloading and handling of all materials, including but not limited u>: dry wall, ceiling panels, and/or all materials associated with reding systems; the building of all wail forms, footing farms, setting anchor bolts, leveling, aligning and setting of precast concrete ptecer, the manufacture and/or production of al! concrete pieces made by precasting, postressing or by prestressing; the erection, fitting, plumbing, levelling, aligning and/or setting of all windows and metal studding; the unloading, handling and Installation of store fixtures; the unloading, handling and placing of all refrigerated cases, fame hoods and/or boxes; the installation of drapes, Venetian blinds, shades, and til polyethylene, plastic laminate, codan, solid phenolic, puty-raortle H.D. dressing and collet companmenu, screens snd dividers and any other similar material. (Included la the tostallaitan of wood framed solar panels or panels requiring wood bracing.)
The following trades and work performed by employees In such categories constitute the exclusive work of the carpenters covered by this Agreement.
1.	Carpenters and joiners, reed and rattan workers, railroad carpenters, ship carpenters, caulkers and joiners, tile, marble and terrazzo, bench hands, cabinet makers, stair builders, floor layers, millwrights, batmiters, furniture workers and assembly, bridge, dock and wharf carpenters, shipwrights and boat-builders, car-builders, saw filers, divers, tenders and all ■workers engaged in operating woodworking machinery, the laying of all canvas roofs and decks, and all insulation workers, including asbestos removal, lead abatement and protection, and any snd all additional work agreed upon between the parties, orally or In writing Also Included is the Installation of electronic locking systems card or key operated, such as Inn-lec, Corbin FutursLok, In tel Its Schlage systems, Sargent Systems *45, (as examples).
2.	Construction, erection, dismantling and stripping of all forma, concrete or otherwise, and In the building of runways, elmmior shafts, hoists, scaffolds, platforms and setting of bolts and all templet*. The fabrication on the job site of all barricades, signs, highway and road dividers and the erection of same. The use of prefabricated concrete forms is prohibited, eacept far Universal forma AU wwk, except as specifically excepted fa this Agreement, must be performed on the Job site by carpenters covered by this AgrcemcnL
3.	Sotting, plumbing and bracing of all imel and aluminum sash on open walls and wrasmrer such sash is fastened io wood.
4.	Welding la an adjunct to the trade. The welding torch, die electric welder, and any oilier type of welding instrument, ere tools of -lhe trade. Goggles, glove* and all protective clothing is supplied by the contractor. Carpenters who perform welding or burning duties shall be paid an additional twentpAva ($ ,2?) cents per hour.
5.	bumiownu such u transit, level, tbeolita snd laser when used os an inatramsne, piezometer when instrumented, and Iatte>iMters are used by carpenters fa the course of their work.
6,	Where substitutes are utilized, replacing the material* normally
5172 TO 1202G91GG47	P.04/0S
used by carpenters and requiring the skill and tools of carpenters, the same shall be handled, erected, placed and/or installed only by carpenters. All power tools, kuuls or any special tools shall be supplied by the contractor hiring the rarpenlcr.
7.	All work in connection with the installation, erection and/or application of nil materials and component parts of wells and partitions regardless of their material composition or method or manner of their irutailntion attachment or connection, including, but not limited to, the following item*: all floor and celling runners, stud*, stiffeners, cross bracing, fire blocking resilient channels, furring channels, doors and windows, including frames, casing, molding, base, accessory trim hems, drivit. slows, gypsum, drywall materials, laminated gypsum systems, backing board, finish board. nro-prooftng of beams and rotunuu, fireproofing of chose, sound and thermal insulation materials, datura attachments including all layout work, preparation of all openings for fitting, air vents or other purposes and all other necessary or related work In connection therewith. Alt work Includes layout with or without the use of a transit.
8.	Unloading and loading famlture end assembly is the Wvrk of unit carpenters.
The opo-otion of winches and Jacks whether operated manually or operated mechanicaify by portable operating tfevkss used to handle material to be installed or erected by rarpennn and all tagging end signalling todrienta] to the trade.
9.	When concrete Is being poured into farm*, a carpenter must be employed at such location al all times during such pouring.
10.	Tunnel Work.
Form building-bracing, shoring and all work pertaining to carpentry on tunnel* 1* the wk of the carpenter. Tunnel work, Inside or outside, whether it be for underground power bouses, generating plants, reactors, recovery and recycling plants, utilities or similar facilities, Is the work of the carpenter.
11.	The contractor apees to recognize the jurisdictional claims of the United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of America that have been established by ameemems with.other crafts, awards contained in the Groen Book or as a result of decisions by the National Joint Board for the Settlement of Jurisdictional Disputes, or which are remgrtized a* being rhe Jurisdiction of the United Brctiirhood. and further agrees to assign all such work to carpenters.
The General Contractor in his award* to ail subamtraoors shall assign work according u> trade and area practitz. Carpenters shall	all scaffolding
Assignment of pipe scaffolding, free standing scaffold* or any scaffolding shall be assigned a* noted above. The General Contractor will be responsible for all scaffolding on the job site, it is expressly understood and agreed by rhe Centra! Contractor that this ctaw eta not be superseded by any provision in any other Union agreement and the General Contractor agrees to be bound by area and trade practices, u well as any pari or future agreements or decisions handed down by the National Joint Board for Settlement uf Jurisdictional Disputes.
SECTION 3- GENERAL CONTRACTORS • CONTRACTORS - SUB
CONTRACTORS RCTPONSIBIUTIEB AND OBLIGATIONS
A. This Agreement shall bind the parties hcreut and any and all subcontractor* employed by the contractor and any contract entered into with said subcontractor shall contain a stipulation binding rhe said subcontractor to the conditions and covenants of this Agreement- The contractor shall be responsible for any claims against any of subcontractors relating to wagos and contribution* due to the Welfare, Pension, Vacation, Annuity, Labor Management Cooperation. Charitable Scholarship and the Apprentice Training Committee Trust Funds or other Fringe Benefit Funds enumerated herein. Every employ er party to this Agreement shell notify the Council of the awarding of any contract on which carpenter work is to be performed, whether by contractor or subcontractor. Said notice shall indudc Location of the job and the name and address of the contratzar or subcontractor involved. To the extent permitted by lew, failure to comply with this section shall be a breach of the Agreement and shall authorize the Union to remove its members from any job on whldi said contractor or subcontractor k working until tbtry are in compliance with said notice. Said notice shall be within thirty (30) days of contract award and, in any event, no teas than seventy-two (72) hours before the start of work.
B.	The conlraaar bound to this Agreement agrees not to accept any subcontract from any General Contractor. Construction Manager, Ptvjcxx Manager, Builder, Site Manager, Broker or other entity, unless the said entity has signed an Agreement with the Council or provides at least Ihe wages and working conditions set forth in this Agreement, and provided that the entity is a construction employer and it employ* carpenters.
This provision shall not be unreasonably and/or arbitrarily applied, and II shall not be Implemented without the approval of the Business Manager and the approval of the Assodatlon.
C.	A contractor acting in the capacity of a Construction Manager agrees that it or any of its subconuvoora will not contract or subcontract carpentry work to be done at the rite of construction, alteration, or repair ol the building or structure, except to a person, firm or corporation party in a current labor agreement with the Council.
D.	The General Contractor, Construction Manager, Prime Contractor, Builder or Owner shall furnish the name* of all carpenter subcontractors u> the Council in whose geographic Jurisdfalon the Job la faceted, on forms supplied by the Union, before subcontractors start work, when requested by the Union.
B.	It is agreed that the word “contractor’ or "employer" as used herein means not Only a contractor or employer which Is signatory hereto, but also means and shall indudc any other firm (whether a corporation, partnership or otiier business entity) engaged in the construction and/or carpentry Industry in which an officer, a partner or single proprietor of the signatory contractor or employer hereto I* also an officer, a principal stockholder, partner or single proprietor of such other firm, where the intent and effect or consequence thereof of such assoetation undermines terms snd obligations of the signatory contractor to this Agreement Management Consultants, Construction Managers, Developers, and Owner/Buildcr* will be also considered as crupfoytrt for the purpose* of this Agreement. Further, any person or entity performing any of the following services will be considered an employer; the solicitations of bid* from subcontractors, the consideration of proposals submitted by subcontractors, the coordination of work performed by subcontractors, and the supervision of the construction of the project
F.	No employer shall sublet, piece or lump out carpentry labor or any part thereof, nor shall any employee represented by the Untan Work for any employer who takes labor contracts or pieces or lumps his work.
G.	The General Contractor shall be responsible for collecting the pay and fringes for all carpenters for all tart hours if any work is performed by the subcontractor who performs wtsrfc without reporting same to the Union before starting.
H.	If, a* a result of violations of this Section, it is required by applicable faw for the Union and/orTkustecs of the Funds co institute icutin action to enforce the rights hereunder,'the employer shall pay all costs of such action. Including attorney's fees.
*£, Sfadi W CMlitf/C	provisions-<>i cne preceding
subparagraphs of the Section, the Union, as an alternative to paragraph (H), may invoke axpedited arbitration. The procedures of Section 22 Grievances, Disputes and Arbitration shall govern to the extent applicable, except chat the arbitration hearing shall be held within three (3) working days alter the Union notifies the contractor of the claimed violation. If a violation la found, then, in addition co any other relief, the arbitrator may award liquidated damages of no more than three thousand ($3,000.00) dollars, which shall be divided equally between the Welfare and Pension Funds of the Union. Such arbitration proceeding may be instituted by arty party to this Agreement, Any contractor may utilize the arbitration provision of this Agreement to compel ettfarremenl of this paragraph by the Union.
J. Contramon stull call the Union office and advise them of the fob location prior to the start of work. Notification by job foreman shall be sufficient.
SECTION 4.	UNION SECURITY
ft shall be a condition of employment that all employees of the contractor, who are numbers of the Union In good standing on the effective date of dlls Agreement, shall remain members in good standing, and those who are not members of the Union on the effective date of this Agreement, shill, on the eighth (8th) day following the effective dace hereof, become and remain members In good standing in the Union. It shall also be a condition of employment that all employees covered by this Agreement, and hired on and after its effectiw data, shall, on the eighth (8th) day following the beginning of such employment, become and remain members In good standing in the Union. The contractor agrees, upon written notice from the Union, to discharge say carpenter who has not become or remained a member in good standing in the Union as hereinabove set forth, provided the Union wtiftes in writing that such membership was available to the carpenter on the same terms and conditions generally applicable to other members and/or certifies in writing that membership was not denied or terminated for reasons other than the failure of the carpenter to tender periodic dues and the Initiation fees uniformly required as a condition of acquiring or retaining membership.
SECTION 5.	WAGES
A. Carpenters shall be paid not less than the wage rates set forth on Schedule "A" annerod hereto (and any amendments thereto) and made part of this Agreement.
- B, Foremen art guaranteed foil weekly pay. They are guaranteed 40 hours weekly as follows: $2.50 per hour over foumeymsn scaw phis fringes. Overtime at their scale plus fringes. General Foremen - weekly 40 hours as follows: 93-50 per hour over journeyman scale plus fringes. Overtime at their
• scale plus fringes.
C. General Foremen are guaranteed full weekly pay.
D. Carpenters must be paid no late- than quitting time on Friday of each wcatit and no more than two (2) days pay shall be held back at any time, Including weekends. Should the contractor pay later than quitting time, he shall pay employees at the regular wage far *11 time after quitting time which they may be required to wait for their wages, except during severe weather, widespread power failure, fire or other natural disaster.
E. The Coundt retains the asdualvc right to allocate, or to reallocate, all wages and contributions to those Fringe Benefit Funds determined by the Council
SECTION 6. HOURS OF LABOR. OVERTIME AND
REPORT . IN-DAY - MAKE-UP DAY
A. A regular work week consists of Ave (5)dsy», Monday through Friday, inclusive, A regular work day consists of eight (8) hours performance between the hours of 7:00 a.in. and 3:30 p.m. or 8:00 ajn. and 4:30 p.m. Work shall not be performed an any other days, or during any other hours, without permission from the Union. .
B. All work performed outside' of the regular work week or work day constitutes overttuw and shall be paid at one and one-half (t/2) times the hourly rate. Work performed on Sundays or recognized holidays shall be paid st twice the houriy rate, for both wages and fringe benefits.
C. In commercial and/or industrial work or construction, all carpenters reporting for work shall be guaranteed two (2) hours reporl-ln-pay, if they art prevented from working for any reason whatsoever, other than for inclement weather. When carpenters report to work, they shall remain on the Job site unless directed to law by the contractor. Should any carpenter commence work, he shall receive no less than four (4) hours pay. Should he commence work after the lunch period, ho must be paid for a fall day.
D. In heavy and highway work, two (2) hours report-in-pay shall be paid to carpenters reporting for work who are prevented from working for any reason whatsoever. Should a carpenter commence work, he shall receive no less than four (4) hours pay. Should he commence work after lunch period, he must be paid for a full day. Stewards on heavy-highway construction work are guaranteed a dally day's pay regardless of weather.
E. Should a contractor discharge or lay off any carpenter, either temporarily or permanently, such rarpenter must be given one (1) hour's notice, prior to discharge, in order to put his tools into shape. At the expiration of such hour, the carpenter must be paid in full, or the contractor shall pay for waiting time at the regular hourly rate, for all hours waited. Carpenters can only be discharged at quitting time, weather permitting.
p. Alter commencing work, should a carpenter become injured or disabled while performing his duties, ba shall nevertheless receive a foil day’s wage for that day. Abo, he shall be rehired when he can return to bls duties, provided there is still umrk available.
G. Should the Union remove any carpenters from employment with any contractor for a violation of Section 3 hereof, the carpenters shall be entitled to payment for time lost because of such violation by the contractor, not io exceed three (3) days pay at the regular time rotes. Such payments must be made by the contractor prior to the resumption of work by any members of the unit.
ft. Carpciters shall not work more than the hours set forth in Section 6. Paragraph A, unless written permission has been secured from the Business Manager or his designee, except when concrete is poured into forms during the regular working hours and during the regular working week. In such event, a carpenter must be employed during any overtime wort.
Carpenters on shift wort will receive stamps or vouchers with their pay as negotiated: (Example) Work eight (8) hours, paid for ten (10) hours with stamps. Any imptementatfan by an employer of shift work without a prefob conference first will xubjea the shift to cease and will subject the job to time and one-half wares and fringes as set forth in Paragraph A
"When exmditioru beyond the control of the employer, such as severe weather, widespread power failure, fire, natural disaster, etc., prevent the operation of the Job on one or more normal working days, the employer may, with the permission of the Union, schedule the Saturday of that calendar week during which work was prevented, as a make-up day at straight time. All hours worked in earns of eight (8) hours shall be paid for si the rate of time and one-half (1 1/3), When a holiday falls oh a Saturday, then the maker up rate shall be time and uno-half (1 1/3) for the first eight (8) hours of work performed and shall be paid at double the rate as ret forth in Section 6,
914 S31 5172 TO 1202691S647	P.05Z0S
Paragraph 8, for all work performed thereafter. In order to utilize a Saturday as • make-up date, the employer must declare a regular work day ‘terminated’ for one of the reasons listed above, no later thin 10.-00 a.tn. of the day terminated, and must notify the Union of Its desire to work a make-up day by noon of the day preceding the make-up day. If men are needed to work a make-up Saturday, other than those already working on the fob, the employer shall hire 50% of its carpenters through referral from the Union, and It will use 50% of carpenters employed by it on other fob sites. A make-up Saturday shall be a guaranteed eight (8) hour day with a guarantee of eight (8) hours pay, with onchalf (1/2) hour off to cat, charged to the eight (8) hours worked.
Only employers tn good standing, meaning those signatory contractors who are pakl-up (wages and fringe stamps), will be considered lor a Saturday mako-up day oiul permission will not unreasonably be withhold for a Saturday makeup.
j. smajunuEuiii
1.	Far ell alteration and repair shifts performed In a building: The employer may work two shifts, with the first shift working either 7:00 a.rn. to 3:30 P.m. or 8:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. ar the straight-time wage rate. The second shift starting time may be a flexible starting time between the hours of cither 3:30 pjn. and 11:30 p.m. or 4:30 p.m. to 12:30 a.m. and receive ten (10) hours pay for eight (8) hours work at the straight time wage rate. In addition, members of the second shift shall be allowed one-half (1/2) hour to eat, whh this time Indudetl in the eight (8) hours of work. In order to work the second shift, there must be a ffrst shift of eight (8) hours.
2.	- Work must be for a minimum of five (5) days duration. All hours worked In exixss of eight (8) hours shall be paid at the double-time rate. The employer shall notify the Union seven (7) calendar days in advance of beginning the shift schedule, subject to the approval of the Union. Thera shall be a pre-job conference with the Union before the commencement of any shift work,
3.	Pre-job Conference. Any contractor, subcontractor, amatruction manager, if signatory to this Agreement jointly prior to the commencement of any activity on the fob site, shall be required to meet with in authorized representative of the Union for the purpose of establishing labor relations dealing with expediting their project along craft Unes.
SECTION 7.	HOLIDAYS
A The following are recognized as holidays: New Year's Day, President's Day. Memorial Day, Independence Day. Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day, the day after Thanksgiving and Christmas Day. lb perform work on a holiday, the contractor must secure permission from the Union. No work shall be performed on Labor Day.
B.	Carpenters engaged in heavy and highway work, ar work on powerhouse^ disposal plants, recovery, recycling, M-linmt, sub-stations, duns, reservoirs, filtration plants and aimllar Installations, who are employed during any pay week in which any of the foregoing holidays fall, shall be paid for such holidays at regular rales, regardless of the day of the week on which the said holiday falls, in addition to the wages earned by them during such week as a result of their labor. Where a holiday falls on a Sunday, it shall be observed on Ihc Monday immediately following. When carpenters are required to work on such holidays, and when permission to do so had been secured from the Union, the following holidays shall be paid with fringes as follows: if worked. New Year's Day, Memorial Day, Independence Day,Thanksgiving Day and Christmas Day shall be paid at the triple time rate and straight time fringes. President's Day (in place of Lincoln's and Washington's Birthday) if worked, shall be paid at the double time rate and straight time fringes, no work shall be performed on Labor Day.
SECTION 8.	UNION REPRESENTATIVES RIGHT OF
VISITATION ANDJ.OB STEWARDS
A AU Union Representatives have the right to visit any fob or project of tlw conmcuw in the performance of his duttes, and to ace that there is tall compliance with the provisions of this Agreement He may discuss with the contractor, or the letter's representative, any grievances or complaints whether the Job Steward is present or not. The Union may appoint one of Its members as Job Steward on the Prime Contractor's payroll immediately upon the commencement of any activity adjunct to the trade jurisdiction defined in Section 2, Paragraph B, of this Agreement.
B.	The Union will appoint a Job Steward for each contractor signatory to the Agreement, who shall have'superseniority. and who mutt be employed on the Jab at all times that any work covered by this Agreement is being performed and until ihe completion of such job. Should the contractor challenge the competence oftheJob Steward In the performance of his work, he shall notify the Union Representative in writing and request that he be replaced. The Job Steward snail not be laid off, or discharged, without the consent of the Union Representative. He shall be the last man laid off on the job, and mutt be the first man recalled. Until the appointment of ajub Steward, the first carpenter on the job shall act in such capacity, and shall notify the Union Representative as soon V possible of the existence of such job, and its location, and that be ft acting as Job Steward pro tern. No carpenter shall be required to work on a fob without a Job Steward present thereon, unteM the Union Representative waives such requirement. The Job Steward must be employed during the pouring of concrete.
C,	The contractor shall permit the Job Steward to perform his duties as such steward, under the union Representative's direction, without harassment or disCTimlnation by such contractor or agents. The Job Steward may request cessation of violations of this Amement by the contractor, or the correction of any improper working conditions that may exist. The Job Steward is not considered an agent of tm Union and docs not have authority io bind the Union by his actions or his failure u» act, nor does he have the right to waive, change or modify any of the terms conditions and provisions of this Agreement, The Job Steward is required to see that the contractor supplies drinking waler, in accordance with New York Slate law, and that a sufficient supply thereof is available at all times. The Shop Steward will not act or be safety officer, of any project or contractor.
D.	Because of the complexity and size of any lob, the Union Representative may appoint a sub-steward who shall wort under the direction of and aid the Job Steward. In the absence of the Job Steward, the sub-steward shall assume the full responsibility as Job Steward.
SECTION 9.	CONTRACTOR'S OBLIGATION AND DUTIES
A Prior to commend ng any work, the contractor shall carry all required Worker's Compensation Insurance covering all carpenters with an Insurant carrier licensed or aulhoriaed to do business In the State of New York. The roniraetor shall, al his own expense, cover carpenters under the Disability Benefits Law of the State of New Ybrk effective Immediately upon the commencement of work The contractor shall make all Social Security payments anti al) New York State Unemployment Insurance payments for * *11 carpenters. The contractor shell carry any end ail protective insurance, end shall make any and *31 social benefit* payments covering the carpenters which he is required to carry or to make under any federal, state, municipal or local law, rule or ordinance.
B.	The contractor shall furnish all woodworking machinery, Including damps, miter bows, power tools, benches, drill bio taps, lags, extension cords, and all such supplies and equipment The contractor must furnish any
tequaa4 to ia hM in the penorrnxnce oi any special kind of work.
C.	The contractor shall provide a suitable tool house or locker for the tools of each carpenter on the Job, which shall be lor the use of such carpenters exclusively. The tool house shall have a stove to heat seme and must have a fock thereon The contractor shall be Hable for tools tost or stolen when carpenters are not on the Job, in the maximum amount of five hundred (*500,00) dollars per carpenter, The contractor shall supply a lockup and Insure it from fire and theft. Report of stolen tools must be made to the contractor within seventy-two (72) hours, or such rialm will be damned to have been waived. Under.no circumstances may the contractor haw a bros* pick-up unless adopted by each and every trade on the Job site.
' D, The contractor must furnish a suitable comfort station for the carpenter*. On high rise construction, a comfort station muse be provided on every fourth floor and kept sanitarily to the satisfaction of the Union Representative. Unsanitary conditions will be considered a breach of this Agreement
B. Saw damps, files and any other equipment needed far sharpening of saws must be tarnished by the contractor. If the contractor chooses not io employ a saw filer then the saws shall be sent to a shop for filing • SECTION 10. AU FK1NGB BENEFIT FUHOS
The contractor agrees that it is bound by and shall comply with the Agreements and Declarations of Trim and the Plans of Vacation Fund, Welfare Fund, Pension Fund, Annuity Fund, Charitable Trust Fund, Scholarship Fund, Labor Management Cooperation Fund and Apprentice Training Committee design sled by the Ctmnttl The aforesaid A&oemenls and Declarations of Trust and Plans and the Rules and Resolution* adopted by die Trustees of the said Funds, as the same may be amended from time to time, are hernby Incorporated into and made a part of this Agreement. Bach employer shall pay, as specified in this Agreement, a certain sum of money for each hour or part of an hour worked by each carpenter, for work done in this area, to the Fund Office designated by the Council in either* stamp or voucher form.
Payment will be rniufo at the designated Fund office by rectified check, cash or money order, payable to the Umpire State Regional Council of Carpenters Fringe Benefit Funds, or its legal successor. Such benefits and contributions co the said Funds shall be made and paid by the employer purchasing stamps covering all such required contributions, in advanre-The employer shall furnish such Stamps Co all carpenter* in each weekly pay envelope, in accordance with the number of hours worked multiplied by the total hourly contributions required by this Agreement. The failure of the employer io comply with the requirement that stamps be In each weekly envelope shaft subject the employer to those remedies available with respect to payment of wajp=a. At the time of purchase of the namps, the employer shall furnish the Fund Office with a statement providing such information as the said Trustees shall require on farms supplied by Um Fund Office. The information shall lodudc, but not be limited to, payroll or similar records which contain the names of the carpenters, die Job prefect, the numbers and denominations of stamps Issued co each carpenter and the date of Issuance, The failure by the employer to fully supply this Information shall constitute a material breach of the Agreement subject to those remedies available under this Agreement. It Is understood that ttie employer will treat Vacation Fund and political Action Committee Fund contributions as well as work assessment* as wages so that all payroll taxes will be deducted from the gross total wages paid to the carpenter and the fall contribution, net of said payroll taxes, shaft be remitted. The Welfare Fund dnes nnt ptmH.de benefits.
It is farther agreed that the Velfare, Pension, Annuity, Charitable Trust, Scholarship analabor Management Cooperation Funds and Apprentice Training Committee in accordance with their respective Plans, Rules of Eligibility and Rules and Regulations as amended from time tn time, may provide benefits to employees of the Funds, employees of iha Council, employees of the affiliated local Unions, officers of the Council and affiliated Load Unions and with respect to the welfare Fund, retired persons.
section it. Funds
A.	L«bar M.n.ornwnr Fund
The employer agrees to ran tribute the sum of * .005 cents (1/2*), presently, per hour for each hour Or portion thereof for which a member of the unit receives pay or for which pay is due to the Now York State Carpenters Labor Management Fund, heretofore established in accordance with all existing federal and state laws pertaining thereto.
It Is agreed that all contributions arc due and payable io the area Council's Fund Office u called for In this Agreement for the other fringe benefit Funds end the employer does hereby authorise said area Fund office to forward said contributions to the New Ybrk State Carpenters Labor-Management Fund Office in such manner as tbe Trustees of said Fund shall reasonably require.
Tbe Trustees shaft haw the authority to have tn audit of the payroll and wage records for theeniploya' for the purpose of determining the accuracy of contributions to this Fund, and failure to make proper and timely contributions hereundre may subject the employer to the procedures sei forth herein far cultedtan delinquents,
B.	UBC Health Safety? Training A Labor
Management Bitaeatton A Development Fund
The employer and the Union recognise the need for quality training of apprentices and Journeymen to meet the Industry’s craft labor needs and to provide safety and health training and education to enable Union wwkesa to remain healthy and productive. In addition co any contributions otherwise called far herein, the parties agree that the employer stull make ■ contribution of six (* .06) cents, presently, per hour Worked far each employee covered by the Agreement. This present six (* .06) cent contribution will be divided as fallows: cwo (* .02) cents UBC Health and Safely Fund, two (* -02) cents UBC Apprenticeship A Training Fund and two (* .02) cents Labor Management Education A Development Fund. U 1* agreed that aft contributions are due and payable to said Funds as called for In this Agreement. The employer does hereby authorise payment of this (S .06) cents per hour to the UBC Funds as described above upon collection.
The emplujmr hereby also agrees to he bound by the Trust Indenture Agreement as now stated or as later restated or amended applicable to each of the respective UBC Trust Funds described above.
Oq request, each employer and/or Unfan shaft receive a copy of the Funds’ annual reports.
SECTION 12. PURS CHECK-OFF
The employer agree* to deduct from the wa^s of each carpenter working under this Agreement, and to pay the Council In the manner determined by dm Council, upon oBcucfon by each carpenter of an assignment form, those uniform assessments of the Council, as a condition of continued employment This assessment shall be Included as part of the stamps/wMichers purchased from the Empire State Regional Council of Carpenters Fringe Benefits Funds or other Fund* designated by the Council.
SECTIQN13 AUDIT OF CONTRACTOR* PAYROLL RECORDS. COLLECTION PROCkDURKS
A.	Bach contractor hereby permits an examination of it* books and
n
914 631 5172 TO 12026916647	P.06/08
records to ascertain and verify the contributions due under Section ID of this Agreement, by an auditor designated by the Trustees of the respective Funds.
B.	A notice shall be mailed to the contractor at dur address given by him when this Agreement is executed, one (1) week advance at a Una mutually agreed upon, informing him that an audit will ukx place at the time and place set forth in the notice and directing him to have his books and records available to the auditor. Where possfofe, audits shall be made st the contractor's place of business.
C.	The contractor and the Union acknowledge that they arc represented by their duly designated Trustees to administer the various Fringe Benefit Trust Funds provided for in this AjpuemenL Because of the various liabilities and responsibilities placed upon all parties to this Agreement, including oil contractors and Union Representatives and their respectively designated Trustees, each contractor hereby agrees that the Fringe Benefit FundTriistces shall have the necessary tools to fulfill their fiduciary obligation in order to folly protect each contractor signed to this Agreement and their cmptoyee-banundaries under the respective Fund plana;
Bach contractor to this Agreement realise* that the failure of any roncractor to make the required Fringe Benefit Fund contributions affects the liability of all contractors to this Agreement and decreases the benefit* available to the carpenter employees pf this contractor Therefore, each contractor signatory to this Agreement shaft make available in the Trustee* of the various Fringe Benefit Trust Funds, or their designated auditing representative, all pertinent books and records required for an audit to enable said auditor to ascertain and Independently verify that the proper contributions hereunder have been paid, and such records will be produced whenever deemed necessary by the Trustee* in connection with the proper administration of ihalr fiduciary responsibilities. In order to accomplish this end, it Is spccfficolly agreed that should any affiliate or subsidiary contractor, as described in Section 3 ol this Agreement be involved with the business activities of.thls contractor, that thjs contractor will make available aft the pertinent books and payroll records of such affiliate or subsidiary to the auditor so that a complete audit can be made. The extent of the audit and the determination as to what pertinent records are necessary to complete the audit J* In the sole discretion of the Fund* so that they may independently verify that all required contribution* have boon made, and discover tim identity of all beneficiaries under the plan* that they have been entrusted with for proper administration.
D.	The Trustees of the respective Fluid* shall lake appropriate legal action to collect the proper amount of contributions due, for an accounting, or for any rMhcr, appropriate relief. Should such actfan be requlral, the Trustees may utilise the procedures set forth In Section 22 hereinafter, or bring * proceeding in their own names. In any proceeding to collect monies due to the Funds, In addition to ths relief enumerated in Section 22, the court or the arbitrator u the case may be, shall award (1) Interest on the unpaid contributions calculated at the maximum rate of liquidated damages In an amount not to exceed twenty (20*) percent of the unpaid contributions, whichever It the higher; and (2) reasonable attorney's fee* and all costs of tbe action or arbitration, as the case may be, and (3) such other and further relief as may be appropriate including as otherwise set forth below in this Agreement.
8. The contractor hereby permits an examination of his books and records by an auditor designated by the Union to ascertain and verify the wage rates of this Agreement. The same procedures for said examination shah be followed as are contained in paragraph* B, C and D hereof.
F. The employer shall retain, for s minimum period of five ($) years. payroll and related records necessary for a proper audit in order that a duly designated representative of the Trustees may make periodic review to confirm that contributions owed pursuant to this Agreement are paid in full for the preceding five (5) year period. In rhe event, after the Tkuatees have made a reasonable request, the employer falls to produce Its book* and records necessary for a proper audit, the Trustees, id their sole discretion, may determine that the employer's monthly hours subject to contribution* for each month of the requested audit period are the highest number of Journeymen employees hour* for any months during the twelve (12) preceding months audited or the last twelve (12) month* for which reports were filed, whichever monthly number of hours is greater. If the hours reported by the Journeymen emptoyees as unpaid vacation claim* exceed such amount, the vacation claims shall be used as the criterion of delinquency. Such determination by the Trustees shaft constitute presumptive evidence of delinquency. Prior to making such determination, the Trustees shall mail a final ten (ID) day written nmios to ths employer advising him that such determination shaft be made If the employer aoes not schedule s prompt audit. Nothing herein shall mean that Funds relinquish their right to commence legal proceedings to compel an examination of the employer's books and records far audit. Necessary records shall Include;
Annual Tax returns. Employers (I.R.S. Form 940)
•	Employer Quarterly Returns (I.R5 Form 941) New York State Unemployment Insurance Tax Returns
*	Individual Employee Payroll Records Weekly Payroll Books
-	Cash Disbursements Books
-	Employee W-2 Form*
Copies of Payroll Reports to all Carpenter Funds
*	Copies of Cancelled Checks to all Carpenter Funds
•	New York State Form* WRS-2
When auditors are sent to audit the bools of any General Contractor, Prime Contractor, Builder, Subcontractor or other employer within the provisions of this Agreement, and a definite appointment is scheduled, and the auditor or auditors cannot start at the appointed time and date and must return, because of the fault of the employer, or when nccrasary records arc not fundshed, than the aaid General Contractor, Prime Contractor, Builder, Subcontractor or other employer shall be penalised and pay the reasonable sum charged by the auditor* to rover the expense of the auditor or auditors.
11 shall be a violation of this Agreement for any Prime Cuntractor, Owner-Builder, Subcontractor, or other employer bound.by this Agreement, to fail to famish proper record* when requested, for the purpose of aunpleifag an audit. The Union shall how the right to remove all Its members from the offending contractor upon twenty-four (24) hours notice, after making final written request for such records. The provisions of Section 14 shall be applicable herein.
In the event that the employer doe* not make payments af Fringe Benefit Fund contributions within thirty (50) days of the date specified in this Agreement, It is agreed that the employer may be liable for the following, In addition to the principal amount of the unpaid contributions!
(I) Interest on wc unpaid contributions al prime rate:
(U) An amount equal to the greater of (a) interest on the unpaid contributions at the prime rate or (b) liquidated damage* equal to twenty (20%) percent of the delinquency, whichever Is greater;
J Ui) Attorney's fee*;
iv) The root* of suit (if required to obtain compliance with this Agreement); and
(v) The costs of any required audit
Ths employer acknowledge* and undefatands chat the above liquidated damages ar* cumulative and are ratmlrerl to MfrfISCgf Wtfftfyvt
' ' betcf'*	..... l—	.
tfc tfu>ux> reserve cm ngnt to retuse redemption of any Fringe Benefit Stamps not documented by weekly Payroll Reports.
SECTION 14.	UNION’S RIGHT TO FOUKE DELINQUENT EMPLOYERS
The Union is granted' all absolute right to strike the job of any delinquent contractor, The Union shall be under no compulsion to return carpenters to employment with such contractors until all delinquencies are completely paid in full. Where such action Is the result of the delinquency of any contractor In payment of wages or any of the Fringe Benefit payments act forth elsewhere Ln thia Agreement, such delinquent contractor shall be required to pay the striking employees wages for each day on strike, for a period not to esceed three (3) days prior to their return to employment for such contractor.
SECTION 15.	INDUSTRY AU VAN CEMENT FUND
A.	The employer shall contribute ten ($ .10) rents per hour for each employee hour worked cn the Industry Advancement Fund (ULE).
B.	The Industry Advancement Fund shall be administered by and in accordance with all editing federal and stale laws and regulations pertaining thereto. The Nedpleut Association must render a report to the Union every four (4) months indicating inreme, expenses and programs undertaken by the Fund.
C.	The programs to be financed by the Industry Advancement Fund shall include but not be limited to the following; promotion of the portion of the industry within the Jurisdiction of the carpenter trade and public relation. The Fund shall not be used for the purpose of financing legal action against the Union, tiling of unfair labor practice charges against Ine union, or lobbying in support of and labor legislation, whether federal or state. The respective Associations agree to hold die Union harmless for all damages, including attorney’s fees, from any dispute concerning collection of these contribution a, End the Association acknowledges that the only responsibility of the Union to its Funds 1s co turn over any monies received per the mutually agreed ■ upon arrangement
SECTION 16,	WORKING EMPLOYER
A.	Stability, fairness of competition and the physical and mental well-being of workers are among the major objectives of this Agreunem and, in furtherance therasf, the pants taka cognizance of the existence of working employers and/or working partnerships who may become signatories hereto.
B.	At the time orexecuting this Agreement, each working employer and/or working partnership shall furnish to the Union a complete list ofall working employers and/or working partners, whichever designation be appropriate,
C,	Each working employer and/or working partnership shall fully comply with the terms ofthis Agreement, and continued participation under the applicable Funds shall be to the extent permitted by applicable law.
SECTION 17.	CONTRACTOR’S PERFORMANCE AND SURETY BOND
Prior to the commencement of any work, at the discretion of the Council, each contractor must post with the Union e surety bond obtained from a carrier licensed to do business In the State of New Tbrfc, Such bond shall be in the unountof five thousand (55,000.00) dollars and must guarantee the payment of Welfare Fund, Pension Fund, Vacation Fund, Annuity Fund, Labor Management Cooperation Fund, Scholarship Fund, Charitable Trust Fund and Apprentice Training Fund contributions under this Agreement, Where special circumstances require lesrer	permission for same
may be granted by the Trustees of the Funds and/or the Council
SECTION IB.	SAFETY REQUIREMENTS AND PROCEDURES - Q.S.HJk.
A All applicable federal, state, county, cky, town or municipal laws, rules, regulations and/or ordinances pertaining to safety regulations shall be observed and complied with by the contractor. After due notice co the contractor and the latter's failure to correct same, the Union may consider any violation of safely regulations as a breach of this Agreement in such case, the Union may withdraw Ils members until such violations have bean corrected by the contractor. Should such withdrawal of workers occur, they shall not be returned to work until the contractor has complied folly with the requisite safety regulations and has corrected such violation completely. The carpenters shall be paid for loss of time, up to a maximum of three (5) days for each such occurrence.
B.	Contractors must have a standard first aid kit on the premises or construction site.
C.	in the event that a dispute arises over compliant^ with applicable safety regulations, cither party may Invoke immediately the grievance and arbitration machinery set forth in Section 22, Violations of accepted or mandated safety procedure shall be cause for Immediate discharp. The use of alcohol or narcotics during the regular work day, including lunch, shall also be cause for immediate dismissal, provided the above is applied uniformly to all personnel including management.
SECTION 19.	EQUAL TREATMENT, NON DISCRIMINATION
The Union agrees that it will treat all contractors equally, and will not discriminate in favor of, or against any employer. The Association will not discriminate In favor of, or against, any carpenta- beesusa of his membership in the Union.
SECTION 20.	UNION AS EMPLOYER
For the purpose of this Apeement, the Union, the Apprentice Training Fund, and the Council's Funds, shall be considered an employer in order io comply with the federal and state Uwa with respect to the Trust Agreement set up pursuant to this Agreement.
SECTION 31. ASSIGNABILITY OF AGREEMENT
All of the provisions, conditions and terms of this Agreement shall bind, apply and Inure to the benefit of the parties hereto, their alto egos, successors, assigns and transferees.
SECTION 22.	GRIEVANCES, DISPUTES AND ARBITRATION
A.	Should any dispute arise between the parties hereto regarding the Interpretation or application of this Agreement, or any clause or provision or portion thereof, the parties agree to make an earnest effort to adjust, resolve and settle Such dispute. Should the parttea be unable to settte the mailer, the dispute shall bo submitted to arbitration as art forth in'paragraph B hereof.
B.	The pony desiring arbitration shall notify the other in writing, setting forth the issues Involved and the Sections of the Agreement covering same. An arbitrator shall be selected from the New York State EmployiMnt Relations Board, fry the agreement of the parties.
The arbitrator shall conduct a hearing within seven (7) days from the date of his selection. Should the arbitrator be unable to conduct a hearing within said time limitation, the next arbitrator who ia able to conduct a hearing within the Uma limitation shall be designated to hear the dispute. The arbitrator is not empowered to change or modify in any manner whatsoevs- any of the terms, conditions or provisions of thia ApeemcnL In addition to any other remedy an arbitrator may specify, he Shall have the
5
914 631 5172 TO 12026916647	P.07/08
and initiation fees which the Union lost because of the contractor's violation of the Agreement. The decision of the arbitrator shall be final and binding upon al Ips riles to the controversy,
C.	When a dispute is submitted for arbitration to a panel arbitrator and written notice thereof is given to the parlies u> said dispute by the ■elected arbitrator, such action shall be considered a final and binding submission of said dispute to arbitration by both parties hereto. Should either party to said dispute nil to attend the arbitration bearing set by the arbitrator, after duo notice (hereof, the arbitrator shall be empowered to proceed with such hearing in the absence of that party and shall also be empowered to render a foul award binding on both parlies to said dispute.
D.	Unless otherwise agreed to by the parties, the party losing the arbitration shall pay for all costs of the arbitration, indudlng the arbitrator's fee and the prevailing party's expenses for auditing and legal representation. In the case of tklture to pay fringe benefit!, the arbitrator must award Interest st twenty (30%) percent per annum or st the prime rate (as determined by Fleet Bank) phis two (2*) percent. If legally permissible, whichever is higher. The arbitrator's award shall specify all costs and interest and the parties to whom the arc paid.
B.	At the discretion of the Council, disputes involving reduced journeyman* 1 2 3 * 5! wags rates shall btt arbitrated expeditiously. The issue shall be teard by an arbitrator within seventy-two (73) hours from the time the Issue is submitted to him, and the arbitrator shall render an award within forty-eight (48) hours from the date of the hearing. The expenses of such arbitration shall be borne by the loser.
F.	So king as the contractor is not In default in complying with the derision of the arbitrator, the Union may not engage to any striae, picketing, boycott, or walkout, except a* expressly authorised to do so elsewhere In this Agreement. So long as the Union is not in default in complying with the decision of the arbitrator, the contractor may not engage in any lockout.
G.	|n addition to any other method authorized by law, any paper, process or notice may ba served upon ■ parry by certified mail, return receipt requested, at the address set forth in this Agreement for said puty. A post office receipt shall be conduaive evident of proper service, if certuled mall Is refused or not picked up, ordinary mall shall be sufficient. Mailgrams or Telegrams shall be deenssd acceptable.
H.	An arbitrator's award made hereunder may be confirmed In any court of appropriate Jurisdiction in the State of New York or in any state where a party does business or has Its prfodpal office. The prevailing party shall ba entitled to receive all court costa as well as reasonable counsel fees upon the confirmation of the arbitrator's award, any appeal therefrom, or upon any proceeding co enforce judgment In connection therewith.
SECTION 23.	SEPARABILITY
Should any part or portion of this Agreement be rendered or declared illegal. Invalid or unenforceable, by reason of any existing or subsequently enacted legislation, or by any decree of a court of competent jurisdiction, or by the decision of any authorized governmental agency, such invalid alien of such part or portion hereof shall not Invalidate the remaining part or portions of this Agreement. In such event, the parties shall meet immediately end, 11 necessary, negotiate substitute provisions for the illegal or invalid parts or portions. The remaining parts, portions or provisions shall remain In full force and effect. Should the parties ba unable to negotiate substitute provisions, the matter shall be referred to arbitration as hentlnbcfore provided tn Section 23 hereof,
SECTION 24.	LABOR-MANAGEMENT COOPERATION FUND
The Labor-Management Cooperation Fund ahull be established forthwith, tn accordance with all federal and state laws and regulations thereto, and also with any subsequently enacted legLstatton applicable thereto. This shall be a jointly managed TVust Fund with an equal number of employer and Union Trustees to administer the same in accordance with the Dcxuration of Trust adopted by them. This Trust shall be funded by roturlbutions allocated under this Collective Bargaining Agreement and such contributions shall be Included In the payment at fringe benefit stamps, In the amount specified by said Agreement.
SECTION 25.	MISCELLANEOUS CONDITIONS
A. All carpenters working within the jurisdiction of the aforementioned Local Unions must recetw the stamp/wuchcr of that Load Union from the contractor they wotk for in full cadi week or prior to layoff. There are and will be no exceptions!
B. Apprentices are lo be supplied to the contractor depending upon the nature of the work Involved and will be transferred from time to time to comply with the regulations of the Executive Board and the Apprentice Training Committee to round out the apprentice, one apprentice for each five (5) carpenter journeymen must be referred through the Council's referral system.
C. Weiders and asbestos handlers Or removers are to be supplied with all apiipment and clothing (gear) in order to rompfy with local-state* safety regulations.
D. Maknup day applies to all contractors working fo housing and commercial work only,
E. Fringe stamps/votidier must be paid to carpenters in the jurisdictional area where the work is being performed until October 1,1998, when dll carpenters shall receive a stamp through the Empire State Regional Council of Carpenters.
SECTION 36- REFERRAL ANP MOBILITY
A Referral Through Council
1, Selection of applicants for referral to jobs shall be on a nondlMTimlnatory basis and shall not be based on, or in any way affected by, Union membership, by-laws, rules, regulations, constitutional provisions or any other aspect or obligation of Union membership, policies or requirements.
2. The contractor retains the right to reject an/ job applicant referred by the Referral Holl, but in the event of such rejection, the contracmr shall notify the Referral Hall, setting forth the reason! for such rejection, and the Referral Hall ahull then refer a new job applicant to the contractor. Thia process shall be repeated until the contractor retains * job applicant for employment
3. No carpenter shall work on more than ono (1) fob to any twenty-four (24) hour period without written permission from Dullness Manager or his designee,
4 Applicants for referrals through the Referral Half shall be sent out In rotation provided they have the neossary skill and experience to fill the fob. Carpenters who have been employed for substantial periods of time, within die two (2) yean prior to the date they seek emptoynum through the Referral Hril. by any contractor who is party to this Agreement, or by inv other contractor who it party to thia Agreerwtm, or by any Agreement with the Union, shall be presumed to meet the general requirements of skill and experience and shall be placed on the referral list.
5. All other carpenters must pass a fair and comprehensive examination given by the Local Union Examining Committee.before they shall be placed on the Job referral UsL In tiv event that such carpenter fails to pass such examination, he chall have the right to appeal by serving upon
□CT 29 2002 09:43 FR C.I.C.	1
the Union written notice within ten (10) days following the sending to him of ■ notice of Pdfore to Pus sudi examination. In the event at an appeal, the Union and the appropriate Association shall each designate one person, and the two so designated shall be deemed an Examining Committee Appeal Board, which shall re-eumine the aggrieved individual by giving him a fair and comprehensive examination pertaining to the Job qualification* for carpenters.	,
6.	Except as otherwise provided herein, a fifty (50%) percent ratio of carpenters referred and supplied through ihe Union Referral Hall as act forth above shall be ipalnialnm throughout such tab in the manner heretofore described. This shall apply to each job of each Individual contractor. On all Jobs having five ($) or more men, at lout one (1) of said five (5) shall be a carpenter nftysfive (55) yean of age or over supplied by the Referral Hall; this to apply tn each sttosedlng five (5) carpenters on the job.
7.	The Counril’i Referral Procedures, and any Amendment* thereto, are Incorporated as part of this Agreement.
8.	It I* the responsibility at the employer to- Insure the safely and health of employees referred to it pursuant tafederal, state and focal law or regularion, or otherwise, and that nothing tn this Agreement shall nub the Council or any local Union Hable to any employees or to .any persons in the event an Injury occurs. The employer irnx» that neither the Coundl nor any Loral Union will be held responsible lor the act* or failure to act of those carpenters that It refers to a job site,
B. Mobility
1. The first person on the job shall be the Shop Steward assigned by the Empire State Regional Council of Carpentcn. The second man on the job shall be the employer1* (foreman who must be a member of the Empire Sure Regional Coundl of Carpatters (or otherwise he would be matched, but not by the Steward).
3.	The employer shall hare the right u assign the balance of the wurkfom *o long as the joumaymai are from a Empire State Regional Council of Carpenters local Union. If the employer assigns a journeyman from outside the Empire state Regional Council of Carpenters, the Council will hare the right to match as per current Agreement (50/50).
3.	If ft Is determined by the Council that the employer has violated the provision* of this Agreement (for example, not reporting fobs, failure to pay proper pay and Stamps), the privilege of mobility may be suspended for up to a six (6) rnooth period of time nom the date of violation, and If a second violation occurs, this mobility privilege may be suspended for the term of the CoDecttre Bargaining Amocment In either case, whether a first or second violation, the Coundl snail immediately hare the right to mon any or all of the contractor's fobs on a 75* Coundl a*xlgnment/25X emptoyra assignment basis. The employer shall hare access to the grievance procedure to contest any alleged violation.
4.	Toe Shop Steward shall have tbe right to check all employees' paychecks, on a weekly basis, to verify proper pxy and stamps.
SECTION 37 BREACH OF AC REE M EH T
Every employer party to this contract shall notify the Council of the awarding of any contract which includes any of the work described In this Agreement, regardless of whether said work U co be performed by said employer or a subrontractoe Said notice shall indude the location of the fob and the name and address of the contractor or the subcontractor Involved. Failure to rompty with this Section shall be a breach of this Agreement and shall authorise the Council to remove Its members from any fob on which said contractor or subcontractor is working until safe not foe wquiwrr^nr <■ complied with. The aforesaid notice shall be given within thirty (30) day* of the award of the Contract
The contractor agrees to report a fob to tbe Council it least seventy-two (72) hours before starting. Failure u> comply with this Section shall be a breach of this Agreement and shall authorize the Council to remove its members from any Job on which said contractor or subcontractor is working until raid breach is remedied.
914 631 5172 TO 12026916647	P.06/08
SECTION 28. EXFIRATION, RENEWAL AND NOTICE
All of ihc provision*, condition* and term* of this Agreement shall be retroactive to the 1st day of May, 3001 and shall expire on the 30lh day of April, 3004. The Agreement shall automatically bo renewed from year to year thereafter, unless modified or terminated by either party giving to the other ' party not les* than rixty (6o) day* (lor more than one hundred and twenty (1X0) day* written notice prior to the neat termination date, of its desire to modify or terminate this Agreement. In the event thl* Agreement l* renewed, It shall be deemed to contain all the terms and conditions of the next succeeding Agreement us negotiated between the Assoriation and the Union,
SECTION 1.
SECTION 3.
SECTION 3.
SECTION 4.
SECTION 5.
SECTION 6.
SECTION 7, SECTION 8.
SECTION 9.
SECTION 10.
SECTION JI.
SECTION 12.
SECTION 13.
SECTION 14.
SECTION 15.
SECTION 16.' SECTION 17.
SECTION IS.
SECTION 19
SECTION 20.
SECTION 31.
SECTION 22.
SECTION 23.
SECTION 24.
SECTION 25, SECTION 26. SECTION 27. SECTION 28.
TABLE OF CONTENTS
RECOGNITION .............................1-2
JURISDICTION.............................  2
GENERAL CONTRACTORS - CONTRACTORS SUB-CONTRACTORS RESPONSIBILITIES
AND OBLIGATIONS..........................2-3
UNION SECURITY.............................3
WAGES .................................... 3
HOURS OF LABOR. OVERTIME AND REPORTIN-DAY, MAKE-UP DAY................. 3
HOLIDAYS................................   3
UNION REPRESENTATIVES RIGHT OF VISITATION AND JOB STEWARDS ...............5
CONTRACTOR'S OBLIGATIONS AND DUTIES.......3-4
ALL FRINGE BENEFIT FUNDS ..................4
FUNDS .................................... 4
DUES CHECK-OFF ........................... 4
AUDIT OF CONTRACTORS PAYROLL RECORDS, COLLECTION PROCEDURES ..........4-5
UNION'S RIGHT TO STRIKE DELINQUENT EMPLOYERS ................................ 5
INDUSTRY ADVANCEMENT FUND .................5
WORKING EMPLOYER........................   5
CONTRACTOR'S PERFORMANCE AND SURETY BOND .......................... 5
SAFETY REQUIREMENTS AND PROCEDURES - O.S.HA....................... 5
EQUAL TREATMENT, NON-DISCRIMINATION'S......5
UNION AS EMPLOYER..........................5
ASSIGNABILITY OF AGREEMENT ..............  S
GRIEVANCES, DISPUTES AND ARBITRATION ......5
SEPARABILITY ..................T...........5
LABORMANAGEMENT COOPERATION FUND ....	. . 5
MISCELLANEOUS CONDITIONS...................5
REFERRAL AND MOBILITY ...................5-6
BREACH OF AGREEMENT ...................... 6
EXPIRATION, RENEWAL AND NOTICE.............6
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, THE PARTIES HERETO HAVE CAUSED THEIR HANDS AND SEALS TO BE HERETO AFFIXED DATED THIS DAY OF 20___________________________.
UNION:
EMPIRE STATE REGIONAL COUNCIL OF CARPENTERS, UNITED BROTHERHOOD OF CARPENTERS & JOINERS OF AMERICA
By:_______________________________________________________________________________________
President
By:
EMPLOYER:
Signature of Principal of Company
Print Principal'* Name	~~
Print Prtodpai'* Title
Print Company Name
Street Address
City, State, Zip Code

BusUMsa Telephone;	....	...
Business Fax No.:	 . .
Worker* Comp. Policy Noj	.
Carrier.__________________________________________________ .
Unemployment ins. No.: _____________________________________
New York State Disability No,:	...
Federal I.D. Withholding TUx No :
Social Security No. of Principal:'
** TOTAL. PAGE. 06 **
OCT 29 2002 09=37 FR C.I.C.
914 631 5172 TO 1202691G647
P.02/00
LOCAL #11 COMMERCIAL & HEAVY/HIGHWAY RATES
JURISDICTION: EFFECTIVE. DATE: WAGES: Journeyman Forman General Farman BENEFITS: Welfare Pension Vacation Annuity Training Work Assessment IAF URC Labor Mgmt. Scholarship & Char. Total OVERTIME: HOLIDAYS: Commercial: Non-Paid Heavy &. Highway: Paid BUSINESS MANAGER: BUSINESS MANAGER: ADDRESS:	Westchester and Putnam Counties 7/I/02 to 6/30/03 per hour $28.74	commercial add $.31 $31.24	commercial add $.31 $32.24	commercial add $31 $7.14 $5.10 $3.10	taxable & includes .04 PAC $4.00 $0.30 $1.51	taxable $0.10 «n hr $0.06 $0.04 $21.41 Overtime (Monday thru Saturday) is paid at time and one-half (1 1/2) with fringes paid at straight time. Sunday and Holidays are paid at double time with fringe benefits also paid at double tima. New Year's Day, President's Day, Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day, Day after Thanksgiving Day, Christmas Day. John Fuchs Ralph Bonavist 10 Saw Mill River Road Hawthorne, NY 10532 914.592.0100 Phone 914.592.0856 Fax
Revised 7/10/02
NOU 07 2002 16:35 FR C.I.C.
914 631 5172 TO 12026916647
P.02/06
EMPIRE STATE REGIONAL COUNCIL OF CARPENTERS LOCAL #964 COMMERCIAL A HEAVY/HIGHWAY RATES
■JURISDICTION:
Rockland and parts of Orange County
EFFECTIVE DATE:	7/1/02 to 6/30/03 BfiLhour
WAGES:
Journeyman Forman General Forman	$28.27 $30.77 guaranteed 40 hour week $31.77 guaranteed 40 hour week
BENEFITS:
Welfare Pension Vacation Annuity Training Work Assessment IAF UBC Labor Mgmt, Scholarship & Char.	$7.14 $5.10 $3.10	taxable & includes *04 PAC $4.00 $0.30 $1.51	taxable $0.10 $0.06 $0.06 $0.04
Total	$21.41
OVERTIME;	Overtime (Monday thru Saturday) is paid at time and one-half (1 1/2) with fringes paid at straight time. Sunday and Holidays are paid at double time with fringe benefits also paid at double time.
HOLIDAYS:	New Year's Day, President's Day, Memorial Day, Independence Day,
Commercial: Non-Paid Heavy & Highway: Paid	Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day, Day after Thanksgiving Day, Christmas Day.
BUSINESS MANAGER:	John Fuchs
BUSINESS AGENT:	William Hamilton
ADDRESS:	10 Saw Mill River Road Hawthorne, NY 10532 845.429.1298 Phone
Revised 7/10/02
Page 25
NOU 07 2002 16:36 PR C.I.C.
914 631 5172 TO 12026916647 P.05/06
Westchester & PutnainCoun^es-Loc&l Union #11 COMMERCIAL RATES Suburban New York Regional Council of Carpenters WAGES & FRINGES EFFECTIVE 7/1/2001-6/30/2002
JOURNEYMAN’S hourly base rate.....	$28.20	Total
Vacation (Incl .04 PAC)................ 2.89	Welfare................ 7.00
Working Assessment..................... 1.45	Pension................ 4,80
TOTAL TAXABLE RATE................... $32.54	Vacation (Incl. .04 PAC)	2.89
Annuity............... 3.50
Apprentice Train................40
Working Assess........	1.45
Industry Advancement....	.10
UB C- Appr, Health&Safety.Bduc	.06
Scholarship & Charitable Trust	.04
Labor Management......	.06
TOTAL STAMP/HOUR $20.30
TOTAL WAGES & FRINGE BENEFIT PER HOUR = $48.50
k'Miiiaj
US hourly base rates (calculate % on Base rate of $28.20):
	Is* yr	2adyr	3rtyr	4wyr
	45%	55%	70%	80%
Wages	12.69	S15.51	$19.74	$22.56
Working Assessment	.96	59	1.35	1.38
Vacation (includes .04 PAC)	)32	w	2.03	2.32
Total Taxable rate	1457	$18.10	$23,12	$26.26
Annuity	.00	.00	2.45	2.80
Welfare	3.19	3.89	453	5.61
Pension	2.30	2.80	3.54	4.04
Working Assessment	.96	.99	1.35	1.38
Vacation (includes .04 PAC)	1.32	1.60	2.03	2,32
Apprentice Training	.17	.21	.27	.31
Industry Advance Fund	.10	.10	.10	.10
UBC'Appr, Health & Safety, Educ.	.06	.06	.06	.06
Labor Management Fund	.06	.06	.06	.06
Scholarship & Charitable Trust	.04	.04	.04	.04
Total Benefit Stamp Per Hour	$8.20	$9.75	$14.83	$16.72
total wages & benefitszhr.	$20.89	$25.26	$34-57	$39.28
Foreman rate: 52^0/bour over Journeyman rate (guaranteed 40 hour week)
General Foreman rate: $3.S0/hour over Journeyman rate (guaranteed 40 hour week)
Premium Time Rate of Pay - Overtime (Monday through Saturday) is paid at time and one-half (1%) with fringe benefits paid at straight time.
Sundays AHolidavs - paid at double time with fringe benefits also paid at double time.
E:\mtcs-cdmm
NDU 07 2002 1S=35 FR C.I.C
dE/01/2001 11:01 . 9145920856
914 631 5172 TO 12026916647
CARPENTER LOCAL 11
P.03/06
Zauri Union #77
:....................................................
Suburban New York Regional Council of Carpenters
WAGES & FRINGES EFFECTIVE 7/1/2001-4/30/2002
JOURNEYMAN’S hourly base rate	$28.14	Total Benefits:	
Vacation (Incl .04 PAC)	;2.89	Welfare	7.00
Working Assessment	_ * I.4S	Pension	4,80
TOTAL TAXABLE RATE	$32,48	Vacation (Incl .04 PAC)	2.89
	f	Annuity	3.25
		Apprentice Train	.40
		Working Assess	1.45
		Industry Advancement	.10
	1	UB C- Appr Jie althfi Safety, Ed uc	,06
		Scholarship & Charitable Trust	.04
		Labor Management	
	3	TOTAL STAMP/HOUR	S20.05
	TOTAL WAGES & FRINGE BENEFIT PER HOUR * $48-19					
APPRENTICE’S hourly base rakes (calculate % on Base rate of $28.14)				
	ls,yr	2nd yr	3* yr	4th yr
।	45%	55%	70%	80%
Wages	12.66	$15.47	$19.69	$22.51
Working Assessment	.96	-99	1.35	1.38
vacation (includes .04 PAC)	U2	1.60	w	X-32
Total Taxable rate	14.94	$18.06	$23.07	$26.21
Annuity	.00	.00	1.64	1.88
Welfare	3.19 '	3.89	4.93	5.61
Pension	2.30	2.80	3.54	4,04
Working Assessment	.96	.99	1.35	1,38
Vacation (includes .04 PAC)	1.32	1.60	2.03	2,32
Apprentice Training	.17	.21	.27	.31
Industry Advance Fund	.10	.10	.10	.10
UBC"Appr, Health <fc Safety, Eduo.	.06	.06	,06	.06
Labor Management Fund	.06	.06	.06	.06
Scholarship & Charitable Trust	.04	.04	.04	.04
Total Benefit Stamp Per Hour	58.20	$9.75	$14.02	515.80
TOTAL WAGES & BENEHTS/HR :	520.86	S25-22	$33.71	$38.31
Foreman rate: S2.50/hour over Journeyman rate (guaranteed 40-hour rveek)
General Foreman rate: $3.50/haur over Journeyman rate (guaranteed 4C~hour week)
Premium Time Raie.nLPav - Overtime (Mo nd ay through Saturday) U paid at time and tme«balf (!'/:) with fringe benefits paid at straight time,
Sundays AHplidays - paid at double time yritb fringe benefits also paid at double time.
NOU 07 2002 16:36 FR C.I.C.
914 631 5172 TO 12026916647
P.06/06
KUSZ
Suburban New York Regional Council of Carpenters WAGES & FRINGES EFFECTIVE 7/1/2001-6/30/2002
JOURNEYMAN’S hourly base rate..... $27.21	Total Benefit
Vacation (Incl .04 PAC)............. 3.10	Welfare....................... 7.00
Working Assessment.................. 1-42	Pension......................  4.80
TOTAL TAXABLE RATE.................$31.73	Vacation (Incl .04 PAC)	3.10
Annuity...................... 3.50
Apprentice Train.....	.40
Working Assess.......	1.42
Industry Advancement....	.10
UBC-AppirHealth&Safcty.Educ	.06
Labor Management.....	.06
Scholarship & Charitable Trust	.04
TOTAL STAMP/HOUR. $20.48
TOTAL WAGES & FRINGE BENEFIT PER HOUR = $47.69
APPRENTICE’S hourly base rates (calculate % on Base rate of $27.21):
	r'yr 45%	2n,,yr 55%	3rd yr 70%	4th yr _80%
Wages	12.24	14.96	19.04	21.77
Working Assessment	.97	1.02	1.31	1.34
Vacation (includes .04 PAC)	JL41	_X73.	_2J1	
Total Taxable rate	14.62	17.71	22.53	25.73
Annuity	.00	.00	2.44	2.80
Welfare	3.18	3.88	4.93	5.94
Pension	2.19	2.67	3.38	4.06
Working Assessment	.97	1.02	1.31	1.34
Vacation (includes .04 PAC)	1.41	1.73	2.18	2.62
Apprentice Training	.17	.21	.28	.34
Industry Advance Fund	.10	.10	.10	.10
UBC-ApprJiealth&Safety.Educ	.06	.06	.06	.06
Labor Management Fund	.06	.06	.06	.06
Scholarship & Charitable Trust	.04	.04	.04	.04
TOTAL BENEFIT STAMP PER HOUR	. $8,18	$9.77	$14.78	$17.36
TOTAL WAGES & BENEFITS/HR	$20.42	$24*73	$33.82	$39.13
Foreman rate; $230/hour over Journeyman rate (guaranteed 40 hour week)
General Foreman rate: $3.50/hour over Journeyman rate (guaranteed 40 hour week)
Premium Time Rate of .Fay - Overtime (Monday through Saturday) is paid at time and one-half (1%) with fringe benefits paid at straight time.
Sundays ARolidavs - paid at double time with fringe benefits also paid at double time.
E:\ratw-comm
** TOTAL PAGE.06 **