Cornell University
ILR School
BLS Contract Collection - Metadata Header
This contract is provided by the Martin P. Catherwood Library, ILR School, Cornell University. The information provided is for noncommercial educational use only.
Some variations from the original paper document may have occurred during the digitization process, and some appendices or tables may be absent. Subsequent changes, revisions, and corrections may apply to this document.
For more information about the BLS Contract Collection, see
http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edu/blscontracts/
Or contact us:
Catherwood Library, Ives Hall, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 14853 607-254-5370 ilrref@comell.edu
Contract Database Metadata Elements (for a glossary of the elements see -http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edU/blscontracts/2/)
Title: Pennsylvania Heavy & Highway Contractors Bargaining Association, Inc. and
United Steelworkers of America (USWA), AFL-CIO-CLC, Locals 15253, 14693 (2001)
K#: 8679
Employer Name: Pennsylvania Heavy & Highway Contractors Bargaining Association, Inc.
Location: PA Harrisburg
Union: United Steelworkers of America (USWA), AFL-CIO-CLC
Local: 15253, 14693
SIC: 1620	NAICS: 23731
Sector: P	Number of Workers: 1700
Effective Date: 04/11/01	Expiration Date: 12/31/03
Number of Pages: 39	Other Years Available: Y
For additional research information and assistance, please visit the Research page of the Catherwood website - http://www.ilr.cornell.edu/library/research/
For additional information on the ILR School, http://www.ilr.cornell.edu/
K tm
AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
PENNSYLVANIA HEAVY AND HIGHWAY CONTRACTORS BARGAINING ASSOCIATION
AND
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA, AFL-CIO-CLC
Expiration Date: December 31, 2003
INDEX
rticle	Page
SCOPE.....................................1
MANAGEMENT................................4
UNION REPRESENTATIVES.....................6
HOURS OF WORK. HOLIDAY AND PREMIUM PAY....7
CALL-IN PAY..............................10
I	HIRING HALL.............................11
11,	GRIEVANCES..............................15
III.	UNION SECURITY AND CHECK-OFF, CREDIT
UNION, USWAPAF...........................18
WAGE SCALE...............................21
HEALTH AND WELFARE.......................22
PENSION PLAN.............................26
I.	APPRENTICE TRAINING AND EDUCATION........29
II.	NON-DISCRIMINATION CLAUSE................30
V.	WAIVER OF RECOURSE TO LEGAL REMEDIES....31
V.	SAFETY..................................31
VI,	FUNERAL LEAVE...........................32
VII.	TERMINATION.............................32
VII	I,	STEEL ERECTION......................33
X.	FRINGE BENEFITS.........................33
3PENDIX -A’..................................37
AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT made and entered into this 1th day of April, 2001, by and between the PENNSYLVANIA HEAVY AND HIGHWAY CONTRACTORS BARGAINING ASSOCIATION, party of he first part,
AND
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA, AFL-CIO-CLC, on behalf of its signatory local unions who are parties to this contract, exclusive collective bargaining agent for those employees of the Company designated in Article I hereafter, hereinafter referred to as the Union, party of the second part.
Wherever the term "Company" appears, such shall be deemed to refer to any of the employer companies represented by the Association party to this Agreement.
WITNESSETH: That in consideration of the mutual and reciprocal promises of the parties hereto, the parties covenant and agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
SCOPE
Section 1.	That this Agreement is for the exclusive, joint use and benefit of the contracting parties, and the provisions herein defined and set forth shall be construed as binding upon and effective in determining the relations between the parties signatory hereto. It is the intent and purpose of the parties herein to promote and improve industrial and economic relationships in the highway and heavy construction industry and to set forth herein the rates of pay, hours of work, and condi
1
tions of employment to be observed by the parti^= hereto.
Section 2.	This Agreement shail not cover th— engineering staff, clerical employees, watchmen, timekeepers, superintendents, assistant superintendents general foremen, foremen, or any other supervisors having the right to hire or fire or effectively recommence same and in charge of classes of labor, but shall cove™ all other persons employed by the contractor in the= performance of the work herein covered.
Section 3.	When the Company, signatory to this Agreement, subcontracts any of its work, covered by this Agreement, it shall, so far as feasible io do so, be subcontracted subject to all terms and conditions of this Agreement to contractors in agreement with the Union. The Company agrees that when it subcontracts any work to contractors who are not members of the Association, the Company will make an effort to discuss membership with the subcontractor. In addition the Company will advise the Union of the name and address of such subcontractor. The Company shail notify the Union when work is subcontracted as soon as the subcontract agreement has been executed by both parties and such notice shall be submitted on a form acceptable to the Company and Union.
The Bargaining Association will publish a list of names, addresses, telephone numbers and work classifications of all members of the Association for distribution to the Union.
Section 4,	This contract shall not apply to any employee of an independent contractor which the Company might hire or engage for constructing, repairing, replacing, remodeling, improving or dismantling any part of the plant or equipment of the Company.
2
Section 5.	it is mutually understood that the following terms and conditions relating to the employment of workers covered by this Agreement have been decided upon by means of collective bargaining and that the following provisions will be binding upon the Company and the Union during the term of this Agreement and any renewal thereof. This Agreement during its life may be modified only by mutual written consent of the parties hereto. The provisions of this Agreement shall be subject to any changes made necessary by reason of Federal and State legislation, regulations or specifications.
Section 6.	This Agreement applies only to heavy and highway construction which shall be deemed to include all types of utility work performed within the States of Pennsylvania, Ohio and New York and on all jobs in those states let by an agency or Department of the United States or one of the above noted states authorized to award contracts; i.e., mine flushing-mine fire control, etc.
Section 7.	Where any of the contractors who are parties to the subject agreement which is geographically limited to the States of Pennsylvania, Ohio and New York, elect to bid for, solicit or enter into contracts for work of the type covered by the subject agreement in the States of Delaware, Maryland, New Jersey, North Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee, Virginia and West Virginia in circumstances where such contractor has no contractual relationship with any organized labor union, the United Steelworkers of America, as a party to the subject Agreement, do hereby consent and approve the contractors in such circumstances covering any of their employees on Delaware - Maryland - New Jersey - North Carolina - South Carolina - Tennessee - Virginia - West Virginia based
3
work with the health and welfare, pension plans and Apprentice Training and Education Funds provided for in the subject agreement so long as coverage for such employees for work in Delaware, Maryland, New Jersey, North Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee, Virginia and West Virginia is subject to the same contributory payments, terms and conditions as to eligibility, benefits, and any other matters as would be applicable in Pennsylvania, Ohio and New York on work in those states by reference to the terms of the subject agreement and the related health and welfare, pension plan and Apprentice Training and Education trust QCjrGsmGnts and collateral uuCurnyriis.
Section 8.	Any and al! references in this Agreement to the masculine gender shall apply equally to the feminine gender.
Section 9.	Workers shall be free to accept employment in any occupational classification which they have the ability and the training to perform, providing there is a vacancy and they shall be paid the scale of wages applicable to the work performed.
ARTICLE II
MANAGEMENT
Section 1.	The management of the work, the direction of the working force, assignment of workers to specific projects and the right to hire and discharge for just cause are vested exclusively in the Company, and the Union shall not abridge this right. It is not the intention of this provision to encourage the discharge of employees.
Section 2.	The number of workers to be employed, and the number and classification of work-
4
ers required to operate any piece of equipment shall be at the sole discretion of the employer. The fact that certain classifications and rates are established does not mean that the employer must employ workers for any one or all such classifications or to man any particular piece of equipment that happens to be on the project unless the employer has need for such workers.
Section 3.	The Company shall not be hindered in or prevented from using any type or quality machinery, tools, and appliances, and may secure materials or equipment from any market or sources it deems fit without interference of any kind. The Company recognizes its obligation to provide a safe working environment in accordance with applicable state and federal safety standards.
Section 4.	Employees in the excluded category (see Article I, Section 2) shall not perform any work normally performed by workers under their supervision, except in cases of operating difficulties, or to instruct workers, or to assure the proper performance of work or work of an experimental nature providing regular employees are not thereby replaced.
A penalty as set forth below will be paid into the Health & Welfare Fund when any excluded employee violates the above and such violation is determined through the grievance procedure. The penalty shall be equivalent to the amount of time which the excluded employee works in violation of the above at the classification's rate of pay. The Health & Welfare Fund shall acknowledge receipt of the payment of the penalty, and the Fund's Administrator shall mail a copy of Fund receipt to Chairman, Union Negotiating Committee, United Steelworkers of America, AFL-CIO-CLC, 1945 Lincoln Highway, North Versailles, PA 15137. However, where a clear determination can be made
5
that a specific person has been deprived of a specifics sum of money by reference to the foregoing, then that | person shall be paid such sum instead of a payment | into the Fund.
। Section 5. All the provisions of this Article shall , be subject to all the other provisions of this Agreement.
ARTICLE Ilf
UNION REPRESENTATIVES
Section 1.	Upon notice at the project site to the representatives of the Company in charge of the project, authorized representatives of the Union may visit any of the jobs covered by this Agreement during working hours, provided that the progress of the work is not interfered with or hindered. Such Union representatives must comply with all safety regulations in effect on the project.
Section 2.	The Union shall have the right to name a steward from among the employees on each project. The steward shall be the last employee laid off provided he/she is fully qualified to perform the remaining work. The steward shall be notified of members being laid off and hired on.
Section 3.	The Union shall have the right to transfer an existing elected steward on a project for a certain company to be steward on a new project for the same company as its steward, provided there is a classification for such an employee on a new project. (Subject to April 11, 2001 Side Letter.)
6
ARTICLE IV
HOURS OF WORK, HOLIDAY AND PREMIUM PAY
Section 1.	The regular work day is intended to consist of eight (8) hours per day. The intention is to work an eight (8) hour day but in no way is this to be construed as a guarantee of either eight (8) hours of work or payment for eight (8) hours of work on any given day. The regular work week for ail employees shall start with the first shift on Monday and shall consist of forty (40) hours which shall be recognized as regular time, and each employee shall be paid for any of these hours he works at the regular rates of pay specified in this Agreement. Hours worked beyond forty (40) in a week shall be paid tor at one and one-half (1 1/2 ) times the regular rate of pay with no pyramiding of overtime. Time and one-half shall be paid for work performed over eight (8) hours per day only as required by the terms of a contract in effect between the contractor and the awarding agency. Time and one-half the regular rate shall be paid for all work performed on Saturday except where, due to conditions on a job arising out of inclement weather, forty (40) hours have not been worked in the week (exclusive of overtime) prior to Saturday. Time worked on Saturday shall be on a straight time basis up to and including the 40th hour. In the event make-up time is to be worked on Saturday, not less than a four (4) hour day shall be scheduled. Double time the regular rate shall be paid for all work performed on the seventh consecutive day of work in the work week whether or not such is required by the terms of a contract in effect between the contractor and the awarding agency.
7
Section 2.	Holidays - Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day and Thanksgiving Day shall be paid holidays, although idle, at eight (8) times the employee's regular hourly rate provided the employee worked his last scheduled work day before and the first scheduled work day after the holiday within the week prior to the holiday, the week of the holiday, or the week after the holiday occurred. Moreover, double time the employee's regular rate shall be paid for all work performed on the following legal holidays: New Year's Day, Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day and Christmas Day. In the case of the aforementioned holidays, they shall be considered, although not worked, as the equivalent of eight (8) hours time worked for the purpose of computing any premium overtime required by law or by contract. If work is performed on Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day or Thanksgiving Day the employee shall be paid his or her regular rate plus the double time referred to above. An employee, upon furnishing a request for the time off during the preceding calendar week, may be granted time off without pay during the first two (2) days of Buck Season and the first day of Doe Season; such days, if not worked, shad not be counted as hours worked for the purpose of computing overtime.
If an employee works during the existing window period prior to Thanksgiving but is prevented from working during the existing window period following Thanksgiving solely because the contractor has not scheduled work, then such employee shall be paid for Thanksgiving.
Section 3.	Absence due to an injury received on the job which is compensable will be counted as time worked for the purpose of computing holiday pay, and
8
in no case will this absence disqualify the employee for holiday pay, provided such absence does not exceed thirty (30) days.
Section 4.	No employee shall be laid off during his or her regular work week for the purpose of avoiding payment of premium time or payment for the seventh (7th) consecutive day worked, Sunday, or paid holidays.
Section 5. For all jobs bid after July 1, 2001, if the operation is put on more than one (1) shift, a premium of thirty-five (35) cents per hour for the second and third shifts shall be added to the regular rate of pay for hours worked on the second and third shifts respectively. The premium payment of thirty-five (35) cents for work performed on the second and third shifts shall be included in the basic hourly rates of all employees entitled to such shift premium for purposes of overtime in this Agreement. (Jobs bid prior to July 1, 2001 - second shift - twenty-five (250) cents; third shift - thirty-five (35p) cents.)
For the purposes of this Agreement, an employee who starts work on or after 12:00 Noon but before 8:00 P.M. shall have his/her working hours considered second-shift hours, and the second-shift premium shall be applicable. For the purposes of this Agreement, an employee who starts work on or after 8:00 P.M. but before 4:00 A.M. shall have his or her working hours considered third-shift hours, and the third-shift premium shall be applicable.
Section 6.	In case an employee is injured on the job, the employee will be paid his/her applicable rate for time spent at the medical treatment site, including travel time, up to a total equal to the employee's regular shift for that day. If the doctor does not return the employee to work that day, the employee shall receive 9
his applicable rate for the balance of his/her regular shift.
Section 7.	A Union official who is prevented from working his or her scheduled day before or after a holiday because of Union business will still be eligible to receive payment for the holiday.
ARTICLE V
CALL-IN PAY
Section 1.	For all jobs bid after July 1, 2001, an employee who has been scheduled or notified to report for work and reports at the proper time shall be paid for one hour (but in no event fess than Twenty-Five ($25) Dollars) at the regular scale of wages and shall be required, in consideration of receiving such call-in pay, to wait a minimum of one hour until it can be determined whether the employee can go to work. (Twenty ($20) Dollars for all jobs bid prior to July 1, 2001). From the time such employee commences work he shall be paid for all actual working time according to the following examples:
(a)	If the employee reports for work and waits for 1/2 hour before commencing work and then works for 71/2 hours, he/she shall be paid for 8 hours.
(b)	If the employee reports for work and waits for 1 hour before commencing work and then works for 7 hours, he/she shall be paid for 8 hours.
If an employee reports for work and starts to work, he/she will be guaranteed two hours' pay; if an employee reports for work and waits for one hour and then starts to work, he/she will be guaranteed two hours' pay; if an employee reports for work and waits for one hour but does not start to work, he/she will be paid for
10
the one-hour waiting period, but in no event less than Twenty ($20) Dollars for jobs bid before July 1, 2001 and no less than Twenty-five ($25) Dollars for jobs bid after July 1, 2001.
Section 2.	At the end of the mandatory one-hour waiting period set forth above, the employer shall either put the employee to work, send him or her home or request the employee to wait for additional time; the employee shall be paid for any additional waiting time requested of him/her by the Company for the length of such waiting period in addition to the initial one hour, but in no event less than Twenty ($20) Dollars for jobs bid before July 1, 2001 and no less than Twenty-five ($25) Dollars for jobs bid after July 1,2001,
ARTICLE VI
HIRING HALL
Section 1.	For the duration of this Agreement, the Union agrees to furnish, upon request by the Employer, workers in numbers sufficient to execute the work contracted for by the Employer in the manner and under the conditions specified in this Agreement. The Employer agrees that all employees required for all work within the scope of this Agreement shall be hired only through the Union.
Section 2.	Each Employer has provided to the Union prior to January 1, 1999 a list of employees who had been regular employees employed by the Employer. The employees on this list are "grandfathered" employees.
Section 3.	For the duration of this Agreement, the Employer shall have the right to request a grandfa-
11
thered employee by name. If any grandfatherec employee is available for work and bypassed by thr Employer on the out-of-work list, that employee will nc longer be considered a grandfathered employee unless the employee is on leave, such as FMLA, disability, or any contractual leave.
Section 4.	Any grandfathered employee who accepts work with another employer will no longer be considered a grandfathered employee if such employee refuses a call from the grandfathering employer.
Section 5.	Each Employer shall have the right to-request an employee or employees by name who worked on a project which had been shut down in whole or in part, provided that the Employer does not bypass said employee or employees when requesting additional referrals to do the work of said employee or employees.
Section 6.	Each Employer shall have the right to request any employee by name who has been on layoff from that Employer for ninety (90) days or less.
Section 7.	Referrals will be on a non-discrimina-tory basis and will not be affected in any way by Union membership, bylaws, rules, regulations, constitutional provisions or other aspects of Union membership, policies or requirements, except to the extent that these may not be in violation of applicable law.
Section 8.	Each Employer shall have the right to reject any applicant referred for employment provided the rejection is not based on any reason identified in Section 12(d) of this Article or to "cherry pick" the list The Union shall have the burden of proving that the purpose was to "cherry pick."
Section 9.	Each Employer shall have the right at any time to lay off any employee for any reason not prohibited by law or identified in Section 12(d) of this
12
Miele, provided, however, if such employee is a grandfathered employee and another employee is hired to take his/her place, said employee will no longer be considered a grandfathered employee (unless the reason the grandfathered employee is off work is not due to FMLA, disability, or any contractual leave.)
Section 10.	The work rules of each individual Employer shall not be affected by this Hiring Hall Agreement. For example, individual Employer rules as to drug testing or safety shall not be affected.
Section 11.	If the Union is unable to fill an Employer's request for employees within forty-eight 48) hours, the Employer shall be free to hire from the outside, provided said employees are hired pursuant to he Union Security and Check-Off Article of this Agreement. In the event of an emergency need for employees, the Employer shall first notify the Union, ind if the Union cannot supply employees in sufficient lumbers on an emergency basis, the Employer shall le free to fill the need on a temporary basis. Such emporary workers shall be replaced by the Employer with employees supplied by the Union.
Section 12.
(a)	If during the term of this Agreement the Labor Management Relations Act of 1947, as amended, shall e further amended to so permit or the decision of a ourt of competent jurisdiction so permits, then the estrictive provisions of this Article, by which the Union nay be required to refer non-members to employment, hall be immediately ineffective.
(b)	The Union agrees that it shall be the sole dministrator of the hiring hall arrangement and shall ot be considered to act as the agent of the Employer, nd, thereby, the Union assumes responsibility for any
violations of the law committed by it in connection with its administration of the hiring hall arrangement.
(c)	The Employer assumes responsibility for any violations of the law committed by the Employer in connection with hiring or severance of employment.
(d)	The parties to this Agreement agree that they will not discriminate against any applicant for employ ment or any employee because of race, creed, color national origin, sex or occupationally irrelevant physi cal requirements or handicaps, age, exercising any rights under the National Labor Relations Act, or Union membership.
(e)	All employees must put their name on the out-of-work list no later than forty-eight (48) hours afte their last day of work with the Employer unless they are on leave such as FMLA, disability, or any contractua leave.
(f)	The Union hereby agrees to indemnify anc hold harmless the Employer from and against any anc all costs, expenses (including attorneys' fees), anc damages that may be incurred in connection with any action, suit, claim or proceeding that may be brough against the Employer which arises from or relates to its obligations or responsibilities set forth in this Article.
Section 13.	At all times, any conflict between this Hiring Hall Agreement and federal or state laws or con tractual requirements shall be resolved in favor of suet requirements.
Section 14.	The Union agrees to provide the Association with copies of all rules, procedures anc policies used by it in administering this Hiring Hal Agreement. Current copies of these documents shal at all times be provided.
Section 15.	At all times the employee must leave with the project bookkeeping department a telephone
14
number and his/her home mailing address at which the employer can immediately contact the employee for the purpose of notifying him or her of available work.
Section 16.	The Company agrees to notify the Local Union Office of the Union having jurisdiction over any of its projects under this Agreement of the following:
(a)	The location of the specific project.
(b)	Job classifications of work available and the number of employees desired for each classification.
(c)	All new jobs. Failure to so notify shall make the employer subject to a penalty payment of $100 into the Health & Welfare Fund. The Health & Welfare Fund shall acknowledge receipt of the payment of the penalty, and the Fund's Administrator shall mail a copy of the Fund receipt to the Union. The above-referenced notification is to be sent to Chairman, Union Negotiating Committee, United Steelworkers of America, AFL-CIO-CLC, 1945 Lincoln Highway, North Versailles, PA 15137.
(d)	The Company shall also notify the Union by telephone of all new projects.
ARTICLE VII
GRIEVANCES
Section 1.	Should differences arise as to the meaning and application of the provisions of this Agreement, or should differences arise about matters not specifically mentioned in this Agreement, or should any local trouble of any kind arise on the project, an earnest effort will be made to settle such differences, immediately in the following manner, during which time there shall be no suspensions, lockouts, interruptions,
15
or impeding of work, concerted work stoppages, strikes or other interferences with efficient production and plant maintenance.
FIRST: Between the aggrieved party who may be accompanied by the Job Steward, if the employee desires his or her presence, and the Company supervisor within seven (7) calendar days from the day the aggrieved party knew or reasonably should have known of the grievance. If this time limit is not met, the grievance shall be deemed to have been waived.
SECOND: Should agreement not be reached between the Job Steward and the Company supervisor, the grievance must be reduced to writing and referred to the staff representatives of the Union or designee and representatives of the Company within ten (10) calendar days from completion of the First Step. The contractor shall respond to second step grievances by reducing their response to writing, after conferring with the Union representative in an attempt to resolve the grievance, within ten (10) calendar days of the receipt of same.
THIRD: Should agreement not be reached in the Second Step, a Union Committee shall be convened by the Union to review the grievance and determine if the grievance shall be processed to the Fourth Step. This Third Step must be completed no later than fifteen (15) days following the Second Step.
FOURTH: Should this procedure fail, the matter shall, within the next thirty (30) days, be jointly and simultaneously reported in writing by either party to the Chairman of the Bargaining Committee for the Association and the Chairman
16
of the Negotiating Committee for the United Steelworkers of America, AFL-CIO-CLC, and these two or their representative nominee shall attempt to resolve the matter.
FIFTH: Should this procedure fail, either party, after notifying the other party of its intention to proceed, shall do so pursuant to the procedures of the American Arbitration Association. The decision of the arbitrator shall be final and binding. The fees and expenses of the arbitrator so selected shall be borne equally by the Company and the Union. This action must take place within fifteen (15) days of the failure to resolve in the Fourth Step.
The failure of either party to meet these time limits specified in the SECOND, THIRD, FOURTH and FIFTH steps shall result in a default. A condition precedent to extending any of these time limits shall be a mutual written agreement of the parties.
The arbitrator shall not have the authority to add to, detract from or otherwise modify the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
Section 2.	A decision reached at any stage of the proceedings above outlined shall be binding upon both parties hereto and shall not be subject to reopening by any other party except by mutual agreement.
Section 3.	On a case-by-case basis, each Employer and the Union may agree upon mediation rather than arbitration of any grievance.
Section 4.	In the event the Union initiates the grievance at the Second Step rather than the First Step, the written grievance shall be filed with the contractor within seven (7) calendar days from the day the aggrieved party knew or reasonably should have known of the grievance.
17
ARTICLE VIII
UNION SECURITY AND CHECK-OFF, CREDIT UNION, USWA PAF
Section 1. It shall be a condition of employment that all employees of the employer covered by this Agreement who are members of the Union in good standing on the effective or execution date of this Agreement, whichever is the later, shall remain members in good standing, and those who are not members on the effective or execution date of this Agreement, whichever is later, shall on the eighth (6ih) day following the effective or execution date of this Agreement, whichever is the later, become and remain members in good standing in the Union. It shall also be a condition of employment that all employees covered by this Agreement and hired on or after this effective or execution date, whichever is the later, shall on the eighth (8th) day following the beginning of such employment become and remain members in good standing in the Union.
Section 2.(a) The membership dues, including initiation fees and assessments of United Steelworkers of America, AFL-CIO-CLC, as authorized and approved by the International Officers of the Union shall be checked off the wages of such employees as file proper assignments with the Company to United Steelworkers of America, AFL-CIO-CLC, c/o International Treasurer-Secretary, Five Gateway Center, Pittsburgh, PA 15222. In the case of the Union's prescribed initiation fee, the employer shall deduct fifty percent (50%) during the first week of employment and fifty percent (50%) during the second week of employment.
18
In addition, each employer shall send two copies f its monthly dues check-off report to the Union at the blowing address: one to United Steelworkers of America, 1945 Lincoln Highway, North Versailles, PA 5137, and the other to the local union that has juris-liction over the project where the work is being per-jrmed.
Section 2.(b) Each Employer shall, by payroll leduction, deliver and pay over to the local Union an imount of not less than ten cents (10d) for all hours vorked during the previous calendar month by all per-.ons employed in the bargaining unit. Such payment >ha1l be made by each Employer to the local Union office having jurisdiction on or before the tenth (1 oth) lay of the month covering all such hours for all pay periods in the previous calendar month.
Section 3.	Such remittance shall be accompa-iled by an itemized statement showing the name of sach employee and the amount checked off for dues, nitiation fees or assessment, together with a list of employees from whom dues, initiation fees or assessments have not been collected.
Section 4.	In the event of an overcharge for dues jr assessments collected by the Company, the Union shall be responsible for adjustment of such claim with he member. In the event of an undercharge and upon jroper notification by the Union, the Company shall make further deduction for this purpose on the next succeeding payday.
Section 5.	Pursuant to the rules and regulations jf the United Steelworkers of America, AFL-CIO-CLC, io assessments may be levied by any focal Union igainst its members without the approval of the nternational officers of the Union.
19
Section 6.	The Company shall deduct, on behen of the employee, credit union contributions in the cas-of any employee who supplies to his or her employe an individual signed authorization in support of sue deduction. Each individual employee's contributio shall be uniform for any calendar year and not subjet to change during such year.
Section 7.	The Company shall deduct on beha of the employee, USWA PAF voluntary contributionbased upon forms supplied by the Union.
Section 7(a). The signing of such USWA PAF check-off form and the making of such voluntary con tributions are not conditions of membership in thu Union or of employment with the Employer.
Section 7(b). The Union shall indemnify, defenc and hold the Employer harmless against any and al claims, demands, suits or other forms of liability tha shall arise out of or by reason of action taken or no taken by the Employer for the purpose of complying with any of the provisions of this Article.
Section 7(c). The United Steelworkers o America Political Action Fund supports various candi dates for federal and other elective office, is connected with the United Steelworkers of America, a labo organization, and solicits and accepts only voluntary contributions, which are deposited in an account sepa rate and segregated from the dues fund of the Union in its own fund-raising efforts and in joint fund raising efforts with the AFL-CIO and its Committee on Politics Education.
20
ARTICLE IX
WAGE SCALE
Section 1.	On any heavy and highway work shere minimum wage rates are predetermined by the Jnited States or Pennsylvania Department ot Labor uch wage rates shall prevail on such work.
Section 2.	Wage rates in effect at the advertising late ot a specific project writ establish the wage scale or the entire duration of that project regardless of the ermination date of this Agreement and are not to be >ubject to renegotiation for the duration of that project.
Section 3.	For all projects on which rates have lot been predetermined by either the Commonwealth if Pennsylvania or an agency of the United States government and which involve highway maintenance and purchase orders let by PennDOT, Counties, Townships and Municipalities within the Commonwealth, and utility work, the rates applicable on such work shall be the rates set forth in the Second Tier Wage Schedule.
Section 4.	Any employee assigned to work on a project covered by second tier wage rates shall be free o refuse the work assignment if the work assignment s located outside a seventy-five (75) mile radius from he home of the employee.
Section 5.	Effective on jobs bid after July 1,2001, second tier wage rates shall be increased as follows:
Group(s) I	2001	1/1/2002	1/1/2003
1,2, 3 and 6	3%	3.5%	4%
4, 5 and 7	2%	2%	2%
8	|	1%	2%	3%
21
I
For second tier wages only, there shall be a fk— person rate of One ($1.00) Dollar below the laborer.
ARTICLE X
HEALTH AND WELFARE
Section 1.	The Association shall continue t maintain, during the life of this Agreement, a Welfar Fund to be known and designated as the "UniteSteelworkers of America District 10 and Pennsylvania Heavy & Highway Contractors Welfare Fund." It sha be the dutv of the Trustees, comprised of members o the Union and the Company, to administer the sale Welfare Fund and to promulgate such rules and regu lations as may be necessary for the efficient adminis tration of said Welfare Fund, all in accordance with anc not inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement The purpose of the said Welfare Fund shall be tc secure and provide certain insurance benefits as here inafter set forth for the employees of the Company represented by the Union, together with their dependents The liability of each Company to make the prescribed health and welfare contributions shall be several and not joint.
Section 2.	Each Company represented by the Association shall deliver and pay over to the Administrator of the said Welfare Fund such amount as may from time to time be determined by the Trustees, on all hours actually worked during the previous calendar months by all persons employed in the bargaining unit as provided in this Agreement. Ai! such payments shall be made by each such company to the said Welfare Fund on or before the tenth (10th) day of the month covering all such hours for all pay periods in the
22
previous calendar month provided after a 30-day grace jeriod, if the reports and payments are not then in, the delinquent contractors should be subject to a penalty jf 3% of that amount that is delinquent and an addi-:ional 3% for each succeeding 30 days of delinquency. For the purposes of this Section, "hours actually worked" shall include compensable holiday time.
Section 2(a). Each Company represented by the Association as well as affiliate members of the Association shall have the option at its plan year end or the calendar year to participate in the Health and Welfare Fund for the balance of the contract term for its employees who are not in the bargaining unit. Such participation shall be on the basis of forty (40) hours per week times the then current hourly contribution rate for bargaining unit employees.
Section 3.	A new employee, as defined herein, shall become eligible in accordance with policies determined by the Trustees for the health and welfare benefits herein provided when he/she has worked for any company covered by this or a prior agreement in each of four (4) prior consecutive months for seventy-five (75) hours in each of such months. Failure to work seventy-five (75) hours in a month will be considered a layoff month for benefit eligibility purposes for that month. However, any employee hereunder who is currently qualified for group health and welfare benefits under an existing or prior statewide collective bargaining agreement in the construction industry in another state to which the United Steelworkers of America, AFL-CIO-CLC, is a party, shall be qualified for group health and welfare benefits under this Agreement. An employee shall be considered eligible under the foregoing even though he/she has worked for more than one company. An employee's eligibility period shall not
23
be considered interrupted if his or her absence fror work for the above-prescribed time was due to a con™ pensable accident or disease, or due to an accident c-sickness for which he/she received insurance benefits under the said Welfare Fund as herein provided.
Section 4.	The Union and the Association shall pro vide through the agency of the said Welfare Fund for al eligible employees, and their dependents, a schedule o_ I	health and welfare benefits. It is further agreed that eacl~
।	employee who has complied with the eligibility require-
ments of the benefit plan will receive during a layoff period such free coverage for the employee and his or her 1 family as is provided by the benefit plan al Irie time of the layoff. During the layoff period, the employee does not have coverage for Accidental Death and Dismemberment nor for Weekly Benefits (in such amount as is determined from time to time by the Trustees). The rest of the benefit plan remains in effect for the employee and his or her dependents. An employee on layoff may be permitted to elect at his or her own expense to continue his/her coverage for an additional eighteen (18) months provided he/she remains unemployed that long.
It is further agreed that the Summary Plan Description providing for the benefits outlined above shall contain the usual and customary provision normally issued by an insurance carrier for such benefits.
Section 5.	The Trustees shall be ordered to provide the Union each month during the life of this Agreement, with a list of Employees together with the amounts paid into the Fund for each employee by employing companies, who are covered by the said health and welfare benefits during the month, together with a list of employees who have been paid benefits and the amount received by each such employee during that month.
24
Section 6.	The Trustees shall be ordered to furnish to the Union, as of June 30th and December 31 st of each year, a financial statement of the said Welfare Fund including receipts and disbursements and such pertinent information necessary to reveal the operations and conditions of the said Welfare Fund.
Section 7.	On or about March 1st of each calendar year, the Trustees of the aforesaid Welfare Fund shall review the operation of the said Fund and plan to determine what, if any, changes in eligibility, benefits or other Plan features are justified; any lack ot agreement as the result of such meeting shall not otherwise affect the status of this contract.
Section 8.	The Health and Welfare provisions of this Agreement apply to all heavy and highway construction work, including all types of utility work performed by all contractors bound by this Agreement in the states of Delaware, Maryland, New Jersey, New York, North Carolina, Ohio, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, Tennessee, Virginia and West Virginia and any other state in which such contractors may perform work covered by this Agreement. The above also applies on all jobs in the States of Pennsylvania, Ohio and New York let by any agency of the United States or Pennsylvania, Ohio or New York Departments authorized to award contracts, i.e., mine flushingmine-fire control, etc.
Section 9.	The employee and/or the employee’s dependents shall promptly notify the plan administrators of any change in home mailing address and/or change in dependent eligibility. The plan administrator may be contacted at the following address; United Steelworkers of America, District 10 and Pennsylvania Heavy & Highway Contractors Bargaining Association Welfare Fund, c/b GEMGroup, 1200 Three Gateway
25
Center, Pittsburgh, PA 15222, telephone 1-800-242 8923.
Section 10.	The parties agree that any contract tor who performs work within the scope of thi= Agreement may participate in its benefit funds provid ed such contractor is a member of the Association ancz fully complies with the entire collective bargaining agreement. The parties further agree that employers who perform work outside the scope of this Agreement may participate in its benefit funds provided such employer becomes an affiliate member of the Association and is in signed relations with a local union which is a party to this collective bargaining agreement.
ARTICLE XI
PENSION PLAN
Section 1.	Pension Plan to be known and designated as the "United Steelworkers of America, District 10 and Pennsylvania Heavy & Highway Contractors Bargaining Association Pension Trust Fund and Plan” and the Trustees of a Trust created pursuant hereto shall be maintained during the life of this Agreement. It shall be the duty of the said Trustees, comprised of members of the Union and the Company, to administer the said Pension Plan and to promulgate such rules and regulations as may be necessary for the efficient administration of said Pension Plan, all in accordance with and not inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement and the requirements of the Employees Retirement income Security Act of 1974. The purposes of the said Pension Plan shall be to secure and provide certain pension benefits. The liability of each
26
ompany io make the prescribed pension contribu-ons shall be several and not joint.
Section 2.	Each Company represented by the ssociation shall deliver and pay over to the adminis-ator selected by the Trustees such amount as may om time to time be determined by the Trustees on all ours worked during the previous calendar months by .11 persons employed in the bargaining unit as provided by this Agreement. All such payments shall be nade by such company to the said administrator on or >efore the tenth (10th) day of the month covering all iuch hours for all pay periods in the previous calendar nonth provided after a 30-day grace period, if the eports and payments are not then in, the delinquent contractors should be subject to a penalty of 3% of that imount that is delinquent and an additional 3% for sach succeeding thirty (30) days of delinquency. For he purposes of this Section, "hours actually worked” shall include compensable holiday time.
Section 3.	The Trustees shall be ordered to provide the Union, each month during the life of this Agreement, with a list of employees, together with the amount paid into the Fund for each employee by employing companies who are covered by the said Pension Plan during the month.
Section 4.	The Trustees shall be ordered to furnish to the Union, as of June 30 of each year, a financial statement of the said Pension Trust showing all pertinent information as is necessary to reveal the operations and conditions of the said Pension Trust for the prior calendar year.
Section 5.	On or about March 1 st of each calendar year, the Trustees of the aforesaid Pension Trust shall review the operation of the said Fund and Plan to determine what, if any, changes in Plan features are 27
justified; and lack of agreement as the result of su-meeting shall not otherwise affect the status of th contract.
Section 6.	The Pension Plan provisions of th Agreement apply to all heavy and highway constri-tion work including all types of utility work performed I all contractors bound by this Agreement in the states Delaware, Maryland, New Jersey, New York, Nor Carolina, Ohio, Pennsylvania, South Carolin Tennessee, Virginia and West Virginia and any oth« state in which such contractors may perform work co-ered by this Agreement. The above also applies on r jobs in the States of Pennsylvania, Ohio and New Yor let by any agency of the United States c Pennsylvania, Ohio or New York Departments autho ized to award contracts, i.e., mine flushing-mine-fir control, etc.
Section 7.	The employee and/or the employee dependents shall promptly notify the plan administra tors of any change in home mailing address and/o change in dependent eligibility. The plan administrate may be contacted at the following address: Unite Steelworkers of America, District 10, Pennsylvanr Heavy & Highway Contractors Bargaining Associatio Pension Trust Fund, c/o GEMGroup, 1200 Thre Gateway Center, Pittsburgh, PA 15222, telephone 1 800-242-8923.
28
ARTICLE XII
APPRENTICE TRAINING AND EDUCATION
Section 1.	Each contractor shall deliver and pay ver to the Administrator of the Apprentice Training and ducation Fund such amount as may from time to time e determined by the Trustees on ail hours worked uring the previous calendar month by all persons mployed in the bargaining unit as provided in this greement. All such payments shall be made by such ompany to the said administrator on or before the ?nth (10th) day of the month covering all such hours ir all pay periods in the previous calendar month pro-ided after a 30-day grace period, if the reports and iayments are not then in, the delinquent contractors hould be subject to a penalty of 3% of that amount lat is delinquent and an additional 3% for each suc-eeding thirty (30) days of delinquency. For the pur >oses of this Section, "hours actually worked” shall nclude compensable holiday time.
Section 2,	The Trustees shall be ordered to proide the Union, each month during the life of this Agreement, with a list of employees, together with the mount paid into the Fund for each employee by mploying companies who are covered by the said Apprentice Training and Education Fund during the nonth.
Section 3.	The Trustees shall be ordered to fur-ish to the Union, as of June 30 of each year, a finan-lal statement of the said Apprentice Training and Education Fund showing all pertinent information as is ecessary to reveal the operations and conditions of ne said Apprentice Training and Education Fund for he prior calendar year.
29
Section 4.	On or about March 1st of each cate dar year, the Trustees of the aforesaid Apprentic Training and Education Fund shall review together tt operation of the said Fund and Plan to determine wht= if any, changes in Plan features are justified; and lac of agreement as the result of such meeting shall nc otherwise affect the status of this contract.
Section 5.	The Apprentice Training an Education Fund provisions of this Agreement apply t all heavy and highway construction work including a types of utility work performed by all contractors boun by this Agreement in the states of Delaware, Marylanc New Jersey, New York, North Carolina, Ohic Pennsylvania, South Carolina, Tennessee, Virgin! and West Virginia and any other state in which sue contractors may perform work covered by thi Agreement. The above also applies on all jobs in th States of Pennsylvania, Ohio and New York let by an agency of the United States or Pennsylvania, Ohio o New York Departments authorized to award contracts i.e., mine flushing-mine-fire control, etc.
ARTICLE XIII
NON-DISCRIMINATION CLAUSE
Section 1. The Union and the Company agree that they will not discriminate against any employee because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin age, or because of a physical or mental handicap membership or non-membership in the Union.
30
ARTICLE XIV
WAIVER OF RECOURSE TO LEGAL REMEDIES
Section 1. In further consideration ot the mutual romises contained herein, the parties hereto express-■ agree that neither party shall bring or cause to be rought any court or other legal or administrative ction against the other until the dispute, claim or rievance or complaint shall have been brought to the Mention of the party against whom it shall be made nd the said party, after actual notice of same, shall fail i/ithin a reasonable time to take steps to correct the ause or circumstances giving rise to such dispute, ;laim, grievance or complaint.
ARTICLE XV
SAFETY
Section 1.	The parties hereto shall establish a oint (three representatives from each party) Safety Committee to evaluate all present and future standards and guidelines for on-the-job safety in the heavy and Highway industry as may from time to time be promulgated by Federal, State or Insurance Industry representatives. When the Committee unanimously adopts certain safety standards, it shall recommend to all contactors covered by this contract that they adopt such ecommendations within sixty (60) days thereafter.
Section 2.	The parties agree that the Union shall oe entitled to designate a qualified safety person on aach project to voice Union concern over safety on the oroject.
31
ARTICLE XVI
FUNERAL LEAVE
Section 1. Each and every eligible member of tl bargaining unit shall be entitled to two days of funer leave per calendar year computed at eight times his = her regular hourly rate for each day but funeral lea\-shali not be considered as time worked for the purpos of computing any premium overtime due by law or t= contract provisions. This leave cannot be accrue from year to year and will be confined to the member of the immediate family consisting ol trie foilowinc husband/wife, son/daughter, step-son/step-daughte brother/sister, father/mother, grandfather/grandmothe-The Employer shall have the right to request verifica tion of the death.
ARTICLE XVII
TERMINATION
Section 1.	This Agreement becomes effective ar of its ratification by the Union and will continue up tc and including December 31,2003, but either party may serve written notice on the other party between October 1 and November 1, 2003 that it desires tc reopen the contract as to any subjects and the failure to furnish any such written notice shall cause the terms and provisions of this contract automatically to go into effect for another year subject to all the same terms and provisions including this Article on termination.
Section 2.	This Agreement has been negotiatec by the duly designated Pennsylvania Heavy 8 Highway Contractors Bargaining Association repre
32
nting the companies, and by a duly designated jgotiating Committee representing United eelworkers of America, AFL-CIO-CLC and is hereby ecuted by the proper designated representatives of e Bargaining Association and by a representative of nited Steelworkers of America, AFL-CIO-CLC.
ARTICLE XVIII
STEEL ERECTION
All steel erection rates must be negotiated individ-illy for each contract and include health and welfare rnefits.
ARTICLE XIX
FRINGE BENEFITS
Section 1.	Contributions to be made to the ministrator of the Health and Welfare Fund and the snsion Fund as provided above.
Section 2.	Effective with bids or jobs awarded er July 1, 2001, on prevailing wage jobs, each con-ctor shall participate in the Pennsylvania Heavy and ghway Contractors Savings Plan which was proved by the Internal Revenue Service in June, 90. On each job where the prevailing fringes have ty (50c) cents or more available after deducting the SWA fringes on this Agreement, the contractor shall duct fifty (50©) cents per hour and pay it into the wings Plan. Deductions in excess of fifty (50c) cents r hour are optional to "grandfathered" contractors jrandfathered" contractors are identified as: jshaminy Constructors, Ahem and Associates, JVC
33
Contracting, Crossing Construction, Color Construction and G.A. & F.C. Wagman, Inc.) on a jc by-job basis and each grandfathered contractor m elect the amount of participation above fifty (50c) cer up to the maximum allowed by law. As of July 1,20C all expenses of the Savings Plan (administrative, ac arial, accounting, legal, etc.) shall be paid from t assets of the Plan and there shall be no per cap charge.
In addition, the contractor(s) and the Union m "pinpoint" a particular project prior to the submission bids for deductions greater than fifty (500) cents for t purpose of making the contractors) more conipeiiliv The Union agrees that if the majority of employees a particular contractor agree to allow greater than fi (50e) cents on all appropriate jobs, the contractor sh be entitled to make greater deductions (in excess fifty (500) cents) on all appropriate jobs bid after th date.
IN WITNESS AND TESTIMONY of the provisio and terms mutually agreed upon and specified here the duly authorized officers and/or representatives the parties hereby affix their signatures the day a year above.
On Behalf of:
PENNSYLVANIA HEAVY & HIGHWAY CONTRA
TORS BARGAINING ASSOCIATION
E Anthony Canuso, President, PHHCBA and Chair, PHHCBA Negotiating Committee
34
71 Behalf of:
NFTED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA, AFL-CIO-CLC
ndrew Palm	Director, District 10
homas D. Jones	Chairman, Union Negotiating Committee
lalph Lippart	Secretary, Union Negotiating Committee
Javid R. Wolfe	Staff Representative Local 14693
dark A. Cummings	President Local 14693
ohn David	Negotiating Committee Local 14693
Javid Zimmer	Negotiating Committee Local 14693
dike McBride	President Local 15253
Chuck Powell	Negotiating Committee Local 15253
35
APPROVED:
Leo W. Gerard	International President
Richard Davis	International Vice President (Administration)
Leon Lynch	International Vice President (Human Affairs)
Jim English	International Secretary - Treasurer
36
APPENDIX "A
GROUP 1	GROUP 2	GROUP 3	GROUP 4
Allegheny	Armstrong Beaver Blair Butter Cambria Fayette Indiana Lawrence Washington Westmoreland	Erie Mercer	Crawford McKean Somerset Venango Warren
GROUP 5	GROUP 6	GROUP 7	GROUP 8
Cameron Clarion Clearfield Elk Forest Greene Jefferson	Bucks Chester Delaware Montgomery Philadelphia	Adams Bedford Berks Bradford Centre Clinton Columbia Cumbertand Dauphin Franklin Fulton Huntingdon Juniata Lancaster Lebanon Lycoming Mifflin Montour Northumberland Perry Potter Snyder Sullivan Susquehanna Tioga Union Wayne York	Cartjon Lackawanna Lehigh Luzerne Monroe Northampton Pike Schuylkill Wyoming
37