k mt
AGREEMENT FOR RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION DATED MAY 1,1999
between
MECHANICAL CONTRACTORS ASSOCIATION OF EASTERN PENNSYLVANIA, INC.
PLUMBERS LOCAL UNION NO. 690
UNITED ASSOCIATION OF JOURNEYMEN AND APPRENTICES OF THE PLUMBING AND PIPE FITTING INDUSTRY OF THE UNITED STATES AND CANADA

COVERING BERKS, BUCKS, CHESTER, DELAWARE, LEHIGH, MONTGOMERY, NORTHAMPTON AND PARTS OF CARBON AND LEBANON COUNTIES
EFFECTIVE
MAY 1,1999 UNTIL APRIL 30,2003
<7
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ARTICLE I	 SECTION 1	- Tenn of Agreement SECTION 2	- Geographic Jurisdiction SECTION 3	- Work Covered	.. Page 1	ARTICLE XI	 SECTION 1	- Limitations on Use of industry Fund's Assets SECTION 2	- Purposes of Industry Fund SECTION 3	- Employer and Employee Interest in Fund	
ARTICLED	Page	1 SECTION 1	- Regular Days and Hours of Work SECTION 2	- Overtime SECTION 3	- Shift Work SECTION 4	- Four Tens SECTION 5	- Reporting Pay SECTION 6	- Maintenance. Repair Work and Emergency Breakdowns ARTICLE III	Page	2 SECTION I	- Straight Time Rates of Pay SECTION 2	- Foremen's Rates of Pay SECTION 3	- Apprentices' Rates of Pay SECTION 4	- Apprentice Training Program SECTION 5	- Pay for Travel Time SECTION 6	- Time for Paying Wages SECTION 7	- Transportation Expenses ARTICLE IV	:	Page	3 SECTION I	- Efficiency of Operations SECTION 2	- Apprentices SECTION 3	- Safety; Tools and Equipment ARTICLE V	Page 4 Change Room ARTICLE VI	Page	4 SECTION 1	- Fabrication of Pipe - Tools SECTION 2	- Pipe Two Inches (2") and Under SECTION 3	- Responsibility for Work SECTION 4	- Subletting of Work SECTION 5	- Supplies		ARTICLE XII	Page	8 Bonds to Assure Payments ARTICLE XIII	-	Page	8 Employees’ Use of Vehicles ARTICLE XIV	Page	8 SECTION 1	- Promotion of Better Workmanship SECTION 2	- Conference Committee SECTION 3	- Committee to Study Ways of Increasing Employment ARTICLE XV	Page	9 Shop Steward ARTICLE XVI	Page	9 Connection to Pipe. Fixture or Appliance ARTICLEXVII	  Page	9 SECTION 1	- Sources of Employees Other Than Apprentices SECTION 2	- Job Referrals, Classification of Employees, and Order of Preference SECTION 3	- Registration with Local Union Required SECTION 4	- Order of Referral SECTION 5	- Registrant’s Right to Refuse Referrals SECTION 6	- Referred Employees Working Less Than Thirty Days SECTION 7	- Applicants Who Cannot Be Reached SECTION 8	- No Discrimination in Referrals SECTION 9	- Posting Copies of This Article SECTION 10	- Union Sole Administrator ARTICLEXVI1I	Page	10 Affirmative Action Program	
ARTICLE VII	Page	5 SECTION 1	- Who May Use Tools SECTION 2	- Safeguarding Work of Employees SECTION 3	- Work Preservation ARTICLE VIII	Page	5 SECTION 1	- Union Membership SECTION 2	- Local Union Autonomy SECTION 3	- Union’s Rights of Visitation ARTICLE IX	Page	5 SECTION 1	- Employer Payments for Fringe Benefits SECTION 2	■ Dues Check-Off Authorization SECTION .3 - Plumbers Local Union 690 Political Action Plan and Plumbers Local Union 690 Social Plan SECTION 4	- Due Dates of Payments and Reports SECTION 5	- Delinquency in Making Payment or Report SECTION 6	- Administration of Plans		ARTICLE XIX	 Drug-Free Work Place Rules ARTICLE XX	 “Most Favored Nation Clause” ARTICLE XXI	 Compliance with Existing Laws ARTICLE XXII	 Memoranda of Agreement ARTICLE XXIII	 SECTION 1	- Adjustment and Arbitration of Disputes SECTION 2	- Meetings of the Board SECTION 3	- No Strikes or Lockouts	. Page 10 ■ Page 10 . Page 10 Page 10 .Page 10
ARTICLE X	 SECTION I - Rules Governing Apprenticeship and Training SECTION 2	* Powers of Apprenticeship Committee SECTION 3	- Actions of Apprenticeship Committee Not Subject to Arbitration	Page 7	LIST OF APPENDICES APPENDIX A - Memorandum of Agreement..,	 APPENDIX B - Memorandum of Agreement		Page 13 Page 15
THIS AGREEMENT FOR RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION, made and effective this 1st day of May, 1999, and amended and restated effective this 1st day of May, 1999 by and between MECHANICAL CONTRACTORS ASSOCIATION OF EASTERN PENNSYLVANIA, INC. (hereinafter called “EMPLOYERS’ ASSOCIATION”), party of the first part, and LOCAL UNION NO. 690 of the UNITED ASSOCIATION OF JOURNEYMEN AND APPRENTICES OF THE PLUMBING AND PIPE FITTING INDUSTRY OF THE UNITED STATES AND CANADA (hereinaftercalled “LOCAL UNION”), party of the second part, for the purpose of securing at all times a sufficiency of skilled journeymen at fair wage rales, thereby preventing waste and unnecessary expense, annoyance, or delay and for the advancement of the interests of EMPLOYERS’ ASSOCIATION and LOCAL UNION.
WITNESSETH:
ARTICLE I
SECTION 1
Term of Agreement
This Agreement, as amended and restated, shall remain in full force and effect from May 1, 1999 until April 30, 2003, and shall be automatically renewed from year to year thereafter unless either party shall give notice in writing to the other party not less than one hundred and twenty (120) days before the expiration of the term hereof, or the expiration of any such yearly extension of the terms hereof, of intention to terminate this Agreement or to request changes in the terms and conditions hereof. The basic changes requested shall be set forth in said written notice.
SECTION 2
Geographic Jurisdiction
The territorial jurisdiction of LOCAL UNION for the purposes of this Agreement shall be Berks, Bucks, Chester, Delaware, Lehigh, Montgomery, Northampton and parts of Carbon and Lebanon Counties.
SECTION 3
Work Covered
(a)	In all areas with the exception of Philadelphia - Single and two-family dwellings, and walk-up apartment projects.
(b)	In all areas - Site work piping of all types located beyond ten (10) feet from the building line.
(c)	Work covered under the provisions of the Memorandum of Agreement dated May 1, 1999.
(d)	Work considered by the Employer or by the Union to be not fully defined within this Section shall be referred to the Union and the Association for mutual determination. Prevailing wage-rate jobs are excluded.
ARTICLE fl
SECTION 1
Regular Days and Hours of Work
Eight (8) hours shall constitute a day’s work, Monday to Friday, inclusive. However, no journeymen plumbers and apprentices shall work or be permitted to work in excess of forty (40) hours in any one (I) week, or eight (8) hours in any twenty-four (24) hour period, except in an emergency wherein lives or property are in danger. No journeymen plumbers and apprentices will be permitted to make in excess of forty (40) hours in any one (1) week while other journeymen plumbers and apprentices are unemployed. By mutual consent of the Employer and the Union, the starting and quitting time of a normal established work day of eight (8) hours may be set or changed for any or all employees between the hours of 7:00 A.M. and 4:30 P.M. on any given project. During the regular work period, the Employees shall be granted an unpaid lunch period of thirty (30) minutes - time by mutual agreement between Employer and Union.
SECTION 2
Overtime
All work performed in excess of the eight (8) hour workday, Monday through Friday, any work performed by Employees between 4:30 P.M. and 7:00 A.M. and between 12:00 Noon and 12:30 P.M., except as hereinafter provided, and any work performed on Saturday, Sunday, New Year’s Day, Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day and Christmas Day (for purposes of this Agreement when any one of the aforementioned holidays falls on Sunday, the following Monday shall be observed as the holiday) shall be paid for at the rate of one and one-half (1 !6x) the straight time rate commencing at the time the Employees report for work by direction of Employer, excluding shift work, which is covered by ARTICLE II, Section 3 and maintenance work covered by ARTICLE II, Section 6. Employees shall be allowed sufficient time before quitting time for collection of tools and equipment and for putting them away.
If men are unable to work one (1) or more days during the work week due to weather, then and in that event, eight (8) hours of continuous work between the hours of 7:00 A.M. and 4:30 P.M, on Saturday may be worked at the straight time rate.
On special occasions or emergencies when a hoist or rig is available for use by the Employer only during the normal lunch period, then at the option of the Employer, those Employees whose services may be needed in connection with the use of the hoist or rig may be required to work between 12:00 Noon and 12:30 P.M., with pay at the straight time rate, if such Employees are granted a lunch period immediately before or after the regularly scheduled lunch period.
SECTION 3
Shift Work
In order to be considered as shift work, work must be performed by Employees on at least two (2) consecutive eight (8) hour shifts within one (1) day. Shifts shall be from 12:00 midnight to 8:00 A.M., 8:00 A.M. to 4:00 P.M, and 4:00 P.M. to 12:00 midnight. Shift work must run for a minimum of one hundred twenty (120) hours when three (3) shifts are worked, and eighty (80) hours when two (2) shifts are worked.
1
However, shift work shall not apply to Saturday, Sunday, or holidays, which shall be at one and one-half times (I !6x) the straight time rate. Shift work will he paid for at the rate of straight time plus fifteen percent (15%) of the straight time rate of hourly pay except the shift between 8:00 A.M. to 4:00 P.M.. which shall be paid for at straight time.
Single Shift Off Norma) Hours
In existing facilities, and when requested by the customer, the Employer, with the consent of the Union, which shall not be unreasonably withheld, may elect to work a single "nonstandard” working hour shift, for a minimum of five (5) consecutive work days, and for the entire project, to be paid for at the rate of straight time plus fifteen percent (15%), The shift may be worked wholly or partially outside of the normal 7:00 A.M. thru 4:30 P.M. work hours.
Eight Hours Work for Eight Hours Pay
There are no paid lunch periods except when working three (3) consecutive shifts within one twenty-four(24) hour day. When working three (3) shifts, the shift will consist of seven and one-half (716) hours worked and one-half (16) hour for lunch, for eight (8) hours pay.
SECTION 4
Four Tens
In lieu of the traditional five (5) day, eight (8) hour per day work week, the Employer, with the consent of the Union, which shall not be unreasonably withheld, may elect to work a four (4) day, ten (10) hour per day work week. The work week will commence on Monday unless otherwise agreed upon. The first two (2) hours worked in excess of ten (10) will be paid for at the rate of time plus one-half (l!6x) and all hours thereafter will be paid for at the rate of double time (2x), The first ten (10) hours worked on Friday and Saturday will be paid for at the rate of time plus one-half (I '/ix) and all hours thereafter will be paid for at the rate of double time (2x). All hours worked on Sundays and holidays will be paid for at the rate of double time (2x).
It is the intention of this agreement to provide competitive opportunities for the industry without eroding the traditional five (5) day work week.
SECTION 5
Reporting Pay
(a)	Any journeyman plumber reporting to work at the regular starting time shall receive two (2) hours pay al the prevailing rate of wages unless he has been notified previously not to report to work.
(b)	Any journeyman plumber who reports to work and for whom work is provided shall receive no less than four (4) hours pay, and if more than four (4) hours are worked in any one (I) day and no further work is provided, he shall be paid for not less than eight (8) hours worked.
(c)	However, on any day where rain, snow, or inclement weather at the job site does not permit the job to progress satisfactorily, the journeyman plumber shall be paid for all time worked, but in no event shall he be paid less than a minimum of two (2) hours. unless the journeyman plumber has been directed not to report for work. It is the joint understanding of the parties hereto that the meaning of this clause, that is. Section 5(c) immediately preceding, is as follows:
(1)	If a journeyman plumber reports to work on any day and he is put to work by the Employer, and the weather conditions do not change appreciably for the worse within the two (2) hours from starting time, then he shall be entitled to continue to work and be paid for the time worked, but not less than four (4) hours.
(2)	[fa journeyman plumber reports to work on any day and he is put to work by the Employer, and the weather conditions do change appreciably for the worse within two (2) hours from the starting time, then he shall be paid for the time worked, but no less than two (2) hours. If under these conditions, the journeyman plumber is not notified to discontinue work within said two (2) hours then he shall be paid for four (4) hours.
SECTION 6
Maintenance, Repair Work and Emergency Breakdowns
It is agreed that maintenance, repair work and emergency breakdowns are defined to mean repairs to or the replacement of all or any part of work which is under the jurisdiction of LOCAL UNION in existing buildings presently in use, but shall not include new buildings under construction, or renovation of, or additions to existing buildings. The rate of pay for overtime and work on Saturday, Sunday, and holidays as defined in Section 2 of this ARTICLE I! for the work defined above shall be one and one-half times (l!6x) the hourly rate.
ARTICLE III
SECTION 1
Straight Time Rates of Pay
Commencing May 1, 1999, straight time for journeymen plumbers shall be paid at the rate of Nineteen Dollars and Forty-Five Cents ($19.45).
Commencing May 1, 2000, the journeyman plumber’s hourly rate shall be increased by Ninety Cents ($.90). The Union shall have the option of applying such increase or portions of such increase to fringe benefits.
Commencing May 1, 2001, the journeyman plumber’s hourly rate shall be increased by Eighty Cents ($.80). The Union shall have the option of applying such increase or portions of such increase to fringe benefits.
Commencing May 1, 2002, the journeyman plumber’s hourly rate shall be increased by Eighty Cents ($.80). The Union shall have the option of applying such increase or portions of such increase to fringe benefits.
SECTION 2
Foremen’s Rates of Pay
(a)	On construction jobs or operations where at least two (2) and no more than five (5) journeymen plumbers are employed at a single location, one (I) journeyman plumber shall be designated as Foreman. The rate of pay which such Foreman shall receive shall be a minimum of seven percent (7%) over and above the journeyman plumber’s rate of pay.
2
When a construction job or operation starts, which will employ six (6) or more journeyman plumbers, the Foreman shall receive a minimum often percent (10%) over and above the journeyman plumber’s rate of pay. Such rate of pay for the Foreman shall begin when the second journeyman plumber is employed. When more than ten (10) journeymen plumbers are employed, an additional Foreman shall be designated, and one (1) additional Foreman shall be designated for each additional ten (10) journeymen plumbers employed thereafter and shall receive ten percent (10%) over and above the journeyman plumber’s rate of pay. When a construction job or operation starts, which will employ more than ten (10) journeymen plumbers, the first Foreman shall receive a minimum of fifteen percent (15%) over and above the journeyman plumber’s rate of pay.
(b)	On a construction job or operation where two (2) or more foremen are required and a maximum of one hundred (100) journeymen plumbers are employed, one (1) journeyman plumber shall be designated as General Foreman who shall receive a minimum of fifteen percent (15%) over and above the journeyman plumber’s rate of pay.
On a job or operation where one hundred and one (101) or more journeymen plumbers are employed, the General Foreman shall receive a minimum of twenty percent (20%) over and above the journeyman plumber’s rate of pay.
In the event it is reasonably anticipated at the time of the commencement of a construction project or operation that twenty-five (25) or more journeymen plumbers will be employed, a General Foreman shall be designated at the time of the commencement of construction. However. unforeseen peaks or changes on smaller construction projects shall not entitle any employee to retroactive pay.
(c)	Area Foremen, if utilized, shall be paid at a minimum of twelve percent (12%) over and above the journeyman plumber’s rate of pay.
SECTION 3
Apprentices’ Rates of Pay
The total package for apprentices shall be the following percentage of the total package (i.e„ hourly wages, plus contributions to the Pension Plan, Supplemental Retirement Plan, Health Plan, and Apprenticeship Training Plan) that journeymen plumbers are paid for each period of advancement:
Period	Percentage
First........................................................49
Second.......................................................49
Third........................................................49
Fourth.....................................................  52
Fifth........................................................56
Sixth........................................................59
Seventh......................................................64
Eighth.......................................................67
Ninth........................................................72
Tenth........................................................80
The apprentices’ hourly rate of pay for each period of advancement shall then be such total apprentice package less contributions for such apprentices to the Pension Plan, Health Plan, and Apprenticeship Training Plan as set forth in ARTICLE IX, Section 1.
AU apprentices shall be guaranteed a forty (40) hour week except where the apprentices fail to report for work, provided that:
(1)	In any work week in which a holiday shall fall or is observed during the period from Monday through Friday, the guarantee for that week shall be reduced by eight (8) hours for each holiday, and
(2)	Apprentices irrespective of when indentured shall not be entitled to be paid any wages for time spent by them in attending school during the entire period of their apprenticeship training.
SECTION 4
Apprentice Training Program
The Apprenticeship Training Program shall be reasonably increased in the number of apprentices to be enrolled in each new class commencing after the effective date of the within Collective Bargaining Agreement.
A five-year (5) Apprenticeship Training Program for the Residential category has been established and will be maintained by the Joint Apprenticeship Committee.
SECTION 5
Pay for Travel Time
Journeymen plumbers sent out of the jurisdiction of LOCAL UNION (which for the purposes of this Agreement shall include the Counties of Berks, Bucks, Chester, Delaware. Lehigh, Montgomery, Northampton and Philadelphia, and the southeasterly portions of Carbon and Lebanon Counties in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, which represent the territorial jurisdiction of LOCAL UNION) shall receive all suitable Board and Traveling expenses. Journeymen plumbers while traveling shall receive wages of straight time, not to exceed eight (8) hours in any twenty-four (24) hour period.
SECTION 6
Time for Paying Wages
Weekly wages shall be paid not later than the scheduled quitting time on the regular pay day of each week. Upon layoff or discharge, Employee is to receive wages in full not later than thirty (30) minutes prior to the scheduled quitting time on the day of layoff or discharge. Waiting time for wages either on regular pay day or discharge or layoff shall be paid for at double time (2x) rate. Where checks are used, pay day will be no later than Thursday of each week. The Employer shall provide facilities for cashing of checks without cost to the Employee by the Todd System or a similar system.
SECTION?
Transportation Expenses
Within the territorial jurisdiction of LOCAL UNION (as hereinbefore defined in Section 5) there shall be no transportation expenses paid to or from job sites.
ARTICLE IV
SECTION 1
Efficiency of Operations
Inasmuch as greater efficiency in all lines of work is necessary, LOCAL UNION shall encourage its journeymen plumbers and
3
apprentices in every way to accomplish results. There shall be no restrictions as to the amount of work journeymen plumbers and apprentices shall do, nor shall there be any restrictions as to the use of labor saving machinery for the installation of any work; provided that the aforesaid machinery meets with the approval of the Conference Committee. It is agreed that there shall be, at no time, more than one (1) apprentice with any journeyman plumber for any work, whatsoever it may be.
SECTION 2
Apprentices
(a)	Apprentices (Site Work)
Members of the EMPLOYERS’ ASSOCIATION agree toemploy as apprentices only those who are approved by the Joint Apprenticeship Committee and who are qualified under the standards registered with the State Apprenticeship Council. Each Employer may hire one (!) apprentice where one (1) journeyman is employed steadily and one (1) additional apprentice for every additional three (3) journeymen employed steadily. The apprentice shall be at all times under the supervision of a journeyman plumber. At no time shall more than one (1) apprentice be assigned to a journeyman. It is the intention of the parties that this Section 2 shall be construed as vesting jurisdiction in the Joint Apprenticeship Committee over all apprentices, regardless of whether a particular apprentice is or is not affiliated with the LOCAL UNION.
(b)	Apprentices (Residential Work)
LOCAL UNION will furnish apprentice-helpers when requested in the ratio of one (1) apprentice-helper with first journeyman and thereafter one (1) apprentice-helper to every two (2) journeymen.
(c)	Apprentice-helpers are required to work under the jurisdiction of a journeyman.
(d)	When LOCAL UNION is unable to supply apprentice-helper(s) within forty-eight (48) hours of request, Employer may hire his own apprentice-helper(s) from any source whatsoever.
(e)	Starting wage rate for apprentice-helper shall not be less than Seven Dollars ($7.00) per hour. After thirty (30) days of employment, Employer must provide apprentice-helper with Health Plan coverage.
(f)	Overtime:
After regular eight hour day.............................time &	one-half
Saturday.................................................time &	one-half
Sunday...................................................time &	one-half
Holidays ......................................time	&	one-half
SECTION 3
Safety ; Tools and Equipment
Members of the EMPLOYERS’ ASSOCIATION agree to maintain safe working equipment to satisfactorily meet all requirements of laws, rules and regulations applicable thereto, and both Employer and Employee shall comply with all of the provisions of the Occupational Safety and Health Act and with the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
To further promote the safety of the Employees at the job site, no journeyman nor apprentice shall be required to work alone at locations which are mutually considered to be hazardous by the Employer or his representative (superintendent or foreman) and the Business Manager of the LOCAL UNION.
Employer shall be obliged to furnish suitable raincoats, caps and/or boots, if necessary, during inclement weather in the event the Employer requires journeymen and/or apprentices to work during such weather.
Journeymen plumbers and apprentices shall be responsible for the reasonable care of tools and equipment and for willful negligence in the performance of their work. All complaints or charges with respect thereto shall be made by the particular Employer to the Conference Committee. Should such journeyman plumber or apprentice cited to appear before said Conference Committee in connection therewith be adjudged not guilty of the charge, then the Employer citing such journeyman plumber or apprentice shall pay him for the time lost in attending such hearing.
ARTICLE V
Change Room
Employer shall furnish a suitable change room or shaniy at the job site, and said change room or shanty shall be heated during the cold weather. Employer shall furnish drinking water for the Employees in the change room or shanty and on the job site.
ARTICLE VI
SECTION 1
Fabrication of Pipe-Tools
Both parties agree that all pipe shall be fabricated by machine and with tools operated and handled by journeymen plumbers, and they shall be paid no less than the hourly wage rate for journeymen plumbers as set forth in ARTICLE III, Section I of this Agreement. No journeyman plumber or apprentice shall be permitted to furnish tools.
SECTION 2
Pipe Two Inches (2”) and Under
Pipe two inches (2”) and under shall be fabricated on the job by plumber mechanics to whom the work belongs. In cases where it is not practical to cut pipe on the job, it shall be discretionary with the Employer to have pipe two inches (2”) and under fabricated elsewhere; provided, however, that permission is obtained by the Employer from the Business Manager of the LOCAL UNION.
SECTION 3
Responsibility for Work
It is further understood and agreed that the plumbing contractor shall be responsible for all piping and equipment which is part of the work of the United Association and shall be handled and set by journeymen plumbers and apprentices.
4
SECTION 4
Subletting of Work
No plumbing contractor shall be permitted to sublet work on any part of the plumbing system which is performed by members of the LOCAL UNION. Such work includes, but is not limited to, installation of accessories, backing boards, lead work, hole cutting, kitchen equipment, packing of sleeves, site work, coring, caulking fixtures, drain cleaning, cleaning of fixtures, and tub enclosures.
SECTIONS
Supplies
It is further agreed that plumbing contractor will at all times where possible receive supplies from such houses as are in contractual relationship with the United Association. Union shall supply a list of such companies from time to time.
ARTICLE VII
SECTION 1
Who May Use Tools
There shall be no restriction on the use of tools by the Foreman employed by the Employer, but it is agreed that such Foreman shall be a journeyman plumber. A superintendent to use the tools shall be a journeyman plumber.
SECTION 2
Safeguarding Work of Employees
Employer shall not work “with the tools” and agrees to employ at least one (1) journeyman plumber who shall be a member of LOCAL UNION, who need not be the same member, for the duration of the term of this Agreement in accordance with the provisions of ARTICLE XVII hereof.
SECTION 3
Work Preservation
The Employer agrees that no evasion of the terms, requirements, and provisions of this Agreement will take place. If and when Employer shall perform any work of the type covered by this Agreement within the jurisdictional territory of Union, under its own name or under the name of another, as a corporation, company, partnership, or any other business entity, including ajoint venture, wherein the Employer, through its officers, directors, partners, or stockholders, exercise control of labor policies of such other entity, the terms and conditions of this Agreement shall be applicable to all such work.
This clause shall only be applicable to job site work as that term is used in the construction industry proviso to Section 8(e) of the National Labor Relations Act. This clause will not be applicable to non-jobsite work.
Notwithstanding anything herein contained to the contrary, in the event there is a determination by the National Labor Relations Board
(N.L.R.B.) (or its counsel) or by a court of competent jurisdiction that the aforesaid provisions are illegal, unlawful, or in violation of the provisions of the National Labor Relations Act, upon such determination the aforesaid provisions shall be void and of no effect.
Inasmuch as the Union has submitted proof and the Employer is satisfied that the Union represents a majority of its Employees in the bargaining unit described herein, the Employer recognizes the Union as the exclusive collecting bargaining agent on all present and future job sites within the jurisdiction of the Union, unless and until such time as the Union loses its status as the Employees' exclusive representative as a result of an N.L.R.B. election.
ARTICLE VIII
SECTION 1
Union Membership
The EMPLOYERS’ ASSOCIATION recognizes LOCAL UNION as the sole and exclusive collective bargaining representative of all its journeymen plumbers and apprentices who shall become and remain members of LOCAL UNION in good standing seven (7) days after the date of their employment, or seven (7) days after the effective date of this Agreement, whichever is the later, and, upon becoming members, they shall maintain their membership in good standing in order to continue in employment. LOCAL UNION agrees, at the request of EMPLOYERS’ ASSOCIATION, to furnish competent plumbers and apprentices to the Employers in accordance with the provisions of ARTICLE XVII hereof.
SECTION 2
Local Union Autonomy
The LOCAL UNION shall at all times have full autonomous jurisdiction over its own membership. However, it is understood and agreed that working rules of LOCAL UNION cannot be made to conflict with this Agreement and that this Agreement governs.
SECTION 3
Union’s Rights of Visitation
The EMPLOYERS’ ASSOCIATION agrees that representatives of the United Association shall be permitted to visit all jobs being done by journeymen plumbers and apprentices represented by LOCAL UNION.
ARTICLE IX
SECTION 1
Employer Payments for Fringe Benefits
The parties hereto agree that commencing May 1, 1999, every Employer, under the terms of this Collective Bargaining Agreement, employing journeymen plumbers and apprentices represented by LOCAL UNION, shall contribute the following sums per hour for the hours compensated (contributions shall be one and one-half (1 !6) the regular rate per hour for each hour of overtime worked, in accordance with ARTICLE II, Sections 2 and 5, and one (1) plus fifteen percent (15%) times the regular rate per hour for each hour of shift work worked),
5
including reporting time, which shall be compensated for, by all of the journeymen plumbers and apprentices employed by said respective Employers, which shall be paid by checks to the order of First Union Bank or to such successor of said company as the Trustees of the below-listed Plans may from time to time designate (hereinafter called "Depository”) as the Depository for said contribution, and shall be mailed to the Industry Fund Building, 2791 Southampton Road, Philadelphia, PA 19154. Said contributions shall be in such sums and shall be allocated as follows:
Commencing May 1, 1999:
Journeymen
Health Plan..............................................$4.16
Pension Plan............................................. 2.65
Supplemental Retirement Plan............................. 1.35
Apprenticeship Training Plan................................42
Industry Fund...............................................16
Apprentices and Apprentice Helpers
Health Plan..............................................$4.95
Apprenticeship Training Plan................................35
Industry Fund ..............................................16
In accordance with ARTICLE 111, Section I, the Union shall have the option of applying such portion or portions of the wage increase provided for on May 1,2000, May 1,2001 and May 1,2002 to fringe benefits, including the Pension Plan, the Supplemental Retirement Plan, and the Health Plan, or such other Plan as might be created from time to time.
Effective May 1,2000. Employer contributions to the Industry Fund may be increased each year by an additional $.01 per hour at the option of the EMPLOYERS’ ASSOCIATION.
At any time on or after May 1, 2000, upon the mutual agreement of the parties, this Agreement may be reopened for the sole purpose of increasing the hourly contributions to the Apprenticeship Training Plan, should the Trustees of such Plan agree that such increase is necessary.
SECTION 2
Dues Check-Off Authorization
Every Employer shall deduct from the net wages of those Employees who so authorize them by written assignment or signed “Dues Check-Off Authorization” filed with the LOCAL UNION, two point fifty-two percent (2.52%) of total package (gross wages plus fringe benefit package) representing the LOCAL UNION membership dues, and/or such other dues and assessments as may be approved by the membership from time to time, for each such Employee. All monies so deducted shall be paid by each Employer to LOCAL UNION, in ac-cordance with the provisions of Sections 4 and 5 of this ARTICLE IX. It is understood and agreed that no deduction shall be made from any wages earned by an Employee prior to certification by the LOCAL UNION to the EMPLOYERS’ ASSOCIATION of the aforesaid written assignment or signed “Dues Check-Off Authorization.”
SECTION 3
Plumbers Local Union 690 Political Action Plan and
Plumbers Local Union 690 Social Plan
Every Employer shall deduct Three Cents ($.03) per hour from the
net wages of those Employees who execute a "Voluntary Contribution Agreement and Check-Off Authorization for Plumbers Local Union 690 Political Action Plan” card representing voluntary contributions of the Employee to the Plumbers Local Union 690 Political Action Plan.
Every Employer shall deduct Six Cents ($.06) per hour from the net wages of those Employees who execute a “Voluntary Contribution Agreement and Check-Off Authorization for Plumbers Local Union 690 Social Plan” card representing voluntary contributions of the Employee to the Plumbers Local Union 690 Social Plan.
All monies so deducted shall be paid by the Employer, respectively, to the Plumbers Local Union 690 Political Action Plan, and to the Plumbers Local Union 690 Social Plan, in accordance with the provisions of Sections 4 and 5 of this ARTICLE IX. It is understood and agreed that such Employee contributions are voluntary, that participation in either of the said Plans is not a term or condition of employment, that an Employee may revoke such authorization at any time upon written notice thereof, and that no deductions shall be made from any wages earned by an Employee prior to certification by the LOCAL UNION of the aforesaid written authorization, or after receipt by the Employer of a written notice from an Employee revoking the aforesaid written autho-rization/check-off.
LOCAL UNION shall have the right to increase, decrease or terminate said Emergency Dues Assessment upon sixty (60) days notice to Employers.
SECTION 4
Due Dates of Payments and Reports
The contributions and payments to be made in accordance with Sections 1,2, and 3 of ARTICLE IX shall be made by Employer on or before'the tenth (10th) working day following the end of each calendar month. Employer shall, within ten (10) working days from the end of each calendar month, transmit to the Industry Fund Building a report containing:
(a)	The names and Social Security numbers of persons to whom this Agreement is applicable, who have been in the employ of Employer during such calendar month.
(b)	The number of hours during said calendar month for which compensation (including compensation for reporting and waiting time) was payable.
(c)	Such other information as said respective Boards of Trustees and/or Plans may reasonably require for the proper administration thereof.
In the event no person to whom this Agreement is applicable has worked for an Employer in that calendar month, a report so stating must be forwarded by such Employer to the Industry Fund Building within the aforesaid ten (10) working day period following the end of such month.
SECTIONS
Delinquency in Making Payment or Report
(a) In the event the contributions and payments provided for in Sections 1,2, and 3 of this ARTICLE IX are not paid within ten (10)
6
working days following the end of each calendar month, and/or in the event the report provided for in Section 4 of this ARTICLE IX is not transmitted to the industry Fund Building within ten (10) working days following the end of each calendar month, the Employer shall be considered as a “delinquent”. The “delinquent” Employer shall be subject to a late payment charge from the date when reporting and/or payment thereof was due to the date when payment is made. Such charge may be set from time to time by the Trustees regarding payment and contributions pursuant to Section 1 or by the Union regarding contributions and payments pursuant to Sections 2 and 3 of this ARTICLE IX. Each employer shall be bound and governed by any Rules and Regulations or Procedures adopted by any Board of Trustees of Fringe Benefit Plans to which contributions are due and owing under this Agreement.
In addition to any interest, financial penalty, fines or assessments, a delinquent Employer shall also be responsible for payment of all costs of the collection process, including, but not limited to, audit fees, counsel fees and costs. Such charges and expenses shall be paid to that entity to whom such contributions or payments are owed. In addition, LOCAL UNION shall, at its option, treat such failure to satisfy a delinquency as a breach of contract and should it exercise its option to remove its members from the job of such delinquent Employer, then the Employer shall be liable to pay unto any Employee so removed an amount equal to the wages lost by such Employee by reason of said Employers’ breach of the within Agreement. However, in the event LOCAL UNION shall furnish its members to an Employer or Employers who have violated ARTICLE XII hereof, by not having furnished a bond in the appropriate amount with a corporate surety as provided therein, then Local Union shall be liable for the payment to all Plans of the contributions of such Employer or Employers to the extent of such Employer’s or Employers’ delinquencies.
(c) Regardless of whether any contributions or payments are owed pursuant to ARTICLE IX, in the event no report is received within thirty (30) working days after the date of written notice, by Certified Mail, Return Receipt Requested, to the Employer of its failure to file such report, there shall be a penalty of Fifty Dollars ($50.00) per week thereafter that said report is delinquent; said penalty payments to be shared equally between the Pension Plan and Health and Welfare Plan.
SECTION 6
Administration of Plans
The Health Plan shall be administered by a Board of eight (8) Trustees, four (4) to be appointed by the LOCAL UNION and four (4) to be appointed by contributing Employers (two (2) of the Employer Trustees to be appointed by the Mechanical Contractors Association of Eastern Pennsylvania, Inc., one (1) by the Plumbing and Heating Contractors Association, and one (1) by the Plumbing and Heating Supply House Employer Association). The Pension Plan shall be administered by a Board of six (6) Trustees, three (3) to be appointed by LOCAL UNION, and three (3) to be appointed by the contributing Employers (two (2) of the Employer Trustees to be appointed by the Mechanical Contractors Association of Eastern Pennsylvania, Inc., and one (1) by the Plumbing and Heating Contractors Association). The Supplemental Retirement Plan shall be administered by a Board of six (6) Trustees, three (3) to be appointed by LOCAL UNION, and three (3) to be appointed by the contributing Employers (one (1) of the Employer Trustees to be appointed by the Mechanical Contractors
Association of Eastern Pennsylvania, Inc,, one (1) by the Plumbing and Heating Contractors Association and one (1) by the Plumbing and Heating Supply House Employers Association). The Apprenticeship Training Plan shall be administered by a Board of six (6) Trustees, three (3) to be appointed by LOCAL UNION, and three (3) to be appointed by contributing Employers (two (2) of the Employer Trustees to be appointed by the Mechanical Contractors Association of Eastern Pennsylvania, Inc. and one (1) by the Plumbing and Heating Contractors Association). The LOCAL UNION shall not participate in any way in the administration of the Industry Fund or in disbursements therefrom. The Pension, Health, Supplemental Retirement, and Apprenticeship Training Plans shall be governed under and subject to the terms and provisions of appropriate written trust agreements and/or written plan documents.
ARTICLE X
SECTION 1
Rules Governing Apprenticeship and Training
The Employer agrees to cooperate with the LOCAL UNION for the practical training of apprentices for the plumbing and piping industry.
SECTION 2
The Joint Apprenticeship Committee shall at all times have full autonomous jurisdiction over matters of the Apprenticeship Training by or through such rules, regulations and requirements or representatives as may by agreement or action be established.
SECTION 3
The actions of the Joint Apprenticeship Committee and any agreement and plans for Apprentice Training shall not be subject to the provisions of ARTICLE XXIII, Section 1.
ARTICLE XI
SECTION 1
Limitations on Use of Industry Fund’s Assets
There presently exists an Industry Fund administered by EMPLOYERS’ ASSOCIATION. The parties hereto agree that no part of said Fund, and no part of the contributions as set forth in ARTICLE IX, Section 1 (Industry Fund) hereof, shall be used for advertising, propaganda, or other purposes opposed to the interests of LOCAL UNION.
SECTION!
Purposes of Industry Fund
It is further expressly understood and agreed that said Industry Fund shall be applied in payment of the operating costs of EMPLOYERS’
7
ASSOCIATION, including, but not limited to, the expense of conducting public relations, public education as applied to the plumbing, heating, piping and air conditioning industry, costs and expenses connected with the promotion of stability of relations between labor and management, Employers’ costs of collective bargaining on an industry-wide basis, Employers’ costs of Employers’ representatives in the adjustment of grievances and in arbitration, Employers’ share of the fees of arbitrators, Employers’ costs of their representatives in the administration of the various funds and committees as in this Agreement are set forth and in comparable undertakings engaged in from time to time,
SECTION 3
Employer arid Employee Interest in Fund
Although designated a "contribution” in ARTICLE IX of this Agreement, it is expressly understood and agreed that said sum payable to said Industry Fund is not intended to be and is not a contribution to the Employees and no Employee or Employer has any proprietary interest in said Industry Fund.
article xii
Bonds to Assure Payments
Each Employer agrees to immediately furnish a bond with a financially responsible corporate surety guaranteeing the payment by it of the contributions to the Plans and payment of the Dues Check-Off and Plumbers Local Union 690 Political Action Plan Check-Off, and Plumbers Local Union 690 Social Plan Check-Off, as provided in ARTICLE IX hereof. The amount of such bond shall be based upon the total number of hours worked, during the prior calendar year, by all of the journeymen plumbers and apprentices employed by said Employer as set forth below:
Total Number of Hours
Worked for Employer by
Journeymen Plumbers and Apprentices during	Dollar Amount
the Prior Calendar Year	of Bond
0-10,500..........................................$25,000
10,501-21,000.....................................$50,000
21,001^12,000.....................................$75,000
42,001 and above.................................$100,000
After the end of each calendar year, each Employer shall calculate the total number of hours worked by Journeymen Plumbers and Apprentices for that year and, for the foilowing year shaft furnish a bond with corporate surety in the appropriate dollar amount required by the schedule set forth above. The bond shall be pro-rated among the Plans and the Dues Check-Off and the Plumbers Local Union 690 Political Action Plan Check-Off, and the Plumbers Local Union 690 Social Plan Check-Off, mentioned in Sections 1,2 and 3 of ARTICLE IX hereof.
ARTICLE XIII
Employees’ Use of Vehicles
Employees arc not permitted to use vehicles of any description unless such vehicles are supplied and maintained by the Employer, either before or during or after working hours for the purpose of transporting tools or materials or for the conducting of any working activities. The prohibition applies whether or not the Employee is reimbursed by the Employer.
ARTICLE XIV
SECTION 1
Promotion of Better Workmanship
It is further agreed that the advancement of better journeymen plumbers and apprentices and better workmanship is to be promoted at all times, and that all parties will work together in an effort to see that all legal acts, laws, rules and regulations or awarding authorities’ specifications are complied with.
SECTION 2
Conference Committee
It is agreed that each of the parties hereto shall forthwith appoint three (3) representatives to be known as a Conference Committee. Said Conference Committee shall meet at such times as shall be mutually agreed upon to discuss joint problems of the industry. The Committee may make such recommendations to the EMPLOYERS’ ASSOCIATION and the LOCAL UNION as they deem desirable but shall not be authorized to effect any change in this Agreement or in customary working conditions.
SECTION 3
Committee to Study Ways of Increasing Employment
Promptly after the execution of this Agreement, the LOCAL UNION and the EMPLOYERS’ ASSOCIATION will each appoint an equal number of their respective members (such number to be determined by mutual agreement) to serve as a committee to cany on a study for the purpose of devising methods to increase opportunities of employment, as well as to increase the volume of work available to Employers, and to recruit Employees that will meet the needs of the piping industry. The Committee will make periodic reports to the EMPLOYERS’ ASSOCIATION and to the LOCAL UNION of its findings and recommendations.
The above mentioned Committee shall meet at such time and place as shall be mutually agreed upon.
The Committee shall not have any authority to effect any change in this Agreement or in customary working conditions, nor shall any of the Committee’s recommendations be binding upon the parties hereto, except upon mutual written agreement of the EMPLOYERS’ ASSOCIATION and the LOCAL UNION.
8
r
ARTICLE XV
ShopSteward
On all jobs where journeymen plumbers are employed, the LOCAL UNION shall have the right to select and designate a shop steward from among the journeymen plumbers of the LOCAL UNION on the job, whether referred or otherwise. The Business Manager or his duly appointed agent shall, at the time of such appointment, give the Employer written notice of the appointment of a shop steward or successor.
There shall be no restrictions as to the amount of work such shop steward shall perform nor shall his duties as steward interfere with his work unreasonably. However, a shop steward shall have the right, during working time and with no loss of pay, to spend reasonable time adjusting grievances including time to meet with Employees and supervisors, after notifying his immediate supervisor of his intent.
Failure on the part of a shop steward, in the opinion of the Employer, to perform a reasonable day’s work, may, at the option of the Employer, result in his dismissal or removal from the job and a successor appointed. It is understood that such dismissal or removal shall not take place without mutual agreement between the Employer, the Business Manager of the LOCAL UNION, or his duly appointed agent.
Shop stewards shall not participate in matters related to the referral, hiring, layoff, or discharge of Employees except that the Employer shall request each new Employee to report to the shop steward. The shop steward will make sure that the Employee has received the job rules and the safety rules. The shop stewards shall be informed of all layoffs, transfers, discharges, and shall make sure Employees are properly paid.
Shop stewards shall assist any Employee receiving a serious injury on the job or becoming sick. If necessary, the shop steward shall report this information to the Foreman and the LOCAL UNION at once.
Shop stewards shall have no authority whatsoever to call, order, or create a strike, work stoppage, or slowdown. He shall report all serious matters to the LOCAL UNION office.
ARTICLE XVI
Connection to Pipe, Fixture or Appliance
Journeymen plumbers and apprentices shall not be required to connect up to or with any pipe or fixture or appliance that is in connection with the plumbing system unless such material has been purchased by or furnished by the plumbing contractor doing the installation.
ARTICLE XVII
SECTION 1
Sources of Employees Other Than Apprentices
(a)	Subject to the other provisions of this ARTICLE XVII, Employer may obtain Employees other than apprentices either by hiring persons applying directly to Employer, or by soliciting persons to come into its employ by any means other than advertising, or by re
questing LOCAL UNION to refer applicants for employment to Employer, or by all of such methods; provided, however, when hiring new plumber journeymen employees, Employer will request Union to refer applicants for employment, not to exceed a requirement of fifty percent (50%) of such newly hired journeymen employees. (This proviso will not affect Employers free movement of his employees throughout his entire company’s work-force). When re-hiring previous Employees within forty-five (45) days of layoff, Employer need not request referrals from Union, provided that the requirements of Section 2 of this ARTICLE XVII shall be met.
(b)	Subject to the other provisions of this ARTICLE XVII, every Employee or prospective Employee to whom this Agreement is applicable, other than an apprentice, may seek and obtain employment either by direct communication to or from Employer, or by requesting LOCAL UNION to refer him to Employer seeking Employees, or by both such methods.
SECTION 2
Job Referrals, Classification of Employees, and Order of Preference
(a)	The hiring of apprentices shall be governed by the rules and regulations, as amended from time to time, of the Joint Apprenticeship Committee.
(b)	In order to make possible the effectuation of the provisions of this ARTICLE XVII, every Employer subject to this Agreement shall, twenty-four (24) hours prior to employment of any newly hired Employee, notify the local business agent of the Union of the names of the Employees, the Employer, and the location of the job. Every new Employee who is a member of LOCAL UNION must report to the Union hiring hall and secure a referral card before reporting to work. The Employer shall, immediately upon demand of the LOCAL UNION, discharge any Employee who has not secured such referral card from the Union, or whose Employer has not, within the time specified, made such a report to the LOCAL UNION.
SECTION 3
Registration with LOCAL UNION Required
in order to be entitled to any rights or benefits under this ARTICLE XVII, an Employee must have registered himself at the LOCAL UNION Office as unemployed, upon such form of application as may uniformly be required of all Employees seeking employment. All rights under this ARTICLE XVII shall begin as of the date of such registration and shall be forfeited if the applicant makes a material misstatement in his application.
SECTION 4
Order of Referral
(a)	Employer desiring the LOCAL UNION to supply him with employees must give LOCAL UNION, whenever possible, forty-eight (48) hours notice and the number of men he desires, the location of the job and of the probable duration of the job, it being understood that Employer will incur no obligation to guarantee such duration.
(b)	The LOCAL UNION will refer applicants for employment to an Employer in the chronological order in which they become unemployed
9
so that an applicant who is unemployed for the longest period and who is ready, willing, and able to accept employment shall be referred before any applicant who is unemployed for a shorter period of time.
SECTION 5
Registrant’s Right to Refuse Referrals
Employee shall have the right to refuse two (2) consecutive referrals to work without losing his position on the list. However, upon a third (3rd) consecutive refusal to accept a referral to work, said Employee shall be placed on the list as if he had registered as unemployed on the date of such third (3rd) consecutive refusal.
SECTION 6
Referred Employees Working Less Than Thirty Days
If an Employee, after being referred to work, is employed for less than thirty (30) working days, such Employee shall retain his or her position on the list as if he or she had not been referred to work.
SECTION 7
Applicants Who Cannot Be Reached
An Employee will not lose his/her position on the list if he/she cannot be reached when employment is available and efforts to reach him/her are unsuccessful.
SECTION 8
No Discrimination in Referrals
There will be no discrimination in the effectuation of the provisions of this ARTICLE XVII between members and nonmembers of LOCAL UNION.
SECTION 9
Posting Copies of This Article
Employer and LOCAL UNION shall post a copy of this ARTICLE XVII in places where notices to Employees and applicants for employment are customarily posted.
SECTION 10
Union Sole Administrator
The LOCAL UNION agrees that it shall be the sole administrator of the hiring hall arrangement and shall not be considered to act as the agent of the Employer; and thereby the LOCAL UNION assumes responsibility for any violations of the law committed by it in connection with its administration of the hiring hall arrangement. The Employer assumes responsibility for any violations of the law committed by Employer in connection with hiring or severance of employment.
ARTICLE XVIII
Affirmative Action Program
The parties hereto agree that the existing Affirmative Action Program between said parties is incorporated herein by reference thereto and made a part hereof.
ARTICLE XIX
Drug-Free Work Place Rules
Both parties agree to comply with the Anti-Drug Abuse Act of 1988 and related state and local regulations and to strive for drug-free worksites within their jurisdictions.
ARTICLE XX
“Most Favored Nation Clause”
LOCAL UNION agrees that should it enter into any collective bargaining agreement with any other Employer during the effective period of this Agreement containing terms or conditions, including wages, (the rate of which shall be related to that specified for each of the Districts set forth in ARTICLE III hereof), or contributions, more favorable or advantageous to such Employer than those piuviued liciein, then Employer members of Mechanical Contractors Association of Eastern Pennsylvania, Inc. and Employer members of Plumbing and Heating Contractors Association in the respective Districts, may at its or their option, elect to substitute any or all of such more favorable conditions for those provided herein.
ARTICLE XXI
Compliance with Existing Laws
It is not the intention of the parties to this Agreement to violate any existing Federal, State, or municipal law or regulations. However, should any article, section, paragraph, sentence or clause of the within Agreement be held to be illegal or in contravention or violation of any existing law by a court of competent jurisdiction, such part or parts shall immediately be held to be inoperative under this Agreement. All other provisions hereof shall continue to remain in full force and effect for the duration of this Agreement.
ARTICLE XXII
Memoranda of Agreement
The parties hereto agree that the Memorandum of Agreement for Competitive Bidding dated May 1, 1999 set forth at Appendix A and the Memorandum of Agreement Re; Substance Abuse set forth at Appendix B shall be incorporated by reference herein and made a part of this Agreement.
ARTICLE XXIII
SECTION 1
Adjustment and Arbitration of Disputes
It is mutually agreed that all disputes of any nature whatsoever which may arise between the parties hereto, or their respective individual
10
members, shall be submitted to the Joint Arbitration Board, which shall consist of two (2) members of EMPLOYERS’ ASSOCIATION and three (3) members of LOCAL UNION. Each side shall be entitled to cast three (3) votes on any issue before the Board even though less than three (3) members shall be present and voting on behalf of either EMPLOYERS' ASSOCIATION or LOCAL UNION.
Majority decisions of this Board shall be final and binding on all of the parties hereto. In the event that the Joint Arbitration Board is unable to reach a decision in the matter under consideration within five (5) days after the first scheduled meeting, which meeting shall be held within the period provided in Section 2 of this ARTICLE XXIII, then the Joint Arbitration Board shall, within twenty-four (24) hours thereafter, request the American Arbitration Association to submit a Panel List containing the names of ten (10) arbitrators from which one (1) arbitrator shall be selected. The American Arbitration Association shall submit said list of ten (10) arbitrators within forty-eight (48) hours after being notified so to do by the Joint Arbitration Board. The decision of the arbitrator so selected shall be binding and final on all of the parties hereto and in the event the issue determined involves the payment of wages or the rate of wages paid, it shall be retroactive to the date on which the matter was first submitted to the Joint Arbitration Board.
The Joint Arbitration Board shall select the arbitrator above referred to in both cases from the Panel List of ten (10) members submitted by the American Arbitration Association within five (5) days after the Panel List is submitted. In the event that the Joint Arbitration Board is unable to select an arbitrator from the Panel List who will be mutually acceptable within five (5) days after the receipt thereof, the American Arbitration Association shall within twenty-four (24) hours thereafter be requested to submit a second Panel List containing the names of ten (10) additional arbitrators, from which one (1) is to be selected. The American Arbitration Association shall submit the second Panel List within forty-eight (48) hours after being requested so to do. In the event that
the parties cannot mutually agree upon the arbitrator to be selected from the Second Panel List within five (5) days after it is received, then, ♦ within twenty-four (24) hours thereafter, the American Arbitration Association shall be requested to designate an arbitrator and the person so designated shall be acceptable by the parties hereto.
The American Arbitration Association shall designate such arbitrator within forty-eight (48) hours after being requested so to do. The arbitrator, whether he be selected by the Joint Arbitration Board or designated by the American Arbitration Association, shall, within fortyeight (48) hours after his selection or designation, schedule a hearing which is to be held within but no later than one (1) week thereafter; the arbitrator shall conduct the hearing and the arbitration proceedings in accordance with the prevailing rules of the American Arbitration Association and he shall make his final decision within fourteen (14) days after the date upon which the first hearing takes place.
SECTION 2
Meetings of the Board
Meetings of the Board shall be held within forty-eight (48) hours after either party hereto formally submits in writing any question to the Board for settlement.
SECTION 3
No Strikes or Lockouts
It is further understood and agreed that no dispute, whether jurisdictional or otherwise, shall result in any stoppage of work or lockout pending the terms of the aforesaid arbitration clause.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be executed by their duly authorized representatives on the day and year first above written.
MECHANICAL CONTRACTORS	UNITED ASSOCIATION OF JOURNEYMEN AND
ASSOCIATION OF EASTERN PENNSYLVANIA, INC.	APPRENTICES OFTHE PLUMBING AND PIPE FITTING
INDUSTRY OFTHE UNITED STATES AND CANADA,
By: Alan J. Ross, President	LOCAL UNION NO. 690
Attest: Jack H. James, Executive Vice President-Secretary	By: Edward C. Keenan, Business Manager
II
APPENDIX A
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT FOR RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION by and between
MECHANICAL CONTRACTORS ASSOCIATION OF EASTERN PENNSYLVANIA, INC. (“ASSOCIATION”)
and
LOCAL UNION NO. 690 (“UNION”) of the
UNITED ASSOCIATION OF JOURNEYMEN AND APPRENTICES OF THE PLUMBING AND PIPE FITTING INDUSTRY OF THE UNITED STATES AND CANADA “UNITED ASSOCIATION”
WHEREAS, it is the earnest desire of the parties to this Memorandum of Agreement to provide to the Owner who uses the services of mechanical contractor members of the Association, the most economical heating, cooling, ventilating, and piping installation consistent with desired quality, and
WHEREAS, in today’s modem building and construction complexes the mechanical systems constitute a significant portion of a total project, including the cost, and
WHEREAS, any given project, be it large or small, must necessarily involve the skills of such recognized craftsmen as plumbers performing under the auspices of responsible contractor management teams, and
WHEREAS, it is the avowed intent that the provisions of this Memorandum of Agreement shall apply to any job where any of the parties hereto are involved.
Now, the parties hereto, intending to be legally bound hereby, agree as follows:
1.	There shall be no work stoppage due to unauthorized or illegal strikes, lockouts, disputes, or grievances.
2.	The contractor shall have the responsibility to efficiently manage his portion of the job including the supplying of sufficient tools and equipment with which to carry out the needed installation and the scheduling of an adequate number of workmen to meet job requirements and conditions. The direction of the working force, the right to hire, to plan, direct, control, and schedule all operations, in cooperation with other trades and the specified requirements of the User, shall be the responsi
bility of the contractor, including the right to establish, eliminate, change, or introduce methods, machinery, or techniques to efficiently perform all tasks.
3.	There shall be no limitations on the productivity of workmen or on full use of tools of the trade and construction equipment.
4.	Every effort shall be made by the parties to insure the highest level of productivity and the expeditious performance of the work with the pledge of “eight hours work for eight hours pay." Workmen shall be on the job at the designated starting time and will not leave until the designated quitting time. There shall be no organized breaks, loafing, excessive tardiness, and unexcused absenteeism will not be tolerated.
5.	To insure a sufficient number of skilled craftsmen to meet the needs of the industry, the Parties will continue to expand and improve their presently recognized apprenticeship and journeymen training programs.
6.	The project safety rules and the rules and regulations of the Occupational Safety & Health Act shall apply and be abided by during the construction of a project.
7.	Sufficient numbers of journeymen and apprentices will be made available for a project in order that working of overtime will be unnecessary except under extraordinary circumstances. Shift work may be utilized in order to expedite the job and meet completion schedules.
8.	It is understood that the User of construction services is concerned with the total project being completed and delivered on time without unnecessary or undue delay created by the involved contractors. Full
13
cooperation and coordination of the efforts of all contractors, their workmen, and supervisory personnel is required.
9.	Anything contained in the respective Collective Bargaining Agreements between the parties hereto to the contrary notwithstanding, the work day or shift work or type of job subject to coverage under a particular collective bargaining agreement as defined in the said respective Collective Bargaining Agreements may be changed during the term of said Collective Bargaining Agreements by mutual agreement between Employer and the Business Manager of LOCAL UNION to such work day or shift work or wage rate as shall be established as aforesaid on any given project on a job-by-job basis.
10.	The requirements of the User with respect to security conditions, safety, maintenance of production, parking, and use of vehicles and other regulations will be upheld. The contractor will inform himself of such requirements and, in turn, inform his work force.
11.	Under no circumstances will there be a work stoppage or slow
down as a result of a work assignment or jurisdictional dispute. Settlement of work assignments shall follow legal and contractual avenues established for such disputes.
Where conflict seems likely, pre-assignment conferences with the contractors and Business Representatives of the Unions shall be held well in advance of actual work performance for the purpose of making a positive determination if there is thought to be a difference of opinion.
Area practice, prior agreements and decisions of record shall be taken into account; however, in the event a unanimous agreement is not reached, the contractor who has responsibility for the performance and installation shall make a specific assignment.
12.	Parties to this agreement shall not discriminate against any Employee because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, or age. The parties will comply with established minority employment plans as required.
Signed and effective this 1st day of May, 1999.
MECHANICAL CONTRACTORS
ASSOCIATION OF EASTERN PENNSYLVANIA, INC.
By: Jack H. James, Executive Vice President-Secretary
UNITED ASSOCIATION OF JOURNEYMEN AND APPRENTICES OF THE PLUMBING AND PIPE FITTING INDUSTRY OF THE UNITEDSTATES AND CANADA, LOCAL UNION NO. 690
By: Edward C. Keenan, Business Manager
14
APPENDIX B
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
BY AND BETWEEN
MECHANICAL CONTRACTORS ASSOCIATION OF EASTERN PENNSYLVANIA, INC. (“ASSOCIATION”)
AND
LOCAL UNION NO. 690 (“UNION”)
OF THE
UNITED ASSOCIATION OF JOURNEYMEN AND APPRENTICES OF THE PLUMBING AND PIPE FITTING INDUSTRY OF THE UNITED STATES AND CANADA (“UNITED ASSOCIATION”)
WHEREAS, the parties to this Memorandum of Agreement recognize that substance abuse by any Employee may seriously endanger other Employees as well as the public and adversely affect work performance in this very competitive industry; and
WHEREAS, the parties have agreed to adopt the following substance abuse policy subject to the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth.
NOW, THEREFORE, the parties hereto, intending to be legally bound hereby, agree as follows;
1.	The parties hereby adopt the United Association National Pipe Line Substance Abuse Policy, as the same was adopted by the Pipe Line Contractors Association and the United Association on May 1, 1990 (the “Policy”), for all work coming within the geographic and work jurisdiction of that certain Agreement of the parties made and effective the first day of May, 1999 (the “Agreement”), except as the Policy may be modified by the other terms of this Memorandum of Agreement as hereinafter set forth.
2.	The Policy shall only be observed, with respect to Employees of an Employer covered by the Agreement, in the event such Employer is required by an owner, client, user, general contractor or by federal or state law or regulation to establish its own substance abuse policy for a particular job and/or if such Employer elects to establish a substance abuse policy for a particular job. In no event shall this Memorandum of Agreement be construed to require an Employer covered by the Agreement to adopt the Policy on those jobs where it is not required.
Signed and effective this 1st day of May, 1999.
MECHANICAL CONTRACTORS
ASSOCIATION OF EASTERN PENNSYLVANIA, INC.
By: Jack H. James, Executive Vice President-Secretary
3,	The Policy shall not serve as the substance abuse policy on any job for which an Employer covered by the Agreement is required to adopt and observe the substance abuse policy established by an owner, client, user, general contractor or by federal or state law or regulation, regardless of whether the same is more or less restrictive than the terms of the Policy.
4.	In the event the Policy is amended or modified in any respect at any time in the future by the Pipe Line Contractors Association and United Association, the terms of any such amendment or modification shall not be deemed to be part of the Policy for purposes of this Memorandum of Agreement unless and until the Association and the Union mutually agree in writing to the terms of such amendment or modification, as confirmed by an amendment to this Memorandum of Agreement.
5.	For purposes of this Memorandum of Agreement, ARTICLE VI (DURATION) of the Policy hereby is eliminated.
6.	The Policy shall remain in effect for a period of time to coincide with the term of the Agreement. The Association and the Union agree that either one may move annually to reopen the Policy for purposes of modification or termination by mutual agreement by giving notice sixty (60) days prior to the anniversary date of the execution of the Agreement.
Except as expressly and specifically modified and amended above, the parties hereby ratify and confirm the terms and conditions of the Agreement.
PLUMBERS LOCAL UNION 690 OF THE UNITED ASSOCIATION OF JOURNEYMEN AND APPRENTICES OF THE PLUMBING AND PIPE FITTING INDUSTRY OF THE UNITED STATES AND CANADA
By: Edward C. Keenan, Business Manager
15
CONSENT AND APPROVAL STATEMENT by
EMPLOYERS NOT AFFILIATED WITH THE MECHANICAL CONTRACTORS ASSOCIATION OF EASTERN PENNSYLVANIA
Date_______________
I, or we, the undersigned EMPLOYER, subscribe to the terms and conditions in the foregoing Agreement. Company:______________________________________________________________________
By:__________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
(Signature and Title)
PLUMBERS LOCAL UNION 690 (UA)
By:
(Signature and Title)
17