4. b<>O eC
THE COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT
NEGOTIATED BY AND BETWEEN THE LABOR RELATIONS COMMITTEE
OF THE
ASSOCIATED GENERAL CONTRACTORS OF INDIANA
AND THE
LABORERS’ INTERNATIONAL UNION OF NORTH AMERICA
STATE OF INDIANA
DISTRICT COUNCIL
FOR AND ON BEHALF OF ITS AFFILIATED LOCAL UNIONS #120, #204, #274, #741, #1047, #1112
EFFECTIVE
June 1,2005
thru
May 31,2008
THE COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT NEGOTIATED BY AND BETWEEN THE LABOR RELATIONS COMMITTEE OF THE ASSOCIATED GENERAL CONTRACTORS OF INDIANA
AND THE
LABORERS'INTERNATIONAL UNION OF NORTH AMERICA STATE OF INDIANA DISTRICT COUNCIL FOR AND ON BEHALF OF ITS AFFILIATED LOCAL UNIONS #120, #204, #274, #741, #1047, #1112
EFFECTIVE
June 1, 2005
thru
May 31, 2008
INDEX
ART. SUBJECT	PAG1—
Agreement .................................1
I	Coverage ..................................3
Il	Foremen...................................13
HI	Bargaining Agent .........................14
IV	Union Security ...........................14
V	Working Dues Check-Off ...................16
VI	Equal Employment Opportunity .............18
VII	Selection of Labor-Employment	Regulations .. J 9
VIII	Welfare Trust Fund........................20
IX	PctiMUii Trust Fund.......................20
X	Training Trust Fund ......................21
XI	Notification..............................21
XII	Pre-Job Conference .......................22
XIII	Working Hours and Overtime	............23
XIV	Shift Work ...............................28
XV	Steward ..................................29
XVI	Non-Violation.............................30
XVII	Pay-Day ..................................31
XVIII	Safety....................................32
XIX	Worker’s Compensation.....................32
XX	Elimination of Restrictions ..............33
XXI	Sub-Contractor ...........................33
XXII	Management Rights ........................33
XXIII	Grievance Procedure ......................33
XXIV	General Provisions........................35
XXV	Industry Fund.............................37
XXV(a)	Construction Industry Progress Council of
Central Indiana (Local #120 &	#204 only).39
XXVI	Schedule of Fringe Benefit Contributions ., .40
XVII	Hourly Wage Rates..........................40
.XVUI	General Savings Clause....................50
CXIX	Bonding ...................................51
;XX	Health Care................................52
(XXI	Substance Abuse Program....................52
<XXII	Effective Date ...........................54
Directory.................................56
AGREEMENT NEGOTIATED
BY AND BETWEEN
THE LABOR RELATIONS COMMITTEE OF THE ASSOCIATED GENERAL CONTRACTORS OF INDIANA AND THE
LABORERS’ INTERNATIONAL UNION OF NORTH AMERICA
STATE OF INDIANA DISTRICT COUNCIL June 1, 2005 - May 31, 2008
THIS AGREEMENT is made and entered into this 1st day of June, 2005, by and between the Labor Relations Committee of the Associated General Contractors of Indiana, consisting of the Mason Contractors Association of Indianapolis, The Trade Division of Associated Building Contractors of Lafayette, Inc., Southern Branch of Associated General Contractors of Indiana, Inc., Madison County Contractors Association, and the Marion Contractors Association, Inc. The Contractor Association acting as negotiating agent for and on behalf of certain firms, Party of the First Part. Employers signatory hereto are referred to herein for the purpose of clarity as the “Employer”, and Laborers’ International Union of North America, State of Indiana District Council, acting for and in behalf of L1UNA Locals #120, #204, #274, #741, #1047 and #1112, Party of the Second Part, and hereinafter referred to as “Union”.
It is agreed and understood that the Labor Relations Committee of the Associated General Contractors of Indiana
-1-
is not responsible in any manner whatsoever for the admin istration, implementation and/or performance of thi Agreement and that in no event shall it be bound as princi pal or be held liable as negotiating agent or as principal ir any manner for any breach of this contract by any of th< Employers signatory hereto.
It is further agreed that the liability of the Employers shall bt several and not joint and the liability of the Local Union< affiliated with the Laborers’ International Union of North America, State of Indiana District Council, shall be several and not joint. No purely vicarious liability shall result to any such Employer nr nnnn thp Local Union for wrongful acts of another such Employer or of another such Local Union. It is understood that the Laborers’ International Union of North America, State of Indiana District Council, in signing this Agreement for and on behalf of all of its affiliated Local Unions shall not be responsible for violation of this Agreement by the Local Union affiliated with the Laborers’ International Union of North America, State of Indiana District Council, unless action by said Local in violation of the Agreement is ordered or ratified by the Laborers International Union of North America, State of Indiana District Council, or unless the State of Indiana District Council fails to take whatever action may be necessary to prevent the violation. Provided, however, that nothing contained herein shall be construed as relieving the Local Union of the Laborers’ International Union of North America, State of Indiana District Council of their full responsibility.
-2-
ARTICLE I
COVERAGE
'lection l.Work covered:
a) This Agreement shall cover all work coming within the ecognized jurisdiction of the Laborers’ International Union >f North America as set forth in their Manual of Jurisdiction as amended in October 1961, and by any amendments to this Manual, and as now included in Section 1 of the Jurisdictional Guidelines booklet, adopted by the Laborers’ International Union of North America, State of Indiana District Council, on the date of February 26, 1972, and as amended from time to time as mutually agreed upon by both parties,
(b)	The jurisdiction of work referred to in the wage classification and elsewhere in this Contract is the jurisdiction of work claimed by the Union and nothing contained herein shall make it mandatory for the Employer to accept the claims of jurisdiction as being binding upon him. The Employer does not waive any of his rights by permitting the inclusion of the jurisdiction of work in this Contract.
(c)	The Parties to this Agreement are subject to and agree to submit any unresolved jurisdictional dispute to International Representatives of all disputing trades and, if a satisfactory or mutual understanding cannot be reached at that time, it will be submitted to whatever Federal Governmental Agency, having the responsibility for the resolution of such dispute. Any interpretation or decision by said Agency shall immediately be accepted and complied with by all Parties bound by this Agreement, The Employer and the Union agree that there will be no work stoppage dur
-3-
ing the period pending a jurisdictional decision by the abo\ mentioned Federal Agency.
(d)	This Agreement shall have effect on and covt— Construction Laborers working for Employers on the herei mentioned classes of work in the territory covered by thi Agreement. This Agreement includes industrial project— and/or government defense projects. This Agreemen excludes Heavy and Highway and Utility construction ant Gas Line Distribution Systems on public right-of-ways Laborers jurisdiction of work was originally assigned undei charter by the AFL-CIO, traditional performance of work as established over a period of years by many letters of assignment from Employers who are agreeable that Laborers possess the skill and ability to perform such work by award from the National Labor Relations Board and by mergers and amalgamation, it is agreed and understood that Laborers are tenders of all Trades involved in the Construction Industry and the following is the work of the Laborers:
1.	Digging of all ditches for any purpose, the excavation of all piers, foundations, holes and trenches; the lagging, sheeting, cribbing, bracing and propping of all foundations; all work in connection with caissons, cofferdams, including all excavation, drilling, jackhammering, blasting, shooting, scaling.
2.	The loading, unloading, handling and distribution of all materials, fixtures, furnishings and appliances from point of delivery to point of installation by any means, hand, machinery, or power rigging.
3.	The cleaning and clearing of all debris, including wire brushing of windows, scraping of floors, removal of surplus
-4-
naterial from all fixtures and that of all debris in building nd total construction area; the general clean-up, such as weeping, cleaning, wash-down and wiping of construction acilities and furnishings; the loading and removal of all (ebris, including crates, boxes and waste material; washing >f wall interior and exterior; partitions, ceilings, blackboards, windows, bathrooms, kitchens, laboratories, and all Ixtures and furnishings therein; the mopping, washing, wax-ng and polishing and/or dusting of all floors or areas.
-1. The tending of all temporary heat when done by any process; the drying of plaster, concrete, mortar or other iggregate when done by salamander heat or any other drying process.
5.	The tending of cement masons, brick masons, plasterers, carpenters and other Building Construction Crafts. Tending shall consist of the preparation of all materials and the handling and conveying of materials to the point of erection or installation to be used by mechanics or other Crafts, whether such preparation is by hand or any other process, including power rigging and incidentals thereto. After the material has been prepared or unloaded, tending shall consist of the supplying and conveying of said material and other materials, whether done by hand, shovel, bucket, hod, wheelbarrow or buggy, or other motorized unit used for such purpose.
The tending of Carpenters shall consist of the conveying of all materials from point of unloading to the point of installation or erection by any mode or method; the cleaning of all materials, such as pulling of nails, the cleaning and oiling of all forms; the driving of all stakes for bracing of forms, tending the saw man by off bearing the materials, supplying
-5-
material to the saw and the stacking of the finished produt and then transferring said materials to the point of installs tion on the project.
6.	Scaffold erection, the total erection, building an< installation, planking, bolting, lining, leveling, bracing am the total dismantling of same; the building, planking, instal lation and removal of all staging, swinging and hanging scaf folds, Morgan, scaffolding, all work associated will hydraulically controlled scaffolding, including all acces sories, including maintenance thereof for ail lathers, piaster ers, brick layers, masons and other Construction Trade Crafts; the preparation for foundations or mud sills for all scaffolding, as well as maintenance shall be done by Laborers.
7,	Pouring and laying of concrete and related work Concrete, bituminous concrete or aggregates for walls, footings, foundations, floors or for any other construction; mixing, handling, conveying, pouring, vibrating, gunniting and otherwise placing concrete or aggregates, whether done by hand or any other process; wrecking, stripping, dismantling and handling concrete forms and false work; building of centers for fireproofing purposes, firestop installation and other fireproofing materials; operation of motorized wheelbarrows or buggies or machines of similar character, whether run by gas, diesel or electrical power; when concrete or aggregates are conveyed by crane or derrick, or similar methods, the hooking on, signaling, dumping and unhooking the bucket; the placing of concrete or aggregates, whether poured, pumped, gunnited or placed by any other process; the assembly, uncoupling of all connections and parts of, or to equipment used in mixing or conveying concrete, aggregates or
-6-
nortar, and the cleaning of such equipment, parts and/or onnections; all vibrating, grinding, spreading, flowing, uddling, leveling and strike-off concrete or aggregates by loating, rodding or screeding, by hand or mechanical means rior to finishing. Where pre-stressed or precast concrete labs, walls or sections are used, all loading, unloading, tockpiling, hooking on, signaling, unhooking, setting and airing into place of such slabs, walls, or sections; all mix-ng, handling, conveying, placing and spreading of grout for ny purpose, green cutting of concrete or aggregate in any orm by hand, mechanical means, grindstones or air or vater.
rhe filling and patching of voids, crevices, etc., to correct lefects in concrete caused by leakage, bulging, sagging, etc.
rhe loading, unloading, carrying, distributing and handling f all rods, mesh and materials for use in re-inforcing con-rete construction; the hoisting of rods, mesh and other naterials, except when a derrick or outrigger operated by )ther than hand power is used.
MI work on interior concrete columns, foundations for ngine and machinery beds.
rhe stripping of forms, other than panel forms, which are to >e re-used in their original form and the stripping of forms in all flat arch work.
he moving, cleaning, oiling and carrying of all forms to the icxt point of erection.
The grinding of all concrete surfaces by any mode or nethod.
• The snapping of all wall ties and removal of tie rods;
-7-
the handling, placing and operation of the nozzle, hoses an pots or hoppers or sandblasting or other abrasive cleaning the jacking of slip forms and all semi and unskilled wor connected therewith.
10.	The wrecking or dismantling of buildings and all struc tures; breaking away roof materials, beams of all kinds, wit use of cutting or other wrecking tools as necessary; bumin or otherwise cutting all steel structural beams; the breakin away, cleaning and removal of all masonry and wood o metal fixtures for salvage or scrap; all hooking on, unhook ing and signaling when materials for salvage or scrap ar removed by crane or derrick; all loading and unloading < maieriars can led away from the site of wrecking; all work salvage or junk yards in connection with cutting, cleaning storing, stockpiling or handling of materials; all clean-up removal of debris, burning, back-filling and landscaping o the site of wrecked structure.
11.	The underpinning, lagging, bracing, propping an shoring, raising and moving of all structures, raising o structures by manual or hydraulic jacks or other methods; a work on house moving, shoring and underpinning of struc tures; loading, signaling, right-of-way clearance along th route of movement; re-setting of structure in new location t include all site clearing, excavation for foundation and con Crete work; clean-up and back-filling, landscaping old an new site.
J2. The clearing, excavating, filling, back-filling, gradin and landscaping of all sites for all purposes and all labo connected therewith, including chainmen, rodmen, checker* grade markers, etc.
-8-
3.	Signal men on all construction work defined herein, ncluding traffic control signalmen at construction sites.
4.	All Labor work, including skilled and semi-skilled, in onnection with the installation, sheeting, trenching, man-ole erectors and the digging and back-filling of all ditches, utting of streets and surfaces and the refinishing of same for ewers, air lines, water lines and conduit lines in free air, tun-el or compressed air projects.
5.	The laying of all clay, terra-cotta, ironstone, vitrified oncrete. metallic and/or non-metallic pipe, cast iron, fiber-lass. orange burg, transite, plastic, etc., or any other type ipe for sanitary and/or storm sewers, forced main sewers, ub-surface drainage projects, filter beds, water lines and onduit lines in streets, roadways, right-of-way easements, uilding areas, etc., to the building line.
6.	All the unloading and distribution of all pipe and mate-tals used in the performance of work as set forth above.
7.	All the service connections of pipe from main sewers r water lines to the building line.
8.	The laying of pipe and making of all connections nd/or joints on any and all types of pipe for water, sewer nd/or any other uses, including laser alignment.
9.	The cutting of streets and right-of-ways for laying of ipes, cables and/or conduits for all purposes; digging of enches and manholes, etc.; handling and conveying of all materials; concreting, back-filling, grading and resurfacing nd all other labor connected therewith; clearing and site reparation as defined herein; cutting or jackhammcring of treets, roads, sidewalks or aprons by hand or the use of air
-9-
or other tools; digging of trenches, ditches and manholes an the leveling, grading and other preparation prior to layin pipe or conduit for any purpose; loading, unloading, sortin stockpiling, wrapping, coating, treating, handling and distr bution of water mains and all pipe, including the placing setting and removal of skids, cribbing, driving of sheet pi ing, lagging and shoring of all ditches, trenches and mar holes, handling, mixing or pouring of concrete and the har dling and placing of other materials for saddles, beds c foundations for the protection of pipes, wires, conduits, etc back-filling and compacting of all ditches, resurfacing < roads, streets, etc., and/or restoration of lawns and landscap irtrt1 «i rt 1	« rr h»nrir11in«T r 11 c f t*i Ki 11	tKn iccomhhr in
*11^,	..............~ ^x.^x.x^x^ xx. rx«^
bolting and lining up of sectional metal or other pipe includ ing corrugated pipe; laying of lateral sewer pipe from mai sewer to building; laying, leveling and making of the joint o all multi-cell conduit or multi-purpose pipe; cutting of hole in walls, footings, piers and/or other obstructions for the pas sage of pipe or conduit for any purpose and the pouring o concrete to secure said holes; digging under streets, road ways, aprons or other paved surfaces for the passage of pipe by hand, earth auger or any other method and manual an hydraulic jacking of pipe under said surfaces; installation o septic tanks, cesspools and drain fields; all work in connec tion with shafts, tunnels, subways and sewers; constructio of sewers, shafts, tunnels, subways and caissons.
20,	The setting of all man-holes such as pre-cast poured it place block, brick, setting of all cast iron catch basins anc manholes and all work in connection thereto.
21.	In compressed air, all work underground or in com pression chambers, including tending of the outer aid lock
-10-
ill work in compressed air construction, including but not limited to, groutmen, trackmen, blasters, shield drivers, miners, brakemen, miners’ helpers, lock tenders, mulching machine operators, motor men, gauge tenders, rodmen, compressed air electricians, setting of [iner plate and ring sets, drill runners, powdermen or blasters, air hoist operators, form men, concrete blower operators, cement operators, power knife operators, erector operators, steel setters, cage tenders, skinners, track layers, dumpmen, diamond drillers, timbermen and re-timbermen, cherry pickmen, nippers, chuck-tenders and cable tenders, vibratormen, jet gunmen, gunnite nozzlemen, gunmen, reboundmen and all other work connected therewith,
22.	Railroad Track Work: Right-of-way clearing, excavation, grading and sub-grading, ballasting and compacting of right-of-way; loading, unloading, stockpiling, handling and distribution of track and ties and placing of or jacking track and ties at point of installation; all burning or otherwise cutting of track; setting of tie plates, bolting, leveling and gauging of rails and all spiking, whether by hand or mechanical means, placing and tamping of ballast by hand or mechanical means; construction and/or relocation of mainlines, shoe flys, sidings, gradings, crossings, relocating of pipes and drainage and culverts.
23,	Asbestos Removal/Lead Base Paint and Hazardous Waste Removal: Ail work in regards to the dismantling, wrecking, clean-up, dilution process, loading, transporting, operation of monitoring equipment, etc.
24,	Fire Prevention and Control: Shall include but not be limited to the watching for and prevention of fires (with a fire hose or fire extinguisher or other means) when there is
-11-
welding, burning, grinding, etc., being performed in an are. where combustible materials are present. Upon request o the Contractor, these Employees shall have completed th< Laborers Training Course in Fire Prevention and Control.
25.	Sinking of wellpoints, installation of dewatering header systems,
Section 2. Jurisdictional Disputes:
(a)	The Employer agrees to respect the jurisdiction of the Union and shall not make a written or a permanent assignment of work to other Trades without first affording Parties to the disputed work an opportunity to present evidence substantiating their claims. The Employer does not waive any of his rights by permitting the inclusion of jurisdiction of work in this Contract. Furthermore, no Business Manager has the authority to enter into a written agreement with another Trade in regards to work jurisdiction.
(b)	It is agreed that there shall not be any work stoppages over jurisdictional disputes with any Craft or Crafts employed on any project. Should jurisdictional disputes or differences arise with other Parties which endanger the continuous progress of a project which cannot be settled at the local level, the Employer shall make a written work assignment in accordance with Area practice related to the specific project only and work shall continue in accordance with the assignment by the Employer until representatives of the International Union of all disputing Trades meet and bring about, or cause to bring about, a satisfactory or mutual understanding with the Employer.
(c)	It is agreed and understood that the Union will make every effort to inform its membership that there is a legally
-12-
established neutral entrance or gate on a construction site that is being picketed illegally and where work is being performed under the conditions of this Agreement. The above does in no way waive any of the Employees rights granted him under the Constitution of the United States and/or Federal Government.
ARTICLE II
FOREMEN
Section 1.	All Labor Foremen and Hod Carrier Foremen are included in the bargaining unit. The Foreman shall be selected by the Employer and take directions from same.
Section 2.	When five (5) or more Laborers, or five (5) or more Hod Carriers are employed on any one project, a Foreman will be employed. Said Foreman may perform manual labor but he shall receive the Foreman rate as stipulated herein.
Section 3.	When there are three (3) or more Foremen on a project, one (1) shall be assigned as General Foreman.
Section 4.	In no case shall a Foreman have the authority to hire or discharge Employees. All hiring and discharging will be done either by the Superintendent of the Party of the First Part, or by the Party of the First Part.
Section 5.	At no time shall one Foreman have more than fifteen (15) Laborers or Hod Carriers under his leadership. The principal duties of a Labor Foreman with over fifteen (15) Employees is to supervise and direct the work force.
-13-
ARTICLE III
BARGAINING AGENT
Section 1.	The Labor Relations Committee of the Associatet General Contractors of Indiana, consisting of the Masor= Contractors Association of Indianapolis, the Trade Divisior-of Associated Building Contractors of Lafayette, Inc.. Southern Branch of Associated General Contractors ol Indiana, Inc., Madison County Contractors Association, and the Marion Contractors Association, Inc., as the authorized representatives of the Employers who have assigned bargaining rights to the Committee for negotiation of the agreement, recognize the Laborers’ International Union of North America, State of Indiana District Council, as the sole and exclusive multi-union Collective Bargaining Representatives for all Employees in the Unit, consisting of Construction Laborers, who are employed by the Employer on all work and classifications set forth in this Agreement.
Section 2.	The State of Indiana District Council and its affiliated Local Unions #120, #204. #274, #741, #1047 and #1112, likewise recognizes the Labor Relations Committee of the Associated General Contractors of Indiana and members of said organization for all work set forth in Article I for the area outlined in this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
UNION SECURITY
Section 1. The Contractor, or Employer, recognizes and acknowledges that the Laborers’ International Union of North America, State of Indiana District Council, is the sole representative of all Employees in the classification of all work under its jurisdiction covered by this Agreement, for
-14-
he purpose of collective bargaining. The State of Indiana district Council likewise recognizes the Labor Relations Committee of the Associated General Contractors of Indiana as listed in Article III) as the sole bargaining agents for vork as defined herein and recognizes the Labor Relations Committee of the Associated General Contractors of Indiana as listed in Article III) as negotiating agents for its members or all work set forth in Article I for the areas outlined in this Agreement.
ection 2. Subject to the provisions and limitations of the National Labor Relations Act, as amended, all present jnployees, who are members of the Union on the effective ate of this Agreement, shall continue their membership in he Union for the duration of this Agreement to the extent of aying an initiation fee and membership dues and working ues uniformly required as a condition of acquiring or etaining membership in the Union. All Employees, who are ot members of the Union, and all persons who hereafter ecome Employees, shall become members of the Union on he eighth (8th) day following the beginning of their employ-nent, or, on the eighth (8th) day following the effective date f this Agreement, whichever is later, and shall remain mem-ers of the Union to the extent of paying an initiation fee and he membership dues and working dues uniformly required s a condition of acquiring or retaining membership in the Jnion, whenever employed under and for the duration of his Agreement.
ection 3. The Union shall notify the Employer, by certified nail, directed to the home office of the Employer, of any efaull on the part of an Employee to pay his initiation fee
-15-
and membership dues and/or working dues pursuant to thi Article, with a copy of said communication being han delivered to both the job Superintendent and the Employe involved. Such communication shall: identify the name an address of the delinquent Employee; state that Unio Membership was available to such Employee under the sam terms and conditions generally applicable to other members state that despite notice, such Employee has defaulted on hi obligation to pay his initiation fee and membership dues an working dues; and, shall instruct the Employer to discharg such Employee. Within twenty-four (24) hours (Saturda and Sunday excluded) from receipt of such written notice the Employer shall discharge such Employee. The Partie agree that such discharge shall be based upon the informa tion supplied and representations made by the Union, ant the Union agrees to indemnify and hold the Employer harmless for any actions taken by the Employers in relianc upon the information supplied and representations made b; the Union in the event such information and representation turn out to be incorrect.
ARTICLE V
WORKING DUES CHECK-OFF
Section 1. Each Employer signatory to this Agreemen agrees to deduct from the pay of Employees covered by thi Agreement regular and uniform Working Dues, in the amount designated by the Union, provided, before any such deduction is made, the Union shall secure and furnish to the Employer a properly signed Authorization Form from eaet Employee permitting such deductions. The Union agrees tt indemnify and hold the Employers harmless for any action taken by the Employers in reliance upon the information
-16-
upplied and representations made by the Union in the event uch information and representations turn out to be incor-ect. Such deductions shall be remitted by the I Oth of each nonth, following the end of the month for which deductions re made, to the designated depository at the same time and ccompanying Health & Welfare, Pension and Training con-ributions but by separate check and report of gross wages, rhe designated depository shall be called the State of ndiana District Council of Laborers Working Dues Fund.
ection 2. The Authorization and Assignment of Working )ues shall be irrevocable for the period of one (1) year or ntil the termination of this Collective Bargaining Agreement, whichever period is less, unless written notice is iven by the Employee to the Employer and to the Union, ot more than sixty (60) days and not less than thirty (30) ays before any periodic renewal date. In case no such otice is given, the Authorization shall continue in effect rom year to year until such notice is given.
ection 3. Violation of the Dues Check-Off Clause of this Agreement is specifically exempted from the application of he grievance and arbitration procedure. (If the Employer lolates the provisions of the dues check-off clause of this Agreement, the Union, without violation of this Agreement, hall be permitted to strike the Employer to remedy such tolation, provided, the Employer is given a certified written otice by the Union of its violation and is further allowed a eriod of fifteen (15) days to remedy said violation).
section 4, The Employer, or his authorized representative, hall notify the Local Union of the Party of the Second Part f all Employees given employment covered by this Xgreement, by submitting on the first fringe benefit report
-17-
after hire in, in order that the Union may obtain the require and necessary information from the aforesaid individuals t properly register them in the Working Dues Check-Off.
ARTICLE VI
EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY
Section 1.	As used in this document, the terms “he", “his or similar masculine pronouns shall be construed to includ the feminine alternatives of such pronouns. Such terms ar used solely for grammatical purposes and shall not be con strued to limit this contract or its application on the basis o sex, race, national origin or any other classifications.
Section 2.	The Employer will not discriminate in hiring o Employees and will conform to laws with respect to hiring
Section 3.	It is a condition of this Agreement, agreed to b both the Union and the Employer, to provide equal opportu nity in employment for all qualified persons and to prohibi unlawful discrimination in employment because of race religion, age, sex, mental or physical disabilities, veteran sta tus, color or national origin. There shall be full complianc with all applicable Federal and State statutes, regulations rules and orders of appropriate Federal or State agencie having jurisdiction over the subject matter of discriminatior in employment.
Section 4.	The Union and the Employer shall fully complj with all the requirements contained in Executive Orders anc will comply with all rulings promulgated by the Committer on Equal Opportunity established thereunder. The Unior agrees to furnish the Employer at his request any statemen or data required by any Executive Order.
-18-
ARTICLE VII
SELECTION OF
LABOR-EMPLOYMENT REGULATIONS
Section 1. (a) In employment, no applicant shall be dis-riminated against for membership or non-membership in he Union. When the Employer has requested the Union to urnish Employees for a job, such Employees shall be eferred by the Union on a non-discriminatory basis.
b)	The Employer retains the right to reject any applicant whether furnished by the Union or not, and further the employer shall have the right to determine the competency nd qualifications of his Employees and the right to dis-harge for just cause.
c)	The Employer may call the Union for an individual by ame, provided he is not employed by another Employer.
Jnder such circumstances the Union shall refer such indi-zidual.
section 2.	Documentation and Verification - The Employer nd the Union will work cooperatively to assure that both ’arties comply with their legal responsibilities under the mmigration and Reform and Control Act of 1986. In so doing, the Union will request from each Employee before eferring them to an Employer, documentation which estab-ishes citizenship or other legal status to work in the United states. These documents shall be any of the documents which are allowed under the .regulations promulgated under RCA. This section may be amended mutually when regu-ations are finalized on these requirements.
Section 3.	The Union will send no Employee to the Employer who they know does not comply with the
-19-
Residency Requirements of the Immigration and Reforr Act.
ARTICLE VIII
WELFARE TRUST FUND
Section 1.	On work covered by this Agreement, th Employer agrees to pay into the Indiana State Distric Council of Laborers and Hod Carriers Welfare Fund th amount in cents per hour as shown in Article XXVI Payment shall be made on the dates, in the manner, form ant in accordance with the rules and regulations as adopted b the Trustees of the herein mentioned Welfare Fund.
Section 2,	The Employer agiws io i>v bound by th Agreement and Declaration of Trust, entered into and datec May 25, 1953, establishing the Indiana State Distric Council of Laborers and Hod Carriers Welfare Fund ant Participating Employers and by any amendments to sak Trust Agreement.
Section 3.	The Welfare Trust Fund shall be administered it accordance with all provisions of applicable law.
ARTICLE IX
PENSION TRUST FUND
Section 1.	On work covered by this Agreement, the Employer agrees to pay into the Indiana State Distric Council of Laborers and Hod Carriers Pension Fund the amount in cents per hour as shown in Article XXVI Payment shall be made on the dates, in the manner, form anc in accordance with the rules and regulations as adopted by the Trustees of the herein mentioned Pension Trust Fund.
Section 2.	The Employer agrees to be bound by the
-20-
Agreement and Declaration of Trust entered into and dated une 1, 1962, establishing the Indiana State District Council tf Laborers and Hod Carriers Pension Fund and Participating Employers and by any amendments to said frust Agreement.
section 3.	The Pension Trust Fund shall be administered in iccordance with all provisions of applicable law.
ARTICLE X
TRAINING TRUST FUND
section 1. On work covered by this Agreement, the employer agrees to pay into the Indiana Laborers Training Frust Fund the amount in cents per hour as shown in Article <XVi. Payment shall be made on the dates, in the manner, orm and in accordance with the rules and regulations as dopted by the Trustees of the herein mentioned Training Frust Fund.
■lection 2. The Employer agrees to be bound by the Agreement and Declaration of Trust entered into and dated April I, 1968, establishing the Indiana Laborers Training frust Fund and Participating Employers and by any amend -nents to said Trust Agreement.
section 3. The Indiana Laborers Training Trust Fund shall >e administered in accordance with all provisions of appli-able law,
ARTICLE XI
NOTIFICATION
Section 1. The Employer or his authorized representative hall notify the Local Union of the Party of the Second Part jf all Employees given employment covered by this
-21-
Agreement, by submitting on the first fringe benefit repoi after hire in, the name, social security number and curren known address of new Employees,
In the event an Employer signatory hereto violates thi Article, the Union shall have the right to file a grievance under this Agreement or commence a lawsuit against th< Employer, or both.
ARTICLE XII
PRE-JOB CONFERENCE
Section 1.	Upon written request by either Party, a pre-jot conference will be held prior to the time the Employees o cnrh FmnlnVPr hArrin	HfOSOCt
Section 2.	A written request for a pre-job conference sent by either Party shall be sent by certified mail. If either Party refuses to honor the request for a pre-job conference withir five (5) working days from receipt of requested pre-job con ference or does not abide by a previously agreed and signed pre-job conference or in the event a pre-job is not mutually agreed to and signed by both Parties upon request, the Loca Union has the right to picket, strike and/or withhold Employees, However, no picketing, striking, withdrawal o withholding of Employees will occur until the State o Indiana District Council has had an opportunity to investi gate said violation.
Section 3.	Likewise, it shall not be in violation of this Agreement for an Employer to commence work withou such requested pre-job conference, if the Union fails to mee for a pre-job conference on a date prior to that scheduled by the Employer for the commencement of work.
-22-
ARTICLE XIII
WORKING HOURS AND OVERTIME
ection 1. Work Week/Work Day:
) The regular work week shall be a forty (40) hour week, londay a.m. through Friday p,m. The project starting time qall be established in the pre-job conference (Article XII), nee established, the project starting time shall not be tanged without mutual consent of both parties.
) If an Employee is required to start work prior to the gular starting time established in the pre-job conference, nd Employee shall receive one and one-half (1-1/2) times e regular rate of pay for each hour worked prior to the reg-ar starting time.
) At the pre-job conference, the Contractor shall be enti-ed to elect working his Employees under one of two ptions.
I.	On the basis of five (5) consecutive work days, Monday through Friday, eight (8) hours per day, or;
2,	On the basis of four (4) consecutive work days, Monday through Thursday, ten (10) hours per day.
1) The option selected during the pre-job conference must e mutually agreed to and may be changed only by the onlractor giving notification to the Union five (5) days in dvance of such change,
) If the Contractor elects Option 1, all hours worked by e Employee in excess of eight (8) hours in any one day xclusive of lunch period) or over forty (40) hours in one
-23-
work week (Monday through Saturday) shall be paid at th rate of one and one half (1-1/2) times the regular rate of pa Saturday shall be treated as a make-up day if, due inclement weather, the Contractor has not worked the regt lar work days and hours Monday through Friday, Saturday is scheduled as a make-up day, no less than eig (8) hours of work will be scheduled. Overtime pay will b determined by the regular crew overtime,
(f)	If the Contractor elects option 2, all hours worked b the Employee in excess of ten (10) hours in any one da (exclusive of lunch period) or over forty (40) hours in an one work week (Monday through Friday) shall be paid at th rale of one ano one-naif (i - i/2) limes me reguiar rate of pa Friday shall be treated as a make-up day if due to inclemer weather, the Contractor has not worked the regular wor days or hours Monday through Thursday, If Friday is sched uled as a make-up day no less than eight (8) hours will b scheduled, Saturday will be worked at the rate of one an one-half (1-1/2) times the regular rate of pay. Overtime pa will be determined by the regular crew overtime.
(g)	If a Laborer has not worked a minimum of the last reg ular work day during the week, he cannot work a make-u day at the regular rate of pay,
(h)	Employees must be informed prior to the conclusion o the last regular work day during the week that the make-u day will be in whole or in part at the regular rate of pa (depending on how much inclement weather was exper enced),
(i)	Working a make-up day will be strictly on a voluntar basis. Employees refusing to work on make-up days will no
-24-
e penalized.
ection 2. Mason Tenders — It is agreed and understood that Jason Tenders who start work before the established proj-ct starting time will be paid one and one-half (1-1/2) times he regular rate of pay for those early hours.
ection 3. Sundays and Holidays:
a) Work performed on Sundays and Holidays will be paid t double (2x) the regular rate of pay. Holidays recognized y this Agreement are New Year’s Day, Memorial Day, ourth of July, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day and the day hereafter, and Christmas Day. (No work shall be performed n Labor Day except to save life or property). Veteran’s Day hall be observed the day after Thanksgiving. Where any of he herein mentioned Holidays fall on Sunday, the following Jonday will be observed as the Holiday.
ection 4. Reporting to Work;
OPTION 1. Five (5) eight (8) hour days:
a)	The Employer will not be obligated to pay any Laborer ppearing for work if failure to go to work is due to nclement weather, Acts of God, vandalism, or a work stopage by another craft. Otherwise, two (2) hours of pay at the egular rate will be allowed for two (2) hours time for report-ng to work, provided the Laborer remains at the jobsite to terform whatever work may be assigned to him.
b)	If an Employee actually starts to work, he shall receive our (4) hours pay, except in cases of inclement weather, kets of God, vandalism, or a work stoppage by another craft.
c)	If an Employee works for longer than four (4) hours, he hall be paid for eight (8) hours, except in cases of inclement
-25-
weather, Acts of God, vandalism, or a work stoppage b another craft.
OPTION 2. Four (4) ten (10) hour days:
(a)	The Employer will not be obligated to pay any Lahore appearing for work if failure to go to work is due t inclement weather, Acts of God, vandalism, or a work stop page by another craft. Otherwise, two (2) hours of pay at th regular rate will be allowed for two (2) hours time for report ing to work, provided the Laborer remains at the jobsite t perform whatever work may be assigned to him.
(b)	If an Employee actually starts to work, he shall receiv five (5) hours pay, except in cases of inclement weather, Acl of God, vandalism, or a work stoppage by another craft.
(c)	If an Employee works for longer than five (5) hours, h shall be paid for ten (10) hours, except in cases of inclemen weather, Acts of God, vandalism, or a work stoppage b another craft.
(d)	On overtime work, under Option 1 or Option 2, if a Employee reports to work, he shall receive two (2) hours pa at the regular rate of pay, except in cases of inclement weath er. Acts of God, vandalism, or a work stoppage by anothe craft.
(e)	On overtime work, under Option 1 or Option 2, if a Employee starts to work, he shall receive four (4) hours o premium pay or the actual hours worked times the premiurr rate of pay (whichever is greater) except in cases o inclement weather, Acts of God, vandalism, or a work stop page by another craft.
(f)	It is understood that, consistent with this Section, thr
-26-
employee will not be docked for time lost due to break-owns of machinery or while waiting for materials.
ection 5. Clothing and Equipment - The Employer will urnish special wearing apparel such as rain hats, coats and oots to protect the Employee when working in inclement veather or adverse conditions. The Employer will also fur-ish safety equipment such as safety hats, safety goggles, espirators and protective masks and slip-over boots for all employees working in concrete. It is agreed and understood hat the Employer will be permitted to charge any Employee or such wearing apparel and safety equipment should the employee fail to return any item issued to him. Any employee required to work in hazardous environments will e provided all equipment that is required, including gloves.
ection 6. Lunch:
a)	A lunch period of thirty (30) minutes will be estabshed between the three and one-half (3-1/2) and the four nd one-half (4-1/2) hour of the regular work day. The mployer will provide a suitable and sanitary place to eat.
b)	When an Employee is required to take his lunch period fter the four and one-half (4-1/2) hour, said Employee will e paid at one and one-half (1-1/2) times the regular rate of ay for the thirty (30) minute lunch period and shall be llowed a fifteen (15) minute lunch period at his regular rate f pay.
c)	After ten (10) hours of work, the Employees will be ranted a twenty (20) minute paid lunch period. When employees are required to work through this second lunch eriod, they will be paid an additional twenty (20) minutes t the applicable overtime rate of pay. This second lunch
-27-
period will be taken consistent with the other trades, whe feasible.
ARTICLE XIV
SHIFT WORK
Section 1.	The Employer may elect to work not in excess c three (3) shifts. No work shall be considered shift wor under this Article unless two (2) or more shifts arc worke for a period of three (3) consecutive days, except when th period required is broken by Sundays, Holidays, an Act t God, inclement weather or strike. If the shift is broke before such three (3) consecutive days, the applicable ove time rate will apply.
Section 2.	When shifts are required, the first shift shall wor eight (8) hours at the regular straight time rate. The secon shift shall work seven and one-half (7-1/2) hours and receiv eight (8) hours pay at the regular straight time rate and eigh (8) hours fringe benefits. The third shift shall work seven (7 hours and receive eight (8) hours pay at the regular straigh lime rate and eight (8) hours fringe benefits.
Section 3.	When Employees are required to work overtim on the First Shift, they shall be paid the established overtim rate of pay for all hours worked in excess of eight (8) hour on any one (1) shift.
Section 4.	When Employees arc required to work overtim on the Second Shift, they shall be paid the established over time rate of pay for all hours worked in excess of seven an one-half (7-1/2) hours. Fringes shall be paid on all hour worked.
Section 5.	When Employees are required to work overtim
-28-
n the Third Shift, they shall be paid the established ovcr-me rate of pay for all hours worked in excess of seven (7) ours. Fringes shall be paid on all hours worked.
ection 6. When an Employee is required to work overtime, he Employer will be obligated to continue paying the appli-able overtime rate until the Employee has had an eight (8) our break.
ARTICLE XV
STEWARD
ection 1. When the Business Manager or his designated epresentative deems it advisable, he may, upon written otice to the Employer, appoint from the Employer’s exist-ng work force a Steward or Stewards on any given project, aid Steward is to be recognized by the Employer and he hall have the right to act on any grievance without discrimnation. Said Steward shall be a working Employee and hall be retained on any given project as long as, or when any anployee covered by this Agreement is employed on the roject by the Employer, in accordance with Article VII, ection 1 (b).
ection 2. In case the Steward cannot settle any dispute or rievance, the Business Manager shall be notified to take up vith the Party of the First Part said grievance. For all pur-oses of this Agreement, it is understood that the duties of he Steward are limited to:
a)	To insist that the provisions of this Agreement be complied with by the First and Second Parties.
b)	To report to the Business Manager any question that he cannot settle with the Party of the First Part.
-29-
(c) To report unsafe conditions to the Job Superintenden Section 3. When the Employer starts a special crew or 2n or 3rd shift crews, he will not be compelled to use the sam Steward on the special or shift work as on the regular wort Section 4. In the event of a general lay-off by the Employe for any reason, the Steward shall be the first Employe recalled, unless the Employer needs an Employee who po« sesses specific skills that a Steward cannot perform. In the event, the Employer may recall another Employee and th Steward will be the second man recalled.
ARTICLE XVI
NON-VIOLATION
Section 1. It shall not be a violation of this Agreement, if a Employee or Employees cease work because of:
(a)	Dispute arising out of the failure of the individua Employer to meet the payroll for Employees covere by this Agreement.
(b)	Dispute because a payroll check is dishonored.
(c)	Non-payment of contributions set forth under Articl VIII, Article IX and Article X, covering the Trust Fund under the respective Articles mentioned herein an Article V covering Working Dues deductions and as i the manner and accordance as prescribed herein, pro vided the Employer is sixty (60) days delinquent.
(d)	Failure of an individual Employer to comply with th terms and provisions of Article XII of this Agreement covering Pre-Job Conferences.
-30-
ARTICLE XVII
PAY-DAY
ection 1. The Employer shall pay Employees weekly and he payment shall be in full for the payroll period. Payment hall be made within five (5) business days of the payroll eriod and shall be in cash or by check. In the event employees covered by this Agreement are laid off perma-ently or discharged, they shall be paid immediately. It is trictly understood and agreed that, should any Employee ischarged or laid off permanently be required to report the ext morning to collect his pay he shall receive four (4) ours show up pay for reporting for his pay for each subse-uent morning on which he returns until paid. Employees vho quit voluntarily shall be paid at the next regular pay day. 4owever, when Employees are laid off or discharged etwecn the hours of 6:00 p.m. Friday through 8:00 a.m. on Monday because of unscheduled or emergency require-nents, the Employee will be paid by 11:00 a.m. Monday, inless special arrangements are made with the Employer. Chis will in no way supercede the Employer’s requirement to ray the regular scheduled payday or lay-off as outlined ibove.
section 2. Each weekly pay shall be accompanied by a tatement listing the name of the Employee and Employer, he date, the number of hours worked, both straight and wertime, the monies deducted and for what purpose said leductions were made.
-31-
ARTICLE XVIII
SAFETY
Section I.	The Employer agrees to provide safe workin conditions and practices as set forth in current Safet Standards for the Construction Industry.
Section 2.	It is agreed that all Employees covered by thi Agreement shall fully comply with all safety directive issued by the Employer and shall properly utilize all safet equipment provided by the Employer when so directed Failure to comply with these provisions may be cause fo discharge. Furthermore, it is agreed and understood that th Employee shnl 1 retain the right to refuse to work under con ditions considered to be hazardous or unsafe.
Section 3.	All journeyman workers are required to hav completed and passed CPR training, First Aid Training, an a 10 hour OSHA training course. The Union will set up “Safety Program” to insure that all journeymen arc certifie and that this certification is maintained.
ARTICLE XIX
WORKER’S COMPENSATION
Section 1. The Employer agrees to ensure that all Worker Compensation claims will be filed in the most timely ant expeditious manner and in any event not later than seven (7 days following the illness or injury. Upon request, the Employer agrees to provide the Employee and/or the Loca Union involved the name and address of the Employer’ insurance carrier.
-32-
ARTICLE XX
ELIMINATION OF RESTRICTIONS
lection 1. No rules, customs or practices shall be permitted hat limit production or increase the time required to do any work. There shall be no limitation or restriction of the use of machinery, tools, or other labor-saving devices.
ARTICLE XXI
SUBCONTRACTOR
Section 1. The Employer shall not contract any work covered by this Agreement to be done at the site of construction, alterations, repairs or any new construction or any other work to any person, firm or company that does not have an existing labor agreement with the Union covering such work within the scope of this Agreement.
ARTICLE XXII
MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
section 1. The Employer retains and shall exercise full and xclusive authority and responsibility for the management of ts operations, except as expressly limited by the terms of his Agreement.
ARTICLE XXIII
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
section 1. (a) There shall be no stoppage of work on ccount of any difference of opinion, or dispute which may rise between the Parties of the First Part and Second Part, t is agreed by the Parties that all grievances, disputes, or laims, (except jurisdictional disputes, wage rates, fringe benefits and dues check-off) which may arise with respect to
-33-
the enforcement or interpretation of any of the terms of thi Agreement are to be resolved in the following manner:
All grievances, disputes, or claims which may arise betwee Employers signatory to this Agreement or Employees wh< have accepted this Agreement and thus became Parties here to shall be resolved in the following manner:
(I)	The dispute shall first be discussed by the Job Stewarc or other Union Representative and the Employer’ Foreman and/or Superintendent.
(2)	If the grievance is not resolved, then the dispute shal be referred to the Business Representative of the Unior and Employer’s Representative.
(3)	In the event said dispute has not been resolved, the State of Indiana District Council through it Representative, shall meet with the Employer’ Representative, in an attempt to resolve said dispute.
(4)	In the event that the dispute is not settled, either Party may, through written notice to the other Party, submi the grievance or dispute to final and binding arbitration
(5)	The Arbitrator shall be selected in the following man ner:
The Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service shal be requested to submit a panel of arbitrators, who shal be members of the National Academy of Arbitrators, of which names are alternately struck until the remaining arbitrator, whose name remains on the list, shall serve as the arbitrator to hear and decide the dispute and/or grievance. The arbitrator’s decision shall be final and binding on both Parties.
*34-
The cost of the arbitrator shall be borne equally by both Parties to the grievance and/or dispute.
Section 2.	No proceeding hereinunder based on any dispute, complaint or grievance herein provided for shall be recognized unless called to the attention of the individual Employer and the Local Union involved in writing within ten (10) days after the alleged violation is committed.
Section 3.	Copies of the decision made by the Grievance Committee and/or the Arbitrator shall be mailed to the Employer and the Union,
Section 4.	There shall be no stoppage of work on account of any difference of opinion or dispute which may arise between the Parties of the First and Second Part, or between this and any other unit or units of Organized Labor, or between other Units of Organized Labor, or between any unit or units of Organized Labor and any other division of the Building Industry,
Section 5.	EXCEPTIONS - Notwithstanding the other provisions of this Article, it shall not be a violation of this Agreement if any Employee or Employees of an Employer .ease work or picket because of non-payment of wages, dis-tonored payroll checks, non-payment of Health and Welfare ontributions, Pension contributions, Training contributions ind/or Working Dues deductions by said Employer.
ARTICLE XXIV
GENERAL PROVISIONS
section 1.	This Agreement covers the entire understanding 'etween the Parties hereto. No oral or written rule, regula-ion, or understanding not incorporated herein will be of any
-35-
force or effect upon any Party hereto.
Section 2,	This Agreement shall apply from and after its effective date as hereinafter provided.
Section 3.	The Employer shall at all times provide sanitary drinking water and containers, iced water when necessary and toilet facilities, same to be stationed conveniently to all Employees.
Section 4.	The Employer shall make reasonable efforts to make provisions for permitting access to the job site by the Business Manager of the Local Union, or his duly appointed Field Representative. If the Business Manager of a Local Union is denied access to a job site for the purpose of transacting business, he shall notify the main office of the Employer to assist him in obtaining admission.
Section 5.	When a job is located within a Plant, the Employer shall provide (for regular shifts) adequate means for transporting Employees from the Plant entrance, to the job, provided the operation of the job is one-half (1/2) mile or more from the Plant entrance. Vehicles shall be properly covered during cold or inclement weather. When this condi tion exists, Employees will go in to work on their time and go out from work on the Employer’s time.
Section 6.	When any Employee or Employees work in twe-(2) or more Classifications during the period of the first halt of the shift, he or they shall receive the wage rate of the highest Classification for such period and an Employee ot Employees working in two (2) or more Classifications dur ing the second half of the shift shall receive the wage rate o the highest Classification for such period.
-36-
Section 7.	Any Contractor who signs this Agreement to perform work covered by this Agreement has the option of signing any other Agreement negotiated by the State of Indiana District Council of Laborers and any other Employer Group covering any and all work of the Construction Industry covered by the Laborers and pay the applicable wages, fringes and other conditions contained therein.
Section 8.	Upon request by the Employer, the Employees’ training and/or work record will be made available.
Section 9.	Employers may utilize “Key Personnel" on any work performed in the geographic jurisdiction of the Union. “Key Personnel" is defined as being members of the Union who have been in the contractor’s employment more than three months. The number of “Key Personnel" to be cleared in will be determined in the pre-job conference. The balance of the Employees, if available, shall be employed from the individual Local Union's membership. If the Local Union is unable to provide the balance of Employees, the Employer may utilize whatever means are necessary to man the work.
ARTICLE XXV
INDUSTRY FUND
It is understood that the Associated General Contractors of Indiana, Inc., an Indiana corporation not-for-profit has established the Construction Advancement Program of Central Indiana (hereinafter “Program"). The purpose of such Program to be to generally promote and improve the construction industry, without limiting the generality of the foregoing. apprenticeship training, advanced skill training, supervisory training, improvement of public and personnel elations, market development, standardization of contracts
-37-
and specifications, developments of relations with others (including the public, architects, suppliers and laborer), collection and distribution of information useful and beneficial to the construction or contracting industry, and otherwise promote and advance the interest and common good of the construction contracting industry in the state. It is understood that each Employer will be furnished a copy of the Articles of Incorporation upon request and that, subject to the foregoing limitations, such Articles of Incorporation may be amended from time to time by the Board of Directors.
Each Employer shall contribute an amount per clock hour for each hour worked by each of his Foremen, Journeymen and Apprentices covered by this Agreement. The hourly amount shall be between five cents ($.05) to ten cents ($.10), as determined by the Trustees of the Program, provided that a minimum of three months’ notice shall be provided by the trustees before the amount may be adjusted within said range.
Each Employer shall pay the contribution to the Program on or before the 15th day of each month on account of hours for which such employees were compensated during the preceding calendar month. The Employer shall also provide the Program with a copy of the monthly remittance report the Employer furnishes to the Indiana State District Council of Laborers and Hod Carriers Welfare Fund showing the hours worked by Employees covered by this Agreement for which contributions are being made to said fund for such month.
It is expressly understood and agreed that the Board of Directors of the Program have the authority to conduct an audit of the records of any Employer to determine whethei such Employer is contributing to the Program in accordance
-38-
with the provisions of this Article. It is further understood that, in the event an Employer is determined to be delinquent and/or to have failed to make contributions as required in this Article, any legal expenses of the Program, including attorney’s fees, court costs, and other expenses incurred in the audit and collection of such delinquent and/or non-con-tributed funds shall be borne by the Employer, It is further understood and agreed that such Employer shall be obligated to pay any delinquent contributions to the Program with interest charged at the rate then applicable to Internal Revenue Service collection of delinquent and/or unpaid taxes.
It is expressly understood and agreed that no Employee, Employer, or Union shall have any vested or proprietary interest in or right to any sum constituting a part of said Program,
ARTICLE XXV(a)
CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY PROGRESS COUNCIL OF CENTRAL INDIANA (LOCAL #120 & LOCAL #204 ONLY)
Section l.The Parties to this Agreement agree to establish a market recovery program. The program will be a not-for-profit corporation and will be governed by a Board of Directors consisting of equal number representing Unions and Employers who agree to participate. Employers further agree to fund the program through contributions not to exceed ten cents ($.10) per hour worked by Employees of participating Unions. Details of the Program are contained in the Articles of Incorporation and ByLaws which are made a part of this Agreement by reference.
-39-
*The Board of Directors of the Construction Industry Progress Council of Central Indiana will notify directly all signatories to this Agreement of the specific amount to be paid into the Construction Industry Progress Council of Central Indiana.
ARTICLE XXVI
SCHEDULE OF FRINGE BENEFIT CONTRIBUTIONS
Section 1. In addition to the hourly wage rates listed hereinafter, Fringe Benefit Contributions to the Health & Welfare Fund, Pension Fund, Training Trust Fund and Industry Fund for the Designated Periods shall be as follows:
#120-#204						
	H-W	Pension	Training	Industry' Fund	Only C1PCC1	Drug Testing
6/1/05 to 5/31/06	$4.50	$2.15	$.35	$.05	$.06	$.07
6/1/06 to 5/31/07	$5.00	$2.25	$.35	$.05	$.06	$.07
6/1/07 to 5/31/08	$5.50	$2.35	$.35	$.05	$.06	$.07
ARTICLE XXVII
HOURLY WAGE RATES
Section 1. For the purpose of clarification and to assist in determining the hourly wage rates applicable to specific Classifications of Work, the following hourly wage rates apply in the given Area. Jt is understood and agreed that pyramiding of Category Rates and/or Foreman Rates is not the intention of this Agreement and shall not be permitted.
-40-
#120-#204
	Only	Drug
ffective	Wages H-W Pension Training	IF £IP££[	Testing Total
oral #120 1/05-5/31/06 $20.18 $4.50 $2.15 $.35	$.05 $.06	$.07 $27.36
1/06-5/31/07 $20.68 $5.00 $2.25 $.35	$.05 $.06	$.07 $28.46
1/07-5/31/08 $21.23 $5.50 $2.35 $.35	$.05 $.06	$.07 $29.61
oral HIM /1/05-5/31/06 $19.07 $4.50 $2.15 $.35	$.05 $.06	$.07 $26.25
/1/06-5/31/07 $19.52 $5.00 $2.25 $.35	$.05 $.06	$.07 $27.30
1/07-5/31/08 $20.02 $5.50 $2.35 $.35	$.05 $.06	$.07 $28.40
x>cal#274 71/05-5/31/06 $19.18 $4.50 $2.15 $.35	$.05	$.07 $26.30
71/06-5/31/07 $19.63 $5.00 $2.25 $.35	$.05	$.07 $27.35
71/07-5/31/08 $20.13 $5.50 $2.35 $.35	$.05	$.07 $28.45
.oral #741 71/05 - 5/31/06 $19.08 $4.50 $2.15 $.35	$.05	$.07 $26.20
71/06-5/31/07 $19.53 $5.00 $2.25 $.35	$.05	$.07 $27.25
71/07-5/31/08 $20.03 $5.50 $2.35 $.35	$.05	$.07 $28.35
^ocal #1047 71/05-5/31/06 $17.88 $4.50 $2.15 $35	$.05	$.07 $25.00
71/06-5/31/07 $18.33 $5.00 $2.25 $.35	$.05	$.07 $26.05
71/07-5/31/08 $18.83 $5.50 $2.35 $.35	$.05	$.07 $27,15
oral #1112 71/05 - 5/31/06 $18.76 $4.50 $2.15 $.35	$.05	$.07 $25.88
71/06-5/31/07 $19.21 $5.00 $2.25 $.35	$.05	$.07 $26.93
71/07-5/31/08 $19.71 $5.50 S2.35 $.35	$.05	$.07 $28.03
CATEGORY I. Is the Basic Hourly Wage Rate and shall nclude the following:
Building and Construction Laborers
Scaffold Builders (other than for Masons or Plasterers)
-41-
Ironworker Tenders
Mechanic Tenders
Civil Engineer Tenders and Surveyor Tenders
Rodmen & Chainmen
Roofer’s Tenders
Railroad Workers
Masonry Wall Washers (interior & exterior)
Cement Finisher Tenders
Carpenter Tenders
Tenders of all other Crafts not listed
AU Portable Water Pumps with discharge up to
three (3) inches
Waterproofing
Handling of creosote lumber or like treated material
(excluding railroad material)
Asphalt Rakers & Lutemen
Kettlemen
Earth Compactors
Jackmen & Sheetmen working ditches deeper than
six (6) feet in depth
Laborers working ditches six (6) feet in depth or deeper
Assembly of Unicrete Pump
Tile Layer (sewer or field) & Sewer Pipe Layers
(metallic or non-metallic)
Motor driven wheelbarrows and concrete buggies
Hyster Operators
Pump Crete Assemblers
Core Drill Operators
Cement, Lime or Silica Clay Handlers (bulk or bag)
Handling of Toxic Materials Damaging to Clothing
Pneumatic Spikers
Deck Engine and Winch Operators
-42-
Vater Main & Cable Ducking (metallic & non-metallic) creed Man or Screw Operator on Asphalt Paver hain Saw and Demolition Saw Operators oncrele Saw
oncrete Conveyor Assemblers
applying of curing compound inking of wellpoints
Jewatering header systems
ATEGORY II. shall include the following and will be paid fifty ($.50) cents per hour above the basic rate:
laster Tenders
lason Tenders
dortar Mixers
Velders (acetylene or electric)
utting Torch or Burner ement Nozzle Laborers ement Gun Operators caffold Builders when working for Plasterers caffold Builders when working for Masons
Vater Blast Machine Operators
ir Tool Operators and all Pneumatic Tool Operators, Air and Electric Vibrators and Chipping Hammer Operators
sbestos removal
azardous waste removal ead based paint removal
11 Boiler Setters Laborers, including expediters, bottom men, bell men, and Mason Tenders
ATEGORY III. shall cover the following:
aborer Foreman
-43-
Mason Tender Foreman
General Foreman
Laborer Foreman - rate shall be one dollar ($1.00) per hou over the basic hourly rate of pay liste herein.
Mason Tender Foreman - rate shall be one dollar and thirt cents ($1.30) per hour over th basic hourly rate of pay liste herein.
General Foreman - rate shall be one dollar and fifty cen ($1.50) per hour over the basic hourl rate of pay listed herein.
CATEGORY IV. shaii cover die following and shall be pai one dollar ($ 1.00) per hour over the basi hourly rate of pay as listed herein.
Dynamite Men
Drillers - air track or wagon drilling for explosives Laborer Specialist
Concrete Finisher / Form Setter (contractor option) Firestop Installer
CATEGORY V. shall include Watchmen and Gatemen (da or night) whose wage rates and fringe ben efit hours will be negotiated on an individ ual basis by and between the Employer an the Local Union involved at the pre-jo conference.
CATEGORY VI. Shall cover the following:
Caisson and Tunnel Work in compressed & free air
Basic Laborers Rate:
Cage Tenders
-44-
Dump Men
Flagman, Signalman, Top Laborers
Rod Men
The following will be paid twenty ($.20) cents per hour above the basic rate:
Concrete Repairmen
Lock Tenders (Pressure Side)
Motor Men
Muckers
Grout Machine
Track Layers
Air Hoist
Key Board
Agitator Car
Car Pushers
Concrete Laborers
Grout Laborers
Lock Tenders (Free Air Side)
Steel Setters
Tuggers
Switchmen
The following will be paid thirty ($.30) cents per hour above the basic rate:
Mucking Machine
Laser Beam
Liner Plate & Ring Setter
Shield Drivers
Power Knife
Welders - Burners
Pipe Jacking Machine
-45-
Skinners
Maintenance Technician
Miner
Bricklayer Tenders
Concrete Blowers
Drillers
Erectors
Form Men
Jackhammermen
Mining Machine
The following will be paid one dollar ($1.00) per hour above the basic rate:
Dynamite Men
Driilers-air track or wagon drilling for explosives
1. The premium over and above wages and classifications for all Employees working in compressed air shall be as follows:
0- 15	Pounds	$ 1.00 per hr.
16-20	Pounds	$ 1.50 per hr.
21 -26	Pounds	$ 2.00 per hr.
27 - 33	Pounds	$ 3.00 per hr.
34 & over	Pounds	$ 4.00 per hr.
2. The scale of wages for Labor Foreman and Sub-Foreman shall be as follows:
General Foreman	$ 1.00 per hr.
Foreman	0-50 per hr.
*CATEGORY VII. shall cover High Time Pay for Stacks & Chimneys.
*To be the same as set forth in the Laborers’ International Union of North America Agreement covering Stacks, -46-
Chimneys and Silos.
CATEGORY VIII - RAILROAD MAINTENANCE: shall cover the following:
Section 1. All rail maintenance, rehabilitation, and other work on mainlines, sidings and service lines that are let by railroad companies, transit commissions, transit authorities, public or private owners of such facilities, which includes but is not limited to the following and work performed will be paid for under the wage rates contained herein.
(a)	The replacement of components and adjustment in alignment of grades of existing rail facilities.
(b)	Repair or replacement of components of fences, cattle guards, snow sheds, motor car set off, and other facilities located on railroad, public or private properties, and right-of-ways of same.
(c)	The care of railroad and transit commissions and transit authorities owned properties, public or private, including patrolling, inspection, mowing, brush cutting and spraying, drainage work and all general caretaking work.
i d) The repair or replacement of roadway or railway crossings.
e)	Painting and replacement of components of railway bridges and signal lines and signs.
f)	All emergency work, such as snow removal, flood damage, damages occurring on derailments, including all clean-up and repair in connection therewith which may be performed by the Employer.
-47-
(g)	All maintenance, rehabilitation, track removal and other work that may be performed for the railroad companies and transit commissions and/or transit authorities on their properties, or on public and private properties, including relocation of existing tracks where such relocation of tracks are not in connection with buildings, highway, heavy or engineering projects.
(h)	It shall also include all new Construction in conjunction with a building, highway, heavy or engineering project on all railroad transit commissions, transit authorities, public or private owners of such facilities,
(i)	It shall include railroad construction where rails are laid to a new facility to service same, whether new or used materials are used,
CATEGORY IX-Apprentices - Mandatory Apprentice Language
Section 1. New applicants for membership who cannot provide reasonable proof of 4,000 or more hours of employment as a Construction Craft Laborer (or, alternatively, cannot demonstrate equivalent skills in a placement examination administered by the Joint Apprenticeship and Training Committee (JATC) shall, whenever possible, enter the Apprenticeship program. Any person entering but failing to-maintain and complete his or her Apprenticeship shall not bt employed by the Employer as a Journey Worker under thif Agreement, The failure of any Apprentice to maintain his 01 her Apprenticeship status shall obligate the Employer to dis charge such person upon notice from the Union,
Section 2,The Apprenticeship and Training Standard-approved by the Federal Bureau of Apprenticeship am
-48-
Training or State Apprenticeship Committee are hereby ncorporated by reference as a pan of this Agreement.
Section 3.	The Apprentice wage rates:
Hours of Credit
1st period 0-1000 hours
2nd period 1001-2000 hours
3rd period 2001-3000 hours
4th period 3001-4000 hours
Wage Rate
75% of journey worker rate
85% of journeyworker rate
95% of journey worker rate 100% of journey worker rate
Section 4.	Entry into the Apprenticeship program shall be controlled by the JATC. which shall employ appropriate testing and screening procedures. An Apprentice advances from me hours-of credit and wage-rate category to another only tpon determination of satisfactory performance by the lATC, which shall have the authority to grant accelerated red it where warranted by the performance of an individual ipprentice.
Section 5.	The Employer shall participate in the \pprenticeship program by accepting Apprentices for mployment upon referral by the Union. The Employer is iot obligated to accept more than one (1) Apprentice for very five (5) Joumeyworkers commencing with the sixth ■aborer employed.
ection 6. The Employer may not employ an Apprentice ntil at least one Journey worker is employed and thereafter tay not employ more than one (1) Apprentice for every iditional three (3) Journeyworkers,
ection 7. An Apprentice should, whenever possible, be stated by the Employer through different types of work so . to become trained in a variety of operations and work
-49-
skills. Where the Employer is unable to provide a Apprentice with experience in the full range of craft skills the JATC may request the Local Union to reassign th Apprentice to other employment in order to provide tha experience. For so long as the Employer is able to provid the necessary range of employment experience, th Employer may choose to retain the apprentice from job tc job but shall notify the Local Union and JATC of all reas signments.
Section 8. An Apprentice shall not be penalized for taking off from work to attend offsite training (though time off foi training is unpaid).
ARTICLE XXVII!
GENERAL SAVINGS CLAUSE
Section L Any provision contained herein that is contran to or held in violation of the Labor-Management Relation Act of 1947, as amended, or of any other law now in forci or hereafter enacted, or, hereafter becoming effective, shal be void and of no force or effect, and this Agreement shal be construed as if said void provision herein were not a par thereof, it being intended, however, that the other provision of this Agreement shall not be affected thereby. It is furthe agreed that, should compliance with any law or amendmeri therefore, or any order or regulation issued thereunder, no' or hereafter in force and effect, prohibit the carrying out c any of the provisions of this Agreement, then to the extent c-such deviation or prohibition, this Agreement shall b deemed to have been automatically amended effective on th effective date of such law, order or regulations. Sue amendment to this Agreement shall remain in effect only s long as said law, amendment, order or regulation continue—
-50-
in force or until the expiration of this Agreement, whichever event shall first occur.
ARTICLE XXIX
BONDING
Section 1.	Every Employer who employs members of the Union and agrees to be covered or maintain the provisions of this Agreement may be required by the Union to give a surety bond payable to the Laborers Benefit Funds to insure the payment of fringe benefit obligations accruing under this Agreement. The Employer shall furnish a surety bond as prescribed below within fourteen (14) days after notice from the Laborers’ Fringe Benefit Funds that such is required. The amount of the surety bond shall be as follows:
1 through 10 men.......$15,000.00
at 15 men ............$20,000.00
at 20 men.............$25,000.00
at 25 men ............$30,000.00
at 30 men or over.....$35,000.00
Section 2.	The Fringe Benefit Funds may require an imployer to give the surety bond provided for herein if at my time: (1) the Employer has been late fifteen (15) days or nore in the payment of any of its monetary obligations mder this Agreement; or (2) the Employer has been late in lie payment of any such obligation two (2) consecutive imes during the immediately preceding twelve (12) months; r (3) the Employer has not worked within the Union’s geo-raphicai jurisdiction under this Agreement during any of te immediately preceding twelve (12) months.
after giving and providing such surely bond the Employer not late in the payment of its monetary obligations during
-51-
the next following twelve (12) months, the Employer shall be released from the requirement to provide a surety bond unless the conditions specified in the first sentence of this Section reoccur.
Section 3.	When a surety bond is demanded, the Employer will obtain such in the required amount, from a company acceptable to the Fringe Benefit Funds, and the benefit funds specified in this Agreement shall be the sole beneficiaries oi the bond. The bond will be given to the Fringe Benefit Funds where it will be kept.
Section 4.	Should an Employer fail or refuse to provide the required surety bond, when such is demanded by the Union or should an Employer fail to keep a bond in effect at aii times said Employer is required to have one, the Union shall have the right to strike and/or picket, after notice, and use all other legal and/or economic means to cause the Employer tc-comply with this Article.
ARTICLE XXX
HEALTH CARE
Section 1. Should either the State or Federal Governmen pass legislation mandating all Employers to participate in ; national or statewide health care plan, it is agreed by th< Parties to this Agreement to automatically open thi Agreement within thirty (30) days of such passage to discus same.
ARTICLE XXXI
SUBSTANCE ABUSE PROGRAM
The Union and the Associated General Contractors c— Indiana, Inc., and/or signatory Employer, hereby agree th; the drug testing program set forth in the Indiana Un io
-52-
Construction Resource Center Substance Abuse Policy Policy”) is incorporated by reference herein and made a art of this Agreement. The Trustees of the Indiana Union Construction Industry Substance Abuse Trust Fund (“Fund”) hall have the authority to amend the terms of the Policy to vhich employees working under this Agreement will be sub-ect.
rhe administration of the Policy will be funded by contribu-10ns to the Fund. The Trustees of the Fund shall have the uthority to determine the amount to be contributed by sig-tatory Employers to defray the cost of the Policy. The trustees may set the contribution at any rate up to ten cents $.10) per hour depending on the Trustees’ assessment of the imount needed to fund the Policy adequately to fulfill its mrposcs. Once the rate has been set, the Trustees may idjust the rate of contribution from time to time within the parameters set forth above, provided the Trustees give the mploycr(s) at least sixty (60) days notice of any such idjustment.
t is agreed that the Employer contribution to this fund is not -art of the wage/fringe package under this Agreement, but is iistead a separate additional contribution made by the .mployer solely to fund the Policy. Accordingly, the estab-ishment or adjustment of the rate of contribution by the rustees shall not affect the wage rates or the amounts set trth for contributions to fringe benefit funds under this '.greement.
-53-
ARTICLE XXXII
EFFECTIVE DATE
THIS AGREEMENT shall be in full force and effect fro June 1,2005 when ratified by a majority of members of th Labor Relations Committee of the Associated Gener Contractors of Indiana and signed by the Laborer Internationa] Union of North America, State of Indian District Council, for and on behalf of its affiliated Loc Unions #120, #204, #274, #741, #1047 and #1112 and sha continue in full force and effect for the periods mentione herein, expiring as of May 31, 2008.
In case either Party to this Agreemeni wishes iu change th Agreement, at least sixty (60) days written notice shall b given to the other Party prior to the expiration date. In cas no such notice is given by either Party, the Agreement sha continue in effect from year to year until such notice is give at least sixty (60) days prior to the anniversary date.
PARTY OF THE FIRST PART
LABOR RELATIONS COMMITTEE OF THE ASSOCIATED GENERAL CONTRACTORS OF INDIANA
Philip G.Xienney
FOR AND ON BEHALF OF
Mason Contractors Association of Indianapolis
Trade Division of Associated Building Contractors of Lafayette Inc.
-54-
Southern Branch of Associated General Contractors of Indiana Inc.
Madison County Contractors Association
Marion Contractors Association Inc.
PARTY OF THE SECOND PART
LABORERS’ INTERNATIONAL UNION OF NORTH AMERICA, STATE OF INDIANA DISTRICT COUNCIL, FOR AND ON BEHALF OF ITS AFFILIATED LOCAL UNIONM120, #204, #274, #741 #1047 & #1112
___________
Te/fy W. Lee, Secy-Treas & Bus Mgr
-55-
DIRECTORY LABORERS’INTERNATIONAL UNION OF NORTH AMERICA OFFICES
Laborers' International Union of North America
905 - 16lh Street Northwest
Washington DC 20006-1765
Terence M. O’Sullivan, General President Armand E. Sabitoni, General Secretary-Treasure
Laborers’ International Union of North America
IMiunvui	--
1 North Old State Capitol Plaza, Suite 525
Springfield, IL 62701
Edward Smith, Assistant to the General President
Vice President & Midwest Regional Manager
Laborers’ International Union of North America
State of Indiana
Stephen Folz, International Representative
3528 Koring Rd
Evansville, IN 47720
-56-
DIRECTORY
LABORERS’ INTERNATIONAL UNION OF NORTH AMERICA
Laborers’ International Union of North America
State of Indiana District Council
425 S 4th Street
Terre Haute, IN 47807
Phone (812)235-6083
Fax (812)232-4420
E-mail INLDC@aol.com
Jerry W. Lee, Secretary Treasurer & Business Manager
Michael J. Short, Field Representative & Organizer
LOCAL UNION 41 HAMMOND
Geographical Jurisdiction of Hammond, Indiana and Vicinity of Lake County, including all territories west of 21ine Avenue, Lake Michigan Shoreline to Illinois State J ne and south Counties of Newton and Jasper, Indiana,
fichard Greene, Business Manager
iudy Sparks, Field Representative
lick Henson, Field Representative
Vm Kevin Roach, Field Representative
415 Kennedy Avenue
lammond, IN 46323
hone (219)844-1315
ax (219)844-1325
■mail LIUNALOCAL41@aoi.com
-57-
LOCAL UNION 81 VALPARAISO Geographical Jurisdiction of Gary, Indiana & Vicinity, including all territories east of Cline Avenue, Lake County, Indiana, all territory north of U.S. Highway No. 20 Porter County, Indiana, including all Lake Michigan Shore Front east of Cline Avenue in Lake and Porter Counties and LaPorte and Starke Counties, Indiana,
Mike Demonja, Business Manager
Dale Keene, Field Representative
Agustin Carreon, Field Representative
Michael Campbell, Field Representative
Frank Bova. Jr., Field Representative
253 South Washington Street
Valparaiso, IN 46383
Phone	(219) 464-0695
Phone	(800)858-7631
Fax	(219)465-7682
E-mail	locals 1 @verizon.net
LOCAL UNION 120 INDIANAPOLIS Geographical Jurisdiction of Marion and Shelby Counties Indiana.
David Frye, Business Manager
Nathaniel Clancy, Field Representative
Gary Coss, Field Representative
Sherman Watkins Jr, Field Representative
Chris Brickey, Field Representative Dwight Smith, Field Representative
-58-
Ben Adams, Organizer
James W. Daniels, Organizer
1520 East Riverside Drive
Indianapolis, IN 46202
Phone	(317)634-8551
Fax	(317)685-1237
E-mail	DFryel 20L abvrers@aokcom
LOCAL UNION 204
TERRE HAUTE
Geographical Jurisdiction of Clay, Fountain, Greene, Hendricks, Owen, Parke, Putnam, Sullivan, Vermillion, Vigo and Warren Counties, Indiana.
Charles Toth, Business Manager and Secretary-Treasurer
Bobby Earle, Field Representative
Chuck Toth, Field Representative
401 Poplar Street
Terre Haute IN 47807
Phone	(812)232-0989
Fax	(812) 232-0980
E-mail laborers @ gte.net
LOCAL UNION 213
FORT WAYNE
Geographical Jurisdiction of Adams, Allen, DeKalb, ■iuntington, Noble, Steuben, Wabash, Wells and Whitley bounties, Indiana.
.eroy Jackson, Jr., Business Manager
dark Jarrell, Field Representative
700 S Anthony Blvd
-59-
Fort Wayne IN 46806 Phone	(260) 744-5255
Phone	(260) 744-5355
Fax	(260) 745-7601
E-mail local213@verizon.net
LOCAL UNION 274 LAFAYETTE Geographical Jurisdiction of Benton, Boone, Carroll, Cass, Clinton, Montgomery, Pulaski, Tippecanoe and White Counties and covering Kokomo Indiana, Fulton, Howard, Miami and Tipton Counties, Indiana.
Leland Mallory, Secretary-Treasurer & Business Manager Jim Terry, President & Field Representative Rick Williams, Field Representative
1734 Main Street
Lafayette, IN 47904
Phone	(765) 742-4876
Fax	(765) 423-4709
E-mail locaI274@insightbb.com
Kokomo Branch Phone (765)457-4453
Fax (765) 457-8245
-60-
LOCAL UNION 561 EVANSVILLE Geographical Jurisdiction covering Daviess, Dubois, Gibson, Knox, Pike, Posey, Spencer, Vanderburgh and Warrick Counties, Indiana; and Crittenden, Henderson, Union and Webster Counties in Kentucky,
Barry Russell, Business Manager & President
Harlin Scott, Secretary-Treasurer & Field Representative Kenneth Overton, Recording Secretary & Field
Representative
Donald Angel, Vice-President and Field Representative Stephen Wilson, Field Representative
951 North Park Drive
Evansville IN 47710
Phone	(812)425-3191
Toll Free 1-888-463-8646
Fax	(812)425-242!
E-mail barry@laborers561.OTg
Vincennes Branch Phone (812) 882-1555
LOCAL UNION 645 SOUTH BEND Geographical Jurisdiction of Elkhart, Kosciusko, LaGrange, Marshall and St. Joseph Counties, Indiana,
Glenn Williams, Business Manager id Barrier, Field Representative 4)15 W Western Avenue, Suite 140 iouth Bend, IN 46629 •hone (574) 287-2967 'ax (574) 287-2968
-mail local645@aol.com
-61-
LOCAL UNION 741 BLOOMINGTON Geographical Jurisdiction of Bartholomew, Brown, Dearborn, Decatur, Franklin, Jackson, Jennings, Johnson, Lawrence, Martin, Monroe, Morgan, Ohio, Orange and Ripley Counties, Indiana.
Roger Kent, Business Manager
Rick Bryant, Field Representative
Bobby Minton, Field Representative
Albert “Ray’' Hobbs. Field Representative
7745 South Fairfax Road
Bloomington. IN 47401
Phone	(812) 824-2605
Fax	(812) 824-2185
E-mail LIUNALOCAL741 ©msn.com
Columbus Branch Phone (812) 372-2211 Lawrenceburg Branch Phone (812) 537-5128
LOCAL UNION 795 NEW ALBANY Geographical Jurisdiction of Clark, Crawford, Floyd, Harrison, Jefferson, Perry, Scott, Switzerland and Washington Counties. Indiana.
Fred Bowles, Secretary-Treasurer & Business Manager Robert S. Norrington, Field Representative
1213 State Street
New Albany IN 47150
Phone	(812) 944-6473
Fax	(812)944-6474
E-mail laborers795@sbcglobal.net
-62-
LOCAL UNION 1047 RICHMOND
Geographical Jurisdiction of Fayette, Henry, Rush, Wayne and Union Counties, Indiana.
Russell Pierson, Business Manager
Jack Baker, Field Representative
1010 South 9th Street P O Box 38
Richmond, IN 47374
Phone	(765) 966-2005
Fax	(765) 966-7080
E-mail jack baker j @aoi.com
LOCAL UNION 1112 MUNCIE
Geographical Jurisdiction of Blackford, Delaware, Grant, Hamilton, Hancock, Jay, Madison and Randolph Counties, Indiana.
Rudy Rudisill, Business Manager
Earl Redwine, Field Representative
Lloyd Beaty, Field Representative
115 West 20th Street
Muncie IN 47302
Phone	(765)282-5815
'ax	(765)286-7150
• mail	laborerslocal 1112 @comcast,net
-63-
COUNTY	LOCAL	COUNTY	LOCAL
Adams	213	Hancock	1112
Alien	213	Harrison	795
Bartholomew	741	Henderson, KY	561
Benton	274	Hendricks	204
Blackford	1112	Henry	1047
Boone	274	Howard	274
Brown	741	Huntington	213
Carrol t	274	Jackson	741
Cass	274	Jasper	41
Clark	795	Jay	1112
Clay	204	Jefferson	795
Clinton	274	Jennings	741
Cmwford	795	Johnson	741
Crittenden, KY	561	*1 CSV	561
Daviess	561	Kosciusko	645
Dearborn	741	LaGrange	645
Decatur	741	Lake-West Half	4)
DeKalb	213	Lake-East Half	81
Delaware	1112	Laporte	81
Dubois	561	Lawrence	741
Elkhart	645	Madison	1112
Fayette	1047	Marion	120
Floyd	795	Marshall	645
Fountain	204	Martin	741
Franklin	741	Miami	274
Fulton	274	Monroe	741
Gibson	561	Montgomery	274
Grant	1112	Morgan	741
Greene	204	Newton	4)
Hamilton	1112	Noble	21;
-64-
COUNTY	LOCAL	COUNTY	LOCAL
Ohio	741	Switzerland	795
Orange	741	Tippecanoe	274
Owen	204	Tipton	274
Parke	204	Onion	1047
Perry	795	Union, KY	561
Pike	561	Vanderburgh	561
Porter	81	Vermillion	204
Posey	561	Vigo	204
Pulaski	274	Wabash	213
Putnam	204		
		Warren	204
Randolph	1112	Warrick	561
Ripley	741	Washington	795
Rush	1047	Wayne	1047
St. Joseph	645	Webster, KY	561
Scott	795		
		Wells	213
Shelby	120	White	274
Spencer	561	Whitley	213
Starke	81		
Steuben	213		
Sullivan	204		
-65-
2005
2006
anmrf	ftbnatY
SMTWTFS	SMTWTFS
1 1	3	4	5	6	7	1	Z	3	«
s 9	io	n	ii	is	m	s	e	7	a	g	io	it
IS 16	17	16	1»	20	11	11	IS	U	IS	16	1?	16
22 33	27	?5	2S	27	21	19	20	2!	22	23	17	25
29 M 31	26 27 28
	Aprt
SMTWTFS 12 3 4	SMTWTFS 1
5 6 7 6 9 10 11	2 3 4 5 6 7 6
U 13 U 15 16 IT 18	8 10 11 12 11 14 15
IS 20 51 22 23 24 25	1$ 17 10 19 30 21 22
26 27 28 29 30 31	23 24 25 26 2? 26 29 30
Stptmtw	Octotff
SMTWTFS	SMTWTFS
1 2	1 2 3 4 S 6 7
3 4	5	6	7	8	9	8	9	10	11	12	13	14
10 11	12	13	14	1S	16	15	16	17	18	19	20	21
V IS	>9	20	21	22	23	22	23	24	25	2S	27	2S
24 25	28	27	SB	29	30	29	30	31
	Peombtr
SMTWTFS 12 3 4	SMTWTFS 1 2
5 6 7 6 9 10 11	3 4 5 5 7 6 9
12 13 1* 15 19 17 16	10 11 12 13 14 15 16
19 20 21 22 23 34 25 26 27 aS 29 30	17 18 19 X? 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 23 29 10
31
-66-
2007
-67-