AGC OF OHIO BUILDING AGREEME
Effective
OOOCZ-
May 1, 2004 through April 30, 2007
Between
THE INTERNATIONAL UNION OF OPERATING ENGINEERS LOCAL 18 AND ITS BRANCHES, (AFL-CIO)
AND
LABOR RELATIONS DIVISION OF THE AGC OF OHIO
EMPLOYERS
LABOR RELATIONS DIVISION AGC OF OHIO
1755 N.W. Boulevard Columbus, Ohio 43212 (614) 486-6446 FAX: (614) 486-6498 TOLL FREE: (800) 557-6446
Richard Hobbs Executive Director
INDEX
	Paragraph
Affirmative Action Program	Exhibit B
Apprentices	106-107
Arbitration	125-126
Bonding	47
Construction Advancement Program	108-113
Crews and General Provisions	77-100
Date Signed and Signatures	131
Dewatering	13
Discharges	19 or 25
Divert Wage Increase	43
Drug Testing	30
Duration of Agreement	105
Effective Date of Agreement	130-131
Employees’ Relief	91
Enforcement Measures	117-123
Equipment Rental	99
Escalator Clause and Complementing	69
Field Mechanic Trainee Wage Schedule	Exhibit A
Four Ten Work Schedule	63A-G
Fringe Benefit Programs	41-47
Grievance Procedure	125-126
Harassment Policy	31
Hazardous Waste Projects	15, 29
Heaters-Pumps-Boilers-24 hour, 7 day	68
Holidays	67
Hourly First-Day Pay	84
Hourly Pay	53 or 56
1-9	128
Incentive Pay	
Underground, Height and Length Booms	70-76
Jurisdiction-Work	10-12
Jurisdictional Area	1-2
Jurisdictional Disputes	127
Lay-Off	25, 55, 60, 89
Liabilities	5
Management Rights	7
Master Mechanic, Zones 1, 2 & 3	87-88
New Unclassified Equipment	50
Nondiscrimination	8-9
l
INDEX (continued)
Oilers, Boiler Operators, Helpers Signalmen Provisions
Overtime
Owner-Operator
Pay Checks
Pay Day
Picket Lines
Piggyback Operation
Pre-Job Conference
Provisions and Limitations
Recognition
Referral Policy
(Hiring Procedures)
Registered Apprentice Wage Schedule
Repairs
Reporting Pay
Safety Program
Savings and Separability
Scope of Agreement
Shifts
Site Clearance
Starting Time
Steward
Strikes
Sub-Contractors
Supervisory Employees
Termination Slips
Trainee Wage Schedule
Transfer of Union Employees
Transfers on Job Equipment
Union Administrative Dues and Deductions
Union Shop
Wage Rates
Weekly Pay
Work Week
Text of Agreement
Exhibit A, Wage Rates & Fringe Benefits
Exhibit B, Affirmative Action Program Acceptance of Agreement
Paragraph
77-80 62-64
100 90 89 123 86 15-16
6 4
32-40 Exhibit A 93 59 26-29 129 3
81
63 62 24-25
124 117 97 96 Exhibit A
119 21-22 114-116 17-18 Exhibit A 52 or 54-55
61 Page 1-50 51-75 75-78 79-88
II
DIRECTORY
OFFICERS
Local 18 and its Branches Headquarters Office 3515 Prospect Avenue Cleveland, Ohio 44115 216-432-3138
FAX: 216-432-0370
Patrick L, Sink Business Manager
Kenneth M. Triplett President
Floyd S. Jeffries Vice President
Charles W. Scherer Recording-Corresponding Secretary
Larry G. Reynolds Financial Secretary
Premo P. Panzarello Treasurer
III
DISTRICT NO. 1
Covering the following counties in Ohio:
Ashtabula Cuyahoga Erie	Geauga	Lorain Huron	Medina Lake District Representatives Steve DeLong
Jeff Milum	Donald Taggart	Steven Mayor
Premo Panzarello Scott Ranftl John Liscoe, Jr.
3515 Prospect Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44115
	Office: 216-432-3131 FAX: 216-432-3135
DISTRICT NO. 2
Covering the following counties in Ohio;
Allen Defiance Fulton Hancock	Hardin	Paulding	Van Wert Henry	Putnam	Williams Lucas	Sandusky	Wood Ottawa	Seneca District Representatives Charles Lafaso, Jr.
Gary Siesel	Steve Heckler Andrew Myers
2412 South Reynolds Road, Toledo, Ohio 43614
	Office: 419-865-0221 FAX: 419-865-0601
IV
DISTRICT NO. 3
Covering the following counties in Ohio:
Crawford Delaware	Hocking Knox	Marion Morrow	Pickaway Union
Fairfield Franklin	Licking	Muskingham Perry	Wyandot
District Representatives Greg Kingsbury Tommy Thompson	Rolland Llewellyn
Larry Bodner	Tim Hammock
Mark Totman, Legislative Representative
1188 Dublin Road, Columbus, Ohio 43215
Office: 614-486-5281 FAX: 614-486-7258
DISTRICT NO. 4
Covering the following counties in Ohio:
Auglaize Butler	Clinton Darke	Logan Madison	Montgomery Preble
Champaign	Fayette	Mercer	Shelby
Clark	Greene	Miami	Warren
	District Representatives	
	Richard Dalton	
Louis Monnin		Scott Clark
6051 N. Dixie Drive, Dayton, Ohio 45414
Office: 937-890-5914
FAX: 937-890-5180
MAILING ADDRESS: P.O. Box 13462, Northridge Branch Dayton, Ohio 45413
V
DISTRICT NO. 5
Covering the following counties in Ohio:
Adams Athens*	Gallia* Hamilton	Lawrence* Meigs*	Ross* Scioto*
Brown	Highland	Morgan*	Vinton*
Clermont	Jackson*	Pike*	
Covering the following counties in Kentucky: Boone, Campbell, Kenton, Pendleton
District Representatives Larry G. Reynolds Gerald Hall	Bill Burdett
9730 Reading Road (Cincinnati) Evendale, Ohio 45215 Office: 513-733-5575
FAX: 513-733-4672
‘Counties served through District No. 3, Columbus office Office: 614-486-5281
FAX: 614-486-7258
DISTRICT NO. 6
Covering the following counties in Ohio:
Ashland	Harrison	Noble	Summit
Belmont	Holmes	Portage	Tuscarawas
Carroll	Jefferson	Richland	Washington
Coshocton	Monroe	Stark	Wayne
Guernsey			
District Representatives Steve Di Loreto
Floyd Jeffries
Joe Lucas
Tom James
Bill Larrick
1707 Triplett Boulevard, Akron, Ohio 44306 Office: 330-784-5461
FAX: 330-784-8827
VI
LOCAL18S STATIONARY ENGINEERS
Representatives
Charles W. Scherer	Scott Peters
James Kumse	Thomas Ridenbaugh
3515 Prospect Avenue Room 206 Cleveland, Ohio 44115 Office: 216-432-2668
FAX: 216-432-0796
VII
AGREEMENT
Between
The AGC OF OHIO Labor Relations Division
which may be referred to hereinafter as the “Association”
and
THE INTERNATIONAL UNION
OF OPERATING ENGINEERS
LOCAL 18 AND ITS BRANCHES, (AFL-CIO) referred to hereinafter as the “Union"
This Agreement is negotiated by and between the Association and the Union within the geographical area as defined herein through their authorized agents, to wit:
That, whereas, the parties desire to stabilize employment and promote efficiency in the Construction Industry, agree upon wage rates, hours and conditions of employment, and to eliminate strikes, boycotts, lockouts and stoppages of work, and
Whereas, the Union and the Employer shall, through the issuance of working rules and regulations to the workmen, inform them of the terms of this Agreement and enforce compliance with the terms thereof, and
Whereas, the Employers agree to recognize and subscribe to the approved referral system as adopted by the International Union of Operating Engineers, Local 18.
Now, therefore, the undersigned Association and the Union agree as follows:
1
ARTICLE I
GEOGRAPHICAL JURISDICTIONAL AREA
1.	The provisions of this Agreement shall govern employment of and conditions under which employees shall work and rates of pay they shall receive on work in Building Construction, in the following geographical area.
2.	All counties in the State of Ohio except Ashtabula, Cuyahoga, Erie, Geauga, Huron, Lake, Medina, Lorain, Columbiana, Mahoning and Trumbull, and including Boone, Campbell, Kenton and Pendleton counties in Kentucky.
DEFINITION OF BUILDING CONSTRUCTION
3.	“Building Construction" work is defined as the erection and construction of building structures, including modifications thereof, or additions or repairs thereto intended foruse for shelter, protection, comfort or convenience and demolition of same. Building Construction shall also include the excavation and foundations for Building Construction.
SCOPE
A.	“Industrial and Building Site” work is defined as including work inside the property line, but outside the actual building construction and shall include the grading and excavation of the site to bring it to grade level.
B.	“Power Plant, Amusement Park, Athletic Stadium Site" work is defined as all work which is inside the property line, but outside the actual building construction. Such work shall include, but is not limited to the grading and excavation of the site, all work connected with the installation of sewer lines, drainage lines, gas lines, telephone and television conduit underground electrical lines and similar utility construction, parking lots, bridges, roads, streets, sidewalks, reservoirs, ash pits, storage tanks, ramps and other such construction work performed on the work site.
C.	“Sewage Plant, Waste Plant and Water Treatment Facilities Construction” work is defined as all work in construction of pumping stations, waste and sewage disposal plants, incinerator plants, water treatment plants, filtration plants, solid waste disposal and similar pollution control processes.
2
D.	Any work under A, B and C above awarded subsequent from the effective date of this Agreement, then the Employer shall pay the rate of pay determined by adding the Operating Engineers Building Construction classification rate and the Operating Engineers Highway Heavy classification rate and divide by two (2).
ARTICLE II
RECOGNITION, SECURITY, PROVISIONS & LIMITATIONS
4.	Recognition-The Association hereby recognizes the Union as exclusive collective bargaining agent for all Operating Engineers (within the geographical jurisdictional area stated in Article I), and the Union recognizes the Association as the exclusive collective bargaining agent for all Employers of the Operating Engineers (within the geographical jurisdictional area stated in Article I), and it is mutually acknowledged that each has acted as such agents continually for more than the past twenty years, and that now and over such period each has been so recognized by appropriate departments or agencies of both federal and state governments.
The persons, firms, corporations, joint ventures or other business entities bound by the terms of this Agreement are referred to in this Agreement as “Employer” or "Employers”. The Employers and the Union by entering into this Agreement intend to and agree to establish a single multi-employer collective bargaining unit. Any Employer who becomes a party to this Agreement shall thereby become a member of the multiemployer collective bargaining unit established by this Agreement.
Employers covered by this Agreement shall be free to designate their own representatives for the purpose of collective bargaining and contract administration; however, such designation shall not affect the Employer’s membership in the collective bargaining unit established by this Agreement.
5.	Liabilities-ThisAgreementisnegotiatedbytheAGCof Ohio Labor Relations Division, acting as negotiating representative for its members and for any breach of this Agreement the liability of an Employer shall be several, not joint, and the liability of the Association shall be only that of negotiating agent acting
3
without liability for the acts of its individual members or other Employers within the stated geographical jurisdictional area.
6.	Provisions and Limltations-AII members of the AGC of Ohio Labor Relations Division, and such other persons, firms or corporations who, as an Employer, become signatory to this Agreement, shall be bound by all of its terms and conditions, as well as any amendments which may be negotiated between the AGC of Ohio Labor Relations Division, and the Union. It is expressly understood that all Employers bound to the terms and conditions of this Agreement are required to pay the amounts as indicated in Article IV to the appropriate Fringe Benefit Programs.
7.	Management Rlghts-The operation of the job and the direction of the working forces, including the right to hire, suspend and discharge for proper cause, and the right to relieve employees from duty because of lack of work, or for other legitimate reasons, is vested exclusively in the Employer.
8.	Nondiscriminatlon-lt is mutually agreed that the Employer and the Union shall abide by all of the laws of the United States, the State of Ohio and the Commonwealth of Kentucky and Lawful Orders thereof relative to nondiscrimination and fair employment practices. The Employer and the Union shall not knowingly discriminate against nor limit employment opportunities of any employee, applicant for employment or applicant for Union membership or Apprenticeship training because of race, color, sex, age, religion, national origin or ancestry.
9.	Further, the Employer and Union agree to adopt and embrace the Pact of 10 July 68 executed under provisions of the Executive Order 11246 and regulations issued under Chapter 60 of Title 41 of the Code of Federal Regulations revised; an Affirmative Action Program to implement all provisions of applicable federal regulations to assure nondiscrimination in employment, upgrade, demotion or transfer, and recruitment advertising, layoff or termination, rates of pay and selection for all types of training as evidenced in Exhibit “B” attached hereto as if they had originally negotiated the same.
10.	Jurisdiction of Work-In accordance with the terms of this Agreement, the Employer shall employ Operating Engi
4
neers for the erection, operation, assembly and disassembly and maintenance and repair of the fol lowing construction equipment regardless of motive power: Air Compressors, Batch Plants, Boilers, Cableways, Derricks, Finishing Machines, Pumps, Trucks, Crawlers, Locomotive and Tower Cranes; Concrete Mixers and Concrete Mixing Plants, Hoes, Shovels, Pile Drivers, Tractors, Scrapers, Endloaders, Hoists and all like equipment, including the use of Geodimeter or any other device that electronically measures (shoots) distance shall be the work of the Operating Engineers (only applies to in-house crew) within the jurisdiction as assigned to the Union by the American Federation of Labor. It is further understood that all equipment for which classifications and wages have been established in this Agreement, and including that equipment for which classifications and wage rates may hereafter be established, shall be manned, when operated on the job site, by a member of the International Union of Operating Engineers, and paid the rates as specified in this Agreement.
11.	Operating Engineers shall be employed to do all pipe fitting and all burning and welding necessary for the preparation and maintaining of equipment operated by members of the Union.
12.	Operating Engineers shall be assigned to all work performed in connection with the installation, fueling, starting and stopping, repair, maintenance and operation of the below listed small equipment:
Compressors of 185 CFM or less (not discharging into a common header)
Heaters
Welding machines of 300 amp or less
Gas or diesel driven pumps4" and under (or one 6" pump) Generators of 15 KW or less
Conveyors 18" belt or less
A combination up to five (5) pieces of the above equipment shall, when in use, be serviced as an additional duty by an Operating Engineer who is employed by an Employer on a project. When six (6) pieces of the above equipment are in use on an Employer’s project, a Utility Operator will be employed at the Class “C” rate. The Utility Operator shall also perform other work on the project.
5
In the event there are no Operating Engineers employed by the Employer on the project, the Employer shall employ an Operating Engineer at the Class "E" rate to service any small equipment in use, until the Class “C” rate becomes in effect.
An Operating Engineer shall be assigned to all work performed in connection with the installation, maintenance, repairand starting and stopping of electric submersible pumps. Necessary work on electric submersible pumps shall be assigned to an Operating Engineer working on the project as an additional duty; no full-time Operator is required.
Work in the servicing and maintaining of self-contained, mobile light plants shall be assigned to an Operating Engineer as an additional duty to his/her regular job. Such work shall normally be assigned to a Mechanic, Grease Crew or Oiler. Equipment operator employees shall be required tocarry sufficient tools to make minor adjustments on the equipment they operate.
When an Oiler/Helper is assigned as the primary operator toafuel/grease combo vehicle which requires specialized CDL endorsement, he/she will receive a $3.00 per hour premium over the Class “E" rate.
13.	Dewatering Systems-A “Dewatering System” is defined as a combination of one or more pumps of any type, size or motive power with combined discharge capacity of over 4“, including but not limited to, well-point pumps, submersible well pumps, ejector or educator pumps in combination with wells, well-points, sumps, piping and/or other appurtenances irrespective of motive power to control water on any and all types of construction work. The complete installation, operation and necessary maintenance work, including all piping, shall be performed by Operating Engineers. A Dewatering System shall be operated by Pump Operators at all times the Dewatering System is in operation unless otherwise agreed at the Pre-Job Conference or with the Union.
14.	The Union will at all times, when requested by the Employer, use its best efforts to furnish the Employer with competent employees to operate, maintain and repair equipment in accordance with the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
15.	Pre-Job-lt is agreed that upon the request of either party a Pre-Job Conference shall be held priorto commencing work. In case of a necessary emergency start of the construc
6
tion job, the Pre-Job Conference shall be held as soon as possible after the start of work. It is further agreed that upon the awarding of any building contract of $500,000.00 and over, the successful contractor will immediately notify the Union when it has been awarded the contract. It is further agreed the Union may request, receive and hold a Pre-Job Conference with the Employer on an individual basis.
Before the start of any project containing known hazardous waste materials, there will be a pre-job held. The Employer must notify the Union five (5) days prior to starting work on the project. Failure to do so, the Union has the right to withhold its services until such time a pre-job is held.
16.	Following are the items which will be discussed at the Pre-Job Conference:
A.	The Employer will advise the Union Representative of the Employer's requirements of necessary employees in the classification of work under this Agreement, and the Union will determine and advise the Employer of the ability of the Union to fulfill such requirements when requested.
B.	Work schedules.
C.	Questions of jurisdiction and assignment of work.
D.	The Employeragreesthatwheneverpossibleat such Pre-Job Conference they will notify the Union of any subcontracts let by the Employer, the names of the subcontractors, and the nature of the work to be performed by the subcontractors. The Union may request a subcontractor to meet with the Union and the subcontractor will meet with the Union prior to commencing work on a project if the subcontractor did not attend the original Pre-Job Conference for the project. It is understood and agreed that no agreement may be made at the Pre-Job Conference which will in effect change, modify or abrogate the Labor Agreement in effect between the two parties hereto.
17.	Subject to the provisions and limitations of the National Labor Relations Act, as amended, all present employees who are members of the Local Unions above stated on the effective date of this sub-section shall remain members of the Local Unions in good standing as a condition of employment.
7
18.	All present employees who are not members of the Local Unions and all employees who are hired hereafter shall become and remain members in good standing of any one of said Locals as a condition of employment on and after the eighth (8th) day following the effective date of this sub-section or following the beginning of their employment, whichever is later.
19.	The Employer is to be the sole judge as to the satisfactory performance of work by an employee and may discharge any employee whose work is unsatisfactory or who fails to observe the safety precautions or other rules and regulations prescribed by the Employer for the health, safety and protection of his employees. However, no employee shall be discharged for defending the rights of any employee under the terms of this Agreement. Any grievance arising through application of this clause shall be adjusted in accordance with the procedures outlined in Article XIV, Paragraphs 124, 125 and 126 of this Agreement. Intoxication and/or assault committed on the job site shall be cause for immediate discharge.
20.	The Union shall place no limitation upon the amount of work which an employee shall perform during the working day and there shall be no restriction imposed against the use of any type of machinery, tools or labor-saving devices. The Employer agrees that the work jurisdiction of the Operating Engineers, as assigned by the AFL-CIO, will be respected and all Operating Engineer work will be performed by an Operating Engineer, and it is the intent of both parties that Operating Engineers will be assigned work on the basis that will make each job as productive and efficient as possible. It is agreed that a fair day's work shall be given for a fair day's pay.
21.	The Employer may shift during a work day an Operating Engineer from one piece of hourly rate of pay equipment to another hourly rate of pay piece of equipment without limitation from same job site providing the shifting does not interfere with another Operating Engineer’s work day. This condition also pertains to weekly-pay equipment. However, there shall not be any intermixing with weekly-pay equipment to hourty-pay equipment. The Operating Engineer will be paid the highest rate for the day.
The District agent in each district, in order to maintain our jurisdiction, will make jobs as efficient and productive as possible.
22.	If an Employer violates Paragraph 21, the Employer’s
8
penalty shall be to pay the first qualified registered applicant the applicable wage and fringe benefits from the first day of violation.
23.	The authorized representative of the Union shall have access to the job during working hours for the purpose of visiting individual members, adjusting grievances or disputes and such other duties as he may have to perform. The representative will report to the job supervisor before visiting the project.
STEWARD
24.	The Union may, when it believes it necessary, appoint a Steward whenever possible from Operating Engineers working on the Employer’s job and the Union District Representative will, when making such an appointment, notify the Employer. The Steward shall perform full-time work for the Employer and he/she shall be subject to the same rules, rights and working conditions as other employees. Under no circumstances shall the Steward have any authority to call a strike, slowdown of work or perform any other action which would be in violation of this Agreement.
25,	The Employer agrees that each new employee shall report to the job Steward before starting work if a Steward has been appointed for that particular Employer’s job. The Steward shall be allowed sufficient time during working hours to perform all normal duties required of a Steward. No Steward shall have job priority but will be laid off in the same manner as any other Operating Engineer upon completion of his/her particular job assignment; twenty-four (24) hour notice to the Union prior to his/her lay off is required to give the Union time to select another qualified Steward to replace the laid-off Steward, but this twenty-four (24) hour notice is not required when a Steward is discharged for cause by the Employer.
SAFETY
26.	The Union and the Employer will cooperate in the establishment of a safety program. At the Pre-Job Conference by mutual agreement, the wearing of safety hats may be made a condition of employment. All safety equipment required by the project owner or manager will be at no cost to the employee, except work shoes of any type. Both the Employer and employees shall comply with the applicable state safety codes
9
and any other applicable government or civil regulations pertaining to safety. It is expressly understood that if the employees' immediate health and safety are involved, the Union through its representative may order discontinuation of operations until satisfactory results are obtained.
TRAINING
27.	The Safety Training Passport 16-hour program will be made available to all union members by the Union at no cost to the Employer. The program will consist of:
Safety Awareness as required by OSH A 29CFR 1926.21
Fall Protection as required by OSHA 29CFR 1926.503
Hazard Communication as required by OSHA 29CFR 1926.59
Operating Engineers dispatched to a project to perform trench excavation work will be required to have successfully completed eight (8) hours of trench safety training. This program will become effective May 1,2007.
It is agreed that both the Employer and the Union will encourage and assist in the promotion of this training.
28.	Within forty-eight (48) hours after an industrial accident occurs, the company shall have all necessary State Workers' Compensation forms available and completed on the Employer's part. A copy of the completed forms shall be sent to the Union’s office in the district where the accident occurred.
29.	All toxic/hazardous projects will be subject to any and all safety regulationsand insurance provisions that may be required by the appropriate governmental agencies. When dangerous atmospheres are present so that an Operator is required to don a special protective suit and/or self-contained breathing apparatus at a private, state, federal or other designated toxic/hazardous waste site, the Employer will notify the Union district office. Reasonable dress-up time and clean-up time will be allowed. The first qualified bargaining unit employee on the job will be designated the steward-safety person, who shall have access to company monitoring records and be kept informed of amounts of contaminants on the job site. A
10
sheltered “safe zone" area shall be provided. There shall be wash-up facilities on all toxic/hazardous waste sites. When hazmat training credentials are required, the Operator will receive a $.50 per hour premium added to his/her base rate.
On such projects, it is expressly understood that if the employees’ immediate health and safety are in danger, the employee may discontinue operations, without penalty, until satisfactory results are obtained, or until such time as a recognized safety agent shall declare the equipment or operation to be safe. All Operating Engineers employees shall be advised by the Employer prior to employment as to the nature of the known hazardous waste and possible resultant physical injuries as may be required by applicable law.
30.	DRUG TESTING: The Employerand the Union are committed to a policy that promotes safety in the work place, employee health, and well being. In consideration of this policy, the Union and Employer agree that any employee found to be under the influence of, in possession of, or engaged in the distribution of drugs or alcohol on the job site shall be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including immediate discharge.
Within two (2) weeks of reporting to the job site, each new Operator may be scheduled for a drug test. Employees using a prescription drug which may impair mental or motor function shall inform their supervisor in writing of such drug use.
Employee involvement with drugs and alcohol can adversely affect job performance and employee morale. In the Construction Industry the consequences of drug or alcohol use or influence while on the job site can be disastrous. The Employer and Union, therefore, agree to the following policy to insure all employees of a safe and efficient job site free from the effects of drug and alcohol use or influence.
All job sites or work areas are subject to random or massive drug screening. Any employee who is involved in an on-the-job accident resulting in an injury to a person or property or whose observed behavior raises a reasonable suspicion of probable cause of illegal drug or alcohol use impairment while on the job site, may be required as a condition of continued employment to submit to a test for alcohol and/or illegal drug use which impairs the employee’s ability to safely perform his/her duties on the job site. Such tests usually involve a sampling of the employee’s blood, urine, or breath. Any em
11
ployee who is asked to submit to such a test will be required to sign a consent form. If an employee who is asked to submit to a test refuses to do so, or refuses to sign the necessary consent form, that employee will be subject to disciplinary action up to and including discharge. Refusal to take a test or the submission of an adulterated sample shall be determined the same as a positive test result. The employee/member shall follow all requirements outlined in this section.
All testing will be done by a reliable, established laboratory. If this initial test screen result indicates positive findings, further testing of the same sample must be done to confirm the original findings before the laboratory can report a positive finding. The confirmation test will be conducted by an independent accredited National Institute of Drug Abuse or College of American Pathology Laboratory and will utilize the more scientific Gas Chromatography/Mass Spectrometry examination (GC/MS). The results of all tests will be kept confidential between the employee, the Employer and the Union. The employee shall be paid his/her regular hourly wage and fringes for time required for drug testing provided results are negative.
If the GC/MS test results are positive, the employee may be granted a leave of absence for the purposes of drug and alcohol rehabilitation. If the employee is eligible such rehabilitation programs are covered under the Ohio Operating Engineers Health and Welfare Program providing the employee confines his/her self to a twenty-four (24) hour licensed rehabilitation medical facility.
Until the employee presents certification of successful completion of the rehabilitation program, he/she shall be removed from the Employer’s job site; shall be prohibited from registering under Article III of the referral of this contract and shall not be dispatched to work. Upon presentation of certification of the employee’s successful completion of the drug/alcohol rehabilitation program, the employee may be restored to his/her original job with the Employer. If the employee is not restored to their original job, the employee will be allowed to register for work in the referral by registering a new work referral card. The employee shall, under either circumstance, for the next succeeding twelve (12) month period, present to the District Representative monthly certification of negative drug/alcohol test results. Failure to do so will result in denying the employee the right
12
to maintain his/her referral card in the register and utilize the referral or if working, to be removed from work.
31.	Harassment Policy: The parties to this Agreement mutually agree that harassment of any nature is not to be tolerated. Every person working under this Agreement shall immediately notify the Employer when a possibility of a problem happens or exists.
ARTICLE III
REFERRAL SYSTEM
32.	Local 18 and its Branches, shall maintain registers of all applicants for referral. Applicants shall not be permitted to be registered in more than one office of the Union at any one time. All applicants will be registered in order of application, provided no person shall be deemed to be an applicant who is otherwise gainfully employed as an Operating Engineer or not immediately available for work. Registrations and re-registra-tions will be accepted during customary business hours. Applicants shall be classified in priority groups in accordance with the following criteria:
GROUP A: All applicants who have worked as Operating Engineers at least 360 days, 90 days or more per year during the last four (4) years, and have been employed for at least 360 days, 90 days or more per year during the last four (4) years on work as defined in Article I of this Agreement within the geographical jurisdiction of Local 18, and who have lived in the State of Ohio, or in any county contiguous thereto, for at least one (1) year prior to application.
GROUP A PREFERRED: Must have Group A eligibility. Group A registrants may voluntarily register in the Group A Preferred, however, registrants in this Preferred A status shall have at least fifteen (15) years employment or availability for employment in anyone or more of the classifications contained in this Agreement and in the type or kind of craft work covered by this Agreement in the geographic area as defined by this Agreement. Referral in this group is limited to the following described equipment and will be given priority of referral from the Group A Preferred deck. Preferred A status employees will not be eligible for letter of request by the Employer: Welding Machines, Elevator, Conveyor, Pumps, Compressors, Gen
13
erators, One Drum Hoist, Mono-Rail Hoist and Portable Heaters.
It is further understood and agreed that when the Employer employs Operating Engineers not currently in their employ for any machines listed in this section, the Employer shall call the referral office servicing his/her job or project and request that an employee qualifying under the Preferred A status be dispatched to service and operate said machine. Any Operating Engineer currently employed by an Employer can be used to operate any of the above listed machines. Apprentices shall not operate this equipment more than fifteen (15) days.
Workmen registering in this Preferred A Group shall be ineligible to register in any other group and shall not work in any classification other than those specified in this section and only have recall rights for equipment specified in this section.
GROUP A RETIREES: Must have Group A eligibility. The pension was set up to enhance the lives of retirees in their golden years. Retiring from the trades is by voluntary choice.
A retiree is an equipment operator or mechanic who has applied for and is receiving a pension from any construction industry source.
Upon retirement the retiree can only register In this group. The Group A retirees will be referred to jobs only after the Group A classification and the Preferred A classification have been exhausted.
The Group A retirees will not be eligible for letter of request by the Employer.
GROUP B: Same as Group A, except that the employment shall have been at least 270 days, three (3) years of 90 days each. All fourth year Apprentices and Trainees shall be registered in this group.
GROUP C: All applicants who have worked as Operating Engineers at least ninety (90) days per year during each of the last two (2) years, and who have lived in the State of Ohio or any county contiguous thereto for at least one (1) year prior to application. All third year Apprentices and Trainees shall be registered in this group.
GROUP D: All applicants who have worked as Operating Engineers at least ninety (90) days during the twelve (12) months prior to application. All second year Apprentices and Trainees shall be registered in this group.
14
GROUP E: All other applicants and all first year Apprentices and Trainees shall be registered in this group.
GROUP F: All applicants who are “temporary employees.”
All applicants who have attained eligibility in any of the foregoing groups shall not lose eligibility as a result of their failure to obtain the required days of employment during the applicable periods of time. All graduating Apprentices shall upon journeymen certification become eligible for Group A. When an applicant fails to register in his/her eligibility group due to reasons other than illness, as hereinafter defined, and does not notify the Union Hall, the resultant failure to obtain the required days of employment during the applicable periods of time shall cause the applicant to lose eligibility in that group.
Any registrant requesting that their work registration card be placed on hold due to sickness or ill health must present to the Union a doctor’s certificate or statement certifying that the registrant will be under a doctor’s care for a minimum of thirty (30) days, and that such illness prevents the registered applicant from working as an Operating Engineer. A work registrant’s card will only be placed on hold for a minimum period of thirty (30) days, and a maximum period of one hundred twenty (120) days. No registration cards will be placed in the hold position for illness less than a thirty (30) day duration. Any refusals of dispatches due to illness for a period of less than thirty (30) days shall be counted as a refusal under the terms and conditions of the referral procedure.
33.	In referring applicants, the following procedure shall be followed:
A.	Applicants in Group A shall first be referred, and then Group A Preferred, then Group A Retirees, then applicants in the succeeding groups, in order, through Group E. In each group, the Union shall refer applicants in order of their places on the referral list.
B.	Registered Apprentices or Trainees shall be referred in order of their position on the referral list.
C.	Employers shall have the right to reject any applicant referred foremploymentand shall immediately notify the Union in writing of such rejection. In the event a registrant is discharged by the Employer because of lack of sufficient ability,
15
and he/she does not exercise his/her rights under the Referral Board of Review and Arbitration under Paragraph 37, the classification or equipment from which he/she is discharged shall be stricken from his/her referral record and he/she shall not be dispatched to a job in that classification or on that equipment until he/she has:
1.	Taken training at his/her training site and has been certified, or
2.	Has presented to his/her dispatch office a letter from a previous Employer, in signed agreement with Local 18 working within Local 18’s jurisdiction, stating that in the Employer's opinion the discharged registrant has successfully completed a job assignment in that classification or on that piece of equipment in his employment.
D.	When an applicant is actually employed, he/she shall notify the Union office at which he/she is registered within twenty-four (24) hours. Failure to do so is an imposition upon those registered and not employed and, therefore, such applicant will be barred from re-registering, unless and until he/she has made application to the Board of Review and Arbitration provided for in Paragraph 37 of this Agreement, and shows good cause for his/her failure to give such notice.
E.	When an applicant becomes employed, his/her name shall be removed from the register as soon as he/she shall have worked for a total of thirty-one (31) accumulative working days (one (1) day jobs shall not count). An Operator who relieves another Operator will not be charged for the first fifteen (15) days (only one (1) fifteen (15) day relief per registration application card). All days after that will be counted toward his/her time.
If an applicant is employed for less than thirty-one (31) accumulative working days, he/she shall be restored to his/her previous position on the registerwhen such employment terminates. Any applicant who quits employment or fails to show up for work assignment at starting time after being dispatched (provided he/she was dispatched the previous day), for whatever reason, except accident verified by police report, shall be placed at the bottom of the applicable registration group regardless of the number of days worked and shall not be eligible
16
for request until he/she puts in a new registration card. When reason for employment termination is questioned, applicant must present a written termination slip evidencing reasons other than a voluntary quit before he/she is restored to his/her previous position on the register.
An applicant for employment may not refuse referral to employment for any reason except that the applicant may inform the District Office in writing, before any referral, that he/ she will not accept employment referrals in certain named counties within the District. If an applicant refuses a job referral for the second consecutive time, he/she shall lose his/her position on the register and go to the bottom of the list for his/ her group.* If the dispatcher is unable to contact an applicant, the failure to contact shall not be deemed to be a refusal.
F.	Applicants must notify the Union office in which they are registered by telephone, or letter, or telegram, or in person of their continued availability for employment within thirty (30) days after the date of last registration or re-registration in order to maintain their places on the register.
In order to equally distribute and defray the cost of services rendered by the use of this referral system, all individuals who make use of this referral system shall be required to pay an initial registration fee of $16.75 and another $16.75 for each reregistration thereafter, provided that such fee shall not exceed $16.75 in any consecutive thirty (30) day period (theaforestated $16.75 will increase to $17.25 effective July 1, 2005) and provided that such fee shall not apply to the following:
1.	Members in good standing of Local 18 or its Branches, International Union of Operating Engineers, whose proportionate share of the cost of this referral system is met by their regular dues; and
2.	Applicants for membership to Local 18 or its Branches, International Union of Operating Engineers, whose proportionate share of the cost of this referral system is met by their fees; and
3.	Members in good standing of the International Union of Operating Engineers who are paying travel dues whose proportionate share of the cost of this referral system is met by the payment of their fees.
'Does not apply to the Ohio or Kentucky Building & Light Commercial Agreements Referral.
17
G.	The Union shall use its best efforts to notify all registered applicants when work is available forthem, but the Union assumes no responsibility or obligation for failure to locate an applicant.
H.	All applicants must submit a written resume of their experience and qualifications at the time of original registrations, and may be tested on the equipment they operate at the nearest available training site prior to being assigned a position on the referral list.
I.	Subject to this referral system Employers may hire through this referral policy, by name, former employees who have resided for at least twenty-four (24) months in the State of Ohio or in any county contiguous thereto, and have been employed by the Employer making the request during the past twenty-four (24) months within the jurisdiction of this Agreement. The Employer must make the request to the appropriate Union District Office and the employee requested must be registered on the District referral list (Groups A through E).
Employers may hire through this referral policy by name individuals in Group A for a production machine, or for a mechanic, or mechanic/welder, who has been registered on the out-of-work list for at least ten (10) days in the District in which the work is to be performed. Individuals shall have only one (1) request per four (4) month period from the last request. The request by name must be confirmed later in writing on the letterhead of the Employer and signed by either the Employer or the superintendent of the project.
Nothing in the referral procedure shall interfere with the transfer of an Employer’s employees on his payroll from one project to another project within the geographical area covered by Local 18. When transferring employees, the Employer will notify the Union District Office from which the employee is to be transferred.
The Union agrees the transfer will be processed in an expedient manner.
J.	The purpose of the referral system is to provide nondis-criminatory employment opportunities. Individuals who register therein deserve a preference over those who do not. Therefore, it is agreed that in the event thatthe referral list is exhausted and the Union is temporarily unable to furnish qualified applicants within twenty-four (24) hours after receiving the Employer's request
18
(Saturdays, Sundays and holidays excepted), the Employer may temporarily employ others until the Union notifies the Employer that it has qualified registrants available for employment.
Applicants hired by the Employer under this procedure shall be known as “temporary employees,” and will be subject to replacements. The Employer will notify the Union District Representative of the name, union affiliation (if any), date of employment and social security number of such “temporary employee.” The Union will maintain a register of all such “temporary employees” and such register shall be known as the temporary register. Such “temporary employees" may also be referred by the Union (when the referral list is exhausted) from Group F.
Such “temporary employee” shall be subject to replacement by a qualified registered applicant under the procedure listed herein:
1.	The Union shall give a five (5) working day written notice to the Employer with whom the “temporary employee” is working and such “temporary employee” will thereupon be replaced at the end of the five (5) working day period provided the Union furnishes a qualified registered applicant.
2.	The Union will save the Employer harmless for any liabilities occurring under the application of the provisions of the temporary register.
K.	When an Employer states requirements for special skills or abilities in his/her request for employee applicants, the Union shall refer the first applicant on the register possessing such skills or abilities, regardless of the place or classification of such applicant on the register. If a contractor requests or requires that the operator be a Certified Operator, verification of the operator's certification is the responsibility of the Employer. If the Employer notifies the Union in writing, within thirty (30) days of the employee’s discharge, of an Operator who had been in his employment and who had not performed satisfactorily, and the Employer does not wish this Operator to be referred to the Employer for future employment, the Union shall honor this written request.
L.	Any employee who quits a contractor without proper notice and is subsequently hired by an Employer with whom Local 18 has a contractual relationship without a proper referral by Local 18 shall be discharged by the Employer when it is called to his attention.
19
34.	Employers shall give first opportunity to persons registered for employment, as provided herein, by calling or notifying the Union at any of its offices in the territory where the work is to be performed.
35.	Registration of applicants and selections of applicants for referral to jobs shall be on a nondiscri minatory basis and shall not be based on or in any way affected by Union membership, by-laws, rules, regulations, constitutional provisions, or any other aspects or obligation of Union membership, policies, or requirements. It is mutually agreed that the Employer and the Union shall abide by all of the laws of the United States, the State of Ohio, the Commonwealth of Kentucky, and lawful orders thereof in nondiscrimination and fair employmentpractices.
The Employerand the Union shall not discriminate against nor limit employment opportunities of any employee, applicant for employment or applicant for Union membership or apprenticeship training because of race, color, sex, age, religion, national origin or ancestry.
The Union agrees to furnish an Employer, at his request, any statement or data required under any regulations referred to herein.
36.	In addition to the above Registration Groups there shall be established a Short Term Job Group. The sole purpose of this Short Term Job Group is to enable registrants to acquire time to be eligible for unemployment benefits. Registration in this group is limited to applicants eligible for Group A of this referral and all fourth year Apprentices showing proof of need for additional time to qualify for unemployment benefits.
Applicants’ referral out of the Short Term Job Group will be limited to jobs of two (2) days or less duration in a calendar week or eight (8) days or less duration in a calendar month on equipment listed on their registration cards. Any refusals of jobs will cause the registrant's card to be removed from the Short Term Job Group deck. Dispatches for short term jobs as defined above will first be made from the Short Term Job Group. If the dispatcher is unable to fill the short term job order from the Short Term Job Group he/she will proceed to fill the order from Groups A through F in accordance with the referral rules. Dispatcher should notify Employers when dispatching from the Short Term Job Group. The Employer reserves the right to request dispatch from Group A.
20
Since this Short Term Job Group is intended to provide limited employment for those needing credit for unemployment compensation, the Union shall, through its business agents, remove from employment any Operating Engineer who has accumulated more than two (2) days per calendar week or over eight (8) days in a calendar month—as a result of the Short Term Job Referral Group.
Registrants in the Short Term Job Group will not be eligible for any recall or request provisions of the referral as herein described. Employment received as a result of the Short Term Job Group referral will not provide eligibility for Employer recall when the registrant is registered in Group A, Preferred A, or Group A Retirees deck. Apprentices or Trainees will not be permitted to register in the Short Term Job Group except as noted above. Registrants may not register in the Short Term Job Group or Group A or Preferred A or Group A Retirees deck at the same time. The Employer shall not be permitted to transfer employees dispatched from the Short Term Job Group from one project to another project.
The Union will save the Employer harmless for any liabilities occurring under the application of the provisions of the Short Term Job Group.
All the remaining rules with regard to the operation of the referral shall be applicable to the operation of the Group A, Preferred A and Group A Retirees except as modified above.
37.	Any registrant or any Employer who may feel aggrieved by the operation of this referral system shall have the right to and m ust f ile h is/her g rievance, in writing, with in ten (10) days after the occurrence of the event concerning which he/ she complains with a Board of Review and Arbitration consisting of one (1) representative of the Union, one (1) representative of the Employer, and an impartial third member to be selected by agreement of the Union and the Employer, and the decision of this Board shall be final and binding on all parties.
38.	This statement as to referrals shall be posted in all places where notices to Employers and applicants for employment are customarily posted, including all offices of the Union; all offices of the Employer.
39.	A Labor Relations Division Representative of the AGO of Ohio may inspect the referral register at the Union District Office at any time during normal office hours.
21
40.	All officers and business representatives of the Union who have had previous work experience in any one or more of the job classifications contained in this Agreement shall be deemed to be employed at the trade and it is the intent of this section to provide that upon return to the employment in the trade, he shall do so with the same preference as if he had continually worked at the trade and shall be eligible upon registration for Group A.
ARTICLE IV
FRINGE BENEFIT PROGRAMS
41.	The fringe benefit provisions contained herein shall apply to all Employer members of the AGC of Ohio Labor Relations Division, and Employers who become signatory or bound by this Agreement, as well as any other Employer or Employer groups who become a party to an Agreement covering the fringe benefit programs set forth herein.
42.	All Employers bound hereby agree to be bound by the Agreement and Declarations of Trust, as amended, establishing the Pension Fund, Health and Welfare Plan and Apprenticeship Fund, copies of which all parties agree have been furnished to and read by all Employers bound hereby prior to the execution of this Agreement. It is mutually agreed that the provisions of said Agreements and Declarations of Trust and any rules, regulations, or plans adopted by theTrustees pursuant thereto, shall become a part of this Agreement as though fully written herein. All Employers bound hereby irrevocably designate the Employer Trustees of said Funds and Plan and their successors as their representatives for the purpose set forth in said Agreements and Declarations of Trust.
43.	Fringe benefit contributions shall be paid at the following rates for all hours paid to each employee by the Employer under this Agreement which shall in no way be considered or used in the determination of overtime pay. Hours paid shall include holidays and reporting hours which are paid.
PENSION FUND: Effective May i, 2000 is $3.00 per hour
HEALTH & WELFARE PLAN: Effective May 1, 2004 is $5.11 per hour
22
APPRENTICESHIP FUND: Effective May 1,2000 is $.45 per hour
SAFETY TRAINING AND EDUCATIONAL TRUST FUND: Effective May 4,1992 is $.04 per hour
The Union shall have the option of diverting all or any part of the increase scheduled for improvement of or payment of costs of any fund benefits provided under this Agreement; provided that the Union gives the Employer written notice of its election to do so by registered letter sent to the office of the AGC of Ohio at least 60 days before the effective date of the scheduled change specifying in said notice the amount of change to be applied for this purpose in the fund benefit for which the money is to be used.
44.	It is further understood and agreed by and between the parties that duly authorized representatives of any of said Trust Funds or Plan shall have the right, on written notice, to audit the books and records of any party obligated under this Agreement to contribute thereto, with respect to the hours worked by and wages paid to all employees upon whom the Employer is obligated to make contributions and with respect to the payment of monies to the AGC of Ohio’s Construction Industry Advancement Program under paragraphs 109, et. seq. and with respect to the Administrative Dues deduction under paragraph 114. Notwithstanding the foregoing authority allowing audits with respect to the AGC of Ohio's Construction Industry Advancement Program and the Administrative Dues deduction, the audits shall only be conducted in conjunction with the Fringe Benefit Funds or Plans referred to herein and shall not be conducted independently. The twenty-four (24) hour notice referred to in paragraph 45 (A) shall only be given for delinquencies to the employees Fringe Benefit Funds or Plan referred to therein.
45.	Reports of employees who have worked the number of hours that they have been paid, and such other data and information as may be required, and all contributions payable to the Funds or Plan shall be transmitted to the offices of the Funds or Plan no later than the fifteenth (15th) day of the month immediately following the calendar month in which the work was performed. In the event said audit is refused, reports not
23
furnished, or said contributions are not paid, as aforesaid, the following remedies, in whole or part, and in addition to all other remedies, either in law, in equity, by contract or authorized by the aforementioned Agreements and Declarations of Trust, shall be available.
A.	After the Trustees or the Agent of any Funds or Plan have given the delinquent Employer twenty-four (24) hours written notice at the address shown in the records of the Funds, Plan or Union, the Union shall have the right to take such legal and lawful action as it may deem necessary until such delinquent payments are made or said audit is permitted, such action including but not limited to the right to withhold its services from such Employer for as long as the failure to make such contributions or audit continues, Article XIV notwithstanding.
B.	In the event either the Union or the Trustees of any Funds or Plan may decide to utilize the grievance and arbitration procedure in this paragraph to collect delinquent contributions and liquidated damages to enforce any audit, or to obtain any report, the following procedure shall apply:
Unless the issue is resolved between the Employer and the party giving notice, within five (5) calendar days after deposit of written notice of delinquency and/or demand for audit and/or report in the United States mail, to the Employer at the address shown in the records of the Funds, Plan or Union, such party may refer the matter to an arbitrator to be named by the AGC of Ohio Labor Relations Division and by Local 18 of the International Union of Operating Engineers whose decision in writing shall be final and binding on all parties. In the event such parties are unable to choose an arbitrator within ten (10) days after written request therefor, the Union or the Trustees of any Funds or Plan may request an arbitrator according to the rules and regulations of the American Arbitration Association whose decision in writing shall be final and binding on all parties. The parties to the arbitration shall each bear one-half (1/2) of the total costs.
46.	In no event shall the foregoing provisions relating to Fringe Benefits be subject to or suitable for grievance and arbitration under Article XIV of this Agreement.
24
47.	The Employer must obtain an Insurance Payment Bond (IPB), from a company that is “best” rated A, financial category 7 or better, payable to the Ohio Operating Engineers Fringe Benefit Program as a guarantee that the fringe benefits referred to herein are paid by the insurance carrier in the event that the Employer becomes delinquent in its payments and defaults thereon. In lieu of a surety bond, an Employer may substitute an equivalent cash bond, which will be escrowed to guarantee payment of fringes. If the Employer fails to provide the necessary bond within thirty (30) days of request by the Union, the Union shall withhold services until receipt of such bond, or the Employer makes fringe contributions on a weekly basis.
The Employer shall obtain said Insurance Payment Bond or cash bond in amounts set forth below:
1-10	Operating	Engineers
11-20	Operating	Engineers
21-50	Operating	Engineers
Over 50	Operating	Engineers
$50,000.00
$75,000.00
$100,000.00
$125,000.00
ARTICLE V
WAGE RATES
48.	The purpose of this Agreement is to establish wage rates and conditions to apply for all work as defined herein and for operation of all equipment which comes within the jurisdiction of the International Union of Operating Engineers, and as negotiated by and between Local 18 and its Branches of the International Union of Operating Engineers and the AGC of Ohio Labor Relations Division.
49.	Exhibit “A” covering wage rates and classifications attached hereto is made a part of this Agreement.
50.	It is agreed if equipment within the jurisdiction of the International Union of Operating Engineers is used by an Employer and if there is no appropriate classification listed under the wage schedules therein, then the Union and the Association negotiating committees will negotiate a new classification and rate of pay for such equipment within five (5) days.
51.	The geographical jurisdiction of this Agreement will be zoned for wages only. Conditions of employment will be the same for all employees covered by this Agreement.
25
Zone I: Covering Portage and Summit counties only.
Zone II: Covering the counties of Lucas and Wood only.
Zone III: Covering the counties of Adams, Allen, Ashland, Athens, Auglaize, Belmont, Brown, Butler, Carroll, Champaign, Clark, Clermont, Clinton, Coshocton, Crawford, Darke, Defiance, Delaware, Fairfield, Fayette, Franklin, Fulton, Gallia, Greene, Guernsey, Hamilton, Hancock, Hardin, Harrison, Henry, Highland, Hocking, Holmes, Jackson, Jefferson, Knox, Lawrence, Licking, Logan, Madison, Marion, Mercer, Meigs, Miami, Montgomery, Monroe, Morgan, Morrow, Muskingum, Noble, Paulding, Perry, Pickaway, Pike, Preble, Putnam, Richland, Ross, Sandusky, Scioto, Seneca, Shelby, Tuscarawas, Union, Van Wert, Vinton, Warren, Washington, Wayne, Williams, and Wyandot. In Kentucky, the Counties of Boone, Campbell, Kenton and Pendleton.
ARTICLE VI
WEEKLY PAY AND HOURLY PAY CLASSIFICATIONS AND REPORTING PAY PROVISIONS
52.	In all counties covered by this Agreement, the following classifications shall be employed on a WEEKLY PAY basis: Asphalt Plants
Boiler Operators, Oiler/Helper, Registered Apprentices and
Signalmen, when members of crew
Boiler Operators or Compressor Operators, when compressor or boiler is mounted on crane (Piggyback Operation)
Cherry Pickers
Cranes (all types)
Derricks (all types)
Draglines
Dredges (dipper, clam or suction) 3-man crew
Floating Equipment
Gradalls
Hoes (except when attached to farm or industrial type
tractor or CAT 320 backhoes or equivalent and below) Hoists, with two or more drums in use
Horizontal Directional Drill (over 500,000 ft. lbs. thrust) Maintenance Engineers (Mechanic and/or Welder) Master Mechanics
26
Panelboard Operators (all types on site)
Pile Drivers
Power Shovels
Rotary Drills (all), used on caissons for foundations and substructure work
Side Booms
Tug Boats
53.	In all counties covered by ZONES I, II and III, the following classifications shall be employed on an HOURLY PAY basis (two (2), four (4), or eight (8) hours): A-Frames
Air Compressors, pressurizing shaft or tunnels
Allen Screed Paver (concrete)
Asphalt Pavers
Backfillers and Tampers
Backfillers
Ballast Re-Locator
Bar and Joint Installing Machines
Barrier Moving Machine
Batch Plant Operators
Bobcat Type and/or Skid Steer Loader
Boilers (15 lbs. pressure and over)
Boom Trucks (all types)
Bulldozers
Bull Floats
Burlap and Curing Machines
Cableways
Clefplanes
CMI-type equipment
Combination Concrete Mixers and Towers
Compressors, on building construction
Concrete Grinder/Planer
Concrete Mixers
Concrete Pumps
Concrete Spreaders
Conveyors, used for handling building materials
Crushers
Deckhands
Directional Drill Locator”
Drum Firemen in asphalt plants
Elevating Graders or Euclid Loaders
Endloaders
27
Farm-type Tractors, pulling attachments
Finishing Machines
Fork Lifts (all types)
Forklift (rough terrain with winch/hoist)
Form Trenchers
Generators (except when furnishing power for hand tools)
Generators (sonic pile driving)
Gunite Machines
Helicopter Operators, hoisting building materials
Helicopter Winch Operators, hoisting building materials
Hoes, when attached to farm or industrial type tractors
Hoists (building construction)
Horizontal Directional Drill (less than 500,000 ft. lbs. thrust)
House Elevators (except those automatic call button
controlled)
Hydraulic Gantry (lift system)
Hydro-seeders
Inboard, Outboard Motor Boat Launches
Kelman-type Loaders (dirt loading)
Laser Finishing Machines
Laser Screed and like equipment
Lift Slab or Panel Jack Operators
Lead Greasemen
Light Plant Operators
Locomotives (all types)
Man Lifts
Mixers, Paving (multiple drum)
Mobile Concrete Pumps, with booms (including oiler, etc.)
Mucking Machines
Mudjacks
Oilers, Helpers and Boiler Operators, when not members of a crew
One Bag Capacity Mixers, with side loaders
Pavement Breakers (hydraulic or cable)
Pettibone-Rail Equipment
Plant Mixers (on site)
Post Drivers
Post Hole Diggers
Power Driven Heaters (oil fired)
Power Graders
Power Scoops
Power Sweepers
28
Power Scrubbers
Prentice Loader
Pressure Grouting
Pressure Pumps (over 1/2" discharge)
Pump Operators, installing or operating well-points or other types of dewatering systems
Pumps (4" and over discharge)
Pumps (under 4" discharge)
Rail Tamper (with automatic lifting and aligning device) Switch & Tie Tampers (without lifting and aligning device) Tire Repairmen
Tractors, pulling sheepsfoot rollers or graders Trench Machines (over 24")
Utility Operators
VAC/ALLS
Vermeer-type Concrete Saw
Vibratory Compactors, with integral power Welders (except electric machines)
54.	In all the counties covered by ZONES I, II, and III, employees covered by this Agreement employed on a WEEKLY PAY basis reporting for work on Saturday, Sunday or holidays shall receive eight (8) hours straight time for reporting if no work is performed and they are not required to remain on the job; if they start to work, they shall receive eight (8) hours at premium time in accordance with Article VII.
They must report for work at starting time and, except as noted above, remain on the work for the full eight (8) hours to be entitled to receive the eight (8) hours pay stipulated in this Agreement.
55.	When a machine having a forty (40) hour guarantee is laid up on a project site and the workmen are laid off and paid off, that machine cannot be started back to productive work on that project site unless it is laid up for one week (seven days) without calling back the workmen who had manned the machine and they shall be paid for the time they have been off, unless mutual agreement is reached between the Employer and the Union District Representative to permit employees to work on the weekly guarantee equipment during the seven (7) day “lay-up" period without penalty.
56.	In all the counties covered by ZONES I, II and III, employees covered by this Agreement employed on an
29
HOURLY PAY basis, unless notified by the Employer not to report to work, shall receive two (2) hours’ pay for reporting to work; if such operator does not start to work, he/she shall receive his/her two (2) hours’ reporting time. An employee may be required to stay at the work project for one (1) hour to be eligible for two (2) hours reporting pay unless the Employer releases the employee prior to the end of the first hour. If the employee starts to work, he/she shall receive four (4) hours' pay; if the employee works over four (4) hours, he/she shall receive eight (8) hours’ pay; for inclement weather only it will be 2-4-6-8 hours.
In all counties covered by ZONES I, II and III, employees covered by this Agreement employed on an HOURLY PAY basis reporting to work on Saturday, Sunday or holidays, all conditions in this paragraph will apply and both reporting time and time worked will be paid for at the rate provided in accordance with Article VIL They must report to work at starting time to be entitled to reporting pay. Where less than four (4) hours or less than eight (8) hours are worked, the employees must remain on the work for the full four (4) hours or the full eight (8) hours, as the case may be, to be entitled to pay for the four (4) or eight (8) hours, as stipulated in this Agreement.
A. When an employee working on equipment with a weekly-pay guarantee and work with his/her equipment is completed on a project, the employee is guaranteed only Monday through Wednesday pay if the equipment finishes the work on the project the first three days of the week. The Employer will notify the Union District Representative prior to application of this provision.
57,	Crews will be eligible for straight time weekly pay when their equipment is transferred out of their District up to the day the equipment is shutdown, otherwise, Paragraph 56, Section A prevails.
58.	On jobs where there is only one (1) day’s work for a piece of equipment, employee or crew may be employed on a day-pay basis. Upon the Contractor's request to the Union Business Representative for a second day for special occasions, the Union gives the Representative authority to authorize a second day for the period of this contract.
59.	All reporting pay time paid to an employee shall
30
count as working hours with respect to any work guarantees or overtime pay provisions.
60.	Employees who are working for an Employer in other than their local residence area thereby necessitating them to pay room and board shall, upon request, be granted their release if the Employer is unable to supply enough work to justify their staying. Employees released under this provision will be considered as laid-off because of lack-of-work.
ARTICLE VII
PROVISIONS FOR PREMIUM RATE OF PAY
61.	The week shall begin on Monday A.M. and shall end on Sunday P.M.
62.	The regular starting time must be established for not less than one (1) week. Any time worked prior to the established starting time will be paid for at the applicable premium rate unless otherwise arranged through Union notification.
63.	The normal work day shall consist of eight (8) hours and the normal workweek of forty (40) hours. One and one-half (1-1/2) times the regular rate shall be paid for all work in excess of eight (8) hours per day or forty (40) hours per week, whichever is greater, and including Saturday.
When an Employer performs clearance and excavation for site preparation for industrial or building sites, the Employer will pay the wage rates listed herein, all overtime will be performed at one and one-half (1-1/2) times the regular rate. Subject to Paragraph 121, all other conditions and provisions shall be as provided herein.
A.	An Employer may, however, have the option of working a four-ten hour schedule at straight time rates. No Operating Engineer with a weekly guarantee will lose a paid holiday he/she would otherwise receive by working a four-ten week. Instead, such employees will receive, in addition to wages and fringes for hours worked in a four-ten week, an additional eight (8) hours and fringes at straight time rates for the holiday. If the Employer elects, upon notification to work a four-ten hour schedule, he shall pay overtime in such cases on all hours over ten (10) hours per day or over forty (40) per week, whichever is greater. A four-ten work schedule must be by the week.
31
J
In addition to the above: It is agreed that when time is lost by the crew during the regular work week, Monday through Thursday, due to inclement weather, holiday, equipment breakdown or directions of the project owner, this time may be made up by the entire crew on Friday at the regular rate of wages. All Friday work must be scheduled on a minimum of eight (8) hours basis. All hours worked in excess of the forty (40) hours in the work week or ten (10) hours each day, shall be paid at the appropriate overtime rate of pay.
B.	Any employee hired on any day of the week, Monday through Thursday, and who does not lose any time from the day of his/her initial hire until Thursday shall receive the overtime rate of wages for Friday, providing the crew Is eligible for the premium rate for Friday.
C.	Should any other trade on the project in the contractor's employ, working in conjunction with the Operating Engineers, receive premium pay on a Friday, the Operating Engineers would also receive premium pay for the Friday.
D.	If the other basic crafts employed by your contractor on the project receives the overtime rate for the ninth (9th) and tenth (1 Oth) hours, the Operating Engineers will also receive the overtime rate.
E.	When an Employer works three (3) days or less in a week, premium time will be paid after eight (8) hours for each of the days, except for holidays, inclement weather or completion of the job.
F.	Pay day will be on Thursday.
G.	Weekly pay employees, in orderto be eligible foreight hours’ pay that day, must be available to perform work for the Employer.
64.	Double time will continue to be paid to any Operator who is complementing another trade that is receiving double time. All work performed by an employee on Sunday or holidays shall be paid at two times the regular rate established in this Agreement or any escalated rate that may be in effect.
65.	No weekly pay employee covered by this Agreement shall lose time because of the observed holidays. If not requested to work, he/she shall be paid eight (8) hours straight time pay at the rate established in this Agreement or eight (8) hours at any escalated rate that may be in effect. Holidays
32
shall be of twenty-four (24) hours duration. When required to work on holidays, the employee shall be paid two times the regular rate established in this Agreement or any escalated rate in effect.
66.	There shall be no work required on Labor Day except in special cases of emergency.
67.	The observed holidays are Christmas, New Year’s Day, Labor Day, Memorial Day (last Monday in the month of May), Independence Day and Thanksgiving Day. When any of the aforementioned holidays fall on Sunday, they will be observed on Monday. All weekly pay employees covered by this Agreement to be eligible for holiday pay must be available for work the first regularly scheduled work day prior to the holiday and be available forwork the first regularly scheduled work day after the holiday.
68.	Where steam boilers, power driven heaters or pumps are used on a continuous seven (7) day twenty-four (24) hours per day operation, overtime may be avoided by using four (4) shifts of Operating Engineers, each shift to work six (6) hours on a seven (7) day basis. Each Operating Engineer so employed shall be paid forty (40) hours at the applicable straight time rate and two (2) hours at double the applicable straight time rate. The aforementioned condition, where overtime may be avoided, can only be used upon the Employer's guarantee of a minimum thirty (30) days of operation. In the event the Employer cannot furnish thirty (30) days of employment after starting work under Paragraph 68, it is agreed that upon lay-off of employees the Employer will pay retroactive overtime to such laid-off employees from the start of this particular operation in accordance with Article VII, Paragraph 64 of this Agreement.
69.	Job Master Mechanics and Operators of derricks, cranes, derrick cars on steel erection and on building construction and all winch trucks used in hoisting construction material and any type of hoist, shall command and receive the highest rate of pay and the same applicable premium pay and conditions for overtime where the rates or conditions for the Ironworkers, Boiler Makers, Pile Drivers and Pipefitters are higher than the rates specified in this Agreement for the foregoing classifications. To be eligible forthe benefits of complementing the above mentioned trades, an Operator must be required to
33
perform a specific operation which is directly related to the work which the other trades are performing.
70.	Operating Engineers employed on any equipment within the jurisdiction of the International Union of Operating Engineers working in shafts, tunnels or storage caverns where natural earth or rock is undisturbed overhead, shall be paid fifty cents ($.50) per hour above the rates in this Agreement or in addition to any escalated rate that may be in effect. This does not apply to open cut work.
71.	Booms, including jib 150 feet through 180 feet in length, fifty cents ($.50) per hour in addition to the established crane rate or any escalated crane rate that may be in effect.
72.	Booms, including jib over 180 feet in length through 249 feet in length, one dollar ($1.00) per hour in addition to the established crane rate or any escalated crane rate that may be in effect.
73.	Booms, including jib of 250 feet and over in length, one dollar twenty-five cents ($1.25) per hour in addition to the established crane rate or any escalated crane rate that may be in effect.
74.	Conventional cranes whether crawler or truck when used as a tower crane, the effective length of the mast and the boom combined, will be used to determine when these extra rates will be applied.
75.	Tower Cranes, the height of the boom point from the first floor level of the project, will be used to determine when these extra rates will apply.
76.	On jobs where crane-type or derrick-type machines are operated on floors above the first floor level of the building, twenty-five cents ($.25) per hour shall be paid in addition to the established crane rate or any escalated rate that may be in effect.
ARTICLE VIII
CREWS AND GENERAL PROVISIONS
77.	In all of the counties within the jurisdiction of this Agreement, crews shall be employed on all truck cranes, power shovels, cranes, rotary drills on caisson work, cableways, draglines, tower derricks, tower cranes, multiple drum
34
pavers, pile driving machines and hoes, standard gauge locomotives, bucket trench machines (over 24" wide) and horizontal directional drills (over 500,000 ft. lbs. thrust). Crews shall consist of an Operating Engineer and an Apprentice/Helper or Signalman on machines, regardless of motive of power, or an Operating Engineer and Fireman on steam machines.
78A. Apprentice/Helpers are required on hoes, excavators, and front hudraulic shovels having a base operating weight in excess of 105,000 pounds, all terrain cranes with a total weight of 125,000 pounds and Apprentice/Helpers shall be required on cable crawler cranes over 80 ton structural capacity, defined as: the factory specified total maximum counter weight with a PCSA rating not to exceed 36,400 pounds, based on 50' of boom at 40’ radius, with the single line pull not exceeding 17,000 pounds. Anything outside any of the aforementioned limits determines the crane as requiring an Apprentice/Helper. All factory certifications and the computer system will be available for inspection at any time by the Union or their designee. On remote control gradalls, Apprentice/Helpers shall be at the discretion of the Employer. Truck cranes, lattice boom, thirty (30) ton capacity and under; hydraulic truck cranes and all terrain cranes fifty (50) tons or less, an Oiler is not required. However, if someone other than an Operating Engineer is assigned to this work, this paragraph will be revoked on the project, and an Apprentice/Helper will be required for the remainder of the project. An Apprentice/Helper is required on self-erecting cranes (as defined by the manufacturer) while being erected and dismantled.
78B. Oilers on jobs of thirty (30) days or more will be given a minimum of 30 minutes per day operating the machine they are assigned to (orasimilar machine onthe same project). If the Oiler cannot be trained to operate the machine to the satisfaction of the Employer then he/she shall be replaced.
79A. Work of the Boiler Operator, Oiler/Helper, Registered Apprentice, and Signalman shall include getting up steam and greasing up, filling gas tanks and making the machine and equipment ready for operating at the starting time. If, at the discretion of the Employer, an Oiler/Helper, Registered Apprentice, or Signalman is required to make gas or diesel machines ready to operate before the regular starting time, such
35
Oiler/Helper, Registered Apprentice, or Signalman shall be paid one-half (112) hour's pay at one and one-half (1-1/2) times the regular rate. If, at the discretion of the Employer, a Boiler Operator or Registered Apprentice is required to get up steam and grease steam machines and make them ready to operate before regular starting time, then such Boiler Operator or Registered Apprentice shall be paid one (1) hour’s pay at one and one-half (1-1/2) times the regular rate.
79B. Apprentice/Helpers, while assigned to track hoes, cranes and other equipment, will perform the following work on the project as additional duty:
•	Cover small equipment (i.e. pumps, generators, compressors, etc.)
•	Act as signal person
•	Safety/fire watch
•	Practice operating in a learning environment in the vicinity
•	Help with survey duties on project
•	Help mechanic, lube trucks, fuel
•	Practice operating rough terrain forklift, front loader, rubber tire hoe, loader in vicinity of primary duty
•	Replace other operators who may be absent on project
•	Run parts or materials as necessary
•	Safety enforcement
•	Productive activity on job site to facilitate job completion when it does not interfere with progress of primary machine, providing this does not interfere with another Operating Engineer’s workday
80.	Oiler/Helpers, Registered Apprentices, Signalmen, Grease Truck Operators, when requested to work the regular one-half (1/2) hour lunch period, will eat their lunch prior to or after the regular one-half (1/2) hour lunch period in order to be able to oil, grease and repair machines during the regular one-half (1/2) hour lunch period at no extra pay.
81.	More than one (1) shift may be worked in any twenty-four (24) hour period and the starting time of the shifts shall be left to the discretion of the Employer. This starting time must be maintained five (5) days, Monday through Friday. However,
36
more than six (6) hours shall not be worked without allowing thirty (30) minutes for a lunch period. Where two (2) shifts are employed, eight (8) hours shall constitute a day's work for the first shift and eight (8) hours shall constitute a day’s work for the second shift. When three (3) shifts are employed, eight (8) hours shall constitute a day's work forthe first shift, seven and one-half (7-1/2) hours work with eight (8) hours pay shall constitute the second shift, and seven (7) hours work with eight (8) hours pay shall constitute the third shift. For the purpose of overtime pay for multiple shift operations, a work day shall be determined by the starting time of the shift. In addition, the second shift will receive twenty-five cents ($.25) per hour, third shift fifty cents ($.50) per hour premium above the established rate of pay.
When warranted by a particular job’s conditions, shift work may be instituted for less than five (5) consecutive days.
82.	Where project owners establish specifications, requirements, or for safety reasons that limit the days or hours in which work may be performed, the Employer, after advance notice to the Union, may start the work week after 6:00 p.m. on Sunday at straight time rates. In applying this schedule, Sunday p.m. will be considered Monday, the following Friday will be considered Saturday (paid at time and one-half) and Saturday will be considered Sunday (paid at double time). All premium pay provisions will apply for the sixth and seventh days as to Saturday and Sunday, respectively.
83.	When it is necessary for equipment to be operated, the Operating Engineer who regularly operates the particular piece of equipment shall be given first chance to perform the work. If an Apprentice/Helper is required, the Apprentice/Helper who is regularly assigned to the particular piece of equipment shall be given first choice to perform the Apprentice/Helper’s duties. In an emergency, any employee may be assigned to any equipment. It is understood that the Master Mechanic or Steward will be notified, when possible, of such emergency requirements.
84.	Employees who are requested, referred and employed by Employers on the same day under hourly classifications in this Agreement shall be paid a minimum of eight (8) hours pay on the day they report to the job. Any overtime
37
worked afterthe normal quitting time shall be paid at the proper overtime rate in addition to the eight (8) hours minimum first day pay guarantee. The furnishing of a truck by a Mechanic shall not be a condition of employment. If an Employer is requesting a Mechanic from the Union, the Employer may require the new Mechanic to furnish a truck. If a Mechanic is required to furnish a truck, compensation will be negotiated between the Mechanic and the Employer.
85.	Equipment Operator employees shall be required to carry sufficient tools to make minor repairs and adjustments in order to meet manufacturers daily maintenance requirements on the equipment they operate. This excludes diagnositc and electronic equipment.
86.	If compressors, generators, boilers, hydraulic pumps or powerpacsor any other type ofpowerequipment is mounted piggyback on crane-type equipment requiring a crew, two (2) Operating Engineers will be employed at the Class “A” rate or any escalated rate in effect and under the weekly guarantee.
If the crane does not ordinarily require a crew, see Paragraph 78A, the employment of a second operator shall be at the discretion of the Employer. The jurisdiction of the Operating Engineers must be preserved, however, and if someone other than an Operating Engineer is used to operate the piggyback equipment, the contractor must immediately employ a second Operating Engineer at the Class “A" rate.
Where compressors up to 600 CFM or hydraulic pump, power pacs, etc. are operated and exclusively used to power attachments, such as hoe ram and other similar pieces of equipment, the equipment will be considered and manned as a piggyback operation. If a second person (Operating Engineer) is required, even though the equipment is located adjacent to the machine or crane and not mounted directly on the machine, the second person (Operating Engineer) operating the equipment is paid the Class “A” rate of pay for the day.
Where a second person is an apprentice, refer to the Registered Apprenticeship Wage Schedule on page 74.
If the crane does not require a crew, the auxiliary piece of equipment will be manned by an Operating Engineer and paid the appropriate rate of pay.
87.	ZONES I, II and III - Toledo, and counties, Dayton
38
and counties, Cincinnati and counties, Columbus and counties, Akron and counties, including Summit and Portage:
When a contractor has eight (8) or more major Operating Engineers (major Operating Engineers A, B and C classifications) employed in the District, he/she shall employ a Master Mechanic. In addition to the Master Mechanic required above, if a contractor has eight (8) or more Operating Engineers (major Operating Engineers A, B and C classifications) employed by him/her on any one job, he/she shall employ a Master Mechanic on that job. The Master Mechanic so employed shall be answerable to the Employer and must be a member of the International Union of Operating Engineers, Local 18. Job Master Mechanics so employed shall be paid at the rate specified herein or paid fifty cents ($.50) per hour above the highest rate of any Operating Engineer working under his/her direction, whichever of these rates is higher.
On jobs where maintenance operators are to be employed, the first one (1) employed shall be Class A; the second one, if required, may be a Mechanic Trainee. Any further hire of maintenance operators shall be one (1) Class UA,” then a Mechanic Trainee may be hired. This ratio of one (1) Class “A” to Mechanic Trainee shall be continued in the hire of all maintenance operators as required by the project requirements. Mechanics in training, working under these provisions, will be compensated according to the schedule provided under the “Field Mechanics Trainee Schedule."
88.	Operators of equipment serviced by a Master Mechanic on a job site shall not be counted in the number of Operators within the District to determine when a Master Mechanic will be required for the District.
89.	Employees shall be paid once each week, with not more than five (5) days withheld on the designated payday on the job prior to their normal quitting time. Failure to comply with this provision will require the Employer to pay these employees involved the double time rate if required to wait on the job. If required to return the next day to receive their pay, they shall be paid a minimum of four (4) hours at the hourly rate applicable for that day. These same conditions will apply to employees who are terminated after completion of their job assignment. In the event of the discharge of an employee, he/she
39
shall be paid immediately or his/her time will continue until he/ she is paid off properly. If not paid off by normal quitting time, the aforementioned requirements will be applied if he/she is required to return the next day for his/her pay. Any employee discharged for just cause will receive their paycheck by the end of the next pay period.
90.	Paychecks will show the following information:
(1)	Total hours worked
(2)	Overtime hours (premium hours)
(3)	Gross pay
(4)	All deductions listed
(5)	All fringe contributions (to be shown as a total contribution)
91.	Employees requiring relief, for sickness or other causes, must notify his/her immediate supervisor before leaving the job. Such relief shall be arranged through the Union District Office.
92.	Employer agrees to carry Workers’ Compensation or other equivalent liability insurance for the protection of all employees covered by this Agreement.
93.	At the direction of the Employer’s representative on the job, Operating Engineers shall be allowed proper time for necessary repairs and upkeep. During periods of major repairs there must be suitable shelter around equipment and heated from November through March.
94.	On projects where at least eight (8) Operators are employed, the Employer, during the months of November 1 through April 30, will furnish a heated shelter where employees may change clothes.
95.	Sanitary drinking water and toilet facilities will be available on the project in compliance with the provisions of the applicable state code.
96.	The Employer agrees, upon the termination of any employee covered by this Agreement, to furnish such employee so released with a termination slip at the time of release, showing reason for said release. (Union will provide uniform numbered slips in duplicate; original for employee, duplicate for the Employer’s file.)
40
97,	No supervisory employee shall perform productive work or operate equipment which would deny an Operating Engineer employee employment,
98.	In the reduction of forces on any project, it is agreed that non-area residents will be the first to be laid off except for a limited number of key men as mutually agreed by the Union and the Employer at the Pre-Job Conference. Non-area residents are herein defined as those who have not resided in the State of Ohio or in counties contiguous thereto, nor in Boone, Campbell, Kenton and Pendleton counties in Kentucky, or in counties contiguous thereto, fora period of one (1) year.
99.	When an Employer rents or leases equipment manned from an Employer in signed relations with this Union, the Engineer or Crew may be transferred to the payroll of the lessee, providing the referral office servicing the job or project shall be notified prior to such transfer and provided further that such employee’s employment by the lessee shall terminate upon the termination of the lease or rental of the equipment or any replacement thereof whichever is later.
100.	When an Employer hires an Owner Operator with one (1) machine and the Owner Operator himself operates such single machine, the Owner Operator will be placed on the Employer’s payroll. In the event that the above mentioned machine requires two (2) employees, such employees shall be placed on the Employer’s payroll. However, when the Owner Operator has two (2) or more machines operating on the same job, he/she shall then be considered a sub-contractor and therefore come under the sub-contractors clause.
ARTICLE IX
TERM OF AGREEMENT
101.	The Union will notify the Association which is signatory to this Agreement of the name and address of any contractor who becomes signatory to or bound by this Agreement during the term of this Agreement. The notice shall be given in writing within seven (7) days of the time any such contractor becomes signatory or bound hereto. The notice shall include a copy of the signature page of the contract or the assent card and, if not noted thereon, a statement of the date
41
the contract or assent card was signed or the date the contractor became bound.
102.	Within seven (7) days of the receipt of a notice from the Union of its intent to terminate or modify this Agreement, the Association will notify all such contractors of whom the Association has been notified by the Union. Each such contractor shall have thirty (30) days from the date the Association received the notice of intent to terminate or modify to advise the Union in writing of its intent to negotiate separately for a renewal agreement.
103.	In the event any such contractor fails to advise the Union of its intent to negotiate separately within the time period set forth above, such contractor shall be deemed and presumed to agree to the terms and Agreement arrived at in negotiations between the Union and the Association and to be bound by the collective bargaining agreement resulting therefrom.
104.	The provisions of this section shall operate for successive collective bargaining agreements until such time as the Contractor or Union gives timely notice that said party desires to negotiate separately. Said notice shall be given within the time periods provided in the termination clause of this Agreement or any successive collective bargaining agreement.
105.	The provisions of this Agreement shall continue in force and effect through April 30, 2007 and thereafter from year-to-year until termination at the option of either party, after sixty (60) days notice in writing to the other party.
ARTICLE X
APPRENTICES
106.	In orderto maintain sufficient skilled mechanics for the industry and, in order to present proper learning opportunities for youth and, in order to effectuate the principles and desires of the negotiating parties created by the foregoing, the negotiators hereby fully subscribe to the Ohio Operating Engineers Apprenticeship Fund Agreement and Declaration of Trust dated 20 October 65 as if they had originally negotiated the same. The only limitation upon the program is the Affirmative Action Program here attached (Exhibit “B"), in addition to
42
the proper rules, regulations, processes, and procedures enunciated by the Joint Apprenticeship and Training Committee established by the Trust of 20 October 65.
107.	It is understood by the negotiating parties that a Registered Apprentice Engineer works under the direction of the Operating Engineer and the Joint Apprenticeship and Training Committee, and that the Operating Engineer shall see that he/she stays on the job, properly caring for his/her machine. The Employer shall give sufficient opportunity for the Registered Apprentice to operate under the supervision of the Operating Engineer when time and opportunity avails itself. The Area Coordinator of Apprentices shall be appraised periodically and by his request of performance to further the Registered Apprentices’ learning situation. Registered Apprentices shall receive the scale enunciated by the Joint Apprenticeship and Training Committee in the time justified category that the Registered Apprentice has accomplished. For every five (5) Operating Engineer Journeymen employed by the company, there may be employed one (1) Registered Apprentice or Trainee Engineer through the referral when they are available.
ARTICLE XI
CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY ADVANCEMENT PROGRAM
108.	The Employer and the Union agree to and approve the establishment of a Construction Industry Advancement Program to promote the common good of the Construction Industry by providing financial support for activities which may include but not necessarily be restricted to: (a) promotion of safety; (b) market development; (c) protection of legitimate markets; (d) public relations; (e) personnel practices and labor relations; (f) education; (g) industry relations; (h) apprenticeship training; (i) participation in Funds and Plans provided for in collective bargaining agreement, such as Health and Welfare Plans; and (j) collection and distribution of information from and to all segments of the Construction Industry and related groups or authorities.
109.	Each Employer bound by this Agreement shall pay fourteen cents ($.14) per hour worked effective May 1,1998 to the AGC of Ohio Construction Industry Advancement Fund. Upon subsequent approval by the Health and Welfare Trust
43
ees, such checks shall be transmitted along with the Health and Welfare payments to the Ohio Operating Engineers Health & Welfare Office located at 1180 Dublin Road, Columbus, Ohio 43215, no later than the fifteenth (15th) day of the month immediately following the calendar month.
A.	Each Employer covered by this Agreement shall pay to the Construction Industry Advancement Program for each hour worked by each employee within the bargaining unit:
EFFECTIVE MAY 1,1998
	Div.	State	Total
Toledo	.10	.14	.24
Akron	.08	.14	.22
Dayton	.08	.14	.22
Columbus	.05	.14	.19
Cincinnati	.035	.14	.175
B.	By the fifteenth (15th) day of the month following the close of the reporting period, in addition to making the payment required by Article IV of this Agreement, each Employer, if working in that geographical area, shall reproduce and send a copy of their remittance report to the appropriate division office along with their check for the number of hours worked by covered employees, multiplied by the division rate per hour.
Payments required under this Article shall be addressed as follows: Toledo Construction Industry Advancement Program, 136 North Summit, Toledo, Ohio 43604; Akron Construction Industry Advancement Program, 495 Wolf Ledges, Akron, Ohio 44311; Dayton Construction Industry Advancement Program, 115 Linwood Street, Dayton, Ohio 45405; Columbus Industry Advancement Program, P.O. Box 16061, Columbus, Ohio 43216; Cincinnati Construction Industry Advancement Program, 1010 Yale Avenue, Cincinnati, Ohio 45206.
C.	The Union shall have no participation or control of any kind or degree whatsoever nor shall the Union be connected in any way whatsoever with the Construction Industry Advancement Fund.
D,	The Employer will hold the Union harmless from any liabilities arising outofthe terms of Paragraph 108 through and inclusive of Paragraph 109D.
110.	AGC of Ohio shall be the exclusive Administrator
44
of the State Fund. Payments to the program shall be in accordance with instructions on forms furnished by the Association.
111.	The monthly contribution period and report shall end with and include the last full weekly pay period of the month. Payments and reports for each monthly contribution period shall be due on or before the fifteenth (15th) day of each month covering amounts due for the preceding month. If an Employer shall fail to make their payment when the same shall be due and payable, he shall be subject to an additional charge of one and one half percent (1-1/2%) per month until paid, to reimburse the Construction Industry Advancement Program for damages due to additional administrative expenses and impairment of reserves. In addition to the additional charges referred to herein, an Employer who fails to make timely payments shall be liable for legal fees and court costs incurred by the Association in collecting late payments.
112.	Should there be any termination of payments allocable to the Construction Industry Advancement Program by reason of the expiration of this Agreement or for any other reason, the assets and Fund of the Construction Industry Advancement Program shall not be distributed among any Employers, or the Union, but shall be held by the Association, which shall continue to administer and expend such assets and funds for the purposes as set forth herein and subject to the conditions as also provided herein.
113.	There is specifically excluded from the purposes of the Construction Industry Advancement Program the right to use any of its funds for lobbying in support of anti-labor legislation and/or to subsidize contractors during periods of work stoppages or strikes.
ARTICLE XII
UNION ADMINISTRATIVE DUES AND DEDUCTIONS
114.	Upon notification by the Union that a uniform administrative dues deduction has been authorized by all employees of the Employer, the Employer shall deduct said uniform administrative dues. The Union shall be responsible for obtaining all individually signed authorizations.
115.	Credit Union savings will be agreed to only if deductions are the same for all employees and the Union is
45
responsible for obtaining the voluntary authorization.
116.	The Union agrees to indemnify and save the Employer harmless against any and all claims, suits or other forms of liability arising out of said deductions.
ARTICLE XIII
ENFORCEMENT MEASURES
117.	It is agreed that all subcontractors shall be subject to the terms and provisions of this Agreement as it relates to the Operating Engineers.
118.	The Union shall require that no Union person shall leave a job by quitting unless he/she has been properly relieved after giving ample notice of his/her intention to quit to the Employer.
119.	The Union shall not transfer a Union person from one Employer to another without the consent of the Employer and the Union person involved. Neither shall the Employer transfer a Union person from his/her employ to another Employer’s payroll without the consent of the Union person involved and the Union.
120.	All employees of the Employer shall be allowed time to vote on Election Day as required by law on employees own time.
121.	If the Union shall furnish employees to any Employer within the area of jurisdiction of this Agreement upon any more favorable wage rates and conditions than those contained herein, the Union agrees that such more favorable wage rates and conditions shall automatically be extended to the Employer.
122.	There are areas within the scope of this Agreement for which the wages and conditions contained herein may not be appropriate due to competition or other reasons. In such cases, adjustments will be made in accordance with principles agreed to by the parties during negotiations. Either party may request a meeting with the other party to be held within fifteen (15) days of notification to the other party.
123.	No employee covered hereby may be discharged
46
by an individual Employer for refusing to cross a legal primary picket line established by an International Union affiliated with the Building and Construction Trades Department of the AFL-CIO or a Local Union thereof or the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, Chauffeurs, Warehousemen and Helpers of America, a Local Union thereof, which picket line has been authorized and sanctioned by proper authorities. No jurisdictional or illegal informational picket line shall be recognized.
ARTICLE XIV
NO STRIKE—NO LOCKOUT—ARBITRATION AND DISPUTES
124.	The Company shall not cause, permit or engage in any lockout of its employees during the term of this Agreement.
The Union shall not authorize, cause, engage in or sanction, nor will any employee take part in any illegal slowdown, work stoppage, strike, picketing or other concerted interference against the Employer, or occurring at or around the Company's office or work locations during the term of this Agreement.
125.	Should a dispute arise between any of the parties, (Employee, Company, Association and/or Union) to this Agreement as to its meaning, intent orthe application of its terms, this dispute will be settled in accordance with the following grievance procedure:
STEP 1: The aggrieved employee shall first take up his/her grievance orally with the Employer's Supervisor or Representative. The employee may, if he/she so desires, have his/her Steward appear with him/her. The grievance shall be orally brought to the Employer's attention within three (3) working days of the occurrence or discovery of the grievance, but in no event will the grievance be honored by management later than fifteen (15) days past the incident giving rise to the complaint. Agrievance not submitted within the time limitshall be deemed untimely and is waived.
STEP 2; In the event the grievance is not settled, the employee then shall put his/her grievance in writing within three (3) working days after STEP 1 meeting, dated and signed along with the contract Article effected and submit the grievance to the District Business Representative and he/she and the Business Representative shall meet with the Employer's Representative and attempt to settle the matter. If no settle
47
ment can be reached within ten (10) working days from the date of the written grievance, then
STEP 3: The grievance may be referred to the State Joint Committee consisting of six (6) members, three (3) to be appointed by the Labor Relations Division of the AGC of Ohio and three (3) to be appointed by Local 18 of the International Union of Operating Engineers. Where the State Joint Commit’ tee, by majority vote (5 members or more), resolves a grievance, no appeal may be taken and such resolution shall be final and binding on all parties and individuals bound by this agreement. In case of failure of either party to appear at the hearing of a grievance properly filed for hearing, the parties in attendance shall offer evidence in support of its position and the Committee shall dispose of the case on the basis of such evidence. If no settlement is reached at this STEP within fifteen (15) working days from the date the grievance is referred, then
STEP 4: The grievance shall then be referred to an Arbitrator selected by the Committee referred to in STEP 3. If the parties cannot agree on an Arbitrator within forty-eight (48) hours afterthe parties agree to submit the matter to arbitration, the parties shall jointly request the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service to furnish a list of Arbitrators from which the Arbitrator shall be selected by the alternate striking of names.
126.	The expenses and fees of the Arbitrator shall be shared equally by the parties. The Arbitrator shall have no power to add to, subtract from, or modify any of the terms and provisions of this Agreement. The Arbitrator's decision shall be final and binding upon the parties hereto.
ARTICLE XV
DETERMINATION OF JURISDICTIONAL DISPUTES
127.	Both parties to this Agreement agree to be bound by the terms and provisions of the Agreement creating the Impartial Disputes Board. In particular, both parties agree to be bound by the provision of the Agreement which states: Any decision or interpretation of the Impartial Disputes Board shall immediately be accepted and complied with by all parties signatory to this Agreement.
The parties hereto agree that in the event of a jurisdictional dispute with any other Union or Unions, the dispute shall
48
be submitted to the Impartial Jurisdictional Disputes Board for settlement in accord with the Plan adopted by the Building Trades Department, AFL-CIO.
The parties hereto further agree that they will be bound by any decision or award of the Disputes Board. There shall be no stoppage of work or slowdown arising out of any such dispute. No jurisdictional work stoppages, and no jurisdictional picket lines shall be recognized.
This article of the contract will go into effect when the National A.G.C. reaffiliates with the Impartial Disputes Board.
ARTICLE XVI
1-9
128.	The Union and the Employers during the term of this Agreement agree to use their best efforts to establish a master file of I - 9 employment eligibility verification forms on all members. This file will be maintained at the Union office and be available for the Employer’s use.
ARTICLE XVII
SAVINGS AND SEPARABILITY
129.	It is mutually agreed that if any clause, terms or provisions of this Agreement is or is hereafter found to be illegal or in contravention of any court ruling, National Labor Relations Board ruling, or ruling of any other board or agency having jurisdiction in the matter, such clause, terms or provisions shall be or become inoperative of any effect without disturbing the other clauses, terms or provisions of this Agreement and the remaining part of this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect. In the event that any clause, terms or provisions of this Agreement is found to be illegal or in contravention of any court ruling, National Labor Relations Board ruling or ruling of any other board or agency having jurisdiction in the matter, said clause, terms or provisions shall be renegotiated to the mutual satisfaction of the parties, but during such re-negotiation work shall not be interrupted or stopped by lockout, strikes, boycotts or other labor troubles.
49
ARTICLE XVIII
EFFECTIVE
130.	This Agreement shall be effective May 1,2004 and shall remain in force and in accordance with the terms of Article IX hereof. Wage rates and fringe payments shall be effective as designated by this Agreement.
131.	IN WITNESS WHEREOF, WE, the undersigned duly authorized Employer Representatives and the INTERNA* TIONAL UNION OF OPERATING ENGINEERS, LOCAL 18 AND ITS BRANCHES, (AFL-CIO) executed this Agreement on the 1 st day of May, 2004.
I.U.O-E. LOCAL 18 AND ITS BRANCHES
S/PATRICK L. SINK Business Manager S/KENNETH M. TRIPLETT President
S/FLOYDS. JEFFRIES Vice President
S/CHARLES W. SCHERER Recording-Corresponding
Secretary
S/LARRYG. REYNOLDS Financial Secretary
S/PREMO P. PANZARELLO Treasurer
S/CHARLES LAFASO, JR.
S/RICHARDE. DALTON
S/GERALD W. HALL
AGC OF OHIO LABOR RELATIONS DIVISION
S/RICHARD HOBBS Executive Director
50
EXHIBIT “A”
WAGE RATES AND FRINGE CONTRIBUTIONS
ZONE I covering Summit and Portage counties:
Classification: MASTER MECHANIC
	5/1/2004 $27.63	5/1/2005 $28.73*	5/1/2006 $29.83’
Health & Welfare	5.11	5.11	5.11
Pension	3.00	3.00	3.00
Apprenticeship	.45	.45	.45
IAP (State)	.14	.14	.14
and (Akron)	.08	.08	.08
E &S	.04	.04	.04
*ln the second and third years, monies may be diverted from the wage packages in Zones I, II & III to fringe benefits, if needed.
Classification: GROUP A
	5/1/2004 $27.38	5/1/2005 $28.48*	5/1/2006 $29.58’
Health & Welfare	5.11	5.11	5.11
Pension	3.00	3.00	3.00
Apprenticeship	.45	.45	.45
IAP (State)	.14	.14	.14
and (Akron)	.08	.08	.08
E& S	.04	.04	.04
the second and third years, monies may be diverted from the wage packages in
’In
Zones I, II & III to fringe benefits, if needed.
Operators of:
Barrier Moving Machines
Boiler Operators or Compressor Operators when compressor or boiler is mounted on crane (Piggyback Operation)
Boom Trucks (all types)
Cableways
Cherry Pickers
Combination—Concrete Mixers & Towers
All Concrete Pumps with booms
Cranes (all types)
Cranes—Compact; track or rubber over 4,000 pounds capacity
Cranes—Self Erecting; stationary, track or truck (all configurations)
Derricks (all types)
Draglines
Dredges (dipper, clam or suction) 3-man crew
Elevating Graders or Euclid Loaders
Floating Equipment
Gradalls
(Boom & Jib 150'-180'—$27.88
effective 5/1/2004)
(Boom & Jib over 180’ through 249'—$28.38 effective 5/1/2004)
(Boom & Jib 250' and over—$28.63 effective 5/1/2004)
(Boom & Jib 150-180'—$28.98* effective 5/1/2005)
(Boom & Jib over 180’ through 249’—$29.48* effective 5/1/2005)
(Boom & Jib 250' and over—$29.73* effective 5/1/2005)
(Boom & Jib 150'-180’—$30.08*
cn effective 5/1/2006)
(Boom & Jib over 180' through 249'—$30.58* effective 5/1/2006)
(Boom & Jib 250' and over—$30.83* effective 5/1/2006)
Forklift (rough terrain with winch/hoist)
Helicopter Operators, hoisting building materials
Helicopter Winch Operators, hoisting building materials
Hoes (all types)
Hoists (with two or more drums in use)
Horizontal Directional Drill
Hydraulic Gantry (lift system)
Laser Finishing Machines
Laser Screed and like equipment
Lift Slab or Panel Jack Operators
Locomotives (all types)
Maintenance Engineers (Mechanic and/or
Welder)
Mixers, paving (multiple drum)
Mobile Concrete Pumps, with booms
Panelboards (all types on site)
Pile Drivers
Power Shovels
Prentice Loader
Rail Tamper (with automatic lifting and aligning device)
Rotary Drills (all), used on caissons for foundations and sub-structure work
Side Booms
Slip Form Pavers
Straddle Carriers (building construction
on site)
Trench Machines (over 24" wide)
Tug Boats
Classification: GROUP B
	5/1/2004 $27.26	5/1/2005 $28.38*	5/1/2006 $29.48*
Health & Welfare	5.11	5.11	5.11
Pension	3.00	3.00	3.00
Apprenticeship	.45	.45	.45
IAP (State)	.14	.14	.14
and (Akron)	.08	.08	.08
E&S	.04	.04	.04
*ln the second and third years, monies may be diverted from the wage packages in Zones I, II & III to fringe benefits, if needed.
Operators of:
Articulating/end dumps (minus $4.00 per hour from Class B)
Asphalt Pavers
Bobcat-type and/or Skid Steer Loader with hoe attachment greater than 7,000 lbs.
Bulldozers
C.M.I.-type equipment
Endloaders
Hydro Milling Machine
Kolman-type Loaders (dirt loading)
Lead Greasemen
Mucking Machines
Pettibone-Rail Equipment
Power Graders
Power Scoops
Power Scrapers
Push Cats
Rotomills (all), grinders and planers of all types
Vermeer-type Concrete Saw
Classification: GROUP C
	5/1/2004 $26.24	5/1/2005 $27.34*	5/1/2006 $28.44'
Health & Welfare	5.11	5.11	5.11
Pension	3.00	3.00	3.00
Apprenticeship	.45	.45	.45
IAP (State)	.14	.14	.14
and (Akron)	.08	.08	.08
E&S	.04	.04	.04
*ln the second and third years, monies may be diverted from the wage packages in Zones t, II & III to fringe benefits, if needed.
g} Operators of:
A-Frames
Air Compressors, pressurizing shafts or tunnels
Asphalt Rollers (all)
Bobcat-type and/or Skid Steer Loader with or without attachments
Boilers (15 lbs. pressure and over)
All Concrete Pumps (without booms with
5" system)
Fork Lifts (except masonry)
Highway Drills-all types (with integral power)
Hoists (with one drum)
House Elevators (except those automatic call button controlled)
Man Lifts
Material hoist/elevators
Mud Jacks
Pressure Grouting
Pump Operators (installing or operating Well
Points or other types of Dewatering Systems)
Pumps (4' and over discharge)
Railroad Tie Inserter/Remover
Rotovator (Lime-Soil Stabilizer)
Submersible Pumps (4" and over discharge)
Switch & Tie Tampers (without lifting and aligning device)
Trench Machines (24” and under)
Utility Operators
Classification: GROUP D
	5/1/2004 $25.02	5/1/2005 $26.12*	5/1/2006 $27.22'
Health & Welfare	5.11	5.11	5.11
Pension	3.00	3.00	3.00
Apprenticeship	.45	.45	.45
IAP (State)	.14	.14	.14
and (Akron)	.08	.08	.08
E&S	.04	.04	.04
*ln the second and third years, monies may be diverted from the wage packages in Zones I, II & III to fringe benefits, if needed.
tn Operators of:
m Backfillers & Tampers
Ballast Relocator
Batch Plant Operators
Bar and Joint Installing Machines Bull Floats
Burlap and Curing Machines Clefplanes
Compressors, on building construction Concrete Mixers, more than one bag Concrete Mixers, one bag capacity (side loaders) All Concrete Pumps (without boom with 4* or smaller system)
Concrete Spreaders
Conveyors, used for handling materials Crushers
Deckhands
Drum Firemen (in asphalt plants)
Farm-type Tractors, pulling attachments
Finishing Machines
Form Trenchers
Generators
Gunite Machines
Hydro-seeders
Pavement Breakers (hydraulic or cable)
Post Drivers
pACf Mnlo
Pressure Pumps (over 1/2" discharge) Road Widening Trenchers Rollers, except asphalt rollers Self-propelled Sub-graders Shotcrete Machines		Tire Repairmen Tractors, pulling sheepfoot post roller or grader VAC/ALLS Vibratory Compactors, with integral power Welders	
Classification: GROUP E	5/1/2004	5/1/2005	5/1/2006
	$19.73	$20,83*	$21.93*
Health & Welfare	5.11	5.11	5.11
Pension	3.00	3.00	3.00
Apprenticeship	.45	.45	.45
IAP (State)	.14	.14	.14
S3 and (Akron)	.08	.08	.08
E& S	.04	.04	.04
’In the second and third years, monies may be diverted from the wage packages in Zones I, II & III to fringe benefits, if needed.
Operators of:
Allen Screed Paver (concrete)
Boilers (less than 15 lbs. pressure)
Cranes—Compact; track or rubber under 4,000 pounds)
Directional Drill “Locator”
Fueling and greasing +$3.00
Inboard, Outboard Motor Boat Launches
Light Plant Operators
Masonry Fork Lifts
Oilers/Helpers
Power Driven Heaters (oil fired)
Power Scrubbers
Power Sweepers
Pumps (under 4" discharge)
Signalmen
Submersible Pumps (under 4“ discharge)
EXHIBIT “A”
WAGE RATES AND FRINGE CONTRIBUTIONS
ZONE II covering Lucas and Wood counties:
Classification: MASTER MECHANIC
	5/1/2004 $26.89	5/1/2005 $27.99*	5/1/2006 $29.09’
Health & Welfare	5.11	5.11	5.11
Pension	3.00	3.00	3.00
Apprenticeship	.45	.45	.45
IAP (State)	.14	.14	.14
and (Toledo)	.10	.10	.10
E&S	.04	.04	.04
*ln the second and third years, monies may be diverted from the wage packages in Zones I, II & III to fringe benefits, if needed.
Classification: GROUP A
	5/1/2004 $26.64	5/1/2005 $27.74*	5/1/2006 $28.84'
Health & Welfare	5.11	5.11	5.11
Pension	3.00	3.00	3.00
Apprenticeship	.45	.45	.45
IAP (State)	.14	.14	.14
and (Toledo)	.10	.10	.10
E&S	.04	.04	.04
*ln the second and third years, monies may be diverted from the wage packages in Zones I, II & III to fringe benefits, if needed.
Operators of:
Barrier Moving Machines
Boiler Operators or Compressor Operators, when compressor or boiler is mounted on crane (Piggyback Operation)
Boom Trucks (all types)
Cableways
Cherry Pickers
Combination—Concrete Mixers & Towers
All Concrete Pumps with booms
Cranes (all types)
g Cranes—Compact; track or rubber over 4,000 pounds capacity
Cranes—Self-Erecting; stationary, track or truck (all configurations)
Derricks (all types)
Draglines
Dredges (dipper, clam or suction) 3-man crew Elevating Graders or Euclid Loaders
Floating Equipment
Forklift (rough terrain with winch/hoist)
Gradalls
Helicopter Operators, hoisting building materials
Hoes (all types)
Hoists (with two or more drums in use)
Horizontal Directional Drill
Hydraulic Gantry (lift system)
Laser Finishing Machines
Laser Screed and like equipment
Lift Slab or Panel Jack Operators
Locomotives (all types)
Maintenance Engineers (Mechanic and/or
Welder)
Mixers, paving (multiple drum)
Mobile Concrete Pumps, with booms
Panelboards (all types on site)
(Boom & Jib 15O'-180'—$27.14
effective 5/1/04)
(Boom & Jib over 180' through 249'—$27.64
effective 5/1/04)
(Continued on next page)
(Boom & Jib 250' and over—$27.89 effective 5/1/04)
(Boom & Jib 150'-180'—$28.24*
effective 5/1/05)
(Boom & Jib over 180' through 249'—$28.74* effective 5/1/05)
(Boom & Jib 250' and over—$28.99* effective 5/1/05)
(Boom & Jib 150'-180'—$29.34* effective 5/1/06)
(Boom & Jib over 180' through 249'—$29.84* g effective 5/1/06)
(Boom & Jib 250' and over—$30.09* effective 5/1/06)
Pile Drivers
Power Shovels
Prentice Loader
Rail Tamper (with automatic lifting and aligning device)
Rotary Drills (all), used on caissons for foundations and substructure work
Side Booms
Slip Form Pavers
Straddle Carriers (building construction on site)
Trench Machines (over 24" wide)
Tug Boats
Classification: GROUP B
	5/1/2004 $26.52	5/1/2005 $27.62*	5/1/2006 $28.72'
Health & Welfare	5.11	5.11	5.11
Pension	3.00	3.00	3.00
Apprenticeship	.45	.45	.45
IAP (State)	.14	.14	.14
and (Toledo)	.10	.10	.10
E&S	.04	.04	.04
*ln the second and third years, monies may be diverted from the wage packages in Zones I, II & III to fringe benefits, if needed.
Operators of:
Articulating/end dumps (minus $4.00 per hour from Class B)
Asphalt Pavers
Bobcat-type and/or Skid Steer Loader with hoe attachment greater than 7,000 lbs.
Bulldozers
C.M.I.-type equipment
Endloaders
Hydro Milling Machine
Kolman-type Loaders (dirt loading)
Lead Greasemen
Mucking Machines
Pettibone-Rai I Equipment
Power Graders
Power Scoops
Power Scrapers
Push Cats
Rotomills (all), grinders and planers of all types
Vermeer-type Concrete Saw
Classification: GROUP C
	5/1/2004 $25.48	5/1/2005 $26.58*	5/1/2006 $27.68’
Health & Welfare	5.11	5.11	5.11
Pension	3.00	3.00	3.00
Apprenticeship	.45	.45	.45
IAP (State)	.14	.14	.14
and (Toledo)	.10	.10	.10
E&S	.04	.04	.04
*ln the second and third years, monies may be diverted from the wage packages in Zones I, II & III to fringe benefits, if needed.
Operators of:
m A-Frames
Air Compressors, pressurizing shafts or tunnels
Asphalt Rollers (all)
Bobcat-type and/or Skid Steer Loader with or without attachments
Boilers (15 lbs. pressure and over)
All Concrete Pumps (without booms with 5" system)
Fork Lifts (except masonry)
Highway Drills-all types (with integral power)
Hoists (with one drum)
House Elevators (except those automatic call button controlled)
Man Lifts
Material hoist/elevators
Mud Jacks
Pressure Grouting
Pump Operators (installing or operating well points or other types of dewatering systems)
Pumps (4" and over discharge)
Railroad Tie Inserter/Remover
Rotovator (Lime-Soil Stabilizer)
Submersible Pumps (4" and over discharge)
Switch & Tie Tampers (without lifting and
aligning device)
Trench Machines (24' and under)
Utility Operators
Classification: GROUP D
	5/1/2004 $24.30	5/1/2005 $25.40*	5/1/2006 $26.50’
Health & Welfare	5.11	5.11	5.11
Pension	3.00	3.00	3.00
Apprenticeship	.45	.45	.45
IAP (State)	.14	.14	.14
and (Toledo)	.10	.10	.10
E&S	.04	.04	.04
*ln the second and third years, monies may be diverted from the wage packages in Zones 1,11 & Ilf to fringe benefits, if needed.
Operators of:
w Ballast Relocator
Backfillers and Tampers
Batch Plant Operators
Bar and Joint Installing Machines
Bull Floats
Burlap and Curing Machines
Cletplanes
Compressors, on building construction
Concrete Mixers, capacity more than one bag
Concrete Mixers, one bag capacity (side loaders)
All Concrete Pumps without booms and with
4“ system or smaller
Concrete Spreaders
Conveyors, used for handling building material
Crushers
Deckhands
Drum Firemen (in asphalt plants)
Farm-type Tractors, pulling attachments
Finishing Machines
Form Trenchers
Generators
Gunite Machines
(Continued on next page)
Hydro-seeders
Pavement Breakers (hydraulic or cable)
Post Drivers
Post Hole Diggers
Pressure Pumps (over 1/2" discharge)
Road Widening Trenchers
Rollers (except asphalt rollers)
Self-Propelled Power Spreaders
Self-Propelled Sub-Graders
Shotcrete Machines
Tire Repairmen
Tractors, pulling sheepfoot roller or grader
VAC/ALLS
Vibratory Compactors, with integral power Welder
Classification: GROUP E
	5/1/2004	5/1/2005	5/1/2006
	$18.84	$19.94*	$21.04'
Health & Welfare * Pension	5.11	5.11	5.11
	3.00	3.00	3.00
Apprenticeship	.45	.45	.45
IAP (State)	.14	.14	.14
and (Toledo)	.10	.10	.10
E&S	.04	.04	.04
* In the second and third years, monies may be diverted from the wage packages in Zones I, II & III to fringe benefits, if needed.
Operators of:
Allen Screed Paver (concrete)
Boilers (less than 15 lbs. pressure)
Cranes—Compact; track or rubber over 4,000 pounds capacity
Directional Drill “Locator”
Fueling & greasing +$3.00
Inboard, Outboard Motor Boat Launches
Light Plant Operators
Masonry Fork Lifts
Oilers/Helpers
Power Driven Heaters (oil fired)
Power Scrubbers
Power Sweepers
Pumps (under 4" discharge)
Signalmen
Submersible Pumps (under 4" discharge)
EXHIBIT “A”
WAGE RATES AND FRINGE CONTRIBUTIONS
ZONE III covering Akron and counties, Cincinnati and counties, Columbus and counties, Dayton and counties, and Toledo and counties:
<n
01 For AKRON and the following counties: Ashland, Belmont, Carroll, Coshocton, Guernsey, Harrison, Holmes, Jefferson, Monroe, Noble, Richland, Stark, Tuscarawas, Washington and Wayne.
For CINCINNATI and the following counties: Adams, Athens, Brown, Clermont, Gallia, Hamilton, Highland, Jackson, Lawrence, Meigs, Morgan, Ross, Scioto and Vinton. In Kentucky, the counties of Boone, Campbell, Kenton and Pendleton.
For COLUMBUS and the following counties: Crawford, Delaware, Fairfield, Franklin, Hocking, Knox, Licking, Marion, Morrow, Muskingum, Perry, Pickaway, Pike, Union and Wyandot.
For DAYTON and the following counties: Auglaize, Butler, Champaign, Clark, Clinton, Darke, Fayette, Greene, Logan, Madison, Mercer, Miami, Montgomery, Preble, Shelby and Warren.
For TOLEDO and the following counties: Allen, Defiance, Fulton, Hancock, Hardin, Henry, Ottowa, Paulding, Putnam, Sandusky, Seneca, Van Wert and Williams.
Classification: MASTER MECHANIC
	5/1/2004 $26.14	5/1/2005 $27.24*	5/1/2006 $28.34*
Health A Welfare	5.11	5.11	5.11
Pension	3.00	3.00	3.00
Apprenticeship	.45	.45	.45
IAP (State)	.14	.14	.14
and (Akron)	.08	.08	.08
and (Cincinnati)	.035	.035	.035
and (Columbus)	.05	.05	.05
and (Dayton)	.08	.08	.08
and (Toledo)	.10	.10	.10
E A S	.04	.04	.04
*ln the second and third years, monies may be diverted from the wage packages in Zones I, II A III to fringe benefits, if needed.
Classification: GROUP A
	5/1/2004 $25.89	5/1/2005 $26.99*	5/1/2006 $28.09*
Health & Welfare	5.11	5.11	5.11
Pension	3.00	3.00	3.00
Apprenticeship	.45	.45	.45
IAP (State)	.14	.14	.14
and (Akron)	.08	.08	.08
and (Cincinnati)	.035	.035	.035
and (Columbus)	.05	.05	.05
and (Dayton)	.08	.08	.08
and (Toledo)	.10	.10	.10
E&S	.04	.04	.04
* In the second and third years, monies may be diverted from the wage packages in Zones I, II & III to fringe benefits, if needed.
Operators of:
Barrier Moving Machine
Boiler Operators or Compressor Operators, when compressor or boiler is mounted on crane (Piggyback Operation)
Boom Trucks (all types)
Cableways
Cherry Pickers
Combination—Concrete Mixers & Towers
All Concrete Pumps with booms
Cranes (all types)
Cranes—Compact; track or rubber over 4,000 pounds capacity
Cranes—Self-Erecting; stationary, track or truck (all configurations)
Derricks (all types)
Draglines
Dredges (dipper, clam or suction) 3-man crew
Elevating Graders or Euclid Loaders
Floating Equipment
(Continued on next page)
Forklift (rough terrain with winch/hoist) Gradalls
(Boom & Jib 150'-180'—$26.39
effective 5/1/04)
(Boom & Jib over 180' through 249'—$26.89
effective 5/1/04)
(Boom & Jib 250' and over—$27.14
effective 5/1/04)
(Boom & Jib 150'-180'—$27.49*
effective 5/1/05)
(Boom & Jib over 180' through 249'—$27.99*
g> effective 5/1/05)
(Boom & Jib 250' and over—$28.24*
effective 5/1/05)
(Boom & Jib 15O'-180'—$28.59*
effective 5/1/06)
(Boom & Jib over 180' through 249'—$29.09*
effective 5/1/06)
(Boom & Jib 250' and over—$29.34*
effective 5/1/06)
Helicopter Operators, hoisting building materials
Helicopter Winch Operators, hoisting building materials
Hoes (all types)
Hoists (with two or more drums)
Horizontal Directional Drill
Hydraulic Gantry (lift system)
Laser Finishing Machines
Laser Screed and like equipment
Lift Slab or Panel Jack Operators
Locomotives (ail types)
Maintenance Engineers (Mechanic and/or
Welder)
Mixers, paving (Multiple Drum)
Mobile Concrete Pumps, with booms
Panelboards (all types on site)
Pile Drivers
Power Shovels
Prentice Loader
Rail Tamper (with automatic lifting and aligning device)
Rotary Drills (all), used on caissons for foundations and sub-structure work
Side Booms
Slip Form Pavers
Straddle Carriers (building construction on site)
Trench Machines (over 24" wide)
Tug Boats
Classification: GROUP B
	5/1/2004 $25.77	5/1/2005 $26.87*	5/1/2006 $27.97*
Health & Welfare	5.11	5.11	5.11
Pension	3.00	3.00	3.00
Apprenticeship	.45	.45	.45
IAP (State)	.14	.14	.14
and (Akron)	.08	.08	.08
and (Cincinnati)	.035	.035	.035
and (Columbus)	.05	.05	.05
and (Dayton)	.08	.08	.08
and (Toledo)	.10	.10	.10
E &S	.04	.04	.04
'In the second and third years, monies may be diverted from the wage packages in Zones I, II & III to fringe benefits, if needed.
Operators of:
Articulating/end dumps (minus $4.00 per hour from Class B)
Asphalt Pavers
Bobcat type and/or Skid Steer Loader with hoe attachment greater than 7,000 lbs.
Bulldozers
C.M.L-type equipment
Endloaders
Hydro Milling Machine
Kolman-type Loaders (dirt loading)
Lead Greasemen
Mucking Machines
Pettibone-Rail Equipment
Power Graders
Power Scoops
Power Scrapers
Push Cats
Rotomills (all), grinders and planers of all types
Vermeer-type Concrete Saw
Classification: GROUP C
	5/1/2004 $24.73	5/1/2005 $25.83*	5/1/2006 $26.93*
Health & Welfare	5.11	5.11	5.11
Pension	3.00	3.00	3.00
Apprenticeship	.45	.45	.45
IAP (State)	.14	.14	.14
and (Akron)	.08	.08	.08
and (Cincinnati)	.035	.035	.035
and (Columbus)	.05	.05	.05
and (Dayton)	.08	.08	.08
and (Toledo)	.10	.10	.10
E& S	.04	.04	.04
o *ln the second and third years, monies may be diverted from the wage packages in Zones I, II & III to fringe benefits, if needed.
Operators of:
A-Frames
Air Compressors, pressurizing shafts or tunnels
Asphalt Rollers (all)
Bobcat type and/or Skid Steer Loader with or without attachments
Boilers (15 lbs. pressure and over)
All Concrete Pumps without booms and with
5* system
Fork Lifts (except masonry)
Highway Drills-all types (with integral power)
Hoists (with one drum)
House Elevators (except those automatic call button controlled)
Man Lifts
Material hoist/elevators
Mud Jacks
Pressure Grouting
Pump Operators (installing or operating well ooints or other tvoes of dewaterina <iv«;tpm<;l
Pumps (4" and over discharge) Railroad Tie Inserter/Remover Rotovator (Lime-Soil Stabilizer) Submersible Pumps (4" and over discharge)
Switch & Tie Tampers (without lifting and aligning device)
Trench Machines (24* and under)
Utility Operators
Classification: GROUP 0
	5/1/2004 $23.55	5/1/2005 $24. 65*	5/1/2006 $25.75*
Health & Welfare	5.11	5.11	5.11
Pension	3.00	3.00	3.00
Apprenticeship	.45	.45	.45
IAP (State)	.14	.14	.14
and (Akron)	.08	.08	.08
and (Cincinnati)	.035	.035	.035
and (Columbus)	.05	.05	.05
and (Dayton)	.08	.08	.08
and (Toledo)	.10	.10	.10
E &S	.04	.04	.04
* In the second and third years, monies may be diverted from the wage packages in Zones I, II & III to fringe benefits, if needed.
Operators of:
Ballast Relocator
Backfillers and Tampers
Batch Plant Operators
Bar and Joint Installing Machines
Bull Floats
(Continued on next page)
Burlap and Curing Machines
Clefplanes
Compressors, on building construction
Concrete Mixers, capacity more than one bag
Concrete Mixers, one bag capacity (side loaders)
All Concrete Pumps without booms with
4" or smaller system
Concrete Spreading Machines
Conveyors, used for handling building materials
■m Crushers
M Deckhands
Drum Firemen in asphalt plants
Farm-type Tractors, pulling attachments
Finishing Machines
Form Trenchers
Generators
Gunite Machines
Hydro-seeders
Pavement Breakers (hydraulic or cable)
Post Drivers
Post Hole Diggers
Pressure Pumps (over 1/2" discharge)
Road Widening Trenchers
Rollers (except asphalt)
Self-propelled Power Spreaders
Self-propelled Sub-graders
Shotcrete Machines
Tire Repairmen
Tractors, pulling sheepfoot rollers or graders
VAC/ALLS
Vibratory Compactors, with integral power
Welder Operators
Classification: GROUP E
	5/1/2004 $18.09	5/1/2005 $19.19*	5/1/2006 $20.29*
Health & Welfare	5.11	5.11	5.11
Pension	3.00	3.00	3.00
Apprenticeship	.45	.45	.45
IAP (State)	.14	.14	.14
and (Akron)	.08	.08	.08
and (Cincinnati)	.035	.035	.035
and (Columbus)	.05	.05	.05
and (Dayton)	.08	.08	.08
and (Toledo)	.10	.10	.10
E&S	.04	.04	.04
u *ln the second and third years, monies may be diverted from the wage packages in Zones I, II & III to fringe benefits, if needed.
Operators of:
Allen Screed Paver (concrete)
Boilers (less than 15 lbs. pressure)
Cranes—Compact; track or rubber under 4,000 pounds
Directional Drill “Locator"
Fueling and greasing +$3.00
Inboard, Outboard Motor Boat Launches
Light Plant Operators
Masonry Fork Lifts
Oilers/Helpers and Signalmen
Power Driven Heaters (oil fired)
Power Scrubbers
Power Sweepers
Pumps (under 4“ discharge)
Submersible Pumps (under 4" discharge)
REGISTERED APPRENTICESHIP WAGE SCHEDULE
ZONE I, ZONE II, ZONE III
First Year Apprentice 50% of Class “A”
Second Year Apprentice 60% of Class “A”
Third Year Apprentice 70% of Class “A”
Fourth Year Apprentice 80% of Class “A"
A new classification of Trainee is hereby established and the rates of pay are as follows:
First Year Trainee 60% of Bulldozer Rate
Second Year Trainee 60% of Bulldozer Rate
Third Year Trainee 75% of Bulldozer Rate
Fourth Year Trainee 90% of Bulldozer Rate
There will be a 10% increase for the apprentices on top of the percentages listed above provided they are operating mobile equipment.
The rates paid to the Apprentice or Trainee shall not exceed the classification rate the Apprentice or Trainee is working. For every five (5) Operating Engineer Journeymen employed, there may be employed one (1) Registered Apprentice Engineer or Trainee. Through the referral, Employers may employ Registered Apprentices or Trainees within this limitation when they are available. Any increase in the Apprenticeship contributions, agreed by the parties, will be shared equally by the Union and Employer.
FIELD MECHANIC TRAINEE SCHEDULE
First Year Second Year Third Year FourthYear
50% of Class “A" rate
60% of Class “A" rate
70% of Class “A" rate
80% of Class “A” rate
Only those individuals who have obtained a two (2) year Associates Degree, from an accredited school, will be accepted into this program. If the Mechanic Trainee is required to have a CDL license, he/she will be paid a 10% incentive above the percentages listed above. After successful completion of the fourth year, the Mechanic will be paid at Class “A” rate.
74
SPECIAL RATES
Any work under A, B and C as described in Article I of this Agreement awarded subsequent from the effective date of this Agreement, then the Employer shall pay the rate of pay determined by adding the Operating Engineers Building Construction classification rate and the Operating Engineers Highway Heavy classification rate and divide by two (2).
EXHIBIT “B”
AFFIRMATIVE ACTION PROGRAM
1.	Under the provisions of Executive Order 11246, issued by the President of the United States, and regulations issued under Chapter 60 of Title 41 of the Code of Federal Regulations as revised, and relative court orders, a specific affirmative program must be developed to assure that the employment of workers and the treatment of employees during employment is completely nondiscriminatory in regard to race, creed, color, sex, age, religion or national origin.
2.	The parties to this Agreement are mutually desirous of developing an affirmative action agreement to implement the provisions of applicable federal regulations in order to assure nondiscrimination in employment; upgrading; demotion ortrans-fer; recruitment and recruitment advertising; lay-off or termination; rate of pay and selection for all types of training.
3.	In order to assure nondiscrimination now and in the future and in an effort to attract a maximum number of potential apprentices from minority and female groups, the parties to this Agreement have formulated the following Affirmative Action Program:
A. APPRENTICESHIP
The parties agree to establish a positive program of apprenticeship selection and to use the following program to attract minority and female groups to the Operating Engineers Apprenticeship Program:
1.	Develop a “fact sheet” for distribution to all secondary school counselors, youth opportunity centers, social action agencies and state employment offices.
75
2.	Make available speakers to inform and advise high school students and others of opportunities in apprenticeship for Operating Engineers.
3.	Notify all interested agencies and parties thirty (30) days prior to the period for taking applications; and making such interested agency or parties aware of the nature of all tests in order to facilitate a proper pre-test educational effort.
4.	Provide application forms for apprenticeship and adequate instruction for properly preparing same upon request, during recruitment period at all training sites of the Operating Engineers Apprenticeship Program at certain union halls of Local 18. Develop an outreach program for the recruiting and pre-apprentice training of individuals from minority and female groups to enable them to enter the apprenticeship program.
5.	To use a standardized, uniform battery of tests to determine applicant proficiency and aptitudes in reading, computation and mechanical skills suitable for the craft of Operating Engineer.
6.	May have the test administered by an agency other than the Operating Engineers Apprenticeship Program and uniformly and numerically graded.
7.	Interview sufficient applicants personally by teams consisting of one representative of Management and one of the Union who shall independently grade each applicant individually and then average the scores.
8.	When an applicant fails to achieve acceptance, the Joint Apprenticeship and Training Committee shall make every effort to inform the applicant and the referring or cooperating agency of the area of insufficiency.
9.	In order for the applicant, after acceptance as an Operating Engineer Apprentice, to become immediately employable by a Participating Employer, the Joint Apprenticeship and Training Committee shall provide training sites with equipment of the nature for which the apprentice will be employed, in order to acquaint the apprentice with safety measures as well as the operation and maintenance of the same and teach him/ her the use of the machine as a tool of the trade and to generate good work habits. After the training, he/she shall be employed as an “apprentice-in-training" as such openings occur.
76
10.	The parties to this Agreement agree to jointly assist a minority group employee to be integrated into the work force and the Union by:
A.	Having management supervision on the job make every effort to assist and encourage minority group apprentices and to welcome such individuals to the job;
B.	Have each apprentice and pre-apprentice trainee assigned to a Journeyperson Operating Engineer for help and assistance, and
C.	Have Union officers inform the membership of the importance of making welcome all minority groups into the Union, and
D.	The education, training requirements and disciplines of registered apprentices shall be governed by the Apprenticeship Joint Apprenticeship and Training Committee and Standards.
B.JOURNEYPERSONS
1.	The parties will undertake a joint training program to assure equal opportunity to all journey persons who desire to acquire the skills required to work on a variety of equipment within the jurisdiction of the Operating Engineers.
2.	Local Union officials will notify minority and female members of this program. They will offer to minority and female members an opportunity for training on any highway equipment. If the parties determine that a minority or female group member lacks adequate pre-training qualifications, the reasons for such determination shall be noted in writing and shall be available tor inspection during a review of this program by appropriate federal contracting or administering agency officials. An attempt shall be made to have availability of training according to the demands for craftsmen to operate the specific type of equipment involved.
3.	Each member of the Local will be advised of this Agreement and the appropriate avenues for redress if any of its terms are breached by either party.
The parties undertake this Affirmative Action Program in accordance with Executive Order 11246 and applicable court orders. It is their understanding that participation in the pro
77
gram by any Contractor shall be accepted in lieu of that portion of a required affirmative action plan which would otherwise be directed to jobs manned by members of the Operating Engineers Union,
The parties shall from the date of this Agreement, when required, report to the appropriate federal contracting or administering agency. The report will specifically indicate the total number of minority group individuals or females in the Union. In evaluating these reports, the appropriate federal contracting or administering agency officials will have complete access to relevant records of the parties and will be expected to discuss the progress of the program freely with the parties and Union members.
78
ACCEPTANCE OF AGREEMENT
In consideration of the benefits to be derived and other good and valuable consideration, the undersigned contractor or successors, although not a member of the AGC of Ohio Labor Relations Division does hereby join in, adopt, accept and become a party to the collective bargaining agreement heretofore made by the AGC of Ohio Labor Relations Division with the International Union of Operating Engineers, Local 18 and its Branches, (AFL-CIO) including all of the provisions therein, and those pertaining to contributions to Trust Funds providing for Health & Welfare, Pension, Apprenticeship Training, or any other fringe benefits, and agree to be bound by any Trust Agreement hereafter entered into between these parties and agrees to make contributions as required and authorizes these parties to name the Trustees and the terms and conditions of the Trusts as if made by the undersigned.
Name of Employer (Printed)
Employer Address
City	State	Zip Code
Area Code & Telephone
Authorized Employer Representative (Signature) Date
Authorized Employer Representative (Printed)
INTERNATIONAL UNION OF OPERATING ENGINEERS, LOCAL 18 AND ITS BRANCHES, (AFL-CIO)
District Representative (Signature)
CONTRACTORS COPY „ (USE NO CARBON)
ACCEPTANCE OF AGREEMENT
In consideration of the benefits to be derived and other good and valuable consideration, the undersigned contractor or successors, although not a member of the AGC of Ohio Labor Relations Division does hereby join in, adopt, accept and become a party to the collective bargaining agreement heretofore made by the AGC of Ohio Labor Relations Division with the International Union of Operating Engineers, Local 18 and its Branches, (AFL-CIO) including all of the provisions therein, and those pertaining to contributions to Trust Funds providing for Health & Welfare, Pension, Apprenticeship Training, or any other fringe benefits, and agree to be bound by any Trust Agreement hereafter entered into between these parties and agrees to make contributions as required and authorizes these parties to name the Trustees and the terms and conditions of the Trusts as if made by the undersigned.
Name of Employer (Printed)
Employer Address
City	State	Zip Code
Area Code & Telephone
Authorized Employer Representative (Signature) Date
Authorized Employer Representative (Printed)
INTERNATIONAL UNION OF OPERATING ENGINEERS, LOCAL 18 AND ITS BRANCHES, (AFL-CIO)
District Representative (Signature)
HEADQUARTERS COPY	(USE NO CARBON)
ACCEPTANCE OF AGREEMENT
In consideration of the benefits to be derived and other good and valuable consideration, the undersigned contractor or successors, although not a member of the AGC of Ohio Labor Relations Division does hereby join in, adopt, accept and become a party to the collective bargaining agreement heretofore made by the AGC of Ohio Labor Relations Division with the International Union of Operating Engineers, Local 18 and its Branches, (AFL-CIO) including all of the provisions therein, and those pertaining to contributions to Trust Funds providing for Health & Welfare, Pension, Apprenticeship Training, or any other fringe benefits, and agree to be bound by any Trust Agreement hereafter entered into between these parties and agrees to make contributions as required and authorizes these parties to name the Trustees and the terms and conditions of the Trusts as if made by the undersigned.
Name of Employer (Printed)
Employer Address
City	State	Zip Code
Area Code & Telephone
Authorized Employer Representative (Signature) Date
Authorized Employer Representative (Printed)
INTERNATIONAL UNION OF OPERATING ENGINEERS, LOCAL 18 AND ITS BRANCHES, (AFL-CIO)
District Representative (Signature)
UNION DISTRICT COPY
(USE NO CARBON)
ACCEPTANCE OF AGREEMENT
In consideration of the benefits to be derived and other good and valuable consideration, the undersigned contractor or successors, although not a member of the AGC of Ohio Labor Relations Division does hereby join in, adopt, accept and become a party to the collective bargaining agreement heretofore made by the AGC of Ohio Labor Relations Division with the International Union of Operating Engineers, Local 18 and its Branches, (AFL-CIO) including all of the provisions therein, and those pertaining to contributions to Trust Funds providing for Health & Welfare, Pension, Apprenticeship Training, or any other fringe benefits, and agree to be bound by any Trust Agreement hereafter entered into between these parties and agrees to make contributions as required and authorizes these parties to name the Trustees and the terms and conditions of the Trusts as if made by the undersigned.
Name of Employer (Printed)
Employer Address
City
State
Zip Code
Area Code & Telephone
Authorized Employer Representative (Signature) Date
Authorized Employer Representative (Printed)
INTERNATIONAL UNION OF OPERATING ENGINEERS, LOCAL 18 AND ITS BRANCHES, (AFL-CIO)
District Representative (Signature)
FRINGE OFFICE COPY	(USE NO CARBON)
ACCEPTANCE OF AGREEMENT
In consideration of the benefits to be derived and other good and valuable consideration, the undersigned contractor or successors, although not a member of the AGC of Ohio Labor Relations Division does hereby join in, adopt, accept and become a party to the collective bargaining agreement heretofore made by the AGC of Ohio Labor Relations Division with the International Union of Operating Engineers, Local 18 and its Branches, (AFL-CIO) including all of the provisions therein, and those pertaining to contributions to Trust Funds providing for Health & Welfare, Pension, Apprenticeship Training, or any other fringe benefits, and agree to be bound by any Trust Agreement hereafter entered into between these parties and agrees to make contributions as required and authorizes these parties to name the Trustees and the terms and conditions of the Trusts as if made by the undersigned.
Name of Employer (Printed)
Employer Address
City	State	Zip Code
Area Code & Telephone
Authorized Employer Representative (Signature) Date
Authorized Employer Representative (Printed)
INTERNATIONAL UNION OF OPERATING ENGINEERS, LOCAL 18 AND ITS BRANCHES, (AFL-CIO)
District Representative (Signature)
ASSOCIATION COPY „ (USE NO CARBON)