

PIPE UNE LABOR MANUAL REVISIONS
Instruction Sheet
1.	Ptease destroy Pages 201 through and inchafihg 270 in the Pipefitters Section, and replace them with revised Ptgs 201 through and including 270, Rev. 1/2008.
2.	Please destroy Pages A-301 through and including A-339 in the Operators Section, and replace them with revised Pages A-301 through and including A-339, Rev. 1/2008.
3.	Ptease destroy Pages A-401 through and inclutfipg A-438 in the Laborers Section, and replace them with revised pages: A-401 through and including Pages A-438, Rev. 1/2008.


PIPE UNE CONTRACTORS ASSOCIATION LABOR MANUAL REVISIONS
Instruction Sheet
1.	Please destroy Pages (A), (B-l), (B-2) and (C), and replace them with revised Pages (A), (B-l), (B-2) and (C), Rev. 2/2008.
2.	Please destroy Page 500 with revision date of 3/2007 and replace with Page 500 with revision date of 3/2008.
IBIS
1700 Pacific Artmtt, Sake 4100, Daliat, Texas 7S20l-4673~ fli't) 969-2700
February 28,2008
It is the purpose and intent that this Pipeline Labor Manual shall include the current up-to-date Agreements which have been negotiated by the Pipe Line Contractors Association with the four Unions recognized as having jurisdiction on mainline cross country pipe lines. The Unions are the Intematiinal Brotherhood of Teamsters, the United Association of Journeymen and Apprentices of the Plumbing and Pipefitting Industry of the United States and Cabnda, the International Union of Operating Engineers, and the Laborers International Union of North America.
Also included are all Policy Committee decisions issued by the National Pipe Line Industry Joint Policy Committee.
The Agreements are binding on all those contractor members of the Pipe Line Contractors Association who execute them and on such ether contractors who, though not members of the Association, have accepted and rigned the Agreements.
As revisions are made in die provisions of the AgreemHHK or in the wage rates for each Union, new pages will be printed and distributed t» that your Pipe Line Labor Manual may be kept up-to-date.
J. Patrick Tielborg Managing Director and General Counsel
Date_______
JOB NOTIFICATION INFORMATION
k'in:u
I ASSOCIATION:
Mr. William P. Hite, General President 901Massachusetts Avenue, Washington, D.C., 20001 Phone: (202) 628-5823
FAX: (202) 628-5024

fATIONAL UNION OF OPERATING ENGINEERS:
Mr. Mack Bennett, PipeLine Director
4700 Bryant Irvin Ct„ Ste. 302, Fort Worth, Texas 76107
Phone: (817) 763-0344
FAX: (817) 763-0448
F.RNATTONAL UNION OF NORTH AMERICA:
LABORERS!

Mr. Terence M. O’Sullivan, General President 905 16th Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20006 Phone: (202) 737-8320
FAX: (202) 737-2754

NATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF TEAMSTERS:
Mr. Ed Jacobson, Director of Construction
25 Louisiana Avenue, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20001 Phone: (202) 624-6885
FAX: (202) 624-8107
* PIPE LINE CONTRACTORS ASSOCIATION:
Mr. J. Patrick Tielborg, Managing Director and Genend Counsel 1700 Pacific Avenue, Suite 4100, Dallas, Texas 75201-4675 Phone: (214) 969-2700
FAX: (214) 969-2705
Rev. 2/2008
(8-1)
Gentlemen:
We have been awarded a contract by_______________________________________
(Name at Company)
for the following work: (List type of work, size of pipe, miles, counties and state.)
Headquarters_______________________________________________________________
Superintendent_____________________________________________________________
Approximate Starting Date__________________________________________________
Please advise who to contact concerning pre-job conference.
Very truly yours,
(frame of Contractor)
(Telephone No.)	(Fax Number)
(Street Addreaaj	(Qty) (Site)	(Sp)
(Bote)
* NOTE: Telegrams or Fax should be used to supply above information.
Rev. 2/2008
(B-2)
PIPE LINE CONTRACTORS ASSOCIATION OFFICERS
ROBERT I. JOHNSTON, President
DON W. THORN, 1st Vice President
BRIAN L. GANSKE, 2nd Vice President CHRISTOPHER T. LEINES, Treasurer
PETER M. BILLEY BERNIE BERMACK GREGORY S.V. CURRAN BRIAN L. GANSKE ROBERT JOHNSTON CHRISTOPHER T. LEINES W. A. “Bill” LEONE
M. DAN MURPHY DAVESTOTZ
SCOTT E. SUMMERS DON W. THORN ROBERT H. WESTPHAL RONNIE F. WISE
LABOR COMMITTEE
CHARLES P. JOYCE, Chairman
Otis Eastern Service, Inc.
Wellsville, New York 14895
ROBERT I. JOHNSTON
Henkels & McCoy, Inc.
Blue BeU, Pennsylvania 19422-0900
CHRISTOPHER T. LEINES
Minnesota Limited, Inc..
Rogers, Minnesota 55374
DAVESTOTZ
Latex Construction Company
Conyers, Georgia 30012
SCOTT E, SUMMERS
ARB, Inc.
Lake Forest, California 92630
DON W. THORN
Welded Construction, LP
Perrysburg, Ohio 43552
ROBERT H. WESTPHAL
Michels Corporation
Brownsville, Wisconsin 53006
RONNIE WISE
Gregory Sc Cook Construction Inc.
Houston, Tbxas 77063
J. PATRICK TIELBORG
Managing Director and General Counsel
Dallas, Texas 75201-4675
Office Telephone: (214) 969-2700
Home Telephone: (817)337-7115
Rev. 2/2008
(C)
NATIONAL PIPELINE INDUSTRY
JOINT POLICY COMMITTEE
PLC A Pipe Line Contractors Association
LI UN A Laborers’ International Union of North America
COMMITTEE
MACK BENNETT (IUOE) PHILLIP B. STEPHENSON (UA) EDWARD M. SMITH (LIUNA) CHARLES P. JOYCE (PLCA) ED JACOBSON (IBT)
J. PATRICK TTELBORG, Secretary
IUOE International Union of Operating Engineers
trf Teamsters
United Association of Journeymen and Apprentices of the Plumbing and
Pipe Fitting Industry of the United States and Canada
Rev. 3/2008
SOO
NATIONAL PIPE LINE AGREEMENT
This AGREEMENT is made by and between the PH® LINE CONTRACTORS ASSOCIATION, its contractor members and such other mainline pipe line contractors who execute an acceptance of the tbrms and provisions of this Agreement, hereinafter referred to as the "Empfoyer," and THE UNITED ASSOCIATION OF JOURNEYMEN AND APPRENTICES OF THE PLUMBING AND PIPEFITTING INDUSTRY OF THE UNITED STATES AND CANADA, AFL-CIO, hereinafter referred to as the "Union.”
WITNESSETH:
That, WHEREAS, the parties hereto desire to stabilizeemployment in the Mainline Pipe Line Industry, and agree upon wage rates, hours and conditions of employment;
NOW, THEREFORE, the undersigned Employer and thp Union, in consideration of the mutual promises and covenants herein contained, agree as follows:
I.
COVERAGE
(A)	This Agreement and the Attachments covering (1) Small Diameter Pipe (16” and under), (2) Station, (3) Maintenance, and (4) Mechanized Welding, which are included and made a part of this Agreement, shall apply toandcovcrall transportation mainline pipe line and underground cable (cable covered only when cable work is combined with or an integral part of pipe Une project) work coming within the jurisdiction of Union contiwted for or performed by Employer within the continental United States ns such work is more fully described in Paragraphs (B), (C), (D), (E) and (F) below. Work done in the State of Alaska shall also be covered by me terms of this Agreement; provided, however, that Employer and Union sh£iH meet to agree upon the wage rates and any conditions relating to transportataon, subsistence and camp jobs which may be necessary in that State. By mutual agreement, this contract may be extended to cover other territory.
(B)	Transportation mainline pipe lines coming under this Agreement are defined as fallows:
The construction, installation, double-jointing, rebevclling, treating, reconditioning, testing, taking-up, re-laying, or relocation cif cross-country pipe lines or any segments thereof transporting coal, gas, oiL water* or other transportable materials, vapors or liquids, including portions such pipelines within private property boundaries up to the final metering station or connection.
The phrase "final metering station or connection" moans that point where a valve, consumer connection, or town border station divides mainline
* (Parties will negotiate special wages and conditions for water Unes.)
Rev. 1/2008	201
transmission lines or higher pressure lateral and branch lines from lower pressure distribution systems. If a metering station or connection is located on such mainline transmission line or higher pressure lateral or branch line or between two or more mainline transmission lines or higher pressure lateral or branch lines then such work is covered by this Agreement,
(C)	Gathering lines which connect directly from the wells to the mainline pipe lines, gathering lines to or from gasoline extraction and gas dehydration plants, gathering lines to or from gas storage fields and water flood lines are included.
(D)	AU marine work, including "push" jobs in-shore and work done from barges in-shore or off-shore, is covered by this Agreement.
(E)	Fabrication and installation of all launchers, receivers and appurtenant piping and related facilities on mainline pipelines including those portions within private property boundaries which are an integral part of the pipe line system. Employer shall have the right to perform all fabrication Work On mainlines or pumping stations under cither (1) the terms and conditions of this Agreement, or (2) in a permanent fabrication shop under the terms and conditions of the National Minimum Standard Agreement for a Commercial Pipe Fabricating Shop. All fabrication performed in a permanent fabrication shop must carry the United Association Union label.
(F)	Small Diameter Pipe Line work (16” and under), all Station work, all Maintenance weak, and ail Mechanized Welding work is covered by this Agreement, but is subject to special conditions in accordance with the Special Agreements for each type of work set forth in Attachments 1-4 to this Agreement/
(G)	Welding, cutting and setting of steel pipe supports as. well as the setting, adjusting, aligning, repairing and maintaining of associated rollers is work that is covered by this Agreement.
(H)	Such pipe line construction, installation, repair, maintenance, replacement or reconditioning as may be combined with or associated or comprising an integral part of other work more particularly and usually defined as Engineering or Building Construction, tank farms, refineries, single ovmer plant to plant connecting lines within a city limit and city distribution lines are not covered by this Agreement.
(I)	For purposes of this Agreement, wherever the words "special work’ are used, they shall refer to and include the following work (but shall not include work covered by Attachments 1-4) and special provisions pertaining to such work are set out in Article XXI hereafter.
1.	Gathering lines as described in Paragraph (C) above
2.	Marine work as described in Paragraph (D) above
3.	Shortlines >
4.	Highway relocation
5.	Changeouts
6.	Congested area work
7.	Road crossings and cable
Rav. 1/2008
202
8.	River crossings
9.	Bridge crossings
10.	Fabrication
11.	Testing and rehabilitation
12.	Take-up and salvage
13.	Double jointing in the field
14.. Water lines including pipe made of material other than steel
(J)	If and when Employer shall perform work covered by this Agreement under its own name, under the name of another.ts a corporation, company, partnership, enterprise, or any combination, inclining a joint venture, this Agreement shall be applicable to all such work perfbrmed under the name of Employer or the name of any other corporation, company, partnership, enterprise, combination or joint venture.
(K)	All of the work covered by this Agreement shall bh done under and in accordance with the terms and conditions of this Agreement, whether done by Employer or any subcontractor of said Employer.
(L)	In order to preserve work customarily performed by Employees working under this Agreement, it is agreed that as a primary working condition, all double-jointing and rebevelling of pipe shall be performed by an Employer bound to this Agreement, except as otherwise mutually agreed upon in writing by the Union and the Pipe Une Contractors Association with relation to any particular job or project. It is further agreed thftt no subterfuge shall be used to avoid the intent and scope of this provision, and this Agreement shall apply to all firms, corporations or corlractors owned, financed or in any way controlled by an employer bound to this Agreement. A violation of this provision shall be considered a material breach of the Agreement and shall be grounds for the Union's immediate cancellation of the Agreement with the individual Employer which has violated this provision. The Union's right to terminate the Agreement under this provitiion shall not be exclusive and shall not impair any and all remedies which the Union might otherwise seek for a breach of this provision.
(M)	In the event new methods or new equipment (including double-jointing racks) for cutting, welding or lining up pipe are utilised, the manning of such equipment and the methods to be used in operatingsuch equipment shall be agreed upon by the Pipe Line Contractors Association and the Union.
(N)	It is the intent of the Union to have uniform w^jes and working conditions in the industry. However, the parties recognize tttat in connection with the Union’s organizing efforts to increase the market s&re of the union industry, it may be necessary to permit newly organized Ettfployers to complete existing projects or projects where bids have been accepted under the conditions which the Employer bid the work. The Union also agrees that Employers granted any concessions under this paragraph will be obligated to sign the current National Pipe Line Agreement for future covered work. It is further agreed that the Union and the Association will meet <5n a regular basis (minimum two times annually) to review progress in planning under this Article. Absent the above exception, the following continued to apply; In no
■A.
Rev. 1/2008
203
event shall Employer be required to pay higher rates of wages, or be subject to more unfavorable working rules than those established by Union for any other employer engaged in similar work.
(O)	If any provision of this Agreement is in conflict with the laws or regulations of the United States or of the State in which the work is to be performed, such provision shall be superseded by such law or regulation, blit all other provisions of this Agreement shall continue in foil force and effect; provided that in no case shall wage rates be paid which are lower than those set out in this Agreement.
(P)	Employer and Union agree that neither of them shall take any action or refuse to take any action which shall discriminate against any individual with respect to his compensation, terms, conditions, or privileges of employment because of such individual's race, age, color, religion, sex, national origin or disability.
(Q)	This Agreement shall supersede all other agreements between Employer and any local of the Union for any work covered herein and described above.
(R)	In Oder to be more competitive in certain areas in the country, the Pipe Line Contractors Association and the United Association may mutually agree to put into effect special wages and conditions for specific areas or projects. These special wages and conditions will apply to the areas or projects involved for the period of time to be established by the principal parties.
(S)	All personal nouns or pronouns used in this Agreement refer to both the male and female gender.
n.
TERRITORIAL JURISDICTION
No Local Union shall have territorial jurisdiction over work performed under this Agreement except as specifically determined by the United Association on a day-to-day basis,
HI.
UNION RECOGNITION, UNION SECURITY
(A)	The Employer recognizes the Union as the sole bargaining representative for all the Employees covered by this Agreement with respect to wages, hours and other toms and conditions of employment.
(B)	It is the intent and purpose of the parties hereto that all of the terms and conditions of employment for work covered under this Agreement shall be set out herein, and that neither the Union nor any representative thereof shall demand of any individual Employer any wages, hours or other terms and conditions of employment not specified herein, nor shall any individual Employer or representative thereof offer any wages, hours or other terms and conditions of employment not specified herein.
Rev. 1/2008
204
(C)	Job site agreements or understandings made in tile field between Union representatives and Employer representatives that art* not covered by this Agreement or that are in variance with die terms and Conditions of this Agreement will not be effective until a joint letter covering ttto matter and con-finning the agreement or understanding has been signed by die Union and the Association.
(D)	If, without prior mutual approval by the Pipe lune Contractors Association and the United Association, any individual Employer pays in excess of the wages set out in this Agreement in the form of extra money, extra hours, extra travel or stand-by time or in the form of a bdtius by any subterfuge, and the Pipe Line Contractors Association and the United Association both agree that such excess payment is in violation of this! Agreement, then such individual Employer shall be required to pay the same - extra compensation to all journeymen covered by this Agreement and a proportionate additional compensation to all other Employees covered by this Agreement, and such requirement shall continue until that particular job is ojtnpletod. In no event shall any penalty payment be made by any Employer until such time as the International Representative of the United Association affcj the Managing Director of the Pipe Line Contractors Association have reviewed the facts and mutually agree that such payment is due. When no mutual agnrement between the Pipe Une Contractors Association and the United Asrociation can be reached, the question shall be resolved by arbitration in accTitdance with the procedure set out in Article XIX, Sections (C), (D) and (E) otfthis Agreement. It is understood and agreed, however, that any profit-sharing, retirement or pension plan which an individual Employer may have established and which has not been set up for one particular job shall not be considered an excess payment or bonus.
(E)	All Employees covered by this Agreement, as a condition of continued employment, shall, commencing on the 8th day follciwing the beginning of such employment, or the effective date of this Agreement, whichever is later, acquire and, for the duration of this Agreement, maitriain membership in the Union. This provision shall not apply many State wheils such a requirement for continued employment is prohibited by law. In interpreting good standing, an Employer shall not discharge an employee for non-memberahip in the Union: (1) If he has reasonable grounds for believing that such membership was not available to the employee on the same terttts or conditions generally applicable to other members; or (2) That membership was denied or terminated for reasons other than the failure of the employee to tender the periodic dues and initiation fee uniformly required as a conditiaii of acquiring or retaining membership. Either party to this Agreement shaH%ave the right to reopen the negotiations pertaining to Union Security should the federal laws or any state laws applicable thereto be changed, by giving the othcr party thirty (30) days written notice.
(F)	The business representative of the Union shall have access to any jobat any time, but shall notify the field office of his presenct on the job. The representatives of the Union shall use their best efforts not to hinder ongoing production.
Rev. 1/3Q08	206
IV.
UNION DUES AND CHECK-OFF
(A)	Upon request of the Local Union having jurisdiction of the work being performed, and upon presentation of proper authorization forms executed by the individual Employees, the individual Employers agree to deduct from the wages of such individual Employee Union initiation fees and dues, and shall pay over to such Local Union the amount so deducted. The proper authorization forms for deductions will be provided to the Employer at the time of hire.
(B)	AH sums of money withheld by an Employer from the paychecks of Employees as Union initiation fees or dues for the benefit of the Employees' local union shall be transmitted to die Local Union no later than thirty (30) days after the date on which said sums of money were withheld.
(O If Employer fails to transmit all sums of money so withheld within the thirty (30) day period, he shall be subject to an additional payment of up to 15% of the amount due but not less than $100. If it becomes necessary for the Union to employ an attorney to collect such sums of money withheld by Employer, Employer shall also pay all court costs and attorneys' fees.
(D)	Each Local Union shall have die authority to bring suit in a court of competent jurisdiction in the area where the Local Union has its headquarters for die purpose of collecting initiation fees and dues withheld but not transmitted within such thirty (30) day period.
(E)	Any Employer more than three (3) months delinquent transmitting monies withheld pursuant to this Article may, at the Union's option, be required to supply a bond to secure future liabilities before the Union win prejob any new projects with the delinquent Employer.
(F)	For the purpose of venue and jurisdiction, each individual Employer hereby designates and appointsthe Clerk of the United States District Court for the Northern District of Oklahoma, or the Clerk of die United States District Court in the area where the job is located, as agent for the service of process, and the Local Union shall promptly furnish the delinquent Employer, by certified mail, a copy of all pleadings and notices of suit.
(G)	The arbitration provisions in Article XIX of this Agreement shall not be applicable to the rights and liabilities created by this Article.
V.
EMPLOYMENT, LAY-OFF AND DISCHARGE OFPERSONNEL
(A)	The Employer shall have foil responsibility for management, and shall be the sole judge as to die number of Employees required, subject to the conditions hereinafter stated.,
(B)	The work coming under the jurisdiction of the Union includes, regardless of the materials and mode or method used, the preparation of the pipe for joining, lining up of the pipe and the handling of the clamps, and join
Rev. 1/2008
206
ing of the pipe, and the Employer shall respect the jurisdictiati of the Union in assigning the work to be done.
(C)	The word "journeyman" shall mean all personsseeking employment as welders, spacers, slabbers, and persons carrying thh line in pipeline construction. The word "helper" shall mean all persons seeding employment as welder helpers. The clamp man is classified as a graded helper.
(D)	The Employer shall be the sole judge as to mb competency of any Employee and shall have the right to discharge any Emjitoyee.
. (E) At the start of each job all journeymen and welter belpers shall be hired by the employers signatory hereto in accordance With die following formula and subject to the conditions set out in Paragraph (Cl) hereinafter.
	Number			Numbed	
	Hired			Hired	
Number of	Directly	Number	Number of	Directly	Number
Employees	By	Dispatched	Employees	By ,	Dispatched
Required	Employer	By Union	Required	Employer	By Union
1	0	1	7	4	3
2	1	1	8	4	4
3	2	1	9	5	4
4	2	2	10	5	5
5	3	2	11	6	5
6	3	3	12	6	6
Thereafter, the Employer shall have the right to hire thcthirteenth (13th) journeyman and welder helper, and the Union shall dispatch the fourteenth (14th) journeyman and welder helper, and they shall alternate thereafter until the full crew has been employed.
(F)	Once a job has started, replacements of additional-journeymen and welder helpers needed will be hired either directly by the Employer or referred by the Union in accordance with the formula in effect at that’ime so that at all times the ratio of Employees on the job shall be as set forth ln the applicable formula.
(G)	The conditions to be followed in the initial hiring or replacement of Employees are:
1.	The Employer retains the right to reject any job applicant for cause and may exercise the right before the Union dispatcher any Employees required by Employer. Upon request, Employer will comrm by letter or telegram any verbal rejections made.
2.	The selection of applicants for referral by Union or hired directly by Employer shall not be based on, or in any way rilected by, Union membership, bylaws, rules, regulations, constitutional provisions or any other aspect of or obligation of Union membership, policy or requirements.
Rev. 1Z2OO8
207
1.1
3.	There shall be no limitation on Employer's right to select Employees with particular classifications or drills from among the Employees hired by Employer direct. Not shall there be any limitation on Employer's right to assign Employees to particular classifications because of the Employee's membership or non-membership in a particular local union. a
4.	The Union must dispatch the Employees requestedby the Employer at the start of a job within forty-eight (48) hours. The Union must dispatch the Employees requested after a job has started within twenty-four (24) hours. If such Employees are not actually en route to the job site within the time required, Employer may hire any Employees from any source. In this event, Union shall not interfere with Employer's right to hire Employees direct. If a stickrod Welder is hired directly by the Employer undo* Article V(GX4) and has passed an owner’s qualification test, be will not be required to pass a local union welding test to obtain employment as a Welder on that particular project. Upon conclusion of the Employee’s employment withthe Employer, however, such Welder will be required to pass a local union welding test prior to dispatch to any other Employer under the hiring procedures in Article V of the NPLA.
5.	Union agrees that unless the Employer requests otherwise, no journeymen or welder helpers will be dispatched to the Employer's job until the welders required through the referral procedure have actually been dispatched.
(H)	The Employer shall be‘the sole judge as to the number of Employees required. The work coming under the jurisdiction of the Union includes, regardless of the materials and mode or method used, the preparation of the pipe for joining, lining up of the pipe and the handling of the clamps, and joining °f the pipe, and Employer shall respect the jurisdiction of the Union in assigning the work to be done. In addition to the welder foreman, the welders, and their helpers, Employer shall be required to employ journeymen spacers, stabbers and persons carrying the Une as needed.
(I)	Once the original crew has been hired, the Employer shall have the right to keep such crew intact for the duration of the job, regardless of the local union jurisdiction.
(J)	The Employer shall have the right to keep and transfer such original crew from one job to another within the jurisdiction of die same local union, provided journeymen are paid waiting time for any days intervening between the two jobs, and travel pay in accordance with this Agreement.
(K)	At the end of the job, die Employer will lay off welders, journeymen and welder helpers who are no longer needed. The lay off procedure should be such that the ratio of Employees hired directly by Employer and those referred by the Union shall be the same as that set out in the formula above.
Rev. 1/2008
208
VI.
STEWARDS
(A)	The Union and Employer representatives shall, mutually agree upon the appointment of a steward at the pre-job conference. Separate stewards shall not be required on remote segments of a mainline pipeline construction job if the steward on the mainline job is given sufficient time and transportation to perform his duties as steward among the Employees on such remote segments.
(B)	Following the pre-job conference, the steward shall be placed on the Employer's payroll on the date corresponding to one of die following two occurrences, whichever date is earliest:
1.	The date of testing welders; or
2.	The date that rigging up welding equipment, such as sleds, tack rigs, hot-pass rigs, etc., on the right-of-way begins.
(C)	The steward shall be a working steward and dlall perform his (hides the same as any other journeyman, and shall not bt discharged for Union activities. The steward’s duties shall not include any matters relating to referral, hiring, retention, termination, or discipline of Emplcyees.
(D)	The steward shall not be permitted to take time away from his job duties to handle administrative work for the Union. The steward will be allowed a reasonable time to process grievances or complaint*. Whenever the steward is occupied away from his job duties, his helper mSy be assigned to other work.
(E)	It is agreed that the steward has no authority frtim the Union to cause’ a work stoppage.
(F)	Where the steward has been regularly working .ha a job and for some unanticipated reason does not show up for work on a particular day, the Employees shall start and continue to work and the welder foreman shall notify the local union office of the steward's absence. '
(G)	The steward shall remain on the Employer's payrtiH until the tie-in work has been completed. After the firing line has finished iC) work, the steward may, at Employer's option, be used as one of the tie-in wHders.
vn.
FOREMEN
(A)	The appointment of all foremen is die responsibility of Employer. Such appointments shall not be interfered with by Union. Soph foremen may be paid on an hourly, weekly or monthly basis, as determined by Employer.
The welder foreman shall be covered by the Pijfle Line Industry Benefit Fund and the Pipe Line Industry Pension Fund. Contributions shall be made by Employer for the same number of hours that the job is set up on per week except as provided in (B).
Rev. 1Z2OO8
200

(B)	When twelve (12) or fewer welders are employed, the welder foreman will be allowed to work with the tools, at the discretion of Employer. Such working foreman shall be paid a minimum of $ 150 per hour more than the regular journeyman rate and contributions shall be made by Employer to the Pipe Line Industry Benefit Fund and the Pipe Line Industry Pension Fund for all hours worked by such foreman.
vm.
JOB NOTIFICATION AND ENFORCEMENT
(A)	Employer agrees to notify Union promptly before starting any job covered under the terms of this Agreement. Such notification is to be sent to the Union's General Office, 901 Massachusetts Avenue, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20001, and shall describe for each job the location, size and proposed starting date. It is a violation of this Agreement to start a job without prior notification to the General Office and a local pre-job conference assigned by the General Office.
(B)	Employer and Union shall hold a pre-job conference before the start of any job and Union's representatives at such conference shall be authorized by the Union to represent Union for the entire area covered by the job. It shall be the purpose of the pre-job conference to agree upon such matters as the length of the work week, the number of men to be employed, the applicable wage rates in accordance with the contract, and any other matters not including any interpretation of the clauses of this Agreement, it being agreed that any interpretation of the Agreement should be made between the Pipe Line Contractors Association and the United Association, so that proper application thereof may be made on the jobs. No representative of any individual Employer and no representative of the Union shall demand at the pre-job conference or at any other time during the continuance of the job any .term or con-ditian not covered by this Agreement. A copy of the report made on each prejob conference shall be furnished to the Pipe Line Contractors Association and the United Association, and no agreement made at any pre-job conference which adds to or modifies in any way the terms and conditions of this Agreement shall be binding on any individual Employer or the Union unless approved and ratified by the Pipe Line Contractors Association and the United Association.
(O Union agrees to send a copy of this Agreement to each of its locals having pipe line jurisdiction and agrees that the terms of this Agreement shall be recognized by each local union. The enforcement of this Agreement by Union is vested in the local union designated by the Union to handle work covered under this Agreement.
IX.
ASSEMBLY POINT AND WAREHOUSE ,
(A)	The time of each Employee shall start in the morning at ins designated Assembly Point, which shall be agreed upon at the pre-job conference, but which in no event shall be on the pipe line right-of-way.
Rev. 1/2008
210
(B)	If possible, there should be only one Assembly Point for all Employees and in no event shall there be more than two Assembly Points.
(C)	If onecity, town or community large enough fit i provide living accommodations for all Employees is located near the job site, then one Assembly Point may be designated not more than ten (10) tailes outside the city limits and all Employees shall report to and their time shall begin at that Assembly Point. This distance may be increased beyond the ten (10) miles when circumstances warrant as agreed to by the principal parties.
(D)	If one such city, town or community is not located near the job site, then one Assembly Point may be designated which is approximately the same distance from several cities, towns or communities where living accommodations are available.
(E)	If living accommodations for all of the Employees eannot be found in the one large city, town or community contemplated in Paragraph (C), or in several cities, towns and communities contemplated in Paragtnph (D), then a second Assembly Point which qualifies according to eitherltaagraph (C) or Paragraph (D), so far as available nearby living accommodates is concerned, may be designated by Employer, to which only the remaining Employees shall report and at which only their time shall begin.
(F)	Notwithstanding the provisions of Paragraphs (C), (D), and (E) above, Employers bidding work in remote areas of the western part of the country may use assembly points closer to the job site so thdll non-productive riding time may be eliminated or reduced. It is agreed that the number of miles involved will vary.
(G)	Employer shall make suitable and prompt transportation available from each Assembly Point agreed upon to the job site and tack. The time of the Employees shall end at quitting time on the job site. The tithch period may start at anytime between 11:45 AM. and 12:15 PM. and conCrtuc for 30 uninterrupted minutes (pipe gang/firing line excluded). The Employer shall return the Employees to the Assembly Points in the shortest posjile time. It is intended that the lapse of time used to transport the Employees from normal quitting time at the job site back to each Assembly Point sha2 not exceed the lapse of time from starting time at each Assembly Point in tiw morning to the job site.
X.
WORKING AND SAFETY RULES
(A)	There shall be no inequitable minimum or maximum amount of work which an Employee may be required to perform during ate working day, and there shall be no restriction imposed against the use of any type machinery, tools or labor saving devices, except as provided in Article I, Paragraph (L) above. At the discretion of Employer, Employees may lie changed from one classification to another within the jurisdiction of theiUnion. During emergencies, any Employee of Employer may be assigned to any work; provided, however, that no Employee's hourly rate shall be lowered under this
'.ikl
Rev. 1Z2OO8
211
provision, and provided further that in the event an Employee is assigned to work calling for a higher rate of pay, be shall receive such higher rate for hours so employed.
(B)	Stringer bead and hot-pass welders and helpers can he required to weld back on incomplete welds, as long as their wage rate is not lowered.
(C)	All maintenance and repair of micro-wire equipment from the lugs out shall be done either by the welder using such equipment w, at Employer’s option, by some other journeyman. .
(D)	Employer shall have the right to make and revise from time to time safety and working rules which are not inconsistent with any of the terms of this Agreement. Union agrees to cooperate in the enforcement of such safety and working rules. Employer, Union, and all Employees shall at all times abide by all Federal and State Safety Regulations.
(E)	No Employee will be required to take a physical examination as a prerequisite to employment.	'
(F)	No foreman or other Employee shall be subject to any penalties or fines assessed by Union so long as he is in compliance with the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
(G)	The Employer shall have the sole right to determine the number and classifications of the Employees to be hired provided such assignments are not inconsistent with this Agreement.
XI.
WAGE RATES AND CLASSIFICATIONS
(A)	The hourly wage rates, per diem, and fringe benefits shall be as follows:
1.	The wage rates, per . diem and fringe benefits shown in Exhibits “A” and “B” are amended to reflect the 2008 increases that apply to Journeymen and Helpers, respectively, for the periods indicated. Wage, per diem and fringe benefit rates for periods prior to January 1,2008 are available upon request from the UAor the PLCA.
2.	As of July 19,2007, the per diem for all Welder Journeymen shall be increased by $30.00/day. Such payment shall be made retroactive to the first day of the payroll period immediately preceding July 19, 2007, so long as the Employee has not yet received his pay for such payroll period. Exhibit “A” reflects this increase.
3.	Effective January 1,2008:
(a)	the total wage and fringe benefits package shall be increased for all Journeymen and Helpers by 45%;
(b)	the per diem shall be increased for all Journeymen and Helpers by 45% (except that the per diem increase for Welder Journeymen shall be based on $4250/day);
Rev. 1/2008	212
(c)	the per diem for all Welder Journeymen shall be further increased by $30.00/day; and
(d)	the Union will allocate $125 of the’January 1, 2008 increase for Journeymen and $.76 of the January 1,2008 increase for Helpers to the PIPF. The Union will decide the allocation of the balance of the increase.
Exhibits “A” and “B” reflect the allocation of this increase.
4.	Effective January 1,2009:
(a)	the total wage, per diem and fringe lienefits package shall be increased for all Journeymen and Helpers by 5% (except that the per diem increase for Welder Journeymen shall be based on $42ii0); and
(b)	based upon the recommendation of thePIPF’s Trustees, the Union will allocate a minimum of $1 jOO of the January !, 2009 increase for Journeymen and a minimum of $.61 of the January 1, 2D09 increase for Helpers to the PIPF. The Union will decide the allocation of Che balance of the increase.
Modified Exhibits “A” and “B” will be distributed after the January 1, 2009 increase is allocated.
5.	Effective January 1,2010:
(a)	the total wage, per diem and fringe benefits package for all Journeymen and Helpers shall be increased by 7% (except lhat the per diem increase for the Welder Journeymen shall be based on $423(1); and
(b)	the Union will decide the allocation of the increase.
Modified Exhibits “A” and “B” will be distributed after the January 1,2010 increase is allocated.
(B)	The graded helper rate shall be $.70 per hour above the welder helper rate.
(C)	No premium shall be paid for any job assignment unless specifically provided in this Agreement.
(D)	Journeymen employed as "stringer bead" welders and journeymen who are regularly employed as "hot-pass” welders shall receive $1.00 per hour more than other journeymen. The journeyman employed carrying the line shall receive $1.00 per hour more than other journeymen.
(E)	Welders running "stringer bead” or "hot-pass* on “cut outs* or "tie-ins" on a production basis shall be paid $ 1.00 per hour above the journeyman rate. “Production basis” shall mean those situations where one or more welders have been assigned to welding the stringer bead or tot-pass as a per
Rev. 1/2008
213
manent or semi-permanent assignment, and to cover areas of skips and/or large amounts of pups in one location. It is not intended to cover the temporary assignment on a daily basis in a cut-out or tie-in crew where any such assignment is for the express purpose of expediting the movement of the tie-in tractors.
(F)	Whenever a welder helper is employed using a power buffer or power grinder immediately behind the stringer bead and/or hot-pass welders, and the pipe gang is set up on a production basis, he shall be paid $2.00 per hour above the helper rate. Whenever an extra welder helper is employed using a power buffer or power grinder anywhere else on the job, he shall be paid the graded helper rate. Whenever an Employer elects to use a welder helper with a tiger disk or sander pad for ultrasonic test preparation - grinding seams or buttons, said welder helper shall be paid $2.00 per hour above the helper rate.
The $2.00 premium set out above will not apply on work listed in Article I, Paragraph (I). (Exception for marine work, see Article XXI, Marine No. 8.)
(G)	The helper assigned to operate the bending mandrel of the bending machine shall be paid the graded helper rate.
(H)	The Employer may at its sole discretion appoint a welder helper straw(s) who will be paid the graded helper rate.
(I)	Preheating with oxygen or acetylene torches and stress relieving shall be assigned to a journeyman. Preheating with liquefied petroleum gas shall be performed by the welder's assigned helper. If an extra welder helper is hired to perform this work he shall be paid at the regular helper rate. Setting toe heat on welding machines and hooking and unhooking of welding machines to tow cats shall also be perforated by toe welder's assigned helper.
(J)	Journeymen acting as job stewards shall wherever possible be assigned to the firing line and shall be paid $1,00 an hour above toe journeyman rate for all hours worked by him or for the number of hours up to a maximum of thirteen (13) worked by any UA journeymen on the job except the DA mechanic and except for journeymen and/or welders working on testing. Provided that if the UA mechanic performs any welding after the end of the regular shift, such hours shall be counted in computing the steward's pay. It is intended that toe steward shall, wherever possible, and at Employer's option, actually work the number of hours for which he is paid.
(K)	In toe event back welding is performed inside the pipe undo- either or both of the following conditions, then Employer will pay such welder engaged in back welding at a wage rate $3D0 per hour above his regular rate for the job only for the days on which such back welding is performed. If the welder helper is required to go inside the pipe for the purpose of brushing, buffing and grinding the weld, be Shall receive a wage rate $1 DO per hour above toe regular helper rate for days1 involved.
1.	If Employer elects as a regular procedure to back weld each line-up, then one welder will be selected each day to perform all of such back welding. This condition is not intended to apply to occasional back welding
Re* 1/2008
2f4
performed by the pipe gang to repair a bead, to rectify a nhi-k>" condition or wall thickness change, etc.
2.	Whenever a welder is required to back weld a completed weld behind the firing line.
(L)	Welders working on "hot wok" shall be paid $2110 an hour above the regular journeyman rate and helpers working on "hot wOik" shall be paid the graded helper rate for each day engaged in such work.Joumeymen and helpers on "hot work" shall not receive such premium pay uilless required by Employer to be in the area of danger. “Hot work” is defined iis work on lines in service where there is the danger of fire or explosion. Pfhnium pay shall riot be required on work on lines not in service where sucrijtines have been purged with air movers, water or other acceptable methods. IIven if such lines have been purged by such methods, if fire or explosion results, then premium pay shall be required. The Welder Foreman and Steward will agree on what constitutes “hot workLines in service are defined as lines Sbt cut and isolated from any source of flammbaie product.
(M)	The pay day shall be once each week, unless the Employer agrees to allow Employees one draw on money earned; under such conditions, pay day may be once every two weeks. At Employer’s option, aU Employees shall be given the option to be paid by direct deposit of wages on ia weekly basis to the bank or financial institution of the Employee’s choice, in which case pay stubs will be provided to the Employees within the time period referenced above. This optional manner of payment, once adopted by thi Employer, may not be changed except upon advance notification to the Ettiployees and the Union. Employees are to be paid during their regular shift. |vhen Employees are laid off or discharged, their check for wages due them ft the time of the layoff or discharge must be delivered during their regular shift. Employer and Union may agree at the pre-job conference to an alternate plin.
(N)	When no work is performed on pay day, Empliiyer shall not be required to deliver checks for wages before the expiration <if the number of hours which would ordinarily have been worked during thatday.
(O)	Employer shall make arrangements in each; locality where Employees are employed to enable such Employees to cash their pay checks, at no cost to the Employees.
(P)	The wage rate for all Employees covered by this Agreement shall be that of the County or State in which the pipe gang is currently working or in which it was located when the pipe was laid out.
xn.
OVERTIME AND HOLIDAY PAY
(A)	The work week shall begin Monday and shall itnd Sunday. All hours worked by an Employee in excess, of eight hours per day and in excess of forty straight time hours per week shall be paid for at therate of time and one-half the straight time rate. Work performed on Sundays shall be paid for at the rate of time and one half. In ill "states after an employee has worked eight (8) hours, he will be on overtime until he is relieved arid provided with
i rli At
Rev. 1/2008
215
at least an eight (8) hour break before returning to work. Reporting time pay provisions win not apply when on overtime pay; however, waiting time as provided for in this Agreement will apply. Work performed on Christmas, Thanksgiving, Labor Day, New Year’s Day and July 4 shall be paid for at double the straight time hourly rate; provided, however, that in the event one of the holidays hereinabove named occurs during the first forty hours of any work week, hours worked on such holidays shall not be counted in computing the forty hours after which the Employee is entitled to a rate of time and one-half the straight time rate.
(B)	If one of the holidays named in Paragraph (A) above falls on Sunday, it shall be observed on Monday. Accordingly, if such an event occurs, work performed on Sunday shall be paid for at the regular rate for that day; work performed on Monday will be paid for at double tbe straight time hourly rate. If no work is performed on Monday, no pay other than waiting time to journeymen shall be required.
xm.
WAITING TIME
(A)	Journeymen shall be paid waiting time for any days lost during the normal scheduled work week. For any day lost during any one work week, the waiting time payment shall be a lump sum which is the equivalent of five (5) hours’ pay at the straight time rate applicable on that particular job.
(B)	The applicable waiting time for each State is based on the journeyman rate and not the stringer bead, hot-pass, steward or other premium rates. In no event shall the waiting time payment he included in counting the eight or forty hours after which overtime is payable.
(C)	If no work is performed on a holiday designated by this Agreement, journeymen shall be paid waiting time. However, if an official holiday as designated by this Agreement comes on a Sunday, and the Employer is working a regular six day week, such journeymen will not be paid waiting time far that day.
(D)	If the regularly scheduled work week is less than seven (7) days, journeymen shall not be paid any waiting time for tbe days lost which are not part of tile regularly scheduled work week.
(E)	If a journeyman’s Assembly Point is moved from one location to another he shall be paid eight hours at the straight time rate whether any working time is actually lost or not. Such hours shall not be counted' in computing tbe forty hours after which overtime is payable, and nd contributions shall be required to the Pipe Line Industry Benefit, Pension and Advancement Funds for such moving time hours.
(F)	If the Assembly Point for a helper or graded helper on loop work is moved in excess of 100 miles such helper or graded helper shall be paid four hours at the straight time rate whether any working time is actually lost or not. Such hours shall not be counted in computing the forty hours after which overtime is payable, and no contributions shall be required to the Pipe Line Industry Benefit, Pension and Advancement Funds for such moving time hours.
(G)	If one or more days of work are lost during the work week and
Rev. 1/2008
±16
journeymen are paid waiting time for such lost days, theft Employer may require journeymen to make up such lost days in the futarn by woriting on days which are not part of the regularly scheduled work week without incurring any liability for payment of waiting time on such days flirt worked in the future. However, once the Employer declares a make-up da^, such day must then be worked or, if no work is provided on such day, thenwaiting time will be paid. The Employer must declare its intent to work no laterthan 10 am. the day prior to the day the Employer plans to work. Informing the Steward shall constitute sufficient notice.
(H)	Even if no days are lost during the regularly scheduled work week, those journeymen regularly employed in utility, tie-in crews,jfate or valve settings, road crossings or fabrication work may work on the dff js not part of the regularly scheduled work week or oh holidays without the Einployer becoming liable for waiting time payments to the other journeymen; Those journeymen regularly employed as stringer bead welders, hot-pass welders, firing line welders, spacers, or stabbers may be worked in tie-in crews, |jate or valve settings, road crossings, or utility or fabrication work on the dajis not part of the regularly scheduled work week or on holidays, when nedibd, without the Employer becoming liable for waiting time payments to timber journeymen provided each journeyman in the classifications needed is given equal opportunity to work, starting with the firing line.
(I)	If the regularly scheduled work week is less thari seven (7) days, in emergencies, when the Business Agent of the Local Union is notified beforehand, Employer may require journeymen to work on the days not part of the regularly scheduled work week without incurring liability for waiting time payments on future such days not worked.
(J)	In the absence of an emergency if Employer is waking a regularly scheduled work week which is less than seven (7) days aiiicl works the pipe gang and/or firing line two (2) consecutive weeks on days viMiich are not part of the regularly scheduled work week he will incur liabilityfor waiting time payments on such days not worked in the future on said job.
XIV.
TRAVEL EXPENSES
(A)	The journeyman will receive the applicable IRS allowable rate per mile travel pay via the nearest route from the city or town in tihich he is locat-ed at the time he receives his dispatch to the location of the job site. The journeyman will be entitled to travel pay to the job site (initial travel pay) and an equal amount of travel pay upon completion of the job (return Iravel pay). The journeyman WILL NOT receive either initial or return travd pay unless he remains on the job from the date he is hired until the job is completed, or until he is released by employer. If he fails to complete the job for any reason he shall not be entitled to any travel pay.
(B)	Journeymen or helpers hired directly by Employer or dispatched by Union to jobs in the continental . United States from Alflika will only be entitled to receive travel pay from the point at which they enter the continental United States to the job site.
Rev. 1/2008
217
(C)	When a job converts from micro-wire to stick rod and vice versa, all journeymen welders shall be entitled to travel pay at that time. However, other journeymen employed will be entitled to travel pay only as otherwise provided in this Agreement.
(D)	The welder helper will receive 66% of the applicable IRS allowable rate per mile travel pay via the neatest route from the city or town in which be is located at the time be receives his dispatch to the location of the job site. The wekler helper will be entitled to travel pay to the job site (initial travel pay) and an equal amount of travel pay upon completion of the job (return travel pay). The welder helper WILL NOT receive either initial or return travel pay unless he remains on the job from the date he is hired until the job is completed, or until he is released by the Employer. If be fails to complete the job for any reason be shall not be entitled to any travel pay.
(E)	The cost of any transportation provided by Employer shall be charged against die travel expense to which a journeyman or helper is entitled under this clause; provided, however, that such charge shall not exceed die cost of a commercial airline ticket.
(F)	Travel expense provided for herein shall not be applicable when the Employee's Assembly Point is moved from one location to another on the same job.
(O)	When a helper is hired direct by Employer or dispatched by Union, and no work at all is available for him, he shall be paid eight (8) hours at the straight time rate applicable for that job. If work is available for the helper, but noton the day assigned for his arrival tothe job site, then be shall be paid four (4) hours' pay at the applicable wage rate for that job at the straight time rate for each day for which work is not provided.
(H)	Whenever any dispute arises over travel pay, the final decision shall be made by agreement between a representative of the Pipe Line Contractors Association and a representative of the Union.
XV.
REPORTING TIME PAY
(A)	After a welder helper has been hired and ordered to report for work at the regular starting time, and no work is provided for him on the day that he has so reported, he shall receive pay equivalent to four (4) hours at the rate applicable for that day. This pay shall be provided notwithstanding he has not been ordered to report for work on that particular day, if the welder helper has been working regularly and the Employer has failed to notify him not to report for work the preceding day at or before the end of bis regular shift or 5:30 pjn., whichever is later. The reporting time pay of four hours at the rateappli-cable for that day is based upon the basic helper rate and not any premium rate.
(B)	Any welder helper who reports to work and for whom any work is provided, regardless of the time that be works, shall receive the equivalent of not less than four (4) hours pay.
Rev. 1/2008
218
(C)	Any welder helper who reports to work and works more than four (4) hours in any one day shall receive pay equal to the number of hours for that day for which the job has been set up not to exceed ten <jlO) hours.
(D If a journeyman who is entitled to waiting timh performs some work during the day and is then prevented from completing^ full day's work for any reason, he shall receive five (5) hours pay at the rate ftir that work day. If he works more than four hours and is then prevented framcompleting a full day's work for any reason, then such journeyman shall be entitled to receive pay equal to the number of hours for that day for which the job has been set up; provided, however, that such journeyman shall not leave the job site unless specifically directed by his foreman. If he leaves the job site or stops work without being directed to do so by his foreman, be shall be entitled to receive pay only for hours actually worked.
(E)	If, under any of the circumstances described above, any Employee leaves the job site or stops work without being directed to do so by his foreman, he shall be entitled to receive pay only for hours actually worked.
(F)	Fringe contributions shall be required on any hours paid under these provisions even though not actually worked. Hours paid for under this provision shall be counted in computing the forty (40) hours after which overtime is payable.
(G)	It is expressly provided, however, that when any Employee refuses to work or to continue to work or work stoppage conditions brought about by a third party or third parties prevent or make ill-advisediln the opinion of the Employer the performance of any work or the continuance of work once started, no pay for time not worked shall be required undertmy of the above enumerated conditions.
(H)	Where notification of the men is required under feis Agreement to the effect that work shall not be performed on a particular diy, notification of such fact to the steward shall be sufficient notification to the men, provided such notification is made during working hours.
XVI.
WELDING RIGS
(A) It shall not be a condition of employment for Welder Journeymen to provide their own welding rigs. It is understood and agratd, however, that a Weider Journeyman who is dispatched to a project as a rig welder will be required to provide a usable rig as a condition of the dispatch. If the Union is unable to fill the dispatch request, the Employer may obtain rig welders from any source in accordance with Article V(GX4) of the Agreement.
■ (B) As of July 1,2007, the Parties agree to treat rigrental rates as a mandatory subject of bargaining within the meaning of the National Labor Relations Act, with all of the rights and obligations that attath to such a subject of bargaining.
Rev. 1/2008
219
(C)	As of July 19, 2007, Employers who rent rigs from Welder Journeymen who perform work covered by the NPLA shall pay such Welder Journeymen $15.00/hour “wet” or $9D0/hour “dry” for tbe rental of their rigs. These rates are the cunent maximum hourly rate determined by the Internal Revenue Service to be non-taxable pursuant to IRS Revenue Procedure 2002-41, as increased by the IRS as of January 1,2007. As of July 19,2007, these 2007 rates shall be the rig rental rate for the duration of the Agreement. The Parties shall agree at the pre-job conference whether the applicable rate shall be a “wet” rate or a “dry” rate. The rig rate will not be included in calculating total package annual increases.
(D)	The Parties further agree that all pre-jobs for work in progress as of July 19,2007, will be reopened and modified to reflect the IRS substantiated rate set forth in Paragraph (C). The Parties shall agree whether the applicable rate shall be “wet” rate or a “dry” rate. Such modifications will be effective retroactively to the first day of the payroll period immediately preceding July 19,2007, so long as the Employee has not yet received his pay for such payroll period.
(E)	Any fuel adjustment payment must be agreed to by the UA and the PLCA.
(F)	If the IRS eliminates or issues a procedure or ruling that adversely affects the favorable tax status of rental payments for welding rigs currently provided for in IRS Revenue Procedure 2002-41, the Parties agree that they will reopen the NPLA for the limited purpose of renegotiating rig rental rates. Annual increases to the deemed substantiated rate permitted by the IRS pursuant to Revenue Procedure 2002-41 shall not be the basis for reopening the ' NPLA for negotiating rig rental rates.
xvn.
TESTING TIME
(A)	Before any welder is given a test (tingle or multiple) for qualification he shall be placed on Employer's payroll.
(B)	Single Test. Where a welder successfully completes a single qualification test he shall be entitled to receive pay equal to the number of hours for that day for which the job has been set up (defined as normally scheduled work day); however, Employer may require the welder to work any remaining hours of the normally scheduled work day after completing his test without additional pay. A welder will be entitled to additional pay for any hours he is required to work beyond the normally scheduled work day. If a welder foils a single qualification test he shall receive four (4) hours pay at the straight time rate. No fringe benefit contributions are required on a failed test.
(C)	Multiple Tests. If a welder is required to take more than one test for qualification at the start of the job be shall be entitled to receive:
1.	Four (4) hours pay at the straight time rate with no fringe benefit contributions if be fails the first test; or
Rev. 1/2008
220
2.	Pay equal to the number of hours for that dfty for which the job has been set up (normally scheduled work day) provided'he successfully completes the first test.
The welder will be paid work time and fringe benefit contribiitions under this Agreement for any additional tests required regardless of theoutcome of the tests and regardless of the day taken. Welders, however, must pass all required tests to be eligible for employment.
(D)	Welders will not be entitled to any separate test pay for single or multiple tests other than as set out in this Article.
(E)	Welders reporting for qualification tests must arritee at the job site at the designated work time on the day designated by Employer for their arrival. If not, they shall not be entitled to receive waiting time pay for that day.
(F)	A welder shall be tested or placed on waiting tinrn upon arrival at die job site, provided that it is the day designated by Employe for his arrival. Hours paid for under tins provision shall be counted in computing the 40-hour week.
(G)	Welder helpers who perform no work while the welder is taking a qualification test are entitled to no pay.
xvm.
WORK STOPPAGES, SECONDARY BOYCOTTS AND JURISDICTIONAL DISPUTES
(A)	No local union nor the International Union, nor any representative of either, shall cause or promote a strike, slowdown, stoppage of work or any interference, directly or indirectly, with the operation and^rogress of the work; nor shall any Employer or the Pipe Line Contractors Association engage in any lockout during the life of this Agreement, it being thejpod faith intention of the parties hereto that by the execution of this Agreement industrial peace shall be maintained, All grievances, disputes, difference!* of opinion and other questions concerning this Agreement shall be settled indiccordance with tiie procedure for settlement of grievances and disputes set oci in Article XIX below. Any settlement where hours or pay are involved shall Ite retroactive.
(B)	If either the local union or the International Union ur any representative of either causes or promotes a strike, slow down, stoppage of work or any interference with the operation or progress of the work, orlif the Employer breaches this Agreement, then the Employer (where the Union interfered with the work) or the International Union (where Employer tfis breached the Agreement) may at its option declare the provisions of Article XIX inoperative and seek whatever remedy may be available from the National Labor Relations Board or any Federal or State court having jurisdiction of the' matter.
(C)	It shall not be a violation of this Agreement orof the no-strike clause if members of the United Association refuse to cross a picket line established by another craft union within the pipe line industry.
(D)	Questions regarding the interpretation of this Agreement are to be resolved by the parties to this Agreement in accordance With Article XIX.
Rev. 1/3008	221'
l,r. ik,
Questions regarding work coverage or jurisdictional disputes between or among local unions affiliated with the United Association will be resolved by the United Association, and shall be binding on all parties to this Agreement. Work coverage or jurisdictional disputes between local unions affiliated with the United Association shall not be cause for work stoppages.
XIX.
PROCEDURE FOR SETTLEMENT OF GRIEVANCES AND DISPUTES
(A)	Any grievances, disputes or differences of opinion which arise between the Employer’s supervisory personnel and Union representatives in the field shall be settled on the job, wherever possible; provided that such settlements shall not vary any of the wages, terms or conditions of this Agreement,
1.	Any Employee who believes that he has a grievance shall first take the matter up with the welder foreman .
2.	If the matter is not satisfactorily adjusted by the foreman, the grievance shall be referred to the job steward. The job steward and the foreman will attempt to resolve the grievance.
3.	If the grievance is not settled between the steward and foreman, the Employer's superintendent will be summoned to enter the discussion. When the matter cannot be settled at this level, it will be referred to the Union’s Business Agent and Employer’s superintendent.
4.	In the event the grievance, dispute, or difference of opinion shall not have been satisfactorily settled during the preceding steps within forty-eight (48) hours, then the Union representative shall refer it to the appropriate International Union representative, and the Employer's superintendent shall refer it to the Managing Director or Executive Director of the Pipe Line Contractors Association. These parties shall immediately make every effort to settle the difference, grievance or dispute.
(B)	Any other grievance, dispute, difference of opinion or controversy of any kind or character between the Union and die Association and/or individual Employer signatory hereto involving or relating to the interpretation or application of the terms of this Agreement, and the relations between the parties arising during the term of this Agreement which cannot be settled by the parties, shall be settled by the arbitration procedure which is set out below.
(C)	If, within forty-eight (48) hours, no adjustment or settlement is reached by the procedure set out above, the matter shall immediately be referred in writing to an Arbitration Board consisting of six (6) members, all of whom shall be femiliar with the mainline, cross country pipe line construction industry, three (3) to be appointed by the International Union, and three (3) by the Pipe Line Contractors Association. These six (6) individuals sliall constitute the Arbitration Board.
(D)	The Members of the Arbitration Board shall not have the power to amend or alter the provisions of this Agreement but shall within fourteen (14) days of their appointment determine the procedure that they will use in con
Rev. 1/2008
222
sidering the evidence and render a decision based on the evidence submitted by the parties, such decision to be consistent with the terms end provisions of this Agreement. The decision of the Arbitration Board shall be binding upon both parties.
(E)	In the Unlikely Event that the six (6) member Artliration Board is unable to reach a decision, then either party may institute the following procedure:
1.	Within seven (7) days after notification by the Arbitration Board that it is unable to reach a decision, the Pipe line Contractors Association and the International Union shall attempt to mntttally agree upon one (1) person to whom the matter shall be referred.
2.	If within forty-eight (48) hours no mutual agreement has been reached by the procedure set out above, the Association 'will immediately contact the Federal Mediation & Conciliation Service toobtain a list of three (3) individuals with as much experience and knowledge as possible in the pipe line construction industry. A copy of this list will befumisbed to the Union, and thereafter, the Association and Union shall attempt to mutually agree upon one (1) of the individuals listed. If no agreement can be reached, the Union and the Association will each strike one (1) name Item the list and the remaining individual will be the Arbitrator.
3.	A statement of the facts shall be presented to the Arbitrator within forty-eight (48) hours after his selection either:
(a)	Jointly, if the Union and the Association mutually agree; or
(b)	Separately, if no mutual agreement anil the Association will submit a written statementof thefacts setting out the Employer's position and the Union will submit a written statement setting out the ^Union's position.
4.	AH information submitted to the Arbitrator will be in writing. No personal appearances or oral testimony will be allowed. The Arbitrator will then issue, within five (5) days, a decision based upon Cie evidence submitted.
(F)	The Union and Employer involved shall bear theexpense of their appointed Arbitrators. In the event an Arbitrator from the Rideral Mediation & Conciliation Service is selected, then the Union and Employer shall be jointly responsible for that person's expenses.
(G)	In the event Employer fails or refuses to comply with the grievance procedure set out hereinabove, the provisions of Article XVin shall not be binding upon the Union. If Union fails or refuses to compel with the grievance procedure set out herein above, then Employer shall have the right to declare this entire Agreement null and Void.
XX.
JURISDICTIONAL DISPUTES
The Pipe Line Contractors Association and the four International Unions with which National Pipe Line Agreements have been negotiated have estab
Rev. 1/2008
223
lished a Policy Committee for the purpose of hearing and considering matters of concern to the pipeline construction industry, such as jurisdictional disputes and any other matters affecting the welfare of the industry.
Whenever a jurisdictional dispute arises between Union and any other union over proper jurisdiction of work assigned by an individual Employer, no work stoppage shall occur, and the individual signatories hereto agree to abide by any decision reached by the Policy Committee.
The Policy Committee decisions are incorporated and made a part of this Agreement, and should be referred to specifically as if set out herein. The Policy Committee decisions may be obtained by contacting the Union or the Pipe Line Contractors Association.
XXI.
SPECIAL WORK
(A)	Whenever the Employer performs any of the special work described in Article I, Paragraph (I) above, except that covered by the Attachments, the special provisions set out herein shall apply and, to the extent they differ from the provisions in other parts of this Agreement, they shall supersede such provisions.
(B)	The work coming under the jurisdiction of the Union includes, regardless of the materials and mode or method used, the preparation of tbe pipe for joining, lining up of the pipe and the handling of tbe clamps, and joining of the pipe, and Employer shall respect the jurisdiction of the Union in assigning the work to be done.
TAKEUP JOBS (SALVAGE PIPE)
1.	Roughcutters will be paid $2.00 per hour above the regular helper rate.
2.	One helper will be employed for each roughcutter.
3.	Bevelers will be paid $2.00 per hour above the regular helper rate.
4.	Utility Welder or some other journeyman designated by Employer will act in the capacity of foreman. In the event tbe pipe being salvaged is also being re-laid or re-conditioned as part of the same job, and where the distance is such that tbe welder foreman is readily available, then no other welder foreman will be required.
RECONDITIONING
(A)	Over the Trench - Line In or Out of Service.
1.	Journeymen welders will be used for all welding.
2.	One helper will be hired for each welder.
3.	One journeyman other than the welders will be employed.
4.	Welder foreman.
Rev. 1/2008
224
(B)	In the Yard (Where Manual Double Jointing Is Performed)
1.	Welders may make their own stringer headstand finish welds.
2.	One helper will be employed for each weldter. Helpers will be employed to roil all pipe on the welding rack.
3.	Bevelers will be paid $2.00 per hour above the regular helper rate.
4.	One helper will be employed for every two bevelers.
5.	Roughcutters will be paid $2.00 per hour alrove the regular helper rate.
6.	One helper at a rate 70 cents per hour above the rate paid to other welder helpers on the job will be employed as attendant for the oxygen manifold and acetylene generator.
7.	Welder foreman.
8.	It is recognized that rigging up of equipment on a double joint rack that is to be used in the lining-up and welding of pipe is the work of the United Association.
NOTE: When pipe is not being double jointed in the reconditioning yard, the journeyman and helper at a rate 70 cents per hour above the mte paid to other welder helpers on the job need not be employed.
NOTE: The work coming under the jurisdiction of the Union includes, regardless of the materials and mode or method used, the preparation of the pipe for joining, lining up of the pipe and the handling of the tihmps, and joining of the pipe, and Employer shall respect the jurisdiction of the Union in assigning the work to be done.
(C)	Re-Laying Reconditioned Pipe.
1.	If certain joints, portions of joints, or infrequent sections are removed to be replaced with new or better pipe, then wlm the pipeline is relaid, Employer shall have the sole right to determine (he number and classifications of the Employees to be hired; provided that Employer shall respect tiie jurisdiction of the Union in assigning the work to be daie so that welder helpers will not be assigned to work heretofore done by graded helpers or journeymen, and graded helpers will not be assigned to work hetetofore done by journeymen.
2.	The work coming under the jurisdiction of the Union includes, regardless of the materials and mode or method used, the preparation of the pipe for joining, lining up of the pipe and the handling of the clamps, and joining of the pipe, and Employer shall respect the jurisdiction of the Union in assigning the work to be deme.
MARINE BARGE AND MARINE PUSH-JOBS
On marine barge and marine push-jobs, Employer stroll have the sole right to determine the number and classifications of the Employees to be hired; provided that Employer shall respect the jurisdiction of the Union in assigning the work to be done so that welder helpers will not be assigned to
Rev. 1/2OO8	22S
work heretofore done by graded helpers or journeymen, and graded helpers will not be assigned to work heretofore done by journeymen.
1.	The Employer will make every effort to secure safe water transportation and adequate and safe loading and unloading facilities for the men (ladder on barges, docks, lifebelts, seating for all, radar where possible).
2,	Employees will be paid riding time on the first trip from land to quarter boat, and on the last trip from quarter boat to dock of origin or back to the dock last left from.
3.	Board and room shall be furnished at no cost to the men, when required to live on quarter boats.
4.	The Employer will provide crew boats for trips to shore, except when the distance to be traveled to and from shore is excessive.
The Employer shall regulate time schedules and decide when crew boats will go to and from shore. If no work is done on a particular day, the men shall be paid for their full shifts unless they are brought to shore or given an opportunity to be brought to shore. In such event they shall be paid their regular waiting time only.
5.	The Employer will make every effort to provide daily man service and once a week laundry service. Laundry service will be paid for by the Employee.
6.	A crew room shall be made available for off-duty men, with reading material, radio and television; soft drinks and cigarettes will be made available at regular prices.
7.	Marine push-jobs will also include shoves on a main line job where ramps or racks with dollies and rollers are set up as opposed to the pipe being carried in by tractors.
8.	When the stringer bead welders' regularly assigned helpers are using a power buffer or power grinder, such helpers shall receive $2.00 pa* hour above the basic helper rate for that job. This premium applies in the "Pipe Gang" area only, and is applicable on "push” jobs in-shore and on work done from barges in-shore and off-shore.
GATHERING UNES, RIVER & BRIDGE CROSSINGS, HIGHWAY RELOCATION, CHANGE OUTS, SHORT UNES AND WORK IN CONGESTED AREAS
1.	Employer shall have the sole right to determine the number and classifications of the Employees to be hired; provided that Employer shall respect the jurisdiction of the Union in assigning the work to be done so that welder helpers will not be assigned to work heretofore done by graded helpers or journeymen, and graded helpers will not be assigned to work heretofore done by journeymen,
2.	On River and Bridge Crossings and Highway Relocation work all welders will receive premium pay when running their own beads and finishing welds.
Rev. 1/2008
226
3.	On all such work the manning shall be decided by the Employer, but it is recognized that the work coming under die jurisdiction of the Union indudes, regardless of the materials and mode armethod used, the preparation of the pipe for joining, lining up of the pipe anil the handling of the dapnps, and joining of the pipe, and Employer shall reject the jurisdiction of the Union in assigning the work to be done.
DOUBLE JOINTING IN THE HELD
Employer will respect Union jurisdiction for all double jointing in the field.
HYDROSTATIC TESTING
1.	Journeymen and/or welders and graded! helpers will be employed to assist in the lining-up, beveling and testing oflhese lines. The Employer and the Union recognize that journeymen and welders who are qualified (with necessary OQ documentation) to perform hydrostatic testing on pipe lines possess a special skill. Furthermore, the Union tad the Employer recognize that safety requirements dictate that only qualified journeymen and/or welders will be employed to perform hydrostatic testilig on pipe lines. Employer in accordance with Article V shall be the sole; judge as to the competency of any journeymen or welders assigned for hydrostatic testing. Journeymen and/or welders for hydrostatic testing wiD be dispatched Employees. The graded helper will be an Employer hire.
2.	The work coming under the jurisdiction of the Union includes, regardless oftbe materials and mode or method used, the preparation of the pipe for joining, lining up of the pipe and the handling of the clamps, and joining of the pipe, and Employer shall respect the jurisdiction of the Union in assigning the work to be done.
3.	If any night work is performed under this section by employ-
ees of any other craft, a UA. Employee will be assigned to that crew.
FABRICATION
1.	Where a fabrication crew is set up, the following formula will be used to determine the number of journeymen and graded helpers required in addition to the welders and their helpers.
Welders	Journeymen	Graded Helpers
1-3	0	0
4	1	0
5-10	1	1
11 or more	2	1
2.	If the fabrication crew is set up as part of a mainline job, and where the distance is such that the welder foreman is read3y available, then no other welder foreman will be required for the fabrication crew.
Employer may designate one welder to act as the lead welder or fabricator or tack and layout man and pay him a rate $1 jOO tibove the regular journeyman rate.
Rev. 1/2008
227
3.	In the event a welder is required to go completely inside the pipe in order to back weld on fabrication work, the Employer will pay such welder engaged in such back welding at the wage rate of $3.00 per hour above his regular rate for the job only for the days cm which such back welding is performed.
ROAD BORING, CASING AND CABLE
1.	One welder and one helper shall work on road casings where
the casing is to be welded.
2.	On other types of casing where no welding is required, one journeyman and one helper shall be employed.
3.	The welding and aligning of pipe for road casing and slick bore pipe shall be performed by a welder and helper as defined in this Agreement.
4.	The work coining under the jurisdiction of the Union includes, regardless of the materials and mode or method used, the preparation of the pipe for joining, lining up of the pipe and the handling of the clamps, and joining of the pipe, and Employer shall respect the jurisdiction of the Union in assigning the work to be done.
WATER LINES INCLUDING THE LAYING OF PIPE MADE OF MATERIAL OTHER THAN STEEL:
It is recognized that the work coming wider the jurisdiction of the Union includes, regardless of the materials and mode or method used, the preparation of the pipe for joining, lining up of the pipe and the handling of the clamps, and joining of the pipe, and Employer shall respect .the jurisdiction of die Union in assigning the work to be done. Parties will negotiate special wages and conditions for water lines on a per job basis.
XXII.
AUTOMATIC DOUBLE JOINTING RACKS
The manning requirements and other special provisions for double jointing racks are as follows:
(A)	First OD. Head Position
1.	Two Journeymen
2.	One welder
3.	One graded helper to line up seams and to help with line-up.
4.	Levers or buttons to be operated by one of the journeymen or the welder listed above.
(B)	Second OD. Head Position.
1.	One welder
2.	One graded helper
Rev. 1/2008
(C)	ID. Head Position
1.	One ID. head welder
2.	One graded helper
NOTES: (The following notes apply to all double-jointing ricks.)
1.	One spell-off welder per rack per shift wiD be employed to relieve at all head positions. The spell-off welder will receive premium pay of $1 DO per hour above the journeyman rate only when heis required to go inside the pipe.
2.	No additional helper shall be required ibr the spell-off welder.
3.	One patch welder shall perform utility and ait-outs and patch welds on rack. This welder may be the steward. In the event, however, there is more utility or cut-out work than this one patch welder calii reasonably perform during his regular shift, then another journeyman willbe employed to help with this work, or at Employer’s option the patch welder will be allowed to perform the extra work after his regular shift.
4.	ID. Head welder shall receive premium pay of $1.00 pa hour above the journeyman rate.
5.	Helpers shall roll all pipe from grinders through inspection.
6.	Employees operating the automatic grinding'Stations on double-jointing racks will receive a rate of $.75 per hour below the applicable journeyman rate.
7.	Other helpers or graded helpers shall be employed as needed, depending upon the work required.
8.	It is understood that all fabrication of double jointing racks, rigging them up in the field, tearing them down and moving will be done by die United Association personnel.
9.	Premium pay will not be paid for back welding inside the pipe on double-jointing, nor shall any additional pay be dot: to welders for tearing down the rack on die theory of "welding back."
10.	A UA. mechanic will be allowed to do maintenance and repair welding on the rack whenever required.
xxm.
PIPE LINE INDUSTRY FRINGE CONTRIBUTIONS
(A)	All Employers working under the terms of thisAgreement shall make contributions for each hour paid to Employees covered hereunder, including hours paid to journeymen for waiting time, and for passing a test, and to welder helpers for reporting time:
1.	For Journeymen and Non-Joumeymen, the iums set forth in the Exhibits and Attachments to this Agreement (and as hereinafter modified
Rev. 1/2008	220
by the Parties in accordance with this Agreement) are to be paid to the Pipe Line Industry Benefit Fund. The Agreement and Declaration of Trust of the Pipe Line Industry Benefit Fund is incorporated and made a part of this Agreement by reference thereto.
2.	For Journeymen and Non-Journeymen, the sums set forth in the Exhibits and Attachments to this Agreement (and as hereinafter modified by the Parties in accordance with this Agreement) are to be paid to the Pipe Line Industry Pension Fund (“PIPF”). The Agreement and Declaration of Trust of the Pipe Line Industry Pension Fund is incorporated and made part of this Agreement by reference thereto.
3.	For all Employees, the sum of $.50 per hour is to be paid to the Pipe Line Industry Advancement Fund (“PLIAF"). The $.50 contribution to the PLIAF will not be applicable on Special Agreement work. Contributions to the Pipe Line industry Advancement Fund are irrevocable; however, this contribution is elective for any Employer who is not a member of the Pipe Line Contractors Association. The Pipe Line Industry Advancement Fund is administered by the Pipe Line Contractors Association and the rules and regulations of this Fund are incorporated and made a part of this Agreement by reference thereto.
4.	For all Employees, the sums set forth in the Exhibits and Attachments to this Agreement (and as hereinafter modified by the Parties in accordance with this Agreement) are .to be paid to the United Association International Training Fund (“ITF”). TheAgreement and Declaration of Trust of the United Association International Training Fupd is incorporated and made a part of this Agreement by reference thereto?
5.	For all Employees, the sums set forth in Exhibits and Attachments to this Agreement (and as hereinafter modified by the Parties in accordance with this Agreement) are to be paid to the United Association Local 798 Training Fund. The Agreement and Declaration of Trust of the United Association Local 798 Training Center is incorporated and made a part of this Agreement by reference thereto.
(B)	For all Employees, Employer shall deduct and remit when authorized by Employee, amounts to be remitted to the Employee’s Home Local Union 401(k) Plan. Amounts remitted for the 401(k) plan are deferrals (or deductions) from wages only. There are no matching employer contributions, To initiate such deferrals, the Employee must provide the Employer with a fiilly executed wage deferral agreement that is consistent with the requirements of the Home Local Union’s Plan. The Employee and Employer are bound by the terms of the Home Local Union’s Flan and the rules for eligibility and benefits set forth in such Plan. The Agreement and Declaration of Trost of each Home Local Union’s 401 (k) Plan to which the Employer remits authorized wage deferrals pursuant to a fiilly executed wage defenal agreement is incorporated and made a part of this Agreement by reference thereto.
(C)	The submitting of contributions/deductions provided for in this Article shall be governed by the provisions of Article XXIV.
Rev. 1/2008
230
(D)	Notwithstanding the specific contribution ratestet forth in this Agreement (including the Exhibits and Attachments thereto) ,ibe Parties agree that contributions to the fringe benefit funds shall increase periodically in accordance with the terms set forth in Article XI(A) and Attachment 1, and such increased rates shall be binding on the Parties hereto.
XXIV.
SUBMITTING REPORTS AND CONTRIBUTIONS, LATE FILING CHARGES AND DELINQUENCIES
(A)	All contributions due and owing to the Pipe Line'lndustry Benefit Fund, the Pipe Line Industry Pension Fund, the Local 798,Training Center, and any 401(k) Fund designated in accordance with Article J!XIII(B), above, shall be deemed and are considered to be the assets of each such trust fund.
(B)	Upon the written request of any Employee who it a member of a local union having jurisdiction of work covered by this [ Agreement, the Director of the Benefit and Pension Funds provided for iriithis Agreement shall immediately transfer to the fringe funds established by; the Employee's local union all contributions made on his behalf to such Funds by Employers working under this Agreement, subject to approval by the Beard of Trustees.
(C)	Changes in the amounts to be contributed to earth Fund may be made by agreement between the Pipe Line Contractors Association and the Union.
(D)	The Pipe Line Industry Benefit Fund, the Pipt Line Industry Pension Fund, and the U A. Local 798 Training Center shall be administered by their respective Board of Trustees, ^pointed in accordance with the applicable Trust Agreements.
(E)	There have heretofore been prepared and ; executed Trust Agreements for the Benefit Fund, Pension Fund, and Trainihg Center. The Employers have also agreed to adopt the Trust Agreement for any Local Union 401(k) Fund designated by an Employee in accordance with Article XXI11(B) above. The Employers consent to the appointment and retention of the current and future governing boards of trustees of eadh Trust Fund to which contributions are to be made under this Agreement. Such Trust Agreements set out the type of health and welfare, pension, tniming and other benefits which are provided by the Funds and the manner and* procedure to be followed in qualifying for such benefits. The Trustees shall hive the authority to determine the amount of each of such benefits which can be provided by the resources of the Funds and the time when such benefit paymetits may begin.
(F)	Each Employer wotting under this Agreement agtees to be bound by the terms and provisions of the Trust Agreements referred-to hereinabove, and to promptly pay all contributions to the office of the Pipe Line Industry Benefit. Fund upon forms supplied by that office, and to atty Local Union 401(k) Fund designated by an Employee in accordance withItaticle XXHI(B) above.	. .
(G)	If, in the opinion of the Board of Trustees of toiy of the above named Funds, any individual Employer has had a record of delinquent contri
Rev. 1/2008
231-
bations to such an extent that it is necessary for the protection of the beneficiaries of such Funds that some security for the contributions be obtained, said. Board of Trustees is authorized to require such individual Employer to deposit the sum of $300 per Employee in an escrow account designated by the Director of the Funds. Upon completion of the job, any amounts in excess of the contributions due shall be refunded to the individual Employer.
(H)	No Employer working under the terms of this Agreement shall be obligated or required to make any other contributions or payments in and to any other Trust Fund administered for the purpose of any of the provisions authorized pursuant to the National Labor Relations Act, as amended, when engaged in work covered by the toms of this Agreement.
(I)	When a man is taken from any crew to be used temporarily as a welder helper, and such man's wage rate is higher than the welder helper wage rate, he shall be paid the higher wage rate; and if Employer is required to pay into other fringe funds for that man, Employer will not be required to make any contributions to the fringe funds called forin the National Pipe Line Agreement; provided, that contributions to the fringe funds called for by this National Pipe Line Agreement shall be required if the temporary Weider helper has worked more than eight hours in that capacity. Nevertheless, if Employer has called upon Union to supply a permanent welder helper, and Union has failed to do so, Employer shall not be required to make such contributions for hours worked by the temporary welder helper.
(J)	Each Employer shall report and pay regularly, and no less frequently titan its regular payroll period, all contributions due.
(K)	All contributions become delinquent after thirty (30) days from the end of the reporting period, and a late report charge of up to 15% of the amount due but not less than $100.00 shall be paid into the Funds by said delinquent Employer, provided, furtber.that if it becomes necessary in the opinion of the Board of Trustees to refer such delinquency to an attorney for collection, said Employer agrees to pay all court costs and all attorneys' fees in addition to the late report charge.
(L)	For the purpose of venue and jurisdiction, each individual Employer hereby designates and appoints the Cleric of the United States District Court for the Northern District of Oklahoma as agent for the service ofprocess, and the Funds' Director shall promptly furnish all delinquent Employers, by certified mail, a copy of all pleadings and notices of suit.
(M)	The arbitration pro visions in Article XIX of this Agreement shall not be applicable to the rights and liabilities created by this Article.
(N)	Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, the Union shall be authorized to withhold labor and refuse Employee referrals to any Employer that becomes more than 60 days delinquent in its fringe benefit contributions to any trust fund. No Employee shall be terminated or retaliated against by any Employer for participating in any work stoppage or cessation initiated by the Union pursuant to this subsection. The exercise of this right
Rev. 1/2008
282
by the Union shall not impair the lights of the Union or Thudttes of the Funds to pursue collection of delinquent contributions through litigiition or administrative collection on any surety bond.
XXV.
; SUBSTANCE ABUSE POLICY
A Substance Abuse Policy has been negotiated by the Pipe Line Contractors Association and the United Association and is attached hereto and made a part of this Agreement as Attachment 5.
XXVI.
ALCOHOL MISUSE PREVENTION POLWY
An Alcohol Misuse Prevention Policy has been negotiated by the Pipe Line Contractors Association and the United Association and is made part of the Agreement as Attachment 6.
XXVII.
HISTORIC AL PRECEDENT
Since the inception of the National Pipe Line Agreements, which cover all mainline cross-country pipe line construction, only four: (4) unions have been recognized, and all work relating to such pipe line construction has been performed by these four (4) unions- They are; Tbe International Brotherhood of Teamsters, Chauffeurs, Warehousemen and Helpers of America,The United Association of Journeymen and Apprentices of the Plumbttt j and Pipefitting Industry of the United States and Canada, The Intemaional Union of Operating Engineers, and Tbe Laborers International Union o! North America. Tbe recognition of only these four (4) unions on such work is hereby reaffirmed.
XXVU1.
INTERPRETATIONS
Interpretations to this Agreement have been agreed upon between the Pipe Line Contractors Association and the United Association and are attached hereto and made a part of this Agreement as Attachment 7.
XXIX.
INDIAN PREFERENCE IN EMPLOYMENT
The hiring procedures contained in this Agreement shaB not apply in the "territorial jurisdiction" of any Indian Nation which has adopted an Indian Preference in Employment Law, provided that those persons covered by the law and seeking covered employment under this Agreement possets the "necessary qualifications" which are essential to tbe performance of that specific job.
XXX.
EFFECTIVE DATE, TERMINATION AND RENEWAL
(A)	This Agreement shall become effective, when signed by the parties hereto and shall remain in full force and effect until its termination as provided herein below.
Rev. 1/2008
233
(B)	The provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect from November 1, 2005 (AS AMENDED ON JULY 19, 2007) until December 31,2010 and thereafter from year to year unless terminated at the option of either party after sixty (60) days’ notice in writing to the other.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this. Agreement this 27th day of January, 2006, and thereafter amended it as of July 19,2007.
THE UNITED ASSOCIATION OF JOURNEYMEN AND APPRENTICES OF THE PLUMBING AND PIPEFHTING
INDUSTRY OF THE UNITED STATES
AND CANADA ___________________________________
By: William P, Hite
General President
By: Phillip B. Stephenson Department of Pipeline and Gas Distribution
By: W. A. Leone President
Managing Director and General Counsel
Rev. 1/2008
284
EXHIBIT "A"
	fOalssfeBice.w >■ ’S'wftfsasssSth & WMI^ldMMK viABtniMvas
Alabama	Sfiagtt i $42.00
Alaska	—
Arizona	$42.76
Arkansas	$42jOO ;
California	$42.76 ;
Colorado	$42jOO"‘
Connecticut	$42.76
Delaware	$4227
DC.	$4227
Florida	$42.00
Georgia	$42.00
Idaho	$42.00 :
Illinois	$4227
Indiana	$4227
Iowa	$4227
Kansas	$42.00
Kentucky	$4227
Louisiana	$42.00 ,
Maine	$4227 :
Maryland	$4227 ;
Massachusetts	$42.76 i
Michigan	$4227
Minnesota	$4227 ’
Mississippi	$42.00
Missouri	$4227 I
Montana	$42.00 .
Nebraska	$42110 <
Nevada	$42.76
New Hampshire	$4227
New Jersey	$42.76 '
New Mexico	$42.00 :
New York	$42.27 ,
North Carolina	$42.00
North Dakota	$42.00
Ohio	$4227
Oklahoma	$42.00
Oregon	$4227
Pennsylvania	$4227
Rhode Island	$42.76
Rev. 1/2008
238
EXHIBIT "A"
	
	1/1/08 to 12/31/08
	Wages
South Carolina	$42.00
South Dakota	$42.00
Tennessee	$42.00
Texas	$42.00
Utah	$42.00
Vermont	$4227
Virginia	$4227
Washin eton	$4227
West Virginia	$4227
Wisconsin	$4227
Wyoming	$42j00
glfWSSSW	
	1/1/08 to 12/31/08*
	Fringes
Pipeline Industry Benefit Fund	$4 DO
Pipeline Industry Pension Fund	J12.90
Pipeline Industry Advancement Fund	$50
Local 798 Training Fund	$50
International Training Fund	$.10
TOTAL	$18.00
* Per agreement of the Parties, for the period from January 1 through December 31,2008, all PIBF contributions subject to reciprocation shall be $7.90, and all PIPF contributions subject to reciprocation shall be $900.
	n ■ 833
	1/1/08 to 12/31/08
	Per Diem
Welder Journeymen	$10230
Non-Welder Journeymen	$4250
Rev. 1/2008
286
EXHIBIT ”B
	
	1/1/08 to 12/33/08
	
Alabama	$16.80
Alaska	
Arizona	$20.46 >
Arkansas	$17.62 ;
* California:	
Zone 1	$2730 ■
Zone 2A	$30.50
Zone2B	$29.18
Zone 3	$28.03
Colorado	$20:00
Connecticut	$24.08
Delaware	$16.68
D.C.	$1934
Florida	$18.06
Georgia	$1835
1 Idaho:	
Zone 1	$25.00
Zone 2	$2353
I Illinois:	
Zone 1	$30.03 :
Zone 2	$25.76 :
Zone 3	$23.61 :
$ Indiana	
Zone 1	$30.03
Zone 2	$20.80
1 Iowa	
Zone 1	$22.45
Zone 2	$17.64
I Kansas	
Zone 1	$21.43 .
Zone 2	$16.68
Zone 3	$16.68
Zone 4	$20.18
Kentucky	$18.19
Louisiana	$19.92
Maine	$16.88 :
* Maryland	
Zone 1	$18.73
Zone 2	$21.29 .
Rev. 1/2008
237
i-ulfct,
EXHIBIT "B"
	
	1/14* tn 12/314*
Massachusetts	$25.47
Michigan	$23.48
> Minnesota	
Zone 1	$2230
Zone 2	$1636
Mississippi	$18.00
* Missouri	
Zone 1	$26.01
Zone 2	$2329
Zone 3	$22.15
Zone 4	$20.63
Zone 5	$24.63
Zone 6	$23.15
Montana	$1934
Nebraska	$1756
I Nevada	
Zone 1	$24.81
Zone 2	$22.89
New Hampshire	$18.89
New Jersey	$25.67
New Mexico	$1834
» NewYork	
Zone 1	$2955
Zone1A	$29.63
Zone 2	$2730
Zone 3	$2823
Zone 4	$2847
Zone 5	$23.65
Zone 6	$2329
Zone 7	$25.01
Zone 7 A	$2227
Zone7B	$22.99
Zone7C	$2326
Zone7D	$2342
Zone7E	$2430
Zone7F	$22.69
Zone7G	$25.86
Zone 8A	$2424
Zone 8B	$24.40
Zone 9	$25.82
Zone 10	$23.98
Zone 11	$20.86
Zone 12	$2230
_ . .Zane 13				$24.99		
Rev. 1/2008	'238
EXHIBIT "B" (coat’d)
	if MllBlIm
	1/1/08 to 12/3 WW
North Carolina	$18.46
North Dakota	$16.68
Ohio	$24.50 ;
AHahnnut	$18.40
Oregon	$23.95 :
Pennsylvania	
Zone 1	$2335
Zone 2	$21.40
Zone 3	$21.91
Rhode Island	$2523
South Carolina	$18.46
South Dakota	$17.73
Tennessee	$1831
Texas	$18.45
Utah	$2035
Vermont	$19.62
Vinpnia	$18.92
Washington	$23.65
West Virginia	$21.16 ;
Wisconsin	$21.43
Wyoming	$20.26 i
See pages 240 - 247 for description of Zones.
		mil
	1/1/08 to 12/3LB8	
Pipeline Industry Benefit Fund	$4Zb	
Pipeline Industry Pension Fund	$74	
Pipeline Industry Advancement Fund	$3	
Local 798 Training Fund	$3	1
International Training Fund	$.U	J
TOTAL	«£«		
* Per agreement of the Parties, for the period from January 1 through December 31,2008, all PIBF contributions subject to redplocation shall be $5.90, and all PIPF contributions subject to reciprocation stall be $5.68.
Rev. 1/2008
288
EXHIBIT "B'
RE: UNITED ASSOCIATION WELDER HELPER WAGE RATES AND FRINGES
ZONES BY COUNTIES FOR WELDER HELPERS
CATTFORNTA
7nne 1:
Imperial	Los Angeles	Riverside	Santa Barbara
Inyo	Mono	San Bernardino	Ventura
Kern	Orange	San Luis Obispo	
7ime, 2A:			
Alameda	Marin	San Mateo	
Contra Costa	San Francisco	Santa Clara	
s Zone 2R:			
Alpine	Kings	Nevada	Solano
Amador	Lake	Placer	Sonoma
Butte	Lassen	Humas	Stanislaus
Calaveras	Madera	Sacramento	Sutter
Colusa	Mariposa	San Benito	Tehama
Del Norte	Mendocino	San Joaquin	Trinity
El Dorado	Merced	Santa Cruz	Tulare
Fresno	Modoc	Shasta	TUolumne.
Glenn	Monterey	Sierra	Yolo
Humboldt	Napa	Siskiyou	Yuba
Zone 3:			
San Diego County Only			
IDAHO			
Zone 1:			
Beneway	Clearwater	Latah	Shoshone
Bonner	Idaho*	Lewis	
Boundary	Kootenai	Nez Perce	
*that part of Idaho County North of Parallel 46 in the State of Idaho			
Zone 2:
Rest of State
RW 1/2008
240
ILLINOIS
Zone 1:				
In Illinois:				
Boone	Grundy	Lake	Will	1
Cook	Kane	LaSalle	Winnebago	
DeKalb	Kankakee	Livingston		
DuPage	Kendall	McHenry		
Zone 2:				
Adams	Dewitt	Knox	Morgan	Scott
Brown	Douglas	Lee	Moultrie	Shelby
Bureau	Edgar	Logan	Ogle	Stark
Camdl	Ford	Macon	Peoria	Stephenson
Cass	Fulton	Marshall	Piatt	Tazewell
Champaign	Hancock	Mason	Pike	Vermillion
Christian	Henderson	McClean	Putnam	Warren
Clark	Henry	McDonough	Rock Island Whiteside	
Cole	Iroquois .	Menard	Sangamon	Woodford
Cumberland Jo Davies		Mercer	Schuyler	
Zone 3:				
Rest of State				
INDIANA				
Zone 1:				
Jasper	Lake	LaPorte	Newton	Porter
Zone 2:				
Rest of State				
IOWA				
Zone 1:				
Scott				
Zone 2:				
Rest of State				
Rev. 1/2008
241
I
KANSAS
Zone 1:
Johnson	Wyandotte
Zone 2:
Anderson	Geary	Marshall	Reno
Chase	Jackson	McPherson	Republic
Clay	Jefferson	Miami	Riley
Cloud	Leavenworth	Morris	Saline
Coffey	Linn	Osage	Shawnee
Dickinson	Lyon	Ottawa	Wahaunsee
Douglas	Marion	Pottawatomie	Washington
Franklin			
Zone 3:			
Allen	Cherokee	Harper	Neosho
Atchison	Cowley	Harvey	Sedgwick
Bourbon	Crawford	Kingman	Summer
Brown	Doniphan	Labette	Wilson
Butler	Elk	Montgomery	Woodson
Chatauqua	Greenwood	Nemaha	
Zone 4:			
Rest of State			
MARYLAND			
Zone 1:			
Calvert	Kent	Queen Annes	Talbot
Caroline	Montgomery	Somerset	Winconico
Charles	Prince Georges	St. Marys	Worchester
Dorchester			
Zone 2:
Rest of State
Rev. 1/2008
242
MINNESOTA
Zone 1:
Anoka	Hennepin	Scott	Washington
Carlton	Isanti	Sherburne	Wright
Carver	Itasca	St. Louis (North	
Chisago	Lake	ofTJSN)	
Cook	Pine	St. Louis (South	
Dakota	Ramsey	ofTJ5N)	
Zone?:			
Rest of State			
MISSOURI			
Zone 1:			
St. Louis County			
Zone 2:			
Clay	Jackson	Platte	Itay
Zone 3:			
Buchanan	Cass	Lafayette	
Zone 4:			
Andrew	Dade	Holt	Ozark
Atchison	Dallas	Jasper	[•trttis
Barry	Daviess	Johnson	folk
Barton	DeKalb	Laclede	Saline
Bates	Douglas	Lawrence	(hone
Benton	Gentry	Livingston	St.Clair
Caldwell	Greene	McDonald	'Ihney
Camden	Grundy	Mercer	Vernon
Carroll	Harrison	Morgan	Webster
Cedar	Henry	Newton	Worth
Christian	Hickory	Nodaway	Wright
Clinton			
Zone St			
Franklin	Jefferson	St. Charles	
Rev. 1/2008
Zone 6:
Adair	Gasconade	Monroe	Schuyler
Audrian	Howard	Montgomery	Scott .
Bollinger	Howell	New Madrid	Scotland
Boone	Iron	Oregon	Shannon
Butler	Knox	Osage	Shelby
Callaway	Lewis	Pemiscot	St. Francis
Cape Girardeau	Lincoln	Perry	Ste. Genevieve
Carter	Linn	Phelps	Stoddard
Charliton	Macon	Pike	Sullivan
Clark	Madison	Pulaski	Texas
Cole	Maries	Putnam	Warren
Cooper	Marian	Ralls	Washington
Crawford	Miller	Randolph	Wayne
Dent	Mississippi	Reynolds	
Dunklin	Moniteau	Ripley	
NEVADA			
Zone 1:			
Clark	Esmeralda	Lincoln	Nye
Zone 2:			
Rest of State			
NEW YORK			
Zrwie 1:			
Bronx	New York	Queens	Richmond
Kings			
Zone 1A:			
Nassau	Suffolk		
Zone 2:			
Westchester	Putnam		
Zone 3:			
Rockland
Rev. 1Z2008
844
Zone 4:
Columbia (Townships of Ancram, Claverack, Clermom, Copake, Galatin, Germantown, Greenport, Hillside, Hudson, Lr rings ton, Philmont and Taconic)
Dutchess'
Zone 5:
Delaware	Orange	Sullivan Ulster
Green	Otsego
Zone 6:
Erie
Zone?:
Broome, Tioga (Townships of Richford, Berkshire, Newark Valley, Oswego, Tioga, Barton and Nichols)
Chenango (Townships of Columbus, Linklaen, Otselic, Smyrna, Pitcher, Pharsalis, Plymouth, North Norwich, German, McDonnugh, Preston, Norwich, Smithville, Oxford, Guilford, Greene, Conventry, Bainbridge and Afton)
Delaware (Townships of Sidney, Masonville, Walton, Tbmpkins, Deposit, Hancock and Colchester)
Zone 7A:
Herkimer, Oneida (Townships of Sangerfield, West Winfield, Bridgewater, Marshall, Paris, New Hartford, Whitestown, Marcy, Trenton, Deerfield, Forestport, Kirkland and Remsen)
Montgomery (Townships of St, Johnsville, Minden, Canajoharie, Palatine and Root)
Fulton (Townships of Stratford, Oppenheim, Caroga add Ephrata)
Madison, Oneida (Townships of Florence, Camden, Amisville, Lee, Ava, Boonville, Western Steuben, Vienna, Rome, Floyd, Wettmoreland, Vernon, August and Verona)
Zone 7B:
Onondaga
Rev. 1/2008
245

Zone 7C:
Clinton	Essex	Warren
Zone 7D:
Oswego
ToneTE:
Franklin	Jefferson	Lewis	St. Lawrence
Zone 7F:
Cortland, Tompkins, Tioga (Townships of Spencer and Candor)
Schuyler (Townships of Catherine)
7twie 7G:
Chenango (Townships of Shebume, Columbus and New Berlin)
Delaware (Townships of Franklin, Hamden, Stamford, Delhi, Kortright, Harpersfield, Meredith and Davenport)
Zone SA:
Albany (Town Fulton OfCalonie) Green Colombia	(Catskill Township)	Montgomery Schenectady Rennselaer	Schoharie (See 8B)	Washington Saratoga
ZoneSB:
Albany (except Town of Colonie)
Columbia (Townships of Stuyvesant, Stockport, Kunderhook, New
Lebanon, Canaan, Ghent, Chatham and Austerlitz)
Green (except Catskill Township)
■ Rennselaer (Townships of North Greenbush, East Greenbush, Scholack, Nassau, Stephentown and Town of Rennselaer)
Zone 9:
Niagara
Rev. 1/2008
246
Zone 10:
Genesee	Monroe Orleans Wyoming
Livingston
Zone 11:
Allegany Chataugua (Townships of French Cheek, Clymer, Cattaraugus Chautaugua, Gerry, Ellington, Ellery and Stockton)
Zone 12:
Chemung Schuyler (except Township of Stueben Catherine)
Zone 13:
Cayuga	Ontario	Seneca-	Wayne Yates
PENNSYLVANIA			
Zone-1:			
Bucks ’	Delaware	Philadelphia	
Chester	Montgomery		
Zone 2:			
Allegheny	Clarion	Franklin	i Mercer
Armstrong	Clearfield	Fulton	Mifflin
Beaver	Clinton	Greene	Potter
Bedford	Crawford	Huntingdon	Somerset
Blair	Elk	Indiana	Venango
Butler	Erie	Jefferson	Warren
Cambria	Fayette	Lawrence	Washington
Cameron	Forest	McKean	Westmoreland
Centre			
Zone 3:			
Adams	Lackawanna	Montour	Sullivan
Berks	Lancaster	Northampton	Susquehanna
Bradford	Lebanon	Northumberland	Tioga
Carbon	Lehigh	Perry	Union
Columbia	Luzerne	Pike	Wayne
Cumberland	Lycoming	Schuykill	Wyoming
Dauphin	Monroe	Snyder	York
Juniata			
Rev. 1/2008
ATTACHMENT!
SPECIAL AGREEMENT FOR SMALL DIAMETER PIPE
This Special Agreement to the National Pipe Line Agreement sets forth the terms and conditions under which Small Diameter Pipe Work, as defined in Article I below, shall be performed. Except as otherwise specifically set forth below, all other terms and conditions of the National Pipe Line Agreement shall apply in full to such work:
I.
COVERAGE
The wage rates, fringes and conditions set out in this Special Agreement will apply for all pipeline work, 16” and under of any length, performed in the Continental United States with the exception of such work performed in California, Illinois, Indiana (Jasper, Lake, La Port, Newton, and Porter Counties only), New Jersey, Oregon, Pennsylvania (Bucks, Chester, Delaware, Montgomery, Philadelphia Counties only), Washington, and Wisconsin. Work performed in these exempted states and counties shall be performed under the terms of the National Pipe Line Agreement.
■.	■ t
n.
WAGE RATES, FRINGE BENEFITS AND PER DIEM
(A) Wage rates, fringe benefits and per diem for Alabama, Arizona, Arkansas, Colorado, Florida, Georgia, Kansas, Louisiana,' Mississippi, Nevada, New Mexico, Oklahoma, South Carolina, Texas, Utah and Wyoming for Journeymen and Helpers, respectively, shall be as follows for the period from January 1 through December 31,2008.
	JOURNEYMEN	HELPERS
Wages	$2949	$1221 ($1546 for Laborers’ Comparison)
Fringe Benefits	$849	$632
PIBF	$4.00	$400
PIPF	$459	$202
L798TF	$20	$20
ITF	$.10	$.10
		
Per Diem: Welder Non-Welder	$9250 $3250	$3250
For the period from January 1 through December 31,2008, all PIBF contributions subject to reciprocation shall be $430 for Journeymen and Helpers, and all PIPE contributions subject to reciprocation shall be $429 for Journeymen and $1.72 for Helpers. Reciprocation adjustments will be made by the Fund Office. Wage, per diem and fringe benefit rates for periods prior to January 1, 2008 are available upon request from the UA or the PLCA.
Rev. 1/2008
248
B) Wage rates, fringe benefits, and per diem for atl other States for Journeymen and Helpers, respectively, shall be as follows for the period from January 1 through December 31,2008.	' ___________
	JOURNEYMEN	HELPERS
Wages	$2937	$12.75 C316JD0 Laborers’ J Comparison)
Fringe Benefits	$9 JO	$632
PIBF	$4.00	$400
PIPF	$5.60	i $202
L798TF	$20	$20
ITF	$.10	$.10
		
Per Diem: Welder Non-Welder	$923Q $3230	$3230 , Im
For the period from January 1 through December 31,2008, all FIBF contributions subject to reciprocation shall be $430 for Journeymen tind Helpers, and all PIPF contributions subject to reciprocation shall be $5 30 for Journeymen and $1.72 for helpers. Reciprocation adjustments will be made by the Fund Office. Wage, per diem and fringe benefit rates for periods prior to January 1, 2008 are available upon request from the UA or the PLCA..
(O 1. Effective January 1, 2007, the total wagn, per diem, and fringe benefits package for Journeymen and Helpers was iriitreased by 43%, and such increases were allocated by the Union.
2.	As of July 19,2007, the per diem for all WeJder Journeymen shall be increased by $30.00/day. Such payment shall be made retroactive to die first day of the payroll period immediately preceding' jiily 19,2007, so long as the Employee has not yet received bis pay for sudi payroll period. Hus increase is reflected in the rates set forth in (A) and above.
3.	Effective January 1,2008:
(a)	the total wage and fringe benefits package shall be increased for all Journeymen and Helpers by 43%;
(b)	the per diem shall be increased for atti Journeymen and Helpers by 43% (except that the' increase for Welder Journeymen shall be based on $3230/day);
(c)	the per diem for all Welder Journeymen shall be further increased by $30j00/day; and
(d)	the Union will allocate $34 of the January 1, 2008 increase for Journeymen and $35 of the January 1,2008 increase for Helpers
Rev. 1/2008
248
to the PIPF. The Union will decide the allocation of the balance of the increase.
This increase is reflected in the rates set forth in (A) and (B), above.
4.	Effective January 1,2009:
(a)	the total wage, per diem and fringe benefits package shall be increased for all Journeymen and Helpers by 5% (except that the per diem increase for the Welder Journeymen shall be based cm $32 JO); and
(b)	based upon the recommendation of the Pile's Trustees, the Union will allocate a minimum of $.64 of the January 1,2009 increase for Journeymen and a minimum of $35 of the January 1, 2009 increase for Helpers to the PIPF. The Union will decide the allocation of the balance of the increase.
A modified wage, fringe benefit and per diem schedule will be distributed after the January 1,2009 increase is allocated. .
, ,	■	■ p ' .	1 I	'
5.	Effective January 1,2010:
(a)	the total wage, per diemand fringe benefits package for all Journeymen and Helpers shall be increased by 7% (except that the per diem increase for the Welder Journeymen shall be based on $3230); and
(b)	the Union will decide' the allocation of the increase.
A modified wage, fringe benefit and per diem schedule will be distributed after the January 1,2010 increase is allocated.
(D)	There will be no Graded Welder Helpers other than the Graded Welder Helper on hydrostatic testing, clampmen and the Graded Welder Helper using a power buffer or power grinder immediately behind the stringer bead and/or hot pass welders when the pipe gang is set up on a production basis. Such Graded Helpers will receive $.70 per hour above the basic welder helper rate. The Graded Helper using a power buffer or grinder immediately behind the Stringer bead and/or hot pass welders under this section will receive $2j00 per hour above the basic Welder Helper rate.
(E)	The Welder Helper will receive the basic hourly rate listed hereinabove, or the Laborer's basic hourly rate less $325 for per diem adjustment for the area in which the job is located, whichever is greater. Fringes are not involved in the comparison.
(F)	Per diem will be paid for number of days in the work week set out on the pre-job form.
Rev. 1/3008

OTHER CONDITIONS
(A)	Assembly Pointes) will not be established more than twenty (20) miles distance from living accommodations. This distance be increased beyond the twenty (20) mites when circumstances warrant as agreed to by the principal parties. The establishing of Assembly Point(s) will not affect the location of the warehouse.
(B)	Once a crew is hired the Employer may move tta crew from job to job without change, regardless of location of job.
(C)	The Employer will have the right to hire five (5) of the first six (6) U.A. Employees (of each class - Joumeymen/Welders and Helpers). After the sixth (6th) Employee is hired, hiring will be in accordance wiih the hiring formula under the National Pipe Line Agreement so that 5O/5C hire will begin after the sixth (6th) hire.
(D)	All Employees will work under a composite crew concept as determined by the Employer. The parties understand that tbe nathe of this work requires working in a cooperative effort, making it sometimes difficult to adhere to strict guidelines. Thus, the Employer shall make every reasonable effort to man specific tasks according to the jurisdiction of the Union and shall maintain a fair and balanced craft ratio in the overall manning of the job.
(E)	The Employer shall have the sole right to determine the number and classifications of tbe employees to be hired provided such assignments are not inconsistent with the provisions of this Special Agreement or the National Pipe Line Agreement.
Rev. 1/2008
251
ATTACHMENT!
SPECIAL AGREEMENT FOR STATION WORK
This Special Agreement to the National Pipe Line Agreement sets forth the terms and conditions under which Station Work, as defined in Article I below, shall be performed. Except as otherwise specifically set forth below, all other terms and conditions of the National Pipe Line Agreement shall apply in full to such work.
I.
COVERAGE
This Special Agreement shall apply to all work relating to the construction, fabrication, installation, maintenance, reconditioning and/or repair of all pipeline stations, including without limitation, meter stations, meter sets, compressor stations, pumping stations, and reducing stations, performed by the Employer within the United States except for the states of Michigan (local Building Trades Agreement applies) and Pennsylvania (local Building Trades, Agreement applies in Bucks, Chester, Delaware, Montgomery and Philadelphia Counties). Building Trade wages, and fringes will apply when they exceed the Station Agreement for all other States.
n.
CLASSIFICATIONS
The classifications of employees which the Employer may employ on work performed under this Agreement, and the general definition of the duties of such classifications, are as follows:
(A)	“Journeyman” shall mean a person seeking employment as a welder or journeyman pipefitter.
(B)	“Helper/Apprentice” shall mean a person seeking employment as a welder helper or otherwise employed to assist in the performance of all work covered by this Agreement.
m.
HIRING PROCEDURE
(A)	It is agreed that the Employer may man the original crew at the start of any job without restriction.
(B)	Once the original crew has been established, the Employer shall have the right to keep all or part of the original crew on all work covered by this Agreement.
Rev. 1/2008
2S2
IV.
WAGES AND FRINGE BENEFITS
(A)	Wages and Fringe Benefits will be the saine as the Special Agreement for Small Diameter Pipe (16” and under) (except that the contribution fo the Local 798 Training Fund shall be $25 per hour) on? Building Trade wages and fringes whichever are greater.
(B)	During emergencies, any employee of the Entployer may be assigned to any work provided; however, no employee’s hotidy rate shall be lowered under this provision. Emergencies shall be definedas an imminent threat to life or property.
(Q All overtime will be paid at one and one-half tines the straight-time rate, except for work performed on the following holiday which will be paid at double the straight-time rate: New Year’s Day, Memorial Day, July Fourth, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day and Christmas Day. If any of the above holidays falls on a Sunday, the Monday following shall be considered a holiday.
(D)	The Employer shall have the right to select all foremen. The foremen shall be paid a minimum of an additional $130 per hour above his regular wage rate.
(E)	The following conditions for Stewards under thisAgreement shall apply:
1.	Wage Rates — The Steward shall he pnidtl 00 ppr hour above the basic Welder or Joumeyperson rate.
2.	Hours — The Steward shall he paid for the inimber of hours for which the job is set up for the number of hours worked; The steward’s hours will not attach to any other employee on the job. The Steward will be a working steward.
V.
WORKING RULES
(A)	The job starts at the jobsite and shall end at quitting time at the jobsite; however, the lunch period shall be excluded. The work week and work day shall be established at the pre-job conference.
(B)	Journeymen shall he paid waiting time for any days lost during the normal scheduled work week as follows:
1.	If the jurisdiction of the work is awarded to a UA. Pipeline Local Union the waiting time provisions of the National Pipe Line Agreement will apply; or
Rev. IZ2008
253
2,	If the jurisdiction of the work is awarded to a Building Trades Local Union then the waiting time provisions (if any) of the Local Building Trades Agreement will apply.
(C)	Travel Pay for Journeymen and Helpers/Apprentices shall apply as follows:
1.	If the jurisdiction of the work is awarded to a U A. Pipeline Local Union the travel expense provision of the National Pipe Line Agreement will apply; or
2.	If the jurisdiction of the work is awarded to a Building Trades Local Union then the travel expense provisions (if any) of the Local Building Trades Agreement will apply,
(D)	Reporting time for Journeymen and Helpers/Apprentices will be applicable as follows:
1.	If the jurisdiction of the work is awarded to a; U A. Pipeline Local Union the reporting time provisions of the National Pipe Line Agreement will apply; or
2.	If the jurisdiction of the work is awarded to a Building Trades Local Union then the repotting time provisions (if any) of the Local Building Trades Agreement will apply. > - - .
(E)	The employees needed to carry out the instrumentation and threading piping will be hired at the discretion of Employer.
(F)	Rig pay to be paid on the same basis as the National Pipe Une Agreement.
Rev. 1/3008
254
ATTACHMENTS
SPECIAL AGREEMENT FOB M AtNTFNANC^WORK
This Special Agreement to the National Pipe Line Agreement sets forth the terms and conditions under which Maintenance Work, as defined in Article I below, shall be performed. Except as otherwise specifically set forth below, all other terms and conditions of the National Pipe Line Agreement shall apply in foil to such work:
I.
COVERAGE
(A)	This Special Agreement shall only be effective when the International Brotherhood of Teamsters (“Teamsters”), tbe International Union of Operating Engineers (“Operators”), and the Labours International Union of North America (“Laborers”) have each agreed to riiter into a main* tenance agreement similar to this Special Agreement for Maintenance Work.
(B)	The wage rates, fringes and other conditions set d&t in this Special Agreement will apply to the work described in Article I, Sectitin C, below, per-formed in the Continental United States with the exception 6i-such work performed in California, Illinois, Indiana (Jasper, Lake, La Polis, Newton, and Porter Counties only), New Jersey, Oregon, Pennsylvania ijBucks, Chester, Delaware, Montgomery, Philadelphia Counties only), Washington, and Wisconsin. Work performed in these exempted states and ciounties shall be performed under the terms of the National Pipe Line Agreement.
(O This Special Agreement shall cover maintenance of all existing transportation mainline pipelines (existing pipelines) coming within the jurisdiction of the Union, This Special Agreement is intended tc* cover on-going maintenance, integrity work, repair, renovation, restoration, removal, modification, addition and/or replacement of existing pipelines, including the following:
1.	replacement of existing pipelines of less than 1 (one) mile,
per location, regardless of size;
2.	hydrostatic testing of existing pipelines fat. re-qualification regardless of size or length;
3.	anomaly investigation and repair including'recoating and/or replacement of pipe; and
4.	installation/replacement of mainline valvei and/or launch-ers/receivers for integrity programs.
For purposes of this Section C only, the term “existing pipeHnes” is limited to a constructed pipeline already completed and shall not apply to any new pipeline.
(D)	This Special Agreement shall apply through completion of jobs involving such work.
(E)	The principal parties may request additional coverage to this Special Agreement by written request with approval contingent upon agreement by all four international unions.
ROV. 1Z2008
255
\n.
WAGES, FRINGE BENEFITS, AND PER DIEM
(A)	Wage Rates, Fringe Benefits and Per Diem for work performed under this Special Agreement on pipeline of 16” or less will be the same as those paid for work performed under the Special Agreement for Small Diameter Pipe (see Attachment 1 to the National Pipe Line Agreement for applicable rates).
(B)	For work covered under this Special Agreement for pipe over 16,” the Employer must request rates from the PLCA and the Union. The Union and the PLCA may agree upon Small Diameter Pipe Rates, intermediary rates, or full National Pipe Line Agreement rates.
m.
OTHER CONDITIONS
(A)	Hiring/Discharge
The Employer has the right to hire the first Employee on the project. If only one Employee is hired, he will be the Steward. The second (2nd) and seventh (7th) Employee shall be determined by tire Union at the pre-job conference. At least 50% of all hires (if qualified) must be represented by the Local Unions in whose jurisdiction the work will be performed. Thereafter, the Employer retains the right to hire 75% of the employees. The Steward shall be appointed by the Union, except as noted above, and will be discussed at the pre-job.
(B)	Portability
Once the crew is hired, the Employer can move that crew within the covered project without change regardless of the Local Union jurisdiction.
(C)	Composite Crew
All Employees will work under a composite crew concept as determined by the Employer. The parties understand that the nature of this work requires working in a cooperative effort, making it sometimes difficult to adhere to strict jurisdictional guidelines. Thus, the Employer shall make every reasonable effort to man specific tasks according to the jurisdiction of the Union and shall maintain a fair and balanced craft ratio in the overall manning of the job.
(D)	WorkWeek
The work week will be determined by the Employer and will be discussed at the pre-job conference.
(E)	Assembly Point/Warehouse
Assembly Point(s) will not be established more than twenty (20) miles distance from living accommodations. This distance may be increased beyond the twenty (20) miles when circumstances warrant as agreed to by the principal parties. The establishing of Assembly Point or points will not affect the location of the warehouse.
Rov. 1/2008
256
(F)	Pre-Job Conference
The Employer agrees to notify the Union of jobs Obtained by the Employer. The Employer and representatives of the Union will hold an initial pre-job conference so that the start and continuation of the weak may progress without interruption and the Union representatives at such pftj-job conference shall be authorized by the Union to represent the Union for the? entire area covered by the Job. The Union will invite each Local Union with jurisdiction to the pre-job. A pre-job will not be necessary each time the c&w moves from one location or local jurisdiction to another after the initial pkto-jbb.
(G)	Bonus	.
If any individual Employer pays any wages in excess of the wages negotiated in this Agreement with any Union(s) in the form of extra money, extra hours, extra travel or standby time or in the form of a bonus by any subterfuge, and if the Pipe Line Contractors Association and the Unk»j(s) shall jointly determine that such bonus is for the purpose of pirating menfrom other individual employers, or results in conditions injurious to the pipeline construction industry, then such individual Employer shall be requiredto pay a proportionate additional compensation to all Employees covered by this Agreement and such requirement shall continue until that particular jobls completed. It is understood and agreed, however, that any profit-sharing, retirement or pension plan which an individual Employer may have in effect which has not been set up for that particular job shall not be considered a bonus.
IV.
DURATION
The term of this Special Agreement will be from January 1, 2006 to December 31, 2006 unless mutually extended by the parties. The Parties agree, however, that if the Teamsters, Operators and Laboreriagree to multiple years of coverage, this Special Agreement term will be uxtended on the same basis. No past practice or precedence will apply to any 'Work covered by this Special Agreement.
Rev. 1/2008
257

ATTACHMENT 4
SPECIAL AGREEMENT FOR
M ATNITNE MECHANIZED WELDING s (
This Special Agreement to the National Pipe Line Agreement sets forth the terms and conditions under which Mainline Mechanized Welding Work, as defined in Article I below, shall be performed. Except as otherwise specifically set forth below, all other terms and conditions of the National Pipe Line Agreement shall apply in full to such work.
I.
COVERAGE ’
This Special Agreement shall apply to mechanized welding performed on mainline work covered by the National Pipe Line Agreement.
n.
CLASSIFICATIONS
(A)	UA Technician
A U A. Technician (or Technicians) will be assigned for the repair and maintenance of the mechanized welding equipment (excluding that normally done by other crafts on tractors and generating sets). The U A. Technician (or Technicians) will be a qualified employee'who has received actual training on the repair and maintenance of the mechanized welding equipment. The UA. Technician(s) will be obligated to show proof of training. Union agrees that UA. Technicians must be available far any jobs on winch Employers use mechanized welding equipment. The Owner or Supplier of the mechanized welding equipment can place a designated Technician Representative (who may make actual repair if UA. Technicians are unable to make repair) in a supervisory capacity over the Technician dr Technicians comprising the repair mid maintenance crew.
(B)	Foreman
The appointment of all foremen is the responsibility of the Employer. Foremen may be paid on an hourly, weekly, dr monthly basis as determined by the Employer.
HL
WAGES AND FRINGE BENEFITS
(A)	Wages and Fringe Benefits
1.	The UA Technician^) will be paid the Journeyman wage rate and fringe benefits under the National Pipe Line Agreement or applicable Project Agreement.
2.	The Helper shall be paid the Helper wage rate and fringe benefits under the National Pipe Line Agreement or applicable Project Agreement.
Rev. 1/2008	258
(B)	Pre-construction Rigging-Up at Job Site or Other Designated Location
Employers performing pre-construction rigging-upj&r mechanized welding at the job site or any other designated location for pipeline construction projects under the National Pipe Line Agreement will beobligated to pay the wage rates and fringe benefits under the National Pipe Lite Agreement or applicable Project Agreement.
(C)	Welding Procedures
For all welding procedures related to a project co rered under the National Pipe Line Agreement using mechanized welding, tile Employer will pay the wages and fringes as set out in the National Pipe Lite Agreement or applicable Project Agreement regardless of whether procedures are being run at the jobsite or any other location.
IV.
HIRING AND EMPLOYMENT PROCEDURES
(A)	Manning
The following manning requirements for UA Technidfins will apply:
1.	One UA Technician and one Helper will be assigned far each internal welder being used on the job. This Technician may be used to maintain the hot pass bugs.
2.	One UA Technician and one Helper will bn assigned to the mini-crew so long as five or fewer welding stations/shacks are used. If more than five welding stations/shacks are used, an additional UA Technician and Helper will be employed.
3.	One UA Technician and one Helper will bh assigned to the mainline crew for every five welding stations/shacks. J
It is understood that, in the event the Employer is short on Helpers, these UA. Technician Helpers may be used at the Employer’s discretion.
(B)	Welder/Technician Qualification Test
Welder/Technicians hired by the Employer will be required to take a Welder qualification test (or tests) specified by the Owner orthe Employer.
(C)	Spell-Off Welders)
Spell-Off Welderfs) will be hired. Assignment of spell-cif welderfs) will be at discretion of the Employer. The Steward may be assigned to spell-off.
(D)	End Facer
If an End Facer is used, the manning of such equipment shall consist of a Journeyman and one Graded Helper. If a Welder is dispatched to man the end facer, be will be dispatched as a Journeyman and no rig pay will be required.
Rev. 1/2008
258
(E)	Manning
When a Local Union is unable to dispatch a sufficient number of Welders to man a mechanized welding project, the Employer agrees to utuil-ize other classifications of Employees undo’ this Agreement to perfbrm'such work before obtaining Welders from an outside source pursuant to Article V(OX4). Such individuals shall be hired in accordance with the hiring procedures set forth in Article V of the NPLA, and otherwise subject to all terms and provisions of the NPLA. All individuals performing such work shall be paid as a Welder.
V.
OTHER CONDITIONS
(A)	WorkWeek
UA. Technicians will be assigned the same work week hours as the mainline crews and will work on equipment during breaks and during lunch periods at the discretion of the Employer. UA. Technicians will receive no additional payments for lunch provided they are allowed an uninterrupted 30 minutes during the day for lunch. Additional hours worked above the workweek by any Technician(s) will not attach to any other UA employee or the Steward.
(B)	Welding Rigs
Welder/Technicians will be paid rig pay as follows: (1) Standby - $8.00 per hour plus fuel to be provided by the Employer so long as die rig is on the jobsite and available for work; (2) Used - on the same basis as paid under the National Pipeline Agreement.
(C)	Line Up and ID Welding or OD Welding
The provisions of the National Pipe Line Agreement covering work of handling die clamps and lining up die pipe shall tqjply. The ID Welder shall be paid premium pay of $1.00 per hour above the regular Journeyman rate. In the event back welding is performed for misfires and such inside the pipe, the Employer will pay such Welder engaged in back welding in accordance with the National Pipe Line Agreement. If a clamp utilizing internal backing in conjunction with OD Welders depositing die stringer bead is used, such Welders shall be paid premium pay of $1.00 per hour above the regular Journeyman rate.
(D)	Bands
In the operation of the mechanized welding equipment, bands are placed on the pipe and there shall be employed one Journeyman or Welder at the Employer’s discretion on the front end who will place, measure, and secure the bands for the necessary position and alignment for the OD. welding devices. He shall be assisted by a Helper. One or mote Helpers to be determined by the Employer shall be employed on the back end to remove the bands upon completion of the process. This manning requirement will also apply to the mini-crew.
Rev. 1Z2008
260
(E)	OD. Welder
There may be two devices (one or more may be used) st it up on the band to complete each OX), weld. There shall be one Welder opd one Helper employed for each device.
(F)	Mechanic Work
The work of servicing welding heads, both internally and externally, and servicing the mechanized welding equipment from the lugs1 out, will be performed by a UA. Technician or Welder.
(G)	Premium Pay/Hiring
No premium pay shall be paid for any job assignment unless specifically provided for in this Agreement. Hiring shall be in accordance with the formulas set out in the National Pipe Line Agreement.
Rev. 1/2008
Rev. 1/2006	282
ATTACHMENTS
COPY OF SUBSTANCE ABUSE POLICY AVAILABLE UPON REQUEST FROM UA OR PLCA
.J&i
Rev. 1/2008
263
Rev. 1/2008
264
ATTACHMENT 6
COPY OF
ALCOHOL MISUSE POLICY
AVAILABLE
UPON REQUEST FROM UA OR PLCA
Rev. 1/2008
265
Rev. 1/2000
266
ATTACHMENT?
NATIONAL PIPE LINE AGREEMENT INTERPRETATIONS BETWEEN THE PIPE LINE CONTRACTORS ASSOCIATION AND THE UNITED ASSOCIATION OF JOURNEYMEN AND APPRENTICES OF THE PLUMBING AND PtFE FITTING INDUSTRY OF THE UNITED STATES AND CANADA. AFI^O
(Effective June 17,1999, as amended July 19, .1007)
The Interpretations set out below have been agreed to lly the Pipe Line Contractors Association and the United Association of J'sumeymen and Apprentices of the Plumbing and Pipe Fitting Industry of we United States and Canada and are made a part of the National Pipe Line Ajh*ement as if set out therein.
1.	Road Boring: When a Welder is assigned and vtorking with the road boring crew on any particular day, he will be entitled t$i the hours of the road boring crew for that day. For example, if the full road boring crew continues to work after regular quitting time and the Welder assigned to that crew that day is sent in before quitting time or at quitting time and not allowed to remain with the crew while it continues working after regular,’iquittiiig time, be will be entitled to any additional hours worked by that crew that day. If the Welder assigned to the road boring crew is temporarily reassigned to perform other work and the foil road boring crew continues to work performing regular road boring crew work that day, the Welder will be entitled to the same hours worked provided he returns to that crew or is relieved "by the contractor from returning to the road boring crew.
2.	Welding Rigs: There are certain procedures applicable to rigs when performing work under the National Pipe Line Agreement. These are as follows:
(a)	Rig Pay on Single Qualification Test - The Welder's rig will be entitled to be paid the same number of hours the man is paid on a single qualification test.
(b)	Rig Pay on Multiple Tests - On multiple tesU the Welder's rig will be entitled to be paid the same number of hours the matt is paid for multiple tests.
(c)	Gassing Up - All trucks and welding machines will be gassed up during regular working hours ustag the contractor has negotiated a rental and fuel rate. Welders are entitled to a full tank of gas for their truck and welding machine on the same day they complete work on that job and they are laid off; this does not include the drag-up tank.
3.	Dispatching Employees: The contractor will provide the Union with the same advance notice of starting date for the Unionti quota to be dispatched as it provides for its contractor-hired employees.
Rev. 1/2008
267
4.	Drug Testing: The Substance Abuse Policy negotiated by tbe Association (PLCA) and the United Association (U A.) will be applicable on all jobs covered by the National pipe Line Agreement. The Journeyman shall be paid waiting time for any days lost during the normal scheduled work week in those cases which require completed testing before employment. In such cases, the Journeyman shall receive for any day lost during any one work week the sum of five hours plus fringes, and the Helper will receive a sum of four hours plus fringes. No payment or fringe contributions will be made if a test is positive for a prohibited drug.
5.	Reporting time for Wqlder Helppr Tbe Agreement provides that the Welder Helper shall receive the equivalent pf not less titan fpur hours pay at the straight time rate for any hours he misses during the normal scheduled work week unless he is told the night before that there will be no work tbe following day. These four hours are cumulative.
6.	Job Steward Hours: Under tbe National Pipe Line Agreement a journeyman acting as job steward is entitled to be paid for all hours worked by him or for the number of hours up to a maximum of thirteen (13) worked by any UA journeymen on the job except the UA mechanic and except for journeymen or welders working on testing. V
It has been agreed by the PLCA and United Association that the maximum of thirteen (13) hours is based on a 10 hour work day, and that if tbe work day is set up on or extended to 11 hours or more tbe steward will be entitled to 3 hours above the number of hours the job is set up or extended, provided some other journeymen, except the UA mechanic, journeymen or welder on testing, works those hours. As an example, if the contractor sets the work week at 6-12's, and a UA journeyman other than the UA mechanic, journeymen or welder on testing works 16 hours the steward would be entitled to 15 hours.
Rev. 1/7008
268
EXHIBIT “E”
JURISDICTIONAL AGREEMENT IN STATE OF CALIFORNIA
January 20,1954
Local Unions 250 at Los Angeles, 460 at Bakersfield, 246 at Fresno and 342 at Oakland of the United Association of Journeymen and Apprentices of the Plumbing and Pipefitting Industry of the United State andCanada, and the United Association itself, entered into an agreement dated Julie 23,1952, with certain contractors covering the construction of transportation gas and oil pipe lines in California, which said agreement differs from the Mainline Pipe Line Agreement entered into between the United Association and-eertain pipe line contractors, dated January 1, 1952, which also covers the construction of transportation gas and oil pipe lines in California, as well as In other states of the United States and Canada,
Representatives of die four local unions in California and Archie Virtue and Charles C. Balch, General Organizers for the United Association, entered into an agreement dated January 20,1954 in order to clarify the coverage of both agreements insofar as work in the state of California is concerned.
By virtue of said agreement, all transportation pipe line work in California under contract calling for the construction of less than 30 miles of pipe line shall be constructed under the terms of the Statewide Pipe Line Agreement hereinabove referred to. All transportation pipe line work 30 miles in length or longer shall be constructed under the terms of the Mainline Pipe Line Agreement,
The 30 miles in length need not be continuous nor unbralsn but may consist of two or more sections or loops which total 30 miles in length or longer.
In evidence of the understanding between the parties, Charles C. Balch, acting for the United association, and Richard A. Gump adling for the Pipe Line Contractors Association, have executed this memorandiim.
/s/ Charles C. Balch
Charles C. Balch
/s/ Richard A. Gump
Richard A. Gump Executive Secretary
Raw. &B3
270
** MAJOR PROJECTS**
NOTH:
In $U $Mm «tMpt CnfflomM, Nwndw Naw Jaraan and Naw IWt (Zonaa 1,1,4 ttnd S), the tnarasaaa effaet>M 1VUN apply only to work bM or lai on or aftar 1VMB.
ALABAMA
ZONI IfLaeM 320)
Colbert	Jackaoa		Umeetnoe		MankaO
DeKA	1 ^wlawa^lfc		Madboe		Mcrjlia
ftmife	Lswmks		Maria		
	5/1/33 Io	8/1/04 to	11/ima	11/2/06 to n/l«7to	
	8/1/04	11/1/05	ii/i/oe	11/1/07	;n/09
Group 1	$24.95	$2943	$30.70	$3206	$33.14
Group!	2227	22.41	1324	2435	26.18
Group 3	1552	1333	15.73	1734	18jB7
Wfae	300	4B0	4J5	4A5	5 DO
'Parks	413	425	425	430	4.75
Pipeline 1^.	25	25	JO	.75	.75
LMCT	JO	JO	25	DO	
"EPEC	05	05	B5	JOS	JOS
t$2 JO fcr Group 2; $1jOO fw Group 3)					
"(Dwtocted whan nuhcclnd by etqptoyee)					
ZONI! (Lecnl 653)					
Baldwin	Coffee		Eacambia		Mottle
Barbour	Conecuh		Geneva		Mtdn»
Balfock	Cmrinftm		Hany		ne
Butter	Cnaahaw		Houston		
Choctaw	Date		Maemgo		WBbia
Cleric					
	5(1/03 to	8/1/04 to	11/1/05 to	11/1/06 to 1.1/1/07 to	
	8/1/04	11/1/05	11/1/06	11/1A7	:nx»
Group 1	$24.95	$2943	$30.70	$32/16	$33.14
Group!	1127	22.41	2324	2435	!6.18
Group?	15 32	1333	15.73	1734	186?
Wetfare	3J00	400	435	445	SJOO
* PcnHQG	425	42S	425	4 JO	4.75
PtpeHnaTbg.	25	25	30	.75	.75
LMCT	JO	30	25	DO	JOO
"EPEC	JOS	05	35	JOS	jOS
•($! JO for Group 1; JI BO fcr Group 3)					
(4* duet deducted wbm auttarind)					
"(Duducted wba authorized by employee)					
ZONE 3 (Local 312)					
(Boat of State)					
	5/1/03 to	8/1/04 to	11/1/05 to	11/1/06 to 11/1/07 to	
	8/1/04	11/IG5	11/1/06	11/1/07	:)i/09
GOoup J	$24 95	$2943	$30.70	J32J06	$33 J4
Group!	12X1	22.41	2324	2435	26J8
Group?	15J2	1533	15.73	1734	18j67
	3D0	4B0	445	4j65	sxn
'Poria	425	425	425	4J0	4.75
Pipeline Th|.	25	25	JO	.75	.75
LMCT	JO	JO	25	jDO	JOO
"Erec	JOS	M	35	jQS	JDS
1$2 JO for Group 1; 31 jOO for Group 3) ($30 rtoea deducted wbea utthrwited) "(Deducted whta anteriad by employee)
** CONTACT PLCA OR IUOE FOR WAGES ON MAJORPROJECTS"
Rov. 1/2008
A-301
। —
ARIZONA
Statewide (Loeai 428)
	11/1/05 to 11/1/06	11/1/06 to 6/1/07	6/1/07 to 11/1/07	11/1417 to 12/1/07	12/1/07 to 2/ino
Group 1	$3230	$33 48	$3236	$3433	$3438
Group 2	2328	2426	2364	2531	25.16
Group 3	1428	1526	1464	1631	16.16
Write*	395	445	480	430	4.95
Fnnrirm	2.90	303	330	330	330
A^usricMUp	IS	23	25	26	26
* Weedon	30	JO	JO	30	30
PfpeliaeTng.	30	30	30	.75	.75
LMCT	25	25	25	00	jOO
** aec	.05	05	05	J05	j05
•(Deducted fton Rm after Tritac)
**W*tacM when nulbwiied by employee)
ARKANSAS
Statewide (Lead 04)
	5/1/03 to 8/1/04	8/1/04 to 11/1/03	11/14)3 to 1 V1A)6	11/1/06 to 11/1/07	11/1/07 to 1/1/09
Group 1	$28.15	$2863	$2945	$3136	$32.99
Gratq>2	20.47	2062	2132	23.43	2506
Group 3	1322	1304	1301	1542	1705
Wtfte*	3 JOO	400	465	4.65	I 465
* tanta	SAO	SOO	SOO	SOO	- 5.00
Appttfreah?	AS	05	.10	20	25
Pipeline Thg.	25	25	30	.75	.75
LMCT	30	30	25	.00	JOO
«erec	M	05	■ *03	05	05
(23* Duea deduction when autborixed by employee.)
•($330 tor Group 2; $230 for Group 3; Etf 5/1/02 -$430fwGroup2; $330 for Group 3; Eff ll/bO5-$4A0 for Group 2; $300 for Group 3.)
••(Dnbicted when aubwiaed by employee)
CALIFORNIA
ZONE 1 (Local 12)
Imperial	LoeAageiea	JUvrraide	Ss> Luia Otwpo
Inyo	Mono	Sen Bemadew	Saata Barbera
Kam	Onape	San Diego	Shatura
	7/1/06 to	7/1/07 to	7/1/08	7/1AS
	7/1/07	7/1/08		
Gtoqp I	$3434	$3634	+230	+230
Group 2	33.40	35.10	TP	TP
Qraq>3	32.35	33j65		
Writhe	760	790		
Rnarivn	405	435		
Wc.6SqipDuta	260	262		
Tiiininp	65	30		
ECOC	OS	jOS		
• crec	05	05		
liWMnnal Oinfliae Donbte After 12 bom; time and ontobalf on Sattaday ig> to 12 bom;
Double on Sunday
Addbteanl DuMnjn Dacmtioa Day, Mteenaa Day, and day alter Ttuokagivitig.
NteMaottt $2400 to $30.00 per day in apedfted arena and time atarteand ocpa M the job rile with employeea ftimlihinp own ttanapuetallun. In free zoue enqdoyer will provide traaaportation and ndmg time pry one way. (Inyo and Mono $2600).
Local AG.C. Highway Contract Provwcna concerning Engineer Foreman will be applicable.
Shift Vtak - Local Agroemect appiiea.
•(Dettactod when eubcriaed by employee)
RW.V2OG8
tA^02
ZONE 2 (Local 3) (Reel ri stat*)
AREA A (Contact FIX A ar IVOI lor Location tt Anu A ft B) W28O*to	6/2606 to	W23/071O
«2mm	enem	warn
Groito 1	531 A*	$3241	$33j08
Group 2	2136	2929	2936
Groqi 3	2523	26.16	2613
Wettere	365	638	6.91
* Ptmioa	400	JAM	em
	2.70	335	2.70
••• AIT. Aetna	61	62	61
Pea. HAW	169	2.14	2.14
Amdty	M	40	M
Supp. D.	.75	-A	J5
ever EPEC	JOS	OS	OS
AREA B-Wipe in Ikb Ana are $2m per how above the rate* beach group ri Ana A. PrfaphMB thetam*. AMUanai Otefae: b Ana A and B - aaa irtiriaahatf than the appiicabto attaint ttan boilly an rhal ba paid fa all wd perfamed bribe a ahift begta and after it code and for ail week on Setwdtj*. Double Iha etniigbt tine hourty m, fa all went at Sunday* and hoKdayi.
AMttnal IbHd*)* Whtegtort Birthday, Memorial Dey and day affa Tbankagivinj.
Local A4)£. Highway Contract Provfaioua coocarnuig rnginrrr Foranan wiO ba apftebl*.
♦[Apprentice (par BE 8-25), $2.15; Eff 7/15A)2-Apprenbce $240]’
••[Apprentice (per BE 8-25), $2 20]
•••(Alto Sim fa Appnotfaa » addfam to above.)
••••(Deducted when authorieed by employee) , SUft Work - Local ApwtnM ^pitea.
COLORADO
BlaiiaMa (Leeri ♦)				
	WHO* to	11/1/05 to	11/1416 to	- 1'1/1/07 to
	11/1/DS	11/1/06	11/1107	:ri/09
Group I	$29.99	SSIDS	$32.06	$32.9*
Group 2	21XI	, 3234	2333	2443
QraupS	1563	■ 1637'	1738	1846
Wdhm	*00	463	4.63	413
* PMttklB	335	360	*20	430
Afprtntfarir^	34	<■ 30	30	3D
PbfanT^.	25	30	.73	.73
LMCT	30	25	m	m
•* EPEC	05	*»	j05	05
•($2.70 fa Group 2; $1.70 fa Group 3; Eft. 11Z1XIS-S2 JKt fa Group 2; $1.70 fa Group 3; HI.11/106-S3 30 for Group 2; $230 fa Group 3; Ell 11/1/07-$*. 10 fa Group 2; $2.70 fa Group 3.)
($0.10 duet deduction when aodnriaed by employee)
♦•(Deducted when authorized by employee)
CONNECTICUT
Statewide (Local <78)
	win* to 11/1/03	11/1/05 to 11/1/06	11/1/06 to 11/1/07	1JL/1/O7to :fi/09
Group I	$3134	$326?	$32.99	$33.39
Gnxqi2	2561	2603	2635	36.75
GrafaS	I9J05	19.14	1946	19.86
Wdfae	530	665	7.63	865
Paoaioa	240	2.70	320	3.70
Sub	33	.85	.85	35
AflwrieMhip	35	60	65	.70
Anufa	263	265	263	265
Pipeline Tnj.	23	30	.75	.75
LMCT	30	25	m	m
♦ EPEC	OS	65	05	63
•(Deducted when aotborraed by enqdcyee)
(Adratatotntive duet - 23$ ri groat eembp pbu fringe benrih cootributicm, effective 4/6/98)
Rm. 142008
£>808

Statewide (Local 542)
DELAWARE
	5/1/03 to 8/1/04	8/13)4 to 11/1/05	11/1/05 to 11/1/06	11/1/06 to 11/14)7	11/1/07 b 2/1/09
Group 1	$2463	$25.68	$26,41	$27.48	$2838
Group 2	2009	20.98	2147	2234	2364
Group 3	16.13	16.87	17.16	1823	1934
• Welfare	16.0%	16.0%	160%	160%	160%
Pension	103%	103%	103%	103%	103%
Apprenticeship	1.0%	10%	1.0%	10%	10%
Pipeline Tag.	25	25	30	30	30
Annuity	4 DO	4.00	400	400	4 DO
Sub	20%	20%	20%	20%	20%
LMCT	JO	JO	25	25	25
•* EPEC	OS	OS	OS	OS	OS
•(Add l.TOaurchatge toWdhte for Group* 1-3.) ••(Deducted when suberized by employee)
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA
(Local 77)
	8/1/04 to 11/1/05	11/1/05 to 11/1/06	11/1/06 to 11/1/07	11/1/07 to 2/1/09'
Group 1	$31.77	$33.43	$34.77	$36.18'
Group!	23.43	2467	2601	27.42
Group 3	IS 33	1636	17.70	19.11
Wettate	330	3 60 1	3.90	420
Pension	200	200	2.00	200
Apprenticeship 35		35	35	35
* Annuity	.75	.75	.75	.75
Pipeline Tag.	25	30	.75	.75
LMCT	30	25	00	00
••EPEC	OS	05	05	05
(Duet deduction of $35 when authorized by employee.)
*(5/1/03 -$ JO Aamdty for Group 3)
••(Deducted when authorized by employee)
ZONE 1 (Locate 487 and 673)		FLORIDA		
Locta487 Broward	Glades	Lee		Okeechobee
Charlotte	Hendry	Liberty		Palm Beach
Collier	Highlands	Martin		Saint Lucie
Dude	Indian River	Monroe		
	8/1/04 to	11/14)5 to	11/1/06 to	11/1/071
	11/1/05	11/1/06	11/1/07	2/1/09
Group 1	$29.98	$31.90	$3331	$34.79
Group 2	2221	23.69	25.30	2638
Group 3	1432	1S.87	17.48	18.76
• Welfare	400	400	400	4.40
•• Pension	350	330	350	330
••• Apprenticeship 20		20	20	20
Pipeline Tng.	25		30	.75	.75
LMCT	30	25	.00	00
*••• EPEC	OS	OS	OS	OS
Working Assessment of $25 per hour worked shall be deducted from wages after taxes far work in jurisdiction of Local 673.
•($3.81 for Group 3,11/1/07 -$421, Op 3; $425 Gp 3 for Lo 673)
••($230 for Group 2; $130 for Group 3)
•••(Eff. 1111105 App 30 for Lo 673, reduce rate .10)
••••(Deducted when authorized by employee)
Row. 172008
A-304
Leaf <73					
BAer	Hagler		Leon		SesMitoie
Bradford	Franklin		Madison		Suwatnee
Brevaid	Gadsden		Nassau		Thytfr
Clay	Hamilton		Grange		Utm
Columbia	Jefferson		Putnam		VWtHia
Duval	Lafayette		Saint Johns		Wakslla
	8/1/04 to	11/1/05 to 7/1/06 to		11/1/06 to IWti	
	11/1/Q5	7/1/06	11/1/06	11/1/07	21/09
Group 1	$29.98	$31.80	$31J5	$33.16	HM34
Grorg>2	2221	23 59	2334	2495	2663
Group 3	1442	15.77	1333	16.94	1862
• Wfare	400	400	425	425	423
*• Pension	3 JO	3 JO	3 JO	3 JO	350
Apprenticeship	20	JO	30	30	30
Pipeline Tng.	25	JO	50	.75	.75
LMCT	JO	25	25	00	00
••♦ EPEC	JDS	05	05	DS	05
Working we u me nt of $25 per hour wwked'aheU be deducted from wages liter Ura *($3.81 fw Group 3; Eli. 7/lA>6-$425 for Group 3)
••($200 for Grorg, 2, $1.00 for Group 3; EH 5/l/03^$250 for Group 2; $1 JO for Group 3) ♦••(Deducted when authorized by employee)
ZONE 2 (Local 925)
Alachua	Hardee	Manatee		Pott
Citrus	Hernando	Marian		Sarajnta
DeSoto	Hillsborough	Osceola		Suantr
Dixie	Lake	Pasco		
Gilchrist	Levy	Pinellas		
	8/1/04 to	11/1/05 to	11/1/06 to	11/1/071
	11/1/05	11/1/06	11/1/07	2H/09
Group 1	$29.18	$30.10	$3131	Ii32.99
Group 2	2166	22.49	23.60	24.78
Gror^S	1408	14.48	13 39	16.77
Welfare	400	4.65	4.65	465
• Penatou	425	4.60	500	500
Apprenticeship 23		' 25	25	25
Pipeline Tng.	25		JO	.75	.75
LMCT	JO	25	00	00
••EPEC	05	05	05	05
•($300 f<r Group 2; $2J» for Group 3; EH 11/1/Q6-S3 JO for Grotv 2; $2 JO for Grtup 3; EH. 11/1AT7-$400 for Group 2; $300 for Group 3} •♦(Deducted when authorized by employee)
Wadringasseasmeat: 3% of grow wages
ZONE 3 (Local *53)
Bay	Holmes	Santa	Rosa	
Calbotm	Jackson	Walton		
Escambia	Okaloosa	Washington		
Gulf				
	8/1/04 to	11/1/05 »	11/1/06 to	11/1/07 to
	11/1/05	11/1/06	11/1/07	2)1/09
Gtuqi 1	$2943	$30.70	$3206	$33.14
Group 2	2241	2324	24.83	26.18
Group3	1533	15.73	1734	1867
Welfare	400	465	4.65	500
• Pension	423	425	430	4.73
Pipeline Tag.	25		JO	.73	.75
LMCT	JO	25	DO	OO
*♦ ETCC	05	05	05	03
•($2 JO for Group 2; $1.00 for Group 3)) ••(Deducted when anthcrized by employee)
. j’ fife,
Rev. 1/9008
A-30&
ZONE 1 (Loeal 474)		GEORGIA		
Appling	Colquit	I enter		Stewart
Atkinson	Columbia	Lpnreht		Sumter
Bacon	Cook	Lee		Tattnall
Bate	Criap	Liberty		' Tayler
Bea Hill	Decatur	Long		Telftir
Berrien	Dodge	Lowndes		Terrell
Blackley	Dooly	Mclntoth		Tttomu
Brantley	Doherty	Macon		Tift
Brooke	Early	Marion		Toombs
Bryan	Edtcdt	Miller		Treutlen
Bulloch	RIBsgtfcMH	Mitchell		Turner
Butte	Emanuel	Montgomery		Twigg*
Calhoun	Evans	Pierce		Ware
Camden	(Bynn	Pulaski		Washington
Cantfter	Qnty	Quitman		Wayne
Chariton	Houtton	Randolph		
Chatham	Irwin	Richmond		Wheeler
Otattahooche	Jeff Da via	Schley		Wilcox
Clay	Jefferson	Screven		Wilkiuon
Clinch	Jenkin*	Seminole		Worth
Coffee	Johnson			
	8/1/04 to	11/1X35 to	11/1/D6 to	11/1/07 to
	11/1X05	1VMM	11/1X07	2/1/09
Group 1	$30.18	331.45	$3236	$3399
Group 2	22.41	2324	2435	25.78
Grotg>3	1483	1523	16.34	17.77
Welfare	450	455 ,	4.65	4.65
• Pearioo	330	350	450	425
Pipeline Tng.	25		50	.75	.75
LMCT	30	25	.00	.00
••EPEC	05	05	55	.05
•($230 for Group 2; $1 JO ft* Group 3. Eff. 11/1/06 ■ 9300 Gp 2; 2.00 Gp 3; Eff. 11/1AH - 3325 Gp 2; 225 Gp3)
••{Deducted when aUhorized by employee)
ZONE 2 (Laeal 926)
Baldwin	Fannin	1. JecKaou		Mke
Banka	Fayette	Jasper		Polk
Barrow	Boyd	Jones		Putnsm
Bartow	Forayth	T MW		Rabun
Bibb	Ppwmcliy!	Lincoln		Rockdale
Butt*	Hilton	Lumpkin		Spridine
Carroll	Gilmer	McDuffie		Stephens
Catoosa	Glmcock	Madiicn		Talbot
Quttoofft	Gordon	Meriwether		TUiaferro
Cherokee	Greene	Monroe		Towns
Clarite	Gwinnett	Morgan		Thmp
Citytan	Haberaham	Ntanty		Union
Col*	Hall	Muscogee		Upson
Coweta	Hancock	Newton		Waite
Crawford	Haralaon	Oconee		waucn
Dade	Harrie	Oglethorpe		Warren
Dawson	Hart	Paulding		White
DeKalb	Heard	Peach		Whitfield
Dougie*	Henry	Pickens		Wilkes
Efcert				
	8/1304 to	11/1/05 to	11/1/06 to	11/1/07 a
	11/1/05	11/14)6	11/1/07	2/1/09
Group 1	329.68	330.67	$3228	$3356
Group 2	2151	22.46	2457	25.75
Groqp 3	1533	15.45	1756	18.74
Welfare	450	465	4 65	4.65
* Fenrion	450	450	450	450
App.		28	28	28
Hpd&neTng.	25		50	.75	.75
LMCT	50	25	50	50
•» EPEC	55	55	55	55
•{$350 for Group 2; $150 for Group 3) (2* due* deducted when authorized) ••(Deducted when authorized by enqrioyee)
ZONE 1 (Ncrtbera) (Local 370)
5/1/03 to 8/104
HAWAII
Refer to An. I, Par. A
IDAHO
8/1 AM to 6/1/05	6/1/005 to 11/1/05	II/lABto 11/1/06	11/14*5 to 11/1307	Ilf1/07 to 2/1/09
$3001	$29.76	$3123	13239	$33j62
24.79	2454	25.75	26.19	2742
21.10	2035	2138	2304	2427
: 4.70	4.95	5.15	535	555
230	250	2.75	300	325
47	47	47	47	47
25	25	50	.75	.75
50	50	25	00	00
05	JOS	05	05	05
•(Deducted when authorized by employee)
ZONE 2 (Southern) (Local 370)
	5/1/03 to 8/1AM	8/1 AM to 6/1/05	6/1/005 to 11/1/05	11/1AH to 11/1/06	1L/1/O6to 11/1/07	lUUOTto 2/1/09
Group 1	$29.11	$3034	$3009	$3131	$32.97	$3420
Group 2	2409	25.12	2437	2633	2749	28.72
Group 3	2054	2143	21.18	2246	23.62	2435
Welfare	445	4.70	4.95	5.15	535	555
Peaiioa	2.17	2.17	2.17	2.17	242	267
App.	47	47	47	47	47	47
Pipeline Tug.	25	25	25	50	.75	.75
LMCT	50	50	50	25	00	00
•EPEC	OS	05	05	OS	05	OS
•(Deducted when authorized by employee)
ZONE 1 (Local 150)		ILLINOIS		
Boone	DuPage	Lake		
Bureau (east of	JoDavieaa	Lee		Pt2ftm(eeat
Rome 26)	Grundy	' LaSalle		of UBnoii River)
Carrol]	Kane	Uvingaton		w
Cook	Kankakee	McHenry		Wfaileaide
DeKalb	Kendall	Ogle		Wiafattago
	8/1/04 to	11/1/05 to	11/1/06 to	11/3107 to
	11/1/05	11/1/06	11/1/07	2/im
Group 1	$3402	$3529	$3628	<157.35
Group 2	2838	2937	3036	3143
Group3	2530	2656	2765	18.72
Welfare	535	5.95	655	720
Penaion	430	440	450	4.6S
Apprenticcdup *30		60	.75	30
* Iteation	156	160	1.70	1.70
Pipeline Tog.	25		50	.75	.75
LMCT	50	25	00	JOO
“EPEC	05	05	OS	05
•Add Vtoatiou to rate and figure Tu Deduction then ntbrnit full amount for each tutor worked.
(Overtime doeanl apply to vacation)
(2% duea deduction oo grow wagea when authorized)
••(Deducted when authorized by employee)
Rev. 1/2008
MOT

ZONE 2 (Leeal 318)
Atemuter Franklin Gallatin Hamilton	Hardin Jackson Johnson Massac	Pepe Pulaski Saline Union		White Williatma
	8/1/04 to	11/1/05 to	11/1/06 to	11/1/07 to
	11/1/05	11/1/06	11/1/07	2/1/09
Group 1	$29.99	$31.99	$32.46	$3420
Group 2	2328	24.94	25.41	27.15
Group3	1829	19.70	20.17	21.91
Welfare	430	430	5.40	5.40
Pension	535	5.65	5.75	5.75
Appenticeship 36		.94	1.02	1.10
Pipeline Tug.	25		50	.75	.75
LMCT	30	25	DO	JOO
♦EPEC	OS	05	.05	D5
(25% duet deduction on toad peckage when authorized) •(Deducted when authorized by employee)
ZONE 3 (Local 520)
Bond	Greene	Madison	Perry
Calhoun Clinton Fayette	Jefferson Jersey Macoupin 8/1/06 to 11/1/06	Marion Monroe Montgomery 11/1/06 to	8/1/07 to 8/1/07	11/1/07	Randolph'' Saint Clair Washington 11/1/07 to 2/1/09	2/1/2010 2/1/09
Group 1	$2423 Group 2	17.18 Group 3	12D3 Welfare	620 Pension	6.45 Apprenticeship 1D0 Atmuity	500 •	Vacation	100 hip*ii*» Tag,	50 LMCT	25 •	• EPEC	05		$25.98	$2438 18.93	1753 13.78	12.38 620	6.70 6.45	7.35 1.00	1.00 5 DO	5.00 1D0	1D0 .75	.75 DO	DO .05	OS	$26.40	reopener reopener 1935 . 1420 6.70-735 100 500 IDO .75 DO 05
•Vacatleo: (Noto: Vtoation of $.90 per airtight tune hoar. $135 per time sad one-half, and $130 per double time how is deducted from the rate. Deduct applicable vacation amount from the pay check after tmet and pay to the Local 520 Fuad for ail en^ttoyeea.) ES. 1111/05 Vac $1 DO per airtight time hour, $130 per time and tune hatfr and $200 per double time hour,
O.V.F. * Ducs check off $.90 for overtime or $1 DO for double overtime when Mtihorized by employee*. Eff. 11/1/05 OVF and ttoes check off of $.80-$ 120 for OT or $1.60 for double GT
Fringes paid for all hours on straight time basis.
Annuity, Tkaining, Vacation and dues check off paid to Local 520 Funds for ail employees.
Health & Welfare and ft n si on should be paid according to the National Pipeline Agreement
••(Deducted when authorized by employee)
Rev. 1/2008
A408

ZONK 4 (Local 649)
Bureau (wot	Henry (But Half)	Marahall	Stmt
of route 26)	Knox	Maaon	TteWtuB
fttai	McDonough	Peoria	Worn
Hancock	McLean	Putnam	Wool lord
Henderaco
	8/1/04 to 11/1AJ5	1V1/BS to 11/1/06	11(106 to 11/107	11/1/07 to 7/1/09
Group 1	$2835	$29.18	$2923	IB0.20
Group!	2163	22.12	22.77	23.14
Group 3	1791	1822	18.87	1924
Welfare	425	4A5	4.90	5.25
Petition	530	5.75	6.00	730
Appeenticcridp .70			30	130
Annuity	2 no	2.00	230	230
HRA		50	1.00	1.00
Pipeline Tng.	25	.75	.75	.75
LMCT	50	no	.00	£0
• EPEC	05	AS	.05	35
•(Deducted when authorized by ettgdoyee)
ZONE 5 (Local 945)				
Adama	DeWitt	Morgan		&±C)4er
Brown	Logan	Piatt		Send
Cam	Macon	Pike		Shelly
Chrittinn	Menard	Sangamon		
	8/l/04to	11/1/05 »	11/1/06 to	t.Vl/07 to
	11/1/05	11/1/06	11/1/07	;ii/09
Group 1	$28.45	$29.68	$31.43	$3325
Group 2	21.74	22.63	2458	2620
Group 3	1727	1857	2032	22.14
Welfare	635	6.15	6.15	6.15
ftemioa	550	620	620	620
Appnendceahtp 20		.85	.85	.85
Pipeline Tag.	25		50	.75	.75
LMCT	30	25	.00	<00
* EPEC	35	35	35	35
* PEF	.10	.10	.10	.10
(Deduct 39 fiom rale where authorized)
•(Deducted when Ktherized by employee)
ZONK 6 (Local Ml)					
Champaign	Cumberland	Ford		Ricthnd	
Clark	Dougina	Iroquoii		tfa&iiltion	
Clay		Jaaper		WMtnh	
Cdc*	Edwatda	Lawrence Wayne			
Crawford	Effingham	Moultrie			
	8/1/04 to	11/1A5 to	4/1A6M	11/106 »	11/1/07 to
	11(1/05	4/1/06	11/1/06	urtim	2/1/09
Group 1	$3030	$31.43	$30.78	$3(133	$3325
Oroqi 2	2329	2438	23.73	2Jj»	2620
Group 3	19.42	2032	19 Al	2Ij42	22.74
Welfare	420	4.60	530	am	520
Penaioo	430	425	430	<150	4.75
Appreaticeahip .60 Saringt	230		.60 2.00	.60 230	AO inn	A3 230
Pipeline Tug.	25 LMCT	50		50 25	30 25	.75 30	.75 30
•EPEC	35	35	35	35	35
($30 Duei deduction when authvized by employee; Eff 5/18)3 - Dues deduction rf'.Hb ttttigH time foe aft houra worked when authorized)
•(Deducted when authorized by employee)
ftav. 1/2008
A-3O9

ZONE 7 (Local ISO)				
Henry (Weal	Mercer	Whitcride		
Half)	Rocklilaad	(WeatPzrt)		
	V MM to	11/1X15 to	11/1/06 to	11/1/07 to
	11/1/D3	11/1/06	11/1/07	2/1/09
Group 1	$30.77	$31X5	$32.68	$3335
Gttatp2	2406	24X0	25.63	2630
Group 3	2227	22.92	23.75	24.62
Welfare	3.10	5.70	630	6.95
teuton	3.75	385	3.95	4.10
Appraiticerhip 25		35	.70	05
tacatton	.93	93	100	too
Pipeline?™.	.23		X	.75	.75
LMCT	30	25	00	00
• Erec	j05	05	05	05
(2W»a deducted Iron weft* when authorized by employee)
•(Deducted when authorized by employee)
INDIANA
ZONE 1 (Local ISO)
Like	Latete	Porter		St. Joadph
	8/1/04 to	11/1/05 to	11/1/06 to	11/14)7 to
	t inns	iinns	11/1/07	2/1/09
Group!	$32.72	$3325	$34.79	$35.70
Grot? 2	26.71	2734	28.48 •	2939
&«p3	2201	223]	2355	24.46
Welfare .	535	5.95	655	720
teuton	3.60	3.70	3X0	3.95
Apprendcethip 25		35	.70	.85
•tacatioc	132	135 ‘	1.45	1.45 ‘
Pipeline Tua.	25		30	.75	.75
LMCT	30	25	00	00
•• EFEC	05	OS	05	05
•(Deducted from Rate)				
(Duet of 2% deducted from rate when authorized by employee)				
••(Deducted when atsfliorized by etqptoyee)				
ZONE 2 (Local 111)				
Bartholomew	Floyd	Lawipnce		Ripley
Brown	(tankini	Martin		Scott
Clark	Gibeon	Ohio '		Spencer
Crawford	Harriaoa	Orange		Switzerland
Dearborn	Jackaan	Perry		Vanderburgh
Decahr	Jefferaon	Pike		Wartick
Duboia	Vwwiiwy	Poaey		Waahington
	8/1/04 to	11/1/05 to	11/1/06 to	11/1/07 to
	11/1/05	11/1/06	11/1/07	2/1/09
Group 1	$29.22	$30X9	$31X5	$3237
Group 2	21.91	2302	24.18	24.90
Group 3	1532	16.10	1726	17.98
Welfare	500	525	5.75	6.75
teuton	430	4,75	4.75	4.75
Pipeline Tm.	25 .		30	.75	.75
LMCT	30	25	00	00
•EFEC	05	05	05	05
(Adminutrative Duet of 3% of grow wapea deducted when authorized by employee)
•(Deducted when authorized by employee)
Reuizra
Mio
ZONI 3 (Lacai 103)
Adama	Delaware	Johnaon			Tlppnanpc	
Altai	Fayette	Madiaon			Uptbti	
Benton	Grant	Marion			Untol	
Blackford	Hamilton	Miami			WMMi	
CanoU	Hancock	j - a_a. lUDQOfpT	1		Wayti:	
Cto	Henry	Ruth			wbi	
Clinton	Howard	Shelby			Whftt	
Decatur	Hunington	Stoeben			WWtisy	
DeKalb	Jay					
	8/1/04 to 11/14)5 to	4/1/06 to IVLOSto 4/1/07to 11/1707 to				4/1/08 to
	11/1/05	4/1/06	11/1/06	4/1/07		11/1/07	4/UM	2/1/09
Grotto 1	$2937	$30.89	$30.44	$32.10		$31.80	53^/52	$3322
Group 2	2206	2322	22.77	2443	24.13	1115	2553
Gro<to3	1651	1739	16.94	1800	1830	2102	19.72
Wfitre	3.90	3.90	405	4 JOS	405	■105	405
Ptaiion	5j05	5.30	555	355	5.80	110	605
Apptenticethip	•40	.W	.65	65	.70	.70	.75
Pipeline Tng.	25	30	50	.75	.75	.75	.75
LMCT	50	25 -	25	no	00	m	00
•EPEC	05	OS	05	05	05	JOS	05
•(Deducted when authorized by employee)						
ZONE 4 (Lecal 150)						
Elkhurt	Koaciuako	Newton			Prdtdti	
Pulton	LaGrange	Noble			Sttriii	
letter	Munhall					
	8/14)4 to	11/1/03 to	11/14)6 to		11/1/07 to	
	11/1/05	11/1/06	11/1/07		1)14)9	
Group 1	$2903	$30.00	$30.76		13133	
Group 2	21.72	2233		23.09	2316	
Group 3	16.18	1651		1727	1804	
Welfare	3.10	5.70		630	6.95	
Penaion	3.40	350		3.60	3.75	
Apptenticethip 25		55		.70	23	
• Vacation	.90	.90		.95	.95	
Pipeline Tng.	25		50		.73	.75	
LMCT	50	25		.00	JOO	
••EPEC	J05	.03		05	.03	
•Add vacation to grota and figure Ita Deduction Ihentubnnt full amount for each hour waked. (Adminiatrative duet of 3% to be deducted from rate when autiwdzed by employee.) “(Deducted when ■utborized by employee)
ZONE 5 (Local 841)
Borne	Hendricks	Morgan		Suffilvn	
Clay	Knox	Owen		VeiiinUon	
Daviett	Monroe	Parke		Mg^	
Fountain	Montgomery	Putnam		Wtoim	
Greene					
	8/1/04 to	11/1/05 to	4/1J06 to	81/1/06 to	11/1/07 to
	11/1/05	4/1/06	11/14)6	M1/1/07	2/1/09
Group 1	$27.92	$29.24	$2859	$3025	$3147
Group 2	2001	2157	20.92	2258	2330
Group 3	1506	15.74	1509	16.73	17.97
ttt.aa	 wemre	420	4.60	500	5jQ0	520
Perutioo	400	425	450	430	4.75
Apptenticethip 00		.60	.60	.60	35
Saving!	200	200	200	200	200
Pipeline Tng.	25		50	.75	.75	.75
LMCT	50	25	00	00	00
• EPEC	J05	05	05	05	05
(Duet deduction of $50 when autiictiaed by enqitoyee J '(Deducted when authorized by employee)
Rev. V2008
A411
i
IOWA
ZONE 1 (Local 150) Cedar Lee	Clinm Louin 8/1/04 to 11/1/05	DeaMmnea Muscatine 11/1/05 to 11/14)6	Scott	
			11/1/06 to 11/1/07	11/1/07 to 2/1/09
Group 1	$29.24	$3024	$3102	$3132
Group 2	2209	22.73	2331	2431
Group 3	1532	1539	1637	17.01
Wslfare	5.10	5.70	630	6.95
* Pension (GR1/2) 3.75		325	3.95	4.10
Apprentjcertrip 25		35	.70	25
Vacation	.90	SO	.95	.95
Pipeline Taj.	.25		30	.75	.75
LMCT	30	25	00	no
•• Erec	ns	AS	ns	£5
*($300 for Group 3 except Scott County, Eff 11/1/05 - $3.10 for Group 3 except Scott County. Eff. 11/1/06 -$320; Eff. 11/14)7 - $335)
(2% duea deductioa when authorized by employee)
••(Deducted When authorized by employee)
ZONE 2 (Local 234) (Rett of State)
	8/lXHto 11/1/05	11/1/05 to 11/1/06	11/1/06 to 11/1/07 .	11/1/07* 2/1/09
Group 1	$27.69	$28.74	$29.77	$30.77
Group!	1854	19.13.	20.16	21.16
Group3	1521	15.70	16.98	1823
Welfare	530	600	6.40	6.90
• Pension	5.75	600	625	630
Apprettdoedup 30		30	30	50
•• Admin. Dues	.65	.65	.75	.80
Pipeline Tup.	25	30	.75	.75
LMCT	30	25	no	no
•••EPEC	ns	0$:	os	.05
•($230 far Group 3))
••(Admhuatntive Duca deductioa when authorized by employee)
•••(Deducted when mMhoriad by employee)
ZONE 1 (Local 101) fohnaott	Leavenworth		KANSAS		
		Wyandotte		11/1/07 to 2/1/09
	8/1/04 In 11/1/05	11/1/05 to 11/1/06	11/1/06 to 11/1/07	
Group 1	$2733	$2830	$29.46	$30.49
Group 2	1927	19.90	20.76	21.79
Group 3	15.44	1536	16.72	17.75
• Welfare	450	5.10	530	630
•* Pentian	3.75	400	425	450
Appncntictfhi|	?	20	20	20	20
Vacation	107	107.	107	10?
*** Suppl. Duca	.60	30	.60	30
Pipeline Tn$.	25	30	50	.75
LMCT	50	20	25	.00
••••Erec	ns	L 05	ns	.05
(Adminiaintive duet of $ 60 deducted when authorized by employee)
•(Eff 11/1/07 - $5.75 Group 3))
••(Eff 11/1/07 - $400 Group 2; $3.75 Group 3))
•••(Remit duet when authorized by employed. Add to wage* then deduct.)
••••(Deducted when authorized by en^doyee)
Rev. 1/3008

ZONE 1 (Local 101)
(Rest of State)
		8/1AM to 11/1/05	11/1/05 to 11/1/06	li/1/06 to 11/1AJ7	11/1/07 to 111/09
	Group 1	$29.28	$3038	$3127	132.32
	Group 2	2031	21.17	22.06	23.11
	Group 3	1431	14.77	1566	16.71
	• Wfere	430	5.10	530	630
	*• Penasco	3.15	400	435	430
	Training	.15	.15	.15	.15
	”• Sup. Duet	60	,60	30	30
	Pipeline Tng.	25	30	30	.75
	LMCT	30	25	25	J00
	»«•» EPEC	J05	DS	35	05
	(Administrative due* of $60 deducted when authorized by employee)				
	•(Ett. 1 Vl/D7-$5.75 for Group 3))				
	•*( Eff 11/1X77-3275 for Group 3))				
	•••Remit dues when authorised by employee. Add to wages then deduct.-				
	••’•(Deducted when authorized by employee)				
KENTUCKY
ZONE 1 (Local IS)
Boone	Campbell		Kenton		Peadleiun		
	1/1/04 to 11/1/05	11/1/05 to 5/1/06	5/1/06 to 11/1/06	11/I/06IO 5/1/07	5/1/07 to 11/1A7	HZKDto 5/L118	5/1/08 to 2/1/09
Group 1	$31.16	$32.99	$32.44	$34.14	$33.79	Siti 56	$3521
Group 2	25.46	2730	26.45	28.15	2730	1!>37	2922
Group 3	1935	20.90	2035	2235	21.70	I1U7	23.12
Welfare	5.11	531	531	531	531	J31	531
PcUKMl	330	330	330	330	3.65	165	430
Apprenticeship	.45	45	30 ■	30	30	30	30
Safety A Educ.	34	04	XM	34	34	34	34
Pipeline Tug.	25	30	30	.75	.75	.75	.75
LMCT	30	25	25	30	30	30	30
•EPEC	35	35	35	.05	35	35	35
'(Deducted when authorized by employee) ZONE 2 (Local 181)
(Rest of State)
	8/lXMto 11/1/05	11/1/05 to 11/1/06	11/1/06 to 11/1/07	lUl/OTt 211/09
Group 1	$2931	$30.47	$31.62	$3233
Group 2	21.91	2332	24.17	2438
Group 3	13.76	14.46	15.61	1632
Welfare	530	525	5.75	6.75
Pension	430	4.75	4.75	4.75
Pipeline Tug.	25	30	.75	.75
LMCT	30	25	30	30
* EPEC	35	35	35	35
(Administrative duet of 3% of gross wages deducted when authorized by employee)
•(Deducted when autboriaed by employee)
Row. 1/2008
A»313
LOUISIANA
Statewide (Local 406)
	3/1/03 to 6/1/05	Wl/05 to 11/1/05	ll/MBto 11/1/06	11/1/06 to 11/1/07	11/1/07 to 2/1/09
Group 1	$2933	$30X14	$31.65	$3330	$35D1
Group 2	23.51	23.39	2457	2622	27.93
Group 3	1637	15.92	16.68	1833	2004
Welfare	3 DO	430	4.65	4.65	4.65
• Pension	4 no	400	400	4,00	4.00
Appretuiceahip 20		.20	20	20	20
•• Vacation	1D0	1.00	1.00	ino	1.00
Pipeline Tag.	25	25	.75	.75	.75
LMCT	30	30	.00	X»	no
•••EFEC	05	JOS	M	OS	.05
(Duet deduction of 2* of groea wage* when authorized by employee) •($2 DO for Group 2; $1.00 for Group 3)
•*(S1 XX) vucatwo to be deducted from wages after taxes)
♦••(Deducted when authorized by employee)
Statewide (Lecad 4)	8/1/04 to 11/1/05	MAINE 11/1/05 to 11/1/06	11/1/06 to 11/1/07	11/1/07 to 2/1/09
Group 1	$25.92	$2656	$26.61	$26.99
Grorg>2	1732	1753'	1758	17.96
Gnmp3	1306	1306	13.11	13.49
Welfare	5.40	5.98	6.78	733
Pension	425	5.00	551	6X»
Annuity	3D0	3.00	300	3jOO
Apprenticeship	.13	.13	.13	23
Pipeline Tty.	25	50	.75	.75
LMCT	50	2$	no	DO
• EPEC	JDS	XB	05	' 05
(Duet of 1-1/4* of total package when authorized by employee) •(Deducted when authorized by employee)
MARYLAND
ZONE 1 (Local 77)
Cheries	h	iootgomery	Prince George		StMaryi
	8/1/04 to	11/1/05 to	11/1/06 to	11/1/07 to
	11/1/05	11/1/06	11/1/07	2/1/09
Group 1	$33 40	$35.14	$3655	$38X13
Group!	2434	25.62	2703	2851
Groups	15.75	1659	1800	19.48
Welfare	330	3.60	3.90	420
Fermion	2XX)	2.00	200	200
Appcwnticrahip 55		55	55	55
• Annuity	.75	.75	.75	.75
Pipeline Tty.	25	50	.75	.75
LMCT	50	25	.00	DO
••EPEC	05	XB	XB	05
(AdmbtittMive duei of $55 per hour deducted tram rate when authorized by employee.) •($50 for Group 3)
••(Deducted when authorized by employee)
Rev. 1/2008
A«14
ZONE 2 (Local 37) (Rest of State)
	8/1/04 to 11/1/05	11/1/05 to 11/1/06	11/1/06 to n/ixn	11/1/07 » 2/1/09
Group I	$3130	$33.45	$34.16	13544
Group!	22.44	22.93	24.64	25.91
Group 3	15.68	15.84	1735	18.83
Welfare	430	5.00	5.00	5.15
Pfirfky	230	300	300	325
Apprenticeship 30		35	35	
Annuity	100	IDO	100	I DO
• Vacation	.40	.40	.40	.40
•• Adm. Duet	104	108	1.11	1.11
Pipeline Tng.	25	30	.75	•75
LMCT	X	25	00	.00
•••EPEC	D5	05	05	05
*($.40 per boor Vacation deducted from rate.)
••(Admin. Due* cl 5104 per hour deducted from nte when authorised by employee)
•••(Deducted when amhorised by employee)
MASSACHUSETTS
ZONE 1 (Local 98)
Berkahire	franklin
Hampden	HntBptidre
	8/lMto	11/1/05 to	11/1/06 to	1; 1/1/07 to
	11/1/05	11/1/06	11/1/07	211/09
Group 1	$33.72	$34.85	$3535	136.19
Group 2	27.13	27.93	28.63	2927
Group 3	20.49	20.96	21.66	2230
WfeUtor	4.75	530	632	727
Pension	200	2.40	230	320
Apprenticeship 30		30	30	30
Central Pentina 100		1.00	100	too
Annuity	3.13	. 3.13	3.13	3.13
Pipeline Tug.	25	30	.75	.75
LMCT	30	25	00	00
• EPEC	05	05.	05	05
(Duet of 2-5% and Social Action to be deducted jitfai rate 'when authorized by emptarfee) •(Deducted when authorized by employee)
ZONE 2 (Local 4) (Rett of State)
	8/1/34 to 11/1/05	11/1/05 to 11/1/06	11/1/06 to 11/1/07	il/l/D7to wm
Group 1	$3126	$3131	$3131	$32.28
Group!	24.77	24.99	24.99	2546
Group 3	2028	2028	2028	20.75
Welfare	540	635	730	838
Pension	425	500	5.94	635
Apprenticeship 30		30	30	30
Annuity	300	300	300	300
• Coop. Tout Fund 20%		20%	20%	20%
Piperine Tag.	25	30	.75	.75
LMCT	30	25	00	00
*• EPEC	05	05	.05	05
•(Coop. Tract Had i> 2% of total package) (Dues deduction of M/4% of total package) ••(Deducted when authorized by employee)
Rev. 1/2008
A-315

MICHIGAN
Statewide (Local 324)
	8/1/04 to	11/1/05 to	11/1/06 to	11/1/07 to
	11/1/05	11/106	11/1/07	2/1/09
Group 1	$24.70	$2304	$2632	$2701
Group 2	2050	2124	22.12	2201
Gntop 3	18.15	1887	19.63	20.12
Wdferc	650	725	750	735
Petuiou	4.75	5.00	5.75	633
• Vacation	150%	150%	150%	150%
Apprettticeahip	20	20		20
Redree Ben. Fund	30	30	30	.42
** Sues. Vbcatkai	.02	02	02	02
Labor Mgm. Ed. Com. .10		.10	05	05
Animtty	IDO	1.00	100	100
Pipeline Tap. LMCT	25 50	50 25	.75 00	.73 00
«««Ei>ec	.05	05	05	05
h 15% of jroea wapei and itould be added to wagea for the pupae cf contputjng jwymll dtdicdcm)
••Supp. Vac. alao aubjoct to taxea.)
•••(Deducted when authorised by employee)
MINNESOTA
Statewide (Local 49)
	8/1/04 to 11/005	11/1/05 to 11/1/06	11/1/06 to 11/1W	11/007 to 2/1G9
Group 1	$2905	$31.73	$3258	$33.70
Group 2	21.90	2351	2436	25/48
Group 3	1908	2103	2138	2300
Welfare (Gp 1*2)	525	525	5.95	6.45
Welfare (Op 3)	4.16	4.16	4.86	336
Peok»(Gp 1)	600	6.00	620	6.40
Pcnskm(Gp2)	420	420	4.40	400
Pension (Gp 3)	250	230	2.70	200
Pipeline Tty.	25	50	.75	.73
LMCT	50	25	00	00
• EPEC	05	05	05	05
(SAO Adtniniatrttive dues deducted when authorized by employee)
•(Deducted when authorised by employee)
MISSISSIPPI
Statewide (Local 424)
	8/1/04 to	11/1/05 to	11/1/06 to	11/1/07 to
	11/1/05	11/1/06	11/1/07	2/10)9
Group I	529.43	$3035	$3101	$32.99
Group 2	21.70	2324	2450	25.88
Group 3	1408	1636	1702	1900
Wdftro	400	405	405	4.65
* Pennon	425	450	4.75	500
App	•»-w	.	.10	20	25
Pipeline Tug. LMCT	25 50	50 25	.75 00	.75 00
••EPEC	05	05	05	05
(2% Adminbttadye dtmi deducted when authorized by employee) •(Eff. 11/M15 Group 2 - $350; Group 3 - S3 DO) ••(Deducted when authorized by employee)
Rev. 1/2008
A-418
MISSOURI
ZONE 1 (Lucul 101)
Clay	Jackson		Platte	Ray	
	8/104 to	11/105 to	11/1/06 to	11/1/07 to
	11/105	11/106	11/107	2/109
Group 1	$2753	$28.60	$2946	$30.48
Group 2	2155	2232	23.18	2420
Group 3	17.72	1827	19.13	20.15
•Welfare	450	5.10	550	600
•• Pension	3.7S	400	425	430
Apprenticeship	20	20	20	20
Vacation	107	107	107	107
••• Suppl. Dues	50	.60	50	50
Pipelute Tag.	25	50	30	.75
LMCT	50	25	25	.00
•••« EPEC	05	05	jOS	05
•(Eff 11/107 - SS.73 for Group 3»
••(Eff 11/107 - $425 for Group 3»
•••(Remit duet when authorized by employee. Add to w^es then deduct.)
••■•(Deducted when authorized by employee)
ZONE 2 (Local $13)
Counties of St. Loom and StLouto City
	8/104 to 11/105	11/1/05 to 11/106	11/1/06 to n/i/07	11/107 to 2/109
Group 1	$2559	$26.98	$2731	$2855
Group 2	22.15	2326	2409	2433
Group 3	1856	1949	2032	21.06
Welfare	4.70	4.70	5.10	530
Bunion	6 45	645	645	6.75
Appronticeahip	57	59	.60	.62
Annuity	205	■ 2.75	320	320
• Vacation	135	135	135	135
*• Suppl. Ducs	25%	25%	23%	23%
Pipeline Tug.	25	50	30	.75
LMCT	30	25	25	00
♦»• EPEC	05	05	05	05
•(Vacation should be deducted in accordance with local vacation plan.)
••(Supp. Duet deducted when authorized by employee)
•••(Deducted when authorized by employee)
ZONE 3 (Local $13)
Franklin	Jefferson	St. Chartea
	8/104 to 11/105	11/105 to 11/106	11/106 to 11/107	11/107 to 2/109
Group 1	$2569	$26.98	$2731	$2855
Group 2	22.15	2326	2409	2433
Groups	1856	19.49	2032	2106
Wleifhne	4.70	4.70	5.10	530
	645	645	645	6.75
Apprenticeship	57	39	60	62
Aimtoty	205	2.75	320	320
• Vacation	135	135	135	135
•• Suppl. Dues	25%	23%	25%	25%
Pipeline Tng.	25	30	50	.75
LMCT	50	25	25	00
*•* EPEC	05	05	05	05
•(Vacation of $.70 per straight tune hour and $ 1 05 for overtime hours is included in rhove rates and should be deducted in accordance with local vacation plan.)
••(Supp. Duer deducted firom gross wage when rothorized)
•••(Deducted when authorized by employee)
Rev. 1/2008
A-817
ZONE4(LncM Ml)
Btsduman	Can
8/1/04 to 11/1/05 droop 1	$2755
Grotto 2	2156
Group 3	17.74
•	Welfare	450
*	* Pension	3.75
Apprenticeship	20
Vtaatioa	107
Suppl. Dues	.60
Pipeline Tn$.	25
LMCT	30
•••• EPBC	OS
•(Eff 11/1477 - $5.75 foe Group 3))' ••(Eff 11/1477 - $425 for Group 3)) •••(Remit duet when authorized by employee) "••(Deducted when authorized by employee)
ZONE 5 (Local 101)
Andrew	Cooper
Atdnanai	Daviess
Batea	DeKalb
Benton	Gentry
Caldwell	Grandy
Caron	Harrison
Chariton 8/14Hto 11/14)5
Group 1	$2755
Group 2	2136
Group 3	17.74
•	Wfare	450
•	• fousion	3.75
Apprenticeahlp	20
$teetion	107
•	•• Suppl Dues	60
Pipeline Tng.	25
LMCT	50
••♦• EFEC	OS
•(Eff 11/1477 - $5 .75 for Group 3)) ••(Eff 11/1/07 - $425 for Group 3 •••(Remit duet when sutborized by employee) ••••(Deducted when anlhi aired by employee)
ZONE 6 (Local 101)
Bony	Dellas
Barton	Douglas
Camden	Greene
Cedar	Hickory
Christian	Jasper
Dade	Laciede
8/1/04 to 11/1/05
Grotto 1	$2921
Grotto 2	2322
Group 3	1939
•	Welfare	450
•	• Pension	325
•	•• SupplJJuea	50
Appcaticeahip	20
Pipeline Tng.	25
LMCT	50
•	••• EPEC	05
•(Eff 11/14)7 - $5.75 for Group 3)) ••(Eff IVlXf? - $3.75 for Group 3) •••(Remit does when authorized by employee) ••••(Deducted when authorized by employee)
Clinton		Lafayette	
11/14)5 to	11/1/06 to		11/1/07 to
11/1/06	11/1/07		2/1/09
$2862	$29.48		$3050
2233	23.19		2421
1830	19.16		20.18
5.10	560		600
400	425		450
20	20		20
107	107		107
60	60		60
50	30		.75
25	.25		.00
05	OS		.05
Henry		Mercer	
Holt		Nodaway	
Howard		Pettis	
Johnson		Saline	
Unn		Sullivan	
Livingston		Worth	
11/1/05 to	11/1/06 to		11/14)7 to
11/1/06	11/1/07	2/1/09	
$2862	$29.48		$3050
2233 : 1	23.19		2421
1830	19.16		20.18
5.10	560		600
4.00	42S		430
20	20		20 1
107	1.07		1.07
60	.60		60
50	30		.75
25	25		.00
05	OS		05
Lawrence		Taney	■
McDonald		Vernon	
Newton		Webster	
Ozark Polk		Wright St.Clair	
Stone			
11/1/05 to	11/1/06 to	11/1/07 to		
11/1/06	11/1/07	2/1/09	
$3028	$31.14		$32.16
23.99	24.85		2537
19.94	20.80		2132
5.10	5 60		600
350	3.75		4.00
50	50		50
20	20		20
50	50		.75
25	25		.00
05	05		05
Rev. 1Z2008
A418
ZONE 7 (Local 313)
Adair	Oteconsde	Montgomery		Rqnoida St. Hancis	
Andrian	Howell	Morgan			
BolUnper	Iran	New Madrid			
Boone	Knox	Oregon		Ste. Genevieve	
Butter Callaway	Lewie Macon	Osage ftmiacot		Sdftte Scdtfend	
Cape Girardeau	Madboo	Petry		Semi	
Carter	Maries	Fbetp		Shdtnou	
Clark	Marion	Kite		Shdby	
Cote	Miller	Pulaski		Stoiiird .	
Crawford	Mjssiaaippi	. Putnam		Ttatiti	
Dcm	Moniteau	Raila		wa-Mi.i- x WVwRSlOQ	
Dunkin	Monroe	Randolph		Wfajite	
	5/1/03 to	8/1/04 to	11/1/05 to	11/1106 to	11/1/07 to
	8/1/04	11/1/05	11/1/06	114)07	2/1A79
Group 1	$2326	$23.93	$25.15	$15.90	$2635
Grap 2	1730	17.94	J 18/86	19.61	20.26
Group 3	1334	13.61	1432	153X7	15.72
Welfare	445	4.70	4.70	5.10	5.80
Pension	620	6.45-	6.45	6.45	6.75
Apprenticeship .19		33	55	36	39
Annuity	130	1 205	2.75	320	320
• Vacation	1.13	1.15	1.15	1.15	1.15
•• Suppl. Dues	23%	23%	23%	23%	23%
Pipeline Tng.	25		25	30	30	.75
LMCT	30	30	25	25	DO
*•• EPEC	SB	05	45	SB	45
•(Vacation of $1.15 per straight time hour end $1,725 for overtime hours is included iti above rates and dieted be deducted m acccadance with local vacation plan).
*	‘(Sq>p. Dues 25% from gross wage when authorized by employee)
•••(Dednctod when authorized by employee)
ZONES (Local513}
Lincoln
Warren
	8/1/D4 to 11/1/05	11/1/05 to 11/1/36	11/1/06 to 11/1/07	ll/Wb 2/L09
Group 1	$25.67	$26.96	$27.79	$JIJ3
Group 2	2239	2352	2435	I’M
Group 3	1848	1933	20.66	2140
Welfare	4.70	4.70	5.10	!»0
Pension	6.45	6.45	6.45	1.75
Apprenticeship 57		39	.60	
Annuity	245	2.75	320	120
• Vacation	133	135	135	.135
** Suppl. Does	24%	2.5%	23%	15%
Pipeline Tag.	' 25	.50	30	.75
LMCT	30	25	25	DO
•*• EPEC	45	45	.05	05
•(Vacation of $135 per straight time hour and $243 for overtime hours is included in above rates Md should be deducted in accotdarxse with local vacation plan.)
•	•(Sapp. Dues 23% hum gross wager when authorised fay employee)
•	••(Deducted when authorized by employee)
Rev. V2008
Ai*1&
Statewide (Local 400)
MONTANA
8/1/04 to 11/1/05		lUUOSfo 11/1/06	11/1106 to 11/1/07	11/147 to 2/1/09
Group 1	$27.79	$28.66	$3023	$31.76
Group 2	2155	2225	23.82	25.45
Groups	1956	20.14	21.71	2224
Welfare	3.70	4.45	4.45	4.45
pension (Gp. 1)	3.75	400	400	400
Pension (Gp. 2)	307	3.1Q	3.10	3.10
Pension (Gp. 3)	200	200	200	3.10,
Apprent. Gr. 1	140	1.40	1.40	150
Apprent. Gr. 2 4 3 50		50	50	50
• Vacation	1 00	1.00	100	100
Pipeline Tog.	25	50	.75	.75
LMCT	50	25	.00	OO
••EPEC	05	05	05	03
•(Deduct vacation from net wages.)
••(Deducted Mm authorized by employee)
NEBRASKA
	8/1/04 to 11/1/M	11/1/05 to 11/1/06	11/1/06 to . 4(1/07	4/14)7 to lJ/1/07	11/1/07 to 2/14)9
Group 1	$30.98	$32.90	$34.51	$3326	$3459
Group 2	22.71	24.14	23.75	2525	26.38
Groups . ,	15.13	16.13	17.74 .	17.46	)8.87
Welfare	400	400	400	400	'400
• Pension	250	2.45	235" '	3.65	400
"Raining	20	25	25 ’	30	30
Pqreline Tng.	25	50	.75	.75	.75
LMCT	50	25	00	OO	00
** EPEC	05	05	05	.05	. 05
*($2.45 fir Group 2; $123 for Group 3 Eff. 11/1/07: $3.00 for Group 2; $150 for Group 3) ‘‘(Deducted when atohorizedby employee)
ZONE 1 (Local 12}
NEVADA
	7/1/05 to 7/1/06	‘ 1 7/1/06 fo ' 7/1/07	7/1/07 to 7/108
Group 1	$32.95	$3450	$3653
Group 2	3135	33.40	3500
Group 3	30.74	3229	33.47
White	7.90	7.90	7.90
Pension	3.75	405	4.55
5te.ASwar.dues 2.75		2.80	2.82
Draining	50	50	50
ECCC	.17	.17	.14
• EPEC	05	05	05
(AMNmwI Oraitbue. Utne and one-half after 8 upto 11 bouts. Monday-Friday and for Saturday Upto 11 tans. AH other hours over 11 hours and on Sunday at doable time.)
(AddMnud HeMajK Memorial Day, President's Day, Veterans Day and day after Umksgrviug.) (Zone Pay: Prom City Hall of Lar Vcgaa-
20 - 40 miles: odd $200 to wage rates.
40 - 60 miles: add $300 to wage rates, over 60 miles: add $350 to wage rates.	\
(Local A.GC. Highway Contract Provisions concerning Engineer Foreman will be applicable ) (Shift Wort - Local agreement applies )
•(Deducted when authorized by employee)
Rev. 10008
ZONE 2 (Local 3)
Contact PLCA ar IUOE for exact location of Area (A), Are* (B), Area (Q and Arn (11).
AREA (A)
7/VD6to 7/1/07
Group 1	$3003
Group!	2806
Group 3	2608
Welfare	6.40
Pension	5100
Aff. Action	j66
PensfoncdH* W 1.15
*	Vacation	3100
Supp. Duea	00
NPLTF	JO
LMCT	25
•	* EPEC	05
7/1/07 to 7/1308
$30.03 2806 26.08
64Q 600
.66 125 3.00
JO JO 25 05
•(Deduct Vacation from rate. Vacation rate to 1J time* for overtime.)
••(Deducted when authorised by employee)
’ ■ O \ ...
AREA (B) -Wagee in thto area are $1 JO per hodr sixtvi rate* in each group of Area ( A). Fringe cootrfoutiocs are the tame m Area (A) above. Between 50 and 150 mike of Washoe County Coormtttre. (Time Mane and •top* at jobsite with ctnpfoyM* forotohfog own tranqxrrtatioti.)
AREA (C) -Wage* in dtto ire* are $200 per hour above rate* in each group of Are* (h)- Rings contributions are the i»tne*« Area (A) above. Between 150 *nd 300 mile* of Watboe County Couflbtxne. (Time Mart* and stop* at jobsite with employees forniahing own tranaportatfon.)
AREA (D) -Wage* in thia area are $300 per tour above rates in each group of Are* (M- Fringe contribution* are the same at Are* (A) above. Over 300 milea of Washoe County Courthouse. (Unto atari* and atop* at jbbahe with employee* ferauhing own tnntpartatkm.)
The following qredal condition* apply to *11 of Zone 1
Additional Overtime: Double time after 12 bottra; time and one~h*lf on Saturday up to 12 bom; double time on Sunday.
Additional Holiday*: Memorial Day, day after Thankagiving and Adnriaaion Day.
Local AGC Highway Contract Proviatona concerning Matter Mechanic will be sppliclMe.
Shift wnrit - local agreement applies.
NEW HAMPSHIRE
ZONE IfLenlM)
Cheshire Crafton	Hillsboro	Merrimack	SuIBvm	
	8/1/04 to	11/1/05 to	11/1/06 to	li/l/07 to
	11/1AJ5	11/1/06	11/1/07	3'1/09
Group 1	$29.93	$30.95	S31J6	132.14
Group 2	22.77	23.43	243)4	24.62
Group 3	1603	1636	16.97	17J5
ttt.te	 WBURre	4.75	5.45	625	7.15
Pcntios	165	1.85	21)5	225
Apprenticeship j05		jta	.05	05
CPF	JO	JO	.30	JO
Amntity	100	100	1.00	100
Pipeline Tng	25		JO	.75	.73
LMCT	JO	25	OQ	OO
•EPEC	05	OS	05	05
(Due* deduction of 2 3% of gross wage* when authorized by emfdoyee.) •(Deducted when authorized by employee)
ROV.1Z2008
A-321
ZONE 2 (Laeal 4)
Ratkntaji Carroll	Coos 8/1/04 to 11/105	Rockingham		Strafford 11/1X17 to 2/1/09
		11/1/05 to 11/1/06	11/1/06 to 11/1/07	
Grata* 1	$24.90	$2549	$2549	$2523
Grot? 2	17,74	17.97	1797	1831
Grata* 3	1308	1308	1308	13.42
Welfare	540	5.98	6.78	7.83
PenakMt	425	500	531	600
Apprenticeihip .13		.13	.13	23
Annuity	300	300	300	300
Pipeline Tng.	25		50	.75	.75
LMCT	50	25	00	00
• EPEC	OS	05	05	05
(Due* deduction of 15» of total package where authorized by employee) •(Deducted when authorized by employee)
NEW JERSEY
Stata*H*(LoMl«19)
7/1/06 to	7/1/07 to
7/1/07	7/1/08
Group 1	$38.73	$39.90
Group 2	3525	36.40
Group 3	31.74	32.89
VUtare	800	825
hnaion (CPF)	425	450
Saving*	1O0	100	'
Appmticeahip	30	100
Supp, Unetnp.	1.15	too
Annuity	500	500
•EPEC	05	05
•(Deducted wtaa authorized by employee)
(Additional Omlluiat Ume and toe-half on Sanrday anddoubt time on Sunday. OT abo applies to fringe*.)
(Additional Hoiidayt: Waahingtan'a Birthday, Decoration pay, Veteran'* Day, Presidential Election Day. (Paid holiday* in accordance with provitirns of Local AGC Highway Agreement.)
(Guaranteed work week in accordance with provUkna otLdcal AGC Highway Agreement .)
Local AGC Highway Agreement provition* concerning Lead Engineer or Matter Mechanic will be applicable.)
NEW MEXICO
Statewide (Laeal 953)
8/1/04 to 11/1/05
Grata* 1	$3035
Grata* 2	23A3
Grot? 3	16.90
Welfare 300
• Pention (CPF) 3.98
Apprenticeahip 35
Pipeline Tng. 25
LMCT	30
••EPEC	05
11/1X15 to	ll/l/06to	ll/l/07to
11/1X16	11/1/07	2/1/09
$3227	$33.88	$3556
25.15	26.76	28.44
1802	1963	2131
300	300	300
3.98	3.98	3.98
35	35	35
50	.75	.75
25	00	.00
05	05	05
(Dae* deduction of $20 when authorized by employee.) •($264 far Grot? 2; $138 for Group 3) ••(Deducted when authorized by engfoyee)
Rev. 1/2008
M22
ZONE 1 (Locals 14 «i>d 15)
NEW YORK
Bronx Richmond
Local 14
Kings
New York	Quetta
7/1/02 to 7/1/03
Group 1	$4015
Group 2	30.44
Group 3	2436
Welfare	415
Pension	340
Annuity	7.75
Vohmtary Annuity 235
Appientiecihip .40
• Don	.90
Ddenae	j05
••EPEC	jQ5
7/1/03 to	7/14X7 to
7/1/04	7/1/08
52.94
3.63	635
830	4.70
2.65	915
.40	.75
.90	141
ns '■	.05
JOS	.05
Lacalid	7/1/02 to	7/1/03 to
	7/1/03	7/1/04
Group 1	$3631	$35.81
Group 2	3044	29.94
Group 3	2436	2406
Welfare	420	420
	340	3.65
Vacation	LOO	1D0
Annuity	7.75	7.75
Apprenticeship 30		30
• Dues	30	.80
Defense	OS	.05
«EPEC	J05	.05
NOTE: OT applies to Vacetkm, Annuity, Dues and Training.
AddKfoua! Omilliiiii; Double time after 8 and 40 'and on Saturday and Sunday.
Addttknai HoUdaya: Lincoln's Birthday, Washington's Birthday, Memorial Day, Cctmnbus Day, Armistice Day and Election Day.
(Paid holidays in acOMdance with provision of Local General Contractor's Aaaoriadiia Agreement.)
Local General Coctra.-tnr1. AMnriaHnii agreement prnridnM concerning Master Mechanic will be applicable.
•(Remit dues when authorized by employee.)
••(Deducted when authorized by employee)
Rev. 1Z2OO8
A-323

ZONE 2 (Local 138)
Nassau end Suffolk Counties
srixnto 5/31/03
<W/Kto 5/31/04
6/1/07 to 5/31/08
Group 1	$36.19
Group 2	3367
Group 3	2861
Welfare	760
Pension	560
Appratticeahq) 69
LepU	35
*	Anmrity	750
Unempioytrient 1.15
•	• Vacation	100
PAC	M
Defeme	.15
•	•• EPEC	j05
$3863	$4533
3621	4150
30.95	3766
835	11.10
560	560
.69	.69
.35	.45
750	850
1.15	1.15
2.00	2.00
D8	.10
.15	.15
.05	65
Duel Checkoff! $167 pet bout on ell hours paid when authorized by employee.
Additional Oenitliunj Durable time after 8 and 40 and on Saturday and Sunday.
AddiftMMt Holidays: Lincoln’s Birthday, Washington's Birthday, Memorial Day, Cohunbua Day, Good Friday and Vttetan'a Day.
(Paid holidays in accordance wife provisions of Local General Contractors Association Agreement.)
Local General Contractors Association Agreement provisions concerning Masker Mechanic will be applicable.
*	(2x for all overtime)
•	•(Notet The following amounts see deducted from wages after taxes and ate included in fee fringe benefit rate: Included in wages and dues, defense, legal, vacation, and PAC.)
•	••(Deducted when arthorized by employee)
ZONE 3 (Lead 17)
Cattaraugus	Erie	Orleans
ChmUnaqua	Genesaee (Western Part)	Wyoming
8/1/04 to		11/1/05 to	11/1/06 to	11/1/07 to
	11/1/05	11/1/06	11/1/07	2/1/09
Group 1	529.47	$3126	$31.88	$32.73
Group 2	24.11	25.64	26.26	27.11
Group3	1959	20.83	21.45	2230
Welfare	500	520	520	630
faufcn	225	225	325	3 DO
SUb.	140	1.40	. 1.40	1.40
Apmentireihip	121	121	121	121
CPF Group 1A2 505		530	555	560
CPF Group 3	3.75	400	425	456
EJWFSupp.	60	.70	30	.90
Pers. Acc. Plan	1.15	135	1.15	1.15
Pipeline Tug.	25	50	.75	.75
LMCT	50	25	DO	.00
•EPEC	05	j05	.05	.05
(OHSfbmnt In accordance wife pntviatens of Loes] AGC Highway/Heavy Agreement, overtime shall include weighted fringe. The weighted fringe will be included in the wages and will be deducted and remitted,)
Savings and Dues deducted from Rate in accordance with Local Agreement when authorized by employee.
•(Deducted when authorized by employee)
Rev. 1/2008
A-024
ZONE 4 {Local 825)
Delaware	Rockland	Sullivan	Utebr
Orange
	7/1/06 to	7/1/07 to
	7/1/07	7/1/08
Group 1	$38.73	$39.90
Group)	35.23	36.40
Groups	31.74	3259
Welfare	8 DO	825
Pennon	425	450
Saving*	IDO	IDO
Appremiceahip	50	IDO
Sub.	1.13	IDO
Annuity	5 DO	5 DO
•EPEC	D5	D5
•(Deducted when authorized by employee)
Additional Overtime: Time oce-half on Saturday and double time cm Sunday. Of applic* to fringe*.
Additional Holiday*: Wmhiagsoa’* Birthday, Decoration Day, Veterani Day, PreaideUial Election Dey.
(Add botideya in accordance with proviaion* of Local AGC Highway Agreement.)
Local AGC Highway Agreement pcuviatana concerning Lead Enginer ar Manter Mediraic will be applicable.
ZONE $ (Laced 137)
Dutch***	Putnam	Weatcheater
3/4/03 io 3/1/05
3/3/05 to 3/1/06
3/3/061O 3/1/07
3/3/07 to 3/1/08
Group 1	$3454	$3660	$3725	$38.13
Group 2	3258	3438	35D5	3554
Group 3	23.74	2696	2734	27.84
•Welfare	660	8.40	9.65	10.94
• Pecaioo	396	4.13	4.13	4.13
•• Anmiity	640	6.73	6.90	7 DO
• Aporenticeahip 57		.70	.70	.70
•••Due*	1.15	1.15	1.15	1.13
•••• PA.C.	D5	D5	.05	D5
•••••EPEC	D5	D5 •	.05	D5
•Overtime appliea-time and one-half or double time)
*	*(40 hmm only)
•	••(Deduct from nt* far all homa paid.)
•	•••(Remit when authorised by employee.)
•	••••(Deducted when authorized by employee)
AtMItinnel Overtime: Time and one-half on Saturday and double time cm Sunday.
AAMfonai HoBdaym Lincolni Birthday, Wmhingtoo'a Birthday, Good Friday, Coir^bbua Day, November Etection Day, Meamrial Day, and Veteran'! Day. (Paid holiday* in acconbixe with proviaion* of Local Highway Agreement)
(Guaranteed wort week in accordance with proviaioai of Local Highway Agreement; Saturday i* inctudod to guarantee where work week include* Saturday.)
Local Highway Agreement provitkm* concerning Marter Mechanic will be ippticatdl.
Rev. 1/2008
A-325
<4.
ZONE 6 (Laeal 4*3) Niagara
11/15)6 to itnm		11/1/07 t 2/15)9
Group 1	531.71	$3285
Group 2	24.12	2526
Group 3	20.87	2201
Welfare	520	530
ffenaion	4.90	5.15
Appenticeahip	.60	.60
Central Pension	3.60	3.60
Pers. Acc Plan	300	300
Pipeline Tng.	.75	.75
LMCT	DO	DO
"SPEC	05	D5
"(Deducted when lutbmUcd by employee)
OMilliUK in accordance with provisions of Local AGC Highway/Heavy Agreement, overtime shall include weighted fringe. The weighted fringe will be included in the wages and will be deducted and remitted to the IUOE Local 463 WD A OE Fund.
ZONE 7
(A) Local IM
Albany, Broome, Chenango, CHntoa, Cobimbia,Nartbera pert of Dutches (to the northern boundary line of Ikmghkiecpsie), Essex, RankUn, Rthon, Greene, Hamitlon, Herkimer (east of a Une north and south through the nitroad statkm at Little Falla, New York), Montgomery, Otsego, Rensselaer, Saratoga, Schenretwiy, Scbchairie, Tioga, Warren and Warinngton.
8/1/04 to		11/1/05 to	11/1/06 to	11/1/07 u
11/1/05		11/1/06	11/1/07	2/1/09
Group 1	$3026	$32.16	$33 DO	$3336
Group 2	2450	26.11	26.95	2731
Group 3	18.70	20.02	20.86	21.72
Welfare	500	520	520	630
Pension	2.93	2.95	3.95	3.70'
Apprenticeship	IDO	IDO	IDO	IDO
Central Pension	400	4.35	4.60	4.85
Fers. Acc. Plan	IDO	DO	.60	.60
Pipeline Tng.	25	50	,75	.75
LMCT	50	25	.00	DO
* EPBC	05	D5	D5	D5
•(3% dues deductkm when authorized.)
(Savings and Defense (.75) and/or Dues deducted when authorized.)
•(Deducted when authorized by employee)
(B) Local 545
Cayuga. Cortland, Heritinim (west of a line through the railroad station at Little Friis, New York), Jefferson, Lewis, Madison, Oneida, Onondaga, Oswego, St. Lawrence, Seneca, Tompkins.
8/1/04 to		11/1/05 to	11/1516 to	11/1/07 to
11/1/05		11/15)6	11/15)7	2/1/09
Group 1	$26.79	$2822	$2926	$30.17
Group 2	2156	23.04	24D8	2509
Groups	16.90	1733	1837	19.88
Wfere	500	520	520	630
ftaskm	3 DO	350	425	4 DO
Apprenticeship	2 DO	2.00	2 DO	2.00
Central Pension	3100	3D0	3.00	3D0,
Pera. Acc. Han	2 DO	2.00	2 DO	200
Pipeline Tug.	25	50	.75	:?3
LMCT	50	25	DO	.00
•EPEC	D5	D5	D5	.05
(Savings and Defense and/or Dues deducted when authorized.)
•(Deducted when authorized by employee)
Rev. 1/2008
Ar«26
(C) Load 132
Alleghany, Livinftton, Monroe. Chemung, Ontario, Schuyler, Stueben, Wayne, Yatea, imd eastern put of Geaeaaee (incindiiig City of Betevie)
VlXMto 11/1/05		11/1/05 to 11/1/06	11/1/06 to 11/14)7	11/1/07 t 1/14)9
Group 1	$2939	$30.70	$31.66	$3254
Group 2	2432	2539	2635 '	27.43
Group 3	19.90	20.43	2139	2227
Welfare	590	520	520	530
taufaa	335	345	435	5.60
Apfaenticmhlp	95	.95	.95	.95
Central Pecaion	2j65	3.65	3.65	3.65
tai. Act. Plan	1.40	1.40	130	190
HpeHneThg.	25	30	.75	.75
LMCT	50	25	.00	.00
• EPEC ■	05	95	jOS	95
(Saving* Md Defense and/or Due* (3 3% groat wages) deducted when authorized J '(Detected when authorized by employee)
NORTH CAROLINA
Statewide (Local 470)
	8/1/04 to 11/1/05 '	11/1/05 to 11/1/06	11/1/06 to 11/1X77	£ 1/1/071 ii'IXS
Grorg, 1	$30.18	$3135	$3246	$34.14
Group 2	2241	23.14	2425	25.93
Group 3	1433	15.63	16.74	18.42
Welfare	490	425	425	425
• tamtam	350	490	430	430
Pipeline Trig.	25	50	.75	.75
LMCT	30	25	90	90
"EPEC	95	.05	95	95
•($230 for Group 2; $1 30 for Group 3; Eff 11/1/05-$3 00 for Group 2; SI50 for Gtaup 3; Eff 11/1/06-$350 for Groq> 2; $290 for Group 3) "(Detected when authorized by employee)
NORTH DAKOTA
Statewide (Local 49)
8/1/04 to 11/1/05
11/14)5 to 11/14)6
11/1/06 to
11/1/07
11/1/07 to 1/1/09
Group 1	$2798	$2901	$29.73	$30.71
Group 2	1956	2105	21.77	22.75
Groups	1423	1529	1601	16.99
Welfare (Gp 1*2)525		525	5.95	6.45
Wfare(Gp3)	4.12	4.12	432	532
tamtam (Op 1)	545	545	5.65	535
tamtam (Gp 2)	420	420	440	430
tamtam (Op 3)	2.10	2.10	230	230
Pipeline Tag.	25	50	.75	.75
LMCT	30	25	00	00
' EPEC	95	95	05	OS
($30 Admmiatrative Duea deducted when authorized by employee) '(Detected when authorized by employee)
Ro*. 1/20C8
A-327
OHIO
ZONE 1 (Local ID					
Ashtabula	Geanp.		Letton			Pottage
Cuyahoga	Lake		Medina			Summit
Erie					
	5/1/06 to	11/1/06 to	•*5/1/07 to 11/1/07 to 5/1AM to		
11/1/06		5/14)7	11/1/07	5/1AM	2/1/09
Oroqp 1	$32.44	$34.14	$33.79	$35.16	$3431
Grotto 2	26.44	28.14	27.79	29.16	2931
Groq>3	21.44	23.14	22.79	24.16	2331
Wfae	551	551	551	5.91	5.91
Benrioo	330	330	3.65	3.65	400
Apprenticeship	50	50	50	50	50
Safety *Educ.	M	‘ 04	04	04	04
Pipeline Tag.	50	.75	.75	.75	.75
LMCT	25	00	00	00	00
• EPEC	05	05	05	OS	05
•(Deducted when authorized by employee)					
•*(M0W7 Welfare to $5.9l/rednce wage .40)					
ZONE 2 (Local 66)					
Columbiana	Mahoning		TYumbull			
8/1/04 to		11/1/05 to		11/1/06 to	11/1/07 to
11/1/05		11/1/06		11/1/07	2/1/09
Group 1	$2838	$29.73		$3061	$3151
Gnxq> 2	2300	2409		24.97	2537
Group 3*»*	1855	1834		19.72	2062
Welfare	530	550		530	6.10
hnainn	4.46	450		4.95	535
Apfacnticethip	26	30		30	30
Annuity	202	2.40		260	200
Sub* United.	m	07		07	07
• Defense ■	.93	.93		.98	104
Pipeline Tng.	25	50		.75	.75
LMCT	50	25		00	OO
•* EPEC	05	OS		05	.05
(Waddnf dues 2% of gross wage* when authorized by employee J
•(Deducted)
••(Deducted when authorized by employee),
•••(Vfcl. $3.13; Pen 54.O6-, Eff 11/1/05 - Wei. $550; Pen. $4.60; Eff 11/1/06 - Wei. $530; Fen. $495; Eff.
11/1/07 - Wei. $6.10; Ben. $535)
ZONE 3 (Local ID
(Rest of State)
5/1/06 to 11/1/06
Group!	$31.34
Group 2	2501
Group 3	19.94
Welfare	551
Penaton	330
Apprenticeship	50
Safety 4 Educ	04
Pipeline Tog.	50
LMCT	25
•EPEC	05
11/1/06 to 5/1/07	5/1/07 to ii/ixn	11/1/07 to 5/1AM	5/1/08 to 2/109
$3300	$3265	$3437	$3402
2667	2632	2804	27.69
2160	2125	22.97	22JS2
551	551	551	551
330	365	3.65	400
50	50	50	50
04	04	04	04
.75	.75	.75	.75
00	00	OO	00
05	05	05	OS
•(Deducted when authorized by employee)
Rev. 1/2008
At828
OKLAHOMA
Statewide (Local 627)
	8/1 AM to 11/1/05	II/lAMto 11/1/06	11/1/06 to 11/1/07	Uflfflto 111/09
Group 1	$28.63	$3035	$32.16	«3324
Group 2	2136	2334	24.95	26.63
Group 3	14.78	15.83	17.44	19.12
Welfare	460	460	460	460
• Pension	560	5 60	560	560
Appnriiceahip 65		65	65	65
pipeline Tng.	25	30	.75	.75
LMCT	30	25	60	60
•* EFEC	65	65	65	65
(3% Adtnkntetntive duea oo grata wafer deducted from rate when authorized by emptnyee.) •($360 for Group 2; $130 for Grot? 3) ••(Deducted when authorized by employee)
OREGON
Statewide (Local 701)
n/i/o? to
2/1/09
Group 1	$3522
Group 2	3036
Groups	2521
Welfare	560
Penrion	*.4O
•	Vrcetitm/Sav	125
Appreaticeahtp	30
Pipeline Orj.	.10
Pipeline Tug	.73
LMCT	60
•	• EPEC	05
♦	• PLOrj	.10
Additional Pay: $65 to $360 per tour in tpeciCed areas end time dm it tbe job tite wHbcmpioyeea furnithint own Mnaportetton.
(3* Adndniatrative Duea of grout wager deducted when authorized)
•(Deducted after taxer)
••(Deducted when authorized by employee)
PENNSYLVANIA
ZONE 1 (Leeri 542)				
Bucks	DeUwsrc Chaser		Montgomery		Ph&iMpida
	8/1/04 to	11/1/05 to	11/1/06 to	H1/1/07 to
	11/1XB	11/1/06	11/1/07	3TI/09
Group 1	$29.92	$3029	$32.16	83330
Group 2	2662	2620	2867	29.41
Group 3	21.91	22.45	23.72	2566
• Welfare	166%	166%	166%	166%
Fcwio*	103%	103%	103%	103%
Apfienticeahi;	p 16%	16%	16%	16%
Amntity	460	460	460	460
• Sub	26%	26%	26%	26%
Pipeline Tug.	25	30	.75	.75
LMCT	30	25	60	60
•• Erec	65	65	65	65
or grow wages)
•(Group 1*2 eff 11/1 AM take % pku additional $238 ($233 - 11/1AJ6; $368 -11/1)03} for Welton and $.18 for SrinGroqi 3 take % plot $1.77 ($262-111/1/06; $2.27 - 11/1A17) fix Welfare)
••{Deducted when authorized by employee)
Rev. 1/2008
A-328
ZONE2(UMdM)
Allegheny	Centre	Indiana		Somerset
Armstrong	Clearfield	Jefferaon		Wnango
Beaver	Crawford	Lawrence		^fsncD
Blair	Erie	McKean		Washington
Butler	Fayette	Mercer		Westmoreland
Cambria	Greene			
	8/1/04 to	11/1/05 K>	11/1/06 to	11/1/07 to
	11/1/05	11/1/06	11/1/07	2/1/09
Group 1	$26.78	$27.94	$28.84	$2936
Group 2	2132	22.73	23 63	24.65
Group 3***	1939	20.13	21.05	2207
BWftre	530	5,70.	6.10	6.40
pention	430	4.60	4.95	535
Appeenticethip 30		30	30	30
Annuity	1.73	1.75	1.75	1.75
S'*	05	.05	.05	05
Bldg. Pead	—	,	.10	.10	.10
* Def.	33	. 28	28	28
pipeline Tng. ■ . 25		30	.75	.75
LMCT	30	.25	00	.	00
••spec	03	JOS	05	. 05
(Does deduction of 2* of greet wageawhen autbpriged by employee.)
•(Dechict)	’./TV
••(Deducted when autborized by employee)
•••(Eff. 8/104 Op 3: Wei 13.13; Plen $3.90. Eff. 11/1/05 - Wei $5.55; Pen $4.20; Eff 11/1/06 - Wd $5.95; ,
Pen $455; &T 11/1/07 - Wd $625; Pen $4.95)
ZONE 3 (LOCrd 46)
Bedford Cameron Clark®	Clinton Elk Forest	Franklin Fidton Huntington		Mifflin Potter
	8/1/04 to	11/1/05 to	11/1/06 to	11/1/07 to
	11/1/05	11/1/06 .	11/1/07	2/1/09
Group 1	$26.78	$27.94	$2834 ;	$29.86
Group?	21J82	22.73	23.63	. 24.65
Group 3*	1939	20.15	2105	2207
Wdftre	530	5.70	6.10	6.40
ftnaioa	430	4.60.	4.95	535
AppKndctthip .30		30	.30	30
Annuity	1.75	1.75 .	1.75	1.75
Sub	05	05	05	05
Bldg. Rind	— —	.10	.10	.10
••Def.	33	28	28	28
pipeline Tng.	25		. 30	.75	.75
LMCT	30	25	00	.00
•••EPEC	05	05	05	05
(Duca deductino of 2* of $™» wages when autborized by employee.)
•(Eff. 8/1/04 Op 3: Wd $5.15; Pen $3.90. Eff . 11/1/05 - Wei $555; Pee $4.20, Eff 11/1/06 - Wd $5.95; Pen $435; Eff 11/1/07 - VM $625; Pen $4.95)
••(Deduct)
•••(Deduced! when authorized by employee)
Rev. 1/2008
Ah330
ZONI 4 (Local 542)
(Rett of Sate)
	8/1/04 Io -11/1AH	11/1/05 to 11/1/36	11/1/06 to 11/1/07	11/1A77to 211/09
Group 1	$25.61	$2636	$27.44	S2858
Group 2	2113	2239	23.47	2401
Grotg>3	19.40	1939 ■	20.97	22.11
• Welfare	16Oft	16Oft	160%	16096
Bunion	103ft	103ft	103ft	103ft
Apprcndcedup 10ft		Iffft	Iffft	Iffft
Annuity	400	400	400	400
• Sub	20%	2ffft	20%	20%
Pipeline Tng.	25	30	.73	.75
LMCT	30	25	ffD	00
••EPEC	05	05	05	05
(ft at groat wage*)
•(Group 1 take % phi* $135 for Weifnre and $11 far Sab; Group 2 take % plui $134for Wdfareand $12 for Sub: Group 3 take * ptua $.77 for Welfare; 11/1 AH Gp 1 take % plot $235 far Wil and $.11 for Sub; Gp 2 U*e ft pta&34 far Wei and $.12 for Sab; Gp 3 take * piut $1.77 for Wei, Eff 1L1A)6 take additional $25 Wei far all groups Eff 11/1A77 take aditioeal $25 Wei far all group*.)
♦•(Deducted when authorized by employee)
RHODE ISLAND
Statewide (Local ST)
	»WD4*> 11/1/05	11/1AH to 11/1106	11/1/06 to 11/1/07	J1/1877 to W09
Group 1	$27.76	$27.45	$2921	$2918
Group!	2065	19.99	21.75	2131
Group 3	1604	13.15	16.91	1631
Welfare	4.93	633	733	7.78
Penakn	4.17	4.67	437	5.92
Appraaticefaip M		.40	.40	.40
Legal	.10	.10	.10	.10
Amntfty	325	325	323	325
Lato/Mgm Uai. Tr. 50		50	30	50
Pipeline Tug.	23	50	.75	.75
LMCT	50	25	ffO	00
• EPBC	05 1	05	OS	05
(Admmutrutive due* of $40 per bout when authorized by employee.) ($03 PEAF deduction wfaoi authorized.)
•(Deducted when authorized by employee)
SOUTH CAROLINA
Statewide (Leeal 470)
871/04 to 11/1AM
11/1 AH to 11/1/06
11/1/06 to 11/1AJ7
;11/1/07 to ' MAW
Group 1	$30.18	$3135	$32.46	$34.14
Group!	22.41	23.14	2425	25.93
Group 3	1433	1533	16.74	18.42
Welfare	400	425	425	425
• Beniion	350	400	450	450
Pipeline Tng.	25	50	.73	.75
LMCT	30	25	00	OD
•* EPBC	05	05	03	05
♦($230 for Group 2; $150 for Group 3; Eff 11/1AH • $300 for Group 2; $150 for Clnup 3; Eff 11/1/06-$350 for Group 2; $2.00 far Grote 3)
••(Deducted when authorized by employee)
Rev. 1/2008
Ar331
। /sMii
SOUTH DAKOTA
Statewide (Load 49)
8/1/04 to 11/1/05		11/1/05 to 11/1/06	11/1/06 to 11/1/07	11/1/07 to . 2/1/09
Group 1	$27.08	$29.01	$29.73	$30.71
Group 2	1956	21.05	21.77	22.75
Grote) 3	1323	16.34	17.06	18.04
Welfare (Gp 1A2) 5.25		525	5.95	6.45
Welfare (Gp 3)	4.16	4.16	4.86	536
Pension (Gpl)	5.45	5.45	5.65	5 85
Pental (Gp 2)	420	420	4.40	4.60
Penatai (Op 3)	2.10	2.10	. 230	230
Pipeline Tty.	25	50	.75	.75
LMCT	50	25	do	JOO
* EPEC	05	05	.05	05
($ J50 Admimstative duet deducted when authorized by employee) ’(Deducted when authorized by employee)
TENNESSEE
Statewide Local 30
Bedford	Gibeon	Lauderdale	Perry	
Benton	Gita	Lawrence		Robertson
Carroll	Hardeman	Lewis		Rutherford
Cheatham	Hardin	Lincoln		Shelby
Cheater	Haywood	McNairy		Stewart
Crockett	Henderson	Madison		Sumner
Davidson	Henry	Marshall		Tipton
Decatur	Hickman	Maury		Wayne
Dickaon	Houston	Montgomery		Weakley
Dyer	Humphreys	Moore		Williamson
Fayette	Lskc	Obion		Wilson
	8/1/04 to	11/1/05 to	11/1/06 to	11/1/07 to
	11/1/05	11/1/06	11/1/07	2/1/09
Group 1	$3023	$30.70	$3231	$33.99
Group 2	23.46	23.49	25.10	26.78
Group3	1528	15.48	1709	18,77
Welfare	320	4.65	4.65	4.65
• Pension	4 DO	400	4D0	4 DO
Apprenticeship 25		25	25	25
Pipeline Tty.	25		50	.75	.75
LMCT	30	25	DO	DO
•»EPEC	05	.05	.03	IB
(Admuuatative duet of 2% of gross wage* deducted when authorized by employee.)
*($2.00 for Group 2; $1 DO far Group 3)
**(Deducted when authorized by employee)
Rev. 1/2008
JU3S2
Laeal *17
Aadenon	Feotresa	Loudon
Bkdtoe	FranHin	McMinn
Blond	Grainger	Macon
Btadtey	Greene	Marion
CrapteU	Grundy	Meif>
CunMi	Hamblen	Monroe
Cuter	HamUton	Morgan
Cltebome	Hancock	Overton
Clay	Hawidne	Pickett
Cocke	Jackion	Polk
Coflee	Jefleraon	Putnam
Ctmteriuid	Jotmion	Rhea
Dekteb	Knox	Roane
8/1/04 to 11/1/05
Group 1	$3023
Group 2	23.46
Group 3	1588
Welfare	320
* Penaion	4JOO
Apprenticeihip 25
Pipeline Tng.	25
LMCT	50
•« EPEC	jOJ
nn/05 n>	n/i/06 to	i win»
n/i/06	u/i/07	:iim»
$31,65	$32.86	13336
24.44	25.65	26.65
16.43	17.64	1864
3.60	4.00	433
4.0V	*°°
3S'	35	35
30	.75	.75
25	jOO	00
JOS	05	.05
*f$2J» for Group 2; $1.00 for Group 3)
••(Deducted when authorized by employee)
(AAmaterathM due* of 3% of groat wagea deducted when authorized by employee.}
Row. 1Z2008
A-333
20NB1 (Local 17g) ,
TEXAS
Anderson Andrew Annur Archer Armstrong Bailey Baylor Bee Border Bosque Bowie Briscoe Brown Callahan Camp Carson Cwt Castro Cherokee Childress Clay Cochran Coke CoICVMI Coffin Collingswonh Comanche Concho Cookn Cottle Crosby DbUbbl Daita Dawson Deaf Smith
Denton Delta Dickens Dooley Easdsnd Ector EUis Erath Fannin Hatter Floyd Foard Franklin Freestone Gatoe*
Gtaawek
Grayson
Hate Hall Hamilton Hanafad Hardeman
Hurigod 1 Harfcy HaakeU Hemphill Hetaemm Hill Hockfey Hood Hqpkiga Htmtton
Howard Hoot Hutchison Irion Jack Johnson Jones Kauftnen Kent King Knox Lamar Lamb Limestone Upacomb Loving Lrititoo& Lytnt McCulloch Marion Martin Midland Mitchell Mootague Moore Motrin Motley Nacogdoches Navarro Nolan ' Ochiltee Oldham Palo Pinto Panola ■ Parker
fwoot Matter Rains
Tom Groen Upshur Van Zandt Wheeler
Wichita WiBtatjer WinkieT Wta
Group i Group!
Group 3 Wsttare * Pension
Appntafanhfc Pipeline T~ LMCT
a/iAMto 11/1/05
$29.68 2137 1434
4D0
4 DO
30

30
05
11/1/05 to M/06
$3130
22.55
1539
430
4.00
30
30
Wxxl Yoakum Young
.05
6/15)6 to J1/1/06
$30.95
22.20 15.24 4.65 400
30
30
25 05
11/1/06 to H<W
U/l/OT to 2/1/09

02.41 23j66 16.70
430 400
30 .75 DO 05
$33.94 25.19 1823
4.95 4D0
30 .75 Ot> 05
Rev. i^oQa
**334
ZONK 2 (Local 450)
Aag^Hna	Fayette		Lampasas		
Ahmmm	Hat Bend		LaSalle		SdE"”
Austin	Frio		Levaca		Sail Augustine
Bandera	Galveston		Lee		Sari latino
Baatrop	Gillespie		Leon		MlPatriitio
Bell	Goliad		Liberty		
Boar	Gonzales		Live Oak		
Blanco	Grimes		Llano		stiit
Brnzoria	Guadalupe		McLennan		Sdton
Brazos	Hardin		McMullen		It tris
Brooks	Harris		Madison		TBtdty
Burieaon	Hays		Mason		TjHlsr
Burnet	Hidalgo		Matagorda		Ihidde
Caldwell	Jackson		Maverick		
Calhoun	Jasper		Medina		
Cameron	Jefferson		Menard		
Chamber*	Jim Hogg		Mtisn		
Colorado	Jim Wells		Mills		
Comal	Kames		Montgomery		
Coryell	Kendall		Newton		
Dewitt	Kenedy		Nueces		WUhXsoo
Dimmett	Kerr		Orange		WJsou
Duval	Kimble		Polk		Zfcfata
Edwards	Kinney		Real		Zavalla
Falls	Klebtug		Refagio		
	8/1/04 to	11/1/05 to	6/1/06 to	11/1/06 to	11/1/07 to
	11/MB	6/1/06	11/1/06	11/1/07	171/09
Grorgt 1	$2963	$31-25	■ $30.90	$3251	$3404
Group 2	22.41	2359.	2324	2435	2638
Group 3	14.93	13.68	13.33	16.94	11X7
Welfare	400	430	4.65	465	430
* Ftesion	405	4OS .	4.05	405	405
Pipeline frig.	25	30 .	30	50	.75
LMCT	50	25	25	25	OO
•• EPEC	05	05 .	05	05	05
(Dues Deduction when authorized)
*($2 JO far Group 2; $1.40 for Group 3)
’•{Deducted when rothcrized by employee)
(34b of grou wages deducted when mitfanzed by employee)
ZONE 3 (Local 933)
Browater	£1 Paso	Pntidlo		ttitun
Crane	Hudspeth	Reagan		W Wrde
Crockett	Jeff Davies	Reeves		wild
Culberson	Pecos	Terrell		
	8/1/04 to	11/MB to	11/1/06 to	ll/M)7to
	11/1/05	11/1/06	i)/MJ7	1/1/09
Group 1	$3035	$32.27	$33.88	$3556
Group 2	2292	24.40	2601	27.69
Grap 3	1560	16.65	1826	19.94
Welfare	300	300	300	300
• Pension	358	3.98	3.98	3.98
Apprenticeship 35		35	35	35
Pipeline Tng.	25	30	50	.75
LMCT	50	25	25	JU
••EPEC	05	OS	05	05
($20 Duet deduction when authorized) •($264 for Group 2; $138 for Group 3) ••(Deducted when antborized by employee)
Rev. 1/2008
A-835
Statewide (Local 3)
UTAH
VMM to 11/1/05
11/1/05 to 11/1X6
11/1/06 to 11/1/07
11/1/07 to 2/1/09
Group 1	$28.18	$28.97	$29.45	$3025
Group 2	22X1	23.10	23X3	24.90
Groups	14X7	15 38	1636	17.66
Welfare	525	530	5.75	5.75
• Pemion	350	438	526	6.14
** Apprenticed^	.75	.75	.75	,75
Pipeline Tng.	25	30	.75	.75
LMCT	30	25	no	no
•*• EPBC	05	.05	jOS	05
* (Eff. 11/1JD6 - $3.76 for Group 2; $226 for Group 3; Eff. 11/1/07; $439 for Group 2; 52.64 for Group 3)
••{$30 for Group* 24 3)
•••(Deducted when authorized by employee)
VERMONT
Statewide (Local 98)
	8/1/04 to 11/1/05	11/1/05 to 11/1/06	11/1/06 to 11/1/07	11/1/07 to 2/1/09
Group 1	$29.93	$30.75	$3131	$31.84
Group 2	21.15	2153	22X9	22.62
Group 3	14X6	14.72	1528	15.81
Welfare	4.75	5.65	630	7.45
ftmkm	1X5	125	2X5	225
Apprenuceah^p ;05		.05	05	.05
Central Peaaion 30		30	.30	30
Annuity	1X0	1J00	IjOO	1X0
Pipeline Tng.	25	30	.75	.75
LMCT	30	25	.00	no
• EPEC	D5	.05	.05	.05'
(Due* deduction of 2% grow wage* deducted when authorized by employee.) •(Deducted when authorized by employee)
VIRGINIA
ZONE 1 (Local 77)
Arlington Eairfox	Fauquier King Gauge	Loudoun Prince William		Stafford
	8/1/04 to	11/1/05 to	11/1/06 to	11/1/07 to
	11/1/05	11/1/06	11/1/07	2/1/09
Group 1	$31.77	$33.43	$34.77	$36.18
Group 2	23.43	24.67	26X1	27.42
Group 3	1553	1636	17.70	19.1)
Welfare	330	3.60	3.90	420
	2X0	2X0	2X0	2X0
Apprcntjceahip 35		55	.55	55
• Annuity	.75	.75	.75	.75
Pipeline Tng.	25		30	,75	.75
LMCT	30	25	.00	xo
•• EPEC	05	.05	.05	X5
(Admmfarattve due* of $35 per hour deducted when authorized by employee.)
•($30 for Group 3)
••(Deducted when authorized by employee)
Rev. 1/2008
JV3S6
ZONE 2 (Load 147)
(Reet of State)
	8/1/04 to 11/MK	Il/IXBto 11/1/06	11/1/06 to 11/1/77	m/07to 25/09
Group 1	$3020	$32.12	$3333	13541
Group!	2226	23.75	25.16	26.64
Group 3	154(3	16.11	1732	1940
Welfare	335	335	335	3.75
• fasten	335	3.85	345	335
Appretttteeehi	p 28	28	2t	28
Pipeline Tng.	25	50	.75	.75
LMCT	50	25	.00	40
•• EPEC	45		45	45
(AdrofaitttMive due* of 2% of groat wagce deducted when authorized by employee.)
*($3.10 for Group 2; $2.10 for Group 3}
••(Deducted when autbcrizcd by enntteyee)
WASHINGTON
ZONE 1 (Load 370)
Adame Aeotia	Doughs (Part)* Ferry	Lincoln Okanogan (Part)*		WaffitWalta warn, ri.1!.. wBwn>"
Benton	Franklin	PeodOralle		Wtafftotr
Chetan (Part)*	Garfield	Spokane		«Th*i Part Eart of the
Cotembia	Grant	Stovers		12Qftil Meridian
	8/1/04 to	11/1/05 to	11/1/06 to	H/lADto
	11/1/05	11/1/06	11/1/07	2MXS
Group 1	$29.76	$3123	$3239	1133.62
Group 2	2434	25.75	26.19	27.42
Group 3	2035	21.88	2344	2427
Welfare	4.95	5.15	5.35	555
Peneloc	230	2.75	340	325
Apprenticeihip 47		.47	47	.47
Pipeline Ttt.	25		30'	.75	.75
LMCT	30	25	40	40
* Erec	45	45	45	45
•{Deducted when authorized by employee)				
ZONE 2 (Loeal 701)				
Clark	Klickitat	Skamania		Wrfdaakum
Cowlitz				
	8/lAMto	11/1/05 to	11/13)6 to	11/1/07 to
	11/1/05	11/1/06	11/1/07	2)1/09
Group 1	$31.49	$32.95	$3448	106.68
Group 2	2636	2849	2922	31.82
Group!	22.17	23.17	2430	2630
Welfare	4.70	5.10	5.10	5.60
fasten	240	225	225	4A0
Def. Pen. Cott. 130		130	2.15	
	125	125	125	125
Apprenticerhip 30		30	30	30
Pipeline Org.	.10		.10	.10	.10
Pipeline Tng.	25		30	.75	.7$
LMCT	50	25	40	40
•EPEC	45	45	45	45
Additiaiud Pay: $.65 to $2.75 per hour in rpecified area* end time uan* and etopi nt Job ate with emptoyeea ftmtWnf own tranrportation.
•(Deducted when authorized by employee)
••(Deduct after taxer)
R»v. 1/2008
A-337
.A:
ZONE 3 (I** M2 * 302)
(Rut of rate)
	8/1/04 to 11/1/05	11/1/05 to 11/1/06 1	11/1/06 to 11/1/07	11/1/071 2/1/09
Group 1	$3209	333.14	$34.03	$34.92
Group 2	27.46	2827	29.16	3005
Group 3	22.77	23.35	2424	25.13
Welfare	4.95	550	6.05	6.60
Penalon	400	4.45	4.79	520
Appreaticcabii	p JI	58	58	58
Union Prof , (ded.) .15		JO	20	20
Pipeline Tn*.	25	50	.75	1	.75
LMCT	50	25	.00	.00
* EPEC	05	OS	.05	sa
SubaiaHnce: $7DO ta $1000 per day in ipecificd mom and time atarti and Jtofw at the job rite with employ-eea fttmkhinf own traatportatioo.
•(Deducted when autboriaed by en^qyee) (Mb «( jroaa w^ea for duea to be deducted)
WEST VIRGINIA
Statewide (Local 132)
8/l/D4to	11/1A350O
11/1/05	11/1/06
11/1/06 to 11/1/07
11/1/D7 to 2/1/09
Group 1	$26.72	$27.97	$2905	$3030
Group 2	1952	2031	21.39	22.64
Group 3	1601	1651	1759	1834
Wfarc	5.47	622	632	732
PeaaionfGp 1)	400	400	400	400
fatrio<i(Gp2)	3.75	3.75	3.75	3.75
IVnaion (Gp 3)	230	230	2.30	230
Apfratticohip	.45	.45	.45	.45
• Annuity	260	2.60	2.60	230
Pipeline Tng.	25	50	.75	.75
LMCT	50	25	00	OD
*• EFEC	05	05	05	05
•($.89 for Group 2 - no annuity for Group 3)
(ACT deduction $25 from Gp 1A 2 when authorized by employee.)
••(Deducted when authorized by employee)
WISCONSIN
Statewide (Local 139)
Wl/Mto	11/1/05 to
11/1/05	11/1/06
11/1/06 to
11/1/07
11/1/07 to 2/1/09
Group 1	$2809	$29.69	$3039	$3157
Group 2	23.78	25.16	2636	2704
Group 3	1940	2056	21.76	22.44
Wetfrrc	830	830	835	8.75
Ftoaion	525	5.75	600	700
Apprenticeahip	.40	45	45	55
Education	08	08	08	OB
Labor Mfrn.	.10	.10	.10	.10
Pipeline Tng.	25	50	.75	.75
LMCT	50	25	.00	OO
• EPEC	05	.05	.05	05
(Deduct duea ef 2* of frou) •(Deducted when authorized by employee)
Rev. 1/2008
*•338
SMuwWe (Load WQ)
WYOMING
8fl/04to	WW5to
11/1/05	11/1/06
ll/MKto	n/1/07 to
11/1W7	Him
Group 1	$2853	$30.45	$3131	$3206
Group 2	20.76	2224	23.10	2343
Group 3	14.18	1444	15.70	16.45
Wfue<Gr 142)445		4.45 .	4.45	44«
(Or 3) 405		4.45	4.45	448
* PcmkM	400	4.00,	4.75	525
Apprenticeship	.70	.70	.70	.70
•• Sop. Doea	60	358	3«	3»
Pipeline T«	25	30	.75	.75
LMCT	50	25	00	JOO
** EPEC	X»	D5	.05	JOS
*(Eff. 11/1/05: Gp 2 - $3j00; Op 3 - $130; Eff. 11/1/06: Gp 2 - $3.73; Gp 3 - $225:W 11/1/07: Gp 2
$425; Gp 3-$2.75)
(!>*« of 3% of proa w»je» when MMhorized by employee.)
••(Deducted when authorized by employee)
Rev. 1/2008
A-33O
APPENDIX “A”
No per diem peid on deyr Reporting Time Paid.
StatawMe
ALABAMA (PL)
ll/MKto	11/1/07 to
11/1/07	vim
• Rate $14.73	$13.10
W&k 230	230
tatitn 135	1.70
TtatUatA Sefery 25	25
CoflTrazt M	M
Pipeline LBCET .10	.10
Refton*! LECET OS	05
»»PAC	05	05
ALASKA
Refer to Art I FWagnpb A
ARIZONA (PL)
Statewide
11/1/06 to	11/1/07 to
tl/l/07	2/UW
•	fine	$1435	$1437
Wfere 300	300
Prarion 111	200
Hratnlnf 25	25
Coll.Trua 04	04
RegtawdLECET 05	05
Pipeline LBCET .10	.10
•	• PAC	05	05
*(Effocdre 11/MB $4230 per day per dm bated on workweek.) »»(pAC drdnrtieo al $05 when nahnriaed by employee.)
ARKANSAS (PL)
8/1/04 to 11/1A»
11/lAWto	11/1/06 to
11/13)6	11/1/07
Il/l/07to 1X1/09
$1422	$1521
200	235
200	220
25	25
O*	04
05	05
.10	.10
05	05

•fEtfcctive 11/1/05 $tt30 per dqr per dien tewdea work week.)
••(RAC tednetim at $05 when (arborized by employee.)
RML1A008
Ar<01
. /’i
CALIFORNIA (PL)
Imperil!	Lm Angete*	Riveraide	Sama Bartan
biyo	Mono	SMBcmadino	Wntura
Ken	Orange	San Luh Obiqn
11/1/06 to	11/1/07
11/1/07	2/1/09
* RMe	$2302	$2402
Welfttre	4.16	4.16
Pernios	525	5.25
Vacation	3.16	321
Training	47	03
Con.Thttt	04	04
Pipeline LECET	.10	.10
••PAC	05	05
SaMrttnctt $3000 toapodfledateaa Mid time xtarta and Mope at Ok job die with employee* Atrabbfag own tran^ractatioc. h free rooe etrjtlcyer win provide tnmportttion and riding time pay » way. (htyo Mid Mono
Cottntiea and Trona. $3200)
•(Effective 11/1/06 $4230 per day per dien baaed on wort week.) tort/fU/» ■* -	—~a ■adtwMdamal ----------1----\
oococwcu w *JJ3 wncn ■xnaravti **y oDfiiojw j
ZONE 2 (A)
Atameda	Marin	San Mateo
Contra Coata	Sanftaodaco	Santa Clara
11/1/06 to	11/1/07
11/1/07	2/im
•Rate	$2430	$24.44	,
Wtae	544	534
Penaion	326	4.11
Vbcatton	228	228
-Datahg	34
CoU.ThM	04	04
Annuity	101	101
PlpeliiwLBCET	.10	.10
••f*C	OS	OS
•/Effective 11/1/05 $4230 per day per djem baaed on wort week.)
••(PAC deduction of $OS when authorised by employee.)
fteK 1/2008
A402
ZONK 2(B)
Alpine	Kinga
Amador	Lata
Butto	Laaeea
Catatens	Madera
Cotai	Maripoea
un nene	MCBODCtno
ElDotado	Maced
ft^no	Modoc
dem	Monterey
Hmnboit	Nape
Nevada	Sota*
Placer	Senate
ftau	Stmbtaa
Sacramento	Sattar
San Benito	Ttefaatla
*a— *----e-	nJ. i
mb Joaquin	rnnffj
Santa Cruz	Ttfta
Sbatta	Tbatotone
Siam	Yoto
Siakiyou	Ytton
11/1/06 to	11/1/07 to
11/1/07	Vim
• Rato	$2341	$2332
Welfare	544	534
tata	326	4.11
Vacation 22$	.	2#
TtafaJng	34
Coll.'DvK	04	04
Annuity	IjOI	IjOI
Pipeline LECET .10	.10
♦•PAC	OS	D5
Suhtbtauca. 51900 per day in apedfled areca and time atarta and atopa al the job aim with etnpkiyeea fcndahta*owntianzpottMton.
R^fflamartal Htwa in liiikul to Vacation.
•(Effective I1/1JQ5 $4230 per Aay per diem baaed on work wed.)
•♦(PAC deduction of $05 when authorized by employee.)
ZONK 3
San Dtepo County only
11/1/06 to	11/1,07 to
11/1/07	2/1A39
* Rato	$2334	$2422
Wettare	4.16	4.16
Posatoo	345	3/55
Vacation	220	220
IMntot	37	43
Coll.Itat	04	04
Ptatae LBCET	.10	.10
••PAC	jQ5	JOS
Mtotamm S24j00 per thy to apedfied anm and time ctarta and atopa at toe job afet with employeca ftoutadng own tnmaportattoa.
Remit dnm when authorized.
♦(Effective 11/14)5 $4230 per day ta diem baaed on wort week.)
••(PAC dertaettoo of $05 when mtoorized by employee.)
Rn. 1/2008
A408
COLORADO (PL) v
Statewide
ii/uku	unmto
nnm	mm
* Rate	$15.83	$16.12
Wcttnrc	4.10	430
ffenaion	125	1.40
Training	30	31
’• Vacation	.60	.75
Coll. That	M	04
Nat. BAS	JOS	03
Pipeline LBCET .10		.10
NW LBCET	05	06
“•PAC	JB5	.05
(Deduct 29 duo when unbound.)
Incnrr- " frityi tn hr rtritnrvitfr-m ~tirr	11/14)5 $4230 pm day per diem baaed on wotk
week)
*	*0teuttou to be added to rue for tnea then deduct.)
•	••(PAC deduction of $j05 when authorized by employee)
CONNECTICUT
Statewide
	5/103 to 8/1/04	HAM to 3/3 MB	4/MBto 4/1/06	4(1/06 to 4/1/07	4/107 to 4/1X78
Rate	$2211	$22.75	$22.11	$22.50	$23.11
	359	3.79	‘ 4.99	5.94	6.79
RcmIoa	240	2M	3.15	330	335
Ttahdag	35	35	35 ’	.40	35
Legal	.11	.11	’ ' 26	M	26
Annuity	1.75	1.75	200	200	W’r—
LBCET	.15	.U5		.15	.15
CoO. Trial	04	• 04 '	.» -S ;	04	J04
Nattaud LBCET	— —	— —			
Health 4 Safety	.15	.15	.15	.15	.15
Pipeline LBCET	.10	.10	• ■ ■ '.10	.10	.10
PAC	05	05	05	05	JOS
•(RAC deduction of $05 when authorized by employee.) :
DELAWARE (PL)
	ZONE 1	Z0NE2	ZONE 3	ZONE 1	^0NE2	ZONES
	Newctade	Kent	Suaaez	Newcaade		Snnca
	ll/b06»	11/1/06 to	11/1/06 to	11/MHto	11/1/07 to	11/1/07 to
	it/i/on	11/1/07	11/MO	2/M»	2/1/09	2/1/09
* Rate	$1707	$1532	$1238	$1739	$16.11	$12.47
RHfue	330	3J0	330	3J8O	330	3 JO
	3.40	3.40	3.40	405	405	405
	51	31	51	51	51	51
Coll. That	04	j04	04	04	04	J04
Pipeline LBCET .10		.10	.10	.10	.10	.10
DdLBC	20	20	20	20	20	20
Ana ••PAC	300	300		3 JOO	300	
•(Effective 11/1/05 $4250 per day per dionbeaed on work week.)
•	•(PAC deduction of $05 when authorized by employee.)
Rsw. 10008
A1(M
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA (PL)
11/1/06 to	11/107 to
11/1/07	inm
* Rare	$1730	$18.37
Wfare	222	232.
ftariou	132	135
Ttefatog	30	30
CoU.Ttort	J04	04
Pfpdte LBCET	-10	.10
Mld-A/tefieLSCET -«	-13
•♦PAC	305	05
•(Effective 11/1/05 $4230 per day per diem baaed oo work week.)
••(PAC deduction of SO5 when authorised by employee.)
FLORIDA (PL)
11/1/06 to	11/107 to
11/1/07	2/1AJ9
•Rate	$1530	.,.$1400
ftaate	222	230
WtSm	230	126
•ntontaj	25	.	25
Cott.Ttet 04	,	04
Pipeline LECET	.10	.10
Rested LBCST OS	.	OS
♦♦PAC	,OS	:	OS
♦(Btfoctirc 11/1/05 $4230 perdey per diem be«d on workweek.)
•♦(PAC dedoctioo ef SAS *d>en euthoriaed by employee.)
GEORGIA (PL)
11/lAKto	11/1/07 to
J1/1/07	2/UOO
• lUte $1600
Vfcttee 235
Reauoo	135
TMBtag&Sefity 25 .
CoU.TrcM J04
FlpeUae LBCET -IO
Regted LBOCT 05
♦•PAC	05
•(EOwsrre 11/1/OS $4230 per iby per diem bMedrmworit week.)
HAWAII
Refer to Article I, Paragraph A
Rw. vans

IDAHO (PL)
ZONE1
Bcncwny	Clearwater	Latah	Shcahcoe
Banner	Idaho*	Lewie
Boundary	Kootenai	NezPerce
11/1/06 to ll/W7to 11/1W7	2/1/09
•	• Rate	$21.46	$2225
Welfare	4.95	4.95
Pension	1.90	2.10
•ftatataj	35	35
Cod. Treat	D4	D4
•	** Credit Union	IDO	IDO
*	** Duca Dedoctkto	.70	.75
PipeHttLECET	.10	.10
NWLBCET	D5	D5	,
••♦» PAC	D5	08
•	That part at Idaho County NORTH of ParaUcJ 46 in the Static of Idaho.
•	•(Any increaae in fringes to be deducted from wages. Eff. 11/1/05 $4250 per day per dkm on work week.)
•	••The Credit Unk« end Duet Deduction are included in the above-Hated wa^ rreet and are deducted from
the emptoyee's net wages. Dues deduction when authorised by employee.
«»W deduction of $05 when authorised by enjfoyee.)
ZONE 2
Reat of State
11/1/06 to	11/1/07 to
11/1W7	2/1/09
•Rate	$21.92	S22.93
Wfare	4.40	4.40
FenakM	230	230
Training	25	25
Coil. Treat	D4	D4
Pipeline LBCET	.10	.10
NWLBCET	XB	D5
••PAC	XB	.. XB
•(Any increase in fringes to be deducted from wages. Eff. 11/1/05 $4250 per day per diem on work week.) "(PAC deduction at $05 when authorized by employee.)
ILLINOIS
ZONE 1 (Lneal 16g)
Peoria County 11/1/06 to 5/1X77 to 571/07	11/1/07
Rate	$23.79	$2424
Wetfare	535	6XB
ftnatan	5.94	634
Annuity	2.47	227
TMuiu(	30	M
LBCET(ded)	22	22
CoO. Treat	D4	D4
Wartmt I wrrer Pipeline LBCET	.10	.10
• PAC	D5	D5
ZONE 2 (Lecal 100,397,470 and 742)
M»b<n	St. Clair
10/1/04 to 8/1/05
• Rite $3359 to 3409 TYeming —— LECET Coil.Trtnt
Pipeline LBCET
••PAC.
8/1/05 to 8/1/06
$3535
8/1XM to 8/1XJ7
$36.95
(0107 to 11/08
W866
to be deducted ftom Rm.)
••(PAC deduction of $05 when authorized by employee.)
•	ZONE 3 Boone	Grandy	Lake '
	Cock	Kane	McHenry
	DuPage	Kendall	win
		6/106 to	&t/07to
		mm	6/1/08
	Rate	S3153	$33.13
	•Welfare ■	7j46	7.97
	* tanton	434 .17	558 . . 22
	LMCC	.12	. .12
	Coll.Thut	J04	.04
	Pipeline LECET .10		.10
	Area LBCET	05		j05
	••PAC	05	05
	fringe Eacrow		-J-	1
(2.73ft daei decktetion on groe* wugea when authorized by employee) •(Boone, Kane, Kendall, McHenry: Welfare - $720; Pentice $5.10)
••(PAC deduction of $B5 when eutborized by employee .)
ZONE 4 (Local 3*3)
	LaSalle		Mmm 5/1)06 to mm
	IWMMto 5/lflS	VMOSto 5/1/06	
•Rate	$2259	$2354	$24.46
Wetftee	500	3.70	654
huDOU	450	450	-I	‘
Dental	—	——	
Antnity		—J-	
Tnining	50	J60	60
LBCET	.12	.12	.16
CtdLThto	04	M	34
National LBCET-.-		_ —.		—
Pipeline LECET .10		.10	.10
••PAC	05	05	05
Midweat Found. .10		.10	.10
•“Vacation	200 (deduct) 200 (deduct) 200		
••“Fed LPT..	07 (deduct) 07		Of
••••ILLC	—	.10	,10
••“MKT PRES	—t-	.10	.10
•(Duc* deduction 45ft) •W Muction of $jO5 *“Ote*timi*<teducted) ••“(Deduct)
5/uwto s/im s/i/w 5/1/10 5/1X38	.
$25.66 ♦ISO +1.90	+130
654 TP TP TP 450
.60 .16 M
jo 05 .10 250
JOT .10 .15

Rev. 1/2008
A-407
ZONE 5 (Lead 196,218,338,40,581,622,670,677,742 cud 1084)
Bond	Orca
CMwm	Jeraey
Cltatoa	Macoupin
IWMMto 8/1/05
•Rate $3369-53409 Deining National LBCET -.-Cbil.Trat Pipeline LECET —
••PAC
Monroe
Montgomery
Wethington
8/MB 8/1/06
Rmdotptl
8/lA6to 8/1X77
8/1X17 to 8/1/08
$34.93	$36.13 -$36.95	$3846
•(Pringea to be deducted from Rrte. Macoupin Catty it Local 338.)
ZONE 6 (Local 10)
Ort	Cairn	Cumberland	Dooglai
Edgar	Shelby
5/1/06 to	5/1X17 to
5/1/07	5/14)8
Rate	$24.12	$24.92
V/elbte	SIB	5 IB
PemiiB	333	5.73
Deining	sa	.60
Annuity		25
Coil. That	04	D4
Pipeline LBCET .10		.10
LECET	30	30
Vbcatkn	60	1.00
FAC	IB	j05
Duea(ded)	160	1.65
■(Deduct from net ~Ttgrt)
•♦(PAC deduction of SD5 when imbcrucd by employee])
ZONE 7 (Local 30)
Merar		Rock bland		
		1/1/06 to	i/ixnto	1/lASto
		1/1/07	I/1A»	1/1/09
	Rate	$2221	$2266	$23.41
	WJbtu	345	360	560
	ftuoou	4jOO	4.40	'4.90
	TMataf	60	60	.70
	LECET	67	67	67
	coii.'nuit	04	.04	04
»	Vfccattoa	1.15	1.15	1.15
	Pipeline LECET	.10	.10	.10
•»	PACIB	IB	jM	IB
•*	LocPac	.10	.10	.10
■(Deduct bom net wagea)
**(PAC deduction of SIB when authorized by employee.) (Duca 5* of gram)
Rev. 1/2008
&-408
ZONK SA (Local 231) Adam
5/106 to	5/107 to
5/107	5/108
Rate	$2078	$21.13
Wtae	530	5J0
Pedion	603	633
Trainine	SO	SO
Aaatixy	100	100
HcaUbftSatay	03	03
LBCET	.12	.12
HL Leg. (deduct)	OS	05
CoU.That	04	04
National LECET Pipeline LBCET	.10	.10
RAC (deduct)	AS	05
MROC (deduct)	M	M
ZONK IBIUal 231)
Hdtou	Ttawdl
5/106 to
5/107 to
5/107	5/108
Rate	$24.15		$25.10
Welfare	530	500
Rbmkm	603	633
	j60	j60
Amnity	too	100
Heahh ft Satay	03	03
LBCET	.16	.16
DLLef.	05	05
Coll. That	04	04
National LBCET	—J—	—jm
Pipeline LBCET	.10	.10
RAC (deduct)	05	05
MROC	08	08
ZONKIC Henrock	McOoooufh
5/106 »	5/103 to
5/107	5/108
Rate	$2124	$2139
Welfare	530	530
ftmton	603	633
Ttondng	j60	SO
Annuity	100	lOO
Health a Satay	03	03
LBCET	22	22
I1L Lej. (deduct)	05	05
Coil. Treat	04	04
National LBCET Pipeline LBCET	.10	.10
PAC (deduct)	05	05
MROC (deduct)	08	08
Rov. 1/2008
A-409
ZONK 9 (Locate 32,727) Canoil	JoDwtew	Ogle	Whittride
DeKalb	Lee	Steptaenatm	Winnebego
	5/1/04 to	5/1A5 to	5/1/06 to	5/1/07 »
	5/LW	5/1/06	5/1/07	5/MJ8
	U32 l j 727	Ldi2 La222	tr.32 IA 727	U32 Ln 727
Rate	$20.99 ($20.98)	$2139(32238)	$2327 (2331)	$24.34 ($24.66)
Welfare	5X10	5.70	634	605(605)
Prnrinfl	533	533	533 -	6.19(5.73)
Anmify	2.17 ($222)	2.17(121)	300	331(330)
Ttahrini	30	.60	j60	00(60)
LBCET	.12	.11	.12 .	.12 (.12)
Cdl.Thwt	j04	.04	04	04(04)
Vacation	1 jOS ($137)	105(1.67)	105(200)	105(130)
Pipeline LBCET	.10	.10	.10	.10
RAC AS	AS	05	OS	05
MROC	jM	08	08	JOS
Wcricing Duea Local 32	325%	325%	325%	325%
Waricing Duet Local 727	43%	425%	43%	43%
Midwcat Reg F.C.	.10	.10	.10	.10
•(Deduct from net wagea.)
••ffAC deduction at $05 when authoriMd by empioyee.)
ZONE 10 (Locale M3, SM, 7M nd 996)
Feed	beqnob	*Livingttoo	’Stark
*m™»—-	Kankatac	•Mantail	•Warns
•Henry	•Knot	’McLeap	•Wradfotd
5/1/04 to	5/1/05 to	5/14)6 to ; -	5/1/07W
5/1/05	5/1/06	5/1/07	5/1/08
* Rate $32.38-3318	$3353-3553	$14.79	$15.94
Whre	634	654
ftsaion	4JST	5)07
Anmdty	200	300
Training	.60	.60
LBCET	.14	-	.14
CoU.Tnat	04	04
Pipeline LBCET	.10	.10.
••PAC	05	OS
•(Contact PLCA for ratea/tringpa)
••{RAC deduction at $05 when authorized by employee)
ZONK 11 (Local 1197)
Clay Crawford Edwwda
Rate Welfare Penrion Ttefadns
Ah willy LBCET Coil. Treat
Pipeline LBCET
••PAC
EBOLT Duea(ded) LPL(ded)
Huntites 4/1 AM to 4/IXB $1135 4.75 333 50 .70 127 30 M
Jeflbnoa
Lawrence
4/1/05 to 4/1/06
$1925 .
5.00
333
50 .70
4/14)6 to 4/1AJ7
$20.65 5.25 333
60 .70
Marion
Richland Wabaab
4/W7CO 4/14)8
$20.90 535 3.73
j60
Wayne Whitt
.10 05
30 04 .10
.11 130(ded)
.12 130
.05
30 M .10 as
.70. 2.42
,30 04 .10 05
1.40 .05
1.40 .05
•(Vacation deducted)
Rev. 1/2008
A-410
ZONE 13(Lncai773)
blinder	Jnckrai
Fnoikiia	Metem
n*rr«*r*	Mime
Perry Pope PoImH
S«Cn Unfc*i WUIhfaaon
4*1X53 to	4/lXMto	4/lA)5to
4»JTM	Jiin>
4/1XM	4/1XB	4/1XM
$1945	$1935	$1935
335	4.75	5 XX)
230	333	333
M	30	40
2.15	127	1.77
30	30	30
XM	XM	XM
.10	.10	.10
M	.70	.70
.12	.12	
XB	XB	XB
	IJOfded)	rJO(ded)
*fDndact frato Mt mm)
**twc deduction 5T(B when wtetad by en^jioyee.)
4/IX* to wm $2033 525 3J3
40 192
JO M .10 .70
JOS
1j40
XB
ZONK 15 (Late 231 te 477)
Brawn	*1
•Chrietun
Wette Aten Thtinfag LBCET CoU.Tte
Mmo
•Mould
VlXMto V1XB $2141
4JO 505
M
•Mwsaa
■ Pike
•tefMiwa 5/lXBto V1A6
$2141 4 JO 530
.60
ZONE 14
Pipeline LBCET Vtoatian Antey
IM .10 40(<faJ)
M
.10
5/1X06 to
snxn
SUM 530 «XB
M 22 04 .10
' 5 WO? to swot
BUM 540 435 40 .22 XM .10
HAS
05
XB
JOS
XB
XB
- Local 477 - check PLCA)
XB
XB
WemUUod (Lncri 70(3)
VMM to MXB RMe SMES Wette	4J0
Fteton	6J0
* Itete	m
Ttedetf	JO
CoH.Tte	XM
LBCET	JO
Pipeline LBCET .10 *»*C	XB
Legal	JQ
•Duel	1J0	(ded)
tdntel)
yixBto
5flJO6
$11.90
445
6 JO
40 jD4 JO .10 XB 30 130
5/1X06 to	!HX>7to
M«7	mM
SZ3.10	tM16
505	5XJ5
630	039
IM M	M
M	XM
JO	30
.10	,10
XB	XB
JO	JO
130	135
Rbk 1/2008
A-411
ZONH15 (Local 703)
Champaign	Dewin	Hatt'		
	5/1/04 to	5/1/05 to	5/1/06 to	5/1/07 to
	5/1AB	5/1/06	5/13X7	5/1/06
Rate	$2235	$22.96	$23.76	$24.71
RU&iv	460	435	5jQ3	505
Pentian	525	569	609	639
Legal	30	30	30	30
IMntnc	30	.60	.60	M
Annuity	1j05			—J—
• vacation	M	60	.60	1J00
CoU.TYntl	04	04	M	JD4
LBCET	30	30	30	30
Pipeline LECET .10		.10	.10	.10
••PAC	05	03	.05	j05
• Duca	—4—.			135
•(Deduct)
•♦(PAC deduction of $05 when Utthorizded by employee.)
ZONE 14 (Locti 1S»
Macon	Mouhrie
	5/1/04 to 5/1/05	5/1/05 to 5/1A6	' 5/1/06 to 5/1/07 .	5/1/07 to s/im
Rate	$2235	$24.12	$24.12	$2492
Wdtae	430	505	505	505
ftwkM	435	533	533	■	5.73
	30	M	30	M
National LBCET -.-				— —
Coll. That	04	M	04	04
LBCET	M	30	30	30
Plpdine LECET .10		.10	.10	.10
Annuity	35			25
PAC	OS	05	03	M
Vks&ni	M	60	j»	100 ‘
•(Deducted)
Duet check off $165
Rav. 1/2008
A412
INDIANA
ZONBl						
Lake	LaPorte		Newton		Auter	
	WW4»	wins to	WlAKto	6/1/07 to	MM to	
	6/14)5	6/1//06	Wl/07	win>	W1O9	
Rate	$20.94	$21.24	$21.49	$21.99	£039	
WUIhre	4X»	430	500	525	530	
Rstttfan	2X»	2JU	325	335	445	
Thtfttbkf	M	35	35	35	35	
CoH.Ihnt	M	XX	04	j04	04	
Pipeline LBCET .10		.10	.10	.10	.10	
• PAC	OS	OS	05	JOS	OS	
•(PAC deduction of $X 3*«ctkiatduto	)3wbeaatttbta	ixedbyempi	oyee.)			
ZONE 1A						
Neper	Strake					
	6/1/03 u	WMMto	WUW»	WlACto		
	W1A6	mum	wing	W1A9		
Rate	$1922	$1922	$19.47	$19.72		
Welfare	430	500	525	530		
ftenafoti	265	325	335	4.45		
Ththring	35 ;	35	35	35		
Coil. That	XX	04	04	j04		
Pipeline LBCET .10		.10	.10	.10		
•PAC	JOS	05	05	OS		
•(RAC dednrtion of $jQ5 when authorized by employee.)						
35* working dets						
ZONE!						
Crittenden	Henderaon		Union			
Water (dram Kentucky)						
	7/irt3to	WIXXto	WMkS to	wwsto	wr.OTto	WlAMto
	6/ 1AX	wins	W1MM	wm?	WLGB	W1A9
Rate	$1921	$1936	$2041	$1936	$1961	$1931
Welfare	330	400	430	5.00	525	560
	IKS	200	2.15	2.70	330	40S
	25	30	35	35	3S	35
CoU. Treat	J1M	04	04	04	04	04
Pipeline LBCET	.10	.10	.10	.10	.10	.10
•PAC	OS	05	OS	05	OS	05
•(PAC deduction of $05 when authorized by employee.)						
3* Working dues						
ZONES						
(Red of Indiana)						
	6/1/04 to	wins to	wins to	Wl/07to	WMMtto	
	WMJS	m/M	W1A7	WU08	Wl/09	
Rrte	$19.17	$19.72	$19.77	$2032	1Q127	
Welfare	4 XX)	430	500	525	530	
fatafon	200	2.15	2.70	230	2.90	
	30	35	35	35	35	
National LBCET	— —		■—a			
CoU. Treat	XX	XX	04	04	XX	
Pipeline LECET	.10	.10	.10	.10	.10	
•PAC	05	05	OS	05	OS	
•(PAC deduction «f $ 05 wheat authorized by nnplojrr) Mwtttivdaei
Rav, 1/2008
Ae413
IOWA (PL except Zone 1)
ZONE!
Scott Cuuuty
	1/14)6 to 12(31/06	11/1/0? to 12/31/07	1/1/085 to 1/1X19
Rsee	$2221	$22.66	$23.41
Wfare	545	530 ->	530
	4j00	4 .40 -	4.90
	JO	j60	.70 .
CoU. Trait	M	M	XM
• Vhratioo	1.15	1.15	1.15
PtocHne LBCET .10		.10	.10
LBCET	£1	j67	47
••PAC	D5	jOS	05
*(dcdMt fiom Mt *8(6*)
••(PAC deduction of $jQ5 when rnthorirrd by employee.) ,
(PL) ZONE 2
(Bett of Stat)
11/1 AM to	11/lAWto
11/1/07	2/1/09
• Rate	$1433	$14.90
Wbttn	5.10	520
Pension	125	135
ndsiai	35	35
Cod. Trott	04	M
Pipeline LBCET	.10	.10
« PAC	.15	.10
10*1 LBCET	.15	.15
(Duea Deduction when suthcrind by‘employee) •(Eff. 11/1/05 $4230 per day per diem bused oa work ••(PAC (Mucticn of $.10 when aiUltwiaed by etqjtoyee.jl
KANSAS (PL except Zones 1 & 2)
ZONE 1 (Lead 1290) Atchison	Johnson
4/1/06 to 4/1X17
Rate	*2328
Welfare	4j65
fatties	3.10
Vbcetins	125
* DoeaSupp.	JO
TMuing	39
CoU.Thtst	J04
Plpeifne LBCET	.10
♦•PAC	j05
■■ Miami Wytndota
(Bii%fayu *iH nude -**<^4 deductions from fan amount of wages tnefading the $125 per hour far Vhctfioa; Chea, tbe fan $125 per boor smoaot far Vtcatioc win be pttid to that Htnd.)
•♦(PAC deduction of $jQ5 when eahortad by employee
ZONE 2 (Letato M3 « UN)
RtiV. 1/2008
ad-414
Ooe Clay Cloud Coffey Dictintnn
Rite Welfare Penricn
GdLTtat
Pipeline LECET
* PAC
Aanktin Geary Jackton Jefferaon Um Lyon Marion
4/1/06 to 4/1/07
$1345 400 155
.15 IDO
Dt .10 105
Shntoee e*n~m---
WKBQDOC WMtb^QB
•(PAC deductioa of $05 when nttaxized by employee. Duet deduction $.60)
(PL) ZONK 3 (Local SH *12*0)
(Rett of State) 11/1AJ6 to	11/14)7
11/1AT7	2/1W
*	Rale	$15.12	$1536
Welftre	400	400
nation	IJOO	100
Ttaiaing	JO	20
CoUThut	04	04
Pipeline LECET	.10	.10
•	* PAC	05	J05
•(Effective 11/14)6 $4250 per day pet diem on work week (Qmttict of Brown, Doalptan end Nemaha:
Rate $1456; Wei. $4.75; Rea. $155; Tnf.. 10; CT .04; PL LBC .10)
••(PAC deduction of $05 when authorized by employee.)
KENTUCKY (PL)
Statewide (Boone, ICentoa * Campbell are in ONb;Crittenden, Hendemon, Union A Webtter me in Indlant)
11/1106	11/1/07
11/UI7	2/1/09
Rate	$13.72		$1431
Rfettam	4.95	4.95
	300	3.10
TMtdat	33	35
CoU.Traa	04	04
Ky. LECET	10	.10
——ut_ - । ,nPMIW* "^Cl	.10	.10
PAC	05	05
Rep. LBCET	05	05
•(Effective 11/1/05 $4250 pet diem per day bocd on work week.)
**(MC deduction of SXB when authorized by employee.)
Rev. 1/2008
A-415
i
Stotowide
LOUISIANA (PL)
8/1 AM to 11/1/05
• RM	$1639
MMftra 1.15
Rmion 2X10 Ttotatef	25
Coil.Trtat XM
Rested LBCET 05 Hpdtoo LBCET .10
•*RAC	05
It/I AB to	11/1/06 to	11/1/0? to
11/1/06	H/l/m	2/1/09
$1705	$1735	$1720
1.15	125	130
230	2.91'	341
25	25	25.
XM	XM	XM
05	05	XB
.10	.10	.10
05	05	05
•(Effective 11/1AB $<230 po-day per diem baaed oc work week )
Sttmdde		MAINE(PL)
	11/106 to	ll/I«7to
	11/1/07	2/13)9
* RMe	$1195	$12.77
WotfhNi	630	6.60
Pcntictt	345	3.43
^ytotons	40	40
Lepl	.10	. .15
CoU.Itet	XM	XM
Hpdtoo LBCET .10		- .10
NE. LBCET	.15	.15
Anttotty	140	1.60
NBLHSF	.15	.15
••PAC	05	XB
Unifled Thnt	25	25
•(Effective 11/1/05 $4230 per day per diem baaed on work week.)
••(PAC deduction of $05 when authorted by employee.)
MARYLAND (PL)
ZONll	'
Calvert	Kent	Quccd Annes	TUbot
Caroline	Moctjomery	Sotnenet	’Wiaconte
Quote	Prince Oeotfea	St. Marya	Worcbeeter
11/1/06 to	11HJOJ to
11/1MX7	2/1/09
♦Rato	$1709	$1739
Wteo	325	3.35
Renate	1.15	135
TWains	30	30
CoOltet	XM	XM
Pipeline LBCET	.10	.10
Mid-Attetic LBCET .10	.10
•* PAC	XB	XB
•(Effective 11/1/05 $4230 pe-day per diem baaed on work week.)
Rev. 1/2008
MW
ZONK 2 (Rot at StM)
11/VD6 to 11/1/07
* RMe	$19.42
Welfare	235
tasoa	1.15
25 Coll.That	j04
Pipeline LECET .10
Mid-Atlantic LBCET 4B
••PAC	A5
11/1/07 to 2/1X19
$1937 232 135
25 04 .10
J05 OS
♦(Effective 11/1/05 $4250 per day per dient bused on wort week.) ••(PAC deduction of $05 when authorized by employee)
Z0NB1
Suffolk Ceunty (Boaton, Oielsea, Revere, Winthrop, Deer A Not Islands)
MMdbm Cocuty (Artiegtou, Belmont, Burlington, Cambridge, Everett, Malden, Midford, Mciroee, RrWHng, Sommville, Stoncbnn, Mknfieid, Winchester, Wintteop, end Wobwn tto|y}
Norfolk Cbtmty (Bnnktine, Dedham, and Milton oedy>
	12/1X16 to 6tum	6/1X77 to 12/1X77	12/1X771 VUK
lUte	$2505	$2625	$26,70
Welfare	6X50	6.60	660
Pension	4.10	4.10	4.10
Annuity	490	4.90	540
NELLMCT	.15	.15	.15
Unified That	50	30	30
Training	40	.45	43
Legal	.15	.15	20
HA Safety	.15	.15	.15
CT	04	04	M
Pipeline LBCET	.10	.10	.10
PAC	J05	;j»5?	‘7 ' JOS
Dues and LPL of 30 deducted from Rate.
•(PAC deduction of $05 when authorized by employee.)
ZONE!
Rest of State
	12/1/06 to 6fim	6/1/07 to 12/1X77	12/1/07 to 6/1XH
Rue	$2345	$24.65	$2500
	660	6.60	660
Pension	4.10	4.10	4.10
Annuity	3.15	3.15	3.75
NELU6CT	.15	.15	.15
Unified That	30	50	X
lUinlng	40	45	45
Legal	.15	.15	20
HA Safety	.15	.15	.15
CT	JD4	j04	j04
Pipeline LBCET	.10	.10	.10
PAC	J05	JQ5	j05
Duea and LPLof .70 deducted from Rate.
•(PAC deduction of $05 when authorized by employee.)
Rev. 1/2008
A-417
F
MICHIGAN
	6/1/03 to 6/1/M	6/1 AM to 6/1/0$	M/05» 6/1/06	6/1416 to 6/1/07	6/M)7to 6/1/08
Rm	$2134	$2134	$22 04	$2239	$22.92
HAW	235	330	330	3.70	3.95
RcutOB	235	2.73	323	3.73	405
YKKjOO	135	135	135	135	2D5
Thduhf	35	35	35	35	35
Cdl Trett	04	M	.04	04	04
Awmatry	50	.07	.07	37	.07
Pipeline LBCET	.10	.10	.10	.10	.10
MlLBCET	.12	.12	.12	.12	.17
••PAC	05	05	JOS	OS	OS
•(Deduct vucetioo from Rite)					
"(PAC deduction of $05 when enthodted by employee.)					
ZONE1	MINNESOTA			
AatAe	Code	Ituca	Scott	St. Lotti*
Cferitai	Ditarte	Like	Shetbttme	(Sootbof
T35N)				
Carver	Heooepte	Pine	St. Loma	^Ml^hD^DQ
Chicago	IteUti	te—wwy	(NotibcfTOSN)	Wright
	«l/06i»	60/07 to		
	aim	6/1/06	-		
Rate	$25jM	$2609		
WdftaB	5j60	5.75		
hwioc	330	335		
VBCBDOB	130	1.75		
TMtong	21	20	'		
Coll. Treat	XM	04 .		
Pipeline LBCET	.10	.10		
MN LBCET	XB	06 .		
•♦PAC	05	05		
•(BE 6/1A1, Vbcatioa deducted from rate.)				
••(PAC deduction of $05 when cutborixed by employee.)				
ZONE!				
RetiofSttee				
	SUM to	mm »		
	mm	6/106		
Rtte	$19.72	$20.74		
	5j60	5.75		
W—^jp	3 DO	330		
nCMMn	130	1.75		
TMihf	21	20		
CoO.Tna:	D4	04		
Pipeline LBCET	.10	.10		
MN LBCET	05	06		
••PAC	05	05		
•(Eff.6/M)1 VbntitM deducted from rate.)
♦•(PAC deduction of $j05 when uuhorited by employee.)
MISSISSIPPI (PL)
Statewide
$/l/D4te 11/1/05
* fate $1449 Wtlfwe	15ft
Peatioa 2jOO
Draining 25
Coll.Thtat_____ 24
Regional LBCET jOS Pipeline LBCET .10
••PAC	25
11/14)5 to	11/1/06 to	11/14)7 to
11/14)6	11/14)7	MA>9
$1426	$1320	$1550
12ft		1.4fc
220	225	2.64
25	25	25
24	24	24
25	25	25
.10	.10	.10
25	25	25
•(Eaoctiw 11/1/05 $4250 per day per dkm baaed m wort week.)
••(MC deduction of $25 when authorized by employee.)
MISSOURI
ZONE 1 (Load 42,53,110)
St. Louie
3/14X10	3/14)5 to	3/14)6 to	3/1M to MMto
3/1/05	3/1/06	3/1477	3/1/0$	3fl»9
•	Rate	$244$	$252$	$255$	$262$	' +11.10
Welfare	3j6O	4.10	4.70	420
Penaioo	3.75	3.75 L 3.75	420
•	• Vacation	LOO	120	120	120
Training	4$	.4$	M	53
CoU. Truer	24	24	24	24
Pipeline LBCET	.10	.10	.10	.10
•••PAC	25	25	25	25
ZONE 2 (Local 663)
Caan	Clay	Jackaoo
4/14)6 to	4/14X7 to
4/1/07	4/14)$
Plant
Rate	$232$	$24.1$
Wdfore	465	4.75
Peoaioo	3.10	330
TWining	39	49
Ataatwo	125	125
•DnesSifp.	30	.90
ColETtaM	24	24
Pipeline LBCET	.10	.10
••PAC	25	25
•(Rate iaeindea Sepp. Duet to be deducted when authorized by employee.)
(Employer will make withholding deduction from fall amount of wages indudinp At $125 per hour for
Vacation; then, the fall $125 per hour amount for Vacaticn will be paid to that Pnd.i
••(PAC deduction of $25 when authorized by emptoyee.)
Rev. 1/2008
A-419
ZONE 3 (Local 443 and 979)
Andrew	Clinton	Onmdy	Uvingstnu
Atddaon	Devieu	Huntson	Mencer
Btsdsanan	DdUfti	, Hott	Nodaway
Caidwell	Gentry	‘Laftyette	Werts
5fl/M»	4/l<T7to
4/1XF7	4/1/04
Rate	331.19	S2L29
Wtttkre	4A5	4.75
Ptorion	300	2.70
Vacation	1.15	125
X4	A4
miuii^	.R9
•• Duca Sepp.	20	20
Cdl. Trait	M	04
Pipeline LBCET	JO	.10
•••RAC	05	05
•(Lafiyclto - $1964; Pets 1.70; decs deduct 15)
••(Remit dua when authorized by etapioyoe.) (Defect wttitoidtog flroai wages Md vacation then pay fidl vacation to Fund) •••(RAC deduction of $05 wbn mtbodaed by empkyee.)
ZONE 4 (Locate 319,443 and 474)
Barry	Dado
Bvttn	DmUbi
Boa	Douglas
CarraO	Hickory
Cedar	Jasper
ChrisltM	Johnson
vm» mm
Rat	$11.79
Wtifaze	435
Renaica	2.70
Vacation	.90
TYaiatag	44
* Dues Sepp.	25
CoU. Trait	04
Pipeline LBCET	.10
‘•FAC	05
f jf|dA	SsUm
Lawrence	Stone
McDonald	St.Oatr
' - Mopt -	Taney '
Newtfe	ifcraon
OaaA	Webber
Pttda,	Wright
mm to
4/MJS $19.74	"
4.75 2.70 ' 00 ■ ■ 44 .S5, 04 : 10. 05 ■■
feet when an dan bed	employee.)
(Deduct WUifeddtnf firm Wages and VbcaOoa then pay full Vacation to Fund)
••(PAC dednetioe of $05 arhen authorbed by employee.)
( jOSTSK Mppitncnud doc*)
ZONE S (Lwato CM, 71$ and *40}
Franklin	‘Jeffenon	*St. Charles
5/1/06 to	Vlflfrto
5/1/07	5/1/M
• Rate	$23.97	$24.92
Weltae	405	4.75
Pension	300	300
Ttahring	44	33	'
Coil.TYtat	04	04
Plpettm LBCET	.10	.ID
••PAC	05	M
• (Mfenou - $M97; St. ClMria - $2534
••(RAC deduction of $05 when authorized by employee.) (XB759 rappiensental fea.)
Rw.t/2008
A420
Andrite Bollinger
OucuMdc Howard Howell
' Iran
Monroe *Mootgomcry New Madrid
Callaway Cape Oirandeao
CMrifton Cleft
Cower Crewford Deft Duftdim
BemKH*
Intoning CoU.TYwt
••RAC
Lewi* *Linatdn Linn Macao Meftaaa Mmfe*
Miller MtaMppi Moaiteau
5/1/06 to 5/1/07
$2237 4j65 320
4« M
GET .10
05
frrnj*cot
PUto" Pulaiki Mmm Rfth
n *-• lUDOutpU Reynold* Riftey
s/ixnto 3/1/01
$22.97 4.73 330
33 04 .10 05
MuctfosAtty* tod Vfajto)
(Renndning Countie*: Rate $23.47; utoc fringe* except Fetuion $3X10) ••(PAC dedneftm of $jQ5 when anhorittd by employee.)
does dokict)
Statewide
MONTANA (PL)
fteiloc
Coll. 7Yu«i
i 1/1/06 to
num
$1634 430 1.45
35 100
04
11/1/07 to
2/1/09 ,■
$1735 430
NW LBCET
.10 05 05 30
IjOO 04 .10 1 05 05 30
Scb^Jtfcr Scca Scddifod Staafan Sten Stade St.R
Ste. Genevieve - a ' stOaCQnl SnUitim
•WtoiSr
—e~ -* K-wmagFDn
Wbytn
•(Any taeenee ta fringe* to be detkictcd from wage*. Effective 11/1XB $4230 per dapper diem bmed
••(perfect)
NEBRASKA (PL)
* Reto Welfare lYmitw
CoU.TYua
Pontine LECET
•» me
LoadLECET
11/14)6 *o 11/1/07
$1366 400 225
33 04
.10
.15
.15
11/1/07 to 2/14)9
$14.45 400 225
.40 04 .10
.10
•(Effective 11/VQS $4230 per day per diem bated oo work week.)
.•mU
Rt«. 1/2008
A-ttl
NEVADA
ZONI 1 (Local «nj dak	EamcraJria	Lincoln
7/1 AH io	7/1/0? to
7/W7	7/1/08
•	Roto	$2227	$2327
TMfkte	5.14	5.65
Pemion	4.95	5.12
Annuity	129	129
*	• VKtokm	3.75	322
TYttataf	45	.45
Coil.Thtct	04	04
Ptpettoe LBCET	.10	.10
NW LECET	05
***PAC	05	05
Nye
Zane Pty
Zone 1 (0-30 bUh)b Reo iom
Zone 2 (30-50 mOea) ■ $150 per hour
Zme 3 (ow 50 mltea) - $325 per hour
*( Any tooeaae to frtojea to be deducted fcoan wapea) .
**(Add to Inae rate, tax, toot deduct ate taxea)
ZONI 2
(Reel of Stele - Contact PLCA or Unital for Locatton of. Ama A A B) ARMA
	Wl/D6to 1W1/07	WHOJte WVM-
Rale	$2125	$2125 ,
WfiUB	325	325.'
Ffenttod	340	3.40
Tnifrrtu	22	22
Coll. Tract	04	M
Vfeattan	2.11	2.11
Ptodine LBCET JO		- .10
NW LECET	05	- 05
PAC	05	05 ,
*0taMion and Duea iactatod to nee and arc to be dertectod)
ARM B: Mfto ranch the came aa Aiea A above wtdria 50 mile radha of either Canon City o Wtatae County Comtoouao. 50-150 Own Waahoe County Courthouaento incwaaei by $200.150-300mUea the Wage Reto inrwiin by $3100; to exceta of 300 ndtea dien $400.
NOTZ: When contractor ttantabea daBy tranaportation to wialiuen fcom Reno or Canon Chy to and Bum job cite, no and tone, eabriataoe or remote area fay rtwO be paid.
*nMC dednettoo of SJ05 when eufiortaed by employee.)
Re* 1/2008
^422
NEW HAMPSHIRE (PL) StMMnM iinmta	unimta
11/1/07	vim
•fate	SUM	$12.43	'
Welfare	6.60	6.60
PtBMOCl	4.10	4.10
Thtntaj	M	M
Leya!	.10	.15
Coll. ThM	04	04
NB Annuity	13?	137
Pipeline LBCET .10	.10
NELLMCT	.15	.15
NELHSF	.15	.15
••PAC	OS	.OS
Unified Tru»t	25	25
•(Effective 11/1/0534230 per day per dion baaed on wort week.) ••(PAC deductioa at $05 wta audnaiaed by employee.) ($05dt» deduct)
NEW JERSEY
SMtwtd*
3/1/07 to 3/1/08
3/106 to 3/1/07
fate	5	35.75	$26.90
Wdftre	700	700
Ptmioo	3.10	JOO
Dtfncd Cotoi-		
a---^ - - **■	■ uvuco ran	3.75	425
"Dainiai	30	30
Vhcatioa	200	200
Health A Safety	OS	05
LECET	20	20
Coll. That	04	04
PSpeUne LECET	.10	.10
PAC	.10	.10
Additional Overtime: Time end one heif on Seturdayi aad double time oa Simdayi .
Additfaid Hobday* tad Hobday Ply:	BrrAday, Prcaldcoti*l Betite et Dey, Mtfcnes Dey* MemotU
Dt<y (tnlbhy pay ta auaadme with provuioc* at local UTCA Ayteonert
Perth! fay Day -Stow Up Time: la accordance wiibproviuoat of load UTCA AyMtleut
Local UTCA Agreement provides coucerniny Shop Steward will be applicable
3 ift» duct deduct Lo 172,2 'M doe» deduct Lo 473
		NEW MEXICO	(PL)	
Stataw0*	8/lXMto	11/1/05 to	ll/UKto	ll/l/07to
	11/1/05	11/106	11/1/07	;ru»
•Rate	$1430	$14.96	$15,76	116.14
WCare	2A3	300	300	1*5
ftnioo	1.70	1.70	1JS	332
Itoaiof	35	35	35	25
CoO.-thMt	04	04	04	04
RcykrnW LECET OS		OS	OS	OS
Pipeline LBCET .10		.10	.10	.10
••PAC	05	OS	OS	OS
Rw. 1/2008
Ar423
NEW YORK
ZONBl(Uoi731) Bronx	Kinp	Now York
7/1/06 to	7/Mnto
7/W07	7/Ifl* .
Rn	$3409		$3524
Wftre	1030	10.70
PtssioQ	7.10	8.44
NYAmnrity	200	305
CoU.IhMt	M	04
PfpcUDB LECET	10	.10
NY LBCET	.10	.10
	Al	.42
FAC	JOS	jQ5
Supp. Uacmploy.
ZONE1A (Lm«1 1293) NMMU	Suffolk
tn 06 to	&im to
«U07	Mflt
Rtte	$2730	526 JOS
• Wttfxre	7.11	737
• Pmioo	♦37	5.97
•• Vtastk*	200	200
••Lcfii	20	25
NYArauity	425	425
• NYHnUVSoftty jOS		OS
•NY LBCET	.10	.»
CoU. That	04	04
Hpcttoe LBCET .10		.»
	.76	30
►••rm:	05	05
•(Up to 40 hom only.)
ZONE 2 (Laoi 60)

	4/14)5 to 4/1/06	4/1/06 to ■ 4/1/07	4/14)7 to 4/1/OS
■Ute	$2930	329.76	$3025
	405	505	530
	335	430	5.10
Ttafatei	25	30	30
NY Annuity	330	400	400
NY LBCET	.10	.10	.10
Call. That	M	04	04
Hpdiro LBCET .10		.10	.10
FAOLcf/DuM 102		102	102
Rev. 1/2008
?sA-424
ZONE 3 (Local 734)
Rnddand
	4/V06to 4/1/07	4/1/07 to 4/1/08
Rate	$2855	$2855
Wti&re	620	7.70
	3.95	395
Annuity	2OO	2J00
* Savingt	2.10	2.10
* Duca	125	125
Nat HAS	JOB	03
1*1-	M	M
CoU.Ihut	M	M
Pipeline LECET .10		.10
NY LECET	.10	.10
••RAC	JOB	DS
ORO. FUND	35	35
Loe LECET	.10	.10
•(Deducted from w*ge, Due* when rathorited by employee.) ••(PAC deduction of $03 when authoriaed by employee.)
ZONK 4 (Loot 1000)
CciuaM* (Towndkipa of Aacram, Claverack, Clennoot, Ccpeke, Gelatin, Oermantowt, Greenport, HUUde, Hudaoo, Liviaptna, Phflmoot and Ibcotdc)
Dotehe**
5/1/06 to 51VOJ
5/1/07 to 5/1A8
Rate	125.71	$2631
Vfclfare	650	6j65
Fenttoa	5.10	550
Tkandnf	M	45
NY LBCET	.10	.10
CcO. Tnat	M	XM
Vacation	1.70	1.70
Pipeline LECET .10		.10
Annuity	350	3.75
PAC	J05	JOS
•(Vacatioa end done deducted from rate .)
**(MC dedactioorf $D5 when antberieed by eatployee.)
ZONE 5A (Laeal 17)
Delaware
Green {Tbwndpp of CtoekilD
Orange	SUUina	Utaer
	7/1/06 to	7/1/07 to
	7/1/07	7/1/08
Rate	$2855	$2950
Welfne	450	455
ASttfllOtt	550	555
	LOS	1J05
NY LECET	.40	40
Coll. Trett	j04	J04
Pipeline LECET .10		.10
Afl&uity	350	325
Sepp. Unempioy. .70		.70
• RAC	.10	.15
Vec/Dtie* (deduct)		140
'(PAC deduction of $.15 when authorized by employee.)
R8V. 1Z2008
A-42S
ZONE SB (Lata! 17)
Chenango (Tbwnahipe of Sheburoe, Coitmbua, N^w Bertin} OtMgO
	7/1X6 to	7/1X7 to
	7/1X7	7/1X8
Rate	’ $22.75	' $2360
Wciftre	430	4.65
Pennine	530	585
Tkaining	JO	JO
NY LECET	.40	M
CoO. That	04	J04
Pipeline LBCET	.10	.10
Annuity	300	323
Svpp. Uncmptoy.	.70	.73
me	.10	1J0
»a	■ ।— mcnmnng uuc* {,<*"**)		.15
*(MC dednettoo cf 8.15 wben MHhmiwd by employee.)
ZONE6(Loeal 210)
Erie
	7/1/06 to 7/1/07	7/1X7 to 7/1X8
Rm	SMJ6	824.96
	866	9.41
	426 .	426 ,
	38	38
Anu	130	130
CoUTraat	J04	XM
Pipeline LECET .10		.10
NY LBCET	.10	.10
me	.10	.10
ZONE 7 (Lacal 7)
Broome, Tioga (except tat Townttnpe of Spencer nd Candor)
(except for Tbwnrtdpa ef New Bertin, Cofandroa end Sbcrtwre)
Delaware (Tbwnh^a at Sidney, Maaooville, Wahoo, Ibiotykiaa, Depotit, Hancock and Cokdieeter) 8/1 AM to	711X6 to	7/1X7 to
7/1/06	7/1X7	7/1X8
Rato	$19j05	$21.14	$2232
	3 JO	365,	380
Pcssim	4.10	4.65	430
Ann.	1J5	200	200
Tkatoing	.75	.75	.85
NY LBCET	.10	.45	.45
CoU. Trott	04	04	04
Ptpeihte LBCET .10		.10	.10
me	05	05	05
Reg. Health/Safcty D5		-j-	
•(PAC deduction of S 05 when anttmriaed by etoptoyee.) Duea 7» (deducted)
Rev. 1/2008

ZONE 7A (Leeal 35)
Heiklutet, Oneida (Tbwmtnpe of Sanperfield, Weal Winfield, Bridgewater, Marahall, ftria, New Hutfori
Whitestown, Mmcy, Trenton, Deerfield, Foreatport, Kiridaad end Reuven)
Montgomery (Tbwnritipa of St. MneviUe. Mladen, Canajrhsric, Petatine end Root)
Mtco (TbwmUpa of Stratford, Oppenheim, Caroga end Ephrata)
Midtoon, Oneida (Townritipe of Florence, Camden, AntttviOe, Lee, Ara, Boonville, Wtatorn Steuben,
Vienna,
Rome, Floyd. Weetmontand, Verneo, Auguat, end Wroea)
HamUtoc
	7/1 AN to 7/1/07	7/IAnto 7/1/08	
Rate	$21.90	$22.65	
Vfelfarc	5.76	601	
tarioo	4.93	528	
Training	30	.35	
NYLECET	.15	.15	
Coll. Treat	M	04	
Pipeline LBCET .10		.10	
• PAC	JQ5	05	
Aim.	85	.95	
•(PAC deduction of $05 when authorized by employee.)			
ZONE 7B (Local 633)			
Onondaga			
	8/1 AM to	7/IAN to	7/14)7 to
	7/1/06	7/1/07	7/1AJ8
Rate	$18.70	$2109	$21.97
Wetforv	340	435	4.43
	335	430	520
TtiMag	j60	.60	.60
Annuity	200	200	2.00
NYLECET	.15	.15	.15
Coll. Treat	04	04	J04
Health R Safety 0$		05	05
Pipeline LBCET .10		.10	.10
• PAC	jOS	05	. 05
•(PAC deduction of $05 when authorised by employee.) Duca deduct 6%
ZONE 7C (Local IM)

Enea			Wmeo	
	8/lAMto		7/1/06 to	7/1A77 to
	7/1/06		7/1/07	7/1/08
fate	$1900		$21.44	$2182
Wctfue		4.90	5.60	5.70
FcmIm		345	4.80	5.40
Tenting		45	30	M
NY LBCET		.10	.10	.10
CoUTYuat		M	M	04
Health A Safety		D5	05	OS
Pipeline LBCET		.10	.10	.10
RAC		M	OS ‘	OS
Dnea Deduct		1.94	200	203
•(PAC deduction of $05 when authorised by employee.)
Rev. 1/2008
MZT
Z0KSTO(UolCS3$
	6/1/Mto 7/1/06	7/1/06 to .mm	7/1/07 to 7/l«
Rm	$1153	$21.17..	$21.97
	3.80	435.	4.45
Pension	3.12	6.17	6.95
TMning	40	.40	50
Anmrity	25	25	.40
NY LBCET	.10	.10	.10
Coll. That	J0+	04	54
HeahhASafety OS		05	05
Pipeline LBCET .10		.10	.m
PAC	j05	OS	05
*tFHC deduction of $05 when acibcrixed •>> employee.) Dnea deduct 7*
ZONK 7K (Local 332)
■ to*.	■ .. mBsuB	jcncnon		Lewie		St. Lawrence
	8/1/04 to	7/M)6to	7/1/07 to	
	7/1/06	mm	7/1/OS	
Rm	$19.76	$21.39 '	■	$21.77	
Wfem	400	450	4.73	
PcnskM	3RD	4J0	535	
Tknintam	40	M ■	■ .40	
NY LBCET	.10	.10	.10	
CoU.Thut	J04	04 .	04	
Health A Safety	.10	JOS	j03	
HpeUne LBCET	.10	.10	.10	
•BMC	OS	OS ,	OS	
Defined Contribution .73		125 .	125	
ZONE7F(LeeaI$M)
Cortland	Schuyler (Ibwaihipa of Catherine end Odyeaaa)	Tbtnplrire
Tk<a (Tbwuridp* of Spencer nd Candor)
6/1/04 to	7/1106 to	7/1 AH to
7/14)6	7/1/07	7/1/08
Rm	$1650	$2109	$2137
VMfce	300	350	350
	3.95	4.45	433
TVlfriFnt	30	30	30
Defined Contribution 300		325	3.45
LBCET	.10	.10	.10
Cod. Treat	04	04	04
Hedth A Safety	OS	OS	OS
Pipeline LBCET	.10	.10	.10
PAC	05	05	A5
•(PAC deduction of $05 when Kdhorixod by employee.) Duea deducts*
Rtyv. 1Z2008
oA428
ZONK U (Locate 157) Albany (Town of	Pnitoc	Sintop
Colottie)	Montgomery	Sdnuectady
Colombia	RcnudaerfSee 8B)	ScbdMfc
7/1/06 to	7/1/07 to
mm	7/L08
Rate	$22.49	$22.99
Penaicn	4.90	540
Wetfan	425	4.73
Tndntaf	.40	.40
Annuity	1.73	1.73
NY LBCET	05	AS
Coil. Treat	04	04
Ntetetud LECET	-.-
Pipeline LECET	.10	.10
•PAC	AS	AS
NY HAS	AS	AS
•(PAC deduction of SAS when authorized by employee.} Dueadedmt4«
ZONK SB (Laeal 190)
Albany (except TVwn of entente)
Columbia (Tbanahtpa of Stayveaant, Stockport, Kttnderbnok, New Lebanon, Canaan. Ghent, Chatham, Anttertitz)
Green (except CateUll Towttahip)
ReaMdacr (Towndtipa of North Grecabuah. Eate Oreabcih, Sdtoiack, Nanao, Stepbaitown and Tbwn of
RcmkImO
7/1106 to	7/1/07 to
7/lffl?	7/1/08
Rate	S22A9	$2269
Welfare	4.10	4.10
Pensioo	633	6A5
Tntiatng	65	AS
NY LECET	.10	.10
CoU. Treat	A4	04
Pipeline LECET .10		.10
PAC	aDS	AS
Am.		100
•(PAC dakxtten at $ AS when authorized by employee.)
ZONI 9 (Local 91}
Niagara
	7/M)6to 7/1/07	7/1/07 to 7/MI8 ‘
Rate	$2355	$2367
Welfare	10.64	1039
Fcfluon	852	9.77
	35	35
NY Safety	A5	AS
Cod. Treat	A4	A4
Pipeline LECET .10		.10
NYLBCET	.10	10
•PAC	.IS	.15
•(RAC deduction of $.15 when authorized by employee.) Duea 9* (deduct)
Rou 1/2008
A-429
ZONS 10(Lm!4M)
Oeneaaee	Ouario (Ttrwndtipe of Victor, Fannta$ton, Em Bloomfield, Weal Bloomfield,
Llvingaton	Richmond, Brutol nd Canadice)
Monroe	Wkyne (Tbwncttfpe of Ontario, WUliannoa, Sodua, Walworth, Marion.
Orietm	Maixdon and Pttayra)	' Wyotmaj
	7/106 to 7/1107	7/1/07 to 7/1/08
Rato	$13.12	$24.12
Wfcre	454	4.79,
RcotioA	243	2.43
TMutag	AS	33
Anmtity	325	325
NY LBCET	1j03	1.18
Coll. Thwt	04	J0+
Pipeline LBCET .10		.10
•BW	.10	.10
Med. Ana.		50
•(PAC deduction of $.10 when authorized by emfdoyee.)
Dneed* (deduct)
ZONK 1U (Load CH)
AOqpiy	CMlatauyiia
Cbataufna (TbaraUpe Rcodi Crack, CVyrncr, Harmncy/North Htrrootty, Buati, Uaatone, CatroU, Mina, Sherman, Ellicott, Poland, Jamectown, Gerry, Chataufua, Effinjton, EUerJ Wal Stockton)
7/lA)6 to		7/1/07 to
num		7/1/08
Rate	$10.79		$21.40
WUtao	4j60	435
BdmIm	355	3 .89 ,
	AD	.45
NYLBCET/MS	.10	.10
Con.Ttat	J04	04
ifcatt/Stfbty	JOS	j05
HpdlM LBCET	.10	.10
PAC	AS	OS
	3 JOO	300
•(PAC deduction of $jQ5 when erthorind by enftoyee.) Duea M (deduct)
ZONI 11B (Lucci Mfi
Chuftwgue CTbwMdripa Ripley, Weetfield, Portland,
Dunkirk, Sheridan, Hanover, VUlenovn,
	7/1 AN to 7/1/05	7/U05to. ' 7/1/06 ;;	7/1106 to 7/1AJ7	7/IA77to 7/1/08
Rate	$11.74	$11.74	$21.74	$21.95
Welfare	4.10	4.60	430	435
	250	300.1	355	339
	40	40	.40	.45
NY LBCET	.15	.10	.10	.10
Cofl. Tract	J04	A4	j04	.	M
Health/Safety		jOS	j05	M
Pipeline LECET .10		.10	.10	.10
•MC	JOS	BJ ■	j05	j05
Monty P*dMM 330		3j00	3j00	300
•(PAC deduction of SfiS when authorized by enqtioyee.) Duea M (deduct)
RK 1/2008
4490
ZONE 12 (Lacril35D
Cbutmtg	Sctuyfcr (exeept Tbwnrit^u of Cuhcrine tad Odyeua)

7/1/06 to	Him to
mm	mm
Rate $2023	$2103
Wdfete	3.90	400
Pcaaton	527	5A2
Am	200	200
Training	M	M
•♦ NY LBCEI7HAS	30	30
Coil. Tran	M	04
Pipeline LECET	.10	.10
* FAC	03	05
•(B£ deduction of $05 when authorized by tniptnyir.)
••(Deduct)
Dma 5* (deduct)
ZONE 13 (Locate 435 and 633)
Cqraga	Seneca	Yetea
ftotirin Clbtosdripe of South BriatoL Gaiaialriyia, Manrtmater, Hopewell. Seneca, Gia Lam, Ridpa, Naptoe, and Geneva)
Ptayne (KrwmUpe of Arcadia, Lyuoa, Galen, Savannah. Huron, Roec, Wofcutt, cad Bhtier) 7?Mrtto .. 7/1/07to mm mm
Rate	$2500	$2300
• Wire	405	400
Peaaton	3.75	4.10
TMuhf	33	35
NY LBCET	.15	.15
CoU. Tract	04	04
Duca AaeeauMat	74$	71$
Pipeline LBCET	.10	.10
••PAC	05	05
Aasnrty	142	Ij60
•(Deduct when authorized) *“rnV wuDCmOC Of >AE> WDCu MnDQnttu Dy Cu^MOyDCJ
NORTH CAROLINA (PL)
	XIAN to	11/1105 to	11/1/06 to	ll/lA7to
	11/1/05	11/1/06	11/1/07	11/1/08
• Rue	$1500	$1525	$15.75	$1609
Wtifen	200	250	2.75	300
Fcttfiun	00	.70	06	100
TMutuf	50	50	50	50
CoU.1hBt	04	04	04	04
Pipeline LECET	.10	.10 ‘	.10	.10
Mid-Attantic LECET 06		08	.10	.10
‘•PAC	OS	OS	05	05
•(Effective 11/UB $4230 pet day per diem baaed m wort week.)
••(PAC deduction of $03 when authorized by employee.) Utrion dnea dettoct 4%
Rev. 1/2008
A-431
NORTH DAKOTA (PL)
11/1/06 to	11/1/07 to
	11/1/07	2/14)9
Rate	$12.14	$12.74
Wstftn	330	5.75
ftsMofi	230	230
"Betaine	21	20
Coil. Treat	JO*	04
Pipeline LECET .10		.10
LBCET	OS	06
MC	05	JOS
•(Effective 11/1/Q5$4230 per (fay per diem bend <x> wort week.) ••(PAC dednctton erf $05 when atlborizod by eopieyee.).
Duet 441 (deduct)
OHIO (PL)
Statewide (Boone, Kenton A Cumpbdl from Kentucky)
11/1/06 to 11/MJ7B
	11/1/07	inm
RMb	$22.73	$2359
	4.40	4.40
	200	2.10
	.10	.15
Cod. That	04	04
TMtanfl LBCET 05		JOS
Pipeline LBCET .10		.10
PAC	05	05
• (ESedtve 11/1/03 $*230 per (fay per ttiem bused on work week.) ♦*(PAC deduction <rf $05 whoa stthoriaed by employee.) (
OKLAHOMA (PL)
	S/IXMto	11/1/05 to •	11/1/06 to	11/1/07 to
	11/1/05	11/1/06	11/1/07	2/U09
* Rtoe	$1300	S15JOO	$15.76	$16.14
Wfce ■	135	2j00	200	135
FtaMoQ	135	1.77	1.95	230
Coii.Dna:	04	J04	J04	04
Mfcnd LECET 05		05	OS	05
Ikui.	30	30	.30	25
Pipeline LECET ,10		.10			.10	.10
•• PAC	05	05	j05	05
•fESecthe 11/MB $4230 per day per diem teed on week week.)				
••(PAC deduction <jf $05 when endmetaed by employee.)				
Does 51* (dcdoct)		OREGON		
Statewide	ff 1/04 to	6/1/05 to	61106 to	6/I/O7W
	6/1AB	6/1A6	6ium	6/M»
	$213$	$2205	$2257	$23.12
	430	430	4.90	5j00
ftmiwi	4.45	4.M	5.15	SAS
l^sfaHr	40	.45	30	35
♦• Duel Dedoctam .90		.90	.90	.95
National LBCET		w.w	—	— —
Cod. That	M	M	M	M '
Pipeline LBCET .10		.10	.10	.10
NW LECET	05	m	07	£7
♦••PAC	05	os	05	05
•(Any inercmo in fringes to be deducted from wanes)				
**fltaea Deduction tod Credit Union me tactaded ta (be rees end me to be deducted when ■Uhm lew! by enwtoyee.)				
,M((PAC deduction erf $05 when Mtartaed by employee.)				
Rtf. 1£0Q8
A432
PENNSYLVANIA
ZOKKl Bock*	Ctater	Ddinn	Montgomy
	Wl/tMto 11/1835	11/1X15 to 5/1/06	5/1/06 to 5/1/07	!h/07to IflXB
Rate	$1630	$2135	$2305	$2330
WteUhfC	4.76	4.76	626	726
	933	933	503	1038
TValftiifeg	.17	.76	.76	.76
LtfN	30	30	30	30
LBCETl	—J—	—J—	23	23
CoU. Thiat	04	04	04	04
Pipeline LBCET .10		j .10	.10	.10
Mid-Ad. LECET 05		05		—.—
PAC	OS	05	30	30
A—miify		—J—	4j80	
RHAS			.12	.12
•(Legal euutrihitkw of $30 it indnded in rate.) ••fftC deduction when aulbuiized by euqdoyeeJ
ZONE 2
Allegheny	Oarioo
AimHiwit	Clearfield
BUM	*THnton
•Bedfori	•Gawfari
Blair	Elk
Butler	Erie
Ciahu	Fayette
•Cttneron	•Fore*
•Centre 1/107*0 1/MH
Rate	$2100
Welfare 7 .M> Penrioo	338
TUuing* Safety 25 Coll.That	04
Health* Safety	07
Pipeline LECET	.10
••PAC	05
•HanMtn •IWtoc Greene •Huntingdon Indbun •Jefferaoc
McKean
J,..
M»xr
•Miflin •Ri ter Sodinet l
wuczngKo Rbiincwlwnl
UMM to '	1/1/09 to W/10 to
1/1/0?^	1/1/10 in/n
$22M^'' ‘	$23.10	$2335
745	195	8-45
408	■	438	4.7$
25	25	25
M	04	04
07	£7	ffl
.10	.10	.10
OS	05	OS
•(Add .10 to Rate)
••(PAC deduction of 505 when authorized by employee.) Doea B.?* (deduct)
ZONES Adami	Lackawanna
Berka	Uncateer
Bradford	Lebanon
Carbon	Lehigh
Cotambia	Urate
Cumberland	Lycoming
Dttqfein	Home
5/lXMto U/1XB
Rate $1604 Welfare	430
fawte 3.73
Training	24
CoU. Trait 04
Pipeline LECET .10 Mid-Atl. LECET 04
•PAC	OS
Montour	Sdlten
„ Northampton	Sunpdtanna
i Nerttaudaeriand	Tkto
Petty	Unita
Pike	Wm
acnaymi;	wjimumj
Snyder	Ifadi
11/ljQS to	5/1/06 to	4/1/07 to
5/1/06	6/UffJ	<UV0»
$1793	$18.13	818.38
420	405	5.74
3.75	3.75	3.75
24	24
04	04	04
.10	.10	.10
04	04	04
05	05	05
•(PAC deduction of $05 whea authorized by employee.) Doee 4* (deduct)
Rev. 1/2008
A-433
RHODE ISLAND
SQMntt) 12/3/07 to 12/2/07	6/1/08
Rato	$24.10	$24.40
WUftre	6j6S	7.15
ftciioe	440	460
Batataf	M	M
Lcpl	25	US
NEAandty	305	3j05
NE LECET	.15	.15
Coll. That	04	M
NELABHAS .15	.15
Pipeline LBCET .10	.10
•PAC	05	JOS
Statewide
SOUTH CAROUNA (PL)
	ll/imia 11/1/07	' ll/i/07» 2/im
Rate	$1600	$1630
Wfeto	255	260
	1J5	1.74
Tiebdng A Safety	25	25
Ctdl.Ttat	M	4M
Pipeline LECET	. .10	.10
Refkaud LBCET	05	05
PAC	JOS	V

•(Eff. 11/14)5 $42 JO per day pa <fi™> teed « work week.) *******"B“hori“dby
SOUTH DAKOTA (PL)
Statewide
	11/1/06 *» 11/14)7	11/1/07 to ■ 24/09 >
Rate	$13«	$1438
WetfeM	5.10	5.20
	LOO	1.10
	35	.40
CoU. Troy	D4	04
PtpeUae LBCET .10		.10
PAC	.15	.10
Local LBCET	.15	.15
•(Effective 11/1A5 $4250 per toy pa diem baaed oct wort week.)
••(PAC dodnrtiwi at $.10 when Mhortced by en^toyee.)
Dace 5 to (deduct)
Rek 1/2008
A-434
TENNESSEE (PL)
Statewide
11/14)6 to	11/14)7 to
11/1/07	2/1/09
• Rate	$16.10	$1645
Wtifne 235	2M
Penaioe	t40	1.73
TYatatag * Safety 25	25
Coil. Treat XM	XM
Pipeline LBCET .10	.10
Rcgfcoal LBCET XB	XB
••PAC	OS	XB
•(Eff. 11/14B $4230 per day per diem baaed on work week .)
••(PAC deduction of SXB when audwrised by employee.) Duea 4% (deduct)
TEXAS (PL)
StartewMe
	3/1/04 to 11/14)5	U/lABto 11/1416	11/1/06 to nnm	11/1417 to :tn/»
• Rate	S13XM)	313X17	$13.76	$16.14
Wdtet	133	1.75	2XM)	135
ftuion	160	2 BO	200	230
CoU.ThMt	XM	XM	XM	XM
TYng.	25	25	25	25
Reg. LBCET	XB	XB	XB	XB
Hpctine LBCET .10		10	.10	.10
•• PAC	XB	XB :	XB	XB
•(Effective l I/14B $4230 per day per diem bated on work week.)
UTAH (PL)
11/14)6 to 11/1AJ7
•	Rate	$1637
Wetfare	265
Aim.	135
TVaiiuny	35
•	• Vacation UM)
*	* Admin Doe 3% of groat Coil. Treat XM Pipeline LBCET .10 NWLBCET XB
•••PAC	OS
11/14)7 tt> n/im
$1761 2.70 135
35 1XX)
316 ofgrow ' XM .10 OS OS
•(Any inoeaee in frinjea to be deducted fra waga. Effective 1 DIAB 34230 pmdqr per (Bcm baaed on work went)
••(Vacation and Adminietmtive Fund are included in rate and dmdd be deducted ffctl rate utter taxca.)
•••(PAC deduction of SXB when autborinod by employee J
Rev. 1/2008
A435
VERMONT (PL)
Statewide	' ■
11/1/06 to	11AX7 to		
11/1X7 * Rote	$14.13 Wfare Pension	335 'Reining	M Legal	.10 CoHlhut	04 Pfpdtoo LSCHt	.10 NB Annuity	45	2/1/09	. $1434 660 3.45 M .15 j04 .10 130		
NELLMCT	,15	.15' NELKSF	.15	.15 "MC	XB	05	, Dnet(ded)	A5	.65 •(Effective 11/1/05 WJO per da* per dica based on *mk week.)			
••(PAC deitocticu of JDS when auSoiaed by tafhaycc.)			
Statewide S/MMto	VIRGINIA (PL) 11/1A5 to	11/1/06 to		11/1/07 to
11AX3.	11/liW .	11/1/07	HAMS
• Ret*	$1533	$15.7$.	J1637	$1633
WWfare	2.15	2.54	2.75	325
Pension	,75	IDO	125	1.10
Thitdag	50	.50	.50 '	30
CoU.Ttast	04	j04	04	04
Pipeline LBCET .10	.10	.10	.10
Mid-Ad. LBCET 15	.15	20	25
♦♦PAC	D5	05	OS	D5
•(EBecttee 11/1/05 $4250; Eff.
**(PAC dednctiau of MJ when authorized by enmlowe.) Union due* deduct 23*.
WASHINGTON (PL except Zones 3 & 4)
(PL) Zaae 1 • Eastern
Adams, Asotin, Beaton, Cotatnbh, Ferry, Franklin, Gerfidd, Gnurt, Lincoln, Okmopn, Pend, Spokene, Steven*, WtUe MBs, Whumen, mid Dougie* County (Best of die IK) Meriden)
	SAAKto 11/1/05	,11/1/05 to 11/1/06	11/1/06 to 11/U07	11/1X17 to 2/1/09
* Rmb	$1436	$19.95	$20.90	$2134
Vfettw	4.70	435	4.95	4.95
Rmta	1.70	1.70	1.90	2.10
TtaUng	35	35	35	'■,35
to* <*_■ -	*a- l - — ST""™ UBjOU	IDO	.. IDO	100	-	IDO
*• Dues Deducdcn .70		.70	70	.75
Netkmti LECet		— —	__	— —
Ort. Treat	04	D4	04	04
Plpdino LBCfir .10		.10	.10	.10
NW LECET	JD5	OS	05	OS '
‘♦•PAC	jOS	D5	05	OS"
*(Aayincme*e JnOidpc* tobcrfcstacaedflnm mtgee. Bfettfre 11/1/05 54230 per day pct diem baaed on wort week.)
••Tbe Crcffit Utta and Dues Deductiosu are tadndod in the above Hated wage i*amd undeducted ftm tbe m|dujMi*s net warn. Due* Dcducttau wtam nxhcraed by employee.
Zone Pty. $7DO to $10 Do per day tn verified areas sad time stmt* and stop* at the job site wjft onpfayee* furnishing tram u—y lyihrn
•••ffAC deductiau of $1)5 when authorized by employee.)
Rev. 1/2008
A-438
(PL) Zaoa 2 • Csitni
Oehw,KitHtoa,Ytodma, and DougiM County (wot of the 120 Merida)
	8/1/04 to 11/1/05	ii/insto 11/1/06 .	11/1/06 to 11/1X17	111/1X77 to :vi/D9
• Rate	$1745	$18.74	$1959	$2037
	4.70	455	455	4,95
RcmIob	2j6O	2J»	280	290
TVaiahiaiy	35	35	35	35
•• Credit Union	100	IjOO	lf»	IDO
” Duet Deduction .70		.70	.70	.75
National LBCET		— —	——-	
CoU.Treit	JD4	JM	J04	JM
Ptpeiine LECET .10		.10	.10.	.10
NW LBCET	J05	j05	05	05
>” PAC	D5	D5	05	05
**Ibe Credit Union Md DM* Deduction are lactnfed in the above Hued wage iteea itnd ere deducted from the rmptoyte’i net wagon. Duee Deduction when anthorined by engfeyee Zone P»yt $7j00 to $1000 pct day in tpedfied seal and time raffi Md ttopa K the jib nee with cmpioyeea
Zooe 3 - Wectarn
Grey* Harter, bland, Jeflmon, King, Kiteop, Lewie, Maaon, Hem, San hum. £kagi), Snfenmtoti, Tburatou, Whatcom and Pacific (portion of Pacific County that to north of a atraigtt line mafelry extending the north bomdary of Wtokiakum Canary went to the Pacific Ocem) Camdfca.
1/06 to	fi/l/07ep
6/1/07	6/1/08, .
*	Rate $2626	$28D4
Welfare	4.95	4.95,
Peation	240	2.90
35	35
•	• Credit Union	IDO	IjOO
*	* Duet Deductioa	.70	,75
Coil. Trait	04	04
Pipeline LBCET	.10	.10
NW LBCET	05	J06 ,,
»*’PAC ’ -'4B	/».»■'
WOSAP
*	(Any increaac in fringe! to be deducted from wage.)
*	*Tbe Credit Utoou and Duel Deduction are included in the above Hated wage rate!, end ate deducted from the employee’! net wagca. Dnea Deduction when authorized by employee.
Zoot Payt $700 to $1000 per day in apedfind arena and time Kutta and aiapa rt the job alee with employee! him—tihrg own tnsaportation.
*	**(MC deduction of SjO5 when nlfirired by employee.)
Zone 4 - Sntrthwert dark, CowHtz, Klickitat, Skamania, Wahkiakum and Pacific (portion of Pacific Cotttly aouth of a Kraight line made try extending the north boundary Hne with Wibleiakum County weat to the PadEc Ocean) Cormtiea.
6/lANto	6/1/07 to
6/1/07	6/1/08
Rate	$24.99	$25.94
Wfrre	4.95	4.95.
Peaiion	240	2.90
Training	40	35
’ ’Credit Union	IjOO	IjOO
. ** Duca Deduction	.70	.75
'	CoU-Thm	04	04
Pfpdiae LBCET	.10	.10	'
NW LBCET	05	JOS
WCISAP.
•*» PAC	05	■ J05
*(Bff. 6/1/02 - Deduct from net pay after taxea.) **tfae Oto! Deduction to tndaded in the above lilted wage rate! and to defected to to the csoftooyee'i net wagea. Dnea Deduction when aufewited by employee.
ZtnaoPxy: $7j00 to $ IOjOO per day in tpedfied arena and time ttarta and itopa at the job lite with employee!
***(MC defection of $jO5 when authorized by emptoyoe.)
Rom. 1/2008	A-637
A
Statewide
WEST VIRGINIA
vim»	12/1/07 »
12/14)7	12/1/01
JUtt	S21M	$21M
Wtae	425	430
Fbnttoo	2.75	300
Ttarint	ijoo	ido
LBCET	25	25
CbU.That	j»	JU
Hpettne LBCET	.10	.10
Attmtty	2J»	2J»
•PAC	05	05
Duc*3*(Mvt)
WISCONSIN
6/1415 to 6/14)6
01/06 to
«nm
6/1/07 io 6/1/08
■Utt	$2232
Wfetftre	6D2
Ptekm	340
*	35
Tfratwlig	23
Ct/LTtet	M
W] LBCET	DO
$22.91 6.62 3.60
Al 23 J04 .08 .10 03
$23.77 7.00 3.82
.73 23 M M .10 05
WYOMING
8/1/04 tt
2/1/05
* Rtte	$1420
Uttfcre	403
2.70 CoU.Tnw	M
Pipeline LBCET	.10
NWLBCET	05
" Dica Check off	53»
Nw Lnboten * Employee* Edoc. Trg. Trait Rmd 20 — PAC	A5
2/1A5 to	7/14)6 to	7/14)7 to
7/1/06	7/14W	7/1/08
515JJ0	$1530	$1530
4.10	430	430
2.70	2.70	2.70
J04	JU	J04
.10	.10	.10
05	.05	OS
5.8*	S3*	5.8*
33	33	33
M	D5	05
•(Eff. 7/1/07 - $60 per diem per d»y)
'•(ftn CtettoSb tomtt mkI adcttlattd by taking 53% of graaa waga,taxed and mnktedtt union whea authorized Vj otfioytt.)
***(MC dedoctioo of $.05 when authorized by coopkvce.)
RMLtOtOS
/V438