The unauthorized use of this Heavy and Highway Agreement is actionable. It is the proprietary and copyrighted (Copyright Number TX 5-149'803) work product of the Constructors' Labor Council of West Virginia, Inc., and may not be copied in whole or in part, nor applied without the express permission of Constructors' Labor Council of West Virginia, Inc. Non-signatory Contractors are encouraged to call the Council for further details (304) 342-6107.

sm
WEST VIRGINIA
HEAVY AND HIGHWAY AGREEMENT 2007-2009
between
CONSTRUCTORS’ LABOR COUNCIL OF WEST VIRGINIA, INC.
and
MID-ATLANTIC REGIONAL COUNCIL OF CARPENTERS WEST VIRGINIA DISTRICT
CONSTRUCTORS’ LABOR COUNCIL OF WEST VIRGINIA, INC.
Charleston, West Virginia 25337-3778
Phone: (304) 342-G1O7
Fax: (304) 342-6108
Internet: www.clcwv.com
THIS AGREEMENT IS COPYRIGHT PROTECTED AND MAY NOT BE REPRODUCED WITHOUT THE EXPRESS WRITTEN PERMISSION OF CONSTRUCTORS' LABOR COUNCILOR WV. INC.
INDEX
Preface.....................................................5
Article I	-Definitions......................................5
Article II	-Union Security .................................7
Article III	-General Working Conditions.....................9
Article IV	- Wages and Work Periods.......................13
Article V-Holidays........................................ 17
Article V[ - The Contract .................................IS
Article VI! -Work Stoppages and Lockouts...................20
Article VIII	-Grievances and Arbitration..................21
Article IX	-Responsibility of Parties.....................23
Article X	-Termination.................................. 24
Article XI	- Miscellaneous............................... 25
Article XU - Carpenters................................... 25
Section 2.	The word ‘'Work” when used herein means all types of construction work and “Heavy, Highway and Railroad Construction” work.
Section 3.	Heavy Construction and Railroad Construction is defined as all heavy and railroad construction work in all Counties within the Slate of West Virginia, which includes, but is not limited to, constructing, substantially in its entirety, any fixed structures, improvement or modification thereof, addition or repair thereto, including any structure or operation which is an incidental part of a contract thereof including, without limitation, railroad and street railway construction projects, sewers and water mains, retaining walls, viaducts, drainage projects, flood control projects, reclamation projects airports, athletic fields, ball parks reservoirs, water supply projects, water power developments, hydroelectric developments, transmission lines, duct lines, pipelines, locks, dams, dikes, levees, revetments, channels, channel cutoff, intakes, dredging projects, jetties, breakwaters, docks, harbors, roads, bridges, parking buildings, parking lots, sidewalks, river work, industrial plant sites work, sewage disposal plants, water treatment plants, excavation and disposal of earth and rock, clearing, grading and drainage of sites, work on building project to the foundation of the building, wind towers, communication towers, hazardous and toxic waste removal, abandon mine reclamation, landfills, containment facilities, brown field reclamation projects, asbestos removal, demolition work, nuclear and electromagnetic power reactors, bridges and including the erection, dismantling, operation, maintenance and repair of all equipment, vehicles and other facilities used in connection with or serving the aforementioned work.
Section 4,	Highway Construction is defined as all highway construction work performed in all Counties within the State of West Virginia, which includes highway tunnels, highway and street grading, paving and drainage, culverts, manholes, water and other utility pipelines (when included in the contract), retaining walls, underpasses and overpasses (when included in a highway contract), highway viaducts, cloverleaf structures, curbs and sidewalks, seeding and landscaping, clearing (when included in the contract), guardrails and fences, and including the erection, dismantling, operation, maintenance and repair of all equipment, vehicles and other facilities used in connection with or serving the aforementioned work.
6
Section 5.	The term “workday” when used herein i leans a completed eight (8) hour shift.
Section 6.	The term “owner-operator” when used herein includes a person or persons who own their own pi ces of equipment and hire out said equipment to the Contractoi for the performance of bargaining unit work herein. The term d' iver of leased equipment includes an “owner-operator” and a d iver of equipment owned by another person who hires out or lea ;es one or more pieces of equipment to the Contractor for the put pose of performance of bargaining unit work herein.
Section 7.	The term “Union” when used herein is th> MIDATLANTIC REGIONAL COUNCIL OF CARPENTERS WEST VIRGINIA DISTRICT (Carpenter Local Nos. 302, 476, 604, 899, 1159, 1207, 1911, Millwright Local No 1755, CARPENTERS WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA REGIONAL COUNCIL Pittsburgh Pile Driver Local No. 2235 am MIDATLANTIC REGIONAL COUNCIL OF CARPENTERS BALTIMORE DISTRICT Carpenter Local 1024).
Section 8.	A “make-up day” when used herein is a workday that results from the cancellation of work due to inclement weather.
Section 9.	The term “temporary work" when used hi rein is work performed on a project in which the Employee wot <s less than thirty-one (31) hours during the duration of the proje< t.
ARTICLE II
Union Security
Section I:	Union Membership. All present employees, within the meaning of this Agreement, who arc members of the Union on the effective date of this Agreement shall, as a condi ion of employment, maintain their membership in the Union. All]'resent employees who are not members of the Union and all emp oyees who are hired hereafter shall become and remain member of the appropriate Union as a condition of employment not late r than the eighth (8th) day following the beginning of their employn ent or the effective date of this Agreement, whichever is the later. I ailure of any employee to comply with the provisions of this Article shall, upon the request of the Union, result in the termina ion of such employee. Upon written request, the Employer shall 1 .irnish
7
a designated Union official on each job with the names of any new employees not later than eight (8) days after employment upon forms to be supplied by the Union. The Employer shall not justify the discrimination against any employee for non-membership in the Union (a) if he has reasonable grounds for believing that such membership was not available to the employee on the same terms and conditions generally applicable to other members, or (b) if he has reasonable grounds for believing that membership was denied or terminated for reasons other than the failure of the employee to tender the periodic dues and initiation fees uniformly required as a condition of acquiring or retaining membership.
Employer agrees to check off Union dues and initiation fees, and turn the same over to the proper Union officials upon presentation of proper authorization cards supplied by the Union and signed by the employee, in conformity with the Labor Management Relations Act of 1947 as amended. The Employer shall not be held liable for. and the Union agrees that it will indemnify and hold harmless the Employer from any claims arising from disputes between the Union and its Members concerning dues and initiation fees. Employer, upon written request and for good cause, will supply the Union with a list of all its employees' names who are performing its bargained for unit work covered by this agreement.
Section 2:	Minimum wage scale. The minimum wage scales to be paid by Employer shall be as set out in Article XII of the Agreement except that such Article may be amended by written mutual consent and agreement. In the event the Davis Bacon Act is repealed, cither party may notify the other party of their intent to renegotiate the wage rates within thirty (30) days following the effective repeal dale. If a Union fails to submit the negotiated wage rates to the United States Department of Labor or the West Virginia Department of Labor each year in a timely manner or does not properly prevail its wages, the Union will be required to reopen the contract for the purpose of renegotiating the wage rates. If no new wage rate is established through negotiations, the Employer is responsible for payment of the wage rate prevailed at the time the contract is let to bid.
Section 3.	Surety Bond. The Union may require those Employers who have not maintained a presence in the jurisdiction of the Union for five (5) years or more or who are not previously
8
a party m an agreement with the Union or who are de inqucnt or who become delinquent in payment of fringe bene: t funds and who do not cure such delinquency within thirty 0) days provided by this Agreement to procure, pay the prem urn for and deliver to the Union a Bond written by a responsibl.i surety company with the amount to be determined in the discrete n of the Union, with the minimum sum being Twenty Thousand Dollars and the maximum sum being One Hundred Thousand Dollars ($100,000.00) plus any existing delinquencies due said fringe benefit funds guaranteeing the payment of all wages am fringe benefits due employees under this Agreement and all pi yments and penalties due as provided in this Agreement.
An Employer desiring to start work before fumishjj g such Bond shall make a cash deposit with the Local Union otTii c in an amount to be determined within the discretion of the Unit' i. The cash deposit shall be at least Two Thousand Dollars ($2,1 00.00) and not exceed Ten Thousand Dollars ($16,000.00). His j >b may then proceed for a period of thirty (30) days. Thereat'er. the Surety Bond must be posted before work may continue. A- y such deposit shall be refunded to the Employer upon presents ion of the Bond. The above Bond and cash deposits are for the p trpose of securing the payment by the Employer of all payroll anc fringe benefits due employees and shall be refunded to the En iloyer upon completion of the work, providing that all obligatioi s with respect to payroll and fringe benefits have been paid.
ARTICLE III
General Working Conditions
Section 1:	Accidents. Employees shall immediately re| art to the Employer all accidents, together with the names and add'esses of all witnesses to the accidents. Upon written request, Em| loyer shall furnish the Union concerned with a report of each los lime accident involving a member of that Union on a form to be : greed upon.
Section 2:	Street/highway safety. Employer shall not n quire employees to take out on the street or highways any vehicb s not equipped with the safety appliances prescribed by law, o- any vehicle that is not in a safe operating condition.
9
Section 3:	Equipment defects. Employees shall immediately report lo the Employer all equipment defects. If an occasion arises that an employee reports defective equipment to Employer and receives no satisfaction, he shall report the matter to the officers of his Union, who shall in turn consult with Employer.
Section 4:	Manning equipment. Employer shall man his equipment at all times with a sufficient number of men to properly handle the load. There shall be no limit on production by workmen or restrictions on the full use of tools and equipment. There shall be no restrictions other than maybe required by safety regulations on the number of men assigned to any crew or to any sendee except as otherwise provided for in this Agreement.
Section 5:	Safety & sanitary regulations Employer shall comply with all of the safely and sanitary regulations specified by the laws of the United States of America and the State of West Virginia. Required safety equipment shall be furnished by the Eimployer, If after analysis by a recognized testing laboratory, materials used in construction are found to be injurious lo health and safety to employees, the Contractor will endeavor to correct the situation through reasonable protective measures or substitution of other materials.
Section 6:	Working steward. The Union may refer a working steward for each shift who will be paid at the journeyman wage rate for the job classification in which employed and will be allowed reasonable time to fulfill his responsibilities for the benefit of the parties to this Agreement. It is understood and agreed that the working steward must be able to productively perform any available work. The working steward shall not be discriminated against for discharging his duties as a steward. The Union shall notify the Employer, in writing, the name of the working steward on each job. Designated officials of the crafts shall be permitted upon the job site provided that said official complies with safety regulations and does not affect the work in progress. Before the Employer discharges or lays-off a steward, the employer must discuss the reason for the discharge or layoff with the local union Business Manager if available.
Section 7:	Foul weather. Necessary foul weather gear, including over-lhe-shoe boots, shall be supplied by the Contractor when the weather or type ofwork requires it and shall be chargeable
10
io the man if lost or damaged beyond ordinary wear and ear. The Employer shall determine when the weather is suitable or work to be available. The Employee shall not be punished lot refusing to work in unsafe weather conditions.
Section 8:	Management of operations. The Empl tycr. for the orderly, efficient, and profitable operation of it’s 1 usiness, reserves and retains solely and exclusively it's right to manage it's business and projects, except as specifically proh: tiled or modified by other parts of this agreement. The Eniplo er shall assign work on the basis of traditional work jurisdiction li; cs. The use of partnering crews may be established only upon ap| roval of the local business agents of the crafts who jurisdicliona ly have work involved in that portion of the project.
Section 9:	Union workforce. The Unions will ex :rt their utmost efforts to recruit sufficient numbers of skilled appl cants to fulfill the workforce requirements of the Employer. In tl e event the referral facilities maintained by the Unions do not t ..*fcr the required number ofqualified applicants requested by the Ei iployer within a fortv-eight (48) hour period after such request s made (Saturdays, Sundays and holidays excepted), the Employ er may withdraw the request and employ applicants from other si urces.
The Employer has executed a hiring hall agreeme it with the Union. Copies of that agreement are made apart he eof by reference and are available at the Constructors' Labor Co .ncil of West Virginia, Inc. upon request.
Section 10:	Work place. Employees shall be at the r work place at the starting time, and shall remain at their p ace of work performing their assigned duties under supervh ion of the Employer and shall be returned to their vehicle by i uitting time. The Employer shall have the right to determine th : work place. There will be no organized coffee breaks, rest ] criods or other non-working time established during working hours. Employees will be guaranteed coffee breaks at their work place, provided that the coffee break does not halt the work of the entire Carpenter crew. It is agreed and understood that coffee I teaks, rest periods or other non-working time will not create a general work stoppage. It is agreed and is the intent of the parti :s that there be a full day’s work for a fair day's wage. When work ing an eight ( 8). or ten (10) hour shift. Employees shall receive a hn (10)
11
minute unorganized break at their workstation at the mid-point of the first half and second half of each shift. The break shall be coordinated by the Contractor and the Union so not to impede or impact project operations.
Section 11:	Ice water. The Contractor shall provide ice water in a clean and sanitary container located at a convenient location for employees with drinking cups provided.
Section 12:	Notice of work status. Each employee shall furnish the Employer with a phone number or a point of contact where said employee may be reached for notice of work status. Employer agrees to not unreasonably withhold “lay-off slips" or “low earnings slips" if same is requested by an employee. Contractor will provide each employee with a phone number and point of contact for purposes of reporting off, etc.
Section 13:	Saturday work. In the event Saturday is to be worked, notification must be given the Crafts prior to the start of the last scheduled shift.
Section 14:	Leave of absence. If an employee is injured and forced to leave the job, he shall be given a reasonable time to gather his personal belongings and tools. Employer agrees to grant the necessary leave of absence without pay in case of sickness or injury, and employee shall receive his former position, if available, upon recovery or the expiration of the leave.
Section 15:	On the job injury. If an employee is injured on the job, it is the responsibility of the Contractor to provide first aid and transportation of the employee to the nearest hospital or physician. Upon admittance to the hospital by a physician, responsibility of the Employer terminates and the employee is under the supervision and jurisdiction of the physician and the Workers’ Compensation Program for treatment and reassignment to duty status. If the employee is allowed to return to work by the physician, and if the employee should require further examination or treatment during duly hours, then the Employer shall pay the employee for such portion of the work day that he is not on the job, provided that the employee may be requested to furnish adequate proof of his attendance for medical treatment. The Employer shall not be responsible for payment to the man for any time devoted to such examination or treatment before or after the normal workday.
12
Section 16:	Trial period. New employees may only be referred to the job by the Union and shall be on trial for a period of fifteen (15) workdays and Employer shall be the sole judge of their ability during such trial period. Employees retained after such fifteen (15) workday trial period shall be deemed to be regular employees. The Employer shall not disch irge any Employee working more than fifteen (15) workdays will tout just cause. In the event of termination, any Employee work ng more than fifteen (15) workdays may request an investigation as to his discharge. Should such investigation prove that an injustice has been done, the Employee shall be reinstated and compe isated at his usual rate of pay while he has been out of work.
ARTICLE IV
Wages and Work Periods
Section 1: Start time, (a) Starting time of regularly scheduled shift shall be established by the Contractor between the hours of 6 a.m. and 8 a.m. or as agreed upon at the pre-job confei ,;nce. A Contractor may elect to change the starting time, but nr ast give the Union twenty-four (24) hours notification in advance Notice shall be effective if orally given to the steward and confin led with the respective business agent. It is understood that the E nployer is not required to pay travel expenses, travel time, zon< pay, or subsistence during the term of this Agreement.
(b)	It is recognized and agreed that on certain types of work due to owners’ specifications, Governmental restriction and/or traffic conditions, the work or part of the work must be ione on multiple shift basis, in which event such shift will be pi rmitted to conform with such restrictions as to starting time ir time between shifts, which shall be agreed upon between th..: union representative and the Contractor.
(c)	On highway projects only, when Employees are i squired to work away from their home base of operation on tei iporary work, room, board and transportation shall be provider by the Employer. When Employees are required to work away fr< tn their home base of operation on a regular job, they shall provide their own room and board. On highway projects only, the Er iployee shall be paid for no less than eight (8) hours or his regu ar shift hours for each day of temporary work, whichever is greater, and in addition, payment for all other time required in the service
13
of Employer. On temporary work on highway projects only, in the event of inclement weather, the Employee will only receive two (2) hours pay for reporting time or actual hours worked, whichever is greater.
Section 2:	Workweek. Except where provided otherwise by the United States Government, forty (40) hours shall constitute a normal workweek and all hours worked over forty (40) per week shall be paid for at the rate of time and one-half (1-1/2). On Heavy construction projects with gross contract value greater than $2,000,000.00, the Employee shah be paid at the rate of time and one-half (1-1/2) for hours worked over eight (8) hours on eight (8) hour shifts or at the rate of time and one-half (1-1/2) for hours worked over ten (10) hours on ten (i 0) hour shifts. Nothing herein shall be construed as guaranteeing any employee eight (8) hours of work per day on eight (8) hour shifts or ten (10) hours of work per day on ten (10) hour shifts or forty (40) hours of work per week. All productive w'ork performed on Sunday shall be computed on a double time basis, and not less than four (4) consecutive hours of work shall be given on Sunday. See “Triple Shift Exception” - Section 3. It is understood that the Employer is not required to pay travel expenses, travel time, zone pay, or subsistence during the term of this Agreement.
Saturday will be considered the make-up day on eight (8) hour shifts and will be paid straight time if the Employee has not worked a forty (40) hour week prior to Saturday. Friday will be considered the make-up day on ten (10) hour shifts and will be paid straight time if the Employee has not worked a forty (40) hour week prior to Friday. If the Employee provides the Employer with written notice twenty-four (24) hours prior to a make-up day that he does not wrant to work the make-up day, then the Employee will not be penalized for not working the make-up day. On heavy projects with gross contract value of greater than $2,000,000.00 only, all construction work performed on Saturday will be paid at time and one-half unless Saturday is considered a make-up day. It is expressly understood that an Employee will not be punished for not working on a Saturday.
It is agreed and understood that Employees performing nonproductive work such as curing concrete and dc-watcring will be paid straight time regardless of the day non-productive work is performed.
14
The Employer and the Unions agree that chroni and/or unexcused absenteeism is undesirable and must be c< itrolled. The Employer may terminate, at its discretion, for chron c and/or uncxcused absenteeism as determined at the pre-job conference. The Employer shall be consistent with regard to term in it ion for absenteeism.
Section 3:	Triple shift, (a) When three shifts are esl iblished and operated, the first or daylight shift will consist of ight (8) hours’ work, plus one-half (1/2) hour for non-paid lun :h. The second shift will consist of seven and one-half (7-1/7} hours’ work, plus one-half (1/2) hour for non-paid lunch. For th ; second shift, the Employee will receive eight (8) hours pay fo (7-1/2) hours’ work. The third shift will consist of seven (7) hou s' work, plus one-half( 1/2) hour for non-paid lunch. Forthethird hift, the Employee will receive eight (8) hours pay for (7) hours’ work.
(b) On triple shift operations, the normal workweek shall begin with the first shift Monday morning. All work pt: formed between the beginning of the first shift Friday until the beginning of the first shift on Saturday shall be considered as wc rked on Friday and paid at the applicable rate for that day. / 11 work performed between the beginning of the first shift Satun lay until the beginning of the first shift on Sunday, shall be consj lered as worked on Saturday and paid at the applicable rate for that day. All work performed between the beginning of the first shift Sunday until the beginning of the first shift Monday, shall be co vsidered as worked on Sunday and paid at the applicable rate for that day.
Section 4: 8 or 10-hour shifts. When two 8 or 10-hour shifts are established and operated, a one-half (1/2) hour unpa d lunch period will be provided. Therefore, employees will bi on the project site for 8-1/2 hours or 10-1/2 hours, but will be p tid only for 8 or 10 hours. In the event of the utilization by the CT Praetor of three shifts, the language provided in Section 3, Paragraph (a) of this Article will prevail.
Section 5:	Overtime. The Employer shall determii e when overtime shall be worked and by whom. The Employer shsi II make every reasonable effort to ensure that overtime work is divided fairly among the carpenters in the established crew perfon ling the work to be worked as overtime. The union designated steward shall remain on the job at all times when other emplc/ees of the same craft are working provided he is qualified to d< ■ any of
15
the available work. Any Employees who are dispatched from the local union shall not be denied overtime work to the benefit of Employees who are not based locally. The Employee shall not be required to working overtime unless detrimental to the construction project. Where Employees arc required to work overtime beyond the normal shift, the first period shall consist of two (2) hours’ work, plus one-half (1/2) hour unpaid lunch time and subsequent periods shall consist of three and one-half' (3-1/2) hours’ work plus one-half (1/2) hour paid lunch time. If the Employee is required to work during any lunchtime, he shall be paid therefore. The Contractor will make every reasonable effort to provide some type of food during the second or third lunch periods.
Section 6:	Show-up time. An employee who reports for work at the regular(starting time and for who’fn no'work is provided shall receive pay equivalent to one (1) hour.at, the. applicable hourly rate. The employee inilst report to the Project at the regular starting time and remain available for work during the period compensated to be eligible to receive reporting pay. An employee who is put to work shall be paid for actual hours worked but not less than twd (2) hours. On Heavy construction projects with a gross contract value of $3,000,000.00 or more, an employee who is put to work shall be paid for actual hours worked but not less than four (4) hours at the applicable hourly rate on eight (X) hour shifts and five (5) hours at the applicable hourly rate on ten (10) hour shifts.
Section 7:	Weekly pay. Employees are to be paid weekly. The workweek shall begin with the daylight shift Monday and payment of wages shall be 'made not later than Friday of the following workweek. The Contractor and the Union shall mutually agree upon the day on which the Employees shall be paid. Employees who report for their paycheck on a day when there is no work scheduled because of weather or other causes shall not be eligible for reporting pay. All paychecks will be available at the start of the day shift on the established payday. The employee may ask the Contractor to mail his check to his home on a non-work payday and the Contractor will mail said check prior to 12:00 noon on said day.
Section 8:	Lunch Period. The Lunch period will be routinely held between 11:00 a.m. and 1:00 p.m. unless mutually agreed upon otherwise at the pre-job conference.
16
action 9: ferrninationlay-offs. An employee whose /loymcnt is terminated or who is laid-ofTfor the "con enience he employer" shall be paid within one (1) hour of ths time of nination or at the end of the shift, whichever is firs., unless mtordinary circumstances prevent the timely prepara ion of a tai check. Absent extraordinary circumstances, the £ nployee tall be paid at the straight time rate if he is require*, to wait eyond such period. However, in no event shah the E nployee re paid for more than eight (8) hours per day that he is "equired to wait. An employee whose work is terminated shall ;e given sufficient time in which to gather his personal belong ngs and tools.
ecttan 10: West Virginia Heavy and Highway Construction Industry Fund. Contractors, both signatory and non~signatory members of th* Constructors’ labor Counch of West Virginia, Inc., shall pay into the West Virginia Heavy and Highway Construction Industry Ft nd (WV H/H OF) twenty cents ($0.20} per hour for each and every hour worked by Employees covered by this Agreement for all construction work performed in all counties in the State of We it Virginia. Remittance, with a copy of the West Virginia Heavy a >d Highway Construction Industry Fund form, shall be forwarder to the West Virginia Heavy and Highway Construction Industry I und, Post Office Box 3778, Charleston, West Virginia, 25337-377;}. it is further understood and agreed that if any Contractor $h; !l remit the above-referenced twenty cents ($0.20} to any Union, the Union shall retain ;he entire amount paid in trust for the West Virginia Heavy and Highway Industry Fund and the Ifolm shall provide an accounting for all such receipts and immediately forward said receipts to the West Virginia
Heavy and Highway Industry Fund.
ARTICLE V Holidays
Section I:	Holiday days. New Years Day. Mcnw’ial Dt Fourth of July, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day and the lay af Thanksgiving Day. and Christmas Day shall he holidayTh shall be no work for employees on Labor Day, Christi ras L or Easter Sunday, except in cases of emergency. On bolir and Easier Sunday, the rate of pay shall be twice th* rej rale: and on such days nut less than four (4} consecuti ,rc 1 of work shall be given. When a holiday falls on a Sa urd
17
will be observed on the preceding Friday and when a holiday falls on Sunday, the following Monday shall be observed as the holiday. It is understood that on eight (8) hour shifts, holidays celebrated on Mondays through Fridays that are not worked, eight (8) hours shall be counted in the computation of hours worked for overtime purposes only. It is understood that on ten (10) hour shifts, holidays celebrated on Mondays through Fridays that are not worked, len (10) hours shall he counted in the computation of hours worked for overtime purposes only. There shall be no paid non-working holidays. In case of a conflict between the National and State designation of a holiday, the State designation shall be applicable. On a four (4) day ten (10) hour work week. Fridays will not be worked as a make up day for a holiday. On a live (5) day eight (8) hour work week, Saturdays will not be worked as a make up day for a holiday.
Section 2:	Holiday time. Thanksgiving holiday shall begin at 12:01 a.m. on Thanksgiving Day and end at 12:00 p.m. midnight on the day after Thanksgiving Day. Christmas holidays shall begin at 12:01 a.m. and end at 12:00 p.m, midnight. All other holidays will be observed starting at the beginning of the first shift on the holiday and ending twenty-four (24) hours later.
Section 3:	Emergency work. Emergency work shall be that work necessary to save life or property.
ARTICLE VI I'he Contract
Section I: Amendment to contract. This Agreement may be amended by mutual consent of the Constructor's Labor Council of West Virginia, Inc., as bargaining representative of the Employer members, and the Union’s business manager, as the bargaining representative of the employees. Such amendments shall be reduced to writing and made available to all Contractor members. Il is understood and agreed that if the Union enters into any agreement with any construction contractor that contains terms, conditions, wages, benefits or other provisions more favorable than the provisions set forth in this Heavy and Highway Agreement, the contractors signatory hereto shall immediately have the benefit of and be entitled to rely upon and enforce each and every more favorable term, condition, wage, benefit or provision. Should the Constructors' Labor Council of West
18
Virginia. Inc., or any of its contractors working under he terms and conditions of this Collective Bargaining Agreemcn provide any other signatory craft with hours or working conditi ms more favorable than those received by the Union employees, hen such items and conditions shall be available to the mem be s of the Union.
The parties hereto agree to meet monthly, or as nec ssary, to evaluate past projects bid and pending projects to be bi I by prebid and/or pre-job conferences, for the purpose of determining the impact of such adjustments and the needs for co npetitive adjustments to the wages, hours and working conditio is herein established.
Pre-Job Conferences shall be held on all jobs if the basic bid cost is in the amount of two million dollars (2,000,000) or more. All jobs awarded on Heavy and Highway projects shall >c posted on the Constructors’ Labor Council of West Virginia, Ii c.’s web site at www.clcwv.com.
Section 2:	Wage freeze. The Contractor and Ui ion may agree, in writing, that the hourly wage rates and fringe benefits in effect on the bid date will prevail for an agreed upnn period of time from the date of the "Notice to Proceed.” In a ly event, on all construction work performed under this Agret ment on construction projects not to exceed S3,000,000.00 the hourly wage rates and fringe benefits in effect on the bid date shall p evail for a period of two (2) years from the date of the "Notice to Proceed” and thereafter at the current wage level.
Section 3:	Subcontractors. The Contractor, usim its own discretion, may subcontract, assign or transfer portioi s of the work covered hereby to other subcontractors, persons o entities. Contractor and subcontractors, persons or entities ,vho arc signatory to this agreement agree that they will not sul contract, assign, or transfer any portion of their work to any subci ritractor, person or entity who is not a party to this bona fide t ollectivc bargaining agreement with the exception of specialty work or where such subcontractors, persons or entities, are not co1 apetitive or available in the area or where contrary to law. The fi rnishing of materials, supplies or equipment and the delivery' the cof shall not in any case be considered as subcontracting. It is ui derstood and agreed that all contractors, subcontractors, persons < r entities
19
who are signatory to this agreement shall be solely liable and responsible for their breaches of this agreement and other acts and omissions. Further, it is agreed and understood that all such contractors, subcontractors, persons or entities shall indemnify and hold harmless those with whom they are in contract for any such breaches, acts or omissions.
Prior to subcontracting with non-signatory subcontractors, including specialty work, the Employer shall contact the Union in a timely manner to provide the Union with an opportunity to solicit Union subcontractors.-
Section 4:	Owner-operator. The performance of bargaining unit work defined by the scope of this Agreement for the Contractor by an owner-operator or operator of leased equipment shall be governed by the provisions of this Agreement. Operating Engineers who are owner-operator must be on Contractor or Subcontractor’s payroll unless mutually agreed upon in writing otherwise. It is understood and agreed that this Section does not apply to the first point of delivery.
Section 5:	Trust Funds. It is agreed and understood that the Constructors’ Labor Council of West Virginia, Inc., may have a representative on any and all trust funds into which its members are required to pay. As long as the Constructors’ Labor Council of West Virginia, Inc., has a contractor representative on each trust, it is agreed and understood that the provisions of the trust documents are incorporated herein by reference.
ARTICLE VJ1
Work Stoppages and Lockouts
Section 1:	Work interruptions prohibited. During the term of this Agreement, there shall be no strikes, sympathy strikes, picketing, work stoppages, work interruption, slow downs, sickouts, other disruptive activities, including, but not limited to destruction of equipment, for any reason by the Union or by the employee, except for non-payment of wages and fringe benefits when due, and there shall be no lockout by the Employer. The work shall continue uninterrupted as assigned by the Contractor.
Section 2:	Union shall not sanction work interruptions. With the exception of non-payment of wages or fringe benefits,
20
the Union shall not sanction, aid or abet, encourage or continue any strikes, sympathy strikes, picketing, work stoppag es, work interruption, slow downs, sick-outs, or other disruptive ; divides, including., but not limited to destruction of equipmen., at any Employer’s site and shall undertake all reasonable i leans to prevent or to terminate any such activity. No emplo ^ee shall engage in activities that violate this Article. Any empb 'yee who participates in or encourages any activities that interfere with the normal operation of the project shall be subject to disciplinary action, including discharge. In the event such prat ices are committed or such strikes, sympathy strikes, picked) g, work stoppages, work interruption, slow downs, sick-outs or other disruptive activities, including, but not limited to de riruction of equipment, occur, the Union and any other person or entity committing, aiding or abetting such practices shall be liable to the affected Contractor for all actual damages suffered, but such damages shall in no event be less than $ 10,000.0( per day, which amount is an agreed minimum liquidated dan age and not a penalty. It is further agreed that in addition io ictual or liquidated damages, the affected contractor shall be e (titled to consequential and incidental damages as well as all a sociated costs including attorney’s fees. The Union shall not be table for acts of employees for which it has no responsibility. The failure of the Employer to exercise its rights in any instance sh. 11 not be deemed a waiver of its rights in any other instance.
ARTICLE VIII
Grievances and Arbitration
Section I:	Grievances, disputes and claims. All gr evances, disputes or claims which may arise with respect to wag :s, hours or conditions of employment or the enforcement or intet pretation of any of the terms of this Agreement are to be promptly r rocessed and settled in accordance with the provisions of this Art cle.
Should any such dispute arise which cannot be adjusted between the Contractor involved and the Union, it shall be taken up between a representative or representatives of the Union and a representative or representatives of the Constructor' Labor Council of West Virginia, Inc. The aggrieved party shal comply with the procedures set forth in the Article.
21
Section 2:	Jurisdictional Disputes. It is understood and agreed that any dispute over assignment of work shall be conducted as follows:
If the Contractor and the Union are unable to agree upon the assignment of work, either at the pre-job conference or during the construction project, and a dispute shall arise between two (2) or more Union as to which Craft the work properly belongs, the Contractor shall utilize its best discretion in assigning the work and work shall proceed as so assigned until such time as the dispute is settled. The Local Union Business Managers of the disputing Unions shall meet within forty-eight (48) hours of the dispute to discuss resolution of the dispute. If the Business Managers are unable to resolve the dispute, the aggrieved party shall file a grievance in accordance with the provision of Section 4 of this Article. If no grievance is filed within seventy-two (72) hours after the business managers! meeting, the dispute shall be forever barred. The contractor shall not be held liable or responsible to any Union for its assignment of disputed work provided that the work in question is reassigned after the Contractor is informed of the jurisdictional decision.
Section 3:	Discharge. It is understood and agreed that any dispute over discharge shall be conducted as follows:
Employees who have worked fifteen (15) workdays or less are not entitled to the provisions of this Article. The Employee’s local representative must request, in writing, w'ithin forty-eight (48) hours of the discharge, a meeting with the Contractor to discuss the discharge or the dispute shall be forever barred. If the Business Manager and the Contractor are unable to resolve the dispute, the aggrieved party shall file a grievance w'ithin seventy-two (72) hours after the Business Manager and Contractor’s meeting in accordance with the provision of Section 4 of this Article. If no grievance is filed w'ithin seventy-two (72) hours after the Business Manager and Contractor’s meeting, the dispute shall be forever barred. Time limits may be altered by mutual written agreement between the Union and the Employer as long as that consent is obtained w'ithin seventy-two (72) hours after the Business Manager and Contractor’s meeting.
Section 4:	Filing grievance, meeting & arbitration. Any complaint or grievance shall be presented, in writing, signed by
22
the grievant’s representative and approved by the gricvant, to the Constructors’ Labor Council of West Virginia, Inc., v .thin ten (10) calendar days of the event giving rise to the com >laint or grievance or such complaint or grievance shall be forevi r barred. Time periods set forth in Sections 2 and 3 of this Art .:1c shall govern for jurisdictional and discharge disputes. If a t rievance is properly and timely filed, then the provisions of thi1. Section govern the grievance process. If such complaint or gri< vance is timely filed, the Constructors' Labor Council of West Vim :nia, Inc. will endeavor to schedule a meeting between the affectr .1 parties to attempt resolution of the matter. In the event the c miplaint or grievance is not resolved informally through the Constructors’ Labor Council of West Virginia, Inc., the aggrieved p. rty may refer the matter to arbitration. It is understood and ag eed that any such matters shall be in accordance with the Construction Industry Arbitration Rules of American Arbitration As ociation currently in effect. The demand for arbitration shall b filed in writing with the other party and with the American Ai bitration Association within ten (10) calendar days of the meet ng with the Constructors’ Labor Council of West Virginia, Inc., mt in no event later than thirty (30) calendar days from the da e of the event giving rise to the complaint or grievance. The derision of arbitration shall be final and binding on the parties here o. If no written demand for arbitration is filed with the other ] arty and with the American Arbitration Association within the ime and manner prescribed, unless longer times are mutually agr ed upon in writing, the grievance shall be forever barred.
ARTICLE IX Responsibility of Parties
Section 1:	Negotiating representatives. The parti, s hereto agree that Constructors’ Labor Council of West Virgin!;., Inc., is acting only as the negotiating representative for its suf scribing members, and that it shall not be liable as a corporate entit / fui any violation of this Agreement by any of its subscribing r lembers. Constructors’ Labor Council of West Virginia, Inc., cert lies that it is authorized by its membership to execute this Agret ment on their behalf.
Section 2:	Several, not joint liability. Union agi .'cs that, aside from non-payment of wages and fringe benefits tlbreach or violation of this Agreement by any one or more me nbers of
23
Constructors’ Labor Council of West Virginia, Inc., shall not be treated by them as cause for calling a strike, work interruption, sympathy strike, picketing or sick-outs against any member, including members not in violation. Union further agrees that the members of Constructors’ Labor Council of West Virginia, Inc. shall be severally, and not jointly, liable for any breach or violation of this Agreement. The Constructors’ Labor Council of West Virginia, Inc. agrees that the members of the Union signatory hereto, shall be severally, and not jointly, liable for any breach or violation of this Agreement.
Section 3:	Agreements with non-signatory members. Union shall furnish Constructors' Labor Council of West Virginia, Inc., with a copy of any agreement between the Union and any Contractor or Contractors not a member of Constructors’ Labor Council of West Virginia, Inc., wherein such Contractor agrees to work under the terms and/or conditions set forth in this Agreement. Upon written request, the Constructors' Labor Council of West Virginia, Inc., shall provide the Union with a list of contractors that have assigned bargaining rights to the Constructors’ Labor Council of West Virginia, Inc., designating each respective Union in which the contractor is signatory.
Section 4:	Conflicts of law. In the event any provisions of this Agreement are held to be in conflict with any state or federal law applicable hereto, the parties shall not be bound by the provisions affected by such law; but all other provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect.
ARTICLE X Termination
Section 1:	Agreement Effective dates. This Agreement shall remain in full force and effect from December 1, 2006 to and including November 30, 2009 and thereafter from year to year unless either party gives sixty (60) days written notice to the other party in writing, of its intention to terminate this Agreement at least sixty (60) days prior to the expiration of any contract year.
Section 2:	Negotiations. Negotiations for a contract for the year 2010 shall be commenced on or before September 30. 2009.
24
ARTICLE XI Miscellaneous
Section 1:	Drug-free workplace. The Employer res irvcs the right to require a Drug-Free Workplace consistent with a tplicable State and Federal Law, To that end drug-screening is authorized and shall be conducted by the Employer of all personnel employed on all projects within the scope of this Agreement. The ] dirties to this agreement acknowledge the LEAD Workers Com| cnsation Program and agree to work together to inform both contractors and workers about said program. However, it is t xpressly agreed that the Employer is free to utilize its own drug-t .treening program and is under no obligation to utilize the LEAD irogram. (Note - the LEAD Workers Compensation program is a separate program from the LEAD drug-screening program.)
Section 2:	Single craft agreement. It is agreed and urtlerstood that the Constructors1 Labor Council of West Virginia,, Inc., is the representative for Employers who arc members of the Council. However, all Employers arc not required to be bound be each and ever/ collective bargaining agreement entered ini > by the Constructors’ Labor Council of West Virginia, Inc. The Council maintains records to indicate which of its members hav ? chosen to be bound by each agreement.
ARTICLE Xll Mid-Atlantic Regional Council of Carpenter;
Section 1:	Definitions. “Carpenter” or “Carpenters' means a person working for a Contractor in the performance of wo k within the classifications historically and traditionally recogniz ed in the industiy commonly referred to as “building and construe ion” and “heavy and highway."
Section 2:	Carpenters Trade Autonomy: The C intractor recognizes that the Carpenters have a trade autonomy ar claim to jurisdiction. However, it is agreed and understood that the Carpenters’ trade autonomy or claim to jurisdiction ma; overlap with other Unions’ trade autonomy or claims to jurisdic! :on. The Contractor agrees to assign work on the basis of tradhio tai work jurisdictional lines and not necessarily as set forth in thi: section. Any jurisdictional disputes are to be brought in accorda ice with Article VIII, Section 2 of this Agreement.
25
A.	The Trade Autonomy of the Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of America consist of the milling, fashioning, joining, assembling, erecting, fastening, or dismantling of all material of wood, plastic, metal, fiber, cork and composition and all material of wood, plastic, metal, fiber, cork and composition and all other substitute materials. The handling, cleaning, erecting installing and dismantling of machinery, equipment and all materials used by members of the United Brotherhood.
B.	Our claim of jurisdiction, therefore, extends over the following division and subdivision of the trade:
Carpenters and Joiners; Millwrights, Pile Drivers, bridge, dock and wharf carpenters, divers, underpinned, timber men and core drillers; shipwrights, boat builders, ship carpenters, joiners and caulkers; cabinet makers, bench hands, stair builders, mill men, wood and resilient floor layers and finishers, carpet layers, shinglers, siders, insulators, acoustic and dry wall applicators and finishers, shorers and house movers, loggers, lumber and saw mill workers, furniture workers, reed and rattan workers, shingle weavers, casket and coffin makers, box maker, railroad carpenters and car builders, regardless of material used, and all those engaged in the operation of woodworking or other machinery required in the fashioning, milling or manufacturing of products used in the trade or engaged as helpers to any of the above divisions or subdivisions, and the handling, erecting and installing material on any of the above divisions or subdivisions; burning, welding, rigging and the use of any instrument or tool for layout work, incidental to the trade. When the term “Carpenter and Joiner” is used, it shall mean all the subdivision of the trade.
C.	All woodwork on all construction work and all such work to be done by Carpenters in accordance with the following specifications; The making and setting of all concrete forms, releasing and striping of forms to be reused again whether of wood, metal and/or other material.
The framing and making of all trestles, ladders, derricks, hoists, travelers and pile drivers, and other appliances made wholly or in part of wood that arc used on construction work, derricks for raising materials for the Carpenters shall be operated by Carpenters only.
26
D.	The repairing, fitting and construction of all fra nework, when same is made of wood, or other like material, the co 'cring of same with flooring, sheathing shingles, cork, compo, pl; stic, and all other resilient floor coverings, etc., or composition natcrial, the making and putting on of all strips, brackets and f irring to receive wood, metal, or other material and the fabric; don and installation of all grounds for plaster.
E.	The installation of all sheet metal, aluminum o plastic, whether corrugated or flat when fastened to wood v here no special tools are required to crimp or solder joints, wher: on side walls or roofs, the installation of all asbestos siding and * leathing including transitc, gyprock, sheetrock, burkett sheathing and mastic board, where saws or carpenter’s tools are used.
F.	The fabrication and setting of all templates of wood or metal, frames, sashes, doors, blinds, trim, store and other tixi .ires and cabinet shops and other wood working factories. The fabrication and installation of all trim and finish when made of vood or substitute for wood when fastened to wood with the usi of nails or screws regardless of the method of installation.
G.	The placing of all insulation whether blown or installed in blankets. The placing of all cork insulation set in pit :h or put on with nails, pegs, or screws. The erection of all m. terial or wood, hollow metal, composition wallboards of gypsun or fiber and the placing of all acoustical fibrous insulation including so-called acoustical celotex tile, fastened with nails, clip: ., screws or cement, where the tools, knowledge, skill and trait itig of a Carpenter are required. (Exception: Gypsum Board, when used in place of lather for plaster.)
H.	The framing, erecting and prefabrication of roofs, p irtitions, floors, and other parts of buildings of wood, metal, plastii or other substitutes, application of all metal flashing used for hip , valleys and chimneys, the erection of stran-steel section or its ei .tai. The cutting and hanging of all false work for fireproofing and slabs. Where power is used in the setting or dismantling of firms, all handling and signaling shall be done by Carpenters. Tl c setting of all templates for anchor bolts for structural member. and for machinery, and the placing, leveling and bracing of these bolts. All framing in connection with the setting of metal colui ins. The setting, of all bulkheads, the setting and fabricating of sc: eeds and
27
stakes for concrete and mastic floors where the screed is notched or made up of more than one member. The making of forms for concreted blocks, bulkheads, figures, posts, rails balusters and ornaments, etc.
I.	The building, erection and dismantling of all scaffolding, runways and staging where carpenters tools are used, the building from the ground up of all scaffolds, including metal and specially designed scaffolding. (Exceptions: As per National Decision of Specific Agreements) The building and construction of all hoists and derricks made of wood; the making of mortar boards, boxes and vessels; all shoring, raising and moving of buildings.
,1. The cutting or framing of the opening for pipes, conduits, ducts, boxes, etc., where they pass through floors, partitions, walls, roofs, or fixtures composed in whole or in part of wood. The laying out, making and installing of all sleeves for pipes, ducts, etc. where carpenters tools and knowledge are required. The making and installing of all wooden meter boards, crippling and backing for fixtures. The welding of studs and other fastenings to receive material being applied by Carpenters.
K.	The installation of all grounds, furring or stripping, ceiling and sidewalls.
L.	The installation of all interior and exterior trim or finish of wood, aluminum, kalamein, hollow' or extruded metal, plastic, doors, transoms, thresholds and windows. The setting of jambs, bucks, window' frames of wood or metal where braces or wedges are used. The installation of all w ood, metal or other substitutes of casings, molding, chair rail, wainscoting, china closets, base or mop boards, wra rd robes, metal partitions as per National Decisions or specific agreement, etc. The complete laying-out. fabrication and erection of stairs. The making and erecting of all fixtures, cabinets, shelving, racks, louvers, etc. The mortising and application of all hardware in connection w'ith our work. The assembling and setting of all scats, laboratory fixtures or other furniture, in theaters, halls, churches, schools, auditoriums, grandstands, and other buildings. All bowling alley work. The installation of all clipped on metal trim.
M.	The manufacture, fabrication and installation of all screens, storm sash, storm doors, and garage doors. The installation of all weather stripping, inside and outside blinds, plastic or otherwise.
28
The installation of wood, plastic, or metal awning, dooi shelters, jalousies, etc.
N.	The installation of all material used in drywall cor aruclion such as plaster board, all types of asbestos boards, tra isitc and other composition boards. The application of all materi; Is which serve as a base for acoustical tile, except plaster. All acoustical applications as per National Decisions or specific agree) icnts.
O.	The building of all barricades. The erection, mt *ring and dismantling of all temporary housing on construction pi yects.
P.	The installation of rock wool, cork, and other i isulation material used for sound or weather-proofing. The rer mval for caulking, and replacing of staff bead and brick mold and; 11 oakum caulking, substitutes, etc., and all other caulking in connection with carpentry work.
Q.	The installation of chalk boards as per National I >ccisions and Local Agreements.
R.	The operation of all hand-operated winches us ;d in the work of the Carpenters.
S.	The erecting of porcelain enameled panels and sii ing,
T.	The unloading, handling, and distribution of all finished, prefabricated and build-up sections such as door bucks window frames, cupboards, cabinets, store fixtures, counters : nd show cases, or comparably finished or prefabricated materi: ,s, to the job sites or points of installation as used in the con ametion, alteration and remodeling industry.
U.	The handling of doors, metal or wood, partitions md other finished bulk material used for trim.
V.	All processing of these materials and hand ;ng after processing.
W.	The making up of panels and fitting them into walls, all bracing and securing, all removal of panels from th.: casting including all braces, whalers, hairpins, catheads, etc.
29
X,	The handling, setting and dismantling of all metal pans and sections from the slock piles of reasonable distances required by job needs shall be done by Carpenters.
Y. Cutting and nailing of all stops in doors and windows, framing of all false work, derricks and hoists, travelers and lumber or fibrous material used by the carpenters contractors, plain and ornamental cork flooring and insulating, building and erecting store, office, bank, and other fixtures, shelving racks, etc., where of wood or other material, covered with kalamien. plastic, or metal.
Z. The installing of expansion material when it is to be nailed, or pined, and lines chalked to set same by (excluding sidewalks and roads).
AA. All laboratory furniture and equipment shall be unloaded at the job site and installed by Carpenters. All tops of same, whether they be of wood, plastic, metal alberdeen stone, or of other material shall be done by Carpenters.
BB. The installation of all builders’ hardware, including door tracks of every description.
CC. The framing, welding and fabrication of all buildings using "Stran Steel” as sluds, joists, plates, arches, etc. The setting, aligning and fabrication of all metal partitions and all metal trim, jambs, door bucks etc. Fire door and other openings, and the fitting and hanging of all doors including laminated glass or plastic, the making and hanging of all fire doors and gates.
DD. The erection, fitting, plumbing, aligning, setting, fastening of all pre-cast concrete. The making, setting and releasing of all molds and forms, and tensioning of either prestressed concrete or post stressed concrete either on job site or in casting yards shall be done by members of the carpentry' trade.
FE. The installing, cutting, fitting, burning and welding all curb and trench angle and miscellaneous steel, used by Carpenters.
FF. On all jobs that require warehousing or stockpiling of materials, machinery and equipment, there shall be sufficient expediters whose duties shall be in charge of conveying the material, etc, from warehouses or stockpile to point of erection.
30
GG. The handling, layout, driving, cutting, and splicing of wood, metal, or concrete piling regardless of pur lose (for example, sheets, I-beams, H-beams. pile caps, and welding to piling). The assembly, disassembly, and rigging of pi] ? driving equipment and the conduct of all underwater diving.
HH, The United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of America assert a prior claim to the manufacture of all classes of building material and the construction of same, tha through the advance of science and invention may tend to di place its members and will demand the consideration.
11. A Pdillwright applies to Employees in Heavy construction who design, build or repair mills or mill machine y; hoist, dismantle, erect, assemble, line and adjust all machines used in the transmission of power in buildings, factories or e sewhere: unload machines used in the transmission of power in buildings, factories or elsewhere, where power equipment and ri :ging arc required. The work falling within this occupational tit! ■ of work description includes: the setting of all classes of engin .is, direct drive motors, dynamos, turbines, generators and air coi ipressors and pumps. The placing of all pulleys, sheaves and fy wheels on the listed equipment. The making and setting of all emplatcs and bolts for all machinery requiring same. Dry pa Ting for sole plates. Installation of truck and railroad scales. Ir itallation of truck and railroad scales. Installation of trash co npactors. Installation of all types of conveyors. The cutting and hreading of all bolls. The handling and operating of acetylene and devices for heating, welding and cutting when used in con nee ion with Millwright work.
Section 4; Trust Funds & Training Center Funds
A. Whenever the Health and Welfare contribution ir the local area is in excess of the Health and Welfare amounts set < nt in this agreement, the Union may request that the Employer de luct from the Employees wages sufficient moneys as may be net cssary to bring the Health and Welfare contributions up to the acai area plan requirement. It is agreed and understood that the 1. nion will obtain and keep on file each Employee's written authori ’ation for such deduction. Further, it is the Union’s responsibility lo ensure that each employee has provided written authorizatic i for the deduction. In addition, the Union will obtain from the 1 ealth and Welfare Trust Fund written notice of the applicable rat s needed
31
to meet current needs and the Union will provide such notice to the Constructors’ Labor Council of West Virginia, Inc. The Contractor agrees that, within a reasonable lime after receipt of notice from the Union that it has on file all required authorizations, it will deduct from the Employee’s wages moneys as authorized by its Employees for the purposes of bringing the Health and Welfare contributions up to the local area plan requirement. The Contractor shall not be held liable to any Employee or the Union and the Union agrees that it will indemnify and hold harmless the Contractor from any claims arising from deductions as set forth in this paragraph.
B.	In addition to wages herein provided, the employer herein agrees to make contributions to all other funds provided for in this Agreement. Each Fund is created and administered under an Agreement and Declaration of Trust and operated by a Board of Trustees as required by law. In some instances, benefits are payable under a master insurance policy purchased by the Fund.
C.	It is agreed and understood that a contractor representative shall be seated on the Board of Directors for the Union’s training center fund. If no contractor representative is seated on the board of directors, the Union shall provide the Constructors’ Labor Council of West Virginia, Inc., a yearly accredited accounting of how the Contractor’s contributions to the training center fund are expended.
Section 5. Single Craft Agreement. It is agreed and understood that the Single Craft Agreement as set forth in Article XI, Section 2 of this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect unless the Carpenters Union provides written notice of its intent to terminate the Single Craft Agreement. It is agreed and understood that the Carpenters Union shall send such written notice of intent to terminate the Single Craft Agreement to the Constructors’ Labor Council of West Virginia, Inc., at least thirty (30) days prior to the 1st day of December of each year. If no notice of intent to terminate is timely received by the Constructors’ Labor Council of West Virginia, Inc., then the terms and conditions of the Single Craft Agreement as set forth in Article XI, Section 2 of this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect. If the Carpenters Union’s notice of intent to terminate is timely received by the Constructors’ Labor Council of West Virginia. Inc., then Contractors who become signatory
32
to the 2007-2009 West Virginia Heavy and Highway Ai recment after the Is' day of December of the year in which th.: notice was received will be bound by the terms and conditioi s of the 2007-2009 West Virginia Heavy and Highway Agreement with the Mid-Atlantic Regional Council of Carpenters, West Virginia District. It is agreed and understood that nothing in this f ection is intended to change any other term or condition of this Aj reement and all terms and conditions except Article XI, Scctio 2 shall remain unchanged and in full force and effect.
Section 6: Miscellaneous.
A.	A normal pile driving crew shall consist of four (4) nen, and include one (1) welder and one (1) foreman, unless the j articular job requires that the employer and the Union Representat vc agree otherwise. The need for pile drivers will be mutually agr :ed to on a project-by-project basis by the job Superintendent and 1 :ie Local Union Business Manager having jurisdiction over the w irk,
B.	The employer shall furnish specialized welding e< uipment including welding hoods, sleeves and gloves, to welders while engaged in welding or burning. Such tools, equipment, welding hoods, sleeves and gloves shall be returned to the Em] loyer by the Employee when the employee leaves the job through quitting, discharge or layoff. In the event of quitting, discharge ■ >r layoff, the employee shall pay for such materials out of his last pay. unless the failure to return the equipment is due to cause; beyond the control of the employee. All such losses shall be re| orted by the employee at the time such loss occurs.
C.	Employer shall furnish sufficient tool houses, properly heated and lighted where necessary, and equipped u th racks for purposes of storage of carpenter's and millwrigh's tools, equipment and clothing. The Employees may use the to >1 houses as a lunch area. Employer shall carry insurance on to >ls while stored in the tool house or gang box. but shall not be re ponstble for loss of tools not so stored. Employer's liability for j ich tools and equipment shall be limited to SI.000.00 in any i idividual case providing the employee furnishes a list of such ools and equipment to the Employer at the time of hiring. Modifi ations to this list may be made from time to time by filing a revisci list with the Employer. When ten (10) or more carpenters arc employed, the tool house shall be for the exclusive use of the carpenters. For projects with gross contract value of more than $3,004,000.00.
33
the Carpenters shall have adequate shelter provided for lunch period.
1). Employer will furnish sharpening devices and personnel to do filing and sharpening.
E.	Where four (4) or more men are employed on anyone shift, one shall be treated as foreman and paid foreman wages as set out in the schedule above.
F.	Where ten (10) carpenters are employed, the foreman shall be required to perform only supervisory duties. No foreman shall supervise more than twelve (12) carpenter.
34
IN WITNESS WHEREOF of the duly authorized repress ntatives of the undersigned EMPLOYERS whose signatures are affixed hereto; and the duly authorized representatives of the und irsigned UNION whose signature is affixed hereto as such reprcscnta ive; and for and in behalf of the Employers and such Union, and the officers and agents, and members thereof, at Charleston, West Virgi lia.
CONSTRUCTORS’ LABOR COUNCIL OF WE ST VIRGINIA, INC.
CLARKE L. WILSON. JR., Chairman of the Board of Governors
KEN BURFORD, President
MID-ATLANT1C REGIONAL COUNCIL Ol CARPENTERS WEST VIRGINIA DISTRICI
(Carpenter Local Nos. 3, 302. 476, 604, X99, 1024, 115^,1207,
1911. Millwright Local No. 1755)
Marcus W. Estiack, Assistant EST/District Manag :r
E. William Du Vali Carpenters Local 1024
PITTSBURGH PILE DRIVER LOCAL NO. 22 15
Bob Graswick
MILLWRIGHTS LOCAL NO. 519
BOB ELLIOTT, Business Agent
MILLWRIGHT LOCAL NO. 1871
DON CRANE, Business Agent
35
Wage Appendix
West Virginia Heavy and Highway Agreement Between
The Constructor’s Labor Council of WV and The Mid-Atlantic Regional Council of Carpente r s W V District
Effective December 1, 2006 to November 30, 200$ for
Locals , 302, 476, 604, 899, 1159, 1207, and 191
All WV Counties except Berkley, Brooke, Grant, Hamps ' lire, Hancock, Hardy, Jefferson, Mineral, Morgan, Ohio, Pendleton & part of Marshall
Craft: Carpenter/ Pile Driver
12-01-2006		12-01-2007	12-1)1-2008
Total Package:	$36.43	$37.86	$39.37
Basic Hourly Carpenter			
Rate:	$23.88	*TBD	*TBD
Fringe Package:	$12.55	*TBD	*TBD
(*contact local for fringe/wage disbu sement)
Carpenter Foreman: Pile Driver:	Carpenter 4- $1.35 Carpenter + $0.55
Pile Driver Foreman:	Pile Driver + $2.00
Fringes: 12-01-2006 to 11-30-2007
Health & Welfare	$5.25	Worked
Pension	6.00	Worked
Apprentice	1.04	Worked
UBC Health & Safety Fund	0.06	Worked
WV H/'H Industry Fund	0.20	Worked
(same all ihr :e years)
ACT/BT	0.20	1 ‘educted
Vacation	1.01	1 'educted
Work Assessment	4.5?C of Gross	1 'educted
Is’ Stage 60%
Apprentice Rates
2nd Stage 3rd Stage 70%	80%
4ltl St ige
90(' (>
37
Wage Appendix
West Virginia Heavy and Highway Agreement Between
The Constructor’s Labor Council of WV and
The Mid-Atlantic Regional Council of Carpenters WV District
Effective December 1, 2006 to November 30, 2009 for Millwright Local 1755
All WV Counties except Berkley, Brooke, Cabell, Grant, Hampshire, Hancock, Hardy, Jefferson, Lincoln, Morgan, Marshall, Mineral, Ohio, and Wayne
Craft: Millwright
12-01-2006		12-01-2007	12-01-2008
Total Package:	$40.91	$42.54	$44,24
Basic Hourly Millwright			
Rate:	$26.96	*TBD	*TBD
Fringe Package:	$13.95	*TBD	*tbd
(*contact local for fringc/wage disbursement)
Millwright Foreman:	Millwright + $2.50
Millwright Gen. Foreman:	Millwright + $3.00
Fringes: 12-01-2006 to 11-30-2007
Health & Welfare	$5.50	Worked
Pension	5.70	Worked
Apprentice	1.14	Worked
Annuity	1.35	Worked
UBC Health & Safety Fund	0.06		Worked
WV H/H C1F	0.20	Worked (same all three years)
PAC	0.01	Deducted
Sch Fund	0.02	Deducted
ACT/BT	0.20	Deducted
Savings/Vacalion	0.51	Deducted
Work Assessment	5.0% of Gross	Deducted
Apprentice Rates
Is’ Stage: 60%
3rd Stage: 70%
5lh Stage: 80%
7’11 Stage: 90%
2nd Stage: 65% 4lh Stage: 75% 6lh Stage: 85% 8th Stage: 95%
38
Wage Appendix
West Virginia Heavy and Highway Agreemen Between
The Constructor’s Labor Council of WV and The Mid-Atlantic Regional Council of Carpent rs Baltimore District
Effective December 1, 2006 to November 30, 200*1 for
Local 1024
West Virginia Counties of Berkley, Grant, Hampshire, Hardy, Jefferson, Mineral, Morgan, & Pendleton.
Craft: Carpenter
	12-01-2006		12-01-2007	12 1)1-2008
Total Package: Basic Hourly Carpenter		$36.43	$37.88	$39.39
Rate:		$25.98	*TBD	*TBD
Fringe Package:		$10.45	*TBD	*TBD
(*contact local for wagcffringe disbur .emcnts)
Carpenter Foreman:
Carpenter 4- $1,41
Fringes: 12-01-2006 to 11-30-2007
Health & Welfare
Pension
Annuity Apprentice WV H/H CIF
ACT/BT
CAMP
Savings
Work Assessment
$3.25
5.00
1.00
1.00
0.20 0.15 0.13
2.30
4.5% of Gross
Worked Worked Worked Worked Worked (same for all th: ?e years) Worked (DEDI CTION) Paid (DEDI CTION) 1 deducted
Each 6 month stage:
1” stage: 55%
3rLi stage: 62%
5tr' stage: 69%
7th stage: 76%
Apprentice Rates
2l,d stage: 58.? % 4lh stage: 65.5 ■<) 6th stage: 72.5 -<)
8”’ stage: 8(1%
39
Wage Appendix
West Virginia Heavy and Highway Agreement Between
The Constructor’s Labor Council of WV and The Mid-Atlantic Regional Council of Carpenters Baltimore District
Effective December 1, 2006 to November 30, 2009 for
Local 1024
WV Counties of Berkley, Grant, Hampshire, Hardy, Jefferson, Mineral, Morgan, & Pendleton.
Craft; Pile Driver
	12-01-2006	12-01-2007	12-01-2008
Total Package:	$37.35 Basic Hourly Pile Driver		$38.85	$40.40
Rate:	$26.90	♦TBD	*TBD
Fringe Package:	$10.45	*TBD	*tbd
(^contact local for wage disbursement)
Pile Driver Foreman: Pile Driver + $ 1.04
Fringes: 12-01-2006 to 11-30-2007
Health & Welfare Pension Annuity Apprentice WV H/H C1F ACT/BT CAMP Savings
Work Assessment
$3.25
5.00
1.00
1.00
0.20
0.15
0.13
2.30
4.5% of Gross
Worked Worked Worked Worked Worked (same for all three years) Worked (DEDUCTION) Paid (DEDUCTION) Deducted
Apprentice Rates
Each 6 month stage:
1” stage: 55%
3rd stage: 62%
5tl1 stage: 69%
7th stage; 76%
2nd stage: 58.5% 4lh stage: 65.5% 6Lh stage: 72.5% 8th stage: 80%
40
Wage Appendix
West Virginia Heavy and Highway Agreemeni Between
The Constructor’s Labor Council of WV and The Mid-Atlantic Regional Council of Carpenters Baltimore District
Effective December 1, 2006 to November 30, 2009 for Local 1024
West Virginia Counties of Berkley, Grant, Hampshire, Ha rdy, Jefferson, Mineral, Morgan, & Pendleton.
Craft: Millwright	12-01-2006 12-01-2007	12- H-2008
Total Package:	$38.29	$39.82	$41.41
Basic Hourly Millwright
Rate:	$27.84	TBD	TBD
Fringe Package:	$10.45	TBD	TBD
*(Fringe Benefit contribution amounts are available 1 :om the Local Unioi office)
Millwright Foreman:	Millwright + $1.04
Millwright Gen. Foreman: Millwright + $1.56
Fringes: 12-01-2006 to 11-30-2007
Health & Welfare Pension Annuity Apprentice WV H/H CIF ACT/BT CAMP Savings (DEDUCTION) Work Assessment	$3.25	Worked 5.00	Worked 1.00	Worked 1.00	Worked 0.20	Worked 0.15 (same for all thre : years) 0.13 Worked (DEDU< "[’ION) 2.30	Paid 4.5 % of Gross	D iducted Apprentice Rates
Each 6 month stage:
1M stage:	55%	2nd	stage; 58.5	!<■>
3rd stage:	62%	4th	stage:	65.5
5th stage:	69%	6th	stage: 72.5	'o
7,h stage:	76%	8th	stage:	80%
41
Wage Appendix
West Virginia Heavy and Highway Agreement Between
The Constructor's Labor Council of WV and Ohio Millwright Local 1871
Effective December 1, 2006 to November 30, 2009 for
West Virginia Counties of Brooke. Hancock, Marshall, Ohio Counties
Craft: Millwright
	12-01-2006		12-01-2007	12-01-2008
Total Package: Basic Hourly Millwright		$35.60	$37.02	$38.50
Rate:		$24.00	*TBD	*TBD
Fringe Package:		$11.60	*TBD	*TBD
(*contact local for wage/fringe disbursement)
Millwright Foreman:	Millwright + $1.75
Monorail Layout Man:	Millwright + $ 1.75
Millwright Gen. Foreman: Millwright + $2.00
Fringes: 12-01-2006 to 11-30-2007
Health & Welfare	$5.82	Worked
Pension	4,00	Worked
Apprentice	0.26	Worked
Annuity	1.00	Worked
UBC Health & Safety Fund	0.02		Worked
Supp Unem Benefit	0.30	Worked
WV H/H C1F	0.20	Worked (same all three years)
Work Assessment	3.5% of Gross	Deducted
Apprentice Rates
Each 6 month stage: % of base rate with full fringe payment lsl stage: 55%	2nd	stage:	58.5%
3rd stage: 62%	4th	stage:	65.5%
5th stage: 69%	6’’’	stage:	72.5%
7lh stage: 76%	8th	stage:	80%
42
Wage Appendix
West Virginia Heavy and Highway Agreement Between
The Constructor’s Labor Council of WV and Western Pennsylvania Council of Carpenters Piledriver Local 2235
West Virginia Counties of Brooke, Hancock, Marshall, Monongalia, Ohio, and Wetzel
Craft: Pile Drivers			
12-01-2006		12-01-2007	12-f 1-2008
Total Package: Basic Hourly Pile Driver	S37.92	$39.44	$41,02
Rate:	$26.93	*TBD	*TBD
Welder/Creosotc:	$27.32	*TBD	*TBD
Foreman	$27.75	*TBD	*tbd
Foreman Welder/Creosote	$28.73	*tbd	*tbd
Genera] Foreman Fringe Package:	$29.62	*TBD	*TBD
(hours paid)	$10.99	*TBD	*TBD
( *Fringe Benefit contribution amounts are available 1 om the Local Union offices)
Fringes: 12-01-2006 to 11-30-2007
Health & Welfare Pension Savings/Annuity Training Fund WV H/H GIF	$5.14	Worked 2.70	Worked 2.70	Worked 0.25	Worked 0.20	Worked (same all three years)
Others(deductions) Work Assessmen	0.15	Paid (De .uction) 3.5% of Gross	Deducted
Apprentice Rates
I'1 Stage: 60%	2nd Stage: 70°/<
3 rd Stage: 80%	4th Stage: 90°Z
43
Wage Appendix
West Virginia Heavy and Highway Agreement Between
The Constructor’s Labor Council of WV and Ohio & Vicinity Regional Council of Carpenters Millwright Local 1519
Cabell, Lincoln, and Wayne Counties
Craft: Millwright
	12-01-2006	12-01-2007	12-01-2008
Total Package:	$34.99	$36.39	$37.82
Basic Hourly Millwright			
Rate:	$22.92	TBD	TBD
Fringe Package:	$12.07	TBD	TBD
*(Fringe Benefit contribution amounts are available from the
Local Union offices)
Millwright Foreman: Monorail Layout Man: Millwright Gen. Foreman:
Millwright + $1.75
Millwright + $1.75
Millwright + $2.00
Fringes: 12-01-2006 to 11-30-2007
Health & Welfare	$5.65
Pension	5.00
Annuity	LOO
Apprentice/UBC	.22
WV H/H CIF	.20
Work Assessment 3,15% of Gross
Worked Worked Worked Worked Worked (Same for all three years) Deducted
Apprentice Rates
1st stage: 55%	2nd	stage: 58.5%
3,d stage: 62%	4th	stage:	65.5%
5"1 stage: 69%	6th	stage:	72.5%
7th stage;76%	8dl	stage: 80%
Each 6 month stage: % of base rate with full fringe payment
44
Wage Appendix
West Virginia Heavy and Highway Agreement Between
The Constructor’s Labor Council of WV and The Mid-Atlantic Regional Council of Carpentei s WV District
Effective December 1, 2006 to November 30, 2009 or
Carpenter Local 3
West Virginia Counties of Brooke, Hancock, Ohio, and V arshall
Craft: Carpenter
12-01-2006		12-01-2007	124 11-2008
Total Package: Basic Hourly Carpenter	$36.43	$37.88	$39.39
Rate:	$21.35	*TBD	*TBD
Fringe Package:	$15.08	*TBD	■TBD
*(contact local for fringe/wage disbun ,:ment)
Carpenter Foreman: Carpenter + $1.35
Welder:	Carpenter + $1.30
Fringes: 12-01-2006 to 11-30-2007
Health & Welfare	$6.00	'forked
Pension	4.00	'forked
Annuity	2.50	''forked
Apprentice	1.00	'‘forked
UBC Health & Safety Fund	0.06	Dei action
WV H/H Industry Fund	0.20	V/orked
(same for all three years)
Project BEST	0.13	V/orked
Vacation	1.25	V/orked
Work Assessment	0.96	De :lucted
Apprentice Rates
50% 1st Stage 60% 3ld Stage 70% 5lh Stage 80% 7th Stage
55% 2lld Stage 65% 4'11 Stage 75% 6dl Stage 85% 8th Stage
45