2010 - 2012
WEST VIRGINIA
HEAVY AND HIGHWAY AGREEMENT
between
CONSTRUCTORS’ LABOR COUNCIL OF WEST VIRGINIA, INC.
and
MID-ATLANTIC REGIONAL COUNCIL OF CARPENTERS, WEST VIRGINIA DISTRICT
UNION INFORMATION SHEET
Mid-Atlantic Regional Council
Of Carpenters, West Virginia District
District Manager
Marcus W. Estlack
1 81 2 Carfield Avenue Parkersburg, West Virginia 26101 (304) 485-2300 (office)
(304) 485-2750 (fax) www.wvcarpenter.com
Carpenter Service Representative
Local 3
Counties: Brook, Hancock, Ohio, & part of Marshall
Orphy Klempa
56 1 9th Street
Wheeling, WV 26003
(304) 233-2500 (office)
(304) 232-5543 (fax)
Local 476
Counties: Braxton, Doddridge, Gilmer, Harrison, Lewis, Marion, Upshur & Webster Local 604
Counties: Barbour, Monongalia, Pocahontas, Preston, Randolph, Taylor & Tucker
Joe Murphy
1616 Mileground Rd.
Morgantown, WV
(304) 842-5431 (office)
(304) 842-5125 (fax)
Local 1024
Counties: Berkley, Grant, Hampshire, Hardy, Jefferson, Mineral, Morgan & Pendleton
E. William Duvall
327 N, Centre Street Cumberland, MD 21502
(301) 722-2141 (office)
(301) 724-5576 (fax)
www.local1024.org
Local 302
Counties: Cabell, Mingo, & Wayne Scott Brewer
41 8 Seventh Avenue Huntington, WV 25701 (304) 522-11 92 (office) (304) 529-0043 (fax)
Local 899
Counties: Calhoun, Pleasants, Ritchie, Tyler, Wetzel, Wirt, Wood, & part of Marshall
Jeffrey L. Clendenen 485 Cedar Grove Rd. Parkersburg, WV 26104 (304) 428-0394 (office) (304) 428-2185 (fax)
Local 1159
Counties: Jackson & Mason Jeffrey L. Clendenen 2709 Jackson Ave.
Point Pleasant, WV 25550 (304) 675-4260 (office) (304) 675-6672 (fax)
Mid-Atlantic Regional Council Of Carpenters, West Virginia District
Carpenter Service Representative
Local 1911
Counties: Fayette, Greenbrier, McDowell, Mercer, Monroe, Raleigh, Summers, & Wyoming
Lewis “Luke” Begovich 2308 South Fayette St.
Beckley, WV 25801 (304) 254-991 1 (office) (304) 254-9931 (fax) www.locall 911 .org
Local 1 207
Counties: Boone, Clay, Kanawha, Logan, Lincoln, Nicholas, Putnam, & Roane
Scott Brewer
41 8 Seventh Avenue
Huntington, WV 25701
(304) 522-1192 (office)
(304) 529-0043 (fax)
www.locall207.com
Millwright Service Representatives
Local 1519
Counties: Cabell, Lincoln, & Wayne
Bob Elliott
P.O. Box 1014
South Point, Ohio 45680
(740) 377-2742 (phone)
(740) 377-9649 (fax)
Local 175 5
All Counties except Berkley, Brooke, Cabell, Grant, Hampshire, Hancock, Hardy, Jefferson, Lincoln, Morgan, Marshall, Mineral, Ohio, Pendleton & Wayne
Roger Richards 4600 Camden Ave.
Parkersburg, WV 26101 (304) 422-1 593 (office) (304)422-1755 (fax) www.millwright] 75 5.com
Mid-Atlantic Regional Council Of Carpenters, West Virginia District
Millwright Service Representatives
Local 1 871 Counties: Brooke, Hancock, Marshall & Ohio Don Crane
361 5 Chester Ave.
Cleveland, Ohio 441 1 4 (330) 746-0551 (phone) www.millwrightspiledrivers.com
Pile Driver Service Representative
Pittsburgh Pile Driver Local No. 2235
Brook, Hancock, Ohio, Marshall, Monongalia, & part of Wetzel Counties Bob Craswick
495 Mansfield Avenue Pittsburgh, PA 1 5205 (412) 922-8842 (phone) (412) 922-8847 (fax) www.ubc2335.com
Apprenticeship Training School
MARCC Joint Training Center
Odie Parkins, Jr.
1 1 0 Boyles Lane
Parkersburg, West Virginia 261 04 (304) 428-1891 (phone) (304) 428-8081 (fax)
Carpenters Health Fund of West Virginia American Benefit Corporation 609 3rd Avenue
Post Office Box 487
Chesapeake, Ohio 4561 9
(800) 553-9032 (phone)
(304) 525-0331 (phone) (740) 867-4300 (fax)
Millwright Local 1 755 Joint
Apprenticeship & Training
Bill Boso
4600 Camden Avenue
Parkersburg, West Virginia 26101
(304) 422-7637 (phone)
(304) 422-7573 (fax)
Carpenters Pension Fund of West Virginia
American Benefit Corporation
31 50 Route 60
Ona, West Virginia 25545
(800) 553-9032 (phone)
(304) 525-0331 (phone)
(304) 525-4274 (fax)
CONSTRUCTORS’ LABOR COUNCIL OF WEST VIRGINIA, INC,
Mailing Address
Post Office Box 3778 Charleston, West Virginia 25337
Street Address 900 Pennsylvania Avenue, Suite 108 Charleston, West Virginia 25302
(304) 342-6107 (Phone)
(304) 342-6108 (Fax)
www.clcwv.com
INDEX
Preface .......................... ............................  1
Article I	-Definitions ................ ...........................	1
Article II	-Union Security ............	...........................	2
Article III	-General Working Conditions . . ...................  3
Article IV	-Wages and Work Periods ....	...........................	6
Article V	- Holidays ................	...........................	9
Article VI	- The Contract ............	................... 9
Article VII	-Work Stoppages and Lockouts .....................  10
Article VIII	-Grievances and Arbitration ...........................	11
for disputes between Union and
Contractor/Employer and/or disputes
between Unions
Article IX	-Responsibility of Parties ..... ...........................	12
Article X	-Termination ...................................      13
Article XI	- Miscellaneous ...........	........................... 13
Article XII	- Carpenters ............. ........................... 13
WEST VIRGINIA HEAVY AND HIGHWAY AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT, made and entered into this 1st day of December, 2009, by and between the undersigned THE CONSTRUCTORS’ LABOR COUNCIL OF WEST VIRGINIA, INC. representing the members thereof doing business in all Counties within the State of West Virginia (hereafter referred to as “Employer Association” or "CLC”) and the undersigned MIDATLANTIC REGIONAL COUNCIL OF CARPENTERS WEST VIRGINIA DISTRICT (Carpenter Local Nos. 3, 302, 476, 604, 899, 1159,1 207, 1911, Millwright Local No. 1 755, CARPENTERS WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA REGIONAL COUNCIL Pittsburgh Pile Driver Local No. 2235, MID-ATLANTIC REGIONAL COUNCIL OF CARPENTERS BALTIMORE DISTRICT Carpenter and Millwright Local 1 024), and OHIO AND VICINITY REGIONAL COUNCIL MILLWRIGHTS LOCALS 1 5 1 9 and 1 871 (hereinafter referred to as "Union”) to cover all construction work performed by the aforesaid contractors in all Counties within the State of West Virginia;
WHEREAS, the parties desire to stabilize employment, promote harmonious relationships, and provide a medium whereby Employers and Unions cooperate each with the other; and
WHEREAS, the CLC hereby recognizes and acknowledges that the Union signatory hereto is the exclusive representatives of all Employees in the classifications of work covered by this Agreement for the purpose of collective bargaining, as provided by the Labor Management Relations Act of 1 947 as amended; and the Union recognizes the CLC as the duly authorized bargaining agent for its members;
NOW THEREFORE, the CLC and the Union acting by their duly authorized agents agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.	"Contractor" or "Employer" when used in this Agreement means any contractor or Employer engaged in all Heavy and Highway construction work in all counties in the State of West Virginia.
Section 2.	The word "Work" when used herein means all types of construction work defined as "Heavy, Highway and Railroad Construction" work.
Section 3.	Heavy Construction and Railroad Construction is defined as all heavy and railroad construction work in all Counties within the State of West Virginia, which includes, but is not limited to, constructing, substantially in its entirety, any fixed structures, improvement or modification thereof, addition or repair thereto, including any structure or operation which is an incidental part of a contract thereof including, without limitation, railroad and street railway construction projects, sewers and water mains, retaining walls, viaducts drainage projects, flood control projects, reclamation projects airports, athletic fields, ball parks reservoirs, water supply projects, water power developments, hydroelectric developments, transmission lines, duct lines, pipelines, locks, dams, dikes, levees, revetments, channels, channel cutoff, intakes, dredging projects, jetties, breakwaters, docks, harbors, roads, bridges, parking buildings, parking lots, sidewalks, river work, industrial plant sites work, sewage disposal plants, water treatment plants, excavation and disposal of earth and rock, clearing, grading and drainage of sites, work on building project to the foundation of the building, wind towers, communication towers, hazardous and toxic waste removal, abandon
mine reclamation, landfills, containment facilities, brown field reclamation projects, asbestos removal, demolition work, nuclear and electromagnetic power reactors, bridges and including the erection, dismantling, operation, maintenance and repair of all equipment, vehicles and other facilities used in connection with or serving the aforementioned work.
Section 4.	Highway Construction is defined as all highway construction work performed in all Counties within the State of West Virginia, which includes highway tunnels, highway and street grading, paving and drainage, culverts, manholes, water and other utility pipelines (when included in the contract), retaining walls, underpasses and overpasses (when included in a highway contract), highway viaducts, cloverleaf structures, curbs and sidewalks seeding and landscaping, clearing (when included in the contract), guardrails and fences, and including the erection, dismantling, operation, maintenance and repair of all equipment, vehicles and other facilities used in connection with or serving the aforementioned work.
Section 5.	The term “workday” when used herein means a completed eight (8) hour shift on five (5) day week schedules, or a completed ten (10) hour shift on four (4) day week schedules.
Section 6.	The term “owner-operator” when used herein includes a person or persons who own their own pieces of equipment and hire out said equipment to the Contractor for the performance of bargaining unit work herein. The term driver of leased equipment includes an "owner-operator” and a driver of equipment owned by another person who hires out or leases one or more pieces of equipment to the Contractor for the purpose of performance of bargaining unit work herein.
Section 7.	The term “Union” when used herein is the Mid-Atlantic Regional Council of Carpenters West Virginia District (Carpenter Local Nos. 3, 302, 476, 604, 899, 1159, 1 207, 1911, Millwright Local Nos. 1 519, 1 755, Ohio & Vicinity Regional Council Millwright Local Nos. 1519 and 1871, Carpenters Western Pennsylvania Regional Council Pittsburgh Pile Driver Local No. 2235 and Mid-Atlantic Regional Council Of Carpenters Baltimore District Carpenter/Millwright Local 1024).
Section 8.	A “make-up day” when used herein is a workday that results from the cancellation of work due to inclement weather.
Section 9.	The term “temporary work” when used herein is work performed on a project in which the Employee works less than thirty-one (31) hours during the duration of the project.
ARTICLE II Union Security
Section 1:	Union Membership. All present employees, within the meaning of this Agreement, who are members of the Union on the effective date of this Agreement shall, as a condition of employment, maintain their membership in good standing in the Union. All present employees who are not members of the Union and ail employees who are hired hereafter shall become and remain members in good standing of the appropriate Union as a condition of employment not later than the eighth (8th) day following the beginning of their employment or the effective date of this Agreement, whichever is the later. Failure of any employee to comply with the provisions of this Article shall, upon the request of the Union, result in the termination of such employee. Upon written request, the Employer shall furnish a designated Union official on each job with the names of any new employees not later than
2
eight (8) days after employment upon forms to be supplied by the Union. The Employer shall not justify the discrimination against any employee for non-membership in the Union (a) if he has reasonable grounds for believing that such membership was not available to the employee on the same terms and conditions generally applicable to other members, or (b) if he has reasonable grounds for believing that membership was denied or terminated for reasons other than the failure of the employee to tender the periodic dues and initiation fees uniformly required as a condition of acquiring or retaining membership.
Section 2:	Minimum wage scale. The minimum wage scales to be paid by Employer shall be as set out in Article XII of the Agreement except that such Article may be amended by written mutual consent and agreement. In the event the Davis Bacon Act is repealed, either party may notify the other party of their intent to renegotiate the wage rates within thirty (30) days following the effective repeal date. If a Union fails to submit the negotiated wage rates to the United States Department of Labor or the West Virginia Department of Labor each year in a timely manner or does not properly prevail its wages, the Union will be required to reopen the contract for the purpose of renegotiating the wage rates. If no new wage rate is established through negotiations, the Employer is responsible for payment of the wage rate prevailed at the time the contract is let to bid.
Section 3.	Surety Bond. The Union may require those Employers who have not maintained a presence in the jurisdiction of the Union for five (5) years or more or who are not previously a party to an agreement with the Union or who are delinquent or who become delinquent In payment of fringe benefit funds and who do not cure such delinquency within thirty (30) days provided by this Agreement to procure, pay the premium for and deliver to the Union a Bond written by a responsible surety company with the amount to be determined in the discretion of the Union, with the minimum sum being Twenty Thousand Dollars and the maximum sum being One Hundred Thousand Dollars ($ 100,000.00) plus any existing delinquencies due said fringe benefit funds guaranteeing the payment of all wages and fringe benefits due employees under this Agreement and all payments and penalties due as provided in this Agreement.
ARTICLE III General Working Conditions
Section 1:	Accidents. Employees shall immediately report to the Employer all accidents, together with the names and addresses of all witnesses to the accidents. Upon written request, Employer shall furnish the Union concerned with a report of each lost time accident involving a member of that Union on a form to be agreed upon.
Section 2:	Street/highway safety. Employer shall not require employees to take out on the street or highways any vehicles not equipped with the safety appliances prescribed by law, or any vehicle that is not in a safe operating condition.
Section 3:	Equipment defects. Equipment shall be operated and maintained in compliance with OSHA regulations. Employees shall immediately report to the Employer all equipment defects. If an occasion arises that an employee reports defective equipment to Employer and receives no satisfaction, he shall report the matter to the officers of his Union, who shall in turn consult with Employer.
Section 4:	Manning equipment. Employer shall man his equipment at all times with a sufficient number of men to properly handle the load. There shall be no limit on production by workmen or restrictions on the full use of tools and equipment. There shall be no
3
restrictions other than may be required by safety regulations on the number of men assigned to any crew or to any service except as otherwise provided for in this Agreement.
Section 5:	Safety & sanitary regulations Employer shall comply with all of the safety and sanitary regulations specified by the laws of the United States of America and the State of West Virginia. Required safety equipment shall be furnished by the Employer. If after analysis by a recognized testing laboratory, materials used in construction are found to be injurious to health and safety to employees, the Contractor will endeavor to correct the situation through reasonable protective measures or substitution of other materials.
Section 6:	Working steward. The Union may refer a working steward for each shift who will be paid at the journeyman wage rate for the job classification in which employed and will be allowed reasonable time to fulfill his responsibilities for the benefit of the parties to this Agreement. It is understood and agreed that the working steward must be able to productively perform any available work. The working steward shall not be discriminated against for discharging his duties as a steward. The Union shall notify the Employer, in writing, the name of the working steward on each job. Designated officials of the crafts shall be permitted upon the job site provided that said official complies with safety regulations and does not affect the work in progress. Before the Employer discharges or lays-off a steward, the employer must discuss the reason for the discharge or layoff with the local union Business Manager if available.
Section 7:	Foul weather. Necessary foul weather gear, including over-the-shoe boots, shall be supplied by the Contractor when the weather or type of work requires it and shall be chargeable to the man if lost or damaged beyond ordinary wear and tear. The Employer shall determine when the weather is suitable for work to be available. The Employee shall not be punished for refusing to work in unsafe weather conditions.
Section 8:	Management of operations. The Employer retains and shall exercise full and exclusive responsibility for the management of its operations. The Employer will be the judge in determining the competency of applicants and Employees with the right to hire, reject or terminate accordingly and will be responsible for determining a fair day’s work. The Employer may direct the working force, at its sole prerogative, including selection of general foreman, foreman, promotion, transfer, layoff or discharge of its Employees. No rules, customs or practices shall be permitted or observed which limit or restrict production or limit or restrict the joint or individual working efforts of Employees. Further, the Employer shall be the judge as to the number of Employees, foremen, general foremen and other supervisors required to perform the work, and the number of Employees to be assigned to any crew. General foremen, foremen and other supervisors may operate any equipment or use the tools of the craft when instructed to do so by the Employer for instructional or emergency purposes, except as provided for in Article XII, Section 5(E) of this Agreement. General foremen and foremen who have been in the employ of the Employer for one year or more, may be transferred from project to project. The Employer shall have the unqualified right to select and hire directly all supervisors (as defined by the National Labor Relations Act) it considers necessary and desirable without such persons being referred by the Unions. The Employer may utilize any method or technique of construction and there shall be no limitation or restriction, regardless of the source or location, of the use of machinery, precast, prefabricated or preassembled materials, tools, or other laborsaving devices, nor shall there be any limitation upon choice of materials or design.
The Employer shall assign work on the basis of traditional work jurisdictional lines. It is, however, recognized that effective competition requires the use of partnering crew or a cadre approach among respective crafts. Based upon past practices in West Virginia and area
4
custom, a partnering crew or a cadre may be utilized. The partnering crew or cadre is a crew comprised by the Employer at its discretion, providing the jurisdiction of all crafts be considered and assigned. The Employer will make up the crew on the basis of the amount of work involved for each Union. Only on projects with gross contract value greater than $3,000,000 will pre-bid approval be required for use of partnering crews or cadres. Prejob conferences may be held on any job at the request of the contractor or union. The prejob conference may be held by telephone, and/or a mutually agreed upon site.
Section 9:	Union workforce. The Unions will exert their utmost efforts to recruit sufficient numbers of skilled applicants to fulfill the workforce requirements of the Employer. In the event the referral facilities maintained by the Unions do not refer the required number of qualified applicants requested by the Employer within a forty-eight (48) hour period after such request is made (Saturdays, Sundays and holidays excepted), the Employer may withdraw the request and employ applicants from other sources.
The Employer has executed a referral agreement with the Union. Copies of that agreement are made apart hereof by reference and are available at the CLC upon request. Modification to the Uniform Referral Procedure, if necessary, shall be by mutual agreement between the CLC and the Union.
Section 1 0: Work place. Employees shall be at their work place at the starting time, and shall remain at their place of work performing their assigned duties under supervision of the Employer and shall be returned to their vehicle by quitting time. The Employer shall have the right to determine the work place. There will be no organized coffee breaks, rest periods or other non-working time established during working hours. Employees will be guaranteed coffee breaks at their work place, provided that the coffee break does not halt the work of the entire Carpenter crew. It is agreed and understood that coffee breaks, rest periods or other non-working time will not create a general work stoppage. It is agreed and is the intent of the parties that there be a full day’s work for a fair day's wage. When working an eight (8), or ten (1 0) hour shift, Employees shall receive a ten (1 0) minute unorganized break at their workstation at the mid-point of the first half and second half of each shift. The break shall be coordinated by the Contractor and the Union so not to impede or impact project operations.
Section 11:	Ice water. The Contractor shall provide ice water in a clean and sanitary container located at a convenient location for employees with drinking cups provided.
Section 12:	Notice of work status. Each employee shall furnish the Employer with a phone number or a point of contact where said employee may be reached for notice of work status. Employer agrees to not unreasonably withhold "lay-off slips" or "low earnings slips" if same is requested by an employee. Contractor will provide each employee with a phone number and point of contact for purposes of reporting off, etc.
Section 1 3: Saturday work. In the event Saturday is to be worked, notification must be given the Crafts prior to the start of the last scheduled shift.
Section 14: Leave of absence. If an employee is injured and forced to leave the job, he shall be given a reasonable time to gather his personal belongings and tools. Employer agrees to grant the necessary leave of absence without pay in case of sickness or injury, and employee shall receive his former position, if available, upon recovery or the expiration of the leave.
Section 1 5: On the job injury. If an employee is injured on the job, it is the
5
responsibility of the Contractor to provide first aid and transportation of the employee to the nearest hospital or physician. Upon admittance to the hospital by a physician, responsibility of the Employer terminates and the employee is under the supervision and jurisdiction of the physician and the Workers' Compensation Program for treatment and reassignment to duty status. If the employee is allowed to return to work by the physician, and if the employee should require further examination or treatment during duty hours, then the Employer shall pay the employee for such portion of the work day that he is not on the job, provided that the employee may be requested to furnish adequate proof of his attendance for medical treatment. The Employer shall not be responsible for payment to the man for any time devoted to such examination or treatment before or after the normal workday.
Section 1 6: Trial period. New employees may only be referred to the job by the Union and shall be on trial for a period of fifteen (1 5) workdays and Employer shall be the sole judge of their ability during such trial period. Employees retained after such fifteen (1 5) workday trial period shall be deemed to be regular employees. The Employer shall not discharge any Employee working more than fifteen (1 5) workdays without just cause. In the event of termination, any Employee working more than fifteen (1 5) workdays may request an investigation as to his discharge. Should such investigation prove that an injustice has been done, the Employee shall be reinstated and compensated at his usual rate of pay while he has been out of work.
Section 1 7: Electronic Devices. No electronic devices that may hinder job performance or safety (especially cell phones), may be carried on employees’ person, or be used by employees during working hours.
ARTICLE IV Wages and Work Periods
Section 1: Start time, (a) Starting time of regularly scheduled shift shall be established by the Contractor between the hours of 6 a.m. and 8 a.m. or as agreed upon at the pre-job conference. A Contractor may elect to change the starting time, but must give the Union twenty-four (24) hours notification in advance. Notice shall be effective if orally given to the steward and confirmed with the respective business agent. It is understood that the Employer is not required to pay travel expenses, travel time, zone pay, or subsistence during the term of this Agreement.
(b) It is recognized and agreed that on certain types of work due to owners’ specifications, Governmental restrictions and/or traffic conditions, the work or part of the work must be done on multiple shift basis, in which event such shift will be permitted to conform with such restrictions as to starting time or time between shifts, which shall be agreed upon between the union representative and the Contractor,
Section 2. Room and Board. On highway projects only, when Employees are required to work away from their home base of operation on temporary work, room, board and transportation shall be provided by the Employer. When Employees are required to work away from their home base of operation on a regular job, they shall provide their own room and board. On highway projects only, the Employee shall be paid for no less than eight (8) hours or his regular shift hours for each day of temporary work, whichever is greater, and in addition, payment for all other time required in the service of Employer. On temporary work on highway projects only, in the event of inclement weather, the Employee will only receive two (2) hours pay for reporting time or actual hours worked, whichever is greater.
6
Section 3: Overtime, (a) Except where provided otherwise by the United States Government, forty (40) hours shall constitute a normal workweek and all hours worked over forty (40) per week shall be paid for at the rate of time and one-half (1 kz). On Heavy construction projects with gross contract value greater than three million $3,000,000.00 the Employee shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half (1 1/z) for hours worked over eight (8) hours on eight (8) hour shifts or at the rate of time and one-half (1 Vi) for hours worked over ten (1 0) hours on ten (1 0) hour shifts. Nothing herein shall be construed as guaranteeing any employee eight (8) hours of work per day on eight (8) hour shifts or ten (10) hours of work per day on ten (1 0) hour shifts or forty (40) hours of work per week. All productive work performed on Sunday shall be computed on a double time basis, and not less than four (4) consecutive hours of work shall be given on Sunday. See "Triple Shift Exception" - Section 3.
Section 4.	Travel Pay. It is understood that the Employer is not required to pay travel expenses, travel time, zone pay, or subsistence during the term of this Agreement.
Section 5.	Make-up Day. (a) Saturday will be considered the make-up day on eight (8) hour shifts and will be paid straight time if the Employee has not worked a forty (40) hour week prior to Saturday. Saturday will be a make-up day for work missed due to inclement weather, not holidays. Friday will be considered the make-up day on ten (1 0) hour shifts and will be paid straight time if the Employee has not worked a forty (40) hour week prior to Friday. Friday will be a make-up day for work missed due to inclement weather, not holidays. If the Employee provides the Employer with written notice twenty-four (24) hours prior to a make-up day that he does not want to work the make-up day, then the Employee will not be penalized for not working the make-up day. On heavy projects with gross contract value of greater than three million $3,000,000.00 only, all construction work performed on Saturday will be paid at time and one-half unless Saturday is considered a make-up day. It is expressly understood that an Employee will not be punished for not working on a Saturday.
(b) It is agreed and understood that Employees performing non-productive work such as curing concrete and de-watering will be paid straight time regardless of the day non-productive work is performed.
Section 6.	Absenteeism. The Employer and the Unions agree that chronic and/or unexcused absenteeism is undesirable and must be controlled. The Employer may terminate, at its discretion, for chronic and/or unexcused absenteeism as determined at the pre-job conference. The Employer shall be consistent with regard to termination for absenteeism.
Section 7:	Triple shift, (a) When three shifts are established and operated, the first or daylight shift will consist of eight (8) hours' work, plus one-half (14 ) hour for non-paid lunch. The second shift will consist of seven and one-half (7 Yz) hours' work, plus one-half (14) hour for non-paid lunch. For the second shift, the Employee will receive eight (8) hours pay for seven and one-half (7 J4) hours' work. The third shift will consist of seven (7) hours work, plus one-half (14) hour for non-paid lunch. For the third shift, the Employee will receive eight (8) hours pay for (7) hours' work.
(b) On triple shift operations, the normal workweek shall begin with the first shift Monday morning. All work performed between the beginning of the first shift Friday until the beginning of the first shift on Saturday shall be considered as worked on Friday and paid at the applicable rate forthat day. All work performed between the beginning of the first shift Saturday until the beginning of the first shift on Sunday, shall be considered as worked on Saturday and paid at the applicable rate for that day. All work performed between the beginning of the first shift Sunday until the beginning of the first shift Monday, shall be
7
considered as worked on Sunday and paid at the applicable rate for that day.
Section 8: 8 or 1 O-hour shifts. When two 8 or 1 O-hour shifts are established and operated, a one-half (1Z1/?) hour unpaid lunch period will be provided. Therefore, employees will be on the project site for eight and one-half (8 )4) hours or ten and one-half (1 0 !4) hours, but will be paid only for 8 or 1 0 hours. In the event of the utilization by the Contractor of three shifts, the language provided in Section 3, Paragraph (a) of this Article will prevail.
Section 5:	Overtime. The Employer shall determine when overtime shall be worked and by whom. The Employer shall make every reasonable effort to ensure that overtime work is divided fairly among the carpenters in the established crew performing the work to be worked as overtime. The union designated Steward shall remain on the job at all times when other employees of the same craft are working provided he is qualified to do any of the available work. Any Employees who are dispatched from the local union shall not be denied overtime work to the benefit of Employees who are not based locally. The Employee shall not be required to working overtime unless failure to work overtime becomes detrimental to the construction project. Where Employees are required to work overtime beyond the normal shift, the first period shall consist of two (2) hours' work, plus one-half (14) hour unpaid lunch time and subsequent periods shall consist of three and one-half (3 14) hours' work plus one-half 04) hour paid lunch time. If the Employee is required to work during any lunchtime, he shall be paid therefore. The Contractor will make every reasonable effort to provide some type of food during the second or third lunch periods.
Section 6:	Show-up time. An employee who reports for work at the regular starting time and for whom no work is provided shall receive pay equivalent to one (1) hour at the applicable hourly rate. The employee must report to the Project at the regular starting time and remain available for work during the period compensated to be eligible to receive reporting pay. An employee who is put to work shall be paid for actual hours worked but not less than two (2) hours. On Heavy construction projects with a gross contract value of $3,000,000.00 or more, an employee who is put to work shall be paid for actual hours worked but not less than four (4) hours at the applicable hourly rate on eight (8) hour shifts and five (5) hours at the applicable hourly rate on ten (1 0) hour shifts.
Section 7:	Weekly pay. Employees are to be paid weekly. The workweek shall begin with the daylight shift Monday and payment of wages shall be made not later than Friday of the following workweek. The Contractor and the Union shall mutually agree upon the day on which the Employees shall be paid. Employees who report for their paycheck on a day when there is no work scheduled because of weather or other causes shall not be eligible for reporting pay. All paychecks will be available at the start of the day shift on the established payday. The employee may ask the Contractor to mall his check to his home on a non-work payday and the Contractor will mail said check prior to 1 2:00 noon on said day.
Section 8:	Lunch Period. The Lunch period will be routinely held between 11:00 a.m. and 1:00 p.m. unless mutually agreed upon otherwise at the pre-job conference.
Section 9:	Termination/lay-offs. An employee whose employment is terminated or who is laid-off for the "convenience of the employer" shall be paid within one (1) hour of the time of termination or at the end of the shift, whichever is first, unless extraordinary circumstances prevent the timely preparation of a final check (extraordinary does not include convenience or policy). Absent extraordinary circumstances, the Employee shall be paid at the straight time rate if he is required to wait beyond such period. However, in no event shall the Employee be paid for more than eight (8) hours per day that he is required to wait. An employee whose work is terminated shall be given sufficient time in which to gather his
8
personal belongings and tools.
ARTICLE V
Holidays
Section 1: Holiday days. New Year’s Day, Memorial Day, Fourth of July, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day and the day after Thanksgiving Day, and Christmas Day shall be holidays. There shall be no work for employees on Labor Day, Christmas Day, or Easter Sunday, except in cases of emergency. On holidays and Easter Sunday, the rate of pay shall be twice the regular rate, and on such days not less than four (4) consecutive hours of work shall be given. When a holiday falls on Saturday, the preceding Friday shall be observed as the holiday. When a holiday falls on Sunday, the following Monday shall be observed as the holiday excluding Easter Sunday. It is understood that on eight (8) hour shifts, holidays celebrated on Mondays through Fridays that are not worked, eight (8) hours shall be counted in the computation of hours worked for overtime purposes only. It is understood that on ten (1 0) hour shifts, holidays celebrated on Mondays through Fridays that are not worked, ten (1 0) hours shall be counted in the computation of hours worked for overtime purposes only. There shall be no paid non-working holidays. In case of a conflict between the National and State designation of a holiday, the State designation shall be applicable. On a four (4) day ten (1 0) hour work week, Fridays will not be worked as a make up day for a holiday. On a five (5) day eight (8) hour work week, Saturdays will not be worked as a make up day for a holiday.
Section 2:	Holiday time. Thanksgiving holiday shall begin at 12:01 a.m. on Thanksgiving Day and end at 1 2:00 p.m. midnight on the day after Thanksgiving Day. Christmas holidays shall begin at 1 2:01 a.m. on Christmas Day and end at 1 2:00 p.m. midnight on Christmas Day. AH other holidays will be observed starting at the beginning of the first shift on the holiday and ending twenty-four (24) hours later.
Section 3:	Emergency work. Emergency work shall be that work necessary to save life or property.
ARTICLE VI The Contract
Section 1:	Amendment to contract. This Agreement may be amended by mutual consent of the CLC as bargaining representative of the Employer members, and the Union’s business manager, as the bargaining representative of the employees. Such amendments shall be reduced to writing and made available to all Contractor members. It is understood and agreed that if the Union enters into any agreement with any construction contractor to perform work defined as “Heavy” or “Highway” within this agreement that contains terms, conditions, wages, benefits or other provisions more favorable than the provisions set forth in this Heavy and Highway Agreement, the contractors signatory hereto shall immediately have the benefit of and be entitled to rely upon and enforce each and every more favorable term, condition, wage, benefit or provision. Should the CLC or any of its contractors working under the terms and conditions of this Collective Bargaining Agreement provide any other signatory craft with hours or working conditions more favorable than those received by the Union employees, then such items and conditions shall be available to the members of the Union.
The parties hereto agree to meet monthly, or as necessary, to evaluate past projects bid and pending projects to be bid by pre-bid and/or pre-job conferences, for the purpose of determining the impact of such adjustments and the needs for competitive adjustments to the wages, hours and working conditions herein established.
9
Pre-Job Conferences shall be held on all jobs if the basic bid cost is in the amount of three million dollars ($3,000,000.00) or more. All jobs awarded on Heavy and Highway projects shall be posted on the CLC’s web site at www.clcwv.com.
Section 2:	Wage freeze. The Contractor and Union may agree, in writing, that the hourly wage rates and fringe benefits in effect on the bid date will prevail for an agreed upon period of time from the date of the "Notice to Proceed." In any event, on all construction work performed under this Agreement on construction projects not to exceed three million $3,000,000.00 the hourly wage rates and fringe benefits in effect on the bid date shall prevail for a period of two (2) years from the date of the "Notice to Proceed" and thereafter at the current wage level.
Section 3:	Subcontractors. The Contractor, using its own discretion, may subcontract, assign or transfer portions of the work covered hereby to other subcontractors, persons or entities. Contractor and subcontractors, persons or entities who are signatory to this agreement agree that they will not subcontract, assign, or transfer any portion of their work to any subcontractor, person or entity who is not a party to this bona fide collective bargaining agreement with the exception of specialty work or where such subcontractors, persons or entities, are not competitive or available in the area or where contrary to law. The furnishing of materials, supplies or equipment and the delivery thereof shall not in any case be considered as subcontracting. It is understood and agreed that all contractors, subcontractors, persons or entities who are signatory to this agreement shall be solely liable and responsible for their breaches of this agreement and other acts and omissions. Further, it is agreed and understood that all such contractors, subcontractors, persons or entities shall indemnify and hold harmless those with whom they are in contract for any such breaches, acts or omissions.
Prior to subcontracting with non-signatory subcontractors, including specialty work, the Employer shall contact the Union in a timely manner to provide the Union with an opportunity to solicit Union subcontractors.
Section 4:	Trust Funds. It is agreed and understood that the CLC may have a representative on any and all trust funds into which its members are required to pay. As long as the CLC has a contractor representative on each trust, it is agreed and understood that the provisions of the trust documents are incorporated herein by reference.
ARTICLE VII
Work Stoppages and Lockouts
Section 1:	Work interruptions prohibited. During the term of this Agreement, there shall be no strikes, sympathy strikes, picketing, work stoppages, work interruption, slow downs, sick-outs, other disruptive activities, including, but not limited to destruction of equipment, for any reason by the Union or by the employee, except for non- payment of wages and fringe benefits when due, and there shall be no lockout by the Employer. The work shall continue uninterrupted as assigned by the Contractor.
Section 2:	Union shall not sanction work interruptions. With the exception of nonpayment of wages or fringe benefits, the Union shall not sanction, aid or abet, encourage or continue any strikes, sympathy strikes, picketing, work stoppages, work interruption, slow downs, sick-outs, or other disruptive activities, including, but not limited to destruction of equipment, at any Employer's site and shall undertake all reasonable means to prevent or to
10
terminate any such activity. No employee shall engage in activities that violate this Article. Any employee who participates in or encourages any activities that interfere with the normal operation of the project shall be subject to disciplinary action, including discharge. In the event such practices are committed or such strikes, sympathy strikes, picketing, work stoppages, work interruption, slow downs, sick-outs or other disruptive activities, including, but not limited to destruction of equipment, occur, the Union and any other person or entity committing, aiding or abetting such practices shall be liable to the affected Contractor for all actual damages suffered. It is further agreed that in addition to actual damages, the affected contractor shall be entitled to consequential and incidental damages as well as all associated costs including attorney’s fees. The Union shall not be liable for acts of employees for which it has no responsibility, The failure of the Employer to exercise its rights in any instance shall not be deemed a waiver of its rights in any other instance. In a case of work stoppages, the Union shall have eight (8) hours to resolve the issue before penalties are assessed.
ARTICLE VIII
Grievances and Arbitration
Section 1; Grievances, disputes and claims. All grievances, disputes or claims which may arise with respect to wages, hours or conditions of employment or the enforcement or interpretation of any of the terms of this Agreement are to be promptly processed and settled in accordance with the provisions of this Article.
Should any such dispute arise which cannot be adjusted between the CLC it shall be taken up between a representative or representatives of the Union and a representative or representatives of the CLC. The aggrieved party shall comply with the procedures set forth in the Article.
Section 2:	Jurisdictional Disputes. It is understood and agreed that any dispute over assignment of work shall be conducted as follows:
If the Contractor and the Union are unable to agree upon the assignment of work, either at the pre-job conference or during the construction project, and a dispute shall arise between two (2) or more Union as to which Craft the work properly belongs, the Contractor shall utilize its best discretion in assigning the work and work shall proceed as so assigned until such time as the dispute is settled. The Local Union Business Managers of the disputing Unions shall meet within two (2) business days hours of the dispute to discuss resolution of the dispute. If the Business Managers are unable to resolve the dispute, the aggrieved party’s Business Managers shall file a grievance in accordance with the provision of Section 4 of this Article. CLC representatives are not responsible for making decisions on assignment of work. If no grievance is filed within three (3) business days, after the business managers meeting, unless extended by mutual agreement of the Union and the Contractor, the dispute shall be forever barred. The contractor shall not be held liable or responsible to any Union for its assignment of disputed work provided that the work in question is reassigned after the Contractor is informed of the jurisdictional decision.
Section 3:	Discharge. It is understood and agreed that any dispute over discharge shall be conducted as follows:
Employees who have worked fifteen (1 5) workdays or less are not entitled to the provisions of this Article. The Employee’s local representative must request, in writing, within two (2) business days of the discharge, a meeting with the Contractor to discuss the discharge or the dispute shall be forever barred. If the Business Manager and the Contractor are unable
11
to resolve the dispute, the aggrieved party shall file a grievance within three (3) business days after the Business Manager and Contractor’s meeting in accordance with the provision of Section 4 of this Article, if no grievance is filed within three (3) business days after the Business Manager and Contractor’s meeting, the dispute shall be forever barred. Time limits may be altered by mutual written agreement between the Union and the Employer as long as that consent is obtained within three (3) business days after the Business Manager and Contractor’s meeting.
Section 4:	Filing grievance, meeting & arbitration. Any complaint or grievance shall be presented, in writing, signed by the grievant’s representative and approved by the grievant, to the CLC, within ten (1 0) business days of the event giving rise to the complaint or grievance or such complaint or grievance shall be forever barred. Time periods set forth in Sections 2 and 3 of this Article shall govern for jurisdictional and discharge disputes. If a grievance is properly and timely filed, then the provisions of this Section govern the grievance process. If such complaint or grievance is timely filed, the CLC will endeavor to schedule a meeting between the affected parties to attempt resolution of the matter. In the event the complaint or grievance is not resolved informally through the CLC the aggrieved party may refer the matter to arbitration. It is understood and agreed that any such matters shall be in accordance with the Construction Industry Arbitration Rules of American Arbitration Association currently in effect. The demand for arbitration shall be filed in writing with the other party and with the American Arbitration Association within ten (10) business days of the meeting with the CLC but in no event later than thirty (30) business days from the date of the event giving rise to the complaint or grievance. The decision of arbitration shall be final and binding on the parties hereto. If no written demand for arbitration is filed with the other party and with the American Arbitration Association within the time and manner prescribed, unless longer times are mutually agreed upon in writing, the grievance shall be forever barred.
ARTICLE IX
Responsibility of Parties
Section 1:	Negotiating representatives. The parties hereto agree that the CLC is acting only as the negotiating representative for its subscribing members, and that it shall not be liable as a corporate entity for any violation of this Agreement by any of its subscribing members. The CLC certifies that it is authorized by its membership to execute this Agreement on their behalf.
Section 2:	Several, not joint liability. Union agrees that, aside from non-payment of wages and fringe benefits the breach or violation of this Agreement by any one or more members of the CLC shall not be treated by them as cause for calling a strike, work interruption, sympathy strike, picketing or sick-outs against any member, including members not in violation. Union further agrees that the members of the CLC shall be severally, and not jointly, liable for any breach or violation of this Agreement. The Constructors' Labor Council of West Virginia, Inc. agrees that the members of the Union signatory hereto, shall be severally, and not jointly, liable for any breach or violation of this Agreement.
Section 3:	Agreements with non-signatory members. Union shall furnish the CLC with a copy of any agreement between the Union and any Contractor or Contractors not a member of the CLC wherein such Contractor agrees to work under the terms and/or conditions set forth in this Agreement. Upon written request, the CLC shall provide the Union with a list of contractors that have assigned bargaining rights to the CLC designating each respective Union in which the contractor is signatory.
12
Section 4:	Conflicts of law. In the event any provisions of this Agreement are held to be in conflict with any state or federal law applicable hereto, the parties shall not be bound by the provisions affected by such law, but all other provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect.
ARTICLE X
Termination
Section 1:	Agreement Effective dates. This Agreement shall remain in full force and effect from December 1, 2009 to and including November 30, 201 2 and thereafter from year to year unless either party gives written notice to the other party of its intention to terminate this Agreement at least sixty (60) days prior to the expiration of any contract year.
Section 2:	Negotiations. Negotiations for a contract for the year 201 3 shall be commenced six (6) months prior to the expiration date of this Agreement.
ARTICLE XI Miscellaneous
Section 1:	Drug-free workplace. The Employer reserves the right to require a Drug-Free Workplace consistent with applicable State and Federal Law. To that end drug-screening is authorized and shall be conducted by the Employer of all personnel employed on all projects within the scope of this Agreement. However, it is expressly agreed that the Employer is free to utilize its own drug-screening program and is under no obligation to utilize the LEAD program.
Section 2:	Single craft agreement. It is agreed and understood that the CLC is the representative for Employers who are members of the CLC. However, all Employers are not required to be bound to each and every collective bargaining agreement entered into by the CLC. The Council maintains records to indicate which of its members have chosen to be bound by each agreement.
ARTICLE XII
Mid-Atlantic Regional Council of Carpenters
Section 1:	Definitions. "Carpenter" or “Carpenters” means a person working for a Contractor in the performance of work within the classifications historically and traditionally recognized in the industry commonly referred to as "building and construction" and "heavy and highway.”
Section 2:	Carpenters Trade Autonomy:
The Contractor recognizes that the Carpenters have a trade autonomy or claim to jurisdiction. However, it is agreed and understood that the Carpenters’ trade autonomy or claim to jurisdiction may overlap with other Unions’ trade autonomy or claims to jurisdiction. The Contractor agrees to assign work on the basis of traditional work jurisdictional lines and not necessarily as set forth in this section. Any jurisdictional disputes are to be brought in accordance with Article VIII, Section 2 of this Agreement.
A.	The Trade Autonomy of the Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of America consist of the milling, fashioning, joining, assembling, erecting, fastening, or dismantling of all material of
13
wood, plastic, metal, fiber, cork and composition and all material of wood, plastic, metal, fiber, cork and composition and all other substitute materials. The handling, cleaning, erecting installing and dismantling of machinery, equipment and all materials used by members of the United Brotherhood.
B.	Our claim of jurisdiction, therefore, extends over the following division and subdivision of the trade:
Carpenters and Joiners; Millwrights, Pile Drivers, bridge, dock and wharf carpenters, divers, underpinners, timber men and core drillers; shipwrights, boat builders, ship carpenters, joiners and caulkers; cabinet makers, bench hands, stair builders, mill men, wood and resilient floor layers and finishers, carpet layers, shinglers, siders, insulators, acoustic and dry wall applicators and finishers, shorers and house movers, loggers, lumber and saw mill workers, furniture workers, reed and rattan workers, shingle weavers, casket and coffin makers, box maker, railroad carpenters and car builders, regardless of material used, and all those engaged in the operation of woodworking or other machinery required in the fashioning, milling or manufacturing of products used in the trade or engaged as helpers to any of the above divisions or subdivisions, and the handling, erecting and installing material on any of the above divisions or subdivisions; burning, welding, rigging and the use of any instrument or tool for layout work, incidental to the trade. When the term “Carpenter and Joiner” is used, it shall mean all the subdivision of the trade.
C.	Ail woodwork on all construction work and all such work to be done by Carpenters in accordance with the following specifications; The making and setting of all concrete forms, releasing and striping of forms to be reused again whether of wood, metal and/or other material.
The framing and making of all trestles, ladders, derricks, hoists, travelers and pile drivers, and other appliances made wholly or in part of wood that are used on construction work, derricks for raising materials for the Carpenters shall be operated by Carpenters only.
D.	The repairing, fitting and construction of all framework, when same is made of wood, or other like material, the covering of same with flooring, sheathing shingles, cork, compo, plastic, and all other resilient floor coverings, etc., or composition material, the making and putting on of all strips, brackets and furring to receive wood, metal, or other material and the fabrication and installation of all grounds for plaster.
E.	The installation of all sheet metal, aluminum or plastic, whether corrugated or flat when fastened to wood where no special tools are required to crimp or solder joints, where on side walls or roofs, the installation of all asbestos siding and sheathing including transite, gyprock, sheetrock, burkett sheathing and mastic board, where saws or carpenter’s tools are used.
F.	The fabrication and setting of all templates of wood or metal, frames, sashes, doors, blinds, trim, store and other fixtures and cabinet shops and other wood working factories. The fabrication and installation of all trim and finish when made of wood or substitute for wood when fastened to wood with the use of nails or screws regardless of the method of installation.
C.	The placing of all insulation whether blown or installed in blankets. The placing of all cork insulation set in pitch or put on with nails, pegs, or screws. The erection of all material or wood, hollow metal, composition wall boards of gypsum or fiber and the placing of all acoustical fibrous insulation including so-called acoustical celotex tile, fastened with nails, clips, screws or cement, where the tools, knowledge, skill and training of a Carpenter are required. (Exception: Gypsum Board, when used in place of lather for plaster.)
14
H.	The framing, erecting and prefabrication of roofs, partitions, floors, and other parts of buildings of wood, metal, plastic or other substitutes, application of all metal flashing used for hips, valleys and chimneys, the erection of stran-steel section or its equal, The cutting and hanging of all false work for fireproofing and slabs. Where power is used in the setting or dismantling of forms, all handling and signaling shall be done by Carpenters, The setting of all templates for anchor bolts for structural members and for machinery, and the placing, leveling and bracing of these bolts. All framing in connection with the setting of metal columns. The setting of all bulkheads, the setting and fabricating of screeds and stakes for concrete and mastic floors where the screed is notched or made up of more than one member. The making of forms for concreted blocks, bulkheads, figures, posts, rails balusters and ornaments, etc.
I.	The building, erection and dismantling of all scaffolding, runways and staging where carpenters tools are used, the building from the ground up of all scaffolds, including metal and specially designed scaffolding. (Exceptions: As per National Decision of Specific Agreements) The building and construction of all hoists and derricks made of wood; the making of mortar boards, boxes and vessels; all shoring, raising and moving of buildings.
J.	The cutting or framing of the opening for pipes, conduits, ducts, boxes, etc., where they pass through floors, partitions, walls, roofs, or fixtures composed in whole or in part of wood. The laying out, making and installing of all sleeves for pipes, ducts, etc. where carpenters tools and knowledge are required. The making and installing of all wooden meter boards, crippling and backing for fixtures. The welding of studs and other fastenings to receive material being applied by Carpenters.
K.	The installation of all grounds, furring or stripping, ceiling and sidewalls.
L The installation of all interior and exterior trim or finish of wood, aluminum, kalamein, hollow or extruded metal, plastic, doors, transoms, thresholds and windows. The setting of jambs, bucks, window frames of wood or metal where braces or wedges are used. The installation of all wood, metal or other substitutes of casings, molding, chair rail, wainscoting, china closets, base or mop boards, wardrobes, metal partitions as per National Decisions or specific agreement, etc. The complete laying-out, fabrication and erection of stairs. The making and erecting of all fixtures, cabinets, shelving, racks, louvers, etc. The mortising and application of all hardware in connection with our work. The assembling and setting of all seats, laboratory fixtures or other furniture, in theaters, halls, churches, schools, auditoriums, grandstands, and other buildings. All bowling alley work. The installation of all clipped on metal trim.
M.	The manufacture, fabrication and installation of all screens, storm sash, storm doors, and garage doors. The installation of all weather stripping, inside and outside blinds, plastic or otherwise. The installation of wood, plastic, or metal awning, door shelters, jalousies, etc.
N.	The installation of all material used in drywall construction such as piaster board, all types of asbestos boards, transite and other composition boards. The application of all materials which serve as a base for acoustical tile, except plaster. All acoustical applications as per National Decisions or specific agreements.
0.	The building of ail barricades. The erection, moving and dismantling of ail temporary housing on construction projects.
P.	The installation of rock wool, cork, and other insulation material used for sound or weather-proofing. The removal for caulking, and replacing of staff bead and brick mold and all oakum caulking, substitutes, etc., and all other caulking in connection with carpentry work.
15
Q.	The installation of chalk boards as per National Decisions and local Agreements.
R.	The operation of all hand-operated winches used in the work of the Carpenters.
S.	The erecting of porcelain enameled panels and siding.
T.	The unloading, handling, and distribution of all finished, prefabricated and build-up sections such as door bucks, window frames, cupboards, cabinets, store fixtures, counters and show cases, or comparably finished or prefabricated materials, to the job sites or points of installation as used in the construction, alteration and remodeling industry.
U.	The handling of doors, metal or wood, partitions and other finished bulk material used for trim.
V.	All processing of these materials and handling after processing.
W.	The making up of panels and fitting them into walls, all bracing and securing, all removal of panels from the casting including all braces, whalers, hairpins, catheads, etc.
X.	The handling, setting and dismantling of all metal pans and sections from the stock piles of reasonable distances required by job needs shall be done by Carpenters.
Y. Cutting and nailing of all stops in doors and windows, framing of all false work, derricks and hoists, travelers and lumber or fibrous material used by the carpenters contractors, plain and ornamental cork flooring and insulating, building and erecting store, office, bank, and other fixtures, shelving racks, etc., where of wood or other material, covered with kalamien, plastic, or metal.
Z. The installing of expansion material when it is to be nailed, or pined, and lines chalked to set same by (excluding sidewalks and roads).
AA. All laboratory furniture and equipment shall be unloaded at the job site and installed by Carpenters. All tops of same, whether they be of wood, plastic, metal alberdeen stone, or of other material shall be done by Carpenters.
BB.	The installation of all builders’ hardware, including door tracks of every description.
CC. The framing, welding and fabrication of all buildings using “Stran Steel” as studs, joists, plates, arches, etc. The setting, aligning and fabrication of all metal partitions and all metal trim, jambs, door bucks etc. Fire door and other openings, and the fitting and hanging of all doors including laminated glass or plastic, the making and hanging of all fire doors and gates.
DD. The erection, fitting, plumbing, aligning, setting, fastening of all pre-cast concrete. The making, setting and releasing of all molds and forms, and tensioning of either prestressed concrete or post stressed concrete either on job site or in casting yards shall be done by members of the carpentry trade.
EE. The installing, cutting, fitting, burning and welding all curb and trench angle and miscellaneous steel, used by Carpenters.
FF. On all jobs that require warehousing or stockpiling of materials, machinery and
16
equipment, there shall be sufficient expediters whose duties shall be in charge of conveying the material, etc, from warehouses or stockpile to point of erection.
CC. The handling, layout, driving, cutting, and splicing of wood, metal, or concrete piling regardless of purpose (for example, sheets, I-beams, H-beams, pile caps, and welding to piling). The assembly, disassembly, and rigging of pile driving equipment and the conduct of all underwater diving.
HH. The United Brotherhood of Carpenters and joiners of America assert a prior claim to the manufacture of all classes of building material and the construction of same that through the advance of science and invention may tend to displace its members and will demand the consideration.
IL A Millwright applies to Employees in Heavy construction who design, build or repair mills or mill machinery; hoist, dismantle, erect, assemble, line and adjust all machines used in the transmission of power in buildings, factories or elsewhere: unload machines used in the transmission of power in buildings, factories or elsewhere, where power equipment and rigging are required. The work falling within this occupational title of work description includes: the setting of all classes of engines, direct drive motors, dynamos, turbines, generators and air compressors and pumps. The placing of all pulleys, sheaves and fly wheels on the listed equipment. The making and setting of all templates and bolts for all machinery requiring same. Dry packing for sole plates. Installation of truck and railroad scales. Installation of truck and railroad scales. Installation of trash compactors. Installation of all types of conveyors. The cutting and threading of all bolts. The handling and operating of acetylene and devices for heating, welding and cutting when used in connection with Millwright work.
1 7
Section 3:	Heavy and highway wage rates and Fringe Benefits.
A.	Wage rates and fringe benefits for Carpenters & Pile Drivers Local Union Nos. 302, 476, 604, 899, 1159, 1 207, and 1 91 1 (Carpenters & Pile Drivers working in Barbour, Boone, Braxton, Cabell, Calhoun, Clay, Doddridge, Gilmore, Greenbrier, Fayette, Harrison, Jackson, Kanawha, Lewis, Lincoln, Logan, Marion, Mason, McDowell, Mercer, Mingo, Monongalia, Monroe, Nicholas, Pleasants, Pocahontas, Preston, Putnam, Raleigh, Randolph, Ritchie, Roane, Summers, Taylor, Tucker, Tyler, Upshur, Wayne, Webster, Wetzel, Wirt, Wood, & Wyoming Counties) shall be paid the following rates for the years 201 0 through and including 201 2 as long as those rates and fringe benefits are the prevailing rates and fringe benefits for the respective years:
Carpenter Carpenter Foreman	December 1, 2009 to November 30, 201 0 $25.97 $27.32	December 1, 201 0 to November 30, 2011 TBD TBD	December 1, 2011 to November 30, 2012 TBD TBD
Pile Driver	$26.52	TBD	TBD
Pile Driver Foreman	$28.52	TBD	TBD
	Fringe Benefits		
Health & Welfare	$6.1 5	TBD	TBD
Pension Apprentice	$7.00	TBD	TBD
Training & Certification	$1.04	TBD	TBD
Program Annuity	$0.25	TBD	TBD
UBC Health & Safety Fund	$0.10	TBD	TBD
WV H/H CIF	$0.20	$0.20	$0.20
Total Fringes	$14.74	TBD	TBD
Total Package Carpenter	$40.71	$41.96	$43.21
Carpenter Foreman	$42.06	$43.31	$44,56
Pile Driver	$41.26	$42.51	$43.76
Pile Driver Foreman	$43.26	$44.51	$45.76
Employee Deductions: Dues - 4.5% of Gross; Vacation Fund - $1.01; ACT or some other similar entity $0.20 per hour; Local PAC $0.02 per hour.
18
B.	Wage rates and fringe benefits for Carpenters, Pile Drivers and Millwrights Local Union No. 1024 (Carpenters, Pile Drivers, & Millwrights working in Berkeley, Grant, Hampshire, Hardy, Jefferson, Mineral, Morgan, & Pendleton Counties) shall be paid the following rates for the years 2010 through and including 2012 as long as those rates and fringe benefits are the prevailing rates and fringe benefits for the respective years:
	December 1, 2009 to		December 1, 2010 to	December 1, 2011 to
	November	30, 2010	November 30, 2011	November 30, 2012
Carpenter	$28.61		TBD	TBD
Carpenter Foreman	$30.02		TBD	TBD
Pile Driver	$29.60		TBD	TBD
Pile Driver Foreman	$30.64		TBD	TBD
Millwright	$30.61		TBD	TBD
Millwright Foreman	$31.65		TBD	TBD
Millwright General	$32.17		TBD	TBD
Foreman				
		Fringe Benefits		
Health & Welfare	$3.90		TBD	TBD
Pension Apprentice	$5.50 $1.00		TBD	TBD
Training & Certification			TBD	TBD
Program Annuity	$1.50		TBD	TBD
WV H/H CIF	$0.20		$0.20	$0.20
Total Fringes	$12.10		TBD	TBD
Total Package Carpenter	$40.71		$41.96	$43.21
Carpenter Foreman	$42.12		$43.37	$44.62
Pile Driver	$41.70		$42.95	$44.20
Pile Driver Foreman	$42.74		$43.99	$45.24
Millwright	$42.71		$43.96	$45.21
Millwright Foreman	$43.75		$45.00	$46.25
Millwright General Foreman	$44.27		$45.52	$46.77
Employee Deductions: Dues - 4.5% of Gross; CAMP - $0.18 per hour; Savings Fund -$2.50; ST. - $3.75; T h - $5.00 double time; ACT or some other similar entity $0.15 per hour.
19
C.	Wage rates and fringe benefits for Carpenters Local Union No. 3 (Carpenters working in Brooke, Hancock, Marshall, & Ohio Counties) shall be paid the following rates for the years 201 0 through and including 201 2 as long as those rates and fringe benefits are the prevailing rates and fringe benefits for the respective years:
	December 1, 2009 to November 30, 2010	December 1, 2010 to November 30, 2011		December 1, 2011 to November 30, 201 2	
Carpenter	$23.96	TBD		TBD	
Welder	$25.26	TBD		TBD	
Carpenter Foreman	$25.31	TBD		TBD	
	Fringe Benefits				
Health & Welfare	$6.1 5	TBD		TBD	
Pension	$5.10	TBD		TBD	
Apprentice Training & Certification	$1.10	TBD		TBD	
Program Annuity	$2.50	TBD		TBD	
Project Best	$0.1 5	TBD		TBD	
Vacation Fund	$1.55	TBD		TBD	
WV H/H CIF	$0.20	$0.20		$0.20	
Total Fringes	$16.75	TBD		TBD	
Total Package Carpenter	$40.71		$41.96		$43.21
Welder	$42.01		$43.26		$44.51
Carpenter Foreman	$42.06		$43.31		$44.56
Employee Deductions: Work Assessment - $1.10; ACT or some other similar entity $0.1 8.
20
D.	Wage rates and fringe benefits for Millwrights Local Union No, 1519 (Millwrights working in Cabell, Lincoln, & Wayne Counties) shall be paid the following rates for the years 201 0 through and including 201 2 as long as those rates and fringe benefits are the prevailing rates and fringe benefits for the respective years:
	December 1, 2009 to November 30, 2010	December 1, 201 0 to November 30, 2011		December 1,2011 to November 30, 201 2	
Millwright	$31.10	TBD		TBD	
Millwright Foreman	$32.85	TBD		TBD	
Millwright General	$33.10	TBD		TBD	
Foreman					
		Fringe Benefits			
Health & Welfare	$6.90	TBD		TBD	
Pension Apprentice	$5.61	TBD		TBD	
Training & Certification	$0.23	TBD		TBD	
Program Annuity National Apprentice-	$1.40	TBD		TBD	
s h i p/Health & Safety	$0.10	TBD		TBD	
Fund WVH/H GIF	$0.20	$0.20		$0.20	
Total Fringes	$14.44	TBD		TBD	
Total Package Millwright	$45.54		$46.79		$48.04
Millwright Foreman	$47.29		$48.54		$49.79
Millwright General	$47.50		$48.75		$50.00
Foreman					
Employee Deductions: Dues ~ 3.5% of gross + $0.25/hour: Operational Fund ~ $0.42;
Ohio State Council PAC Fund - $0.03; Ohio & Vicinity Regional Council PAC Fund - $0.02.
21
E.	Wage rates and fringe benefits for Millwrights Local Union No. 1 871 (Millwrights working in Brooke, Hancock, Marshall & Ohio Counties) shall be paid the following rates for the years 201 0 through and including 201 2 as long as those rates and fringe benefits are the prevailing rates and fringe benefits for the respective years:
	December 1, 2009 to November 30, 201 0	December 1, 201 0 to November 30, 201 1		December 1, 2011 to November 30,2012	
Millwright Millwright Monorail	532.95	TBD		TBD	
Layout Man or Millwright	$34.70	TBD		TBD	
Foreman					
Millwright Welder	$33.95	TBD		TBD	
Millwright General	$34.95	TBD		TBD	
Foreman					
	Fringe Benefits				
Health & Welfare	$6.40	TBD		TBD	
Pension Apprentice	$4.75	TBD		TBD	
Training & Certification	$0.34	TBD		TBD	
Program Annuity Supplemental	$0.50	TBD		TBD	
Unemployment	$0.30	TBD		TBD	
Benefit UBC Health & Safety Fund	$0.10	TBD		TBD	
WV H/H CIF	$0.20	$0.20		$0.20	
Total Fringes	$12.59	TBD		TBD	
Total Package					
Millwright Millwright	$45.54		$46.79		$48.04
Monorail Layout Man or Millwright Foreman	$47.29		$48.54		$49.79
Millwright Welder	$46.54		$47.79		$49.04
Millwright General	$47.54		$48.79		$50.04
Foreman					
Employee Deductions: Dues - 4.5% of Cross
22
F.	Wage rates and fringe benefits for Millwright Local Union No. 1 755 (Millwrights working in Barbour, Boone, Braxton, Calhoun, Clay, Doddridge, Gilmore, Greenbrier, Fayette, Harrison, Jackson, Kanawha, Lewis, Logan, Marion, Mason, McDowell, Mercer, Mingo, Monongalia, Monroe, Nicholas, Pleasants, Pocahontas, Preston, Putnam, Raleigh, Randolph, Ritchie, Roane, Summers, Taylor, Tucker, Tyler, Upshur, Webster, Wetzel, Wirt, Wood, & Wyoming Counties) shall be paid the following rates for the years 201 0 through and including 201 2 as long as those rates and fringe benefits are the prevailing rates and fringe benefits for the respective years:
	December 1, 2009 to November 30, 2010	December 1, 201 0 to November 30, 2011		December 1, 2011 to November 30, 201 2	
Millwright	$30.1 5	TBD		TBD	
Millwright Foreman	$32.65	TBD		TBD	
Millwright General Foreman	$33.1 5	TBD		TBD	
	Fringe Benefits				
Health & Welfare	$5.80	TBD		TBD	
Pension Apprentice	$6.65	TBD		TBD	
Training & Certification	$1.19	TBD		TBD	
Program Annuity	$1.45	TBD		TBD	
UBC Health & Safety	$0.10				
WV H/H GIF	$0.20	$0.20		$0.20	
Total Fringes	$1 5.39	TBD		TBD	
Total Package Millwright	$45.54		$46.79		$48.04
Millwright Foreman	$48.04		$49.29		$50.54
Millwright General Foreman	$48.54		$49.79		$51.04
Employee Deductions: Dues - 5% of Gross: ACT or some other similar entity - $0.20; Scholarship Fund - $0.02; PAC Fund - $0.02; Saving Fund - $1.01.
23
G.	Wage rates and fringe benefits for Pittsburg Pile Drivers Local No. 2235 (Pile Drivers & Divers working in Brooke, Hancock, Ohio, Marshall, Monongalia, & Wetzel Counties) shall be paid the following rates for the years 2010 through and including 201 2 as long as those rates and fringe benefits are the prevailing rates and fringe benefits for the respective years:
	December 1, 2009 to November 30, 201 0	December 1, 2010 to November 30, 2011		December 1, 2011 to November 30, 201 2	
Pile Driver	$29.95	TBD		TBD	
Welder & or Cresote	$30.36	TBD		TBD	
Foreman	$30.83	TBD		TBD	
Foreman w/Weld & or Cresote	$31.92	TBD		TBD	
General Foreman	$32.85	TBD		TBD	
	Fringe Benefits				
Health & Welfare	$5.12	TBD		TBD	
Pension	$3.81	TBD		TBD	
Annuity/Savings Apprentice	$2.99	TBD		TBD	
Training & Certification	$0.25	TBD		TBD	
Program WV H/H CIF	$0.20	$0.20		$0.20	
Total Fringes	$12.37	TBD		TBD	
Total Package Pile Driver	$42.32		$43.57		$44.82
Welder & or Cresote	$42.73		$43.98		$45.23
Foreman	$43.20		$44.45		$45.70
Foreman w/Weld & or Cresote	$44.29		$45.54		$46.79
General Foreman	$45.22		$46.47		$47.72
Employee Deductions: Dues - 3% of Gross; Others ~ $0.1 5.
Section 4:	Trust Funds & Training Center Funds.
A.	Whenever the Health and Welfare contribution in the local area is in excess of the Health and Welfare amounts set out in this agreement, the Union may request that the Employer deduct from the Employees wages sufficient moneys as may be necessary to bring the Health and Welfare contributions up to the local area plan requirement. It is agreed and understood that the Union will obtain and keep on file each Employee’s written authorization for such deduction. Further, it is the Union’s responsibility to ensure that each employee has provided written authorization for the deduction. In addition, the Union will obtain from the Health and Welfare Trust Fund written notice of the applicable rates needed to meet current
24
needs and the Union wiIf provide such notice to the CLC. The Contractor agrees that, within a reasonable time after receipt of notice from the Union that it has on file all required authorizations, it will deduct from the Employee’s wages moneys as authorized by its Employees for the purposes of bringing the Health and Welfare contributions up to the local area plan requirement. The Contractor shall not be held liable to any Employee or the Union and the Union agrees that it will indemnify and hold harmless the Contractor from any claims arising from deductions as set forth in this paragraph.
B.	In addition to wages herein provided, the employer herein agrees to make contributions to all other funds provided for in this Agreement. Each Fund is created and administered under an Agreement and Declaration of Trust and operated by a Board of Trustees as required by law. In some instances, benefits are payable under a master insurance policy purchased by the Fund.
C.	It is agreed and understood that a contractor representative shall be seated on the Board of Directors for the Union’s training center fund. If no contractor representative is seated on the board of directors, the Union shall provide the CLC, a yearly accredited accounting of how the Contractor's contributions to the training center fund are expended.
Section 5:	Miscellaneous.
A.	A normal pile driving crew shall consist of four (4) men, and include one (1) welder and one (1) foreman, unless the particular job requires that the employer and the Union Representative agree otherwise. The need for pile drivers will be mutually agreed to on a project-by-project basis by the job Superintendent and the Local Union Business Manager having jurisdiction over the work.
B.	The employer shall furnish specialized welding equipment including welding hoods, sleeves and gloves, to welders while engaged in welding or burning. Such tools, equipment, welding hoods, sleeves and gloves shall be returned to the Employer by the Employee when the employee leaves the job through quitting, discharge or layoff. In the event of quitting, discharge or layoff, the employee shall pay for such materials out of his last pay, unless the failure to return the equipment is due to causes beyond the control of the employee. AH such losses shall be reported by the employee at the time such loss occurs.
C.	Employer shall furnish sufficient tool houses, properly heated and lighted where necessary, and equipped with racks for purposes of storage of carpenter's and millwright’s tools, equipment and clothing. The Employees may use the tool houses as a lunch area. Employer shall carry insurance on tools while stored in the tool house or gang box, but shall not be responsible for loss of tools not so stored. Employer's liability for such tools and equipment shall be limited to $1,000.00 in any individual case providing the employee furnishes a list of such tools and equipment to the Employer at the time of hiring. Modifications to this list may be made from time to time by filing a revised list with the Employer. When ten (1 0) or more carpenters are employed, the tool house shall be for the exclusive use of the carpenters. For projects with gross contract value of more than $3,000,000.00, the Carpenters shall have adequate shelter provided for lunch period.
D.	Where four (4) or more men are employed on anyone shift, one shall be treated as foreman and paid foreman wages as set out in the schedule above.
E.	Where ten (1 0) carpenters are employed in a crew, the foreman shall be required to perform only supervisory duties, unless otherwise agreed to between the Union and Employer. No foreman shall supervise more than twelve (1 2) carpenters, unless otherwise agreed to
25
between the Union and Employer.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF of the duly authorized representatives of the undersigned EMPLOYERS whose signatures are affixed hereto; and the duly authorized representatives of the undersigned UNION whose signature is affixed hereto as such representative; and for and in behalf of the Employers and such Union, and the officers and agents and members thereof, at Charleston, West Virginia.
CONSTRUCTORS’ LABOR COUNCIL OF WEST VIRGINIA, INC.
Ken Lake, Director
Clar
ilson, Director
MID-ATLANTIC REGIONAL COUNCIL OF CARPENTERS WEST VIRGINIA DISTRICT
Carpenter Local Nos. 3, 302, 476, 604, 899, 1 1 59, 1 207, 1911, Millwright Local No. 1 755
MID-ATLANTIC REGIONAL COUNCIL OF CARPENTERS BALTIMORE DISTRICT Carpenter and Millwright Local 1024
E. William Duvall, II, Business Representative
OHIO AND VICINITY REGIONAL COUNCIL MILLWRIGHTS LOCALS 1 519 AND 1 871
Robert M. Peto, Executive Secretary/Treasurer
MID-ATLANTIC REGIONAL COUNCIL OF CARPENTERS WEST VIRGINIA DISTRICT LOCAL 1 755
Roge ichards, Business Representative
PITTSBURGH PILE DRIVER LOCAL NO. 2235
Bob Graswick, Business Representative
C. ', DOCUMENT :Cases .C C62 5.000-CLC-Cen 'Contracts' 201 0-201 2 Carpenters n„,. 09.29.09.doc
26