THE COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT NEGOTIATED BY AND BETWEEN THE LABOR RELATIONS COMMITTEE OF THE ASSOCIATED GENERAL CONTRACTORS OF INDIANA
AND THE
LABORERS’ INTERNATIONAL UNION OF NORTH AMERICA STATE OF INDIANA DISTRICT COUNCIL
FOR AND ON BEHALF OF ITS AFFILIATED LOCAL UNIONS #120, #204, #274, #741, #1047, #1112
EFFECTIVE
June 1, 2005
thru
May 31, 2008
THE COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT NEGOTIATED BY AND BETWEEN THE LABOR RELATIONS COMMITTEE OF THE ASSOCIATED GENERAL CONTRACTORS OF INDIANA
AND THE
LABORERS ’ INTERNATIONAL UNION OF NORTH AMERICA STATE OF INDIANA DISTRICT COUNCIL FOR AND ON BEHALF OF ITS AFFILIATED LOCAL UNIONS #120, #204, #274, #741, #1047, #1112
EFFECTIVE
June I, 2005
thru
May 31, 2008
INDEX
ART.	SUBJECT	PAGE
Agreement .................................1
I	Coverage ..................................3
11	Foremen...................................13
ID	Bargaining Agent .........................14
IV	Union Security ...........................14
V	Working Dues Check-Off ...................16
VI	Equal Employment Opportunity .............18
VII	Selection of Labor-Employment Regulations ... 19
VIII	Welfare Trust Fund........................20
IX	Pension Trust Fund........................20
X	Training Trust Fund ......................21
XI	Notification..............................21
XII	Pre-Job Conference .......................22
XIII	Working Hours and Overtime	............23
XIV	Shiftwork ................................28
XV	Steward ..................................29
XVI	Non-Violation.............................30
XVII	Pay-Day ..................................31
XVIII	Safety....................................32
XIX	Worker’s Compensation.....................32
XX	Elimination of Restrictions ..............33
XXI	Sub-Contractor ...........................33
XXII	Management Rights ........................33
XXIIJ	Grievance Procedure ......................33
XXIV	General Provisions........................35
XXV	Industry Fund.............................37
XXV(a)	Construction Industry Progress	Council of
Central Indiana (Local #120 & #204 only).39
XXVI	Schedule of Fringe Benefit Contributions ...40
CXVII	Hourly Wage Rates..........................40
CXVIII	General Savings Clause....................50
CXIX	Bonding ...................................51
CXX	Health Care................................52
CXXI	Substance Abuse Program....................52
CXXII	Effective Date ............................54
Directory..................................56
AGREEMENT NEGOTIATED
BY AND BETWEEN
THE LABOR RELATIONS COMMITTEE OF THE ASSOCIATED GENERAL CONTRACTORS OF INDIANA AND THE
LABORERS’ INTERNATIONAL UNION OF NORTH AMERICA
STATE OF INDIANA DISTRICT COUNCIL June 1,2005-May 31,2008
THIS AGREEMENT is made and entered into this 1st day of June, 2005, by and between the Labor Relations Committee of the Associated General Contractors of Indiana, consisting of the Mason Contractors Association of Indianapolis. The Trade Division of Associated Building Contractors of Lafayette, Inc.. Southern Branch of Associated General Contractors of Indiana, Inc., Madison County Contractors Association, and the Marion Contractors Association, Inc. The Contractor Association acting as negotiating agent for and on behalf of certain firms, Party of the First Part. Employers signatory hereto are referred to herein for the purpose of clarity as the “Employer”, and Laborers’ International Union of North America, State of Indiana District Council, acting for and in behalf of LIUNA Locals #120, #204, #274, #741, #1047 and #1112, Party of the Second Part, and hereinafter referred to as “Union”.
It is agreed and understood that the Labor Relations Committee of the Associated General Contractors of Indiana
-1 -
is not responsible in any manner whatsoever for the admin istration, implementation and/or performance of thi Agreement and that in no event shall it be bound as princi pal or be held liable as negotiating agent or as principal ir any manner for any breach of this contract by any of the Employers signatory hereto.
It is further agreed that the liability of the Employers shall be several and not joint and the liability of the Local Union affiliated with the Laborers’ International Union of North America, State of Indiana District Council, shall be severa and not joint. No purely vicarious liability shall result to anj such Employer or upon the Local Union for wrongful acts o another such Employer or of another such Local Union, It i understood that the Laborers' International Union of North America, State of Indiana District Council, in signing this Agreement for and on behalf of all of its affiliated Loca Unions shall not be responsible for violation of this Agreement by the Local Union affiliated with the Laborers International Union of North America, State of Indiana District Council, unless action by said Local in violation o the Agreement is ordered or ratified by the Laborers International Union of North America, Stale of Indiana District Council, or unless the State of Indiana Distric Council fails to take whatever action may be necessary to prevent the violation. Provided, however, that nothing contained herein shall be construed as relieving the Local Union of the Laborers' International Union of North America, State of Indiana District Council of their full responsibility.
-2-
ARTICLE I
COVERAGE
Section l.Work covered:
(a)	This Agreement shall cover all work coming within the recognized jurisdiction of the Laborers’ International Union of North America as set forth in their Manual of Jurisdiction as amended in October 1961, and by any amendments to this Manual, and as now included in Section I of the Jurisdictional Guidelines booklet, adopted by the Laborers’ International Union of North America, State of Indiana District Council, on the date of February 26, 1972. and as amended from time to time as mutually agreed upon by both parlies.
(b)	The jurisdiction of work referred to in the wage classification and elsewhere in this Contract is the jurisdiction of work claimed by the Union and nothing contained herein shall make it mandatory for the Employer to accept the claims of jurisdiction as being binding upon him. The Employer does not waive any of his rights by permitting the inclusion of the jurisdiction of work in this Contract.
(c)	The Parties to this Agreement are subject to and agree to submit any unresolved jurisdictional dispute to International Representatives of all disputing trades and, if a satisfactory or mutual understanding cannot be reached at that time, it will be submitted to whatever Federal Governmental Agency, having the responsibility for the resolution of such dispute. Any interpretation or decision by said Agency shall immediately be accepted and complied with by all Parties bound by this Agreement. The Employer and the Union agree that there will be no work stoppage dur
-3-
ing the period pending a jurisdictional decision by the above mentioned Federal Agency.
(d)	This Agreement shall have effect on and cover Construction Laborers working for Employers on the herein mentioned classes of work in the territory covered by this Agreement. This Agreement includes industrial projects and/or government defense projects. This Agreement excludes Heavy and Highway and Utility construction and Gas Line Distribution Systems on public right-of-ways Laborers jurisdiction of work was originally assigned under charter by the AFL-CIO, traditional performance of work as established over a period of years by many letters of assignment from Employers who are agreeable that Laborers possess the skill and ability to perform such work by award from the National Labor Relations Board and by mergers and amalgamation, it is agreed and understood that Laborers are tenders of all Trades involved in the Construction Industry and the following is the work of the Laborers:
1.	Digging of all ditches for any purpose, the excavation of all piers, foundations, holes and trenches; the lagging, sheeting, cribbing, bracing and propping of all foundations; all work in connection with caissons, cofferdams, including all excavation, drilling, jackhammering, blasting, shooting, scaling.
2.	The loading, unloading, handling and distribution of all materials, fixtures, furnishings and appliances from point of delivery to point of installation by any means, hand, machinery, or power rigging.
3.	The cleaning and clearing of all debris, including wire brushing of windows, scraping of floors, removal of surplus
-4-
material from all fixtures and that of all debris in building and total construction area; the general clean-up, such as sweeping, cleaning, wash-down and wiping of construction facilities and furnishings; the loading and removal of all debris, including crates, boxes and waste material; washing of wall interior and exterior; partitions, ceilings, blackboards, windows, bathrooms, kitchens, laboratories, and all fixtures and furnishings therein; the mopping, washing, waxing and polishing and/or dusting of all floors or areas.
4.	The tending of all temporary heat when done by any process; the drying of plaster, concrete, mortar or other aggregate when done by salamander heat or any other drying process.
5.	The tending of cement masons, brick masons, plasterers, carpenters and other Building Construction Crafts. Tending shall consist of the preparation of all materials and the handling and conveying of materials to the point of erection or installation to be used by mechanics or other Crafts, whether such preparation is by hand or any other process, including power rigging and incidentals thereto. After the material has been prepared or unloaded, tending shall consist of the supplying and conveying of said material and other materials, whether done by hand, shovel, bucket, hod, wheelbarrow or buggy, or other motorized unit used for such purpose.
The tending of Carpenters shall consist of the conveying of all materials from point of unloading to the point of installa-lon or erection by any mode or method; the cleaning of all naterials, such as pulling of nails, the cleaning and oiling of 11 forms; the driving of all stakes for bracing of forms, tend-ng the saw man by off bearing the materials, supplying
-5-
material to the saw and the stacking of the finished product and then transferring said materials to the point of installation on the project.
6.	Scaffold erection, the total erection, building and installation, planking, bolting, lining, leveling, bracing and the total dismantling of same; the building, planking, installation and removal of all staging, swinging and hanging scaffolds, Morgan, scaffolding, all work associated with hydraulically controlled scaffolding, including all accessories, including maintenance thereof for all lathers, plasterers, brick layers, masons and other Construction Trade Crafts; the preparation for foundations or mud sills for all scaffolding, as well as maintenance shall be done by Laborers,
7.	Pouring and laying of concrete and related work: Concrete, bituminous concrete or aggregates for walls, footings, foundations, floors or for any other construction; mixing, handling, conveying, pouring, vibrating, gunniting and otherwise placing concrete or aggregates, whether done by hand or any other process; wrecking, stripping, dismantling and handling concrete forms and false work; building of centers for fireproofing purposes, firestop installation and other fireproofing materials; operation of motorized wheelbarrows or buggies or machines of similar character, whether run by gas, diesel or electrical power; when concrete or aggregates are conveyed by crane or derrick, or similar methods, the hooking on, signaling, dumping and unhooking the bucket; the placing of concrete or aggregates, whether poured, pumped, gunnited or placed by any other process; the assembly, uncoupling of all connections and parts of, or to equipment used in mixing or conveying concrete, aggregates 01
-6-
mortar, and the cleaning of such equipment, parts and/or connections; all vibrating, grinding, spreading, flowing, puddling, leveling and strike-off concrete or aggregates by floating, rodding or screeding, by hand or mechanical means prior to finishing. Where pre-stressed or precast concrete slabs, walls or sections are used, all loading, unloading, stockpiling, hooking on, signaling, unhooking, setting and barring into place of such slabs, walls, or sections; all mix-ng, handling, conveying, placing and spreading of grout for any purpose, green cutting of concrete or aggregate in any form by hand, mechanical means, grindstones or air or water.
The filling and patching of voids, crevices, etc., to correct defects in concrete caused by leakage, bulging, sagging, etc.
The loading, unloading, carrying, distributing and handling of all rods, mesh and materials for use in re-inforcing concrete construction; the hoisting of rods, mesh and other materials, except when a derrick or outrigger operated by other than hand power is used.
All work on interior concrete columns, foundations for engine and machinery beds.
The stripping of forms, other than panel forms, which are to be re-used in their original form and the stripping of forms on all flat arch work.
The moving, cleaning, oiling and carrying of all forms to the next point of erection.
8.	The grinding of all concrete surfaces by any mode or method.
9.	The snapping of all wall ties and removal of tie rods;
-7-
the handling, placing and operation of the nozzle, hoses and pots or hoppers or sandblasting or other abrasive cleaning the jacking of slip forms and all semi and unskilled work connected therewith.
10.	The wrecking or dismantling of buildings and all struc lures; breaking away roof materials, beams of all kinds, with use of cutting or other wrecking tools as necessary; burning or otherwise cutting all steel structural beams; the breaking away, cleaning and removal of all masonry and wood o metal fixtures for salvage or scrap; all hooking on, unhook ing and signaling when materials for salvage or scrap are removed by crane or derrick; all loading and unloading o materials carried away from the site of wrecking; all work in salvage or junk yards in connection with cutting, cleaning storing, stockpiling or handling of materials; all clean-up removal of debris, burning, back-filling and landscaping oi the site of wrecked structure.
11.	The underpinning, lagging, bracing, propping and shoring, raising and moving of all structures, raising of structures by manual or hydraulic jacks or other methods; all work on house moving, shoring and underpinning of structures; loading, signaling, right-of-way clearance along the route of movement; re-setting of structure in new location to include all site clearing, excavation for foundation and concrete work; clean-up and back-filling, landscaping old and new site.
12.	The clearing, excavating, filling, back-filling, grading and landscaping of all sites for all purposes and all labor connected therewith, including chainmen, rodmen, checkers grade markers, etc.
-8-
13.	Signal men on all construction work defined herein, including traffic control signalmen at construction sites,
14.	All Labor work, including skilled and semi-skilled, in connection with the installation, sheeting, trenching, manhole erectors and the digging and back-filling of all ditches, cutting of streets and surfaces and the refinishing of same for sewers, air lines, water lines and conduit lines in free air, tunnel or compressed air projects.
15.	The laying of all clay, terra-cotta, ironstone, vitrified concrete, metallic and/or non-metallic pipe, cast iron, fiberglass, orange burg, transite. plastic, etc., or any other type pipe for sanitary and/or storm sewers, forced main sewers, sub-surface drainage projects, filter beds, water lines and conduit lines in streets, roadways, right-of-way easements, building areas, etc., to (he building line.
16,	All the unloading and distribution of all pipe and materials used in the performance of work as set forth above,
17.	All the service connections of pipe from main sewers or water lines to the building line,
18.	The laying of pipe and making of all connections and/or joints on any and all types of pipe for water, sewer and/or any other uses, including laser alignment.
19,	The cutting of streets and right-of-ways for laying of pipes, cables and/or conduits for all purposes; digging of trenches and manholes, etc.; handling and conveying of all materials; concreting, back-filling, grading and resurfacing and all other labor connected therewith; clearing and site preparation as defined herein; cutting or jackhammering of streets, roads, sidewalks or aprons by hand or the use of air
-9-
or other tools; digging of trenches, ditches and manholes and the leveling, grading and other preparation prior to laying pipe or conduit for any purpose; loading, unloading, sorting, stockpiling, wrapping, coating, treating, handling and distribution of water mains and all pipe, including the placing setting and removal of skids, cribbing, driving of sheet piling, lagging and shoring of all ditches, trenches and manholes, handling, mixing or pouring of concrete and the handling and placing of other materials for saddles, beds or foundations for the protection of pipes, wires, conduits, etc, back-filling and compacting of all ditches, resurfacing of roads, streets, etc., and/or restoration of lawns and landscaping; unloading, handling, distribution, the assembly in place bolting and lining up of sectional metal or other pipe including corrugated pipe; laying of lateral sewer pipe from main sewer to building; laying, leveling and making of the joint of all multi-cell conduit or multi-purpose pipe; cutting of holes in walls, footings, piers and/or other obstructions for the passage of pipe or conduit for any purpose and the pouring of concrete to secure said holes; digging under streets, roadways, aprons or other paved surfaces for the passage of pipe, by hand, earth auger or any other method and manual and hydraulic jacking of pipe under said surfaces; installation of septic tanks, cesspools and drain fields; all work in connection with shafts, tunnels, subways and sewers; construction of sewers, shafts, tunnels, subways and caissons.
20.	The setting of all man-holes such as pre-cast poured in place block, brick, setting of all cast iron catch basins and manholes and all work in connection thereto,
21.	In compressed air, all work underground or in compression chambers, including tending of the outer aid lock
-10-
all work in compressed air construction, including but not limited to, groutmen, trackmen, blasters, shield drivers, miners, brakemen, miners’ helpers, lock tenders, mulching machine operators, motor men, gauge tenders, rodmen, compressed air electricians, setting of liner plate and ring sets, drill runners, powdermen or blasters, air hoist operators, form men, concrete blower operators, cement operators, power knife operators, erector operators, steel setters, cage tenders, skinners, track layers, dumpmen, diamond drillers, timbermen and re-timbermen, cherry pickmen, nippers, chuck-tenders and cable tenders, vibratormen, jet gunmen, gunnite nozzlemen, gunmen, rcboundmen and all other work connected therewith.
22.	Railroad Track Work: Right-of-way clearing, excavation, grading and sub-grading, ballasting and compacting of right-of-way: loading, unloading, stockpiling, handling and distribution of track and ties and placing of or jacking track and ties at point of installation; all burning or otherwise cutting of track; setting of tie plates, bolting, leveling and gauging of rails and all spiking, whether by hand or mechanical means, placing and tamping of ballast by hand or mechanical means; construction and/or relocation of mainlines, shoe flys, sidings, gradings, crossings, relocating of pipes and drainage and culverts.
23.	Asbestos Removal/Lead Base Paint and Hazardous Waste Removal: All work in regards to the dismantling, wrecking, clean-up, dilution process, loading, transporting, operation of monitoring equipment, etc,
24.	Fire Prevention and Control: Shall include but not be limited to the watching for and prevention of fires (with a fire hose or fire extinguisher or other means) when there is
-11-
welding, burning, grinding, etc., being performed in an area where combustible materials are present. Upon request of the Contractor, these Employees shall have completed the Laborers Training Course in Fire Prevention and Control.
25.	Sinking of wellpoints, installation of dewatering header systems.
Section 2. Jurisdictional Disputes:
(a)	The Employer agrees to respect the jurisdiction of the Union and shall not make a written or a permanent assignment of work to other Trades without first affording Parties to the disputed work an opportunity to present evidence substantiating their claims. The Employer does not waive any of his rights by permitting the inclusion of jurisdiction of work in this Contract. Furthermore, no Business Manager has the authority to enter into a written agreement with another Trade in regards to work jurisdiction.
(b)	It is agreed that there shall not be any work stoppages over jurisdictional disputes with any Craft or Crafts employed on any project. Should jurisdictional disputes or differences arise with other Parties which endanger the continuous progress of a project which cannot be settled at the local level, the Employer shall make a written work assignment in accordance with Area practice related to the specific project only and work shall continue in accordance with the assignment by the Employer until representatives of the International Union of all disputing Trades meet and bring about, or cause to bring about, a satisfactory or mutual understanding with the Employer.
(c)	It is agreed and understood that the Union will make every effort to inform its membership that there is a legally
-12-
established neutral entrance or gate on a construction site that is being picketed illegally and where work is being performed under the conditions of this Agreement. The above does in no way waive any of the Employees rights granted him under the Constitution of the United States and/or Federal Government.
ARTICLE II
FOREMEN
Section 1.	All Labor Foremen and Hod Carrier Foremen are included in the bargaining unit. The Foreman shall be selected by the Employer and take directions from same.
Section 2.	When five (5) or more Laborers, or five (5) or more Hod Carriers arc employed on any one project, a Foreman will be employed. Said Foreman may perform manual labor but he shall receive the Foreman rate as stipulated herein.
Section 3.	When there are three (3) or more Foremen on a project, one (I) shall be assigned as General Foreman.
Section 4.	In no case shall a Foreman have the authority to hire or discharge Employees. All hiring and discharging will be done either by the Superintendent of the Party of the First Part, or by the Party of the First Part.
Section 5.	At no time shall one Foreman have more than fifteen (15) Laborers or Hod Carriers under his leadership. The principal duties of a Labor Foreman with over fifteen (15) Employees is to supervise and direct the work force.
-13-
ARTICLE HI
BARGAINING AGENT
Section 1.	The Labor Relations Committee of the Associated General Contractors of Indiana, consisting of the Mason Contractors Association of Indianapolis, the Trade Division of Associated Building Contractors of Lafayette, Inc., Southern Branch of Associated General Contractors of Indiana, Inc., Madison County Contractors Association, and the Marion Contractors Association, Inc., as the authorized representatives of the Employers who have assigned bargaining rights to the Committee for negotiation of the agreement, recognize the Laborers' International Union of North America, State of Indiana District Council, as the sole and exclusive multi-union Collective Bargaining Representatives for all Employees in the Unit, consisting of Construction Laborers, who are employed by the Employer on all work and classifications set forth in this Agreement.
Section 2.	The State of Indiana District Council and its affiliated Local Unions #120, #204, #274, #741, #1047 and #1112, likewise recognizes the Labor Relations Committee of the Associated General Contractors of Indiana and members of said organization for all work set forth in Article I for the area outlined in this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
UNION SECURITY
Section 1.	The Contractor, or Employer, recognizes and acknowledges that the Laborers’ International Union of North America, State of Indiana District Council, is the sole representative of all Employees in the classification of all work under its jurisdiction covered by this Agreement, for
-14-
the purpose of collective bargaining. The State of Indiana District Council likewise recognizes the Labor Relations Committee of the Associated General Contractors of Indiana (as listed in Article III) as the sole bargaining agents for work as defined herein and recognizes the Labor Relations Committee of the Associated General Contractors of Indiana (as listed in Article III) as negotiating agents for its members for all work set forth in Article I for the areas outlined in this Agreement.
Section 2.	Subject to the provisions and limitations of the National Labor Relations Act, as amended, all present Employees, who are members of the Union on the effective date of this Agreement, shall continue their membership in the Union for the duration of this Agreement to the extent of paying an initiation fee and membership dues and working dues uniformly required as a condition of acquiring or retaining membership in the Union. All Employees, who are not members of the Union, and all persons who hereafter become Employees, shall become members of the Union on the eighth (8th) day following the beginning of their employment, or, on the eighth (8th) day following the effective date of this Agreement, whichever is later, and shall remain members of the Union to the extent of paying an initiation fee and the membership dues and working dues uniformly required as a condition of acquiring or retaining membership in the Union, whenever employed under and for the duration of this Agreement.
Section 3.	The Union shall notify the Employer, by certified mail, directed to the home office of the Employer, of any default on the part of an Employee to pay his initiation fee
-15-
and membership dues and/or working dues pursuant to this Article, with a copy of said communication being hand delivered to both the job Superintendent and the Employee involved. Such communication shall: identify the name and address of the delinquent Employee: state that Union Membership was available to such Employee under the same terms and conditions generally applicable to other members; state that despite notice, such Employee has defaulted on his obligation to pay his initiation fee and membership dues and working dues; and, shall instruct the Employer to discharge such Employee. Within twenty-four (24) hours (Saturday and Sunday excluded) from receipt of such written notice, the Employer shall discharge such Employee. The Parties agree that such discharge shall be based upon the information supplied and representations made by the Union, and the Union agrees to indemnify and hold the Employers harmless for any actions taken by the Employers in reliance upon the information supplied and representations made by the Union in the event such information and representations turn out to be incorrect.
ARTICLE V
WORKING DUES CHECK-OFF
Section 1.	Each Employer signatory to this Agreement agrees to deduct from the pay of Employees covered by this Agreement regular and uniform Working Dues, in the amount designated by the Union, provided, before any such deduction is made, the Union shall secure and furnish to the Employer a properly signed Authorization Form from each Employee permitting such deductions. The Union agrees to indemnify and hold the Employers harmless for any actions taken by the Employers in reliance upon the information
-16-
supplied and representations made by the Union in the event such information and representations turn out to be incorrect. Such deductions shall be remitted by the 10th of each month, following the end of the month for which deductions are made, to the designated depository at the same time and accompanying Health & Welfare. Pension and Training contributions but by separate check and report of gross wages. The designated depository shall be called the State of Indiana District Council of Laborers Working Dues Fund.
Section 2.	The Authorization and Assignment of Working Dues shall be irrevocable for the period of one (1) year or until the termination of this Collective Bargaining Agreement, whichever period is less, unless written notice is given by the Employee to the Employer and to the Union, not more than sixty (60) days and not less than thirty (30) days before any periodic renewal date. In case no such notice is given, the Authorization shall continue in effect from year to year until such notice is given.
Section 3.	Violation of the Dues Check-Off Clause of this Agreement is specifically exempted from the application of the grievance and arbitration procedure. (If the Employer violates the provisions of the dues check-off clause of this Agreement, the Union, without violation of this Agreement, shall be permitted to strike the Employer to remedy such violation, provided, the Employer is given a certified written notice by the Union of its violation and is further allowed a period of fifteen (15) days to remedy said violation).
Section 4,	The Employer, or his authorized representative, shall notify the Local Union of the Party of the Second Part of all Employees given employment covered by this Agreement, by submitting on the first fringe benefit report
-17-
after hire in, in order that the Union may obtain the required and necessary information from the aforesaid individuals to properly register them in the Working Dues Check-Off.
ARTICLE VI
EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY
Section 1.	As used in this document, the terms “he", “his", or similar masculine pronouns shall be construed to include the feminine alternatives of such pronouns. Such terms are used solely for grammatical purposes and shall not be construed to limit this contract or its application on the basis of sex, race, national origin or any other classifications.
Section 2.	The Employer will not discriminate in hiring of Employees and will conform to laws with respect to hiring.
Section 3.	ft is a condition of this Agreement, agreed to by both the Union and the Employer, to provide equal opportunity in employment for all qualified persons and to prohibit unlawful discrimination in employment because of race, religion, age, sex, mental or physical disabilities, veteran status. color or national origin. There shall be full compliance with all applicable Federal and State statutes, regulations, rules and orders of appropriate Federal or State agencies having jurisdiction over the subject matter of discrimination in employment.
Section 4.	The Union and the Employer shall fully comply with all the requirements contained in Executive Orders and will comply with all rulings promulgated by the Committee on Equal Opportunity established thereunder. The Union agrees to furnish the Employer at his request any statement or data required by any Executive Order.
-18-
ARTICLE VII
SELECTION OF
LABOR-EMPLOYMENT REGULATIONS
Section 1.	(a) In employment, no applicant shall be discriminated against for membership or non-membership in the Union, When the Employer has requested the Union to fumish Employees for a job. such Employees shall be referred by the Union on a non-discriminatory basis.
(b)	The Employer retains the right to reject any applicant whether furnished by the Union or not, and further the Employer shall have the right to determine the competency and qualifications of his Employees and the right to discharge for just cause,
(c)	The Employer may call the Union for an individual by name, provided he is not employed by another Employer. Under such circumstances the Union shall refer such individual.
Section 2.	Documentation and Verification - The Employer and the Union will work cooperatively to assure that both Parties comply with their legal responsibilities under the Immigration and Reform and Control Act of 1986. In so doing, the Union will request from each Employee before referring them to an Employer, documentation which establishes citizenship or other legal status to work in the United States. These documents shall be any of the documents which are allowed under the regulations promulgated under IRCA. This section may be amended mutually when regulations are finalized on these requirements.
Section 3.	The Union will send no Employee to the Employer who they know does not comply with the
-19-
Residency Requirements of the Immigration and Reform Act.
ARTICLE VIII
WELFARE TRUST FUND
Section L On work covered by this Agreement, the Employer agrees to pay into the Indiana State District Council of Laborers and Hod Carriers Welfare Fund the amount in cents per hour as shown in Article XXVL Payment shall be made on the dates, in the manner, form and in accordance with the rules and regulations as adopted by the Trustees of the herein mentioned Welfare Fund.
Section 2.	The Employer agrees to be bound by the Agreement and Declaration of Trust, entered into and dated May 25, 1953, establishing the Indiana State District Council of Laborers and Hod Carriers Welfare Fund and Participating Employers and by any amendments to said Trust Agreement.
Section 3.	The Welfare Trust Fund shall be administered in accordance with all provisions of applicable law.
ARTICLE IX
PENSION TRUST FUND
Section 1.	On work covered by this Agreement, the Employer agrees to pay into the Indiana State District Council of Laborers and Hod Carriers Pension Fund the amount in cents per hour as shown in Article XXVI. Payment shall be made on the dates, in the manner, form and in accordance with the rules and regulations as adopted by the Trustees of the herein mentioned Pension Trust Fund.
Section 2.	The Employer agrees to be bound by the
-20-
Agreement and Declaration of Trust entered into and dated June 1, 1962, establishing the Indiana State District Council of Laborers and Hod Carriers Pension Fund and Participating Employers and by any amendments to said Trust Agreement.
Section 3.	The Pension Trust Fund shall be administered in accordance with all provisions of applicable law.
ARTICLE X
TRAINING TRUST FUND
Section 1,	On work covered by this Agreement, the Employer agrees to pay into the Indiana Laborers Training Trust Fund the amount in cents per hour as shown in Article XXVI. Payment shall be made on the dates, in the manner, form and in accordance with the rules and regulations as adopted by the Trustees of the herein mentioned Training Trust Fund.
Section 2.	The Employer agrees to be bound by the Agreement and Declaration of Trust entered into and dated April I, 1968, establishing the Indiana Laborers Training Trust Fund and Participating Employers and by any amendments to said Trust Agreement.
Section 3.	The Indiana Laborers Training Trust Fund shall be administered in accordance with all provisions of applicable law.
ARTICLE XI
NOTIFICATION
Section 1.	The Employer or his authorized representative shall notify the Local Union of the Party of the Second Part of all Employees given employment covered by this
-21-
Agreement, by submitting on the first fringe benefit report after hire in, the name, social security number and current known address of new Employees.
In the event an Employer signatory hereto violates this Article, the Union shall have the right to file a grievance under this Agreement or commence a lawsuit against the Employer, or both.
ARTICLE XII
PRE-JOB CONFERENCE
Section 1, Upon written request by either Party, a pre-job conference will be held prior to the time the Employees of such Employer begin work on the project.
Section 2.	A written request for a pre-job conference sent by either Party shall be sent by certified mail. If either Party refuses to honor the request for a pre-job conference within five (5) working days from receipt of requested pre-job conference or does not abide by a previously agreed and signed pre-job conference or in the event a pre-job is not mutually agreed to and signed by both Parties upon request, the Local Union has the right to picket, strike and/or withhold Employees, However, no picketing, striking, withdrawal or withholding of Employees will occur until the State of Indiana District Council has had an opportunity to investigate said violation.
Section 3.	Likewise, it shall not be in violation of this Agreement for an Employer to commence work without such requested pre-job conference, if the Union fails to meet for a pre-job conference on a date prior to that scheduled bj the Employer for the commencement of work.
-22-
ARTICLE XIII
WORKING HOURS AND OVERTIME
Section 1.	Work Week/Work Day;
(a)	The regular work week shall be a forty (40) hour week, Monday a.m. through Friday p.m. The project starting time shall be established in the pre-job conference (Article XII). Once established, the project starting time shall not be changed without mutual consent of both parties.
(b)	If an Employee is required to start work prior to the regular starting time established in the pre-job conference, said Employee shall receive one and one-half (1-1/2) times the regular rate of pay for each hour worked prior to the regular starting time.
(c)	At the pre-job conference, the Contractor shall be entitled to elect working his Employees under one of two options.
1.	On the basis of five (5) consecutive work days, Monday through Friday, eight (8) hours per day, or;
2.	On the basis of four (4) consecutive work days, Monday through Thursday, ten (10) hours per day.
(d)	The option selected during the pre-job conference must be mutually agreed to and may be changed only by the Contractor giving notification to the Union five (5) days in advance of such change.
(e)	If the Contractor elects Option 1, all hours worked by the Employee in excess of eight (8) hours in any one day (exclusive of lunch period) or over forty (40) hours in one
-23-
work week (Monday through Saturday) shall be paid at the rate of one and one half (1-1/2) times the regular rate of pay. Saturday shall be treated as a make-up day if, due to inclement weather, the Contractor has not worked the regular work days and hours Monday through Friday. If Saturday is scheduled as a make-up day, no less than eight (8) hours of work will be scheduled. Overtime pay will be determined by the regular crew overtime.
(f)	If the Contractor elects option 2, all hours worked by the Employee in excess of ten (10) hours in any one day (exclusive of lunch period) or over forty (40) hours in any one work week (Monday through Friday) shall be paid at the rate of one and one-half (1-1/2) times the regular rate of pay. Friday shall be treated as a make-up day if due to inclement weather, the Contractor has not worked the regular work days or hours Monday through Thursday. If Friday is scheduled as a make-up day no less than eight (8) hours will be scheduled, Saturday will be worked at the rate of one and one-half (1-1/2) times the regular rate of pay. Overtime pay will be determined by the regular crew overtime,
(g)	If a Laborer has not worked a minimum of the last regular work day during the week, he cannot work a make-up day at the regular rate of pay.
(h)	Employees must be informed prior to the conclusion of the last regular work day during the week that the make-up day will be in whole or in part at the regular rale of pay (depending on how much inclement weather was experienced),
(i)	Working a make-up day will be strictly on a voluntary basis. Employees refusing to work on make-up days will not
-24-
be penalized.
Section 2.	Mason Tenders - It is agreed and understood that Mason Tenders who start work before the established project starting time will be paid one and one-half (1-1/2) times the regular rate of pay for those early hours.
Section 3.	Sundays and Holidays:
(a) Work performed on Sundays and Holidays will be paid at double (2x) the regular rate of pay. Holidays recognized by this Agreement are New Year's Day, Memorial Day, Fourth of July, Labor Day. Thanksgiving Day and the day thereafter, and Christmas Day. (No work shall be performed on Labor Day except to save life or property). Veteran’s Day shall be observed the day after Thanksgiving. Where any of the herein mentioned Holidays fall on Sunday, the following Monday will be observed as the Holiday.
Section 4.	Reporting to Work:
OPTION 1. Five (5) eight (8) hour days:
(a)	The Employer will not be obligated to pay any Laborer appearing for work if failure to go to work is due to inclement weather. Acts of God, vandalism, or a work stoppage by another craft. Otherwise, two (2) hours of pay at the regular rale will be allowed for two (2) hours time for reporting to work, provided the Laborer remains at the jobsite to perform whatever work may be assigned to him.
(b)	If an Employee actually starts to work, he shall receive four (4) hours pay. except in cases of inclement weather, Acts of God, vandalism, or a work stoppage by another craft.
(c)	If an Employee works for longer than four (4) hours, he shall be paid for eight (8) hours, except in cases of inclement
-25-
weather. Acts of God, vandalism, or a work stoppage by another craft.
OPTION 2, Four (4) ten (10) hour days:
(a)	The Employer will not be obligated to pay any Laborer appearing for work if failure to go to work is due to inclement weather, Acts of God, vandalism, or a work stoppage by another craft. Otherwise, two (2) hours of pay at the regular rate will be allowed for two (2) hours time for reporting to work, provided the Laborer remains at the jobsite to perform whatever work may be assigned to him.
(b)	If an Employee actually starts to work, he shall receive five (5) hours pay, except in cases of inclement weather. Acts of God. vandalism, or a work stoppage by another craft.
(c)	If an Employee works for longer than five (5) hours, he shall be paid for ten (10) hours, except in cases of inclement weather, Acts of God, vandalism, or a work stoppage by another craft.
(d)	On overtime work, under Option I or Option 2. if an Employee reports to work, he shall receive two (2) hours pay at the regular rale of pay, except in cases of inclement weather, Acts of God, vandalism, or a work stoppage by another craft.
(e)	On overtime work, under Option 1 or Option 2, if an Employee starts to work, he shall receive four (4) hours of premium pay or the actual hours worked times the premium rate of pay (whichever is greater) except in cases of inclement weather. Acts of God, vandalism, or a work stoppage by another craft.
(f)	Il is understood that, consistent with this Section, the
-26-
Employee will not be docked for time lost due to breakdowns of machinery or while waiting for materials.
Section 5. Clothing and Equipment - The Employer will furnish special wearing apparel such as rain hats, coats and boots to protect the Employee when working in inclement weather or adverse conditions. The Employer will also furnish safety equipment such as safety hats, safety goggles, respirators and protective masks and slip-over boots for all Employees working in concrete. It is agreed and understood that the Employer will be permitted to charge any Employee for such wearing apparel and safely equipment should the Employee fail to return any item issued to him. Any Employee required to work in hazardous environments will be provided all equipment that is required, including gloves.
Section 6, Lunch:
(a)	A lunch period of thirty (30) minutes will be established between the three and one-half (3-1/2) and the four and one-half (4-1/2) hour of the regular work day. The Employer will provide a suitable and sanitary place to eat.
(b)	When an Employee is required to take his lunch period after the four and one-half (4-1/2) hour, said Employee will be paid at one and one-half (1-1/2) times the regular rate of pay for the thirty (30) minute lunch period and shall be allowed a fifteen (15) minute lunch period at his regular rate of pay.
(c)	After ten (10) hours of work, the Employees will be granted a twenty (20) minute paid lunch period. When Employees are required to work through this second lunch period, they will be paid an additional twenty (20) minutes at the applicable overtime rate of pay. This second lunch
-27-
period will be taken consistent with the other trades, when feasible.
ARTICLE XIV
SHIFT WORK
Section 1,	The Employer may elect to work not in excess of three (3) shifts. No work shall be considered shift work under this Article unless two (2) or more shifts are worked for a period of three (3) consecutive days, except when the period required is broken by Sundays, Holidays, an Act of God, inclement weather or strike. If the shift is broken before such three (3) consecutive days, the applicable overtime rate will apply.
Section 2.	When shifts are required, the first shift shall work eight (8) hours at the regular straight time rate. The second shift shall work seven and one-half (7-1/2) hours and receive eight (8) hours pay at the regular straight time rate and eight (8) hours fringe benefits. The third shift shall work seven (7) hours and receive eight (8) hours pay at the regular straight time rate and eight (8) hours fringe benefits.
Section 3.	When Employees arc required to work overtime on the First Shift, they shall be paid the established overtime rale of pay for all hours worked in excess of eight (8) hours on any one (I) shift.
Section 4.	When Employees are required io work overtime on the Second Shift, they shall be paid the established overtime rate of pay for all hours worked in excess of seven and one-half (7-1/2) hours. Fringes shall be paid on all hours worked.
Section 5.	When Employees are required to work overtime
-28-
on the Third Shift, they shall be paid the established overtime rate of pay for al] hours worked in excess of seven (7) hours. Fringes shall be paid on all hours worked.
Section 6.	When an Employee is required to work overtime, the Employer will be obligated to continue paying the applicable overtime rate until the Employee has had an eight (8) hour break.
ARTICLE XV
STEWARD
Section 1.	When the Business Manager or his designated representative deems it advisable, he may, upon written notice to the Employer, appoint from the Employer's existing work force a Steward or Stewards on any given project. Said Steward is to be recognized by the Employer and he shall have the right to act on any grievance without discrimination. Said Steward shall be a working Employee and shall be retained on any given project as long as, or when any Employee covered by this Agreement is employed on the project by the Employer, in accordance with Article VII, Section 1 (b).
Section 2.	In case the Steward cannot settle any dispute or grievance, the Business Manager shall be notified to take up with the Party of the First Part said grievance. For all purposes of this Agreement, it is understood that the duties of the Steward are limited to:
(a)	To insist that the provisions of this Agreement be complied with by the First and Second Parties.
(b)	To report to the Business Manager any question that he cannot settle with the Party of the First Part.
-29-
(c)	To report unsafe conditions to the Job Superintendent.
Section 3.	When the Employer starts a special crew or 2nd or 3rd shift crews, he will not be compelled to use the same Steward on the special or shift work as on the regular work.
Section 4.	In the event of a general lay-off by the Employer for any reason, the Steward shall be the first Employee recalled, unless the Employer needs an Employee who possesses specific skills that a Steward cannot perform. In that event, the Employer may recall another Employee and the Steward will be the second man recalled.
ARTICLE XVI
NON-VIOLAT1ON
Section I. It shall not be a violation of this Agreement, if an Employee or Employees cease work because of:
(a)	Dispute arising out of the failure of the individual Employer to meet the payroll for Employees covered by this Agreement.
(b)	Dispute because a payroll check is dishonored.
(c)	Non-payment of contributions set forth under Article Vlll, Article IX and Article X, covering the Trust Funds under the respective Articles mentioned herein and Article V covering Working Dues deductions and as in the manner and accordance as prescribed herein, provided the Employer is sixty (60) days delinquent.
(d)	Failure of an individual Employer to comply with the terms and provisions of Article XJJ of this Agreement, covering Pre-Job Conferences.
-30-
ARTICLE XVII
PAY-DAY
Section 1.	The Employer shall pay Employees weekly and the payment shall be in full for the payroll period. Payment shall be made within five (5) business days of the payroll period and shall be in cash or by check, in the event Employees covered by this Agreement are laid off permanently or discharged, they shall be paid immediately. It is strictly understood and agreed that, should any Employee discharged or laid off permanently be required to report the next morning to collect his pay he shall receive four (4) hours show up pay for reporting for his pay for each subsequent morning on which he returns until paid. Employees who quit voluntarily shall be paid at the next regular pay day. However, when Employees are laid off or discharged between the hours of 6:00 p.m. Friday through 8:00 a.m. on Monday because of unscheduled or emergency requirements, the Employee will be paid by 11:00 a.m. Monday, unless special arrangements are made with the Employer. This will in no way supercede the Employer’s requirement to pay the regular scheduled payday or lay-off as outlined above.
Section 2.	Each weekly pay shall be accompanied by a statement listing the name of the Employee and Employer, the date, the number of hours worked, both straight and overtime, the monies deducted and for what purpose said deductions were made.
-31-
ARTICLE XVIII
SAFETY
Section 1.	The Employer agrees to provide safe working conditions and practices as set forth in current Safety Standards for the Construction Industry.
Section 2.	It is agreed that all Employees covered by this Agreement shall fully comply with all safety directives issued by the Employer and shall properly utilize all safety equipment provided by the Employer when so directed. Failure to comply with these provisions may be cause for discharge. Furthermore, it is agreed and understood that the Employee shall retain the right to refuse to work under conditions considered to be hazardous or unsafe.
Section 3.	All journeyman workers are required to have completed and passed CPR training, First Aid Training, and a 10 hour OSHA training course. The Union will set up a “Safety Program’’ to insure that all journeymen are certified and that this certification is maintained.
ARTICLE XIX
WORKER’S COMPENSATION
Section 1. The Employer agrees to ensure that all Worker’s Compensation claims will be filed in the most timely and expeditious manner and in any event not later than seven (7) days following the illness or injury. Upon request, the Employer agrees to provide the Employee and/or the Local Union involved the name and address of the Employer's insurance carrier.
-32-
ARTICLE XX
ELIMINATION OF RESTRICTIONS
Section I. No rules, customs or practices shall be permitted that limit production or increase the time required to do any work. There shall be no limitation or restriction of the use of machinery, tools, or other labor-saving devices.
ARTICLE XXI
SUB-CONTRACTOR
Section L The Employer shall not contract any work covered by this Agreement to be done at the site of construction, alterations, repairs or any new construction or any other work to any person, firm or company that does not have an existing labor agreement with the Union covering such work within the scope of this Agreement.
ARTICLE XXII
MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
Section 1.	The Employer retains and shall exercise full and exclusive authority and responsibility for the management of its operations, except as expressly limited by the terms of this Agreement.
ARTICLE XXIII
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
Section 1, (a) There shall be no stoppage of work on account of any difference of opinion, or dispute which may arise between the Parties of the First Part and Second Part. It is agreed by the Parties that all grievances, disputes, or claims, (except jurisdictional disputes, wage rates, fringe benefits and dues check-off) which may arise with respect to
-33-
the enforcement or interpretation of any of the terms of this Agreement are to be resolved in the following manner:
All grievances, disputes, or claims which may arise between Employers signatory to this Agreement or Employees who have accepted this Agreement and thus became Parties hereto shall be resolved in the following manner:
(1)	The dispute shall first be discussed by the Job Steward or other Union Representative and the Employer’s Foreman and/or Superintendent.
(2)	If the grievance is not resolved, then the dispute shall be referred to the Business Representative of the Union and Employer’s Representative.
(3)	In the event said dispute has not been resolved, the State of Indiana District Council through its Representative, shall meet with the Employer’s Representative, in an attempt to resolve said dispute.
(4)	In the event that the dispute is not settled, either Party may, through written notice to the other Party, submit the grievance or dispute to final and binding arbitration.
(5)	The Arbitrator shall be selected in the following manner:
The Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service shall be requested to submit a panel of arbitrators, who shall be members of the National Academy of Arbitrators, of which names are alternately struck until the remaining arbitrator, whose name remains on the list, shall serve as the arbitrator to hear and decide the dispute and/or grievance. The arbitrator’s decision shall be final and binding on both Parties.
-34-
The cost of the arbitrator shall be borne equally by both Parties to the grievance and/or dispute.
Section 2.	No proceeding hcreinunder based on any dispute, complaint or grievance herein provided for shall be recognized unless called to the attention of the individual Employer and the Local Union involved in writing within ten (10) days after the alleged violation is committed.
Section 3.	Copies of the decision made by the Grievance Committee and/or the Arbitrator shall be mailed to the Employer and the Union.
Section 4.	There shall be no stoppage of work on account of any difference of opinion or dispute which may arise between the Parties of the First and Second Part, or between this and any other unit or units of Organized Labor, or between other Units of Organized Labor, or between any unit or units of Organized Labor and any other division of the Building Industry.
Section 5.	EXCEPTIONS - Notwithstanding the other provisions of this Article, it shall not be a violation of this Agreement if any Employee or Employees of an Employer cease work or picket because of non-payment of wages, dishonored payroll checks, non-payment of Health and Welfare contributions, Pension contributions, Training contributions md/or Working Dues deductions by said Employer.
ARTICLE XXIV
GENERAL PROVISIONS
section 1.	This Agreement covers the entire understanding letween the Parties hereto. No oral or written rule, regula-ion, or understanding not incorporated herein will be of any
-35-
force or effect upon any Party hereto.
Section 2.	This Agreement shall apply from and after its effective date as hereinafter provided.
Section 3.	The Employer shall at ail times provide sanitary drinking water and containers, iced water when necessary, and toilet facilities, same to be stationed conveniently to all Employees.
Section 4< The Employer shall make reasonable efforts to make provisions for permitting access to the job site by the Business Manager of the Local Union, or his duly appointed Field Representative. If the Business Manager of a Local Union is denied access to a job site for the purpose of transacting business, he shall notify the 'main office of the Employer to assist him in obtaining admission.
Section 5.	When a job is located within a Plant, the Employer shall provide (for regular shifts) adequate means for transporting Employees from the Plant entrance, to the job, provided the operation of the job is one-half (1/2) mile or more from the Plant entrance. Vehicles shall be properly covered during cold or inclement weather. When this condition exists, Employees will go in to work on their time and go out from work on the Employer’s time.
Section 6.	When any Employee or Employees work in two (2) or more Classifications during the period of the first half of the shift, he or they shall receive the wage rate of the highest Classification for such period and an Employee oi Employees working in two (2) or more Classifications during the second half of the shift shall receive the wage rate ol the highest Classification for such period.
•36-
Section 7.	Any Contractor who signs this Agreement to perform work covered by this Agreement has the option of signing any other Agreement negotiated by the State of Indiana District Council of Laborers and any other Employer Group covering any and all work of the Construction Industry covered by the Laborers and pay the applicable wages, fringes and other conditions contained therein.
Section 8.	Upon request by the Employer, the Employees’ training and/or work record will be made available.
Section 9.	Employers may utilize “Key Personnel’’ on any work performed in the geographic jurisdiction of the Union. ’Key Personnel” is defined as being members of the Union who have been in the contractor's employment more than three months. The number of “Key Personnel” to be cleared in will be determined in the pre-job conference. The balance of the Employees, if available, shall be employed from the individual Local Union’s membership. If the Local Union is unable to provide the balance of Employees, the Employer may utilize whatever means are necessary to man the work.
ARTICLE XXV
INDUSTRY FUND
t is understood that the Associated General Contractors of ndiana, Inc., an Indiana corporation not-for-profit has estab-ished the Construction Advancement Program of Central ndiana (hereinafter “Program”). The purpose of such Program to be to generally promote and improve the con-truction industry, without limiting the generality of the fore-oing, apprenticeship training, advanced skill training, upervisory training, improvement of public and personnel elations, market development, standardization of contracts
-37-
and specifications, developments of relations with others (including the public, architects, suppliers and laborer), collection and distribution of information useful and beneficial to the construction or contracting industry, and otherwise promote and advance the interest and common good of the construction contracting industry in the state. It is understood that each Employer will be furnished a copy of the Articles of Incorporation upon request and that, subject to the foregoing limitations, such Articles of Incorporation may be amended from time to time by the Board of Directors.
Each Employer shall contribute an amount per clock hour for each hour worked by each of his Foremen, Journeymen and Apprentices covered by this Agreement. The hourly amount shall be between five cents ($.05) to ten cents ($.10) as determined by the Trustees of the Program, provided that a minimum of three months’ notice shall be provided by the trustees before the amount may be adjusted within said range.
Each Employer shall pay the contribution to the Program on or before the 15th day of each month on account of hours for which such employees were compensated during the preceding calendar month. The Employer shall also provide the Program with a copy of the monthly remittance report the Employer furnishes to the Indiana State District Council o Laborers and Hod Carriers Welfare Fund showing the hour worked by Employees covered by this Agreement for whict contributions are being made to said fund for such month.
It is expressly understood and agreed that the Board o Directors of the Program have the authority to conduct a audit of the records of any Employer to determine whethe such Employer is contributing to the Program in accordanc
-38-
with the provisions of this Article. It is further understood that, in the event an Employer is determined to be delinquent and/or to have failed to make contributions as required in this Article, any legal expenses of the Program, including attorney’s fees, court costs, and other expenses incurred in the audit and collection of such delinquent and/or non-con-tributed funds shall be borne by the Employer. It is further understood and agreed that such Employer shall be obligated to pay any delinquent contributions to the Program with interest charged at the rate then applicable to Internal Revenue Service collection of delinquent and/or unpaid taxes.
It is expressly understood and agreed that no Employee, Employer, or Union shall have any vested or proprietary interest in or right to any sum constituting a part of said Program.
ARTICLE XXV(a)
CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY PROGRESS COUNCIL OF CENTRAL INDIANA (LOCAL #120 & LOCAL #204 ONLY)
Section l.The Parties to this Agreement agree to establish a market recovery program. The program will be a not-for-profit corporation and will be governed by a Board of Directors consisting of equal number representing Unions and Employers who agree to participate. Employers further agree to fund the program through contributions not to exceed ten cents ($.10) per hour worked by Employees of participating Unions. Details of the Program are contained in the Articles of Incorporation and ByLaws which are made a part of this Agreement by reference.
-39-
*The Board of Directors of the Construction Industry Progress Council of Central Indiana will notify directly all signatories to this Agreement of the specific amount to be paid into the Construction Industry Progress Council of Central Indiana.
ARTICLE XXVI
SCHEDULE OF FRINGE BENEFIT CONTRIBUTIONS
Section 1. In addition to the hourly wage rates listed hereinafter, Fringe Benefit Contributions to the Health & Welfare Fund, Pension Fund, Training Trust Fund and Industry Fund for the Designated Periods shall be as follows:
#12O-#2O4 Industry Only	Drug
H-W Pension Training Fund	CIPCC1 Testing
6/1/05 to 5/31/06	$4.50	$2.15	$ .35	$ .05	$ .06	$ .07
6/1/06 to 5/31/07	$5.00	$2.25	$ .35	$ .05	$ .06	$ .07
6/1/07 to 5/31/08	$5.50	$2.35	$.35	$.05	$.06	$.07
ARTICLE XXVII
HOURLY WAGE RATES
Section I. For the purpose of clarification and to assist in determining the hourly wage rates applicable to specific Classifications of Work, the following hourly wage rates apply in the given Area. It is understood and agreed that pyramiding of Category Rates and/or Foreman Rates is not the intention of this Agreement and shall not be permitted.
-40-
#1204204
Only Drag
Effective	Wages	H-W Pension Training	IF	C1PCC1 Testing	Total
Local #120 6/1/05-5/31/06	$20.18	$4.50 $2.15 $.35	$.05	$ .06 $ .07	$27.36
6/1/06-5/31/07	$20.68	$5.00 $2.25 $.35	$.05	$.06 $.07	$28.46
6/1/07-5/31/08	$21.23	$5.50 $2.35 $.35	$.05	$.06 $.07	$29.61
Local #204 6/1/05-5/31/06	$19.07	$4.50 $2.15 $.35	$.05	$.06 $.07	$26.25
6/1/06-5/31/07	$19.52	$5.00 $2.25 $.35	$.05	$ .06 $ .07	$27.30
6/1/07-5/31/08	$20.02	$5.50 $2.35 $.35	$.05	$ .06 $ .07	$28.40
Local #274 6/1/05-5/31/06	$19.18	$4.50 $2.15 $.35	$.05	$.07	$26.30
6/1/06-5/31/07	$19.63	$5.00 $2.25 $.35	$.05	$.07	$27.35
671/07-5/31/08	$20.13	$5.50 $2.35 $.35	$.05	$.07	$28.45
Local #741 6/1/05-5/31/06	$19.08	$4.50 $2.15 $.35	$.05	$.07	$26.20
6/1/06-5/31/07	$19.53	$5.00 $2.25 $.35	$.05	$.07	$27.25
6/1/07-5/31/08	$20.03	$5.50 $2.35 $.35	$.05	$.07	$28.35
Local #1047 6/1/05-5/31/06	$17.88	$4.50 $2.15 $.35	$.05	$.07	$25.00
6/1/06-5/31/07	$18.33	$5.00 $2.25 $.35	$.05	$.07	$26.05
6/1/07-5/31/08	$18.83	$5.50 $2.35 $.35	$.05	$.07	$27.15
Local #1112 6/1/05-5/31/06	$18.76	$4.50 $2.15 $.35	$.05	$.07	$25.88
6/1/06-5/31/07	$19.21	$5.00 $2.25 $.35	$.05	$.07	$26.93
6/1/07-5/31/08	$19.71	$5.50 $2.35 $.35	$.05	$.07	$28.03
CATEGORY I. Is the Basic Hourly Wage Rate and shall include the following:
Building and Construction Laborers
Scaffold Builders (other than for Masons or Plasterers)
-41-
Ironworker Tenders
Mechanic Tenders
Civil Engineer Tenders and Surveyor Tenders
Rodmen & Chainmen
Roofer’s Tenders
Railroad Workers
Masonry Wall Washers (interior & exterior)
Cement Finisher Tenders
Carpenter Tenders
Tenders of all other Crafts not listed
All Portable Water Pumps with discharge up to
three (3) inches
Waterproofing
Handling of creosote lumber or like treated material
(excluding railroad material)
Asphalt Rakers & Lutemen
Kettlemen
Earth Compactors
Jackmen & Sheetmen working ditches deeper than
six (6) feet in depth
Laborers working ditches six (6) feet in depth or deeper
Assembly of Unicrete Pump
Tile Layer (sewer or field) & Sewer Pipe Layers
(metallic or non-metallic)
Motor driven wheelbarrows and concrete buggies
Hyster Operators
Pump Crete Assemblers
Core Drill Operators
Cement, Lime or Silica Clay Handlers (bulk or bag)
Handling of Toxic Materials Damaging to Clothing
Pneumatic Spikers
Deck Engine and Winch Operators
-42-
Water Main & Cable Ducking (metallic & non-metallic) Screed Man or Screw Operator on Asphalt Paver
Chain Saw and Demolition Saw Operators
Concrete Saw
Concrete Conveyor Assemblers
Applying of curing compound
Sinking of wellpoints
Dewatering header systems
CATEGORY II. shall include the following and will be paid fifty ($.50) cents per hour above the basic rate:
Plaster Tenders
Mason Tenders
Mortar Mixers
Welders (acetylene or electric)
Cutting Torch or Burner
Cement Nozzle Laborers
Cement Gun Operators
Scaffold Builders when working for Plasterers
Scaffold Builders when working for Masons
Water Blast Machine Operators
Air Tool Operators and all Pneumatic Tool Operators, Air and Electric Vibrators and Chipping Hammer
Operators
Asbestos removal
Hazardous waste removal
Lead based paint removal
All Boiler Setters Laborers, including expediters, bottom men, bell men, and Mason Tenders
CATEGORY UI. shall cover the following:
Laborer Foreman
-43-
Mason Tender Foreman
General Foreman
Laborer Foreman - rate shall be one dollar ($1.00) per hour over the basic hourly rate of pay listed herein.
Mason Tender Foreman - rate shall be one dollar and thirty cents ($1.30) per hour over the basic hourly rate of pay listed herein.
General Foreman - rate shall be one dollar and fifty cents ($1.50) per hour over the basic hourly rate of pay listed herein.
CATEGORY IV. shall cover the following and shall be paid one dollar ($1.00) per hour over the basic hourly rate of pay as listed herein.
Dynamite Men
Drillers - air track or wagon drilling for explosives
Laborer Specialist
Concrete Finisher / Form Setter (contractor option)
Firestop Installer
CATEGORY V. shall include Watchmen and Gatemen (day or night) whose wage rates and fringe benefit hours will be negotiated on an individual basis by and between the Employer and the Local Union involved at the pre-job conference.
CATEGORY VI. Shall cover the following:
Caisson and Tunnel Work in compressed & free air
Basic Laborers Rate:
Cage Tenders
-44-
Dump Men
Flagman. Signalman, Top Laborers
Rod Men
The following will be paid twenty ($.20) cents per hour above the basic rate:
Concrete Repairmen
Lock Tenders (Pressure Side)
Motor Men
Muckers
Grout Machine
Track Layers
Air Hoist
Key Board
Agitator Car
Car Pushers
Concrete Laborers
Grout Laborers
Lock Tenders (Free Air Side)
Steel Setters
Tuggers
Switchmen
The following will be paid thirty ($.30) cents per hour above the basic rate:
Mucking Machine
Laser Beam
Liner Plate & Ring Setter
Shield Drivers
Power Knife
Welders - Burners
Pipe Jacking Machine
-45-
Skinners
Maintenance Technician
Miner
Bricklayer Tenders
Concrete Blowers
Drillers
Erectors
Form Men jackhammermen Mining Machine
The following will be paid one dollar ($ 1.00) per hour above the basic rate:
Dynamite Men
Drillers-air track or wagon drilling for explosives
1. The premium over and above wages and classi fications for all Employees working in compressed air shall be as follows:
0-15	Pounds	$ 1.00 per hr.
16-20	Pounds	$ 1.50 per hr.
21 - 26	Pounds	$ 2 .(MJ per hr.
27-33	Pounds	$ 3.00 per hr.
34 & over	Pounds	$ 4.00 per hr.
2. The scale of wages for Labor Foreman and Sub-Foreman shall be as follows:
General Foreman	$ 1.00 per hr.
Foreman	0.50 per hr.
♦CATEGORY VIL shall cover High Time Pay for Stacks & Chimneys.
*To be the same as set forth in the Laborers' International Union of North America Agreement covering Stacks.
-46-
Chimneys and Silos.
CATEGORY VIII - RAILROAD MAINTENANCE: shall cover the following:
Section 1. All rail maintenance, rehabilitation, and other work on mainlines, sidings and service lines that are let by railroad companies, transit commissions, transit authorities, public or private owners of such facilities, which includes but is not limited to the following and work performed will be paid for under the wage rates contained herein.
(a)	The replacement of components and adjustment in alignment of grades of existing rail facilities.
(b)	Repair or replacement of components of fences, cattle guards, snow sheds, motor car set off, and other facilities located on railroad, public or private properties, and right-of-ways of same.
(c)	The care of railroad and transit commissions and transit authorities owned properties, public or private, including patrolling, inspection, mowing, brush cutting and spraying, drainage work and all general caretaking work.
(d)	The repair or replacement of roadway or railway crossings.
(e)	Painting and replacement of components of railway bridges and signal lines and signs.
(f)	All emergency work, such as snow removal, flood damage, damages occurring on derailments, including all clean-up and repair in connection therewith which may be performed by the Employer.
-47-
(g)	All maintenance, rehabilitation, track removal and other work that may be performed for the railroad companies and transit commissions and/or transit authorities on their properties, or on public and private properties, including relocation of existing tracks where such relocation of tracks are not in connection with buildings, highway, heavy or engineering projects.
(h)	It shall also include all new Construction in conjunction with a building, highway, heavy or engineering project on all railroad transit commissions, transit authorities, public or private owners of such facilities.
(i)	It shall include railroad construction where rails are laid to a new facility to service same, whether new or used materials are used.
CATEGORY IX - Apprentices - Mandatory Apprentice Language
Section 1.	New applicants for membership who cannot provide reasonable proof of 4,000 or more hours of employment, as a Construction Craft Laborer (or, alternatively, cannot demonstrate equivalent skills in a placement examination administered by the Joint Apprenticeship and Training Committee (JATC) shall, whenever possible, enter the Apprenticeship program. Any person entering but failing to maintain and complete his or her Apprenticeship shall not be employed by the Employer as a Journey Worker under this Agreement. The failure of any Apprentice to maintain his or her Apprenticeship status shall obligate the Employer to discharge such person upon notice from the Union.
Section 2.T	he Apprenticeship and Training Standards approved by the Federal Bureau of Apprenticeship and
-48-
Training or State Apprenticeship Committee are hereby incorporated by reference as a part of this Agreement.
Section 3.	The Apprentice wage rates:
Hours of Credit
I st period 0-1000 hours 2nd period 1001 -2000 hours 3rd period 2001-3000 hours 4th period 3001-4000 hours
Wage Rate
75% of journey worker rate
85% of journey worker rate
95% of journey worker rate 100% of journeyworker rate
Section 4,	Entry into the Apprenticeship program shall be controlled by the JATC, which shall employ appropriate testing and screening procedures. An Apprentice advances from one hours-of credit and wage-rate category to another only upon determination of satisfactory performance by the ATC, which shall have the authority to grant accelerated credit where warranted by the performance of an individual ipprentice.
Section 5.	The Employer shall participate in the Apprenticeship program by accepting Apprentices for mployment upon referral by the Union. The Employer is ot obligated to accept more than one (I) Apprentice for very five (5) Joumeyworkers commencing with the sixth aborer employed.
ection 6. The Employer may not employ an Apprentice ntil at least one Joumeyworker is employed and thereafter lay not employ more than one (I) Apprentice for every dditional three (3) Joumeyworkers.
cction 7. An Apprentice should, whenever possible, be itated by the Employer through different types of work so to become trained in a variety of operations and work
-49-
skills. Where the Employer is unable to provide an Apprentice with experience in the full range of craft skills, the JATC may request the Local Union to reassign the Apprentice to other employment in order to provide that experience. For so long as the Employer is able to provide the necessary range of employment experience, the Employer may choose to retain the apprentice from job to job but shall notify the Local Union and JATC of all reassignments.
Section 8. An Apprentice shall not be penalized for taking off from work to attend offsite training (though time off for training is unpaid).
ARTICLE XXVIII
GENERAL SAVINGS CLAUSE
Section 1. Any provision contained herein that is contrary to or held in violation of the Labor-Management Relation Act of 1947, as amended, or of any other law now in force or hereafter enacted, or, hereafter becoming effective, shal be void and of no force or effect, and this Agreement shal be construed as if said void provision herein were not a par thereof, it being intended, however, that the other provision of this Agreement shall not be affected thereby. It is furthe agreed that, should compliance with any law or amendmen therefore, or any order or regulation issued thereunder, nov or hereafter in force and effect, prohibit the carrying out o any of the provisions of this Agreement, then to the extent o such deviation or prohibition, this Agreement shall b deemed to have been automatically amended effective on th effective date of such law, order or regulations. Sue amendment to this Agreement shall remain in effect only s long as said law, amendment, order or regulation continue
-50-
in force or until the expiration of this Agreement, whichever event shall first occur.
ARTICLE XXIX
BONDING
Section 1.	Every Employer who employs members of the Union and agrees to be covered or maintain the provisions of this Agreement may be required by the Union to give a surety bond payable to the Laborers Benefit Funds to insure the payment of fringe benefit obligations accruing under this Agreement. The Employer shall furnish a surety bond as prescribed below within fourteen (14) days after notice from the Laborers' Fringe Benefit Funds that such is required. The amount of the surety bond shall be as follows:
1 through 10 men.......$15,000.00
at 15 men .............$20,000.00
at 20 men..............$25,000.00
at 25 men .............$30,000.00
at 30 men or over.....$35.000.(X)
Section 2.	The Fringe Benefit Funds may require an Employer to give the surety bond provided for herein if at any time: (1) the Employer has been late fifteen (15) days or more in the payment of any of its monetary obligations under this Agreement; or (2) the Employer has been late in the payment of any such obligation two (2) consecutive times during the immediately preceding twelve (12) months; or (3) the Employer has not worked within the Union’s geographical jurisdiction under this Agreement during any of the immediately preceding twelve (12) months.
If after giving and providing such surety bond the Employer is not late in the payment of its monetary obligations during
-51-
the next following twelve (12) months, the Employer shall be released from the requirement to provide a surety bond unless the conditions specified in the first sentence of this Section reoccur.
Section 3,	When a surety bond is demanded, the Employer will obtain such in the required amount, from a company acceptable to the Fringe Benefit Funds, and the benefit funds specified in this Agreement shall be the sole beneficiaries of the bond. The bond will be given to the Fringe Benefit Funds where it will be kept.
Section 4.	Should an Employer fail or refuse to provide the required surety bond, when such is demanded by the Union, or should an Employer fail to keep a bond in effect al all times said Employer is required to have one, the Union shall have the right to strike and/or picket, after notice, and use all other legal and/or economic means to cause the Employer to comply with this Article.
ARTICLE XXX
HEALTH CARE
Section 1. Should either the State or Federal Government pass legislation mandating all Employers to participate in a national or statewide health care plan, it is agreed by the Parlies to this Agreement to automatically open this Agreement within thirty (30) days of such passage to discuss same.
ARTICLE XXXI
SUBSTANCE ABUSE PROGRAM
The Union and the Associated General Contractors o Indiana. Inc., and/or signatory Employer, hereby agree th; the drug testing program set forth in the Indiana Unio
-52-
Construction Resource Center Substance Abuse Policy (“Policy") is incorporated by reference herein and made a part of this Agreement. The Trustees of the Indiana Union Construction Industry Substance Abuse Trust Fund (“Fund") shall have the authority to amend the terms of the Policy to which employees working under this Agreement will be subject.
The administration of the Policy will be funded by contributions to the Fund. The Trustees of the Fund shall have the authority to determine the amount to be contributed by signatory Employers to defray the cost of the Policy. The Trustees may set the contribution at any rate up to ten cents ($.10) per hour depending on the Trustees' assessment of the amount needed to fund the Policy adequately to fulfill its purposes. Once the rate has been set, the Trustees may adjust the rale of contribution from time to time within the parameters set forth above, provided the Trustees give the Employer(s) at least sixty (60) days notice of any such adjustment.
It is agreed that the Employer contribution to this fund is not part of the wage/fringe package under this Agreement, but is instead a separate additional contribution made by the Employer solely to fund the Policy. Accordingly, the establishment or adjustment of the rate of contribution by the Trustees shall not affect the wage rates or the amounts set brth for contributions to fringe benefit funds under this Xgreement.
-53-
ARTICLE XXXII
EFFECTIVE DATE
THIS AGREEMENT shall be in full force and effect from June 1, 2005 when ratified by a majority of members of the Labor Relations Committee of the Associated General Contractors of Indiana and signed by the Laborers’ International Union of North America, State of Indiana District Council, for and on behalf of its affiliated Local Unions #120, #204, #274, #741, #1047 and #1112 and shall continue in full force and effect for the periods mentioned herein, expiring as of May 31, 2008,
In case either Party to this Agreement wishes to change the Agreement, at least sixty (60) days written notice shall be given to the other Party prior to the expiration date. In case no such notice is given by either Party, the Agreement shall continue in effect from year to year until such notice is given at least sixty (60) days prior to the anniversary date.
PARTY OF THE FIRST PART
LABOR RELATIONS COMMITTEE OF THE ASSOCIATED GENERAL CONTRACTORS OF INDIANA
Philip G.'Kenney
FOR AND ON BEHALF OF
Mason Contractors Association of Indianapolis
Trade Division of Associated Building Contractors of Lafayette Inc,
-54-
Southern Branch of Associated General Contractors of Indiana Inc.
Madison County Contractors Association
Marion Contractors Association Inc.
PARTY OF THE SECOND PART
LABORERS’ INTERNATIONAL UNION OF NORTH AMERICA, STATE OF INDIANA DISTRICT COUNCIL, FOR AND ON BEHALF OF ITS AFFILIATED LOCAL
-55'
DIRECTORY LABORERS’ INTERNATIONAL UNION OF NORTH AMERICA OFFICES
Laborers' International Union of North America
905 - 16th Street Northwest
Washington DC 20006-1765
Terence M. O’Sullivan, General President
Armand E. Sabitoni, General Secretary-Treasurer
Laborers' International Union of North America
Midwest Regional Office
1 North Old State Capitol Plaza, Suite 525
Springfield, IL 62701
Edward Smith, Assistant to the General President, Vice President & Midwest Regional Manager
Laborers’ International Union of North America
State of Indiana
Stephen Folz, International Representative
3528 Koring Rd
Evansville, IN 47720
-56-
DIRECTORY LABORERS’ INTERNATIONAL UNION OF NORTH AMERICA
Laborers’ international Union of North America
State of Indiana District Council
425 S 4th Street
Terre Haute, IN 47807
Phone (812) 235-6083
Fax (812) 232-4420
E-mail INLDC@aol.com
Jerry W. Lee, Secretary Treasurer & Business Manager Michael J. Short, Field Representative & Organizer
LOCAL UNION 41 HAMMOND Geographical Jurisdiction of Hammond, Indiana and Vicinity of Lake County, including all territories west of Cline Avenue, Lake Michigan Shoreline to Illinois State Line and south Counties of Newton and Jasper, Indiana.
Richard Greene, Business Manager
Rudy Sparks. Field Representative
Rick Henson, Field Representative
Wm Kevin Roach, Field Representative
6415 Kennedy Avenue
Hammond, IN 46323
3hone (219)844-1315
'ax (219)844-1325
i-mail LIUNALOCAL4l@aol.com
-57-
LOCAL UNION 81 VALPARAISO Geographical Jurisdiction of Gary, Indiana & Vicinity, including all territories east of Cline Avenue, Lake County, Indiana, all territory north of U.S. Highway No. 20 Porter County, Indiana, including ail Lake Michigan Shore Front east of Cline Avenue in Lake and Porter Counties and LaPorte and Starke Counties, Indiana.
Mike Dernonja, Business Manager
Dale Keene, Field Representative
Agustin Carreon, Field Representative
Michael Campbell, Field Representative
Frank Bova, Jr., Field Representative
253 South Washington Street
Valparaiso, IN 46383
Phone	(219)464-0695
Phone	(800)858-7631
Fax	(219)465-7682
E-mail	loca!81 @verizon.net
LOCAL UNION 120 INDIANAPOLIS Geographical Jurisdiction of Marion and Shelby Counties, Indiana.
David Frye, Business Manager
Nathaniel Clancy, Field Representative
Gary Coss, Field Representative
Sherman Watkins Jr, Field Representative
Chris Brickey, Field Representative Dwight Smith, Field Representative
-58-
Ben Adams, Organizer James W. Daniels, Organizer 1520 East Riverside Drive Indianapolis, IN 46202 Phone (317) 634-8551 Fax (317)685-1237
E-mail DFryeI20Laborers@aol.com
LOCAL UNION 204 TERRE HAUTE
Geographical Jurisdiction of Clay, Fountain, Greene, Hendricks, Owen, Parke, Putnam, Sullivan, Vermillion, Vigo and Warren Counties, Indiana.
Charles Toth, Business Manager and Secretary-Treasurer Bobby Earle, Field Representative
Chuck Toth, Field Representative
401 Poplar Street
Terre Haute IN 47807
Phone	(812) 232-0989
Fax	(812)232-0980
E-mail laborers@gte.net
LOCAL UNION 213 FORT WAYNE
□eographical Jurisdiction of Adams, Allen, DeKalb, Huntington, Noble, Steuben, Wabash, Wells and Whitley bounties, Indiana.
,eroy Jackson, Jr., Business Manager dark Jarrell, Field Representative 700 S Anthony Blvd
-59-
Fort Wayne IN 46806
Phone Phone Fax E-mail	(260) 744-5255 (260) 744-5355 (260) 745-7601 local213 @ verizon.net LOCAL UNION 274 LAFAYETTE
Geographical Jurisdiction of Benton, Boone, Carroil, Cass, Clinton, Montgomery, Pulaski, Tippecanoe and White Counties and covering Kokomo Indiana, Fulton, Howard, Miami and Tipton Counties, Indiana.
Leland Mallory, Secretary-Treasurer & Business Manager Jim Terry, President & Field Representative Rick Williams, Field Representative
1734 Main Street
Lafayette, IN 47904
Phone Fax E-maii Kokomo	(765) 742-4876 (765) 423-4709 local274@insightbb.com Branch Phone (765) 457-4453 Fax (765) 457-8245
-60-
LOCAL UNION 561 EVANSVILLE Geographical Jurisdiction covering Daviess, Dubois, Gibson, Knox, Pike, Posey. Spencer, Vanderburgh and Warrick Counties, Indiana; and Crittenden, Henderson, Union and Webster Counties in Kentucky.
Barry Russell, Business Manager & President
Harlin Scott, Secretary-Treasurer & Field Representative Kenneth Overton, Recording Secretary & Field Representative
Donald Angel, Vice-President and Field Representative Stephen Wilson, Field Representative
951 North Park Drive
Evansville IN 47710
Phone	(812)425-3191
Toll Free 1-888-463-8646
Fax	(812) 425-2421
E-mail barry@laborers56l.org
Vincennes Branch Phone (812) 882-1555
LOCAL UNION 645 SOUTH BEND Geographical Jurisdiction of Elkhart, Kosciusko, LaGrange, Marshall and St. Joseph Counties, Indiana.
jlenn Williams, Business Manager id Barrier, Field Representative ’,015 W Western Avenue, Suite 140 louth Bend, IN 46629 ’hone (574) 287-2967 'ax (574) 287-2968 .-mail local645@aol.com
-61-
LOCAL UNION 741 BLOOMINGTON Geographical Jurisdiction of Bartholomew, Brown, Dearborn, Decatur, Franklin, Jackson, Jennings, Johnson, Lawrence. Martin, Monroe, Morgan, Ohio, Orange and Ripley Counties, Indiana.
Roger Kent, Business Manager
Rick Bryant. Field Representative
Bobby Minton, Field Representative
Albert “Ray” Hobbs, Field Representative
7745 South Fairfax Road
Bloomington, IN 47401
Phone	(812)824-2605
Fax	(812)824-2185
E-mail LIUNALOCAL741@msn.com
Columbus Branch Phone (812) 372-221J
Lawrenceburg Branch Phone (812) 537-5128
LOCAL UNION 795 NEW ALBANY Geographical Jurisdiction of Clark, Crawford, Floyd, Harrison, Jefferson, Perry, Scott, Switzerland and Washington Counties, Indiana.
Fred Bowies, Secretary-Treasurer & Business Manager Robert S. Norrington, Field Representative 1213 State Street
New Albany IN 47150
Phone	(812)944-6473
Fax	(812)944-6474
E-mail Iaborers795@sbcgiobal.net
-62-
LOCAL UNION 1047
RICHMOND
Geographical Jurisdiction of Fayette, Henry, Rush, Wayne and Union Counties, Indiana.
Russell Pierson, Business Manager
Jack Baker, Field Representative
1010 South 9th Street PO Box 38
Richmond, IN 47374
Phone	(765) 966-2005
Fax	(765) 966-7080
E-mail	jack baker j ©aol.com
LOCAL UNION 1112
MUNCIE
Geographical Jurisdiction of Blackford, Delaware, Gram, Hamilton, Hancock. Jay, Madison and Randolph Counties. Indiana.
Rudy Rudisill, Business Manager
Earl Redwine, Field Representative
Lloyd Beaty, Field Representative
115 West 20th Street
Muncie IN 47302
Phone	(765)282-5815
Fax	(765)286-7150
2 mail laborersioca] 1112@comcast.net
-63-
COUNTY	LOCAL	COUNTY	LOCAL
Adams	213	Hancock	1112
Alien	213	Harrison	795
Bartholomew'	741	Henderson, KY	561
Benton	274	Hendricks	204
Blackford	1112	Henry	1047
Boone	274	Howard	274
Brown	741	Huntington	213
Carroll	274	Jackson	741
Cass	274	Jasper	41
Clark	795	Jay	1112
Clay	204	Jefferson	795
Clinton	274	Jennings	741
Crawford	795	Johnson	741
Crittenden, KY	561	Knox	561
Daviess	561	Kosciusko	645
Dearborn	741	LaGrange	645
Decatur	741	Lake-West Half	41
DeKalb	213	Lake-East Half	Bl
Delaware	1112	LaPorte	81
Dubois	561	Lawrence	741
Elkhan	645	Madison	1112
Fayette	1047	Marion	120
Floyd	795	Marshall	645
Fountain	204	Martin	741
Franklin	741	Miami	274
Fulton	274	Monroe	741
Gibson	561	Montgomery	274
Grant	1112	Morgan	741
Greene	204	Newton	41
Hamilton	1112	Noble	213
-64-
COUNTY	LOCAL	COUNTY	LOCAL
Ohio	741	Switzerland	795
Orange	741	Tippecanoe	274
Owen	204	Tipton	274
Parke	204	Union	1047
Perry	795	Union, KY	561
Pike	561	Vanderburgh	561
Porter	81	Vermillion	204
Posey	561	Vigo	204
Pulaski	274	Wabash	213
Putnam	204	Warren	204
Randolph	1112	Warrick	561
Ripley	741	Washington	795
Rush	1047	Wayne	1047
St. Joseph	645	Webster, KY	561
Scott	795	Wells	213
Shelby	120	White	274
Spencer	561	Whitley	213
Starke	81		
Steuben	213		
Sullivan	204		
-65-
2005
January	ftbnarj	March	Afri
S M T W T F ¥	S M T W T F 12 3 4	S SMTWTF5 5	1 2 3 4 5	8 U T W T F $ 1 2
2 3 4 5 6 7 B	6 ? 8 9 10 11	72	6 7 5 9 10 11 12	3 4 5 6 7 5 9
9 10 11 12 13 14 15	13 14 15 16 17 15	19	13 14 15 16 17 18 19	ID 11 12 13 14 15 16
16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 X 31 Mfjr	20 21 22 23 24 25 27 28 X**	X X 21 22 X 24 25 X 27 X X X 31	17 15 19 X 21 22 X 24 X X 27 X X X August
S M 7 W T F S 1 2 3 4 5 6 7	8 14 T W T	F 1	2	3	8 S M T W T F S 4	1 2	8 M I W T F 8 1 2 3 4 5 6
8 9 10 11 12 13 14	5 6 7 5 9 ID	11	3 4 5 6 7 6 9	7 6 9 10 11 12 13
15 16 17 16 19 X 21	12 13 14 15 18 17	IB 10 11 12 13 14 15 16	14 15 16 17 16 19 X
22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 X 31 September	IS X 21 22 23 24 25	17 18 19 X 21 22 73 X27XXX	24 25 X 27 26 X X 31 October	Hmrnber		21 X X 24 X X 27 X X X 31 December
3 M T W T F 8 1 7 3	3 M T W T F	S 8MTWTF8 1	1 2 3 4 5	8 M 7 W T F 5 1 2 3
4 5 6 7 6 9 10	2 3 4 5 6 7	8	6 7 8 9 10 11 12	4 fl 6 7 6 9 10
11 12 13 14 15 15 17	9 10 11 12 13 14	15	13 14 15 16 1? 18 19	11 12 13 14 15 16 17
IB 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 X	16 17 18 19 X 21 23 24 25 X 27 X X 31	22	X 21 22 23 24 X X X	27 X 29 30	18 19 X 21 X X 24 X 26 27 X 29 X 31
2006
January	fcbMiry	March	
8 M T W 1 F S	S U T W T F 8	S M T W T F 5	8 M r W T F 8
1 2 3 4 5 6 7	12 3 4	12 3 4	1
8 9 10 11 12 13 14	5 8 7 8 9 10 11	5 6 7 8 9 10 11	2 3 4 5 6 7 8
15 16 17 18 19 X 21	12 13 14 15 16 17 IB	12 13 14 15 16 17 18	9 10 11 12 13 14 1fl
X X 24 25 X 27 X	19 X 21 X X 24 25	19 X 21 X X 24 X	16 17 15 19 X 21 X
X X 31	X 27 X	X 27 X X X 31	X 24 X X 27 X X X
1 2 3 4 & a	12 3
?	S	9	10	11	12	13	4	i	e	7	B	9	10
14	15	16	1?	16	19	20	11	12	13	14	15	15	17
21	22	23	24	25	26	27	11	IS	X	21	22	23	24
X	«	»	31	2520	27	25	29	30
2	3	4	5	6	7	6
9	10	11	12	13	14	15
16	17	16	19	20	71	22
23	24	25	26	27	26	29
30 31
August 8	M	T	W	T	F	3
1	2	3	4	5
6	7	6	9	10	11	12
13	14	15	16	17	16	19
20	21	22	23	24	25	26
27	28	29	X	31
September
3	M	T	W	T	F	9
1 2
3	4	5	6	7	8	9
10	11	12	13	14	15	16
17	16	19	20	21	U	23
24	25	26	27	28	29	X
October
5	M	T	W	7	F	8
1	2	3	4	5	6	7
69	10	11	12	13	14
15	16	1?	16	19	20	21
22	23	24	25	26	27	28
29 30 31
Nowmbrf
S	M	T	W	T	F	3
12 3 4 fl	6	7	6	9	10	11
12	13	14	15	16	17	15
19	20	21	22	23	24	25
26	27	28	29	X
Decamber 8 M T W T F 9
10	11	12	13	14	15	16
17	18	19	X	21	X	X
24	25	26	27	25	29	30
31
-66-
2007
WTFS 2 4 5 6 10 11 12 11 17 11 19 20 24 25 26 27 31
Febrwry
S	M	T	W	T	F	S
1	2	3
4	5	6	7	6	9	10
11	12	13	14	15	16	17
16	19	20	21	22	23	24
25	26	27	28
M*fcbi
SMTWTFS 1	2	3
4	5	6	7	6	9	10
11	12	13	14	15	16	17
18	19	20	21	22	23	24
25	26	27	28	29	30	31
Aprlk SMTWTFS 1	2	3	4	5	6	7
8	9	10	11	12	13	14
15	16	17	18	19	20	21
22	23	24	25	26	27	28
29 30
June	Wy
WTFS	SMTWTFS	S	M
2 3 4 5	1 2	1 2
9	10	11	12	3456789	89
16	17	18	19	10 11 12 13 14 15 16	15	16
23	24	2 5	26	17 18 1 9 20 21 22 23	22	23
30	31	24 25 26 27 28 29 30	29	30
August TWTFS	SMTWTFS
3 4 5 6 7	1 2 3 4
10	11	12	13	14	5	6	7	8	9	10	11
17	M	19	20	21	12	13	14	15	16	17	18
24	2 5	26	27	28	1 9	20	2 1	22	23	24	25
31	26	27	26	29	30	31
October
WTFS SMTWTFS 1	1 2 3 4 5 6
5	6	7	6	7	6	9	10	11	12	13
12	13	14	15	14	15	16	17	18	19	20
19	20	21	22	21	Z2	23	24	25	26	27
26	27	28	29	28	29	30	31
November
SMTWTFS 1	2	3
4	5	6	?	8	9	10
11	12	13	14	15	16	17
16	19	20	21	22	23	24
25	28	27	26	29	30
December SMTWTFS
2	3	4	5	6	7	8
9	10	11	12	13	14	15
16	17	1«	19	20	21	22
23	24	25	28	27	28	29
30 31
2008
Februvy WTFS SMTWTFS 2 3 4 5	1 2
9	10	11	12	3	4	5	5	7	8	9
16	17	18	19	10	11	12	13	14	15	16
23	24	2 5	26	17	18	19	20	21	22	23
30	31	24	25	26	27	28	29
Mirch SMTWTFS
2	3	4	5	6	7	6
9	10	11	12	13	14	15
16	17	1 8	19	20	21	22
23	24	25	26	27	28	29
30 31
1	2	3	4	5
6	7	6	9	10	11	12
13	14	15	16	17	18	19
20	21	22	23	24	25	26
27	2 6	29	30
June WTFS SMTWTFS 12	3	12	3	4	5	8	7
7 6	9	10	8	9	10	11	12	13	14
14 15	16	17	15	16	17	IB	19	20	21
21 22	23	24	22	23	24	25	26	27	2B
28 29	30	31	29	30
July	August
SMTWTFS	SMTWTFS
1 2 3 4 5	1 2
6789	10	11	12	3456789
13	14	15	16	17	18	19	10	11	12	13	14	15	16
20	21	22	23	24	25	26	17	18	19	20	21	22	23
27	2 8	29	30	31	24	25	26	27	28	29	30
31
October WTFS	SMTWTFS
3 4 5 6	1 2 1 4
10	11	12	13	5	6	7	8	9	10	11
17	W	19	20	12	13	14	15	16	1?	18
24	25	26	27	19	20	21	22	23	24	25
26	27	28	29	30	31
btovember	December
SMTWTFS SMTWTFS
1	1 2 3 4 5 6
2	3	4	5	6	7	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13
9	10	fl	12	13	M	15	14	15	18	17	18	19	20
16	17	18	1 9	20	21	22	21	22	2 3	24	25	26	27
23	24	25	28	27	28	29	28	29	30	31
30
■67-