*03/31/2005 15:01 FAX 571642072?
CISVA ADMIN
* CISCOR
0002X03?
,j ■
:;v3
Collective Bargaining Agreement
between
Coastal International Security, Inc. (CIS)
And
International Union, Security, Police and Fire Professional of America And its amalgamated Local #287
OBA - CIS and SPFPA 2004- 2007
I of 24

.03/31/2005 15:01 FAX 5716420729
CISVA AOMIN
-> CISCOR	0 003/033
ARTICLE I
SCOPE OF AGREEMENT
SECTION LI
This Agreement is entered into by and between Coastal International Security, Inc,, hereinafter referred to as the "Company/ and the International Union, Security, Police and Fire Professionals of America, hereinafter referred to as the’TJnion."
The Company hereby recognized the Union as the sole bargaining ajjeut for all of its non-supervisory Employees within the unit working for the DLpuuncaft'ofGowiTnnrra at The Herbert 0'	IJoovojr Duflding, Bowie Computer Center, Washington Plaza I & I!, and Silver Hills Executive
Plaza in Washington DC, excluding all other employees Including c fifice clerical employees and professional employees as defined in the National Labor Relations i-toL
It is in the mutual interests of the Employees and the Company to promote and further the . efficiency and economy of operations, to provide orderly collective bargaining relations, a method for the prompt and equitable disposition of grievances, and a method for the s"'	establishment of fair wages, hours and working conditions for the Employees covered hereunder.
In making this Agreement, it is recognized to be the duty of the P arties to cooperate folly with each other, both Individually and collectively, for the advancement of the purposes of tills Agreement
( , SECTION 1.2 DEFINITIONS
Whenever the words "Employee" or "Employees” are used in this ajpeement they designate only such employees as are covered by tills agreement
SECTION 13 PROBATIONARY EMPLOYEES
Newly hired employees shall be classified as probationary employees for a period of one hundred twenty (120) days from date of hire. During their probationary period, Employees may be subject to discipline or discharge at the sole discretion, of the Employer, without regard to the provisions of Articles VII and VIH of this Agreement All other provisions of this Agreement are applicable to probationary employees.
SECTION 1.4 TEMPORARY EMPLOYEES
Based on the written direction of the Government, the Employe: shall have the right to hire temporary employees who shall be excluded from the seniority prorisions of Article XVI of this Agreement At the time of hire, the Employer will inform the temporary employee that they are temporary and explain the conditions of employment. A temporary employee may work for a period not to exceed in the aggregate throe (3) months. The said thtue (3) month period referred to in the preceding sentence may be extended for up to an additioi:uil three (3) month period at the writtea request of the Government. Any employee hired as n permanent employee after
CHA - ( IS :md SPFPA 2004- 2007
2 of 24
03/31/2005 15:01 FAX 5716420723
CISVA ADMIN
* CISCOR	0004/033
working as ft temporary, win accrue seniority that will include their time as a temporary employee.
ARTICLED
UNION SECURITY AND MEMBERS!;!!?
SECTION2A UNION SECURITY
It shall be a condition of employment that all Employees of tine company covered by this Agreement, who are members of the Union in good standing cm the effective date of tills Agreement, shall remain members in good standing. Those wiio are not members on the effective date of this Agraement shall, on or after the thirtieth (30th) day following the effective date of this Agreement or the execution date, whichever comes later, bec ome and remain members in good standing nf thft Union. It shall be a condition of employmimt that all employees of the Company covered by this Agreement and hired on or after its effective dale or execution date, whichever conies later, shall on or after the thirtieth (30th) day fol lowing the beginning of such employment became and remain members in good standing of the Union. It shall be the responsibility of the Union to enroll new members and forward such enrollment to the Company for payroll action.
The Company will not discipline, enforce or take any other action against an employee as a result issues arising from the union’s enforcement of this clause,
SECTION 23	PROHIBITIONS BY LAW
The provisions of Section 2.1 above shall be deemed to be of no force and effect in any state whose law governs this contract to the extent to which the malting or enforcement of such provisions is contrary to Statutes, constitutional amendment or the law of such state; provided, however, that whenever any such court of last resort having jurisd iction of such questions finds the state law to be invalid or inapplicable, the provisions of Section 2.1 above shall immediately thereupon be deemed to cover this bargaining unit or employe es directly affected by such declaration of invalidity.
SECTION 23
If the provisions of Section 2.1 above shall be deemed to be of no force and effect, the following shall govern: Employees who ate members of the Union on tlie date of execution of this Agreement, and Employees who join the Union subsequent to the execution hereof, shall retain their membership in the Union as a condition of employment during the term thereof
SECTION24	UNION DUES
With the individual written authorization for the Company to male such deductions, signed by the Employees, the Employer will deduct from the wages of any Employee covered by this Agreement said Employee's voluntary dues payment Such authorization form shall be provided by the Union. The Employer will pay over to the local Financial Searetaiy/Treasurer of the
CBA - CIS and SPFPA 2004- 2007
3 of 24
03/31/2005 15:01 FAX 571B420729
CISVA ADMIN
* CISCOR
@005/033
Union the wages withheld for such initiation fees and dues. The remittance shall be accompanied by a list showing individual names, social security numbers, dates hired, and amounts deducted. The total remittances are to be made not later than fifteen (15) days after the last day of the momh for which deductions were made. The Union shall advise tite Company of the amount of initiation foes and dues and the manner in which same shall Im deducted. The amount so withheld, less any amounts due to improper withholding, shall be r eported and paid to the Union monthly.
SECTION 2.5	LEAVES OF ABSENCE
Payment of membership dues shall not be required as a condition of employment during leaves of absence without pay In excess of thirty (30) days or during periods of permanent transfer to a classification not covered by tins Agreement
SECTION 2.6	TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT
Jri the event of termination of employment, there shall be no obli gation upon the Employer to collect dues until all other deductions have been made.
SECTION!,! EMPLOYEELIST
The Employer’s Site Manager will make available to the Union a list of newly hired and terminated Employees covered by this Agreement Such list will Im prepared monthly and will show tiie name, social security number, job classification and hue or termination date of such Employees who were hired or terminated during the month for w hich the list is prepared. This list shall be made available to the shop stewards,
SECTION 2.8	JOB OPENINGS
The Employer shall notify the Union of all job openings witirin frie bargaining unit covered by tills agreement that the Employer chooses to fifl. The Union n iay refer applicants for such openings. In interviewing and hiring for such job openings, the Employer will not discriminate against any applicant referred by the Union. However, nothing in tills contract shall be construed to create an exclusive hiring hall arrangement, and the Employer shall at all times be free to advertise and list said job openings from any sources available to ttie Employer,
SECTION 2.9	JOB QUALIFICATIONS
The Employer shall be the judge of the qualifications of Its Employees. Any Employee who disputes the Employer's determination of qualifications can submit a grievance on that issue.
SECTION 2.10	INDEMNIFICATION
The Union agrees to indemnify and save the Employer harmless against any claim, suits, judgments or liabilities of any sort whatsoever arising out of the Employer's compliance with the provisions of Sections 2.1-2.8 of this Union Security and Metnbersmp Article.
SECTION 2.11	MEETINGS
CHA-CIS aiul SPl-’PA 2004- 2007
-1 of 24
03/31/2005 15:01 FAX 5716420729
CISVA ADMIN
+ CISCOR
@009/033
The Employer shall hold a quarterly meeting with the officers of the Union and representatives from the Company to exchange information and concerns. At a minimum, the Site Manager (Project Manager or Contract Manager and/or Operations Manager) will represent the Employer. At a minimum, the local President, both Vice Presidents, and the Unit Chair Person will represent the Union. The Union will request such meetings in writting to the Site Manager. Such requests will include an agenda of issues to be discussed. Th>» Site Manager will reply establishing the time and place of the meeting. The Company will not pay the Union’s Representatives for time spent in tills regard
ARTICLE JU
NON DISCWMINATION/NON-HARASShfENT
The Employer and Union agree that there shall be no diserhntaittion or harassment by the Employer or the Union against employees because of race, color, creed, religion, national origin, sex, age, disability, marital or other status as protected by applicable law, or because of their involvement in or refraining from participating in Union activities except as required by Article H of this Agreement
Employees with disabilities who require accommodation should contact the Employer's s Corporate HR Department which is located at the Employer’s Corporate Headquarters.
ARTICLE IV
MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
Subject only to such limitations as may be imposed by this Agreement and applicable statute, the Company retains the sole and exclusive right to manage its business and to direct the working force, including but not limited to the right to schedule work, to determine shifts, to assign work and working hours to employees, to determine the amount and location of work, to determine the type of services performed, to establish reasonable quality and performance standards, to determine the most efficient means of providing service, to require every employee to comply with normal, reasonable operating procedures, to formulate and enforce reasonable Company rules and regulations which are equitably applied, to hire mnptoytta, to discipline (including discharge) for just cause, to promote, demote, layoff and transfer employees, to maintain the discipline and efficiency of employees, to judge drill, ability and physical fitness in a reasonable, nondiscriminatory manner, to control and regulate the use of all equi pment and other property of the Company and/or the Government and subcontract work at the convenience of the Government; provided, however, that with respect to any action vihich results in a change in established work rules, existing hours of work or the size of the work force, the Company shall give such prior notice to the Union as feasible and shall negotiate v -ith the Union upon request Further, the Company may have its supervisors or managers perform bargaining unit work if no bargaining unit employee is available or eligible to perform the duties in question. The Company explicitly retains any and all rights which are not covered by this Agreement and which it previously exercised.
(‘BA CIS and SPFPA 2004- 2007
5 of 24
03/31/2005 15:01 FAX 5716420729
CISVA ADMIN
♦ CISCOR
@007/033
ARTICLE V
EMPLOYEE CLASSIFICATIONS
An Employee who regularly works sixty-four (64) hours or moire in a pay period shall be classified as a full-time employee. An Employee who regularly wcrrks less than sixty-four (64) hours per pay period shall be classified as a part-time employee. "Regularly works” is defined as working sixty-four (64) or more hours in st least seven (7) of the bi-weekly pay periods in a six (6) month period. The term "hours" as used herein includes houni paid for vacation, holidays, sick leave, bereavement leave and Jury duty.
In any event, an Employee who works less than an average of sixteen (16) hours per week in any thirty (30) day period shall receive written notice front the Employer, with a copy of such notice sent to the Union, and shall have ten (10) days from the mailing of that notice to contact the Employer to attempt to increase hours wnked to sixteen (16) o:r more hours per week. The failure of the Employee to contact the Employer in such a matter may, at the Employer's sole discretion, result in the Employee’s termination. All Employees will be notified of this requirement at the time of hiring. This provision shall not require the Employer to modify any work schedules.
ARTICLE VI
WORK WEEK AND HOURS OF WORK
SECTION 6.1 WORKWEEK
The workweek shall be from 0001 hours Sunday until 2400 hours Saturday. Wages shall be paid bi-weekly on the second Friday following 1he end of the pay-period
SECTION 6a SCHEDULING OF WORK
The Employer shall schedule the hours of work of Employees at least two (2) weeks in advance, except in circumstances beyond the Employer's control Nothing shall preclude the Employer from scheduling employees to work ten (10) or twelve (12) hour shifts.
SECTION 63 BREAKS
Employees who work shifts of more than four (4) hours and less than eight (8) hours shall receive a fifteen minute paid break during their shift
Employees who work shifts of eight (8) or more hours shall receive a thirty minute paid lunch and two fifteen (15) minute paid breaks during their shift.
In addition, Employees shall be provided with breaks for emergency purposes as reasonably required.
(’BA -CIS and SPH>A 2U04-20U7
6 of 24
03/31/2005 15:01 FAX 5716420729
CISVA ADMIN
+ CISCOR
@006/033
SECTION 6.4 OVERTIME
Overtime pay is to be paid st the rate of one and one-half (1%) times the basic hourly straight time rate for all hours worked over 40 hours in a workweek. A workday dull be defined as from 0001 hours until 2400 hours. There will not be any pyramiding of hours worked. Paid vacation time, personal/sick or holiday time dull not be counted as hours worked in the calculation of overtime. The opportunity to work overtime shall be provided consistent with the Employer’s business needs and circumstances and must be authorized in advance by the Employer.
When the Employer has less than twenty-four (24) hours notice of its need to provide coverage, the Employer shall have the right to require an Employee, who normally performs the work, to remain on duty until relieved and/or to require an available Employee to provide such coverage, as conditions warrant
When foe Employer has advance knowledge that overtime will be required, it will offer such work to available, qualified Employees, by rotation, in order of seniority within their respective Agencies, Should the most senior Employee (s) reject the overtime opportunity, the Employer shall offer foe work to the next available, qualified Employee(s) <m the seniority list within the Agency. Rejected overtime shall be considered as “over-time worked” for purposes of seniority distribution. Should an insufficient number of qualified Employees agree to work overtime through this procedure, the Employer may assign overtime to available, qualified Employees by reverse seniority. It is the intent of this procedure that overtime work is distributed among available, qualified Employees within their respective Agencies as equally as possible. For purposes of this Section, an Employee who rejects two consecutive overtime opportunities Is no longer "available."
Overtime work may be offered to part-time Employees if they provide the Employer with a list of days and times during which they are available and willing to w:uk should extra weak become available. However, if a part-time Employee refuses on two separate occasions to work hours offered consistent with such list, other than due to an emergency acceptable to the Employer, the Employer will not have further obligation to offer overtime work to that Employee.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, an Employee shall not be required to remain on duty for more than twelve (12) consecutive hours, except in an emergency situation at when no other Employee is available for relief. The existence of an emergency situation and availability of relief shall be determined at the Employer's reasonable discretion. It is the responsibility of the Employee to advise Supervisors and Management al what point foey will exceed twelve (12) consecutive hours on duty. Employees who foil to ensure Management is advised of the point they will exceed twelve (12) horns of duty are subject to disciplinaiy measures under Article VII of this agreement Should a dispute arise among the Employer, Employee and/or Union regarding foe existence of an emergency situation, or the avaflaldlity of relief, the Employee shall continue working as directed by the Employer.
SECTION 63
Nothing in this Article shall be construed as a guarantee of work, work opportunities, or hours, except as otherwise expressly provided.
CBA CIS and SPFPA 2004- 2007
7 of n4
03/31/2005 15:02 FAX 5716420723
CISVA ADMIN
♦ CISCOR
@009/033
ARTICLE VII
DISOTUNE
SECTION 7,1 PROGRESSIVE DISOTUNE
The Efoiployer flhall not discharge, suspend, or otherwise discipline any Employee covered by this Agreement without just cause. Generally, disciplino shall be applied in the following manner:
a.	With respect to a first offense, such as inattention to duty, die Employee will be given
a verbal reprimand within five (5) days of the date the offense is noted,
b- With respect to a second offense, such as inattention to duty, the Employee will be given a written reprimand within five (5) days of the dabs the offense is noted.
c.	With respect to a third offense, the Employee shall be suspended without pay for a period of one to three days at the sole discretion of the Employer.
d.	With respect to a fourth offense, the Employee shall be terminated.
e.	Any discipline that is more than 15 months old will not Idc considered for progressive
discipline.
SECTION 7 J UNEXCUSED TARDINESS
Discipline for unexcused tardiness of 15 minutes or less shall be applied as follows. This tardiness is defined from the start of their post duties. Management reserves ihe right to reassign scheduled duties to another Officer for that day if the scheduled em ployee is 15 minutes or more late. Unexcused tardiness is defined as failure to call-in, or failure lo provide a verifiable excuse for the tardiness. Acceptable reasons that may result in excused tardiness include, but are not limited to, situations that are outside of the employee’s contol (example: public transit breakdown, weather related delay, sudden serious illness)
a.	With respect to a first unexcused tardiness, the Employee shall be given a verbal reprimand within five (5) days of the date the offense is rtoted.
b.	With respect to a second unexensed tardiness, Ihe Employee shall be given a written reprimand within five (5) days of the date the offense is noted,
c.	With respect to a third unexcused tardiness, the Employee shall be suspended without pay for a period of one to three days at the sole discretion of the Employer.
d.	With respect to a fourth unexcused tardiness, the Employee shall be terminated.
CBA CIS and SPFPA 2004-2007
8 of 21
03/31/2005 15:02 FAX 5718420729
CISVA ADMIN
* CISCOR
0010/033
SECTION 7J CALL-OFF
It shall constitute an offense for an Employee to cancel work (call off) without providing the Employer with a minimum of six (6) hours notice or, if such notice is not possible, as much advance notice as practical under the circumstances. If an Employee foils to report to work without advance notice, and appears more than fifteen (15) minutes after the start of duties or post, they may, in addition to any discipline provided in Section 7Jt of this Article, be sent home without pay. However, the Employee shall not be disciplined if ft Is determined in the Employer's reasonable discretion that the occurrence was foie io circumstances beyond the Employee's control.
Any Employee who foils to provide notice of an absence and foils to appear for work, may, at the Employer's sole discretion, be suspended without pay for a periiod of three days, A second occurrence of tins infraction may, at the Employer's sole discretion, result In the Employee's termination. However, the Employee shall not be terminated if it is determined in the Employer's reasonable discretion that the second occurrence was due to circumstances beyond the &nployee's control (Example; public transit breakdown, weather related delay, sudden serious illness)
Officers who are calling off must have available vacation or sick Leave, and their time off from work will be charged to either vacation or skk leave. Excessive absences will be handled according to the most current Company policy.
SECTION 74 SERIOUS OFFENSES
Notwithstanding the foregoing, an Employee is subject to imniediate discharge for proven offenses to include, but not limited to, the following:
a.	Drinking or being under the influence of alcohol, illegal drags, or controlled substances while on duty.
b.	Use or possession of unlawful drug stimulants or alcohol ic beverages on the job.
c.	Refiisal to submit to drug or alcohol testing as provid ed in the Drug and Alcohol
Testing Policy as may bo required under Article XXVTH of this Agreement.
d.	Weapons:
■	Improper use, misplacement, or loss of a fireaim, ammunition, OC Spray, baton or handcuffs.
■	Unauthorized or unlawfol discharging of a firearm while on duty.
■	Carry a concealed weapon on OSA facilities
■	Un-holstering a weapon except for eminent use to protect your life, the life of another person, ar to prevent the commission iff a felony offense such as murder, rape, armed robbery, kidnapping, etc. Should a Supervisor direct an Officer to un-holster a firearm for any other reason, the Supervisor is held liable for the offense.
( BA -CIS and SPM’A 2004- 2007
<) of 24
03/31/2005 15:02 FAX 5713420728
CISVA ADMIN
♦ CISCOR
@011/033
•	Carrying an issued weapon off the defined property of the contract or in unauthorized areas,
e.	Possession on the job of a private firearm or other weapon not issued by the Employer pursuant to contract
£ Making a willfill false statement on an application for employment, GSA required fonn, a gun permit, or a security clearance.
g. Violations of general or. specific Post Orders or directives to include, but not limited to, inattention to duty, sleeping while on duty or abandoning post
It Neglect of duty, which could cause a claim or penalty to be assessed against the Employer.
1.	Causing or engaging in a strike or work stoppage or e ther conduct in violation of Article X of this Agreement
J,	Falsifying, concealing, removing, mutilating, damaging or destroying official documents or records, except for the systematic purging of files or records at the direction of the Employer in accordance with established timetables.
k.	Committing an assault, including the making or uttering of verbal or physical threats.
1.	Accepting bribes, enabling a person to secure stolen property, or permitting
unauthorized access to classified material.
m.	Engaging in harassment, sexual harassment or discrimin’ttion toward the client, other
Employees, or visitors,
n. Commission of a criminal act that violates any rules , regulations or established practices of the Government
o.	Willfiilly falsifying time records, post logs, incident reports and/or other documents,
p.	Gross insubordination toward the Employer or superviso rs or insubordination toward the client
q.	Improper or unauthorized use of Government equipment
SECTION 7,5 OTHER PROVISIONS
Consistent with the provisions of this Article, the Employer has the right to determine the level and degree of discipline. Disciplinary action shall not be taken without just cause. Under normal circumstances, corrective progressive disciplinary action is taken fol lowing a thorough review of the incident, as is stated in the preceding provisions of this Article, to addition, it may be proper to give an employee one or more written warnings in some cases before giving a disciplinary suspension. In such situations requiring discipline, the circumstances must be known and each
CBA - CIS and SPI PA ->004- 2007
10 of 24
03/31/2005 15:02 FAX 5718420723
CISVA ADMIN	■» CISCOR	0012/033
action taken on the merits of the case. The Employer's failuri; to impose greater or any disciplinary action against an employee shall not be used as the principal evidence to support a grievance by or on behalf of another Employee. The Employer retains the right to suspend an Employee without pay for a limited period of time pending thw outcome of a disciplinary investigation, Should the Employee be exonerated following the; investigation, they will be antitied to hack pay for the work-time scheduled during the period of suspension.
ARTICLE VID
GRIEVANCE AND ARBITRATION PROC EDURE
For purposes of this Article, the word “days" is defined as weekdays (Monday through Friday) and excludes recognized holidays.
SECTION 8.1 DEFINITION
A grievance is defined as a claim or dispute by the Employer or Employe© or the Union concerning the interpretation of the application of tiris Agreement, < ir of any addendum hereto,
SECTIONS^ GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
All grievances must be presented in writing, filed and processed in accordance with the following exclusive procedure:
•	Step 1: The Employee and the Union Shop Steward shall present the grievance or dispute in writing to ihe Employee's Site Manager within five (5) dnys of occurrence or when the Employee knew, or by reasonable diligence should have known, of its occurrence. If the Employee does not notify the Site Manger within the requisite amount of time, or foils to meet any other deadline set forth in this Article, the grievance shall be deemed to have been waived. The Site Manager shall respond to the grievance in writing within ten (10) days. If the Site Manager does not respond within ten (10) days, the grievance may proceed to Step 2.
•	Step 2: If the grievance is not settled at Step 1, the Employee end their Union representative may meet, within seven (7) days of the dal e on which Ihe Site Manager responded or should have responded, with Ihe Employer's Regional Office Assistant Vice President or designee. The Employer’s Assistant Vice President or designee shall respond to the grievance in writing within ten (10) days of this meeting.
•	Step 3: If the grievance is not settled at Step 2, the Union shall, within seven (7) days of receipt of the Contract Manager’s response in Step 2 or the date when the Contract Manager's response was due, present the grievance in writing to th© Employer's Corporate Hitman Resources Department in Surfside Beach, South Carolina. The Employer or their designee shall respond in writing to the grievance within twenty (20) days. The Employer and the Union shall have the right to involve senior management or officials in tiie grievance process at an earlier stage, in their sole discretion.
CBA - CIS and Sl’FPA 2004- 2007
11 of 24
03/31/2005 15:02 FAX 5718420729
CISVA ADMIN
CISCOR
@013/033
•	Step 4: If the grievance is not settled at Step 3, the Union or Company may, within ten (10) days after the receipt of the Employer officer's response; in Step 3, appeal the matter to arbitration. Notice that arbitration is desired shall be serviri upon the Employer within ton (10) days after the Union receives the Employer's Step 3 answer.
Grievances affecting a class or classes of Employees may be initiated by the Union at Step 2.
SECTION 8 J DISCHARGE
A grievance involving discharge of an employee shall be brought directly to Step 2 and must be filed in writing within five (5) days of discharge.
ARTICLE IX
ARBITRATION
SECTION 9.1	SELECTION OF AN ARBITRATOR
Within (10) days after the filing of the notice of the intent to submit the unsettled grievance to arbitration, the parties shall attempt to mutually select an impartid arbitrator. If the parties are unable to agree within five (5) days of that meeting upon the choice of an arbitrator, they shall request the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service to submit a list of five (5) persons qualified to act as the impartial arbitrator. A representative of the Finployer and a representative of the Union shall meet within five (5) days of the receipt of this list and shall alternately strike two (2) names from the list, the party to strike first to bo selected by lot The fifth remaining person shall thereupon be selected as the impartial arbitrator.
SECTION 9.2	ARBITRATION PROCEEDINGS
During the hearing, each party shall have full opportunity to presend: evidence and argument, both oral and documentary. The impartial arbitrator will render the finding and award in writing within thirty (30) calendar days after the conclusion of the hearing. The decision of the impartial arbitrator shall be final and binding. The impartial arbitrator shall have no authority to modify, amend, revise, add to, or subtract from my of the terms or conditions of this Agreement.
SECTION 93	FEES
The tees of the arbitrator and necessary expenses, including tomscript, if desirable, of any arbitration proceeding shall be done equally by the Employer and the Union except that each party shall pay the fees of its own counsel or representative. If an IiJmployee witness is called by the Employer, the Employer will reimburse that Employee for time lost at the regular straight time base rate. If an Employee witness is called by the Union dr if an Employee-grievant is present at the hearing, tire Union will reimburse such personnel for lime lost
SECTION 94	INDIVIDUAL GRIEVANCES
No individual employee may move a grievance to arbitration; only ihe Union may do so.
('BA ('IS and SPIT A 2004- 2007
12 of 24
03/31/2005 15:02 FAX 5T1G420729
CISVA ADMIN
* CISCOR
@014/033
ARTICLE X
NO STRIKE AND NO LOCKOUT
The Employer agrees not to causey permit, or engage in any lockout of its Employees during the term of this Agreement The Union agrees that neither it nor the Employees it represents covered by this Agreement wilt, daring the term of this Agreement, cause, permit, or take part in any strike, including sympathy strike, picketing, or work action. It shall be a violation of this Agreement, and it shall be cause for discharge or suspension, in the event an Employee refuses to enter upon any property involved in a labor dispute involving any employee organization or refuses to go through or work behind any picket lines involving any employee organization at the worksite.
ARTICLE XI
BULLETIN BOARDS
The Employer will seek permission from the government’s contrasting officer for the Union to use bulletin boards available to the Employer at the worksite. There shall be no posting of literature on these bulletin boards except by the authority of officiary designated representatives of the Union,
ARTICLE XU
STEWARDS
SECTION 12.1 UNION STEWARDS
The Union shall designate a Union Steward for each site. Additionally, the Union shall designate one (1) alternate Steward who shall serve in the regular Steward’s absence or unavailability, The Union shall notify the Employer of foe selection of Stewards within ten (10) days of such selections. The Shop Steward shall not interfere with foe management of the business or direct any work of any Employee, but may advise foe (Company of any violations of foe Agreement and also notify the Employee participating thereixu Prior to leaving foe work area, a Shop Steward will coordinate with the appropriate supervisor. Shop Stewards will not leave foe work area during rush hours.
The Union Steward shall conduct Union business during non-woridiig hours unless the Employer schedules a meeting, including but not limited to any interview with unit Employee which could lead to discipline, during working hours at which a Steward is to be present In the event the Employer does schedule such a meeting during the Steward's working hours, the time spent by foe Steward in connection therewith shall be treated and paid as working hours. The Company shall otherwise make its supervisors and Site Manager available during the Union Steward’s non-woridng hours to meet with foe Union Steward regarding grievance and other problems which may arise.
CBA - CIS and SPH’A 2004- 2007
13 of 24
03/31/2005 15:03 FAX 5716420?Ort
CISVA ADMIN
* CISCOR
0015/033
SECTION 1X2 REPRESENTATION BY SHOP STEWARDS) OR UNION OFFICER
Any conference between an Employee and an Einployer representative during which discipline is expected to be	must at the request of the affected employee, be conducted in the
presence of an authorized Union officer or Shop Steward.
SECTION 123	AUTHORITY OF STEWARDS
The authority of Stewards shall be limited to the investigation and representation of grievances in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement and the tzansrrission of such messages and information, which shall originate with and are authorized by the Union or its officers,
SECTION 124	UNION SENIORITY
Union stewards shall be entitled to top union seniority at fee facility to fee fullest extent allowed by law.
ARTICLE XHI
COURT APPEARANCES
Court or administrative appearances necessitated by job-related occurrences or incidents shall be compensated for felly at fee rates specified in this Agreement, less any monies received from fee Court However, other court, administrative or grievance procedure and/or arbitration appeal appearances shall not be paid by fee Employer, unless fee Employer has requested fee employee to be present
ARTICLE XIV
JURY DUTY
An employee summoned to serve on a jury shall receive up to a maximum of 3 paid days for time saved on Jury Duty. The employee mast provide a copy of ithe summons to Jury Duty to the Company.
ARTICLE XV
LEAVES OF ABSENCE
SECTION 15.1 MATERNITY AND SICK LEAVE (FMLA)
AU provisions of this Aztide shall be applied in a manner consistent with fee Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993. Eligible non-probationary Employees will be granted up to twdve
CBA - CIS and SPFPA 2004- 2007
14 of 24
03/31/2005 15:03 FAX 5716420729
CISVA ADMIN
CISCOR
0019/033
(12)	weeks of unpaid leave for tiirir own serious illness, for the birth or adoption of a child, or the care of a seriously ill child, spouse or parent. All eligible Employees must have been employed for one year and woriced a minimum of 1250 horns in the preceding twelve (12) months.
Whenever an Employee who is pregnant or otherwise rick cannoi: perform their duty safely or efficiently, foe Employee shall trice a leave of absence. An Employee who takes such maternity or sick leave must elect to utilize as much paid rick leave as they have accrued. During such leave of absence, the Employee shall retain their existing seniority and shall continue to accrue seniority. Maternity and sick leave will not exceed twelve (12) weeks following delivery or onset of illness or iryury.
SECTION IS	3 PERSONAL LEAVE WITHOUT PAY
An employee may request personal leave without pay for any personal purpose for a period of up to six (6) months. It is within the Employees sole discretion whether such requests will be granted. Neither seniority nor benefits shall accrue during such j>ersonal leave. Requests for such leave must be In writing and, when possible, made at least tventy-one (21) calendar days prior to commencement of the leave. The leave request shall state the reason for and length of tiie desired leave. Employees on leave of absence for personal reasons who accept other employment during such leave shall be considered to have rerigned Employees in this status are responsible for nuhxtahring their training and credentials in a current status so they may return to work at the end of their absence. Upon giving two (2) weeks notice of intent to return to work, an Employee shall be scheduled to report to their former job or an equal job within two (2) weeks of foe Employer's receipt of such notice. If no job is available on the Employee's former shiftor at their former she, they may be put on any shift at any site, but will be returned to their former shift or rite as soon as an opening is available, consistent wi th the Employer's scheduling needs.
SECTION 153	BEREAVEMENT LEAVE
Employees shall be entitled to paid Bereavement Leave as set forth in the applicable addendum hereto.
SECTION 154	MILITARY LEAVE
Employees enlisting in or entering the military service of foe United States pursuant to the provisions of the Uniformed Services Employment and Re-employment Rights Act, and amendments thereto, shall be granted all rights and privileges provided by that Act It is the responsibility of the Employee to provide the Company all applicable orders and documents prior to departure.
ARTICLE XVI
SENIORITY
CHA • CIS and SPI-I’A 2004- 2007
15 ol' 24
03/31/2005 15:03 FAX 571B420729
CISVA ADMIN
♦ CISCOR
0017/033
SECTION 16.1 SENIORITY LISTS
Seniority shall be defined as an Employee’s total length of continuous service with the Employer from the Employee’s date of hire by the Employer at any location or iby any predecessor contractor perforating similar services at the same facility.
The Employer’s Site Manager shall provide the Union with copies of all seniority lists at least once every six months. For purposes of this Article, ’’qualified" shall mean that the Employee meets all requirements, including but not limited to security clearances, established by the pertinent Government agency for which services are being or will be performed
SECTION 16 J TEMPORARY ADDITIONAL SERVICES (TJiS)
Due to the high priority of Temporary Additional Services ("TAS") and the short lead time the Government provides to the Employer in connection with TAS, thtf Employer may fin all TAS positions without posting and, if there is insufficient time between iSovernment notification and implementation of TAS to follow the provisions of Section B hei'Bof, regardless of seniority. Once an Employee is scheduled to perform TAS duties, he or she is obligated to perform those duties as scheduled. Failure to perform TAS duties as scheduled may be addressed in Section VII, Discipline, of this document
SECTION 163 PROMOTIONS
Tn the event that a higher level job becomes available, first preference shall be given to the most senior Employee who is available and qualified to perform the duties thereof. IC within ninety (90) days of Such promotion, an Employee foils to satisfy the Employer’s requirements for the position or the Employee does not wish to continue in foe position to which promoted, such Employee may elect to be returned to his or her prior position in the bargaining unit.
SECTION 16,4 REDUCTION IN FORCE
In the event of any layoff within the bargaining writ, the Employees with the least seniority shall be laid off first, provided that there remain enough qualified Employees to fill all remaining positions and provided further that any Employee who is qualified :>nly for the posltion(s) being eliminated will be laid off regardless of seniority. Any full- time Employee who is laid off may elect to work a part-time shift, and any Employee laid off from a lilgher job classification may elect to bump an Employee from a lower job classification for which the electing Employee is otherwise qualified.
SECTION 163 RECALL
All laid off Employees will be recalled in order of seniority to (jositions for which they are qualified. Upon recall, no seniority will be credited for the layoff period, but the Employee shall retain seniority possessed at the time of layoff No new Employee will be hired at the facility until all qualified laid off Employees have been recalled and all qualified laid off Employees have been offered the position^) involved.
It is the Employee’s responsibility to keep the Employer advised of Pus or her current address.
CBA CIS and SIWA 2004- 2007
16 of 24
03/31/2005 15.03 FAX 5716420723
CISVA ADMIN
+ CISCOR
@018/033
If a recalled Employee does not respond within seven (7) calendar days of receipt of such notice \ or if such is returned to the Employer because the Employee failed to keep the Employer informed of his or her current address, said Employee shall be considered to have voluntarily quit; with no right to flume recall.
SECTION 1&6 LOSS OF SENIORITY
An Employee who Is laid off for reasons other than the Employer’s loss of the procurement contract to pxxjvide services at the facility will retain seniority for one year. The Employer will have no obligation to recall any Employee who is on layoff at aurin time as the Employer (or any subcontractor thereof) ceases to employ security personnel at the facility. Any Employee who voluntarily quits or who has been, termbwted for cause shall lose al? prior seniority.
SECTION 16.7 SHIFT AND POST REASSIGNMENT
In the event that the Employer determines It is necessary to rotate linployees among posts, every reasonable effort shall be made to assign Employees during tie same shift in which they working. All reasonable effort will be made, consistent with the necessity to provide services required by foe Government at foe facility, to assign Employees in such a manner as will not disrupt established child care arrangements, as well as family or other work obligations. Assignments arc to be made in an unbiased manner, and consistent with the Employees’ seniority. To the extent any conflict should arise between or among Employees concerning the shift to which they are reassigned, said conflict will be resolved by seniority, with the most senior Employee^) having first choice of shift
SECTTON1&8 TRANSFERS
The Employer has no obligation to transfer Employees from one work site to another, regardless of the tanrination of any Government procurement contract However, should foe Employer transfer an Employee from one facility to another, that Employee shall retain foe same seniority date as at the facility from which transferred.
ARTICLE XVH
VOLUNTARY RESIGNATION
An Employee shall be deemed to have voluntarily resigned employment with foe Employer If:
a.	The Employee accepts employment in a management capacity with a competitor of foe Employer while still employed by foe Employer.
b.	The Employee foils to report for work as scheduled, arid foils to contact the PM or Contract Manager, for five (5) consecutively scheduled vrork days.
c.	The Employee foils to report for work within two (2) days after foe expiration of mi authorized period of absence without a telephone call or other explanation, unless it is
CBA - CIS and SITPA 20(14- 2007
17 of 24
03/31/2005 15:03 FAX 5718420729
CISVA ADMIN
* CISCOR	0018/033
determined by the Employer, in its reasonable dlscretion, that there was an emergency which reasonably prevented the Employee from properly notifying the Employer.
d
e.
The Employee foils to respond within seven (7) day it of the Employer's notice of recall unless the Employer determines, in its sole discretion, that there was an emergency which reasonably prevented the Employe;; from properly notifying the Employer.
The employee is negligent and foils to maintain required certifications and training to be qualified for coatinued employment
ARTICLE XVHI
TRAINING AND RE-OUALIBTCAT1ON
SECTION 1S.1 HRST AID AND CPR TRAINING
The Employer agrees to pay Employees at their regular rate of pay for up to eight (8) hours of training in CPR and First Aid each year, as may be necessary for the Employee to qualify or re-qualify as a guard at the Employer*s facility. Failure to attend the required training will subject die Employee to disciplinary action as set forth in Article VH of thin Agreement
SECTION 1S4 PHYSICAL EXAMINATION
If an employee foils to appear for or obtain their government-required physical examination prior to the time by which It must be obtained, the Employee shall be subject to an administrative leave without pay for a period not to exceed thirty (30) days. If the Employee does not satisfactorily pass their physical within tins thirty (30) day periodthey shall be considered as having voluntarily quit. However, the fidlure to obtain a physical examination will not be considered a voluntary quit if such failure is attributable to circunwtances, which, are beyond the Employee’s control
SECTION 183 TRAINING
Under GSA standards, Employees are required to take regular training courses to stay qualified to work at the facility. These courses may include for example orientation, re-certification, collapsible baton, and T-3 testing. While attending those courses, the Employees will be paid straight time wages. Training time will not be used to calculate over-time for hours worked. If an Employee foils to appear for any scheduled training, they will be subject to disciplinary action as set forth in Article VH of this Agreement
ARTICLE XIX
CBA CIS and SPl'PA 2004- 20U7
18 of 24
03/31/2005 15:03 FAX 5716420729
CISVA ADMIN
CISCOR
0020/033
EQUIPMENT
( SECTION 19.1 UNIFORMS
Hie Employer shall provide at no cost to all new Employeefl tiosa items listed in Employer's General Service Administration guard service contract for the facility, Upon termination of employment, the clothing and equipment initially issued to ihe Employee shall be returned to toe Employer,
Employees may purchase replacement items from toe Employer at cost. Such articles shall be paid for by deductions from toe Employees' pay. The Employer shall replace any parte of the uniform that show evidence of normal wear and tear or are damag ed in the line of duty, provided it has been reported to the Shift Supervisor within foe shift period when toe incident occurred. The Employer has the right to deduct from the Employee’s final paycheck an amount to cover the cost of any unretumed clothing or equipment or foe cost of clean ing uniforms that are returned soiled.
SECTION 194 WEAPONS
The Employer agrees to implement a maintenance program for till Employer-owned weapons. Pursuant to this program, aU weapons shall be checked, cleaned, and, if necessary, repaired or replaced. If an Employee has knowledge that their weapon is not in proper condition, the Employee shall immediately report to their supervisor for replacement of it
ARTICLE XX
SUCCESSORS
The Employer shall give notice of the existence of Ais Agreement to any purchaser, transferee, lessee, assignee!, etc., of foe operation covered by this Agreement or any part thereof Such notice shall be in writing with a copy to the Union at toe time the seller and purchaser, transferee, or lessee execute a contract or transaction as herein described.
ARTICLE XXI
SUBCONTRACTING
For the purposes of preserving work and job opportunities for the employees covered by this agreement, ihe Employer agrees, where reasonably possible, to provide the Union with at least seven (7) calendar days notice prior to subcontracting , any of the work or services of the kind, nature or type presently performed or provided by the Employer. A subcontractor will be bound by the terms of tins agreement The Employer will inform the subcontractor of tills agreement prior to signing the subcontract
CBA - CIS and SPFPA 2004- 20U7
19 of 24
03/31/2005 15:03 FAX 571B420T29
CISVA ADMIN
+ CISCOR
@021/033
ARTICLE XXn HOLIDAYS
Employees shall be entitled to paid Holidays as set forth in the applicable addendum hereto.
ARTICLE XXm
VACATION
Employees shall be entitled to paid vacation as set forth in the npplicable addendum hereto. Vacation is available to Employees as It becomes available, not as it is accrued.
ARTICLE XXIV
SICK LEAVE
Employees shall be entitled to paid sick leave as set forth in the ;;ipplicable addendum hereto. Sick Leave is available to Employees as it becomes available, not as it is accrued.
ARTICLE XXV
HEALTH AND WELFARE
The Company shall pay the health and welfare benefits as set forth in the applicable addendum hereto, not to exceed eight (8) hours worked per day or forty (40) hours worked per week for each Employee.
ARTICLE XXVI
WAGES
The schedule of effective wage rates and job classifications for Employees is set forth in the applicable addendum hereto,
ARTICLE XXVH
ADDITIONAL EMPLOYEE BENEFITS PROGRAMS
From time to time, the Employer offers to its Employees supplemental employee benefits programs. In most cases, these benefits are offered on a company wide basis. Such programs
CB/X - (’IS and SPPPA 2004- 2007
20 of 24
03/31/2005 15:04 FAX 5716420728
CISVA ADMIN
CISCOR
0022/033
include supplemental medical benefits, life insurance and others. 'Ihe Employer will inform the Union when it plans to offer such a program.
ARTICLE XXVm
DRUG AND ALCOHOL POLICY
The parties recognize that in the security business, the use of alcohol or controlled substances which cause intoxication or impairment , expose the Employer, the affected Employee, coworioers and the public to high risks. An Employee cannot perform duties adequately if under the influence of drugs or intoxicants. It is the Employer's policy to maintain a drug-free work place. The Employer and die Union agree to the attached Drug and Alcohol policy, labeled Appendix 1. The Employer may establish a random drug-testing program, provided it is fully in accordance with all applicable statutes and government regulations.
ARTICLE XXIX
MISCELLANEOUS
SECTION 294 FULFILLMENT OF HIGHER-LEVEL POSH IONS
The Employer, for reasons of business necessity, may temporarily (not to exceed thirty (30) days per year) request lower level employees to fill highet^level positions, When Employees are asked to do so, they will receive the rate of pay attributable to the position
SECTION 29.2 PERSONNEL FILES
Employees may, upon reasonable notice, review their own personn el files under the supervision of the Administrative Assistant at the facility. If an Employee is reviewing the file in connection with a pending grievance, upon the Employee’s request, a Union Steward shall be permitted to be present during the review. Under no circumstances may an Employee remove, copy or alter the contents of their file
CBA - CIS and SP1TA 2004- 2007
21 of 24
03/31/2005 15:04 FAX 5716420729
CISVA ADMIN
♦ CISCOR
@023/033
ARTICLE XXX
SEPARABILITY AND SAVINGS
If any Article or Section of this Agreement or any Riders or Attachments thereto should be held invalid by operation of law or by any tribunal of competent jurisdiction, or if compliance with or enforcement of any Article or Section should be restrained by such tribunal pending a final determination as to its validity, the remainder of this Agreement arid of any Rider thereto, or the application of such Article or Section to persons or circumstances other than those as to which it has been held invalid, or as to which compliance with or enforcement of has been restrained, shall not be affected thereby.
In the event that any Article or Section is held invalid or enforcemmt of or compliance with has been restrained as above set forth, the Employs* and the Union itgree to enter into immediate collective bargaining negotiations, upon the request of the Uni:>n or the Employer, for the purpose of arriving at a mutually satisfactory replacement for such Article or Section during the period of invalidity or restraint If the Parties do not agree on a mutually satisfactory replacement, either Party shall be permitted ail legal or economic recourse in support of its demands, notwithstanding any provisions of tills Agreement to the contrary.
CBA - C IS and SPITA 2004- 2OQ7
27 uf 24
03/31/2005 15:04 FAX 5716420729
CISVA ADMIN
♦ CISCOR
@024/033
ARTICLE XXXI
DURATION OF AGREEMENT
Uns Agreement shall become effective December 1,2004, and shall continue in full force and effect until November 30,2007 and shall renew itself each successive year thereafter unless written notice of an intended change is served in accordance with tlie Labor Management Relations Act, as amended, by either party hereto at least sixty (60'1 days but not more than ninety (90) days prior to the termination date of the contract
CBA CIS and SPFPA 2004- 2007
23 of 24
03/31/2005 15:04 FAX 5716420729
CISVA ADMIN
♦ CISCOR
@025/033
IN WITNESS, WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this /agreement this 1st day of December, 2004.
FOR:	eT/0/7/^.Local#_________
BY:-----------------
TITLE:_
DATE: jhO^^y
FOR: ,Local#___________________
BY:_________________
TITLE:____________
DATE:___________________
DATE;
(BA - ('IS and SPFPA 2<H)4- 2007
24 nf 24
Appendix B
Addendum to Collective Bargaining Agreement
Whereas, Coastal International Security, Inc (hereinafter referred to as “the Company”) and the International Union Security, Police, and Fire Professionals of America (SPFPA) Local 287 (hereinafter referred to as “the Union”) entered Into this Agreement effective 4/1/2006
Whereas, the Union has been duly designated by the Company’s non-supervisory employees working at the Department of Commerce, Census Sites, in Washington DC as their collective bargaining representative, and
Whereas, the aforementioned Agreement provides for the Company and the Union to negotiate wages and fringe benefits for each facility covered thereby and to enter in to an Addendum setting forth those economic terms.
Now therefore, updates arc agreed to as follows:
HEALTH & WELFARE
The Employer agrees to pay employees covered by this agreement ai the following rates:
Effective April 1,2006	$2.87 per regular hour worked up to 40 hours per week
** The parties agree that either party may reopen negotiations for amendments to Appendix “A” Health & Welfare Allowance at any time after Fcbuary 1 and before March 1, for all years governed by this contract, by giving written notice to the other party Any final agreement resulting from said negotiation shall be incorporated into the terms of this agreement
INTERNATIONAL UNION, SECURITY, POLICE, FIRE PROFESSIONAL OF AMERICA (SPFPA)
Assane Faye
Dated:__________
COASTAL INTERNATIONAL SECURITY, INC (CIS)
Dated:
Nicole A. Terrell - CIS Human Resources
83/30/2^86 118:08;	73250530^5
PAGE
02/02
Appendix B
Inteau demal Union Security, Police, and Fire Pfofosdobals d America (SPFPA) Local 287 (hfcreh after referred to as	Uhton”) entered into this Agreemei il effective 4/1J2006
wjhen m, the Union has been duly designated by ton Company's i»n-supervisoiy employees wtekfrg at ttiie Departmernjof Commerce, Census Sites, m Washington DC as their collective
when m, the sforementfonbd Agreement provides for the Compw and the Union to negotiate v$pes and fiinge benefits for each facility coveted foereby antll to enter in to an Addteofoan setting forth those economy terms.
:	J :	I ■	i J-
Hfwttmfbife updates oeagteed to as follows: :
■ ' :|	H HEALTH & vVELFARE
' I !	’	I
Tt e Er iployer agrees toweraployees coveted by.this agreemete M foe following rates:
• ;	•=	! ’ ' .	i ‘ i
Effectt m April 1,2006	; $2X7 per regular hoar worked up to 40 hours per week
;	■;	i	1	'
. *• Hie parties «gtee foatefi^w party may reopen ncgrtfc&ms for nimendmcaits to Appcndix**A’> Hralfo & We^na Allowance at any time after Febpuy 14br all year# governed by fate contract, bygiviig written notice to foe other party. Ai^fin0agroememtrmltingf^ AHUM i incorporated into fob terms of fids agteemfltrt
UONAL UNION, SECURITY, BOUCK, FIRE PROFESSIONAL OP
! Dated
' A^MtosTFaye!
: I
la A. Terrell-CI

t
^p/25/2005 12:45 FAX 5716420729
CISVA ADMIN
Appendix A
* CISCOR	a 002/009
Addwdnm to Collective Bargaining Agreement
Whereas, Coastal International Security, Ino (hereinafter referred to as “the Company^) and the International Union Security, Police, and Fire Professionals of America (SPFPA) Local 287 (hereinafter referred to as “the Union”) entered into an Agreement effective December 1,2004,
Whereas, the Union has been duly designated by the Company ’s non-supervisory employees working at the Department of Commerce - Census Sites, in Waa iington DC. as their collective bargaining representative, and
Whereas, the aforementioned Agreement provides for the Company and the Union to negotiate wages and fringe benefits for each facility covered thereby and to enter in to an Addendum setting forth those economic terms.
Now therefore, it is hereby agreed as follows:
WAGES
The Employer agrees to pay employees covered by this agreement at the following rates per hour:
Security Guards	Supervisors
Effective 4/1/05	14.69	15.69
Effective 4/1/06	15,20	1620
Effective 4/1/07	15.73	16,73
HEALTH & WELFARE
With no change to the current and continunmg practice, the Employer agrees to pay employees covered by this agreement at the following rates:
Effective 4/1/05
Effective 4/1/06
Effective 4/1/07
$2.59 per regular hour worked up to 40 hours per week $*• per regular hour worked up to 40 hours per week $♦♦ per regular hour worked up to 40 hours per week
** The patties agree that either party may reopen negotiations for amendments to Appendix “A” Health & Welfare Allowance at any time after May 1 and before June 1, for all years governed by this contract, by giving written notice to the other party, Any find agreement resulting from said negotiation shall be incorporated into the terms of this agreement If the parties fail to reach agreement, the dispute shall be submitted to arbitration in accordance with Article 5 of this agreement. All provisions of thia Agreement, including, but not limited to, Article 16, shall remain in force during the terms of the negotiations and any resultinij arbitration, and for the
CBA<- CIS AND SPFPA 2004-2007
10F4
' 03/25/2005 12:45 FAX 5716420729	CISVA AOMIN	* CISCOR	@003/009
remainder of the terms of this agreement.
—	VACATION
CURRENT AND CONTINUING:
Vacations may be scheduled with the Employer any time during thin year. Employees shall select their vacation period in order of their seniority, where reasonably possible and mutually convenient to the Employer and employee. No more than five percent (5%) of the work force may be on vacation at any time, Earned vacation will be paid in the pay period during which the vacation time is used, and inchided in the employee's regular paycheck. Vacation time must be taken within one (1) year of its availability.
During the term of tins Agreement, all employees covered by this Agreement shall earn vacation benefits in accordance with the following schedule. All vacation benefits will be paid at the hourly rate in effect at the time of the employee's most recent axmiwvsary date. Accrual of 'ri	vacation is based upon years of service, without break in service, for CIS, predecessors), if any.
and/or CIS at the buildings and facilities listed in this Agreement.
a.	2.31 minutes per hour for all hours worked, up to a maximum of 80 hours, during each preceding biweekly pay period. Leave accruing during th© year is available only on the service credit date of an employee's completing one year of service. This equates to a maximum of 80 hours per year and is applicable for employees who have completed one through five years of service.
b.	3.47 minutes per hour for all hours woriced, up to a maxiiiium of 80 hours, during each preceding biweekly pay period. Leave accruing during th:) year is available only on tiie service credit date of an employee's completing a year of service. This equates to a maximum of 120 hours per year and is applicable for employees who have completed five through fifteen years of service.
c.	4.62 minutes per hour for all hours worked, up to a maximum of 80 hours, during each preceding biweekly pay period. Leave accruing during thci year is available only on the credit service date of an employee's completing a year of service. This equates to a maximum of 160 hours per year and is applicable for employees who have completed more than fifteen years of service.
Vacation time must be taken within one (1) year of its availa dlity.
HOLIDAYS
CURRENT AND CONTINUING:
’v -	. The Employer shall grant to all employees the following holidays off with pay (or pay in lieu
thereof if normally scheduled to work that weekday), holiday benefits to be paid as specified
CBA-CIS AND SPFPA2004-2007	20F4
03/25/2005 12:45 FAX 5716420729
CISVA ADMIN
♦ CISCOR
@004/009
below provided that the employee shall work their regularly scheduled work day prior to the holiday and after the holiday.
1.	New Years Day
2.	Martin Luther King Jr. Day
3,	Presidents’ Day
4.	Memorial Day
5,	Independence Day
6.	Columbus Day
7.	Veteran's Day
8.	Thanksgiving Day
9.	Chris&ioas Day
10.	Labor Day
It is agreed that the above holiday list will be amended to include any day designated by the President of the United States as a permanent National holiday that will be observed and paid by the Federal Government
Holiday pay will be disbursed a maximum of two weeks after the holiday(s) occurs. It will be paid in accordance with the following formula, which is based upon the employee's regularly scheduled hours worked in the two-week period prior to that in wh*ch each holiday occurred.
Formula « Number of hours paid up to a maximum of 80 hours in the two week period prior to that in which holiday occurs multiplied l y .1
Ari employee who is required to work on a holiday shall receive holiday pay in addition to their regular wage. Holiday pay will not be granted to employees when it holiday ftHs within a period of leave of absence and/or layoff or if the employee fells to work the last scheduled work day prior to the holiday, the first scheduled work day after the holiday or if the employee finis to report to work on the holiday if they are scheduled to work that day, unless the absence is authorized.
BREAVEMENT LEAVE
As of 4/1/05:
In instances of death of a member of the immediate family of an employee, occuring after the completion of the employee’s probationary period, the Company will grant breavement leave not to exceed three (3) days. A days pay will consist of the employee’’regular base rate for the hours scheduled for the days absent Immediate family shall be defined as: Mother, Father, Spouse, GrandParent, Sibling, Adopted or Foster Child or Substitute Parent Appropriate notice must be provided and all breavement leave is subject to verification.
JURY DUTY
An employee summoned to serve on a Jury shall receive up to a maximum of 3 paid days for time served on Jury Duty. Ihe employee must provide a copy of the summons to Jury Duty to the Company.
CBA- CIS AND SPFPA 2004-2007
3 OF 4
03/25/2005 12:45 FAX 5716420723	CISVA ADMIN
♦ CISCOR
@005/003
SICK LEAVE
Employees shall earn sick leave benefits, based on anniversary year, at the rate of:
As of4/1/05	3 days accrued during the year to a maximum of 24 hrs per year
As of4/1/06	4 days accrued during the year to a maximum of 32 hrs per year
As of4/1/07	5 days accrued during the year to a maximum of 40 hrs per year
The tom "hour worked” shall include hours of paid vacation, sick/peraonal leave and holidays.
Employees may accrue a their yearly maximum hours of sick leave . They may use tins aick/personal leave as it accrues so long as it is in increments of at least two hours. For any year in which an employee does not use any of their accrued sick leave, ;they may choose to be compensated fin such leave at their regular rate of pay. Employees will be compensated for all unused ^deleave at the time of the of their employment
INTERNATIONAL UNION, SECURITY, POLICE, FIRE PROFESSIONAL OF AMERICA (SPFPA)
Bn	 Dated; //~d	0
By:_____________________________ Dated:
COASTAL INTERNATIONAL SECURITY, INC (CIS)
CBA- OS AND SPFPA 2004-2007
4 OF4
02/28/2087 16:15
7327361237
ASSANE FAYE
PAGE 01/01
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
IT IS AGREED for between Coastal International Security, Inc. (CIS) and Security Police & Fire Professionals of America (SPFPA) Local 444 that:
WAGES
The Employer agrees to adjust the hourly rate of pay for all employees at the Department of Commerce Contract, working st Census Sites covered by this agreement, to the prevailing Area Wage Dennfnation of
Effective April 1,2007:	Armed Officer	$16.67
Effective April 1,2007:	Supervisors	$17.67
The Employer and the Union shall meet and bargain on all subjects within 90 days prior to expiration of this CBA on November 30,2007.
HEALTH & WELFARE
The Employer agrees to pay, as a cash benefit, to all employees coveted by ibis agreement al the fallowing rate far all hours worked, up to 40 hours per week:
Effective April 1,2007	$3.01 per hours worked, up to 4C hours per week.
fosteicfr PwtdcE.
fyiww , ^ob'7
Date	i
Title
T0*d iyioi
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN
THE INTERNATIONAL UNION, SECURITY, POLICE AND 1 TRE PROFESSIONALS OF AMERICA, AND ITS AMALGAMATED LOCAL M *
AND COASTAL INTERNATIONAL SECURITY INC.
Re: „ U.S. Department of Commerce, Census site. Bowie. MD
IT IS AGREED between Coastal International Security, Inc. and the International Union, Security, Police and Fire Professionals of America and its Amalgamated Local #287 that:
•	Effective April 1,2008, the Armed Officer wage rate shall increase to $19.00.
•	Effective April 1,2008, Supervisor wage rate shall increase io $20 00.
■	Effective April 1.2008. the Health & Welfare rate shall increase to $3.16 per hour worked, up to 40 hours per week.
■	The existing CBA shall remain in full force and effect through March 31.2011 with yearly economic reopeners.
This agreement is made this 29lh day of February, 2008.
T0zT0’d rST0 t?£8 £0^
X3193S
ST: 91 0002-62^933