Collective Bargaining Agreement between
Coastal International Security, Inc. (CIS)
And
International Union, Security, Police and Fire Professionals of America And its affiliated Local #287
ARTICLE I
SCOPE OF AGREEMENT
SECTION LI
This Agreement is entered into by and between Coastal International Security, Inc., hereinaftei referred to as the '’Company/ and the International Union, Security, Police and Fire Professionals of America, hereinafter referred to as the "Union. ’
The Company hereby recognizes the Union as the sole barijaining agent for all of its non-supervisory Employees within the unit working for the Depa rtment of Interior in Washington DC, excluding all other employees including office clerical employees and professional employees as defined in the National Labor Relations Act
It is in the mutual interests of the Employees and the Company to promote and further the efficiency and economy of operations, to provide orderly collective bargaining relations, a method for the prompt and equitable disposition of grie vances, and a method for the establishment of fair wages, hours and working conditions for the Employees covered hereunder. In making this Agreement, it is recognized to be the duty of Lie Parties to cooperate folly with each other, both individually and collectively, for the advancement of the purposes of this Agreement
SECTION 1.2 DEFINITIONS
Whenever the words "Employee" or "Employees" are used in tins agreement they designate only such employees as are covered by this agreement.
SECTION 13 PROBATIONARY EMPLOYEES
Newly hired employees shall be classified as probationary employees for a period of one hundred twenty (120) days from date of hire. During their probationary period, Employees may be subject to discipline or discharge at the sole discretion of the Employer, without regard to the provisions of Articles VII and VIH of this Agreement. All other provisions of this Agreement are applicable to probationary employees.
SECTION 1.4 TEMPORARY EMPLOYEES
Based on the written direction of the Government, the Employer shall have the right to hire temporary employees who shall be excluded from foe seniority provisions of Article XVI of this Agreement At the time of hire, foe Employer will inform foe temporary employee that they are temporary and explain foe conditions of employment. A temporary employee may work for a period not to exceed in foe aggregate three (3) months. The sa id three (3) month period referred to in foe preceding sentence may be extended for up to an additional three (3) month period at the written request of the Government Any employee hired as a permanent employee after working as a temporary, will accrue sonority that will include their time as a temporary employee.
ARTICLE II
UNION SECURITY AND MEMBERSHIP
SECTION 2.1	UNION SECURITY
It shall be a condition of employment that all Employees of the company covered by this Agreement, who are members of the Union in good standing on the effective date of this Agreement, shall remain members in good standing. Those who are not members on the effective date of this Agreement shall, on or after the thirtieth (30th) day following the effective date of this Agreement or the execution date, whichever comes later, become and remain members in good standing of the Union. It shall be a condition of employment that all employees of the Company covered by this Agreement and hired on or after its effective date or execution date, whichever comes later, shall on or after the thirtieth (30th) day following the beginning of such employment become and remain members in good standing of the Union. It shall be the responsibility of the Union to enroll new members and forward such enrollment to the Company for payroll action.
The Company will not discipline, enforce or take any other action against an employee as a result issues arising from the union’s enforcement of this clause
SECTION 2.2	PROHIBITIONS BY LAW
The provisions of Section 2.1 above shall be deemed to be of no force and effect in any state whose law governs tins contract to the extent to which the making or enforcement of such provisions is contrary to Statutes, constitutional amendment or the law of such state; provided, however, that whenever any such court of last resort having juiisdiction of such questions finds the state law to be invalid or inapplicable, die provisions of Sec tion 2.1 above shall immediately thereupon be deemed to cover this bargaining unit or employees directly affected by such declaration of invalidity.
SECTION 23
If the provisions of Section 2.1 above shall be deemed to be of no force and effect, die following shall govern: Employees who are members of the Union on the date of execution of this Agreement, and Employees who join the Union subsequent to the execution hereof, shall retain their membership in the Union as a condition of employment during the term thereof.
SECTION2.4	UN1ONDUES
With the individual written authorization for the Company to make such deductions, signed by the Employees, the Employer will deduct from the wages of any Employee covered by this Agreement said Employee^ voluntary dues payment. Such authorization form shall be provided by the Union. The Employer will pay over to the local Financial Secretary/Treasurer of the Union the wages withheld for such initiation fees and dues. The remittance shall be accompanied by a list showing individual names, soda! security numbers, dides hired, and amounts deducted.
B - B’S duJ BHB 2uBB
The total remittances are to be made not later than fifteen (15) days after the last day of the month for which deductions were made. The Union shall advise the Company of the amount of initiation fees and dues and the manner in which same sha ll be deducted. The amount so withheld, less any amounts due to improper withholding, shall be reported and paid to the Union monthly.
SECTION 2.5	LEAVES OF ABSENCE
Payment of membership dues shall not be required as a condit on of employment during leaves of absence without pay in excess of thirty (30) days or during periods of permanent transfer to a classification not covered by this Agreement
SECTION 2.6	TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT
In the event of termination of employment, there shall be no obligation upon the Employer to collect dues until all other deductions have been made.
SECTION 2.7	EMPLOYEE LIST
The Employer's Site Manager will make available to the I nion a list of newly hired and terminated Employees covered by this Agreement Such list w ill be prepared monthly and will show the name, social security number, job classification and hire or termination date of such 1 Employees who were hired or terminated during the month foi which the list is prepared. This list shall be made available to the shop stewards.
SECTION 2.8	JOB OPENINGS
The Employer shall notify the Union of all job openings within the bargaining unit covered by this agreement that the Employer chooses to fill. The Union may refer applicants for such openings. In interviewing and hiring for such job openings, ths Employer will not discriminate against any applicant referred by the Union. However, nothing in this contract shall be construed to create an exclusive hiring hall arrangement, and the Employer shall at all times be free to advertise and list said job openings from any sources available to the Employer.
SECTION 2.9	JOB QUALIFICATIONS
The Employer shall be the judge of the qualifications of its Employees. Any Employee who disputes the Employer’s determination of qualifications can sub nit a grievance on that issue.
SECTION 2.10	INDEMNIFICATION
The Union agrees to indemnify and save the Employer harmless against any claim, suits, judgments or liabilities of any sort whatsoever arising out of th:; Employer’s compliance with the provisions of Sections 2.1 -2.8 of this Union Security and Membership Article.
SECTION 2.11	MEETINGS
The Employer shall hold a quarterly meeting with the officers of the Union and representatives from the Company to exchange information and concerns. At a minimum, the Site Manager
CB \ anB BPfPA 2B0/~ zVJB
I
(Project Manager or Contract Manager and/or Operations Manager) will represent the Employer. At a minimum, the local President, both Vice Presidents, and the Unit Chair Person will represent the Union. The Union will request such meetings in writting to the Site Manager. Such requests will include an agenda of issues to be discussed The Site Manager will reply establishing the time and place of the meeting. The Company will not pay the Union’s Representatives for time spent in this regard.
ARTICLE m
NON DI SCRIMIN ATION/NON-HAR/i SSMENT
The Employer and Union agree that there shall be no discrimination or harassment by the Employer or the Union against employees because of race, colo r, creed, religion, national origin, sex, age, disability, marital or other status as protected by applicable law, or because of their involvement in or refraining from participating in Union activities except as required by Article II of this Agreement
Employees with disabilities who require accommodation should contact the Employer's s Corporate HR Department which is located at the Employer’s Corporate Headquarters.
ARTICLE IV
MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
Subject only to such limitations as may be imposed by this Agreement and applicable statute, the Company retains the sole and exclusive right to manage its business and to direct the working force, including but not limited to the right to schedule work, tc determine shifts, to assign work and working hours to employees, to determine the amount and l ocation of work, to determine the type of services performed, to establish reasonable quality and performance standards, to determine the most efficient means of providing service, to require every employee to comply with normal, reasonable operating procedures, to formulate aind enforce reasonable Company rules and regulations winch are equitably applied, to hire employees, to discipline (including discharge) for just cause, to promote, demote, layoff and transfer employees, to maintain the discipline and efficiency of employees, to judge skill, ability and physical fitness in a reasonable, nondiscriminatozy manner, to control and regulate the use of al l equipment and other property of the Company and/or the Government and subcontract w rrk at the convenience of the Government; provided, however, that with respect to any action which results in a change in established work rules, existing hours of work or the size of the work force, the Company shall give such prior notice to the Union as feasible and shall negotiate with the Union upon request Further, the Company may have its supervisors or managers perform bargaining unit work if no bargaining unit employee is available or eligible to perform the duties in question. The Company explicitly retains any and all rights which are not covered by this Agreement and which it previously exercised.
< BA ■ ; arc SPr PA 2DQ7
i
ARTICLE V
EMPLOYEE CLASSIFICATIONS
An Employee who regularly works sixty-four (64) hours or more in a pay period shall be classified as a full-time employee. An Employee who regularly works less than sixty-four (64) hours per pay period shall be classified as a part-time employee "Regularly works" is defined as working sixty-four (64) or more hours in at least seven (7) of the bi-weekly pay periods in a six (6) month period. The term "hours" as used herein includes hours paid for vacation, holidays, sick leave, bereavement leave and jury duty.
In any event, an Employee who works less than an average of si xteen (16) hours per week in any thirty (30) day period shall receive written notice from the Emj: loyer, with a copy of such notice sent to the Union, and shall have ten (10) days from the mailing of that notice to contact the Employer to attempt to increase hours worked to sixteen (16) or more hours per week. The failure of the Employee to contact the Employer in such a matter may, at the Employer’s sole discretion, result in the Employee’s termination. All Employees will be notified of this requirement at the time of hiring. This provision shall not require the Employer to modify any work schedules.
ARTICLE VI
WORK WEEK AND HOURS OF 1 YORK
SECTION 6,1	WORKWEEK
The workweek shall be from 0001 hours Sunday until 2400 hoi irs Saturday. Wages shall be paid bi-weekly on the second Friday following the end of the pay-period.
SECTION 6.2	SCHEDULING OF WORK
The Employer shall schedule the hours of work of Employees id least two (2) weeks in advance, except in circumstances beyond the Employer’s control. Noticing shall preclude the Employer from scheduling employees to work ten (10) or twelve (12) hour shifts.
SECTION 63 BREAKS
Employees who work shifts of more than four (4) hours and less than eight (8) hours shall receive a fifteen minute paid break during their shift.
Employees who work shifts of eight (8) or more hours shall receive a thirty (30) minute paid lunch break and two fifteen (15) minute paid breaks during their shift.
In addition, Employees shall be provided with breaks for emergency purposes as reasonably required.
SECTION 6.4 OVERTIME
Overtime pay is to be paid at the rate of one and one-half (B 2) times the basic hourly straight time rate for all hours worked over 40 hours in a workweek. A workday shall be defined as from 0001 hours until 2400 hours. There will not be any pyramiding of hours worked. Paid vacation time, personal/sick or holiday time shall not be counted as hours worked in die calculation of overtime. The opportunity to work overtime shall be provided consistent with the Employer's business needs and circumstances and must be authorized in advance by the Employer.
When the Employer has less than twenty-four (24) hours notice of its need to provide coverage, the Employer shall have the right to require an Employee, who normally performs the work, to remain on duty until relieved and/or to require an available Employee to provide such coverage, as conditions warrant.
When the Employer has advance knowledge that overtime will be required, it will offer such work to available, qualified Employees, by rotation, in order of seniority within their respective Agencies. Should the most senior Employee (s) reject the overtime opportunity, the Employer shall offer the work to the next available, qualified Employeel s) on the seniority list within the Agency. Rejected overtime shall be considered as “over-time worked” for purposes of seniority distribution. Should an insufficient number of qualified Employees agree to work overtime through this procedure, the Employer may assign overtime to available, qualified Employees by reverse seniority. It is the intent of this procedure that ove time work is distributed among available, qualified Employees within their respective Agencies as equally as possible. For purposes of this Section, an Employee who rejects two consec itive overtime opportunities is no longer "available."
Overtime work may be offered to part-time Employees if they provide the Employer with a list of days and times during which they are available and willing t :> work should extra work become available. However, if a part-time Employee refuses on two separate occasions to work hours offered consistent with such list, other than due to an emergency acceptable to the Employer, the Employer will not have further obligation to offer overtime work to that Employee.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, an Employee shall not be req.iired to remain on duty for more than twelve (12) consecutive hours, except in an emergency situation or when no other Employee is available for relief. The existence of an emergency situation and availability of relief shall be determined at the Employer's reasonable discretion. It is the responsibility of the Employee to advise Supervisors and Management at what point they will exited twelve (12) consecutive hours on duty. Employees who fail to ensure Management is advised of the point they will exceed twelve (12) hours of duty are subject to disciplinary measures under Article VII of this agreement Should a dispute arise among the Employer, Employee and/or Union regarding the existence of an emergency situation, or the availability of relief, the Employee shall continue working as directed by the Employer.
SECTION 63 GEAR UP GEAR DOWN
Guard Mount will be held 10 minutes prior to every shift. Failure to attend guard mount will be considered tardiness and may result in progressive discipline.
Each officer will be paid 10 minutes before and 10 minutes after each shift, for a total of 20 minutes per shift worked as outlined in the CIS Gear Up/Gear 1 town SOP.
Nothing in this Article shall be construed as a guarantee of w ork, work opportunities, or hours, except as otherwise expressly provided.
ARTICLE VU
IYKSr*n*I TMT? irMaKXM >1/
SECTION 7,1	PROGRESSI VE DISCIPLINE
The Employer shall not discharge, suspend, or otherwise discipline any Employee covered by this Agreement without just cause. Generally, discipline sliall be applied in the following manner:
a.	With respect to an employee’s violation, the Employee will be given a verbal reprimand within five (5) days of th© date the offense is noted,
b.	With respect to an employee’s second violation, the Employee will be given a written reprimand within five (5) days of the date the offens e is noted.
c.	With respect to a third violation, En^loye© shall be suspended without pay for a period of one to three days at the sole discretion of t lie Employer.
d.	With respect to a fourth violation, the Employee shall be terminated.
e.	Any discipline that is more than 15 months old will not be considered for progressive discipline.
SECTION 7.2	UNEXCUSED TARDINESS
Discipline for unexcused tardiness of 15 minutes or less shiiiU be applied as follows. This tardiness is defined from the start of guard mount as specified in Article VI. Management reserves the right to reassign scheduled duties to another Officer for that day if the scheduled
employee is 15 minutes or more late. Unexcused tardiness iis defined as failure to call-in, 01 failure to provide a verifiable excuse for the tardiness. Acceptable reasons that may result in excused tardiness include, but are not limited to, situations tliat are outside of the employee's control (example: public transit breakdown, weather related de lay, sudden serious illness)
a.	With respect to a first unexcused tardiness, the Employee shall be given a verbal reprimand within five (5) days of the date the offenre is noted.
b.	With respect to a second unexcused tardiness, the Ismployee shall be given a written reprimand within five (5) days of the date the offence is noted.
c.	With respect to a third unexcused tardiness, the Employee shall be suspended without pay for a period of one to three days at the sole discretion of the Employer.
d.	With respect to a fourth unexcused tardiness, the Employee shall be terminated.
SECTION 73 CALL-OFF
It shall constitute an offense for an Employee to cancel wort (call off) without providing the Employer with a minimum of six (6) hours notice or, if such notice is not possible, as much advance notice as practical under the circumstances. If an limployee fails to report to work without advance notice, and appears more than fifteen (15) minutes after the start of guard mount, they may, in addition to any discipline provided in Section 7.2 of this Article, be sent home without pay. However, the Employee shall not be disciplined if it is determined in the Employer’s reasonable discretion that the occurrence was due to circumstances beyond the Employee’s control.
Any Employee who fails to provide notice of an absence and fiiils to appear for work, may, at the Employer’s sole discretion, be suspended without pay for a period of three days. A second occurrence of this infraction may, at the Employer’s sole discretion, result in the Employee’s termination. However, the Employee shall not be terminated if it is determined in the Employer’s reasonable discretion that the second occurrence ivas due to circumstances beyond the Employee’s control. (Example: public transit breakdown, weather related delay, sudden serious illness)
Officers who are calling off must have available vacation or sick leave, and their time off from work will be charged to either vacation or sick leave. Excessive absences will be handled according to the most current Company policy.
SECTION 7.4 SERIOUS OFFENSES
Notwithstanding the foregoing, an Employee is subject to immediate discharge for proven offenses to include, but not limited to, the following:
a.	Drinking or being under the influence of alcohol, illegal drugs, or controlled substances while on duty.
b.	Use or possession of unlawful drug stimulants or alcoholic beverages on the job or job site.
c.	Refusal to submit to drug or alcohol testing as provided in the Drug and Alcohol Testing Policy as may be required under Article XX VIII of this Agreement
d.	Weapons:
■	Improper use, misplacement, or loss of a Grearm, ammunition, OC Spray, baton or handcuffs.
•	Unauthorized or unlawful discharging of a firearm while on duty.
"	Carry a concealed weapon on Government facilities
•	Un-holstering a weaponexcept for eminent use to protect your life, tile life of another person, or to prevent the commission of a felony offense such as murder, rape, armed robbery, kidnapping, etc. Should a Supervisor direct an Officer to un-holster a firearm for any otinnr reason, the Supervisor is held liable for the offense.
■	Carrying an issued weapon off the define! property of the contract or in unauthorized areas.
e.	Possession on the job of a private firearm or other weapon not issued by the Employer pursuant to contract
f.	Making a willful false statement on an application for employment Govennent required form, a gun permit or a security clearance.
g.	Violations of general or specific Post Orders or directives to include, but not limited to, inattention to duty, sleeping while on duty or abandoning post
h.	Neglect of duty, which could cause a claim or penalty to be assessed against the Employer.
i.	Causing or engaging in a strike or work stoppage or other conduct in violation of Article X of this Agreement
j.	Falsifying, concealing, removing, mutilating, diimaging or destroying official documents or records, except for the systematic purging of files or records at the direction of the Employer in accordance with establi shed timetables.
k.	Committing an assault, including the making or utte ing of verbal or physical threats.
1.	Accepting bribes, enabling a person to secure stolen property, or permitting
unauthorized access to classified material.
m.	Engaging in harassment, sexual harassment or discimination toward the client, other Employees, or visitors.
\ ( iS •‘.n-J SPH;A AH’/- AAO
n.	Commission of a criminal act that violates any rules, regulations or established practices of the Government.
o.	Willfully falsifying time records, post logs, incident reports and/or other documents.
p.	Gross insubordination toward the Employer or supervisors or insubordination toward the client.
q.	Improper or unauthorized use of Government equipment.
SECTION 73 OTHER PROVISIONS
Consistent with the provisions of this Article, the Employer his the right to determine the level and degree of discipline. Disciplinary action shall not be taken without just cause. Under normal circumstances, corrective progressive disciplinary action is takm following a thorough review of the incident, as is stated in the preceding provisions of this Article. In addition, it may be proper to give an employee one or more written warnings in some cases before giving a disciplinary suspension. In such situations requiring discipline, the circum stances must be known and each action taken on the merits of the case. The Employer’s failure to impose greater or any disciplinary action against an employee shall not be used as the principal evidence to support a grievance by or on behalf of another Employee. The Employer retains the right to suspend an Employee without pay for a limited period of time pending the outcome of a disciplinary investigation. Should the Employee be exonerated following the investigation, they will be entitled to back pay for the work-time scheduled during the period of suspension.
ARTICLE VIH
GRIEVANCE AND ARBITRATION PROCEDURE
For purposes of this Article, the word "days" is defined as weekdays (Monday through Friday) and excludes recognized holidays.
SECTION 8.1	DEFINITION
A grievance is defined as a claim or dispute by the Employer or Employee or the Union concerning the interpretation of the application of this Agreem ent, or of any addendum hereto.
SECTION 8.2	GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
All grievances must be presented in writing, filed and processed in accordance with the following exclusive procedure:
*	Step 1: The Employee and the Union Shop Steward shdl present the grievance or dispute in writing to the Employee’s Site Manager within five (5) days of occurrence or when the Employee knew, or by reasonable diligence should have known, of its occurrence. If the Employee does not notify the Site Manger within the requisite amount of time, or fails to
meet any other deadline set forth in this Article, the gr ievance shall be deemed to have been waived. The Site Manager shall respond to the grievance in writing within ten (10) days. If the Site Manager does not respond within ten (10) days, the grievance may proceed to Step 2.
•	Step 2: If the grievance is not settled at Step 1, the Employee and their Union representative may meet, within ten (10) days of the date on which the Site Manager responded or should have responded, with the Employer’s Regional Manager, National Coital Region, or designee. The Employer’s Regional Manager, NCR or designee shall respond to the grievance in writing within ten (10) days of this meeting.
•	Step 3: If die grievance is not settled at Step 2, the Un ion shall, within ten (10) days of receipt of the Regional Manager’s response in Step 2 or the date when the Regional Manager’s response was due, present the grievance in writing to the Employer’s Corporate Human Resources Department in Lorton, VA. Human Resources or their designee shall respond in writing to the grievance within ten (10) days. The Employer and the Union shall have the right to involve senior management or officials in the grievance process at an earlier stage, in their sole discretion.
•	Step 4: If die grievance is not settled at Step 3, the Union or Company may, within ten (10) days after die receipt of the Employer officer's response in Step 3, appeal the matter to arbitration. Notice that arbitration is desired shall be served upon the Employer within ten (10) days after die Union receives die Employer's Stp 3 answer.
Grievances affecting a class or classes of Employees may be ini tiated by the Union at Step 2.
SECTION 83 DISCHARGE
A grievance involving discharge of an employee shall be brought directly to Step 2 and must be filed in writing within five (5) (toys of discharge.
ARTICLE IX
ARBITRATION
SECTION 9.1 SELECTION OF AN ARBITRATOR
Within (10) days after the filing of the notice of the intent to submit the unsettled grievance to arbitration, die party requesting arbitration shall request the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service to submit a list of five (5) persons qualified to act as the impartial arbitrator. A representative of the Employer and a representative of die Union shall meet within five (5) days of the receipt of this list and shall alternately strike two (2) names from the list, the party to strike first to be selected by lot The fifth remaining person shall thereupon be selected as the impartial arbitrator. Failure on behalf of the party who is requesting arb itration to make die panel request to FMCS within the 10 days will result in the arbitration request to be considered settled and not further processed.
‘BA - (, h MB 'PA M?0A PLUG
SECTION 93 ARBITRATION PROCEEDINGS
During the hearing, each party shall have full opportunity to present evidence and argument, both oral and documentary. The impartial arbitrator will render the finding and award in writing within thirty (30) calendar days after the conclusion of the hearing. The decision of the impartial arbitrator shall be final and binding. The impartial arbitrator shall have no authority to modify, amend, revise, add to, or subtract from any of the terms or conditions of this Agreement.
SECTION 93 FEES
The fees of the arbitrator and necessary expenses, includin g transcript, if desirable, of any arbitration proceeding shall be done equally by the Employer and the Union except that each party shall pay the fees of its own counsel or representative. If an Employee witness is called by the Employer, the Employer will reimburse that Employee for time lost at the regular straight time base rate. If an Employee witness is called by the Union or if an Employee-grievant is present at the hearing, the Union will reimburse such personnel for time lost
SECTION 9.4 INDIVIDUAL GRIEVANCES
No individual employee may move a grievance to arbitration; c nly the Union may do so.
ARTICLE X
NO STRIKE AND NO LOCKOUT
The Employer agrees not to cause, permit, or engage in any lockout of its Employees during the term of this Agreement The Union agrees that neither it nor the Employees it represents covered by this Agreement will, during the term of this Agreement, cause, permit, or take part in any strike, including sympathy strike, picketing, or work action. It shall be a violation of this Agreement, and it shall be cause for discharge or suspension, in the event an Employee refuses to enter upon any property involved in a labor dispute involving any employee organization or refuses to go through or work behind any picket lines involving any employee organization at the worksite.
ARTICLE XI
BULLETIN BOARDS
The Employer will seek permission from the government's contracting officer for the Union to use bulletin boards available to the Employer at the worksi e. There shall be no posting of literature on these bulletin boards except by die authority of officially designated representatives of the Union.
ARTICLE XII
STEWARDS
SECTION 12.1 UNION STEWARDS
The Union shall designate 3 Union Steward for the site. Additionally, the Union shall designate one (1) alternate Steward who shall serve in the regular Steward’s absence or unavailability. The Union shall notify the Employer of the selection of Stewards within ten (10) days of such selections. The Shop Steward shall not interfere with the management of the business or direct any work of any Employee, but may advise the Company of any violations of the Agreement and also notify the Employee participating therein. Prior to leaving the work area, a Shop Steward will coordinate with the appropriate supervisor. Shop Stewards will not leave the work area during rush hours.
The Union Steward shall conduct Union business during non-working hours unless the Employer schedules a meeting, including but not limited to any interview with unit Employee which could lead to discipline, during working hours at which a Steward u to be present In the event the Employer does schedule such a meeting during the Steward’s working hours, the time spent by the Steward in connection therewith shall be treated and paid as working hours. The Company shall otherwise make its supervisors and Site Manager available during die Union Steward's nonworking hours to meet with the Union Steward regarding grievances and other problems which may arise.
SECTION 123 REPRESENTATION BY SHOP STEWARDS OR UNION OFFICER
Any conference between an Employee and an Employer representative during which discipline is expected to be imposed, must at the request of the affected employee, be conducted in the presence of an authorized Union officer or Shop Steward.
SECTION 123 AUTHORITY OF STEWARDS
The authority of Stewards shall be limited to the investigation and representation of grievances in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement and the transmission of such messages and information, which shall originate with and are authorized by die Union or its officers.
SECTION 12.4 UNION SENIORITY
Union stewards shall be entitled to top union seniority at the facility to the fullest extent allowed by law.
ARTICLE XHI
COURT APPEARANCES
Court or administrative appearances necessitated by job-related occurrences or incidents shall be compensated for hilly at the rates specified in this Agreement, less any monies received from the Court. However, other court, administrative or grievance procedure and/or arbitration appeal appearances shall not be paid by the Employer, unless the Employer has requested the employee to be present
A OTPir^l 1? YTV
JURY DUTY
An employee summoned to serve on a jury shall receive up to a maximum of 3 paid days for time served on Jury Duty. The employee must provide a copy of the summons to Jury Duty to the Company.
ARTICLE XV
LEAVES OF ABSENCE
SECTION 15.1 MATERNITY AND SICK LEAVE (FMLa)
All provisions of this Article shall be applied in a manner consistent with the Family and - Medical Leave Act of 1993. Eligible non-probationary Employees will be granted up to twelve
(12) weeks of unpaid leave for their own serious illness, for tlw birth or adoption of a child, or the care of a seriously ill child, spouse or parent AU eligible Employees must have been employed for one year and worked a minimum of 1250 hours in the preceding twelve (12) months.
Whenever an Employee who is pregnant or otherwise sick cannot perform their duty safely or efficiently, the Employee shall take a leave of absence. An Employee who takes such maternity or sick leave must elect to utilize as much paid sick leave as they have accrued. During such leave of absence, toe Employee shall retain their existing seniority and shall continue to accrue seniority. Maternity and sick leave will not exceed twelve (12) weeks following delivery or onset of illness or injury.
SECTION 15 J PERSONAL LEAVE WITHOUT PAY
An employee may request personal leave without pay for any personal purpose for a period of up to six (6) mantos. It is within the Employer’s sole discretion whether such requests will be granted. Neither seniority nor benefits shall accrue during such personal leave. Requests for such leave must be in writing and, when possible, made at leaist twenty-one (21) calendar days prior to commencement of the leave. The leave request shall state toe reason for and length of toe desired leave. Employees on leave of absence for personal reasons who accept other
employment during such leave shall be considered to have resided. Employees in this status an responsible for maintaining their training and credentials in a current status so they may return tc work at the end of their absence. Upon giving two (2) weeks notice of intent to return to work an Employee shall be scheduled to report to their former job or an equal job within two (2 weeks of the Employer’s receipt of such notice. If no job is available on the Employee's formei shift or at their former site, they may be put on any shift at any site, but will be returned to their former shift or site as soon as an opening is available, consistent with the Employer’s scheduling needs.
SECTION 153 BEREAVEMENT LEAVE
Employees shall be entitled to paid Bereavement Leave as set forth in the applicable addendum hereto.
SECTION 15.4 MILITARY LEAVE
Employees enlisting in or entering the military service of the United States pursuant to the provisions of the Uniformed Services Employment and Re-employment Rights Act, and amendments thereto shall be granted all rights and privilege ; provided by that Act. It is the responsibility of the Employee to provide the Company all applicable orders and documents prior to departure.
ARTICLE XVI
SENIORITY
SECTION 16.1	SENIORITY LISTS
Seniority shall be defined as an Employee's total length of continuous service with the Employer from the Employee's date of hire by the Employer at any location or by any predecessor contractor performing similar services at the same facility.
The Employer’s Site Manager shall provide the Union with copies of all seniority lists at least once every six months. For purposes of this Article, "qualified ’ shall mean that the Employee meets all requirements, including but not limited to security cle arances, established by the pertinent Government agency for which services are being or will be performed.
SECTION 16.2	TEMPORARY ADDITIONAL SERVICES (TAS)
Due to the high priority of Temporary Additional Services ("TAS") and the short lead time the Government provides to the Employer in connection with TA S, the Employer may fill all TAS positions without posting and, if there is insufficient time between Government notification and implementation of TAS to follow the provisions of Section B hereof, regardless of seniority, Once an Employee is scheduled to perform TAS duties, he oi she is obligated to perform those duties as scheduled. Failure to perform TAS duties as scheduled may be addressed in Section VS, Discipline, of this document
SECTION 163 PROMOTIONS
In the event that a higher level job becomes available, first preference shall be given to the mos senior Employee who is available and qualified to perform the duties thereof. I£ within ninety (90) days of such promotion, an Employee fails to satisfy the Employer’s requirements for tht position or the Employee does not wish to continue in the position to which promoted, suet Employee may elect to be returned to his or her prior position in the bargaining unit
SECTION 16.4	REDUCTION IN FORCE
In the event of any layoff within the bargaining unit, the Employees with the least seniority shaJ be laid off first, provided that there remain enough qualified Employees to fill all remaining positions and provided further that any Employee who is qualified only for the positions) being eliminated will be laid off regardless of seniority. Any full- time Employee who is laid off maj elect to work a part-time shift, and any Employee laid off from a higher job classification ma> elect to bump an Employee from a lower job classification fo r which the electing Employee is otherwise qualified.
SECTION 16.5	RECALL
All laid off Employees will be recalled in order of seniority to positions for which they are qualified. Upon recall, no seniority will be credited for the layoff period, but the Employee shall retain seniority possessed at the time of layoff. No new Employee will be hired at the facility until all qualified laid off Employees have been recalled and all qualified laid off Employees have been offered the position(s) involved.
It is the Employee's responsibility to keep the Employer advised of his or her current address.
If a recalled Employee does not respond witinn seven (7) calendar days of receipt of such notice or if such is returned to the Employer because tike Employee failed to keep the Employei informed of his or her current address, said Employee shall l>e considered to have voluntarily quit, with no right to future recall.
SECTION 16.6	LOSS OF SENIORITY
An Employee who is laid off for reasons other than the Employer’s loss of the procuremem contract to provide services at the facility will retain seniority for one year. The Employer will have no obligation to recall any Employee who is on layoff at such time as the Employer (or any subcontractor thereof) ceases to employ security personnel at the facility. Any Employee whe voluntarily quits or who has been terminated for cause shall losse all prior seniority.
SECTION 16.7	SHIFT AND POST REASSIGNMENT
In the event that the Employer determines it is necessary to rotate Employees among posts, even reasonable effort shall be made to assign Employees during the same shift in which thej working. All reasonable effort will be made, consistent with the necessity to provide services required by the Government at tile facility, to assign Employees in such a manner as will noi disrupt established child care arrangements, as well as fondly or other work obligations
Assignments are to be made in an unbiased manner, and consistent with the Employees seniority. To the extent any conflict should arise between or s'lnong Employees concerning th( shift to which they are reassigned, said conflict will be resolved by seniority, with the mos senior Employee(s) having first choice of shift.
SECTION 16.8	TRANSFERS
The Employer has no obligation to transfer Employees from one work site to another, regardless of the termination of any Government procurement contract. However, should the Employe] transfer an Employee from one facility to another, that Employee shall retain the same seniority date as at the facility from which transferred.
ARTICLE XVII
VOLUNTARY RESIGNATION
An Employee shall be deemed to have voluntarily resigned employment with the Employer if:
a.	The Employee accepts employment in a management capacity with a competitor oi the Employer while still employed by the Employer.
b.	The Employee fails to report for work as schedule d, and fails to contact the PM oi Contract Manager, for five (5) consecutively scheduled work days.
c.	The Employee fails to report for work within two (2) days after the expiration of an authorised period of absence without a telephone ca 11 or other explanation, unless it is determined by the Employer, in its reasonable discretion, that there was an emergency which reasonably prevented the Employee from proi^eriy notifying the Employer.
d.	The Employee finis to respond within seven (7) :lays of the Employer's notice ol recall unless the Employer determines, in its sole discretion, that there was an emergency which reasonably prevented the Employee from properly notifying the Employer.
e.	The employee is negligent and fails to maintain required certifications and training to be qualified for continued employment
ARTICLE XVm
TRAINING AND RE-OU ALIFICATION
SECTION 18.1 FIRST AID AND CPR TRAINING
The Employer agrees to pay Employees at their regular rate of pay for up to eight (8) hours of training in CPR and First Aid each year, as may be necessary for the Employee to qualify or re-qualify as a guard at the Employer’s facility. Failure to attend the required training will subject the Employee to disciplinary action as set forth in Article VII c f this Agreement.
SECTION 183 PHYSICAL EXAMINATION
If an employee fails to appear for or obtain their government-required physical examination prior to the time by which it must be obtained, the Employee shalll be subject to an administrative leave without pay for a period not to exceed thirty (30) c ays. If the Employee does not satisfactorily pass their physical within this thirty (30) day period, they shall be considered as having voluntarily quit However, the Mure to obtain a physical examination will not be considered a voluntary quit if such failure is attributable to circumstances, which are beyond the Employee's control.
SECTION 183 TRAINING
Under Government standards, Employees are required to taki? regular training courses to stay qualified to work at the facility. These courses may include for example: orientation, recertification, collapsible baton, and T-3 testing. While attending these courses, the Employees will be paid straight time wages. Training time will not be used to calculate over-time for hours worked (or something to this effect) If an Employee Ms to appear for any scheduled training, they will be subject to disciplinary action.
ARTICLE XIX
EQUIPMENT
SECTION 19.1	UNIFORMS
The Employer shall provide at no cost to all new Employees those items listed in Employer's General Service Administration guard service contract for the facility. Upon termination of employment, the clothing and equipment initially issued to the Employee shall be returned to the Employer.
Employees may purchase replacement items from the Employer at cost Such articles shall be paid for by deductions from the Employees’ pay. The Empl°7er shall replace any parts of the uniform that show evidence of normal wear and tear or are dam aged in the line of duty, provided it has been reported to the Shift Supervisor within the shift period when the incident occurred. The Employer has the right to deduct from the Employee’s final paycheck an amount to cover the cost of any unretumed clothing or equipment or the cost of cleaning uniforms that are returned soiled.
SECTION 19.2	WEAPONS
The Employer agrees to implement a maintenance program for all Employer-owned weapons. Pursuant to this program, all weapons shall be checked, cleansed, and, if necessary, repaired or
replaced. If an Employee has knowledge that their weapon is not in proper condition, the Employee shall immediately report to their supervisor for repla>iement of it.
ARTICLE XX
SUCCESSORS
The Employer shall give notice of the existence of this Agreement to any purchaser, transferee, lessee, assignee, etc., of the operation covered by this Agreement or any part thereof. Such notice shall be in writing with a copy to the Union at the time tlie seller and purchaser, transferee, or lessee execute a contract or transaction as herein described.
ARTICLE XXI
SUBCONTRACTING
For the purposes of preserving work and job opportunities fi:»r the employees covered by this agreement, the Employer agrees, where reasonably possible, io provide the Union with at least seven (7) calendar days notice prior to subcontracting any of the work or services of the kind, nature or type presently performed or provided by the Employer. A subcontractor will be bound by the terms of this agreement. The Employer will inform the subcontractor of this agreement prior to signing the subcontract
ARTICLE XXII
HOLIDAYS
Employees shall be entitled to paid Holidays as set forth in the applicable addendum hereto.
AK > IVaJLJc/ Al/VLU
VACATION
Employees shall be entitled to paid vacation as set forth in the applicable addendum hereto. Vacation is available to Employees as it becomes available, not as it is accrued.
ARTICLE XXIV
SICK LEAVE
Employees shall be entitled to paid sick leave as set forth in the applicable addendum hereto. Sick Leave is available to Employees as it becomes available, not as it is accrued.
ARTICLE XXV
HEALTH AND WELFARE
The Company shall pay the health and welfare benefits as set forth in the applicable addendum hereto, not to exceed eight (8) hours worked per day or forty (40) hours worked per week for each Employee as a cash benefit
ARTICLE XXVI
WAGES
The schedule of effective wage rates and job classifications for Employees is set forth in the applicable addendum hereto.
ARTICLE XXVII
ADDITIONAL EMPLOYEE BENEFITS PROGRAMS
From time to time, the Employer offers to its Employees supplemental employee benefits programs. In most cases, these benefits are offered on a cone pany wide basis. Such programs include supplemental medical benefits, life insurance and others. The Employer will inform the Union when it plans to offer such a program.
ARTICLE XXVHI
DRUG AND ALCOHOL POLICY
The parties recognize that in the security business, the use or alcohol or controlled substances which cause intoxication or impairment , expose the Employer, the affected Employee, coworkers and the public to high risks. An Employee cannot p erform duties adequately if under the influence of drugs or intoxicants. It is the Employer's policy tn maintain a drug-free work place. The Employer and the Union agree to the attached Drug and Alcohol policy, labeled Appendix 1. The Employer may establish a random drug-testing program, provided it is fully in accordance with all applicable statutes and government regulati ons.
ARTICLE XXIX
MISCELLANEOUS
SECTION 29.1 FULFILLMENT OF HIGHER-LEVEL POSITIONS
The Employer, for reasons of business necessity, may tempora lly (not to exceed thirty (30) days per year) request lower level employees to fill higher-level positions. When Employees are asked to do so, they will receive the rate of pay attributable to the posi tion.
SECTION 29 J PERSONNEL FILES
Employees may, upon reasonable notice, review their own personnel files under the supervision of the Administrative Assistant at the facility. If an Employee is reviewing the file in connection with a pending grievance, upon the Employee's request, a Union Steward shall be permitted to be present during the review. Under no circumstances may an Employee remove copy or alter the contents of their file

GVDADADII ITTV	C!A'lZTIVr’C
SxLJrAJKAxSlL.il X AiNU oAVLn
If any Article or Section of this Agreement or any Riders or A ttachments thereto should be held invalid by operation of law or by any tribunal of competent juri sdiction, or if compliance with or enforcement of any Article or Section should be restrained by such tribunal pending a final determination as to its validity, the remainder of this Agreeme nt and of any Rider thereto, or the application of such Article or Section to persons or circumstances other than those as to which it has been held invalid, or as to which compliance with or enforcement of has been restrained, shall not be affected thereby.
Tn the event that any Article or Section is held invalid or enforcement of or compliance with has been restrained as above set forth, the Employer and the Uni on agree to enter into immediate collective bargaining negotiations, upon the request of the Union or the Employer, for the purpose of arriving at a mutually satisfactory replacement for inch Article or Section during the period of invalidity or restraint If the Parties do not a.ijree on a mutually satisfactory replacement, either Party shall be permitted all legal or economic recourse in support of its demands, notwithstanding any provisions of this Agreement to the contrary.
ARHCLEXXXI
DURATION OF AGREEMENT
This Agreement shall become effective October 1,2007, and shall continue in full force ami effect until September 31,2010 and shall renew itself each successive year thereafter unless written notice of an intended change is served in accordance with the Labor Management Relations Act, as amended, by either party hereto at least sixty (60) days but not more than ninety (90) days prior to the termination date of the contract
Aug. 30 200? 05:1SPM P2
19543375747 From: Swwi Engoltn - Ntoate Terrell
FAX HQ. :3016524525
2flO7-<W^01926:42 (GMT)
IN WITNESS, WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed Uri»Agreement this August 2007.
SECURITY POUCH AND FIRE PROFESSIONALS OF AMERICA
ATONAL*. Local# ___
Signature
kssnnt ;
Name	'
tWAHsWtfr .^T____________
Date '	*
Reefer.
Tide
i
line
CBA - CIS and SFFPA 200?- 2010 i
24 of 24
Appendix A
Addendum to Collective Bargaining Agreement
Whereas, Coastal International Security, Inc (hereinafter eferred to as “the Company”; and the International Union Security, Police, and Fire Professionals of America (SPFPA; Local 287 (hereinafter referred to as “the Union”) entered into an Agreement effective October 1,2007
Whereas, the Union has been duly designated by the Company's non-supervisory employees working at the Department of Interior in Washington DC. as their collective bargaining representative, and
Whereas, the aforementioned Agreement provides for the Company and the Union to negotiate wages and fringe benefits for each Facility covered thereby and to enter in to an Addendum setting forth those economic terms.
Now therefore, it is hereby agreed as fellows:
WAGES
The Employer agrees to pay employees covered by this agreement at the following rates per hour:
Unarmed	Armed
Security Guards Security Guards Supervisors
Effective Oct 1,2007	$15.77
Effective Oct 1,2008	♦♦
Effective Oct 1,2009	*♦
$18.00
$19.78
HEALTH & WELFARE
The Employer agrees to pay employees covered by this agreement at the following rates:
Effective Oct. 1,2007
Effective Oct 1,2008
Effective Oct. 1,2009
$3.16 per regular hour worked up to 40 hours per week $*♦ per regular hour worked tp to 40 hours per week $♦♦ per regular hour worked up to 40 hours per week
*♦ The parties agree that either party may reopen negotiate ns for amendments to Appendix “A” Wages & Health & Welfare Allowance at ar y time after May 1 and before June 1, for all years governed by this contract, by giving written notice to the other party. Any final agreement resulting from said negotiation shall b<: incorporated into the terms of this agreement in writting. If the parties fail to reach agreement, the dispute shall be
submitted to arbitration in accordance with Article 5 of this agreement. All provisions of this Agreement, including, but not limited to, Article 16, shall remain in force during the terms of the negotiations and any resulting arbitration, and for the remainder of the terms of this agreement.
VACATION
CURRENT AND CONTINUING:
Vacations may be scheduled with the Employer any time during the year but must be scheduled at least 30 days in advance. Employees shall select their vacation period in order of their seniority, where reasonably possible and mutually convenient to the Employer and employee. No more than five percent (5%) of the work force may be on vacation at any time. Earned vacation will be paid in the pay period during which the vacation time is used, and included in the employee’s regular paycheck. Vacation time must be taken within one (1) year of its availability.
During the term of this Agreement, all employees covered by this Agreement shall earn vacation benefits in accordance with the following schedule. All vacation benefits will be paid at the hourly rate in effect at the time of the employee’;: most recent anniversary date. Accrual of vacation is based upon years of service, wiihout break in service, for CIS, predecessor(s), if any. and/or CIS at the buildings and facilities listed in this Agreement.
a.	2.31 minutes per hour for all hours worked, up to a maximum of 80 hours, during each preceding biweekly pay period. Leave accruing during the year is available only on the service credit date of an em ployee’s completing one year of service. This equates to a maximum of 80 hours per year and is applicable for employees who have completed one through five years of service.
b.	3.47 minutes per hour for all hours worked, up to a maximum of 80 hours, during each preceding biweekly pay period. Leave accruing during the year is available only on the service credit date of an em ployee’s completing a year of service. This equates to a maximum of 120 hours per year and is applicable for employees who have completed five through fifteen years of service.
c.	4.62 minutes per hour for all hours worked, up to a maximum of 80 hours, during each preceding biweekly pay period. Leave accruing during the year is available only on the credit service date of an em ployee’s completing a year of service. This equates to a maximum of 160 hours per year and is applicable for employees who have completed more than fifteen years of service.
Vacation time must be taken within one (1) year of its availability.
Aug. 30 200? 05:19PM P2
198438X6747 From: Sean Engefcn - Nkxto Terrell
FAX NO. :3016524525
2flQ7-OM01926:42 (GMT)
FROM : DoubleTree Bethesda
IN WITNESS, WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed thin Agreement this. August 2007.
SECURITY POLICE AND FIRE PROFESSIONALS OF AMERICA ATIONAL&Local# _________
Signature
M stft ,^PQ2 pc
Title
CBA - CIS and SFFPA 2007- 2010
24 0124
HOLIDAYS
CURRENT AND CONTINUING:
The Employer shall grant to all employees the following holidays off with pay (or pay in lieu thereof if normally scheduled to work that weekday), holiday benefits to be paid as specified below provided that the employee shall work their regularly scheduled work day prior to the holiday and after the holiday:
1	. New Years Day
2.	Martin Luther King Jr. Day
3.	Presidents’ Day
4.	Memorial Day
5.	Independence Day
6.	Columbus Day
7.	Veteran’s Day
8.	Thanksgiving Day
9.	Christmas Day
10.	Labor Day
It is agreed that the above holiday list will be amended to include any day designated by the President of the United States as a permanent National holiday that will be observed and paid by the Federal Government.
Holiday pay will be disbursed a maximum of two weeks after the holiday^) occurs. It will be paid in accordance with the following formula which is based upon the employee’s regularly scheduled hours worked in the two -week period prior to that in which each holiday occurred.
Formula = Number of hours paid up to a maximum of 80 hours in the two week period prior to that in which holiday occurs multiplied by. 1
An employee who is required to work on a holiday shall receive holiday pay in addition to their regular wage. Holiday pay will not be granted to employees when a holiday falls within a period of leave of absence and/or layoff or if the employee foils to work the last scheduled work day prior to the holiday, the first scheduled work day after the holiday or if the employee foils to report to work on the holiday if they are Scheduled to work that day, unless the absence is authorized.
BEREVEMENT
Three Days (3) Bereavement Leave will be paid, up to 24 hours, for a death in the immediate family. Immediate Family is defined as father, mother, spouse, sister, brother, children (including adopted and step-children), father- in- hw, mother-in-law, grandparents, and grand children.
Aug. 30 2007 05:18PM Pl
18543375747 Frcrrt; Saan - Neale Terrell
FROM iDcubleTree Bethesda
A»ane haye H»ge s of 2B
FAX NO. :3016524525
2007-08-30 10:26:42 (GMT)
SICK LEAVE
Employees shall earn sick leave benefits at the rate ofi
4 Days per year based on working 2080 hours. '	:	r
The term ‘'hour worked* shall include hours of paid vacation, sick/personai leave and holidays.
Employees may accrue a maximum of 48 hours of sick leave. They may use this ack/personal leave as it accrues so long as it is irt incremcnls of at least two hours. For any year in which an employee does not use any of their accrued rack leave, they may choose to cashout such leave at their regular rate of pay. Employees will be compensated for all unused sick leave at the time of the termination of thdr employment.
PENSION
The Employer agrees to pay employees covered fay this agreement at the following rates per hour ;	।
Effective Oct 1/2007 $0.90 per regular hour worked up to 40 hours per week
Effective Oct 1,2008 $0.95 per regular hour worked up to 40 hours per Wook
Effective Oct 1,2009 $L0O per regular hour worked up to40 hours per week
INTERNATIONAL UNION, SECURITY, POLICE, FUIE PROFESSIONAL OF AMERICA (SPFPA)
Outed: