
AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
FAIRWAY
and
UFCW
a VOICE for working America
LOCAL 1500
INTERNATIONAL UNION, AFL-CIO, CLC
Effective Date: March 30, 2015
Expiration Date: April 1, 2018
INDEX
Article Page Page
English Spanish
Access to Stores..................................7	.... 3	.... 20
Agreement.........................................-	.... 1	.... 18
Aprons and Tools.................................11	.... 3	.... 21
Automation.......................................37	... 15	.... 35
Bulletin Board...................................34	... 15	... .34
Check Off.........................................3	.... 1	.... 19
Clerks Work Clause...............................18	. . . . 5	. . . . 22
Compassionate Leave..............................26	.... 9	.... 27
Continuance of Employment.........................4	. . . . 2	. . . . 19
Contributions to Health & Welfare,
Pension & Legal Services Funds...............30	... 10	. . . . 29
Enforcability of Any Part of Agreement...........38	... 15	. . . . 35
Employer’s Perogatives............................5	.... 2	.... 19
Employment of Minors..............................9	. . . . 3	. . . . 21
Grievance Procedures and Arbitration.............17	.... 4 .... 22
Holidays.........................................20	.... 6 .... 24
Hoursand Length of Work Week.....................31	.	.	.	12	.	.	.	. 31
Individual Agreement.............................10	.	.	.	.	3	.	.	.	. 21
Injury on the Job................................24	.	.	.	.	9	.	.	.	. 27
Jury Duty........................................25	.	.	.	.	9	.	.	.	. 27
Leave of Absence.................................23	.... 8 .... 27
Legal Services...................................29	...	10	.... 29
Lie Detector Drug Testing........................12	.	.	.	. 3	.	.	.	. 21
Military Service..................................8	.	.	.	. 3	.	.	.	. 20
No Discrimination Clause.........................41	.	.	.	16	.	.	.	. 35
Overtime Pay.....................................19	.... 5 .... 23
Part Time Credit and Preferences.................33	... 15 ... .34
Pension Fund.....................................28	... 10 .... 28
Prior Privileges.................................35	... 15 ... .34
Retroactivity....................................16	.... 4 .... 22
Scholarship Fund.................................40	... 16 . . . . 35
Seniority Rights.................................14	.... 4 .... 21
ShopStewards.....................................36	... 15 ... .34
Sick Leave.......................................22	.... 8 .... 26
Store Closings....................................6	.... 2 .... 20
Strikes and Lockouts.............................15	. . . . 4 . . . . 22
Successors Clause................................39	... 15 ... .35
Term of Agreement................................42	... 16 ... .36
Trial Period.....................................13	. . . . 4 . . . . 21
Union Recognition.................................I	.... I .... 18
Union Security....................................2	.... 1 .... 18
Vacations........................................21	.... 7 .... 25
Wages............................................32	... 12 .... 31
Welfare Fund.....................................27	.... 9 .... 28
THIS AGREEMENT made on the I Ith day of May 2015, between UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS LOCAL 1500, chartered by the United Food and Commercial Workers International Union, AFL-CIO, CLC, having its principal place of business at 425 Merrick Avenue Westbury, NY 11590, hereinafter referred to as the “Union” and Fairway Group Holdings Corp., and any new or acquired corporation operating retail stores, all having their principal place of business at 2284 12th Avenue. New York, New York 10027, hereinafter collectively referred to as the “Employer”.
WITNESSETH:
That in consideration of the mutual promises, covenants and conditions herein contained, and for other good and valuable consideration, the parties hereto do hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I	UNION RECOGNITION
The Employer hereby recognizes the Union as the sole and exclusive bargaining agent (unless work is subcontracted out and performed in an off-site Non-Company owned location) for all managers, assistant managers, first clerks, department heads, Journeyman Clerks and Junior Clerks, grocery, dairy, produce, appetizing delicatessen and drug department employees, Courtesy Clerks, Full Time and Part Time meat wrappers, chicken processors, butchers, apprentice butchers, fish and meat managers, porters, maintenance, parking lot attendants, truck unloaders, Walnut Street warehouse workers, back room help, back street, bakery, coffee, dried fruit & nuts, sushi (unless sub contracted out in any Fairway slore/location, agreement to meet and discuss impact on the workforce), floral (unless sub contracted out in any Fairway store/ location, agreement to meet and discuss impact on the workforce), organics, on premise warehouse, cheese shop, cafe, catering (excluding exempt manager), kitchen, frozen, receiving, customer service (with the exception of associates that also perform office administrative functions. Company to provide prior notification to the Union), POS department employees, outside workers and all such other employees as the Union may be authorized or certified to represent, excluding truck drivers, off premises warehouse help (except for Walnut Street warehouse workers), office clerical, guards, waiter/waitress staff (74th St. resturant only), construction/repair crew and supervisors as defined under the act in all stores and markets that arc now owned, conducted, maintained and/ or operated by it, and in any new store or market that it may own, conduct, maintain, operate and/or acquire at any time during the term of this Agreement, no matter under what name it is operated in the counties of Dutchess, Putnam, Westchester, Bronx, Manhattan, Kings, Queens, Richmond, Nassau and Suffolk in the States of New York, New Jersey and Connecticut.
ARTICLE II	UNION SECURITY
All employees shall, as a condition of their continued employment by the Employer, become members of the Union on the sixtieth (60th) day following the beginning of their employment or the execution date of this Agreement, whichever is the later, and they shall thereafter maintain their membership in the Union in good standing during the term of this Agreement.
Any employee who is expelled or suspended from membership in the Union because of non payment of initiation fees and periodic dues or the failure to perform any other obligation to the Union which would subject him/her to discharge under the provisions of the Labor Management Relations Act of 1947, or any Amendment thereof or Supplement thereto, shall be subject to dismissal from employment after receipt by the Employer, from the Union, of written notice of such non payment of dues or initiation fees or failure to perform.
The employer agrees to forward to the Union, within thirty (30) days from the date of hire, all required
Union documentation including, but not limited to, a fully executed Union application & medical enrollment card.
ARTICLE 111	CHECKOFF
The Employer hereby agrees that it will check off initiation fees and dues from each employee for whom written authorization and direction arc received on a form to be provided by the Union. The Employer shall remit check off dues and initiation lees monthly, no later than the twentieth (20th) of each month to the Secretary Treasurer of the Union.
1
Effective 07/01/15, the deduction schedule for all new part time Employees for dues and initiation fees will begin on the ninety first (91st) day of employment. This change shall in no way change the probationary periods currently stated in the collective bargaining agreement.
ARTICLE IV	CONTINUANCE OF EMPLOYMENT
All employees are to be continued in their present employment during the terms of this Agreement, subject to the terms and conditions of employment in this Agreement and the Schedule attached hereto and made part hereof.
All junior clerks and part-time employees are deemed to be subject to the provisions of this Agreement unless otherwise provided and must become and remain members of the Union in accordance with this Article.
ARTICLE V	EMPLOYER’S PREROGATIVES
The Employer’s prerogatives shall include the right of management, and hiring, direction and placement of the employees, subject to the terms of this Agreement.
The Employer’s prerogatives shall include the right to fix days and hours when its markets shall open and close, the days and hours when its employees shall start and stop work, the right to transfer employees from one market to another and to interchange employees within any department, covered by this contract, and to change the type of work to be performed by any employee and the right to discharge or discipline any employee for just cause, subject to the terms of this Agreement.
It is understood and agreed that the combined butcher/seafood departments as opposed to all other departments in the Employer’s markets shall have a separate and distinct identities and that the Employer’s prerogatives to interchange employees and to change their type of work shall be restricted to, and within, said separate and distinct departments. This means that butcher and seafood employees may work in each other departments, but that the butcher/seafood departments will have separate seniority and bumping from the other departments. This does not affect the requirement that only butchers and butcher apprentices cut red meat, lamb, veal and pork. This does not affect simple trimming by individuals that are not butchers or butcher apprentices.
The interchanging of employees within departments, or from one market to another, as is herein provided, shall not affect the seniority rights of any employee.
The Employer has the right to transfer any employee from one of its stores to another without the approval of the Union or the employee. The Employer will notify the Union in writing at least one (1) week in advance of a permanent transfer of a Journeyman Clerk or Full Time Clerk; at least three (3) days in advance of a permanent transfer of a Junior Clerk, Part Time Clerk or Part Time Courtesy Clerk, except that the Union will be notified as soon as possible in the case of an emergency transfer.
In the event such transfer causes a Journeyman Clerk or Full Time Clerk to expend excessive carfare in reporting to the new location, the Union, at the request of the employee, shall have the right to petition the Employer for reimbursement of the added expense to such transferred employee.
Where there is no public transportation available, transferred employees are to be reimbursed for additional fares or tolls resulting from a transfer and for additional automobile mileage at a rate equivalent to the current IRS approved per mile rate.
Where public transportation facilities are available, the Employer does hereby agree to reimburse the employees for any increase in carfares or traveling expense occasioned by said employee’s transfer from one market to another.
When the transfer is requested by the employee and granted by the Employer, there shall be no reimbursement of any additional travel expense made by the Employer.
In the event Journeyman Clerks or Full Time Clerks are transferred by reason of the closing of a store or as a result of a general layoff or promotion, these transfers shall not be considered under this provision.
ARTICLE VI	STORE CLOSING
In no event shall the closing of any store or stores covered or operated by the Employer result in the loss in seniority rights of any of the employees affected thereby.
2
ARTICLE VII	ACCESS TO STORES
The Employer agrees to permit an authorized representative of the Union to visit any of the Employer’s places of business at any time during normal working hours for the purpose of ascertaining whether this Agreement is being properly observed, provided that there shall be no interruption of. or interference with the Employer’s business.
In order to facilitate the proper functioning of any employee benefit plan, and to insure that contributions arc being made for all covered employees in accordance with the provisions of the bargaining agreement, the Employer hereby agrees to the examination of those records deemed necessary by a Certified Public Accountant, or by any other party to be mutually agreed to by the parties hereto.
The Employer agrees to display the U.F.C.W.L Union Store Card, gratis, for the period of this Agreement. Said Union Store Card shall remain the property of the Union, and the Employer does hereby agree that the breach or violation of any of the provisions of this Agreement on its part shall constitute sufficient cause for the removal of the said Union Store Card by the Union.
The Union's authorized representatives or officers shall be permitted to check payroll records for the purpose of determining Union wage rales and Union membership according to the terms and conditions of the Union contract.
ARTICLE Vlll	MILITARY SERVICE
A.	In the event that any employee covered by this Agreement is required to leave their position, job or work by reason of their conscription into the United States Armed Forces or by reason of enlistment in any form of military service, and upon application as provided by law, shall be reinstated to their former position in such manner and on such conditions as the applicable law of statute provides, including but not restricted to the benefits of any increase in job wages and improvements in job working conditions, and in no event shall such military service be construed to deprive the employee of their rights and privileges as an employee or under any statute or law pertaining to such military service.
B.	In the event that an employee shall make application for return to work from military service, they shall do so in the manner and condition provided by the applicable statutes.
C.	A full time employee who is a member of an organized reserve program or in the National Guard shall be eligible for a two (2) weeks leave of absence (subject to extension in exceptional eases) without pay; such leave may be in addition to the employee’s regularly scheduled vacation period in order that the employee may participate in the military training required by such organization. An employee who wishes to use their regular vacation period for military absence shall be paid in accordance with regular vacation procedure.
D.	All notices for any military leave of absence must be submitted in writing to the Personnel Department.
ARTICLE IX	EMPLOYMENT OF MINORS
The Employer hereby agrees not to employ minors in violation of any of the provisions of the State or Federal Statutes in such eases made and provided.
ARTICLE X	INDIVIDUAL AGREEMENT
No employee shall make, or be required to make any Agreement, or to enter into any understanding inconsistent or conflicting with the terms of this Agreement, or in derogation of, or detraction from, any of their conditions ofcmploymcnt herein contained, nor shall they be required to provide or post any security whatsoever.
ARTICLE XI	APRONS AND TOOLS
The Employer agrees to supply and furnish to all employees covered herein without cost to them, all aprons, footwear (where required by company) and such tools and work equipment as may be necessary for the performances of their duties.
The Employer shall, at its own cost and expense, furnish and launder the customary store coats, aprons, gowns and all apparel required by the Employer to be worn by any employee.
ARTICLE XII	LIE DETECTOR & DRUG TESTING
The Employer agrees that he will not request, require or accept any voluntary offer from any employee to take a lie detector test.
3
Any Union member who newly assumes the positions of Hi-Low operator, Forklift operator and/or Motorized Platform operator will be subject to a drug test, administered by the Company (or an assignee) prior to beginninghis/her first day of said assignment. In the event of a failure of a Company required drug test the only results will be the member not being reassigned to any of the positions listed above and they will be returned to their prior position within the Company. At no point will the failure of a company required drug test have any other impact on the member or their employment with the Company. The Company further agrees not to share the information gathered with any outside agency or agents.
ARTICLE XIII	TRIAL PERIOD
The Employer shall be entitled to a trial period of sixty (60) days for all new journeyman clerks and full time employees, and such new employees may be discharged by the Employer within the said sixty (60) day trial period without any reason being assigned for said discharge.
The Employer hereby agrees not to discharge any employee after the expiration of said sixty (60) day trial period except for just cause.
Once the employee passes the sixty (60) day trial period, their employment date and seniority date shall become retroactive to the first (1st) day of hire.
All Junior Clerks, Part Time Clerks and Courtesy Clerks hired after January 1st, 1995, shall have a six (6) month trial period.
ARTICLE XIV	SENIORITY RIGHTS
Seniority rights of employees in employment and in layoff shall prevail on a company wide basis.
All Journeyman Clerks and Full Time employees at the 2328 12th Avenue location shall have a seniority date of December 1st, 1998, or their date of hire, whichever is later.
Junior Clerks, Part Time Clerks and Courtesy Clerks employed at the 2328 12th Avenue location shall have a seniority date of March 1st, 1999, or their date of hire, whichever is later.
Shop Stewards in each store shall be regarded as having the greatest seniority in the event of transfer or layoff.
Promotion within the bargaining unit shall be based on fitness and ability with seniority a factor if these qualifications are equal.
ARTICLE XV	STRIKES AND LOCKOUTS
There shall be no cessation of work, no strikes, no picketing or other interference with the operation of the Employer’s business or any lockout by the Employer during the period of this Agreement.
It shall not constitute a breach of the Agreement for any employee or Union member covered by this Agreement to refuse to cross a picket line or to refuse to enter upon the premises of the Employer if such refusal does not constitute a violation of Section 8(b) (4) of the Labor Management Relations Act of 1947, as amended.
ARTICLE XVI	RETROACTIVITY
Except as is herein otherwise specifically provided, all wage increases and any other terms and conditions of employment herein contained shall be retroactive to and including the 30th day of March, 2015.
ARTICLE XVII	GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE AND ARBITRATION
All disputes, differences or grievances arising out of interpretation, application, breach or claim of breach of the provisions of this Agreement shall be settled in the following manner:
A.	Within two (2) calendar weeks of the occurrence of such dispute, difference or grievance, authorized representatives of the Union and the Employer shall, in good faith, endeavor to adjust such dispute, difference or grievance.
B.	In the event that the matter is not adjusted in the above step, a representative of the Employer charged with the responsibility for labor relations and a duly designated representative of the Union shall attempt to adjust the same.
C.	In the event the dispute, difference or grievance still remains unadjusted after compliance with the above steps, then such dispute, difference or grievance may be submitted to arbitration by either party not later than thirty (30) days after the occurrence to an arbitrator mutually selected by the parties, for an expedited arbitration or to the American
4
Arbitration Association lor its designation of an arbitrator, in accordance with its rules, to hear and determine the matter. The decision of the arbitrator shall be final and binding upon the parties. The expenses of the arbitration shall be borne equally between the parties.
D.	The arbitrator shall not have the authority or power to arbitrate new provisions to this Agreement, or to arbitrate away cither in whole or in part any provision of this Agreement, nor shall the arbitrator have the power to add to. delete from, or modify any of the provisions of this Agreement.
E.	Any member of the Union who shall at the direction of the arbitrator. be required to testify at any arbitration proceedings, shall receive their regular pay therefore from the Employer.
ARTICLE XVI11	CLERKS’WORK CLAUSE
No person who is not employed by the Company in the bargaining unit shall be permitted to perform the work of a clerk. For the purpose of this Agreement, the work of a clerk shall include but not be limited to the performances of all duties in the retail market or self-service market, such as:
The marketing of merchandise; the slocking of shelves; the waiting on trade; the displaying of merchandise; the selling of food, dairy and appetizing products, the taking of inventory; the serving as or acting as checker or cashier, the serving as or acting as bookkeeper, and the bagging of merchandise.
The above clause may exclude the services of rack jobbers handling non food items, provided previous consent is granted by the Union.
ARTICLE XIX	OVERTIME PAY
A.	The Employer agrees to pay all journeyman clerks and full time employees, for any and all hours worked in excess of forty hours in a week, overtime pay at the rate of time and one-half their regular hourly rate.
B.	The Employer agrees to pay all junior clerks and part-time employees for any and all hours worked in excess of thirty-five (35) hours in a week, overtime pay at the rate of time and one-half their regular hourly rate.
C.	The Employer agrees to pay all Courtesy Clerks for any and all hours worked in excess of twenty-nine (29) regular hours in a week, overtime pay at the rate of time and one-half their regular hourly rale.
D.	All Part Time Clerks. Junior Clerks and Courtesy Clerks working a shift that begins between 9:30 pm - 1:00 am shall be considered Overnight Crew and shall receive an additional twenty five cents (.25) per hour in addition to their regular straight time rate for every hour worked during that shift.
All Journeymen Clerks & Full Time Clerks shall receive ten percent (10%) in addition to their regular hourly rate of pay for all shifts starting between 9:30 pm - 1:00am.
E.	In no event shall there be any pyramiding of overtime and premium pay.
F.	Saturday/Sunday Work
I.	Journeyman Clerks and Full Time Clerks shall receive one and one-half (I 1/2) times their regular rate of pay for work performed on Sunday. Junior clerks and part-time employees shall receive one and one half (1 1/2) times their regular rate of pay for work performed on Saturday and Sunday. Sunday shall not be considered as part of the regular work week for Journeyman Clerks and Full Time Clerks. Saturday and Sunday shall not be considered as part of the regular work w'eek for Junior Clerks and Part Time Clerks. Part Time Courtesy Clerks shall receive one and one half (I 1/2) limes their regular rale of pay for work performed on Sunday. Sunday shall not be considered as part of the regular work week for part time courtesy clerks.
2.	Journeyman Clerks and Full Time Clerks shall not be required to work on Sunday. If the Employer is unable to staff a department on Sunday, employees shall be required to work in inverse order of seniority.
3.	All Journeyman Clerks and Full Time Clerks shall be given a reasonable opportunity to work on Sundays and Holidays, where available, on a rotating basis, within their department & location, when the store is open for business.
4.	Effective on or before 2-28-11, all non-probationary Junior Clerks, Part Time Clerks and Courtesy Clerks will have an established mandatory minimum amount of overtime. This minimum will be based on the members’ average weekend hours (Saturday & Sunday for Junior Clerks & Part Time Clerks, and Sunday for Courtesy Clerks) worked over the 13
5
week period of 10-4-10- 1-2-11. This minimum number of weekend hours will be guaranteed to the member for at least the term of this collective bargaining agreement.
5.	Effective on or before 2-28-11. all probationary employees hired on or before 1-2-11, will, upon completion of their probationary period, be guaranteed a minimum of 8 weekend (as described in paragraph 1 above) hours, provided that they arc available and have averaged at least 8 weekend hours throughout the last 13 weeks of their probationary period.
6.	All Junior Clerks. Part Time Clerks and Courtesy Clerks hired on or after 1-3-11 will receive straight time for all weekend hours worked for the first 18 months of their employment. Upon completion of the 18 months of service the member will then be paid a 82.00 per hour premium for all weekend hours (as described in paragraph I above) until the completion of 2 years of service. After 2 years ofservice all Junior Clerks. Part Time Clerks and Courtesy Clerks shall receive one and one half (I 1/2) times for all weekend hours worked (as described in paragraph I above).
7.	In cases of excessive absences from scheduled weekend hours the Company will have available to it all
elements of progressive discipline. Based on the above, the Company may also restrict an employee from the weekend schedule subject to meeting and discussing this issue with the relevant Union Representative.
ARTICLE XX HOLIDAYS
A.	All Journeyman Clerks and Full Time Clerks with at least three (3) months or more of employment shall be entitled to and receive the following Holidays with pay: New' Year's Day	Presidential Election	Day**
President’s Day*r»wt><to.a™w i. isss)	i. ms)
Memorial Day	Thanksgiving Day
4th of July	Christmas Day
Labor Day
In addition to the Holidays listed above all eligible Journeyman Clerks and Full Time Clerks hired before 1-1-95 shall receive, after one (1) year of employment, one (1) Personal Holiday plus the employee's birthday.
After the completion of tw'O (2) years of employment, all eligible Journeyman Clerks and Full Time Clerks shall receive one (1) additional Personal Holiday plus the employee's anniversary of employment.
After the completion of three (3) years of employment, all eligible Journeyman Clerks and Full Time Clerks shall receive one (1) additional Personal Holiday.
B.	The eligible employee shall notify his Employer at least two (2) weeks in advance of the proposed date of such personal holidays. These dates, how'ever. shall be subject to the approval of the Employer.
C.	The employee shall be compensated at the rate of one and one half (1 1/2) limes, plus his regular holiday pay of straight time for any work performed on a Holiday.
D.	If one of said holidays falls on a regular work day during an employee's vacation period, they shall be paid a sum of money equal to their daily straight lime pay in addition to their vacation pay or be given an additional day of vacation.
E.	An employee whose regular scheduled day off falls on one of the said holidays shall then receive another day off in the same week.
F.	In order to be eligible for holidays, employees must work on the scheduled w'ork day prior to and the scheduled work day following the holiday unless the employee's absence is excused or w'as occasioned by circumstances beyond his control.
Effective 5-11-15, In order to be eligible for time and one-half (1 1/2) and holiday pay for holidays that are w'orked, employees must work on the actual holiday. Employees who actually work on a holiday will receive time and one-half plus holiday pay regardless of whether they w'ork on the scheduled w'ork day prior to and the scheduled w'ork day after the holiday. This provision shall be subject to disciplinary action if abused. Such disciplinary action may be grieved by the Union.
In order to be eligible for holiday pay for holidays that are not w'orked, employees must work on the scheduled w'ork day prior to and the scheduled work day after the holiday unless the employee's absence is excused or w'as occasioned by circumstances beyond his control.
G.	No employee who is discharged for cause or who voluntarily terminates his employment prior to a holiday shall be entitled to receive holiday pay.
6
H.	All eligible Junior Clerks, Part Time Clerks and Courtesy Clerks with ;tt least six (6) months or morcofcmploynient shall be entitled to and receive the following Holidays with pay: New Year's Day	Presidential election Day**
President's Day*tv/»wi»«n>Ja™»>>. m	i. ms/
Memorial Day	Thanksgiving Day
4th of July	Christmas Day
Labor Day
In addition to the Holidays listed above any eligible Junior Clerks, Part Time Clerks and Courtesy Clerks hired before 1-1-95 shall receive, after one (1) year of employment, two (2) Personal Holidays plus the employee's birthday.
In addition to the Holidays listed above any eligible Junior Clerks, Part Time Clerks and Courtesy Clerks hired on 1-1-95 or later shall receive, after one (I) year employment, one (I) Personal Holiday plus the employee's birthday.
I.	All employees, at the employee's option, may substitute any regular Holiday in observance of Martin
Luther King Jr.'s Birthday. Said substitution shall be made in writing, to the employer, no later than December 31st. Mandatory staffing rules by inverse order of seniority apply.
J.	If a Holiday falls on a Sunday the Holiday shall be observed on the following Monday for all Journeyman Clerks, Full Time Clerks and Part Time Courtesy Clerks. If a Holiday falls on a Saturday or Sunday the Holiday shall be observed on the following Monday for all Junior Clerks and Part Time Clerks.
K.	All Junior Clerks, Part Time Clerks and Courtesy Clerks with less than two (2) years of continuous employment shall receive four (4) hours pay for all holidays, after two (2) years of continuous employment they shall receive seven (7) hours pay for all holidays.
L.	Personal holidays for all employees arc to be assigned and taken or shall be banked at the end of each contract year provided that the employee in the employ of the Employer at such time. Banked personal holidays can be taken at a later date or shall be paid out in full upon an employees' separation from the company.
ARTICLE XXI VACATIONS
A. All Journeyman Clerks and Full Time Clerks shall be entitled to paid vacation leave as follows:
Length of	Hired Before	Hired on or
Service	1/1/95	After 1/1/1995
One (!) year:	Two (2) weeks	One (1) week
Two (2) years:	Two (2) weeks	Two (2) weeks
Seven (7) years:	Three (3) weeks	Three (3) weeks
Ten (10) years:	Four (4) weeks	Four (4) weeks
Twenty (20) years	Five (5) weeks				
Twenty-live (25) years:		—			Five (5) weeks
B.	Except for those Journeyman Clerks or Full Time Clerks who have voluntarily left their employment or who have been discharged for just cause, all full time employees laid off by the Employer before the completion of six (6) months of service shall receive one twelfth (1/I2th) of their vacation pay for each month of service so rendered provided such services shall have been continuous.
C.	If a Journeyman Clerk or Full Time Clerk who is with the Employer over a year and for reasons other than a discharge for just cause, terminates his or her employment with the Employer before completing a full year’s employment, then that employee shall receive vacation pay on a pro rata basis for that period.
D.	Length of service for eligibility to vacation shall be computed from
the date of employment.
E.	Vacation pay shall be computed on the basis of the employee's regular straight time weekly wage, unless otherwise stipulated.
F.	All Junior Clerks, Part Time Clerks and Courtesy Clerks shall be entitled to paid vacation leave as follows:
Length of	Hired Before	Hiredonor
Service	1/1/2007	After 1/1/2007
One (I) year:	Thirty-live (35) hours
Two (2) years: Seventy (70) hours Three (3) years: Seventy (70) hours Seven (7) years: One Hundred & live
Twenty (20) hours
Twenty (20) hours Seventy (70) hours One Hundred & live
7
(105) hours
(105) hours
Ten (10) years:	One Hundred & forty	One Hundred & forty (140) hours	(140) hours
Twenty-five (25) years:	One Hundred &	One Hundred & seventy-five (175) hours seventy-five (175) hours
G. Effective 07/01/15, the Employer agrees to pay vacation pay in the payroll period prior to the commencement of the scheduled vacation(s)
week.
ARTICLE XXII SICK LEAVE
All Journeyman Clerks and Full Time Clerks hired prior to January 1st, 1995, shall, after completing three (3) consecutive months of full time employment with the Employer, be eligible to receive in a contract year, a maximum of ten (10) days leave with pay computed on the employees' regular straight time rate of pay for eight (8) hours for days absent from work due to illness and start with the first day of any illness. The employee must notify the Employer at the time of illness so that the proper work schedule can be maintained.
All Junior Clerks, Part Time Clerks & Courtesy Clerks hired prior to January 1st. 1995, shall after completing three (3) consecutive months of part-time employment with the Employer be eligible to receive in a contract year, a maximum of ten (10) days leave with pay computed on the employees’ regular straight time rate of pay for seven (7) hours for days absent from work due to illness and start with the first day of any illness. A. Those employees who are in the employ of the Employer on the last day of each contract year and who were employed for three (3) months or more during the contract year, shall be paid for sick leave for which they were eligible but did not use.
B.	Any employee who is eligible for sick leave and is laid off, for reasons other than for just cause, prior to the end of the contract year, shall be paid for any unused sick leave on a pro rated basis.
C.	All Journeyman Clerks and Full Time Clerks hired on or after January 1st, 1995. after completing three (3) months of service shall receive one (1) day per month up to four (4) days in the first year of employment. In the second (2nd) year of employment they shall receive a total of six (6) days per year and in the third (3rd) year of employment a total of eight (8) days per year. After completing three (3) years of employment they shall receive ten (10) days sick leave. Any unused sick leave shall be paid for at the end of the calendar year.
D.	All Junior Clerks, Part Time Clerks and Courtesy Clerks hired on or after January 1st, 1995 shall receive five (5) sick days; seven (7) hours pay for each sick day, to a maximum of thirty-five (35) hours.
E.	All Junior Clerks, Part Time Clerks and Courtesy Clerks hired on or after January 1st, 2003, after completing one (1) year of service shall receive four (4) hours for each three (3) months of employment to a maximum of three (3) days/twelve (12) hours sick leave. After two (2) years employment they shall receive seven (7) hours for each three (3) months of employment to a maximum of four (4) days/twenty eight (28) hours. After the completion of three (3) year's of employment they shall receive five (5) sick days to a maximum of thirty five (35) hours. After two (2) years employment any unused sick leave shall be paid for at the end of the calendar year.
F.	All Junior Clerks, Part Time Clerks and Courtesy Clerks hired on or after January 1st, 2007, after completing one (1) year of service shall receive four (4) hours for each four (4) months of employment to a maximum of three (3) days/twelve (12) hours. After completing three (3) years of employment they shall receive four (4) sick days, to a maximum of twenty-eight (28) hours. After the completion of four (4) years of employment they shall receive five (5) sick days, to a maximum of thirty-five (35) hours. After two (2) years employment any unused sick leave shall be paid for at the end of the calendar year.
ARTICLE XXIII LEAVE OF ABSENCE
A.	Employees requesting a leave of absence for a reasonable period of time shall be given said leave of absence by the Employer al its sole discretion in writing, provided, however, that a refusal to grant such leave of absence shall not be unreasonably withheld. All requests for leaves arc not necessary in cases of illness or injury, however, subsequent notice and request should be given as soon as is reasonably possible. A leave of absence granted by the Employer shall not constitute a break in seniority.
8
B.	Family/Mcdical Leave of Absence. The Employer shall grant an employee a Family or Medical Leave of Absence if qualified, as required under Federal law.
ARTICLE XXIV	INJURY ON THE JOB
An employee who is injured on the job and is directed by a medical doctor not to continue work shall be paidhis/hcr usual day's wages for that day at straight time for the day on which the injury occurred and up to the next two (2) scheduled days and which time shall not be considered sick leave. An Employee absent from work due to injury or illness shall retain his/her seniority for a period not to exceed 12 months. Company agrees to meet and discuss with the Union any individual ease that may, for reasons beyond the employees' control, go beyond 12 months.
ARTICLE XXV	JURY DUTY
Any employee called to serve on jury duty shall receive pay for actual hours worked for the Company. If this pay together with his jury pay docs not equal his regular straight time weekly earnings, the Company will make up the difference, provided he works for the Company during such hours, when, because the jury is not sitting, he is reasonably available for work. In the event any employee on jury duty serves five (5) days during the week, the juror's pay earned by him on his normal day off shall be excluded when computing the pay to be granted by the Company. The employee shall notify the Company upon receipt of jury duty service notice. The maximum pay for jury duty shall be two (2) weeks or four (4) weeks in the ease of an employee called for grand jury (payment is based on the members presentation of proper documentation to the Company at the conclusion of juror service).
ARTICLE XXVI	COMPASSIONATE LEAVE
Journeyman Clerks and Full Time Clerks who attend services and burial shall be entitled to be paid funeral leave not to exceed three (3) days for all work days lost from the day of the death through the day of the burial of a member of the immediate family, the employee’s working day off not to be computed as part of funeral leave. The "immediate family” is defined as the spouse, child, legal step child, legal foster child, sister, brother, parent, legal step parent, legal foster parent, spouse's parent. spouse's legal step parent or spouse's legal foster parent. In the event of the death of a grandpa rent/grandchild such employee shall be entitled to one (I) day off without loss of wages to attend the funeral, or memorial services.
A. Junior Clerks, Part Time Clerks and Courtesy Clerks shall be entitled to funeral leave as provided for Journeyman Clerks and Full Time Clerks, but on a pro rated basis. Such employees shall be compensated for actual time lost as set forth on the weekly work schedule.
ARTICLE XXVII WELFARE FUND
Effective October 1st, 2014, the Employer agrees to contribute the sum of $1087.66 per month to the UFCW Local 1500 Welfare Fund on behalf of each regular Journeyman Clerk and Full Time employee covered by this Agreement who has completed sixty (60) days of Employment.
Effective October 1st, 2015, $1163.80 per month Effective October 1st, 2016. $1245.27 per month Effective December 1st, 2017, $1307.53 per month
Effective October 1st, 2014, the Employer agrees to contribute the sum of $76.06 per month to the UFCW Local 1500 Welfare Fund on behalf of each regular Junior Clerk, regular Part Time Clerk or regular Courtesy Clerk and the sum of $312.07 on behalf of every Special Part Time Employee on the first of the month following the completion of six months of continuous employment.
Effective Date Regular Part Time Special Part l ime ACA Part l ime 01/01/15	$76.06 per month	$312.07 per month	$300.00 per month
10/01/15	$81.38 per month	$333.91 per month	$321.00 per month
10/01/16	$87.08 per month	$357.28 per month	$343.47 per month
12/01/17	$91.43 per month	$375.14 per month	$360.64 per month
The amount of monthly contributions to the Fund and the method of calculation, whereby a specific monthly sum is contributed for each class of employee, is a formula for providing gross income to the Fund and bears no relationship to the benefits provided.
a.	Effect of the Affordable Care Act (ACA):ln the event the Employer is obligated to offcr/provide additional health benefits to certain part
9
time associates to avoid a financial penalty, due to the provisions of the Affordable Care Act (i.c. those who average over 30 hours), those benefits shall be provided for by the Fund to comply with I he mandate. The Employer agrees that it will pay a monthly contribution of $300.00 per employee, for the term of this agreement, for a plan that complies with the ACA and will avoid employer mandate penalties. The weekly pre-tax contribution for any such associate who elects this plan shall be twenty ($20.00) dollars. The parties agree that in the event that the Affordable Care Act (ACA) is reversed and/or changed, the Company shall not be obligated to provide ACA compliant coverage unless and until legally required.
b.	Weekly Contribution for Special Part Time Employees:
Effective 03/01/14, the weekly pre-tax contribution to the Fund for any such associate who elects the Special Part Time plan is fifteen ($15.00) dollars. There shall be no new entrants into the Special Part Time Plan after 2/28/14.
c.	Weekly Contribution for new Full Time Employees:
Effective 01/01/15, the weekly pre-tax contribution to the Fund for any employee who is hired as, or promoted to, a Full Time position, and who elects the Full Time plan, is ten (10) dollars.
ARTICLE XXVIII	PENSION FUND
Effective January 1st. 2015, the Employer agrees to contribute the sum of $298.61 per month on behalf of each regular Journeyman Clerk and Full Time employee covered by this Agreement who has completed sixty (60) days of service with the Employer to the UFCW Local 1500 Pension Fund. Such contributions shall begin on the first (1st) day of the calendar month next following the completion of sixty (60) days of such employment.
Effective January 1st, 2016 - $309.06 per month
The increase in the monthly contribution rates on January 1, 2016 is contingent on the Trustees of the UFCW Local 1500 Pension Fund discontinuing the practice of purchasing annuities. If this contingency is not met by January 1, 2016, the monthly contribution rate shall remain at the rate established as of January 1, 2015.
Effective January 1st, 2015, the Employer agrees to contribute the sum of$99.89 per month on behalfofeach regular junior clerk, part-timcclerk and regular courtesy clerk who has completed six (6) consecutive months of regular part-time service with the Employer to the UFCW Local 1500 Pension Fund. Such contributions shall begin on the first (1st) day of the calendar month next following the completion of six (6) consecutive months of such employment.
Effective January 1st, 2016 - $103.39 per month
The increase in the monthly contribution rates on January I, 2016 is contingent on the Trustees of the UFCW Local 1500 Pension Fund discontinuing the practice of purchasing annuities. If this contingency is not met by January 1, 2016, the monthly contribution rate shall remain at the rate established as of January I, 2015.
ARTICLE XXIX	LEGAL SERVICES
The Employer agrees to contribute the sum of $1.75 per month to the UFCW Local 1500 Legal Services Fund on behalf of each regular journeyman clerk and full time employee covered by the Agreement who has completed sixty (60) days of service with the Employer. Such contributions shall begin on the first (1st) day of the calendar month next following the completion of sixty (60) days of such employment.
The Employer agrees to contribute $1.75 per month to the UFCW Local 1500 Lega! Services Fund on behalfofeach regular junior clerk, regular part-time clerk and regular courtesy clerk who has completed six (6) consecutive months of regular part-time service with the Employer. Such contributions shall begin on the first (1st) day of the month next following the completion of six (6) consecutive months of such employment.
ARTICLE XXX	CONTRIBUTIONS TO HEALTH & WELFARE. PENSION & LEGAL SERVICES FUNDS
A.	There shall be no contributions to the Welfare Fund, Pension Fund and Legal Services Fund for those employees working full time for the summer period of May 15th to September 15th only, nor shall there be any change in part time contributions for part time employees working full time for the summer period only. Should such employees continue without interruption on a full time basis after the summer, the Employer shall pay as though there was no relief.
10
B.	I. Contributions to the Welfare Fund. Pension Fund and Legal Services Fund shall be remitted by
the Employer to the Fund's office on or before the twentieth (20th) day of each month. Every employee of record who works at least one day in the current month shall be considered to be employed for the entire month for the purpose of computing contributions for that month.
2.	Upon the failure of the Employer to make payment of any contributions within fourteen (14) days of the dale due. the Trustees shall be entitled at their sole option to take any action permitted by this Agreement, by the Agreements and Declarations of Trust establishing the Funds or by law to collect said contribution, together with interest, liquidated damages as established by the Trustees, attorneys' fees and court costs. Such interest and liquidated damages shall accrue starting on the day after the due date of the contributions (the twentieth day of the current month), and shall continue to accrue until said contributions, together with any accrued interest and liquidated damages, have been paid.
3.	The Employer agrees that if it is delinquent in the payment of contributions to the Welfare Fund, to the extent that the Trustees have cancelled the payment of benefits to said Employer's covered employees, the Employer will be responsible for all hospital, medical, surgical and other benefits that would have been paid by the Fund had the Employer's delinquency in making its contributions not resulted in the cancellation of any rights on the part of the Employer's covered employees to receive any such benefits.
4.	The Employer hereby accepts and ratifies the Agreements and Declarations of Trust, as amended from time to time, establishing the Funds as if they were set forth herein in full, and ratifies the designation of the Trustees thereunder. The Trustees have assumed all responsibility for the administration of the Plans, and the Employer shall have no responsibility, except as herein provided.
5.	The Employer shall make available to the Funds, any and all pertinent records of employees that the Funds may require to soundly and efficiently operate the Funds. The Trustees shall have the right to have the Employer's records audited by an accountant of the Funds' own choosing, at the Funds' expense.
6.	In the event the Employer fails to make contributions or provide records as required herein, the Trustees may, despite any other provision of this Agreement, submit to arbitration any issue with regard to these provisions, before an arbitrator designated in accordance with the labor arbitration rules of the American Arbitration Association. The arbitrator shall, in the event a violation exists, make a finding and award, which shall direct payment to the Fund, including the costs of the arbitration, legal fees and audit expenses together with interest and liquidated damages as established by the Trustees.
7.	Upon the written request of the Employer, the Trustees shall make annual financial reports to the Employer, which shall contain information relating to the application of the monies received and benefits paid by the Funds.
C.	In the case of any employee's illness or injury, contributions to the Welfare Fund, the Pension Fund, and the Legal Services Fund shall be made for a period not to exceed three (3) months of absence from work. In the case of an employee who is receiving Worker's Compensation benefits, contributions to the Welfare Fund shall also be made for the seventh (7th). eighth (8th) and ninth (9th) months of such absence.
D.	The Employer shall make contributions to the Welfare Fund on behalf of each employee on family or medical leave under the provisions of the Family Medical Leave Act (FMLA). 29 U.S.C. §2601. ct seq., for each month or partial month the employee is on such leave. The failure of an employee to return to work from such leave, within the meaning of 29 U.S.C. §2614 (c) (2). shall create no obligation on the part of the Union or the Welfare Fund to take any action to recover or to assist in the recovery of said contributions from said employee, nor will such failure to return to work relieve the Employer of its obligation to contribute to the Welfare Fund on behalf of said employee during the period specified in 29 U.S.C. §2614 (c)(1).
E.	The Employer shall make contributions to the Pension Fund on behalf of each employee who qualifies, pursuant to 38 U.S.C. §§4312 and 4318, for Future Pension Service due to a period of military service. The Employer shall also make contributions to the Pension Fund on behalf
11
of each former employee who qualifies, pursuant to 38 U.S.C. §§4312 and 4318. for Future Pension Service due to a period of military service if the Employer was the last employer employing the former employee prior to such military service. Contributions shall be made at the Employer’s contribution rate in effect during each month of military service to which such Future Pension Service relates. Such contributions shall be due and payable within thirty (30) days of reemployment of the employee with the Employer or within thirty (30) days of notice that the employee has become employed, in employment which meets the requirements of 38 U.S.C. §4312, with another contributing employer to the Pension Fund.
ARTICLE XXXI
HOURS AND LENGTH OF WORK WEEK
Except for Junior Clerks, Part Time Clerksand Courtesy Clerks, forty (40) hours shall constitute the regular work week for all employees covered herein.
Ina week in which a full day holiday occurs, thirty-two (32) hours shall constitute the regular work week for all regular Journeyman Clerks and Full Time Clerks. All hours worked in excess of thirty-two hours in a holiday week shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half (1 !6) their regular hourly rate.
In a week in which a full day holiday occurs, all time worked in excess of twenty-eight (28) hours (excluding Saturday and Sunday) shall be paid at a rate of time and one-half (I '/i) their hourly rate for all Junior Clerks and Part Time Clerks.
Working hours shall be consecutive except for a meal period of sixty (60) minutes which shall be provided during such hours as the Employer may designate and which shall not count in computing the number of hours worked.
Ail employees shall receive a fifteen (15) minute rest period for each four (4) hours worked which shall be included in computing the number of hours worked.
All employees working more than thirty-five (35) hours per week shall be considered Journeyman Clerks or Full Time Clerks and all employees working thirty-five (35) hours or less per week shall be considered Junior Clerks, Part Time Clerks or Courtesy Clerks.
Effective 6-1-15, all Part Time Clerks and Junior Clerks (regardless of their date of hire) shall be scheduled to work a minimum of 21 regular (non-overtime) hours each week from Monday - Friday. All Courtesy Clerks shall be scheduled to work a minimum of 21 regular (non-overtime) hours each week from Monday - Saturday.
Saturday and Sunday shall not be considered as part of the regular work week for Junior Clerks and Part Time Clerks. Sunday shall not be considered part of the regular work week for Courtesy Clerks.
The Employer shall post a weekly work schedule for all employees covered by this Agreement, no later than 5:00 PM each Friday for the following week. Changes may be made to this schedule in emergency only and with verification by the Union.
When new employee training takes place in an existing store, it is not the Company’s intention to adversely affect the scheduled working hours of the regular employees of that store. The Company will act in good faith and make its best reasonable and diligent attempts to provide a regular schedule to affected employees.
Effective 1-3-11, all probationary Junior Clerksand Part Time Clerks shall not be scheduled to work more than 35 hours in any given week (Monday-Friday). All probationary Courtesy Clerks shall not be scheduled to work more than 29 hours in any given week (Monday-Saturday).
ARTICLE XXXII - WAGES
A.	Minimum general across the board wage increases for all employees in the bargaining unit on or before March 29th, 2015:
	3/30/2015	1/4/2016	4/4/2016	I/2/20I7	4/3/2017	I/1/20I8
Department Manager	SO.375	$0.25	$0,375	S0.25	$0,375	S0.25
Full Time Clerk	S0.375	$0.25	S0.375	$0.25	$0,375	S0.25
Journeyman Clerk	$0,375	SO.25	$0,375	S0.25	$0,375	SO.25
Journeyman & Apprentice Butchers	$0,375	$0.25	SO.375	$0.25	$0,375	$0.25
Fart Time Clerk	$0.25	$0.25	$0.25	SO.25	SO.25	$0.25
Junior Clerk	$0.25	SO.25	S0.25	S0.25	$0.25	$0.25
Courtesy Clerk	$0.25	$0.25	$0.25	SO.25	$0.25	$0.25
12
B.	Recognition of' New Department Manager Classifications: Effective 1-3-11 the following classifications shall be recognized as Department Managers: I. Grocery Department Manager
2.	Produce Department Manager
3.	Deli Department Manager
4.	Dairy Department Manager
5.	Bakery Department Manager
C. Effective 1-3-11. in current stores there shall be a 90 day probationary period for all newly appointed department managers. Effective 1-3-11, in new stores only, there will be a 120 day probationary period for all newly hired or promoted department managers. During said trial period the member shall receive, at minimum, the appropriate Department Managers minimum rate of pay as staled below for their respective department. D. Any employee designated to cover for a Department Manager’s position, specifically named in this Agreement, absent due to vacation(s). sickness, workers' compensation leave, disability leave or personal leave for at least 5 days in any single payroll week will be paid an additional S.50 per hour to their base rate for all hours worked in that position.
E.	New minimum wage rates for employees for the term of this Agreement:
Cu rrent	1/1/2016	1/1/2017	1/1/2018
Meat & Seafood Department Managers S22.5O Grocery, Produce. Deli. Dairy & Bakery	S23.OO		
Department Managers	SI7.00	SI 8.00		$18.50
Journeyman Butcher	S18.00	SI8.25		$18.50
Apprentice Butcher	$15.00	SI5.5O	$16.00	$16.25
Journeyman Clerk	S12.25	SI3.25	$13.75	
FT Clerk	SI 2.25	SI3.25	$13.75	
Junior Clerk	S9.00	S9.25		
PT Clerk	S9.00	S9.25		
PT Courtesy Clerk	S8.90	$9.15		
F.	Front End Supervisors - The Company may from time to time appoint bargaining unit employees to the position of Front End Supervisor status. In such cases, it is agreed that such employees will be paid a differential of one dollar (SI) per hour for all hours worked while holding the status of Front End Supervisor.
Appointment to and removal from Front End Supervisor status shall beat the sole discretion of the Company. There will be a minimum of two (2) Front End Supervisors per food store.
G.	All Journeyman Clerks and Full Time Clerks hired on or after March 30th. 2015. shall receive the following minimum rate & wage progression: After 60 days of employment - S490.00 per week
Effective 01/01/16 - $530.00 per week
Effective 01/01/17 - S550.00 per week
Thereafter, these employees shall rcccivean increase of twenty (S20.00) dollars per week in accordance with the dates listed on the schedule of the general across the board wage increases.
Department Managers, Butchers, Apprentice Butchers, Journeymen and Full Time Clerks hired at or above the minimum rate, in any event, shall receive a ten ($10.00) dollar per week increase after sixty (60) days of employment and thereafter shall receive their increases in accordance with the schedule of the general across the board wage increases.
H.	All Junior Clerks and Part Time Clerks hired on or after March 30th, 2015, shall receive the following minimum rate & wage progression:
After 6 months of employment - $9.00 per hour Effective 01/01/16 - $9.25 per hour
Thereafter, these employees shall receive an increase of twenty-five (.250) cents per hour in accordance with the dates listed on the schedule of the general across the board wage increases.
I.	All Courtesy Clerks hired on or after March 30th. 2015. shall receive the following minimum rales & wage progression:
After 6 months of employment - $8.90 per hour Effective 01/01/16 - $9.15 per hour
Thereafter, these employees shall receive an increase of fifteen (.150) cents per hour in accordance with the dates listed on the schedule of the general across the board wage increases.
All Part Time Clerks, Junior Clerks and Courtesy Clerks upon completion of their probationary period will receive a twenty-five (.25)
13
cents per hour increase. Thereafter their first general wage increase will be paid in accordance with this schedule:
August, September. October. November.
December & January.............................. 1st	increase in April
February. March. April. May.
June. July....................................1st	increase in October
Junior Clerks & Part Time Clerks hired at or above the minimum rate, in any event, shall receive an increase of twenty-five cents (S.25) per hour after six (6) months of employment and thereafter, receive an increase of twenty-five cents ($.25) per hour in accordance with the dates listed on the schedule of the general across the board wage increases.
Part Time Courtesy Clerks hired al or above the minimum rate, in any event, shall receive an increase of twenty-five cents ($.25) per hour after six (6) months of employment and thereafter, receive an increase of fifteen cents ($.15) per hour in accordance with the dates listed on the schedule of the general across the board wage increases.
J.	Effective June 1st, 1999, new category, new hires:- Part-time Courtesy Clerks shall work twenty-nine (29) hours or less, Monday through Saturday. and shall receive lime and one half (1 1/2) lime for all hours worked in excess of twenty-nine (29), Monday through Saturday and for all hours worked on Sunday.
The duties shall be limited to bagging, collecting shopping carts, cleaning around check stands, sweeping, replenishing bags, slocking magazines, candy and soda by check stands, displays by check stands, putting away overstocks and throw backs and straightening out bread stands.
On a case by case basis, the Company will consider reclassifying to Part Time Clerk/Junior Clerks those Courtesy Clerks who petition the Company to review whether they meet the requirements of a Part Time/ Junior Clerk position.
K.	All Meat and Fish Department Managers hired on or after March 30th, 2015, shall receive the following minimum rates & wage progression:
After 60 days of employment - $900.00 per week
Effective 01/01/16 - $920.00 per week
Thereafter they shall receive increases in accordance with the schedule of the general across the board wage increases.
L.	All Grocery, Produce, Deli. Dairy & Bakery Department Managers hired on or after March 30th, 2015, shall receive the following minimum rate & wage progression:
After 60 days of employment - $680.00 per week
Effective 01/01/16 - $720.00 per week
Effective 01/01/18 - $740.00 per week
Thereafter they shall receive increases in accordance with the schedule of the general across the board wage increases.
M.	All Full Time Journeyman Butchers hired on or after March 30th, 2015, shall receive the following minimum rate & wage progression:
After 60 days of employment - $720.00 per week
Effective 01/01/16 - $730.00 per week
Effective 01/01/18 - $740.00 per week
Thereafter they shall receive increases in accordance with the schedule of the general across the board wage increases.
N.	All Full Time Apprentice Butchers hired or appointed on or after March 30lh, 2015 shall receive the following minimum rale & wage progression:
After 60 days of employment - $600.00 per week
Effective 01/01/16 - $620.00 per week
Effective 01/01/17 - $640.00 per week
Effective 01/01/18 - $650.00 per week
Thereafter they shall receive increases in accordance with the schedule of the general across the board wage increases.
All Apprentice Butchers who complete a thirty-six (36) month apprenticeship program shall receive the full Journeyman Butcher rales and all future increases in accordance with the schedule of general across the board wage increases. All Apprentice Butchers can request a cutting lest up to two (2) times in a one (1) year period, every year, throughout their Apprenticeship. The Company will determine if the Apprentice Butcher passes the test.
14
O.	In the event of a change in the minimum wage law. to a rate higher than that called lor as starting rate in the Union Contract, the higher rate shall take precedent and the Twenty-live S.25 Cents per hour increase every six (6) months shall be in addition thereto.
ARTICLE XXX1I1	PART TIME CREDIT AND PREFERENCE
All Junior Clerk. Part Time Clerks or Courtesy Clerks covered under this Agreement who shall become Journeyman Clerks or Full Time Clerks Ibr one (1) week or more, shall lor the purpose of computing length of service requirements to fall into the Full Time progression rate range, receive credit computed on the basis of half time credit for the length of continuous service rendered by them as regular Junior Clerks, Part Time Clerks or Courtesy Clerks. However, should their Junior Clerk, Part Time Clerk or Courtesy Clerk hourly rate be higher than that called for under the Journeyman Clerk or Full Time progression schedule, then they shall receive the higher rate and proceed to receive increases in accordance with the schedule for general across the board wage increases.
All Junior Clerks, Part Time Clerks or Courtesy Clerks are to receive, first preference for all Full Time temporary work assignments during the summer months and holiday seasons.
ARTICLE XXXIV	BULLETIN BOARD
The Union shall share existing store bulletin boards for the use of regular union notices.
ARTICLE XXXV	PRIOR PRIVILEGES
The Employer agrees that any conditions other than those set forth in this Agreement, and enjoyed prior tothe renewal of this Agreement by the employees of the Company, shall be continued in full force and effect on behalf of such employees.
ARTICLE XXXVI-	SHOP STEWARDS
The Employer recognizes the right of the Union to have one (1) Journeyman Clerk or Full Time Clerk shop steward and one (I) Junior Clerk. Part Time Clerk or Courtesy Clerk shop steward in each store. The shop stewards in each store shall not be transferred without prior notice and discussion with the Union. The Employer will, with adequate notice, arrange for one (I) Journeyman Clerk or Full Time and one (I) Junior Clerk, Part Time Clerk or Courtesy Clerk shop steward from each store to have the same scheduled day off with pay. for the purpose of attending the Union’s shop steward seminar. Shop Stewards shall not handle grievances and shall not interfere with the operation of the Employer's business, and shall not cause or engage directly or indirectly in any unauthorized strikes, work stoppages, slowdowns, or job actions.
ARTICLE XXXVII	AUTOMATION
The Employer agrees that in the event of installation of any form of automation in any of its stores, markets or part thereof, the Union shall then have the right to renegotiate wages and conditions for the Union members in those affected stores, markets or parts thereof.
ARTICLE XXXVIII	ENFORCEABILITY OF ANY PART OF AGREEMENT
The parties hereto agree that should any Article or subdivision of this Agreement be or become unlawful, invalid, ineffective or unenforceable by virtue of any acts, law or decisions of any established Governmental Agency or Court, then said Article or subdivision so declared shall not affect the validity and enforceability of any other Article or subdivision thereof, and the remainder of this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect for its duration, provided said declaration is so limited that the remainder of this Agreement may be isolated and enforceable with respect to both parties and include mutually binding obligations as to terms and conditions of employment.
ARTICLE XXXIX	SUCCESSORS CLAUSE
For purposes of this Article XXXIX, the following terms shall have the following meanings: I) the term "Company” shall be defined as Fairway Group Holdings Corp.; and 2) the term "Fairway" shall refer to the physical store locations that operate and/or conduct business under the banner, brand or trade name of "Fairway" or "Fairway Market".
This Agreement shall be binding upon the Company and its successors and assigns. The Company agrees that in the event of a successor to the
15
Company (by purchase of common stock, merger or consolidation) that continues to operate the business of Fairway, the Successor shall assume and perform unconditionally the obligations of the Company in this Collective Bargaining Agreement in accordance with its terms.
In no event shall such transfer, delegation or sale to the successor terminate, or be deemed to constitute a termination of Fairway Employees employment. The Union shall continue to be bound by this Agreement in the event of such a sale, transfer, delegation or acquisition.
The Parties to this agreement shall be bound by the “Settlement Agreement” dated and executed on May 19, 2009 by Fairway Group Holdings Corp., United Food and Commercial Workers Local 1500 and United Food and Commercial Workers International Union.
ARTICLE XL - SCHOLARSHIP FUND
The Employer shall contribute a lump sum payment of $13,000 to the UFCW Local 1500 Scholarship Fund on each of the following dates:
•	September 7, 2015
•	September 5, 2016
•	September 4, 2017
ARTICLE XLI	- NO DISCRIMINATION CLAUSE
The Employer and the Union agree that they will not discriminate against any employee because of race, color, religion, union affiliation, age, sex, sexual orientation, disability, national origin, genetic information, or gender identity or expression.
ARTICLE XLII	TERM OF AGREEMENT
This Agreement shall be effective as of March 30th, 2015, and shall be automatically renewed from year to year thereafter, unless at least sixty (60) days prior to the April 1st, 2018, date or any annual date of expiration thereafter, written notice by registered mail is given by either party to the other of a desire to amend or terminate this Agreement.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused these presents to be signed by their respective representatives and their seals affixed thereof, the day and year first above written.
FAIRWAY GROUP HOLDINGS CORP.
UNITED FOOD& COMMERCIAL WORKERS
UNION, LOCAL 1500, chartered by U.F.C.W INTERNATIONAL UNION, AFL-CIO, CLC
16
ACUERDO DE NEGOCIACION
COLECTIVA
ENTRE
FAIRWAY
y
UFCW
a VOICE for working America
LOCAL 1500
INTERNATIONAL UNION, AFL-CIO, CLC
Fecha de vigencia:
Fecha de Vencimiento:
30 de Marzo de 2015 1 de Abril de 2018
Esta cs una traduction al cspahol del ingles, del contrato de Fairway. Ante ciialquicr error de interpretation en esta version, la versi6n original en ingles prcvaleeera
ESTE ACUERDO celcbrado a los II dias del mes de mavo del 2015. entre UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS LOCAL 1500, eslablccido por United Food and Commercial Workers International Union, CLC. con domicilio comcrcial cn 425 Merrick Ave. Westbury. NY.I590 en adelante llamado el "Sindicalo" y Fairway Group Holdings Corp, y asi como cualquier corporacion nueva o adquirida que opcrc como lienda al por menor operative, todas con domicilio comercial cn 2284 12th Avenue, New York, New York 10027. cn adelante llamados col-ectivamcntc cl "Empleador".
DECLARAN:
En consideracion de las promesas mutuas. los convcnios y las condi-cionesqueaqui seincluyen, y por contraprestacion valida y onerosa recibi-da, las partes firmantes por el presente acuerdan Io siguientc:
ARTlCULO I RECONOCIMIENTO DEL SINDICATO
El Empleador por el presente reconocc al Sindicalo como cl agente de negotiation unico y exclusive (a menos que cl trabajo sea subcontratado afuera y sc desempenc cn una ubicacion que no sea propiedad de la Com-pania) para lodos losgerentes, gerentesadjuntos. vendedores odependien-tes de alto rango. dircclores de departamento. vendedores o dependientes profesionales y vendedores o dependientes junior, emplcados de tiendas de comestibles, lecherias, productos, comidas sclcctas sabrosas y departamento de farmacos. vendedores o dependientes de cortesia a liempo parcial, empacadorcs de came a tiempo complete y a liempo parcial, pro-cesadores de polio, carniceros, carniceros aprendices, gerentes del departamento de pescados y carnes, conserjes, manlenimiento, encargados del estacionamiento, descargadores de camioncs. trabajadores del almacen de Walnut Street, ayudantes de deposito posterior y calle trasera. trabajadores externos, panaderia, cafe, frutas secas y nueces, sushi (a menos que sea subcontratado afuera en cualquier lienda/ubicacion de Fairway, acu-erdo para reunirse y discutir el impaclo a los trabajadoes), flores ( a menos que sea subcontratado afuera en cualquier tienda/ubicacion de Fairway, acucrdo para reunirse y discutir cl impaclo a los irabajadores), organicos. almacen en la lienda. departamento de queso, cafe, catering (excluyendo gerenle exentos), cocina. congelados, receiving, servicio al clicnte (con la excepcion de los asociados que tambien realizan trabajos de oficina ad-minislrativa. La Compania debe proveer nolificacion previa a la union) y empleados de Deparlament de POS asi como todos los demas empleados que el Sindicalo pueda estar aulorizado o certificado para representar. excluyendo a losconductores de camiones, los asistentes de deposito fuera de las premisas (excluyendo los trabajadores del almacen de Walnut Street), los empleados de oficina, guardias. personal de camareros/camareras (del reslaurantc de 74th St. unicamenle), personal y supervisors de construc-ci6n/reparacion como se define en la ley en todas las tiendas y mercados que ahora son propiedad, estan dirigidos. manlenidos y/o operados por el mismo, y en cualquier tienda o mercado nuevo que pueda posecr, dirigir. mantener, operar y/o adquirir en cualquier momento durante el plazo de csle acuerdo, sin importar bajo que nombre sea operado en los condados de Dutchess, Putnam, Westchester, Bronx. Manhattan. Kings. Queens. Richmond. Nassau y Suffolk en los Estados de Nueva York. Nueva Jersey y Connecticut.
ARTlCULO II SEGURIDAD DEL SINDICATO
Todos los empleados deberan. como condicion de su empleo continuo por parte del Empleador. convertirse en miembros del Sindicalo en el sex-agesimo (60mo) dia luego del comienzo de su empleo o de la fecha de cele-bracion decste Acuerdo. cualquier sea posterior, y luego deberan mantener su membresia en el Sindicalo cn vigencia durante el plazo de csle Acuerdo.
Cualquier empleado que sea despedido o suspendido en la membresia del Sindicalo debido a falta de pago de cargos de iniciacion y fallasdc pago periodicas o el no cumplimiento de cualquier otra obligacion frente al Sindicalo que lo/la desvinculara bajo las disposicioncs de la Ley de Rcla-ciones Obrcro-Patronalcs de 1947. o cualquier Enmicnda o Complcmcnlo a la misma, estara sujeto a la destitution del empleo. por parte del Emplcador, luego de recibir la nolificacion por escrito de parte del Sindicalo. de tales cuolas impagas o cargos de iniciacion o la falta de cumplimiento de una obligacion.
18
El Empleador acucrda cnviaral Sindicato, dentro de treinta (30)diasdc la Icchadeconlratacion. Iodo documentos requeridos por la Union incluy-endo. pero no limitado. una aplicacion de la Union complctada y la tarjcta de inscripcion medica.
ARTICULO III COMPROBACIQn
El Empleador por el presume acuerda que controlani los cargos de ini-ciacion y las euotasde cada empleado de quicn rccibio la autorizacion y la instruction por cscrito cn tin lormulario a ser brindado por el Sindicato. El Empleador rcmilira las euotas y los cargos de iniciacion controlados, antes del vigesimo (20mo) dia de cada mes al Sccretario de Tesoreria del Sindicato.
Efectivo cl I to de julio del 2015. el calendario de la deducion para todos los nuevos empleados a tiempo parcial para las euotas y loscargos de initiation. comenzara en el noventa y uno (91) dia de cmpleo, Esle eambio de ninguna manera cambiara los periodos de prueba aclualmente estableci-das cn cl acucrdo de negociacion colectiva.
ARTICULO IV CONT1NUAC1ON DEL EMPLEO
Todos los empleados continuaran en su cmpleo presente durante el pla-zo de csle Acucrdo. sujetos a los terminos y las condicioncs de cmpleo de este Acucrdo y cl Programa anexado y que constiluyc parte del mismo.
Todos los vendedores o dependientes junior y empleados a tiempo parcial cstaran sujetos a las disposicioncs de cstc Acucrdo, a mcnos que se cs-pccifiquc Io conlrario y deberan convcrtirsc y continuar siendo miembros del Sindicato conlbrmca cstc Articulo.
ARTiCULO V PRERROGATIVAS
DE LOS EMPLEADORES
Las prerrogativas de los Emplcadores deberan incluir el derecho de gestion y contratacion, direction y ubicacion de los empleados, sujeto a los terminos de cstc Acucrdo.
Las prerrogativas de los Emplcadores deberan incluir cl derecho a determiner los dias y horarios cn que sus mcrcados deben abrir y ccrrar, los dias y horarios cn que sus empleados deben comenzar y delener cl trabajo, cl derecho a transl'erir los empleados de un mcrcadoa otroy a intcrcambiar los empleados dentro de cualquicr departamento, cubicrto por cstc con-trato, y a cambiar cl tipo de trabajo a ser rcalizado por parte de cualquicr empleado y cl derecho a dcspedir o disciplinar a cualquicr empleado por causa just ificada, sujeto a los terminos de cstc Acucrdo.
Sc entiende y se acucrda cn que los departamentos combinados de car-niccro/mariscos tai como se oponcn a todos los demas departamentos en los mcrcados del Empleador debcra tetter unas identidades separadas y distintas y que las prerrogativas del Empleador para intcrcambiar los cm-pleados y para cambiar su tipo de trabajo quedara rcservada a los. y dentro de dicho departamentos separados y distintos. Esto signilica que los carnicerosy empleados de mariscos pueden trabajar cn los departamentos de cada uno. pero que los departamentos de carniceros/mariscos tendran antigiiedad separada y derechos de desplazamiento de los olros departamentos. Esto no alccta cl requisite de que solo carniceros y aprendiccs de carniccro cortar carnes roja. cordero. ternera y ccrdo. Esto no alccta el sencillo recorte de carne por personas que no son carniceros y aprendiccs de carniccro.
El inlcrcambio de empleados dentro de los departamentos. o de un mcr-cado a otro, como sc dispone en el presente, no debcra afcctar los derechos de antigiiedad de ningun empleado.
El Empleador ticnc el derecho de transl'erir cualquicr empleado de una de sus tiendas a otra sin aprobacion de la Union o cl empleado. El Em-plcador notilicara a la Union por cscrito al mcnos una (I) semana antes de una translcrcncia permanenlc de un vendedor o empleado de tiempo complete, por Io mcnos Ires (3) dias antes de una translcrcncia permanente de un vendedor o dependientes junior, empleados de tiempo parcial o cm-plcadosdccortesia. la Union sera notilicada Io mas pronto possible cn caso de un translado de emergencia.
En dicho caso que el traslado de vendedores o empleados de tiempo complcto Ie cause gustos cxccsivo de transportc til reportarsc a la nueva ubicacion, la Union, a peticion del empleado, (endra cl derecho de pedir
19
al empleador recmbolso por los gastos adicionalcs a los empleados Irans-feridos.
Cuando no haya transporle publico disponiblc, se dcbera rcintcgrar a los empleados transferidos los pasajes o peajes adicionalcs que rcsultcn de la transferencia y el millaje en automovil adicional a una tarila cquivalcntc a la actual tasa aprobada por cl IRS por milla.
Cuando haya disponibles instalacioncs de transporle publico, el Em-plcador por cl presentc acuerda rcintcgrar a los empleados cualquicr au-mento cn las larifas del viajc o gastos de viajc ocasionados por la transfer-encia de un mercado a otro de dicho cmpleado.
Cuando la transferencia sea solicitada por el cmpleado y otorgada por el Empleador, este ultimo no reintegrani ningun gasto de viajc adicional.
En dicho caso que los vendedores o empleados de tiempo complete sean transferidos por razon del cierre de una tienda o como consccuencia de un despido o promocion general, estas transferencias no sc considcraran bajo esta disposicion.
ARTICULO VI CIERRE DE TIENDA
En ningun caso el cierre de una tienda o tiendas cubierlas u opcradas por el Empleador resultant en la perdida de los derechos de antigiiedad de ninguno de los empleados afcctados por esa razon.
ARTICULO VII ACCESO A LAS TIENDAS
El Empleador acuerda permitir que un representante autorizado del Sindicato visile cualquiera de los sitios de actividad comercial del Empleador en cualquier momento durante el horario habitual de trabajo con el proposilo de cerciorarse si este Acuerdo se cumple adecuadamente, siempre y cuando no haya interrupcion o interferencia con la actividad comercial del Empleador.
Para facililar el funcionamiento adecuado de cualquier plan de benefi-cios del cmpleado y para garanlizar que las conlribuciones se emitan para lodos los empleados cubiertos de acuerdo con las disposiciones del acuerdo de negotiation, el Empleador por el presente acuerda la inspection de esos rcgislros considerados necesarios por pane de un Contador Publico Cerlificado, o por cualquier otra parte a ser acordada mutuamente por las partes del presente.
El Empleador acuerda exhibir la Tarjeta de tienda del Sindicato U.F.C.W.I. gratis, durante el periodo de este Acuerdo. Dicha Tarjeta de tienda del Sindicato debera continuar siendo propiedad del Sindicato, y el Empleador por el presente acuerda que la infraction o violation de cualquiera de las disposiciones de este Acuerdo por su parte, constiluira una causa suficiente para la elimination de dicha Tarjeta de tienda del Sindicato por parte del Sindicato.
Representantes Autorizados o Funcionarios de la Union estaran au-torizados a revisar los regislros de nomina con el fin de delerminar los aumcnlos de salaries y la afiliacion sindical de acuerdo a los terminos y condiciones del contraclo sindical.
ARTICULO VIII SERVICIO MILITAR
A.	En el caso de que a un cmpleado cubierlo por este Acuerdo sc Ic exija quedejesu pucsto, trabajo o labor pordeberserviren las Fucrzas Armadas de los Estados Unidos o por razones de enrolamiento en cualquicr forma de servicio militar, y conforme al pedido como Io cstablece la Icy, dcbera ser reincorporadoa su puesto anterior de tai manera oen tales condiciones como lo disponen las leyes vigentes, incluyendo, pero sin limitarse a, los beneficios de cualquier aumento en los salaries laborales y las mejoras en las condiciones de trabajo, y en ningun caso tai servicio militar sera in-terpretado como privation para el empleado de sus derechos y privilegios como empleado o bajo ningun estaluto o ley que pcrtenezca a dicho servicio militar.
B.	En el caso de que un empleado realice una solicilud para regresar al trabajo luego del servicio militar, dcbera haccrlo cn la forma y segun las condiciones eslablecidas en la legislation vigente.
C.	Un cmpleado a tiempo complclo que sea miembro de un programa organizado de reserva o este cn la Guardia National rcunini los requisites para una liccncia sin gocc de sucldo de dos (2) semanas (sujeto a la extension en casos cxcepcionalcs); dicha liccncia puedc ser adicional al
20
periodo de vacaeiones programadas habituates del cmpleado. para que cl emplcado pueda participar en cl cntrcnamicnto militar rcquerido por tai organizacion. Un emplcado que dcsce utilizar su periodo de vacaeiones habilualcs como ausencia militar recibira su pago de acuerdo con cl pro-ccdimicntode vacaeiones habituates.
D.	Todas las nolilicacionesdc licencia militar sin goce de sueldo sc deben presentar por cscrito cn cl Dcparlamento de Personal.
ARTiCULO IX EMPLEO DE MENORES DE EDAD
El Emplcador por el presente acuerda no emplcar a mcnores de edad infringiendo cualquiera de las disposicioncs de las Lcycs Estatalcs o Federates en los casos previstos.
ARTiCULO X ACUERDO INDIVIDUAL
Ningun cmpleado eclcbrara, ni sc Ie solicitara que celebrc, ningun acuerdo, ni acordara ninguna actividad inconsistentc o que entre cn conllicto con los terminos de estc Acuerdo. o en dcrogacion, o detraccion de ninguna de sits condicioncs de empleo incluidas en cl presente. ni sc Ic solicitara que brinde o lijc ninguna garantia en absolute).
ARTICULO XI DELANTALES Y HERRAMIENTAS
El Emplcador acuerda suministrary proveer a lodos los cmplcados cubi-ertosen el presente, sin cosloalguno para los mismos. todos losdclamales, calzado (cuando Io rcquicra la Compania). las herramientas y equipos de trabajo que scan nccesarios para cl cumplimcnto de sits obligacioncs.
El Emplcador. a cucnta suya, dcbcra provccr y lavar los abrigos, los delantales. las batas y toda la veslimenta habitual de la tienda que el Emplcador cxigc que vistan los cmplcados.
ARTICULO XII PRUEBA DEL DETECTOR DEMENTIRASY DE DROGAS
El Emplcador acuerda que no solicitara, requerira ni accptara ninguna oferta voluntaria de ningun emplcado para someterse a la prueba del detector de mentiras.
Cualquicr miembro de la Union que recicn asumc la posicion de Opera-dor de Alta Baja. Operadordc Montacargasy/oOpcradordc Platalormas Motorizadas scran objeto a tin examcn de drogas adminsitrado por la Empresa (o un cesionario) antes de comcnzar su primer dia de dicha ccsion. En caso de un fracaso del examcn de drogas rcquerido por la Empresa. el unico resullado sera que los miembros no scran reasignados a ninguna de las posicioncs antcriormentc mcncionadas y scran dcvucltos a sus posi-ciones previas en la Empresa. El fracaso del examcn de drogas rcquerido por la Empresa. no impactara el empleo del miembro con la Empresa. La Empresa sccompromclca nocomparlir la informacion obtenidacon cual-quier agenda o agentes externos.
ARTiCULO XIII PERIODO DE PRUEBA
El Emplcador tendra derecho a un periodo de prueba de scsenta (60) dias para todos los vendedores o dependientes prolesionalcs y cmplcados a (tempo complcto. y talcs cmplcados nuevos podran ser despedidos por el Emplcador dentro de dicho periodo de prueba de scsenta (60) dias sin mediar causa de dicho dcspido.
El Emplcador por cl presente acuerda no dcspedir a ningun emplcado luego del vcncimicnto de dicho periodo de prueba de scsenta (60) dias cx-ccplo por causa justificada.
Una vez que cl cmpleado complcto cl periodo de prueba de scsenta (60) dias. su fcchadeempleo y antigiiedad se volvcra rctroactiva hasta cl primer (ler) dia de la contratacion.
Todos los vendedores o dependientes junior, los cmplcados a liempo parcial y cmplcados de cortcsia contratados dcspucs del 1° de encro de 1995 lendran un periodo de prueba de seis (6) mescs.
ARTiCULO XIV DERECHOS DE ANTIGUEDAD
Los derechos de anligiicdad de los cmplcados que actualmcntc cstan trabajando o cstan despedidos dcbcran prcvalcccr en toda la compania.
Todos los vendedores o dependientes prolesionalcs y los cmplcados a tiempo complcto en la ubicacion de 2328 12th Avenue lendran una fccha
21
de antigiiedad del 1° de diciembre de 1998. d de su I'ccha de contralacion, cualquiera que sea posterior.
Los vendedores o dependientes junior, los empleados a tiempo parcial y los empleados de corlesiaen la ubicacion de 2328 12th Avenue tendnin una fecha de antigiiedad del 1° de marzo de 1999,6 de su fccha de contralacion, cualquiera que sea posterior.
Se considerarti que los representantes de los trabajadores en cada lienda tienen la mayor antigiiedad cn el caso de una transferencia o tin despido.
La promocion dentro de una unidad de negociacion se basara en la ap-litud y capacidad siendo la antigiiedad tin factor decisive si dichas calilica-cioncs son equivalentcs.
ARTlCULO XV HUELGAS Y PAROS
No habra cesacion del trabajo. ni huelgas. piquetes u otra interferencia con el funcionamiento de la actividad comercial del Empleador. lampoco habra pares por parte del Empleador durante el periodo de este Acuerdo.
No constituira una violacion al Acuerdo que un entplcado o miembro del Sindicalo cubierto por esle Acuerdo se niegue a cruzar una linea de piqueteosenieguea ingresaren laspremisasdel Empleador. si lai negation no consliluye una violacion de la Section 8(b) (4) de la Ley de Relaciones Obreros-Patronales de 1947, segun la enmienda.
ARTlCULO XVI RETROACTIVIDAD
A menosque sedisponga especificamentc loconlrarioen el presente, to-dos los aumentos de salario y cualquiera de los reslantes terminos y condi-ciones de empleo incluidos en el presente seran retroactivos e incluiran el 30 de marzo del 2015.
ARTlCULO XVII PROCEDIMIENTO DE OUEJAS Y ARBITRAJE
Todas las controversias, diferencias o quejas que surjan de la inter-prelacidn.aplicacion, incumplimiento o reclamo de incumplimiento de las disposiciones de este Acuerdo seran resueltas de la siguiente manera:
A.	Dentro de las dos (2) semanas calendario de ocurrida dicha contro-versia, difercncia o queja, los representantes autorizados del Sindicalo y cl Empleador. de buena fc, intentaran armonizar lai controversia, diferencia o queja.
B.	En el caso en que no sc resuclva el problema en cl paso anterior, un representanle de) Empleador que cargue con la responsabilidad de las relaciones laborales y un representanle debidamenle designado del Sindicalo inienlaran resolverlo.
C.	En el caso en que la controversia, diferencia o queja continue sin solution luego del cumplimiento de los pasos anteriores, dicha controversia, diferencia o queja podra ser sometida alarbitraje por cualquiera de las partes antes de los treinta (30) dias luego de ocurrida ante un arbitro seleccio-nadomuluamenteporlaspartcs, para su arbitraje agil, oante la asociacion Esladounidensc de Arbitraje para que dcsigne un arbilro. de acuerdo con sus rcglas, que escuche y determine el problema. La decision del arbitro sera definitiva y vinculante para las partes. Los gastos del arbitraje seran repartidos por igual enlre las partes.
D.	El arbitro no tendra la autoridad o las facultades para arbitrar disposiciones nuevas de este Acuerdo. o para arbitrar, ya sea total o parcial-mente, ninguna disposition deeste Acuerdo. ni cstara facuJtado para agre-gar. climinar o modificar ninguna de las disposiciones de este Acuerdo.
E.	A cualquier miembro del Sindicalo. segun lo indique el arbitro. que se 1c solicite prestar testimonio en cualquier procedimiento de arbitraje. recibira su pago habitual del Empleador.
ARTlCULO XVIII CLAUSULA DE TRABAJO DEL VENDEDOR O DEPENDIENTE
Ninguna persona que no sea un empleado de la Compania cn la unidad de negociacion tendra permitido realizar cl trabajo de vendedor o depend-ientc. Para los fines de este Acuerdo. el trabajo de vendedor o depcndicnle incluira. entre otros. la realization de sus obligaciones cn el mcrcado mi-norista o cl Mcrcado del auloscrvicio. tales como:
La comercializacion de la mercadcria; cl abastccimicnto de loscstanlcs; la espera en el comercio; la exhibition de la mercadcria: la venta de ali-
22
memos, laclcos y productos sabrosos. la realizacion del invenlario: acluar como inspector o cajcro. tencdor de Iibros y cl cmbolso de la mcrcaderia.
La clausula anterior puede excluir los scrvicios de los gondoleros a con-signacion que manejen articulos que no scan alimentos. siemprc y cuando el Sindicato olorgue el consenlimiento prcvio.
ARTICULO XIX PAGO DE HORAS EXTRAS
A. El Empleador acuerda pagar a todos los vendcdorcs o dependientes prolcsionalcs y a los empleados a tiempo complclo. por todas y cada una de las horas trabajadas que cxcedan las cuarcnta horas en una semana. cl pagodc horas extras a razon de tiempo y medio su tarila por hora habitual. B. El Empleador acuerda pagar a todos los vendcdorcs o dependientes junior y a los empleados a tiempo parcial todas ycada una de las horas trabajadas que cxcedan las treinta y ci neo (35) horas en una semana. cl pago de horas extras a razon de tiempo y medio de su tarila por hora habitual.
C.	El Empleador acuerda pagar a todos los empleados de cortcsia cada una de las horas trabajadas que cxcedan las veintimicvc (29) horas en una semana. cl pago de horas extras a razon de tiempo y medio su tarila por hora habitual.
D.	Todos losempleadosa tiempo parcial. vendcdorcsjunior y empleados de cortcsia que trabajen un lurno que comicnzc entre las 9:30 p.m.-l:()() a.m. sc debe considerar empleado de noche y debe rccibir veinlicinco (.25) centavos por todas horas trabajada durante esc lurno.
Los vendcdorcs o empleados de tiempo complclo deben rccibir diez por-cicnlo (10 %) adicional a su salario regular por hora por los lurnos que comienzcn entre 9:30 p.m.-l:()() a.m.
E.	En ningun caso habra ninguna piramidede las horas extrasy la prima de pago.
F.	Trabajo de sabado/domingo
I.	Los vendcdorcs o dependientes prolcsionalcs y los empleados a li-empo complete rccibiran tiempo y medio (I 1/2) su tarila habitual de pago porel trabajorcalizado undomingo. Los vendcdorcsodependientesjunior y los empleados a tiempo parcial rccibiran tiempo y medio (I 1/2) su tarila habitual de pago por cl trabajo rcalizado un sabado y un domingo. El domingo no sera considerado como parte de la semana de trabajo habitual para los vendcdorcs o dependientes prolcsionalcs y losempleados a tiempo complclo. El sabado y cl domingo no scran considcrados como parte de la semana de trabajo habitual para los vendcdorcs o dependientes junior y los empleados a tiempo parcial. Los empleados de cortcsia a tiempo parcial rccibiran tiempo y medio (I 1/2) su tarila habitual de pago por el trabajo rcalizado el domingo. El domingo no sera considerado como parte de la semana de trabajo habitual para los empleados de cortcsia.
2.	No sc les cxigira a los vendcdorcs o dependientes prolcsionalcs que trabajen los domingos. Si el Empleador no puede complctar cl personal para un departamento el dia domingo, se les solicitara a los empleados que trabajen cn orden inverse de antigiiedad.
3.	A todos los vendcdorcs o dependientes prolcsionalcs y empleados de tiempo complete
sc les debera dar una oporlunidad para trabajar los domingos y los dias fcriados. dondc sc
disponga. en forma rotativa. dentro de su departamento y ubicacion, cuando la tienda este
abierta para ncgocio.
4.	Efcctivo cn o antes del 28 de lebrero del 2011. iodo los empleados que hayan lerminado su tiempo de prueba, como: los vendcdorcs junior, cm-plcadosdc tiempo parcial y empleados de cortcsia lendran cstablecido una cantidad minima de horas de tiempo y medio. Este minimo de horas se basara cn un promedio de horas trabajadas en los fines de semana (sabado y domingo para vendcdorcs juniors y empleados de tiempo parcial y domingos para empleados de cortcsia) por un periodo de 13 semanas desde cl 4 de octubrc del 2010 hasla el 2 deenero del 2011. Este numero minimo de horas de fin de semana sera garantizado a los miembros por Io mcnos durante la vigcncia decslcconlrato.
5.	Efcctivo en o antes del 28 de febrero del 2011. lodos los empleados a prueba contratado cn o antes del 2 de enero del 2011, al termino de su periodo de prueba. van ha estar garantizado un minimo de 8 horas de fin de
23
semana (como sc describe cn parrafo I) siempre que esicn disponiblcs y tengan un promedio de al mcnos 8 horas desde las ultimas 13 semanas de su periodo de prueba.
6.	Todos los vendedores junior, empleados de tiempo parcial y emplcdos de cortcsia contralados cn on dcspucs del 3 de encro del 2011 recibiran tiempo complete por todas horas trabajadas cn cl fin de semana por los printeros dicciocho (18) meses de cmpleo. Dcspues de completar los die-ciocho (18) meses de scrvicio de miembro sc Ie pagara dos dolares (S2.00) por hora de incremcnto por todas horas de fin de semana trabajadas (como se describe encl parrafo 1) antes que completen losdos(2)anosdeservicio. Despues de los dos (2) anos de servicio el vendedor junior, empleado de tiempo parcial y empleado de cortcsia deberan de recibir tiempo y medio por todas las horas trabajadas en el fin de semana (como se describe en el parrafo 1).
7.	En los casos de ausencias excesivas de horas de fin de semana pro-gramado, la empresa tendra a su disposicion todos los elementos de la disciplina progresiva. Basado en lo arriba mencionado la empresa tam-bien puede rcstringir a un empleado de la programacion de fin de semana siempre que se cumplan y discutan el problema con el Representante de la Union correspondientc.
ARTICULO XX FERIADOS
A. Todos los vendedores o dependientes profesionales y los empleados a tiempo completo con al menos Ires (3) meses o mas de empleo tendran el derecho de recibir los siguientes dias Feriados con pago:
Dia de Ano Nuevo	Dia del Trabajo
Dia de los Caidos	Dia de Accion de Gracias
4 de Julio	Dia de Navidad
Dia de los Presidentes (si fuistecontratado antes de Iro dcenerodel 1995) Dia de Eleccioncs Prcsidcncial (Si cres votante registrado y contratado eno antes del Iro de enero del 1995)
Luego de un (1) ano de cmpleo, un (I) dia Feriado personal mas el cum-plcanos del empleado.
Luego de dos (2) anos de empleo, un (1) dia Feriado personal adicional mas el aniversario de cmpleo.
Luego de tres (3) anos de cmpleo, un (I) dia Feriado personal adicional. B. El empleado que retina los requisites debera informarasu Empleador con al menos dos (2) semanas de anticipacion de la fecha propuesta de di-chos Feriados personales. Sin embargo, cstas fechas estaran sujetas a la aprobacion del Empleador.
C.	El empleado sera compensado a tiempo y medio su tarifa, mas su pago por el feriado habitual de hora normal por cualquier trabajo realiza-do durante un Feriado.
D.	Si uno de los Feriados mencionados cae un dia de trabajo habitual durante el periodo de vacaciones del empleado, sc Ie pagara una suma de dinero equivalente a su pago de hora normal diaria, ademas de su pago de vacaciones o se 1c dara un dia de vacaciones adicional.
E.	Un empleado cuyo dia librc programado habitual caiga en uno de los Feriados mencionados recibini otro dia librc cn la misma semana.
F.	Para poder reunir los requisites para los feriados, los empleados deben trabajar durante el dia laboral programado anterior y posterior al feriado a menos que la ausencia del empleado este justificada o fuera oca-sionada por circunstancias mas alia de su control.
Efectivo el 11 de mayo del 2015 con el fin de ser clegible para tiempo y medio (1 /i) y la paga del feriado que hayas trabajado, los empleados deben trabajar en el feriado actual. Los empleados que hayan trabajado en el feriado, recibiran tiempo y medio (I '/z) mas cl pago del feriado independiente si trabajan el dia programado despues del dia feslivo. Esta disposicion sera sujeto a una accion disciplinaria si scabusa. Tai accion disciplinaria puede serconstritado por la Union.
Con cl fin de ser eligible para recibir la paga del feriado que no se haya trabajado, los empleados deben trabajar cl dia de trabajo programado antes y el dia programado dcspucs del feriado a menos que la ausencia del empleado esjustificada o fucocasionada por circunstancias independiente de su voluntad.
24
G.	Un emplcado que sea despedido por alguna razon o que volunlaria-mente linalice su empleo antes de un leriado no tendra derecho a rccibir el pago por el leriado.
11. Todos los vendedores o dependientes junior, cmplcados de tiempo parcial y cmplcados de eortesia con al memos seis (6) mcscs o mas de empleo lendran el derecho de rccibir los siguientes dias f'eriados con pago:
Dia de Aho Nuevo Dia de los Caidos
4 de Julio
Dia del Trabajo
Dia de Accion de Gracias
Dia de Navidad
Dia del Presidente (si fuistccontratado antes de Irodccncrode 1995)
Dia de Elccciones Prcsidcncial (Si crcs votante registrado y contratado eno antes del Irodccncrode 1995)
Contratados antes del I ro de cncro de 1995 - Dcspues de un (I) ano de empleo, dos (2) dias Fcriados persona les mas cl Dia de Cumplcanos.
Contratados despues del Irodccncrode 1995- Dcspues de un (l)anodc empleo, un (1) dia Fcriado personal mas el Dia de Cumplcanos.
I.	Todos los cmplcados, a opcion del trabajador, podra sustiluir cual-quicr Dia Fcriado cn obscrvacion del Cumplcano de Martin Luther King. Dicha suslilucion se hara por cscrito al emplcador, no mas larde del 31 de diciembre. Se aplicaran las rcglas obligatorias de personal por orden inverso de antiguedad.
J.	Si un Dia Fcriado cue un Domingo, cl Dia Fcriado sc observara cl siguiente Lunes para los vendedores o dependientes prolesionalcs. cmplcados de tiempo complcto y cmplcados de eortesia. Si un Dia Feriado cae Sabado o Domingo, cl Dia Feriado sc observara cl siguiente Lunes para todo los dependientes junior y cmplcados de tiempo parcial.
K.	Todos los vendedores o dependientes junior, los cmplcados a tiempo parcial y los cmplcados de eortesia con mcnos de dos (2) anos de empleo continue rccibiran cuatro (4) horas pa gas por todos los Fcriados y luego de los dos (2) anos de empleo continue ellos rccibiran side (7) horas pagas por todos los Fcriados.
L.	Los Fcriados pcrsonalcs para todos los cmplcados scran asignados y tornados o scran acumulados al final de cada ano del conlrato, siempre y cuando el cmpleado sc encuentre en cl puesto de trabajo del Emplcador cn dicho momcnlo. Los fcriados pcrsonalcs acumulados sc pueden lomar cn una fccha posterior o scran pagados por complcto al momcnlo cn que cl cmpleado dcjc la compania.
ARTICULO XXI VACAC1ONES
A. Todos los vendedores prolesionalcsy cmplcados de tiempo complete lendran derecho a vacaeiones pagadas de la siguiente mancra:
z\nos de Scrvicio	Contratados antes de 1 ro de cncro de 1995	Contratados en o despues de Irodccncrode 1995
Un (1) ano:	Dos (2) senianas	Una (1) semana
Dos (2) anos:	Dos (2) senianas	Dos (2) senianas
Side (7) anos:	Tres (3) senianas	Tres (3) senianas
Dies (10) anos:	Cuatro (4) senianas	Cuatro (4) senianas
Veinte(2())anos:	Ci neo (5) senianas		
Vcinli-einco (25) anos:						Ci neo (5) senianas
B.	Exccpto por aqucllos vendedores o dependientes prolesionalcs o cmplcados a tiempo complete, que voluntariamente hayan abandonado su empleo o que hayan side despedidos por una causa justilicada, todos los cmplcados a tiempo complcto despedidos por parte del Emplcador antes de la finalizacion de los seis (6) mcscs de scrvicio rccibiran un doccavo (I/12) de su pago de vacaeiones por cada mes de scrvicio prestado, siempre y cuando talcs scrvicios hayan sido continues.
C.	Si un vendedor o dcpcndicnle profcsional o cmpleado a tiempo complcto que esta con cl Emplcador mas de un ano y por otras razoncs, apartc del despido por una causa justificada. finaliza su empleo con cl Emplcador antes de complelar un ano entero de empleo, dicho cmpleado recibira cl pago de las vacaeiones cn proporcion a esc periodo.
D.	El derecho a las vacaeiones sera calculado por cl tiempo de scrvicio desde la fccha de empleo.
E.	Pago de vacaeiones se calculara sobre la base del salario ordinario de tiempo regular del cmpleado por semana, a mcnos que sc indique Io contra rio.
25
F.	Todos los vendedores juniors, empleados de tiempo parcial y empleados de cortesia tendran derecho a vacaciones pagadas de la siguiente mancra:
Anos de Servicio
Un (I)ano:
Dos (2) anos:
Tres (3) anos:
Side (7) anos:
Dies (10) anos:
Veinlicinco (25) anos:
Coni ratados antes de 1 rodeenerode 2007
Treintieineo(35) horns
Setenta (70) horns
Setenta (70) horns
Ciento y cinco (105) horns
Ciento cuarenta (140) boras
Ciento setenta y cinco (175) boras
Contratados cn o despues de 1 ro de enero de 2007
Veintc (20) horns
Veinte (20) horas
Setenta (70) horas
Ciento y cinco (105) horas
Ciento cuarenta (140) horas
Ciento setenta y cinco (175) horas
G.	Efectivo el Iro dejulio del 2015, el Empleador se compromete a pagar el pago de vacaciones en el periodo de pago la semana antes del comienzo de las vacaciones programadas.
ARTlCULO XXII LICENCIA POR ENFERMEDAD
Todos los vendedores o dependientes profesionales y los empleados a tiempo complete contratados antes del 1° de encro de 1995, luego de com-pletar tres (3) meses consecutivos de empleo a tiempo complete con cl Empleador. reuniran los requisites para recibir. cn un ano de contrato, un maximo de diez (10) dias de licencia por enfermedad con el pagocalculado con la tarifa de hora habitual normal del cmpleado para ocho (8) horas por los dias de ausencia del trabajo debido a una enfermedad y comenzara con el primer dia de cualquier enfermedad. El emplcado debe notificar al Empleador al memento de la enfermedad para que se pueda mantener el programa de trabajo adecuado.
Todos los vendedores o dependientes junior y los empleados a tiempo parcial contratados antes del 1° de enero del 1995, luego de completar tres (3) meses consecutivos de empleo a tiempo parcial con el Empleador, reuniran los requisites para recibir. en un ano de contrato, un maximo de diez (10) dias de licencia con el pago calculado con la tarifa de hora habitual normal del empleado para siete (7) horas por los dias de ausencia del trabajo debido a una enfermedad y comenzara con el primer dia de cualquier enfermedad.
A.	Aquellos empleados que trabajen para el Empleador el ultimo dia de cada ano de contrato y que cstuvicron empleados durante tres (3) meses o mas durante el ano de contrato, deberan recibir el pago por la licencia por enfermedad para la que reunian los requisites pero que no utilizaron.
B.	Cualquier empleado que retina los requisites para la licencia por enfermedad y sea despedido, por otras razones que no sea una causa justifi-cada. antes del final del ano de contrato, recibira el pago en proporcion por cualquier licencia por enfermedad que no haya utilizado.
C.	Todos los vendedores o dependientes profesionales y los empleados a tiempo complete contratados en o depuesdel l°deenero del 1995. luego de completar tres (3) meses de servicio rccibirtin un (1) dia por mes hasta cua-tro (4) dias en el primer ano de empleo. En el segundo (2do) ano de empleo seis (6) dias por ano yen el tcrcer (3cr) ano de empleo ocho (8) dias porano. Luego de completar tres (3) anos de empleo, la licencia por enfermedad sera de diez (10) dias. La licencia por enfermedad que no se utilicc debera ser pagada al final del ano calendario.
D.	Todos los vendedores o dependientes junior, los empleados a tiempo parcial y empleados de cortesia contratados en o depues del 1° de enero de 1995 recibiran cinco (5) dias de licencia por enfermedad, con siete (7) horas pagas por cada dia hasta un maximo de treinta y cinco (35) horas.
E.	Todos los vendedores o dependientes junior, los empleados a tiempo parcial y empleados de cortesia contratados en o despues del 1° de enero de 2003, luego de completar un (I) ano de servicio recibiran cuatro (4) horas por cada tres (3) meses de empleo hasta un maximo de tres (3) dias/doce (12) horas. Luego de dos (2) anos de empleo, siete (7) horas por cada tres (3) meses de empleo hasta un maximo de cuatro (4)dias/veintiocho (28) horas. Luego de tres (3) anos de empleo, cinco (5) dias de licencia por enfermedad hasta un maximode treinta y cinco (35) horas. La licencia por enfermedad que no se utilice debera ser pagada luego de dos (2) anos de empleo.
F.	Todos los vendedores o dependientes junior, los empleados a tiempo parcial y empleados de cortesia contratados en o despucs del 1° de enero de 2007, luego de completar un (I) ano de servicio recibiran cuatro (4) horas
26
por cada cuatro (4) mescsde cmplco hasta un maximo de ires (3) dias/doce (12) horas. Luego de dos (2) anos de cmplco. cuatro (4) horas por cada cn-atro (4) mcses de cmplco hasta un maximo de tres (3) dias/doce (12) horas. Luego de tres (3) anos de cmplco, cuatro (4) dias de liccncia por enferme-dad hasta un maximo de veinliocho (28) horas. Luego de cuatro (4) anos de cmplco, cinco (5) dias de liccncia por enfermedad hasta un maximo de treinta y cinco (35) horas. La liccncia por enfermedad que no se utilice de-bcra ser pagada luego de dos (2) anos de cmplco.
ARTICULO XXIII L1CENC1A SIN GOCE DE SUELDO
A.	El Empleador. a su criterio y por escrilo, dcbera otorgar la liccncia sin gocc de sucldo a los empleados que la solicitcn durante un periodo de tiempo razonable, sin embargo, la ncgacion a otorgar dicha liccncia no debe ser considcrada irrazonable. Todas las solicitudes de licencias no son ncccsariamcnte por razoncs de enfermedad o lesioncs. sin embargo, sc debe entregar la notilicacion subsiguientc y la solicitud tan pronto como sea razonablemcnte posiblc. Una liccncia sin gocc de sucldo otorgada por el Empleador no dcbera consliluir una suspension de la antigiiedad.
B.	Licencitt sin gocc de sucldo por razoncs familiares/medicas. El Em-plcador dcbera otorgar al empleado una liccncia sin gocc de sucldo por razoncs familiars o mcdicas si rcunc los requisites, segun Io requicre la Icy federal.
ARTICULO XXIV LESIONES EN EL TRABAJO
Un cmpleado que sc lesionc en cl trabajo y al que un medico Ie indique que no continue trabajando, sc 1c debera pagar su salario de dia habitual por esc dia a la tarila de hora normal por el dia en que ocurrio la lesion y hasta los proximos (2) dias rcgularcs de trabajo y el tiempo no sc consider-ara liccncia por enfermedad.
Un cmpleado ausente del trabajo debido a una lesion o enfermedad con-servara su antiguedad por un periodo que no cxccda doce (12) mescs. La Compania sccompromctca reunirscydiscutircon la Union cualquier caso individual que. por razoncs ajenas a la voluntad de los trabajadorcs. van mas alia de doce (12) mescs.
ARTICULO XXV SERVICIO DE JURADO
El cmpleado que sea llamado para ser miembro de un jurado rccibira el pago por las horas reales trabajadas para la Compania. Si este pago junto con el pago del jurado no cquivalc a sus ganancias scmanalcs de hora normal habitual, la Compania cubrira la difcrencia, siempre y cuando el empleado trabajc para la Compania durante esas horas, debido a que en esc momento sirve como jurado, csta razonablemcnte disponible para trabajar. En cl caso de que un empleado que sea miembro de tin jurado durantecinco (5) dias durante la semana, cl pagodel jurado obtenido cn su dia librc normal sc dcbera cxcluir cuando sc calctilc el pago a scr otorgado por la Compania. El empleado debeni notificara la Compania al momento de rccibir cl aviso del servicio de jurado. El salario maximo para servir como jurado sera de dos (2) semanas o cuatro (4) semanas cn cl caso que un cmpleado sea llamado para un gran jurado (cl pago sc basara cn la pre-scntacion del empleado de la debida documcntacion a la Compania a la conclusion de los scrvicios como jurado).
ARTiCULO XXVI LICENC1A POR
ASUNTOS FAM1L1ARES
Los vendcdorcs o dependientes profesionalcs y los empleados a tiempo complclo que asislan a cercmonias rcligiosas y entierros tend ran derecho a rccibir cl pago por licencias para funcrales que no cxcedan los Ires (3) dias por lodos los dias de trabajo perdidos desde cl dia de la muerte hasta el dia del entierro de un miembro ccrcanode la familia, el dia librc del trabajo del cmpleado no sera calculado como parte de la auscncia para funcrales. El "familiar ccrcano" sc define como conyuge, hijos. hijaslros legalcs. hijo de crianza legalcs, hermana, hermano, padres, padrastro legalcs, padres de crianza legalcs, pad res del conyuge. padrastro legalcs del cony ugc o padres de crianza legalcs del conyuge. En el caso de la muerte de un abuelo/nicto tai empleado tendra derecho a rccibir un (I) dia librc sin perdida del salario para asislir al funeral o servicio conmcmorativo.
A. Los vendcdorcs o dependientesjunior, losempleadosa tiempo parcial y empleados de cortcsia tendran derecho a rccibir la liccncia para funcrales
27
como Io reciben los vendedores o dependientes profcsionales y los empleados a tiempo complete. pero proporcionalmente. Dichos empleados scran compensates por la perdida de tiempo real como Io dispone el programa de trabajo semanal.
ARTICULO XXVII FONDO DE ASISTENCIA SOCIAL
Con vigencia a partir del Iro de octubre del 2014, el Empleador acepta contribuir con la suma de $1087.66 por mes a la UFCW Local 1500 Welfare Fund en representacion de cada vendedor o dependiente profesional y empleado a tiempo complete habitual cubierto por este Acuerdo que Itaya complctado los sesenta (60) dias de empleo.
Con vigencia el l°de octubredel 2015, SI 163.80 por mes.
Con vigencia el l°de octubre del 2016, $1245.27 por mes.
Con vigencia el l°dediciembredel 2017, S 1307.53 por mes.
Con vigencia a partir de Iro de octubre del 2014, el Empleador acepta contribuir con la suma de $76.06 por mes a la UFCW Local 1500 Welfare Fund en representacion de cada vendedor o dependiente junior, empleado a tiempo parcial y empleado decortesia y la suma de $312.07 en representacion de cada empleado especial a tiempo parcial habitual el primer dia del mes luego de los seis meses de empleo continue.
Eecha
I rode enero del 2015
I ro de octubre del 2015
Irodeoctubredel 2016
Contribuciones regular Contribuciones espectales ACA tiempo
a tiempo parcial
S76.06 por mes $81.38 por mes $87.08 por mes
a tiempo parcial $312.07 por mes $333.91 por mes $357.28 por mes
parcial
$300.00 por mes
$321.00 por mes
$343.47 por mes
I ro de diciembre del 2017 $91.43 por mes
$375.14 por mes
$360.64 por mes
La suma de las contribuciones mensuales al Fondo y el metodo de calcu-lo, porelcual secontribuye una sumamensualespecifica paracadaclasede empleado, es una formula para brindar ingresos brutos al Fondo y no tiene relacion con los beneficios proporcionados.
a.	Efecto de la Ley del Affordable Care Act (ACA):
En el caso de que el empleador esta obligado a ofrecer / proveer beneficios adicionales para la salud de ciertos empleados de tiempo parcial para evitar una sancion economica, debido a las disposiciones de la Ley de Affordable Care Act (esdecir, los que promedian mas de 30 horas), se pro-porcionaran los beneficios de por el Fondo para cumplir con el mandate. El Empleador acuerda que pagara una contribucion mensual de $ 300.00 por empleado, por el termino de este acuerdo, por un plan que cumpla con la ACA y evitara sanciones mandatorias por el empleador. La contribucion antes de impuestos semanal para cualquier socio que elige este plan sera de veinte ($ 20.00) dolares. Las partes acuerdan que en caso de que la Ley del Affordable Care Act (ACA) se invierte y / o cambie, la empresa no estara obligada a proporcionar cobertura ACA a menos y hasta que legalmente sc requiera.
b.	Contribucion semanal para empleados especiales de Tiempo Parcial:
A partir del Iro de marzo del 2014, la contribucion antes de impuestos semanal al Fondo para cualquier empleado que elige el plan Tiempo parcial Especial esde quince (S 15.00) dolares. No habra nuevos participantes en el Plan Especial Tiempo parcial despues del 28 de febrero del 2014.
c.	Contribucion semanal para nuevos Empleados a tiempo complete:
A partir del Iro de enero del 2015, la contribucion antes de impuestos semanalmente para el Fondo para cualquier empleado que es contratado como o promovido a una posicion de tiempo complete, y que elige el plan a tiempo complete, es de diez ($10.00) dolares.
ARTICULO XXVIII FONDO DE PENSIONES
Con vigencia el Iro de enero del 2015, el Empleador acepta contribuir con la suma de $298.61 por mes en representacion de cada vendedor o dependiente profesional y empleado a tiempo complete habitual cubierto por este acuerdo que haya completado los sesenta (60) dias de servicio con el Empleador a la UFCW Local 1500 Pension Fund. Dichas contribuciones deberan comenzar el primer (ler) dia del mes calendario siguiente luego de los sesenta (60) dias de tai empleo.
Con vigencia el I ro de enero del 2016 - $309.06 por mes
28
El aumento de las tasas de contribucion mcnsualcs del Iro de enero del 2016 esta contigcnlc a los Sindicos del UFCW Local 1500 Pension Fund que intcrrumpicron la pnictica de la compra de anualidades. Si esta con-tingcncia no sc cumplc para el Iro de encro del 2016, cl lipo de cotizacion mensual sc mantendra a la lasa cstablccida como del Iro deencro del 2015.
Con vigcncia cl Iro de encro del 2015, cl Empleador accpta conlribuir con la suma de $99.89 por mes cn rcprcscntacion de cada vendedor o de-pendiente junior, empleado a tiempo parcial y empleado de cortesia que haya complctado los seis (6) meses consecutivos de servicio a tiempo parcial habitual con cl Empleador a la UFCW Local 1500 Pension Fund. Dichas contribucioncs deberan comcnzar cl primer (ler) dia del mes calcn-dario siguiente luego de los seis (6) meses consecutivos de lai empleo.
Con vigcncia el P’dc encro del 2016, $103.39 por mes
El aumento de las tasas de contribucion mcnsualcs del Iro de encro del 2016 esta contigcnlc a los Sindicos del UFCW Local 1500 Pension Fund que intcrrumpicron la praclica de la compra de anualidades. Si esta con-lingcncia no se cumplc para cl Iro de enero del 2016, cl tipo de cotizacion mensual sc mantendra a la lasa cstablccida como del Iro de enero del 2015.
ARTlCULO XXIX SERV1C1OS LEGALES
El Empleadoraccpta contribuircon la suma de $1.75 por mesa la UFCW Local 1500 Legal Services Fund cn rcprcscntacion de cada vendedor o dc-pendiente prolesional y empleado a liempo complete habitual cubierto por este Acuerdo quo haya complctado los sesenta (60) dias de servicio con el Empleador. Dichas contribucioncs deberan comcnzar el primer (ler) dia del mes calendario siguiente luego de los sesenta (60) dias de lai empleo.
El Empleador accpta contribuir con la suma de $1.75 por mes a la UFCW Local 1500 Legal Services Fund cn rcprcscntacion de cada vendedor o dependiente junior, empleado a tiempo parcial habitual y empleado de cortesia que haya complctado los seis (6) mesesconsecutivos de servicio a tiempo parcial con cl Empleador. Dichascontribucioncs deberan comcnzar el primer (ler) dia del mes siguiente luego de losseis (6) mesesconsecu-tiveosde tai empleo.
ARTlCULO XXX CONTR1BUC1ONES A LOS FONDOS DE
SALUD, ASISTENCIA SOCIAL, PENSIONES Y SERV1-C1OS LEGALES
A.	No habra contribucioncs al Fondo de Asistcncia Social, cl Fondo de Pensioncs y cl Fondo de Scrvicios Lcgalcs para aqucllos empleados que trabajen a tiempo complete durante cl periodo de verano desdc cl 15 de mayo hasta cl 15 de septiembre unicamcntc. ni habra ningun cambio cn las contribucioncs a tiempo parcial para los empleados a tiempo parcial que trabajen a tiempo complete durante cl periodo de verano unicamcntc. Si dichos empleados continuan trabajando sin intcrrupcion a liempo com-plcto luego del verano. cl Empleador debera pagarles como si no hubiera subsidio.
B.	I. Lascontribucioncs al Fondode Asistcncia Social, el Fondo de Pensioncs y cl Fondo de Scrvicios Lcgalcs seran rcmitidas por cl Empleador a la oficina del Fondo cl o antes del dia veintc(20)decada mes. Cada cmplca-do registrado que trabaje al menos un dia en cl mes actual sera considerado que trabaja para todocl mes con cl proposito de calcular las contribucioncs para ese mes.
2.	Si el Empleador no paga ninguna contribucion dentro de los catorcc (14) dias de la fccha de vcncimicnlo, los Sindicos lendran derecho, a su elcccion cxclusiva, a tomar cualquier medida permitida por este Acuerdo, por los Acucrdos y la Declaraciones de Fidelidad que estableccn los Fon-dos o por ley, para rccaudar dicha contribucion, junto con cl interes y los danos liquidados como Io estableccn los Sindicos, los honorarios de los abogados y los costos del tribunal. Dicho interes y los danos liquidados se acumularan comcnzando cl dia despucs de la fccha de vcncimicnlo de las contribucioncs (cl vigesimo dia del mes actual), y continuaran acumulan-dosc hasta que se hayan pagado dichas contribucioncs, junto con cl interes acumulado y los danos liquidados.
3.	El Empleador accpta que si esta en mora cn cl pago de las contribucioncs al Fondo de Asistcncia Social, hasta cl punto en que los Sindicos
29
hayan cancelado cl pago de los beneficios a dichos cmplcados cubicrios del Emplcador. el Emplcador sera cl rcsponsablc de todos los beneficios de hospital, medicos, quinirgicos y otros beneficios que cl Fondo hubicra pa-gado. si la mora del Emplcador para realizarsus contribuciones no hubicra rcsultado cn la cancclacion de ningun derecho de los cmplcados cubicrios del Emplcador para rccibir talcs beneficios.
4.	El Emplcador mcdianlc cl presente accpta y ralifica los Acuerdos y las Dcclaracioncs de Fidclidad. segun se enmienden oportunamentc, cstab-lecicndo los Fondos como si fueran estipulados por complete en el presente y ralifica la designacion de los Sindicos que alii seenumeran. Los Sindicos han asumido toda la responsabilidad de la adminislracion de los Planes, y el Emplcador no tendra responsabilidad alguna, exccpto segun secstablez-ca en el presente.
5.	El Empleador debera poner a disposicion de los Fondos, todos y cada uno de los registros pcrlincntes de cmplcados que los Fondos puedan re-qnerir para operar por complete y con eficacia los Fondos. Los Sindicos lendran el derecho a que un contador audite los regisiros del Emplcador. a eleccion y expensas de los Fondos.
6.	En el caso de que el Empleador no realice las contribuciones o no brindc los regisiros segun se lossolicite por el presente, los Sindicos. a pesar dccualquier otra disposicion decslc Acuerdo, pod ran presenlar para cl ar-bitraje cualquicr asunlo con respeelo a estas disposiciones, ante un arbilro designado de acuerdo con las reglas laborales de arbitrajc de la Asociacion Esladounidense de Arbitrajc. El arbilro, en caso de que exista una vio-lacion, arribara a una conclusion y a un laudo arbitral, que dirigini el pago al Fondo, incluyendo los coslos del arbitraje, los honorarios legales y los gastos de la auditoria junto con cl interes y los danos liquidados segun lo establezcan los Sindicos.
7.	Luego de la solicitud por escrito del Empleador. los Sindicos realizaran informes financieros anuales al Empleador, estos incluiran information relacionada con la solicitud de sumas de dinero recibidas y los beneficios pagados por los Fondos.
C.	En caso de enfermedad o lesion de un cmpleado. las contribuciones al Fondo de Asislencia Social, Fondo de Pensiones y Fondo de Servicios Legales sc realizaran durante un periodo que no exceda los Ires (3) meses de ausencia del trabajo. En cl caso de un emplcado que reciba los beneficios de indemnizaciones de trabajadores. las contribuciones al Fondo de Asislencia Social lambien se realizaran para el septimo (7mo), octavo (8avo) y noveno (9no) mes de dicha ausencia.
D.	El Empleador realizani las contribuciones al Fondo de Asislencia Social en representation de cada empleado con licencia por razones fa-miliares o medicas bajo las disposiciones de la Ley de Licencia por Razones Familiares o Medicas (FMLA). 29 U.S.C. §2601. el seq., por cada mes o mes parcial que el empleado este de licencia. Si el un empleado no regresa a Irabajar luego de dicha licencia, dcnlro del significado de U.S.C. §2614 (c) (2). no se creara ninguna obligation para el Sindicalo o el Fondo de Asislencia Social para lomar una medida para recuperar o asislir en la recuperation de dichas conlribuciones del cmpleado, ni tai situation 1c quilara al Empleador su obligation de contribuir al Fondo de Asislencia Social cn representation de ese empleado durante cl periodo cspccificado en 29 U.S.C. §2614(c)(I).
E.	El Empleador realizani contribuciones al Fondo de Pensiones cn representation de cada cmpleado quccalifique. conformea 38 U.S.C. §§4312 y 4318, para el Serviciodc Pensiones Futurasdebido a un periodo de scrvicio militar. El Emplcador lambien realizani contribuciones al Fondo de Pensiones en representation de cada ex empleado que califique. conlbrme a 38 U.S.C. §§4312 y 4318, para el Scrvicio de Pensiones Futuras debido a un periodo de servicio militar. si el Empleador fue el ultimo empleador para el que trabajo el ex empleado antes de dicho servicio militar. Las contribuciones se deberan realizar a la tarifa de contribution del Empleador cfecti-va durante cada mes del scrvicio militar con que sc rclaciona dicho Scrvicio de Pensiones Futuras. Tales conlribuciones tendnin un vencimicnlo y scran pagadcrasdentro de los trcinla (30) dias de la rccontratacion del cm-plcado con cl Empleador o dentro de los treinla (30) dias de la notification de que cl emplcado ha comcnzado a trabajar.cn un empleo que cumpla los
30
requisites de 38 U.S.C. §4312. con olro empleador que conlribuya al Fondo de Pcnsioncs.
ARTiCULO XXXI HORARIOS Y DURAC16N DE LA SEMANA DE TRABAJO
Excepto para todos los vendedores junior, los empleados a tiempo parcial y empleados de cortcsia cuarenta (40) horas constituiran la semana de trabajo habitual para todos los empleados cubiertos en cl prcscntc.
En una semana en la que haya un feriado de dia complete, treinta y dos (32) horas constituiran la semana de trabajo habitual pant todos los vendedores o dependientes profcsionales y los empleados a tiempo complete habitualcs. Todas las horas trabajadas que exccdan las treinta y dos horas en una semana con feriado se deberan pagar a la tarifa de una vez y media la tarifa por hora habitual.
En una semana cn la que haya un feriado de dia complete, todo el tiempo trabajado que cxccda las veintiocho (28) horas (excluyendo los sabados y losdomingos) sedeberan pagara la tarifade tiempo y medio kt tarifa por hora para lodos los vendedores o dependientes junior y los empleados a tiempo parcial.
Las horas laborales deberan ser consecutivas excepto para el periodo de comida de sesenta (60) mintttos que sc debcra brindar durante talcs horas scgim Io designe cl Empleador y que no sc contara en el calculo de la canti-dad de horas trabajadas.
Todos los empleados recibiran quince (15) minutos de dcscanso por cada cualro (4) horas trabajadas que se incluiran cn cl calculo de la canti-dad de horas trabajadas.
Todos los empleados que trabajen mas de treinta y cinco (35) horas por semana seran considerados vendedores o dependientes profcsionales o empleados a tiempo complete y todos los empleados que trabajen treinta y cinco (35) horas o mcnos por semana scran considerados vendedores o dependientes junior o empleados a tiempo parcial.
Efectivo cl Iro de junio del 2015, todos los vendedores o dependientes junior y los empleados a tiempo parcial. (indcpcndientemcntc de su fecha de contratacion ) sc programaran para trabajar un minimo de 21 horas regulates ( no horas extras ) a la semana de lunes - vicrncs. Todos los cm-plcados de cortcsia sc programaran para trabajar un minimo de 21 horas regulates ( no horas extras ) a kt semana de lunes - sabado
El sabado y cl domingo no scran considerados como parte de kt semana de trabajo habitual para los vendedoresodependientesjunior y los empleados a tiempo parcial.
El Empleador debcra publicar un programa de trabajo para todos los empleados cubiertos por cstc Acucrdo, antes de las 5:00 PM cada vicrncs para la semana siguicntc. Sc pueden rcalizar cambios cn este programa en casos deemcrgcncia unicamcntc y con la verilicacion del Sindicato.
Cuando la formacion de los empleados nuevos sc lleva a cabo en una lienda cxislcnlc, no cs la intencion de la empresa afectar negativamente las horas regulates de trabajo de los empleados regulates de csa lienda. La Compania acluara de bucna fc y va haccr Iodo lo posible razonablc y dili-gente para proporcionar tin horario regular para los empleados afcctados.
Efectivo cl 3 de enero del 2011, lodos los vendedores y dependientes junior y empleados de tiempo parcial cn probacion no deben de programarsc mas de treinta y cinco (35) horas cn ninguna semana (lunes a vicrncs). Todos los empleados de cortcsia, en probacion, no deben ser programados mas de vcinlinuevc (29) horas en ninguna semana (luncs-sabado).
ARTICULO XXXll SALAR1OS
A.	Aumcnto de Salario Minimo General para todos los empleados cn la nomina a partir del 29 de marzo del 2015: (a continuacion son las fcchas amcricanas)
ClnsiHcncion	3/30/15	1/4/16	4/4/16	1/2/17	4/3/17	1/1/18
Department Manager	$0,375	$0.25	$0,375	$0.25	$0,375	$0.25
bull Time Clerk	$0,375	$0.25	$0,375	$0.25	$0,375	$0.25
Journeyman Clerk	$0,375	$0.25	$0,375	$0.25	$0,375	$0.25
Journeyman &	$0,375	$0.25	$0,375	$0.25	$0,375	$0.25
Apprentice Hutehcrs Part Time Clerk	$0.25	$0.25	$0.25	$0.25	$0.25	$0.25
Junior Clerk	$0.25	$0.25	$0.25	$0.25	$0.25	$0.25
Courtesy Clerk	$0.25	$0.25	$0.25	$0.25	$0.25	$0.25
31
B.	Reconocimiento de nuevas clasificaciones como Gercnic de Departamento: Efcctivo el 3ro de enero de 2011 las siguientes clasificaciones deber-an ser reconocidas como Gerentes de Departamentos:
I.	Gerentes de Comestible (Grocery)
2.	Gerentes de Frutas y Vegctales (Produce)
3.	Gerentes del Deli
4.	Gerentes de Productos Lacteos (Dairy)
5.	Gerentes de Panaderia (Bakery)
C.	Efcctivo cl 3ro de enero de 2011, en las tiendas acluales se requerira un periodo de noventa (90) dias de prueba para todos los Gerentes de Departamento recien nombrados. Efcctivo el 3ro de enero de 2011, en tiendas nuevas solamente, habra un plazo de ciento veinte (120) dias de prueba para todos los Gerentes de Departamento nuevos contratados o promovi-dos. Durante dicho periodo de prueba el miembro recibira, como minimo, la tasa de salario minimo apropiada para los Gerentes de Departamento como se indica a continuacion.
D.	Cualquier empleado designado para cubrir la position de Gerente de Departamento, especificamente nombrado en el presente Acuerdo, au-sente por vacacioncs, enfermedad , compensation de la liccncia de los tra-bajadores, licencia por incapacidad o perntiso personal durante al menos 5 dias en cualquier semana de nomina, sera pagado $.50 adicional por hora a su tasa base para todas las horas trabajadas en esa position.
E.	Nueva tasas de salario minimo para los empleados por el tiempo de este acuerdo:
(a continuacion son las fechas americanas)
	Corriente	1/1/2016	4/1/2017	1/1/2018
Meal & Seafood Department Manager	522.50	$23.50		
Grocery. Produce. Deli,				
Diary & Bakery Department Managers	$17.00	$18.00		$18.50
Journeyman Butcher	$18.00	$18.25		$18.50
Apprentice Butcher	$15.00	$15.50	$16.00	$16.25
Journeyman Clerk	$12.25	$13.25	$13.75	
FT Clerk	$12.25	$13.25	$13.75	
Junior Clerk	$9.00	$9.25		
PT Clerk	$9.00	$9.25		
PT Courtesy Clerk	$8.90	$9.15		
F.	Supervisores de Front End - La Compania puede de vez en cuando designar empleados de la unidad de negotiation a la position de Front End Supervisor . En tales casos, se acuerda que dichos empleados se les pagara un diferencial de un dolar (S I) por hora por todas las horas trabajadas mientras mantiene el estado de Front End Supervisor. Nombramiento y cese de la condition de Front End Supervisor eslaran a la sola discretion de la Compania . Habra un minimo de dos (2) Supervisores de Front End por tienda.
G.	Todos los vendedores o dependientes profesionales y empleados de tiempo complclo contratados en o despues del 30 de marzo del 2015 reci-biran la siguiente tarifa minima y progreso de salario:
Luego de 60 dias de empleo - $490.00 por semana.
Efectivo el 01 de enero del 2016 - $530.00 por semana Efectivo el 01 de enero del 2017 - $550.00 por semana
Despues de eso. estos empleados rccibiran un aumento de veinte ($20) dolares por semana en conformidad con las fechas indicadas en el calen-dario de los aumentos generales.
Gerentesde Departamento, Carniceros, AprendizdeCarniceros, Vendedores o dependientes profesionales y empleados de tiempo complete con-tralados igual o superior al salario minimo, en cualquier evento, deberan de recibirdiez ($10.00) dolares por semana de aumento despues de sesenta (60) dias de empleo y posteriormenle rccibiran sus aumentos en conformidad con las fechas indicadas en el calendario de los aumentos generales. H. Todos los vendedores o dependientes junior y empleados de tiempo parcial contratados cn o despues del 30 de marzo del 2015, rccibiran la siguiente tarifa minima y progreso de salario:
Despues de seis (6) mescs de empleo - $9.00 por hora
Efectivo el 1 ro de enero del 2016 - $9.25 por hora
32
Dcspues de esto. estos cmplcados rccibiran un aumento de vcinlc y cin-co (.25) centavos por hora cn conformidad con las fcchas indicadas cn el calendario de los aumentos gencrales.
I. Todos los cmplcados de eortesia contratados cn o dcspues del 30 de marzo del 2015, rccibiran la siguiente larifa minima y progreso de salario:
Dcspues de seis (6) mcscs de empleo - $8.90 por hora Elective cl Iro de cncro del 2016 - $9.15 por hora
Dcspues de esto, estos cmplcados rccibiran un aumento de quince (.15) centavospor hora cn conformidadcon las fcchas indicadascn cl calendario de los aumentos gencrales.
Todos los cmplcados de tiempo parcial. vendedores o dependientes junior y cmplcados de eortesia al complctar su periodo de prueba rccibiran vcinlc y cinco (.25) centavos de aumento por hora. A partir de entonccs, su primer aumento general de salario sera pagado en conformidad con cstc programa:
agosto, septiembre, octubre, noviembre. dicicmbre y cncro
Primer aumento sera cn abril
febrero, marzo. abril. mayo, junio. julio
Primer aumento sera en octubre
Vendedores o dependientes junior, cmplcados a tiempo parcial y ctn-pleados de eortesia contratados igual o a superior cl salario minimo, cn dial evento, debira de rccibir on aumento de vcinlc y cinco (.25) centavos por hora dcspues de seis (6) mcscs de empleo y postcriormcnlc, rccibiran un aumento de vcintc y cinco (.25) centavos por hora en conformidad con las fcchas indicadas cn el calendario de los aumentos generales.
Emplcados de Cortesia de tiempo parcial contratados en o por cncima del salario minimo ,cn todocaso, rccibiran un aumento de vcinticinco centavos ( $ 0.25 ) por hora dcspues de seis ( 6 ) mcscs de empleo y, postcrior-mente , rccibiran un aumento de quince centavos ( $ 0.15 ) por hora , de acuerdo con las fcchas indicadas cn cl calendario de los aumentos gencrales . J. Con vigcncia a partir del 1" de junio de 1999, nueva ealegoria, nuevas contratacioncs:-Emplcados de cortesia de tiempo parcial dcbcran trabajar veintinucvc (29) horas o mcnos, de lunes a sabado, y rccibiran tiempo y medio (1 1/2) por todas las horas tra bajadas cn c.xccso de vcintc y nucvc (29) horas, de lunes hasla el sabado y por todas las horas trabajadas cl domingo.
Las obligacioncs sc limitaran al embolso. la rccolcccion de carros de compras, la limpieza alrcdcdor de los mostradorcs de control, cl barrido, cl rcllcno de bolsas, cl abastecimicnto del almaccn, los dulces y las bebidas gasiosas cn los mostradorcs de control, los exhibidores cn los mostradorcs de control, cl almaccnamicnto de las existcncias cxccsivas y dcvolvcr mcr-cancia y alinear los mostradorcs del pan.
Sobre una base de caso por caso . la Empresa tendra cn cucnta la recla-sificacion a cmplcados de cortesia a Tiempo Parcial I vendedores o dependientes junior que presenten pelicioncs a la Compania para revisar si cum-plen con los requisitos de una posicion como vendedores o dependientes junior o cmplcados a tiempo parcial.
K.	Todos los gerentes del Departamento de Carnes y Pcscados contratados a cn o dcspues del 30 de marzo del 2015, rccibiran la siguiente larifa minima y progreso de salario:
Luego de 60 dias de empleo - $ 900.00 por semana.
Efcctivocl 01 de cncro del 2016 - $ 920.00
Luego de esto, rccibiran aumentos en conformidad con las fcchas indicadas cn cl calendario de los aumentos gencrales.
L.	Todo Gerentes de Comestibles (Grocery). Frulas y Vcgetalcs (Produce) , Deli, Productos Lactcos (Dairy) y Panadcria (Bakery) contratados cn o dcspues del 30 de marzo del 2015, rccibiran la siguiente larifa minima y progreso de salario:
Despues de 60 dias de empleo - $ 680.00 por semana
Efcctivo cl 01 de cncro del 2016 - $ 720.00 por semana
Efeclivo cl 01 de cncro del 2018 - $ 740.00 por semana
Luego de cslo, rccibiran aumentos en conformidad con las fcchas indicadas en cl calendario de los aumentos gencrales.
33
M.	Todos los Journeyman Butchers (carniceros) a tiempo complete contratados o designados en o despucs del 30 de marzo del 2015 recibiran la siguiente tarifa minima y progreso de salario:
Despucs de 60 dias de empleo - S 720.00 por semana
Efectivo el 01 de encro del 2016 - S 730.00 por semana
Efectivo cl 01 de encro del 2018 - S 740.00 por semana
Luego de esto, recibiran aumentos en conformidad con las I'cchas indi-cadas en el calendario de los aumentos generales.
N.	Todos los carniceros aprcndices a tiempo completo contratados o designados en o dcspues del 30 de marzo del 2015 recibiran la siguiente tarifa minima y progreso de salario:
Despues de 60 dias de empleo - S 600.00 por semana
Efectivo el 01 de enero del 2016 - S 620.00 por semana
Efectivo el 01 de encro del 2017 - S 640.00 por semana
Efectivo el 01 de enero del 2018 - S 650.00 por semana
Luego de esto, recibiran aumentos en conformidad con las fcchas indi-cadas en el calendario de los aumentos generates.
Todos los carniceros aprendices que completcn un programa de periodo de aprendizaje de treinta y seis (36) meses recibiran las tarifas y los aumentos completes para los Carniceros en conformidad con las fechas indicadas cn el calendario de los aumentos generales. Todos los carniceros aprendices pueden solicilar una prueba de corte hasta dos (2) vcces en un periodo de un (I) ano, lodos los anos, durante su aprendizaje. La Compania determi-nara si el carnicero aprendiz pasa el examen.
O.	Enel caso de un cambio en la ley del salario minirno, a una tarifa superior que la exigida como tarifa de comienzo en el Contrato del Sindicalo. la tarifa mas aha tendra prioridad y el aumento de los veinticinco S.25 centavos por hora cada seis (6) meses seran adicionales a la misma.
ARTlCULO XXXIII CREDITO A TIEMPO PARCIAL Y PREFERENCIA
Todos los vendedores o dependientes junior, los empleados a tiempo parcial y empleados de cortesia, cubicrtos por este Acuerdo que se con-verliran cn vendedores o dependientes profesionales o empleados a tiempo completo durante una (1) semana o miis, con el proposito de calcular la duracion de los requisitos del servicio cn cl rango de la tarifa progresiva a tiempo completo, recibiran un credito calculado sobre la base del credito a liempo parcial para la duracion del servicio continuo prestado por los mismos como empleados habituales , vendedores o dependientes junior, empleados de tiempo parcial y empleados de cortesia. Sin embargo, si su tarifa por hora de vendedor o dependientc junior, empleado a liempo parcial y empleado a cortesia es mas alia que la exigida para el programa de progresion de vendedor o dependienle professional y procedera a recibir los aumentos en conformidad con las fechas indicadas en el calendario de los aumentos generalcs.
Todos los vendedores o dependientes junior, los empleados a tiempo parcial y empleados de cortesia van a recibir , en prefcrencia todas las (areas de trabajo temporal de liempo completo asignadas durante los meses de verano y las temporadas de fiestas feriadas.
ARTlCULO XXXIV PANEL DE ANUNCIOS
El Sindicalo compartira los panelesdeanunciosexistenles para el usode notificaciones habilualcs del sindicalo.
ARTlCULO XXXV PRIVILEGIOS ANTERIORES
El Empleador acepta que cualquier condicion que no sea una de las es-tablecidas en este Acuerdo, y de la que los empleados de la Compania go-zaron antes de la renovacion de este Acuerdo, continuant en vigor y efecto plenos en representacion de dichos empleados.
ARTlCULO XXXVI REPRESENTANTES DE LOS TRABAJADORES
El Empleador rcconoce el derecho del Sindicalo para lencr un (1) vendedor o dependientc profcsional o representanle de los trabajadores a tiem-
34
po complete y un (I) vcndcdor o dependientc junior, empleados a tiempo parcial y empleados de cortcsia de ser representante de los trabajadores cn cada tienda. Los representantes de los trabajadores en cada tienda no scran transferidos sin la notilicacion y el debate previos con cl Sindicato. El Empleador. con la notilicacion correspondicntc. arrcglara que un (I) vcndcdor o dependientc profesional o representante de los trabajadores a tiempocomplcloy un (I) vcndcdor odependientcjunioro representantede los trabajadores a tiempo parcial y o cmpleado de cortcsia de cada tienda tengan cl mismo dia librc programado pago, con el proposito de asistir al seminario de representantes de los trabajadores del Sindicato. Los Representantes de los Trabajadores no administrate,! las quejas ni inlcrfcriran con cl funcionamicnto de la actividad comercial del Empleador, y no causa ran ni participant!! dirccta o indircctamcntecn huclgas. coses de trabajo. rctrasos laborales o acciones laboralcs no autorizados.
ARTiCULO XXXVII AUTOM ATIZAC16N
El Empleador accpta que cn cl caso de instalacion de cualquier Ibrma de automatizacion en cualquiera de las tiendas, mcrcados o partes de los mis-mos, cl Sindicato tendra el derecho a negociar los salaries y las condiciones para los miembros del Sindicato cn talcs tiendas, mcrcados o partes de los mismos alcctados.
ARTICULO XXXVI11 APLICAB1LIDAD DE CUALQUIER PARTE DEL ACUERDO
Por cl presente las partes accptan que si cualquicr Articulo o subdivision de este Acuerdo es o seconvicrtc cn ilcgal. invalido. inelicazo inexigiblc cn virtud decualquicr Icy, norma odccisioncs de cualquier Agcncia Gubcrna-mcntal o Tribunal cstablccido, dicho Articulo o subdivision asi dcclarado no afectara la validcz y la aplicabilidad de ningun olro Articulo o subdivision del mismo. y cl rcsto de este Acuerdo continuant cn vigcncia y cl'eeto plenos cn su duracion. siempre y cuando. dicha dcclaracion sea tan lim-itada que cl rcsto del Acuerdo este aislado y sea aplicablc con rcspccto a ambas partes c incluya obligacioncs muluamente vinculantcs cn cuanto a los terminos y las condiciones de cmplco.
ARTICULO XXXIX CLAUSULA DE SUCESORES
Para clcclos de este articulo XXXIX, los siguientes terminos tendran los siguientes signilicados: I) cl termino "empresa" sc define como fairway Group Holdings Corp .; y 2) el termino “Fairway" sc rcfcrira a las ubicacioncs de las tiendas I'isicas que opcran y I o rcalizan ncgocios bajo la bandent, marca o nombre comercial de "Fairway" o "Fairway Market".
Este Acuerdo sera vinculantc para la Compania y sits succsorcs y ce-sionarios. La Compania csta de acuerdo cn que. en el caso de un succsor de la Compania (por cornpra de acciones comunes. fusion o consolidacion) que sigue opcrando cl ncgocio de Fairway, el Succsor asumira y rcalizara incondicionalmentc las obligacioncs de la Compania en este Convenio Colcclivo de acuerdo con sus terminos.
En ningun caso dicha transferencia. dclcgacion o venta al succsor termi-nara o sc considerate que constituyc cl dcspido del empleo de los emplca-dos de Fairway. La Union seguira vinculado por el presente Acuerdo cn caso de que tai venta. transferencia. dclcgacion o adquisicibn.
Las Partes cn el presente Acuerdo cstaran obligados por cl "Acuerdo de conciliacion" de fecha y cjecutado el 19 de mayo del 2009 por Fairway Group Holdings Corp., United Food and Commercial Workers Local 1500 y United Food and Commercial Workers International Union.
ARTiCULO XL FONDO DE BECAS
El Empleador debera contribuir con un pago unico de S 13.000 para el UFCW Local 1500 Scholarship Fund cn cada una de las siguientes fechas :
•	07 dcscpticmbrcdcl 2015
•	05 de septiembre del 2016
•	04 de septiembre del 2017
ARTICULO XL1 - CLAUSULA DE NO D1SCRIM1NACION
El Empleador y cl Sindicato acucrdan que no sc discriminate a ningun cmpleado debido a su raza . color, religion . aliliacion sindical. edad . sexo.
35
orientation sexual, incapacidad , origen nacional, information genetica, o identidad o expresion de genero .
ARTlCULO XLII - PLAZO DEL ACUERDO
Este Acuerdo tendra vigencia a partir del 30 de marzo del 2015, y sera automaticamente renovado ano tras ano en lo sucesivo como minirno sesenta (60) dias antes del Iro de abril del 2018, fecha o cualquier fecha anu-al de vencimiento a partir de alii, brinde una notification por escrito por correo registrado a la otra parte sobre el deseo de enmendar o finalizar este Acuerdo.
EN PRUEBA DE CONFORMIDAD, las partes han firmado el presente documento mediante sus respectivos representantes y han estampa-dos sus sellos estampados al mismo, en el dia y el ano escritos al principio.
FAIRWAY GROUP HOLDINGS CORP.
UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL WORKERS
UNION, LOCAL 1500, chartered by U.F.C.W INTERNATIONAL UNION, AFL-CIO, CLC
36
NOTES
37
NOTES
38
NOTES
39
NOTES
40
ABC - Active Ballot Club
The ABC, the UFCW’s Active
Ballot Club, needs you and every other member to become politically active. /
ABC works to elect people to / IJ public office who understand the w needs of working men and women.
ABC assists their campaigns and keeps them informed on the issues as organized labor sees them.
Today, there is a great need for labor to have a voice in political action. Help make sure our Union has that voice by joining ABC now.
Due to the many critical issues before Congress; state, city and local governments this year; it is important that we have sufficient funds to support our friends and defeat those candidates who do not support the working man and woman. We encourage all members to participate in the Active Ballot Club as a means of protecting our interests in the various governmental bodies and in the laws they pass that may affect our livelihood.
If you haven’t already signed up. see your Union Representative or Service Representative. Sign up today!
Members employed by companies where there is no check-off will be able to purchase their ABC Membership Cards from their Union Representatives or Shop Stewards in the normal manner.
Contributions of gifts to the
UFCW Active Ballot Club are not deductible as charitable contributions for federal tax purposes.
Be Informed!!!
www.UFCW1500.org
UFCW
a VOICE for working America
LOCAL 1500
THE WEINGARTEN DECISION: KNOW YOUR RIGHTS!
In a court case known as N.LR.B. Vs. Weingarten, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled you have the right to have your Union Representative present when you are interviewed by your employer, if you reasonably believe the interview may lead to disciplinary action.
YOUR RIGHTS UNDER WEINGARTEN ARE;
1.	You have the right to request the presence of a Union Representative during any investigatory interview you reasonably believe might result in disciplinary action.
2.	You have the right not to be interviewed until your Union Representative is present.
3.	Your Union Representative may assist you during the interview to organize and explain your facts.
REMEMBER WEINGARTEN BEFORE YOU GIVE UP YOUR RIGHTS!
Fraternally, Bruce W. Both, President
LA DECISION WEINGARTEN: CONOSCA SUS DERECHOS!
En el caso de corte conocido como N.LR.B. Encontra Weingarten, La Corte Suprema de los Estados Unidos decidio que usted tiene el derecho de tener un Representante de la Union presente cuando tenga una entrevista con su patron, si usted piensa que la entrevista Ie puede llevar a una accion disciplinaria.
SUS DERECHOS CON WEINGARTEN SON;
1.	Usted tiene el derecho de pedir la presencia de un Representante de la Union durante cualquier entrevista investigatoria que usted tenga razones de creer que Ie pueda resultar en una accion disciplinaria.
2.	Usted tiene el derecho de NO entrevistarse hasta que el Representate de la Union este presente.
3.	Su Representante de la Union puede asistirle durante la entrevista para organizar y explicar sus hechos.
ACUERDESE DE WEINGARTEN ANTES DE RENUNCIAR A SUS DERECHOS!
Fraternalmente, Bruce W. Both, Presidente
MEMBERS CAN CALL LOCAL 1500 REGARDING ANY MATTER 24 HOURS A DAY 800-522-0456