U AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
MAN-DELL FOOD STORES. INC.
and
UFCW
a VOICE for working America
INTERNATIONAL UNION, AFL-CIO, CLC
Effective Date: October 27, 2013
Expiration Date: May 28, 2016
INDEX
ARTICLE PAGE
Access to Stores................................8	3
Bulletin Board.................................41	24
Checkoff........................................3	1
Continuance of Employment.......................4	2
Conscription...................................10	3
Death in Family................................33	20
Discharge......................................15	5
Employment of Minors...........................11	4
Grievance Procedures and Arbitration...........20	5
Holidays.......................................29	12
Hours and Length of Work Week..................22	6
Individual Agreement...........................12	4
Industry Experience............................23	9
Injury on the Job..............................40	24
Jury Duty......................................34	20
Laundry Agreement..............................13	4
Leave of Absence...............................32	19
Legal Service Plan...........................  38	22
Management Clause...............................5	2
Minimum Call-In............................... 25	9
No Strike Clause - No Lockouts.................18	5
Overtime Pay...................................27	11
Pension Plan.................................. 37	22
Premium Pay....................................28	11
Prior Privleges................................42	25
Promotions.....................................17	5
Provisions Applicable to All Funds.............39	23
Reclassification...............................24	9
Retroactivity..................................19	5
Savings Clause.................................21	6
Schedule A......................................—	27
Scholarship Fund...............................44	25
Sick Leave.....................................31	17
Seniority Rights...............................16	5
Shop Stewards..................................26	11
Store Closing...................................7	3
Successors.....................................43	25
Term of Agreement..............................44	25
Transfers.......................................6	3
Trial Period...................................14	4
Union Recognition.............................  1	1
Union Shop......................................2	1
Union Store Card................................9	3
Vacations......................................30	16
Wages..........................................35	20
Welfare Fund...................................36	20
AGREEMENT, made this 20th day of June, 2014, by and between UNITED POOD AND .COMMERCIAL WORKERS UNION, LOCAL 1500 chartered by the UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION; AFL-CIO,"CLC, having its principal place of business at 425'Mcrrick Avenue,'Westbury; New York 11590' hereinafter referred to as the “UNION” and MAN. DELL FOOD STORES, INC., and any new or acquired corporation operating retail stores, having its.principal place of business at 241-10 Hillside Avenue, Bellerose, New. York 11426, hereinafter collectively referred to as the “EMPLOYER”. ,	;
WITNESSETH: That in consideration of the mutual promises, covenants and conditions herein contained, and for other good and valuable consideration, the parties hereto do hereby agree; as follows:
ARTICLE 1	UNION RECOGNITION	,
1.01 The Employer hereby recognizes the Union as the sole and exclusive bargaining agent for all department heads, full time and'part time clerks, grocery, dairy, produce, appetizing, delicatessen and drug depart/ ment employees, porters, and.all such other employees as.the Union may be authorized or certified to represent in all its' stores.and markets that arc now owned, conducted, maintained and/or operated by it, andin any new store or market that it may own, conduct, maintain, operate,.and/or acquire at any time during the term of this Agreement, no matter .under what name it is operated in the Counties of Dutchcss, Putnam,'Westchester, Bronx, Manhattan, Kings, Queens, Richmond, Nassau and Suffolk, in' the' State of New York, New Jersey and Connecticut.'!"'.' '’	. . .
ARTICLE 2	UNION SHOP	. i
2.0	1 It shall be a condition bf employment that all employees of the Employer covered by this Agreement who arc members of the Union in good standing on the effective date of this Agreement, shall remain members.in good standing and those, who arc'riot'members on thccffectivc date of this Agreement,, shall, as.a condition of.their continued employment by.the Employer, become members of the Union on the thirty-first. (31st) day following the beginning of their employment or the execution dale of this Agreement, whichever is the latter, and they shall thereafter maintain their membership in the Union in good standing during the term of this Agreement.	...........................'•
2.0	2 Any employee who. is expelled from membership,.in this Union because of non payment of dues or initiation fees to the Union which would subject the employee to discharge under the provisions of the Labor Management Relations Acf of 1947, as amended, shall be subject to dismiss; al from employment within seven (7) days after receipt by the Employer, from the Union, of written notice setting forth such nori-paymeni of dueS or initiation fees.'....................................... '	'
ARTICLE 3	CHECK OFF	,
t	,	.......... ........' *</t r	■:. I »
3.01 The Union shall provide the Employer with a duly executed author rization for check off of dues and initiation fees signed by each employee who shall be subject thereto, Relations Act of 1947 and the amendments thereto.	...... .....................
3.02 The Employer agrees to deduct Union dues and initiation fees from the wages of the employees in the bargaining unit who provide the Employer with such written authorization.
3.03 Such deductions will be made weekly by the Employer from the wages of the employees in advance of the month due and will be transmitted to the Union by the tenth (10th) day of the following month. If the Employer fails to remit the checked off dues and initiation fees as provided in this paragraph by the fifteenth (15th) day of the month due, the Union shall have the right to turn the matter over to an attorney to institute any proceedings deemed appropriate for collection, provided that the Union shall, prior to the said fifteenth (15th) day, orally notify the Employer of the delinquency. In the event the delinquency is turned over to an attorney for collection, the Employer agrees to be responsible for all reasonable collection expenses, including, but not limited to, reasonable attorneys’ fees.
3.04 The Employer agrees to remit to the Union’s ACTIVE BALLOT CLUB, on a monthly basis, an agreed upon amount to be deducted weekly from the wages of employees who are Union members and who have signed the necessary authorized deduction cards.
3.05 The Union shall indemnify and save the Employer harmless against any and all claims, demands, suits or other forms of liability that shall arise out of or by reason of action taken or not taken by the Employer in reliance upon such authorization and a list furnished to the Employer by the Union, setting forth the amount of dues and initiation fees owing from each employee for the purposes of complying with the provisions of any check off authorization.
3.06 The Employer agrees to deduct weekly from the wages of those employees who have given proper authorization, such amounts due the Teachers Federal Credit Union and remit same to said Credit Union on a monthly basis. The Employer’s obligation to remit to the Teachers Federal Credit Union shall be limited to the amounts which it actually deducts from the employees’ wage.
ARTICLE 4	- CONTINUANCE OF EMPLOYMENT
4.01 All employees are to be continued in their present employment during the term of this Agreement subject to the terms and conditions of employment in this Agreement and the Schedule attached hereto and made part hereof.
ARTICLE 5	- MANAGEMENT CLAUSE
5.01 The Employer reserves the right to the operation of its business and the direction of its working forces, including but not limited to, the establishment of the opening and closing time of stores, the fixing of employees starting and stopping hours, the assignment of work shifts, the right to hire, transfer, suspend, lay off, recall, promote, demote, discharge for good cause, discipline employees, assign employees to relieve employees from duty because of lack of work, transfer employees from one store location to another, assign employees temporarily or permanently to any store department within the bargaining unit, and to change the type of work to be performed by an employee, subject however, to the provisions of this Agreement.
5.02 Employees covered by this Agreement shall not be required to take a lie detector test.
2
5.03 It is understood and agreed that butcher department and grocery departments in the Employer’s markets shall have separate and distinct identities and that the Employer's prerogatives to interchange employees and to change their type of work shall be restricted to, and within, said separate and distinct departments.
5.04 The interchanging of employees within departments or from one market to another, as is herein provided, shall not affect the seniority rights of any employee.
ARTICLE 6	- TRANSFERS
6.01 Full time employees who arc transferred more than fifteen (15) miles from their assigned stores, in eases of temporary transfers, shall receive three ($3.00) dollars per day travel pay. Tolls paid in the case of temporary transfers shall be reimbursed regardless of mileage. Temporary transfers shall be limited to a period not to exceed thirty (30) days.
6.02 The Employer docs hereby agree to reimburse the employees for any increases in carfares occasioned by said employee’s transfer from one market to another.
6.03 The Employer shall notify the Union and the employee in writing not less than one (1) week (full time employees), and three (3) days (part time employees) prior to their being transferred. The Union shall be notified as soon as possible in the case of an emergency transfer.
ARTICLE 7	STORE CLOSING
7.0	1 In no event shall the closing of any store or stores covered or operated by the Employer result in the loss in seniority rights of any of the employees affected thereby.
ARTICLES ACCESS TO STORES
8.0	1 The Employer agrees to pennit an authorized representative of the Union to visit any of the Employer’s places of business at any time during normal working hours for the purpose of ascertaining whether this Agreement is being properly observed, provided that there shall be no interruption of, or interference with the Employer’s business.
ARTICLE 9	UNION STORE CARD
9.01 The Employer agrees to display the U.F.C.W. International Union Store Card, gratis, for the period of this Agreement. Said Union Store Card shall remain the property of the Union, and the Employer docs hereby agree that the breach or violation of any of the provisions of this Agreement on its part shall constitute sufficient cause for the removal of the said Union Store Card by the Union.
ARTICLE 10	CONSCRIPTION
10.0	1 In the event any member of the Union employed by the Employer is required to leave his/her position by reason of conscription by the Federal Government for any form of military service, upon termination of such service, the Employer will comply with the applicable laws of the United States concerning the reemployment of persons leaving the military service of the United States.
3
10.0	2 Because the schedule of progressive wage increases provided in this contract depends on actual experience on the job, the person reemployed pursuant to this Article, shall, for the purpose of wage progression, be credited only with months of actual payroll service. A person so reemployed shall be paid a rate not lower than his/her straight time rate of pay at the time he/she entered military service. However, should such employee have been on active military service during any yearly anniversaries of the effective date of this contract, the employee shall fit into his/her progression rate.
ARTICLE 11	EMPLOYMENT OF MINORS
11.01 The Employer hereby agrees not to employ minors in violation of any of the provisions of the State or Federal Statutes in such cases made and provided.
11.02 The parties agree that, notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the collective bargaining agreement, part time employees under sixteen (16) years of age may be scheduled to work less than four (4) hours per day, but not less than three (3) hours per day, on those days and during those seasons (school year) when to do so would be in violation of law or regulation.
11.03 Part time employees less than 18 years of age may be scheduled for 3 3/4 hours on days when school is in session (except Fridays & Saturdays). The part time employee will receive a paid fifteen (15) minute rest period within the 3 3/4 hour schedule and shall be scheduled for no less than sixteen (16) hours per week when available.
ARTICLE 12	INDIVIDUAL AGREEMENT
12.01 No employee shall make, or be required to make any agreement, or to enter into any understanding inconsistent or conflicting with the terms of this Agreement, or in derogation of or detraction from, any of his conditions of employment herein contained, nor, shall he be required to provide or post any security whatever.
ARTICLE 13	LAUNDRY AGREEMENT
13.01 The Employer agrees to furnish and maintain for all employees covered herein, all aprons, uniforms, store coats and gowns and such tools and work equipment as may be required by the Employer for the performance of an employee’s duties.
ARTICLE 14	TRIAL PERIOD
14.01 The Employer shall be entitled to a trial period of sixty (60) days for all new employees, and such new employees may be discharged by the Employer within the said sixty (60) day trial period without any reason being assigned for said discharge.
14.02 When an employee is newly hired in a Department Head classification, the Employer shall have the absolute right to terminate the employment of such employee at any time during the probationary period of ninety (90) days.
14.03 Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, the probationary period for persons promoted to Store Managers shall be six (6) months. In the event a bargaining unit employee is promoted to store manager, but does not successfully complete the probationary period, then
4
in that event, such employee will be returned to the classification they held prior to the promotion at a wage rate not less than the highest clerk’s rate paid as provided in the Agreement.
ARTICLE 15	DISCHARGE
15.01 The Employer shall have the right to discharge any employee for just cause who has survived the trial period and has attained the status of a permanent employee. Just cause shall include, but not be limited to, dishonesty, falsification of records, mishandling of the Employer’s property or funds, insubordination, abusive language, intoxication, violation of procedures for handling cash and/or receiving merchandise, lateness and absenteeism, which shall be either chronic or such as to interfere with the routine of the Employer’s business and schedules.
ARTICLE 16	SENIORITY RIGHTS
16.0	1 Seniority rights of employees in employment and in layoff shall prevail on a company-wide departmental basis, as described in Article 5.01.
16.0	2 Employees who arc laid off for lack of work, shall have recall rights with prior seniority in the reverse order of their layoff, for a period not to exceed twelve (12) months or the length of their employment, whichever is less.
ARTICLE 17	- PROMOTIONS
17.01 Promotion within the bargaining unit shall be based on fitness and ability with seniority a factor if these qualifications arc equal.
ARTICLE 18	- NO STRIKES/NO LOCKOUTS
18.01 There shall be no cessation of work, no strikes, no picketing, no slowdowns, no sit-downs or other interference with the operation of the Employer’s business sanctioned by the Union nor shall the Employer lockout for any cause whatsoever during the term of this Agreement.
18.02 The Union, by its officers, shall promptly make every effort to prevent and stop any cessation of work, strike, picketing, slowdown, sit-down or other interference with the operation of the Employer’s business and shall order its members to return to work without delay.
18.03 An employee who engages in any such activity shall be subject to discipline, including termination, by the Employer.
ARTICLE 19	RETROACTIVITY
19.01 Except as is herein otherwise specifically provided, all wage increases and other terms and conditions of employment herein contained, shall be retroactive to and including the 27th day of October 2013.
ARTICLE 20	GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE AND ARBITRATION
20.01 All disputes, differences or grievances arising out of the interpretation, application, breach (or claim of breach) of the provisions of this Agreement shall be settled in the following manner:
5
(A)	Within two (2) calendar weeks of the occurrence of such dispute, difference or grievance, authorized representatives of the Union and the Employer, shall, in good faith, endeavor to adjust such dispute, difference or grievance.
(B)	In the event that the matter is not adjusted in the above step, a representative of the Employer charged with the responsibility for labor relations and a duly designated representative of the Union shall attempt to adjust the same.
(C)	In the event the dispute, difference or grievance still remains unadjusted after compliance with the above steps, then such dispute, difference or grievance may be submitted to arbitration by either party not later than thirty (30) days after the occurrence of an arbitrator mutually selected by the parties or to the American Arbitration Association for its designation of an arbitrator, in accordance with its rules, to hear and determine the matter. The decision of the arbitrator shall be final and binding upon the parties. The expenses of the arbitration shall be borne equally between the parties.
(D)	The arbitrator shall not have the authority or power to arbitrate new provisions to this Agreement, or to arbitrate away either in whole or in part, any provision of this Agreement, nor shall the arbitrator have the power to add to, delete from, or modify any of the provisions of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 21	SAVINGS CLAUSE
21.01 The parties hereto agree that should any article or subdivision of this Agreement be or become unlawful, invalid, ineffective or unenforceable by virtue of any acts, law or decisions of any established governmental agency or court, then any such article or subdivision shall not affect the validity and enforceability of any other article or subdivision thereof, and the remainder of this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect for its duration.
ARTICLE 22	HOURS AND LENGTH OF WORK WEEK
22.01 Except for regular part time employees, forty (40) hours shall constitute the regular work week for all employees covered herein, and it shall consist of five (5) eight (8) hour days.
22.02 In a week in which a full day holiday occurs, thirty-two (32) hours in four (4) eight (8) hour days shall constitute the regular work week for all such employees.
22.03 If a store is open for business on New Year’s Day, Easter Sunday, Thanksgiving Day or Christmas Day, the store shall be staffed on a voluntary basis and then by inverse order of seniority.
22.04 When stores are closed on holidays, the entire night crew shall be given the option of working on the holiday at straight time as part of the work week. In that event the night crew shall not be scheduled to work on the night of the holiday.
22.05 Working hours shall be consecutive except for a meal period of sixty (60) minutes which shall be provided during such hours as the Employer may designate and which shall not count in computing the number of hours worked.
6
22.06 All employees shall receive a fifteen (15) minute rest period for each half day worked which shall be included in computing the number of hours worked.
22. 07 Effective June 23, 2002, all Full-time employees will be offered the opportunity of working four days a week at ten hours of paid straight-time per day.
This provision is subject to the following conditions:
(A) Only volunteers from the current employee complement will be selected. (B) The need will be determined by the Company on a store-wide basis and if all volunteers cannot be accommodated, seniority among the volunteers will be the company’s basis of selection.
(C)	All current employees who volunteer will have the opportunity with two weeks written notice to the Company to switch back to a five day, eight hour schedule.
(D)	Full-time employees hired after June 23, 2002, will be informed that the four day, ten hour straight-tiinc shift will be permanent unless changed by the Company, at which time they will be offered a Five day, eight hour shift. (E) Part-time employees promoted to Full-time status after June 23, 2002, will be informed that as a condition of Full-time employment, they will be scheduled a four day ten hour straight-time shift. In the event that the company should abandon such shifts, they will remain at Full-time status with a five day, eight hour shift.
(F)	All premiums currently paid will be paid.
(G)	Holidays, Personal Holidays and Compassionate Leave will be eight hours for each day used.
(H)	Sick days and jury days will be drawn from the employees’ accumulated bank hours.
(1)	Minimum call-in, beyond scheduled hours, will be eight hours.
(J)	Department Heads arc included in the four day, ten hour straight time program.
(K)	Employees on four day, ten hour straight-time shifts will be provided a fifteen minute break before lunch and a twenty minute break after lunch.
(L)	In a holiday work week full-time employees shall receive time and one half after thirty (30) regular hours if they arc on a four (4) day ten (10) hour work week.
22.	08 All employees working thirty-three (33) hours or more per week, excluding Sundays, shall be considered full time employees and all employees working thirty-two (32) hours or less per week, excluding Sundays, shall be considered part time employees.
Part-Time Hours
22.	09 Part time employees, except those who arc available on a limited basis will be scheduled for no less than sixteen (16) hours per week and four hours per day, provided they arc available on a regular and continuing basis and further provided that they arc available to work the Employer’s schedule of hours and there is no drop in business.
Effective September 26, 2010, Part time employees hired before January 1, 2004, who desire to work twenty (20) hours per week or more, shall be scheduled for a minimum of twenty (20) hours per week (excluding Sundays), provided they request the additional hours and arc available to work said hours on a regular and continuing basis.
22.1	0 Regular part time employees hired prior to June 23, 2002 who arc assigned temporarily to full time work throughout the year or for the summer months, shall, from the first week of such assignment, receive his
7
regular part time rate or the minimum full time clerk’s rate, whichever is higher.
22.1	1 Part-time employees, hired on or after June 23, 2002 and before September 24, 2006 who work in excess of thirty (30) regular hours in a work week shall receive time and one-half for those hours worked over thirty (30) and up to and including thirty-five. If hours worked exceed thirty-five (35) regular hours then all hours worked will be paid at the full time minimum or their current hourly rate whichever is greater.
Part time employees hired on or after September 24, 2006 and before September 26, 2010 part-time employees who are not assigned a full-time schedule, but who work more than thirty-two (32) hours, shall be paid at the rate of time and one half (1 '/i) for all hours worked in excess of thirty-two (32) hours up to and including thirty-seven (37) hours. Any part-time employees working in excess of thirty-seven (37) hours in a week shall be paid the full time minimum rate for all hours worked or their current hourly rate, whichever is greater.
In the event any part-time employee works six (6) consecutive weeks in excess of thirty-two (32) two regular hours, the employee will be reclassified to full-time. This shall not apply from May 15th to September 15th of each year.
All Part time employees hired on or after September 26, 2010 may be scheduled up to thirty-two (32) hours per week at straight time. Those hours and only those hours worked in excess of thirty-two (32) hours shall be compensated at the new minimum full time rate of $11.25 per hour.
Part time employees who work for eight (8) consecutive weeks in excess of thirty-two (32) regular hours shall be reclassified to full-time. This shall not apply from May 1st to September 30th.
22.1	2 Regular part time employees who are appointed to permanent full time work, shall receive half (1/2) credit for their length of continuous part time service for the purpose of determining their appropriate full time wage rate. All regular part time employees hired or reclassified under this Agreement shall, for the purpose of computing length of service requirements to fall into the full time progression rate range. They shall receive the minimum full time rate for after thirty (30) days and in addition shall receive twenty ($20) dollars for each twelve (12) months of part time service to determine their full time rate. Thereafter they shall receive twenty ($20) dollars for each six (6) months of full time service but in no event can they exceed the top rate for full time clerks on payroll as of the date of conversion.
22.1	3 However, an employee who reaches the top of the progression scale during the term of the Agreement, shall be eligible to receive the across-the-board increases on December 29, 2013, September 28, 2014, and June 28, 2015, if applicable, provided that in no event shall such employee exceed the top clerk’s rate of pay.
Effective May 18, 2014, the minimum full time rate shall increase from $11.25 per hour to $ 12.25 per hour.
22.1	4 The Employer shall post a work schedule for all employees covered by this Agreement no later than 3:00 P.M. each Saturday for the following week. If an employee is off on Saturday, then this employee’s schedule shall be posted no later than 3:00 P.M. each Friday. Changes may be made in this schedule in emergency only and with verification by the Union.
8
ARTICLE 23	INDUSTRY EXPERIENCE
23.01 Newly hired employees shall be given credit for a minimum of one (1) year’s prior experience in the supermarket industry for the purpose of establishing the employees’ wage rates only, provided that the experience was earned within the preceding twelve (12) months and declared on the employment application.
ARTICLE 24	RECLASSIFICATION
24.01 A full time employee who is reclassified to part time shall be placed on the part time progression scale for those employees hired on or after October 27, 2013 and shall be given credit for part time employment on a two (2) month for one (1) month basis for the purpose of establishing a wage rate. They shall receive the minimum part time rate for after thirty (30) days and in addition shall receive twenty-five (25ff) cents for each six (6) months of full time employment to determine their part time rate. Thereafter, they shall receive twenty five (25;!) cents for each six months of part time employment but in no event can they exceed the top rate for part time clerks on payroll as of October 26, 2013.
24.02 A full time employee who is reclassified to part time shall receive payment for canted and unused full time vacation. The employee shall receive, after one (I) year, part time vacation benefits based upon the employee’s total length of service.
24.03 A full time employee who is reclassified to part time shall receive part time sick leave pro-rated for the balance of that sick leave year, based upon the employee’s total length of service. Thereafter, the employee shall receive part time sick leave based upon the employee's total length of service.
24.04 A full time employee who is reclassified to part time shall receive payment for earned and unused personal holidays.
24.05 Upon the reclassification of a full time employee to part time, the Employer shall make part time contributions on behalf of the employee to the Welfare, Pension and Legal Funds, beginning the first (1st) day of the month following such reclassification.
ARTICLE 25	MINIMUM CALL IN
25.01 Any full time employee who works on Holidays shall be scheduled for eight (8) hours work, provided the store is open for eight (8) hours and further provided the employee is available to work eight (8) hours.
25.02 In the event that the store is open for less than eight (8) hours, such full time employees shall be scheduled for the hours that the store is open. Full time employees shall be given a reasonable opportunity to work on Sundays and Holidays on a rotating basis when the store is open for business.
25.03 Any part time employee who works on Sundays or Holidays, shall be scheduled for four (4) hours work, provided the employee is available to work four (4) hours.
Career Part Time employees shall be defined as those who were hired before January I, 2004. Said employees, when scheduled to work on
9
Sunday, shall receive a minimum of a five (5) hour shift, if requested, and shall be provided with an opportunity of 20 hours per week.
SUNDAYS
25.04 Any full time employee, except a night crew employee, who works on Sundays, shall be scheduled for four (4) hours work, provided the employee is available. Any full time night crew employee who works on Sundays or Holidays, shall be scheduled for eight (8) hours work, provided the employee is available.
25.05 Any night crew employee who on a voluntary basis wishes to work less than eight (8) hours must sign a waiver giving up the right to the eight (8) hours of work on Sunday. In no event shall a night crew employee be scheduled for less than four (4) hours.
Effective September 26, 2011, any night crew employee who on a voluntary basis wishes to work less than six (6) hours must sign a waiver giving up the right to the six (6) hours of work on Sunday. In no event shall a night crew employee be scheduled for less than four (4) hours.
25.06 Work performed on Sunday by full time employees, and part time employees hired prior to January 1, 1987, shall be compensated at double time the regular hourly rate of pay for hours worked. Part time employees hired on or after January I, 1987, shall be compensated at one and one half times (I !6), the regular hourly rate for hours worked on Sunday. Effective January 1, 1990, full time employees hired on or after January 1, 1990, shall be compensated at one and one half times the regular hourly rate for hours worked on Sunday. Sunday shall not be considered as part of the regular work week.
25.07 Full time employees paid double time for Sunday work, if converted to part time status, shall continue to be paid double time. Part time employees paid double time for Sunday work, if converted to full time status, shall continue to be paid double time. Part time employees paid time and one half for Sunday work, if converted to full time status on or after June 19, 1988, shall continue to be paid time and one half. Full time employees hired on or after January 1, 1990, who shall be paid time and one half for Sunday work, if converted to part time status, shall continue to be paid time and one half.
25.08 Employees shall not be required to work on Sunday. If the Employer is unable to staff a department on Sunday, employees shall be required to work in inverse order of seniority.
25.09 Effective January 1, 1996 those employees, full time or part time, who are receiving double time for work performed on Sunday shall receive a frozen premium rate which is equal to the hourly rate of pay they were earning as of January 1, 1996. In addition to this premium hourly rate they shall receive their regular hourly rate of pay for each hour of work performed on Sunday. As their regular hourly rate progresses the frozen premium hourly rate shall remain the same, except that in the event of a reclassification from part time to full time, full time to part time, department manager to full time or part time, full time or part time to department manager, the frozen premium hourly rate will be equal to the hourly rate they are entitled to after reclassification in addition to their regular hourly rate. Employees receiving the Frozen Sunday rate shall continue to receive such rate until the Sunday frozen rate is equivalent to half of the employee’s hourly rate. Then in such event, the employee shall continue to be paid time and one-half for all hours worked on Sunday. Effective January I, 1996 the frozen premium hourly
10
rate Tor a newly appointed department manager hired or appointed on or after January 1, 1996 shall be no less than $ 18.00 per hour in addition to the regular hourly rate for work performed on Sunday.
25.10 Part-time Employees hired prior to 9-26- 10 shall receive time and one half (I !/i) times their regular rate for all hours worked on Sunday.
Part time employees hired on or after 9-26-10 shall be paid at the straight time hourly rate for the first twelve (12) months of service; they shall then receive a two ($2.00) dollar per hour premium through twenty-four (24) months, thereafter they shall receive time and one half.
ARTICLE 26	SHOP STEWARDS
26.01 The Employer recognizes the right of the Union to have one (I) full time Shop Steward and one (I) part time Shop Steward in each store.
26.02 The full time Shop Steward in each store shall not be transferred without prior notice to and discussion with the Union.
26.03 The Union will provide the Employer with a list of the names of its authorized business representatives and Shop Stewards and will keep said list current.
26.04 The Employer will, with adequate notice, arrange for one (1) full time Shop Steward from each store to have the same scheduled day off once each year, with eight (8) hours pay, for the purpose of attending the Local 1500 Shop Steward seminar.
26.05 Shop Stewards shall not handle grievances and shall not interfere with the operation of the Employer’s business, and shall not cause or engage directly or indirectly in any unauthorized strikes, work stoppages, slowdowns, or job actions.
ARTICLE 27	OVERTIME PAY
27.01 The Employer agrees to pay to all employees for any and all hours worked in excess of their regular eight (8) hour work day, overtime pay at the rate of time and one half their regular hourly rate.
ARTICLE 28	PREMIUM PAY
28.01 A part time employee who works on the sixth (6th) day in a work week, excluding Sunday, will be paid time and one half for work on that day, provided the employee has worked all of his scheduled hours on the other five (5) days of such week.
28.02 Full Time employees hired after June 22, 1985 and Part Time employees appointed to full time work after June 22, 1985, to work four (4) or more days per week on any shift starting between 12:00 P.M. and 3:00 P.M., shall receive premium pay of One ($1.00) Dollar per day.
28.03 Newly hired and or reclassified full time employees hired on or after June 21, 1998, whose shift starts at 11:00 a.m. or later shall receive a premium of $1.00 per shift premium from the first day of that shift.
28.04 Full time employees shall receive premium pay of Seventy-Five (75ff) Cents per hour for all hours of work performed before 8:00 A.M. or
II
after 7:00 P.M., provided such hours of work are within the regular forty (40) hour work week.
Full time employees hired on or after June 19, 1988, shall receive premium pay of Seventy five (750) Cents per hour for all hours of work performed before 6:00 A.M. or after 7:00 P.M., provided such hours of work are within the regular forty (40) hour work week.
Newly hired and or reclassified full time employees hired on or after June 21,1998, may be scheduled to a shift starting at 5:00 a.m. or later and shall receive no premium pay for this shift.
Effective September 24, 2006 Newly hired and or reclassified full time employees scheduled to work prior to 8:00 A M. or after 7:00 P.M. or whose shift starts at 11:00 A.M. or later shall receive their regular hourly rate of pay for such shifts, except as indicated in sections 28.05 and 28.06.
28.05 Full time night crew clerks and chiefs shall receive ten (10%) percent per week above their regular applicable progression scale or wage. Part time employees who work on a night shift from 12:00 Midnight to 8:00 A.M. shall receive ten (10%) percent per week above their regular applicable progression scale or wage.
28.06 An employee, newly assigned to the night crew on or after June 19, 1988, shall receive a night shift premium of Ten (10%) Percent of the employee’s straight time rate of pay, to a maximum of sixty five ($65.00) dollars per week, which shall be in addition to the employees’ straight time rate of pay.
28.07 The Union’s authorized representatives or officers shall be permitted to check payroll records for the purpose of determining Union wage rates and Union membership, according to the terms and conditions of the Union contract.
ARTICLE 29	- HOLIDAYS
FULLTIME
29.0	1 All full time employees hired on or before June 15, 1991, covered by this Agreement and who qualify, shall receive the following legal holidays with pay:
New Year’s Day	Labor Day
President’s Day	Presidential Election Day
Memorial Day	Thanksgiving Day
Fourth of July	Christmas Day
29.0	2 All full time employees hired after June 16, 1991, and on or before June 18, 1994 covered by this Agreement and who qualify, shall receive the following legal holidays with pay:
New Year’s Day
Memorial Day Fourth of July
Labor Day
Presidential Election Day
Thanksgiving Day
Christmas Day
In addition to the holidays listed in Article 29.02 above, employees hired on or after June 16, 1991 and on or before June 18, 1994 who have completed thirty (30) days employment prior to the annual date on which President’s Day occurs, shall receive a personal holiday eight (8) hours pay in lieu of President’s Day. Said personal holiday must be granted and taken prior to the end of each contract year.
12
29.0	3 Full time employees who work on any of the above named holidays (as described in Article 29.01 or 29.02 above or Article 29.07 below) shall receive in addition to the holiday pay to which they arc entitled, time and one-half (I1/:) their regular hourly rate for all hours worked on said holidays.
29.04 All regular full time employees hired on or before June 18, 1994 eligible for one (I) week’s vacation, shall, in lieu of previous existing half holidays, be granted one (1) additional day’s vacation with pay which may be granted at the time of their vacation or at a time different from their vacation, or the employee may be paid one (1) additional day’s pay in lieu thereof at the discretion of the Employer. All regular full time employees eligible for two (2) weeks vacation or more shall be granted two (2) additional days vacation with pay in lieu of previous existing half holidays, which may be granted at the time of their vacation or at a time different from their vacation, or be paid two (2) additional day’s pay, in lieu thereof, at the discretion of the Employer. Such additional vacation day(s) must cither be granted or the employees must be paid in lieu thereof.
29.0	5 In addition to the holidays and vacation days set forth above, full time employees hired on or before June 18, 1994 who have been in the employ of the Employer for six (6) consecutive months as a regular full time employee, shall be entitled to three (3) personal holidays during a contract year, one of which shall be the employee’s Birthday. One personal holiday shall be taken during the first six (6) months of the contract year and one during the second six (6) months of the contract year.
29.0	6 All regular full time employees hired on or before June 18, 1994 shall be eligible to receive one (1) additional personal holiday, namely, the employee's Anniversary Date of Employment, with eight (8) hours straight time pay for said holiday.
29.0	7 All full time employees hired on or after June 19, 1994 covered by this agreement who have completed three (3) months of full time employment and who qualify shall receive the following legal holidays with pay:
New Year’s Day
Memorial Day
Fourth of July
Labor Day
Presidential Election Day (If registered voter)
Thanksgiving Day
Christmas Day
In addition to the holiday listed in article 29.07 above full time employees hired on or after June 19, 1994 shall receive after one (1) year employment one (I) personal holiday plus their Birthday as a holiday.
After two (2) years employment one (1) additional personal holiday plus their Anniversary of employment as a holiday.
After completing three (3) years of employment, three (3) additional personal holidays. (Employees hired on or before June 15, 1991 who are reclassified will continue to have President’s Day as a holiday and those Employees hired on orafterJune 16, 1991 who are reclassified will continue to receive a personal holiday in lieu of President’s Day.) Upon the completion of three (3) years employment these employees shall be entitled to only two (2) additional personal holidays.
29.0	8 Should a regular full time employee’s regularly scheduled day off fall on any of the above named holidays, said employee shall be granted another day off during the same week.
13
29.0	9 On Christmas Eve, one half of the full time crew shall be excused one (1) hour before the end of the shift and the other half of the full time crew shall be excused one (1) hour before the end of the shift for New Year's Eve. This applies to those full time employees working on the aforementioned days. If the Employer decides to close one (1) hour earlier on any of the above days that shall be the hour off.
PART TIME
29.10	Part time employees hired before June 15, 1991 covered by this Agreement, shall receive four (4) hours holiday pay based on their regular straight time hourly wage rate for each of the following holidays:
New Year’s Day President’s Day Memorial Day Fourth of July
Labor Day
Presidential Election Day
Thanksgiving Day
Christmas Day
29.11	Part time employees hired on or after June 16, 1991 and before June 18, 1994 covered by this Agreement, shall receive four (4) hours holiday pay based on their regular straight time hourly wage rate for each of the following holidays:
New Year’s Day
Memorial Day Fourth of July
Labor Day
Presidential Election Day
Thanksgiving Day
Christmas Day
In addition to the holidays listed in Article 29.11 above, part time employees hired on or after June 16, 1991 and on or before June 18,1994, shall receive a personal holiday (four (4) hours pay) in lieu of President’s Day. Said personal holiday must be granted and taken prior to the end of each contract year.
29.12	Pan time employees who work on any of the above named holidays (as described in Article 29.10 or 29.11 above or Article 29.14 below) shall receive in addition to the holiday pay to which they are entitled, time and one-^half their regular hourly rate for all hours worked on said holidays.
29.13	In addition to the holidays set forth above, part time employees hired on or before June 18, 1994 shall be entitled to one (1) personal day, namely, the employee’s birthday. Regular part time employees shall be eligible to receive one (1) additional personal holiday, namely, the employee’s Anniversary Date of Employment. Said employee shall receive four (4) hours holiday pay based on their regular straight time hourly wage rate for said holidays.
29.14	All part time employees hired on or after June 19, 1994 covered by this agreement, who have completed four (4) or more months of continuous employment with the employer, shall receive four (4) hours holiday pay based on their regular straight time hourly wage rate for each of the following holidays:
New Year’s Day
Memorial Day
Fourth of July
Labor Day
Presidential Election Day (If registered voter)
Thanksgiving Day
Christmas Day
14
In addition to the holidays listed in Article 29.14 above part time employees hired on or after June 19, 1994 shall receive after one (1) year employment one (I) personal holiday. (Docs not apply to a reclassified employee who was hired on or before June 18. 1994 who is receiving President’s Day or personal day in lieu of President’s Day.)
After two (2) years employment an additional personal holiday namely the employees Birthday.
After three (3) years employment an additional personal holiday namely the employees anniversary of employment.
29.15	The employee's Birthday and Anniversary holidays shall be assigned on the Monday following the week in which the birthday or anniversary occurred, except for holiday weeks, in, which case said holidays shall be assigned on the following Monday. Only one (1) employee from a store shall be assigned such holidays in any one (1) week.
29.16	Part time employees who arc promoted to full time positions shall be entitled to receive full time holidays. Part time employees hired on or before June 18, 1994 who have completed six (6) months service and who arc promoted to full time positions shall be entitled to receive full time Personal, Anniversary and Birthday holidays.
FULL & PART TIME
29.17	In order to qualify for holiday pay, all eligible employees shall work their regularly scheduled day before and their regularly scheduled day following the holiday and shall also work all their scheduled hours during the week in which the holiday occurs, unless such absence is excused by the Employer, which excuse shall not be unreasonably denied.
29.18	Only regularly scheduled work days of the employee may be selected as personal holidays and only one (I) employee from a store shall be assigned a personal holiday on any one (1) day.
29.19	The employee’s birthday and anniversary holidays shall be assigned on the Monday following the week in which the birthday or anniversary occurred except for holiday weeks, in which case said holidays shall be assigned on the following Monday. Only one (I) employee from a store shall be assigned such holiday in any one week.
29.20	In assigning personal holidays, the Employer shall take into consideration, besides other factors, the convenience of the employee.
29.21	Personal holidays for all employees arc to be assigned and taken, otherwise they shall be paid for at the end of each contract year, providing that the employee is in the employ of the Employer at such time.
29.22	When a holiday occurs during the employee’s vacation period, the employee’s vacation shall be extended one (I) day, or at the option of the Employer, the employee shall receive eight (8) hours full time; four (4) hours part time straight time pay in lieu of said holiday.
29.23	Any employee full time or part time hired on or before June 18, 1994 regardless of reclassification shall continue to receive as paid legal holidays the same paid legal holidays as they received prior to rcclassifica-
15
t ion.
ARTICLE 30	VACATIONS
FULL TIME
30.01 Regular full time employees hired on or before June 18, 1994, shall receive four (4) weeks’ vacation with pay. Upon completion of twenty-five (25) consecutive years of full time employment with the Employer they shall receive five (5) weeks’ vacation with pay.
30.02 Regular full time employees hired on or after June 19, 1994 who have completed one (I) year of employment shall receive one (I) week vacation with pay. After two (2) years of employment, two (2) weeks’ vacation with pay.
30.03 Regular full time employees who have completed seven (7) consecutive years of full time employment with the Employer shall receive three (3) weeks’ vacation with pay.
30.04 Regular full time employees who have completed ten (10) consecutive years of full time employment with the Employer, shall receive four (4) weeks’ vacation with pay.
30.05 Regular full time employees who have completed twenty-^five (25) consecutive years of full time employment with the Employer, shall receive five (5) weeks’ vacation with pay. However, when an employee is entitled to more than two (2) weeks’ vacation, the Employer reserves the right to grant or assign such additional week or weeks at a time or times different from the first two (2) weeks.
30.06 All full time employees laid off by the Employer before the completion of their six (6) month qualifying period, shall receive pro rata vacation for each month of continuous service rendered, except those employees who have been discharged for good cause and/or have voluntarily left their employment.
30.07 Full time employees resigning in good standing and who have given proper notice, who have earned vacation weeks which have not been taken, will be paid for where six month intervals have passed when entitled to up to two (2) weeks’ vacation by virtue of length of service; four month intervals have passed when entitled to up to three (3) weeks’ vacation by virtue of length of service; and three month intervals have passed when entitled to up to four (4) weeks’ vacation by virtue of length of service. Payment will include only those full weeks that have thus been earned.
PART TIME
30.08 Regular part time employees who have been continuously employed by the Employer for twelve (12) consecutive months or more and who have worked 800 hours or more during the year, shall be entitled to vacation as follows:
Length of
Service
One (I) year:
Two (2) years:
Three (3) years:
Seven (7) years: Ten (10) years: Twenty-five years:
Hired Before 6/19/94 25 hours 50 hours* 50 hours 75 hours 100 hours 125 hours
Hired on or	Hired on or
After 6/19/94	After 9/24/06
20 hours	20 hours
40 hours	20 hours
40 hours	40 hours
75 hours	75 hours
100 hours	100 hours
125 hours	125 hours
16
♦Part Time employees hired on or before June 18, 1994 who have completed two (2) years, but less than four (4) years of part-time employment and who are reclassified to full time shall receive fifty (50) hours vacation until they arc eligible to receive the full two (2) weeks vacation.
30.09 Employees who do not meet the 800 hour requirement during the year, shall receive vacation based upon their total hours worked during the year, divided by fifty two (52). For the purpose of computing “hours worked” all hours for which employees have been paid, including, but not limited to, holiday pay, vacation pay, sick leave pay, and funeral leave, shall be included in making such computation.
30.10 All part time employees with at least six (6) months of service shall, if permanently laid off, receive pro rata vacation pay for each month of continuous service rendered.
30.11 A regular part time employee with at least six (6) months continuous service, shall, when permanently promoted to full time, be given one half (1/2) credit for his part time service to establish his full time vacation entitlement which shall then be payable in the subsequent year. The pro rata vacation entitlement earned as a part time employee shall be paid at the time of promotion to full time.
30.12 Job classification premiums (excluding shift premiums) for full time and part time employees are to be included in vacation pay. The Employer agrees to issue separate checks for vacation pay.
30.13 The vacation benefits under this article shall not be payable to employees discharged for good cause.
30.14 The Employer reserves the exclusive right to establish vacation assignments. Such assignments, however, will be made with due consideration for the seniority of the employee.
ARTICLE 31	SICK LEAVE
FULLTIME
31.01 All regular full time employees hired on or before June 18, 1994 shall, be eligible to receive, in a sick leave year, ten (10) days sick leave with pay at their regular straight time rate of pay for eight (8) hours for days they arc absent from work due to illness.
31.02 Those employees hired on or before June 15, 1991, who are in the employ of the Employer in a regular full time capacity on the last day of each sick leave year, and who have been employed in a regular full time capacity for three (3) consecutive months or more during the sick leave year, shall be paid, on a pro rata basis from their employment anniversary date for sick leave for which they were eligible during the said sick leave year, but which they did not use. Such unused sick leave must be paid within thirty (30) days after the anniversary date of the sick leave year.
31.03 All regular full time employees hired on or after June 16, 1991 and on or before June 18, 1994, shall be entitled to receive the ten (10) days sick leave for each sick leave year of their employment.
31.04 All regular full time employees hired on or after June 19, 1994 shall after completing three (3) consecutive months of full time employ
17
ment with the employer, will be eligible to receive, one (1) day paid sick leave (eight (8) hours pay per day) for each full month of employment, to a maximum of four (4) days in the first sick leave year of their employment, and thereafter shall receive six (6) days sick leave (eight (8) hours pay per day) in the second sick leave year of their employment, and eight (8) days sick leave (eight (8) hours pay per day) in the third sick leave year of their employment. After the completion of three (3) years employment ten (10) days sick leave, (eight (8) hours pay per day) in each sick leave year.
31.05 At the end of each sick leave year, full time employees shall be paid for any sick days which were earned and not taken, provided they are in the employ of the Employer in a full time capacity on the last day of each sick leave year. Such unused sick leave must be paid within thirty (30) days after the completion of the sick leave year.
PART TIME
31.06 Regular part time employees hired on or before June 18, 1994 shall receive twenty (20) hours paid sick leave in each sick leave year commencing with the first scheduled day’s absence due to illness.
Part time employees, after two (2) Years of service, shall be paid for unused sick days at the end of each sick leave year, on the basis of four (4) hours straight time pay for each unused sick day. Such payment shall be made on a pro rata basis the first time that a part time employee becomes eligible.
31.07 Regular part time employees hired on or after June 19, 1994 and prior to September 24, 2006 shall receive a maximum of five (5) sick days, twenty (20) hours, in each sick leave year commencing with the first day’s absence due to illness.
31.08 A part time employee who has completed at the time of reclassification three (3) months service and who is promoted to a full time position, shall be eligible for full time sick leave benefits immediately upon the promotion. Such employee shall receive no payment for unused sick leave earned as a part time employee.
31.09 Regular part time employees hired on or after September 24, 2006 shall receive paid sick leave commencing with the first scheduled day’s absence due to illness on the following basis:
After one (I) year of continuous service four (4) hours sick leave pay for each four (4) months of employment to a maximum of three (3) days, twelve (12) hours.
After two (2) years employment four (4) hours sick leave pay for each four (4) months of employment to a maximum of three (3) days twelve (12) hours.
After three (3) years employment four (4) hours sick leave pay for each three (3) months of employment to a maximum of four (4) days sixteen (16) hours.
After four (4) years employment four (4) hours sick leave pay to a maximum of five (5) days twenty (20) hours per year.
Pay for unused sick leave at the end of three (3) years employment.
FULL & PART TIME
31.10 In order to be eligible for sick leave, all employees must notify the Employer of their inability to report to work no later than two (2) hours prior to their scheduled starting time on the first (1st) day of absence, if able, and as often as reasonably possible thereafter if such illness extends beyond one (1) day.
18
31.11 In the event of permanent layoff of an employee, full time or part time, he or she shall receive payment for fifty percent (50%) of unused sick days, provided that said employee was otherwise eligible to receive pay for unused sick days.
31.12 A full time or part time employee who retires from the Employer with a pension from the Pension Fund, shall be paid on a pro rata basis for all sick leave for which the employee is eligible but did not use.
31.13 Any employee covered by the Agreement who falsifies sick leave or who knowingly tries to collect sick leave under false pretenses, shall be liable to instant dismissal.
ARTICLE 32	LEAVE OF ABSENCE
32.01 Full time and part time employees with more than one (1) year’s service, requesting a leave of absence for reasons other than the employee’s illness or injury, shall be given said leave of absence by the Employer at its sole discretion, provided, however, that granting of such leave of absence shall not be unreasonably withheld.
32.02 All requests for leave of absence shall be in writing and must be submitted to the Employer at least two (2) weeks in advance of the date of the commencement of the requested leave of absence. The employee shall be notified in writing with a copy to the Union if the requested leave is approved or denied. The notice shall specify the time limit placed on an approved leave of absence. Advance written request for leave of absence is not necessary in case of family emergency. However, subsequent written notice and request shall be given as soon as is reasonably possible.
32.03 A leave of absence granted by the Employer shall not constitute a break in seniority, but if the leave of absence exceeds three (3) months in duration, then service for purposes of progression increases, vacations and all other benefits required to be paid under this Agreement shall not be earned during said leaves.
32.04 The Employer shall make all contributions to all funds required by this Agreement for any month in which the employee performs any work for which monthly contributions arc required before taking the leave and after returning, but not for the months when no covered work is performed. However, in the case of an employee’s illness or injury, contributions for Health and Welfare and Pension shall be made for a period not to exceed three (3) months while the employee is absent from work.
32.05 An employee on an approved leave of absence will be automatically terminated if:
(A) The employee does not return to work when the leave of absence expires, unless the Employer has agreed to an extension.
(13) The employee works elsewhere while on leave without express permission in writing from the Employer to be so employed.
32.06 An employee absent from work due to illness or injury shall retain his or her seniority for a period not to exceed twelve (12) months.
19
FAMILY MEDICAL LEAVE OF ABSENCE
32.07 The employer shall grant an employee a Family Medical Leave of absence if qualified, as required under Federal Law. The Employer will determine eligibility by the use of the rolling calendar year.
ARTICLE 33	DEATH IN FAMILY
33.0	1 Regular full time employees, after sixty (60) days of employment, shall be entitled to three (3) days paid leave for all regularly scheduled work days lost from the date of death in case of death in the immediate family. The “immediate family” is defined as the employee’s parent, step parent, child, step child, foster child, brother, sister, spouse, spouse’s parent, brother in-law, or sister in-law. Regular full time employees shall be entitled to one (1) days paid leave for a regularly scheduled work day lost to attend the funeral or memorial service of the employee’s grandparent, grandchild, nephew or niece.
33.0	2 Part time employees after sixty (60) days of employment shall be entitled to paid leave for the actual time lost, as set forth on the employee’s weekly work schedule, in case of death in the immediate family as provided for regular full time employees on a pro rata basis. Regular part time employees shall be entitled to one (1) day paid leave, pro rated for the actual time lost on employee’s regular work schedule, to attend the funeral or memorial service of the employee’s grandparent or grandchild.
ARTICLE 34	JURY DUTY
34.01 Employees who have completed ninety (90) days of continuous service called for jury duty in a court of law necessitating a loss of the employee’s straight time scheduled working hours shall be paid while on jury duty, less jury pay, not to exceed ten (10) working days in any contract year or thirty working days during the term of this Agreement in the case of an employee called for grand jury duty. To be eligible for pay under this provision, the employee shall present the jury service notice to the Employer at least seven (7) days before the start of the term as a juror and shall present to the Employer a certificate of service showing dates, time of service and jury fees paid. Employees receiving jury duty pay from any other employer shall not be eligible to receive pay for jury duty under this Agreement.
ARTICLE 35	WAGES
35.01 The wage rates, progression scales and across the board increases effective during the term of this Agreement arc more particularly set forth in Schedule “A” and “B” annexed hereto and made a part hereof.
ARTICLE 36	WELFARE PLAN
Full Time Employees
36.01 The Employer agrees to contribute the sum of $960.00 per month to the UFCW Local 1500 Welfare Fund on behalf of each regular full time employee covered by the Agreement who has completed thirty (30) days of service with the Employer. Contributions shall begin on the first (1st) day of the month next following the completion of such period.
36.02 Effective on the dates indicated, monthly contributions to provide such benefits as may be determined by the Trustees shall be in accordance
20
with the following schedule:
Effective October 1,2013
Effective October I, 2014
Effective October I, 2015
S1,026.50 per month $1,097.66 per month $1,173.80 per month
Full time employees hired/promoted after January 1,2015 shall pay a ten ($10.00) dollar weekly contribution for health care.
In the event that, during the term of this agreement, the Trustees of the Welfare Fund determine, in good faith, that the contributions set forth above arc insufficient to fund the Welfare Fund plans in effect on March I, 2014 or the new plan for part-time associates working more than 30 hours per week, the Employer’s contribution rates shall be increased to the rate as the Trustees determine in good faith as necessary to fund the plans of benefits.
Part Time Employees
36.03 The Employer agrees to contribute the sum of $272.57 for each special part time employee, or $66.43 per month for each regular part time employee to the UFCW Local 1500 Welfare Fund on behalf of each special part time and regular part time employee respectively covered by the Agreement who has completed six (6) consecutive months of regular part time service with the Employer. Contributions shall begin on the first (1st) day of the month, following the completion of such period.
36.04 Effective on the dates indicated, monthly contributions to provide such benefits as may be determined by the Trustees, shall be in accordance with the following schedule:
Effective October 1, 2013
Effective October I, 2014
Effective October 1, 2015
Special Part-time Part-time
$29l.65/mo	$71.08/mo
$312.07/mo	$76.06/mo
$333.91/mo	$81.38/mo
ACA Part-time $300.00/mo $300.00/mo $32l.00/mo
36.06 The amount of the monthly contributions to the UFCW Local 1500 Welfare Fund and the method of calculation whereby a specific monthly sum is contributed for each class of employees, is a formula for providing gross income to the Fund and bears no relationship to the benefits provided.
In the event the Employer is obligated to offcr/providc additional health benefits to certain part-time associates to avoid a financial penalty, due to the provisions of the Affordable Care Act (i.c., those who average over 30 hours), those benefits shall be provided for by the Fund to comply with the mandate. Effective 01/01/15, the Employer agrees that it will pay a monthly contribution of $300.00 per employee, for a plan that includes ancillary benefits, complies with the ACA and will avoid employer mandate penalties for all such part-time associates. The weekly contribution for any associate who does not opt out of this plan shall be twenty ($20.00) dollars.
Effective 03/01/14, the weekly contribution to the Fund for any such associate who has not opted out of the Special Part-Time plan is fifteen ($15.00) dollars. Such employee contributions shall be deducted by the Employer and transmitted to the Fund with the Employer contribution in accordance with the procedures established by the Welfare Fund Board of Trustees. There shall be no new entrants into the Special Part-Time Plan after 02/28/14.
In the event that, during the term of this agreement, the Trustees of the Welfare Fund determine, in good faith, that the contributions set forth above are insufficient to fund the Welfare Fund plans in effect on March I, 2014 or the new plan for part-time associates working more than 30 hours per week, the Employer's contribution rates shall be increased to the rate as the
21
Trustees determine in good faith as necessary to fund the plans of benefits.
ARTICLE 37	PENSION PLAN
Full Time Employees
37.01 The Employer agrees to contribute the sum of S278.75 per month to the UFCW Local 1500 Pension Fund on behalf of each regular full time employee covered by the Agreement who has completed thirty (30) days of service with the Employer. Contributions shall begin on the first (1st) day of the month next following the completion of such period.
37.02 Effective on the dates indicated, monthly contributions to provide such benefits as may be determined by the Trustees shall be in accordance with the following schedule:
January I, 2014
January I, 2015
January I, 2016
$288.51
$298.61
$309.06
Per Month
Per Month
Per Month
In the event that, during the term of this agreement, the Trustees of the Pension Fund determine, in good faith, that the contributions set forth above are insufficient to fund the Pension Fund plan of benefits in effect on March 1, 2014, the Employer’s contribution rates shall be increased to the rate as the Trustees determine in good faith as necessary to fund the plan of benefits.
Part Time Employees
37.03 The Employer agrees to contribute the sum of $93.25 per month to the UFCW Local 1500 Pension Fund on behalf of each regular part time employee covered by the Agreement who has completed six (6) consecutive months of regular part time service with the Employer. Contributions shall begin on the first (1st) day of the month next following the completion of such period.
37.04 Effective on the dates indicated, monthly contributions to provide such benefits as may be determined by the Trustees shall be in accordance with the following schedule:
January 1,2014	$ 96.51 Per Month
January 1,2015	$ 99.89 Per Month
January 1, 2016	$103.39 Per Month
In the event that, during the term of this agreement, the Trustees of the Pension Fund determine, in good faith, that the contributions set forth above are insufficient to fund the Pension Fund plan of benefits in effect on March 1, 2014, the Employer’s contribution rates shall be increased to the rate as the Trustees determine in good faith as necessary to fund the plan of benefits.
ARTICLE 38	LEGAL SERVICES PLAN
Full Time Employees
38.0	1 The Employer agrees to continue present contributions in the amount of One ($1.75) Dollar and Seventy Five Cents per month to the UFCW Local 1500 Legal Services Fund on behalf of each regular full time employee covered by the Agreement, who has completed (30) days of service with the Employer. Such contributions shall begin on the first day of the calendar month next following the completion of thirty (30) days of such employment.
22
Part Time Employees
38.0	2 The Employer agrees to continue present contributions in the amount of One ($1.75) Dollars and Seventy Five cents per month to the UFCW Local 1500 Legal Services Fund, on behalf of each regular part time employee who has completed six (6) consecutive months of regular part time service with the Employer. Such contributions shall begin on the first day of the month next following the completion of six (6) consecutive months of such employment.
ARTICLE 39	PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO ALL FUNDS
A.There shall be no contributions to the Welfare Fund, Pension Fund and Legal Services Fund for those employees working full-time for the summer period of May 1 sth to September 30th only, nor shall there be any change in part-time contributions for part-time employees working full-time for the summer period only. Should such employees continue without interruption on a full-time basis after the summer, the Employer shall pay as though there was no relief.
B.	1. Contributions to the Welfare Fund, Pension Fund and Legal Services Fund shall be remitted by the Employer to the Fund’s office on or before the twentieth (20th) day of the current month. Every employee of record who works at least one day in the current month shall be considered to be employed for the entire month for the purpose of computing contributions for that month.
2.	Upon the failure of the Employer to make payment of any contributions within fourteen (14) days of the date due, the Trustees shall be entitled at their sole option, to take any action permitted by this Agreement, by the Agreements and Declarations of Trust establishing the Funds or by law, to collect said contributions, together with interest, liquidated damages as established by the Trustees, attorneys’ fees and court costs. Such interest and liquidated damages shall accrue starting on the day after the due date of the contributions (the twentieth day of the current month), and shall continue to accrue until said contributions, together with any accrued interest and liquidated damages, have been paid.
3.	The Employer agrees that if it is delinquent in the payment of contributions to the Welfare Fund, to the extent that the Trustees have cancelled the payment of benefits to said Employer’s covered employees, the Employer will be responsible for all hospital, medical, surgical and other benefits that would have been paid for by the Fund had the Employer’s delinquency in making contributions not resulted in the cancellation of any rights on the part of the Employer’s covered employees to receive any such benefits.
4.	The Employer hereby accepts and ratifies the Agreements and Declarations of Trust, as amended from time to time, establishing the Funds as if they were set forth herein in full, and ratifies the designation of the Trustees thereunder. The Trustees have assumed all responsibility for the administration of the Plans, and the Employer shall have no responsibility, except as herein provided.
5.	The Employer shall make available to the Funds, any and all pertinent records of employees that the Funds may require to soundly and efficiently operate the Funds. The Trustees shall have the right to have the Employer’s records audited by an accountant of the Funds' choosing, at the Funds’ expense.
23
6.	In the event the Employer fails to make contributions or provide records as required herein, the Trustees may, despite any other provision of this Agreement, submit to arbitration any issue with regard to these provisions, before an arbitrator designated in accordance with the labor arbitration rules of the American Arbitration Association. The arbitrator shall, in the event a violation exists, make a finding and award, which shall direct payment to the Fund, including the costs of the arbitration, legal fees and audit expenses together with interest and liquidated damages as established by the Trustees.
7.	Upon the written request of the Employer, the Trustees shall make annual financial reports to the Employer, which shall contain information relating to the application of the monies received and benefits paid by the Funds.
C.	In the case of any employee’s illness or injury, contributions to the Welfare Fund, the Pension Fund, and the Legal Services Fund shall be made for a period not to exceed three (3) months of absence from work. In the case of an employee who is receiving Worker’s Compensation benefits, contributions to the Welfare Fund shall also be made for the seventh (7th), eighth (8th) and ninth (9th) months of such absence.
D.	The Employer shall make contributions to the Welfare Fund on behalf of each employee on family or medical leave under the provisions of the Family Medical Leave Act (FMLA), 29 U.S.C. §2601, et seq., for each month or partial month the employee is on such leave. The failure of an employee to return to work from such leave, within the meaning of 29 U.S.C. §2614 (c)(2), shall create no obligation on the part of the Union or the Welfare Fund to take any action to recover or to assist in the recovery of said contributions from said employee, nor will such failure to return to work relieve the Employer of its obligation to contribute to the Welfare Fund on behalf of said employee during the period specified in 29 U.S.C. §2614 (c)(1).
E.	The Employer shall make contributions to the Pension Fund on behalf of each employee who qualifies, pursuant to 38 U.S.C. §§4312 and 4318, for Future Pension Service due to a period of military service. The Employer shall also make contributions to the Pension Fund on behalf of each former employee who qualifies, pursuant to 38 U.S.C. §§4312 and 4318, for Future Pension Service due to a period of military service if the Employer was the last employer employing the former employee prior to such military service. Contributions shall be made at the Employer’s contribution rate in effect during each month of military service to which such Future Pension Service relates. Such contributions shall be due and payable within thirty (30) days of reemployment of the employee with the Employer or within thirty (30) days of notice that the employee has become employed, in employment which meets the requirements of 38 U.S.C. §4312, with another contributing employer to the Pension Fund.
ARTICLE 40	INJURY ON THE JOB
40.01 An employee who is injured on the job and is directed by a medical doctor not to continue work, shall be paid his usual day’s wages for that day at straight time for the day on which the injury occurred and which time shall not be considered sick leave.
ARTICLE 41	BULLETIN BOARD
41.01 The Union shall share existing store bulletin boards for the use of
24
regular union notices.
ARTICLE 42	PRIOR PRIVILEGES
42.01 The Employer agrees that any conditions other than those set forth in this Agreement, and enjoyed prior to the renewal of this Agreement by the employees of the Company, shall be continued in full force and effect on behalf of such employees.
ARTICLE 43	SUCCESSORS
43.01 This Agreement shall bind and inure to the benefit of the Employer, its successors or assigns, and to the Union, their successors and assigns, and shall include all bargaining unit stores now owned, operated, conducted or maintained by the Employer, its successors, assigns or agents.
ARTICLE 44	- SCHOLARSHIP FUND
44.01 On each of February I, 2014 and February I, 2015 the Employer shall contribute a lump sum of$l,800 to the UFCW Local 1500 Scholarship Fund, for an aggregate amount of $3,600.
ARTICLE 45	TERM OF AGREEMENT
45.01 This Agreement shall be effective as of October 27, 2013 and shall continue in full force and effect until Midnight the 28th day of May 2016, and shall be automatically renewed from year to year thereafter, unless at least sixty (60) days prior to the 28th day of May, 2016, or any annual date of expiration thereafter, written notice by registered mail is given by cither party to the other of a desire to amend or to terminate this Agreement.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused these presents to be signed by their respective representatives and their seals affixed thereof the year, the month and the day first above written.
By:
MAN-DEL FOOD STORES, I
UFCW UNION, LOCAL, 1500
By:
25
Thomas Anderson	Bruce W. Both, President
PRODUCE AND DELI DEPARTMENT HEADS PRESENTLY REGULARLY ASSIGNED
Department Heads - on Payroll as of October 26, 2013:
Present Rate	12/29/13 $.25	9/28/2014 $.30	6/28/2015 $.30	2/28/2016
$1,170	$1,180	$ 1,192	$1,204	
$1,135	$1,145	$ 1,157	$1,169	$1,204
Deli Appetizing Department Heads hired or appointed on or after October 27, 2013, who have completed their probationary period, shall receive the following new minimum regular weekly wage on:
12/29/13	9/28/2014	6/28/2015	2/28/2016
SI.135	SI.145	SI.157	SI.169
Newly hired or appointed produce and deli department heads after September 26, 2010, shall receive Ten ($10.00) Dollars above clerks rate of pay, or Ten ($10.00) Dollars below newly established rate, whichever is lower for the trial period of ninety (90) days, then to receive full established rate.
Those Full-Time employees who have relieved a Department Head prior to 6/23/02 shall be entitled to $865.00 per week. Those that have not relieved a Department Head prior to 6/23/02 and those newly assigned to Relief Department Heads shall be entitled to $775.00 per week. The $775.00 rate shall increase to $825.00 per week effective 6/20/04. If Employees that relieve make at or above these rates, they shall receive a premium of $10.00 per week.
Any Temporary or Relief Department Head who has been in that capacity for ninety (90) days or more within the previous twelve (12) months shall not be required to sustain any additional trial periods upon being made a regular department head.
Any newly appointed part time employee who relieves a Department Manager for a week or more shall receive a minimum rate of $650.00 for five (5) days forty (40) hours for each week of relief.
DAIRY AND FROZEN FOOD HEAD CLERKS (Full Time)
Full Time Dairy and Frozen Food Department Head Clerks in a store where the total store sales is less than $275,000, the company will not be required to appoint a Department Head. Such store clerks assigned to be in charge of the department will receive twenty ($20.00) dollars per week premium in addition to their base weekly.
Effective January 1,2000 in a store where the total store sales is less than $200,000, the company will not be required to appoint a Department Head. The Department Head in that store will not receive a reduction in pay but will be transferred to a store which does a volume greater than $200,000 at the first available opportunity.
Stores where the total store sales is less than $275,000, the company will not be required to appoint a Department Head. The Department Head in that store will not receive a reduction in pay but will be transferred to a store which does a volume greater than $275,000 at the first available opportunity.
26
Any Department Head who is transferred to a store consistently doing $275,000 per week or less, or is demoted and subsequently reassigned, said Department Head will receive the appropriate Department Head's rate of pay, which they had received prior to their being transferred, demoted or reassigned or the applicable minimum, whichever is higher.
In such stores, clerks assigned to be in charge of the department will receive a twenty ($20.00) dollar per week premium.
FULL TIME BOOKKEEPERS
All full time bookkeepers arc to receive twenty ($20.00) Dollars per week above their applicable rate of pay.
All premiums presently paid shall be included in regular wages for the purpose of determining the rates of overtime.
WEEKLY ACROSS THE BOARD INCREASES AND WAGE PROGRESSIONS FOR FULL TIME CLERKS ON THE PAYROLL AS OF OCTOBER 26, 2013:
I. Wage Increases:
Wage Progressions:
Full-Time Clerks
	12/29/2013	9/28/2014	6/28/2015	2/28/2016
Hourly Rate as of				
10/26/13	$0.25	$0.30	$0.30	Catch Up
& Over				
$26.75	$27.00	$27.30	$27.60	
$26.38	$26.63	$26.93	$27.23	$27.40
$25.63	$25.88	$26.18	$26.48	$26.65
$24.38	$24.63	$24.93	$25.23	$25.40
$21.88	$22.13	$22.43	$22.73	$22.85
$21.25	$21.50	$21.80	$22.10	$22.25
$20.38	$20.63	$20.93	$21.23	$21.35
$19.38	$19.63	$19.93	$20.23	$20.35
$17.38	$17.63	$17.93	$18.23	$18.40
$16.60	$16.85	$17.15	$17,45	$17.60
$16.25	$16.50	$16.80	$17,10	$17.25
$15.88	$16.13	$16.43	$16.73	$16.90
F. HOURLY ACROSS THE BOARD INCREASES AND WAGE PROGRESSIONS FOR PART TIME CLERKS:
PT Clerks Hired before 01/01/04
	12/29/2013	9/28/2014	6/28/2015	2/28/2016
Hourly Rate as of				
10/26/13	$0.20	$0.20	$0.25	Catch Up
& Over				
$17.90	$18.10	$18.30	$18.55	
$16.50	$16.70	$16.90	$17.15	$17.30
$16.25	$16.45	$16.65	$ 16.90	$17.05
$15.50	$15.70	$15.90	$16.15	$16.30
$15.30	$15.50	$15.70	$15.95	$16.10
$15.10	$15.30	$15.50	$15.75	$15.90
$14.70	$14.90	$15.10	$15.35	$15.50
$14.50	$14.70	$14.90	$15.15	$15.30
27
S 14.25	$14.45	$14.65	S14.90	SI5.O5
SI 4.00	SI4.20	$14.40	$14.65	SI4.80
SI 3.75	$13.95	$14.15	SI4.40	SI4.55
$13.50	S13.7O	SI 3.90	S14.I5	S14.30
$13.25	S13.45	$13.65	S13.90	Si 4.05
$13.00	$13.20	$13.40	$13.65	$13.80
$12.75	$12.95	$13.15	$13.40	$13.55
$12.50	SI 2.70	SI 2.90	$13.15	$13.30
$12.25	SI 2.45	SI 2.65	$12.90	$13.00
$12.20	SI 2.40	S12.60	S12.85	SI 3.00
$12.00	S12.20	S12.40	$12.65	S12.75
$11.75	$11.95	$12.15	$12.40	$12.50
$11.50	$11.70	SI 1.90	$12.15	$12.25
$1 1.20	$11.40	$1 1.60	$11.85	$12.00
$11.00	$1 1.20	SI 1.40	SI 1.65	$11.75
$10.75	$10.95	SI J.15	$11.40	$1 1.50
$10.50	SI0.70	$10.90	SI 1.15	$11.25
SI 0.40	SI 0.60	$10.80	$11.05	SI 1.25
$10.30	S10.50	$10.70	$10.95	SI 1.10
$10.25	S10.45	$10.65	$10.90	SI 1.10
BONUS PAYMENT - In addition to the wages listed above, part time employees hired prior to January 1, 2004, will receive a bonus of $250.00 on December 27, 2015. The $250.00 bonus will apply to those employees who are (1) not on a Affordable Care Act compliant plan, or (2) On a special medical plan provided to them or (3) Have opted out of one of these plans.
PT Clerks Hired on or after 01/01/04
	12/29/2013	9/28/2014	12/28/2014	6/28/2015	12/27/2015	2/28/2016
Hourly Rate of 10/26/13	as SO. 15	S0.20	Minimum Wage	$0.20	Minimum Wage Increase OR .20 Whichever is Higher	Catch up
SI6.3O	$16.45	SI 6.65	$16.65	SI6.85	$17.05	$17.20
SI 5.00	$15.15	SI5.35	$15.35	SI5.55	S15.75	S16.00
S14.70	SI4.85	SI5.05	$15.05	S15.25	$15.45	SI 5.60
S14.5O	SI4.65	$14.85	$14.85	SI5.O5	$15.25	SI5.40
SI3.75	SI 3.90	$14.10	S14.10	S14.3O	SI4.50	S14.65
$13.40	$13.55	$13.75	S13.75	$13.95	SI 4.15	SI4.25
S13.25	$13.40	$13.60	$13.60	S13.80	SI 4.00	S14.25
$12.85	SI3.00	$13.20	S13.2O	$13.40	$13.60	S13.75
SI2.5O	$12.65	$12.85	$12.85	$13.05	$13.25	$13.40
S12.25	S12.40	$12.60	$12.60	SI 2.80	$13.00	$13.15
SI 2.00	$12.15	$12.35	$12.35	$12.55	$12.75	$12.90
SI 1.95	$12.10	S12.3O	$12.30	SI2.50	$12.70	$12.90
SI 1.75	SI 1.90	$12.10	SI2.10	S12.3O	S12.50	$12.65
SI 1.50	Sil.65	$11.85	$11.85	S12.05	$12.25	$12.35
SI 1.45	$11.60	$11.80	SI 1.80	$12.00	$12.20	$12.35
SI 1.25	SI 1.40	$11.60	SI 1.60	$11.80	$12.00	$12.10
SI 1.20	SI 1.35	SI 1.55	SI 1.55	SI 1.75	SI 1.95	$12.10
SI 1.15	SI 1.30	$11.50	SI 1.50	SI 1.70	SI 1.90	S12.10
S11.00	$11.15	$1 1.35	$11.35	$11.55	SI 1.75	SI 1.90
S10.75	SI 0.90	SI 1.10	$11.10	SI 1.30	SI 1.50	$11.60
$10.70	$10.85	SI 1.05	$11.05	$11.25	SI 1.45	SI 1.60
$10.65	$10.80	SI 1.00	$11.00	SI 1.20	SI 1.40	$1 1.60
SI0.50	SI 0.65	SIO.85	$10.85	SI 1.05	SI 1.25	SI 1.35
$10.40	$10.55	$10.75	$10.75	SI 0.95	$11.15	SI 1.35
$10.30	SI 0.45	SI 0.65	$10.65	S1O.85	SI 1.05	SI 1.15
$10.25	SI 0.40	$10.60	$10.60	$10.80	$11.00	SI 1.15
28
$10.20	$10.35	$10.55	$10.55	$10.75	$10.95	$11.15
$10.05	$10.20	$10.40	$10.40	$10.60	$10.80	$10.90
$ 10.00	$10.15	$10.35	$10.35	$10.55	$10.75	$10.90
$19.90	$10.05	$10.25	$10.25	$10.45	$10.65	$10.90
$19.85	$10.00	$10.20	$10.20	$10.40	$10.60	$10,75
$19.75	$19.90	$10.10	$10.10	$10.30	$10.50	$10,75
$19.65	$19.80	$10.00	$10,00	$10.20	$10.40	$10.50
$19.50	$19.65	$19.85	$19.85	$10.05	$10.25	$10.50
$19.35	$19.50	$19.70	$19.70	$19.90	$10.10	$10.25
$19.25	$ 19.40	$19.60	$19.60	$19.80	$10.00	$10.25
$ 19.10	$19.25	$19.45	$19.45	$19.65	$19.85	$10.00
$ 19.00	$19.15	$19.35	$19.35	$19.55	$19.75	$10.00
$18.90	$19.05	$19.25	$19.25	$19.45	$19.65	$19.75
$18.75	$18.90	$19.10	$19.10	$19.30	$19.50	$19.75
$18.60	$18,75	$18.95	$ 19.00	$19.15	$19.35	$19.60
$18.50	$18.65	$18.85	$ 19.00	$19.15	$19.35	$19.60
$18.40	$18.55	$18.75	$19.00	$19.15	$19.35	$19.60
$18.35	$18.50	$18.70	$19.00	$19.15	$19.35	$19.45
$18.30	$18.45	$18.65	$19.00	$19.15	$19.35	$19.45
$18.25	$18.40	$18.60	$19.00	$19.15	$19.35	$19.45
$18.20	$18.35	$18.55	$19.00	$19.15	$19.35	$19.45
$18.15	$18.30	$18.50	$19.00	$19.15	$19.35	$19.45
$18.10	$18.25	$18.45	$19.00	$19.15	$19.35	$19.45
$18.05	$18.25	$18.45	$ 19.00	$19.15	$19.35	$19.45
$18.00	$18.25	$18.45	$ 19.00	$19.15	$19.35	$19.45
$17.95	$18.25	$18.45	$ 19.00	$19.15	$19.35	$19.45
$17.75	$18.25	$18.45	$19.00	$19.15	$19.35	$19.45
$17.65	$18.25	$18.45	$19.00	$19.15	$19.35	$19.45
$17.50	$18.25	$18.45	$19.00	$19.15	$19.35	$19.45
$17.25	$18.25	$18.45	$19.00	$19.15	$19.35	$19.45
HOURLY WAGE PROGRESSIONS FOR FULL TIME CLERKS HIRED ON OR AFTER OCTOBER 27, 2013:
After 60 Days
7/1/14
$490.00
And will receive an increase of an additional twenty ($20) dollars per week semi-annually in accordance with the schedule of semi- annual wage increases.
(I)	Full time Clerks hired or appointed on or after October 27, 2013, shall not receive the general across the board wage increases. However, an employee who reaches the top of the progression scale during the term of the Agreement as a result of having been hired above the minimum or reclassification from part time to full time, shall be eligible to receive the across the board increases on, December 29, 2013, $cptcmbcr 28, 2014, and June 28, 2015, if applicable, provided that in no event shall such employee exceed the top clerks’ rate of pay.
(2)	All new Full Time Clerks hired at or above the minimum thirty (30) or sixty (60) day rate, in any event, shall receive a minimum wage increase of Ten ($10.00) Dollars after thirty (30) or sixty (60) days employment and thereafter, an additional increase of Twenty ($20) Dollars per week semiannually in accordance with the schedule of semi-annual wage increases.
29
HOURLY WAGE PROGRESSIONS FOR PART TIME CLERKS NEW HIRES
NEW HIRES	Effective 1/1/14	Effective I/l/l5	Effective 1/1/16
After 60 Days	$ 8.25 per hr.	9.00 per hr.	$9.25 per hr.
And will receive an increase of an additional fifteen (15f!) cents per hour semi-annually in accordance with the schedule of semi- annual wage increases.
(I)	Part time Clerks and Porters hired on or after October 27, 2013, shall not receive the general across the board wage increases. However, an employee who reaches the top of the progression scale during the term of the Agreement as a result of having been hired above the minimum or reclassified from full time to part time, shall be eligible to receive the across the board increases on December 29, 2013, September 28, 2014, June 28, 2015, December 27, 2015, if applicable, provided that in no event shall such employee exceed the top clerks’ rate of pay.
(2)	All new Part Time Clerks and Porters hired at or above the minimum rate, in any event, shall receive a minimum wage increase of Twenty Five ($.25) cents Per Hour after thirty (30) or sixty (60) days employment and, thereafter, shall receive an additional fifteen (15(5) cents per hour semiannually in accordance with the schedule of semi- annual wage increases.
All employees hired in September, October, November, December, January and February shall receive their increases in June. ।
I
All employees hired in March, April, May, June, July and August shall receive their increases in December.
FEDERAL OR STATE MINIMUM INCREASES
In the event of an increase in the Federal or State Minimum Wage Rates, the sixty (60) day rate for newly hired part time employees shall be a minimum of twenty-five (25£) per hour above the new Federal or State Minimum Wage.
30
NOTES
31
ABC - Active Ballot Club
The ABC, the UFCW’s Active Ballot Club, needs you and every other member to become politically active.	p*
ABC works to elect people to /	[/
public office who understand the needs / K of working men and women. ABC assists their campaigns and keeps them informed on the issues as organized labor sees them.
Today, there is a great need for labor to have a voice in political action. Help make sure our Union has that voice by joining ABC now.
Due to the many critical issues before Congress; state, city and local governments this year; it is important that we have sufficient funds to support our friends and defeat those candidates who do not support the working man and woman. We encourage all members to participate in the Active Ballot Club as a means of protecting our interests in the various governmental bodies and in the laws they pass that may affect our livelihood.
If you haven’t already signed up. see your Union Representative or Service Representative. Sign up today!
Members employed by companies where there is no check-off will be able to purchase their ABC Membership Cards from their Union Representatives or Shop Stewards in the normal manner.
Contributions of gifts to the , UFCW Active Ballot Club are not deductible as charitable contributions for federal tax purposes.
Be Informed!!!
www.UFCWI500.org
;a VOICE for working-America
THE WEINGARTEN DECISION: KNOW YOUR RIGHTS!
In a court case known as N.L.R.B. Us. Weingarten, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled you have the right to have your Union Representative present when you are interviewed by your employer, if you reasonably believe the interview may lead to disciplinary action.
YOUR RIGHTS UNDER WEINGARTEN ARE:
1.	You have the right to request the presence of a Union Representative during any investigatory interview you reasonably believe might result in disciplinary action.
2.	You have the right not to be interviewed until your Union Representative is present.
3.	Your Union Representative may assist you during the interview to organize and explain your facts.
REMEMBER WEINGARTEN
BEFORE YOU GIVE UP YOUR RIGHTS!
Fraternally, Bruce W. Both, President
MEMBERS CAN CALL LOCAL 1500 REGARDING ANY MATTER 24 HOURS A DAY
800-522-0456