K"235l
Multiple Plant - Union Shop /
Contract and Working Rules > Made By	^to
SAINT-GOBAIN CONTAINERS, INC.^
rfTTTTVi SAINT-GOBAIN
CONTAINERS
And the
Glass, Molders, Pottery, Plastics &
Allied Workers International
Union, AFL-CIO, CLC
Indialantic, Florida 2002 Covering the Employees in the
AUTOMATIC MACHINE DEPARTMENT Local Unions No.
39, 50, 71,75,111,121,166, 222, 253, 254
Effective-April 1,2002 Expires - March 31,2005
so-s
JULY 5 M T W T F S
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 26 29 30 31
OCTOBER
S M T W T F S
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
JANUARY	2003 FEBRUARY	MARCH
S M T W T F S	S M T W T F S	S M T W T F 3
12 3 4	1	1
56 78 9 10 11	2 3 4 5 6 7 8	2 3 4 5 6 7 B
12 13 14 15 16 17 18	9 10 11 12 13 14 15	9 tO 11 12 13 14 IS
19 20 21 22 23 24 25	16 17 18 19 20 21 22	16 17 18 19 20 21 22
26 27 28 29 30 31	23 24 25 26 27 28	23 24 25 26 27 28 29
		30 31
APRIL	MAY	JUNE
S M ,T W T F 5	5 M T W T F S	S M T W T F I
1 2 3 4 5	1 2 3	1 2 3 4 5 6 7
6 7 8 9 10 11 12	4 5 6 7 8 9 10	8 9 10 11 12 13 14
13 14 15 16 17 18 19	11 12 13 14 15 16 17	15 16 17 18 19 20 21
20 21 22 23 24 25 26	16 19 20 21 22 23 24	22 23 24 25 26 27 2B
27 26 29 30	25 26 27 28 29 30 31	29 30
JULY	AUGUST	SEPTEMBER
S M T W T F 5	S M T W T F 5	S M T W T F 6
1 2 3 4 5	1 2	1 2 3 4 5 6
6 78 9 10 11 12	3 4 5 6 7 8 9	7 8 9 10 11 12 13
13 14 15 16 17 18 19	10 11 12 13 14 15 16	14 15 16 17 18 19 20
20 21 22 23 24 25 26	17 18 19 20 21 22 23	21 22 23 24 25 26 27
27 26 29 30 31	24 25 26 27 26 29 30	28 29 30
OCTOBER	NOVEMBER	DECEMBER
S M T W T F S	S M T W T F S	S M T W T F S
12 3 4	1	1 2 3 4 5 *
5 6 7 8 9 10 11	2 3 4 5 6 7 8	7 8 9 10 11 12 13
12 13 14 15 16 17 18	9 1011 1213 14 15	14 15 16 17 18 19 20
19 20 21 22 23 24 25	16 17 IB 19 20 21 22	21 22 23 24 25 26 27
26 27 28 29 30 31	23 24 25 26 27 28 29	28 29 30 31
	30	
2002
FEBRUARY
5 M T W T F S
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9
10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23
24 25 26 27 28
MAY
S M T W T F S
12 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
AUGUST 5 M T W T F S
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
NOVEMBER 5 M T W T F 5
1 2
3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16
17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30
MARCH
3 4 5 6 7 8 9
10 11 12 13 14 15 16
17 18 19 20 21 22 23
24 25 26 27 28 29 30
S M T W T F S 1
2 3 4 5 6 7 B 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 SEPTEMBER
5 M	T	W	T	F	S
1 2	3	4	5	6	7
8 9	10	11	12	13	14
15 16	17	18	19	20	21
22 23	24	25	26	27	28
29 30
DECEMBER S M	I	W	T	F	S
1 2	3	4	5	6	7
8 9 ■	10	11	12	13	14
15 16	17	18	19	20	21
22 23	24	25	26	27	26
29 30 31
Multiple Plant - Union Shop Contract and Working Rules Made By SAINT-GOBAIN CONTAINERS, INC.
rrfTYtri SAINT-GOBAIN
CONTAINERS
And the Glass, Molders, Pottery, Plastics & Allied Workers International Union, AFL-CIO, CLC
. Indialantic, Florida 2002 Covering the Employees in the AUTOMATIC MACHINE DEPARTMENT Local Unions No.
39, 50, 71, 75,111,121,166, 222, 253, 254
Effective - April 1,2002 Expires - March 31,2005
PLEDGE ALLEGIANCE TO THE FLAG
"I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the United States of America, and to the Republic for which it stands - one nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all."
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ARTICLE	PAGE
Preamble................................................1
1	Duration and Changes....................................1
2	Union Recognition and Jurisdiction......................2
3	Labor-Management Committee..............................4
4	Management Rights.......................................4
5	Union Rights............................................5
6	Hiring, Releasing, Quitting, Discharging & Discipline...8
7	Check-Off...............................................9
8	Membership List........................................10
9(a) Seniority.............................................11
9(b) Seniority............................................ 17
9(c) Seniority.............................................25
9(d) Seniority.............................................33
9(e) Seniority.............................................39
10	Transfer of Employees..................................44
11	Premium Pay............................................46
12	Reporting and Call-In Pay..............................51
13	Shift Differentials....................................52
14	Negotiated Rated.......................................53
15	Method of Payment......................................54
16	Holidays...............................................54
17	Vacations..............................................57
18	Pensions...............................................61
19	Retiree Benefits......................................70
20	Relief................................................70
21	Supervisory Employees.................................71
22	Insurance Program.....................................72
23	Equipment Supplied....................................92
24	Reporting Intended Absence............................93
25	Military Leave........................................94
26	Bereavement Leave.....................................94
27	Court Duty............................................95
28	No Strike or Lockout..................................96
29	Grievance Procedure...................................97
30	Arbitration .........................................100
31	Health and Safety....................................102
32	On-Job Health Protection.............................104
33	Fair Employment Practice and Equal Opportunities.....105
34	Permanent Plant Closings and Related Matters.........105
35	Disabled Employees...................................108
TABLE OF CONTENTS (cont,.)
ARTICLE	PAGE
36	Successors, Transferees and Assignees...............109
37	Environmental Control Program.......................109
38	Separability........................................110
39	Operating Conditions................................110
40	Local Agreements....................................111
41	Subcontracting......................................111
42	Wages of Apprentice Machine Operators...............114
43	Wages of Journeymen Machine Operators...............116
44	Wages of Machine Upkeep.............................122
45	Wages of Machine Repair Crew Leader.................122
46	Wages of Other Job Classifications..................122
47	Wage Incentives.....................................124
48	Cost of Living......................................126
49	Training............................................128
50	Special Combined Rate...............................129
51	Execution...........................................129
ScheduleA............................................131
Signature Page.......................................140
PREAMBLE
Section 1.	The intent and purpose of this Union Shop Contract is to maintain and further harmonious labor-management relations upon a constructive and sound foundation.
Section 2.	This foundation has as its cornerstone full acceptance and recognition of the obligations and rights of both parties. This foundation embraces a true spirit of full cooperation and mutual communications with both parties working togetherto improve working conditionsand productivity so that full and prosperous employment can continue and from which will emanate a healthy and prosperous industry.
Section 3.	Where the pronoun he, his or him appears in this Contract, such word shall include both male and female employees unless the meaning is clearly and specifically to the contrary.
ARTICLE 1
Duration and Changes
Section 1.	This Contract shall become effective April 1,2002 and remain in full force and effect th rough March 31, 2005.
Section 2.	Ifchanges are desired by either party, notice shall be given to the other party sixty (60) days prior to the expiration date of this Contract.
Section 3.	The parties shall hold a conference at a mutually agreeable time and place priorto the expiration date of this Contract.
— 1 —
Section 4.	All Local Agreements which provide for monetary and non-monetary benefits in excess of those provided for in this Contract shall continue and shall not be considered to be inconsistent with or in conflict with the provisions of this Contract.
Section 5.	All Local Agreementswill be put into writing and signed by the Local Union and Local Plant Management.
The Company shall meet with the Local Union and their International Representatives ninety (90) days prior to the expiration date of this Contract and reduce all Local Union Agreements to writing. Acopy of same shall be sent to the International and Local Unions.
ARTICLE 2 Union Recognition and Jurisdiction
Section 1.	The Company recognizes the Union as the sole collective bargaining agent for all Apprentice Machine Operators, Journeymen Machine Operators, Machine Upkeep Men, I. S. Specialists, FeederMen, JobChange Men, Hot End Floormen (formerly Spare Boys), Forming Machine Mechanics, Furnace and Batch Operators, Mold Cleaner, Line Production Assistant and other hourly rated employees who are regularly assigned to the Forming Department, all employees, in the Machine Repair Department in plants which have such a department, and employees who devote theirfull time to the repair and maintenance of forming machines, except supervisors and employees represented by other unions, in all of the glass container manufacturing plants of the Company thataresubjectto this Contract. The representation of all employees underthe jurisdiction of this Contract by local agreements shall remain unchanged.
Section 2.	Asa continuing condition of employment, all employees of the Company now or hereafter coming under — 2 —
the jurisdiction of this Contract, shall become and remain members of the Union on the thirtieth (30th) day following the beginning of such employment or the execution, or effective date of this Contract, whichever is later, all to be enforced and applied in accordance with the provisions of Section 8 (a) (3) of the Labor- Management Relations Act of 1947, as amended.
Section 3.	The operation of any and all types and kinds of automaticglass gathering, blowing and pressing machines coming in the future under the jurisdiction of the Union shall come under these same rules and wage scales.
Section 4.	In states where, by law, employees may not be required to become members of the Union as a condition of employment, then to the extent permitted by law, all such employees who do not become members of the Union after thirty (30) calendar days, the effective date or the execution date of this Contract, whichever is later, shall, as a condition of employment, pay to the Union each month an amount of money equal to that paid by otheremployees in the bargaining unit who are members of the Union, which amount shall be limited to an amount of money equal to the Un ion’s regular and usual initiation fees and its regular and usual dues. For present employees who do not choose to become members of the Union, such payments shall commence thirty (30) calendar days following the effective date or the execution date of this Contract, whichever is later. The Union agrees to indemnify the Company against claims made against it as a result of the application of this Article.
Section 5.	As a supplement to this Contract, a Schedule “A" covering classifications and rates of pay under the jurisdiction of this Contract, will be included in this Contract.
Section 6.	When the Company elects to hire a journeyman, the Company will discuss the antici
— 3 —
pated hiring and the qualification of the applicants with the Union.
Section 7.	It is further agreed that any group of employees who are employed in any glass container plant of the Company, which plant was not in existence or owned or controlled by the Company on April 1, 2002, and who comprise an appropriate bargaining unit and for whom the Union becomes the recognized or certified bargaining agent shall automatically be Included and covered by this Contract and shall be made a party hereto as of the date of such recognition or certification.
ARTICLE 3 Labor-Management Committee
A Labor-Management meeting will be held once each contract year at the plant locations. Two Labor-Management meetings, Including all plants of the Company, will be held during the term of this contract at a time and place agreeable to the International Union and the Company. The Company will pay for coach transportation to and from the meeting and appropriate compensation including Combined Rate, where applicable, for each day of the scheduled meeting, plus travel time to and from the meeting. The meetings shall be limited to a discussion of written agenda items prepared and agreed to 30 days in advance by the Company and the Union.
ARTICLE 4 Management Rights
The Union recognizes the right and responsibility of the Company to manage its plants and to direct its working forces.
— 4 —
All rights of the Company which have not been specifically abridged or modified by this Contract are retained by the Company.
ARTICLES Union Rights
Section 1.	The Company agrees that, subject to the provisions of this Contract, the Un ion shall at all times be free to exercise its rights to advance the best interest of and fully protect its members in the exercise of their full freedom to engage in activities on behalf of the Union and that no member of the Union shall be restrained or coerced or discriminated against, inany manner, because of his membership in and for activitieson behalf of the Union or its constituent Local Union.
Section 2.	The Business Committee and/or Shop Steward and/or Officers shall be permitted to conduct legitimate business dealing with Union-Management matters after first notifying supervision. During working hours supervision shall, as promptly as possible, release such individuals for these purposes. This privilege shall be exercised reasonably. Local Unions shall submit a list of the names of Shop Stewards and members of the Business Committee to the Company. The Company agrees not to shift Shop Stewards arbitrarily as long as their seniority protects them. No Local Union Officer, Committeeman, or Steward shall be intimidated or disciplined for the legitimate and reasonable exercise of his rights under this Article.
Section 3.	The accredited International Representative of the Union shall, after first advising plant management of such visit and its purpose, be granted the right to visit the plants in matters pertaining to complaints and/or grievances arising out of questions concerning the application or interpretation of this Contract.
— 5 —
Section 4.	The Company shall provide and maintain an appropriate number of glass enclosed bulletin boards for the exclusive use of the Union or its Local Union. Only items of Union business signed by an officer of the Union or its Local Union may be posted.
Section 5.	When an employee is called to full-time duty by the Local Union or International Union, or by the AFL-CIO or is elected to Federal, State, or Local Office, he shall be granted leave of absence up to five (5) years and must renew his leave of absence each of these five (5) years with the Plant Manager. Upon termination of such duties, he may return to work covered by this Contract, taking his position on the seniority list indicated by his years of service including the time spent on such duties for which leave was granted.
Section 6.	The Company will comply with reasonable requests from the Union for information necessary to properly represent their membership. A Local Union representativewill also be included in any benefit conference between the Company and an employee when the employee requests such representation.
Section 7.	Local Plant Management and the Local Union Business Committee will meet once each month, if requested, as necessary in orderto discuss matters of mutual concern. Written agendas will be prepared five (5) working days prior to such meeting. Responses to any unanswered issueswill be provided, in writing, by Local Plant Management or Local Union Officers within ten (10) business days following the meeting. This meeting will not serve to circumvent the grievance procedure.
Section 8.	When a meeting is held, which may lead to disciplinary action against an employee, such employee will, unless he refuses, have a Union Representative present at themeeting. .
— 6 —
Section 9.	It is agreed that during the orientation of new employees, the Local Union President or his designee will be allowed at least thirty (30) minutes during such orientation, without the employer present, to review the benefits of Union Membership. New hires may sign Union Authorization Cards at this meeting.
Section 10.	The Local Union and the employee shall receive a copy of all written, formal disciplinary action taken against an employee of the Company within forty-eight (48) hours of such disciplinary action.
Section 11.	In the event the GMP International Union has any organizing campaign involving any group of hourly paid production employees who are employed in any glass container plant of the Company, the Company agrees to maintain a neutral position. No supervisors, managers, or agents of the Company will take a position in organizing campaigns in opposition to representation by the Union.
If the Union claims majority status, the Company shall agree to a count of authorization cards to be conducted by any arbitrator regularly employed by the parties in that geographical area. Upon certification from the arbitrator that a majority of the workers have signed authorization cards, the Company agrees to recognize the Union.
Disputes concerning the scope of the unit, placement, voter eligibility, or improper conduct by either party shall be decided by the arbitrator. He shall be empowered to order a remedy for any breach of neutrality or other misconduct.
— 7 —
ARTICLES
Hiring, Releasing, Quitting, Discharging & Discipline
Section 1.	The right of the Company to hire and to discharge and discipline employees for just cause is hereby acknowledged. Such discharge shall be in accordance with the provisions of Section 4 of this Article. In the event the Company is unable to secure employees for the jobs covered by this Contract, the Company shall request the International Union to recommend employees in the classification needed.
Section 2.	Any employee under the jurisdiction of this Contract who desires to quit work shall give five (5) working days’ prior notice to his employer and shall continue working in accordance with the factory schedule during said notice period. It is agreed that such employee may rescind the notice of intent to quit at any time during the given notice period.
Section 3.	If the Company decides to release an employee, the Company must give five (5) working days' notice in writing or pay the employee five (5) days' wages, except in cases of disaster, fire, explosion, etc. This does not apply to layoffs, or furloughs, beyond the control of the Company. The word release shall not include discharges for just cause or temporary layoff of three (3) days or less.
Section 4.	No employee shall be summarily discharged. In all cases in which the Company concludes thatan employee’s conduct may justify discharge, he shall be suspended initially for not more than three (3) working days. The Shop Steward and/or Local Union shall be notified in writing immediately of such suspension. During such suspension period, the Company will meet with the Union and review the facts of the case. At the end of the suspension period, the Company shall notify the Local Union of its final action and the grievance procedure can be invoked immediately.
— 8 —
Section 5.	Upon any discharge under this Article, the Shop Steward and President of the Local Union shall be notified in writing immediately.
Section 6.	Circumstances which could have a mitigating effect on discipline will be considered in assessing discipline.
Section 7.	In cases where suspension becomes necessary, such suspension shall be for consecutive working days. The Company may delay the start of disciplinary suspension, if any day of such suspension is Sunday. No employee shall lose holiday pay as a result of such suspension.
ARTICLE? Check-Off
Section 1.	The Company shall check off initiation fees and Union dues on presentation ofcheck-off authority by the employees in accordance with the law. The Company will then deduct each week such dues in the amounts certified to the Company by the Secretary-Treasurerof the International Union and once each month and not laterthan by the tenth (10th) day of the month following the month for which deductions were made send to the International Union and to the Local Union their respective shares as certified by the Secretary-Treasurer of the International Union, and will supply the International Secretary- Treasurer of the Union and the Financial Secretary of each Local Union a list of all members with theiraddressesand Social Security numbers who have had their dues deducted in the regular dues deduction period. The International Union will indemnify the Company against all claims made against it by reason of compliance with this Article. The check-off list shall also be made available in an electronic format. The International Union and the Company will determine the proper format for such submissions. The payment of dues shall be by electronic transfer. Each local
— 9 —
union covered by this agreement will have the option of receiving the check-off list and/or payment of dues in the same electronic format
Section 2.	New employees may sign check-off authorization and application blanks upon receiving employment. After thirty (30) calendar days the Company shall then process each new employee in accordance with the first Section of this Article. The International Union shall supply the Company with all necessary forms.
Section 3.	The Company shall check off Political Action Committee (PAC) contributions on presentation of PAC check off authority signed by the employee. The Company will make such PAC deductions weekly in the amount authorized by the employee on the PAC check off authorization form. The Company will then, once each month, send to the Secretary-Treasurer of the International Union and to the Financial Secretary of the Local Union their respective shares as designated on the employee's PAC check off authorization form. The Company will, at the time the monthly remittance is made, furnish to the International Union and the Local Union a list of the e mployees who have made contributions for the month and the amount of the contribution made. The International Union will indemnify the Company against all claims made against it by reason of compliance with this Article.
ARTICLES
Membership List
Each employee shall be responsible for furnishing to the Human Resource Office of his employer and to the Recording Secretary of the Local Union his mailing address, social security number, and a telephone number at which he can be reached and shall likewise furnish changes in his mailing address and telephone number. Such mailing address and
— 10 —
of layoff, provided Journeymen Machine Operators and Machine Upkeep Men with the necessary experience to operate the machines remaining in production are on the Company’s payroll and available for work.
Section 2. If further reduction of the work force is necessary, those employees with least seniority shall be laid off. It is further understood that Journeymen Machine Operators retained under th is Article shall accept the responsibility of maintaining regular production levels.
In the event of reduction of the working force, department seniority shall be the sole determining factor in cases of layoff or recall, for all employees underthe jurisdiction of this Contract, with the exception of Apprentice Operators, Journeymen Machine Operators and Machine Upkeep Men.
If an employee is laid off and his department seniority does not protect him, then the following procedure will be used in the exercising of his seniority:
(a)	The affected employee would exercise his dormant seniority in any department where dormant seniority is held.
(b)	He may be placed in any department suitable to the affected employee, where there is an available opening.
(c)	If an employee is not protected under (a) or (b), the affected employee would then be free to exercise his plant seniority to replace the least senior employee in the plant.
— 12 —
telephone number may be used by his employer in giving any notice to the employee which may be required under any of the Articles of this Contract. The Company shall the first week of every month furnish the Secretary-Treasurer of the International Union and each Local Union involved with a current and corrected list of names and addresses of employees coming under the jurisdiction of this Contract.
Such list shall also be made available in an electronic format. The International Union and the Company will determine the proper format for such electronic list. Each Local Union covered by this agreement will have the option of receiving the list in the same electronic format.
ARTICLE 9 (a) Seniority
Following language applies ONLY to the following listed localsand plants:
Local Union #50, Local Union #75, Local Union #71, Local Union#222, LocalUnion #253
Seattle, WA
Port Allegany, PA
Lincoln, IL Henderson, NC
Ruston, LA
This seniority language DOES NOT apply to any other local unions or plants, except those listed in this Article 9 (a).
Section 1. During periods of layoffs making a reduction in the working force necessary, Apprentice Machine Operators shall be the first laid off the machines; however employees shall have the right to volunteer for the layoffs for a specified time only. Senioremployees shall have first choice
It is understood that the employee must have the ability to perform the job. Any employee affected under this Article will be recalled to hisformerdepartment by department seniority. It is further understood that the Production and Maintenance Department is to be included in the application of this section.
Section 3.	In the case of temporary layoffs, as hereinafter defined, shift seniority shall apply immediately in accordance with the provisions of Section 1. Temporary layoffs shall be defined as not exceeding three (3) working days, except that in cases of color changes temporary layoffs shall be defined as not exceeding five (5) working days. When the layoff will exceed three (3) working days, or in the case of a colorchange five (5) working days, the seniority provisions of Section 1 and Section 2 shall apply.
Section 4.	In like manner, a rehiring of employee laid off under this Article shall be handled in the reverse order of their layoff.
Following any furnace repair, extended machines shutdown or temporary transfer to a higher rated job, the affected Journeyman Machine Operator shall, if he so requests, be reassigned to the same machine he operated prior to such event.
Seniority will accumulate for ninety (90) days only during periods of layoff. A layoff of five (5) years will not be considered as a termination and will not cancel seniority and re-employment rights. A layoff of longer than five (5) years will be considered as a termination and will cancel seniority and re-employment rights; however, the Company may, at their discretion, rehire such a person as a new employee. When a layoff is caused by the permanent shutdown of a plant or department, seniority will accumulate for ninety (90) days only, but past seniority will be restored if the employee is recalled to reopening of that plant, orto a new plant, under
— 13 —
this Contract, in the same general location of layoff. Recall rights of employees with less than five (5) years of service will terminate when the length of their continuous layoff equals their seniority except the minimum amount of recall rights will be three (3) years.
Section 5.	Seniority plus ability shall govern in cases of promotion.
The Company shall post Job vacancies, including day jobs, under the jurisdiction of this Contract for a period of seven (7) days. The employee with the most department seniority shall be awarded the Job, providing he has the ability to perform the job.
The person who is awarded a job bid will be placed on the job and will be placed in the proper labor grade for insurance and pension purposes not later than fifteen (15) days following the day of the award unless extenuating circumstances would prevent such placement. The successful bidder will be notified of the award within five (5) days after posting is taken down.
An employee who is awarded a promotion shall be given a reasonable trial period of ninety (90) days in order to demonstrate his ability to perform the work required by the job. If during the ninety (90) days trial period, such employee cannot perform the work in a satisfactory manner, such employee may be returned to his former classification, in accordance with local practice.
Employees may bid laterally or down to a lower rated Job one time each Contract year during the term of this Contract. Exceptions (additional bids) will be allowed for health reasons.
— 14 —
Section 6.	Any employee under the jurisdiction of this Contract transferred toanonsupervisory position not under this Contract may be returned by the Company to a job under this Contract without loss of seniority already earned.
Section 7.	Employees within the plant shall be considered for job openings on starting jobs in the Automatic Machine Department before employees are hired from other sources.
Section 8.	Any dispute arising under this Article may be referred to the Grievance Procedure.
Section 9.	If an employee is laid off and at the time of layoff is performing the job despite some injury ordisability, he shall be recalled to work in the order of his seniority. The fact that the employee had previously been disabled shall in no way prejudice his right to recall.
Section 10.
(a)	Employees transferred to supervisory positions from the bargaining unit on a permanent basis shall retain but not accumulate seniority. Intheeventthat such employee is subsequently transferred back into the unit within six (6) months, he may resume his old job or whatever lesser job his seniority entitles him to and shall resume accumulation of seniority from the date he returns to the bargaining unit provided he has a valid withdrawal card from the Union. In the event that such employee is subsequently transferred back into the unit after six (6) months, he shall return to an entry level job and shall resume accumulation of seniority from the date he returns to the bargaining unit provided he has a valid withdrawal card from the Union.
— 15 —
(b)	Temporary vacancies in supervisory positions may be filled by unit employees, not to exceed ninety (90) days per calendar year for any one unit employee, unless an extension is mutually agreed to by the Company and the Local Union. The Company shall notify the Local Union in writing when such transfers exceed thirty (30) days.
Section 11.	Leave of absence may be granted at the judgment of the Company, not to exceed one year. If leave extends one year or less, the employee accumulates Seniority-
Section 12.	The first thirty (30) calendar days from the date of hire of a new employee shall be considered his probationary period and retention as an employee shall be entirely within the discretion of the Company. An additional thirty (30) calendar day probationary period will be granted when requested by the Company if the Local Union Involved agrees to an extension. Any discharge during this probationary period is not a subject for grievance. Any such new employee severed by the Company before the conclusion of his probationary period shall upon rehire, be credited with all the days worked in this prior probationary periods within one (1) year prior to such rehire toward the completion of his probationary period.
Section 13.	All practices and Local Agreements pertaining to seniority with respect to the AMD that were in effect on March 31, 2002 unless changed by mutual agreement shall continue in full force and effect for the duration of this Contract.
— 16 —
ARTICLE 9(b) Seniority
Following language applies ONLY to the following listed locals and plants:
Local Union #111,	Carteret, NJ
Local Union #166,	Dolton, IL
This seniority language DOES NOT apply to any other local unions or plants, except those listed in this Article 9 (b).
Section 1.	Senioritywillcommencefromthedateofthe employee’s first day of work but will not be effective until the thirtieth (30th) day after employment and will accumulate during his course of employment as prescribed in the following regulations. It is understood that once a seniority date is established under th is Section, that date will not be adjusted.
Seniority will terminate when an employee:
(a)	quits
(b)	is discharged for just cause
(c)	fails to return from layoff within five (5) calendar days after being notified unless the Company has been notified and has agreed to an extension of time. The Company agrees to notify by Registered Mail those employees they are unable to contact. The Local Union will be notified of action taken under this Section.
(d)	is not recalled from layoff based on the following schedule. An employee will retain recall rights for a maximum period of five (5) years of continuous
— 17 —
layoff, provided the employee has at least five (5) years of continuous service. For an employee with less than five (5) years of continuous service the number of years for retention of recall rights will equal the number of whole years of continuous service, with three (3) years being the minimum numberof years of retention of recall rights forany employee.
(e)	is absent from work for five (5) consecutive working days without notifying the company. This employee will be considered a voluntary quit.
(f)	has been absent for sickness or injury and does
not return to work as soon as he is physically able to perform the work. Medical leave is not to exceed five (5) years from the last day worked, provided the employee has at least five (5) years of continuous service. For an employee with less than five (5) years of continuous service, the maximum number of years of medical leave will equal the number of whole years of continuous service, with three (3) years being the maximum number of years of medical leave for employees with less than four (4) whole years of continuous service.
(g)	does not return from a leave of absence. Such a leave of absence may be granted at the discretion of the Company not to exceed one (1) year. If an employee does return to work from leave in less than one (1) year, seniority shall accumulate.
In the event of a layoff in a plant affecting an employee who is on sick leave, or on leave of absence, his sick leave or leave of absence is cancelled as of the date of his layoff
— 18 —
and his seniority will be figured just as though he had not been on leave.
In the event an employee on layoff less than the schedule in Section 1 (d) cannot return to work when recalled, due to sickness, he will be placed on sick leave and, provided he returns to his job as soon as he is able to work, seniority from the date of recall will be credited to his seniority record.
The only exception to this rule is with respect to an employee on sick leave due to an occupational injury for which the employee is drawing compensation. Such sick leave is not cancelled if a layoff occurs in the plant and the employee will continue to accumulate seniority until physically able to return to work, at which time his layoff will be effective.
Section 2.	Probationary Period. The first thirty (30) calendar days from the first day worked of a new employee shall be considered his probationary period and retention as an employee shall be entirely within the discretion of the Company. An additional thirty (30) calendar day probationary period will be granted when requested by the Company if the Local Union involved agreesto an extension. Any discharge during the probationary period is not a subject forgrievance. Any such new employee severed by the Company before the conclusion of his probationary period shall, upon rehire, be credited with all the days worked in his probationary periods within one year prior to such rehire toward the completion of his probationary period. On multiple hirings into the plant, new hires with the same seniority date shall draw numbers for their sequence on the seniority roster.
Section 3.	Employees rehired by the Company orhaving previous job experience in the job for which they have been hired or rehired shall receives rate for the job for which they
— 19 —
have been hired or rehired which is commensurate with their experience and qualifications.
Section 4.	Job Postings. Permanent job vacancies in new and existing jobs listed in the job groupings shall be filled on the basis of plant seniority plus ability among those employees who sign the job posting. Employees within the plant shall be considered for job openings on starting jobs in the Forming Department before employees are hired from other sources.
(a)	The Company shall post permanent job vacancies forseven (7) working days. The posting will include job title, normal work schedule, applicable hourly rate, job description and qualifications required. An employee who is interested in a job vacancy that may be posted while he is on vacation shall sign a notification form in the personnel department prior to each vacation period. This notification shall be considered as a valid job bid for the specific job(s) posted and listed in his notification during the term of his vacation. When job is awarded, a notice will be posted indicating the successful bidder.
(b)	Employees may bid laterally or down to a lower rated Job one time each Contract year during the term of this Contract. Exceptions (additional bids) will be allowed for health reasons.
(c)	An employee interested in the job posted must sign the bid to be considered for the opening.
(d)	An employee who is awarded a job will be placed on the job within 15 days of the award unless extenuating circumstances would prevent such
— 20 —
placement. The employee will be given a reasonable trial period in orderto demonstrate his ability to perform the work required by the job. If such employee cannot perform the work in a satisfactory manner, he will be returned to his former job.
(e)	An employee who is awarded a job may elect to return to his former job within thirty (30) days. This option may be exercised on a specific job only once during the term of this Contract.
(f)	Based on seniority and ability employees from the Forming Department, except Apprentice Operators, will be allowed to bid into the Production and Maintenance Unit fortraining on a posted job eventually leading to a higher base rate. A successful bidder will be placed at the entry rate for such job. An Apprentice Operator may bid into the Production and Maintenance Unit, including lateral ordown bids in accordance with Section 4(b) of this Article but will retain no seniority rights in the Forming Department and will not be able to return to the Forming Department in the event of a layoff under the provisions of this Article.
Sections. Layoffand Recall.
(a)	In the case of a reduction of the work force the employee with the least plant seniority on the jobs affected shall be the first laid off provided the employees remaining on the job have the skills and qualifications to perform the work required.
If an employee’s plant seniority does not protect him in his job, he will be transferred to his previous job, provided he has the physical capability and the ability to perform the job. In the event he has no
— 21 —
seniority rights in the previous job, he will be permitted to use his plant seniority to replace the least senior employee, ina job he has demonstrated the ability and has the physical capability to perform, ortheleast senior employee in a job identified by an asterisk in the job groupings, provided the employee is physically capable and has the ability to perform the job.
It is understood that in the event an employee claims a job in a layoff situation, the employee will retain no jurisdictional rights to that job once he has been returned to his permanent job classification.
(b)	In the case of temporary layoffs, as hereinafter defined, plant seniority on the shift shall apply immediately in accordance with the provisions of Section 5 (a). Temporary layoffs shall be defined as not exceeding three (3) working days, except that in cases of color changes temporary layoffs shall be defined as not exceeding five (5) working days. When the layoff will exceed three (3) working days, or in the case of a color change, five (5) working days, the seniority provisions of Section 5 (a) shall apply.
(c)	The recall of employees laid off under provisions of this Article shall be in reverse order of their layoff.
(d)	It is the responsibility ofeach employee laid off to notify the plant personnel office of the address and telephone number where they are to be contacted for recall from layoff. This information will be available to Local Union officers.
— 22 —
(e)	In the Forming Department, during periods of reduced activity making a reduction in the working forces necessary, Apprentice Machine Operators shall be the first laid off the machines, provided Journeymen Machine Operators and Machine Upkeep Men with the necessary experience to operate the machines remaining in production are on the Company's payroll and available forwork.
If further reduction of the work force is necessary, those employees with least seniority shall be laid off. It is further understood that Journeymen Machine Operators retained underthis Article shall accept the responsibility of maintaining regular production levels.
(f)	During a curtailment of the work force in the Maintenance Department, apprentices shall be laid off first before journeymen. However, when an apprentice obtains six-thousand (6,000) OJT hours within the Apprenticeship Program, he shall be able to exercise seniority to displace a journeyman hired after the commencement of the apprentice's train-ing, if the journeyman was hired from outside the Company.
Section 6.	Transfers.
(a)	Any employee under the jurisdiction of this contract transferred to a position not under this Contract may be returned by the Company toa job underthis Contract within six (6) months without loss of seniority already earned. During this six (6) month period, said employee may return to his former position, displacing the employee last placed in that position provided he has the seniority. If his
— 23 —
seniority will not permit him to return to his former position, he may be returned to a job for which he is qualified in line with his seniority previously earned or to an entry level job. Each employee displaced will be returned to his previous job and replace the last person placed in that job. It is understood that after one year the transferred employee will retain no rightsunderthe terms ofthis contract. Employees transferred to a position not under this contract shall apply for a withdrawal card within thirty (30) days after leaving the bargainingunit.
(b)	Temporary vacancies in supervisory positions may be filled by unit employees, not to exceed 90 days per calendar year for any one unit employee, unless an extension is mutually agreed to by the Company and the Local Union. The Company shall notify the Local Union In writing when such transfers exceed thirty (30) days.
(c)	Temporary transfers from one job to another anticipated to exceed thirty (30) days will be posted in accordance with Section 4 of this Article.
(d)	Employees transferred toanotherplantcovered by this Contract will retain their credited length of service for pension and vacation benefits. Seniority at the plant transferred to will commence as of the employee's first day worked at that plant.
Section 7.	Leave, Union Business. Upon request of the International President of the Union, employees shall be granted a leave of absence to serve the International Union for a period up to one (1) year and renewable yearly
— 24 —
thereafter at the request of the International President fora total of five (5) years without loss of seniority accumulated prior to such leave.
Section 8.	When the Company transfers an employee to another shift or job, the transfer will be effective so that the employee will not suffer a short work week. The above shall not apply to a person absent from work during that week for any reason.
Section 9.	All practices and Local Agreements pertaining to seniority with respect to the AMD that were in effect on March 31, 2002 unless changed by mutual agreement shall continue in full force and effect for the duration of this Contract.
ARTICLE 9(c) Seniority
Following language applies ONLY to the following listed local and plant:
Local Union#121, Dunkirk, IN
This seniority language DOES NOT apply to any other local unions or plants, not listed in this Article 9 (c).
Section 1.	All local seniority rules shall remain in effect for the duration of this Contract unless changed by Articles of this Contractor by mutual agreement between the Local Union and the Company.
Section 2.	The first thirty (30) calendar days from the date of hire of a new employee shall be considered his probationary period and retention as an employee shall be entirely within the discretion of the Company. An additional
— 25 —
thirty (30) calendar days probationary period will be granted when requested by the Company if the Local Union involved agrees to an extension. Any discharge during this probationary period is not a subject for grievance. Any such employees severed by the Company before the conclusion of his probationary period shall, upon rehire, be credited with all days in his prior probationary periods within one (1) yearprior to such rehire toward the completion of his probationary period.
Section 3.	Seniority will accumulate while an employee is absent for sickness or injury provided he returns as soon as he is able to work. Seniority will accumulate while an employee is on layoff; failure to return from layoff following written notification (certified) will be considered a termination. A layoff of longer than five (5) years will be considered as a termination and will cancel seniority and reemployment rights.
Section 4.	In the case of temporary layoffs, as hereinafter defined, shift seniority shall apply immediately in accordance with the provisions of Section 1 and Section 5. Temporary layoffs shall be defined as not exceeding three (3) working days, except that in cases of color changes and energy curtailment, temporary layoffs shall be defined as not exceeding five (5) working days. When the layoff will exceed three (3) working days, or in case of color change or energy curtailment, five (5) working days, the seniority provisions of Section 1 and Section 5 shall apply.
Section 5.	During periods of reduced activity making a reduction in the Automatic Machine Department necessary, Apprentice Machine Operators shall be the first laid off the machines, provided Journeyman Machine Operators and Machine Upkeep with the necessary experience to operate
— 26 —
the machines remaining in production are on the company’s payroll and available for work.
(a)	If further reduction of the Automatic Machine Department is necessary, those employees with the least seniority in this department shall be laid off. It is further understood that Journeyman Machine Operators retained under this Article shall accept the responsibility of maintaining regular production levels.
(b)	EmployeesotherthanApprenticeMachineOpera-tors, Journeyman Machine Operatorsand Machine Upkeep under the jurisdiction of the Automatic Machine Department shall be laid off in accordance with local seniority agreements and practices.
Section 6.	Any final layoff under Section 4 of this Article, except temporary layoffs, will be by combined Automatic Machine Department and Production and Maintenance seniority. Employees so retained by this Section will be transferred to entry-level jobs provided they have the necessary skill and ability to perform the work.
Section 7.	Employees laid off shall be recalled in the reverse order of theirdisplacement, provided the employee has the ability to do the work. The Union will be provided as soon as possible with the names of all employees on layoff that the Company cannot reach for recall.
Section 8.	When the Company must reduce any classification or reduce any employee to a lower rated job on a temporary condition, thejunioremployee on the shift shall be reduced or transferred as long as such employee has the ability to perform such a job. Employees more senior can volunteer for such moves.
— 27 —
Section 9.
(a)	Employees transferred to supervisory positions from the bargaining unit on a permanent basis shall retain but not accumulate seniority. In the event that such employee is subsequently transferred back into the unit within six (6) months, he may resume his old job or whatever lesser job his seniority entitles him to and shall resume accumulation of seniority from the date he returns to the bargaining unit provided he has a valid withdrawal card from the Union. In the event that such employee is subsequently transferred back into the unit after six (6) months, he shall return to an entry level job and shall resume accumulation of seniority from the date he returns to the bargaining unit provided he has a valid withdrawal card from the Union.
(b)	Temporary vacancies in supervisory positions may be filled by unit employees, not to exceed ninety (90) days per calendar year for any one unit employee, unless an extension is mutually agreed to by the Company and the Local Union. The Company shall notify the Local Union in writing when such transfers exceed thirty (30) days.
Section 10.	Employees rehired by the Company or having previous job experience in the job for which they have been hired or rehired shall after completion of the probationary period set forth in Section 2 hereof, receive a rate for the job for which they have been hired or rehired which is commensurate with their experience and qualifications.
— 28 —
Section 11.	Separate seniority lists showing plant seniority for the Production and Maintenance unit and Automatic Machine Department unit shall be posted in at least one location within each plant under jurisdiction of this Contract. Where applicable, separate seniority lists showing department seniority shall be posted in the department. Such lists are to be corrected on a semi-annual basis. A copy is to be presented to the respective Local Union President.
Job Posting
For the purposes of applying this Article, each unit, Automatic Machine Department and Production and Maintenance, will remain separate. Employees may exercise their seniority within their respective unit only. Seniority as referred to in this Article means the employee’s time in their respective bargaining unit in accordance with local seniority rules and practices.
Section 1.	In the Production and Maintenance Unit, all jobs except entry-level jobs, temporary vacancies of less than sixty (60) days, and vacancies resulting from illness or vacation shall be posted fora period of five (5) working days.
All permanent job vacancies except entry-level jobs underthe jurisdiction of the Production and Maintenance Unit shall be posted in accordance with Section 4 below, within three (3) working days for a period of five (5) working days.
In the Automatic Machine Department, all jobs except Journeyman Machine Operators, Apprentice Machine Operators, entry-level jobs, temporary vacancies of less than sixty (60) days, and vacancies resulting from illness or vacation shall be posted for a period of five (5) working days.
All permanent job vacancies except entry-level jobs underthe jurisdiction of the Automatic Machine Department shall be posted in accordance with Section 4 below, within
— 29 —
three (3) working days fora period of five (5) working days.
Section 2.	Any employee from the Production and Maintenance bargaining unit desiring consideration for a posted job in the Production and Maintenance Department must signify his desires in writing with the Company within the posting time. Employees on vacation, sick leave or Union business will be given consideration if such employee makes application prior to the posting of the job award notice.
Any employee from the Automatic Machine Department bargaining unit desiring consideration for a posted job in the Automatic Machine Department must signify his desires in writing with the Company within the posting time. Employees on vacation, sick leave or Union business will be given consideration if such employee makes application priortothe posting of the job award notice.
Section 3.	Posted jobs will be filled within fifteen (15) working days after the posting is taken down provided a replacement for the successful bidder and all other necessary replacements have been obtained. During this period the Company may use temporary replacements to fill the job vacancies. Temporary vacancies shall not be used to train junior employees to fill permanent vacancies.
Section4.	All existing local job posting rules shall remain in effect for the duration of this Contract unless changed by Articles of this Contractor by mutual agreement between the Local Union and the Company. Seniority plus ability shall govern in cases of promotion.
Sections. Temporary absences orvacanciescaused by vacation, jury duty, Union activities, illness, job posting, etc., will be filled according to the following.
— 30 —
With respect to all plant job classifications on which permanent vacancies are posted, the Company will continue the program for advance upgrading of the most senior qualified employee interested in upgrading to fill temporary vacancies.
All bid jobs will be posted in order to determine what employees desire to be upgraded in order to fill temporary vacancies on respective jobs. On each shift and department, the two most senior qualified employees will be designated as the first and second replacement. When neither of the two designated replacements is available, then Management may temporarily upgrade other qualified employees.
When an employee permanently assigned to a job works overtime, it will be considered thata temporary vacancy does not exist.
The upgrading of the designated replacement will be accomplished as soon as practical after the start of the shift.
The foregoing upgrading of the firstand second designated replacementwill also apply to entry-level jobs higher in grade or rate of pay to that which the employee is currently occupying.
If a permanent vacancy occurs on a job, such job will be posted in the normal manner to determine the employee who will fill the permanent vacancy.
Section 6.	Temporary assignments continuing beyond sixty (60) days will not be considered temporary and shall be filled in accordance with the job posting rules. Exceptionswill be made in the event the preceding section applies.
Section 7.	Notification of job posting awards shall be posted.
— 31 —
Section 8.	Employees may bid laterally or down to a lower rated job one time each Contract year during the term of this Contract. Exceptions (additional bids) will be allowed for health reasons.
Section 9.	An employee who bids successfully for a job or receives an entry-level job which has the same or higher rate but a lower starting rate than the job on which he is currently working, shall retain his present hourly wage rate when transferred to such job until such time as the employee’s hourly wage rate is increased in accordance with the steps of the Company's wage progression program.
Section 10.	An employee who is awarded a job bid shall be given a reasonable trial period in orderto demonstrate his ability to perform the work required by the job. If such employee cannot perform the work in a satisfactory manner, he shall be returned to his former classification without loss of seniority already earned. At the time the employee is notified that he is qualified or within a period of not overthirty (30) days in the new job, whichever first occurs, he, at his request, may be returned to his former classification without loss of seniority already earned.
Section'll. Entry-leveljobsshallnotbeposted. When a new job is created, the Company and the Local Union will determine if the job is to be a posted job or an entry-level job.
Section 12.	Steady day jobs and jobs on fixed shifts, not posted for bid, will be offered to senior qualified employees working that particular job.
Section 13.	An employee desiring an entry-level job within his respective bargaining unit will sign the job preference log in the Personnel Department indicating the job orjobs of his choice. When an opening occurs on such job, it shall
— 32 —
be filled by the most senior employee desiring such job and who has signed the job preference log. An employee can exercise his job preference for an entry-level job only once in any twelve-month period. An employeeon an entry-level job can bid on any job posting in his respective bargaining unit.
Section 14.	Employees from within eitherthe Automatic Machine Department unit or Production and Maintenance unit who place written application for transfer to entry-level jobs within the other unit shall be considered for such entry-level jobs in the other unit before employees are hired from other sources.
Section 15.	When the Company transfers an employee to another shift or job, the transfer will be effective so that the employee will not suffer a short work week. The above shall not apply to a person absent from work during that week for any reason.
Section 16.	All practices and Local agreements pertaining to seniority with respect to the AMD, that were in effect on March 31, 2002, unless changed by mutual agreement, shall continue in full force and effect for the duration of this Contract.
Article 9(d) Seniority
Following language applies ONLY to the following listed local and plant:
LocalUnion#39,	El Monte, CA
This seniority language DOES NOT apply to any other local unions or plants, except those listed in this Article 9 (d).
— 33 —
Section 1.	Forthe purpose of this Contract, the length of continuous service and maintenance of seniority for any employee shall mean the total length of the period or periods of his active service with the Company unless such service shall be broken by one or more of the following events, in which case such service shall be measured by the length of the period or periods of his active service subsequent to the last such break in service:
(a)	Voluntary resignation from the Company.
(b)	Discharge by the Company.
(c)	Failure while on layoff to return to work within five (5) calendar days after being notified unless the Company has been notified and has agreed to an extension. The Company agrees that it will not be unreasonable in granting such extensions. The Company agrees to notify by Registered Mail those employees they are unable to contact. The Local Union will be notified of action taken under this section.
(d)	Is not recalled from layoff based on the following schedule. An employee will retain recall rights for a maximum period of five (5) years of continuous layoff, provided the employee has at least five (5) years of continuous service. Foran employee with less than five (5) years of continuous service the number of years for retention of recall rights will equal the number of whole years of continuous service, with three (3) years being the minimum numberof years of retention of recall rights for any employee.
(e)	Has been absent for sickness or injury and does not return to work as soon as he is physically able
— 34 —
to perform the work. Medical leave is not to exceed five (5) years from the last day worked, provided the employee has at least five (5) years of continuous service. For an employee with less than five (5) years of continuous service, the maximum number of years of medical leave will equal the number ofwhole years of continuous service, with three (3) years being the maximum number of years of medical leave for employees with less than four (4) whole years of continuous service.
(f)	Accepting employmentwhile on leaveof absence.
Section 2.	During periods of reduced activity Apprentice Machine Operators shall be the first laid off the machines, provided Journeymen Machine Operators and Machine Upkeep Men with the necessary experience to operate the machines remaining in production are on the Company's payroll and available for work.
Section 3.	Next, employees with least seniority shall be laid off. Journeymen Machine Operators retained shall accept the responsibility for maintaining regular production levels. Employees otherthan Apprentice Machine Operators, Journeymen Machine Operatorsand Machine Upkeep Men shall be laid off in accordance with local seniority practices, provided employees retained have the necessary experience and ability to maintain regular production levels.
Section 4.	Seniority plus ability shall govern in cases of promotions.
Section 5.	The Company shall post all jobs plant wide that are listed under Schedule “A’’of this Contract, temporary vacancies will not be posted, they will be filled as per Section 7. Employees on Leave of Absence or Vacation may have
— 35 —
stewards sign a posted bid forthem, providing they return to work within fifteen (15) days from the date of award.
Section 6.	An employee awarded a promotion shall be given a reasonable trial period to include familiarization training, evaluation and counseling for up to thirty (30) days to demonstrate his ability to perform the job. If he cannot perform the work in a satisfactory manner, he may be returned to his former classification without loss of seniority already earned. Upon requestfrom the Union, an extension will be granted. Such requests shall not be unreasonably denied. At the time the employee is notified that he is qualified or within a period of not over thirty (30) days in the new job, whichever first occurs, he, at his request may be returned to his former classification without loss of seniority already earned.
Permanent job vacancies shall be posted within three (3) working days for a period of five (5) working days.
Within fifteen (15) working days aftera job is posted the successful bidder (should there be one) will be placed on the job. During this period the Company may use temporary replacements to fill the job vacancies. Temporary vacancies shall not be used to trainjunioremployees to fill permanent job vacancies.
Employees may bid laterally or down to a lower rated job one time each Contract year during the term of this Contract. Exceptions (additional bids) will be allowed for health reasons.
Section 7.	Temporary absences or vacancies caused by vacation, courtduty, Union activities, illness, job posting, etc., may be filled by upgrading the most senior qualified employees from the same shift or the department on a temporary basis.
— 36 —
Sections. Effective April 1,2002 employees transferred to supervisory positions from the bargaining uniton a permanent bases shall retain but not accumulate seniority. In the event that such employee is subsequently transferred back into the unit within six (6) months, he may resume his old job or whatever lesserjob his seniority entitles him to and shall resume accumulation of seniority from the date he returns to the bargaining unit provided he has a valid withdrawal card from the Union. In the event that such employee is subsequently transferred back into the unit after six (6) months he shall return to an entry level job and shall resume accumulation of seniority from the date he returns to the bargaining unit provided he has a valid withdrawal card from the Union.
Section 9.	Upon request of the International President of the Union, employees shall be granted a leave of absence to serve the International Union for a period up to one (1) year and renewable yearly thereafter at the request of the International President for a total of four (4) years without loss of seniority accumulated prior to such leave. An employee shall accrue no seniority during such leave.
Section 10.	In the case of temporary layoffs, as hereinafter defined, department seniority by shift shall apply immediately. When the layoff will exceed three (3) working days, or in the case of a color change, five (5) working days, plant seniority shall apply immediately.
Section 11.	In a like manner, a rehiring of employees shall be handled in the reverse order of their layoff, provided the employee has the ability to do the work.
Section 12.	The first thirty (30) calendardays from the date of hire of a new employee shall be his probationary period and his retention as an employee shall be entirely within the discretion of the Company. An additional thirty (30)
— 37 —
calendar days’ probationary period will be granted when requested by the Company if the Local Union agrees to an extension. Any discharge during this probationary period is not a subject for grievance. Any new employee severed by the Company before the conclusion of his probationary period shall, upon rehire, be credited with all the days worked in his prior probationary periods within one (1) year prior to such rehire toward the completion of this probationary period.
Section 13.	Employees rehired by the Company or having previous job experience in the job forwhich they have been hired or rehired shall, after the completion of the probationary period, receive a rate for the job forwhich they have been hired or rehired which is commensurate with their experiences and qualifications.
Section 14.	Senioritylistshowingplantsenioritywillbe maintained. If two or more employees start to work on the same day, their seniority will be determined by the shift on which they start. If two or more employees start to work on the same day and the same shift their position on the seniority list will be determined by the alphabetical arrangement oftheir last name. This list will be corrected semiannually and copies given to the Union President.
Section 15.	Employees desiring a shift transferwithin their department and job classification, shall notify the personnel department. When openings occur on the various shifts, these employeeswill be placed according to seniority and preference. Employees may only exercise this privilege once every twelve (12) months. However, when a day shift opening occurs, the job will be posted and employeeswill be selected on the basis of seniority plus ability regardless of whether the employee has exercised a shift transfer privilege in the past twelve (12) months.
— 38 —
Section 16.	Temporary vacancies in supervisory positions may be filled by unit employees, notto exceed ninety (90) days percalendaryearforanyone(l) unit employee, unless an extension is mutually agreed to by the Company and the Local Union. The Company will notify the Union in writing when an hourly employee is acting in a supervisory capacity that exceeds forty-five (45) days.
Section 17.	When the Company transfers an employee to another shift or job, the transfer will be effected so that the employee will not suffer a short work week. The above shall not apply to a person absent from work during that week for any reason.
Section 18.	All practices and Local Agreements pertaining to seniority with respect to the AMD that were in effect on March 31, 2002 unless changed by mutual agreement shall continue in full force and effect for the duration of this Contract.
ARTICLE 9(e) Seniority
Following language applies ONLY to the following listed Local and plant:
Local Union #254	Madera, CA
This seniority language DOES NOT apply to any other Local Unions or plants, except that listed in this Article 9(e).
Section 1.	The first thirty (30) calendar days from the date of hiring of any employee shall be considered his probationary period and retention as an employee shall be entirely within the discretion of the Company. An additional thirty (30) day probationary period will be granted when — 39 —
requested by the Company, if the Local Union agrees to an extension. The employee shall be notified of the extension. Any discharge du ring th is probationary period is not a subject for grievance.
Section 2.	Seniority plus ability shall govern in cases of promotion.
Section 3.	In the event of layoffs and rehires, plant seniority shall prevail whenever and wherever practical during the life of this Contract except as in Section 3 (a). In the event of layoffs due to planned curtailment, the Company shall notify the Business Committee before the layoffs occur if such layoffs are expected to exceed three (3) days.
(a)	Duringperiodsofreducedactivity,makingareduc-tion in the working forces of Operators, Upkeep Men, Apprentices and Floor Persons necessary, Apprentices shall be the first laid off the machines, provided Journeymen Operators and Upkeep Men with the necessary experience to operate the machines remaining in production are on the Company's payroll and available for work. It is understood that Operators retained under this Article shall acceptthe responsibilities of maintaining regular production levels.
(b)	In cases of promotion there will be a trial period of not less than thirty (30) days nor more than ninety (90) days. Temporary job bidswill only be used for special projects and circumstances.
Section4. Plantoperationswill be divided into nine (9) departments:
(1)	Batch and Melt
(2)	Forming
— 40 —
(3)	Finished Products
(4)	Warehouse
(5)	Maintenance
(6)	Machine Repair
(7)	Mold Polishing
(8)	Storeroom
(9)	Quality Lab
Sections. If, in theevent of reduction of working forces for more than three (3)days or five (5) days for colorchange, an employee's plant seniority does not protect him in his present department, then the following procedure will be used in the exercise of his plant seniority:
(a)	He will be transferred back to his old department with the right to exercise his dormant seniority in that department.
(b)	If an employee is not protected under Subsection (a), then he will be free to exercise his plant seniority in replacing the least senior employee in the plant.
(c)	Senioremployees may volunteer for layoff for the specified length of the layoff provided the remaining employees are qualified to perform the available work. Voluntary layoffs will only apply if the layoff is anticipated to be longerthan seven (7) calendar days.
(d)	The recall of employees laid off under provisions of this Article shall be in reverse order of their layoff.
It is understood that an employee must have the ability and be physically capable of performing such work as he will be required to do.
— 41 —
Section 6. Any dispute arising under this Article may be referred to the Grievance Procedure.
Section?. All employeeswill retain their seniority rights in the event of an extended shutdown for major repairs.
Section 8.	The Company shall post a current seniority list at least every six (6) months.
Section 9.	The provisions of this Article shall not require the Company to transfer laid off employees to other shifts unless the layoff exceeds three (3) days or five (5) days for color changes, provided, however, that this Section shall not apply unless all probationary employees within the department on the shift on which the layoff occurs have been laid off. It is understood that employees who are retained must be qualified to perform the work of probationary employees whom they displace.
Section 10.	An employee shall lose his seniority for the following reasons:
(a)	Resignation;
(b)	Discharge;
(c)	Failure to report for work five (5) consecutive calendar days without notifying the Company. In propercases exceptions shall be made;
(d)	Laid off fora continuous period of three (3) years;
(e)	Disability retirement;
(f)	Retirement or receipt of a pension underthe Pension Plan;
— 42 —
(g)	Failure to return from authorized leave of absence.
Section 11.	Employees may bid laterally ordown to a lower rated job one time each Contract year during the term of this Contract. Exceptions (additional bids) will be allowed for health reasons.
Section 12.	All existing job posting rules shall remain in effect for the duration of this Contract unless changed by mutual agreement between the Local Union and the Company. The Local Union and the Company shalI meet and agree upon procedures and jobs to be used for job posting.
All jobs will be posted for a period of seven (7) calendar days. Any employee who is awarded a promotion will be placed on the awarded job as soon as reasonably possible after being selected.
Section 13.	When the Company transfers an employee to another shift or job, the transfer will be effective so that the employee wifi not suffer a short work week. The above shall not apply to a person absent from work during that week for any reason.
Section 14.	All practices and Local Agreements pertaining to seniority with respect to the AMD that were in effect on March 31, 2002 unless changed by mutual agreement shall continue in full force and effect for the duration of this Contract.
Section 15.	Employees transferred to supervisory positions from the bargaining unit on a permanent bases shall retain but not accumulate seniority.In the event that such employee is subsequently transferred back into the unit within six (6) months, he may resume his old job or whatever lesser job his seniority entitles him to and shall resume accumulation of
— 43 —
seniority from the date he returns to the bargaining unit provided he has a valid withdrawal card from the Union, tn the event that such employee is subsequently transferred back into the unit after six (6) months, he shall return to an entry level job and shall resume accumulation of seniority from the date he returns to the bargaining unit provided he has a valid withdrawal card from the Union.
Section 16.	Temporary vacancies in supervisory positions may be filled by unit employees, not to exceed ninety (90) days per calendar year for any one unit employee, unless an extension is mutually agreed to by the Company and the Local Union. The Company shall notify the Local Union in writing when such transfers exceed thirty (30) days.
ARTICLE 10 Transfer of Employees
Section 1.	The Company shall notify the International Union and the Local Union in writing ninety (90) days in advance or as soon thereafter as possible of any plant closing ortheeliminationofadepartment. If notification isless than ninety (90) days, an employee shall be paid for each day less than the ninety (90) day notification. Such pay will be at his regular base rate of pay for an eight (8) hour day for each working day of his regular schedule.
Section 2.	Upon request of the International Union, a representative of the Company shall meet with a representative of the International Union and the Local Union involved to advise them ofthejobsand employees to be eliminated. The Company will advise the International Union and the Local Union at such meeting of job vacancies which may then exist at any of the Company’s other plants underthe jurisdiction of this Contract.
— 44 —
Section 3.	An employee with one (1) year or more of seniority who is terminated because of a permanent reduction in the working forces shall, within thirty (30) days after the date of his termination, make application to the Personnel Department of the plant where he was formerly employed specifying the other plants under the jurisdiction of this Contract at which he wishes to be considered for employment. Any such employee shall be considered at other plants for job openings for which he is qualified for a period of one (1) year subsequent to the date of his termination but may extend this period for a second year by requesting such extension at the Personnel Department of the plant where he was formerly employed within ninety (90) days prior to the end of the first year following his termination, and for a third year by giving similar notice within ninety (90) days prior to the end of the second year following his termination.
If he is employed at another plant of the Company within such time, he shall retain his continuous service benefits accumulated with the Company.
Section 4.	The Company and the International Union shall from time to time exchange a list of employees who have been laid off by reason of permanent reductions in the working forces and who are still available for employment setting forth their job training and qualifications.
Section 5.	The provisions of Section 3 shall also apply to those employees laid off indefinitely as a result of the elimination of a part of a department.
Section 6.	Permanently laid off employees shall have preferred hiring rights for any vacancies at any other plant of the Company. Employees so hired at a new location will have recall rights at their previous location. The Company shall have no monetary obligation concerning the recall to their previous location.
— 45 —
ARTICLE 11
Premium Pay
Section 1.	Premium pay shall be paid in accordance with the following:
(a)	Eight (8) hours shall constitute a normal work day.
(b)	Forty (40) hours shall constitute a normal work week.
(c)	Time and one-half shall be paid aftereight (8) hours in any day or forty (40) hours in any one (1) week / or, in the event more than eight (8) hours are worked consecutively, for all hours worked after the first eight (8) even though some hours may fall in the next twenty-four (24) hour period or work week.
(d)	Double time will also be paid for all hours worked over twelve (12) hours during any twenty-four (24) hour period; however, double time will be paid for all hours worked consecutively over twelve (12) hours, even though some hours may fall in the next twenty-four (24) hour period.
An employee who works his regularly scheduled ) day or days off shall be paid time and one-half for I all hours worked on such day or days off provided / he works his regular work schedule in the week in / which such day off falls.	I
(e)	Forpremium pay purposes, the employee's twenty- I four (24) hour period will begin with the start of the V, employee’s regular shift.
— 46 —
This policy shall not apply to unusual or special call-ins or startups and in those instances the starting time shall be the next day’s regular starting time.
For the purpose of this Article, the beginning and ending of the work weeks now in effect, shall continue during the term of this Contract unless changed by mutual consentof the Local Union, the Company and the International Union.
Forthe purpose of this Article the work week shall begin with the start of the first shift on Monday and extend to the start of the first shift the following Monday (Dunkirk, El Monte, Henderson, Lincoln, Madera, Port Allegany, Ruston, Seattle only).
Forthe purpose of this Article the workweek shall begin with the start of the first shift on Sunday and extend to the start of the first shift the following Sunday (Carteret and Dolton).
Section 2.	The provisions of this Article are intended only to provide a basis fordetermining the numberof hours ofwork forwhich an employee shall be entitled to be paid at overtime rates and shall not be construed as a guarantee to such employee of any specified number of hours of work either per day or per week.
Section 3.	Workon Sundays shall pay time and one-half except that work on Easter Sunday, double time shall be paid for time worked for a twenty-four (24) hour period.
Section 4.	On holidays falling Monday through Friday, the holiday hours paid forwill be considered as hours worked forthe purpose of figuring overtime, and hours paid for jury duty or funeral leave shall count as hours worked for the purpose of figuring overtime.
— 47 —
When an employee takes a vacation and the employee works his day off d uri ng that week, the vacation hou rs ta ke n will be figured as hours worked forthe purpose of calculating overtime for the employee’s day off.
Section 5.	The Company recognizes that when an employee has worked his regular day off, such employee shall not be required to take time off during such workweek solely to avoid payment of overtime. In the event any employee's schedule is changed at the request of the Company he shall be paid any premium or holiday pay that would have applied to his regular schedule that work week.
An employee who works on his regular schedule day or days off and was unable to work his regular schedule in the week in which such day off falls due to the employee participating at the request of the Company in approved Labor-Management activities in the environmental area, will receive time and one-half for all hours worked on such day or days off.
The employee's day off shall start at the end of his regular shift and conti nue until the beginning of the following scheduled shift.
Section 6.	The Union recognizes and agrees to continuous operation for the term of this Contract. Any employee who is opposed to working on Sunday or Saturday because of his religious beliefs shall not be compelled to work on Sunday or Saturday under the continuous operation plan, nor shall he be discriminated against because of such religious beliefs. Any such employee shall notify the Personnel Office in writing that he does not wish to be scheduled for work on Sundays or Saturdays. Concerted action taken hereunder shall be considered a violation of this Contract. Once an employee declares his unavailability for work due to religious
— 48 —
beliefs, the Compa ny is not obligated to return him to work on the declared days for the duration of the Contract.
Section 7.	An employee who is transferred to a higher classified job, if so placed for less than thirty (30) minutes, shall be paid hisregularrate. If continued on this placement for thirty (30) minutes or more, he will receive the higher rate for all time worked on the higher rated job. Any employee temporarily placed on a lower rated job at the request of the Company shall continue to receive his regular rate. Employees shall not be transferred arbitrarily merely to avoid payment under this Section.
Section 8.	In addition to any holiday pay to which an employee maybe entitled, in accordance with the provisions of Section 5 of Article 16, HOLIDAYS, double time shall be paid to all employees for all hours actually worked during the holiday period.
Section 9.	All day workers asked to work and who do so after their regular quitting time, and are not notified thirty (30) minutes before quitting time, shall receive four (4) hours pay.
Section 10.	All workers called or scheduled to work less than four (4) hours before their regular starting time will be guaranteed four (4) hours of pay exclusive of their regular hours unless they have been notified at least twenty-four (24) hours in advance of their regular starting time.
The following applies to Carteret, Dolton and Dunkirk only: All workers called or scheduled to work less than four (4) hours before their regular starting time will be guaranteed four (4) hours of pay exclusive of their regular hours unless they have been notified on their preceding work shift to report early for their next shift.
— 49 —
Section 11.	An employee who is unable to work as a result of an occupational disability, incurred while performing the duties required for his job, and who is sent home at the discretion of the Medical Department, shall receive payment for the full day's wage at his base houriy rate. An employee will also be paid for time lost from work up to a maximum of four (4) hours forone follow-up doctor’s visit. Such employee shall provide a valid doctor's appointment in advance. If an employee dies during his regular working hours, his estate shall receive a full eight (8) hours pay. Such hours paid for shall be considered as hours worked for the purpose of figuring overtime.
Section 12.	The start of the first shift on Monday shall be the start of the work week for day workers in the Maintenance, Mold Cleaning and Batch and Furnace Departments. Work on Saturday and Sunday and overtime will be voluntary with these employees except during furnace repairs or where a production stoppage would result if this work was not done. Overtime will be voluntary with all other employees. However, if no one volunteers and production loss would result, the Company may assign the junior employee in the classification on the appropriate shift. An employee with a compelling reason to leave at the end of the regular shift will be excused from overtime work. No employee will be compelled to work overtime in excess of four (4) consecutive hours immediately following his regular shift. No employee will be forced to work overtime more than once during a forty-eight (48) hour period.
Should a dispute arise over the legitimacy of the compelling reason, the employee will be given a reasonable period of time to substantiate the need to leave, before any action is taken.
— 50 —
Section 13.	In any case where an employee is called into work in an emergency, a rate of time and one-half the base rate will be paid for all hours worked consecutively from the time the employee reports for work, even though some of the hours worked consecutively might fall in the following day. Hours worked under this Section may be used again in computing forty-hour overtime.
Section 14.	Hot patch repair work will be paid at a premium of time and one-half for jobs under extreme heat conditions of non-routine operations.
Hours worked underthis Section may be used again in computing overtime.
Section 15.	Unless specifically provided for in this Contract, there shall be no duplication or pyramiding in computing premium pay and/or overtime pay and the same hours shall not be used twice in computing premium pay and/ or overtime pay under any provisions of this Contract.
Section 16.	Starting and quitting times shall be left to the option of the Local Union and the respective plant management
ARTICLE 12 Reporting and Call-In Pay
Section 1.	Any employee under the jurisdiction of this Contract holding a regular position reporting for work at his usual time will be guaranteed at least four (4) hours of work or four (4) hours of pay at the applicable premium time rate set forth in Article 11, PREMIUM PAY, unless he has been instructed not to report. This policy will not apply during floods, fires, tornadoes, or other disasters beyond the Company’s control.
— 51 —
Section 2.	An employee who is called in to work other than during his scheduled time will be paid four (4) hour’s pay or actual hours worked at the applicable premium time rate, whichever is greater. This policy shall apply when an employee is called in early to his regular shift and works continuously from the time of reporting to his regular shift, unless he was so notified on the preceding day to report early for his next shift.
Section 3.	Each plant shall provide for prompt access for employees who are called in to work other than regular scheduled shifts.
Section 4.	When an employee is called in to work no earlier than one (1) hour prior to the start of the shift to fill a vacancy and reports within one (1) hour from the time of the start of the shift, the employee will be paid from the start of that shift at the applicable rate.
ARTICLE 13
Shift Differentials
Section 1.	All employees under the jurisdiction of this Contract shall be paid premium time for shift work as follows:
(a)	For all hours worked on the first night shift, each employee shall receive twenty cents (200) per hour.
(b)	For all hours worked on the second nightshift, each employee shall receive twenty-four cents (240) per hour.
Section 2.	Shift differential payments shall be considered as payments additional to all other hourly compensation and will not be considered in the computation of otherpremium
— 52 —
time, vacation, holiday (unless worked), bonus or other similar payments, except as required by law.
Section 3.	Employees whose work overlaps two (2) shifts shall be paid the established shift differential for the hours worked in each shift.
ARTICLE 14
Negotiated Rates
Section 1.	If during the term of this Agreement a new job is created or significant changes are made in an existing job, the Company shall meet with the Local Union to negotiate a new rate. If the parties cannot agree the Company may place the rate on the job(s) they feel is appropriate. In setting the new rate, the Company shall fairly take into consideration all factors normally involved in glass container collective bargaining negotiations, including, but not limited to, job content and responsibility, the existing wage structure, and past collective bargaining history.
Section 2.	All pertinent, basic data relative to all job descriptions, wage rates paid all employees, and population by job shall be given to the Union. Any changes to job descriptions shall also be given to the Union. In the event that the Union disagrees with the rate set by the Company under Section 1, above, the matter will be referred to the Company/Union Negotiated Rates Board for resolution. The Company/ Union Negotiated Rates Board shall be comprised of two representatives from the Company and two representatives from the International Union.
Sections 3. Any disputes with respect to this Article that are not resolved by the Company/Union Negotiated Rates Board shall be referred to the third
— 53 —
and, if necessary, fourth steps of the grievance pro* cedure. If the grievance is not settled, a mutually selected Interest Arbitrator shall decide the dispute.
Section 4.	When a new job is established ora job is eliminated, the Company will meet with the Local Union to discuss the reasons for its actions. Such meeting will be held prior to such change taking place.
ARTICLE 15 Method Of Payment
Section 1.	All employees under the jurisdiction of this Contract shall receive their earnings in full every week and no more than one (1) week’s earnings shall remain unpaid when this payment is met.
Section 2.	Pay errors shall be corrected immediately in full including taxes after notice from the employee affected.
Section 3.	All grievance settlements involving pay will be made within the next pay period.
ARTICLE 16 Holidays
Section 1.	The following holidays shall be observed during the year:
Decoration Day, Independence Day, *LaborDay, Thanksgiving Day, holiday period; 4 shifts of 8 hours. *December 24, ‘Christmas Day, *December26, December27, December28, December 29, December 30, December 31, New Years Day, holiday period; 3 shifts of 8 hours.
— 54 —
Applies to El Monte, CA plant only - The following holidays shall be observed during the year: Decoration Day; Independence Day; Labor Day*; Thanksgiving Day-holiday period: four (4) shifts of eight (8) hours; Day afterThanksgiving Day; December 24*; Christmas Day*; December 26; December 27; December 28; December 30; December 31*; New Year’s Day - holiday period; three (3) shifts of eight (8) hours.
Applies to Madera, CA plant only - New Year’s Day, Decoration Day, Independence Day, *Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day, holiday period: 4 shifts of 8 hours. December 23, *December 24, ‘Christmas Day, December 26, December 27, December 28, December 29, December 31, holiday period: 3 shifts of 8 hours.
‘There shall be no production on these holidays. When the Company desires to work on a mandatory shutdown holiday, it will be within the sole authority of the Local Union to authorize any and all work for that holiday period.
Section 2.	The Company shall designate the start of the holiday period. For premium pay purposes, any 24 hour holiday period will commence as of the beginning of the day shift of the holiday, and any 32 hour holiday period will commenceasofthe beginning ofthe nightshift preceding the holiday.
Section 3.	When any of these holidays falls on a Sunday but is observed on Monday and the plant is not in operation on Sunday, the holiday period on Monday will be only 24 hours. December24 through December31 and New Year’s Day will be observed on the days on which they occur.
Section 4.	All employees who have been on the Company’s payroll forthirty (30) calendardays shall be paid
— 55 —
for each of the above named holidays when no work is performed. The employees shall be paid for one (1) regular shift at their base hourly rate for each of the above named holidays when no work is performed, subject to the following provisions:
(a)	That such employee must work on his regularly scheduled working day next preceding and next following the holiday period unless excused by his supervisor. Such excuses shall not be unreasonably withheld. However, no employee shall lose more than one (1) day of holiday pay for an unexcused absence on each of these days.
(b)	No payment will be made for holidays not worked to employees on sick leave (exceeding one (1) day), leave of absence for any reason, or layoff, except employees who are laid off not more than thirty (30) days prior to a holiday and who meet the requirements set forth in subsection 4 (a) hereof. Employees laid off not more than thirty (30) days prior to Christmas will also be entitled to holiday pay for New Year's Day, provided they meet the requirements set forth in subsection 4 (a) hereof.
(c)	Any employee absent because of an occupational disability who reports back to work when able to do so shall receive holiday pay for any holidays which occurred during the first twelve (12) months of such absence.
Section 5.	Double time shall be paid for all hours worked during the holiday period as set forth in Section 1. Work on a holiday shall qualify an employee for holiday pay. This does not apply to employees who have not completed their thirty (30) day probationary period.
— 56 —
Section 6.	Work on holidays shall be voluntary with the mployee except for those employees who must be sched-led to work in order to assure the safety, repair and naintenance of plant and equipment.
Maintenance employees will not be required to work on he following holidays: Thanksgiving Day, Labor Day, Decem-er24 and December 25.
Section 7.	An employee who is required to work during my holiday shall be granted the option of taking an equal amount of mutually agreed upon days off from work without jay. Reasonable requests will be granted.
Section 8.	The Company shall post the start and end of he holiday period five (5) calendar days in advance of the shut down.
ARTICLE 17 Vacations
Section 1.	For vacation qualifying years falling on or after April 1,1999, each employee underthe jurisdiction of the Contract who has been in the employ of the Company forone year or more who has worked 1200 hours during his qualifying year and who at the end of the qualifying year is on the payroll shall be entitled to a vacation with pay based on the general schedule of:
After one (1) year or more of continuous service, one (1) week vacation (48 hours pay);
After two (2) years or more of continuous service, two (2) weeks vacation (80 hours pay);
— 57 —
After five (5) years or more of continuous service, tw (2) weeks vacation (96 hours pay);
After eight (8) years or more of continuous service three (3) weeks vacation (120 hours pay);
After fifteen (15) years or more of continuous service four (4) weeks vacation (160 hours pay);
After eighteen (18) years or more of continuous ser vice, four (4) weeks vacation (180 hours pay);
After twenty (20) years or more of continuous service four (4) weeks vacation (200 hours pay);
After twenty-five (25) years or more of continuous service, five (5) weeks vacation (220 hours pay);
After thirty (30) years or more of continuous service five (5) weeks vacation (240 hours pay);
Upon obtaining thirty (30) years of service, the employee will receive an additional eight (8) hours pay foreach five (5) years of service thereafter.
It shall be the Company's prerogative to divide the three, four or five weeks vacation period if it thinks it is necessary for the continuity of plant operations provided at least two weeks are successive.
Section 2,	For the purpose of determining vacation eligibility, all vacation qualifying years now in effect shall continue during the term of this Contract unless changed by mutual consentofthe Union and the Company.
— 58 —
Section 3.	Each employee who is on the Company’s sayroll at the end of the qualifying year and who has worked ■nore than 400 hours but less than twelve hundred hours luring such qualifying year shall receive a vacation with pay aased on the general schedule of:
(a)	Two percent (2%) of his total hours worked during such qualifying year times his base hourly wage rate if he has less than five years of continuous service;
(b)	Four percent (4%) of his total hours worked during such qualifying year times his base hourly wage rate afterfive or more years of continuous service;
(c)	Six percent (6%) of his total hours worked during such qualifying year times his base hourly wage rate after eight or more years of continuous service;
(d)	Eight percent (8%) of his total hours worked during such qualifying year times his base hourly wage rate after fifteen years or more of continuous service;
(e)	Ten percent (10%) of his total hours worked during such qualifying year times his base hourly wage rate after twenty or more years of continuous service;
(f)	Twelve percent (12%) of his total hours worked during such qualifying year times his base hourly wage rate after twenty-five years or more of continuous service;
— 59 —
(g)	Fourteen percent (14%) of his total hour worked during such qualifying year time his base hourly wage rate after thirty-fiv years or more of continuous service.
Section 4.	If an employee’s service is terminated for an reason after he has completed one year or more of service he or his personal representative shall be paid vacation pa earned at the time of termination the amount of vacation pa earned but unpaid including vacation pay earned during hi currentqualifying year, even though he is noton the payro at the end of the qualifying year.
Section 5.	Hours lost due to compensable industria accident, or in attendance as an official delegate to th Convention of the Union, Union Business or as an officia conferee at the joint wage negotiating conference betwee the Union and the Company will be computed as hours worke (not to exceed 40 hours per week) for the purpose of vacatio hoursqualifi cation.
Section 6.	No employee will be required to work mor than 1200 hours during any qualifying year in order to b entitled to vacation with pay. Any employee who has worke 1200 hours during any qualifying year and is on the Company’ payroll at the end of any qualifying year will be entitled to vacation with pay, except as provided for in Section 4 or Loes Agreements.
Section 7.	Any employee who is laid off for any reasor who is on sick leave oron an approved leave of absence an has otherwise qualified for vacation pay as specified abov shall be given his vacation pay on request.
Section 8.	Restoration of Service- An employee who i rehired by the Company and who then works at least thre
— 60 —
(3) years from the date of such rehire shall be given credit toward vacation rights for prior service with the Company provided such prior service with the Company was at least two (2) years.
Section 9.	Vacation pay checks will be issued on any regular pay day just preceding vacation taken. Each employee shall be responsible to give a five (5) day notice to the Company. Other optional forms of payment may be agreed to at each plant location.
Section 10.	All hours taken off work as vacation hours shall be included in future vacation hour qualifications.
Section 11.	Employees who have earned vacation will be allowed to split two (2) weeks of vacation one day at a time. This is provided that adequate notice is given and that qualified replacements are available.
If a holiday or holidays falls during an employee’s vacation, the holiday(s) will not be counted as a day of vacation.
ARTICLE 18 Pensions
Section 1.	Effective April 1,2002, all present retirees receiving the $13.00 pension benefit will have their benefit increased to $14.00 per month per year of credited service.
Section 2.	Effective April 1, 2002, the amount of pension benefit to which an employee who retires on orafter April 1, 2002 is entitled to will be based on the following schedule subject to provisions set forth in this Article:
— 61 —
Labor Grade
1-10 11-15 Wand above
Amount per Month For Each
Year of Credited Service $37.00 $38.00 $39.00
Effective April 1,2003, the amount of pension benefit to which an employee who retires on or after April 1,2002 is entitled to will be based on the following schedule subject to provisions set forth in this Article:
Labor Grade
1-10
11-15
16 and above
Amount per Month ForEach Year of Credited Service $39.00 $40.00 $41.00
Effective April 1,2003, the amount of pension benefits to which an employee who retires between April 1,2002, and April 1,2003, is entitled will be recalculated. Such recalculation will be made, subject to actuarial reductions where applicable, at the appropriate level of $39.00, $40.00, and $41.00.
Effective April 1,2004 the amount of pension benefit to which an employee who retires on or after April 1,2002, is entitled to will be based on the following schedule subject to provisions set forth in this Article:
Labor Grade
1-10
11 -15
16 and above
Amount per Month ForEach Year of Credited Service $41.00 $42.00 $43.00
— 62 —
Effective April 1,2004, the amount of pension benefitto which an employee who retires between April 1,2002 and April 1,2004, is entitled will be recalculated. Such recalculation will be made, subject to actuarial reductions where applicable, at the appropriate level of $41,00, $42.00, and $43.00.
Section 3.	Employees under this Contract who are covered by Schedule A are assigned to a labor grade. The labor grades referred to in Section 2 apply to all employees covered byScheduleA;forpurposesofthisArticleonly,all employees who are not covered by the Schedule A will be considered to be in the labor grade whose hourly wage rate most nearly approximates the hourly wage rate of the Production and Maintenance unit employee who is assigned to a labor grade.
The labor grade assigned to an employee immediately preceding his retirement shall be used in determining his pension benefit except that, for an employee whose primary abor grade in one (twelve (12) consecutive month) of the ten (10) years preceding retirement was higher than his labor grade at retirement, such higher labor grade shall be used in determining his pension benefit.
Section 4.	Normal Retirement Date - Effective April 1, 2002, the last day of the month in which an employee reaches age 60. In accordance with applicable law, however, an employee will not be required to retire solely because of eaching age 65, and will be granted credited service fortime worked after age 65 on the same basis as time worked prior oage 65.
Early Retirement Date-An employee may retire early jefore age 60 if he is within ten (10) years of his normal etirement date, provided he has ten (10) or more full years 3f credited service with the Company.
— 63 —
Section 5.	Normal Retirement Income - An employee who retires on or after his 60th birthday, will receive a monthly life income from the Pension Plan provided for in this Contract equal to the applicable amount as set forth in Section 2, multiplied by his years of credited service.
Early Retirement Income Prior to Age 60 - An employee who retires early prior to age 60 will receive monthly retirement income in an amount equal to his monthly retirement benefit figured on credited service to early retirement date with such amount reduced 1 /2 of 1 % for each month from age 60 to the date of early retirement. However, an employee credited with thirty (30) years of credited service and having reached age 55 may retire without any loss of benefits.
Section 6.	There shall be no duplication of benefits among any qualified retirement plans of the Company, including those of the Company’s predecessors, successors and affiliates. The Pension Plan provided for in this Contract would be responsible for any subsequent increases in any pension benefits earned for years of credited service with Kerr Glass Manufacturing Corporation.
Section 7.	Disability Retirement Income - If ar employee who had ten (10) or more years of credited service becomes permanently and totally disabled on or after April 1, 2002, he may be retired on a monthly disability income figure as if he were age 65 on the date of such disability and such date shall be deter mined as the last day the employee worked because of such disability, or the last day of reception of the Weekly Sickness and Accident Benefit, whichever if later.
— 64 —
Optional forms of retirement income under Section 10 of this Article, except level income option, will also apply to Disability Retirement Income.
To be eligible for the cash PTD life insurance benefit, the employee must be continuously disabled and unable to work for period of six (6) months from the last day worked.
If there is a dispute regarding the employee’s PTD status between the employee's attending physician and the examining physician representing the carrier, the following will apply:
The Company and the Union shall agree upon a physician to which to send the employee for an independent medical evaluation. The physician’s decision regarding PTD shall be binding on both parties. However, if the employee is later approved forsocial securitydisability, the Company will qualify the employee for PTD. In this case the disability will be effective on the Social Security Disability date, but no earlier than the last date the employee received weekly disability benefits.
The independent medical evaluation will be paid for by the Company.
For purposes of this section, the definition of disability will be the Social Security definition of disability.
Section 8.	Death Benefits after Retirement- Upon the death of an employee who retires on or after April 1,1980, and who dies before having received 72 monthly benefit payments, his beneficiary shall receive the same monthly benefit until a total of 72 monthly payments have been made. If an optional form of retirement income is in effect for such an employee and both he and his contingent annuitant die
— 65 —
before 72 monthly payments have been made, then the beneficiary shall receive monthly paymentsequaltothelast payment made to either the employee or his contingent annuitant until a total of 72 monthly payments have been made.
Section 9.	Survivor Pension - Effective April 1, 2002, In the event of the death of an employee who had five (5) years or more of service, the surviving spouse shall receive an unreduced survivor’s pension beginning on the first day of the month following the death of the employee, provided that the employee was age forty (40) or more. In the event that the employee was less than age forty (40) at the time of death, the surviving spouse shall receive an unreduced survivor’s pension beginning on the first day of the month following the date the employee would have been age forty (40). The pension amount will be one-half of the pension credited to the employee at the time of death. This survivor’s pension will not be reduced for payments beginning before the normal retirement date or for joint and survivor's annuity reductions. This pension shall be paid monthly until the death of the survivor.
Section 10.	Optional forms of Retirement Income-An employee may choose to take a smaller retirement income upon early or normal retirement and have all ora portion of it continued to another person after his death following retirement, in accordance with rulesand regulations set up by the Company’s Retirement Board.
An employee retiring before being eligible to receive Social Security monthly income benefits may elect a Level Income Option which provides a higher monthly income from the Pension Plan provided for in this Contract from retirement until Social Security benefits are payable and a lower monthly income from the Pension Plan provided for this Contract
— 66 —
ereafter. In determining the amount of monthly income, the Jies and regulations set up by the Company’s Retirement card shall apply and the primary Social Security benefits stimated to be payable at age 62 (or at the appropriate age Social Security is amended) shall be actuarially reduced as allows:
Retirement	Percentage of Estimated
Age	Age 62 Primary Social
	Security Payable
	to Age 62
62	100.0%
61	91.1%
60	83.1%
59	76.0%
58	69.6%
57	63.8%
56	58.7%
55	54.0%
Upon reaching age 62, it shall be the retired employee’s esponsibility to apply for Social Security benefits, because at that time, the Company’s portion of the lifetime pension will ae reduced by the amount of Social Security benefits that was used in the calculation at time of retirement.
Section 11.	Vested Rights - If an employee is terminated or quits after completion of five (5) years of credited service, such employee shall have vested rights.
An employee who is terminated or quits on or after January 1,1989, and who is entitled to vested rights will be entitled to receive, beginning with the month after he attains age 65, monthly retirement income as set forth in Section 2, figuredonhis years of credited service at date of termination.
— 67 —
Section 12.	Accumulation of Credited Service - Credited service shall accumulate toward retirement income while an employee is absent for occupational injury ordisease until he becomes permanently and totally disabled. Credited service shall accumulate toward retirement income for non-occupa-tional illness or injury for a period of up to two (2) years. In orderto receive the above credits, the employee must return to work as soon as he is able. In no event will less than six-months be credited if the employee Is unable to return to work at the end of the two (2) year period.
Section 13.	Restoration of Service - An employee who is rehired by the Company and who then works at least three (3) years from the date of such rehiring shall be given credit toward pension rights for prior service with the Company provided such prior service with the Company was at least two (2) years.
Section 14.	When the Company elects to close a plant permanently, an employee under age 60 whose employment was terminated as a result of such closing, may retire and receive a pension ben efit figured as if he were age 60 based on his years and months of credited service at the date of such closing, provided he has thirty (30) or more full years of credited service or who is at least age 55 with at least ten (10) or more full years of credited service at the date of such closing.
Section 15.	The Pension Plan provided for in this Contract cannot be terminated without the express approval of the International Presidentof the Union and, except where the features described above, subject to appropriate governmental approvals, would indicate changes, the Pension Plan provided by this Contract will be continued.
— 68 —
The Company will develop a new Summary Plan Description covering the Pension Plan and forward such SPD to the International Union for their review and approval within 120 days of the effective date of this agreement. The Union will have 30 days to review the document. Once approved, copies will be distributed to all covered employees.
A copy of the approved Pension Plan provided for in this Contract, together with all The rules and regulations relating thereto established by the Company’s Retirement Board, shall be placed on file with the international President of the Union.
Such Pension Plan will comply with all pension legislation and governmental rulings required by law, that are in effect now or may become effective during the term of this contract.
Section 16.	The Company shall establish and maintain a 401 (k) plan for all covered employees. The Company shall be responsible for the administration of the plan. Such 401(k) plan will comply with all pension legislation and governmental rulings required by law, that are in effect now and may become effective during the term of the contract.
Eligibility - Employees will be eligible to participate on the first of the month following 30 days of service.
Pre-tax Contributions - Eligible employees may contribute up to 50% of their earnings in 1% increments, subject to IRS limits.
Company Match - The Company will match 25% of the first 8% of employee pre-tax contributions.
— 69 —
Vesting - Company match vests 20% at the end of each full year of service, 100% at the end of five years of service. Company match will vest 100% in the event of death, retirement or plant closing.
Catch-Up Contributions - As permitted under EGTRRA employees age 50 and over will be permitted to make catch-up contributions. Effective June 1, 2002, employees may elect to make the $1,000 catchup contribution permitted in 2002. This catch-up contribution may only be made if the employee makes the maximum permitted pre-tax contribution during the year.
ARTICLE 19
Retiree Benefits
The Company agrees to the principle of a jointly-administered fund into which the Company will contribute seventy-five cents (75#), per actual man hour worked by each of its bargaining unit employees, excluding hours paid for but not worked, for the purpose of providing retiree benefits. Such jointly-administered fund shall be administered in accordance with the provisions of the present Retiree Benefits Trust Agreement.
ARTICLE 20 Relief
Section 1.	The Company shall supply fifty (50) minutes paid relief for all hot end employees. Additional relief shall be granted where heat conditions warrant.
Section 2.	All existing agreements on relief shall be continued for the duration of this Contract unless changed b;
— 70 —
mutual agreement between the Union and the Company. This shall not be construed so as to prevent employees from filing grievances where they are not being supplied necessary relief in accordance with the provisions in their plant.
Section 3.	Scheduled relief shall normally start no earlier than sixty (60) minutes after the start of the shift. The Company further agrees that every effort will be made to schedule lunch periods as close to the middle ofthe shift as practical.
ARTICLE 21
Supervisory Employees
Section 1.	A supervisory, temporary supervisor, or salaried employee shall perform no work of the type customarily performed by employees within the bargaining unit including relief work. Exceptions will be made in cases of emergencies, instruction and development work. The basic responsibility of supervisory employees is direction of the workforce. It s not the Company’s policy to have a supervisory employee perform bargaining unit work.
Section 2.	Emergencies are defined as conditions nvolving danger to personnel, product or property.
Section 3.	Grievances arising over an alleged dolation of this Article must be filed within three (3) work days of the occurrence and will follow the grievance procedure. The supervisor accused of delating this Article, the aggrieved employee and/or lis Shop Steward must be present at Step 2 of the jrievance procedure.
If the Company agrees at any step of the griev-nce procedure that there has been a violation of this
— 71 —
Article by Management or Supervisory personnel or if the arbitrator so determines, the employee who would have performed the work will receive a monetary award. A reasonable award shall be defined as a minimum of four (4) hours of pay at the rate of the job in which the violation occurred.
ARTICLE 22 Health Benefit Program
Section 1.	The Company shall establish and maintain a comprehensive Group Life, Accident, Medical, Weekly Accident and Sickness, Health Program, Eye Care and Dental Program for all covered employees.
Section 2.	The Company shall be responsible for the administration of the Program.	f
Section 3.	‘Insurance benefits and other revisions changed, as a result of this Article shall be effective April 1, 2002, unless otherwise indicated. Such benefits shall become effective only for new claims which arise on or after the effective date. Claims for benefits that arise priorto the effective date shall be payable under the provisions of the Program as it existed prior to the effective date.
Section 4.	Details of the Company’s Insurance Program shall be worked out between the Company and the President of the International Union or his designated representative. A copy together with the Summary Plan Description to provide for the benefits set forth herein which has been agreed to between the Company and the carrier shall be placed on file with the International President and a copy distributed to all covered employees.
— 72 —
Section 5.	This Program shall be integrated with any such program required by any Federal or State law involving non-occupational accident and sickness benefits or health benefits which now exist or may become effective during the term of this Contract. There will be no additional cost to the employee nor for his dependents for additional coverages that may be required by a National Health Program that may be enacted during the term of this Contract, except for employee contributions which may be a part of such National Health Program.
Section 6.	The comprehensive Medical Benefits and Dental Benefits are coordinated according to standard procedures with benefits from other group plans and governmental health plans under which an employee (and eligible dependents) may also be covered.
Section 7.	To assure the greatest benefit for the money expended, it is a mutual responsibility of the Company and the Union to police all usage under the Program.
Section 8.	The following standard provisions are included in the Program:
(a)	All hourly employees, underthis Contract become eligibleforcoverage underthe Program upon completion of thirty (30) calendar days from their date of employment, subject to the provisions of State Disability Benefit laws as they apply to disability benefits.
(b)	Definition of Dependents
The term “dependents" includes the employee's spouse and unmarried children from birth to their 21st birthday, including legally adopted children
— 73 —
and stepchildren and children under legal guardianship upon presentation of proof that the child or children is under legal guardianship of the employee and residing in the employee's household. Dependent children also includes:
(1)	Unmarried children 21 yearsofageandover solely dependent upon the employee for support and regularly attending school on a full-time basis until their25th birthday.
(2)	An unmarried child mentally or physically incapable of earning his own living, and who otherwise ceases to be eligible for medical expense benefitsdue to the attainment of the limiting age may continue to be eligible for benefits coverage underthe Program for the duration of the incapacity, provided the coverage does not terminate for any other reason. Proof of incapacity must be furnished to the Insurance Company within the thirty-one (31) days after the child attains the limiting age.
(3)	A newborn child who, from date of birth, incurs charges for routine nursery car And doctor or special hospital services rendered because of disease, injury, congenital abnormality or hereditary complications, is eligible for coverage from birth under the Program as to those medical expenses.
(4)	Dependents may only be added to coverage during the annual open enrollment period or within 31 days of a qualified status change.
— 74 —
(c)	If husband and wife are both eligible to enroll for employee benefits, eitherspouse but not both may enroll for coverage of dependent children. A spouse may be covered as a dependent. If husband and wife work for the Company, when one retires or quits, the working spouse can cover their spouse as a dependent.
(d)	Continuance of Coverage During a Period of Absence from Work Due to Accident or Sickness.
(1)	Non-Occupational Accident or Sickness
If an employee is absent from work because of non-occupational disability, his comprehensive Medical, Life, Accidental Death and Dismemberment, Weekly Accident and Sickness, and Dental coverages will be continued up to six (6) months from the end of the month in which the disability occurs without contributions. Coverages for eligible dependents will also be continued for the same period without contributions. Life and Accidental Death and Dismemberment coverages may be continued for the balance of the temporary disability period without contributions. In the event an employee qualifies as a total and permanent disability underthe Group Life, all other coverages underthe Program will cease including dependent coverages. In the event dependency coverage is to bediscontinued, the employee and the Local Union must be given prior notice.
However, if there is a dispute regarding the employee’s P.T.D. status between the
— 75 —
employee's attending physician and the examining physician representing the Insurance Company then a physician mutually agreed upon between the International Union and the Company will examine the claimant and this physician’s decision regarding P.T.D. shall be binding on both parties. A copy of the physician’s final report will be given the employee.
(2)	Occupational Accident or Sickness
If an employee is absent from work because of occupational disability, all his coverages under the Program will be continued for the period of temporary disability without contributions. Coverages for eligible dependents will also be continued for the period of temporary disability without contributions. In the event an employee qualifies as a permanent and total disability underthe group life, all other coverages underthe Program will cease including dependent coverages.
(3)	ContinuationofCoverage During Layoff
If an employee is laid off, all his coverage will be continued up to six (6) months following the end of the month in which the layoff occurs without contributions. Coverages for eligible dependents will also be continued for the same period without contributions. If, at the end of the six (6) month-period, the temporary layoff continues, the Life and Accidental Death and Dismemberment coverages will be continued for the duration of the layoff without contributions. Employees returning from lay
— 76 —
off shall be reinstated immediately. Employees volunteering for layoff will make contributions for all employee and dependent coverages.
(4)	Any extension ofcoverage under the immediately preceding paragraphs (1), (2), and (3) will cease immediately if the employee dies, retires, goes to work for another employer or becomes self-employed.
(e)	Termination of Employment
If employment is terminated all coverages under the Program cease at the end of the month in which termination occurs, except as required by law.
(f)	Conversion Privilege
Upon termination ofcoverage, the option of converting the comprehensive medical and life coverages to individual policies may be exercised by the individual according to the provisions of individual policies made available by the Insurance Carrier. Any cost to convert will be the employees’ responsibility.
(g)	An employee whose employment is terminated as a result of a permanent plant closing will have his coverage continued for six (6) months from the date of such closing without contributions. Dependent coverages for eligible dependentswill also be continued for the same period without contributions. An employee who is on layoff at the date of the closing will have his coverage continued for the remainder of the six (6) month period under Section 8 (d) (3) without contributions.
— 77 —
(h)	An employee age 65 and older who continues to work has the choice of either Medicare or the Company’s program for primary coverage. An eligible dependent spouse age 65 and older also has a similar choice for primary coverage. Payments for Part B of Medicare for such a working employee and such an eligible dependent spouse will be made by the Company only when Medicare is chosen for primary coverage.
(i)	Pre-existing Condition
Coverage for pre-existing conditionswill be limited for employees hired after the effective date of this contract and for their eligible dependents. Coverage for injuries or illnesses which existed prior to employment with the Company will be limited to $25,000 during the first twelve (12) months of employment; subject to HIPPA regulations.
An illness or injury is considered pre-existing if within six (6) months prior to employment with the Company, the employee or eligible dependent was diagnosed, incurred charges, received treatment or took drugs or medicinefor that illness or injury Pregnancy is included within the pre-existing condition limitation. Expenses fora newborn child are not included in the pre-existing condition limitation
Section 9.	Coverage continuations, as required by the Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1985 (as approved in 1986), will be made available in accordance with the applicable provisions of said Act.
— 78 —
Comprehensive Medical Benefits
(1)	Lifetime maximum per covered member- $1,000,000,
(2)	(a) Calendar year deductible per covered member is $100.
The maximum calendar year deductible per covered family is $300.
(b)	Weekly Contributions
Empl. + 2 or More
Effective Date	Empl. Only Empl. + 1Dep.	Dep.
April 1,2002	$9.00	$13.00	$16.00
In addition to medical benefits, the amounts include contributions for Life, Accidental Death and Dismemberment, and Weekly Accident and Sickness benefits.
TheCompany’scostforbenefitsthroughanHMOwillnot exceed its costs as Required for providing the Comprehensive Medical benefits underthe Insurance Program.
(3)	Co-payment is 90%/10%forall comprehensive Medical Benefit expenses, except where otherwise indicated. (Dental, eye care and psychiatric care and substance abuse benefits are separate.) Co-payment penalties for failure to provide mandatory pre-certification, or have surgery performed on an outpatient basis where required will be subject to a one thousand ($1,000) maximum penalty in addition to the regular co-payment.
(a) There is a co-payment out-of-pocket limit of one thousand dollars ($1000) per covered member per
— 79 —
calendar year and three thousand dollars ($3000) per covered family per calendar year. The following out-of-pocket expenses only count towards the one thousand dollars ($1000) out-of-pocket or, asapplicable, the three thousand dollars ($3,000) out-of-pocket limit:
all comprehensive Medical Benefit co-payments (except 20% co-payments for failures to obtain mandatory pre-certification, or outpatient surgery and except co-payments resulting from diagnostic hospital admissions);
all ambulance co-payments;
calendaryeardeductibles.
(4)	After receipt of $10,000 of benefits or more, individual can have full maximum $1,000,000 benefit restored if he can prove he has returned to good health.
(5)	Automatic yearly restoration of $5,000 toward maximum benefit.
(6)	Extended benefits when disabled and coverage canceled up to eighteen (18) months from cancellation date.
(7)	Covered expenses for comprehensive Medical Benefits (subject to 90%/10% co-payment, reasonable and customary and $100/5300 deductible) are as follows:
(a)	Daily Hospital Benefits. Applicable semi-private charge. Private room limit is hospital's average semi-private charge.
(b)	Miscellaneous Hospital Charges. Coverage forother necessary incidental hospital charges.
— 80 —
(I)	MaternityBenefitsforDependentChildren. Unmarried dependent children are covered with maternity benefits the same as employees and eligible spouses.
(8)	Eye Care. An employee, after completing six (6) months of continuous service, and his eligible dependents will be reimbursed for the cost of a properly licensed doctor performing a complete eye examination once every two (2) years during the term of this Contract, up to a maximum of $50.00. Ifthe Company requires examination more frequently for issuance of safety glasses of an employee, such examination will also be covered up to the same maximum. An employee and his eligible dependentswill also be reimbursed once every two (2) years during the term of this Contract for the cost either of a pair of lenses (single - $25.00; bifocal -$35.00; trifocal-$45.00; lenticular-$55.00; progressive lenses - $70.00) and of frames ($35.00) or a pair of contact lenses ($70.00).
(9)	Mandatory Pre-Certification. An employee or eligible dependent considering an operation or entering a hospital or treatment facility for medical care is required to alert the Company’s utilization review administrator by telephone of this possibility five (5) days priorto entering the hospital ortreatmentfacility or receiving such treatment (except for cases of emergency, where notification is required within two (2) days after the admission of the patient).
Employees and eligible dependents who comply with the above requirements will receive the maximum reimbursement allowable under comprehensive Medical Benefits. Covered expenses will be only 80% of the expenses that would otherwise be covered expenses
— 83 —
up to a maximum penalty of $1000 if the employee or eligible dependent does not notify the utilization review administrator in advance as specified above. Should an employee or eligible dependent elect to stay beyond those days that are certified, in-patient room and board charges in excess of the designated numberof days that are certified will be covered at 80% of the expenses that would otherwise be covered up to the $1000 maximum penalty mentioned above.
Mandatory pre-certification facilitates and is required for:
Hospital admissions
Individual case management
Length of stay and discharge planning Birthing centers Convalescent centers Home health care Hospices
- Treatmentfordrug, alcohol, mental ornervousdisor-ders
Standards of medical necessity will be applied to all cases involving pre-certification.
(10)	Second Opinion Benefit. The reasonable and customary chargesofa consulting physician fora covered surgical consultation, and also the reasonable and customary charges for any laboratory or X-Ray examination made in connection with the consultation, will be paid.
Benefits are not payable for consultations provided in connection with a normal obstetrical procedure or any procedure for which a surgical expense benefit would not be payable as a comprehensive Medical Benefit, and
— 84 —
(c)	Surgical Expense Benefits. Surgeon's and assistant surgeon’s standard fees for necessary surgical procedures performed on employees and their covered dependents. This also includes pre-operative and post-operative care by surgeon.
(d)	Medical Expense Benefits. Coverage for doctor calls while confined in hospital and prior to the day of an operation.
(e)	Physical Examination, Diagnostic X-Ray and Laboratory Expenses. X-ray and Laboratory expenses, one (1) physical examination, including two (2) annual routine pap smears and one (1) annual routine mammogram beginning at age 35. The one (1) physical examination, two (2) annual papsmears and one (1) annual mammogram beginning at age 35 are not subject to the annual deductible.
(f)	X-Ray and Radioactive Therapy Benefits. X-ray and radioactive therapy benefits.
(g)	Mental Health/Chemical Dependency Treatment, Outpatient mental health/chemical dependency treatment must be authorized in advance by contacting the Employee Assistance Program (EAP) at the toll-free number provided by the Company. Inpatient mental health/chemical dependency treatment must be authorized seven (7) days in advance of non-emergency admission or in the case of an emergency confinement, within two (2) days, following confinement by notifying the EAP.
Outpatient treatment will be covered at 100% for the first three (3) visits provided they are referred
— 81 —
and authorized by the EAP and 90% of reasonable and customary charges for up to 30 additional visits in a calendar year. Inpatient treatment will be covered at 90% of reasonable and customary charges for up to 30 days in a calendar year.
The combined mental health/chemical dependency lifetime benefit maximum will be the medical plan lifetime maximum. Should the covered member not comply with the certification procedures described above, or if the member elects an out of network provider, coverage will be at 80% of the reasonable and customary expenses that would otherwise be covered.
(h)	Charges of a Licensed Physician. This includes physician office visits.
(i)	Prescriptions. Drugs and medicines which by law require a physician’s or dentist’s prescription.
(j)	Chiropractic Treatment. Charges for chiropractic care will be covered up to a limit of 35 visits in a calendar year. Payment is limited to one visit in a twenty-four (24) hour period and is subject to deductibles and co-payments.
(k)	Hearing Aids. The reasonable and customary costs for the purchase of a hearing aid, including expenses forexamination and fitting, will be covered at 90% for covered members. However, this benefit is limited to the purchase of one (1) hearing aid per ear for each covered person once every twenty-four (24) months, and excludes the replacement and repair of any part or parts of such hearing aid following such purchase.
— 82 —
the proposed procedure must require more than local infiltration anesthesia and be non-emergency in nature.
When a second opin ion is needed, it may be obtained by the employee or eligible dependent. Asecond opinion may also be recommended by the Company’s utilization review administrator. In either case, the utilization review administrator will assist the employee or eligible dependent in selecting a physician for a second opinion if assistance is requested. A third opinion will be covered on the same basis as the second opinion in those situations where the second opinion does not confirm the recommendation of the operating physician. In all cases, the decision to obtain a second opinion will be voluntary with the employee oreligible dependent.
(11)	Outpatient Surgery Benefits. Outpatient surgery is covered inthesamemannerasinpatient surgery. When non-emergency surgery can be performed on an outpatient basis and the physical and mental condition of the employee or covered dependent permits, such surgery will be covered at 80% if performed on an inpatient basis.
(12)	Pre-admission Testing Benefits. Pre-admission testing is covered at 100% without the application of the deductible. Charges for hospital admission for diagnostic purposes will be reimbursed if the admission is medically necessary, or if the tests cannot be performed on an outpatient basis.
(13)	Prenatal Care Program. Employees and eligible dependents may electto participate in a prenatal care program which provides cash rewards and educational assistance.
— 85 —
To be eligible for this voluntary program, the covered member must schedule an appointment with her physician within the first twelve weeks of pregnancy and have the necessary prenatal care records completed. When the initial visit takes place and the record is submitted to the Company insurance administrator, the covered member will receive a cash award of $100.00.
Ifthe covered member continues regular visits to the doctor, submits at least five more care records to the insurance administrator and notifies the Company of the birth of her baby, she will receive a second cash award of$100.00.
In addition, the covered member will receive a prenatal care information booklet by notifying the Company of her pregnancy.
Life, A.D.&D. and Weekly A.&S. Benefits
(1)	Life Insurance	$28,000
(2)	A.D.& D. Insurance	$28,000
(3)Non-Occupational	$280
(4)	Occupational (1st Week)	$280
(1)	Includes an $19,000 cash PTD benefit in lieu of death benefit, up to age 65. The remainder of the life insurance ($9*000) will be a Premium Watverben-efit and will be paid to the beneficiary at death. Effective January 1,1988, there will be no PTD for employees hired on and after that date. (January 1, 1997 for Carteret, Dolton and Dunkirk, April 1, 2002 for El Monte and January 1,1987 for Madera.)
To be eligible for the cash PTD life insurance benefit, the employee must be continuously dis
— 86 —
abled and unable to work for a period of six (6) months from the last day worked.
If there is a dispute regarding the employee’s PTD status between the employee's attending physician and the examining physician representing the Insurance Company, then a physician mutually agreed upon between the International Union and the Company will examine the claimant and this physician’s decision regarding PTD shall be binding on both parties. However, if the employee has applied for and is later approved for Social Security disability, the Company will qualify the employee for PTD. In this case the retirement disability benefit will be effective on the date the Social Security disability is determ ined to have commenced, but no ea rlier than the last date the employee received weekly disability benefits. In the event the disability is a result of an occupational injury of illness, the retirement disability benefit would be effective on the date the Social Security disability is determined to have commenced, but no eartierthan the lastdate the employee received temporary total disability benefits under any workers' compensation statute.
The independent medical evaluation will be paid for by the Company.
An employee applying for permanent and total disability must apply for the P.T.D. benefit and Social Security disability within twelve (12) months from the last day worked. If the employee is either on workers’ compensation or his condition could dramatically change, the employee would be required to
— 87 —
document his medical condition with the Company before the expiration of the one (1) year, but he could apply for P.T.D. within five (5) years from the last day worked. The Com* pany will notify such employees and the Local Union on or about ninety (90) days prior to the end of the one (1) year application in < writing.
(2)	Twenty-four (24) hour coverage including | on-the-job accidents.
(3)	First day accident;, 4th day sickness; twenty-six ' (26) weeks payments limit. Payments for sickness retroactive to the first day if hospitalized within first twenty-eight (28) days of disability, integrated with any Federal or State Law accident and sickness benefit requirements.
(4)	In those states where the Workers’ Compensation benefits do not equal $280 perweek the Company will pay an amount, if necessary to equal the applicable amount up to twenty-five (25) weeks, after the first week.
(5)	Employees who elect cosmetic surgery will not be eligible for the non-occupational weekly sickness and accident benefits unless medically necessary or unless specifically included elsewhere in this Article.
— 88 —
Life and AD&D Coverage Weekly Costs
$28,000 of Life and AD&D coverage will be provided by le Company at no employee cost. Elected Life and AD&D of 35,000 coverage has costs based upon the table below:
Employee Age	‘Monthly Cost per $1,000 of Coveraae
Under 30	$.06
30-34	$.07
35-39	$.08
40-44	$.11
45-49	$.19
50-54	$.32
55-59	$.50
60-64	$.77
65-69	$1.37
70-74	$2.06
75 and over	$3.65
	
*Employee contributions may be made on a pre-tax basis.
Dependent Life Insurance Program
Section 1	.The Company will make available a Dependent Life Insurance Program. Eligible employees will have the opportunity to purchase twelve thousand dollars ($12,000.00) of dependent term life insurance on their spouse: two hundred dollars ($200.00) on dependentchildren age 14 days to six months: and four thousand dollars ($4,000.00) on dependent children age six months and over.
— 89 —
Section 2.	The eligibility is the same as set forth section 8(a) in the introductory sections of this Article.
Section 3.	The definition of dependents is the same e set forth in Section 8(b) in the introductory sections of th Article.
Section4.	The weekly contribution for these depender life coverages is one dollar and twelve cents ($1.12).
Section 5.	The termination ofcoverage is the same a set forth in Section 8(e) in the introductory sections of thi: Article.
Dental Benefits
(1)	The Dental Benefits are provided separately fronr the comprehensive Medical Benefits. To be enrolled forthe Dental Benefits, however, an enrollee must also be a participant forthe Medical Benefits. A new employee may enroll himself/herself and his/ her eligible dependentsonly after such employee has been employed for one (1)year.
(2)	A separate twenty-five ($25.00) calendar year deductible for covered dental expenses will apply to each covered member, with a maximum family deductible of seventy-five dollars ($75.00).
(3)	The following preventive dental procedureswill be covered on a reasonable and customary basis at 100%: two (2) check-ups per calendar year, including cleaning, scaling, and fluoridizing; X-rays once per calendar year. Periodontal surgery will also be covered on a reasonable and customary basis at 100%.
— 90 —
(4)	Most covered dental expenses will be paid on a reasonable and customary basis at 80% (50% with respectto inlays; gold fillings; crowns; fixed bridgework, etc,).
(5)	Orthodontia - Fifty percent (50%) of reasonable and customary charges up to a Lifetime maximum of $2,000 percovered individual.
(6)	Up to $2,000 of Dental Benefitswill be payable in any calendar year. Preventive dental procedures provided at one hundred percent (100%) are excluded from the yearly maximum.
(7)	Dental Benefits are administered according to standard coordination of benefits Procedure as set forth in Section 6 of this Article.
(8)	Exclusionsand Limitations-Standard Group Insurance exclusions, cosmetic treatment and no coverage for any tooth that was pulled prior to the effective date ofcoverage. The program will not replace dentures orany other prostheticappliance more often than once in any five (5) year period for each covered member.
(9)	Terms of coverage for Dental Benefits are the same as those setforth in Section 8(b) through 8(h) of this Article.
Section 125 Plan
The Company will install a Section 125 plan which will allow weekly contributionsfor the insurance plan described in this article to be made on a pre-tax basis. Employees will be required to enroll for benefits on an annual basis. The plan will also include:
— 91 —
Health Care Reimbursement Account - Deposits may be made on a pre-tax basis not to exceed $57.69 per week, Contributions to this account may be used to payfor medical or dental expenses that are eligible as deductions on Federal IncomeTax Form 1040 Schedule A.
Dependent Care Reimbursement Account - Deposits may be made on a pre-tax basis not to exceed $96.00 per week. Contributions to this account may be used to pay for qualified dependentand child care expenses.
Managed Care
Managed Care involves a network of arrangements with suppliers of medical services and/or supplies. Managed Care networks will be made available to employees and eligible dependents in locations where available as soon as feasible after April 1,2002. Participation by employees and eligible dependents in such a network will be voluntary.
In locations where the Company implements a managed care program, Comprehensive medical benefits will be paid at 90% for services provided in the network and 80% for services provided out of the network. In locations where the Company has no network, benefits will be paid at 90% except where otherwise indicated in this Article.
When a network physician refers a covered member to a non-network physician, charges forthose out-of-network services will be covered the same as in-network services.
ARTICLE 23
Equipment Supplied
Section 1.	All employees will be furnished new gloves as needed. Old gloves are to bereturned when replacements are issued.
— 92 —
Section 2.	The Company shall provide employees with special tools deemed necessary by the Company to operate machinery and equipment. The employees will be responsible for such tools when provided to them.
Section 3.	The Company agrees that present agreements and practices for gloves, tools and clothing shall remain in effect for the term of this Contract.
Section 4.	The Company will replace personal tools or gauges that have been broken or worn out while being used with reasonable care in the performance of the employee’s regular job. The Company shall replace at its expense personal tools and tool boxes owned by employees which are destroyed by fire, flood, or other similar disasters on the Company's premises, up to a maximum liability of three thousanddollars ($3,000) forany employee.
Section 5.	The Company will pay $80.00 per calendar year towards the purchase of safety-toed work shoes for employees in the Forming Department, Mould Cleaners, Melt Department, and Batch and Furnace Department.
ARTICLE 24
Reporting Intended Absence
Section 1.	If an employee cannot report for work, the supervisor shall be informed a day in advance or, in an emergency, as soon as possible. In the eventthe supervisor is unavailable, the employee shall contact another supervisor.
Section 2.	An employee unable to continue workduring the shift shall notify his supervisor and continue to work, if possible, until relief can be obtained.
— 93 —
ARTICLE 25 Military Leave
Section 1.	If, during the life of this Contract, any employees should be inducted into the armed services of the United States, and upon their return, if such employees are physically and mentally fitforemployment, the Company will offer them work of a like kind that they were engaged in before entering the service, if such work is available to employees with equal or less seniority than that of the returning service personnel. If such work is not available, returning service personnel will be recalled to work on the basis of their respective positions on the seniority list. This Article is to be administered in accordance with applicable Federal and State laws.
Section 2.	All employees who are members of the National Guard or Military Reserve shall be paid for all time lost while in attendance at the National Guard and/or Military Reserve two weeks summer camp and for up to five (5) shifts per calendar year while on temporary emergency expedition assignment. The pay shall be at the employee's regular base rate for all hours lost and these hours shall be computed as hours worked forthe purpose of vacation hour qualification.
The employee will be paid holiday pay for any holidays thatoccurduringthetwo (2) week summer camp, subject to the provisions of Article 16, Section 4(a).
ARTICLE 26 Bereavement Leave
Section 1.	In the event of the death of a spouse, child, step-child, parent, step-parent, foster parent, mother-in-law, father-in-law, brother, sister, half-brother, half-sister, step
— 94 —
brother, step-sister, grandchild, or grandparent of an employee who has been in the employ of the Company for at least thirty (30) days, the employee shall be paid for time ost, not in excess of three (3) shifts (five (5) shifts for spouse and children; one (1) shift for son-in-law, daughter-n-law, brother-in-law, and sister- in-law), at his regular base wage rate. Reasonable requests for additional time off without pay will be honored.
Section 2.	The Local President, or Vice President ora Local Union Representative shall begrantedtimeoffwithout pay to attend funerals of members of their Local’s or member’s spouse.
Section 3.	If an employee's vacation is interrupted by such death and he so notifies the Company promptly, the numberofdays he normally would have been paid if working shall be added to his vacation with pay.
Section 4.	An employee may be entitled to funeral leave pay as provided in Section 1 in the event of the death of a foster mother or foster father, provided that the employee has previously notified the Company in writing of the name of such foster parent within thirty (30) days of the date of employment. Current employees must provide the name of such foster parent within sixty (60) days following the effective date of the Contract. Further, an employee who so designates a foster parent or parents will not be entitled to funeral leave pay for the death of a parent or step-parent.
ARTICLE 27 Court Duty
Section 1.	An employee on the active payroll who is called for court duty will receive his regular base rate of pay for any regularly scheduled work hours spent on such court duty.
— 95 —
When an employee is obliged to do court dut) during any twenty-four (24) hour period, he shall no be required to work during said twenty-four (24) hou period. If an employee is scheduled to work the midnight shift preceding the day of court duty, he shal not be required to work the midnight shift nex preceding and following the day of court duty. Any employee assigned to work the midnight shift pre ceding court duty and who elects not to work such shift, shall be paid for lost time.
Section 2.	An employee on active payroll who serves on court duty Monday through Friday and loses his days off as a result may have Saturday and Sunday off provided he has served on court duty more than one week. Such employee will notify the Company as soon as possible, but in no case later than twenty four (24) hours prior to his scheduled Saturday shift.
Section 3.	It is understood that court duty includes being summoned for jury duty, Tribal Court and/or subpoenaed as a witness in a case where the employee is not directly involved.
ARTICLE 28 No Strike or Lockout
Section 1.	There shall be no strike, sympathetic or otherwise, walkout, slowdown, or work stoppage of any nature by the Union orany Local Union or its members during the term of this Contract. In the event any employee or group of employees participates in any such strike, walkout, slowdown or work stoppage during the term of this Contract, the Union or Local Union agrees upon being notified by the Company to immediately direct such employee or group of employees to resume work.
— 96 —
Section 2.	The Company agrees that so long as this jreement is in effect there will be no lockout on the part of e Company.
Section 3.	It being understood and agreed that any :rike, walkout, slowdown, orwork stoppage not authorized y the Union, orthe Local Union, not aided, encouraged, and betted by the Union or Local Union, shall be deemed for all urposes an unauthorized strike, walkout, slowdown, or rork stoppage for which there shall be no liability on the part >f the Union, Local Union or its officers.
ARTICLE 29 Grievance Procedure
Section 1.	The purpose of this Article is to provide an orderly method for the settlement of all grievances.
If a representative of management fails to give his answer within the time limits specified in any step of the grievance procedure, the grievance may be processed to the next step of the grievance procedure within the time limits set forth in such step.
Grievances shall be presented and processed in accordance with the following steps:
Step 1: If an employee has a grievance, he shall within three (3) working days from the date the grievance arises, present it to his immediate supervisor and shop steward for discussion and settlement. The Supervisor shall give the employee his decision on the grievance within three (3) working days after it has been presented to him.
— 97 —
Step 2: If the grievance is not settled in Step 1, the employee and shop steward may refer the matter to the Business Committee for investigation. If the Committee considers the grievance just, it shall reduce all facts concerning the grievance to writing, and present it to the employee’s department head for discussion and settlement within seven (7) days after the completion of Step 1.
In reducing the grievance to writing, the Business Committee shall set forth with reasonable clearness the nature of the act or acts on which the grievance is based, the time when such acts occurred, the identity of the jobs and employees covered by the grievance, the provisions of the Contract which have been violated, and the remedy requested.
The employee’s department head shall answer within seven (7) days after the grievance has been presented to him and his answer shall set forth in written detail and with reasonable clearness the facts and provisions of the Contract on which his decision is based.
If a grievance is appealed to the next step of the grievance procedure, the basis of such appeal shall be set forth in writing by the appealing party. The answer of the other party shall also be set forth in writing.
Step 3: If the grievance is not settled in Step 2, the Business Committee shall discuss the mat-
— 98 —
Step 4:
ter with the International Representative of the Union and they shall, within fifteen (15) days after receiving the Company’s reply in Step 2, meet with appropriate Company representatives for discussion and settlement of the grievance. The Company shall give the International Representative of the Union and the Local Union its decision on the grievance in writing within seven (7) days after the meeting.
If a grievance is not settled in Step 3 of the grievance procedure, the International Representative shall, within seven (7) days after receiving the decision of the Plant Manager or his designated representative, refer the matter to the International President of the Union or his designated representatives and the Vice President Human Resources of the Company or his designated representative, for discussion and settlement This step shall be concluded fifteen (15) days after the date on which the grievance is referred to the International President of the Union and the Vice President Human Resources of the Company or their designated representatives, except that this step may be extended for not more than fifteen (15) days by written notice by one party to the other.
Grievance involving discharge which are not settled in Step 1 of the Grievance Procedure may be referred in writing, by the Union within three (3) working days following completion of Step 1, directly to Step 3 of the Grievance procedure for discussion and
— 99 —
settlement. Following referral to Step 3, the matter shall be handled to conclusion at Step 3 within fifteen (15) days, except that this period may be extended for not more than fifteen (15) days by written notice by one party to the other. If the grievance is not settled, as provided above, it shall be referred to Step 4 of the Grievance Procedure.
Section 2.	Grievances involving the administration of incentive systems may not be filed until after a reasonable trial period.
Section 3.	It is not the function or right of the Company, or any Local Union and its officers or the officers of the International Union, to change this Contract.
Section 4.	All grievance settlements involving pay will be made as soon as possible, but no later than seven (7) days from the date of the settlement. However, an additional period of time will be granted in the event of unusual or extenuating circumstances.
ARTICLE 30 Arbitration
Section 1.	All disputes not settled pursuant to the procedure set forth in Article 29, GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE, may be referred to arbitration by notice given to the Company by the Union within ten (10) days after the conclusion of Step 4 of the Grievance Procedure. Such notice shall be in writing, setting forth the matter in dispute and relief requested.
The notice shall also be sent to the American Arbitration Association requesting that within seven (7) days of the
—100 —
receipt of such notice an identical list of arbitrators containing an odd number of not less than seven (7) arbitrators be sent to the Company and the Union. After receipt of the list of arbitrators from the American Arbitration Association, the Vice President Human Resources of the Company or his designated representative and the President of the International Union or his designated representative shall alternately strike one name from the list of arbitrators supplied until only one name remains. The arbitrator whose name remains shall be the arbitrator in the case involved. The right to strike the first name shall be determined by lot. In the conduct of the arbitration hearing, the applicable provisions of the Voluntary Labor Arbitration Rules of the American Arbitration Association shall control.
The Union and the Company may mutually agree to request a panel of arbitrators from the Federal Mediation & Conciliation Service rather than using the services of the American Arbitration Association.
Section 2.	The arbitrator shall not have authority to alter, modify, add to or subtract from any of the terms or provisions of this Agreement. Wage rate disputes shall be processed in accordance with Article 14, Negotiated Rates. It is understood that the arbitrator shall have the authority to establish wage rates under Article 14, Negotiated Rates. The decision of the arbitrator shall be final and binding on the Company and the Union.
Section 3.	Regardless of the outcome of any matter submitted to arbitration, the cost of such arbitration shall be limited to the arbitrator's salary and expenses and shall be borne equally by both parties. Charges forstenographicfees and expenses shall be borne by the parties ordering such services.
— 101 —
Section 4.	Contract arbitrators shall be selected by agreement between the Company and the International Union and shall serve for the term of this Contract.
Section 5.	In the event the parties choose to use the contract arbitrators, a notice shall be sent to the appropriate contract arbitrator for scheduling a hearing.
ARTICLE 31 Health and Safety
Section 1.	It is the intent of the parties that no employee shall be required to work under conditions which are unsafe or unhealthy and that an employee who believes that he is being so required shall have the right to notify his supervisor and shop steward of such condition, which the supervisor and shop steward shall investigate immediately. If the existence of such unsafe or unhealthy condition is disputed by the supervisor or shop steward, the Management Safety Representative and a Union member of the Plant Safety Committee shall be notified immediately and they shall investigate the condition and determine whetheror not it is unsafe or unhealthy. If the issue is not resolved, the employee shall have the right to present a grievance to the Department Head. After a work condition is determined to be unsafe or unhealthy, safety work orders shall be processed immediately.
Section 2.	Each Local Union President may appoint not less than three (3) members of the Local Union to function on the Company respective safety committee. This committee shall meet at least once each month to attempt to resolve safety matters.
Section 3.	The Company in each plant will provide first aid facilities and designate on each shift individuals who are
— 102 —
trained in and capable of performing first aid to the extent necessary to provide adequate first aid for all employees. Such individual or individuals, who may or may not be members of the bargaining unit, will give first aid to injured employees and in cases of severe injury will stay with the injured employee until relieved by a medical attendant. The Company will provide the necessary training of such individuals.
Health and Safety Standards
Professional Medical Care
(1)	Aqualified medical doctorwill be designated by the Company in every community where it operates a plant.
(2)	The Plant Doctor will be on call for emergency service or will designate other qualified medical doctors in the same community to take his place during his absence or during those times when he is not available.
(3)	Notlaterthan ninety (90) days from thebeginning date of this Contract, each plant safety committee will establish a procedure to provide suitable transportation for injured employees to obtain outside medical attention.
First Aid Facilities
(1)	A separate room will be specifically designated for the purpose of administering first aid and the Company will provide for access to the first aid room on all shifts.
— 103 —
(2)	The room will be well lighted, ventilated, and heated; it will also contain necessary plumbing facilities.
(3)	The room will be equipped according to the Plant Doctor’s recommendationsto include equipment such as cot or bed, storage and dispensing area for medical and first aid supplies, resuscitator, stretcher, clinical records, and with doors wide enough for litter admission.
Medical Attendant
(1)	One (1) full-time medical attendant will be made available by each Company at its various locations.
(2)	The term “medical attendant" can mean a registered nurse, a practical nurse, or full-time first aid attendant who is so qualified because of training and experience, with at least the equivalent of Red Cross certified First Aid and CPR training.
Trained Personnel
The Company will provide first aid training so there will be adequate coverage on each shift, seven (7) days a week.
Minimum Industry Standards
The minimum industry standards shall remain binding for the duration of the Contract.
ARTICLE 32 On-Job Health Protection
The Company agrees to make available to each employee one tuberculin test, and chest X-ray if the test is positive, at no cost to the employee.
—104 —
The Company further agrees to continue its best efforts to provide adequate heat, cooling, light and ventilation to employees, and to devise systems to control drafts, noise, fumes, dust, dirt, grease and job hazards.
Weight Lifting
No employee shall be required to perform any job duties, when, in the opinion of the Union and Management, that job requires excessive weight lifting.
Any employee whose job requires excessive weight lifting, and mechanical assistance is not avail* able, shall notify his supervisor for assistance and such assistance will be granted.
ARTICLE 33
Fair Employment Practice and Equal Opportunities
The Company and the Union will comply with all laws preventing discrimination against any employee because of race, color, creed, religion, national origin, age, sex, disability orveteran status. The parties also agree to comply with ADA and FMLA guidelines. Any disputes underthis Article as with all other Articles of this Contract shall be subject to the grievance procedure.
ARTICLE 34
Permanent Plant Closings and Related Matters
Section 1.	If the Company elects to close a plant or department in a plant permanently, the Company shall nego-tiateseverancepaywiththeUnionforterminatedemployees.
— 105 —
Section 2.	In applications of this Article, the Company will apply a severance pay formula providing for forty (40) hours per year of credited service at the regular base wage rate of pay with a one thousand (1,000) hour maximum at any plant closing during the term of this Contract.
In addition to the severance pay above, the Company will also provide employees who have twenty-six (26) or more years of credited service a special lump sum benefit as follows: 26 through 35 years of credited service - $1,000.00; 36 through 39 years of credited service - $2,000.00; and 40 or more years of credited service - $3,000.00
Section 3.	The labor grade assigned to an employee immediately preceding such closing shall be used as a basis in determining the severance pay except that, for an employee whose primary labor grade in one (twelve (12) consecutive months) of the ten (10) years preceding the closing was higher than his labor grade at the closing, such higher labor grade shall be used in determining the severance pay. The corresponding rate of pay to such labor grade will also be used.
Section 4.	Any disputes with respect to this Article shall be subject to the Grievance Procedure, Article 29, including Arbitration, Article 30.
Section 5.	An employee who leaves the Company's employment without the Company’s consent prior to the closing shall not be eligible for severance pay. However, if such an employee has been able to secure employment with another employer, such consent shall not be unreasonably withheld.
Section 6.	An employee who is on a leave of absence covered by terms of this Contract at the time of the closing shall also be entitled to severance pay.
— 106 —
Section 7.	An employee who is on sick leave and has iither applied orqualified for a permanent and total disability sension shall not be eligible for severance pay. Employees vho do not qualify fora permanent and total disability pension shall receive severance pay.
Section 8,	Health Care. Health care coverage in a closing situation is governed by Article 22 (Insurance Program), and Section 8(g) of its introductory provisions provides:
Effective April 1,1999, an employee whose employment is terminated as a result of a permanent plant closing on or after April 1,1996, will have his coverage continued for six (6) months from the date of such closing without contributions. Dependentcoveragesforeligibledependentswill also be continued for the same period without contributions. An employee who is on layoff at the date of closing will have his coverage continued for the remainder of the six (6) month period under Section 8 (d) (3) without contributions.
Section 9.	Pensions. Pensions in a closing situation are governed by Article 18 (Pensions), and its Section 16 provides:
Effective the date of this contract when the Company elects to close a plant permanently, an employee underage 60 whose employment is terminated as a result of such closing on or after the effective date of this Contract, may retire and receive a pension benefit figured as if he were age 60 based on his years and months of credited service at the date of such closing, provided he has thirty (30) or more full years of credited service at the date of such closing or who is at least age 55 with at least ten (10) or more full years of credited service at the date of such closing.
— 107 —
Section 10.	Vacation Pay. Vacation pay in a closing situation is governed by Section 4 of Article 17 (Vacations), which provides:
If an employee’s service is terminated for any reason after he has completed one year or more of service, he or his personal representative shall be paid vacation pay earned at the time of termination the amount of vacation pay earned but unpaid including vacation pay earned during his current qualifying year, even though he is noton the payroll at the end of the qualifying year.
Section 11.	Resumed Operations. If the Company should resume manufacturing glass
containers at a plant covered by this Contract within five (5) years of the closing, the
effective collective bargaining agreement will then be reactivated, and the employees who
were terminated as a result of the closing would have recall rights to that plant.
ARTICLE 35
Disabled Employees
Section 1.	Employees disabled by reason of physi cal disabilities or infirmities shall, upon agreement between the proper Business Committee and the Management, receive a special rate so as to provide work for them.
Section 2.	An employee who is disabled by reason of occupational injury or illness and who Is unable to work his regular job will be placed on any job acceptable to him which he is qualified to perform in line with his seniority (and qualifications), at a rate commensurate with the work performed.
— 108 —
Section 3.	Any problems arising out of this Article will be settled on a local level between the Company and the Local Union. Any problems not settled on a local level between the Company and the Local Union shall be referred to the International President, or his designated representative, and the Vice President - Human Resources, or his designated representative for settlement. If no settlement is reached, the matter may be referred to arbitration by either party.
Section 4.	The Contract shall be administered in accordance with the applicable provisions of the Americans with Disabilities Act. Before taking action relative to this Section, the Company will meet with the Local Union and both parties will have sufficient opportunity to express their opinions regarding an anticipated action.
ARTICLE 36
Successors, Transferees and Assignees
This Contract shall be binding upon the parties hereto, their successors, transferees and assignees. In the event the Company sells or transfers any plant, this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect and be binding upon the purchaser or transferee and the Company agrees it will include in the purchase agreement that this Contract is binding on the purchasee or transferee.
ARTICLES?
Environmental Control Program
Section 1.	The Company and the Union will continue to cooperate in all legitimate labor- managementactivitiesinthis area.
— 109 —
Section 2.	If an employee is required to miss work to conduct approved business under this Article atthe request of the Company, the employee will receive his regular base rate of pay for any regularly scheduled work hours spent on such business.
Section 3.	The employer agrees to pay actual lost time wages when an employee participates in protective league meetings, limited to two (2) employees per plant (P&M and AMD combined), attending up to two (2) meetings per year, limited to two (2) days per meeting. Such employees shall be appointed by the Local Union.
ARTICLE 38 Separability
If any provisions of this Contract shall be held invalid or in conflict with any Federal or State law, the remainderof the Contract shall not be affected thereby.
ARTICLE 39
Operating Conditions
Section 1.	Except as otherwise specified in this Contract, the number of employees employed in any job shall be determined by the Company and the primary duties of each job shall be defined by each Plant Managerand a copy thereof given to the Local Union. Each Local Union shall have the right to discuss unreasonable work loads.
Section 2.	The number of employees in any plant shall be consistent with sound operating practices and procedures and shall reflect reasonable work loads under prevailing local conditions. No employee will be assigned an unreasonable work load and any disputes are subject to the grievance and arbitration procedure.
— 110 —
ARTICLE 40
Local Agreements
Section 1.	All Local Agreements will remain in full force and effect during the term of this Contract, unless changed by mutual agreement between the Local Union and Local Management.
Section 2.	Machine, product, or equipment premiums which are in excess of the job rates of employees covered by this Contract shall become “personal” premiums and apply only to employees who are regularly receiving such personal premiums.
Section 3.	Should the Company discontinue such personal premiums it shall negotiate with the International Union and the Local Union the buy-out method that should be used for discontinuing same. If the Company and the International Union and the Local Union are unable to agree upon the amount or method of buy-out, this matter shall be submitted to arbitration upon the requestof either party of the Contract.
ARTICLE 41
Subcontracting
Section 1.	The Company agrees that it will not sublet contracts for maintenance, repair and other work in and around the plants underthis Contract if such work can be as satisfactorily and as economically performed by bargaining unit employees, provided the Company has the facilities for doing the work within the required time and available trained personnel who can perform the work.
The Company will continue its practice, when needed, of training Praductionand Maintenance employees who shall do all maintenance and repair work normally performed by
—111 —
them when time, requirements, skills and equipment are available, in the judgment of the Company, to accomplish the work economically.
Section 2.	The Company recognizes the Union’s desire to retain all work that can be performed by its members. No journeyman/apprenticewill be displaced or on layoff during any time that outside contractors are performing work at the Company's facility. When bargaining unit personnel are not trained in the skills needed to perform the work which would be subcontracted, then in such cases employees would be recalled from layoffonaone-for-onebasis. In all other cases, there would be no one displaced or remaining on layoff prior to said subcontracting.
As a condition of contracting work, weekly or as necessary, the Department Head and the Local Union or designee will meet and review the contemplated plans for contracting out of work with the intent of giving primary consideration to fully utilizing the available services of Bargaining Unit employees. During this review, the Company shall furnish a description in writing of the work to be performed, the special equipment to be utilized and explain to the Local Union or designee the extent and available cost information for the job or jobs, the necessity for letting out the job or jobs and the time the job orjobs are to be done. If at the end of this review, the Company decides to contract out the job orjobs, they will advise in writing the Local Union or designee of the contractor to do the job. If the Company contracts out any work, then the Company will review with the Local Union or designee the details of the final contract. In the event the Department Head fails to comply with this Section, the Union shall have the right to file a grievance beginning with Step 3.
Any GMP members not based in the plant in which work is performed and are not employees of the Company shall be
— 112 —
considered as subcontractors for purposes of this Article.
Prior to GMP Travel Crews performing work at a facility, Management will meet in advance with the Local Union or designee to discuss the nature and scope of the work to be performed. The Company shall furnish a written description of the work and equipment to be worked on and the time requirements of the project. The utilization of plant journeymen and apprenticeswill also be discussed at that time. No journeymen/apprentices will be displaced as a result of Travel Crew members performing work on the premise.
Contracting Out For Non-Maintenance Work
Prior to the Company employing or contracting outany work normally and customarily performed by employees from departments other than the Maintenance Department, the Company shall meet with the Local Union and provide it with a written explanation for its desire to contract the work out.
The Company will give primary consideration to the full utilization of services of bargaining unit employees and will not contract out work that can reasonably be performed by the department employees involved, subject to the provisions of Section 1 of this Article.
If the Company, after meeting with the Local Union or designee, decides to contract out the work, the Union will have the right to file a grievance, beginning with Step 3 of the grievance procedure.
When it is necessary to make majortank repairs orto rebuild tanks, the Company will use availableand qualified employees wherever possible to do this work as in the past.
Section 3.	Grievancesarising overan alleged violation of this Article may be filed at Step3 of the Grievance Proce
— 113 —
dure. If the Company agrees at any step of the Grievance Procedure that there has been a violation of this Article by Management or if the Arbitrator so determines, the employee or employees who would have performed the work will receive a reasonable award.
ARTICLE 42
Wages of Apprentice Machine Operators
Section 1.	The base hourly wage rates of Apprentice Machine Operators shall be as follows:
Less than Journeyman Rate of the Machine Operating
0-1000 hours	2.10
1001-1750 hours	1.90
1751-2500 hours	1.75
2501-3500 hours	1.60
3501-4000 hours	1.30
Thereafter, the full Journeyman Rate will apply.
Section 2.	In no case shall an Apprentice Machine Operator be reduced in rate when transferred to a machine. His present rate will be retained until such time as it comes in line with the applicable schedule set forth above.
Section 3.	An Apprentice Machine Operator’s seniority as a Journeyman Machine Operator shall begin with the date he began his apprenticeship as a designated or classified Apprentice Machine Operator.
Section 4.	All time spent operating glass forming machines shall be credited toward an employee's apprenticeship with a minimum of 4 hours per 8 hour shift and the
— 114 —
Company will make its records of such time available to the Local Union or the particular apprentice as reasonably requested.
Section 5.	Apprentice Machine Operators transferred to the jurisdiction of this Contract and who are now members of the Union, shall immediately make application and transfer to the operator's Local Union.
Section 6.	The Company recognizes that better utilization of the working force can be attained if Apprentice Machine Operators are trained in the operating techniques of all types of machines in its respective plants, and agrees to furnish the opportunity for such training during the apprenticeship period.
Section 7.	Any employee other than a Journeyman Machine OperatororUpkeepwhileoperating a machine shall receive the appropriate apprentice rate and will be credited with all time operating a machine toward his apprenticeship.
— 115 —
ARTICLE 43 Wages of Journeymen Machine Operators
Section 1.	The hourlyjob rates of Journeymen Machine Operators as skilled employees shall be as follows:
Machine Type Cavities	Current 4/1/01	Effective Effective Effective		
		4/1/02*	4/1/03*	4/1/04*
IS-8 Single	16.85	17.86	18.22	18.58
Double	17,20	18.21	18.57	18.93
Double *	17.26	18.27	18.63	18.99
F Double	17.40	18,41	18.77	19.13
DX	17.40	18.41	18.77	19.13
Triple	17.61	18.62	18.98	19.34
F Triple	17.79	18.80	19.16	19.52
IS-10 Single	17.03	18.04	18.40	18.76
Double	17.38	18.39	18.75	19.11
Double *	17.44	18.45	18.81	19.17
F Double	17.58	18.59	18.95	19.31
DX	17.58	18.59	18.95	19.31
Triple	17.79	18.80	19.16	19.52
F Triple	17.97	18.98	19.34	19.70
Quad	18.40	19.41	19.77	20.13
IS-12F Triple	18.23	19.24	19.60	19.96
Quad	18,66	19.67	20.03	20.39
Tandem (2 Operators) 17.60		18.61	18.97	19.33
Tandem (1 Operator)	17.78	18.79	19.15	19.51
IS-16 Double	17.78	18.79	19.15	19.51
Double*	17.84	18.85	19.21	19.57
F Double DX	18.04	19.05	19.41	19.77
Tandem (2 Operators) 17,40		18.41	18.77	19.13
Tandem (1 Operator)	18.18	19.19	19.55	19.91
F Triple (2 Operators)	17.79	18.80	19.16	19.52
F Triple (1 Operators)	18.75	19.76	20.12	20.48
IS-20 Double	18.10	19.11	19.47	19.83
Double* •	19.16 -116-	19.17	19.53	19.89
*The rates listed above reflect an E-W differential of one cent (10), 4/1/02 one cent (10), 4/1/03; one cent (10), 4/1/04.
DX means double gob expanded center with 5 inch or greater centers, including machines using conversion equipment to achieve 5 inch or greater center.
The Double* rates apply when running jobs with the specifications as defined in the settlement of the expanded center grievance of 1969.
When any IS-Single runs gallons (or metric equivalent) single gob, it shall be advanced one rate level within that machine type. When any IS machine runs gallons or halfgallons (or metric equivalent) double gob, itshall be advanced one rate level within that machine type.
If a machine is running with one or more sections or heads shutdown oran orifice closed off, the rate of pay shall be that listed in the Contract for the type of machine involved prior to shutting a section or sections down or closing an orifice.
Section 2.	The above job rates will be paid when a Journeyman Machine Operator is assigned to operate any listed machine. A Journeyman Machine Operator and an Apprentice Machine Operator will be assigned to operate twin machines running multiple jobs. The job rate of the Journeyman Machine Operator will be the machine rate applicable to that portion of the twin machine which he is operating and the Apprentice Machine Operatorshall receive the appropriate apprentice rate.
Sections. Theabove groupings of machinesare for the purpose of establishing rate of pay only. A Journeyman Machine Operator will receive the rate for the machine that he is operating. Machine assignments shall be made by Management.
Section 4.	New glass forming machine types include the ribbon process machines or glass forming machine types listed in the Article, the workload of which is measurably changed, shall be placed into their logical group by the Company, after notification to the International President of the Union by the Director of Labor Relations of the Company.
Any disputes regarding the proper groupings of either new glass forming machine types which have been in commercial production, for a ninety (90) day trial period including the ribbon process machines or glass forming machine types on which there has been a measurable change in workload shall be referred to the grievance procedure. If not resolved there, it shall be referred to arbitration. No grievance may be filed on any new glass forming machine during the ninety (90) days trial period. Any monetary settlement of such disputes shall be retroactive to the date the grievance is filed.
Section 5.	Journeyman Machine Operators who have the capacity and physical fitness to expand their ability to operate various types of machines will be given on-the-job training on the various types of machines in their respective plants. The suggestions and recommendations set forth in the Journeyman Machine Operator On-The-Job T raining Program proposed by the National Glass Container Labor-Management Committee are a guide which the Company is urged to follow in developing an On-The-Job Training Program applicable to its own operations.
Section 6.	A Journeyman Operator reduced to a Floor Helperwill receive 750 perhourabove the Floor Helper rate.
Section 7.	When an operatorworkson an electronically timed machine, he shall be paid an additional five cents (50) per hour above the machine he is working on.
—118 —
Section 8.	In order to reduce the East-West rate differential, the Company will add to all base hourly wage rates over and above any general wage increase one cent (14) per hour effective Apr! I 1,2002 one cent (1 ft) per hour effective April 1, 2003, and one cent (1ft) per hour effective April 1, 2004.
— 119 —
ARTICLE 43(a) AMD Local 254 - Madera, CA Wages of Journeymen Machine Operators
Section 1. The hourly job rates of Journeymen Machine Operators shall be as follows:
Machine		Current 4/1/01	Effective 4/1/02*	Effective Effective	
Type	Cavities			4/1/03*	4/1/04*
IS-8	Single	16.84	17.84	18.19	18.54
	Double	17.17	18.17	18.52	18.87
	Double *	17.25	18.25	18.60	18.95
	F Double	17.40	18.40	18.75	19.10
	Triple	17.60	18.60	18.95	19.30
	F Triple	17.70	18.78	19.13	19.48
IS-10	Single	17.02	18.02	18.37	18.72
	Double	17.37	18.37	18.72	19.07
	Double *	17.43	18.43	18.78	19.13
	F Double	17.57	18.57	18.92	19.27
	Triple	17.78	18.78	19.13	19.48
	F Triple	17.96	18.96	19.31	19.66
iS-12	Tandem 2 Operator 17.40		18.40	18.75	19.10
	Tandem 1 Operator 17.57		18.57	18.92	19.27
—120 —
ARTICLE 43(b) AMD Local 39 - El Monte, CA Wages of Journeymen Machine Operators
Section 1. The hourly job rates of Journeymen Machine Operators shall be as follows:
Machine Type Cavities	Current 4/1/01	Effective 4/1/02*	Effective 4/1/03*	Effective 4/1/04*
S-8 Single	17.02	18.02	18.37	18.72
Double	17.37	18.37	18.72	19.07
Double *	17.43	18.43	18.78	19.13
F Double	17.57	18.57	18.92	19.27
Triple	17.78	18.78	19.13	19.48
F Triple	17.96	18.96	19.31	19.66
IS-10 Single	17.20	18.20	18.55	18.90
Double	17.55	18.55	18.90	19.25
Double *	17.61	18.61	18.96	19.31
F Double	17.75	18.75	19.10	19.45
Triple	17.96	18.96	19.31	19.66
F Triple	18.14	19.14	19.49	19.84
Quad	18.57	19.57	19.92	20.27
IS-12 T andem 2 Operatori 7.55		18.55	18.90	19.25
Tandem 1 Operator17.95		18.95	19.30	19.65
— 121 —
ARTICLE 43(c) AMD Local 50 - Seattle Wages of Journeymen Machine Operators shall be as follows:
Machine		Current	Effective	Effective	Effective
Type	Cavities	4/1/01	4/1/02*	4/1/03*	4/1/04*
IS-8	FDX	17.47	18.47	18.82	19.17
IS-10	DX	17.63	18.63	18.98	19.33
— 122 —
ARTICLE 44 Wages of Machine Upkeep
Section 1.	The base hourly wage rates of Machine Upkeep shall be not less than one dollar ($1.00) above the highest rated machine operating in the plant.
Section 2.	The IS Specialist, Special Upkeep Person, the Upkeep Job Change Journeyman, the Upkeep Forming Machine Mechanic, the Upkeep Feederman, the Upkeep Job Setup Person, the Line Production Assistant, Machine Repair and Process Specialist shall receive a rate not less than seventy-five cents (750) above that received by the highest paid Machine Upkeep.
ARTICLE 45
Wages of Machine Repair Crew Leader
The Machine Repair Crew Leader shall receive a rate not less than fifty cents (500) above that received by the highest paid Machine Repair person.
ARTICLE 46
Wages of Other Job Classifications
Section 1.	Effective April 1,2002, the base hourly wage rates of all job classifications under the jurisdiction of this Contract, except Apprentice Machine Operators, Journeymen Machine Operators, Machine Upkeep Men and Machine Repairmen shall be increased forty cents (400) per hour and for Labor Grades 1 -16, an additional five cents (50) per hour.
Section 2.	Effective April 1,2003, the base hourly wage rates of all job classifications under the jurisdiction of this Contract, except Apprentice Machine Operators, Journey
— 123 —
men Machine Operators, Machine Upkeep Men and Machine Repairmen shall be increased thirty-five cents (35£) per hour.
Section 3.	Effective April 1,2004, the base hourly wage rates of all job classifications under the jurisdiction of this Contract, except Apprentice Machine Operators, Journeymen Machine Operators, Machine Upkeep Men and Machine Repairmen shall be increased thirty-five cents (35£) per hour.
Section 4.	Job classifications underthis Contract within each plant shall be covered by the Schedule A as installed, except Apprentice Machine Operators, Journeymen Machine Operators, Machine Upkeep Men and Machine Repairmen.
Section 5.	The Union may meet during the term of this Contract to discuss and review the Schedule A as well as any i neq u ities. Any d isputes with respect to this plant that are not settled within the Grievance Procedure, Article 29, shall be referred to a mutually selected impartial umpire who shall decide such disputes.
Section 6.	In order to reduce the East-West rate differential, the Company will add to all base hourly wage rates over and above any general wage increase one cent (1 ft) per hour effective April 1,2002, one cent (1 ft) per hour effective April 1,2003, and one cent(1£) per hour effective April 1,2004.
ARTICLE47 Wage Incentives
Section 1.	Incentive compensation is a premium paid for the effective application of skill and effort above normal. The Company recognizes the principle of sound wage incentive plans for Journeymen Machine Operators and Machine Up
— 124 —
keep, and other employees presently covered by the Company's Wage Incentive Plan where it is clear that their establishment will result in increased production and efficiency, increase the earnings of these employees, and reduce the costs of the Company.
The ability of a forming machine to produce quality ware increases as improvements are made in such factors as mold and blank design, the method and amount of cooling, the mechanical design and condition of the machine, the glass, the feederorpot operation, and the annealing process. Wage Incentive Plans for forming machines define performance levels at which incentive earnings will be paid and the amount of such payment.
The effective application of skill and effort above normal by those employees on the jobs covered by the Company’s Wage Incentive Plan in the performance of their duties is necessary in order to attain a satisfactory performance level, and it is for this reason that incentive can be paid to them on the output of the machine.
Section 2.	The Company agrees that each employee now covered by an Incentive Plan shall receive bonus earnings at the line average or his individual bonus earnings, whichever is greater.
Section 3.	On the basis of the foregoing, the Company agrees that during the term of this Contract it will either;
(a)	Maintain a sound wage incentive plan for each plant that will provide Journeymen Machine Operators, Machine Upkeep and other employees presently covered by the Company’s Wage Incentive Plan the opportunity to earn extra pay during their hours on incentive when their performance meets the defined performance levels, or
— 125 —
(b)	If the Company elects not to install such an incentive plan in any plant now under this Contract, pay twenty percent (20%) effective April 1,2002.
(c)	All employees covered by a Wage Incentive Plan will receive no less than 20% per hour in bonus for all hours worked.
The levels of performance and corresponding bonus payment will bedefined in each plant’swage incentive plan, the attainment of which should be accomplished by sound operating methods and techniques. The plants which are presently paying, or in the future pay, money in lieu of bonus may at any time install a sound wage incentive plan and discontinue such payments in lieu of bonus.
Section 4.	Each plan shall periodically, or as established by its plan, reviewand, when necessary revise its incentive plan and incentive and bonus rates. Any such changes shall be discussed with the Local Union and International Union priorto implementation.
Section 5.	Any incentive system, and any future revision thereof, shall be in accordance with the provisions of Section 1 ofthis Article. Each plantshall have available for examination as requested by a delegated representative of the Union, a copy of its incentive system and other necessary and pertinent information which may also be requested.
If the International Union finds that a plant’s incentive system does not meet the provisions of Section 1 of this Article, it may review the incentive system with the Company.
Section 6.	Ifthe Company discontinues an incentive system, in any plantunderthis Contract, it shall negotiate with the International Union the buy-out method that shall be used
— 126 —
for discontinuing the system. If the Company and the International Union are unable to agree upon the amount or method of buy-out, this matter shall be submitted to arbitration upon the request of either party. Any such buy-out shall be considered to be money in lieu of bonus for the purpose of Section 3(b).
ARTICLE 48 Cost of Living
Section 1.	During the term of this Contract, annual cost-of-living increaseswill be made on April 1,2003, and on April 1,2004, in accordance with the provisions of this Article.
Section 2.	Cost-of-living increases, if any, will be added by using the Consumer's Price Index (1967 = 100 Urban Wage Earners and Clerical Workers (revised CPI-W)). After the percentage limitations for increases set forth below have been met, the amount of any cost-of-living increase will be a one cent (.01) per hour increase for each .5 of a point rise in the Consumer’s Price Index by using the dates as set forth in this Article.
(a)	Forthe cost-of-living increase on April 1,2003, the base for the twelve month period (March, 2002, through February, 2003) will be the index for February, 2002, as reported in March, 2002. There will be no increase on April 1,2003, unless there has been six percent (6%) rise in the Consumer's Price Index on such base, and any increase on this date will be computed by excluding initially said six percent (6%).
(b)	Forthe cost-of-living increase on April 1,2004, the base for the second twelve (12) month period (March, 2003, through February, 2004) will be the
— 127 —
index for February, 2003, as reported in March, 2003. There will be no increase on April 1,2004, unless there has been a six percent (6%) rise in the Consumer's Price Index on such base, and any increase on this date will be computed by excluding initially said six percent (6%).
Section 3.	Any cost-of-living increase required under this Article will be paid on the standard hourly base rate required by this Contract and will be paid for all purposes.
ARTICLE 49 Training
When the Company introduces any new type of machinery or equipment, affected employees shall receive safety training and orientation pertaining to that machinery or equipment
ARTICLE 50
Special Combined Rate
For those employees being paid incentive earnings, the special combined rate of pay is defined as the employee’s base rate plus his average hourly Incentive rate earned In his previous work week. At no time shall the special combined rate be less than the employee’s base rate plus twenty per cent (20%) of the forming machine rate effective April 1, 2002.
The Special Combined Rate is applicable to the following Articles of this contract:
— 128 —
Article 10 -	Transfer of Employees
Article 11 -	Premium Pay
Article 16-	Holidays
Article 17 -	Vacations
Article 25 -	Military Leave
Article 26 -	Bereavement Leave
Article 27 -	Court Duty
Article 34 -	Plant Closings and Related Matters
Article 37 -	Environmental Control Program
Article 49 -	Training
ARTICLE 51 Execution
This Contract entered into and effective as of ApriM, 2002, by and between the Glass, Molders, Pottery, Plastics & Allied Workers International Union, AFL-CIO, CLC, on behalf of itself as the International Union and as agent for and on behalf of its Local Unions, and Saint-Gobain Containers Inc. for those plants listed, is hereby approved and accepted bythe Joint Conference of the Union and the Company at their conference concluded this date, and is a Union Shop Contract through which the Company recognizes the Union as the sole collective bargaining agentforail employees described in this Contract, in accordance with existing State and Federal statutes.
Standard Tools Hot End Floor Person
(1)	Channel Lock Pliers#420
Journeyman Machine Operators
(1)	Channel Lock Pliers#420
(2)	Adjustable wrench - 8" or 10”
— 129 —
(3)	Screwdriver - #6
(4)	Box end wrench - 3/4" x 7/8"
Upkeep
(1)	Same as Operator plus- 9/16" combination boxand open end wrench
(2)	1/2" combination box and open end wrench
(3)	Hacksaw - no blades
(4)	Ballpeen hammer
— 130 —
1
SCHEDULEA AMD LOCAL NO. 166 DOLTON, ILLINOIS
Job	Current Effective Effective Effective
Group Job Title Rate	4/1/02	4/1/03	4/1/04
3 Hot End Sweeper	13.865 14.525	14.885 15.245
5	Equipment and Parts Cleaner	14.065 14.725	15.085 15.445
— 131 —
SCHEDULEA AMD LOCAL NO. 121 DUNKIRK, INDIANA
Job Group Job Title	Current Rate	Effective 4/1/02	Effective Effective 4/1/03	4/1/04	
Furnace & Batch Operator	16.50	17.11	17.47	17.83
8 Forming Department Utility	14.23	14.89	15.25	15.61
— 132 —
SCHEDULEA AMD LOCAL NO. 39 EL MONTE, CALIFORNIA
Job
Group Job Title
Current Effective Effective Effective
Rate 4/1/02	4/1/03 4/1/04
Equipment and Parts
Cleaner	14.330	14.98	15.33	15.68
Oiler	14.455	15.105	15.455 15.805
— 133 —
SCHEDULEA AMD LOCAL NO. 222 HENDERSON, NORTH CAROLINA
Job Group Job Title	Current Effective Effective Effective Rate 4/1/02	4/1/03 4/1/04
6 Spare Person	14.115	14.775	15.135	15.495
— 134 —
	SCHEDULEA AMD LOCAL NO. 111 CARTERET, NJ
Job Group Job Title	Current Effective Effective Effective Rate 4/1/02	4/1/03	4/1/04
7 Utility Maintenance Worker	14.265 14.925	15.285 15.645
— 135 —
SCHEDULEA AMD LOCAL NO. 71 LINCOLN, ILLINOIS
Job	Current Effective Effective Effective
Group Job Title Rate 4/1/02	4/1/03 4/1/Q4
6 Stacker Attendant 14.115	14.775	15.135 15.495
— 136 —
SCHEDULEA AMD LOCAL NO. 75 PORT ALLEGANY, PENNSYLVANIA
Job Group Job Title		Current Rate	Effective 4/1/02	Effective Effective	
				4/1/03	4/1/04
6	Stacker Attendant	14.115	14.775	15.135	15.495
7	Mold Cleaner & Polisher	14.215	14.875	15.235	15.595
8	Mold Storage/Job Change Coordinator	14.315	14.975	15.335	15.695
13	Mold Storage Job Changer Crew Leader	14.765	15.425	15.785	16.145
— 137 —
SCHEDULEA AMD LOCAL NO. 253 RUSTON, LOUISIANA
Job	Current Effective Effective Effective
Group Job Title Rate 4/1/02	4/1/03 4/1/04
11 Production Utility 14,615 15.275	15.635	15.995
— 138 —
SCHEDULEA AMD LOCAL NO. 50 SEATTLE, WASHINGTON
Job	Current	Effective	Effective	Effective
Group	Job Title Rate	4/1/02	4/1/03	4/1/04
6	SpareHelper	14.235	14.885	15.235	15.585
— 139 —
GLASS, MOLDERS, POTTERY, PLASTICS & ALLIED WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION (AFL-CIO, CLC)
AUTOMATIC MACHINE DEPARTMENT
On behalf of itself as the International Union as agent for and on behalf of its Local Unions covered by this Contract.
Signed this 1" day of April, 2002 by:
Joseph Mitchell, Sr.
International Secretary-Treasurer
Jesse Garcia International Vice President
John Ryan
Director of Research & Education
Randy J. Gould
Executive Officer
Walter F. Thorn Executive Officer
Rickey Hunter
International Representative
— 140 —
Don Miller Local #39
Richard Waugaman
Local #50
Dave Bixler
Local #71
Kim McNeil
Local #75
Stephen Gordon Local #111
Danny Whitesell Local #121
Ronald Frye
Local #166
Philip Solomon
Local #222
Mark Singleton Local #253
— 141 —
Art Arellanes Local #254
— 142 —
SAINT-GOBAIN CONTAINERS
On behalf of Saint-Gobain Containers, signed this 1*' day of April, 2002 by:
? __________________________________________
Thomas L. McKnight Director, Labor Relations
James Harrigan
Manager, Labor Relations
Rich O’Neill
Area Manufacturing Manager
Scott Grau
Manager, Compensation and Benefits
Walter Lanford Consultant
!
Ed Block
Manager, Human Resources Lincoln, IL
— 143 —
Richard Krooswyk
Manager, Human Resources Dolton, IL
Julie Curtis
Manager, Human Resources Ruston, LA
Max Long
Manager, Human Resources
Dunkirk, IN
David F. Edwards
Manager, Human Resources
Henderson, NC
Jason L. Noble
Manager, Human Resources
Seattle, WA
Barry S. Healy
Manager, Human Resources Port Allegany, PA
— 144 —
Ginny Swanson
Manager, Human Resources Carteret, NJ
Yolanda James
Manager, Human Resources
El Monte, CA
Rich Pelisari
Manager, Human Resources Madera, CA
— 145 —

JANUARY
S M T W T F S
1 2 3
4 5 6 7 8 9 10 111213 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24
25 26 27 28 29 30 31
APRIL
S M T W T F S
1 2 3
4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24
25 26 27 2B 29 30
JULY
S M T W T F S
1 2 3
4 5 6 7 8 9 10
11 12 13 14 IS 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24
25 26 27 28 29 30 31
OCTOBER
S M T W T F S
1 2
3 4 5 6 7 8 9
10 11 12 13 14 15 16
17 IB 19 20 21 22 23
24 25 26 27 28 29 30
31
JANUARY
S M T W T F S 1
2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 1213 14 15 16 17 IB 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 APRIL
S M T W T F S 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30
JULY
S M T W T F S 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 OCTOBER
S M T W T F S 1
2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
2004
FEBRUARY
S M	T	W	T	F	S
1 2	3	4	5	6	7
8 9	10	11	12	13	14
15 16	17	18	19	20	21
22 23	24	25	26	27	26
29
MAY
S M T W T F S
1
2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 1011 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
AUGUST
S M T W T F S 12 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 1011121314 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
NOVEMBER
S M T W T F S
1 2 3 4 5 6 78 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30
2005
FEBRUARY
S M T W T F S
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28
MAY
S M	T	W	T	F S
1 2	3	4	5	6 7
8 9	10	11	12	13 14
15 16	17	18	19	20 21
22 23	24	25	26	27 28
29 30 31
AUGUST
S M T W T F S
1 2 3 4 5 6 78 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
NOVEMBER
S M T W T F S
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30
MARCH
S M T W T F S 1 2 3 4 5 6
7 8 9 10 11 12 13
14 15 16 17 18 19 20
21 22 23 24 25 26 27
28 29 30 31
JUNE
S M T W T F S
1 2 3 4 5
6 7 8 9 10 11 12
13 14 15 16 17 18 19
20 21 22 23 24 25 26
27 28 29 30
SEPTEMBER
S M T W T F S
12 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11
■12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30
DECEMBER S M T W T F S
12 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
MARCH
S M T W T F S 1 2 3 4 5
6 7 8 9 10 II 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
JUNE S M T W T F S
12 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11
12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25
26 27 28 29 30
SEPTEMBER
S M T W T F S 1 2 3
4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24
25 26 27 28 29 30
DECEMBER SM T W T F S 1 2 3
4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17
18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31