CEMENT MASONS AGREEMENT BETWEEN LOCAL #692 - AREA #121 OF LAFAYETTE INDIANA AND
THE TRADE DIVISION OF
THE ASSOCIATED BUILDING CONTRACTORS OF LAFAYETTE, INC.
THIS AGREEMENT, entered into this 1st day of June 2008 by and between The TRADE DIVISION OF ASSOCIATED BUILDING CONTRACTORS OF LAFAYETTE, INC., hereinafter known as Party of the First Part and LOCAL UNION NO.692 - AREA 121 OF THE OPERATIVE CEMENT MASONS INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATION, hereinafter known as Party of the Second Part:
SECTION 1
BARGAINING UNIT
The Bargaining Unit shall be composed of all employees engaged in the work described in this Agreement as belonging to the Operative Cement Masons and Cement Masons International Association, Local 692 - Area 121, Counties of Benton, Carroll, Cass, Clinton, Fountain, Howard, Miami, Montgomery, Tippecanoe, Warren, White, and the northern portion of Vermillion as far south as the Fountain and Park County line.
SECTION 2 RECOGNITION
The Employer recognizes the Union as the sole and exclusive collective bargaining representative of all individuals in the employ of the Employer with respect to wages, hours and other terms and conditions of employment on any and all work described in Section 12 of this Agreement. The Union recognizes the Employer as consisting of The Trade Division of Associated Building Contractors of Lafayette, Inc. as the sole Bargaining representative for the contractors in the area covered by this Agreement.
SECTION 3
NON-DISCRIMINATION
No term of this Agreement shall be applied to discriminate against an employee or applicant for employment based on consideration of his race, creed, color, sex, age, or national origin. The parties shall comply with applicable federal and state statutes and the orders and regulations issued by the administrative agencies of competent jurisdiction to bar said discrimination.
SECTION 4
WAGE SCALE
The wages for Cement Masons shall be the amount set forth in Appendix A, Wages and Benefits of this Agreement as specified for Cement Masons and Cement Mason Foreman.
Employees not receiving their proper wages of pay shall be entitled to receive a late fee payment equivalent to four (4) hours compensation (wages but not benefits) at the proper straight time rate of pay for each full twenty-four (24) hour waiting period that proper payment is delayed. The total late fee payment shall not exceed the total amount of wages in dispute. When special circumstances exist relative to honest or clerical mistakes by Employers, overtime hours, weekend work or payment to Employees during situations when the Employer’s payroll department may be closed, the checks should be prepared and furnished within eight (8) hours after the resumption of the first normal business day following receipt of written notification to the Employer that the proper wages have not been paid, and then the penalty shall not apply. Written notice may be delivered to the Employer via hand, facsimile or certified mail. Any Employer that has gone six (6) months without failing to make proper payment to its Employees shall be deemed to have made an honest or clerical mistake pursuant to this paragraph so long as the check is prepared and furnished within eight (8) hours after the resumption of the first normal business day following receipt of written notification to the Employer that the proper wages have not been paid. This paragraph is intended to deal with unwarranted delays in payment to Employees, and is not intended to apply to good faith disputes over how wages are to be calculated.
SECTION 5 VACATION PLAN
All Employers agree to deduct the amount as set forth in “Appendix A” for each hour worked for each employee.
All such monies thus withheld shall be deposited by the fifteenth (15th) day of each month for the previous month’s withholding (by full work weeks) in the Indiana State Council of Cement Masons and Cement Masons Health & Welfare Fund (ISC P&CM H&W Fund). All such monies deposited will be credited to the individual employee’s account. It is the intent that withdrawals will be made automatically once a year and allowing one emergency withdraw once a year.
All emergency withdrawals will require the signature of the Employee and that of the Business Representative of the Union.
Any information regarding the fund, withdrawals, etc., will be available to the Employers at all times.
If the deposit of any Employer fails to reach the Indiana State Council of Cement Masons and Cement Masons Health & Welfare Fund on or before the fifteenth (15th) of each month
2
following the month being reported by said Employer, the Business Representative may immediately remove all employees in his jurisdiction from said Employer until said deposit is made.
The Union agrees that the fund accumulations will be used by all employees for vacation purposes.
SECTION 6
HEALTH & WELFARE FUND
All Employers agree to contribute the amount as set forth in “Appendix A” for each hour worked for each employee. The word Employee shall mean all employees of said Employers. Said contribution shall be made into a general fund hereinafter known as the “Indiana State Council of Cement Masons and Cement Masons Health and Welfare Fund”.
Said fund shall be administered as provided in Section No. 302 of the Taft-Hartley Act, as amended, to wit: An equal number of trustees shall be appointed by the Employers and the Union. An impartial Trustee shall be appointed by the Employers and the Union. Said fund shall be maintained only for the purpose of purchasing the following, but not limited to the following, insurance benefits for and on behalf of said employees:
A.	Group Term Life Insurance
B.	Disability Benefits
C.	Hospital, Surgical and Medical Care
Said contribution shall be paid into the fund monthly, not later than the fifteenth (15th) day following the close of any month thereafter.
Should either the State or Federal Government pass legislation mandating all Employers to participate in a national or statewide health care plan, it is agreed by the Parties to this Agreement to automatically open this Agreement within thirty (30) days of such passage to discuss same.
SECTION 7
PENSION PLAN
All Employers agree to pay the amount as set forth in “Appendix A” for each hour worked for which the employee is paid into a Pension Fund. The contributions of the Employers shall be used exclusively to provide PENSION benefits to eligible employees in such form and amount as the trustees of the Pension Fund may determine and the organization and administration expenses of the Pension Fund.
The said Pension Fund shall be administered pursuant to an Agreement and Declaration of Trust administered jointly by an equal number of representatives of the Employers and the
3
Union, which Agreement and Declaration of Trust shall conform to all requirements of law. A copy of said Agreement and Declaration of Trust, together with any amendments thereto shall be considered as part of this Agreement.
SECTION 8 APPRENTICESHIP TRAINING FUND-CONTRIBUTIONS
The Employer agrees to contribute the amount as set forth in Appendix A for each hour worked or paid for to employees covered by this agreement. Payment to be made in the manner prescribed by the Board of Trustees of the Apprenticeship Fund and shall commence on the date of the establishment of the Fund and selection of the Trustees. Notice of start of fund shall be sent in writing to all Employers signatory to this Agreement.
SECTION 9
HOURLY DUES DEDUCTION CLAUSE AND WORKING DUES DEDUCTION
Each separate Employer agrees that upon receipt of written authorization from an employee occupying a position included in the bargaining unit, he shall deduct from the wages the amount as set forth in “Appendix A” for each hour worked for journeymen and apprentices, and pay to the Indiana State Council of Cement Masons and Cement Masons Health & Welfare Fund by the fifteenth (15th) day of the following month.
Written authorization shall be irrevocable for a period of more than one year, or beyond the termination date of the Collective Bargaining Agreement in effect between the Employer and the Union at the time of the making of such written assignment: however, that any employee making such a written authorization may agree and direct therein that the authorization and direction embodied therein shall be automatically renewed, and shall be irrevocable for successive periods of one year each or for the period of each succeeding applicable Collective Bargaining Agreement between the Employer and the Union, whichever shall be shorter, unless written notice is given by the employee to the Employer and the Union any time during a period of ten days prior to the expiration of each period of one year, or of each applicable Collective Bargaining Agreement between the Employer and the Union, whichever occurs sooner.
All such written authorizations and all withdrawals, cancellations and modifications thereof, shall be valid and effective, notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained therein or herein, only if transmitted to the Employer through the Secretary-Treasurer of the Union.
WORKING DUES DEDUCTION
The EMPLOYER agrees to DEDUCT Working & International Dues from the wages of Employees covered by this Agreement and working in the jurisdiction of Local 692. The amount shall be established by the Union in accordance with their Constitution & By-Laws. Said
4
deduction shall only be made from the employee’s wages after the employer has been furnished a proper authorization card. The dues deduct shall be remitted to the appropriate check-off fund, which is the Indiana State Plasterers & Cement Masons Health & Welfare Fund (ISC P&CM H&W FUND), as the collection agency for Local 692.
SECTION 10 TOP NOTCH
The parties to this Agreement agree to participate in Top Notch of Greater Lafayette, Inc., through contributions not to exceed one cent ($0.01) per hour worked by each employee covered by this Agreement. This Labor/Management Cooperation Committee which is a not-for-profit corporation governed by a Board of Directors consisting of equal numbers of Union and Employer representatives. Details of this Committee are contained in the Articles of Incorporation and By-Laws of the Organization and are made part of this Agreement by reference.
SECTION 11 REPORTING CONTRIBUTIONS AND DEDUCTIONS
ALL MONIES, Health & Welfare, Pension, Apprentice Training, Top Notch, Vacation, and Working Dues shall be combined into one check made payable to the Indiana State Council of Cement Masons & Cement Masons Health & Welfare Fund. The reporting forms and check must be mailed to Morris Associates, P.O. BOX 50440, Indianapolis, Indiana 46250 NOT LATER than the tenth (10th) of each month. If not received by the fifteenth (15th) of the month, the Business Representative may remove all Employees in his jurisdiction from said Employer until the reports and check are received.
Any Employer or Contractor who becomes a party to this Collective Bargaining Agreement may be required to post a SURETY BOND to guarantee or indemnify the Local Union for payment of wages or contributions to fringe benefits and deductions as provided by this agreement. The amount of SURETY BOND to be set in sum total may vary as to the number of Employees hired by each Contractor. Said Bond shall be returned to the Contractor after job or jobs are completed, providing, however any monies owed to the Employee or Union will be deducted and any excess money returned to the Contractor. The minimum of BOND is Ten Thousand ($10,000.00) Dollars to be paid fifteen (15) days after the Agreement is signed.
No Cement Mason shall work for any Contractor who does not sign the Assent of Participation Welfare forms.
5
SECTION 12 PAYROLL REPORTING FORMS & IRCA EVS-FORMS
The Cement Masons shall provide to the Employer a combined form covering all contributions and deductions from wages on one form. This form shall include the following:
1.	Health & Welfare Fund
2.	Pension Plan
3.	Vacation Plan Deduction
4.	Hourly Dues Deduction
5.	Apprentice Training Fund
6.	Top Notch of Greater Lafayette
DOCUMENTATION AND VERIFICATION
The Employer and Union will work cooperatively to assure that both parties comply with their legal responsibilities under the Immigration and Reform and Control Act of 1986. In so doing, the Union will request from each Employee before referring them to an Employer, documentation which establishes citizenship or other legal status to work in the United States. These documents shall be any of the documents, which are allowed under the regulations promulgated under IRCA. This section may be amended mutually when regulations are finalized on these requirements.
SECTION 13 EMERGENCY REVISIONS TO TRUSTS
It is agreed that in the event the Trustees of the funds outlined in Sections 5, 6, 7, 8, and 9, deem an emergency exists and an increase is necessary in a particular fund to continue the same benefits during the terms of this Agreement, the Union shall have the right upon thirty (30) days written notice to renegotiate the distribution of money within the wage and fringe total package to accomplish the adjustment.
SECTION 14 WORKING HOURS & OVERTIME
A.	The project starting time shall be established in the Pre-Job Conference (Article 16). Once established, the project starting time shall not be changed without mutual consent of both parties, however, f or special conditions with reference to concrete pours, placement, etc., starting time will be adjusted to the mutual consent of the Employer and Cement Mason employees.
6
B.	If an employee is required to start work prior to the regular starting time established in the Pre-Job Conference, said employee shall receive one and one-half (1-1/2) times the regular rate of pay for each hour worked prior to the regular starting time.
C.	A lunch period of thirty (30) minutes shall be established between the three and one-half (3-1/2) and fifth (5th) hours. When employee or employees are required to take their lunch period after the fifth (5th) hour, said employee or employees shall be paid at one and one-half (11/2) the regular rate of pay for the thirty (30) minute lunch period.
D.	It is agreed and understood that employees covered by this Agreement will be paid at the rate of time and one-half (1 1/2) for work performed over eight (8) hours per day, Monday through Friday, and all work on Saturdays. All work performed on Sundays shall be at double (2x) time rate.
SECTION 15 HOLIDAYS
All work performed on Sunday and Holidays shall be at double (2x) the regular wage rate on a voluntary basis. Holidays shall be New Years Day, Memorial Day, Fourth of July, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day, day after Thanksgiving and Christmas Day.
SECTION 16
MAINTENANCE WORK
Maintenance shall be work performed for the repair, renovation, revamp, and upkeep of property, machinery and equipment within the limits of the plant property.
Maintenance work performed after regular working hours on Monday through Friday and on Saturdays shall be at time and one-half (1-1/2) of the regular hourly rate.
SECTION 17
PRE - JOB CONFERENCE
Upon written request by either party, a pre-job conference will be held prior to the time the employees of such Employer begins work on the project.
SECTION 18 SHIFT WORK
The employer may elect to work not in excess of three (3) shifts. No work shall be considered shift work under this Section unless two (2) or more shifts are worked for a period of three (3) consecutive days, except when the period required is broken by Sundays, holidays, an
7
act of God, inclement weather or strike. If the shift is broken before such three days, the applicable overtime rate will apply.
When shifts are required, the first shall work eight (8) hours at the regular straight time rate. The second shift shall work seven and one-half (7-1/2) hours and receive eight (8) hours pay at the regular straight time rate and eight (8) hours fringe benefits plus three percent (3%) shift pay. The third shift shall work seven (7) hours and receive eight (8) hours pay at the regular straight time rate and eight (8) hours fringe benefits plus six percent (6%) shift pay.
When employees are required to work overtime on the first shift, they shall be paid the established overtime rate of pay for all hours worked in excess of eight (8) hours on any one (1) shift.
When employees are required to work overtime on the second shift, they shall be paid the established overtime rate of pay for all hours worked in excess of seven and one-half (7-1/2) hours. Fringes shall be paid on all hours worked.
When employees are required to work overtime on the third shift, they shall be paid the established overtime rate of pay for all hours worked in excess of seven (7) hours. Fringes shall be paid on all hours worked.
When an employee is required to work overtime, the Employer will be obligated to continue paying the applicable overtime rate until the employee has had an eight (8) hour break.
SECTION 19
SHOW-UP TIME
A member of Local 692 - Area 121 who is called to a job and not permitted to work through no fault of his own, and with weather permitting, will be allowed two (2) hours pay for Reporting Time provided he remains on the job to perform whatever work may be assigned him.
If job is cancelled because of inclement weather, Business Agent or Union approved designee must be notified at least two (2) hours before stating time. Two (2) hours show-up time must then be paid.
The Employer shall not be obliged to pay any workman appearing for work if failure to work is due to power failure, fire, explosion, acts of God, civil disorders, vandalism, or a work stoppage by another trade, and unsafe project conditions beyond Contractors control.
If an employee actually starts work (Reporting Time not included), he shall receive four (4) hours pay. If an employee works over four (4) hours, he shall be paid for eight (8) hours provided he stays on the job and works under the trade jurisdiction of the Cement Mason, except in cases of inclement weather, power failure, fire, explosion, acts of God, civil disorder, vandalism, a work stoppage by another trade, or on an overtime day, if he has been ordered to work.
8
Except in the case of an emergency, when a Cement Mason is called to work between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 12:00 noon, his time shall start at the designated starting time.
SHOW UP TIME FOR SLIP FORM WORK
An employee who is called to a job and not permitted to work shall receive two (2) hours pay for Reporting Time, unless failure to work is due to power failure, fire, explosion, acts of God, civil disorders, vandalism, or a work stoppage by another trade.
SECTION 20 FOREMAN
Where three or more men are employed on a job, a Foreman is required and his rate of pay shall be one dollar (1.50) per hour more than the regular Cement Mason’s scale.
When making a pour and there are ten (10) or more men on a job, a second foreman must be appointed and must be a member of Local 692 - Area 121. The second foreman shall be a working foreman and receive one dollar (1.00) per hour over the journeyman rate.
SECTION 21
EMPLOYMENT QUALIFICATIONS
No Cement Mason of Local 692 - Area 121, while he remains a member of this Local and subject to employment by Employers operating under an Agreement with Local 692 - Area 121 shall himself become a Contractor for the performance of cement masonry work. Cement Masons shall work only for recognized and qualified Contractors or Employers who supply all material and labor and who carry reliable compensation and liability insurance on their employees and who also conform to all municipal and state regulations pertaining to health and safety regulations.
If a Cement Mason of Local 692 - Area 121 is employed by a Contractor not signatory to this Agreement or if the Cement Mason of Local 692 - Area 121 becomes a Contractor for performance of cement masonry work in violation of this Section 21, he shall be reprimanded to the full extreme under the By-Laws of the International Constitution by fine, suspension, expulsion, or such other penalty as the Executive Board recommends.
SECTION 22
DRUG TESTING PROGRAM
The Union and the Association, and/or signatory Employer, hereby agree that the Drug and Alcohol Testing Program (“Program”) administered by the Indiana Union Construction Industry Substance Abuse Trust is incorporated by reference herein and made a part of this Agreement.
9
The Trustees of the Program shall have the authority to amend the terms of the Program to which employees working under this Agreement will be subject. The Program will be funded by contribution to the Trust, which will be established by the Trustees of the Program. The Trustees of the Program shall have the authority to determine the amount to be contributed at any rate up to ten ($0.10) cents per hour depending on the Trustees’ assessment of the amount needed to fund the Program adequately to fulfill its purposes. Once the rate has been set, the Trustees may adjust the rate of contribution from time to time within the parameters set forth above, provided the Trustees give the Employer at least sixty (60) days’ notice of any such adjustment. It is agreed that the Employer contribution to this fund is not part of the wage/fringe package under this Agreement, but it is instead a separate additional contribution made by the Employer solely to fund the Program. Accordingly, the establishment or adjustment of the rate of contribution by the Trustees shall not affect the wage rates or the amounts set forth for contributions to fringes benefit funds under this Agreement. No Employee shall show up for or stay on any job when under the influence of alcohol or drugs. Any Employee found under the influence of alcohol or drugs shall be sent home immediately, without pay. This shall be considered just cause for termination. The Steward shall be notified immediately of this action.
SECTION 23 HIRING
The Employer, in requesting Cement Masons from Local 692 - Area 121 must make such request twenty-four (24) hours in advance of the time the Cement Masons are to report for work. Although Cement Masons are notified by the Union of the availability of work, the Employer must actually screen and hire employees at job site wholly without any reference or referral from the Union.
SECTION 24 STEWARD
The Union shall select a Shop Steward from among the employees on all jobs covered by the Collective Bargaining Agreement. It shall be the Steward’s duty to report any violation of the terms of the Collective Bargaining Agreement to the Union and he shall not be discriminated against for the performance of such duties.
SECTION 25
WORKING CONDITIONS
Both Cement Masons and Employers shall abide by the following rules of Local 692-Area 121:
1.	There shall be no limitation as to the amount of work an employee may perform in a day. All work shall be done in a good and workmanlike manner and the Employer shall allow a reasonable amount of time to have the same done.
10
2.	Whenever a troweling machine is operated on any floor, sidewalk, loading dock, or any flat surface where cement, concrete, or other plastic material is being placed or finished, employees covered by this contract shall hand trowel the final operation unless specifications state otherwise.
3.	The Foreman shall be the agent of his Employer and the Union recognizes the right of the Employer to delegate to his foreman the right to employ or discharge any or all employees subject to the provisions of this Agreement.
4.	It shall be the function of the Foreman to tell the worker what to do and to see that the work is properly done. He shall be responsible for the placing of men, assigning their tasks, selecting proper material and tools, maintaining safer working conditions and planning and effecting efficient execution of work.
5.	No Cement Mason shall take orders from anyone but the Cement Mason Foreman. In the absence of a Mason Foreman, he shall take orders only from the job’s main superintendent. No Cement Mason shall act as Foreman on more than one job at the same time.
6.	Any employee covered by this Agreement, transferred from one job to another during working hours for same Employer shall be transferred on the Employer’s time.
7.	Any time a Cement Mason has to wait for, or go to some other place to collect his wages, he shall receive two (2) hours pay more at the regular scale. Wages shall be paid on regular stated pay day, specified by the Company. When laid off or discharged or upon completion of a job, employees shall be paid at once unless mailing a check is allowed by the employee, then it must be mailed the following work day.
8.	When employees are laid off or discharged between the hours of 6:00 p.m. Friday through 8:00 a.m. Monday, the employee will be paid by 11:00 a.m. Monday unless special arrangements are made with the Employer. This in no way supersedes the Employer’s requirement to pay the regular scheduled payday or layoff as outlined above.
9.	Cement Masons working on overtime shall be allowed to have lunch period every four (4) hours while they are on overtime and shall not be docked, on their time, for said lunch time. Lunch time is not to interfere with their work.
10.	When Cement Masons are working on overtime, they shall be paid overtime until the piece of work they are working on is completed, regardless of the hour or day it is completed. There shall be sufficient Cement Masons retained on overtime to finish the floor or pour properly and 50% shall be Local 692 - Area 121 members. A concerted effort shall be made to divide all overtime on a project equally among the Cement Masons on that project. When Cement Masons are waiting on a floor to be finished, they shall not be expected to do odd jobs between applications of finishing said floor or pour, unless to set screeds, expansion, or bulkheads f or the next pour.
11
11.	At no time will a Cement Mason be responsible for any job where the Superintendent, Foreman, or Contractor pours more concrete than he can take care of under prevailing conditions. No concrete shall be poured that is to be finished by Cement Masons unless there is a sufficient number of Cement Masons present to take care of said pour.
12.	When heat is used in concrete to be finished and the Cement Masons considers the concrete to be too hot, the Contractor shall assume all responsibility for the finished results. Accelerants and retarders may be used in the concrete if mutually agreed upon by the job superintendent, Cement Finisher Foreman and Steward.
13.	All mechanical floats and bull floats shall be manned by Cement Masons. Any straight edge over eight (8’) feet in length shall require two Cement Masons.
14.	All members must do their work in a good and workmanlike manner and it shall be the duty of the President, Executive Board Chairman, Business Representative, and members to see that no work is being done in a hurry-up style. Any member doing un-workmanlike work in his own account is liable, after fair trial to a fine of twenty-five ($25.00) to fifty ($50.00) dollars or expulsion.
15.	If any member is sent to a job and is refused work on account of upholding the rights of the Unions, the Contractor shall be refused Masons until this member is put back to work. When a pour is started without a Mason being employed, said job shall be unfair to the Local and when a Mason is called out to said pour, he shall be paid the difference in wages from the time the pour is started until he arrives on said job.
16.	No Cement Mason shall work with a Laborer or any other craftsman doing his work, or with any other Cement Mason from some other Local that has not reported in to the Secretary or Business Representative. Any Journeyman Cement Mason from other locals not reporting in will be fined one (1) days pay for the first offense and two (2) days pay for the second offense.
17.	The Cement Mason shall do all the work set forth in the Cement Masons Trade Jurisdiction attached to, but not a part of this Agreement, and all Cement Masons shall see that this is enforced. (See Section 25 - Jurisdiction.)
18.	When grinding within a small enclosed area, there must be an exhaust or ventilation fan.
19.	When working with materials with a high amount of fumes and acid base that is detrimental to health or injurious to skin or clothing, the men shall receive fifty (.50) cents per hour over Journeyman’s rate. When a project is being worked under a General President’s Agreement or a Project Agreement that emanates premium pay, this paragraph is not applicable.
20.	Any member working on a job for the benefit of the overtime in finishing floors and the like shall not quit the job until the work is finished as far as cement finishing is concerned of said construction.
12
SECTION 26 JURISDICTION
The jurisdiction of work referred to in this contract and attachment is the jurisdiction of work claimed by the Union and nothing contained herein shall make it mandatory for the Employer to accept the claims or jurisdiction as being binding upon him. The Employer does not waive any of his rights by permitting the attachment of the Jurisdiction of Work to this Contract.
SECTION 27
JURISDICTIONAL DISPUTES
The Employer agrees to respect the jurisdiction of the Union and shall not make a written or a permanent assignment of work to other trades without first affording parties to the disputed work an opportunity to present evidence substantiating their claims. The Employer does not waive any of his rights by permitting the attachment of Jurisdiction of Work to this Contract.
SECTION 28
LOCAL MANPOWER REQUIREMENTS
In the interest of providing an opportunity of employment for all qualified Journeyman Cement Masons while at the same time securing a fair distribution of employment for those journeymen who reside within the area covered by this Agreement, it is agreed that at all times during the progress of any and all jobs, 50% of the Cement Masons, if available, employed by the Contractor, plus the odd man, if any, shall have been members of the Local covered by this Agreement for the six (6) months preceding employment. The remaining 50% of the working force may be residents of the area or non-residents at the discretion of the Contractor.
With reference to local Project Agreements, it is agreed that at all times during the progress of the Project, 80% of the Cement Masons, if available, employed by the Contractor, plus the odd man, if any, shall have been members of the Local covered by this Agreement for the six months preceding employment. The remaining 20% of the working force may be residents of the area or non-residents at the discretion of the Contractor.
SECTION 29 APPRENTICESHIP
The Apprenticeship and Training Program is an organized, written plan embodying the terms and conditions of employment and training, and supervision of one or more apprentices, designated as Apprenticeship Standards for Cement Masons Local #692 - Area #121.
There will be a State Joint Apprenticeship Committee consisting of the “BOARD OF TRUSTEES” of the Agreement and Declaration of Trust.
13
There shall be an Area Joint Apprenticeship and Training Committee, with equal representation from the Employers and Union, and this Committee shall administer the Apprentice and Training programs for its Area. The “ Duties of the Joint Apprenticeship Committee” are written in the Apprenticeship Standards.
The Area Joint Apprenticeship Committee shall have full power to act on matters pertaining to the transferring of apprentice(s) from one job to another in order to provide diversity of training and work opportunities.
One Apprentice shall be allowed each Employer for the first Journeyman Cement Mason working on the job and one (1) additional apprentice to each three (3) journeyman cement masons working on the job. The ratio may be waived by the Local Joint Apprenticeship Committee for a temporary time if the need arises. The State Board of Trustees Coordinator shall be notified as to the waived ratio and the period of time it is to be in effect.
All Apprentices must attend all schooling and/or off the job training required by the relevant Area Joint Apprenticeship & Training Committee.
On any job where two (2) or more journeymen are working, Local Union #692 - Area #121 reserves the right to place one (1) apprentice on such job.
The Apprenticeship Standards may be registered with the Bureau of Apprenticeship and Training, Employment Training Administration, and the U S Department of Labor.
WAGES FOR APPRENTICES
The following minimum rates will be paid apprentices:
Period	1 -	0	to	800 hours	- 60%	of Cement Mason’s rate
Period	2 - 801	to	1600 hours	- 70%	of Cement Mason’s rate
Period	3 - 1601	to	2400 hours	- 75%	of Cement Mason’s rate
Period	4 - 2401	to	3200 hours	- 80%	of Cement Mason’s rate
Period	5 - 3201	to	4000 hours	- 85%	of Cement Mason’s rate
Period	6 - 4001	to	4800 hours	- 90%	of Cement Mason’s rate
Period	7 - 4801	to	5600 hours	- 95%	of Cement Mason’s rate
APPRENTICESHIP & TRAINING TRUST FUND
The parties’ signatory to this Collective Bargaining Agreement shall enter in to a Joint Apprenticeship and Training Trust Fund Agreement, which shall conform to Section 302 of the Labor Management Act of 1947, as amended.
All EMPLOYERS subject to the terms of this agreement shall contribute the amount set forth in Section four (4) of this agreement for each hour worked by all employees for the purpose of maintaining the APPRENTICESHIP & TRAINING PROGRAM.
14
SECTION 30
MEMBERSHIP
All employees who are members of the Union on the effective date of this Agreement shall be required to remain members of the Union as a condition of employment during the terms of this Agreement. New employees shall be required to become and remain members of the Union as a condition of employment from and after the eighth (8th) day following the dates of their employment, or the effective date of this Agreement, whichever is later.
SECTION 31
MOST FAVORED NATION
Should the Union at any time hereafter enter into an Agreement either verbally or in writing, with any Employer (including an Owner) operating within the jurisdiction of the Union with terms and conditions more advantageous to such Employer, or should the Union in the case of any Employer which has agreed in writing or verbally countenance a course of conduct by such Employer enabling it to operate under more advantageous terms and conditions than is provided for in this Agreement, the Employer, party to this Agreement, shall be privileged to adopt, and the Union shall grant such advantageous terms and conditions, provided the Employer has sent written notice to the Union calling the matter to its attention. The only exception to Section 30 will be for International Association of Cement Mason Agreements.
SECTION 32 ARBITRATION
1.	A joint Arbitration Board shall be created for promoting harmony, resolving differences as to interpretation or application of this Agreement, or averting disputes and recommending means of settlements or such other problems as may arise.
2.	In the event that a dispute cannot be justified within four (4) three working by the Steward and/or the Business Representative and the Employer’s Representative and/or the Employer, the same shall be referred to a Board of Arbitration. Said Board shall be made up of three (3) representatives of the Employer and three (3) representatives designated by the Union. This Board shall convene no later than ten (10) working days after the dispute has been referred to it.
3.	In the event that the Arbitration Board is unable by majority vote to agree, they shall submit the dispute to an impartial arbitrator chosen by the Board. If the Board is unable to agree upon an impartial arbitrator within the two (2) days, they shall select an arbitrator appointed by the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service. This decision of the impartial arbitrator shall be final and binding on both parties.
4.	The cost of arbitration shall be borne jointly by the parties provided, however, each party shall pay any expense incurred in the presentation of its case.
15
5.	All disputes between the parties regarding the interpretation or performance of any of the terms or conditions of this Agreement, shall be submitted to arbitration in the manner provided herein, except such disputed complaints or grievances as arise out of failure or refusal of the Employer to comply with the provisions of the Recognition and Union Clauses contained in Section 2 or refusal of the Employer to pay wage rates and fringe benefits as provided for in Section 4 of this Agreement.
6.	There shall be no strikes or lockouts pending the deliberation and decisions of the Joint Arbitration Board.
SECTION 33
WAGE AND/OR PRICE CONTROL CONTINGENCY
The Contractor and the Union hereby agree that should wage and/or price controls be implemented by the federal or state government or Presidential Executive Order, in whatever form, both parties will abide by the decision as rendered by that government body or Presidential Decree.
SECTION 34
FAMILY MEDICAL LEAVE ACT
The Employer and the Union recognize that certain individual employers bound by the Agreement may be, from time to time, subject to the requirements set forth under the Family Medical Leave Act (“Act”) and that, from time to time, these individual employers may have bargaining unit employees who are qualified under said “ Act”. In the event a qualified employee requests and obtains a leave of absence under the “ Act”, the employee’s Employer shall pay the premium required by the Health and Welfare Fund recognized in the Agreement and shall do so in the manner set by that Fund.
SECTION 35
CEMENT MASON’S TRADE JURISDICTION
All concrete construction, including foremanship of the same, such as buildings, bridges, silos, elevators, smoke stacks, curbs and gutters, sidewalks, streets and roads, paving, alleys and roofs, of mass or reinforced concrete slabs and flat surfaces of cement. The operation and control of all types of vacuum mats used in the drying of cement floors in preparing same for finish, the operation of power driven floats and troweling machines, the operation of laser screeds and all vibrating screeds shall be that of the Cement Mason. The finishing or washing of all concrete construction, using any color pigment when mixed with cement, in any other form, mosaic and nail coat whether done by brush, broom, trowel, float, or any other process including operation of machine for scoring floors, or any other purpose they may be used for in connection with Cement Mason’s Trade. The rodding, spreading and tamping of all concrete and the spreading and finishing of all top materials, sills, coping, steps, stairs, and risers, running all cement, and
16
plastic material 6” base or less shall be the work of the Cement Mason, all preparatory work on concrete construction to be finished or rubbed, such as cutting of nails, wires, wall ties, etc., patching, brushing, chipping bush-hammering, rubbing or grinding if done by machine or carborundum stone of all concrete construction, the setting of screeds of lumber, metal or other materials to determine the proper grade of concrete, when used to serve as forms, such as 2 by 4’s, or other plain pieces of materials, when held in place by stakes and or spreaders shall be done by Cement Masons. Any bulkhead that is one single board in height, and that has no key attached or which is not notched or fitted shall be set and braced or staked by Cement Mason, providing same is used as a screed. The pointing and patching and caulking around all steel or metal window frames that touch concrete. The operation of all gas or electric powered concrete saws when used for cutting a definite line where new concrete must be joined to old concrete. Also when used for the purpose of cutting joints or expansion joints in floors, sidewalks, driveways, roads, streets and alleys, or for any decorative purposes. The setting or nailing of all expansion joint materials when used for the purpose of grading concrete when taking place of a screed.
The laying and finishing of gypsum material roof. The spreading and finishing of latex materials when used for patching or leveling floors. All dry packing, grouting and finishing in connection with setting all machinery such as engines, pumps, generators, air compressors, tanks, leveling plates, etc., that is set on concrete foundations. All prefabricated and pre-stressed concrete construction on the job site and in the shop, including the supervision of same, such as sidewalks, steps, floor slabs, beams, joists, walls and columns, also the screeding, finishing, rubbing, grouting, pointing and patching of same. The straight edging and, or finishing of all foundations and walls when poured to a definite grade.
The preparation on any surface to receive epoxy coatings, such as, sandblasting, scar-faring, acid etching, bush hammering, or any other method, shall be the work of the Cement Mason, also the application of epoxy coatings by trowel or roller shall be the work of the Cement Mason.
The curing of finished concrete wherever necessary, whether by chemical compounds or otherwise, shall be part of the jurisdiction of the Cement Mason. The hardening of all concrete where chemicals are used.
The spreading, screeding, darbying, trowel finishing of all types of magnesium oxychloride cement composition floors, magnesite composition floors shall be the work of the cement mason, including all types of oxychloride granolithic or terrazzo composition floors, hand grinding or machine grinding, the preparation of all sub-floor surfaces, bonding, the preparation and installation of ground or base courses, steps and cove base. The purpose and intent of the six inch base law will not by defeated. All magnesite composition installation work of the O.P.C.M.I.A. shall be done under the supervision of a competent and qualified magnesite composition cement mason.
The above does not include any work done in and by the usual method of plastering or shop crafts.
17
Cement Masons claim the waterproofing of all work included in the jurisdiction such as ironite, hydrocide or mastic and any similar products, regardless of the tools used or the method of application, or color of materials used and regardless of the type of base these materials may be applied to. The placing and bedding of all perforated metal tile in concrete or grout.
Cement Masons claim the pouring, straight edging and finishing of all Pervious Concrete regardless of the type of finish applied or tools used.
18
SIGNATURE PAGE
THIS AGREEMENT to continue in full force and effect from the first full pay period after June 1, 2008 through May 31, 2011 and likewise year to year thereafter unless either party desiring a change on Agreement shall notify the other party in writing of such desires ninety (90) days prior to June 1, 2011.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement effective June 1, 2008.
THE TRADE DIVISION OF
THE ASSOCIATED BUILDING CONTRACTORS OF LAFAYETTE, INC.
CEMENT MASONS
LOCAL 692 - AREA 121
BRUCE JANSSEN - BUSINESS AGENT (765) 474-3399 2535 S. 30th Street
Lafayette, Indiana 47905
19
APPENDIX A WAGES AND BENEFITS
SECTION 4 OPERATIVE PLASTERERS & CEMENT MASONS LOCAL #692 - AREA #121 LAFAYETTE INDIANA
CEMENT MASONS
June 1, 2008 through May 31, 2009
Section 1. Wages and Benefits
The following amounts outlined for each Area shall be paid for each hour worked by each employee.
Area 121
Journeyman	$	24.25
Foreman	$	25.75
2nd Foreman (10 or more)	$	25.25
Health and Welfare	$	5.00
Pension	$	5.20
Apprenticeship Fund	$	0.40
Top Notch	$	0.01
Drug Testing Program	$	0.07
Vacation Pay	(Deduct)	$	2.00
Working Assessment (Deduct)	$	1.57
International Assessment (Deduct)	$	0.35
TOTAL PACKAGE	$	34.93
Effective June 1, 2009 there will be a one dollar and twenty cent ($1.20) increase to be disbursed as voted by the membership
Effective June 1, 2010 there will be a one dollar and twenty cent ($1.20) increase to be disbursed as voted by the membership.
The contribution rates set forth under Section 4, Appendix A, for each hour worked covered by this Agreement for Area 121 for Health & Welfare, Pension, Vacation Apprenticeship, Dues Check-Offs, and Top Notch shall be combined into one check made payable to the Indiana State Council of Plasterers & Cement Masons H&W and Pension Fund (ISC P&CM H&W Fund) and mailed to P.O. Box 50440, Indianapolis, Indiana 46250.
The Union reserves the right to divert any future increase from wages to benefits upon thirty (30) days written notice to the contractor.
20