UNION SHOP CONTRACT
PRODUCTION & MAINTENANCE WORKERS
between
rffTYth SAINT-GOBAIN
CONTAINERS
SAINT-GOBAIN CONTAINERS and the
GLASS, MOLDERS, POTTERY, PLASTICS & ALLIED WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION AFL-CIO, CLC
Local Union No. 30, 39, 54, 87, 96,111,117,125,166, 169,193, 222, 226, 239, 253 & 254
EFFECTIVE - 4-1-05 EXPIRES - 3-31-08
PLEDGE TO THE FLAG
“I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America, and to the Republic for which it stancis ~ one nation under God, Indivisible, with liberty and ji stice for all."
INDEX
Article
Page
Preamble.
1
1
2
3
4
5 6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
Duration and Changes.........................1
Union Recognition and Jurisdiction...........2
Labor-Management Meetings....................4
Management Rights............................4
Union Rights.................................4
Hiring, Releasing, Quitting, Discharging & Discipline.................................8
Check-Off...................................10
Membership List...............................11
(a)Seniority..................................12
(b)...........................................20
(C)...........................................28
(d)...........................................36
(e>...........................................43
(0............................................48
Transfer of Employees.........................52
Premium Pay...................................54
Reporting and Call-In Pay.....................60
Shift Differentials...........................61
Negotiated Rates..............................62
Method of Payment............................ 63
Holidays......................................64
(a)Vacations..................................67
(b)...........................................72
Pensions......................................77
Retiree Benefits..............................85
Relief.........................................86
Supervisory Employees..........................87
Health Benefit Program.........................89
(a)............................................89
(b)...........................................111
Equipment Supplied............................136
INDEX (continued)
Article	Page
24	Reporting Intended Absence..................137
25	Military Leave..............................137
26	Bereavement Leave...........................138
27	Court Duty..................................140
28	No Strike or Lockout........................140
29	Grievance Procedure.........................141
30	Arbitration.................................144
31	Health and Safety...........................146
32	On-Job Health Protection....................149
33	Fair Employment Practice and
Equal Opportunities..........................150
34	Permanent Plant Closings and Related Matters 150
35	Disabled Employees..........................153
36	Successors, Transferees and Assignees.......154
37	Environmental Control Program...............154
38	Separability................................155
39	Operating Conditions........................155
40	Local Agreements............................155
41	Subcontracting..............................157
42	Apprenticeship Programs.....................159
43	Wages.......................................160
44	Cost-of-Living..............................161
45 Wages of General Maintenance Mechanic/Repairer, Electronics Technicians, Machinist and
Electro-Mechanic.............................162
46 Production & Maintenance Department Job Postings Applies to Former Foster Only................163
47	Training....................................165
48	Leave of Absence............................166
49	Execution...................................167
Standard Tools...............................168
Schedule A...................................170
Signature Page...............................186
PREAMBLE
The intent and purpose of this Union Shop Contract is to maintain and further harmonious labor-management relations upon a constructive and sound foundation. This foundation has, as its cornerstone, full acceptance and recognition of the obligations and rights of both parties. This foundation embraces a true spirit of full cooperation, with both parties working together so that full and prosperous employment can continue and from which will emanate a healthy and prosperous industry.
ARTICLE 1
Duration and Changes
Section 1.	This Contract shall become effective April 1, 2005 and remain in full force and effect through March 31,2008.
Section 2.	If changes are desired by either party, notice shall be given to the other party sixty (60) days prior to the expiration date of this Contract.
Section 3.	The parties shall hold a conference at a mutually agreeable time and place prior to the expiration date of this Contract.
The Company shall meet with the Local Union and their International Representatives ninety (90) days prior to the expiration date of this Contract and reduce all Local Union Agreements to writing. A copy of same shall be sent to the International and Local Unions.
-1 -
ARTICLE 2 Union Recognition and Jurisdiction
Section 1.	The Company recognizes the U lion as the sole collective bargaining agent for all hourly rated production and maintenance employees ir eluding warehousemen, in the plants and warehouses isted at the end of this Contract, except employees on jobs presently covered by the Automatic Machine Department Contract, contracts with other Unions, supervisors and employees excluded by law and by the prior Contract in effect with the Company as of March 31,1974. The labor grades and their rates of pay for all employees under the jurisdiction of this Contract except those covere I by the National Apprenticeship Program, shall be referred to as Schedule “A" and shall be included in the printed Contract. When the pronoun he, his or him appears in this Contract, such reference shall include both r lale and female employees unless the meaning is clearly and specifically to the contrary.
As a supplement to this Contract, a Schedule A covering classifications or labor grades and rates of pay under the jurisdiction of this Contract, will be included in this Contract.
Section 2.	It shall be a condition of employment that all employees covered by this Contract who are members of the Union in good standing on the effective di i.te or the execution date of this Contract, whichever is te.ter, shall remain members in good standing and those wh o are not members on such date shall, on the thirtieth (30th) calendar day following the effective date or the e xecution date of this Contract, whichever is later, became and remain members in good standing in the Unior. It shall also be a condition of employment that all employees covered by this Contract and hired on or after its effective
-2-
date or the execution date, whichever is later, shall, on the thirtieth (30th) calendar day following the beginning of such employment, become and remain members in good standing in the Union. The foregoing shall be applied in accordance with provisions of Section 8 (a)(3) of the Labor-Management Relations Act of 1947, as amended.
Section 3.	In states where by law employees may not be required to become members of the Union as a condition of employment, then to the extent permitted by law, all such employees who do not become members of the Union after thirty (30) calendar days, the effective date or the execution date of this Contract, whichever is later, shall as a condition of employment, pay to the Union each month an amount of money equal to that paid by other employees in the bargaining unit who are members of the Union, which amount shall be limited to an amount of money equal to the Union’s regular and usual initiation fees and its regular and usual dues. For present employees who do not choose to become members of the Union, such payments shall commence thirty (30) calendar days following the effective date or the execution date of this Contract, whichever is later. The Union agrees to indemnify the Company against claims made against it as a result of the application of this Article.
Section 4.	It is further agreed that any group of employees who are employed in any glass container plant of the Company, which plant was not in existence or owned or controlled by the Company on April 1, 2005, and who comprise an appropriate bargaining unit and for whom the Union becomes the recognized or certified bargaining agent shall automatically be included and covered by this Contract and shall be made a party hereto as of the date of such recognition or certification.
-3-
ARTICLE 3 Labor-Management Meetings
A local Labor-Management meeting will be held once each contract year at the plant location:;. Two national Labor-Management meetings, including all plants of the Company, will be held during the ter n of this contract at a time and place agreeable to the International Union and the Company. The Com :>any will pay for coach transportation to and from the met ting and appropriate compensation including Combined Rate, where applicable, for each day of the scheduled nesting, plus travel time to and from the meeting. The meetings shall be limited to a discussion of written agen :1a items prepared and agreed to 30 days in advance by the Company and the Union.
The Company will notify the Local Union In writing 60 days In advance of a nations Labor-Management meeting. Notice should Include date and locations.
ARTICLE 4 Management Rights
The Union recognizes the right and respor isibility of the Company to manage its plants and to direct its working forces. All rights of the Company which have not been specifically abridged or modified by this Contract are retained by the Company.
ARTICLE 5 Union Rights
Section 1.	The Company agrees that, sub, act to the provisions of this Contract, the Union shall at all times be free to exercise its rights to advance the best interest of
-4-
and fully protect its members in the exercise of their full freedom to engage in activities on behalf of the Union and that no member of the Union shall be restrained or coerced or discriminated against, in any manner, because of his membership in and for activities on behalf of the Union or its constituent Local Union.
Section 2.	The Business Committee and/or Shop Steward and/or Officers shall be permitted to conduct legitimate business dealing with Union-Management matters after first notifying supervision. During working hours supervision shall, as promptly as possible, release such individuals for these purposes. This privilege shall be exercised reasonably. Local Unions shall submit a list of the names of Shop Stewards and members of the Business Committee to the Company. The Company agrees not to shift Shop Stewards arbitrarily as long as their seniority protects them. No Local Union Officer, Committeeman, or Steward shall be intimidated or disciplined for the legitimate and reasonable exercise of his rights under this Article.
Section 3.	The accredited International Representative of the Union shall, after first advising plant management of such visit and its purpose, be granted the right to visit the plants in matters pertaining to complaints and/or grievances arising out of questions concerning the application or interpretation of this Contract.
The Local Union President or his designee shall be granted the right to visit the plant in which he is employed, after requesting such permission from the local plant management, to investigate matters pertaining to complaints and/or grievances arising out of questions concerning the application or interpretation of this Contract.
-5-
Section 4.	The Company shall provide and maintain an appropriate number of glass enclosed bulletin boards for the exclusive use of the Union or its Local Unic n. Only items of Union business signed by an officer of the Union or its Local Union may be posted.
Section 5.	When an employee is called to :ull-time duty by the Local Union or International Union, c r by the AFL-CIO or is elected to Federal, State, or Loc< I Office, he shall be granted leave of absence up to five (5) years and must renew his leave of absence each of th sse five (5) years with the Plant Manager. Upon termination of such duties, he may return to work covered by this Contract, taking his position on the seniority list i idicated by his years of service including the time spent on such duties for which leave was granted.
Section 6.	The Company will comply with reasonable requests from the Union for information necessary to property represent their membership. A Local Union representative will also be include:! in any benefit conference between the Company and an employee when the employee request;:; such representation.
Section 7.	When a meeting is held, which may lead to disciplinary action against an employee, such employee will, unless he refuses, have a Union Representative present at the meeting.
Section 8.	Local Plant Management and the Local Union Business Committee will meet once each month, if requested, as necessary in order to discuss rr atters of mutual concern. Written agendas will be prepare id five (5) working days prior to such meeting. Responses to any unanswered issues will be provided, in writing, by Local Plant Management or Local Union Officers within ten (10)
-6-
business days following the meeting. This meeting will not serve to circumvent the grievance procedure.
Section 9.	It is agreed that during the orientation of new employees, the Local Union President or his designee will be allowed at least thirty (30) minutes during such orientation, without the employer present, to review the benefits of Union Membership. New hires may sign Union Authorization Cards at this meeting.
Section 10.	The Local Union and the employee shall receive a copy of all written, formal disciplinary action taken against an employee of the Company within forty-eight (48) hours of such disciplinary action.
Section 11.	In the event the GMP International Union has any organizing campaign involving any group of hourly paid production employees who are employed in any glass container plant of the Company, the Company agrees to maintain a neutral position. No supervisors, managers, or agents of the Company will take a position in organizing campaigns in opposition to representation by the Union.
If the Union claims majority status, the Company shall agree to a count of authorization cards to be conducted by any arbitrator regularly employed by the parties in that geographical area. Upon certification from the arbitrator that a majority of the workers have signed authorization cards, the Company agrees to recognize the Union.
Disputes concerning the scope of the unit, placement, voter eligibility, or improper conduct by either party shall be decided by the arbitrator. He shall be empowered to order a remedy for any breach of neutrality or other misconduct.
-7-
ARTICLE 6 Hiring, Releasing, Quitting, Discharging & Discipline
Section 1.	The right of the Company to hire and to discharge and discipline employees for just cause is hereby acknowledged. Such discharge shal be in accordance with the provisions of Section 4 of this Article. In the event the Company is unable to secure employees for the jobs covered by this Contract, the Company shall request the International Union to recommend employees in the classification needed.
Section 2.	Any employee under the juried ction of this Contract who desires to quit work shall give five (5) working days’ prior notice to his employer ai d shall continue working in accordance with the factory schedule during said notice period. It is agreed that such employee may rescind the notice of intent to quit at any time during the given notice period.
Section 3.
(a)	If the Company decides to release an employee, the Company must give five (5) working days’ notice in writing or pay the employee five (5) days’ wages, except in cases of disaster, fire, explosion, etc. This does not apply to layoffs, or furloughs, bey:>nd the control of the Company. The word release shall not include discharges for just c iuse or temporary layoff of three (3) days or less.
(b)	If an employee gives notice as required by this Section, the Company will allow the e mployee to work out the notice or pay the employee for all work days of the notice the employee is not allowed to work, through the five (5) day period
-8-
except in cases of disaster, fire, explosion, etc. This does not apply to layoffs or furloughs beyond the control of management. This section applies only to Burlington, Wl, Milford, MA, Pevely, MO, Sapulpa, OK, Waxahachie, TX and Wilson, NC plants.
Section 4.	No employee shall be summarily discharged. In all cases in which the Company concludes that an employee’s conduct may justify discharge, the employee shall be suspended in the Plant within the presence of a Union official, initially for not more than three (3) working days. The Local Union shall be notified in writing at the time of suspension. During such suspension period, the Company will meet with the Union and review the facts of the case. Prior to the end of the suspension period, the Company shall notify the Local Union President in writing of its final action and the grievance procedure can be invoked immediately.
Section 5.	In the event discipline becomes necessary for any reason, the disciplinary action will be effective within three (3) working days after the discovery and investigation of the offense. However discipline taken under the Company’s absentee control program must be issued by the end of the scheduled hours of the tenth (10th) working day after the offense that discipline is deemed by the Company as necessary.
Section 6.	Upon any discharge under this Article, the Shop Steward and President of the Local Union shall be notified in writing immediately.
Section 7.	Circumstances which could have a mitigating effect on discipline will be considered in assessing discipline.
-9-
Section 8.	In cases where suspension becomes necessary, such suspension shall be for consecutive working days. The Company may delay the -start of disciplinary suspension, if any day of such suspension is Sunday. No employee shall lose holiday pay as a result of such suspension.
ARTICLE 7 Check-Off
Section 1.	The Company shall check off initiation fees and Union dues on presentation of c leck-off authority by the employees in accordance with l.he law. The Company will then deduct each week such dues in the amounts certified to the Company by the Secretary-Treasurer of the International Union and once each month and not later than by the tenth (10th) day of the month following the month for which deductio is were made, send to the International Union and to the Local Union their respective shares as certified by the Secretary-Treasurer of the International Union, and will supply the International Secretary- Treasurer of the Union and the Financial Secretary of each Local Unior a list of all members with their addresses and Social Security numbers who have had their dues deducted in the regular dues deduction period. The International Union will indemnify the Company against all clairrs made against it by reason of compliance with this Art cle. The check-off list shall also be made available in an e ectronic format. The International Union and the Company will determine the proper format for such submissic is. The payment of dues shall be by electronic transfe r. Each Local Union covered by this agreement will have the option of receiving the check-off list and/or pa/ment of dues in the same electronic format.
-10-
Section 2.	New employees may sign check-off authorization and application blanks upon receiving employment. After thirty (30) calendar days the Company shall then process each new employee in accordance with the first Section of this Article. The International Union shall supply the Company with all necessary forms.
Section 3.	The Company shall check off Political Action Committee (PAC) contributions on presentation of PAC check-off authority signed by the employee. The Company will make such PAC deductions weekly in the amount authorized by the employee on the PAC checkoff authorization form. The Company will then, once each month, send to the Secretary-Treasurer of the International Union and to the Financial Secretary of the Local Union their respective shares as designated on the employee’s PAC check-off authorization form. The Company will, at the time the monthly remittance is made, furnish to the International Union and the Local Union a list of the employees who have made contributions for the month and the amount of the contribution made. The International Union will indemnify the Company against all claims made against it by reason of compliance with this Article.
ARTICLE 8 Membership List
Each employee shall be responsible for furnishing to the Human Resource Office of his employer and to the Recording Secretary of the Local Union his mailing address, social security number, and a telephone number at which he can be reached and shall likewise furnish changes in his mailing address and telephone number. Such mailing address and telephone number may be used by his employer in giving any notice to the
-11 -
employee which may be required under any of the Articles of this Contract. The Company shall hie first week of every month furnish the Secretary-Treasurer of the International Union and each Local Union i nvolved with a current and corrected list of names and addresses of employees coming under the jurisdiction of this Contract.
Such list shall also be made available in an electronic format. The International Union end the Company will determine the proper format for such electronic list. Each Local Union covered by this agreement will have the option of receiving the li ;t in the same electronic format.
ARTICLE 9(a) Seniority
Following language applies ONLY to the following listed locals and plants:
Local Union #87, Seattle, WA
Local Union #54, Port Allegany, PA
Local Union #117, Lincoln, IL
Local Union #222, Henderson, NC
Local Union #253, Ruston, LA
This seniority language DOES NOT apply to any other local unions or plants, except those listed in this Article 9 (a).
Section 1.	All existing seniority and Job post ng rules shall remain in effect for the duration of this Contract unless changed by mutual agreement between i he Local Union and the Company. The Local Union and :he plant management shall meet and agree upon procedures and jobs to be used for job posting. All vacancies that are to
-12-
be filled will be filled in accordance with local job posting rules. Temporary job vacancies are not to be used to train junior employees for permanent job vacancies.
Section 2.	Seniority plus ability shall govern in cases of promotions.
Section 3.	An employee who is awarded a promotion shall be given a reasonable trial period in order to demonstrate his ability to perform the work required by the job. If such employee cannot perform the work in a satisfactory manner, such employee may be returned to his former classification in accordance with local practice.
Employees may bid laterally or down to a lower rated job one time each Contract year during the term of this Contract. Exceptions (additional bids) will be allowed for health reasons.
Section 4.	Any employee under the jurisdiction of this Contract transferred to a position not under this Contract may be returned by the Company to a job under this Contract without loss of seniority already earned. Such employee shall apply for a withdrawal card within thirty (30) days after leaving the bargaining unit, except where such transfer is between bargaining units represented by the Union.
Section 5.	The first thirty (30) calendar days from the date of hire of a new employee shall be considered his probationary period and retention as an employee shall be entirely within the discretion of the Company. An additional thirty (30) calendar day probationary period will be granted when requested by the Company if the Local Union involved agrees to an extension. Any discharge during this probationary period is not a subject for grievance. Any such new employee severed by the
-13-
Company before the conclusion of his probationary period shall, upon rehire, be credited with all the days worked in his prior probationary periods within one (1) year prior to such rehire toward the completion of his probationary period.
Section 6.	Employees rehired by the Com :>any or having previous job experience in the job for wh oh they have been hired or rehired shall receive a rate for the job for which they have been hired or rehired vihich is commensurate with their experience and qualifications.
Section 7.	Any employee who is laid off dui? to the reduction of the working forces shall leave his address with the Plant Personnel Department and this information will be available to Local Union Officers.
A copy of the Company's Turnover Repor will be furnished weekly to Local Union Officers at each plant.
Section 8.	Seniority will commence from date of the employee's first day of work but will not be effective until the thirtieth (30th) day after employment and will accumulate during his course of employment as prescribed in the following regulations:
(a)	Seniority of an employee who is discharged, retires, or quits for any other reason shall cease as of that date.
(b)	Seniority will accumulate for ninety (1)0) days only during periods of layoff. A layoff of five (5) years will not be considered as a termination and will not cancel seniority and re-employment rights. A layoff of longer than five (5) years will be considered as a termination and will cancel seniority and re-employment rights; rowever,
-14-
the Company may, at their discretion, rehire such a person as a new employee. When a layoff is caused by the permanent shutdown of a plant or department, seniority will accumulate for ninety (90) days only, but past seniority will be restored if the employee is recalled to reopening of that plant, or to a new plant, under this Contract, in the same general location of layoff. Recall rights of employees with less than five (5) years of service will terminate when the length of their continuous layoff equals their seniority except the minimum amount of recall rights will be three (3) years.
(c)	An employee on layoff who fails to report for work within ten (10) calendar days after being notified will be considered as a voluntary quit and this will cancel all seniority and reemployment rights unless the Company has been notified and has agreed to an extension of time. If extension is granted, the Local Union will be notified. The Company agrees to notify by registered letter those persons they are unable to contact and the Union will be informed when notification is sent.
(d)	An employee absent from work for five (5) consecutive working days without notifying his supervisor will be considered a voluntary quit and will cancel all previous seniority.
(e)	Seniority accumulates while an employee is absent for sickness or injury, providing he returns to his job as soon as he is able to work. When an employee is absent for sickness he shall present a doctor’s slip once each month, stating why he cannot work.
-15-
(f)	Leave of absence may be granted at the judgment of the Company, not to exceed one (1) year. If leave extends one (1) year or less, the employee accumulates seniority.
Section 9.	When an employee is transferr ed from one department to another on a temporary basis, he continues to accumulate seniority in his original department during the period of such temporary ransfer. Temporary transfers will not exceed ninety (90) days and will not be made or continue if the hours of other workers in the department transferred to are reduced to le ss than forty (40) hours per week or less than thirty-six (3 ■>) hours per week during period when the department night be working on a regularly scheduled thirty-six (25) hour week, holidays, and necessary shutdowns excepted.
Section 10.	An employee who is transfen ed from one department to another on a permanent bads, or is promoted at the Company’s request, may resum a his old job, or whatever lesser job his departmental seniority entitles him to, in the event of reduction of forces or failure on the job. If transferred back to his previous department at his own request, he may be returned to a job in accordance with local seniority practices, with prior seniority maintained. This also applies to trans fers and promotions in the same department.
Section 11.	If in the event of reduction of working forces for more than three (3) days (except paid I lolidays) for any reason, if his seniority in his present department does not protect him, then the following procedure will be used in die exercising of his seniority. Senior employees shall have the right to volunteer for layoffs, prodded the remaining employees are qualified to perform the available work.
-16-
(a)	He may be placed in any department suitable to him where there is an available opening.
(b)	If first option is not used, he will be transferred back to his old department with the right to exercise his dormant seniority in that department.
(c)	If an employee is not protected under subsection (a) or (b) then he will be free to exercise his plant seniority in replacing the least senior employee in the plant. This shall not apply to employees with less than six (6) months seniority.
(d)	Recall shall be in reverse order of layoff using plant seniority.
(e)	During a curtailment of the work force in the Maintenance Department, apprentices shall be laid off first before journeymen. However, when an apprentice obtains six-thousand (6,000) OJT hours within the Apprenticeship Program, he shall be able to exercise seniority to displace a journeyman hired after the commencement of the apprentice's training, if the journeyman was hired from outside the Company.
It is understood that the employee must have the ability and be physically capable of performing such work as he will be required to do. Any employee affected under this Section will be returned to his former department and/or job classification in that department by department seniority.
It is further understood that the Automatic Machine Department is to be included in the application of this Section.
-17-
Section 12.	When an employee is transfeired to another plant covered by this Contract, seniority in the plant transferred from will not be effective and he will be laid off according to his seniority earned in the plant to which he has been transferred. However, the Ccmpany will recognize his years of service with it in the matter of granting him benefits, other than the transfer of seniority to the new plant, that is contained in this Contract.
Section 13.	When a job is transferred from one department to another, the person holding such jcb shall have the option of being transferred to the new department or remain in his department, exercising his seniority in accordance with the provisions of this Article. Should he accept the option to transfer to tlie new department, he shall maintain his dormant senior! y in the department transferred from.
Section 14.
(a) Employees transferred to supervisory positions from the bargaining unit on a permanent basis shall retain but not accumulate seniority. In the event that such employee is subsequently transferred back into the unit within six (6) months, he may resume his old job or w hatever lesser job his seniority entitles him to and shall resume accumulation of seniority from t he date he returns to the bargaining unit provided he has a valid withdrawal card from the Union. In the event that such employee is subsequently transferred back into the unit after six (6) months, he shall return to an entry level job and shall resume accumulation of seniority Yom the date he returns to the bargaining unit provided he has a valid withdrawal card from the- Union.
-18-
b) Temporary vacancies in supervisory positions may be filled by unit employees, not to exceed ninety (90) days per calendar year for any one * unit employee, unless an extension is mutually agreed to by the Company and the Local Union. ■* The Company shall notify the Local Union in writing when such transfers exceed thirty (30) days.
Section 15.	The President of each Local Union shall * be given a seniority list to be corrected on a quarterly basis.	.
i
Section 16.	Recognition is hereby given those « plants, coming under this Agreement, who do not now practice departmental seniority. The Local Unions so , affected will have the option of electing to continue the plant seniority concept as now practiced in the plant, or they may choose to establish departmental seniority, as 4 outlined in this Article.
The reverse option is extended to those Locals who i are presently following the concept of department seniority.
Section 17.	When the Company transfers an employee to another shift or job, the transfer will be effective so that the employee will not suffer a short work * week. The above shall not apply to a person absent from work during that week for any reason.	4
Section 18.	All practices and Local Agreements I pertaining to seniority with respect to the P&M that were in effect on March 31, 2005 unless changed by mutual i agreement shall continue in full force and effect for the duration of this Contract.
-19-
1
ARTICLE 9(b) Seniority
Following language applies ONLY to the fallowing listed locals and plants:
Local Union #111, Carteret, NJ
Local Union #166, Dolton, IL
This seniority language DOES NOT apply to any other local unions or plants, except those listed in this Article 9 (b).
Section 1.	Seniority will commence from the date of the employee’s first day of work but will not be effective until the thirtieth (30th) day after employment and will accumulate during his course of employment as prescribed in the following regulations. It is understood that once a seniority date is established under this Section, that date will not be adjusted.
Seniority will terminate when an employee:
(a)	quits
(b)	is discharged for just cause
(c)	fails to return from layoff within five (5) calendar days after being notified unless the C ompany has been notified and has agreed to an extension of time. The Company agrees to notify by Registered Mail those employees they are unable to contact. The Local Union will be notified of action taken under this Sect on.
(d)	is not recalled from layoff based on the following schedule. An employee will retain
-20-
recall rights for a maximum period of five (5) years of continuous layoff, provided the employee has at least five (5) years of continuous service. For an employee with less than five (5) years of continuous service the number of years for retention of recall rights will equal the number of whole years of continuous service, with three (3) years being the minimum number of years of retention of recall rights for any employee.
(e)	is absent from work for five (5) consecutive working days without notifying the company. This employee will be considered a voluntary quit.
(f)	has been absent for sickness or injury and does not return to work as soon as he is physically able to perform the work. Medical leave is not to exceed five (5) years from the last day worked, provided the employee has at least five (5) years of continuous service. For an employee with less than five (5) years of continuous service, the maximum number of years of medical leave will equal the number of whole years of continuous service, with three (3) years being the maximum number of years of medical leave for employees with less than four (4) whole years of continuous service.
(g)	does not return from a leave of absence. Such a leave of absence may be granted at the discretion of the Company not to exceed one (1) year. If an employee does return to work from leave in less than one (1) year, seniority shall accumulate.
-21 -
In the event of a layoff in a plant affecting an employee who is on sick leave, or on leave of absence, his sick leave or leave of absence is cancelled as of the date of his layoff and his seniority will be figurec just as though he had not been on leave.
In the event an employee on layoff less than the schedule in Section 1 (d) cannot return to work when recalled, due to sickness, he will be placed on sick leave and, provided he returns to his job as soon as h(:> is able to work, seniority from the date of recall will be credited to his seniority record.
The only exception to this rule is with respect to an employee on sick leave due to an occupational injury for which the employee is drawing compensation. Such sick leave is not cancelled if a layoff occurs in the plant and the employee will continue to accumulate senic ity until physically able to return to work, at which time his layoff will be effective.
Section 2.	Probationary Period. The first thirty (30) calendar days from the first day worked of a new employee shall be considered his probationary period and retention as an employee shall be entirely within the discretion of the Company. An additional thirty (30) calendar day probationary period will be granted when requested by the Company if the Local Union involved agrees to an extension. Any discharge during the probationary period is not a subject for grievance. Any such new employee severed by the Company before the conclusion of his probationary period shall, upcn rehire, be credited with all the days worked in his probationary periods within one year prior to such rehire to ward the completion of his probationary period. On multip e hirings into the plant, new hires with the same seniority date shall draw numbers for their sequence on the seniority roster.
-22-
Section 3.	Employees rehired by the Company or having previous job experience in the job for which they have been hired or rehired shall receive a rate for the job for which they have been hired or rehired which is commensurate with their experience and qualifications.
Section 4.	Job Postings. Permanent job vacancies in new and existing jobs listed in the job groupings shall be filled on the basis of plant seniority plus ability among those employees who sign the job posting. Employees within the plant shall be considered for job openings on starting jobs in the Forming Department before employees are hired from other sources.
(a)	The Company shall post permanent job vacancies for seven (7) working days. The posting will include job title, normal work schedule, applicable hourly rate, job description and qualifications required. An employee who is interested in a job vacancy that may be posted while he is on vacation shall sign a notification form in the personnel department prior to each vacation period. This notification shall be considered as a valid job bid for the specific job(s) posted and listed in his notification during the term of his vacation. When job is awarded, a notice will be posted indicating the successful bidder.
(b)	Employees may bid laterally or down to a lower rated job one time each Contract year during the term of this Contract. Exceptions (additional bids) will be allowed for health reasons.
-23-
(c)	An employee interested in the job posted must sign the bid to be considered for the opening.
(d)	An employee who is awarded a job will be placed on the job within 15 days of th -» award unless extenuating circumstances would prevent such placement. The employes will be given a reasonable trial period in order to demonstrate his ability to perform ti e work required by the job. If such employee cannot perform the work in a satisfactory ma iner, he will be returned to his former job.
(e)	An employee who is awarded a job may elect to return to his former job within thirty (30) days. This option may be exercised on a specific job only once during the term of this Contract.
(f)	Based on seniority and ability employees from the Forming Department, except Apprentice Operators, will be allowed to bid into the Production and Maintenance Unit for tn -lining on a posted job eventually leading to a higher base rate. A successful bidder will be placed at the entry rate for such job. An Apprentice Operator may bid into the Production and Maintenance Unit, including lateral or down-bids in accordance with Section 4(b) of this A Hele but will retain no seniority rights in the Forming Department and will not be able to return to the Forming Department in the event of a layoff under the provisions of this Article.
Section 5.	Layoff and Recall.
(a)	In the case of a reduction of the work force the employee with the least plant seniority on the
-24-
jobs affected shall be the first laid off provided the employees remaining on the job have the skills and qualifications to perform the work required.
If an employee’s plant seniority does not protect him in his job, he will be transferred to his previous job, provided he has the physical capability and the ability to perform the job. In the event he has no seniority rights in the previous job, he will be permitted to use his plant seniority to replace the least senior employee, in a job he has demonstrated the ability and has the physical capability to perform, or the least senior employee in a job identified by an asterisk in the job groupings, provided the employee is physically capable and has the ability to perform the job.
It is understood that in the event an employee claims a job in a layoff situation, the employee will retain no jurisdictional rights to that job once he has been returned to his permanent job classification.
(b)	In the case of temporary layoffs, as hereinafter defined, plant seniority on the shift shall apply immediately in accordance with the provisions of Section 5 (a). Temporary layoffs shall be defined as not exceeding three (3) working days, except that in cases of color changes temporary layoffs shall be defined as not exceeding five (5) working days. When the layoff will exceed three (3) working days, or in the case of a color change, five (5) working days, the seniority provisions of Section 5 (a) shall apply.
-25-
(c)	The recall of employees laid ofl under provisions of this Article shall be in reverse order of their layoff.
(d)	It is the responsibility of each employee laid off to notify the plant personnel office of the address and telephone number where they are to be contacted for recall from layoff. This information will be available to Locil Union officers.
(e)	In the Forming Department, during periods of reduced activity making a reduction in the working forces necessary, Apprentice Machine Operators shall be the first laid off the machines, provided Journeymen Machine Operators and Machine Upkeep Men with the necessary experience to operate the machines remaining in production are on the Company's payroll and available for work.
If further reduction of the work force is necessary, those employees with least seniority shall be laid off. It is further understood that Journeymen Machine Operators retained under this Article shall accept the responsibility of maintaining regular production levels.
(f)	During a curtailment of the work force in the Maintenance Department, apprentices; shall be laid off first before journeymen. However, when an apprentice obtains six-thousand (6, DOO) OJT hours within the Apprenticeship Program, he shall be able to exercise seniority to c isplace a journeyman hired after the commencement of the apprentice’s training, if the journey man was hired from outside the Company.
-26-
Section 6.	Transfers.
(a)	Any employee under the jurisdiction of this contract transferred to a position not under this Contract may be returned by the Company to a job under this Contract within six (6) months without loss of seniority already earned. During this six (6) month period, said employee may return to his former position, displacing the employee last placed in that position provided he has the seniority. If his seniority will not permit him to return to his former position, he may be returned to a job for which he is qualified in line with his seniority previously earned or to an entry level job. Each employee displaced will be returned to his previous job and replace the last person placed in that job. It is understood that after one year the transferred employee will retain no rights under the terms of this contract. Employees transferred to a position not under this contract shall apply for a withdrawal card within thirty (30) days after leaving the bargaining unit.
(b)	Temporary vacancies in supervisory positions may be filled by unit employees, not to exceed 90 days per calendar year for any one unit employee, unless an extension is mutually agreed to by the Company and the Local Union. The Company shall notify the Local Union in writing when such transfers exceed thirty (30) days.
(c)	Temporary transfers from one job to another anticipated to exceed thirty (30) days will be posted in accordance with Section 4 of this Article.
-27-
(d)	Employees transferred to another plani covered by this Contract will retain their credited length of service for pension and vacation benefits. Seniority at the plant transferred to will commence as of the employee's "irst day worked at that plant.
Section 7.	Leave, Union Business. Upon request of the International President of the Union, employees shall be granted a leave of absence to serve the Inte mational Union for a period up to one (1) year and renewable yearly thereafter at the request of the International President for a total of five (5) years without loss of seniority accumulated prior to such leave.
Section 8.	When the Company transfers an employee to another shift or job, the transfe* will be effective so that the employee will not suffer a siort work week. The above shall not apply to a person ab ;ent from work during that week for any reason.
Section 9.	All practices and Local Ag eements pertaining to seniority with respect to the P&M :hat were in effect on March 31, 2005 unless changed by mutual agreement shall continue in full force and effect for the duration of this Contract.
ARTICLE 9 (c) Seniority
Following language applies ONLY to the following listed local and plant:
Local Union #96, Dunkirk, IN
This seniority language DOES NOT apply to any Other local unions or plants, not listed in this Ar.icle 9 (c).
-28-
Section 1.	All local seniority rules shall remain in effect for the duration of this Contract unless changed by Articles of this Contract or by mutual agreement between the Local Union and the Company.
Section 2.	The first thirty (30) calendar days from the date of hire of a new employee shall be considered his probationary period and retention as an employee shall be entirely within the discretion of the Company. An additional thirty (30) calendar days probationary period will be granted when requested by the Company if the Local Union involved agrees to an extension. Any discharge during this probationary period is not a subject for grievance. Any such employees severed by the i Company before the conclusion of his probationary period shall, upon rehire, be credited with all days in his prior probationary periods within one (1) year prior to such rehire toward the completion of his probationary , period.
Section 3.	Seniority will accumulate while an < employee is absent for sickness or injury provided he returns as soon as he is able to work. Seniority will accumulate while an employee is on layoff; failure to return from layoff following written notification (certified) will be considered a termination. A layoff of longer than five (5) years will be considered as a termination and will , cancel seniority and reemployment rights.
Section 4.	In the case of temporary layoffs, as hereinafter defined, shift seniority shall apply immediately in accordance with the provisions of Section 1 and 1 Section 5. Temporary layoffs shall be defined as not exceeding three (3) working days, except that in cases of 1 color changes and energy curtailment, temporary layoffs shall be defined as not exceeding live (5) working days. . When the layoff will exceed three (3) working days, or jn
4
-29-
case of color change or energy curtailment, five (5) working days, the seniority provisions of Section 1 and Section 5 shall apply.
Section 5.	In the case of a reduction of the work force the employee with the least plant seniority on the jobs affected shall be the first laid off provided the employees remaining on the job have the skills and qualifications to perform the work required.
The laid off employees will be transferred to their previous jobs, provided they have the physical capability and the ability to perform these jobs. In the event they have no seniority rights in their previous jobs, the y will be permitted to use their plant seniority as stated in Section 6 of this Article.
AMD employees laid off from the AMD dep irtments in Section 4 of this Article will not be able to exercise their plant seniority in this Section. They will instead ise their plant seniority in Section 6 of this Article.
Section 6.	Any final layoff under Section 4 of this Article, except temporary layoffs, will be by combined Automatic Machine Department and Product on and Maintenance seniority. Employees so retained by this Section will be transferred to entry-level jobs provided they have the necessary skill and ability to perorm the work. During a curtailment of the work force in the Maintenance Department, apprentices shall be laid off first before journeymen. However, when an apprentice obtains six-thousand (6,000) OJT hours w thin the Apprenticeship Program, he shall be able to exercise seniority to displace a journeyman hired after the commencement of the apprentice's training, if the journeyman was hired from outside the Company.
-30-
Section 7.	Employees laid off shall be recalled in the reverse order of their displacement, provided the employee has the ability to do the work. The Union will be provided as soon as possible with the names of all employees on layoff that the Company cannot reach for recall.
Section 8.	When the Company must reduce any classification or reduce any employee to a lower rated job on a temporary condition, the junior employee on the shift shall be reduced or transferred as long as such employee has the ability to perform such a job. Employees more senior can volunteer for such moves.
When the Company transfers an employee to another shift or job, the transfer will be effective so that the employee will not suffer a short work week. The above shall not apply to a person absent from work during that week for any reason.
Section 9.
(a)	Employees transferred to supervisory positions from the bargaining unit on a permanent basis shall retain but not accumulate seniority. In the event that such employee is subsequently transferred back into the unit within six (6) months, he may resume his old job or whatever lesser job his seniority entitles him to and shall resume accumulation of seniority from the date he returns to the bargaining unit provided he has a valid withdrawal card from the Union. In the event that such employee is subsequently transferred back into the unit after six (6) months, he shall return to an entry level job and shall resume accumulation of seniority from the date he returns to the bargaining unit provided he has a valid withdrawal card from the Union.
-31 -
(b)	Temporary vacancies in supervisory positions may be filled by unit employees, not to exceed ninety (90) days per calendar year for any one unit employee, unless an extension is mutually agreed to by the Company and the Loce.I Union. The Company shall notify the Local Union in writing when such transfers exceed thirty (30) days.
Section 10.	Employees rehired by the Company or having previous job experience in the job for wb ch they have been hired or rehired shall after completic i of the probationary period set forth in Section 2 hereof, receive a rate for the job for which they have been hired or rehired which is commensurate with their experic nee and qualifications.
Section 11.	Separate seniority lists showing plant seniority for the Production and Maintenance unit and Automatic Machine Department unit shall be ported in at least one location within each plant under jurisdiction of this Contract. Where applicable, separate seniority lists showing department seniority shall be postal in the department. Such lists are to be corrected on a semiannual basis. A copy is to be presented to the respective Local Union President.
Job Posting
For the purposes of applying this Article, e ach unit, Automatic Machine Department and Production and Maintenance, will remain separate. Employees may exercise their seniority within their respective unit only. Seniority as referred to in this Article mtians the employee’s time in their respective bargaining unit in accordance with local seniority rules and practices.
-32-
Section 1.	In the Production and Maintenance Unit, all jobs except entry-level jobs, temporary vacancies of less than sixty (60) days, and vacancies resulting from illness or vacation shall be posted for a period of five (5) working days.
All permanent job vacancies except entry-level jobs under the jurisdiction of the Production and Maintenance Unit shall be posted in accordance with Section 4 below, within three (3) working days for a period of five (5) working days.
Section 2.	Any employee from the Production and Maintenance bargaining unit desiring consideration for a posted job in the Production and Maintenance Department must signify his desires in writing with the Company within the posting time. Employees on vacation, sick leave or Union business will be given consideration if such employee makes application prior to the posting of the job award notice.
Section 3.	Posted jobs will be filled within fifteen (15) working days after the posting is taken down provided a replacement for the successful bidder and all other necessary replacements have been obtained. During this period the Company may use temporary replacements to fill the job vacancies. Temporary vacancies shall not be used to train junior employees to fill permanent vacancies.
Section 4.	All existing local job posting rules shall remain in effect for the duration of this Contract unless changed by Articles of this Contract or by mutual agreement between the Local Union and the Company. Seniority plus ability shall govern in cases of promotion.
-33-
Section 5.	Temporary absences or vacancies caused by vacation, jury duty, Union activities, illness, job posting, etc., will be filled according to the following.
With respect to all plant job classifications c i which permanent vacancies are posted, the Company will continue the program for advance upgrading of the most senior qualified employee interested in upgrading to fill temporary vacancies.
All bid jobs will be posted in order to determ ne what employees desire to be upgraded in order to fill temporary vacancies on respective jobs. On e;-ich shift and department, the two most senior qualified employees will be designated as the first and second replacement. When neither of the two designated replacements is available, then Management may temporarily upgrade other qualified employees.
When an employee permanently assigned to a job works overtime, it will be considered that a temporary vacancy does not exist.
The upgrading of the designated replacement will be accomplished as soon as practical after the sts.rt of the shift.
The foregoing upgrading of the first and second designated replacement will also apply to entry-1 ?vel jobs higher in grade or rate of pay to that which the e mployee is currently occupying.
If a permanent vacancy occurs on a job, sue h job will be posted in the normal manner to determine the employee who will fill the permanent vacancy.
-34-
Section 6.	Temporary assignments continuing beyond sixty (60) days will not be considered temporary and shall be filled in accordance with the job posting rules. Exceptions will be made in the event the preceding section applies.
Section 7.	Notification of job posting awards shall be posted.
Section 8.	Employees may bid laterally or down to a lower rated job one time each Contract year during the term of this Contract. Exceptions (additional bids) will be allowed for health reasons.
Section 9.	An employee who bids successfully for a job or receives an entry-level job which has the same or higher rate but a lower starting rate than the job on which he is currently working, shall retain his present hourly wage rate when transferred to such job until such time as the employee’s hourly wage rate is increased in accordance with the steps of the Company's wage progression program.
Section 10.	An employee who is awarded a job bid shall be given a reasonable trial period in order to demonstrate his ability to perform the work required by the job. If such employee cannot perform the work in a satisfactory manner, he shall be returned to his former classification without loss of seniority already earned. At the time the employee is notified that he is qualified or within a period of not over thirty (30) days in the new job, whichever first occurs, he, at his request, may be returned to his former classification without loss of seniority already earned.
Section 11.	Entry-level jobs shall not be posted. When a new job is created, the Company and the Local
-35-
Union will determine if the job is to be a posted job or an entry-level job-
Section 12.	Steady day jobs and jobs on fixe d shifts, not posted for bid, will be offered to senior qualified employees working that particular job.
Section 13.	An employee desiring an entry-level job within his respective bargaining unit will sign the job preference log in the Personnel Department indicating the job or jobs of his choice. When an opening occurs on such job, it shall be tilled by the most senior employee desiring such job and who has signed the job preference log. An employee can exercise his job preference for an entry-level job only once in any twelve-month period. An employee on an entry-level job can bid on any jot posting in his respective bargaining unit.
Section 14.	Employees from within either the Automatic Machine Department unit or Production and Maintenance unit who place written application for transfer to entry-level jobs within the other unit shall be considered for such entry-level jobs in the oilier unit before employees are hired from other sources.
Section 15.	Leave of absence may be granted at the Judgment of the Company, not to exceed one (1) year. If leave extends one (1) year or less, the employee accumulates seniority.
ARTICLE 9(d) Seniority
Following language applies ONLY to the 'oilowing listed local and plant:
Local Union #39, El Monte, GA
-36-
This seniority language DOES NOT apply to any other local unions or plants, except those listed in this Article 9 (d).
Section 1.	For the purpose of this Contract, the length of continuous service and maintenance of seniority for any employee shall mean the total length of the period or periods of his active service with the Company unless such service shall be broken by one or more of the following events, in which case such service shall be measured by the length of the period or periods of his active service subsequent to the last such break in service:
(a)	Voluntary resignation from the Company.
(b)	Discharge by the Company.
(c)	Failure while on layoff to return to work within five (5) calendar days after being notified unless the Company has been notified and has agreed to an extension. The Company agrees that it will not be unreasonable in granting such extensions. The Company agrees to notify by Registered Mail those employees they are unable to contact. The Local Union will be notified of action taken under this section.
(d> Is not recalled from layoff based on the following schedule. An employee will retain recall rights for a maximum period of five (5) years of continuous layoff, provided the employee has at least five (5) years of continuous service. For an employee with less than five (5) years of continuous service the number of years for retention of recall rights will equal the number of whole years of continuous
-37-
service, with three (3) years being the minimum number of years of retention of recall rijhts for any employee.
(e)	Has been absent for sickness or injury and does not return to work as soon a: he is physically able to perform the work. Medical leave is not to exceed five (5) years torn the last day worked, provided the employee has at least five (5) years of continuous service. For an employee with less than five (5) years of continuous service, the maximum number of years of medical leave will equal the number of whole years of continuous service, wi:h three (3) years being the maximum number >f years of medical leave for employees with less than four (4) whole years of continuous service.
(f)	Accepting employment while on leave of absence.
Section 2.	During periods of reduced activity Apprentice Machine Operators shall be the firs: laid off the machines, provided Journeymen Machine Operators and Machine Upkeep Men with the necessary ex lerience to operate the machines remaining in productio ) are on the Company’s payroll and available for work.
Section 3.	Next, employees with least seniority shall be laid off. Journeymen Machine Operators retained shall accept the responsibility for maintaininc regular production levels. Employees other than Apprentice Machine Operators, Journeymen Machine Operators and Machine Upkeep Men shall be laid off in accordance with local seniority practices, provided employees retained have the necessary experience and ability to maintain regular production levels.
-38-
Section 4.	Seniority plus ability shall govern in cases of promotions.
Section 5.	The Company shall post al) jobs plant wide that are listed under Schedule "A" of this Contract, temporary vacancies will not be posted, they will be filled as per Section 7. Employees on Leave of Absence or Vacation may have stewards sign a posted bid for them, providing they return to work within fifteen (15) days from the date of award.
Section 6.	An employee awarded a promotion shall be given a reasonable trial period to include familiarization training, evaluation and counseling for up to thirty (30) days to demonstrate his ability to perform the job. If he cannot perform the work in a satisfactory manner, he may be returned to his former classification without loss of seniority already earned. Upon request from the Union, an extension will be granted. Such requests shall not be unreasonably denied. At the time the employee is notified that he is qualified or within a period of not over thirty (30) days in the new job, whichever first occurs, he, at his request may be returned to his former classification without loss of seniority already earned.
Permanent job vacancies shall be posted within three (3) working days for a period of five (5) working days.
Within fifteen (15) working days after a job is posted the successful bidder (should there be one) will be placed on the job. During this period the Company may use temporary replacements to fill the job vacancies. Temporary vacancies shall not be used to train junior employees to fill permanent job vacancies.
-39-
Employees may bid laterally or down to ;i lower rated job one time each Contract year during the term of this Contract. Exceptions (additional bids) will be allowed for health reasons.
Section 7.	Temporary absences or vacancies caused by vacation, court duty, Union activities, illness, job posting, etc., may be filled by upgrading the most senior qualified employees from the same shit or the department on a temporary basis.
Section 8.	Effective April 1, 2005 Employees transferred to supervisory positions from the bargaining unit on a permanent basis shall retain but not accumulate seniority. In the event that such employee is subsequently transferred back into the unit with! i six (6) months, he may resume his old job or whatever It sser job his seniority entitles him to and shall resume accumulation of seniority from the date he returns to the bargaining unit provided he has a valid withdrawal card from the Union. In the event that such emp oyee is subsequently transferred back into the unit after six (6) months, he shall return to an entry level job and shall resume accumulation of seniority from the late he returns to the bargaining unit provided he has a valid withdrawal card from the Union.
Section 9.	Upon request of the International President of the Union, employees shall be g anted a leave of absence to serve the International Un on for a period up to one (1) year and renewable yearly thereafter at the request of the International President for a total of four (4) years without loss of seniority accumulated prior to such leave. An employee shall accrue no seniority during such leave.
-40-
Section 10.	In the case of temporary layoffs, as hereinafter defined, department seniority by shift shall apply immediately. When the layoff will exceed three (3) working days, or in the case of a color change, five (5) working days, plant seniority shall apply immediately.
Section 11.	In a like manner, a rehiring of employees shall be handled in the reverse order of their layoff, provided the employee has the ability to do the work.
Section 12.	The first thirty (30) calendar days from the date of hire of a new employee shall be his probationary period and his retention as an employee shall be entirely within the discretion of the Company. An additional thirty (30) calendar days’ probationary period will be granted when requested by the Company if the Local Union agrees to an extension. Any discharge during this probationary period is not a subject for grievance. Any new employee severed by the Company before the conclusion of his probationary period shall, upon rehire, be credited with all the days worked in his prior probationary periods within one (1) year prior to such rehire toward the completion of this probationary period.
Section 13.	Employees rehired by the Company or having previous job experience in the job for which they have been hired or rehired shall, after the completion of the probationary period, receive a rate for the job for which they have been hired or rehired which is commensurate with their experiences and qualifications.
Section 14.	Seniority list showing plant seniority will be maintained. If two or more employees start to work on the same day, their seniority will be determined by the shift on which they start. If two or more employees start
-41 -
to work on the same day and the same shift their p asition on Wie seniority list will be determined by the alphe betical arrangement of their last name. This list will be corected semiannually and copies given to the Union Presi lent.
Section 15.	Employees desiring a shift transfer within their department and job classification, shall notify the personnel department. When openings occur on the various shifts, these employees will be placed ac cording to seniority and preference. Employees me / only exercise this privilege once every twelve (12) months. However, when a day shift opening occurs, the jot will be posted and employees will be selected on the basis of seniority plus ability regardless of whether the en ployee has exercised a shift transfer privilege in the past twelve (12) months.
Section 16.	Temporary vacancies in supervisory positions may be filled by unit employees, not to exceed ninety (90) days per calendar year for any one (1) unit employee, unless an extension is mutually agreed to by the Company and the Local Union. The Comp iny will notify the Local Union in writing when such transfers exceed forty-five (45) days.
Section 17.	When the Company translers an employee to another shift or job, the transfer will be effected so that the employee will not suffer a sh :>rt work week. The above shall not apply to a person abs ent from work during that week for any reason.
Section 18.	All practices and Local Agreements pertaining to seniority with respect to the P & M that were in effect on March 31, 2005 unless changed by mutual agreement shall continue in full force and effect for the duration of this Contract.
-42-
Section 19.	During a curtailment of the work force in the Maintenance Department, apprentices shall be laid off first before journeymen. However, when an apprentice obtains six-thousand (6,000) OJT hours within the Apprenticeship Program, he shall be able to exercise seniority to displace a journeyman hired after the commencement of the apprentice's training, if the journeyman was hired from outside the Company.
Section 20.	Leave of absence may be granted at the Judgment of the Company, not to exceed one (1) year. If leave extends one (1) year or less, the employee accumulates seniority.
ARTICLE 9(e) Seniority
Following language applies ONLY to the following listed Local and plant:
Local Union #254, Madera, CA
This seniority language DOES NOT apply to any other Local Unions or plants, except that listed in this Article 9(e).
Section 1.	The first thirty (30) calendar days from the date of hiring of any employee shall be considered his probationary period and retention as an employee shall be entirely within the discretion of the Company. An additional thirty (30) day probationary period will be granted when requested by the Company, if the Local Union agrees to an extension. The employee shall be notified of the extension. Any discharge during this probationary period is not a subject for grievance.
-43-
Section 2.	Seniority plus ability shall govern in cases of promotion.
Section 3.	In the event of layoffs and rehires, plant seniority shall prevail whenever and wherever practical during the life of this Contract except as in Section 3 (a). In the event of layoffs due to planned curtailm ent, the Company shall notify the Business Committee before the layoffs occur if such layoffs are expected to exceed three (3) days.
(a)	During periods of reduced activity, miking a reduction in the working forces of Operators, Upkeep Men, Apprentices and Floor ’ersons necessary, Apprentices shall be the firs: laid off the machines, provided Journeymen O perators and Upkeep Men with the necessary experience to operate the machines remaining in production are on the Company’s payroll and avai able for work. It is understood that Operators stained under this Article shall accept the responsibilities of maintaining regular production levels.
(b)	In cases of promotion there will be a trial period of not less than thirty (30) days nor more than ninety (90) days. Temporary job bids vill only be used for special projects and circumstances.
Section 4.	Plant operations will be divided into nine (9) departments:
(1)	Batch and Melt
(2)	Forming
(3)	Finished Products
(4)	Warehouse
(5)	Maintenance
(6)	Machine Repair
-44-
(7)	Mold Polishing
(8)	Storeroom
(9)	Quality Lab
Section 5.	If, in the event of reduction of working forces for more than three (3) days or five (5) days for color change, an employee's plant seniority does not protect him in his present department, then the following procedure will be used in the exercise of his plant seniority:
(a)	He will be transferred back to his old department with the right to exercise his dormant seniority in that department.
(b)	If an employee is not protected under Subsection (a), then he will be free to exercise his plant seniority in replacing the least senior employee in the plant.
(c)	Senior employees may volunteer for layoff for the specified length of the layoff provided the remaining employees are qualified to perform the available work. Voluntary layoffs will only apply if the layoff is anticipated to be longer than seven (7) calendar days.
(d)	The recall of employees laid off under provisions of this Article shall be in reverse order of their layoff.
It is understood that an employee must have the ability and be physically capable of performing such work as he will be required to do.
Section 6.	Any dispute arising under this Article may be referred to the Grievance Procedure.
-45-
Section 7.	All employees will retain their seniority rights in the event of an extended shutdown fo major repairs.
Section 8.	The Company shall post a current seniority list at least every six (6) months.
Section 9.	The provisions of this Article sliall not require the Company to transfer laid off employees to other shifts unless the layoff exceeds three (3) lays or five (5) days for color changes, provided, however, that this Section shall not apply unless all probationary employees within the department on the shift o i which the layoff occurs have been laid off. It is understood that employees who are retained must be qualified to perform the work of probationary employees whom they c splace.
Section 10.	An employee shall lose his sen ority for the following reasons:
(a)	Resignation;
(b)	Discharge;
(c)	Failure to report tor work five (5) consecutive calendar days without notifying the Company. In proper cases exceptions shall be m<i.de;
(d)	Laid off for a continuous period of three (3) years;
(e> Disability retirement;
(f)	Retirement or receipt of a pension under the Pension Plan;
(g)	Failure to return from authorized leave of absence.
-46-
Section 11.	Employees may bid laterally or down to a lower rated job one time each Contract year during the term of this Contract. Exceptions (additional bids) will be allowed for health reasons.
Section 12.	All existing job posting rules shall remain in effect for the duration of this Contract unless changed by mutual agreement between the Local Union and the Company. The Local Union and the Company shall meet and agree upon procedures and jobs to be used for job posting.
All jobs will be posted for a period of seven (7) calendar days. Any employee who is awarded a promotion will be placed on the awarded job as soon as reasonably possible after being selected.
Section 13.	When the Company transfers an employee to another shift or job, the transfer will be effective so that the employee will not suffer a short work week. The above shall not apply to a person absent from work during that week for any reason.
Section 14.	All practices and Local Agreements pertaining to seniority with respect to the P&M that were in effect on March 31, 2005 unless changed by mutual agreement shall continue in full force and effect for the duration of this Contract.
Section 15.	During a curtailment of the work force in the Maintenance Department, apprentices shall be laid off first before Journeymen. However, when an apprentice obtains six-thousand (6,000) OJT hours within the Apprenticeship Program, he shall be able to exercise seniority to displace a journeyman hired after the commencement of the apprentice’s training, if the journeyman was hired from outside the Company.
-47-
Section 16.	Employees transferred to supervisory positions from the bargaining unit on a permane it basis shall retain but not accumulate seniority. In the event that such employee is subsequently transferred back into the unit within six (6) months, he may resume his oil job or whatever lesser job his seniority entitles him to and shall resume accumulation of seniority from the date he returns to the bargaining unit provided he has a valid withdrawal card from the union. In the event tf at such employee is subsequently transferred back into the unit after six (6) months, he shall return to an entry level job and shall resume accumulation of seniority from :he date he returns to the bargaining unit provided he h&: a valid withdrawal card from the Union.
Section 17.	Temporary vacancies in supervisory positions may be filled by unit employees, not tc exceed ninety (90) days per calendar year for any one unit employee, unless an extension is mutually agreed to by the Company and the Local Union. The Company shall notify the Local Union in writing when such transfers exceed thirty (30) days.
Section 18.	Leave of absence may be grunted at the judgment of the Company, not to exceed one (1) year. If leave extends one (1) year or less, the employee accumulates seniority.
ARTICLE 9(f) Seniority
Following language applies ONLY to the following listed local and plant:
Local #226, Burlington, Wl
Local #169, Milford, MA
Local #30, Pevely, MO
-48-
Local #239, Sapulpa, OK
Local #125, Waxahachie, TX
Local #193, Wilson, NC
Section 1.	The first thirty (30) calendar days from the date of hire of a new employee shall be considered his probationary period and retention as an employee shall be entirely within the discretion of the Company. An additional thirty (30) calendar day probationary period will be granted when requested by the Company if the Local Union involved agrees to an extension. Any discharge during this probationary period is not a subject for grievance. Any such new employee severed by the Company before the conclusion of his probationary period shall, upon rehire, be credited with all the days worked in his prior probationary periods within one year prior to such rehire toward the completion of his probationary period.
Section 2.	Employees rehired by the Company or having previous job experience in the job for which they have been hired or rehired shall, after completion of the probationary period set forth in Section 1, hereof, receive a rate for the job for which they have been hired or rehired which is commensurate with their experience and qualifications.
Section 3.	Seniority will accumulate if an employee is absent due to sickness or injury, or occupational illness or occupational injury provided the employee returns to his job as soon as he is able to work. If an employee fails to return to work as soon as he is able to work, such employee shall be terminated as a voluntary quit, and this will cancel all seniority rights.
Section 4.	Each month the Company will supply the Local Union President or their designated representative with a record of new hires and terminations. The
-49-
Company shall also supply the Local President and the Local Financial Secretary of the Union with an up to-date seniority list twice each year on April 1 and October 1.
Section 5.	Seniority will commence from the employee's hire-in date but will not be effective .mtil the thirtieth (30th) calendar day after employment and will accumulate as long as the employee is cont nuously employed by the Company. Alphabetical ordw shall govern in case of the same hiring dates.
Section 6.	Seniority of an employee will be terminated for any of the following reasons:
(a)	Voluntary resignation.
(b)	Discharge for just cause.
(c)	For employees with five (5) or more years of service, absence for any reason for more than five (5) years except for occupational or non-occupational injury or illness. For employees with less than five (5) years of service, absence which corresponds to their length of service but in no case less than two (2) years. Except for occupational injury or illness, there w II be no credited service for benefits covered under this Contract for continuous absence from work for periods in excess of two (2) years.
(d)	Failure to return to work at the expiratic n date of any authorized leave of absence or layoff.
(e)	Failure to return to work within soven (7) calendar days from layoff after receipt of certified letter or telegram sent to lart known address.
-50-
(f)	Absence for three (3) consecutive work days without notifying the Company. The Company will give consideration to extraordinary circumstances.
Section 7.	All overtime procedures will remain in full force and effect during the term of this Contract unless changed by mutual agreement between the Union and the Company. In those plants, departments or job classifications not now covered by an overtime procedure, the Company and the Local Union will develop one.
Section 8.	Temporary job vacancies will be considered if such jobs do not exceed thirty (30) days. In the event that a job vacancy involves a temporary replacement for an employee on a leave of absence for any reason in excess of thirty (30) days, the need may be filled through the utilization of relief personnel in seniority order. Such temporary vacancies will be filled for the duration of the leave of absence. In the event that the vacating employee is terminated or quits before the expiration of the leave of absence, the temporary job vacancy will automatically become a permanent vacancy and must be reposted as such.
Section 9.	Employees changing jobs from one department to another will assume full plant seniority in the new department effective on the date of transfer. However, such employee shall not participate in overtime procedures until qualified to perform the job.
Section 10.	Permanent Layoffs: During periods of reduced activity, making a reduction in the work forces necessary, the least senior employee will be laid off. Recall will be in reverse order.
-51 -
Temporary Layoffs: In the case of the temporary layoffs, shift seniority shall apply immediately. Temporary layoffs shall be defined as not exceeding three (3) working days except that, In cases of color cianges, temporary layoffs shall be defined as not exceeding five (5) working days. If for some reason the circumstances are such that the temporary ayoff is extended, the Company will place the senior employee, on layoff, on a job in his former department or replace the least senior person in the plant.
Section 11.	When the Company trans fers an employee to another shift or job, the transfer will be effective so that the employee will not suffer a st tort work week. The above shall not apply to a person abs ent from work during that week for any reason.
Section 12.	All practices and Local agreements pertaining to seniority with respect to the P & M, 1 nat were in effect on March 31, 2005, unless changed by mutual agreement, shall continue in full force and effect for the duration of this Labor Agreement.
ARTICLE 10 Transfer of Employees
Section 1.	The Company shall notify the International Union and the Local Union in writing ninety 190) days in advance or as soon thereafter as possible of any plant closing or the elimination of a department. If notification is less than ninety (90) days, an employee shall be paid for each day less than the ninety (90) day notification. Such pay will be at his regular base rate of pay for an eight (8) hour day for each working day of his regular schedule.
-52-
Section 2.	Upon request of the International Union, a representative of the Company shall meet with a representative of the International Union and the Local Union involved to advise them of the jobs and employees to be eliminated. The Company will advise the International Union and the Local Union at such meeting of job vacancies which may then exist at any of the Company’s other plants under the jurisdiction of this Contract.
Section 3.	An employee with one (1) year or more of seniority who is terminated because of a permanent reduction in the working forces shall, within thirty (30) days after the date of his termination, make application to the Personnel Department of the plant where he was formerly employed specifying the other plants under the jurisdiction of this Contract at which he wishes to be considered for employment. Any such employee shall be considered at other plants for job openings for which he is qualified for a period of one (1) year subsequent to the date of his termination but may extend this period for a second year by requesting such extension at the Personnel Department of the plant where he was formerly employed within ninety (90) days prior to the end of the first year following his termination, and for a third year by giving similar notice within ninety (90) days prior to the end of the second year following his termination.
If he is employed at another plant of the Company within such time, he shall retain his continuous service benefits accumulated with the Company.
Section 4.	The Company and the International Union shall from time to time exchange a list of employees who have been laid off by reason of permanent reductions in the working forces and who are still available for employment setting forth their job training and qualifications.
-53-
Section 5.	The provisions of Section 3 shall also apply to those employees laid off indefinitely as a result of the elimination of a part of a department.
Section 6.	Permanently laid off employees shall have preferred hiring rights for any vacancies at any other plant of the Company. Employees so hired fit a new location will have recall rights at their previous location. The Company shall have no monetary ot ligation concerning the recall to their previous location.
ARTICLE 11 Premium Pay
Section 1.	Premium pay shall be paid in accordance with the following:
(a)	Eight (8) hours shall constitute a normal work day.
(b)	Forty (40) hours shall constitute a normal work week.
(c)	Time and one-half shall be paid after sight (8) hours in any day or forty (40) hours in any one (1) week or, in the event more than sight (8) hours are worked consecutively, for all hours worked after the first eight (8) ever though some hours may fall in the next twenty-'our (24) hour period or work week.
(d)	Double time will also be paid for all hours worked over twelve (12) hours duing any twenty-four (24) hour period; howeve , double time will be paid for all hours worked consecutively over twelve (12) hours, even thou gh some hours may fall in the next twenty-four 124) hour period.
-54-
An employee who works his regularly scheduled day or days off shall be paid time and one-half for all hours worked on such day or days off provided he works his regular work schedule in the week in which such day off falls.
(e)	For premium pay purposes, the employee’s 24 hour period begins when he first starts work after the completion of the previous 24-hour period, except that if he is directed by the Company to begin work after the start of his regular shift, his 24-hour period shall start at the beginning of that regular shift. Subsequent 24-hour periods in the work week start when the employee next begins work after the completion of the preceding 24-hour period, except that an emergency CALL OUT will not start a new 24-hour period. There is no overlapping of 24-hour periods. A 24-hour period is exactly 24 hours long.
For the purpose of this Article, the beginning and ending of the work weeks now in effect, shall continue during the term of this Contract unless changed by mutual consent of the Local Union, the Company and the International Union.
All past practices with respect to the establishment of the 24-hour period that were In existence prior to the date of this agreement are null and void and will have no effect. Establishment of the 24-hour period will be as set forth in the 1975 Tully Letter and the arbitration decision of Arbitrator Robert L. M it ran I In case No. 111-78-#21,22, 24, 51.
-55-
Section 2.	The provisions of this Article are iniended only to provide a basis for determining the number of hours of work for which an employee shall be entitled to be paid at overtime rates and shall not be construed as a guarantee to such employee of any specified number of hours of work either per day or per week.
Section 3.	Work on Sundays shall pay time and one-half except that work on Easter Sunday, double time shall be paid for time worked for a twenty-four (24) hour period.
Section 4.	On holidays falling Monday hrough Friday, the holiday hours paid for will be considered as hours worked for the purpose of figuring overtime, and hours paid for jury duty or funeral leave shall csunt as hours worked for the purpose of figuring overtime.
When an employee takes a vacation end the employee works his day off during that week, the vacation hours taken will be figured as hours worked for the purpose of calculating overtime for the employee's day off.
Section 5.	The Company recognizes that when an employee has worked his regular day off, such e nployee shall not be required to take time off during such work week solely to avoid payment of overtime. In ti e event any employee's schedule is changed at the request of the Company he shall be paid any premium or holiday pay that would have applied to his regular schedule that wc rk week.
An employee who works on his regular schedule day or days off and was unable to work his regular schedule in the week in which such day off falls due to the employee participating at the request of the Company in approved Labor-Management activities in the environmental area, will receive time and one-half for tall hours worked on such day or days off.
-56-
Tiie employee’s day off shall start at the end of his regular shift and continue until the beginning of the following scheduled shift.
Section 6.	The Union recognizes and agrees to continuous operation for the term of this Contract. Any employee who is opposed to working on Sunday or Saturday because of his religious beliefs shall not be compelled to work on Sunday or Saturday under the continuous operation plan, nor shall he be discriminated against because of such religious beliefs. Any such employee shall notify the Personnel Office in writing that he does not wish to be scheduled for work on Sundays or Saturdays. Concerted action taken hereunder shall be considered a violation of this Contract. Once an employee declares his unavailability for work due to religious beliefs, the Company is not obligated to return him to work on the declared days for the duration of the Contract.
Section 7.	An employee who is transferred for any reason to a higher classified job shall be paid the higher rate for all hours worked on the higher classified job. Any employee placed on a lower rated job shall continue to receive his regular rate. However, an employee who has provided the Company with satisfactory evidence of a compelling medical or physical problem will not be required to work in a position which would aggravate that condition.
Employees shall not be transferred arbitrarily merely to avoid payment under this Section.
Section 8.	In addition to any holiday pay to which an employee may be entitled, in accordance with the provisions of Section 5 of Article 16, HOLIDAYS, double time shall be paid to all employees for all hours actually worked during the holiday period.
-57-
Section 9.	All day workers asked to work and who do so after their regular quitting time, and are not notified thirty (30) minutes before quitting time, shall rece ve four (4) hours pay.
Section 10.	All workers called or scheduled to work less than four (4) hours before their regular starting lime will be guaranteed four (4) hours of pay exclusive of their regular hours unless they have been notified at least twenty-four (24) hours in advance of their regular starting t me.
The following applies to Carteret, Dolton, Dunkirk, Burlington, Milford, Pevely, Sapulpa, Waxahachie, Wilson only: All workers called or scheduled to work less than four (4) hours before their regular starting ime will be guaranteed four (4) hours of pay exclusive of their regular hours unless they have been notified on their preceding work shift to report early for their next shift.
Section 11.	An employee who is unable to work as a result of an occupational disability, incurred while performing the duties required for his job, and who is sent home at the discretion of the Medical Department, shall receive payment for the full day’s wage at his base hourly 'ate. An employee will also be paid for time lost from work up to a maximum of four (4) hours for one follow-up doctor’s visit. Such employee shall provide a valid doctor’s appointment in advance. If an employee dies during his regular working hours, his estate shall receive a full eight (8) hours pay. Such hours paid for shall be considered as hours worked for the purpose of figuring overtime.
Section 12.	The start of the first shift on Monday shall be the start of the work week for day worke s in the Maintenance, Mold Cleaning and Batch and Furnace Departments. Work on Saturday and Sunday and overtime will be voluntary with these employees except during
-58-
furnace repairs or where a production stoppage would result if this work was not done. Overtime will be voluntary with all other employees. However, if no one volunteers and production loss would result, the Company may assign the junior employee in the classification on the appropriate shift. An employee with a compelling reason to leave at the end of the regular shift will be excused from overtime work. No employee will be compelled to work overtime in excess of four (4) consecutive hours immediately following or preceding his regular shift. No employee will be forced to work overtime more than once during a forty-eight (48) hour period.
Should a dispute arise over the legitimacy of the compelling reason, the employee will be given a reasonable period of time to substantiate the need to leave, before any action is taken.
Section 13.	In any case where an employee is called into work in an emergency, a rate of time and one-half the base rate will be paid for all hours worked consecutively from the time tire employee reports for work, even though some of the hours worked consecutively might fall in the following day. Hours worked under this Section may be used again in computing forty hour overtime.
Section 14.	Hot patch repair work will be paid at a premium of time and one-half for jobs under extreme heat conditions of non-routine operations.
Hours worked under this Section may be used again in computing overtime.
Section 15.	Unless specifically provided for in this Contract, there shall be no duplication or pyramiding in computing premium pay and/or overtime pay and the
-59-
same hours shall not be used twice in conputing premium pay and/or overtime pay under any provisions of this Contract.
Section 16.	Starting and quitting times shall be left to the option of the Local Union and the respective plant management.
Section 17.	No employee, unless released for the day, shall be penalized in pay for any period of tine after starting time.
Section 18.	An employee who works overtime will be paid the rate of the job or his regular rate whichever is higher.
Section 19.
(a) An employee who agrees to work past :he end of the shift shall be guaranteed one (1) hour of work, or if work is not available, one (1) hour of pay, unless the employee is notified rot less than thirty (30) minutes before the end of his shift he is not to stay over.
ARTICLE 12 Reporting and Call-In Pay
Section 1.	Any employee under the jurisdiction of this Contract holding a regular position reporting or work at his usual time will be guaranteed at least four (4) hours of work or four (4) hours of pay at the applicable premium time rate set forth in Article 11, PREMIUM PAY, unless he has been instructed not to report. This policy will not apply during floods, fires, tornadoes, or other disasters beyond the Company’s control.
-60-
Section 2.	An employee who is called in to work other than during his scheduled time will be paid four (4) hour’s pay or actual hours worked at the applicable premium time rate, whichever is greater. This policy shall apply when an employee is called in early to his regular shift and works continuously from the time of reporting to his regular shift, unless he was so notified on the preceding day to report early for his next shift.
Section 3.	Each plant shall provide for prompt access for employees who are called in to work other than regular scheduled shifts.
Section 4.	When an employee is called in to work no earlier than one (1) hour prior to the start of the shift to fill a vacancy and reports within one (1) hour from the time of the start of the shift, the employee will be paid from the start of that shift at the applicable rate.
ARTICLE 13 Shift Differentials
Section 1.	All employees under the jurisdiction of this Contract shall be paid premium time for shift work as follows:
(a)	For all hours worked on the first night shift, each employee shall receive twenty-two cents (220) per hour.
(b)	For all hours worked on the second night shift, each employee shall receive twenty-seven cents (27c) per hour.
Section 2.	Shift differential payments shall be considered as payments additional to all other hourly compensation and will not be considered in the
-61 -
computation of other premium time, vacation, noliday (unless worked), bonus or other similar payments, except as required by law.
Section 3.	Employees whose work overlaps wo (2) shifts shall be paid the established shift differentia for the hours worked in each shift.
All past practices with respect to shift differentials, Including those related to payment of premium on shift differentials, that were In ex stence prior to the date of this agreement are null and void and will have no effect. The arbitration decision of Arbitrator Barbara Zausner In case No. 54/75412-33 Is superseded and reversed upon the execution of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 14 Negotiated Rates
Section 1.	If during the term of this Agreement a new job is created or significant changes are made in an existing job, the Company shall meet with the Local Union to negotiate a new rate. If the parties cannot agree the Company may place the rate on the job(s) they feel is appropriate. In setting the new rate, the Company shall fairly take into consideration all factors normally involved in glass container collective bargaining negotiations, including, but not limited to, job content and responsibility, the existing wage structure, and past collective bargaining history.
Section 2.	All pertinent, basic data relative io all job descriptions, wage rates paid all employees, and population by job shall be given to the Union. Any changes to job descriptions shall also be given to the Union. In the event that the Union disagrees with the rate set by the Company under Section 1, above, th e matter
-62-
will be referred to the Company/Union Negotiated Rates Board for resolution. The Company/Union Negotiated Rates Board shall be comprised of two representatives from the Company and two representatives from the International Union.
Section 3.	Any disputes with respect to this Article that are not resolved by the Company/Union Negotiated Rates Board shall be referred to the third and, if necessary, fourth steps of the grievance procedure. If the grievance is not settled, a mutually selected Interest Arbitrator shall decide the dispute.
Section 4.	When a new job is established or a job is eliminated, the Company will meet with the Local Union to discuss the reasons for its actions. Such meeting will be held prior to such change taking place.
ARTICLE 15 Method Of Payment
Section 1.	All employees under the jurisdiction of this Contract shall receive their earnings in full every week and no more than one (1) week’s earnings shall remain unpaid when this payment is met.
Section 2.	Pay errors shall be corrected immediately in full including taxes after notice from the employee affected.
Section 3.	All grievance settlements involving pay will be made within the next pay period.
Section 4.	The Company will use Imprinted sealed checks for payroll purposes. Paychecks will be made available to employees on their day(s) off on Thursday.
-63-
ARTICLE 16 Holidays
Section 1.	The following holidays shall be observed during the year:
Decoration Day, Independence Day, ‘Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day, holiday period; 4 shifts of £ hours. ‘December 24, ‘Christmas Day, ‘December 26, December 27, December 28, December 29, December 30, December 31, New Years Day, holiday period; 3 shifts of 8 hours.
Applies to El Monte, CA plant only - The following holidays shall be observed during the year: Decoration Day; Independence Day; Labor Day*; Thanksgiving Day - holiday period: four (4) shifts of eight (8) hours; Day after Thanksgiving Day; December 24*; Christmas Day*; December 26; December 27; December 28; December 30; December 31*; New Year’s Day - holiday period: three (3) shifts of eight (8) hours.
Applies to Madera, CA plant only * New Year's Day, Decoration Day, Independence Day, ‘Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day, holiday period: 4 shifts of 3 hours. December 23, ‘December 24, ‘Christmas Day, December 26, December 27, December 28, Docember 29, December 31, holiday period: 3 shifts of 8 hours.
‘There shall be no production on these holidays. When the Company desires to work on a mandatory shutdown holiday, it will be within the sole authority of the Local Union to authorize any and all work for that holiday period.
Section 2.	The Company shall designate th c start of the holiday period. For premium pay purposes any 24
-64-
hour holiday period will commence as of the beginning of the day shift of the holiday, and any 32 hour holiday period will commence as of the beginning of the night shift preceding the holiday.
Section 3.	When any of these holidays falls on a Sunday but is observed on Monday and the plant is not in operation on Sunday, the holiday period on Monday will be only 24 hours. December 24 through December 31 and New Year's Day will be observed on the days on which they occur.
Section 4.	All employees who have been on the Company’s payroll for thirty (30) calendar days shall be paid for each of the above named holidays when no work is performed. The employees shall be paid for one (1) regular shift at their base hourly rate for each of the above named holidays when no work is performed, subject to the following provisions:
(a)	That such employee must work on his regularly scheduled working day next preceding and next following the holiday period unless excused by his supervisor or on Union Business. Such excuses shall not be unreasonably withheld. However, no employee shall lose more than one (1) day of holiday pay for an unexcused absence on each of these days.
(b)	Applies to Carteret, Dolton, Dunkirk, El Monte, Henderson, Lincoln, Madera, Port Allegany, Ruston and Seattle plants only - No payment will be made for holidays not worked to employees on sick leave (exceeding one (1) day), leave of absence for any reason, or layoff, except employees who are laid off not more than thirty (30) days prior to a holiday and who
-65-
meet the requirements set forth in subsection 4 (a) hereof. Employees laid off not moo than thirty (30) days prior to Christmas will s so be entitled to holiday pay for New Year'r Day, provided they meet the requirements set orth in subsection 4 (a) hereof.
(b1) Applies to Burlington, Milford, Pevely, Sapulpa, Waxahachie and Wilson plants only - No payment will be made for holidays not worked to employees on sick leave, leave of absence for any reason, oi layoff, except employees who are laid off net more than thirty (30) days prior to a hoi day(s). Employees laid off not more than thiily (30) days prior to December 25 will also be entitled to holiday pay lor December 24, December 25, December 26, December 27, December 28, December 29, December 30, December 31, and January 1, provided they meet the requirements set forth in subsection 4(a) hereof.
(c)	Any employee absent because of an occupational disability who reports back to work when able to do so shall receive holiday pay for any holidays which occurred during the first twelve (12) months of such absence.
(d)	During the week in which a holiday occurs, an employee’s work schedule will not be changed solely to avoid the payment of holiday |:ay.
Section 5.	Double time shall be paid for oil hours worked during the holiday period as set forth in Section 1. Work on a holiday shall qualify an employee foi holiday pay. This does not apply to employees who have not completed their thirty (30) day probationary period.
-66-
Section 6.	Work on holidays shall be voluntary with the employee except for those employees who must be scheduled to work in order to assure the safety, repair and maintenance of plant and equipment and to prepare for plant start-ups.
Maintenance employees will not be required to work on the following holidays: Thanksgiving Day, Labor Day, December 24 and December 25.
Section 7.	An employee who is required to work during any holiday shall be granted the option of taking an equal amount of mutually agreed upon days off from work without pay. Reasonable requests will be granted.
Any employee who must perform work on a holiday as specified in Article 16, Section 6 will be provided a full days work whenever the employee requests that full days work be provided him.
Section 8.	The Company shall post the start and end of the holiday period five (5) calendar days in advance of the shut down.
ARTICLE 17(a) Vacations
Carteret, NJ Dolton, IL
Dunkirk, IN El Monte, CA Henderson, NC
Lincoln, IL Madera, CA Port Allegany, PA
Ruston, LA Seattle, WA
-67-
Section 1.	For vacation qualifying years falling on or after April 1, 1999, each employee under the jurisdiction of the Contract who has been in the employ of the Company for one year or more who has worked 1200 hours during his qualifying year and who at the er d of the qualifying year is on the payroll shall be entitled to a vacation with pay based on the general schedule of:
After one (1) year or more of continuous service, one (1) week vacation (48 hours pay):
After two (2) years or more of continuous service, two (2) weeks vacation (80 hours pay);
After five (5) years or more of continuous service, two (2) weeks vacation (96 hours pay);
After eight (8) years or more of continuous service, three (3) weeks vacation (120 hours pay);
After fifteen (15) years or more of continuous service, four (4) weeks vacation (160 hours pay)
After eighteen (18) years or more of continuous service, four (4) weeks vacation (180 hours pay);
After twenty (20) years or more of co itinuous service, four (4) weeks vacation (200 hours pay);
After twenty-five (25) years or more of continuous service, five (5) weeks vacation (220 hours pay);
After thirty (30) years or more of continuous service, five (5) weeks vacation (240 hours pay);
-68-
Upon obtaining thirty (30) years of service, the employee will receive an additional eight (8) hours pay for each five (5) years of service thereafter.
It shall be the Company’s prerogative to divide the three, four or five weeks vacation period if it thinks it is necessary for the continuity of plant operations provided at least two weeks are successive.
Section 2.	For the purpose of determining vacation eligibility, all vacation qualifying years now in effect shall continue during the term of this Contract unless changed by mutual consent of the Union and the Company.
Section 3.	Each employee who is on the Company’s payroll at the end of the qualifying year and who has worked more than 400 hours but less than twelve hundred hours during such qualifying year shall receive a vacation with pay based on the general schedule of:
(a)	Two percent (2%) of his total hours worked during such qualifying year times his base hourly wage rate if he has less than five years of continuous service;
(b)	Four percent (4%) of his total hours worked during such qualifying year times his base hourly wage rate after five or more years of continuous service;
(c)	Six percent (6%) of his total hours worked during such qualifying year times his base hourly wage rate after eight or more years of continuous service;
(d)	Eight percent (8%) of his total hours worked during such qualifying year times his base
-69-
hourly wage rate after fifteen years or more of continuous service;
(e)	Ten percent (10%) of his total hours worked during such qualifying year times hi:; base hourly wage rate after twenty or more >ears of continuous service;
(f)	Twelve percent (12%) of his total hours worked during such qualifying year times hi:; base hourly wage rate after twenty-five years :>r more of continuous service;
(g)	Fourteen percent (14%) of his tota hours worked during such qualifying year times his base hourly wage rate after thirty-five years or more of continuous service.
Section 4.	If an employee’s service is termir ated for any reason after he has completed one year or more of service, he or his persona! representative shall be paid vacation pay earned at the time of termina:ion the amount of vacation pay earned but unpaid i ncluding vacation pay earned during his current qualifying year, even though he is not on the payroll at the end of the qualifying year.
Section 5.	Hours lost due to compensable industrial accident, or in attendance as an official delega:e to the Convention of the Union, Union Business or as rn official conferee at the joint wage negotiating conference between the Union and the Company will be computed as hours worked (not to exceed 40 hours per week) for the purpose of vacation hours qualification.
Section 6.	No employee will be required to work more than 1200 hours during any qualifying yea in order to be entitled to vacation with pay. Any emplc/ee who
-70-
has worked 1200 hours during any qualifying year and is on the Company's payroll at the end of any qualifying year will be entitled to a vacation with pay, except as provided for in Section 4 or Local Agreements.
Section 7.	Any employee who is laid off for any reason, who is on sick leave or on an approved leave of absence and has otherwise qualified for vacation pay as specified above shall be given his vacation pay on request.
Section 8.	Restoration of Service - An employee who is rehired by the Company and who then works at least three (3) years from the date of such rehire shall be given credit toward vacation rights for prior service with the Company provided such prior service with the Company was at least two (2) years.
Section 9.	Vacation pay checks will be issued on any regular pay day just preceding vacation taken. Each employee shall be responsible to give a five (5) day notice to the Company. Other optional forms of payment may be agreed to at each plant location.
Section 10.	All hours taken off work as vacation hours shall be included in future vacation hour qualifications.
Section 11.	Employees who have earned vacation will be allowed to split two (2) weeks of vacation one day at a time. This is provided that adequate notice is given and that qualified replacements are available.
If a holiday or holidays falls during an employee’s vacation, the holiday(s) will not be counted as a day of vacation.
-71 -
ARTICLE 17(b) Vacations
Burlington, Wl
Milford, MA
Pevely, MO
Sapulpa, OK Waxahachie, TX Wilson, NC
Section 1.	Each employee under the jurisdiction of this Contract who has been in the employ of the Company for one year or more and who has worked 1200 hours or more between his or her anniversary da:e of the same year who is on the payroll the following year shall be entitled to a vacation with pay based on the general schedule of:
Six days vacation (48 hours pay) after one year or more continuous service;
Ten days of vacation (80 hours pay) after tvio years or more continuous service;
Twelve days vacation (96 hours pay) after fi e years or more of continuous service;
Fifteen days vacation (120 hours pay) after eight years or more of continuous service;
Fifteen days vacation (160 hours pay) after fifteen years or more of continuous service;
Twenty days vacation (180 hours pay) after eighteen years or more of continuous service;
-72-
Twenty days vacation (200 hours pay) after twenty-two years or more continuous service;
Twenty days vacation (220 hours pay) after twenty-five years or more of continuous service;
Twenty-five days vacation (240 hours pay) after thirty years or more of continuous service; times his base hourly wage rate.
Upon obtaining thirty-five (35) years of service, the employee will receive an additional eight (8) hours of pay and will also receive an additional eight (8) hours of pay for each additional five (5) years of service.
It shall be the Company's prerogative to divide the three, four, or five week vacation period if it thinks it is necessary for the continuity of plant operations. However, effective April 1,1990, once during every two (2) years in which an employee is qualified to receive three (3) weeks or more of vacation time off, he shall be permitted to take the full amount of vacation time due him consecutively consistent with the continuity of plant operations.
Section 2.	Each employee who is on the Company’s payroll at the end of the qualifying year and who has worked more than 400 hours but less than 1200 hours during such qualifying year shall receive a vacation time based on the general schedule of:
(a)	Two percent (2%) of his total hours worked during such qualifying year times his base hourly wage rate if he has less than five years of continuous service;
(b)	Four percent (4%) of his total hours worked during such qualifying year times his base
-73-
hourly wage rate after five or more years of continuous service;
(c)	Six percent (6%) of his total hours worked during such qualifying year times his base hourly wage rate after eight or more /ears of continuous service;
(d)	Eight percent (8%) of his total hours worked during such qualifying year times r s base hourly wage rate after fifteen years or more of continuous service;
(e)	Ten percent (10%) of his total hours worked during such qualifying year times Ms base hourly wage rate after twenty-two years or more of continuous service;
(f)	Twelve percent (12%) of his total hour; worked during such qualifying year times tris base hourly rate after thirty years or more of continuous service.
(g)	Fourteen percent (14%) of his totiil hours worked during such qualifying year times his base hourly rate after thirty-five years or more of continuous service.
Section 3.	If an employee’s service is terminated for any reason, he or his personal representative shall be paid vacation pay earned at the time of termination, the amount of vacation pay earned but unpaid including vacation pay earned during his current qualifying year. If an employee has at least 1,200 hours during the currently qualifying year and is terminated for any reason, he or his personal representative shall receive full vacatic n pay for that year.
-74-
Section 4.	Hours lost due to compensable industrial accident or in attendance as an official delegate to the convention of the Union, Local Union Business or as an official conferee at the Joint Wage Negotiating Conference between the Union and the Company, or temporarily on official International Union Business will be computed as hours worked (not to exceed 40 hours per week) for the purpose of vacation hours qualification. Employees on Industrial Leave will not be compelled to work any days during their first four (4) qualifying years to receive vacation pay and thereafter, must work one (1) day in each year.
Section 5.	Payments under this Article shall be at the base hourly wage rate of the job on which the employee was working on the day he requested vacation payment.
Section 6.	No employee will be required to work more than 1200 hours during any qualifying year in order to be entitled to a vacation with pay. Any employee who has worked 1200 hours during any qualifying year and is on the Company’s payroll at the end of any qualifying year will be entitled to a vacation with pay.
Section 7.	Any employee who is laid off for any reason or who is on sick leave and who has otherwise qualified for vacation pay as specified above shall be given his vacation pay on request.
Section 8.	When a serviceman, having previously been employed for one year or more, returns to work after being released from military service, he is eligible for vacation pay in the amount of the number of days he worked in the last year before entering the service divided by 365, times 40, times the number of weeks vacation his seniority qualifies him for at the time he returns.
-75-
Upon reaching his anniversary date after he returns, he is then qualified for the full vacation time based on his original employment date.
Section 9.	Credit as hours worked toward vacation eligibility at the rate of 40 hours per week will be computed for hours lost due to sickness or illnes s.
An employee on sick leave past one year qualifies for vacation pay if he or she works at least one day during the qualifying year.
Section 10.	Restoration of Service - An employee who is rehired by the Company and who then >vorks at least three (3) years from the date of such rehire shall be given credit toward vacation rights for prior service with the Company provided such prior service with the Company was at least two (2) years.
Section 11.	All hours taken off work as vacation hours shall be included in future vacation hour qualifications.
Section 12.	Vacation checks will be paid by separate check.
Section 13.	Employees will not be required to take vacation during layoffs, sick leave, leave of absence (including FMLA Leave) or in any week in which a holiday listed in Article 13, Section 1 occurs.
Section 14.	Company agrees to the concept of one day at a time vacations and agreements will remain in effect for the duration of this contract as agreed in the respective plants.
-76-
ARTICLE 18 Pensions
Section 1.	Effective April 1, 2005, all present retirees receiving the $14.00 pension benefit will have their benefit increased to $15.00 per month per year of credited service.
Section 2.	Effective April 1, 2005 the amount of pension benefit to which an employee who retires on or after April 1, 2005 is entitled to will be based on the following schedule subject to provisions set forth in this Article:
Labor Grade 1 -10 11 -15 16 and above
Amount per Month For Each
Year of Credited Service
$43.00 $44.00 $45.00
Effective April 1,2006 the amount of pension benefit to which an employee who retires on or after April 1,2005 is entitled to will be based on the following schedule subject to provisions set forth in this Article:
Labor Grade 1 -10 11 - 15 16 and above
Amount per Month For Each Year of Credited Service $45.00 $46.00 $47.00
Effective April 1, 2006 the amount of pension benefits to which an employee who retires between April 1, 2005, and April 1, 2006 is entitled will be recalculated. Such recalculation will be made, subject to actuarial
-77-
reductions where applicable, at the appropriate level of $45.00, $46.00, and $47.00.
Effective April 1,2007 the amount of pension t enefit to which an employee who retires on or after April 1 2005 is entitled to will be based on the following schedule subject to provisions set forth in this Article:
Labor Grade
1 -10
11 -15
16 and above
Amount per Month For Each
Year of Credited Service
$47.00 $48.00 $49.00
Effective April 1,2007 the amount of pension benefit to which an employee who retires between April 1, 2005 and April 1, 2007 is entitled will be recalculated. Such recalculation will be made, subject to actuarial reductions where applicable, at the appropriate level of $47.00, $48.00, and $49.00.
Section 3.	Employees under this Contract who are covered by Schedule A are assigned to a labc r grade. The labor grades referred to in Section 2 apply to all employees covered by Schedule A; for purposes of this Article only, all employees who are not covered by the Schedule A will be considered to be in the lat or grade whose hourly wage rate most nearly approximates the hourly wage rate of the Production and Maintenance unit employee who is assigned to a labor grade.
The labor grade assigned to an employee immediately preceding his retirement shall be used in determining his pension benefit except that, for an employee whose primary labor grade in one (twelve (12) consecutive month) of the ten (10) years preceding retirement
-78-
was higher than his labor grade at retirement, such higher labor grade shall be used in determining his pension benefit.
Section 4.	Normal Retirement Date - Effective April 1, 2005 the last day of the month in which an employee reaches age 60. In accordance with applicable law, however, an employee will not be required to retire solely because of reaching age 65, and will be granted credited service for time worked after age 65 on the same basis as time worked prior to age 65.
Early Retirement Date - An employee may retire early before age 60 if he is within ten (10) years of his normal retirement date, provided he has ten (10) or more full years of credited service with the Company.
Section 5.	Normal Retirement Income - An employee, who retires on or after his 60th birthday, will receive a monthly life income from file Pension Plan provided for in this Contract equal to the applicable amount as set forth in Section 2, multiplied by his years of credited service.
Early Retirement Income Prior to Age 60 - An employee who retires early prior to age 60 will receive monthly retirement income in an amount equal to his monthly retirement benefit figured on credited service to early retirement date, with such amount reduced 1/2 of 1% for each month from age 60 to the date of early retirement. However, an employee credited with thirty (30) years of credited service and having reached age 55 may retire without any loss of benefits.
Section 6.	There shall be no duplication of benefits among any qualified retirement plans of the Company, including those of the Company’s predecessors, successors and affiliates. The Pension Plan provided for in this
-79-
Contract would be responsible for any subseqjent increases in any pension benefits earned for years of credited service with Kerr Glass Manufacturing Corporation.
Section 7.	Disability Retirement Income - If an employee who had ten (10) or more years of creditec service becomes permanently and totally disabled on or after April 1, 2005, he may be retired on a monthly disability income figure as if he were age 65 on the date of such disability and such date shall be determined as the last day the employee worked because of such dise oility, or the last day of reception of the Weekly Sickness and Accident Benefit, whichever is later.
Optional forms of retirement income under Section 10 of this Article, except level income option, vill also apply to Disability Retirement Income.
To be eligible for the cash PTD life insurance benefit, the employee must be continuously disabled and unable to work for period of six (6) months from the last day worked.
If there is a dispute regarding the employee’s PTD status between the employee’s attending physician and the examining physician representing the carrier, the following will apply:
The Company and the Union shall agree upon a physician to which to send the employee for an independent medical evaluation. The physician’s decision regarding PTD shall be binding on bott parties. However, if the employee is later approved for social security disability, the Company will qualify the employee for PTD. In this case the disability will be effective on the Social Security Disability date, but no earlier than the last date the employee received weekly disability be refits.
-80-
The independent medical evaluation will be paid for by the Company.
For purposes of this section, the definition of disability will be the Social Security definition of disability.
Section 8.	Death Benefits after Retirement - Upon the death of an employee who retires on or after April 1, 1980, and who dies before having received 72 monthly benefit payments, his beneficiary shall receive the same monthly benefit until a total of 72 monthly payments have been made. If an optional form of retirement income is in effect for such an employee and both he and his contingent annuitant die before 72 monthly payments have been made, then the beneficiary shall receive monthly payments equal to the last payment made to either the employee or his contingent annuitant until a total of 72 monthly payments have been made.
Section 9.	Survivor Pension - Effective April 1, 2005, in the event of the death of an employee who had five (5) years or more of service, the surviving spouse shall receive an unreduced survivor's pension beginning on the first day of the month following the death of the employee, provided that the employee was age forty (40) or more. In the event that the employee was less than age forty (40) at the time of death, the surviving spouse shall receive an unreduced survivor’s pension beginning on the first day of the month following the date the employee would have been age forty (40). The pension amount will be one-half of the pension credited to the employee at the time of death. This survivor’s pension will not be reduced for payments beginning before the normal retirement date or for joint and survivor’s annuity reductions. This pension shall be paid monthly until the death of the survivor.
-81 -
Section 10.	Optional forms of Retirement Income -An employee may choose to take a smaller retirement income upon early or normal retirement and have all or a portion of it continued to another person after his death following retirement, in accordance with ruhjs and regulations set up by the Company’s Retirement I3oard.\
*Please note that a new Pop-Up provision (relative to the spouse option) will be made available. See the 3PD for further details.
An employee retiring before being eligible to receive Social Security monthly income benefits may elect a Level Income Option which provides a higher monthly income from the Pension Plan provided for in this Contract from retirement until Social Security benefits are payable and a lower monthly income from the Pension Plan provided for this Contract thereafter. In determining the amount of monthly income, the rules and regulations set up by the Company’s Retirement Board shall apply and the primary Social Security benefits estimated to be payable at age 62 (or at the appropriate age if Social Security is amended) shall be actuarially reduced as follows:
Retirement Age	Percentage of Estimate d Age 62 Primary Social Security Payable to Age 62
62	100.0%
61	91.1%
60	83.1%
59	76.0%
58	69.6%
57	63.8%
56	58.7%
55	54.0%
-82-
Upon reaching age 62, it shall be the retired employee’s responsibility to apply for Social Security benefits, because at that time, the Company’s portion of the lifetime pension will be reduced by the amount of Social Security benefits that was used in the calculation at time of retirement.
Section 11.	Vested Rights - If an employee is terminated or quits after completion of five (5) years of credited service, such employee shall have vested rights.
An employee who is terminated or quits on or after January 1, 1989, and who is entitled to vested rights will be entitled to receive, beginning with the month after he attains age 65, monthly retirement income as set forth in Section 2, figured on his years of credited service at date of termination.
Section 12.	Accumulation of Credited Service -Credited service shall accumulate toward retirement income while an employee is absent for occupational injury or disease until he becomes permanently and totally disabled. Credited service shall accumulate toward retirement income for non-occupational illness or injury for a period of up to two (2) years. In order to receive the above credits, the employee must return to work as soon as he is able. In no event will less than six-months be credited if the employee is unable to return to work at the end of the two (2) year period.
Section 13.	Restoration of Service - An employee who is rehired by the Company and who then works at least three (3) years from the date of such rehiring shall be given credit toward pension rights for prior service with the Company provided such prior service with the Company was at least two (2) years.
-83-
Section 14.	When the Company elects to close a plant permanently, an employee under age 60 whose employment was terminated as a result of such closing, may retire and receive a pension benefit figured as if he were age 60 based on his years and months of credited service at the date of such closing, provided he has thirty (30) or more full years of credited service or who is at least age 55 with at least ten (10) or more full years of credited service at the date of such closing.
Section 15.	The Pension Plan provided fo in this Contract cannot be terminated without the express approval of the International President of the Union and, except where the features described above, subject to appropriate governmental approvals, would ndicate changes, the Pension Plan provided by this Contract will be continued.
The Company will develop a new Summe ry Plan Description covering the Pension Plan and forwE rd such SPD to the International Union for their review and approval within 120 days of the effective date of this agreement. The Union will have 30 days to review the document. Once approved, copies will be distributed to all covered employees.
A copy of the approved Pension Plan provided for in this Contract, together with all the rules and regulations relating thereto established by the Company’s Retirement Board, shall be placed on file with the International President of the Union.
Such Pension Plan will comply with all pension legislation and governmental rulings required by aw, that are in effect now or may become effective during he term of this contract.
-84-
Section 16.	The Company shall establish and maintain a 401 (k) plan for all covered employees. The Company shall be responsible for the administration of the plan. Such 401 (k) plan will comply with all pension legislation and governmental rulings required by law, that are in effect now and may become effective during the term of the contract.
Eligibility - Employees will be eligible to participate on the first of the month following 30 days of service.
Pre-tax Contributions - Eligible employees may contribute up to 50% of their earnings in 1% increments, subject to IRS limits.
Company Match - The Company will match 25% of the first 8% of employee pre-tax contributions.
Vesting - Company match vests 20% at the end of each full year of service, 100% at the end of five years of service. Company match will vest 100% in the event of death, retirement or plant closing.
Catch-Up Contributions - As permitted under EGTRRA employees age 50 and over will be permitted to make catch-up contributions. This catch-up contribution may only be made if the employee makes the maximum permitted pre-tax contribution during the year.
ARTICLE 19 Retiree Benefits
The Company agrees to the principle of a jointly-administered fund into which the Company will contribute, eighty cents ($.80) effective 4-1-05, eighty-five cents ($0.85) effective 4-1-06, and ninety cents ($0.90) effective 4-1-07, per actual man hour worked by
-85-
each of its bargaining unit employees, excluding hours paid for but not worked, for the purpose of p oviding retiree benefits. Such jointly-administered fund ;hall be administered in accordance with the provisions of the present Retiree Benefits Trust Agreement.
Article 20 Relief
Section 1.	All hourly employees are entitled to, and shall receive, paid relief time as follows:
(a)	8-hour shift - fifty (50) minutes of lunch and relief period during each shift to be apportioned in accordance with the agreement betw een the Local Union and the local plant management.
(b)	Rest periods shall not start for fifty (50) minutes after starting time and must stop filty (50) minutes before quitting time.
(c)	One relief period shall be provided in each half of the shift worked.
(d)	Additional relief shall be provided where heat or cold conditions warrant.
Section 2.	All existing agreements on relief shall be continued for the duration of this Contract unless changed by mutual agreement between the Ur on and the Company. This shall not be construed so as to prevent employees from filing grievances where hey are not being supplied necessary relief in accordance with the conditions in their plant.
Section 3.	When employees are assigned to work overtime immediately following or preceding their regular
-86-
shift and the overtime is expected to extend four (4) hours, a relief period of twenty (20) minutes shall be allowed as soon as practical following the end of or preceding the beginning of the regular shift. Any location desiring to continue its present practices may do so.
Section 4.	The Company agrees that the appropriate employees will be given proper and equitable heat/cold relief and further agrees to meet with the various local unions twice each year to discuss the general plant preparations for the major seasonal changes.
Section 5(a). Machine Operators and Machine Upkeep employees will receive an additional fifteen (15) minutes of relief on the first and second shifts between June 1st and August 31st of each year.
Section 5(b). Packing Department employees will receive an additional ten (10) minutes of relief on the first and second shifts between June 1st and August 31st of each year.
ARTICLE 21 Supervisory Employees
Section 1.	A supervisory, temporary supervisor or salaried employee shall perform no work of the type customarily performed by employees within the bargaining unit including relief work. Exceptions will be made in cases of emergencies, instruction and development work. The basic responsibility of supervisory employees is direction of the workforce. It is not the Company’s policy to have a supervisory employee perform bargaining unit work.
Section 2.	Emergencies are defined as conditions involving danger to personnel, product or property.
-87-
Section 3.	Grievances arising over an alleged violation of this Article must be filed within three [3> work days of the occurrence and will follow the grievance procedure. The supervisor accused of violai ng this Article, the aggrieved employee and/or his Shop Steward must be present at Step 2 of the grievance procedure.
If the Company agrees at any step of the grievance procedure that there has been a violation of this Article by Management or Supervisory personnel or if the € rbitrator so determines, the employee who would have pc rformed the work will receive a monetary award. A rea sonable award shall be defined as a minimum of four (4) lours of pay at the rate of the job in which the violation occurred.
Section 4.	Any employee under the jurisdiction of this Contract transferred to a position not unier this Contract, may, within six (6) months* be returned by the Company to his former job classification withou: loss of seniority already earned, Should such person be returned after six (6) months, he shall be returned to an er try level job provided there is a permanent opening for which the Company would have hired a new employee. Such employee shall apply for a withdrawal card within thirty (30) days after advancement.
Section 5.	Employees who are temporarily placed in a salaried position or receive training for such position may do so for ninety (90) work days during any calendar year. The Local Union may grant extensions. Employees will not be forced to work short as a result ol hourly employees being temporarily placed in a salaried position.
Section 6.	Company agrees to notify ths Local Union when an hourly employee is used as a temporary supervisor.
-88-
ARTICLE 22 Health Benefit Program
Separate Health Benefit Programs will be maintained for the Former Ball and the Former Foster Plants as outlined below. It is understood that where available, all employees will be granted the opportunity to choose from either of the Medical Benefit designs listed in Article 22(a) and Article 22(b), further the Company may make available other Medical Benefit designs that the employee may choose from during enrollment periods.
ARTICLE 22(a) Health Benefit Program
Following language applies ONLY to the following plants:
Carteret, NJ Dunkirk, IN Henderson, NC Madera, CA Ruston, LA
Dolton, IL El Monte, CA Lincoln, IL Port Allegany, PA Seattle, WA
Section 1.	The Company shall establish and maintain a comprehensive Group Life, Accident, Medical, Weekly Accident and Sickness, Health Program, Eye Care and Dental Program for all covered employees.
Section 2.	The Company shall be responsible for the administration of the Program.
Section 3.	‘Insurance benefits and other revisions changed, as a result of this Article shall be effective April 1, 2005, unless otherwise indicated. Such benefits shall become effective only for new claims which arise on or
-89-
after the effective date. Claims for benefits that arise prior to the effective date shall be payable under the provisions of the Program as it existed prior to the effective date.
Section 4.	Details of the Company’s Insurance Program shall be worked out between the Company and the President of the International Union or his des ignated representative. A copy together with the Summary Plan Description to provide for the benefits set forth herein which has been agreed to between the Company and the carrier shall be placed on file with the International President and a copy distributed to all covered employees.
Section 5.	This Program shall be integrated with any such program required by any Federal or State law involving non-occupational accident and sickness benefits or health benefits which now exist or may become effective during the term of this Contract. There will be no additional cost to the employee nor for his dependents for additional coverages that may be required by a National Health Program that nay be enacted during the term of this Contract, except for employee contributions which may be a part of such National Health Program.
Section 6.	The comprehensive Medical Benefits and Dental Benefits are coordinated according to standard procedures with benefits from other group plans and governmental health plans under which an employee (and eligible dependents) may also be covered.
Section 7.	To assure the greatest benefit for the money expended, it is a mutual responsibility of the Company and the Union to police all usage under the Program.
-90-
Section 8.	The following standard provisions are included in the Program;
(a)	All hourly employees, under this Contract become eligible for coverage under the Program upon completion of thirty (30) calendar days from their date of employment, subject to the provisions of State Disability Benefit laws as they apply to disability benefits.
(b)	Definition of Dependents
The term “dependents” includes the employee’s spouse and unmarried children from birth to their 21st birthday, including legally adopted children and stepchildren and children under legal guardianship upon presentation of proof that the child or children is under legal guardianship of the employee and residing in the employee’s household. Dependent children also includes:
(1)	Unmarried children 21 years of age and over solely dependent upon the employee for support and regularly attending school on a full-time basis until their 25th birthday.
(2)	An unmarried child mentally or physically incapable of earning his own living and who otherwise ceases to be eligible for medical expense benefits due to the attainment of the limiting age may continue to be eligible for benefits coverage under the Program for the duration of the incapacity, provided the coverage does not terminate for any other reason. Proof of incapacity must be furnished to the Insurance Company within the thirty-one (31) days after the child attains the limiting age.
-91 -
(3)	A newborn child who, from date erf birth, incurs charges for routine nursery care and doctor or special hospital services rendered because of disease, injury, congenital abnormality or he editary complications, is eligible for coverage from birth under the Program as tc those medical expenses.
(4)	Dependents may only be ad:led to coverage during the annual open enrollment period or within 31 days of a qualified status change.
(c)	If husband and wife are both eligible to € nroll for employee benefits, either spouse but not both may enroll for coverage of dependent children. A spouse may be covered as a dependent. If husband and wife work for the Company, when one retires or quits, the working spouse can cover their spouse as a dependent.
(d)	Continuance of Coverage During a Period of Absence from Work Due to Accident or Sickness.
(1)	Non-Occupational Accident or Sickness
If an employee is absent from work because of non-occupational disat ility, his comprehensive Medical, Life, Accidental Death and Dismemberment, Weekly Accident and Sickness, and Dental coverages will be continued up tc six (6) months from the end of the month in which the disability occurs without contri cutions. Coverages for eligible dependents >vill also
-92-
be continued for the same period without contributions. Life and Accidental Death and Dismemberment coverages may be continued for the balance of the temporary disability period without contributions. In the event an employee qualifies as a total and permanent disability under the Group Life, all other coverages under the Program will cease including dependent coverages. In the event dependency coverage is to be discontinued, the employee and the Local Union must be given prior notice.
However, if there is a dispute regarding the employee’s P.T.D. status between the employee’s attending physician and the examining physician representing the Insurance Company then a physician mutually agreed upon between the International Union and the Company will examine the claimant and this physician’s decision regarding P.T.D. shall be binding on both parties. A copy of the physician’s final report will be given the employee.
(2)	Occupational Accident or Sickness
If an employee is absent from work because of occupational disability, all his coverages under the Program will be continued for the period of temporary disability without contributions. Coverages for eligible dependents will also be continued for the period of temporary disability without contributions. In the event an employee qualifies as a permanent and
-93-
total disability under the group life, all other coverages under the Program will cease including dependent coverages.
(3)	Continuation of Coverage During Layoff
If an employee is laid off, all his oc /erage will be continued up to six (6) nonths following the end of the month in which the layoff occurs without contrit utions. Coverages for eligible dependents vrill also be continued for the same period without contributions. If, at the end of the six (6) month period, the temporary layoff continues, the Life and Accidental Death and Dismemberment coverages will be continued for the duration of the layoff without contributions. Employees re turning from layoff shall be reinstated imme diately. Employees volunteering for lay:>ff will make contributions for all employee and dependent coverages.
(4)	Any extension of coverage under the immediately preceding paragraphs (1), (2), and (3) will cease immediately if the employee dies, retires, goes to work for another employer or becomes selfemployed.
(e)	Termination of Employment
If employment is terminated all coverages under the Program cease at the end of the month in which termination occurs, except as required by law.
-94-
(f)	Conversion Privilege
Upon termination of coverage, the option of converting the comprehensive medical and life coverages to individual policies may be exercised by the individual according to the provisions of individual policies made available by the Insurance Carrier. Any cost to convert will be the employees’ responsibility.
(g)	An employee whose employment is terminated as a result of a permanent plant closing will have his coverage continued for six (6) months from the date of such closing without contributions. Dependent coverages for eligible dependents will also be continued for the same period without contributions. An employee who is on layoff at the date of the closing will have his coverage continued for the remainder of the six (6) month period under Section 8 (d) (3) without contributions.
(h)	An employee age 65 and older who continues to work has the choice of either Medicare or the Company’s program for primary coverage. An eligible dependent spouse age 65 and older also has a similar choice for primary coverage. Payments for Part B of Medicare for such a working employee and such an eligible dependent spouse will be made by the Company only when Medicare is chosen for primary coverage.
(i)	Pre-existing Condition
Coverage for preexisting conditions will be limited for employees hired after the effective
-95-
date of this contract and tor their eligible dependents. Coverage for injuries or ill iesses which existed prior to employment with the Company will be limited to $25,000 during the first twelve (12) months of employment; -subject to HIPPA regulations.
An illness or injury is considered preex sting if within six (6) months prior to empioyme nt with the Company, the employee or eligible dependent was diagnosed, incurred charges, received treatment or took drugs or medicine for that illness or injury. Pregnancy is included within the pre-existing condition limitation. Expenses for a newborn child are not included in the pre-existing condition limitation.
Section 9.	Coverage continuations, as required by the Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1985 (as approved in 1986), will be made available in accordance with the applicable provisions of said Act.
Comprehensive Medical Benefits
(1)	Lifetime maximum per covered member -$1,000,000.
(2)	(a) Calendar year deductible per covered member is $100. The maximum calendar year deductible per covered family is $300.
(b) Weekly Contributions
Effective Date April 1, 2005
Empl. Only $15.00
Empl. + 1 Dep $22.00
Empl. + 2 or M:ire Dep.
$28.1)0
-96-
In addition to medical benefits, the amounts include contributions for Life, Accidental Death and Dismemberment, and Weekly Accident and Sickness benefits.
The Company’s cost for benefits through an HMO will not exceed its costs as required for providing the Comprehensive Medical benefits under the Insurance Program.
(3)	Co-payment is 90%/10% for all comprehensive Medical Benefit expenses, except where otherwise indicated. (Dental, eye care and psychiatric care and substance abuse benefits are separate.) Co-payment penalties for failure to provide mandatory precertification, or have surgery performed on an outpatient basis where required will be subject to a one thousand ($1,000) maximum penalty in addition to the regular co-payment.
(a) There is a co-payment out-of-pocket limit of one thousand dollars ($1000) per covered member per calendar year and three thousand dollars ($3000) per covered family per calendar year. The following out-of-pocket expenses only count towards the one thousand dollars ($1000) out-of-pocket or, as applicable, the three thousand dollars ($3000) out-of-pocket limit:
all comprehensive Medical Benefit copayments (except 30% co-payments for failures to obtain mandatory pre-certifi-cation, or outpatient surgery and except co-payments resulting from diagnostic hospital admissions);
-97-
all ambulance co-payments;
calendar year deductibles.
(4)	After receipt of $10,000 of benefits oi more, individual can have full maximum $1 ,C 00,000 benefit restored if he can prove he has returned to good health.
(5)	Automatic yearly restoration of $5,000 toward maximum benefit.
(6)	Extended benefits when disabled and average canceled up to eighteen (18) months from cancellation date.
(7)	Covered expenses for comprehensive Medical Benefits (subject to 90%/10% co-payment, reasonable and customary and $1CO/$300 deductible) are as follows:
(a)	Daily Hospital Benefits. Applicable semiprivate charge. Private room limit is hospital’s average semi-private charge.
(b)	Miscellaneous Hospital Charges. Coverage for other necessary incidental lospital charges.
(c)	Surgical Expense Benefits. Surgec n’s and assistant surgeon’s standard fees for necessary surgical procedures pe formed on employees and their covered dependents. This also includes pre-operative and post-operative care by surgeon.
-98-
(d)	Medical Expense Benefits. Coverage for doctor calls while confined in hospital and prior to the day of an operation.
(e)	Physical Examination, Diagnostic X-Ray and Laboratory Expenses. X-Ray and laboratory expenses, one (1) physical examination, including two (2) annual routine pap smears and one (1) annual routine mammogram beginning at age 35. The one (1) physical examination, two (2) annual pap smears and one (1) annual mammogram beginning at age 35 are not subject to the annual deductible.
(f)	X-Ray and Radioactive Therapy Benefits. X-Ray and radioactive therapy benefits.
(g)	Mental Health/Chemical Dependency Treatment, Outpatient mental health/ chemical dependency treatment must be authorized in advance by contacting the Employee Assistance Program (EAP) at the toll-free number provided by the Company. Inpatient mental health/ chemical dependency treatment must be authorized seven (7) days in advance of non-emergency admission or in the case of an emergency confinement, within two (2) days, following confinement by notifying the EAP.
Outpatient treatment will be covered at 100% for the first three (3) visits provided they are referred and authorized by the EAP and 90% of reasonable and customary charges for up to 30 additional
-99-
visits in a calendar year. Inpatient treatment will be covered at 90% of reasonable and customary charge > for up to 30 days in a calendar year.
The combined mental health/chemical dependency lifetime benefit maximum will be the medical plan lifetime ma ximum. Should the covered member not comply with the certification procedures de scribed above, or if the member elects an out of network provider, coverage will be at 70% of the reasonable and customary expenses that would otherwise be covered.
(h)	Charges of a Licensed Physician. This includes physician office visits.
(i)	Prescriptions. Drugs and medicines which by law require a physician’s or dentist’s prescription.
G) Chiropractic Treatment. Charges for chiropractic care will be covered jp to a limit of 35 visits in a calendar year. Payment is limited to one visit in a twenty-four (24) hour period and is subject to deductibles and co-payments.
(k)	Hearing Aids. The reasonable and customary costs for the purchase of a hearing aid, including expenses for examination and fitting, will be cohered at 90% for covered members. Howe" er, this benefit is limited to the purchase of one (1) hearing aid per ear for each covered
-100-
person once every twenty-four (24) months, and excludes the replacement and repair of any part or parts of such hearing aid following such purchase.
(I)	Maternity Benefits for Dependent Children. Unmarried dependent children are covered with maternity benefits the same as employees and eligible spouses.
(8)	Eye Care. An employee, after completing six (6) months of continuous service, and his eligible dependents will be reimbursed for the cost of a properly licensed doctor performing a complete eye examination once every two (2) years during the term of this Contract, up to a maximum of $50.00. If the Company requires examination more frequently for issuance of safety glasses of an employee, such examination will also be covered up to the same maximum. An employee and his eligible dependents will also be reimbursed once every two (2) years during the term of this Contract for the cost either of a pair of lenses (single -$25.00; bifocal - $35.00; trifocal - $45.00; lenticular - $55.00; progressive lenses - $70.00) and of frames ($35.00) or a pair of contact lenses ($70.00).
(9)	Mandatory Pre-Certification. An employee or eligible dependent considering an operation or entering a hospital or treatment facility for medical care is required to alert the Company’s utilization review administrator by telephone of this possibility five (5) days prior to entering the hospital or treatment facility or receiving such treatment (except for cases of emergency,
-101 -
where notification is required within wo (2) days after the admission of the patient).
Employees and eligible dependents whc comply with the above requirements will receive the maximum reimbursement allowable under comprehensive Medical Benefits. Covered expenses will be only 70% of the expenses that would otherwise be covered expenses up to a maximum penalty of $1000 if the employee or eligible dependent does not notify the u ilization review administrator in advance as specified above. Should an employee or eligible dependent elect to stay beyond those days that are certified, inpatient room and board charges in excess of the designated number of c ays that are certified will be covered at 70% of the expenses that would otherwise be covered up to the $1000 maximum penalty mentionec above.
Mandatory pre-certification facilitates and is required for:
-	Hospital admissions
-	Individual case management
-	Length of stay and discharge planning
-	Birthing centers
-	Convalescent centers
-	Home health care
-	Hospices
-	Treatment for drug, alcohol, mental or nervous disorders
Standards of medical necessity will be applied to all cases involving precertification.
-102-
(10)	Second Opinion Benefit. The reasonable and customary charges of a consulting physician for a covered surgical consultation, and also the reasonable and customary charges for any laboratory or X-Ray examination made in connection with the consultation, will be paid.
Benefits are not payable for consultations provided in connection with a normal obstetrical procedure or any procedure for which a surgical expense benefit would not be payable as a comprehensive Medical Benefit, and the proposed procedure must require more than local infiltration anesthesia and be nonemergency in nature.
When a second opinion is needed, it may be obtained by the employee or eligible dependent. A second opinion may also be recommended by the Company’s utilization review administrator. In either case, the utilization review administrator will assist the employee or eligible dependent in selecting a physician for a second opinion if assistance is requested. A third opinion will be covered on the same basts as the second opinion in those situations where the second opinion does not confirm the recommendation of the operating physician. In all cases, the decision to obtain a second opinion will be voluntary with the employee or eligible dependent.
(11)	Outpatient Surgery Benefits. Outpatient surgery is covered in the same manner as inpatient surgery. When non-emergency surgery can be performed on an outpatient basis and the physical and mental condition of the employee
-103-
or covered dependent permits, such surgery will be covered at 70% if performed on an inpatient basis.
(12)	Pre-admission Testing Benefits. Pre-admission testing is covered at 100% without the application of the deductible. Cha ges for hospital admission for diagnostic purposes will be reimbursed if the admission is medically necessary, or if the tests cannot be performed on an outpatient basis.
(13)	Prenatal Care Program. Employees anil eligible dependents may elect to participate in a prenatal care program which provides cash rewards and educational assistance.
To be eligible for this voluntary prog am, the covered member must schedule an appointment with her physician within the first twelve weeks of pregnancy and have the necessary prenatal care records co npleted. When the initial visit takes place and the record is submitted to the Company insurance administrator, the covered member wil receive a cash award of $100.00.
If the covered member continues regular visits to the doctor, submits at least five m ore care records to the insurance administrator and notifies the Company of the birth of her baby, she will receive a second cash a.vard of $100.00.
In addition, the covered member will receive a prenatal care information booklet by notifying the Company of her pregnancy.
-104-
Life, A.D.&D. and Weekly A.&S. Benefits
(1)	Life Insurance
(2)	A.D.& D. Insurance
(3)	Non-Occupational
Effective 4/1/06
$29,000 $29,000 $290 $300
(4)	Occupational (1st Week) $290
Effective 4/1/06	$300
(1)	Includes an $19,000 cash PTD benefit in lieu of death benefit, up to age 65. The remainder of the life insurance ($10,000) will be a Premium Waiver benefit and will be paid to the beneficiary at death. Effective January 1, 1988, there will be no PTD for employees hired on and after that date. (January 1, 1997 for Carteret, Dolton and Dunkirk, April 1, 2002 for El Monte and January 1,1987 for Madera.)
To be eligible for the cash PTD life insurance benefit, the employee must be continuously disabled and unable to work for a period of six (6) months from the last day worked.
If there is a dispute regarding the employee's PTD status between the employee’s attending physician and the examining physician representing the Insurance Company, then a physician mutually agreed upon between the International Union and the Company will examine the claimant and this physician's decision regarding PTD shall be binding on both parties. However, if the employee has applied for and is later approved for Social Security disability, the Company will qualify the employee for PTD. In this case the retirement disability benefit will be effective on the date the Social Security disability
-105-
is determined to have commenced, but r o earlier than the last date the employee received weekly disability benefits. In the event the disability is a result of an occupational injury of illness, the retirement disability benefit would be effective on the date the Social Security disability is determined to have commenced, but no earlier than the last date the employee eceived temporary total disability benefits under any workers’ compensation statute.
The independent medical evaluation will be paid for by the Company.
An employee applying for permanent and total disability must apply for the P.T.D. benefit and Social Security disability within twelve (12) months from the last day worked. If the employee is either on workers’ compensation or his condition could dramatically cha ige, the employee would be required to document his medical condition with the Company before the expiration of the one (1) year, but l ie could apply for P.T.D. within five (5) years Irom the last day worked. The Company will notify such employees and the Local Union on ar about ninety (90) days prior to the end of the one (1) year application in writing.
(2)	Twenty-four (24) hour coverage including on-the-job accidents.
(3)	First day accident; 4th day sickness; twenty-six (26) weeks payments limit. Payments for sickness retroactive to the first day if ho vitalized within first twenty-eight (28) days of disability, integrated with any Federal or State Law accident and sickness benefit requirements.
-106-
(4)	In those states where the Workers’ Compensation benefits do not equal $290, effective 4-1*06 $300 per week the Company will pay an amount, if necessary to equal the applicable amount up to twenty-five (25) weeks, after the first week.
(5)	Employees who elect cosmetic surgery will not be eligible for the nonoccupational weekly sickness and accident benefits unless medically necessary or unless specifically included elsewhere in this Article.
Life and AD&D Coverage Weekly Costs
$29,000 of Life and AD&D coverage will be provided by the Company at no employee cost. Elected Life and AD&D of $36,000 coverage has costs based upon the table below:
Employee Age	‘Monthly Cost per $1,000 of Coverage
Under 30	$.06
30-34	$.07
35-39	$.08
40-44	$.11
45-49	$.19
50-54	$.32
55-59	$.50
60-64	$.77
65-69	$1.37
70-74	$2.06
75 and over	$3.65
‘Employee contributions may be made on a pretax basis.
-107-
Dependent Life Insurance Program
Section 1.	The Company will make available a Dependent Life Insurance Program. Eligible employees will have the opportunity to purchase twelve thousand dollars ($12,000.00) of dependent term life insurance on their spouse: two hundred dollars ($20000) on dependent children age 14 days to six months: and four thousand dollars ($4,000.00) on dependent children age six months and over.
Section 2.	The eligibility is die same as sc t forth in section 8(a) in the introductory sections of this I rticle.
Section 3.	The definition of dependents is Ihe same as set forth in Section 8(b) in the introductory se ctions of this Article.
Section 4.	The weekly contribution fc»r these dependent life coverages is one dollar and twe ve cents ($1.12).
Section 5.	The termination of coverage is the same as set forth in Section 8(e) in the introductory sections of this Article.
Dental Benefits
(1)	The Dental Benefits are provided separately from the comprehensive Medical Benefits. To be enrolled for the Dental Benefits, however, an enrollee must also be a participan I for the Medical Benefits. A new employee may enroll himself/herself and his/her eligible dependents only after such employee has been employed for one (1) year.
-108-
(2)	A separate twenty-five ($25.00) calendar year deductible for covered dental expenses will apply to each covered member, with a maximum family deductible of seventy-five dollars ($75.00).
(3)	The following preventive dental procedures will be covered on a reasonable and customary basis at 100%: two (2) checkups per calendar year, including cleaning, scaling, and fluoridizing; X-Rays once per calendar year. Periodontal surgery will also be covered on a reasonable and customary basis at 100%.
(4)	Most covered dental expenses will be paid on a reasonable and customary basis at 80% (50% with respect to inlays; gold fillings; crowns; fixed bridgework, etc.).
(5)	Orthodontia Fifty percent (50%) of reasonable and customary charges up to a lifetime maximum of $2,000 per covered individual.
(6)	Up to $2,000 of Dental Benefits will be payable in any calendar year. Preventive dental procedures provided at one hundred percent (100%) are excluded from the yearly maximum.
(7)	Dental Benefits are administered according to standard coordination of benefits procedure as set forth in Section 6 of this Article.
(8)	Exclusions and Limitations Standard Group Insurance exclusions, cosmetic treatment and no coverage for any tooth that was pulled prior to the effective date of coverage. The program will not replace dentures or any other prosthetic
-109-
appliance more often than once in any five (5) year period for each covered member.
(9)	Terms of coverage for Dental Benefits are the same as those set forth in Section 8(b) through 8(h) of this Article.
Section 125 Plan
The Company will install a Section 125 plan which will allow weekly contributions for the insurance plan described in this article to be made on a pre-tax basis. Employees will be required to enroll for benefits on an annual basis. The plan will also include:
Health Care Reimbursement Account - Deposits may be made on a pre-tax basis not to exceed $57.69 per week, Contributions to this account may be used to pay for medical or dented expenses that are eligible as deductions on Federal Income Tax Form 1040 Schedule A.
Dependent Care Reimbursement Account -Deposits may be made on a pre-tax basis not tc exceed $96.00 per week. Contributions to this account may be used to pay for qualified dependent and child care expenses.
Managed Care
Managed Care involves a network of arrangements with suppliers of medical services and/or supplies. Managed Care networks will be made available to employees and eligible dependents in locations where available as soon as feasible after April 1, 2005. Participation by employees and eligible dependents in such a network will be voluntary.
-110-
In locations where the Company implements a managed care program, Comprehensive medical benefits will be paid at 90% for services provided in the network and 70% for services provided out of the network. In locations where the Company has no network, benefits will be paid at 90% except where otherwise indicated in this Article.
When a network physician refers a covered member to a Non-network physician, charges for those out-of-network services will be covered the same as in-network services.
ARTICLE 22(b) Health Benefit Program
Following language applies ONLY to the following plants:
Burlington, Wl	Milford, MA
Pevely, MO	Sapulpa, OK
Waxahachie, TX Wilson, NC
Section 1.	The Company shall establish and maintain comprehensive Group Life, Weekly Accident and Sickness, Health, Eye Care, and Dental Programs for all covered employees. The Company shall be responsible for the administration of the plan.
Section 2.	Details of the Company’s Program shall be worked out between the Company and the President of the International Union or his designated representative and a copy together with a copy of the Contract to provide for the benefits set forth herein which has been agreed to between the Company and the carrier shall be placed on file with the International President.
-111 -
The Company will develop new Summary Plan Descriptions covering the Health Benefit Program and forward those to the International Union for their review and approval within 120 days of the effective dat a of this agreement. The Union will have thirty (30) days to review the document. Once approved, copies will be dis tributed to all covered employees.
Section 3.	This Health Benefit Program -hall be integrated with any such program required by any Federal or State Law involving non-occupational sickness and accident benefits or health benefits which now exist or may become effective during the lifetime of the Contract without any cost to employee or any dependent coverage cost that may be require d by a national health program that may be enacted dL ing the term of this Contract, except for employee contributions which may be part of such National Health Program.
Section 4.	The Comprehensive Benefits of this Program are coordinated according to slandard insurance procedures with benefits from other group plans under which a member may also be covered. This procedure is in accordance with the Coordination Provision of the immediately preceding Program.
Section 5.	To assure the greatest benefit for the money expended, it is a mutual responsibility of the Company and the Union to police all health benefit usage.
Section 6.	The following standard provisions are included in the Program:
(1)	Ail hourly employees, under this Contract become eligible for coverage under the Program upon completion of thirty (30) calendar days from their date of employment, unless
-112-
otherwise noted, subject to provisions of State Disability Benefit Laws as they apply to disability benefits.
(2)	Definition of Dependents
The term “dependents” includes the employee’s spouse and unmarried children from birth to the 21 st birthday, including legally adopted children and children who the employee is legally obligated to support in anticipation of adoption. Also included are the employee's stepchildren and the children under legal guardianship upon presentation of proof that the child or children are under legal guardianship of the employee and residing in the employee’s household. In addition, the term dependent includes a child for whom the employee is required to provide health coverage pursuant to a Qualified Medical Child Support Order.
Dependents may only be added to coverage during the annual open enrollment period or within 31 days of a qualified status change.
Dependent children also includes:
(a)	Unmarried children 21 years of age and over solely dependent upon the employee for support and regularly attending school on a full-time basis until their 25th birthday.
(b)	An unmarried child mentally or physically incapable of earning his own living and who otherwise ceases to be eligible for Medical Expense Benefits due to the attainment of the limiting age may continue
-113-
to be eligible for Benefits Coverage under the Program for the duration of the incapacity, provided the insuranc e does not terminate for any other reason. Proof of incapacity must be furnished to he Plan Administrator within thirty-one (31) days after the child attains the limiting age.
(c)	If a dependent becomes Ineligible to be a dependent and does not elect COBRA coverage, the former dependent cannot become a covered dependent again If he otherwise meets the eligibility requirements.
(3)	If husband and wife are both eligible to enroll for employee benefits, either spouse, n )t both, may enroll for coverage of dependent children. Any person eligible for insurance as an employee can be covered as a depencent.
When a married couple works for the Company and one of them quits or retires, th s active employee will be able to cover their spouse as any other dependent.
(4)	(a) An employee age 65 or older who continues to work has the choice of either Medicare or the Company’s program for primary coverage. A dependent spouse age 65 or older of such a working employee age 65 or older also has a similar choice for primary coverage. Payments for Part B of Medicare or such a working employee and such a de oendent spouse are borne by the Company only
-114-
when Medicare is chosen for primary coverage.
(b)	Employees who are covered under Medicare due to their disability, but who continue to participate in the medical coverage on the basis of their current employment status will continue to have medical coverage through the company that is primary to Medicare.
(c)	Employees or their dependents who have end-stage renal disease (ESRD) will continue to receive medical coverage through the Company that is primary to Medicare for the first thirty (30) months of Medicare entitlement.
Section 7.	There is continuance of coverage during a period of absence from work due to accident or sickness.
(1)	Non-Occupational Accident or Sickness
If an employee is absent from work because of non-occupational disability, his Life, Accidental Death and Dismemberment, Sickness and Accident, Health Benefit and Dental coverage will be continued up to six (6) months from the end of the month in which the disability occurs without contribution. Coverage for eligible dependents will be continued for the same period without contributions. Life and Accidental Death and Dismemberment coverage will be continued for the balance of the temporary disability period without contributions but not to exceed five (5) years.
-115-
In the event an employee qualifies as a total and permanent disability (PTD) under Group Life Insurance, all other coverages under the program will cease including dependent coverage. In the event dependent cov ;rage is to be discontinued, the employee and the Local Union must be given prior notice.
(2)	Occupational Accident or Sickness
If an employee is absent from work because of occupational disability all his coverage u ider the Program will be continued for the period of temporary disability without contribution. In the event an employee qualifies as a permanent and total disability (PTD) under the group life insurance, all other coverages under the Program will cease including dependent coverages.
Section 8.	Continuation of Coverage During Layoff
If an employee is laid off, all his health benefits will be continued up to six (6) months following the end of the month in which the layoff occurs without contribution. Coverage for eligible dependents will also be continued for the same period without contribution. If, at th $ end of the six (6) month period, the temporary layoff continues, the Life and Accidental Dead) and Dismemberment Coverage will be continued for the duration of the layoff without contribution. Employees returning from layoff shall be reinstated immediately.
Any extension of coverage under the immediately preceding paragraphs of Section 7 and Section 8 will cease immediately if the employee dies, retires, goes to work for another employer or becomes self-employed.
-116-
Section 9.	Continuation of Coverage during Mandated Leave
(1)	Family and Medical Leave - Employees will be permitted to continue their medical, dental, prescription and vision coverages for a leave of absence covered by the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993 (the FMLA). The FMLA states that if the employee requests an approved leave of absence for the employee’s own health reasons, to care for an ill family member of the employee, or to care for the employee’s new child following birth or adoption. When the leave qualifies under the FMLA, the Company pays its share of the cost of coverage for the period covered by the leave. See Section 7 for additional coverage during an absence due to the employee’s non-occupational accident or sickness. If the employee does not return to work at the end of the FMLA leave he may be entitled to purchase COBRA continuation coverage.
(2)	Continuation of Coverage during Military Leave -If the employee takes a military leave, whether for active duty or for training, he or she is entitled to continue medical, dental, vision and prescription coverage for up to 18 months as long as the employee gives the Company advance notice (with certain exceptions) of the leave, and provided that the total leave, when added to any prior periods of military leave from the Company, does not exceed 5 years (with certain exceptions). If the entire length of the leave is 30 days or less, the employee will not be required to pay any more than the portion paid before the leave. If the entire length of the
-117 -
leave is 31 days or longer, the employee may be required to pay up to 102% of tho entire amount (including both Company and employee contributions) necessary to cover an employee who does not go on military have, if the employee takes a military leave, :>ut that employee’s coverage under the plan is terminated, for instance, because the employee did not elect the extended coverage, the employee will be treated as if he had n :rt taken a military leave upon reemployment when determining whether an exclusion or waiting period applies upon the employee's reinstatement to the plan. If the employee does not return to work at the end of the milita y leave the employee may be entitled to purchase COBRA continuation coverage.
Section 10.	Termination of Employment
(1)	If employment is terminated all coverage under the Program will cease as of the termination date, except as required by law. Fer those who elect to retire when employment is terminated, all coverages under the Program cease at the end of the month in which termination occurs, except as required by law.
(2)	In addition to the extension of benefits pr ovided in Sections 7, 8, and 9 certain coverage may be extended in accordance with the Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1985 (COBRA).
(3)	An employee whose employment is te minated as a result of a permanent plant closing will
-118-
have his coverage continue for six (6) months without contribution from the date of such closing. Dependent coverage without contribution will also be continued for the same period. An employee who is on layoff at the date of such closing will have his coverage continued for the remainder of the six (6) month period without contribution under Section 8.
(4)	Conversion Privilege
Upon termination of coverage the option of converting the Lite insurance and the Managed Care Medical coverage to individual policies may be exercised by the individual according to the provisions of individual policies made available by the carrier. Any cost to convert will be the employee’s responsibility.
Section 11.	Life Insurance, AD&D, Weekly Sickness and Accident Benefits
Life Insurance	Effective April 1,2005	$29,000
AD&D	Effective April 1, 2005	$29,000
Weekly Sickness and Accident Benefit: Non-Occupational	Effective April 1, 2005	$290
Occupational 1st - 25thweek-	Effective April 1,2005	$290
Next twenty-five (25) weeks:
After the first week, for the next twenty-five (25) weeks the supplement will be at (east $30 per week or more if necessary so that when added to the Worker’s Compensation benefit the payment will produce an amount equal to the non-occupational benefits in effect.
-119-
(1)	Includes a $17,000 cash PTD benefit i i lieu of death benefit, up to age 65. The rema inder of the life insurance ($12,000) will be a premium waiver benefit and will be paid to the beneficiary at death. Effective April 1,2005, there will be no PTD for employees hired on or al ter that date.
To be eligible for the cash PTD life insurance benefit, the employee must be cont nuously disabled and unable to work for a period of six (6) months from the last day worked.
If there is a dispute regarding the employee’s PTD status between the employee’s extending physician and the examining p lysician representing the carrier, the following w II apply:
The Company and the Union shall agree upon a physician to which to send the employee for an independent medical evaluation. The physician's decision regarding PTD shall be binding on both parties. However, if the employee is later approved for Social Security Disability, the Company will qua ify the employee for PTD. In this case the disability will be effective on the Social Security Disability date, but no earlier than the last date the employee received weekly disability benefits.
The independent medical evaluation will be paid for by the Company.
For purposes of this section, the definition of disability will be the Social Security deinition of disability.
-120-
(2)	Twenty-four (24) hour coverage including on-the-job accidents.
(3)	First day accident, fourth day sickness; twenty-six (26) weeks payment limit. Payments for sickness retroactive to first day if hospitalized within first 28 days of disability. Integrated with any Federal and State Law Sickness and Accident Benefit requirements.
(4)	Overall coverage per disability is twenty-six (26) weeks. These benefits are to be integrated with Worker's Compensation.
(5)	The Company will take whatever action may be required to guarantee that an employee who is eligible for weekly Sickness and Accident benefits will be paid such benefits each week while he is absent from work because of a non-occupational disability. Such action will be taken only after all required claim applications have been properly filed and the initial weekly payment has been processed and paid. The Company will take whatever action may be required to guarantee that an employee who is eligible for weekly benefits will be paid such benefits each week while he is absent from work because of an occupational disability.
(6)	In the states that have mandatory state disability insurance plans, the Company will pay the legally required contribution for each employee covered by this Contract. Any benefits received from such plans will be integrated and maintained with the provisions of this Article.
-121 -
(7)	Dependent Life Insurance
The Company will make available a dependent life insurance program. Eligible employees will have the opportunity to purchase twelve thousand dollars ($12,000.00) of dependent term life insurance on their spouse; two hundred dollars ($200.00) on dependent children age 14 days to six months; und four thousand dollars ($4,000.00) on dependent children six months and over.
The weekly contribution of this depen'lent life coverage is one dollar and twelve cents ($1.12).
The eligibility, definition of dependents and termination of coverage provisions of this coverage are the same as found in the introductory sections of this Article.
(8)	Employees who elect cosmetic surgery will not be eligible for the non-occupational weekly sickness and accident benefits unless medically necessary or specifically ncluded elsewhere in this Article.
Section 12.	Medical Benefits
Managed Care Medical Plan
A managed health care plan will be installed for employees at each plant as the program becomes available. This program covers medical care on y.
A covered member decides each time medical care is needed who will provide treatment. Employees and dependents can select from a large group of hospitals
-122-
and doctors, called a network. For treatment within the network there is a co-pay for any office (or specialist) visit, each hospital stay, a separate co-payment for emergency room use that is waived if admitted into the hospital and a co-pay for outpatient surgery. The balance for visits and other network care is covered at 100%.
Co-pays	April 1, 2005	January 1, 2006
Office visit	$15	$15
Emergency Room $100	$125
Hospital Stay	$150	$200
Out-patient Surgery $75	$100
If employees and dependents choose medical care outside the network, except when referred by an In-network Doctor, the plan will cover 70% of reasonable and customary charges subject to an annual deductible and an annual out of pocket limit.
Annual Deductible: Effective January 1, 2006, the in- and out-of-network deductibles are separate, but any deductibles paid for service at an out-of-network provider will be applied to the deductible required for services at an In-network provider. Payments for dental, vision, and prescription drug claims do not apply to the deductible.
In-Network Out-of-Network
Individual	$0	$250
Family	$0	$750
Annual Out-of-Pocket Maximum: Effective January 1, 2006, the In- and out-of-network annual out-of-pocket maximums are separate, but any claims paid for service at an out-of-network provider will be applied to the annual out-of-pocket maximum for services at an In-network provider. The annual
-123-
out-of-pocket maximum does not include copayments or payments made toward the deductible. Payments for dental, vision and prescription drug claims do not apply to the annual out-of pocket maximum.
In-Network Out-of-Netwc rk Individual	$0	$2,000
Family	$0	$6,000
Managed Care Medical Plan shall have a lifetime maximum of $1,000,000 per covered individual, subject to an automatic yearly restoration of up to $5,000.
Psychiatric care, prescription drugs, benefit penalties, deductibles and amounts over reasonable and customary do not count towards the out-of-pocket limits.
The following benefits are included under the Managed Care Medical Plan described above and are reimbursed as described:
Daily Hospital Benefit
Applicable semi-private room charges. The private room limit is the hospital’s average semi-prival:e room charge.
Miscellaneous Hospital Charges
Coverage for services paid to the hospital or other necessary incidental hospital charges. Coverage will be provided for charges made by a hospital on its own behalf for bed and board and other necessary services and supplies for a mother and her newborn child for up to 48 hours following a normal vaginal delivery and up to 96 hours following a cesarean section. (No authorisation is needed from the plan in order to be covered for these
-124-
amounts of time. However, the employee may still need Pre-Admission Review (PAR) from the plan to avoid a reduction of the dollar amount covered by the plan.) Federal law does not prohibit the mother’s or newborn's attending physician, after consulting with the mother, from discharging the mother or her newborn earlier than 48 hours (or 96 hours as applicable).
Surgical Expenses
The surgeon’s and assistant surgeon’s standard reasonable and customary fees for necessary surgery procedures performed on employees and their covered dependents. This also includes pre-operative and postoperative care by the surgeon.
Medical Expense Benefit
Coverage for doctor calls while confined in the hospital and prior to the day of the operation, paid to the doctor.
Voluntary Sterilization
The charges for voluntary sterilization will be covered.
Hearing Aids
The costs for hearing aids and examinations for them including the replacement or repair of any part(s) of such hearing aid, except batteries following such purchase, will be covered expenses for covered individuals. However, this benefit is limited to the purchase of one (1) hearing aid per ear for each covered person once every twenty-four (24) months.
-125-
Well Baby Care
The Program will cover the reasonable and customary cost of one (1) well baby visit in the hospital.
Hospital Coverage for Maternity
The medical coverage will not restrict ber efits for any hospital length of stay with childbirth for the mother or newborn child to less than 48 hours following ei normal vaginal delivery, or less than 96 hours foilawing a cesarean section, or require that a provider obtain authorization from the plan or the insurance issuer for prescribing a length of stay not in excess of the above periods. (However, the employee may still need Pre-Admission Review (PAR) to avoid a reduction of the dollar amount covered by the plan.)
X-Ray, Laboratory Expenses and Radioactive Therapy
The reasonable and customary X-Ray, laboratory and radioactive therapy expenses.
Pap Smear
Benefits will be paid for up to two (2) routine pap smears per year.
Mammogram
Benefits will be paid for one (1) mammogram each year.
-126-
Reconstructive Surgery Following a Mastectomy
Beginning January 1, 1999, the Women’s Health and Cancer Rights Act entitles employees and their covered dependents to receive certain breast reconstruction benefits under the medical plan in connection with a mastectomy. This coverage, which will be provided in a manner determined in consultation with the participant's own physician, will include benefits for the following expenses:
Reconstruction on the breast on which the mastectomy was performed;
Surgery and reconstruction on the other breast to achieve symmetry; and the normal plan deductibles and coinsurance will apply. Also, if the participant is covered through an HMO through the Company the HMO will also provide coverage for reconstructive surgery following a mastectomy. Again the reconstructive surgery benefits would be subject to the normal copayment and coinsurance provisions that apply under that specific HMO’s coverage.
Extended Care Facilities
Reimbursement of reasonable and customary charges for up to 180 days at an Extended Care Facility which provides quality medical care and a therapeutic environment for convalescing patients who no longer need to be hospitalized.
Home Health Care
The Program pays for visits to your home by qualified home health care personnel provided by an approved Home Health Care Agency. The Program established and approved in writing by a physician. Benefits are payable
-127-
for 60 visits per calendar year (four hours of honr e health care aide will be considered one visit).
Hospice Care
Benefits to assist the terminally ill shall include services provided under an approved Hospice Care Program for such services as:
1.	In-patient health care.
2.	Physicians Service.
3.	Health care services at home.
4.	Part-time nursing.
5.	Medical equipment.
6.	Emotional support services.
Extended Health Care
Benefits are extended for care of an injury or illness when the covered member is disabled and insL'ance is canceled for up to 18 months from the cancellation date. Coverage applies only to the injury or illness cat sing the disability or any subsequent complications that can be directly attributed to the original injury or illness.
Voluntary Prenatal Care Program
Employees and eligible dependents may elect to participate in a prenatal care program which provides cash rewards and educational assistance.
To be eligible for this voluntary program, the covered member must schedule an appointment with her physician within the first twelve weeks of pregm ncy and have the necessary prenatal care records co npleted. When the initial visit takes place and the record is submitted to the company insurance administrator, the covered member will receive a cash award of $100.00.
-128-
If the covered member continues regular visits to the doctor, submits at least five more case records to the insurance administrator and notifies the Company of the birth of her baby, she will receive a second cash award of $100.00.
In addition, the covered member will receive a prenatal care information booklet by notifying the Company of her pregnancy.
Section 13.	Psychiatric Care and Substance Abuse Benefits.
The Company will establish a network to manage all psychiatric and substance abuse care. The network will be administered by the Company’s Employee Assistance Program (EAP) provider. Short term counseling will continue to be provided at no charge through the EAP. When necessary, the EAP will refer employees and dependents to a professional network for inpatient and outpatient treatment.
In order for any benefits to be payable all care, inpatient and outpatient, must be certified in advance by calling the EAP/PAR 800 number. If treatment is not certified, Program benefits are reduced to 50% of reasonable and customary.
Benefits under this Section are as follows:
A maximum of 30-days Inpatient care and a maximum of 30 outpatient visits will be provided per year for all mental/chemlcal dependency treatments. Coverage will be provided as If any other Illness, Inpatient stays will be treated as a hospital stay and outpatient visits will be considered an office visit.
The combined mental health/chemlcal dependency lifetime benefit maximum will be the medical
-129-
plan lifetime maximum. Should the covered member elect an out of network provider, coverage willl be at 70% of the reasonable and customary expenses that would otherwise be covered.
Section 14.	Voluntary Second Opinion - Surgical Consultations
The Program will pay 90% of the reasonable and customary charges of a consulting physiciai for a covered surgical consultation, and 90% of the reasonable and customary charges for any laboratory o X-Ray examinations made in connection with the const Itation.
A “consulting physician” must be certifies by the American Board of Surgery or other specialty board. Only consultations provided before the employee or dependent enters the hospital for the proposed surgery are covered under this benefit.
Benefits are not payable for consultations provided in connection with a normal obstetrical procedire, any procedure for which a surgical expense benefit w ould not be payable under the Program.
A surgical consultation may be requested by the employee, the dependent or the operating pnysician when the proposed surgery is actually performed.
A third opinion will be covered on the same basis as the second opinion in those situations where thf' second opinion does not confirm the recommendations of the operating physician.
Section 15.	Pre-Admission Review (PAR)
The PAR Program is designed to assist employees in becoming wise consumers of effective, necessary
-130-
medical treatment prior to admission and during confinement in the hospital. The Program should assist employees by providing more medical information and in some cases reducing unnecessary hospitalization or an unnecessary length of stay in the hospital.
Prior to admission into the hospital, each covered employee/dependent or his Physician must contact the Pre-Admission Review (PAR) personnel using a toll free number provided by the Company so that PAR personnel may discuss the necessity for and the length of confinement with the employee/dependent’s physician prior to admission. PAR personnel will then contact the Physician. The employee’s only obligation is to notify PAR personnel.
Emergency admissions do not require advance notification to PAR, but the employee/dependent is obligated to contact PAR personnel within 72 hours of admission.
If a person is hospitalized without notifying PAR personnel, plan benefits shall be paid at the rate of 70% of covered charges.
If the PAR personnel and an employee/dependent’s Physician cannot agree, the employee/dependent may choose to follow the Physician’s recommendation and plan benefits shall be paid in accordance with the Managed Care Medical Plan.
The PAR Program will not restrict benefits for any length of stay in connection with childbirth for a mother or newborn child for less than 48 hours following a normal delivery, or for less than 96 hours following cesarean section. The PAR Program will not require that a
-131 -
healthcare provider obtain authorization for prescribing a length of stay not in excess of the above periods.
Section 16.	Weekend Hospitalization
If an eligible employee or dependent is admitted to the hospital on a Friday or Saturday, the Program will pay 70% rather than the regular program benefits. I- owever, regular benefits will be paid if the admission is required because of an emergency, the Physician insists on a Friday or Saturday admission or surgery is pe rformed that day or the following day.
Section 17.	Medical Case Management
This Program is an additional service under ihe Plan whereby in the event of catastrophic illness or ir jury, the Program will provide professional assistance in obtaining the best and most appropriate care possible.
No one is obligated to make use of the Pre gram or follow the recommendations of the Administrator’s staff. This is provided as assistance only.
Section 18.	Audit Program
A medical expense self audit program pays. 50% of the savings to the employee for finding and correcting hospital billing errors and billing errors of other medical providers up to a maximum of $500. There will be a minimum payment of $15 ($30 error).
Section 19.	Prescription Drug Program
All Prescription Drug benefits in place under the prior contract will remain In place through De cember 31,2005.
-132-
Effective January 1, 2006, the following Prescription Drug Program will be in place for all employees and dependents that elect from the Medical Benefits outlined above. The co-payments made under the Prescription Drug Program will not reduce the deductible or out-of-pocket maximum of the Medical Benefit selected by the employee.
Section 1.	Network Pharmacy - Employees will have a network of participating pharmacies available to them. If an employee has their prescription filled at a network pharmacy the employee will be responsible for the applicable co-pay based on the Level of the drug. Prescriptions filled at participating pharmacies may be for no more than a 3O-day supply. A mall order program will be made available for employees who are taking maintenance drugs or who have a prescription that Is written for more than a 30-day supply. Under the mail order program employees can receive up to a 90-day supply of drugs for two (2) times the Retail co-pay.
Retail Co-pay	Mall Order Co-pay
(up to 30-day supply) (up to 90-day supply) Generic Drugs $15.00	$30.00
Brand Name Drugs $25.00	$40.00
Section 2.	Non-Network Pharmacy - Expenses for drugs purchased from a non-network pharmacy will be reimbursed by claim form. The Company's reimbursement for prescriptions filled outside the network will be limited to 70% after the applicable copay has been taken.
- 133-
Section 20.	Eye Care (Employees and Dependents)
An employee and his eligible dependent:; will be reimbursed for the cost of a properly licensed doctor’s performing a complete eye examination once every two (2) years, up to a maximum of $50.00. If the Company requires an examination more frequently for issuance of safety glasses of an employee, such examination will also be covered up to the same maximum. An e mployee and his eligible dependents will also be reimbursed once every two (2) years for the cost either of a pair of lenses (single - $25.00; bifocal - $35.00; trifocal - $45.00; lenticular - $55.00; progressive - $70.00;and of frames -$35.00) or of a pair of contact lenses - $70.00.
Company provided safety glasses which are damaged or broken during the performance of the employee’s assigned duties will be repaired or 'eplaced at the Company’s expense.
Section 21.	Dental Program
The major provisions of the Program are as follows:
(1)	A separate $25.00 annual deductible for Dental expenses for each covered membe, with a maximum family deductible of $75.00. The program will also cover on a reasonable and customary basis the following preventative dental procedures at 100% without deductible: Two (2) check-ups per calendar year, including cleaning, scaling and fluoridizing, X-Riys once per calendar year.
(2)	After deductible, Plan pays 80% of re asonable and customary costs of most covere d dental
-134-
expenses (50% with respect to inlays; gold fillings, crowns, fixed bridgework, etc.).
(3)	Up to $2,000 of dental benefits will be payable in any calendar year.
(4)	Orthodontics - fifty percent (50%) of reasonable and customary charges up to a lifetime maximum of $2,000 per covered individual. Payment for orthodontic treatment will be made only for employees (or dependents of employees) with one or more years of service.
Section 22. Employee Contributions (weekly):
	Employee	Employee	Employee
Effective Date	Only	Plusl	Plus 2 or more
April 1,2005	$11.00	$16.00	$21.00
January, 1,2006	$13.00	$19.00	$24.00
January 1, 2007	$14.00	$21.00	$27.00
Section 23.
Section 125 Plan
The Company will install a Section 125 plan which will allow weekly contributions for the insurance plan described in this article to be made on a pre-tax basis. Employees will be required to enroll for benefits on an annual basis. The plan will also include:
Health Care Reimbursement Account - Deposits may be made on a pre-tax basis not to exceed $57.69 per week. Contributions to this account may be used to pay for medical or dental expenses that are eligible as deductions on Federal Income Tax Form 1040 Schedule A.
-135-
Dependent Care Reimbursement Account - Deposits may be made on a pre-tax basis not to exceed $93.00 per week. Contributions to this account may be use:i to pay for qualified dependents and child care expenses..
ARTICLE 23 Equipment Supplied
Section 1.	The Company shall determine the need and shall supply special tools, original packer stamps, boots, raincoats, rain hats, goggles, safety glasses, ear plugs, protective equipment for hot repairs, ant gloves, and the employee shall be responsible for same. This does not include personal tools or gauges. Journeymen and other skilled craftsmen and apprentices will supply their own set of standard tools as in the past. Old gloves are to be returned when replacements are issued. The Company will pay $90.00 per calendar year tow ards the purchase of safety-toed safety shoes for empl jyees in the AIE/Maintenance Department, Mould Sho:), Pallet Loaders, Melt Department, Batch and Furnace Department, Stock Room Attendant, PalletUnitlzer and Laborers (as listed in Schedule “A’) upon presentation of a proper receipt.
Section 2.	The Company will replace perse nal tools or gauges that have been broken or worn out wt iJe being used with reasonable care in the performance of the employee's regular job. The Company shall replace at its expense personal tools and tool boxes owned by the employees which are destroyed by fire, flood, or other similar disasters on the Company’s premises, up to a maximum liability of three thousand five hundred dollars ($3,500) for any employee. In ord^r to be eligible, the employees must provide the Company with an up to date list of tools verified by the Compa ly.
-136-
Section 3,	The Company agrees that present agreements and practices regarding work clothing will remain in effect for the term of this Contract.
ARTICLE 24
Reporting Intended Absence
Section 1.	If an employee cannot report for work, the Supervisor shall be informed twenty-four (24) hours in advance or not less than one (1) hour prior to the start of the shift or, in an emergency, as soon as possible. All call-offs should state the intended day of return to work. In the event the Supervisor is unavailable, the employee shall contact another Supervisor. The employee will only be required to furnish reasonable information concerning the absence.
Section 2.	An employee unable to continue work during the shift due to illness shall notify his supervisor and continue to work, if possible, until relief can be provided. If an employee wishes to be relieved for other compelling reasons, he shall notify his supervisor and continue to work until relief can be provided.
Section 3.	When an absence occurs which involves extraordinary circumstances and such absence initiates disciplinary action, consideration will be given to those circumstances in assessing the severity of the discipline.
ARTICLE 25 Military Leave
Section 1.	If, during the life of this Contract, any employees should enter the armed services of the United States, and upon their return, if such employees are physically and mentally fit for employment, the Company will offer them work of a like kind that they were engaged
-137-
in before entering the service, if such work is available to employees with equal or less seniority than that of the returning servicemen. If such work is not a/ailable, returning servicemen will be recalled to work on t ie basis of their respective positions on the seniority list. This Article is to be administered in accordance with applicable Federal and State Laws.
Section 2.	All employees who are members of the National Guard or Military Reserve shall be pa d for all time lost while in attendance at the National Guard and/or Military Reserve two week summer camp and for up to five (5) shifts per calendar year while on temporary emergency expedition assignment. The pay shrill be at the employee’s regular base rate for all hours lost and these hours shall be computed as hours worked for the purpose of vacation hour qualification.
The employee will be paid holiday pay for any holidays that occur during the two (2) week summer camp, subject to the provisions of Article 16, Section 4(a).
Section 3.	Any employee who is called to active duty In the armed forces will receive his full pay for a period of one month. Thereafter he will receive the difference between his military pay and hhs active employee wage for a period of five months.
ARTICLE 26 Bereavement Leave
Section 1.	In the event of the death of a spouse, child, step-child, foster child, parent, step-parent, foster parent, mother-in-law, father-in-law, brother, sister, halfbrother, half-sister, step-brother, step-sister, grandchild, or grandparent of an employee who has been in the employ of the Company for at least thirty (30) clays, the
-138-
employee shall be paid for time lost, not in excess of three (3) shifts (five (5) shifts for spouse, child, step child, foster child, parent, step parent, and foster parent; one (1) shift for son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, and sister- in-law), at his regular base wage rate. Reasonable requests for additional time off without pay will be honored.
Section 2.	The Local President, or Vice President or a Local Union Representative shall be granted time off without pay to attend funerals of members of their Local’s or member’s spouse.
Section 3.	If an employee's vacation or holiday(s) is interrupted by such death and he so notifies the Company promptly, the number of days as stated above shall be added to his vacation or holiday(s) with pay.
Section 4.	In the event the death of an employee’s aunt, uncle, or grandparent-in-law the employee will be granted the day of the funeral off without pay to attend the funeral with documentation of attendance at the funeral.
Section 5.	An employee may be entitled to funeral leave pay as provided in Section 1 in the event of the death of a foster mother or foster father, provided that the employee has previously notified the Company in writing of the name of such foster parent within thirty (30) days of the date of employment. Cun-ent employees must provide the name of such foster parent within sixty (60) days following the effective date of the Contract. Further, an employee who so designates a foster parent or parents will not be entitled to funeral leave pay for the death of a parent or step-parent.
-139-
ARTICLE 27 Court Duty
Section 1.	An employee on the active payroll who is called for court duty will receive his regular bast;' rate of pay for any regularly scheduled work hours spent on such court duty.
When an employee is obliged to do corrt duty during any twenty-four (24) hour period, he sha I not be required to work during said twenty-four (24) hou period. If an employee is scheduled to work the midnight shift preceding the day of court duty, he shall not be equired to work the midnight shift next preceding and fallowing the day of court duty. Any employee assigned to work the midnight shift preceding court duty and who elec is not to work such shift, shall be paid for lost time.
Section 2.	An employee on active payroll who serves on court duty Monday through Friday arid loses his days off as a result may have Saturday and Sunday off provided he has served on court duty more tian one week. Such employee will notify the Company as soon as possible, but in no case later than twenty-bur (24) hours prior to his scheduled Saturday shift.
Section 3.	It is understood that court duty ncludes being summoned for jury duty, Tribal Court and/:»r being subpoenaed as a witness in a case where the employee is not directly involved.
ARTICLE 28 No Strike or Lockout
Section 1.	There shall be no strike, sympa:hetic or otherwise, walkout, slowdown, or work stoppage of any nature by the Union or any Local Union or its members
-140-
during the term of this Contract. In the event any employee or group of employees participates in any such strike, walkout, slowdown or work stoppage during the term of this Contract, the Union or Local Union agrees upon being notified by the Company to immediately direct such employee or group of employees to resume work.
Section 2.	The Company agrees that so long as this Agreement is in effect there will be no lockout on the part of the Company.
Section 3.	It being understood and agreed that any strike, walkout, slowdown, or work stoppage not authorized by the Union, or the Local Union, not aided, encouraged, and abetted by the Union or Local Union, shall be deemed for all purposes an unauthorized strike, walkout, slowdown, or work stoppage for which there shall be no liability on the part of the Union, Local Union or its officers.
ARTICLE 29 Grievance Procedure
Section 1.	The purpose of this Article is to provide an orderly method for the settlement of all grievances.
If a representative of management fails to give his answer within the time limits specified in any step of the grievance procedure, the grievance may be processed to the next step of the grievance procedure within the time limits set forth in such step.
Grievances shall be presented and processed in accordance with the following steps:
Step 1: If an employee has a grievance, he shall within three (3) working days from the date the
-141 -
grievance arises, present it to his immediate supervisor and shop steward for discuss ion and settlement. The Supervisor shall g ve the employee his decision on the grievance within three (3) working days after it ha> been presented to him.
Step 2: If the grievance is not settled in Step 1, the employee and shop steward may refer the matter to the Business Committee for investigation. If the Committee considers the grievance just, it shall reduce al facts concerning the grievance to writing, and present it to the employee’s departme it head for discussion and settlement within se ven (7) days after the completion of Step 1.
In reducing the grievance to writing, the Business Committee shall set for h with reasonable clearness the nature of thn act or acts on which the grievance is based, t le time when such acts occurred, the identity of the jobs and employees covered by the gri jvance, the provisions of the Contract which have been violated, and the remedy requested.
The employee’s department head shall answer within seven (7) days after the grievance has been presented to him and his answer tshall set forth in written detail and with reasonable clear ness the facts and provisions of the Cor tract on which his decision is based.
If a grievance is appealed to the next ste p of the grievance procedure, the basis of sucl* appeal shall be set forth in writing by the appealing party. The answer of the other party sr all also be set forth in writing.
-142-
Step 3:
Step 4:
If the grievance is not settled in Step 2, the Business Committee shall discuss the matter with the International Representative of the Union and they shall, within fifteen (15) days after receiving the Company’s reply in Step 2, meet with appropriate Company representatives for discussion and settlement of the grievance. The Company shall give the International Representative of the Union and the Local Union its decision on the grievance in writing within seven (7) days after the meeting.
If a grievance is not settled in Step 3 of the grievance procedure, the International Representative shall, within seven (7) days after receiving the decision of the Plant Manager or his designated representative, refer the matter to the International President of the Union or his designated representatives and the Vice President Human Resources of the Company or his designated representative, for discussion and settlement. This step shall be concluded fifteen (15) days after the date on which the grievance is referred to the International President of the Union and the Vice President Human Resources of the Company or their designated representatives, except that this step may be extended for not more than fifteen (15) days by written notice by one party to the other.
Grievance involving discharge which are not settled in Step 1 of the grievance procedure may be referred in writing, by the Union within three (3) working days following completion of Step 1, directly to Step 3 of the grievance procedure for discussion and settlement. Following referral to Step 3, the matter shall be
-143-
handled to conclusion at Step 3 within fifteen (15) days, except that this period nay be extended for not more than fifteen (15) Jays by written notice by one party to the othei If the grievance is not settled, as provided above, it shall be referred to Step 4 of the gr evance procedure.
Section 2.	Grievances involving the admin stration of incentive systems may not be filed until after a reasonable trial period.
Section 3.	It is not the function or right of the Company, or any Local Union and its officers or the officers of the International Union, to change this Contract
Section 4.	All grievance settlements involving pay will be made as soon as possible, but no later tha i seven (7) days from the date of the settlement. However, an additional period of time will be granted in the nvent of unusual or extenuating circumstances.
ARTICLE 30 Arbitration
Section 1.	All disputes not settled pursuar t to the procedure set forth in Article 29, GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE, may be referred to arbitration by notice given to the Company by the Union within ten (13) days after the conclusion of Step 4 of the Gr avance Procedure. Such notice shall be in writing, setting forth the matter in dispute and relief requested.
The notice shall also be sent to the A nerican Arbitration Association requesting that within seven (7) days of the receipt of such notice an identicsl list of arbitrators containing an odd number of not less than
-144-
seven (7) arbitrators be sent to the Company and the Union. After receipt of the list of arbitrators from the American Arbitration Association, the Vice President Human Resources of the Company or his designated representative and the President of the International Union or his designated representative shall alternately strike one name from the list of arbitrators supplied until only one name remains. The arbitrator whose name remains shall be the arbitrator in the case involved. The right to strike the first name shall be determined by lot. In the conduct of the arbitration hearing, the applicable provisions of the Voluntary Labor Arbitration Rules of the American Arbitration Association shall control.
The Union and the Company may mutually agree to request a panel of arbitrators from the Federal Mediation & Conciliation Service rather than using the services of the American Arbitration Association.
Section 2.	The arbitrator shall not have authority to alter, modify, add to or subtract from any of the terms or provisions of this Agreement. Wage rate disputes shall be processed in accordance with Article 14, Negotiated Rates. It is understood that the arbitrator shall have the authority to establish wage rates under Article 14, Negotiated Rates. The decision of the arbitrator shall be final and binding on the Company and the Union.
Section 3.	Regardless of the outcome of any matter submitted to arbitration, the cost of such arbitration shall be limited to the arbitrator’s salary and expenses and shall be borne equally by both parties. Charges for stenographic fees and expenses shall be borne by the parties ordering such services.
-145-
Section 4.	Contract arbitrators shall be selected by agreement between the Company and the Inter lational Union and shall serve for the term of this Contract.
Section 5.	In the event the parties choose to use the contract arbitrators, a notice shall be sent to the appropriate contract arbitrator for scheduling a he aring.
ARTICLE 31 Health and Safety
Section 1.	It is the intent of the parties that no employee shall be required to work under ccnditions which are unsafe or unhealthy and that an employee who believes that he is being so required shall have he right to notify his supervisor and shop steward :>f such condition, which the supervisor and shop steward shall investigate immediately. If the existence of such unsafe or unhealthy condition is disputed by the supervisor or shop steward, the Management Safety Representative and a Union member of the Plant Safety Committee shall be notified immediately and they shall investigate the condition and determine whether or not it is unsafe or unhealthy. If the issue is not resolved, the employee shall have the right to present a grievance to the Department Head. After a work condition is determined to be unsafe or unhealthy, safety work orders shall be processed immediately.
Section 2.	Each Local Union President may appoint not less than three (3) members of the Local Union to function on the Company respective safety committee. This committee shall meet at least once each month to attempt to resolve safety matters.
Section 3.	The Company in each plant will provide first aid facilities and designate on each shift individuals
-146-
who are trained in and capable of performing first aid to the extent necessary to provide adequate first aid for all employees. Such individual or individuals, who may or may not be members of the bargaining unit, will give first aid to injured employees and in cases of severe injury will stay with the injured employee until relieved by a medical attendant. The Company will provide the necessary training of such individuals.
Health and Safety Standards
Professional Medical Care
(1)	A qualified medical doctor will be designated by the Company in every community where it operates a plant.
(2)	The Plant Doctor will be on call for emergency service or will designate other qualified medical doctors in the same community to take his place during his absence or during those times when he is not available.
(3)	Not later than ninety (90) days from the beginning date of this Contract, each plant safety committee will establish a procedure to provide suitable transportation for injured employees to obtain outside medical attention.
First Aid Facilities
(1)	A separate room will be specifically designated for the purpose of administering first aid and the Company will provide for access to the first aid room on all shifts.
-147-
(2)	The room will be well lighted, ventilated, and heated; it will also contain necessary plumbing facilities.
(3)	The room will be equipped according to the Plant Doctor’s recommendations to include equipment such as cot or bed, storage and dispensing area for medical and first aid supplies, resuscitator, stretcher, clinical ecords, and with doors wide enough for litter admission.
Medical Attendant
(1)	One (1) full-time medical attendant will te made available by each Company at its various locations.
(2)	The term “medical attendant" can mean a registered nurse, a practical nurse, or lull-time first aid attendant who is so qualified because of training and experience, with at least the equivalent of Red Cross certified First Aid and CPR training.
Trained Personnel
The Company will provide first aid training so there will be adequate coverage on each shift, seven 7) days a week.
Minimum Industry Standards
The minimum industry standards shall remain binding for the duration of the Contract.
Section 4.	At the request of an employee who is at least thirty-five (35) years of age and has at leas: five (5)
-148-
years of service, an employee may receive a physical examination, at the maximum cost to the Company of One Hundred Dollars ($100.00), by a doctor of his choice, in accordance with the following: if the employee is less than fifty (50) years of age, he may have such a physical examination once every two (2) years; if the employee is fifty (50) years of age or more, he may have such a physical examination once every year. It is understood that if the examination is provided under the health benefit program, the payment would be the actual amount expended by the employee up to $100.
Section 5.	At the request of the employee, he may receive one (1) free chest X-Ray each year. It is understood that the payment would be the actual amount of money expended.
ARTICLE 32 On-Job Health Protection
The Company agrees to make available to each employee one tuberculin test, and chest X-ray if the test is positive, at no cost to the employee.
The Company further agrees to continue its best efforts to provide adequate heat, cooling, light and ventilation to employees, and to devise systems to control drafts, noise, fumes, dust, dirt, grease and job hazards.
Weight Lifting
No employee shall be required to perform any job duties, when, in the opinion of the Union and Management, that job requires excessive weight lifting.
-149-
Any employee whose job requires excessive weight lifting, and mechanical assistance is not available, shall notify his supervisor for assistance and such assistance will be granted.
ARTICLE 33
Fair Employment Practice and Equal Opportunities
The Company and the Union will comply with all laws preventing discrimination against any e mployee because of race, color, creed, religion, national origin, age, sex, disability or veteran status. The par ies also agree to comply with ADA and FMLA guidelines. Any disputes under this Article as with all other Article >s of this Contract shall be subject to the grievance procedure.
ARTICLE 34
Permanent Plant Closings and Related Matters
Section 1.	If the Company elects to close a plant or department in a plant permanently, the Company shall negotiate severance pay with the Union for terminated employees.
Section 2.	In applications of this Article, the Company will apply a severance pay formula providing for forty (40) hours per year of credited service at the regular base wage rate of pay at any plant closir g during the term of this Contract.
Section 3.	The labor grade assigned to an employee immediately preceding such closing shall be used as a basis in determining the severance pay except that, for an employee whose primary labor grade in one (twelve (12) consecutive months) of the ten (10) years p seeding the closing was higher than his labor grade at the closing, such higher labor grade shall be used in determining the
-150-
severance pay. The corresponding rate of pay to such labor grade will also be used.
Section 4.	Any disputes with respect to this Article shall be subject to the Grievance Procedure, Article 29, including Arbitration, Article 30.
Section 5.	An employee who leaves the Company’s employment without the Company's consent prior to the closing shall not be eligible for severance pay. However, if such an employee has been able to secure employment with another employer, such consent shall not be unreasonably withheld.
Section 6.	An employee who is on a leave of absence covered by terms of this Contract at the time of the closing shall also be entitled to severance pay.
Section 7.	An employee who is on sick leave and has either applied or qualified for a permanent and total disability pension shall not be eligible for severance pay. Employees who do not qualify for a permanent and total disability pension shall receive severance pay.
Section 8.	Health Care. Health care coverage in a closing situation is governed by Article 22 (Health Benefit Program), and Ball Section 8(g) and Foster Section 10(3) of its introductory provisions provides:
Effective April 1, 1999, an employee whose employment is terminated as a result of a permanent plant closing on or after April 1, 1996, will have his coverage continued for six (6) months from the date of such closing without contributions. Dependent coverages for eligible dependents will also be continued for the same period without contributions. An employee who is on layoff at the date of closing will have his coverage continued for the
-151 -
remainder of the six (6) month period under Article 22 (Health Benefits Program) Foster Section 8 ;md Ball Section 8 (d) (3) without contributions.
Section 9.	Pensions. Pensions in a closing situation are governed by Article 18 (Pensions), and its Section 14 provides:
Effective the date of this contract when the Company elects to close a plant permanently, an employee under age 60 whose employment is terminated as a result of such closing on or after the effective date of this Contract, may retire and receive a pension benefit figured as if he were age 60 based on his years and months of credited service at the date of such closing, provided he has thirty (30) or more full years of credited service at the date of such closing or who is at east age 55 with at least ten (10) or more full years of credited service at the date of such closing.
Section 10.	Vacation Pay. Vacation pay in i closing situation is governed by Section 4 of Article 17 (Vacations), which provides:
If an employee’s service is terminated for any reason after he has completed one year or more of service, he or his personal representative shal be paid vacation pay earned at the time of termination the amount of vacation pay earned but unpaid including vacation pay earned during his current qualifying year, even though he is not on the payroll at the end of the qualifying year.
Section 11.	Resumed Operations. If the Company should resume manufacturing glass containers >:it a plant covered by this Contract within five (5) years of the closing, the effective collective bargaining agreement will
-152-
then be reactivated, and the employees who were terminated as a result of the closing would have recall rights to that plant.
Section 12.	Failure to Give Ninety (90) Day Notice. In applying Section 1 of Article 10 (Transfer of Employees), if notification is less than ninety (90) days, an employee will be paid for each day less than the ninety (90) day notification. Such pay will be at his regular base rate of pay for an eight (8) hour day for each working day of his regular schedule.
Section 13.	The Company’s Hourly Employee Relocation Program of $2,000.00 plus $1.00 per mile between facilities involved will continue for the duration of this contract.
ARTICLE 35 Disabled Employees
Section 1.	Employees disabled by reason of physical disabilities or infirmities shall, upon agreement between the proper Business Committee and the Management, receive a special rate so as to provide work for them.
Section 2.	An employee who is disabled by reason of occupational injury or illness and who is unable to work his regular job will be placed on any job acceptable to him which he is qualified to perform in line with his seniority (and qualifications), at a rate commensurate with the work performed.
Section 3.	Any problems arising out of this Article will be settled on a local level between the Company and the Local Union. Any problems not settled on a local level between the Company and the Local Union shall be
-153-
referred to the International President, or his designated representative, and the Vice President - Human Resources, or his designated represents ive for settlement. If no settlement is reached, the matter may be referred to arbitration by either party.
Section 4.	The Contract shall be adminis tered in accordance with the applicable provisions of the Americans with Disabilities Act. Before taking action relative to this Section, the Company will meet with the Local Union and both parties will have sufficient opportunity to express their opinions regarding an anticipated action.
ARTICLE 36
Successors, Transferees and Assignees
This Contract shall be binding upon the' parties hereto, their successors, transferees, and assignees. In the event the Company sells or transfers any plant, this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect and be binding upon the purchaser or transferee and the Company agrees it will include in the purchase agreement that this Contract is binding on the p urchaser or transferee.
ARTICLE 37
Environmental Control Program
Section 1.	The Company and the Union will continue to cooperate in all legitimate labor- management activities in this area.
Section 2.	The Company shall compensate any employee who it requests to conduct any business under the Article. Such compensation shall be for wages for time lost from work as a result of the Company’s request.
-154-
Section 3.	The employer agrees to pay actual lost time wages when an employee participates in protective league meetings, limited to two (2) employees per plant (P&M and AMD combined), attending up to two (2) meetings per year, limited to two (2) days per meeting. Such employees shall be appointed by the Local Union.
ARTICLE 38 Separability
If any provisions of this Contract shall be held invalid or in conflict with any Federal or State law, the remainder of the Contract shall not be affected thereby.
ARTICLE 39 Operating Conditions
Section 1.	Except as otherwise specified in this Contract, the number of employees employed in any job shall be determined by the Company and the primary duties of each job shall be defined by each Plant Manager and a copy thereof given to the Local Union. Each Local Union shall have the right to discuss unreasonable work loads.
Section 2.	The number of employees in any plant shall be consistent with sound operating practices and procedures and shall reflect reasonable work loads under prevailing local conditions. No employee will be assigned an unreasonable work load and any disputes are subject to the grievance and arbitration procedure.
ARTICLE 40 Local Agreements
Section 1.	All Local Agreements will remain in full force and effect during the term of this Contract, unless
-155-
changed by mutual agreement between the Local Union and Local Management.
Section 2.	Machine, product, or ecuipment premiums which are in excess of the job rates of employees covered by this Contract shall become ‘‘personal” premiums and apply only to employees who are regularly receiving such personal premiums.
Section 3.	Should the Company discontirue such personal premiums it shall negotiate with the International Union and the Local Union the buy-out method that should be used for discontinuing same. If the Company and the International Union and ti e Local Union are unable to agree upon the amount or method of buy-out, this matter shall be submitted to arbitration upon the request of either party of the Contract.
Section 4.	All Local Agreements which provide for monetary and non-monetary benefits in excess of those provided for in this Contract shall continue and shall not be considered to be inconsistent with or in conflict with the provisions of this Contract.
Section 5.	All Local Agreements will be put into writing and signed by the Local Union and Local Plant Management.
The Company shall meet with the Local Union and their International Representatives ninety (90) cays prior to the expiration date of this Contract and reduce all Local Union Agreements to writing. A copy of same shall be sent to the International and Local Unions.
-156-
ARTICLE 41 Subcontracting
Section 1.	The Company agrees that it will not sublet contracts for maintenance, repair and other work in and around the plants under this Contract if such work can be as satisfactorily and as economically performed by bargaining unit employees, provided the Company has the facilities for doing the work within the required time and available trained personnel who can perform the work.
The Company will continue its practice, when needed, of training Production and Maintenance employees who shall do all maintenance and repair work normally performed by them when time, requirements, skills and equipment are available, in the judgment of the Company, to accomplish the work economically.
Section 2.	The Company recognizes the Union’s desire to retain all work that can be performed by its members. No journeyman/apprentice will be displaced or on layoff during any time that outside contractors are performing work at the Company’s facility. When bargaining unit personnel are not trained in the skills needed to perform the work which would be subcontracted, then in such cases employees would be recalled from layoff on a one-for-one basis. In all other cases, there would be no one displaced or remaining on layoff prior to said subcontracting.
As a condition of contracting work, weekly or as necessary, the Department Head and the Local Union or designee will meet and review the contemplated plans for contracting out of work with the intent of giving primary consideration to fully utilizing the available services of Bargaining Unit employees. During this review, the Company shall furnish a description in writing of the work
-157-
to be performed, the special equipment to be utilized and explain to the Local Union or designee the exlent and available cost information for the job or jobs, the necessity for letting out the job or jobs and the time the job or jobs are to be done. If at the end of this review, the Company decides to contract out the job or jobs, they will advise in writing the Local Union or designer of the contractor to do the job. If the Company contract:; out any work, then the Company will review with the Loc al Union or designee the details of the final contract. In tie event the Department Head fails to comply with this Section, the Union shall have the right to file a grievance beginning with Step 3.
Any GMP members not based in the plant in which work is performed and are not employees of the Company shall be considered as subcontractors for purposes of this Article.
Prior to GMP Travel Crews performing work at a facility, Management will meet tn advance with t he Local Union or designee to discuss the nature and scope of the work to be performed. The Company shall furnish a written description of the work and equipment to be worked on and the time requirements of the project. The utilization of plant journeymen and apprentices will also be discussed at that time. No joumeymen/apprentices will be displaced as a result of Travel Crew members performing work on the premise.
Contracting Out For Non-Mafntenance Work
Prior to the Company employing or contracting out any work normally and customarily performed by employees from departments other than the Maintenance Department, the Company shall meet with the Local
-158-
Union and provide it with a written explanation for its desire to contract the work out.
The Company will give primary consideration to the full utilization of services of bargaining unit employees and will not contract out work that can reasonably be performed by the department employees involved, subject to the provisions of Section 1 of this Article.
If the Company, after meeting with the Local Union or designee, decides to contract out the work, the Union will have the right to file a grievance, beginning with Step 3 of the grievance procedure.
When it is necessary to make major tank repairs or to rebuild tanks, the Company will use available and qualified employees wherever possible to do this work as in the past.
Section 3.	Grievances arising over an alleged violation of this Article may be filed at Step 3 of the Grievance Procedure. If the Company agrees at any step of the Grievance Procedure that there has been a violation of this Article by Management or if the Arbitrator so determines, the employee or employees who would have performed the work will receive a reasonable award.
ARTICLE 42 Apprenticeship Programs
The federally approved apprenticeship programs currently in effect shall remain in effect throughout the term of this Contract along with its rules, regulations and apprenticeship committees.
-159-
The Company agrees to the concept of uting the Apprenticeship Programs to train skilled employees in advance of the need for such. If the Company fe els it is necessary to hire a journeyman from outside the current workforce and has exhausted all possibilities of securing one through the local plant job posting procedures, they will review the Union’s lists of available journeyman.
The Company will not hire any person in the journeyman classification without the equivalent to the documented classroom training and related work experience.
The Local Joint Apprenticeship Committee will review the credentials of applicant Journeymen, however, the final employment decision will be at the discretion of the Company.
ARTICLE 43 Wages
Section 1.	Effective April 1, 2005, all baso hourly wage rates will be increased three percent (3%) per hours.
Section 2.	Effective April 1, 2006, all bast: hourly wage rates will be increased three percent (3%) per hour.
Section 3.	Effective April 1, 2007, all bas; hourly wage rates will be increased two and one-half loercent (2.5%) per hour.
Section 4.	In order to reduce the East-West rate differential, the Company will add to all base hourly wage rates over and above any general wage increase one cent (10) per hour effective April 1, 2005, one cent (1C)
-160-
per hour effective April 1, 2006, and one cent (1C) per hour effective April 1,2007.
Section 5.	New-Hire Rates: Base hourly rate for newly-hired production employees shall be as follows: First year of employment, $2.00 less than rate set forth in Schedule A; Second year of employment, $1.00 less than rate set forth in Schedule A; Beginning the third year of employment, the applicable rate set forth in Schedule A shall apply. An employee transferred as a result of a plant closing shall not be considered a “newly-hired” employee. A “newly-hired" employee who is transferred or successfully bids to another job during the first year period shall receive $1.00 less than the qualified rate. A “newly-hired” employee who is transferred or successfully bids a second time during the second year shall receive the qualified rate. Employees rehired with two or more years or hired with two years experience at another glass container plant will get qualified rate.
Section 6.	All Crew Leaders shall receive a rate of one dollar ($1.00) over the group they are directing.
ARTICLE 44 Cost of Living
Section 1.	During the term of this Contract, annual cost-of-living increases will be made on April 1, 2006, and on April 1, 2007, in accordance with the provisions of this Article.
Section 2.	Cost-of-living increases, if any, will be added by using the Consumer's Price Index (1967 = 100 Urban Wage Earners and Clerical Workers (revised CPI-W)). After the percentage limitations for increases set forth below have been met, the amount of any cost-of-living increase will be a one cent (.01) per hour increase
-161 -
for each .5 of a point rise in the Consumer’s Price Index by using the dates as set forth in this Article.
(a)	For the cost-of-living increase on April I, 2006, the base for the twelve month period (March, 2005, through February, 2006) will be the index for February, 2005, as reported in March, 2005. There will be no increase on April 1, 2006, unless there has been six percent (6*7<) rise in the Consumer’s Price Index on such base, and any increase on this date will be computed by excluding initially said six percent (6%).
(b)	For the cost-of-living increase on April 1, 2007, the base for the second twelve (121 month period (March, 2006, through February, 2007) wilt be the index for February, 2006, as reported in March, 2007. There will be no increase on April 1, 2007, unless there has been a six percent (6%) rise in the Cor sumer's Price Index on such base, and any increase on this date will be computed by excluding initially said six percent (6%).
Section 3.	Any cost-of-living increase required under this Article will be paid on the standard hourly base rate required by this Contract and will be paid for all purposes.
ARTICLE 45
Wages of General Maintenance Mechanlc/Repalrer, Electronics Technicians, Machinist
And Electro-Mechanic
Section 1.	Effective April 1, 2005, the base hourly rate for Maintenance Mechanic/Repairer, Electronics Technician, Machinist and Electro-Mechanic will be increased three percent (3%) per hour.
-162-
Section 2.	Effective April 1, 2006, the base hourly rate for Maintenance Mechanic/Repairer, Electronics Technician, Machinist and Electro-Mechanic will be increased by three percent (3%) per hour.
Section 3.	Effective April 1, 2007, the base hourly rate for Maintenance Mechanic/Repairer, Electronics Technician, Machinist and Electro-Mechanic will be increased by two and one-half percent (2.5%) per hour.
Section 4.	In order to reduce the East/West Differential, the Company will add to all base wage rates over and above any general wage increase, one cent ($.01) per hour effective April 1, 2005, one cent ($.01) per hour effective April 1, 2006, and one cent ($.01) per hour effective April 1, 2007.
ARTICLE 46
Production & Maintenance Department Job Postings Burlington, Milford, Pevely,
Sapulpa, Waxahachie, Wilson
Section 1.	Except as set forth in Section 2 of this Article, the Company shall post all job vacancies and/or new job vacancies under the jurisdiction of Production and Maintenance Departments. Seniority plus ability shall govern in cases of promotion.
Section 2.	The Company agrees to post job bids for five (5) days (excluding Saturday and Sunday) for any job plant-wide. During this period the Company will place an employee on the job temporarily, pending the permanent selection of an employee for the job. Every effort will be made to fill posted jobs as soon as possible but in no case will this exceed thirty (30) days. Where there are relief (back-up) employees for the Furnace Operator/ Tender classification and a vacancy occurs, the most
-163-
senior employee in the relief (back-up) positior will be placed into that vacancy. A posting for another relief (back-up) position will be posted if necessary.
Section 3.	Applications must be made in writing to the Human Resource Office within the specified time and the employee and the Union will be given a cop y of the application.
Section 4.	An employee who is awarded a job bid will be given a reasonable trial period in order to demonstrate his ability to perform the work required by the job. If such employee cannot perform the work in a satisfactory manner, such employee will be returned to his former job and shift. An employee may within thirty (30) days from commencement of work on the bid job, return to his former job and shift.
An employee who successfully bids into a position with the same or higher labor grade shall not be reduced in rate when transferred to such position. His present rate will be retained until such time as it comes in line with the applicable step of the Company’s wage rate progression program. This provision does not apply to positions covered by the National Apprenticeship Program
Section 5.	The Union will be notified by the Company of all job bid awards.
Section 6.	Senior employees on fixed shifts shall be given shift preference before any employees are hired for vacancies which such senior employees may be qualified. Any employee desiring a shift change should notify the Human Resource Office in writing and the senior employee will be given the opening.
-164-
Section 7.	Temporary job vacancies will not be used to train junior employees for permanent job vacancies.
Section 8.	Shift changes are limited to one change for any six (6) month period.
Section 9.	Production & Maintenance employees shall have preference for permanent vacancies or newly created jobs in the Automatic Machine Department which are not filled by the Company with an AMD employee.
Section 10.	When the Company transfers an employee to another shift or job, the transfer will be effected so that the employee will not suffer a short work week. The above shall not apply to a person absent from work during that week for any reason.
Section 11.	For those plants not listed In the title to this Article, see Seniority Article 9.
ARTICLE 47 Training
Section 1.	A new employee being hired into a P&M department will be given classroom and on-the-job training on safety procedures, Company rules, practices and operating procedures before he is assigned to regular duties.
Section 2.	When the Company introduces any new type of machinery or equipment, appropriate employees shall receive safety training and orientation pertaining to that machinery or equipment.
-165-
ARTICLE 48
Leave of Absence Burlington, Milford, Pevely, Sapulpa, Waxahachie, Wilson
Section 1.	Personal Leave. Means any absence from work agreed upon in writing between the employer and employee when the employee, for just cause, requests time off for a definite period of time not to exceed three (3) months. Reasons for leave might be serious illness or death of a member of the family, settlement of an estate, etc. Leave of absence ahall not be granted to accept other employment of any kind. The Company reserves the right to judge whether or rot such requested leave of absence is justified. The employee given a leave of absence has his or her job held open during the agreed upon time, but at the elapsing of this period the Company may continue the leave or terminate die employee’s employment. The employee’s request for leave shall not be unreasonable and the Comps ny shall not be unreasonable in granting leaves. The Company will continue the employee’s insurance during the agreed to leave of absence. The Company agrees to jive the Local Union written notification of such leave.
Section 2.	Sick Leave. Means any absence from work because of illness or accident exceeding ihree (3) work days (including a partial shift for the same cause on any of these three (3) days) which, in the opinicn of the attending physician of the employee is necessary. When a partial shift is included in the qualification period for sick leave, there shall be no duplication of paym ent with weekly sickness and accident benefits for the partial shift. The employee is given a leave when the physician agrees that the employee should be off work, arid his or her job is held open during that time. The above requires a doctor’s statement giving the nature of the ai ment or injury and the probable length of time the employee will
-166-
be off. Such a statement must be in the hands of the employer prior to seven (7) days after absence from work. Should the period of disability extend beyond the time originally estimated, it will be necessary for the employee to procure a second doctor’s report covering the extension. Sick leave will be honored only when the employee is under the care of a recognized physician.
Section 3.	For Dolton, Dunkirk, El Monte, Henderson, Carteret, Lincoln, Port Allegany, Ruston, Seattle, Madera refer to Seniority Article 9.
ARTICLE 49 Execution
This Contract entered into and effective as of April 1, 2005, by and between the Glass, Molders, Pottery, Plastics & Allied Workers International Union AFL-CIO, CLC, on behalf of itself as the International Union and as agent for and on behalf of its Local Unions, and Salnt-Gobaln Container, Inc. for those plants listed, is hereby approved and accepted by the Joint Conference of the Union and the Company at their conference concluded this date, and is a Union Shop Contract through which the Company recognizes the Union as the sole collective bargaining agent for all employees described in this Contract, in accordance with existing State and Federal statutes.
-167-
Standard Tools
P&M
Electricians
(1)	Pliers - 9" lineman
(	2) Pliers - 8" diagonal (wire cutter)
(3)	Pliers - channel lock #420
{ 4) Pliers - 6” needle nose
(	5) Screwdriver - #6 standard
(6)	Screwdriver - #6 Phillips
(7)	Adjustable wrench - 8”
(8)	Flashlight - 2 cell
(9)	Tool pouch and belt
(10)	Knife - standard electrician's model
(11)	Voltage tester (less than $5.00)
(12)	Allen Wrench -1/8” to 5/8” -1 set
Mechanics
(1)	Adjustable wrench - 6”
(2)	Adjustable wrench -10"
(3)	1 set socket wrenches -1/4" to 3/4" one-haff in. drive
(4)	1 set box end wrenches -1/4” to 3/4”
(	5) 1 set box open end wrenches -1/4” to 3/4”
(6)	1 ball peen hammer
(7)	1 hacksaw - no blades
(8)	1 channel lock pliers #420
(9)	1 standard pliers - 8" to 10"
(10)	Steel tape measure - 6’
(11)	Screwdriver - #6 standard
(12)	Screwdriver - #6 Phillips
(13)	Wire cutters - 6”
-168-
Machinists
(1)	Ball peen hammer
(	2) Pliers - channel lock #420
(3)	Pliers - 8” or 10” standard
(4)	Micrometer - 6"
(	5) Calipers - 8" slide measure ID and OD
(	6) Screwdriver - #6 standard
(7)	Screwdriver - #6 phillips
(8)	Adjustable wrench - 8”
(9)	1 set of Allen wrenches -1/8” - 5/8”
(10)	1 center punch
(11)	1 driftpunch -1/8”
(12)	1 driftpunch -1/4”
(13)	1 driftpunch - 3”
(14)	1 cold chisel -1/4”
(15)	1 cold chisel -1/2”
(16)	1 cold chisel -1”
(17)	Hacksaw
(18)	Steel tape measure - 6'
(19)	Needle nose pliers - 6”
Deco Machine Operators
(1)	Pliers - channel lock
(2)	Pliers - 8” or 10” standard
(3)	Screwdriver - #6 standard
(4)	Adjustable wrench - 8”
(5)	Ball peen hammer
(6)	9/16” combination wrench
(7)	1/2” combination wrench
(8)	7/16” combination wrench
(	9) Knife - 4” blade
-169-
SCHEDULEA P&M LOCAL NO. 166 DOLTON, ILLINOIS
Job	Current		Effect.	Effect	Effect.
Group	Job Title	Rate	4/1/05	4/1/06	4/1/07
2	Carton Assembler	15.14	15.61	16.09	16.50
3	Selector Packer, Reselector, General Labor Cold End	15.245	15.71	16.19	16.60
4	Loader Cartons	15.345	15.82	16.30	16.72
5	Pallet Loader, General Laborer-Maintenance, Unloader	15.445	15.92	16.41	16.83
6	Automatic Palletizer Operator, Utility Worker Batch & Furnace	15 545	16.02	16.51	16.93
7	Mould Cleaner, Payload Operator Clerk - Shipping, Lift Truck Operator	15.645	16.12	16.61	17.04
8	Mould Cleaner & Storage Storekeeper	15.745	16.23	16.73	17.16
9	Ware Auditor, Cullet Handler Unloader,	15.845	16.33	16.83	17.26
10	Laboratory Technician	15.945	16.43	16.93	17.36
12	Mould Inspector	16.145	16.64	17.15	17.59
	Batch & Furnace	17.80	18.33	18.88	19.35
Operator
-170-
SCHEDULE A P&M LOCAL NO. 96 DUNKIRK, INDIANA
Job	Current	Effect.	Effect.	Effect.
Group	Job Title	Rate	4/1/05	4/1/06	4/1/07
2	Janitor	15.185	15.65	16.13	16.54
3	Inspector-Packer 15.285 and Carton Assembly, General Laborer	15.75	16.23	16.65
4	Storeroom Helper 15.385	15.86	16.35	16.77
5	Tank	15.485 Maintenance Apprentice, Pallet Loader, Case Packer Attendant	15.96	16.45	16.87
6	Cullet Handler - 15.585 Basement, Utility Driver	16.06	16.55	16.97
7	Forklift Truck 15.685	16.17 Operator, Automatic Palletizer Operator, Packing Room Unit Load Handler Carpenter Helper Plant Lubricator - Laborer, General Plant Driver Label Machine Operator		16.67	17.10
8	Batch Mixer/Raw 15.785 Material Handler, Mold Cleaner	16.27	16.77	17.20
9	Quality Control 15.885 Checker,	16.37	16.87	17.30
10	Test Room	15.985 Inspector Coating Utility, Carton Assembly Utility*	16.47	16.97	17.40
-171 -
12	Tank Maintenance 16.185	16.68	17.19	17.63
14	2nd Class, Mold Shop Inspector Carpenter	17.220	17.75	18.29	18.76
15	1st Class* Tank	17.540	18.08	18.63	19.11
Job	Maintenance 1st Class, Truck Mechanic 1st Class* Mold Cleaner & 16.085	17.27 Polish Leader P&M LOCAL NO. 39 EL MONTE, CALIFORNIA Current Effect.		17.77 Effect.	18.20 Effect.
Group	Job Title	Rate	4/1/05	4/1/06	4/1/07
2	Custodian,	15.155	15.61	16.08	16.48
3	General Laborer Selector,	15.255	15.71	16.1B	16.58
4	Repacker, Reselector, Glass Reclaim clerk, Power Sweeper Operator 15.355	15.82	16.29	16.70
5	Offbearer,	15.455	15.92	16.40	16.81
6	Reselect Servitor, Yardkeeper, Warehandler, Cullet Handler 15.555	16.02	16.50	16.91
7	Checker Driver, 15.655	16.12	16.60	17.02
	Batch Handler Cullet, Gen. Laborer Furnace, Mold Ciearner, Line Driver, Label Machiner Operator, Automatic Palletizer Operator			
-172-
8	Paper Servitor, 15.755	16.23	16.72	17.14
	Carton Matrix			
9	Operator, Batch Mixer, Checker Forklift Driver, Painter Batch Handler 15.855	16.33	16.82	17.24
10	Unloader Inspector,	15.955	16.43	16.92	17.34
15	Storeroom Attendant 16.595	17.09	17.60	18.04
16	16.745	17.25	17.77	18.21
	Furnace	18.385	18.94	19.51	20.00
	Maintenance Furnace Operator/17.800	18.33	18.88	19.35
	Unloader Maintenance “A"* 21.310	21.95	22.61	23.18
P&M LOCAL NO. 222 HENDERSON, NORTH CAROLINA
Job	Current		Effect.	Effect.	Effect.
Group	Job Title	Rate	4/1/05	4/1/06	4/1/07
1	Accumulating Table Packer	15.045	15.51	15.99	16.40
2	Box Maker	15.145	15.61	16.09	16.50
3	Single Line	15.245 Inspector, Inspector Packer, Janitor, Re-Inspector, Utility (Packing)		15.71	16.19	16.60
5	Yard person, Re-Stacker, Pallet Loader	15.445	15.92	16.41	16.83
6	Materials	15.545	16.02	16.51	16.93
Unloader
-173-
7	Forklift Driver, 15.645	16.12	16.61	17.04
	Warehouse Sweeper, Mold Cleaner Storage, Mold Hanger & Repair, Utility Person (Mould Shop), Automatic Palletizer Operator			
8	Utility Person 15.745 (Melting), Utility (Maintenance), Oiler-Greaser	16.23	16.73	17.16
9	Line Monitor, 15.845 Quality Checker	16.33	16.83	17.26
10	Carton Receiver- 15.945 Checker Lift truck	16.43	16.93	17.36
	Mechanic*	16.81 Batch Furnace	17.32	17.85	18.31
	Operator	17.80	18.33 P&M LOCAL NO. 111 CARTERET, NEW JERSEY		18.88	19.35
Job	Current	Effect.	Effect.	Effect.
Group	Job Title	Rate	4/1/05	4/1/06	4/1/07
2	Carton	15.145 Assembler, Janitor, Sweeper-Warehouse	15.61	16.09	16.50
3	Line Attendant,	15.245 Selector Packer	15.71	16,19	16.60
4	General Laborer - 15.345 Cold End	15.82	16.30	16.72
-174-
5	Pallet Loader, 15.445 General Laborer-	15.92	16.41	16.83
6	Maintenance, Carton General Laborer, Furnace Rebuild Laborer, Automatic Bulk Palletizer Checker, Unloader-	15.545	16.02	16.51	16.93
7	Decolorizer Mould Cleaner, 15.645	16.12	16.61	17.04
8	Payloader Operator, Labeling Machine Operator Mould Cleaner 15.745	16.23	16.73	17.16
9	& Storage Warehouseman, Lift Truck Operator, Maintenance Helper, Corrugated & Supply receiver Painter, Laboratory	15.845	16.33		16.83	17.26
10	Technician, Ware Auditor Stockroom	15.95	16.44	16.94	17.37
	Attendant Batch & Furnace 17.80	18.33	18.88	19.35
16	Operator Group Leader- 17.75	18.23	18.73	19.16
20	Shipping Lift Truck	21.23	21.88	22.55	23.12
	Mechanic*			
-175-
P&M LOCAL NO. 117 LINCOLN, ILLINOIS
Job	Current	Effect.	Effect.	Effect.
Group	Job Title	Rate	4/1/05	4/1/06	4/1/07
2	Carton	15.145 Assembler, Janitor	15.61	16.09	16.50
3	Selector Packer 15.245	15.71	16.19	16.60
5	Palletizer	15.445	15.92	16.41	16.83
7	Lift Truck Operator 15.645 (Warehouse), Mould Cleaner/Polisher, Line Driver (Packing) Painter,	16.12	16.61	17.04
9	Lab Tester,	15.845 Line Monltor/Advisor, Quality Control Production Auditor	16.33	16.83	17.26
10	Batch Unloader 15.945	16.43	16.93	17.36
14	Lead Carton	16.330 Handler/ Scheduler,	16.83	17.34	17.78
	Tank Operator 17.80	18.33	18.88	19.35
P&M LOCAL NO. 54 PORT ALLEGANY, PENNSYLVANIA
Job	Current	Effect.	Effect.	Effect.
Group	Job Title	Rate	4/1/05	4/1/06	4/1/07
2	Utility Laborer 15.145 (Cleaner), Carton Assembler, Janitor, Labor Pool	15.61	16.09	16.50
3	Selector/Packer, 15.245 Reselect/Packer	15.71	16.19	16.60
-176-
5	Loader-	15.445	15.92	16.41	16.83
	Warehouse, Pallet Loader, Automatic Bulk Palletizer Operator, Maintenance Utility			
6	Carton Assembly 15.545 Crew Leader	16.61	17.09	17.50
7	Automatic Case 15.645	16.12 Palletizer Operator, Batch Can Positioner, Carton Unloader - Lift Truck Operator, Lift Truck Operator, Pallet Loader Driver, Rubbish Collector Power Sweeper Painter,		16.61	17.04
8	Raw Material 15.745 Handler (Unloader)	16.23	16.73	17.16
9	Une Attendant, 15.845 Lab Technician (Hot End), Lab Technician (Cold End)	16.33	16.83	17.26
11	Shop Storeroom 16.045 & Receiving Clerk	16.54	17.05	17.49
13	Garage	16.815 Mechanic*	17.33	17.86	18.32
15	Compressor	16.450 Operator	16.95	17.47	17.92
	Chief Garage 17.420 Mechanic*	17.95	18.50	18.97
	Furnace	17.80 Operator	18.33	18.88	19.35
	Carton Unloader 15.745 Crew Leader	17.12	17.61	18.04
	Loading Crew 15.745 Leader	17.12	17.61	18.04
-177-
	Furnace	16.330	19.33	19.88	20.35
	Maintenance &		
	Repair Crew Leader		
	P&M LOCAL NO. 253 RUSTON, LOUISIANA		
Job	Current Effect.	Effect.	Effect.
Group	Job Title	Rate	4/1/05	4/1/06	4/1/07
1	Utility,	15.045	15.51 Accumulating Table Packer	15.99	16.40
2	General Plant 15.145	15.61 Maintenance Utility, Carton Assembler/Box Maker, Janitor, Dock Helper	16.09	16.50
3	Single Line	15.245	15.71 Inspector, Re-Inspector, Inspector-Packer	16.19	16.60
5	Pallet Loader, 15.445	15.92 Utility-Melting, Restacker	16.41	16.83
6	Raw Material 15.545	16.02 Unloader/Utility	16.51	16.93
7	Painter - Utility, 15.645	16.12 Forklift Operator (Warehouse), Line Driver (Packing), Debulk Operator, Mould Cleaner/Polisher, Automatic Bulk/Carton Palletizer, Power Sweeper/ Scrubber	16.61	17.04
9	Quality Checker 15.845	16.33 (Line Monitor/Auditor), Quality Control/Lab Technician,	16.83	17.26
-178-
Carton Receiver & Checker
10 11	15.945 Mechanic	17.01 (Machine Shop)* Furnace Operator 17.80	16.43 17.53 18.33	16.93 18.07 18.88	17.36 18.53 19.35
	P&M LOCAL NO. 87 SEATTLE, WASHINGTON			
Job	Current	Effect.	Effect.	Effect.
Group	Job Title	Rate	4/1/05	4/1/06	4/1/07
2	Carton Assembler,15.185 Janitor, AAP Selector (0-1000)	15.64	16.11	16.51
3	Packing	15.285 Department Selector	15.74	16.21	16.62
5	Pallet Loader- 15.485 Packing, L.T.O. - Packing, Assem bler/Handler, Relief Selector - Packing Relief Carton	15.95	16.43	16.84
6	L.TO. — Mold 15.585 Department, L.T.O. - Tractor Driver -Yard & batch Dept.	16.05	16.53	16.94
7	LT.O. -	15.685 Warehouse Department, Mold Cleaner and Polisher, Painter	16.16	16.64	17.06
8	Batch Mixer,	15.885	16.36	16.85	17.27
9	Quality Assurance Lab Person, Quality Assurance Person			
-179-
10	Tank Maintenance 15.985	16.46	16.95	17.37
	Person Maintenance	16.035	16.52	17.02	17.45
	Person III Maintenance 18.14	18.68	19.24	19.72
	Person I* Maintenance 18.265	19.68	20.24	20.72
	Lead* Furnace Tender 17.80	18.33	18.88	19.35
	Mold Cleaner 15.785	17.16	17.64	1806
	Leader Warehouse Leader 15.785	17.16	17.64	18.06
	Lead Inspector 15.885	16.74	17.21	17.72
Job	SCHEDULEA P&M LOCAL NO. 254 MADERA, CALIFORNIA Current Effect.		Effect.	Effect.
Group	Job Title	Rate	4/1/05	4/1/06	4/1/07
2	Janitor	15.210	15.67	16.14	16.54
3	Selector/	15.300	15.76	16.23	16.64
4	Boxmaker, General Laborer (B&F) General Laborer 15.395	15.86	16.34	16.75
5	(Maintenance) Laborer-Cullet 15.480	15.94	16.42	16.83
6	Handler, Case Packer Operator, Storeroom Clerk Floor Person, 15.590	16.06	16.54	16.95
Oiler
-180-
7	Raw Material	15.650	16.12	16.60	17.02
8	Handler, Industrial Truck Operator, Mold Polisher, Unitizer, Sweeper Operator 15.750		16.22	16.71	17.13
9	Warehouse	15.855	16.33	16.82	17.24
10	Person, Inspector/Auditor, Line Monitor, Lab Person, Carton Receiver	15.955	16.43	16.92	17.34
11		16.055	16.54	17.04	17.47
12		16.180	16.67	17.17	17.60
16		16.605	17.10	17.61	18.05
17		16.680	17.18	17.70	18.14
18		16.800	17.30	17.82	18.27
19		16.935	17.44	17.96	18.41
20		17.065	17.58	18.11	18.56
	Batchmixer and	17.80	18.33	18.88	19.35
	Furnace Tender, Hot Repair and Relief Person Batch & Furnace	18.35	19.33	19.88	20.35
	Leadman Warehouse Lead	16.365	17.33	17.82	18.24
-181 -
Schedule A
Wage rates for all employees covered by Schedule A in this Contract in Burlington, Wl; Milford, MA; Pevely, MO; Sapulpa, OK; Waxahachie, TX and Wilson, NC.
Labor Grade	Effective 4/1/2005	Effective 4/1/2006	Effective 4/1/2*07
1	15.54	16.02	16.43
2	15.64	16.12	16.53
3	15.74	16.22	16.64
4	15.85	16.34	16.76
5	15.95	16.44	16.86
6	18.05	16.54	16.96
7	16.16	16.65	17.08
8	16.26	16.76	17.19
9	16.36	16.86	17,29
10	16.46	16.96	17 39
11	16.57	17.08	17.52
12	16.67	17.18	17.62
13	16.72	17.23	17 67
14	16.85	17.37	17.81
15	16.97	17.49	17.94
16	17.09	17.61	18.06
17	17.17	17.70	18.15
18	17.29	17.82	18.28
19	17.43	17.96	18.42
20	17.62	18.16	18.62
GPMJR	21.38	22.02	22.57
Electro-	21.88	22.55	23.12
Mechanic			
Electronics-	21.88	22.55	23.12
Technician			
-182-
SCHEDULEA P&M Local 39 - El Monte, CA
MAINTENANCE RATES
	Current	Effect.	Effect.	Effect.
Job Title	Rate	4/1/05	4/1/06	4/1/07
General Plant				
Malnt.	21.31	21.95	22.61	23.18
Apprentice				
Maintenance				
0-1000 Hours	18.41	18.96	19.53	20.02
1001 - 2000 Hours	18.66	19.22	19.80	20.30
2001 - 3000 Hours	18.91	19.48	20.06	20.56
3001 -4000 Hours	19.16	19.73	20.32	20.83
4001 - 5000 Hours	19.41	19.99	20.59	21.10
5001 - 6000 Hours	19.66	20.25	20.86	21.38
6001 - 7000 Hours	19.91	20.51	21.13	21.66
7001 - 8000 Hours	20.16	20.76	21.38	21.91
SCHEDULEA
P&M Local 54 - Port Allegany, PA P&M Local 96 - Dunkirk, IN P&M Local 111 Carteret, NJ P&M Local 117 - Lincoln, IL P&M Local 166 - Dolton, IL
P&M Local 222 - Henderson, NC P&M Local 253 - Ruston, LA
MAINTENANCE RATES
	Current	Effect.	Effect.	Effect.
Job Title	Rate	4/1/05	4/1/06	4/1/07
General Plant Maint. Journeyman,				
Electro-Mechanic	21.23	21.88	22.55	23.12
Apprentice
-183-
Entry Level	17.29	17.82	18.35	18.82
30 Day - 1000 Hours	17.49	18.02	18.57	19.04
1001 -2000 Hours	17.59	18.13	18.68	19.16
2001 - 3000 Hours	17.69	18.23	18.79	19.27
3001 - 4000 Hours	17.79	18.33	18.89	19.37
4001 -5000 Hours	17.94	18.49	19.05	19.54
5001 - 6000 Hours	18.34	18.90	19.48	19.98
6001 - 7000 Hours	18.74	19.31	19.90	20.41
7001 - 8000 Hours	19.14	19.72	20.32	20.84
SCHEDULE A P&M Local 87 - Seattle, WA
MAINTENANCE RATES
	Current	Effect.	Effect.	Effect.
Job Title	Rate	4/1/05	4/1/06	4/1/07
Journeyed Maintenance				
Mechanic	20.59	21.21	21.85	22.40
Apprentice Rates				
Entry Level	16.63	17.13	17.64	18.08
30 Day -1000 Hours	16.83	17.33	17.85	18.30
1001 - 2000 Hours	16.93	17.44	17.96	18.41
2001 - 3000 Hours	17.03	17.54	18.07	18.52
3001 - 4000 Hours	17.13	17.64	18.17	18.62
4001 - 5000 Hours	17.28	17.80	18.33	18.79
5001 - 6000 Hours	17.68	18.21	18.76	19.23
6001 -7000 Hours	18.08	18.62	19.18	19.66
7001 - 8000 Hours	18.48	19.03	19.60	20.09
-184-
SCHEDULE A P&M Local 254 - Madera, CA
MAINTENANCE RATES
	Current	Effect.	Effect.	Effect.
Job Title Rate		4/1/05	4/1/06	4/1/07
Maintenance Leadman				
General Plant	22.265	22.90	23.56	24.12
Maintenance Journeyman				
General Plant				
Maintenance	21.265	21.90	22.56	23.12
Apprentice Rates				
0-30 days	16.77	17.27	17.79	18.23
30 Day -1000 Hours	16.87	17.38	17.90	18.35
1001 -2000 Hours	16.97	17.48	18.00	18.45
2001 - 3000 Hours	17.07	17.58	18.11	18.56
3001 - 4000 Hours	17.17	17.69	18.22	18.68
4001 - 5000 Hours	17.32	17.84	18.38	18.84
5001 - 6000 Hours	17.47	17.99	18.53	18.99
6001 - 7000 Hours	17.62	18.15	18.69	19.16
7001 - 8000 Hours	17.77	18.30	18.85	19.32
-185-
SAINT-GOBAIN CONTAINERS
On behalf of Saint-Gobain Containers, signed thi s 1 st day of April, 2005 by:
Thomas L. McKnight
Director, Labor Relations
James Harrigan
Manager, Labor Relations
Phil McPherson
Vice President Manufacturing
Scott Grau
Director, Compensation and Benefits
David Knight
Associate General Counsel
Thomas McDuffee
Vice President
Human Resources
Greg Perry
Manager, General Accounting
And Compliance
Ed Block
Manager, Human Resources
Lincoln, IL
Julie Curtis
Manager, Human Resources
Ruston, LA
-186-
Todd Glawe
Manager, Human Resources Henderson, NG
Barry S. Healy
Manager, Human Resources
Port Allegany, PA
Yolanda James
Manager, Human Resources El Monte, CA
Dana Kratz
Manager, Human Resources
Burlington, Wl
Max Long
Manager, Human Resources
Dunkirk, IN
Jason L. Noble
Manager, Human Resources
Seattle, WA
Rich Pelisari
Manager, Human Resources
Madera, CA
John Pigaga
Manager, Human Resources
Milford, MA
Charles Richardson
Manager, Human Resources
Sapulpa, OK/Waxahachie, TX
-187-
Thomas Sortie
Manager, Human Resources
Wilson, NC
Paul Spanopoulos
Manager, Human Resources
Dolton, IL
Ginny Swanson
Manager, Human Resources
Carteret, NJ
Carolyn Wise
Office Manager
-188-
Glass, Molders, Pottery, Plastics & Allied Workers International Union, AFL-CIO, CLC
On behalf of itself as the International Union and as agent for and on behalf of its Local Unions covered by this Contract.
Signed on the 1st day of April, 2005
Walter Thom
International Vice President
Wes Royster
Area Director
Charles Boultinghouse
Executive Officer
Jerry Cotton
Executive Officer
Richard Baumcratz
International Representative
Ben Sallemi
International Representative
Kim McNeil
International Representative
Cari Harmon
President, Local Union #30
Douglas White
Rd, Local Union #30
-189-
Hector Sanchez
President Local Union #39
Aurelio Romero
Vice President, Local Union #39
Derrick Smith
President, Local Union #50
Lynn Sorton
President, Local Union #54
Dave Bixler
President, Local Union #71
Brian Higley
President, Local Union #75
Charles Brown
President, Local Union #87
Rick Wayman
President, Local Union #96
Stephen Gordon
Treasurer, Local Union #111
Joseph Pisano
Treasurer, Local Union #111
Thomas Gallagher
President, Local Union #117
Kevin Lowe
President, Local Union #121
-190-
John Brewster
President, Local Union #125
Randy Meisell
Local Union #125
Winstone Davis
President, Local Union #166
Carl Schneider
Vice President, Local Union #166
William Nelson
Vice President, Local Union #169
Robert Greenhalgh
Shop Steward, Local Union #169
Phil Sternfeld
Vice President, Local Union #193
Joe Sharpe
President, Local Union #193
Philip Solomon
President, Local Union #222
Robert Gregory
Vice President, Local Union #222
Rickey Stewart
Vice President, Local Union #239
Dave Simmons
President, Local Union #239
-191 -
Daniel Hinton
Vice President, Local Union #253
Lee Breazeale
President, Local Union #253
Timothy Chase
President, Local Union #254
Art Arellanes
Vice President, Local Union #254
Carter Brisbois
President, Local Union #226
Steven Clark
Vice President, Local Union #226
-192-