7

Multiple Plant - Union Shop 22 Contract and Working Rules Made By SAINT-GOBAIN CONTAINERS, INC. I
Wet
rrtTTrti SAINT-GOBAIN
CONTAINERS
And the
Glass, Molders, Pottery, Plastics & Allied Workers International Union, AFL-CIO, CLC
SMR
Indialantic, Florida 2002 Covering the Employees in the PRODUCTION & MAINTENANCE DEPARTMENT Local Unions No.
39, 54, 87, 96, 111, 117, 166, 222, 253, 254 Effective - April 1,2002 Expires * March 31,2005
S0-8
JANUARY 5 M T W T F S 12 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 U 14 15 18 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
APRIL
S M T W T F S 1 2 3 4 5 6 78 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 t9 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30
JULY 5 M T W T F S 12 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 1011 1213 14 15 16 17 16 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
OCTOBER S M T W T F S
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 B 4 1011 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
JANUARY 5 M T W T F 5
12 3 4
5 6 7 8 9 10 11
12 13 14 15 16 17 18
19 20 21 22 23 24 25
26 27 28 29 30 31
APRIL
S M T W T F 5 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30
IDLY
S M T W T F 5 1 2 3 4 5 6 78 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
OCTOBER S M T W T F 5 12	3 4
5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
2002 FEBRUARY SM r IV 1 F s
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9
10 11 12 13 14 15 16
17 18 19 20 21 22 23
24 25 26 27 28
MAY
S M T W T F S
12 3 4
5 6 7 B 9 (0 II 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
AUGUST S M T W T F S
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 « 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 NOVEMBER
S M T W T F S
1 2
3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16
17 16 19 20 21 22 23
24 25 26 27 28 29 30
2003
FEBRUARY
S M T W T F $
1
2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15
16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28
MAY
S M T W F F S
1 2 3
4 5 6 7 8 9 10
11 12 13 14 15 16 17
IB 19 20 21 22 23 24
25 26 27 28 29 30 31
AUGUST
S M T W T F S
1 2
3 4 5 6 7 8 9
10 11 12 13 14 15 16
17 18 19 20 21 22 23
24 25 26 27 28 29 30
31
NOVEMBER S M T W T F S
1
2 3	4	5	6	7	8
9 10	11	12	13	14	15
16 17	18	19	20	21	22
23 24	25	26	27	28	29
30
MARCH
S M	T	W	T	F
3 4	5	6	7	8 *
10 11	12	13	14	15
17 18	19	20	21	22
24 25 31	26 27 28 JUNE			29 .Cl
S M	T	W	T	F S
2 3	4	5	6	7 n
9 10	11	12	13	14 1 •
16 17	18	19	20	21 22
23 24	25	26	27	28 29
SEPTEMBER 5				
S M	T	W	T	F S
1 2	3	4	5	6 7
8 9	10	11	12	13 14
15 16	17	18	19	20 21
22 23 29 30	24	25	26	27 20
DECEMBER				
S M	T	W	T	F $
1 2	3	4	5	6 7
8 9	10	11	12	13 14
15 16	17	IB	19	20 21
22 23 29 30	24 31	25	26	27 21
MARCH
S M T W T F
2 3 4 5 6 7 S 9 10 11 12 13 14 1$ 16 17 18 19 20 21 2? 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
|UNE
S M T W T F S
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 It 12 13 14 15 16 17 15 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30
SEPTEMBER
S M	T	W	T	F 5
1	2	3	4	5 6
7 8	9	10	11	12 13
14 15	16	17	18	19 20
21 22	23	24	25	26 27
28 29 30
DECEMBER
S M	T	W	T	F S
1	2	3	4	5 6
7 8	9	10	H	12 13
14 15	16	17	18	19 20
21 22	23	24	25	26 27
28 29	30	31
Multiple Plant - Union Shop Contract and Working Rules Made By SAINT-GOBAIN CONTAINERS, INC.
SAINT-GOBAIN CONTAINERS
And the Glass, Molders, Pottery, Plastics & Allied Workers International Union, AFL-CIO, CLC
Indialantic, Florida 2002 Covering the Employees in the PRODUCTION & MAINTENANCE DEPARTMENT
Local Unions No.
39, 54, 87, 96, 111, 117, 166, 222, 253, 254
Effective - April 1,2002
Expires - March 31, 2005
PLEDGE ALLEGIANCE TO THE FLAG
"I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the United States of America, and to the Republic for which it stands - one nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all."
1
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ARTICLE
PAGE
Preamble.......................................1
1	Duration and Changes........................... 1
2	Union Recognition and Jurisdiction..............2
3	Labor-Management Committee......................4
4	Management Rights...............................4
5	Union Rights................................... 5
6	Hiring, Releasing, Quitting, discharging & Discipline,. 8
7	Check-Off.......................................9
8	Membership List................................ 10
9(a)	Seniority......................................11
9(b)	Seniority......................................19
9(c)	Seniority......................................27
9(d)	Seniority......................................35
9(e)	Seniority......................................41
10	Transfer of Employees...........................46
11	Premium Pay.....................................48
12	Reporting and Call-In Pay.......................54
13	Shift Differentials.............................54
14	Negotiated Rates................................55
15	Method of Payment...............................56
16	Holidays........................................57
17	Vacations.......................................59
18	Pensions........................................63
19	Retiree Benefits................................72
20	Relief..........................................73
21	Supervisory Employees...........................74
22	Insurance Program...............................75
23	Equipment Supplied..............................96
24	Reporting Intended Absence......................97
25	Military Leave..................................97
26	Bereavement Leave.............................. 98
27	Court Duty......................................99
28	No Strike or Lockout...........................100
29	Grievance Procedure............................100
30	Arbitration................................... 104
TABLE OF CONTENTS (cont.)
ARTICLE	PAGE
31	Health and Safety..............................105
32	On-Job Health Protection......................108
33	Farr Employment Practice and Equal Opportunities. 108
34	Permanent Plant Closings and Related Matters .... 109
35	Disabled Employees...........................111
36	Successors, Transferees and Assignees........ 112
37	Environmental control Program.................113
38	Separability..................................113
39	Operating Conditions...............-..........113
40	Local Agreements..............................114-
41	Subcontracting...............................  115
42	Apprenticeship Programs............’........-1.17
43	Wages........................................'.118
44	Cost of Living.................................119
45	Training...................................... 120
46	Execution......................................120
Standard Tools................................121
Schedule A....................................123
Schedule B................................... 125
Signature Page............................... 137
PREAMBLE
Section 1.	The intent and purpose of this Union Shop Contract is to maintain and further harmonious labor-management relations upon a constructive and sound foundation.
Section 2.	This foundation has as its cornerstone full acceptance and recognition of the obligations and rights of both parties. This foundation embraces a true spirit of full cooperation and mutual communications with both parties working together to improve working conditions and productivity so that full and prosperous employment can continue and from which will emanate a healthy and prosperous industry.
Section 3.	Where the pronoun he, hisor him appears in this Contract, such word shall include both male and female employees unless the meaning is clearly and specifically to the contrary.
ARTICLE 1 Duration and Changes
Section 1.	This Contract shall become effective April 1, 2002 and remain in full force and effect through March 31, 2005.
Section 2.	If changes a re desired by either party, notice shall be given to the other party sixty (60) days prior to the expiration date of this Contract.
Section 3.	The parties shall hold a conference at a mutually agreeable time and place prior to the expiration date of this Contract.
— 1 —
Section 4.	All Local Agreements which provide for monetary and non-monetary benefits in excess of those provided for in this Contract shall continue and shall not be considered to be inconsistent with or in conflict with the provisions of this Contract.
Section 5.	All Local Agreements will be put into writing and signed by the Local Union and Local Plant Management.
The Company shall meet with the Local Union and their International Representatives ninety (90) days prior to the expiration date of this Contract and reduce all Local Union Agreements to writing. A copy of same shall be sent to the International and Local Unions.
ARTICLE 2
Union Recognition and Jurisdiction
Section 1.	The Company recognizes the Union as the sole collective bargain! ng agent for all hourly-rated production and maintenance employees, including warehouse employees in the plants and warehouses listed at the end of this Contract, except employees on jobs presently covered bythe Company's Automatic Machine Department Contract, contracts with other unions, salaried supervisors, employees excluded by law and by prior contracts in effect with the Company.
As a supplement to this Contract, a Schedule A covering classifications and rates of pay under the jurisdiction of this Contract, will be included in this Contract.
Section 2.	It shall be a condition of employment that all employees covered bythis Contract who are members of the Union in good standing on the effective dateorthe execution date of this Contract, whicheveris later, shall remain mem
— 2 —
bers in good standing and those who are not members on such date shall, on the thirtieth (30th) calendar day following the effective date or the execution date of this Contract, whichever is later, become and remain members in good standing in the Union. It shall also be a condition of employment that all employees covered by this Contract and hired on or after its effective date or the execution date, whichever is later, shall, on the thirtieth (30th) calendar day following the beginning of such employment, become and remain members in good standing in the Union. The foregoing shall be applied in accordance with provisions of Section 8 (a)(3) of the Labor-Management Relations Act of 1947, as amended.
Section 3.	In states where by law employees may not be required to become members of the Union as a condition of employment, then to the extent permitted by law, all such employees who do not become members of the Union after thirty (30) calendar days, the effective date or the execution date of this Contract, whichever is later, shall as a condition of employment, pay to the Union each month an amount of money equal to that paid by other employees in the bargaining unit who are members of the Union, which amount shall be limited to an amount of money equal to the U nion's regular and usual initiation fees and its regular and usual dues. For present employees who do not choose to become members of the Union, such payments shall commence thirty (30) calendar days following the effective date or the execution date of this Contract, whichever is later. The Union agrees to indemnify the Company against claims made against it as a result of the application of this Article.
Section 4.	It is further agreed that any group of employees who are employed in any glass container plant of the Company, which plant was not in existence or owned or controlled by the Company on April 1,2002, and who comprise an appropriate bargaining
— 3 —
unit and for whom the Union becomes the recognized or certified bargaining agent shall automatically be included and covered by this Contract and shall be made a party hereto as of the date of such recognition or certification.
ARTICLE 3 Labor-Management Committee
A Labor-Management meeting will be held once each contract year at the plant locations. Two Labor-Management meetings, including all plants of the Company, will be held during the term of this contract at a time and place agreeable to the International Union and the Company. The Company will pay for coach transportation to and from the meeting and appropriate compensation including Combined Rate, where applicable, for each day of the scheduled meeting, plus travel time to and from the meeting. The meetings shall be limited to a discussion of written agenda Items prepared and agreed to 30 days in advance by the Company and the Union.
ARTICLE 4 Management Rights
The Union recognizes the right and responsibility of the Company to manage its plants and to direct its working forces. All rights of the Company which have not been specifically abridged or modified by this Contract are retained by the Company.
— 4 —
ARTICLES Union Rights
Section 1.	The Company agrees that, subject to the provisions of this Contract, the Union shall at all times be free to exercise its rights to advance the best interest of and fully protect its members in the exercise of their full freedom to engage I n activities onbehalfoftheUnionand that no member of the Union shall be restrained or coerced or discriminated against, in any manner, because of his membership in and for activities on behalf ofthe Union or its constituent Local Union.
Section 2.	The Business Committee and/or Shop Steward and/or Officers shall be permitted to conduct legitimate business dealing with Union-Management matters after first notifying supervision. During working hours supervision shall, as promptly as possible, release such individuals for these purposes. This privilege shall be exercised reasonably. Local Unions shall submit a list ofthe names of Shop Stewards and members of the Business Committee to the Company. The Company agrees not to shift Shop Stewards arbitrarily as long as their seniority protects them. No Local Union Officer, Committeeman, orSteward shall be intimidated or disciplined for the legitimate and reasonable exercise of his rights under this Article.
Section 3.	The accredited International Representative ofthe Union shall, after first advising plant management of such visit and its purpose, be granted the right to visit the plants in matters pertaining to complaints and/orgrievances arising out of questions concerning the application or interpretation of this Contract.
Section 4.	The Company shall provide and maintain an appropriate numberof glass enclosed bulletin boards forthe exclusive use ofthe Union or its Local Union. Only items of
— 5 —
Union business signed by an officer of the Union or its Local Union may be posted.
Section 5.	When an employee is called to full-time duty by the Local Union or International Union, or by the AFL-CIO or is elected to Federal, State, or Local Office, he shall be granted leave of absence up to five (5) years and must renew his leave of absence each of these five (5) years with the Plant Manager. Upon termination of such duties, he may return to work covered by this Contract, taking his position on the seniority list indicated by his years of service including the time spent on such duties for which leave was granted.
Section 6.	The Company will comply with reasonable requests from the Union for information necessary to prop-erly represent their membership. A Local Union representativewill also be included in any benefit conference between the Company and an employee when the employee requests such representation.
Section 7.	Local Plant Management and the Local Union Business Committee will meetonceeach month, if requested, as necessary in order to discuss matters of mutual concern. Written agendaswill be prepared five (5) working days prior to such meeting. Responses to any unanswered issueswill be provided, in writing, by Local Plant Management or Local Union Officers within ten (10) business days following the meeting. This meeting will not serve to circumvent the grievance procedure.
Section 8.	When a meeting is held, which may lead to disciplinary action against an employee, such employee will, unless he refuses, have a Union Representative present at the meeting.
— 6 —
Section 9.	It is agreed that during the orientation of new employees, the Local Union President or his designee will be allowed at least thirty (30) minutes during such orientation, without the employer present, to review the benefits of Union Membership. New hires may sign Union Authorization Cards at this meeting.
Section 10.	The Local Union and the employee shall receive a copy of all written, formal disciplinary action taken against an employee ofthe Company within forty-eight (48) hours of such disciplinary action.
Section 11.	In the event the GMP International Union has anyorganizing campaign involving any group of hourly paid production employees who are employed in any glass container plant ofthe Company, the Company agrees to maintain a neutral position. No supervisors, managers, or agents of the Company will take a position in organizing campaigns in opposition to representation by the Union.
If the Union claims majority status, the Company shall agree to a count of authorization cards to be conducted by any arbitrator regularly employed by the parties in that geographical area. Upon certification from thearbitratorthat a majority ofthe workers have signed authorization cards, the Company agrees to recognize the Union.
Disputes concerning the scope of the unit, placement, voter eligibility, or improper conduct by either party shall be decided by the arbitrator. He shall be empowered to order a remedy for any breach of neutrality or other misconduct.
— 7 —
ARTICLE 6
Hiring, Releasing, Quitting, Discharging & Discipline
Section 1.	The right of the Company to hire and to discharge and discipline employees forjust cause is hereby acknowledged. Such discharge shall be in accordance with the provisions of Section 4 of this Article. In the event the Companyisunableto secure employees forthejobs covered by this Contract, the Company shall requestthe International Union to recommend employees in the classification needed.
Section 2.	Any employee under the jurisdiction of this Contract who desires to quit work shall give five (5) working days’ prior notice to his employerand shall continue working in accordance with the factory schedule during said notice period. It is agreed that such employee may rescind the notice of intent to quit at any time during the given notice period.
Section 3.	If the Company decides to release an employee, the Company must give five (5) working days’ notice in writing or pay the employee five (5) days' wages, except in cases of disaster, fire, explosion, etc. This does not apply to layoffs, or furloughs, beyond the control ofthe Company. The word release shall not include discharges forjust cause or temporary layoff of three (3) days or less.
Section4.	No employee shall be summarily discharged. In all cases in which the Company concludes that an employee’s conduct mayjustify discharge, he shall be suspended initially for not more than three (3) working days. The Shop Steward and/or Local Union shall be notified in writing immediately of such suspension. During such suspension period, the Company will meet with the Union and review the facts of the case. At the end ofthe suspension period, the Company shall notify the Local Union of its final action and the grievance procedure can be invoked immediately.
— 8 —
!
Section 5.	Upon any discharge under this Article, the Shop Steward and President of the Local Union shall be notified in writing immediately.
Section 6.	Circumstances which could have a mitigating effect on discipline will be considered in assessing discipline.
Section 7.	In cases where suspension becomes necessary, such suspension shall be for consecutive working days. The Company may delay the start of disciplinary suspension, if any day of such suspension is Sunday. No employee shall lose holiday pay as a result of such suspension.
ARTICLE? Check-Off
Section 1.	The Company shall check off initiation fees a nd Union dues on presentation of check-off authority by the employees in accordance with the law. The Company will then deduct each week such dues in the amounts certified to the Company by the Secretary-Treasurer ofthe International Union and once each month and not later than by the tenth (10th) day of the month following the month for which deductions were made send to the International Union and to the Local Union their respective shares as certified by the Secretary-Treasurer of the International Union, and will supply the International Secretary- Treasurer of the Union and the Financial Secretary of each Local Union a list of all members with their addresses and Social Security numbers who have had their dues deducted in the regular dues deduction period. The International Union will indemnify the Company against all claims made against it by reason of compliance with this Article. The check-off list shall also be made available in an electronic format. The International Union and the Company will determine the
— 9 —
_____proper format for such submissions. The payment of dues shall be by electronic transfer. Each local union covered by this agreement will have the option of receiving the check-off list and/or payment of dues in the same electronic format.
Section 2.	New employees may sign check-off authorization and application blanks upon receiving employment. After thirty (30) calendar days the Company shall then process each new employee in accordance with the first Section of this Article. The I ntemational U nion shall supply the Company with all necessary forms.
Section 3.	The Company shall check off Political Action Committee (PAC) contributions on presentation of PAC check offauthority signed by the employee. The Company will make such PAC deductions weekly in the amount authorized by the employee on the PAC check off authorization form. The Company will then, once each month, send to the Secretary-Treasurer of the International Union and to the Financial Secretary of the Local Union their respective shares as designated on the employee’s PAC check off authorization form. The Company will, at the time the monthly remittance is made, furnish to the International Union and the Local Union a list of the employees who have made contributions for the month and theamount of the contribution made. The International Union will indemnify the Company against all claims made against it by reason of compliance with this Article.
ARTICLES
Membership List
Each employee shall be responsible for furnishing to the Human Resource Office of his employer and to the Recording Secretary of the Local Union his mailing address, social security number, and a telephone numberat which he can be reached and shall likewise furnish changes in his mailing
— 10 —
address and telephone number. Such mailing address and telephone number may be used by his employer in giving any notice to the employee which may be required under any of the Articles of this Contract. The Company shall the first week of every month furnish the Secretary-Treasurer of the International Union and each Local Union involved with a current and corrected list of names and addresses of employees coming under the jurisdiction of this Contract.
Such list shall also be made available in an electronic format. The International Union and the Company will determine the proper format for such electronic list. Each Local Union covered by this agreement will have the option of receiving the list in the same electronic format.
ARTICLE 9 (a) Seniority
Following language applies ONLY to the following listed locals and plants:
Local Union#87, Local Union#54, Local Union#117, Local Union#222, Local Union#253
Seattle, WA
Port Allegany, PA
Lincoln, IL
Henderson, NC
Ruston, LA
This seniority language DOES NOT apply to any other local unions or plants, except those listed in this Article 9 (a).
Section 1.	All existing seniority and job posting rules shall remain in effect for the duration of this Contract unless changed by mutual agreement between the Local Union and the Company. The Local Union and the plant management shall meet and agree upon procedures and jobs to be used
—11 —
for job posting. AH vacancies that are to be filled will be filled in accordance with local job posting rules. Temporary job vacancies are not to be used to train junior employees for permanent job vacancies.
Section 2.	Seniority plus ability shall govern in cases of promotions.
Section 3.	An employee who is awarded a promotion shall be given a reasonable trial period in order to demonstrate his ability to perform the work required by the job. If such employee cannot perform the work in a satisfactory manner, such employee may be returned to his former classification in accordance with local practice.
Employees may bid laterally or down to a lower rated job one time each Contract year during the term of this Contract. Exceptions (additional bids) will be allowed for health reasons.
Section 4.	Any employee under the jurisdiction of this Contract transferred to a position not under this Contract maybe returned bytheCompanytoajobunderthis Contract without loss of seniority already earned. Such employee shall apply for a withdrawal card within thirty (30) days after leaving the bargaining unit, except where such transfer is between bargaining units represented by the Union.
Section 5.	The first thirty (30) calendar days from the date of hire of a new employee shall be considered his probationary period and retention as an employee shall be entirelywithin the discretion of the Company. An additional thirty (30) calendar day probationary period will be granted when requested by the Company if the Local Union involved agrees to an extension. Anydischargeduring this probationary period is not a subject for grievance. Any such new
— 12 —
employee severed by the Company before the conclusion of his probationary period shall, upon rehire, be credited with all the days worked in his prior probationary periods within one (1) year prior to such rehire toward the completion of his probationary period.
Section 6.	Employees rehired by the Company or having previous job experience in the job for which they have been hired or rehired shall receive a rate forthe job for which they have been hired or rehired which is commensurate with their experience and qualifications.
Section 7.	Any employee who is laid off due to the reduction of the working forces shall leave his address with the Plant Personnel Department and this information will be available to Local Union Officers.
A copy of the Company's Turnover Report will be furnished weekly to Local Union Officers at each plant.
Section 8.	Seniority will commence from date of the employee’s first day of work but will not be effective until the thirtieth (30th) day after employment and will accumulate during his course of employment as prescribed in the following regulations:
(a)	Seniority of an employee who is discharged, retires, or quits for any other reason shall cease as of that date.
(b)	Seniority will accu mulate for ninety (90) days only during periods of layoff. A layoff of five (5) years will not be considered as a termination and will not cancel seniority a nd re-employment rights. A layoff of longer than five (5) yearswill be considered as a termination and will cancel seniority and re
— 13 —
employment rights; however, the Company may, at their discretion, rehire such a person as a new employee. When a layoff is caused by the permanent shutdown of a plant ordepartment, seniority will accumulate for ninety (90) days only, but past seniority will be restored if the employee is recalled to reopening of that plant, or to a new plant, under this Contract, in the same general location of layoff. Recall rights of employees with less than five (5) years of service will terminate when the length of theircontinuous layoff equals their seniority except the minimum amount of recall rightswill be three (3) years.
(c)	An employee on layoff who fails to report for work within ten (10) calendar days after being notified will be considered as a voluntary quit and this will cancel all seniority and re-employment rights unless the Company has been notified and has agreed to an extension of time. If extension is granted, the Local Union will be notified. The Company agrees to notify by registered letterthose persons they are unable to contact and the Union will be informed when notification is sent.
(d)	An employee absent from work for five (5) consecutive working dayswithout notifying his supervisor will be considered a voluntary quit and will cancel all previous seniority.
(e)	Seniority accumulates while an employee isabsent for sickness or injury, providing he returns to his job as soon as he is able to work. When an employee is absent for sickness he shall present a doctor’s slip once each month, stating why he cannot work.
— 14 —
(f)	Leave of absence may be granted at the judgment ofthe Company, not to exceed one (1) year. If leave extends one (1) year or less, the employee accumulates seniority.
Section 9.	When an employee is transferred from one department to another on a temporary basts, he continues to accumulate seniority in his original department during the period of such temporary transfer. Temporarytransferswill not exceed ninety (90) days and will not be made or continue if the hours of other workers in the department transferred to are reduced to less than forty (40) hours per week or less than thirty-six (36) hours per week during period when the department might be working on a regularly scheduled thirty-six (36) hour week, holidays, and necessary shutdowns excepted.
Section 10.	An employee who is transferred from one departmenttoanotherona permanent basis, or is promoted at the Company’s request, may resume his oldjob, or whatever lesserjob his departmental seniority entitles him to, in the eventofreductionofforcesorfailureonthejob. If transferred back to his previous department at his own request, he may be returned to a job in accordance with local seniority practices, with prior seniority maintained. This also applies to transfers and promotions in the same department.
Section 11.	If in the event of reduction of working forces for more than three (3) days (except paid holidays) for any reason, if his seniority in his present department does not protect him, then the following procedure will be used in the exercising of his seniority. Senior employees shall have the righttovolunteerfor layoffs, provided the remaining employees are qualified to perform the available work.
— 15 —
(a)	He may be placed in any department suitable to him where there is an available opening.
(b)	If first option is not used, he will be transferred back to his old department with the right to exercise his dormant seniority in that department.
(c)	If an employee is not protected under subsection (a) or (b) then he will be free to exercise his plant seniority in replacing the least senior employee in the plant. This shall not apply to employees with less than six (6) months seniority.
(d)	Recall shall be in reverse order of layoff using plant seniority.
(e)	During a curtailment of the work force in the Maintenance Department, apprentices shall be laid off first before journeymen. However, when an apprentice obtains six-thousand (6,000) CUT hours within the Apprenticeship Program, he shall be able to exercise seniority to displace a journeyman hired after the commencement of the apprentice’s training, if the journeyman was hired from outside the Company.
It is understood that the employee must have the ability and be physically capable of performing such work as he will be required todo. Any employee affected underthis Section will be returned to his former department and/or job classification in that department by department seniority.
It is further understood that the Automatic Machine Department is to be included tn the application of this Section.
—16 —
Section 12.	When an employee is transferred to another plant covered by this Contract, seniority in the plant transferred from will not be effective and he will be laid off according to his seniority earned in the plant to which he has been transferred. However, the Company will recognize his years of service with it in the matter of granting him benefits, other than the transfer of seniority to the new plant, that is contained in this Contract.
Section 13.	When a job is transferred from one department to another, the person holding such job shall have the option of being transferred to the new department or remain in his department, exercising his seniority in accordance with the provisions of this Article. Should he accept the option to transferto the new department, he shall maintain his dormant seniority in the department transferred from.
Section 14.
(a) Employees transferred to supervisory positions from the bargaining uniton a permanent basis shall retain but notaccumulate seniority. Intheeventthat such employee is subsequently transferred back into the unit within six (6) months, he may resume his old job or whatever lesser job his seniority entitles him to and shall resume accumulation of seniority from the date he returns to the bargaining unit provided he has a valid withdrawal card from the Union. In the event that such employee is subsequently transferred back into the unit after six (6) months, he shall return to an entry level job and shall resume accumulation of seniority from the date he returns to the bargaining unit provided he has a valid withdrawal card from the Union.
— 17 —
b) Temporary vacancies in supervisory positions may be filled by unit employees, not to exceed ninety (90) days per calendar year for any one unit employee, unless an extension is mutually agreed to by the Company and the Local Union. The Company shall notify the Local Union in writing when such transfers exceed thirty (30) days.
Section 15.T	he P resident of each Local Union shall be given a seniority list to be corrected on a quarterly basis.
Section 16.	Recognition is hereby given those plants, coming under this Agreement, who do not now practice departmental seniority. The Local Unions so affected will have the option of electing to continue the plant seniority concept as now practiced in the plant, or they may choose to establish departmental seniority, as outlined in this Article.
The reverse option is extended to those Locals who are presently following the concept of department seniority.
Section 17.	When the Company transfers an employee to another shift or job, the transfer will be effective so that the employee will not suffer a short work week. The above shall not apply to a person absent from work during that week for any reason.
Section 18.	All practices and Local Agreements pertaining to seniority with respect to the P&M that were in effect on March 31, 2002 unless changed by mutual agreement shall continue in full force and effect for the duration of this Contract
— 18 —
ARTICLE 9(b) Seniority
Following language applies ONLY to the following listed locals and plants:
Local Union#111,	Carteret, NJ
Local Union#166,	Dolton, IL
This seniority language DOES NOT apply to any other local unions or plants, except those listed in this Article 9(b).
Section 1.	Seniority will commence from the date of the employee’s first day of work but will not be effective until the thirtieth (30th) day after employment and will accumulate during his course of employment as prescribed in the following regulations. It is understood that once a seniority date is established underthis Section, that date will not be adjusted.
Seniority will terminate when an employee:
(a)	quits
(b)	is discharged for just cause
(c)	fails to return from layoff within five (5) calendar days after being notified unless the Company has been notified and has agreed to an extension of time. The Company agrees to notify by Registered Mail those employees they are unable to contact. The Local Union will be notified of action taken underthis Section.
(d)	is not recalled from layoff based on the following schedule. An employee will retain recall rights for a maximum period of five (5) years of continuous
— 19 —
layoff, provided the employee has at least five (5) years of continuous service. Foran employee with less than five (5) years of continuous service the number of years for retention of recall rights will equal the number of whole years of continuous service, with three (3) years being the minimum number of years of retention of recall rights for any employee.
(e)	is absent from work for five (5) consecutive working days without notifying the company. This employee will be considered a voluntary quit.
(f)	has been absent for sickness or injury and does not return to work as soon as he is physically able to perform the work. Medical leave is not to exceed five (5) years from the last day worked, provided the employee has at least five (5) years of continuous service. For an employee with less than five (5) years of continuous service, the maximum number of years of medical leave will equal the number ofwhole years of continuous service, with three (3)years being the maximum numberofyears of medical leave for employees with less than four (4) whole years of continuous service.
(g)	does not return from a leave of absence. Such a leave of absence may be granted at the discretion of the Company not to exceed one (1) year. If an employee does return to work from leave in less than one (1) year, seniority shall accumulate.
In the eventof a layoff in a plant affecting an employee who is on sick leave, or on leave of absence, his sick leave or leave of absence is cancelled as of the date of his layoff and his seniority will be figured just as though he had not been on leave.
— 20 —
In the event an employee on layoff less than the schedule in Section 1 (d) cannot return to work when recalled, due to sickness, he will be placed on sick leave and, provided he returns to his job as soon as he is able to work, seniority from the date of recall will be credited to his seniority record.
The only exception to this rule is with respect to an employee on sick leave due to an occupational injury for which the employee is drawing compensation. Such sick leave is not cancelled if a layoff occurs in the plant and the employee will continue to accumulate seniority until physically able to return to work, at which time his layoff will be effective.
Section 2.	Probationary Period. The first thirty (30) calendar days from the first day worked of a new employee shall be considered his probationary period and retention as an employee shall be entirely within the discretion of the Company. An additional thirty (30)calendarday probationary period will be granted when requested by the Company if the Local Union involved agrees to an extension. Any discharge during the probationary period is nota subject forgrievance. Any such new employee severed by the Company before the conclusion of his probationary period shall, upon rehire, be credited with all the days worked in his probationary periods within one year prior to such rehire toward the completion of his probationary period. On multiple hirings into the plant, new hires with the same seniority date shall draw numbers for their sequence on the seniority roster.
Section 3.	Employees rehired by the Company or having previous job experience in the job forwhich they have been hired or rehired shall receive a rate forthe job forwhich they have been hired or rehired which is commensurate with their experience and qualifications.
— 21 —
Section 4.	Job Postings. Permanent job vacancies in new and existing jobs listed in the job groupings shall be filled on the basis of plant seniority plus ability among those employees who sign the job posting. Employees within the plant shall be considered forjob openings on starting jobs in the Forming Department before employees are hired from other sources.
(a)	The Company shall post permanent job vacancies for seven (7) working days. The posting will include job title, normal work schedule, applicable hourly rate, job description and qualifications required. An employee who is interested in a job vacancy that may be posted while he is on vacation shall sign a notification form in the personnel department prior to each vacation period. This notification shall be considered as a valid job bid for the specific job(s) posted and listed in his notification during the term of his vacation. When job is awarded, a notice will be posted indicating the successful bidder.
(b)	Employees may bid laterally or down to a lower rated job one time each Contract year during the term of th is Contract. Exceptions (additional bids) will be allowed for health reasons.
(c)	An employee interested in thejob posted must sign the bid to be considered for the opening.
(d)	An employee who is awarded a job will be placed on the job within 15 days of the award unless extenuating circumstances would prevent such placement. The employee will be given a reasonable trial period in order to demonstrate his ability to
— 22 —
perform the work required by the job. If such employee cannot perform the work in a satisfactory manner, he will be returned to his former job.
(e)	An employee who is awarded a job may elect to return to his former job within thirty (30) days. This option may be exercised on a specific job only once during the term of this Contract.
(f)	Based on seniority and ability employees from the Forming Department, except Apprentice Operators, will be allowed to bid into the Production and Maintenance Unit fortraining on a posted job eventually leading to a higher base rate. A successful bidder will be placed at the entry rate for such job. An Apprentice Operator may bid into the Production and Maintenance Unit, including lateral ordown bids in accordance with Section 4(b) of this Article but will retain no seniority rights in the Forming Department and will not be able to return to the Forming Department in the event of a layoff under the provisions of this Article.
Sections. Layoff and Recall.
(a)	In the case of a reduction of the work force the employee with the least plant seniority on the jobs affected shall be the first laid off provided the employees remaining on the job have the skillsand qualifications to perform the work required.
If an employee’s plant seniority does not protect him in his job, he will be transferred to his previous job, provided he has the physical capability and the ability to perform the job. In the event he has no seniority rights in the previous job, he will be permitted to use his plant seniority to replace the least senioremployee, in a job he has demonstrated
— 23 —
the ability and has the physical capability to perform, orthe least senior employee in a job identified by an asterisk in the job groupings, provided the employee is physically capable and has the ability to perform the job.
It is understood that in the event an employee claims ajob in a layoff situation, the employee will retain nojurisdictional rights to that job once he has been returned to his permanent job classification.
(b)	In the case of temporary layoffs, as hereinafter defined, plant seniority on the shift shall apply immediately in accordance with the provisions of Section 5 (a). Temporary layoffs shall be defined as not exceeding three (3) working days, except that in cases of color changes temporary layoffs shall be defined as not exceeding five (5) working days. When the layoff will exceed three (3) working days, or in the case of a color change, five (5) working days, the seniority provisions of Section 5 (a) shall apply.
(c)	The recall of employees laid off under provisions of this Article shall be in reverse order of their layoff.
(d)	It is the responsibility ofeach employee laid off to notify the plant personnel office ofthe address and telephone number where they are to be contacted for recall from layoff. This information will be available to Local Union officers.
(e)	In the Forming Department, during periods of reduced activity making a reduction in the working
— 24 —
forces necessary, Apprentice Machine Operators shall be the first laid off the machines, provided Journeymen Machine Operators and Machine Upkeep Men with the necessary experience to operate the machines remaining in production are on the Company’s payroll and available for work.
If further reduction of the workforce is necessary, those employees with least seniority shall be laid off. It is further understood that Journeymen Machine Operators retained underthis Article shall accept the responsibility of maintaining regular production levels.
(f)	During a curtailment of the work force in the Maintenance Department, apprentices shall belaid off first before journeymen. However, when an apprentice obtains six-thousand (6,000) OJT hours within the Apprenticeship Program, he shall be able to exercise seniority to displaceajoumeyman hired afterthe commencement of the apprentice's training, if the journeyman was hired from outside the Company.
Section 6.	Transfers.
(a)	Any employee underthe jurisdiction of this contract transferred to a position not under this Contract may be returned by the Company toajobunderthis Contract within six (6) months without loss of seniority already earned. During this six (6) month period, said employee may return to his former position, displaci ng the employee last placed in that position provided he has the seniority. If his seniority will not permit him to return to his former position, he may be returned to a job for which he
— 25 —
is qualified in line with his seniority previously earned or to an entry level job. Each employee displaced will be returned to his previous job and replace the last person placed in that job. It is understood that after one year the transferred employee will retain no rights under the terms of this contract. Employees transferred to a position not under this contract shall apply for a withdrawal card within thirty (30) days after leaving the bargaining unit.
(b)	Temporary vacancies in supervisory positions may be filled by unit employees, not to exceed 90 days per calendar year for any one unit employee, unless an extension is mutually agreed to by the Company and the Local Union. The Company shall notify the Local Union in writing when such transfers exceed thirty (30) days.
(c)	Temporary transfers from one job to another anticipated to exceed thirty (30) days will be posted in accordance with Section 4 of this Article.
(d)	Employees transferred to another plant covered by this Contract will retain their credited length of service for pension and vacation benefits. Seniority at the plant transferred to will commence as of the employee’s first day worked at that plant.
Section 7.	Leave, Union Business. Upon requestofthe International President ofthe Union, employees shall be granted a leave of absence to serve the International Union for a period up to one (1) year and renewable yearly thereafter at the request ofthe International President fora total of five (5) years without loss of seniority accumulated prior to such leave.
— 26 —
Section 8.	When the Company transfers an employee to another shift or job, the transfer will be effective so that the employee will not suffer a short work week. The above shall not apply to a person absent from work during that week for any reason.
Section 9.	All practices and Local Agreements pertaining to seniority with respect to the P&M that were in effect on March 31, 2002 unless changed by mutual agreement shall continue in full force and effect for the duration of this Contract
ARTICLE 9(c) Seniority
Following language applies ONLY to the following listed local and plant:
Local Union#96, Dunkirk, IN
This seniority language DOES NOT apply to any other local unions or plants, not listed in this Article 9 (c).
Section 1.	All local seniority rules shall remain in effect for the duration of this Contract unless changed by Articles of this Contract or by mutual agreement between the Local Union and the Company.
Section 2.	The first thirty (30) calendar days from the date of hire of a new employee shall be considered his probationary period and retention as an employee shall be entirely within the discretion of the Company. An additional thirty (30) calendar days probationary period will be granted when requested by the Company if the Local Union involved agrees toan extension. Any discharge during this probationary period is not a subject for grievance. Any such employees
— 27 —
severed by the Company before the conclusion of his probationary period shall, upon rehire, be credited with all days in his prior probationary periods within one(1) year prior to such rehire toward the completion of his probationary period.
Sections. Seniority will accumulate while an employee is absent for sickness or injury provided he returns as soon as he is able to work. Seniority will accumulate while an employee is on layoff; failure to return from layoff following written notification {certified) will be considered a termination . A layoff of longer than five (5) years will be considered asa termination and will cancel seniority and reemployment rights.
Section 4.	In the case of temporary layoffs, as hereinafter defined, shift seniority shall apply immediately in accordance with the provisions of Section 1 and Section 5. Temporary layoffs shall be defined as not exceeding three (3) working days, except that in cases of color changes and energy curtailment, temporary layoffs shall be defined as not exceeding five (5) working days. When the layoff will exceed three (3) working days, or in case of color change or energy curtailment, five (5) working days, the seniority provisions of Section 1 and Section 5 shall apply.
Section 5.	In the case of a reduction ofthe work force the employee with the least plant seniority on the jobs affected shall be the first laid off provided the employees remaining on the job have the skills and qualifications to perform the work required.
The laid off employees will be transferred to their previous jobs, provided they havethe physical capability and the ability to perform these jobs. In the event they have no seniority rights in their previous jobs, they will be permitted to use their plant seniority as stated in Section 6 of this Article.
— 28 —
AMD employees laid off from the AMD departments in Section 4 of this Article will not be able to exercise their plant seniority in this Section. They will instead use their plant seniority in Section 6 of this Article.
Section 6.	Any final layoff under Section 4 of this Article, except temporary layoffs, will be by combined Automatic Machine Department and Production and Maintenance seniority. Employees so retained by this Section will be transferred to entry-level jobs provided they have the necessary skill and ability to perform the work. During a curtailment of the workforce in the Maintenance Department, apprentices shall be laid off first before journeymen. However, when an apprentice obtains six-thousand (6,000) OJT hours within the Apprenticeship Program, he shall be able to exercise seniority to displace a journeyman hired afterthe commencement of the apprentice's training, if the journeyman was hired from outside the Company.
Section 7.	Employees laid off shall be recalled in the reverse orderof their displacement, provided the employee has the ability to do the work. The Union will be provided as soon as possible with the names of all employees on layoff that the Company cannot reach for recall.
Section 8.	When the Company must reduce any classification or reduce any employee to a lower rated job on a temporary condition, the junioremployee on the shift shall be reduced or transferred as long as such employee has the ability to perform such a job. Employees more senior can volunteer for such moves.
When the Company transfers an employee to another shift or job, the transfer will be effective so that the employee will not suffer a short work week.
— 29 —
The above shall not apply to a person absent from work during that week for any reason.
Section 9.
(a)	Employees transferred to supervisory positions from the bargaining unit on a permanent basis shall retain but not accumulate seniority. In the event that such employee is subsequently transferred back into the unit within six (6) months, he may resume his old job or whatever lesser job his seniority entitles him to and shall resume accumulation of seniority from the date he returns to the bargaining unit provided he has a valid withdrawal card from the Union. In the event that such employee is subsequently transferred back into the unit after six (6) months, he shall return to an entry level job and shall resume accumulation of seniority from the date he returns to the bargaining unit provided he has a valid withdrawal card from the Union.
(b)	Temporary vacancies in supervisory positions may be filled by unit employees, not to exceed ninety (90) days per calendar year for any one unit employee, unless an extension is mutually agreed to by the Company and the Local Union. The Company shall notify the Local Union in writing when such transfers exceed thirty (30) days.
Section 10.	Employees rehired by the Company or having previous job experience in the jobforwhich they have
— 30 —
been hired or rehired shall aftercompletion of the probationary period set forth in Section 2 hereof, receive a rate forthe job for which they have been hired or rehired which is commensurate with their experience and qualifications.
Section 11.	Separate seniority lists showing plant seniority for the Production and Maintenance unitand Automatic Machine Department unit shall be posted in at least one location within each plant under jurisdiction of this Contract. Where applicable, separate seniority lists showing departmentseniority shall be posted in the department. Such lists are to be corrected on a semi-annual basis. A copy is to be presented to the respective Local Union President.
Job Posting
For the purposes of applying this Article, each unit, Automatic Machine Department and Production and Maintenance, will remain separate. Employees may exercise their seniority within their respective unit only. Seniority as referred to in this Article means the employee’s time in their respective bargaining unit in accordance with local seniority rules and practices.
Section 1.	In the Production and Maintenance Unit, all jobs except entry-level jobs, temporary vacancies of less than sixty (60) days, and vacancies resulting from illness or vacation shall be posted fora period of five (5) working days.
All permanent job vacancies except entry-level jobs underthejurisdictionoftheProductionand Maintenance Unit shall be posted in accordance with Section 4 below, within three (3) working days fora period of five (5) working days.
In the Automatic Machine Department, all jobs except Journeyman Machine Operators, Apprentice Machine Opera
— 31 —
tors, entry-level jobs, temporary vacancies of less than sixty (60) days, and vacancies resulting from illness or vacation shall be posted for a period of five (5) working days.
All permanent job vacancies except entry-level jobs underthe jurisdiction of the Automatic Machine Department shall be posted in accordance with Section 4 below, within three (3) working days for a period of five (5) working days.
Section 2.	Any employee from the Production and Maintenance bargaining unit desiring consideration for a posted job in the Production and Maintenance Department must signify his desires in writing with the Company within the posting time. Employees on vacation, sick leave or Union business will be given consideration if such employee makes application prior to the posting of the job award notice.
Any employee from the Automatic Machine Department bargaining unit desiring consideration for a posted job in the Automatic Machine Department must signify his desires in writing with the Company within the posting time. Employees on vacation, sick leave or Union business will be given consideration if such employee makes application prior to the posting of the job award notice.
Section 3.	Posted jobs will be filled within fifteen (15) working days after the posting is taken down provided a replacement for the successful bidder and all other necessary replacements have been obtained. During this period the Company may use temporary replacements to fill the job vacancies. Temporary vacancies shall not be used to train junior employees to fill permanent vacancies.
Section 4.	All existing local job posting rules shall remain in effect for the duration of this Contract unless changed by Articles of this Contract or by mutual agreement
— 32 —
between the Local Union and the Company. Seniority plus ability shall govern in cases of promotion-
section 5.	Temporary absences or vacancies caused by vacation, jury duty, Union activities, illness job posting, etc., will be filled according to the following.
With respect to all plant job classifications on which permanent vacancies are posted, the Company will continue the program for advance upgrading of the most senior qualified employee interested in upgrading to fill temporary vacancies.
All bid jobs will be posted in order to determine what employees desire to be upgraded in order to fill temporary vacancies on respective jobs. On each shift and department, the two most senior qualified employees will be designated as the first and second replacement. When neither of the two designated replacements isavailable, then Management may temporarily upgrade otherqualified employees.
When an employee permanently assigned to a job works overtime, it will be considered that a temporary vacancy does not exist.
The upgrading of the designated replacement will be accomplished as soon as practical after the start of the shift.
The foregoing upgrading of the firstand second designated replacement will also apply to entry-level jobs higher in grade or rate of pay to that which the employee is currently occupying.
If a permanent vacancy occurs on a job, such job will be posted in the normal manner to determine the employee who will fill the permanent vacancy.
— 33 —
Section 6.	Temporary assignments continuing beyond sixty (60) dayswill not be considered temporary and shall be filled in accordance with the job posting rules. Exceptions will be made in the event the preceding section applies.
Section 7.	Notification of job posting awards shall be posted.
Section 8.	Employees may bid laterally ordown to a lower rated Job one time each Contract year during the term of this Contract. Exceptions (additional bids) will be allowed for health reasons.
Section 9.	An employee who bids successfully for a job or receives an entry-level job which has the same or higher rate but a lower starting rate than the job on which he is currently working, shall retain his present hourly wage rate when transferred to such job until such time as the employee’s hourly wage rate is increased in accordance with the steps ofthe Company's wage progression program.
Section 10.	An employee who is awarded a job bid shall be given a reasonable trial period in orderto demonstrate his ability to perform the work required by the job. If such employee cannot perform the work in a satisfactory manner, he shall be returned to his former classification without loss of seniority already earned. At the time the employee is notified that he is q ualified or within a period of not over thirty (30) days in the new job, whichever first occurs, he, at his request, may be returned to his former classification without loss of seniority already earned.
Section 11.	Entry-level jobs shall not be posted. When a new job is created, the Company and the Local Union will determine if the job is to be a posted job or an entry-level job.
— 34 —
Section 12.	Steady day jobs and jobs on fixed shifts, not posted for bid, will be offered to senior qualified employees working that particular job.
Section 13.	An employee desiring an entry-level job within his respective bargaining unit will sign thejob preference log in the Personnel Department indicating thejob or jobs of his choice. When an opening occurs on such job, it shall be filled by the most senior employee desiring such job and who has signed thejob preference log. An employee can exercise his job preference for an entry-level job only once in any twelve-month period. An employee on an entry-level job can bid onanyjob posting in his respective bargaining unit.
Section 14.	Employees from within eitherthe Automatic Machine Department unit or Production and Maintenance unit who place written application for transfer to entry-level jobs within the other unit shall be considered for such entry-level jobs in the other unit before employees are hired from other sources.
ARTICLE 9(d) Seniority
Following language applies ONLY to the following listed local and plant:
Local Union #39,
El Monte, CA
This seniority language DOES NOTapply to any other local unions or plants, except those listed in this Article 9 (d).
Section 1.	For the purpose of this Contract, the length of continuous service and maintenance ofseniorityforany employee shall mean the total length ofthe period or periods of his active service with the Company unless such service
— 35 —
shall be broken by one or more of the following events, in which case such service shall be measured by the length of the period or periods of his active service subsequent to the last such break in service:
(a)	Voluntary resignation from the Company.
(b)	Discharge by the Company.
(c)	Failure while on layoff to return to work within five (5) calendar days after being notified unless the Company has been notified and has agreed to an extension. The Company agrees that it will not be unreasonable in granting such extensions. The Company agrees to notify by Registered Mail those employees they are unable to contact. The Local Union will be notified of action taken under this section.
(d)	Is not recalled from layoff based on the following schedule. An employee will retain recall rights for a maximum period of five (5) years of continuous layoff, provided the employee has at least five (5) years of continuous service. For an employee with less than five (5) years of continuous service the number of years for retention of recall rights will equal the number of whole years of continuous service, with three (3) years being the minimum number of years of retention of recall rights for any employee.
(e)	Has been absent for sickness or injury and does not return to work as soon as he is physically able to perform the work. Medical leave is not to exceed five (5) years from the last day worked, provided the employee has at least five (5) years of continu
— 36 —
ous service. For an employee with less than five (5) years of continuous service, the maximum number of years of medical leave will equal the number of whole years of continuous service, with three (3) years being the maximum number of years of medical leave for employees with less than four (4) whole years of continuous service.
(f)	Accepting employment while on leave of absence.
Section 2.	During periods of reduced activity Apprentice Machine Operators shall be the first laid off the machines, provided Journeymen Machine Operators and Machine Upkeep Men with the necessary experience to operate the machines remaining in production are on the Company’s payroll and available for work.
Sections. Next, employees with least seniority shall be laid off. Journeymen Machine Operators retained shall accept the responsibility for maintaining regular production levels. Employees other than Apprentice Machine Operators, Journeymen Machine Operators and Machine Upkeep Men shall be laid off in accordance with local seniority practices, provided employees retained have the necessary experience and ability to maintain regular production levels.
Section 4.	Seniority plus ability shall govern in cases of promotions.
Section 5.	The Company shall post all jobs plant wide that are listed under Schedule “A” of this Contract, temporary vacancies will not be posted, they will be filled as per Section 7. Employees on Leave of Absence or Vacation may have stewards sign a posted bid forthem, providing they return to work within fifteen (15) days from the date of award.
— 37 —
Section 6.	An employee awarded a promotion shall be given a reasonable trial period to include familiarization training, evaluation and counseling for up to thirty (30) days to demonstrate his ability to perform the job. If he cannot perform the work in a satisfactory manner, he may be returned to his former classification without loss of seniority already earned. Upon request from the Union, an extension will be granted. Such requests shall not be unreasonably denied. At the time the employee is notified that he is qualified or within a period of not over thirty (30) days in the new job, whichever first occurs, he, at his request may be returned to his former classification without loss of seniority already earned.
Permanent job vacancies shall be posted within three (3) working days for a period of five (5) working days.
Within fifteen (15) working days after a job is posted the successful bidder (should there be one) will be placed on the job. During this period the Company may use temporary replacements to fill the job vacancies. Temporary vacancies shall not be used to train j unior employees to fill permanent job vacancies.
Employees may bid lateraly or down to a lower rated Job one time each Contract year during the term of this Contract, exceptions (additional blds) will be allowed for health reasons.
Section 7.	Temporary absences or vacancies caused by vacation, courtduty, Union activities, illness, job posting, etc., may be filled by upgrading the most senior qualified employees from the same shift or the department on a temporary basis.
— 38 —
Section 8.	Effective April 1,2002 Employees transferred to supervisory positions from the bargaining unit on a permanent basis shall retain but not accumulate seniority. In the event that such employee is subsequently transferred back into the unit within six (6) months, he may resume his old job or whatever lesser Job his seniority entitles him to and shall resume accumulation of seniority from the date he returns to the bargaining unit provided he has a valid withdrawal card from the Union. In the event that such employee is subsequently transferred back into the unit after six (6) months, he shall return to an entry level job and shall resume accumulation of seniority from the date he returns to the bargaining unit provided he has a valid withdrawal card from the Union.
Section 9.	Upon requestofthe International President ofthe Union, employees shall be granted a leave of absence to serve the International Union fora period upto one (1) year and renewable yearly thereafter at the request ofthe International President for a total of four (4) years without loss of seniority accumulated prior to such leave. An employee shall accrue no seniority during such leave.
Section 10.	In the case of temporary layoffs, as hereinafter defined, department seniority by shift shall apply immediately. When the layoff will exceed three (3) working days, or in the case of a color change, five (5) working days, plant seniority shall apply immediately.
Section 11.	In a like manner, a rehiring of employees shall be handled in the reverse order of their layoff, provided the employee has the ability to do the work.
Section 12.	Thefirstthirty(30)calendardaysfromthe date of hire of a new employee shall be his probationary period and his retention as an employee shall be entirely within the discretion of the Company. An additional thirty (30)
— 39 —
calendar days’ probationary period will be granted when requested by the Company if the Local Union agrees to an extension. Any discharge during this probationary period is not a subject for grievance. Any new employee severed by the Company before the conclusion of his probationary period shall, upon rehire, be credited with all the days worked in his prior probationary periods within one {1) year prior to such rehire toward the completion of this probationary period.
Section 13.	Employees rehired by the Company or having previous job experience in the job for which they have been hired or rehired shall, after the completion of the probationary period, receive a rate for the job for which they have been hired or rehired which is commensurate with their experiences and qualifications.
Section 14.	Senioritylistshowingplantsenioritywillbe maintained. If two or more employees start to work on the same day, their seniority will be determined by the shift on which they start. If two or more employees start to work on the same day and the same shift their position on the seniority list will be determined by the alphabetical arrangementof their last name. This list will be corrected semiannually and copies given to the Union President.
Section 15.	Employees desiring a shift transfer within their department and job classification, shall notify the personnel department. When openings occur on the various shifts, these employees will be placed according to seniority and preference. Employees mayonly exercise this privilege once every twelve (12) months. However, when a day shift opening occurs, the job will be posted and employeeswill be selected on the basis of seniority plus ability regardless of whetherthe employee has exercised a shift transfer privilege in the past twelve (12) months.
— 40 —
Section 16.	Temporary vacancies in supervisory positions may be filled by unit employees, not to exceed ninety (90) days per calendar year for any one (1) unit employee, unless an extension is mutually agreed to by the Company and the Local Union. The Company will notify the Local Union in writing when such transfers exceed fourty-five (45) days.
Section 17.	When the Company transfersan employee to another shift or job, the transfer will be effected so that the employee will not suffer a short work week. The above shall not apply to a person absent from work during that week for any reason.
Section 18.	All practices and Local Agreements pertaining to seniority with respect to the P & M that were in effect on March 31, 2002 unless changed by mutual agreement shall continue in full force and effect for the duration of this Contract.
Section 19.	Duringacurtailmentoftheworkforceinthe Maintenance Department, apprentices shall be laid off first before journeymen. However, when an apprentice obtains six-thousand (6,000) OJT hours within the Apprenticeship Program, he shall be able to exercise seniority to displace a journeyman hired after the commencement of the apprentice's training, if the journeyman was hired from outside the Company.
— 41 —
ARTICLE 9(e) Seniority
Following language applies ONLY to the following listed Local and plant:
Local Union #254
Madera, CA
This seniority language DOES NOT apply to any other Local Unions or plants, except that listed in this Article 9(e).
Section 1.	The first thirty (30) calendar days from the date of hiring of any employee shall be considered his probationary period and retention as an employee shall be entirely within the discretion ofthe Company. An additional thirty (30) day probationary period will be granted when requested by the Company, if the Local Union agrees to an extension. The employee shall be notified of the extension. Any discharge during this probationary period is not a subject for grievance.
Section 2.	Seniority plus ability shall govern in cases of promotion.
Section 3.	In the event of layoffs and rehires, plant seniority shall prevail whenever and wherever practical during the life of this Contract except as in Section 3 (a). In the event of layoffs due to planned curtailment, the Company shall notify the Business Committee before the layoffs occur if such layoffs are expected to exceed three (3) days.
(a)	During periods of reduced activity, making a reduction in the working forces of Operators, Upkeep Men, Apprentices and Floor Persons necessary,
— 42 —
Apprentices shall be the first laid off the machines, provided Journeymen Operatorsand Upkeep Men with the necessary experience to operate the machines remaining in production are on the Company’s payroll and available for work. It is understood that Operators retained under this Article shall accept the responsibilities of maintaining regularproduction levels.
(b)	In cases of promotion there will be a trial period of not less than thirty (30) days nor more than ninety (90) days. Temporary job bidswill only be used for special projects and circumstances.
Section4.	Plantoperationswillbedividedintonine(9) departments;
(1)	Batch and Melt
(2)	Forming
(3)	Finished Products
(4)	Warehouse
(5)	Maintenance
(6)	Machine Repair
(7)	Mold Polishing
(8)	Storeroom
(9)	Quality Lab
Sections.	If, in theevent of reduction of working forces for more than three (3) days orfive (5) days for color change, an employee's plant seniority does not protect him in his present department, then the following procedure will be used in the exercise of his plant seniority;
(a)	He will be transferred back to his old department with the right to exercise his dormant seniority in thatdepartment.
— 43 —
(b)	If an employee is not protected underSubsection (a), then he will be free to exercise his plant seniority in replacing the least senior employee in the plant.
(c)	Senior employees may volunteer for layoff for the specified length of the layoff provided the remaining employees are qualified to perform the available work. Voluntary layoffs will only apply if the layoff is anticipated to be longer than seven (7) calendar days.
(d)	The recall of employees laid off under provisions of this Article shall be in reverse order of their layoff.
It is understood that an employee must have theability and be physically capable of performing such work as he will be required to do.
Section 6. Any dispute arising under this Article may be referred to the Grievance Procedure.
Section?. Al I employees will retain their seniority rights in the event of an extended shutdown for major repairs.
Section 8. The Company shall post a current seniority list at least every six (6) months.
Sections. Thep revisions of this Article shall not req uire the Company to transfer laid off employees to other shifts unless the layoff exceeds three (3) days or five (5) days for colorchanges, provided, however, that this Section shall not apply unless all probationary employees within the department on the shift on which the layoff occurs have been laid off. It is understood that employees who are retained must be qualified to perform the work of probationary employees whom they displace.
— 44 —
Section 10.	Anemployeeshalllosehisseniorityforthe following reasons:
(a)	Resignation;
(b)	Discharge;
(c)	Failure to report for work five (5) consecutive calendar days without notifying the Company. In proper cases exceptions shall be made;
(d)	Laid off for a continuous period of three (3) years;
(e)	Disability retirement;
(f)	Retirement or receipt of a pension under the Pension Plan;
(g)	Failure to return from authorized leave of absence.
Section 11.	Employees may bid laterally or down to a lower rated job one time each Contract year during the term of this Contract. Exceptions (additional bids) will be allowed for health reasons.
Section 12.	All existing job posting rules shall remain in effect for the duration of this Contract unless changed by mutual agreement between the Local Union and the Company. The Local Union and the Company shall meet and agree upon procedures and jobs to be used for job posting.
All jobs will be posted for a period of seven (7) calendar days. Any employee who is awarded a promotion will be placed on the awarded job as soon as reasonably possible after being selected.
Section 13.	When the Company transfers an employee to another shift or job, the transfer will be
— 45 —
effective so that the employee will not suffer a short work week. The above shall not apply to a person absent from work during that week for any reason.
Section 14.	All practices and Local Agreements pertaining to seniority with respect to the AMD that were in effect on March 31, 2002 unless changed by mutual agreement shall continue in full force and effect for the duration of this Contract.
Section 15.	Du ring a curtailment ofthe work force in the Maintenance Department, apprentices shall be laid off first before Journeymen. However, when an apprentice obtains six-thousand (6,000) OJT hours within the Apprenticeship Program, he shall be able to exercise seniority to displace a journeyman hired after the commencement of the apprentice’s training, If the journeyman was hired from outside the Company.
Section 16.	Employees transferred to supervisory positions from the bargaining unit on a permanent basis shall retain but not accumulate seniority. In the event that such employee is subsequently transferred back into the unit within six (6) months, he may resume his old job or whatever lesser job his seniority entitles him to and shall resume accumulation of seniority from the date he returns to the bargaining unit provided he has a valid withdrawal card from the union. In the event that such employee is subsequently transferred back into the unit after six (6) months, he shall return to an entry level job and shall resume accumulation of seniority from the date he returns to the bargaining unit provided he has a valid withdrawal card from the Union.
— 46 —
Section 17.	Temporary vacancies in supervisory positions may be filled by unit employees, not to exceed ninety (90) days per calendar year for any one unit employee, unless an extension is mutually agreed toby the Company and the Local Union. The Company shall notify the Local Union in writing when such transfers exceed thirty (30) days.
ARTICLE 10
Transfer of Employees
Section 1.	The Company shall notify the International Union and the Local Union in writing ninety (90) days in advance or as soon thereafter as possible of any plant closing or the elimination of a department. If notification is less than ninety (90) days, an employee shall be paid for each day less than the ninety (90) day notification. Such pay will be at his regular base rate of pay for an eight (8) hour day for each working day of his regular schedule.
Section 2.	Upon request of the International Union, a representative of the Company shall meet with a representative ofthe International Union and the Local Union involved to advise them of the jobs and employees to be eliminated. The Company will advise the International Union and the Local Union at such meeting of job vacancies which may then exist at any ofthe Company’s other plants under the jurisdiction of this Contract.
Section 3.	An employee with one (1) year or more of seniority who is terminated because of a permanent reduction in the working forces shall, within thirty (30) days after the date of his termination, make application to the Personnel Department of the plant where he was formerly employed specifying the other plants under the jurisdiction of this Contract at which he wishes to be considered for employment. Any such employee shall be considered at other plants
— 47 —
for job openings for which he is qualified for a period of one (1) year subsequent to the date of his termination but may extend this period for a second year by requesting such extension atthe Personnel Department ofthe plant where he was formerly employed within ninety (90) days prior to the end ofthe first year following his termination, and for a third year by giving similar notice within ninety (90) days prior to the end ofthe second year following his termination.
If he is employed at another plant of the Company within such time, he shall retain his continuous service benefits accumulated with the Company.
Section 4.	The Company and the International Union shall from time to time exchange a list of employees who have been laid off by reason of permanent reductions in the working forces and who are still available for employment setting forth theirjob training and qualifications.
Section 5.	The provisions of Section 3 shall also apply to those employees laid off indefinitely as a result of the elimination of a part of a department
Section 6.	Permanently laid off employees shall have preferred hiring rights for any vacancies at any other plant of the Company. Employees so hired at a new location will have recall rights at their previous location. The Company shall have no monetary obligation concerning the recall to their previous location.
ARTICLE 11 Premium Pay
Section 1.	Premium pay shall be paid in accordance with the following:
(a)	Eight (8) hours shall constitute a normal workday.
— 48 —
(b)	Forty (40) hours shall constitute a normal work week.
(c)	Time and one-half shall be paid after eight (8) hours in any day or forty (40) hours in any one (1) week or, in the event more than eight (8) hours are worked consecutively, for all hours worked after the first eight (8) even though some hours may fall in the next twenty-four (24) hour period or work week.
(d)	Double time will also be paid for all hours worked over twelve (12) hours during any twenty-four (24) hour period; however, double time will be paid for all hours worked consecutively over twelve (12) hours, even though some hours may fall in the next twenty-four (24) hour period.
An employee who works his regularly scheduled day or days off shall be paid time and one-half for all hours worked on such day or days off provided he works his regular work schedule in the week in which such day off falls.
(e)	For premium pay purposes, the employee's twenty-four (24) hour period will begin with the start of the employee’s regular shift.
This policy shall not apply to unusual or special call-ins or startups and in those instances the starting time shall be the next day’s regular starting time.
Forthe purpose of this Article, the beginning and ending of the work weeks now in effect, shall continue during the term of this Contract unless changed by mutual consent of the Local Union, the Company and the International Union.
— 49 —
For the purpose of this Article the workweek shall begin with the start of the first shift on Monday and extend to the start of the first shift the following Monday (Dunkirk, El Monte, Henderson, Lincoln, Madera, Port Allegany, Ruston, Seattle only).
For the purpose of this Article the work week shall begin with the start of the first shift on Sunday and extend to the start of the first shift the following Sunday (Carteret and Dolton).
Section 2.	The provisions of this Article are intended only to providea basis for determining the number of hours ofwork for which an employee shall be entitled to be paid at overtime rates and shall not be construed as a guarantee to such employee of any specified numberof hours ofwork either per day or per week.
Section 3.	Work on Sundays shall pay time and one-half exceptthatworkon Easter Sunday, double time shall be paid for time worked for a twenty-four (24) hour period.
Section 4.	On holidays falling Monday through Friday, the holiday hours paid for will be considered as hours worked for the purpose of figuring overtime, and hours paid for jury duty or funeral leave shall count as hours worked for the purpose of figuring overtime.
When an employee takes a vacation and the employee works his day off during that week, the vacation hours taken will be figured as hours worked forthe purpose of calculating overtime for the employee’s day off.
Section 5.	The Company recognizes that when an employee has worked his regular day off, such employee shall not be required to take time off during such workweek
— 50 —
solely to avoid payment of overtime. In the event any employee’s schedule is changed atthe request of the Company he shall be paid any premium or holiday pay that would have applied to his regular schedule that work week.
An employee who works on his regular schedule day or days off and was unable to work his regular schedule in the week in which such day off falls due to the employee participating at the request of the Company in approved Labor-Management activities in the environmental area, will receive time and one-half for all hours worked on such day or days off.
The employee’s day off shall start at the end of his regular shift and continue until the beginning ofthe following scheduled shift.
Section 6.	The Union recognizes and agrees to continuous operation for the term of this Contract. Any employee who is opposed to working on Sunday or Saturday because of his religious beliefs shall not be compelled to work on Sunday or Saturday under the continuous operation plan, nor shall he be discriminated against because of such religious beliefs. Any such employee shall notify the Personnel Office in writing that he does not wish to be scheduled for work on Sundays or Saturdays. Concerted action taken hereunder shall be considered a violation of this Contract. Once an employee deci ares his unavailability for work due to religious beliefs, the Company is not obligated to return him to work on the declared days for the duration of the Contract.
Section 7.	An employee who is transferred to a higher classified job, if so placed for less than thirty (30) minutes, shall be paid his regular rate. If continued on this placement for thirty (30) minutes or more, he will receive the higher rate for all time worked on the higher rated job. Any employee
— 51 —
temporarily placed on a lower rated job at the request of the Company shall continue to receive his regular rate. Employees shall not be transferred arbitrarily merely to avoid payment under this Section.
Section 8.	In addition to any holiday pay to which an employee may be entitled, in accordance with the provisions of Section 5of Article 16, HOLIDAYS, double time shall be paid to all employees for all hours actually worked during the holiday period.
Section 9.	All day workers asked to work and who do so after their regular quitting time, and are not notified thirty (30) minutes before quitting time, shall receive four (4) hours pay.
Section 10.	All workers called or scheduled to work less than four (4) hours before their regular starting time will be guaranteed four (4) hours of pay exclusive of their regular hours unless they have been notified at least twenty-four (24) hours in advance of their regular starting time.
The following applies to Carteret, Dolton and Dunkirk only: All workers called or scheduled to work less than four (4) hours before their regular starting time will beguaranteed four (4) hours of pay exclusive of their regular hours unless they have been notified on their preceding work shift to report early for their next shift.
Section 11.	An employee who is unable to work as a result of an occupational disability, incurred while performing the duties required for his job, and who is sent home at the discretion of the Medical Department, shall receive payment for the full day’s wage at his base hourly rate. An employee will also be paid for time lost from work up to a maximum of four (4) hours for one follow-up doctor's visit. Such employee
— 52 —
shall provide a valid doctor’s appointment in advance. If an employee dies during his regular working hours, his estate shall receive a full eight (8) hours pay. Such hours paid for shall be considered as hours worked for the purpose of figuring overtime.
Section 12.	The start ofthe first shift on Monday shall be the start of the work week for day workers in the Maintenance, Mold Cleaning and Batch and Furnace Departments. Work on Saturday and Sundayand overtime will be voluntary with these employees except during furnace repairs or where a production stoppage would result if this work was not done. Overtime will be voluntary with all other employees. However, if no one volunteers and production loss would result, the Company may assign the junior employee in the classification on the appropriate shift. An employee with a compelling reason to leave at the end of the regular shift will be excused from overtime work. No employee will be compelled to work overtime in excess of four (4) consecutive hours immediately following his regular shift. No employee will be forced to work overtime more than once during a forty-eight (48) hour period.
Should a dispute arise over the legitimacy of the compelling reason, the employee will be given a reasonable period of time to substantiate the need to leave, before any action is taken.
Section 13.	In any case where an employee is called into work in an emergency, a rate of time and one-half the base rate will be paid for all hours worked consecutively from the time the employee reports for work, even though some of the hours worked consecutively might fall in the following day. Hours worked under this Section may be used again in computing forty hour overtime.
— 53 —
Section 14.	Hot patch repair work will be paid at a premium of time and one-half for jobs under extreme heat conditions of non-routine operations.
Hours worked under this Section may be used again in computing overtime.
Section 15.	Unless specifically provided for in this Contract, there shall be no duplication or pyramiding in computing premium pay and/or overtime pay and the same hours shall not be used twice in computing premium pay and/ or overtime pay under any provisions of this Contract.
Section 16.	Starting and quitting times shall be leftto the option ofthe Local Union and the respective plant management
ARTICLE 12
Reporting and Call-In Pay
Section 1.	Any employee under the jurisdiction of this Contract holding a regular position reporting for work at his usual time will be guaranteed at least four (4) hours of work or four (4) hours of pay at the applicable premium time rate set forth in Article 11, PREMIUM PAY, unless he has been instructed not to report. This policy will not apply during floods, fires, tornadoes, or other disasters beyond the Company's control.
Section 2.	An employee who is called in to work other than during his scheduled time will be paid four (4) hour's pay or actual hours worked at the applicable premium time rate, whichever is greater. This policy shall apply when an employee is called in early to his regular shift and works continuously from the time of reporting to his regular shift, unless he was so notified on the preceding day to report early for his next shift.
— 54 —
Section 3.	Each plant shall providefor prompt access for employees who are called in to work other than regular scheduled shifts.
Section 4.	When an employee is called in to work no earlier than one (1) hour prior to the start of the shift to fill a vacancy and reports within one (1) hour from the time of the start of the shift, the employee will be paid from the start of that shift at the applicable rate.
ARTICLE 13
Shift Differentials
Section 1.	All employees under the jurisdiction of this Contract sha 11 be paid premium time for shift work as follows:
(a)	For all hours worked on the first night shift, each employee shall receive twenty cents (200) per hour.
(b)	For all hours worked on the second night shift, each employee shall receive twenty-four cents (240) per hour.
Section 2.	Shift differential payments shall be considered as payments additional to all other hourly compensation and will not be considered in the computation of other premium time, vacation, holiday (unless worked), bonus or other similar payments, except as required by law.
Section 3.	Employees whose work overlaps two (2) shifts shall be paid the established shift differential for the hours worked in each shift.
— 55 —
ARTICLE 14
Negotiated Rates
Section 1.	If during the term of this Agreement a new job is created or significant changes are made in an existing job, the Company shall meet with the Local Union to negotiate a new rate. If the parties cannot agree the Company may place the rate on the job(s) they feel is appropriate. In setting the new rate, the Company shall fairly take into consideration all fac-tors normally Involved in glass container collective bargaining negotiations, including, but not limited to, job content and responsibility, the existing wage structure, and past collective bargaining history.
Section 2.	All pertinent, basic data relative to all job descriptions, wage rates paid all employees, and population by job shall be given to the Union. Any changes to job descriptions shall also be given to the Union. In the event that the Union disagrees with the rate set by the Company under Section 1, above, the matter will be referred to the Company/Union Negotiated Rates Board for resolution. The Company/ Union Negotiated Rates Board shall be comprised of two representatives from the Company and two representatives from the International Union.
Sections 3. Any disputes with respect to this Article that are not resolved by the Company/Union Negotiated Rates Board shall be referred to the third and, if necessary, fourth steps of the grievance procedure. If the grievance is not settled, a mutually selected Interest Arbitrator shall decide the dispute.
Section 4.	When a new job is established or a job is eliminated, the Company will meet with the Local
— 56 —
Union to discuss the reasons for its actions. Such meeting will be held prior to such change taking place.
ARTICLE 15
Method of Payment
Section 1.	All employees under the jurisdiction of this Contract shall receive their earnings in full every week and no more than one (1) week's earnings shall remain unpaid when this payment is met.
Section 2.	Pay errors shall be corrected immediately in full including taxes after notice from the employee affected.
Section 3.	All grievance settlements involving pay will be made within the next pay period.
ARTICLE 16 Holidays
Section 1.	The following holidays shall be observed during the year:
Decoration Day, Independence Day, ‘Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day, holiday period; 4 shifts of 8 hours. ‘December 24, ‘ChristmasDay,*December26,December27, December28, December 29, December 30, December 31, New Years Day, holiday period; 3 shifts of 8 hours.
Applies to El Monte, CA plant only - The following holidays shall be observed during the year: Decoration Day; Independence Day; Labor Day*; Thanksgiving Day - holiday period: four (4) shifts of eight (8) hours; Day after Thanksgiving Day; December 24*; Christmas Day*; December 26; December 27; December 28; December 30; December 31*; New Year’s Day - holiday period: three (3) shifts of eight (8) hours.
— 57 —
Applies to Madera, CA plant only- New Year’s Day, Decoration Day, Independence Day,‘Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day, holiday period: 4shiftsof8hours. December 23, ‘December 24, ‘Christmas Day, December 26, December 27, December 28, December 29, December 31, holiday period: 3 shifts of 8 hours.
‘There shall be no production on these holidays. When the Company desires to work on a mandatory shutdown holiday, it will be within the sole authority of the Local Union to authorize any and all work for that holiday period.
Section 2.	The Company shall designate the start of the holiday period. For premium pay purposes, any 24 hour holiday period will commence as ofthe beginning of the day shift of the holiday, and any 32 hour holiday period will commence as ofthe beginning ofthe night shift preceding the holiday.
Section 3.	When any of these holidays falls on a Sunday but is observed on Monday and the plant is not in operation on Sunday, the holiday period on Monday will be only 24 hours. December24throughDecember31 andNewYear’s Day will be observed on the days on which they occur.
Section 4.	All employees who have been on the Company’s payroll for thirty (30) calendar days shall be paid for each of the above named holidays when no work is performed. The employees shall be paid for one (1) regular shift at their base hourly rate for each of the above named holidays when no work is performed, subject to the following provisions:
(a)	That such employee must work on his regularly scheduled working day next preceding and next following the holiday period unless excused by his
— 58 —
supervisor. Such excuses shall not be unreasonably withheld. However, no employee shall lose more than one (1) day of holiday pay for an unexcused absence on each of these days.
(b)	No payment will be made for holidays not worked to employees on sick leave (exceeding one (1) day), leave of absence for any reason, or layoff, except employees who are laid off not more than thirty (30) days prior to a holiday and who meet the requirements set forth in subsection 4 (a) hereof. Employees laid off not more than thirty (30) days prior to Christmas will also be entitled to holiday pay for New Year's Day, provided they meet the requirements set forth in subsection 4 (a) hereof.
(c)	Any employee absent because of an occupational disability who reports back to work when able to do so shall receive holiday pay for any holidays which occurred during the first twelve (12) months of such absence.
Section 5.	Double time shall be paid for all hours worked during the holiday period as set forth in Section 1. Work on a holiday shall qualify an employee for holiday pay. This does not apply to employees who have not completed their thirty (30) day probationary period.
Section 6.	Work on holidays shall be voluntary with the employee except for those employees who must be scheduled to work in order to assure the safety, repair and maintenance of plant and equipment and to prepare for plant start-ups.
Maintenance employeeswill not be required to work on the following holidays: Thanksgiving Day, Labor Day, December 24 and December25.
— 59 —
Section 7.	An employee who is required to work during any holiday shall be granted the option of taking an equal amount of mutually agreed upon days off from work without pay. Reasonable requests will be granted.
Section 8.	The Company shall post the start and end of the holiday period five (5) calendar days in advance of the shut down.
ARTICLE 17 Vacations
Section 1.	For vacation qualifying years falling on or after April 1,1999, each employee underthe jurisdiction of the Contract who has been in the employ of the Company for one year or more who has worked 1200 hours during his qualifying year and who at the end of the qualifying year is on the payroll shall be entitled to a vacation with pay based on the general schedule of:
After one (1) year or more of continuous service, one (1) week vacation (48 hours pay);
After two (2) years or more of continuous service, two (2) weeks vacation (80 hours pay);
After five (5) years or more of continuous service, two (2) weeks vacation (96 hours pay);
After eight (8) years or more of continuous service, three (3) weeks vacation (120 hours pay);
After fifteen (15) years or more of continuous service, four (4) weeks vacation (160 hours pay);
— 60 —
Aftereighteen (18) years or more of continuous service, four (4) weeks vacation (180 hours pay);
After twenty (20) years or more of continuous service, four (4) weeks vacation (200 hours pay);
After twenty-five (25) years or more of continuous service, five (5) weeks vacation (220 hours pay);
After thirty (30) years or more of continuous service, five (5) weeks vacation (240 hours pay);
Upon obtaining thirty (30) years of service, the employeewill receive an additional eight (8) hours pay for each five (5) years of service thereafter.
It shall be the Company’s prerogative to divide the three, four or five weeks vacation period if it thinks it is necessary for the continuity of plant operations provided at least two weeks are successive.
Section 2.	For the purpose of determining vacation eligibility, all vacation qualifying years now in effect shall continue during the term of this Contract unless changed by mutual consent of the Union and the Company.
Section 3.	Each employee who is on the Company's payroll at the end of the qualifying year and who has worked more than 400 hours but less than twelve hundred hours during such qualifying year shall receives vacation with pay based on the general schedule of:
(a)	Two percent (2%) of his total hours worked during such qualifying year times his base hourly wage rate if he has less than five years of continuous service;
— 61 —
(b)	Four percent (4%) of his total hours worked during such qualifying year times his base hourly wage rate after five or more years of continuous service;
(c)	Six percent (6%) of his total hours worked during such qualifying year times his base hourly wage rate after eight or more years of continuous service;
(d)	Eightpercent(8%)ofhistotal hours worked during such qualifying year times his base hourly wage rate after fifteen years or more of continuous service;
(e)	Ten percent (10%) of his total hours worked during such qualifying year times his base hourly wage rate after twenty or more years of continuous service;
(f)	Twelve percent (12%) of his total hours worked during such qualifying year times his base hourly wage rate after twenty-five years or more of continuous service;
(g)	Fourteen percent (14%) of his total hours worked during such qualifying year times his base hourly wage rate after thirty-five years or more of continuous service.
Section4.	If an employee’s service is terminated forany reason after he has completed one year or more of service, he or his personal representative shall be paid vacation pay earned at the time of termination the amount of vacation pay earned but unpaid including vacation pay earned during his current qualifying year, even though he is noton the payroll at the end of the qualifying year.
— 62 —
Section 5.	Hours lost due to compensable industrial accident, or in attendance as an official delegate to the Convention ofthe Union, Union Business or as an official conferee at the joint wage negotiating conference between the Union and the Company will be computed as hours worked (not to exceed 40 hours per week) for the purpose of vacation hours qualification.
Section 6.	No employee will be required to work more than 1200 hours during any qualifying year in order to be entitled to vacation with pay. Any employee who has worked 1200 hours during any qualifying year and is on the Company’s payroll at the end of any qualifying year will be entitled to a vacation with pay, except as provided for in Section 4 or Local Agreements.
Section 7.	Any employee who is laid off for any reason, who is on sick leave oron an approved leave of absence and has otherwise qualified for vacation pay as specified above shall be given his vacation pay on request.
Section 8.	Restoration of Service - An employee who is rehired by the Company and who then works at least three (3) years from the date of such rehire shall be given credit toward vacation rights for prior service with the Company provided such prior service with the Company was at least two (2) years.
Section 9.	Vacation pay checks will be issued on any regular pay day just preceding vacation taken. Each employee shall be responsible to give a five (5) day notice to the Company. Otheroptional forms of payment may be agreed to at each plant location.
Section 10.	All hours taken off work as vacation hours shall be included in future vacation hour qualifications.
— 63 —
Section 11.	Employees who have earned vacation will be allowed to split two (2) weeks of vacation one day at a time. This is provided that adequate notice is given and that qualified replacements are available.
If a holiday or holidays falls during an employee’s vacation, the holiday(s) will not be counted as a day of vacation.
ARTICLE 18 Pensions
Section 1.	Effective April 1,2002, all present retirees receiving the $13.00 pension benefit will have their benefit increased to $14.00 per month per year of credited service.
Section 2.	Effective April 1,2002, the amount of pension benefit to which an employee who retires on or after April 1,2002 is entitled to will be based on the following schedule subject to provisions set forth in this Article:
Labor Grade
1-10
11-15
16 and above
Amount per Month ForEach
Year of Credited Service $37.00 $38.00 $39.00
Effective April 1,2003, the amount of pension benefit to which an employee who retires on or after April 1,2002 is entitled to will be based on the following schedule subject to provisions set forth in this Article:
— 64 —
Labor Grade
1-10
11-15
16 and above
Amount per Month ForEach YearofCredited Service $39.00 $40.00 $41.00
Effective April 1,2003, the amount of pension benefits to which an employee who retires between April 1,2002, and April 1,2003, is entitled will be recalculated. Such recalculation will be made, subject to actuarial reductions where applicable, at the appropriate level of $39.00, $40.00, and $41.00.
Effective April 1,2004 the amount of pension benefit to which an employee who retires on or after April 1,2002, is entitled to will be based on the following schedule subject to provisions set forth in this Article:
LaborGrade	Amount per Month
1-10
11-15
16 and above
ForEach YearofCredited Service $41.00 $42.00 $43.00
Effective April 1,2004, the amount of pension benefit to which an employee who retires between April 1,2002 and April 1,2004, is entitled will be recalculated. Such recalculation will be made, subject to actuarial reductions where applicable, at the appropriate level of $41.00, $42.00, and $43.00.
Section 3.	Employees under this Contract who are covered by Schedule A are assigned to a labor grade. The
— 65 —
labor grades referred to in Section 2 apply to all employees covered by Schedule A; for purposes of this Article only, all employees who are not covered by the Schedule A will be considered to be in the labor grade whose hourly wage rate most nearly approximates the hourly wage rate of the Production and Maintenance unit employee who is assigned to a labor grade.
The labor grade assigned to an employee immediately preceding his retirement shall be used in determining his pension benefit except that, for an employee whose primary labor grade in one (twelve (12) consecutive month) of the ten (10) years preceding retirement was higher than his labor grade at retirement, such higher labor grade shall be used in determining his pension benefit.
Section 4.	Normal Retirement Date - Effective April 1, 2002, the lastday of the month in which an employee reaches age 60. In accordance with applicable law, however, an employee will not be required to retire solely because of reaching age 65, and will be granted credited service for time worked after age 65 on the same basis as time worked prior to age 65.
Early Retirement Date - An employee may retire early before age 60 if he is within ten (10) years of his normal retirement date, provided he has ten (10) or more full years of credited service with the Company.
Sections. Normal Retirementlncome-An employee who retires on or after his 60th birthday, will receive a monthly life income from the Pension Plan provided for in this Contract equal to the applicable amount as set forth in Section 2, multiplied by his years of credited service.
— 66 —
Early Retirement Income Priorto Age 60 - An employee who retires early priorto age 60 will receive monthly retirement income in an amount equal to his monthly retirement benefit figured on credited service to early retirement date, with such amount reduced 1 /2 of 1 % for each month from age 60 to the date of early retirement. However, an employee credited with thirty (30) years of credited service and having reached age 55 may retire without any loss of benefits.
Section 6.	There shall be no duplication of benefits among any qualified retirement plans of the Company, including those of the Company’s predecessors, successors and affiliates. The Pension Plan provided for in this Contract would be responsible for any subsequent increases in any pension benefits earned for years of credited service with Kerr Glass Manufacturing Corporation.
Section 7.	Disability Retirement Income - If an employee who had ten (10) or more years of credited service becomes permanently and totally disabled on or after April 1, 2002, he may be retired on a monthly disability income figure as if he were age 65 on the date of such disability and such date shall be determined as the last day the employee worked because of such disability, or the last day of reception of the Weekly Sickness and Accident Benefit, whichever is later.
Optional forms of retirement income under Section 10 of this Article, except level income option, will also apply to Disability Retirement Income.
Tobe eligible for the cash PTD life insurance benefit, the employee must be continuously disabled and unable to work for period of six (6) months from the last day worked.
— 67 —
If there is a dispute regarding the employee's PTD status between the employee’s attending physician and the examining physician representing the carrier, the following will apply:
The Company and the Union shall agree upon a physician to which to send the employee for an independent medical evaluation. The physician's decision regarding PTD shall be binding on both parties. However, if the employee is later approved for social security disability, the Company will qualify the employee for PTD. In this case the disability will be effective on the Social Security Disability date, but no earlier than the last date the employee received weekly disability benefits.
The independent medical evaluation will be paid for by the Company.
For purposes of this section, the definition of disability will be the Social Security definition of disability.
Section 8.	Death Benefits after Retirement - Upon the death of an employee who retires on or after April 1,1980, and who dies before having received 72 monthly benefit payments, his beneficiary shall receive the same monthly benefit until a total of 72 monthly payments have been made. If an optional form of retirement income is in effect for such an employee and both he and his contingent annuitant die before 72 monthly payments have been made, then the beneficiary shall receive monthly payments equal to the last payment made to either the employee or his contingent annuitant until a total of 72 monthly payments have been made.
Section 9.	Survivor Pension-Effective April 1, 2002, in the event of the death of an employee who had five (5) years or more of service, the surviving spouse shall receive an unreduced survivor’s
— 68 —
pension beginning on the first day of the month following the death ofthe employee, provided that the employee was age forty (40) or more. In the event that the employee was less than age forty (40) at the time of death, the surviving spouse shall receive an unreduced survivor’s pension beginning on the first day of the month following the date the employee would have been age forty (40). The pension amount will be one-half of the pension credited to the employee at the time of death. This survivor’s pension will not be reduced for payments beginning before the normal retirement date or for joint and survivor’s annuity reductions. This pension shall be paid monthly until the death of the survivor.
Section 10.	Optional forms of Retirement Income - An employee may choose to take a smaller retirement income upon early or normal retirement and have all or a portion of it continued to another person after his death following retirement, in accordance with rules and regulations set up by the Company’s Retirement Board.
‘Please note that a new Pop-Up provison (relative to the spouse option) will be made available. See the SPD for further details.
An employee retiring before being eligible to receive Social Security monthly income benefits may elect a Level Income Option which provides a higher monthly income from the Pension Plan provided for in this Contract from retirement until Social Security benefits are payable and a lower monthly income from the Pension Plan provided for this Contract thereafter. In determining the amount of monthly income, the rules and regulations set up by the Company’s Retirement Board shall apply and the primary Social Security benefits
— 69 —
estimated to be payable at age 62 (or at the appropriate age if Social Security is amended) shall be actuarially reduced as follows:
Retirement	Percentage of Estimated
Age	Age 62 Primary Social
	Security Payable
	to Age 62
62	100.0%
61	91.1%
60	83.1%
59	76.0%
58	69.6%
57	63.8%
56	58.7%
55	54.0%
Upon reaching age 62, it shall be the retired employee's responsibility to apply for Social Security benefits, because at thattime, the Company’s portion ofthe lifetime pension will be reduced bytheamountofSocial Security benefits thatwas used in the calculation at time of retirement.
Section 11.	Vested Rights - If an employee is terminated orquits after completion of five (5) years of credited service, such employee shall have vested rights.
An employee who is terminated or quits on or after January 1,1989, and who is entitled to vested rights will be entitled to receive, beginning with the month after he attains age 65, monthly retirement income as set forth in Section 2, figured on his years of credited service at date of termination.
Section 12.	Accumulation of Credited Service-Credited service shall accumulate toward retirement income while an employee is absent for occupational injury or disease until he becomes permanently and totally disabled. Credited service
— 70 —
shall accumulate toward retirement income for non-occupa-tional illness or injury for a period of up to two (2) years. In order to receive the above credits, the employee must return to work as soon as he is able. In no event will less than six-months be credited if the employee is unable to return to work at the end of the two (2) year period.
Section 13.	Restoration of Service - An employee who is rehired by the Company and who then works at least three (3) years from the date of such rehiring shall be given credit toward pension rights for prior service with the Company provided such prior service with the Company was at least two (2) years.
Section 14.	When the Company elects to close a plant permanently, an employee under age 60 whose employment was terminated as a result of such closing, may retire and receive a pension benefit figured as if he were age 60 based on his years and months of credited service at the date of such closing, provided he has thirty (30) or more full years of credited service or who is at least age 55 with at least ten (10) or more full years of credited service at the date of such closing.
Section 15.	The Pension Plan provided for in this Contract cannot be terminated without the express approval ofthe International President of the Union and, exceptwhere the features described above, subject to appropriate governmental approvals, would indicate changes, the Pension Plan provided by this Contract will be continued.
The Company will develop a new Summary Plan Description covering the Pension Plan and forward such SPD to the International Union for their review and approval within 120 days ofthe effective date of this agreement. The Union will have 30 days to review
— 71 —
the document. Once approved, copies will be distributed to all covered employees.
A copy ofthe approved Pension Plan provided for in this Contract, together with all the rules and regulations relating thereto established by the Company’s Retirement Board, shall be placed on file with the international President ofthe Union.
Such Pension Plan will comply with all pension legislation and governmental rulings required by law, that are in effect now or may become effective during the term of this contract.
Section 16.	The Company shall establish and maintain a 401 (k) plan for all covered employees. The Company shall be responsible for the administration of the plan. Such 401 (k) plan will comply with all pension legislation and governmental rulings required by law, that are in effect now and may become effective during the term of the contract.
Eligibility - Employees will be eligible to participate on the first of the month following 30 days of service.
Pre-tax Contributions - Eligible employees may contribute up to 50% of their earnings in 1% increments, subject to IRS limits.
Company Match - The Company will match 25% of the first 8% of employee pre-tax contributions.
Vesting - Company match vests 20% at the end of each full year of service, 100% at the end of five years of service. Company match will vest 100% in the event of death, retirement or plant closing.
— 72 —
Catch-Up Contributions - As permitted under EGTRRA employees age 50 and over will be permitted to make catch-up contributions. Effective June 1, 2002, employees may elect to make the $1,000 catchup contribution permitted in 2002. This catch-up contribution may only be made if the employee makes the maximum permitted pre-tax contribution during the year.
ARTICLE 19 Retiree Benefits
The Com pa ny agrees to the pri nci pie of a joi ntly-ad mi n-istered fund into which the Company will contribute, seventy-five cents (750) per actual man hour worked by each of its bargaining unit employees, excluding hours paid for but not worked, for the purpose of providing retiree benefits. Such jointly-administered fund shall be administered in accordance with the provisions of the present Retiree Benefits Trust Agreement.
ARTICLE 20 Relief
Section 1	.All hourly employees working regularly scheduled rotating or alternating shifts are entitled to, and shall receive, paid relief time as follows:
8-hour shift-fifty (50) minutes of lunch and relief periods during each shift to be apportioned by agreement between the Local Union and the local plant management.
Section 2.	All hourly employees working schedules other than rotating or alternating shifts are entitled to, and shall receive, paid relief time as follows:
— 73 —
8-hour shift-fifty (50) minutes of lunch and relief periods during each shift to be apportioned by agreement between the Local Union and the local plant management.
Section 3.	All existing agreements on relief shall be continued forthe duration of this Contract unless changed by mutual agreement between the Union and the Company. This shall not be construed so as to prevent employees from filing grievances where they are not being supplied necessary relief in accordance with the conditions in their plant.
Section 4.	Scheduled relief shall normally start no earlier than sixty (60) minutes after the start of the shift. The Company further agrees that every effort will be made to schedule lunch periods as close to the middle ofthe shift as practical.
Section 5.	Additional relief shall be granted to employees in the P&M Departments where heat conditions warrant.
ARTICLE 21
Supervisory Employees
Section 1.	A supervisory, temporary supervisor, or salaried employee shall perform no work of the type customarily performed by employees within the bargaining unit including relief work. Exceptions will be made in cases of emergencies, instruction and development work. The basic responsibility of supervisory employees is direction of the workforce. It is not the Company's policy to have a supervisory employee perform bargaining unit work.
Section 2.	Emergencies are defined as conditions involving danger to personnel, product or property.
— 74 —
Section 3.	Grievances arising over an alleged violation of this Article must be filed within three (3) work days of the occurrence and will follow the grievance procedure. The supervisor accused of violating this Article, the aggrieved employee and/or his Shop Steward must be present at Step 2 of the grievance procedure.
If the Company agrees at any step of the grievance procedure that there has been a violation of this Article by Management or Supervisory personnel or if the arbitrator so determines, the employee who would have performed the work will receive a monetary award. A reasonable award shall be defined as a minimum of four (4) hours of pay at the rate of the job in which the violation occurred.
ARTICLE 22
Health Benefit Program
Section 1.	The Companyshall establish and maintain a comprehensive Group Life, Accident, Medical, Weekly Accident and Sickness, Health Program, Eye Care and Dental Program for all covered employees.
Section 2.	The Company shall be responsible for the administration ofthe Program.
Section 3.	‘Insurance benefits and other revisions changed, as a result of this Article shall be effective April 1, 2002, unless otherwise indicated. Such benefits shall become effective only for new claims which arise on or after the effective date. Claims for benefits that arise prior to the effective date shall be payable under the provisions of the Program as it existed prior to the effective date.
— 75 —
Section4.	Detailsofthe Company’s Insurance Program shall be worked out between the Company and the President ofthe International Union or his designated representative. A copy together with the Summary Plan Description to provide for the benefits set forth herein which has been agreed to between the Company and the carrier shall be placed on file with the International President and a copy distributed to all covered employees.
Section 5.	This Program shall be integrated with any such program required by any Federal or State law involving non-occupational accident and sickness benefits or health benefits which now exist or may become effective during the term of this Contract. There will be no additional cost to the employee nor for his dependents for additional coverages that may be required by a National Health Program that may be enacted during the term of this Contract, except for employee contributions which may be a part of such National Health Program.
Section 6.	The comprehensive Medical Benefits and Dental Benefits are coordinated according to standard procedures with benefits from other group plans and governmental health plans under which an employee (and eligible dependents) may also be covered.
Section 7,Toassurethe greatest benefit for the money expended, it is a mutual responsibility of the Company and the Union to police all usage under the Program.
Section 8.	The following standard provisions are included in the Program:
(a)	All hourly employees, under this Contract become eligible for coverage underthe Program upon completion of thirty (30) calendar days from their date of
— 76 —
employment, subject to the provisions of State Disability Benefit laws as they apply to disability benefits.
(b)	Definition of Dependents
The term “dependents” includes the employee’s spouse and unmarried children from birth to their 21st birthday, including legally adopted children and stepchildren and children under legal guardianship upon presentation of proof that the child or children is under legal guardianship of the employee and residing in the employee’s household. Dependent children also includes:
(1)	Unmarried children 21 years of age and over solely dependentupon the employee forsup-port and regularly attending school on afull-time basis until their25th birthday.
(2)	An unmarried child mentally or physically incapable of earning his own living, and who otherwise ceases to be eligible for medical expense benefits due to the attainment ofthe limiting age may continue to be eligible for benefits coverage under the Program for the duration ofthe incapacity, provided the coverage does not terminate for any other reason. Proof of incapacity must be furnished to the Insurance Company within the thirty-one (31) days after the child attains the limiting age.
(3)	A newborn child who, from date of birth, incurs charges for routine nursery care and doctor or special hospital services rendered because of disease, injury, congenital abnor
— 77 —
mality or hereditary complications, is eligible for coverage from birth under the Program as to those medical expenses.
(4)	Dependents may only be added to coverage during the annual open enrollment period or within 31 days of a qualified status change.
(c)	If husband and wife are both eligible to enroll for employee benefits, either spouse but not both may enroll for coverage of dependent chi Id ren. A spouse may be covered as a dependent. If husband and wife work for the Company, when one retires or quits, the working spouse can cover their spouse as a dependent.'
(d)	Continuance of Coverage During a Period of Absence from Work Due to Accident or Sickness.
(1)	Non-Occupational Accident or Sickness
If an employee is absent from work because of non-occupational disability, his comprehensive Medical, Life, Accidental Death and Dismemberment, Weekly Accident and Sickness, and Dental coverageswill be continued up to six (6) months from the end ofthe month in which the disability occurs without contributions. Coverages for eligible dependents will also be continued for the same period without contributions. Life and Accidental Death and Dismemberment coverages maybe continued for the balance of the temporary disability period without contributions. In the event an employee qualifies as a total and
— 78 —
permanent disability underthe Group Life, all othercoveragesunderthe Program will cease including dependent coverages. In the event dependency coverage is to be discontinued, the employee and the Local Union must be given prior notice.
However, if there is a dispute regarding the employee’s P.T.D. status between the employee’s attending physician and the exam-ining physician representing the Insurance Company then a physician mutually agreed upon between the International Union and the Company will examine the claimant and this physician'sdecision regarding P.T.D. shall be binding on both parties. A copy of the physician's final report will be given the employee.
(2)	Occupational Accident or Sickness
If an employee is absent from work because of occupational disability, all his coverages underthe Program will be continued for the period of temporary disability without contributions. Coverages for eligible dependents will also be continued forthe period of temporary disability without contributions. In the event an employee qualifies as a permanent and total disability underthe group life, all other coverages underthe Program will cease including dependent coverages.
(3)	Continuation ofCoverage During Layoff
If an employee is laid off, all his coverage will be continued up to six (6) months following the
— 79 —
end of the month in which the layoff occurs without contributions. Coverages for eligible dependents will also be continued for the same period without contributions. If, at the end ofthe six (6) month-period, the temporary layoff continues, the Life and Accidental Death and Dismemberment coverages will be continued for the duration of the layoff without contributions. Employees returning from layoff shall be reinstated immediately. Employees volunteering for layoff will make contributions for all employee and dependent coverages.
(4)	Any extension ofcoverage under the immediately preceding paragraphs (1),(2),and (3) will cease immediately if the employee dies, retires, goes to work for another employer or becomes self-employed.
(e)	Termination of Employment
If employment is terminated all coverages underthe Program cease at the end of the month in which termination occurs, except as required by law.
(f)	Conversion Privilege
Upon termination ofcoverage, the option of converting the comprehensive medical and life coverages to individual policies may be exercised by the individual according to the provisionsof individual policies made available by the Insurance Carrier. Any cost to convert will be the employees’ responsibility.
— 80 —
(g)	An employee whose employment is terminated as a resultof a permanent plant closing will have his coverage continued for six (6) months from the date of such closing without contributions. Dependent coverages for eligible dependents will also be continued for the same period without contributions. An employee who is on layoff at the date of the closing will have his coverage continued forthe remainder of the six (6) month period under Section 8 (d) (3) without contributions.
(h)	An employee age 65 and older who continues to work has the choice of either Medicare or the Company’s program for primary coverage. An eligible dependent spouse age 65 and older also has a similar choice for primary coverage. Payments for Part B of Medicare for such a working employee and such an eligible dependent spouse will be made by the Company only when Medicare is chosen for primary coverage.
(i)	Pre-existing Condition
Coverage for pre-existing conditions will be limited for employees hired after the effective date of this contract and fortheir eligible dependents. Coverage for injuries or illnesses which existed prior to employment with the Company will be limited to $25,000 during the first twelve (12) months of employment; subject to HIPPA regulations.
An illness or injury is considered pre-existing if within six (6) months prior to employment with the Company, the employee or eligible dependent was diagnosed, incurred charges, received treatment or took drugs or medicine for that illness or injury.
— 81 —
Pregnancy is included within the pre-existing condition limitation. Expenses for a newborn child are not included in the pre-existing condition limitation.
Section 9.	Coverage continuations, as required by the Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1985 (as approved in 1986), will be made available in accordance with the applicable provisions of said Act.
Comprehensive Medical Benefits
(1)	Lifetime maximum per covered member -$1,000,000,
(2)	(a) Calendaryeardeductible per covered member is$100.
The maximum calendar year deductible per covered family is $300.
(b) Weekly Contributions
Empl. + 2 or More
Effective Date Empl. Only Empl. + 1 Dep. Dep.
April 1,2002	$9.00	$13.00	$16.00
In addition to medical benefits, the amounts include contributions for Life, Accidental Death and Dismemberment, and Weekly Accident and Sickness benefits.
The Company’s cost for benefits through an HMO will not exceed its costs as required for providing the Comprehensive Medical benefits under the Insurance Program.
(3)	Co-payment is 90%/10% for all comprehensive
— 82 —
Medical Benefit expenses, except where otherwise indicated. (Dental, eye care and psychiatric care and substance abuse benefits are separate.) Co-payment penalties forfailure to provide mandatory pre-certification, or have surgery performed on an outpatient basis where required will be subject to a one thousand ($1,000) maximum penalty in addition to the regularco-payment.
(a) There is a co-payment out-of-pocket limit of one thousand dollars ($1000) per covered member per calendar year and three thousand dollars ($3000) per covered family per calendar year. The following out-of-pocket expenses only count towards the one thousand dollars ($1000) out-of-pocket or, as applicable, the three thousand dollars ($3000) out-of-pocket limit:
all comprehensive Medical Benefit co-payments (except 20% co-payments for failures to obtain mandatory pre-certification, or outpatient surgery and except co-payments resulting from diagnostic hospital admissions);
all ambulance co-payments;
calendaryeardeductibles.
(4)	After receipt of $10,000 of benefits or more, individual can have full maximum $1,000,000 benefit restored if he can prove he has returned to good health,
(5)	Automatic yearly restoration of $5,000 toward maximum benefit.
— 83 —
(6)	Extended benefits when disabled and coverage canceled up to eighteen (18) months from cancellation date.
(7)	Covered expenses for comprehensive Medical Benefits (subject to 90%/10% co-payment, reasonable and customary and $100/$300 deductible) are as follows:
(a)	Daily Hospital Benefits. Applicable semi-private charge. Private room limit is hospital's average semi-private charge.
(b)	Miscellaneous Hospital Charges. Coverage for other necessary incidental hospital charges.
(c)	Surgical Expense Benefits. Surgeon's and assistant surgeon's standard fees for necessary surgical procedures performed on employees and their covered dependents. This also includes pre-operative and post-operative care by surgeon.
(d)	Medical Expense Benefits. Coverage for doctor calls while confined in hospital and prior to the day of an operation.
(e)	Physical Examination, Diagnostic X-Ray and Laboratory Expenses. X-ray and laboratory expenses, one (1) physical examination, including two (2) annual routine pap smears and one (1) annual routine mammogram beginning at age 35. The one (1) physical examination, two (2) annual pap smears and one (1) annual mammogram beginning at age 35 are not subject to the annual deductible.
— 84 —
(f)	X-Ray and Radioactive Therapy Benefits. X-ray and radioactive therapy benefits.
(g)	Mental Health/C hemical Dependency Treatment, Outpatient mental health/chemical dependency treatment must be authorized in advance by contacting the Employee Assistance Program (EAP) at the toll-free number provided by the Company. Inpatient mental health/chemical dependency treatment must be authorized seven (7) days in advance of non-emergency admission or in the case of an emergency confinement, within two (2) days, following confinement by notifying the EAP.
Outpatient treatment will be covered at 100% for the first three (3) visits provided they are referred and authorized by the EAP and 90% of reasonable and customary charges forup to 30 additional visits in a calendar year. Inpatient treatment will be covered at90% of reasonable and customary charges for up to 30 days in a calendar year.
The combined mental health/chemical dependency lifetime benefit maximum will be the medical plan lifetime maximum. Should the covered member not comply with the certification procedures described above, or if the member elects an out of network provider, coverage will be at 80% of the reasonable and customary expenses that would otherwise be covered.
(h)	Charges of a Licensed Physician. This includes physician office visits.
— 85 —
(i)	Prescriptions. Drugsand medicineswhich by law require a physician’s or dentist’s prescription.
(j)	Chiropractic Treatment. Charges for chiropracticcare will be covered up to a limit of 35 visits in a calendaryear. Payment is limited to one visit in a twenty-fou r (24) hour period and is subject to deductibles and co-payments.
(k)	Hearing Aids. The reasonableand customary costs for the purchase of a hearing aid, including expenses for examination and fitting, will be covered at 90% for covered members. However, this benefit is limited to the purchase of one (1) hearing aid perearfor each covered person once every twenty-four (24) months, and excludes the replacement and repair ofany part or parts of such hearing aid following such purchase.
(I)	Maternity Benefits for Dependent Children. Unmarried dependent children are covered with maternity benefits the same as employees and eligible spouses.
(8)	Eye Care. An employee, after completing six (6) months of continuous service, and his eligible dependents will be reimbursed for the cost of a properly licensed doctor performing a complete eye examination once every two (2) years during the term of this Contract, up to a maximum of $50.00. If the Company requires examination more frequently for issuance of safety glasses of an employee, such examination will also be covered up to the same maximum. An employee and his
— 86 —
eligible dependents will also be reimbursed once every two (2) years during the term of this Contract for the cost either of a pair of lenses (single -$25.00; bifocal -$35.00; trifocal - $45.00; lenticu* lar - $55.00; progressive lenses - $70.00) and of frames ($35.00) ora pairof contactlenses ($70.00).
(9)	Mandatory Pre-Certification. An employee or eligible dependent considering an operation or entering a hospital or treatment facility for medical care is required to alert the Company's utilization review administrator by telephone of this possibility five (5) days prior to entering the hospital or treatment facility or receiving such treatment (except for cases of emergency, where notification is required within two (2) days after the admission of the patient).
Employees and eligible dependents who comply with the above requirements will receive the maximum reimbursement allowable under comprehensive Medical Benefits. Covered expenses will be only80% ofthe expenses thatwould otherwise be covered expenses up to a maximum penalty of $1000 if the employee or eligible dependent does not notify the utilization review administrator in advance as specified above. Should an employee or eligible dependent elect to stay beyond those days that are certified, in-patient room and board charges in excess of the designated number of days that are certified will be covered at 80% ofthe expenses that would otherwise be covered up to the $1000 maximum penalty mentioned above.
Mandatory pre-certification facilitates and is required for:
— 87 —
Hospital admissions
Individual case management
Length of stay and discharge planning
Birthing centers
Convalescent centers
Home health care
Hospices
Treatment for drug, alcohol, mental or nervous disorders
Standards of medical necessity will be applied to all cases involving pre-certification.
(10)	Second Opinion Benefit. The reasonable and customary charges of a consulting physician for a covered surgical consultation, and also the reasonable and customary charges forany laboratory or X-Ray examination made in connection with the consultation, will be paid.
Benefits are not payable for consultations provided in connection with a normal obstetrical procedure or any procedure for which a surgical expense benefit would not be payable as a comprehensive Medical Benefit, and the proposed procedure must require more than local infiltration anesthesia and be non-emergency in nature.
When a second opinion is needed, it may be obtained by the employee or eligible dependent. A secondopinion may also be recommended by the Company’s utilization review administrator. In either case, the utilization review administrator will assist the employee oreligible dependent in selecting a physician for a second opinion if assistance is requested. A third opinion will be covered on the
— 88 —
same basis as the second opinion in those situations where the second opinion does not confirm the recommendation of the operating physician, in all cases, the decision to obtain a second opinion will be voluntary with the employee or eligible dependent.
(11)	Outpatient Surgery Benefits. Outpatient surgery is covered in the same manneras inpatient surgery. When non-emergency surgery can be performed on an outpatient basis and the physical and mental condition of the employee or covered dependent permits, such surgery will be covered at 80% if performed on an inpatient basis.
(12)	Pre-admission Testing Benefits. Pre-admission testing is covered at 100% withouttheapplication ofthe deductible. Charges for hospital admission for diagnostic purposes will be reimbursed if the admission is medically necessary, or if the tests cannot be performed on an outpatient basis.
(13)	Prenatal Care Program. Employees and eligible dependents may elect to participate in a prenatal care program which provides cash rewards and educational assistance.
To be eligible for this voluntary program, the covered member must schedule an appointment with her physician within the first twelve weeks of pregnancy and have the necessary prenatal care records completed. When the initial visit takes place and the record is submitted to the Company insurance administrator, the covered member will receive a cash award of $100.00.
— 89 —
If the covered membercontinues regular visits to the doctor, submits at least five more care records to the insurance administrator and notifies the Company ofthe birth of her baby, she will receive a second cash award of $100.00.
In addition, the covered member will receive a prenatal care information booklet by notifying the Company of her pregnancy.
Life, A.D.&D. and Weekly A.&S. Benefits
(1)	Life Insurance	$28,000
(2)	A.D.& D. Insurance	$28,000
(3)	Non-Occupational	$280
(4)Occupational(1stWeek) $280
(1)	Includes an $19,000 cash PTD benefit in lieu of death benefit, up to age 65. The remainder of the life insurance ($9,000) will be a Premium Waiver benefit and will be paid to the beneficiary at death. Effective January 1,1988, there will be no PTD for employees hi red on and after that date. (January 1, 1997 for Carteret, Dolton and Dunkirk, April 1,2002 for El Monte and January 1,1987 for Madera.)
To be eligible for the cash PTD life insurance benefit, the employee must be continuously disabled and unable to work for a period of six (6) months from the last day worked.
If there is a dispute regarding the employee's PTD status between the employee's attending physician and the examining physician representing the Insurance Company, then a physician mutually agreed upon between the International Union and
— 90 —
the Company will examine the claimant and this physician’s decision regarding PTD shall be binding on both parties. However, if the employee has applied forand is later approved for Social Security disability, the Company will qualify the employee for PTD. Inthis case the retirement disability benefit will be effective on the date the Social Security disability is determined to have commenced, but no earlier than the last date the employee received weekly disability benefits. In the event the disability is a result of an occupational injury of illness, the .retirementdisability benefit would be effective on the date the Social Security disability is determined to have commenced, but no earlierthan the last date the employee received temporary total disability benefits under any workers’ compensation statute.
The independent medical evaluation will be paid for by the Company.
An employee applying for permanent and total disability must apply for the P.T.D. benefit and Social Security disability within twelve (12) months from the last day worked. If the employee is either on workers’ compensation or his condition could dramatically change, the employee would be required to document his medical condition with the Company before the expiration of the one (1) year, but he could apply for P.T.D. within five (5) years from the last day worked. The Company will notify such employees and the Local Union on or about ninety (90) days prior to the end of the one (1) year application in writing.
— 91 —
(2)	Twenty-four (24) hour coverage including on-the-job accidents.
(3)	First day accident;, 4th day sickness; twenty-six (26) weeks payments limit. Payments for sickness retroactive to the first day if hospitalized within first twenty-eight (28) days of disability, integrated with any Federal or State Law accident and sickness benefit requirements.
(4)	In those states where the Workers' Compensation benefits do not equal $280 per week the Company will pay an amount, if necessary to equal the applicable amount up to twenty-five (25) weeks, after the first week.
(5)	Employees who elect cosmetic surgery will not be eligible for the non-occupational weekly sickness and accident benefits unless medically necessary or unless specifically included elsewhere in this Article.
— 92 —
Life and AD&D Coverage Weekly Costs
$28,000 of Life and AD&D coverage will be provided by the Company at no employee cost. Elected Life and AD&D of$35,000 coverage has costs based upon the table below:
Employee Age	‘Monthly Cost per $1,000 of Coverage
Under 30	$06
30-34	$.07
3 5-3 9	$.08
40-44	$.11
45-49	$.19
50-54	$.32
55-59	$.50
60-64	$.77
65-69	$1.37
70-74	$2.06
75 and over	$3.65
‘Employee contributions may be made on a pre-tax basis.
Dependent Life Insurance Program
Section 1.	The Company will make available a Dependent Life Insurance Program. Eligible employees will have the opportunity to purchase twelve thousand dollars ($12,000.00) of dependent term life insurance on their spouse: two hundred dollars ($200.00)on dependent children age Udays to six months: and four thousand dollars ($4,000.00) on dependent children age six months and over.
— 93 —
Section 2.	The eligibility is the same as set forth in section 8(a) in the introductory sections of this Article.
Section 3.	The definition of dependents is the same as set forth in Section 8(b) in the introductory sections of this Article.
Section 4.	The weekly contribution forthesedependent life coverages is one dollar and twelve cents ($1.12).
Section 5.	The termination ofcoverage is the same as set forth in Section 8(e) in the introductory sections of this Article.
Dental Benefits
(1)	The Dental Benefits are provided separately from the comprehensive Medical Benefits. To be enrolled forthe Dental Benefits, however, an enrollee must also be a participant for the Medical Benefits. Anewemployee may enroll himself/herselfand his/ her eligible dependents only aftersuch employee has been employed for one (1) year.
(2)	A separate twenty-five ($25.00) calendar year deductible for covered dental expenses will apply to each covered member, with a maximum family deductible of seventy-five dollars ($75.00).
(3)	The following preventive dental procedureswill be covered on a reasonable and customary basis at 100%: two (2) check-ups per calendar year, including cleaning, scaling, and fluoridizing; X-rays once per calendar year. Periodontal surgery will also be covered on a reasonable and customary basis at 100%.
— 94 —
(4)	Most covered dental expenses will be paid on a reasonable and customary basis at 80% (50% with respect to inlays; gold fillings; crowns; fixed bridgework, etc,).
(5)	Orthodontia - Fifty percent (50%) of reasonable and customary charges up to a lifetime maximum of $2,000 per covered individual.
(6)	Up to $2,000 of Dental Benefits will be payable in any calendar year. Preventive dental procedures provided at one hundred percent (100%) are excluded from the yearly maximum.
(7)	Dental Benefits are administered according to standard coordination of benefits procedure as set forth in Section 6 of this Article.
(8)	Exclusionsand Limitations-Standard Group Insurance exclusions, cosmetic treatment and no coverage for any tooth that was pulled prior to the effective date of coverage. The program will not replace dentures or any other prosthetic appliance more often than once in any five (5) year period for each covered member.
(9)	Terms of coverage for Dental Benefits are the same as those setforth in Section 8(b) through 8(h) of this Article.
Section 125 Plan
The Company will install a Section 125 plan which will allow weekly contributionsfor the insurance plan described in this article to be made on a pre-tax basis. Employees will be required to enroll for benefits on an annual basis. The plan will also include:
— 95 —
Health Care Reim bursement Account- Deposits may be made on a pre-tax basis not to exceed $57.69 per week, Contributions to this account may be used to payfor medical or dental expenses that are eligible as deductions on Federal IncomeTax Form 1040 Schedule A.
Dependent Care Reimbursement Account - Deposits may be made on a pre-tax basis not to exceed $96.00 per week. Contributions to this account may be used to pay for qualified dependentand child care expenses.
Managed Care
Managed Care involves a network of arrangements with suppliers of medical services and/or supplies. Managed Care networks will be made available to employees and eligible dependents in locations where available as soon as feasible after April 1,2002. Participation by employees and eligible dependents in such a network will be voluntary.
In locations where the Company implements a managed care program, Comprehensive medical benefitswill be paid at 90% for services provided in the network and 80% for services provided out ofthe network. In locations where the Company has no network, benefitswill be paid at 90% except where otherwise indicated in this Article.
When a network physician refers a covered member to a non-network physician, charges for those out-of-network services will be covered the same as in-network services.
ARTICLE 23
Equipment Supplied
Section 1.	The Company shall determine the need and shall supply special tools, original packer stamps, boots, raincoats, rain hats, goggles, safety glasses, ear plugs,
— 96 —
protective equipment for hot repairs, and gloves, and the employee shall beresponsibleforsame. Thisdoes not include personal tools or gauges. Journeymen and other skilled craftsmen and apprentices will supply their own set of standard tools as in the past. Old gloves are to be returned when replacements are issued. The Company will pay $80.00 per calendar year towards the purchase of safety-toed safety shoes for employees in the Al E/Maintenance Department, Mould Shop, Pallet Loaders, Melt Department, Batch and Furnace Department, and Laborers (as listed in Schedule “A”.)
Section 2.	The Company will replace personal tools or gauges that have been broken orworn out while being used with reasonable care in the performance ofthe employee’s regular job. The Company shall replace at its expense personal tools and tool boxes owned by the employees which are destroyed by fire, flood, or other similar disasters on the Company’s premises, up to a maximum liability of three thousand dollars ($3,000) forany employee.
Section 3.	The Company agrees that present agreements and practices regarding work clothing will remain in effect for the duration of this Contract.
ARTICLE 24
Reporting Intended Absence
Section 1.	If an employee cannot report for work, the supervisor shall be informed a day in advance or, in an emergency, as soon as possible. In the event the supervisor is unavailable, the employee shall contactanother supervisor.
Section 2.	An employee unable to continue work during the shift shall notify his supervisor and continue to work, if possible, until relief can be obtained.
— 97 —
ARTICLE 25 Military Leave
Section 1.	If, during the life of this Contract, any employees should be inducted into the armed services of the United States, and upon their return, if such employees are physically and mentallyfit for employment, the Company will offer them work of a like kind that they were engaged in before entering the service, if such work is available to employees with equal or less seniority than that of the returning service personnel. If such work is not available, returning service personnel will be recalled to work on the basis of their respective positions on the seniority list. ThisArticleistobe administered in accordance with applicable Federal and State laws.
Section 2.	All employees who are members of the National Guard or MI litary Reserve shall be paid for all time lost while in attendance at the National Guard and/or Military Reserve two weeks summer camp and for up to five (5) shifts percalendar year while on temporary emergency expedition assignment. The pay shall be at the employee’s regular base rate for all hours lost and these hours shall be computed as hours worked for the purpose of vacation hourqualification.
The employee will be paid holiday pay for any holidays thatoccurduringthetwo(2)weeksummer camp, subject to the provisions of Article 16, Section 4(a).
ARTICLE 26 Bereavement Leave
Section 1.	In the event of the death of a spouse, child, step-child, parent, step-parent, foster parent, mother-in-law, father-in-law, brother, sister, half-brother, half-sister, step
— 98 —
brother, step-sister, grandchild, or grandparent of an employee who has been in the employ ofthe Company for at least thirty (30) days, the employee shall be paid fortime lost, not in excess of three (3) shifts (five (5) shifts for spouse and children; one (1) shift for son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, and sister- in-law), at his regular base wage rate. Reasonable requests for additional time off without pay will be honored.
Section 2.	The Local President, or Vice President or a Local Union Representative shall be granted time off without pay to attend funera Is of members of their Local’s or mem ber’s spouse.
Section 3.	If an employee's vacation is interrupted by such death and he so notifies the Company promptly, the number of days he normally would have been paid ifworking shall be added to his vacation with pay.
Section 4.	An employee may be entitled to funeral leave pay as provided in Section 1 in the event of the death of a foster mother or foster father, provided that the employee has previously notified the Company in writing ofthe name of such foster parent within thirty (30) days of the date of employment. Current employees must provide the name of such foster parent within sixty (60) days following the effective date ofthe Contract. Further, an employee who so designates a foster parent or pa rents will not be entitled to funeral leave pay for the death of a parent or step-parent.
ARTICLE 27 Court Duty
Section 1.	An employee on the active payroll who is called for court duty will receive his regular base rate of pay for any regularly scheduled work hours spent on such court duty.
— 99 —
When an employee is obliged to do court duty during any twenty-four (24) hour period, he shall not be required to work during said twenty-four (24) hour period. If an employee is scheduled to work the midnight shift preceding the day of court duty, he shall not be required to work the midnight shift next preceding and following the day of court duty. Any employee assigned to work the midnight shift preceding court duty and who elects not to work such shift, shall be paid for lost time.
Section 2.	An employee on active payroll who serves on court duty Monday through Friday and loses his days off as a result may have Saturday and Sunday off provided he has served on court duty more than one week. Such employee will notify the Company as soon as possible, but in no case later than twenty-four (24) hours prior to his scheduled Saturday shift.
Section 3.	It is understood that court duty includes being summoned for jury duty, TribalCourt and/or subpoenaed as a witness in a case where the employee is not directly involved.
ARTICLE 28 No Strike or Lockout
Section 1.	There shall be no strike, sympathetic or otherwise, walkout, slowdown, or work stoppage of any nature by the Union or any Local Union or its members during the term of this Contract. In the event any employee or group of employees participates in any such strike, walkout, slowdown orwork stoppage during the term of this Contract, the Union or Local Union agrees upon being notified by the Company to immediately direct such employee or group of employees to resume work.
— 100 —
Section 2.	The Company agrees that so long as this Agreement is in effect there will be no lockout on the part of the Company.
Section 3.	It being understood and agreed that any strike, walkout, slowdown, or work stoppage not authorized by the Union, orthe Local Union, not aided, encouraged, and abetted by the Union or Local Union, shall be deemed forall purposes an unauthorized strike, walkout, slowdown, or work stoppage for which there shall be no liability on the part of the Union, Local Union or its officers.
ARTICLE 29 Grievance Procedure
Section 1.	The purpose of this Article is to provide an orderly method for the settlement of all grievances.
If a representative of management fails to give his answer within the time limits specified In any step of the grievance procedure, the grievance may be processed to the next step of the grievance procedure within the time limits set forth in such step.
Grievances shall be presented and processed in accordance with the following steps:
Stepl: If an employee has a grievance, he shall within three (3) working days from the date the grievance arises, present it to hrs immediate supervisor and shop steward for discussion and settlement. The Supervisor shall give the employee his decision on the grievance within three (3) working days after it has been presented to him.
— 101 —
Step 2: If the grievance is not settled in Step 1, the employee and shop steward may refer the matter to the Business Committee for investigation. If the Committee considers the grievance just, it shall reduce all facts concerning the grievance to writing, and present it to the employee’s department head for discussion and settlement within seven (7) days after the completion of Step 1.
In reducing the grievance to writing, the Business Committee shall set forth with reasonable clearness the nature ofthe act or acts on which the grievance is based, the time when such acts occurred, the identity of the jobs and employees covered by the grievance, the provisions of the Contract which have been violated, and the remedy requested.
The employee’s department head shall answer within seven (7) days after the grievance has been presented to him and his answer shall set forth in written detail and with reasonable clearness the facts and provisions of the Contract on which his decision is based.
If a grievance is appealed to the next step of the grievance procedure, the basis of such appeal shall be set forth in writing by the appealing party. The answer of the other party shall also be set forth in writing.
Step 3: If the grievance is not settled in Step 2, the Business Committee shall discuss the mat
— 102 —
ter with the International Representative of the Union and they shall, within fifteen (15) days after receiving the Company’s reply in Step 2, meet with appropriate Company representatives for discussion and settlement ofthe grievance. The Company shall give the International Representative of the Union and the Local Union its decision on the grievance in writing within seven (7) days after the meeting.
Step 4: If a grievance is not settled in Step 3 of the grievance procedure, the International Representative shall, within seven (7) days after receiving the decision of the Plant Manager or his designated representative, refer the matter to the International President of the Union or his designated representatives and the Vice President Human Resources of the Company or his designated representative, for discussion and settlement. This step shall be concluded fifteen (15) days after the date on which the grievance is referred to the International President of the Union and the Vice President Human Resources of the Company or their designated representatives, except that this step may be extended for not more than fifteen (15) days by written notice by one party to the other.
Grievance involving discharge which are not settled in Step 1 of the Grievance Procedure may be referred in writing, by the Union within three (3) working days following completion of Step 1, directly to Step 3 of the Grievance procedure for discussion and settlement. Following referral to Step 3, the matter shall be handled to conclusion at Step 3 within
— 103 —
fifteen (15) days, except that this period may be extended for not more than fifteen (15) days by written notice by one party to the other. If the grievance is not settled, as provided above, it shall be referred to Step 4 of the Grievance Procedure.
Section 2.	Grievances involving the administration of incentive systems may not be filed until after a reasonable trial period.
Section 3.	It is not the function or right of the Company, or any Local Union and its officers or the officers of the International Union, to change this Contract.
Section 4.	All grievance settlements involving pay will be made as soon as possible, but no laterthan seven (7) days from the date of the settlement. However, an additional period of time will be granted in the event of unusual or extenuating circumstances.
ARTICLE 30 Arbitration
Section 1.	All disputes not settled pursuant to the proceduresetforthin Article 29, GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE, may be referred to arbitration by notice given to the Company by the Union within ten (10) days after the conclusion of Step 4 ofthe Grievance Procedure. Such notice shall be in writing, setting forth the matter in dispute and relief requested.
The notice shall also be sent to the American Arbitration Association requesting that within seven (7) days of the receipt of such notice an identical list of arbitrators containing an odd number of not less than seven (7) arbitrators be sent to the Company and the Union. After receipt of the list of
— 104 —
arbitrators from the American Arbitration Association, the Vice President Human Resources ofthe Company or his designated representative and the President of the International Union or his designated representative shall alternately strike one name from the list of arbitrators supplied until only one name remains. The arbitrator whose name remains shaII be the arbitrator in the case involved. The right to strike the first name shall be determined by lot. In the conduct ofthe arbitration hearing, the applicable provisions ofthe Voluntary Labor Arbitration Rules of the American Arbitration Association shall control.
The Union and the Company may mutually agree to request a panel of arbitrators from the Federal Mediation & Conciliation Service rather than using the services ofthe American Arbitration Association.
Section 2.	Thearbitratorshall not have authority to alter, modify, add to or subtract from any ofthe terms or provisions of this Agreement. Wage rate disputes shall be processed in accordance with Article 14, Negotiated Rates. It is understood that the arbitrator shall have the authority to establish wage rates under Article 14, Negotiated Rates. The decision ofthe arbitrator shall be final and binding on the Company and the Union.
Section 3.	Regardless of the outcome of any matter submitted to arbitration, the cost of such arbitration shall be limited to the arbitrator’s salary and expenses and shall be borne equally by both parties. Charges for stenographic fees and expenses shall be borne by the parties ordering such services.
Section 4.	Contract arbitrators shall be selected by agreement between the Company and the International Union and shall serve for the term of this Contract.
— 105 —
Section 5.	In the event the parties choose to use the contract arbitrators, a notice shalt be sent to the appropriate contract arbitrator for scheduling a hearing.
ARTICLE 31 Health and Safety
Section 1.	It is the intent ofthe parties that no employee shall be required to work under conditions which are unsafe or unhealthy and that an employee who believes that he is being so required shall have the right to notify his supervisor and shop steward of such condition, which the supervisor and shop steward shall nvestigate immediately. If the existence of such unsafe orunhealthy condition is disputed by the supervisor or shop steward, the Management Safety Representative and a Union member of the Plant Safety Committee shall be notified immediately and they shall inves-tigatethe condition and determine whether or not it is unsafe orunhealthy. Ifthe issue is not resolved, the employee shall have the right to present a grievance to theDepartment Head. After a work condition is determined to be unsafe or unhealthy, safety work orders shall be processed immediately.
Section 2.	Each Local Union President may appoint not less than three (3) members of the Local Union to function on the Company respective safety committee. This committee shall meet at least once each month to attempt to resolve safety matters.
Section 3.	The Company in each plant will provide first aid facilities and designate on each shift individuals who are trained in and capable of performing first aid to the extent necessary to provide adequate first aid for all employees. Such individual or individuals, who may or may not be members of the bargaining unit, will give first aid to injured employees and in cases of severe injury will stay with the
— 106 —
injured employee until relieved by a medical attendant. The Company will provide the necessary training of such individuals.
Health and Safety Standards Professional Medical Care
(1)	Aqualified medical doctorwill bedesignatedbythe Company in every community where it operates a plant.
(2)	The Plant Doctor will be on call for emergency service or will designate other qualified medical doctors in the same community to take his place during his absence orduring those times when he isnotavailable.
(3)	Not later than ninety (90) days from the beginning date of this Contract, each plant safety committee will establish a procedure to provide suitable transportation for injured employees to obtain outside medical attention.
First Aid Facilities
(1)	Aseparate room will be specifically designated for the purpose of administering first aid and the Company will provide for access to the first aid room on all shift
(2)	The room will be well lighted, ventilated, and heated; it will also contain necessary plumbing facilities.
(3)	The room will be equipped according to the Plant Doctor’s recommendations to include equipment such ascotorbed,storageanddispensingarea for
— 107 —
medical and first aid supplies, resuscitator, stretcher, clinical records, and with doors wide enough for litter admission.
Medical Attendant
(1)	One (1) full-time medical attendant will be made available by each Company at its various locations.
(2)	The term “medical attendant" can mean a registered nurse, a practical nurse, or full-time first aid attendant who is so qualified because of training and experience, with at least the equivalent of Red C ross certified F i rst Aid a nd C PR training.
Trained Personnel
The Company will provide first aid training so there will be adequate coverage on each shift, seven (7) days a week.
Minimum Industry Standards
The minimum industry standards shall remain binding for the duration ofthe Contract.
ARTICLE 32 On-Job Health Protection
The Company agrees to make available to each employee one tuberculin test, and chest X-ray if the test is positive, at no cost to the employee.
The Company further agrees to continue its best efforts to provide adequate heat, cooling, light and ventilation to employees, and to devise systems to control drafts, noise, fumes, dust, dirt, grease and job hazards.
— 10B —
Weight Lifting
No employee shall be required to perform any Job duties, when, in the opinion ofthe Union and Management, that job requires excessive weight lifting.
Any employee whose job requires excessive weight lifting, and mechanical assistance is not available, shall notify his supervisor for assistance and such assistance will be granted.
ARTICLE 33
Fair Employment Practice and Equal Opportunities
The Company and the Union will comply with all laws preventing discrimination against any employee because of race, color, creed, religion, national origin, age, sex, disability orveteran status. The partiesalso agree tocomply with ADA andFMLAguidelines, Any disputes underthisArticle as with all other Articles of this Contract shall be subject to the grievance procedure,
ARTICLE 34
Permanent Plant Closings and Related Matters
Section 1,	If the Company elects to close a plant or department in a plant permanently, the Company shall negotiate severance pay with the Union for terminated employees.
Section 2.	In applications of this Article, the Company will apply a severance pay formula providing forforty (40) hours per year of credited service at the regular base wage rate of pay with a one thousand (1,000) hour maximum at any plant closing during the term of this Contract.
—109 —
In addition to the severance pay above, the Company will also provide employees who have twenty-six (26) or more years of credited service a special lump sum benefit as follows: 26 through 35 years of credited service - $1,000.00; 36 through 39 years of credited service - $2,000.00; and 40 or more years of credited service - $3,000.00
Section 3.	The labor grade assigned to an employee immediately preceding such closing shall be used as a basis in determining the severance pay except that, for an employee whose primary labor grade in one (twelve (12) consecutive months) of the ten (10) years preceding the closing was higher than his labor grade at the closing, such higher laborgrade shall be used in determining the severance pay. The corresponding rate of pay to such labor grade will also be used.
Section 4.	Any disputes with respect to this Article shall be subject to the Grievance Procedure, Article 29, including Arbitration, Article 30.
Section 5.	An employee who leaves the Company's employment without the Company’s consent prior to the closing shall not be eligible for severance pay. However, if such an employee has been able to secure employment with anotheremployer, such consent shall not be unreasonably withheld.
Section 6.	An employee who is on a leave of absence covered by terms of this Contract at the time of the closing shall also be entitled to severance pay.
Section 7.	An employee who is on sick leave and has either applied or qualified fora permanent and total disability pension shall not be eligible for severance pay. Employees whodonotqualifyforapermanentand total disability pension shall receive severance pay.
— 110 —
Section 8.	Health Care. Health care coverage in a closing situation is governed by Article 22 (Health Benefits Program), and Section 8(g) of its introductory provisions provides:
Effective April 1,1999, an employee whose employment is terminated as a result of a permanent plant closing on or after April 1,1996, will have his coverage continued for six (6) months from the date of such closing without contributions. Dependent coverages for eligible dependents will also be continued for the same period without contributions. An employee who is on layoff at the date ofclosing will have his coverage continued for the remainder of the six (6) month period under Section 8 (d) (3) without contributions.
Section 9.	Pensions. Pensions in a closing situation are governed by Article 18 (Pensions), and its Section 14 provides:
Effective the date of this contract when the Company elects to close a plant permanently, an employee under age 60 whose employment is terminated as a result of such closing on or after the effective date of this Contract, may retire and receive a pension benefit figured as if he were age 60 based on his years and months of credited service at the date of such closing, provided he has thirty (30) or more full years of credited service at the date of such closing or who is at least age 55 with at least ten (10) or more full years of credited service at the date of such closing.
Section 10.	Vacation Pay. Vacation pay in a closing situation is governed by Section 4 of Article 17 (Vacations), which provides:
If an employee’s service is terminated for any reason after he has completed one year or more of service, he or his
—111 —
personal representative shall be paid vacation pay earned at the time of termination the amount of vacation pay earned but unpaid including vacation pay earned during his current qualifying year, even though he is not on the payroll at the end of the qualifying year.
Section 11.	ResumedOperations. If the Company should resume manufacturing glass containers ata plant covered by this Contract within five (5) years of the closing, the effective collective bargaining agreement will then be reactivated, and the employees who were terminated asaresultofthe closing would have recall rights to that plant.
ARTICLE 35
Disabled Employees
Section 1.	Employees disabled by reason of physical disabilities or infirmities shall, upon agreement between the proper Business Committee and the Management, receive a special rate so as to provide work for them.
Section 2.	An employee who is disabled by reason of occupational injury or illness and who is unable to work his regular job will be placed on any job acceptable to him which he is qualified to perform in line with his seniority (and qualifications), at a rate commensurate with the work performed.
Section 3.	Any problemsarising outof this Article will be settled on a local level between the Company and the Local Union. Any problems notsettled on a local level between the Company and the Local Union shall be referred to the International President, orhis designated representative, and the Vice President - Human Resources, or his designated representative for settlement. Ifno settlement is reached, the matter may be referred to arbitration by either party.
— 112 —
Section 4.	The Contract shall be administered in accordance with the applicable provisions of the Americans with Disabilities Act. Before taking action relative to this Section, the Company will meet with the Local Union and both parties will have sufficient opportunity to express their opinions regarding an anticipated action.
ARTICLE 36
Successors, Transferees and Assignees
This Contract shall be binding upon the parties hereto, their successors, transferees and assignees. In the event the Company sellsortransfersany plant, this Agreementshall remain in full force and effect and be binding upon the purchaser or transferee and the Company agrees it will include in the purchase agreement that this Contract is binding on the purchasee or transferee.
ARTICLE 37 Environmental Control Program
Section 1.	The Company and the Union will continue to cooperate in all legitimate labor-management activities in this area.
Section 2.	If an employee is required to miss work to conduct approved business underthis Article at the request ofthe Company, the employee will receive his regular base rate of pay for any regularly scheduled work hours spent on such business.
Section 3.	The employer agrees to pay actual lost time wages when an employee participates in protective league meetings, limited to two (2) employees per plant (P&M and AMD combined), attending up to two (2) meetings per year,
— 113 —
limited to two (2) days per meeting. Such employees shall be appointed by the Local Union,
ARTICLE 38 Separability
If any provisions of this Contract shall be held invalid or in conflict with any Federal or State law, the remainder of the Contract shall not be affected thereby.
ARTICLE 39 Operating Conditions
Section 1.	Except as otherwise specified in this Contract, the number of employees employed in any job shall be determined by the Company and the primary duties of each job shall be defined by each Plant Managerand a copy thereof given to the Local Union. Each Local Union shall have the right to discuss unreasonable work loads.
Section 2.	The number of employees in any plant shall be consistent with sound operating practices and proceduresand shall reflect reasonable work loads under prevailing local conditions. No employee will be assigned an unreasonable work load and any disputes are subject to the grievance and arbitration procedure.
ARTICLE 40
Local Agreements
Section 1.	All Local Agreements will remain in full force and effect during the term of this Contract, unless changed by mutual agreement between the Local Union and Local Management.
— 114 —
Section 2.	Machine, product, or equipment premiums which are in excess of the job rates of employees covered by this Contract shall become “personal” premiums and apply only to employees who are regularly receiving such personal premiums.
Section 3.	Should the Company discontinue such personal premiums it shall negotiate with the International Union and the Local Union the buy-out method that should be used fordiscontinuing same. If the Company and the International Union and the Local Union are unable to agree upon the amount or method of buy-out, this matter shall be submitted to arbitration upon the request of either party of the Contract.
ARTICLE 41
Subcontracting
Section 1.	The Company agrees that it will not sublet contracts for maintenance, repair and other work in and around the plants under this Contract if such work can be as satisfactorily and as economically performed by bargaining unit employees, provided the Company has the facilities for doing the work within the required timeVand available trained personnel who can perform the work.
The Company will continue its practice, when needed, of training Production and Maintenance employees who shall do all maintenance and repair work normally performed by them when time, requirements, skills and equipment are available, in thejudgment ofthe Company, to accomplish the work economically.
Section 2.	The Company recognizes the Union's desire to retain all work that can be performed by its members. No journeyman/apprentice will be displaced or on layoff during anytime that outside contractors are performing work atthe
— 115 —
Company's facility. When bargaining unit personnel are not trained in the skills needed to perform the work which would be subcontracted, then in such cases employees would be recalled from layoff on a one-for-one basis. In all other cases, there would be no one displaced or remaining on layoff prior to said subcontracting.
As a condition of contracting work, weekly or as necessary, the Department Head and the Local Union or designee will meet and review the contemplated plans for contracting out of work with the intent of giving primary consideration to fully utilizing the available services of Bargaining Unitemployees. During this review, the Company shall furnish a description in writing ofthe work to be performed, the special equipment to be utilized and explain to the Local Union or designee the extent and available cost information forthejoborjobs.the necessity for letting out the job or jobs and the time the job or jobs are to be done. If at the end of this review, the Company decides to contract out the job or jobs, they will advise in writing the Local Union or designee ofthe contractor to do the job. If the Company contracts out any work, then the Company will review with the Local Union or designee the details of the final contract. In the event the Department Head fails to comply with this Section, the Union shall have the right to file a grievance beginning with Step 3.
Any GMP members not based in the plant in which work is performed and are not employees ofthe Company shall be considered as subcontractors for purposes of this Article.
Priorto GMPTravel Crews performing work at a facility, Management will meet in advance with the Local Union or designee to discuss the nature and scope ofthe work to be performed. The Company shall furnish a written description of the work and equipment to be worked on and the time requirements ofthe project. The utilization of plant journey
—116 —
men and apprentices will also be discussed at that time. No journeymen/apprentices will be displaced as a result of Travel Crew members performing work on the premise.
Contracting Out For Non-Maintenance Work
Priorto the Company employing or contracting out any work normally and customarily performed by employees from departments other than the Maintenance Department, the Company shall meet with the Local Union and provide it with a written explanation for its desire to contract the work out.
The Company will give primary consideration to the full utilization of services of bargaining unit employees and will not contract out work that can reasonably be performed by the department employees involved, subject to the provisions of Section 1 of this Article.
If the Company, after meeting with the Local Union or designee, decides to contract out the work, the Union will have the right to file a grievance, beginning with Step 3 ofthe grievance procedure.
When it is necessary to make major tank repairs or to rebuild tanks, the Company will use available and qualified employees wherever possible to do this work as in the past.
Section 3.	Grievances arising over an alleged violation of this Article may be filed at Step 3 of the Grievance Procedure. If the Company agrees at any step ofthe Grievance Procedure that there has been a violation of this Article by Management or if the Arbitrator so determines, the employee or employees who would have performed the work will receive a reasonable award.
— 117 —
ARTICLE 42 Apprenticeship Programs
The federally approved apprenticeship programs currently in effect shall remain in effect throughout the term of this Contract along with its rules, regulations and apprenticeship committees.
The Company agrees to the concept of using the Apprenticeship Programs to train skilled employees in advance ofthe need for such. If the Company feels it is necessary to hire a journeyman from outside the current workforce and has exhausted ail possibilities of securing one through the local plant job posting procedures, they will review the Union's lists of available journeyman.
The Company will not hire any person in the journeyman classification without the equivalent to the documented classroom training and related work experience.
The Local Joint Apprenticeship Committee will review the credentials of applicant Journeymen, however, the final employment decision will be at the discretion of the Company.
ARTICLE 43 Wages
Section 1.	Effective April 1,2002, all base hourly wage rates will be increased forty cents (40(4) per hour. An additional five cents (50) will be added to grades 1-16.
Section 2.	Effective April 1,2003, all base hourly wage rates will be increased thirty-five cents (350) per hour.
Section 3.	Effective April 1,2004, all base hourly wage rates will be increased thirty-five cents (350) per hour.
— 118 —
Section 4.	In order to reduce the East-West rate differential, the Company will add to all base hourly wage rates over and aboveany general wage increase one cent(10) per hour effective April 1,2002, one cent (10) per hour effective April 1,2003, and one cent (10) per hour effective April 1,2004.
Section 5.	New-Hire Rates: Base hourly rate for newly-hired production employees shall be as follows: First year of employment, $2.00 less than rate set forth in Schedule A; Second year of employment, $1.00 less than rate set forth in Schedule A; Beginning the third year of employment, the applicable rate set forth in Schedule A shall apply. An employee transferred as a result of a plant closing shall not be considered a “newly-hired” employee. A “newly-hired” employee who is transferred or successfully bids to another job during the first year period shall receive $1.00 less than the qualified rate. A “newly-hired" employee who is transferred or successfully bids a second time during the second year shall receive the qualified rate. Employees rehired with two or more years or hired with two years experience at another glass plant will get qualified rate.
ARTICLE44 Cost of Living
Section 1.	During the term of this Contract, annual cost-of-living increases will be made on April 1,2003, and on April 1,2004, in accordance with the provisions of this Article.
Section 2.	Cost-of-living increases, if any, will be added by using the Consumer’s Price Index (1967 = 100 Urban Wage Earners and Clerical Workers (revised CPI-W)). After the percentage limitations for increases set forth below have been met, the amount of any cost-of-living increase will be a one cent (.01) per hour increase for each .5 of a point rise in
— 119 —
the Consumer’s Price Index by using the dates as set forth in this Article.
(a)	For the cost-of-living increase on April 1,2003, the base for the twelve month period (March, 2002, through February, 2003) will be the index for February, 2002, as reported in March, 2002. There will be no increase on April 1,2003, unless there has been six percent (6%) rise in the Consumer's Price Index on such base, and any increase on this date wili be computed by excluding initially said six percent (6%).
(b)	For the cost-of-living increase on April 1,2004, the base for the second twelve (12) month period (March, 2003, through February, 2004) will be the index for February, 2003, as reported in March, 2003. There will be no increase on April 1,2004, unless there has been a six percent (6%) rise in the Consumer's Price Index on such base, and any increaseon this date will be computed by excluding initially said six percent (6%).
Section 3.	Any cost-of-living increase required under this Article will be paid on the standard hourly base rate required by this Contract and will be paid for all purposes.
ARTICLE 45 Training
Section 1.	A new employee being hired into a P&M department will be given classroom and on-the-job training on safety procedures, Company rules, practices and operating procedures before he is assigned to regular duties.
— 120 —
Section 2.	When the Company introduces any new type of machinery or equipment, appropriate employees shall receive safety training and orientation pertaining to that machinery orequipment.
ARTICLE 46 Execution
This Contract entered into and effective as of Apri 11, 2002, by and between the Glass, Molders, Pottery, Plastics & Allied Workers International Union AFL-CIO, CLC, on behalf of itself as the International Union and as agent for and on behalf of its Local Unions, and Saint Gobain Container, Inc. for those plants listed, is hereby approved and accepted by the Joint Conference of the Union and the Company at their conference concluded this date, and is a Union Shop Contract through which the Company recognizesthe Union as the sole collectivebargainingagentforallemployeesdescribedinthis Contract, in accordance with existing State and Federal statutes.
Standard Tools
Electricians
(1)	Pliers -9" lineman
(2)	Pliers - 8" diagonal (wire cutter)
(3)	Pliers - channel lock #420
(4)	Pliers - 6" needle nose
(	5) Screwdriver - #6 standard
(6)	Screwdriver - #6 phillips
(	7) Adjustable wrench - 8"
(	8) Rule-6 ft. wooden (9) Flashlight-2 cell (10) Tool pouch and belt (11) Knife - standard electrician's model (12) Voltage tester (less than $5.00)
—121 —
Mechanics
( 1)	Adjustable wrench - 6"
( 2)	Adjustable wrench -10"
( 3)	1 set socket wrenches -1/4" to 3/4" one-half in. drive
(4)	1 set box end wrenches -1/4" to 3/4"
(5)	1 set box open end wrenches -1/4" to 3/4"
(6)1 ballpeen hammer
(	7) 1 hacksaw - no blades
(8)	1 channel lock pliers #420
(	9) 1 standard pliers - 8" to 10"
(10)	Steel tape measure - 6'
(11)	Screwdriver - #6 standard
(12)	Screwdriver-#6 phillips
(13)	Wire cutters - 6"
Machinists
(1)Ball peen hammer
(2)	Pliers - channel lock #420
(3)	Pliers - 8" or 10" standard
(4)	Micrometer-6"
(5)	Calipers - 8" slide measure ID and OD
(	6) Screwdriver - #6 standard
(	7) Screwdriver - #6 phillips
(	8) Adjustable wrench - 8"
(	9) 1 set of Allen wrenches -1/8" - 5/8"
(10)	1 center punch
(11)1 driftpunch -1/8"
(12)	1 driftpunch -1/4“
(13)	1 driftpunch - 3"
(14)	1 cold chisel -1/4"
(15)1 cold chisel-1/2"
(16)1 cold chisel-1"
(17)	Hacksaw
(18)	Steel tape measure - 6'
(19)	Needle nose pliers-6"
—122 —
Deco Machine Operators
(1)	Pliers - channel lock
(2)	Pliers - 8" or 10" standard
(	3) Screwdriver - #6 standard
(4)	Adjustable wrench - 8"
(5)	Ballpeen hammer
(6)	9/16" combination wrench
(7)	1/2" combination wrench
(8)	7/16" combination wrench
(9)	Knife-4" blade
— 123 —
SCHEDULEA P&M LOCAL NO. 39 EL MONTE, CALIFORNIA
Job	Current Effec. Effec. Effec.
Group Job Title Rate 4/1/02 4/1/03 4/1/04
2	Carton Machine	13.805 Operator	14.455	14.805	15.155
3	Carton Stitcher Operator Custodian General Laborer Selector	13.905	14.555	14.905	15.255
4	Carton Servitor Repacker Reselector Glass Reclaim Clerk Power Sweeper Operator 14.005	14.655	15.005	15.355
5	Offbearer	14.105	14.755	15.105	15.455
6	Resetect Servitor Yardkeeper Warehndler Cullet Handler 14.205	14.855	15.205	15.555
7	Checker Driver	14.305	14.955	15.305	15.655
8	Batch Handler Cullet Gen. Laborer Furnace Mold Cleaner Line Driver Label Machine Operator Automatic Paltetizer Operator Paper Servitor	14.405	15.055	15.405	15.755
9 10	Batch Mixer Checker I Forklift Driver Painter Batch Handler Unloader 14.505 Inspector	14.605	15.155 15.255	15.505 15.605	15.855 15.955
— 124 —
SCHEDULEA
P&M LOCAL NO. 39 EL MONTE, CALIFORNIA Maintenance Rates
Job
Group Job Title
Current Effec, Effec. Effec. Rate 4/1/02 4/1/03 4/1/04
15	15.245	15.895	16.245	16.595
16	15.395	16.045	16.395	16.745
Furnace Maintenance 15.530		17.685	18.035	18.385
Furnace Operator/ Unloader	16.500	17.100	17.450	17.800
Maintenance “A' **	19.110	20.610	20.960	21.310
** The rate listed above includes a forty-cents (40ft) one-time only skill adjustment effective 4/1/02.
— 125 —
SCHEDULE A P&M LOCAL NO. 54 PORT ALLEGANY, PENNSYLVANIA
Job	Current	Effec.	Effec.	Effec.
Group Job Title	Rate		4/1/02	4/1/03	4/1/04
2	Utility Laborer (Cleaner) 13.765	14.425	14.785	15.145
3	Carton Assembler Janitor Labor Pool Selector I Packer Reselect / Packer	13.865	14,525	14.885	15.245
5	Loader-Warehouse 14.065	14.725	15.085	15.445
6	Pallet Loader Automatic Bulk Palletizer Operator Maintenance Utility Carton Assembly Crew Leader	14.165 14.825		15.185	15.545
7	Automatic Case Pallettzer14.265 14.925		15.285	15.645
8	Operator Batch Can Positioner Carton Unloader - Lift Truck Operator Lift Truck Operator Painter Pallet Loader Driver Rubbish Collector Power Sweeper Carton Unloader Crew Leader	14.365 15.025		15.385	15.745
9	Material Handler (Unloader) Loading Crew Leader Line Attendant	14.465	15.125	15.485	15.845
13	Garage Mechanic*	15.085	16.095	16.455	16.815
14	Furnace Maintenance & Repair Crew Leader	14.950	15.610	15.970	16.330
15	Compressor Operator 15.070	15.730	16.090	16.450
	Chief Garage Mechanic* 15.690	16.700	17.060	17.420
	Furnace Operator	16.500	17.110	17.470	17.830
* A forty-cents (400) skill adjustment applicable to this job.
— 126 —
SCHEDULE A
P&M LOCAL NO. 87 SEATTLE, WASHINGTON
Job	Current Effec.	Effec.	Effec.
Group Job Title	Rate 4/1/02		4/1/03	4/1/04
2	Carton Assembler	13.835 14.485	14.835	15.185
3	Janitor AAP Selector (0-1000} Selector / Packing Department	13.935 14.585	14.935	15.285
5	Pallet Loader - Packing 14,135 14.785	15.135	15.485
6	L.T.O. - Packing Relief Carton Assembler/Handler Relief Selector - Packing L.T.O, - Mold Department 14.23514.885	15.235	15.585
7	L.T.O. - Tractor Driver - Yard & Batch Dept. L.T.O. - Warehouse Department	14.335 14.985	15.335	15.685
8	Mold Cleaner and Polisher Painter Batch Mixer	14.435 15.085	15.435	15.785
9	Mold Cleaner Lead Warehouse Lead Lead Inspector	14.535 15.185	15.535	15.885
10	Quality Assurance Lab Person Quality Assurance Person Tank Maintenance Person 14.635 15.285	15.635	15.985
	Maintenance Person III 14.685 15.335	15.685	16.035
	Maintenance Person I* 16.440 17.44	17.79	18.14
	Maintenance Lead*	16.565 17.565	17.915	18.265
	Furnace Tender	16.50 17.10	17.45	17.80
* A forty-cents (400) skill adjustment applicable to this job.
— 127 —
SCHEDULEA P&M LOCAL NO. 96 DUNKIRK, INDIANA
Job	Current Effec. Effec. Effec.
Group Job Title Rate 4/1/02 4/1/03 4/1/04
2	Janitor	13.805	14.465	14.825	15.185
3	Inspector-Packer and Carton Assembly General Laborer	13.905	14.565	14.925	15.285
4	Storeroom Helper	14.005	14.665	15.025	15.385
5	Tank Maintenance Apprentice	14.105	14.765	15.125	15.485
	Pallet Loader Case Packer				
	Attendant				
6	Cullet Handler -Basement Utility Driver	14.205	14.865	15.225	15.585
7	Forklift Truck Operator	14.305	14.965	15.325	15.685
	Automatic Palletizer Operator				
	Packing Room Unit Load Handler				
	Carpenter Helper				
	Plant Lubricator - Laborer				
	General Plant Driver				
8	Batch Mixer/ Raw Material Handler Mold Cleaner	14.405	15.065	15.425	15.785
9	Quality Control Checker	14.505	15.165	15.525	15.885
10	Test Room Inspector Carton Assembly Utility	14.605	15.265	15.625	15.985
11	Mold Clean & Polish Leader	14.705	15.365	15.725	16.085
12	Tank Maintenance 2nd Class Mold Shop Inspector	14.805	15.465	15.825	16.185
14	Carpenter 1« Class*	15.490	16.500	16.860	17.220
15	Tank Maintenance	15.810	16.820	17.180	17.540
1* Class*
Truck Mechanic 1*' Class*
* A forty-cents (400) skill adjustment applicable to this job.
— 128 —
SCHEDULEA P&M LOCAL NO.111 CARTERET, NEW JERSEY
Job	Current Effec. Effec. Effec.
Group Job Title Rate 4/1/02 4/1/03 4/1/04
2	Carton Assembler	13.765	14.425 14.525	14.785 14.885	15.145 15.245
	Janitor			
	Sweeper-Warehouse 13.865			
3	Line Attendant Selector Packer			
4	General Laborer -	13.965 Cold End	14.625	14.985	15.345
5	Pallet Loader	14.065 General Laborer- Maintenance Checker Carton General Laborer Furnace Rebuild Laborer Automatic Bulk Palletizer	14.725	15.085	15.445
6	Unloader-Decolorizer 14.165	14.825	15.185	15.545
7	Mould Cleaner	14.265 Payloader Operator Labeling Machine Operator	14.925	15.285	15.645
8	Mould Cleaner & Storage 14.365 Group Leader Shipping Warehouseman Painter Lift Truck Operator Maintenance Helper Corrugated & Supply Receiver	15.025	15.385	15.745
9	Laboratory Technician 14.465 Ware Auditor	15.125	15.485	15.845
	Batch & Furnace	16.50 Operator	17.11	17.47	17.83
— 129 —
<1
SCHEDULE A	<1
P&M LOCAL NO. 117	d
LINCOLN, ILLINOIS	(
Job	Current	t Effec.	Effec. 4/1/03	Effec. 4/1/04
Group Job Title	Rate	4/1/02		
2	Carton Assembler 13.765 Janitor	14.425	14.785	15.145
3	Selector 1 Packer 13.865	14.525	14.885	15.245	<
5	Palletizer	14.065	14.725	15.065	15.445	j
7	Lift Truck Operator 14.265 (Warehouse) Mould Cleaner 1 Polisher Painter Line Driver (Packing)	14.925	15.285	15.645 \
9	LabTester	14.465	15.125 Line Monitor / Advisor Quality Control Production Auditor		15.485	15.845
10 Batch Unloader	14.565	15.225	15.585	15.945
14 Lead Carton Handler 114.950 Scheduler TankOperator	16.50	15.610 17.110	15.970 17.470	16.330 17.830
— 130 —
SCHEDULEA P&M LOCAL NO. 166 DOLTON, ILLINOIS
Job	Current Effec. Effec. Effec.
Group Job Title Rate	4/1/02 4/1/03 4/1/04
2	Carton Assembler 13.765	14.425	14.785	15.145
3	Selector Packer	13.865	14.525	14.885	15.245
4	General Labor Cold End Loader Cartons	13.965	14.625	14.985	15.345
5	PalletLoader	14.065	14.725	15.085	15.445
6	General Laborer- Maintenance Unloader Furnace Rebuild Labor Automatic Palletizer 14.165	14.825	15.185	15.545
7	Operator Utility Worker - Batch & Furnace MouldCleaner	14.265	14.925		15.285	15.645
8	Payloader Operator Clerk - Shipping Lift Truck Operator Mould Cleaner& Storage Storekeeper	14.365	15.025	15.385	15.745
9	Ware Auditor	14.465	15.125	15.485	15.845
10	Cullet Handler - Unloader Production Clerk Laboratory Technician 14.565	15.225	15.585	15.945
12	Mould Inspector	14.765	15.425	15.785	16.145
	Batch & Furnace Operator	16.50	17.11	17.47	17.83
— 131 —
SCHEDULEA P&M LOCAL NO. 222 HENDERSON, NORTH CAROLINA
Job		Current Effec.		Effec.	Effec.
Group Job Title		Rate	4/1/02	4/1/03 4/1/04	
1	Accumulating Table Packer	13.665	14.325	14.685	15.045
2	Box Maker	13.765	14.425	14.785	15.145
3	Single Line Inspector Inspector Packer Janitor Re-Inspector Utility (Packing)	13.865	14.525	14.885	15.245
5	Yard Person Re-Stacker Pallet Loader	14.065	14.725	15.085	15.445
6	Materials Unloader	14.165	14.825	15.185	15.545
7	Forklift Driver	14.265	14,925	15.285	15.645
	Utility Person (Mould Shop) Automatic Palletizer Operator				
8	Utility Person (Melting) Utility (Maintenance)	14.365	15.025	15.385	15.745
9	Line Monitor Quality Checker	14.465	15.125	15.485	15.845
10	Carton Receiver-Checker	14.565	15.225	15.585	15.945
	Mechanic*	15.080	16.09	16.45	16.81
	Batch Furnace	16.50	17.110	17.470	17.830
Operator
* A forty-cents (40(6) skill adjustment applicable to this job.
— 132 —
SCHEDULEA P&M LOCAL NO. 253 RUSTON, LOUISIANA
Job	Current Effec.		Effec.	Effec.
Group Job Title	Rate		4/1/02	4/1/03	4/1/04
1	Utility	13.665 Accumulating Table Packer	14.325	14.685	15.045
2	General Plant	13.765 Maintenance Utility Carton Assembler/Box Maker Janitor Dock Helper	14.425	14.785	15.145
3	Single Line Inspector 13.865 Re-Inspector Inspector-Packer	14.525	14.885	15.245
5	Pallet Loader	14.065 Restacker Utility-Melting	14.725	15.085	15.445
6	Raw Material	14.165 Unloader/Utility	14.825	15.185	15.545
7	Painter - Utility	14.265 Forklift Operator (Warehouse) Line Driver (Packing) Debulk Operator Mould Cleaner I Polisher	14.925	15.285	15.645
	Quality Control Lab Technician Automatic Bulk/Carton Pailetizer			
9	Quality Checker 14.465 (Line Monitor i Auditor) Quality Control/ Lab Technician	15.125	15.485	15.845
11	Mechanic (Machine Shop)*	15.280	16.29	16.65	17.01
	Furnace Operator 16.500	17.110	17.470	17.830
* A forty-cents (400) skill adjustment applicable to this job.
— 133 —
SCHEDULE“A” P&M Local 254 - Madera, California
Job		Effective Rates			Effec. 4/1/04
		Current Rate	Effec. 4/1/02	Effec. 4/1/03 -	
1	Janitor	13.77	14.420	14.77	15.12
2	Janitor	13.86	14.510	14.860	15.210
3	Selector/ Boxmaker	13.95	14.600	14.950	15.300
	General Laborer(B&F)				
4	General Laborer (Maintenance)	14.045	14.695	15.045	15.395
5	Laborer-Cullet Handler	14.13	14.780	15.130	15.480
	Case Packer Operator				
	Storeroom Clerk				
6	Floor Person Oiler	14.24	14.890	15.240	15.590
7	Raw Material Handler	14.30	14.950	15.300	15.650
	Industrial Truck Operator Mold Polisher, Unitizer				
8		14.40	15.050	15.400	15.750
9	Warehouse Person 14.505		15.155	15.505	15.855
	Inspector/Auditor, Line Monitor				
10		14.605	15.255	15.605	15.955
11		14.705	15.355	15.705	16.055
12		14.83	15.480	15.830	16.180
13	Hot Repairand Relief				
	Person	14.89	15.540	15.890	16.240
14		15.015	15.665	16.015	16.365
15 Batchmixerand					
	Furnace	15.135	15.785	16.135	16.485
— 134 —
Repair Person
16	15.255	15.905	16.255	16.605
17	15.38	15.980	16.330	16.680
18	15.50	16.100	16.450	16.800
19	15.635	16.235	16.585	16.935
20	15.765	16.365	16.715	17.065
Batchmixerand Furnace Tender	16.50	17.150	17.500	17.850
Batch & Furnace Leadman	17.00	17.65	18.00	18.35
•I
— 135 —
SCHEDULEA
P&M Local 39 El Monte, CA Maintenance Rates
Job Group Job Title	Current Rate	Effec. Effec. Effec. 4/1/02 4/1/03 4/1/04
General Plant Maint.	19.11	20.61 20.96 21.31
Apprentice Maintenance		
0-1000 Hours	16.21	17.71 18.06 18.41
1001-2000 Hours	16.46	17.98 18.31 18.66
2001-3000 Hours	16.71	18.21 18.56 18.91
3001-4000 Hours	16.96	18.46 18.81 19.16
4001-5000 Hours	17.21	18.71 19.06 19.41
5001 -6000 Hours	17.46	18.96 19.31 19.66
6001-7000 Hours	17.71	19.21 19.56 19.91
7001-8000 Hours	17.96	19.46 19.81 20.16
— 136 —
SCHEDULEA
P&M Local 54 -Port Allegany, PA P&M Local 96 - Dunkirk, IN P&M Local 111 - Carteret, NJ P&M Local 117 - Lincoln, IL P&M Local 166- Dolton, IL P&M Local 222 - Henderson, NC P&M Local 253 - Ruston, LA MAINTENANCE RATES
Job Group Job Title	Current Effec.		Effec. Effec. 4/1/03 4/1/04
	Rate	4/1/02	
General Plant Maint. Journeyman Electro-Mechanic	19.00	20.51	20.87 21.23
Apprentice Entry Level	15.06	16.57	16.93 17.29
30 Day-1000 Hours	15.26	16.77	17.13 17.49
1001-2000 Hours	15.36	16.87	17.23 17.59
2001-300 Hours	15.46	16.97	17.33 17.69
3001-4000 Hours	15.56	17.07	17.43 17.79
4001-5000 Hours	15.71	17.22	17.58 17.94
5001-6000 Hours	16.11	17.62	17.98 18.34
6001-7000 Hours	16.51	18.02	18.38 18.74
7001-8000 Hours	16.91	18.42	18.78 19.14
— 137 —
SCHEDULE A P&M LOCAL NO. 87 SEATTLE, WASHINGTON MAINTENANCE RATES
Job	Current Effec. Effec. Effec.
Group Job Title Rate 4/1/02 4/1/03 4/1/04
Journeyed Maintenance Mechanic
18.39	19.89 20.24 20.59
Apprentice Rates
Entry	14.43	15.93	16.28	16.63
30 Days -1000 Hours	14.63	16.13	16.48	16.83
1001-2000 Hours	14.73	16.23	16.58	16.93
2001 -3000 Hours	14.83	16.33	16.68	17.03
3001-4000 Hours	14.93	16.43	16.78	17.13
4001 -5000 Hours	15.08	16.58	16.93	17.28
5001-6000 Hours	15.48	16.98	17.33	17.68
6001-7000 Hours	15.88	17.38	17.73	18.08
7001-8000 Hours	16.28	17.78	18.13	18.48
— 138 —
SCHEDULED” P&M Local 254 - Madera, California Maintenance Rates
Job	Current		Effec. 4/1/02	Effec. 4/1/03	Effec. 4/1/04
	Rate <			
Maintenance Leadman 19.565		21.065	21.415	21.765
General Plant Maintenance	19.065	20.565	20.915	21.265
Journeyman General Plant Maintenance				
Apprentice 0-30 days	14.57	16.07	16.42	16.77
30 days -1000 hrs.	14.67	16.17	16.52	16.87
1001 hrs.-2000 hrs.	14.77	16.27	16.62	16.97
2001 hrs.-3000 hrs.	14.87	16.37	16.72	17.07
3001 hrs.-4000 hrs.	14.97	16.47	16.82	17.17
4001 hrs. - 5000 hrs.	15.12	16.62	16.97	17.32
5001 hrs. - 6000 hrs.	15.27	16.77	17.12	17.47
6001 hrs. - 7000 hrs.	15.42	16.92	17.27	17.62
7001 hrs. - 8000 hrs.	15.57	17.07	17.42	17.77
Warehouse Leadman 14.875 15.525 15.875 16.225
— 139 —
GLASS, MOLDERS, POTTERY, PLASTICS & ALLIED WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION (AFL-CIO, CLC)
PRODUCTION & MAINTENANCE DEPARTMENTS
On behalf of itself as the International Union as agent for and on behalf of its Local Unions covered by this Contract.
Signed this 1” day of April, 2002 by:
Joseph Mitchell, Sr.
International Secretary-Treasurer
Jesse Garcia
International Vice President
John Ryan
Director of Research & Education
Randy J. Gould
Executive Officer
Walter F. Thorn
Executive Officer
Rickey Hunter
International Representative
— 140 —
Hector Sanchez
Local #39
Rick Wayman
Local #96
Charles Brown
Local #87
Denny Moses
Local #54
Robert Gregory
Local #222
Clara Cole
Local #111
Mike Gilleland
Local #254
Lee Breazeale
Local #253
Ed Campbell
Local #117
Winstone Davis Local #166
— 141 —
SAINT-GOBAIN CONTAINERS
On behalf of Saint-Gobain Containers, signed this 1“ day of April, 2002 by:
Thomas L. McKnight
Director, Labor Relations
James Harrigan
Manager, Labor Relations
Rich O’Neill
Area Manufacturing Manager
Scott Grau
Manager, Compensation and Benefits
Walter Lanford
Consultant
Ed Block
Manager, Human Resources
Lincoln, IL
Richard Krooswyk
Manager, Human Resources
Dolton, IL
Julie Curtis
Manager, Human Resources Ruston, LA
— 142 —
Max Long
Manager, Human Resources Dunkirk, IN
David F. Edwards
Manager, Human Resources Henderson, NC
Jason L. Noble
Manager, Human Resources
Seattle, WA
Barry S. Healy
Manager, Human Resources Port Allegany, PA
Ginny Swanson
Manager, Human Resources
Carteret, NJ
Yolanda James
Manager, Human Resources
El Monte, CA
Rich Pelisari
Manager, Human Resources
Madera, CA
— 143 —