AGREEMENT AND WORKING RULES
between
CEMENT MASONS
LOCAL UNION #692 - AREA #406 GARY, INDIANA AND VICINITY (O.P.C.M.I.A.)
and
NORTHWEST INDIANA
CONTRACTORS ASSOCIATION
June 1, 2009 - May 31, 2012
CEMENT MASONS LOCAL UNION 692 - AREA #406 610 E. Main Street Griffith, Indiana 46319 Central Office Phone : (317) 972-4720
Rpt. Hours: 7:00 AM - 4:30 PM Answering Service - 24 Hours
Tom Kleban, Business Representative
Phone : (219) 771-0766
ARTICLE I
PREAMBLE AND DECLARATION OF PRINCIPLES
This Agreement entered into between the below names parties, engaged primarily in the building and construction industry, is for the purpose of preventing strikes and lockouts, and facilitating a peaceful adjustment of all grievances and disputes that may arise between the EMPLOYER and the employee in the building industry in the territory covered by this Agreement as outlined in Article X, Section 5.
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT, made and entered into this First (1st) day of June, 2009 and will expire the thirty-first (31st) day of May, 2012 by and between the NORTHWEST INDIANA CONTRACTORS ASSOCIATION of Gary, Indiana and vicinity, acting solely as Negotiating Agent for and on behalf of its present and future members, hereinafter, for convenience, be referred to as the "EMPLOYER," FIRST PARTIES, and the CEMENT MASONS LOCAL NO. 692 - AREA NO. 406 O.P. & C.M.I.A. of Gary, Indiana, and vicinity hereinafter, for convenience, referred to as the "UNION" and also referred to as the "BARGAINING UNIT," second party.
WITNESSETH
The Preamble and Declaration of Principles, contained in Article I hereof have been adopted and made a part of Agreement and have been affirmed as the principles under which the contracting parties agree to operate, based upon the understanding that both parties have a common interest in furthering the construction industry by establishing a working system for harmonious relations necessary to improve and further the relationship between the Employer, Union and the public which we serve.
NOW, THEREFORE, It is hereby agreed as follows:
ARTICLE II
Section 1.	Jurisdiction. The following work shall be placed under the jurisdiction of the part of the second part insofar as not inconsistent with awards made by the National Joint Board for Settlement of Jurisdictional Disputes of area practice. Within the property line, all concrete construction in and about buildings, silos, elevators, smoke stacks, curbs and gutters, sidewalks, streets and roads, paving, alley and roofs, or mass or reinforced concrete slabs and all flat surfaces of cement, including pervious concrete, rock asphalt, the laying and spreading and finishing of all types of bituminous concrete, including all types of asphalt floors and pavements; the operation and control of all types of Vacuum Mats used in the drying of concrete floors in preparing same for finish; the operation of power driven floats and troweling machines; the
2
laying and drying of concrete floors in preparing same for finish; the operation of power driven floats and troweling machines; the laying and finishing of mastic flooring, and all other types of resilient floor covering, if laid free-handed; the finishing or washing of all concrete construction, using any color pigment when mixed with cement, mosaic and nail coat and gunniting, whether done by brush, broom, trowel, float or any other including the sawing, and scoring of concrete other than for demolition purposes, shall be the work of the cement mason; the rodding, spreading, and tamping of all concrete, and the spreading and finishing of all top material, sills, coping, steps, stairs, and risers, and running all cement, magnesite composition, oxide chloride and plastic material 6” base or less; all preparatory work on concrete and construction to be finished or rubbed, such as cutting of nails wires, wall ties, etc.; patching, brushing, chipping and brushhammering, rubbing or grinding if done by machine or carborundum stone of all concrete construction; setting of all stripes, screeds, stakes, and grades and curb forms; all glass set in concrete the laying and finishing of Gypsum Material Roof; all dry-packing grouting and finishing in connection with setting all machinery, such as engines, pumps, generators, air compressors, tanks, that are set on concrete foundations; all cement-mix dry-packing, including tilt-up concrete construction; all prefabricated and prestressed concrete construction on the job sites, such as sidewalks, steps, floor slabs, beams, joists, walls and columns, also the screeding, finishing, rubbing, grouting, pointing, and patching of same; the curing of finished concrete, wherever necessary, whether by chemical compound or otherwise; the spreading, screeding, darbying, trowel finishing of all types of magnesium oxychloride granolithic or terrazzo composition floors, hand grinding or machine grinding, the preparation and installation of ground or base courses, steps, and cove base; the waterproofing of all such work as by Thoroseal, Ironite and Plaster Weld, irrespective of the tools, method or colors utilized or the type of base to which material may be applied; and the setting of all expansion material. Members of the bargaining unit shall perform all work pertaining to the caulking and scaling of all expansion joints, saw-cuts or hand tooled joints of all concrete construction, regardless of the material, process, or tools used to perform the work. All work pertaining to the curing of all concrete and cement grouts, whether by chemical compounds, epoxies, or otherwise, shall be part of the jurisdiction of the Cement Masons. Also, members of the bargaining unit shall perform all work pertaining to the stamping, stenciling, staining, acid-etching, coloring, dusting, finishing, washing, curing, and release agents for all concrete coatings and toppings. All epoxy fiber fabric wrapping of concrete, and all concrete polishing systems of new concrete.
(The above operations are to, be designed as Cement Masons Work.)
Section 2.	Recognition. The EMPLOYER recognizes the UNION as the sole and exclusive bargaining representative for the employees in this bargaining unit, with respect to wages, hours of work, and all other terms and conditions of employment for employees in this bargaining unit.
Section 3.	Equal Representation. The UNION, realizing its duty under the Labor-Management Relations Act of 1947, as amended, and to the extent that it is the exclusive representative, recognizes that it must represent all employees in this bargaining unit equally, without discrimination, irrespective of membership or non-membership in the UNION.
3
ARTICLE III HOURS OF WORK, OVER-TIME AND PAYMENT
Section 1.	Work Day & Work Week.
(a)	Eight (8) hours between 7:00 A.M. and 3.30 P.M. shall constitute a regular work day.
(b)	All employers shall call the Business Agent for Cement Masons whenever they are needed, for all work covered in this agreement, and forty-eight (48) hours notice in advance in the peak of the work season.
(c)	Flexible starting time between 6:00 A.M. and 9:00 A.M. if the whole job starts at the same time, with approval of the Business Agent.
Section 2.	Over-Time Payment. All work performed other than during the regularly scheduled work day shall be paid for at one and one-half (1 1/2) the regular straight time rate of pay. This shall include all work performed before 7:00 A.M. or after 3:30 P.M. Monday through Friday. Saturdays shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half (I l/2). All work performed on Sundays and the following holidays shall be paid at double time: New Year’s Day, Decoration Day, Fourth of July, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day, and Christmas Day, or a day designated as one of the foregoing holidays. Lunch period shall be a full one-half hour period occurring between 12:00 Noon and 1:00 P.M., otherwise the premium rate of pay shall prevail for the lunch period. Employees of this bargaining unit shall not be docked for supper hour when working overtime. No employee shall work more than six (6) hours without an opportunity to eat. If there is more than one (1) mason on the job, the supper period shall be staggered so that the job will not be left unmanned, at the discretion of the supervisor. If an employee should work without a supper hour he she shall receive one-half (1/2) hour extra pay. The wage and fringe benefit package shall be paid on an hours worked basis.
Section 3. Shift Work. When work is carried on in two (2) or three (3) continuous shifts of eight (8) hours each, at least five (5) consecutive working day's regular straight time rate shall apply for work performed during regular shift hours. Any employee working shift work shall not receive less than eight (8) hours’ pay per shift, and employees on the second 'and third shift shall be paid for their lunch hour. There shall be a different working foreman on duty on each shift. If the work does not go for five (5) consecutive working day's the employee shall be paid for the five (5) full day's pay. On slip form or slide work, where employees work on two (2) twelve (12) hour shifts, hours of the work shall be from 12:00 Noon to 12:00 Midnight, and from 12:00 Midnight to 12:00 Noon.
Section 4.	No Work on Labor Day. No work shall be performed on Labor Day, except in the case of an emergency, and then only by mutual consent of both parties.
Section 5.	Wage Payment. Wages shall be paid weekly on the job not less than fifteen (15) minutes before regular quitting time each week or on the regular pay day, such pay to be by currency or check. Discharged employees shall be paid in full at the time of discharge. Any shortage due to overtime or other errors must be sent to the local Union's office, or postmarked no later than twenty-four (24) hours after it occurs. Failure to comply will result in a two (2) hour penalty to the contractor for every twenty-four (24) hours late.
4
Section 6.	Report for Work Pay. Employees of this bargaining unit who report for work pursuant to the express or implies order of the employer but who are not put to work for any reason except weather conditions, fire, accident, or other unavoidable causes, shall receive at least two (2) hours pay, and shall be paid for all time spent on the job, if required to remain for longer than two (2) hours, Employees of this bargaining unit called to a job between 8:00 A.M. and 12:00 Noon and any employee working any part of the afternoon shall receive a full days pay. If an employee is notified to report for work by 2-30 P.M. of the previous day and when concrete is being poured before 8:00 A.M. all employees working on said pour shall be paid for the time the pouring commences. If an employee arrives late for the job, employee shall be paid from the time of arrival. Employees who are working shall not be docked because pour materials are not ready to finish.
ARTICLE IV
WORKING CONDITIONS
Section 1.	Designation of Working Foreman. On any job where two (2) or more men are working one (1) shall be appointed working foreman by EMPLOYER. No Cement Mason shall take orders from anyone other than a Cement Mason Foreman.
Section 2.	Foreman. The foreman cannot use tools on any job, which has six (6) or more men employed. There shall be no working foreman on any job that has six (6) or more men. The following ratio shall be followed to determine the number of foreman: one (1) to ten (10) employees; one (1) foreman thereafter, one (1) additional foreman for every ten (10) additional employees.
(a) General Foreman. There shall be a general foreman assigned after there are three (3) or more foreman assigned. His responsibility shall be to coordinate the entire job only.
Section 3.	Travel Expense and Board beyond Territorial Scope of Agreement. On jobs located outside the territorial scope of this Agreement, the EMPLOYER shall be required to pay employees of this bargaining unit detailed to work out of this jurisdiction, in addition to the wages herein provided, travel expenses to and from such job and board of employees assigned to such a job, provided that the EMPLOYER shall not be required to pay travel expenses of an employee who voluntarily quit the job. Board expenses shall be mutually agreed upon by the parties to this Agreement before the employees leave for the job.
Section 4.	Floating or Troweling Machines. Whenever a floating machine or a troweling machine is operated on any floor, sidewalk, dock, or other plastic material is being places and finished, one (1) or more employees classified as Cement Masons shall hand-float or hand-trowel after each and every operation of such machine including the final operation of the same. In addition, sufficient employees shall be maintained to precede such machine or machines in order to and that a proper slab be made. Such machines shall be operated by an employee classified as a Cement Mason and shall not be operated after one (1) or more masons have been sent home. This section may be modified by mutual agreement between the Business Agent and Employer.
5
Section 5.	Trowel Finishing. Floors that are to be trowel finished shall not contain any material such as chloride or pozzilith or any fast-setting materials except upon advance notice to the cement mason employee. Chloride shall not be used if the outside temperature is 70 degrees or above.
Safety Equipment. Employees required to use grinding machines shall be furnished respirators, which the EMPLOYER shall sterilize before re-issue to another man. Contractor shall also provide rubber gloves, safety glasses, or any other OSHA approved safety Equipment necessary to perform the work.
Section 7.	Magnesite. All Magnesite composition installation work shall be done under the direction and in the 'presence of a competent and qualified Magnesite Composition Cement Mason.
Section 8.	Uncompleted Work. No work shall be left standing over night to be finished the following day, except by rain. If in the event that the said Employer wished that said work be completed the following day by means of grinding, patching, troweling (by hand or machine), then the employer shall employ the same number of Cement Masons that performed those operations the preceding day. The work that the Cement Mason performs will be paid for at the premium rate of pay for the number of hours that it takes to complete said job.
Section 8. (a) Machines. Whenever a laser screed, mechanical straight edge, multiple troweling machine, curb machine, or similar type machine replacing Cement Masons' work is to be used on any type of work under the jurisdiction of the Cement Masons Local #692 - Area #406, it shall be manned by the Cement Masons, if available and qualified.
Section 9.	Pouring Concrete. One (1) or more Cement Masons shall be on the job at all times when concrete is being 'poured.
(a). Heating of Concrete. There shall be no heating of concrete, unless there is danger of freezing, or by the mutual consent of both parties involved. When heat is going to be used, it shall be placed so that the area where concrete is being worked on will be evenly heated.
Section 10.	Lighting. Whenever employees are working at night, the EMPLOYER shall supply amply light to permit the employee to work safely.
Section 11.	Tool Storage. A change house and lockable tool storage will be provided when required to leave tools on the job.
ARTICLE V APPRENTICESHIP
Section 1. Apprenticeship and Training Program. The Apprenticeship and Training Program is an organized, written plan embodying the terms and conditions of employment and training, and
6
supervision of one or more apprentices, designated as Apprenticeship Standards for Cement Masons Local #692 - Area #406.
There will be a State Joint Apprenticeship Committee consisting of the "Board of Trustees" of the Agreement and Declaration of Trust.
There shall be an Area Joint Apprenticeship and Training Committee, with equal representation from the Employers and the Union, and this Committee shall administer the apprenticeship and training programs for its Area. The "Duties of the Area Joint Apprenticeship Committee" are written in the Apprenticeship Standards.
The Area Joint Apprenticeship Committee shall have full power to act on matters pertaining to the transferring of apprentices from one job to another in order to provide diversity of training and work opportunities.
One (1) apprentice shall be allowed each employer when said employer has four (4) or more journeyman Cement Masons. Employers must accept a registered apprentice when available. The ratio may be waved by the local joint apprenticeship committee for a temporary period of time if the need arises. The State Board of Trustees Coordinator shall be notified as to the wavered ratio and the period of time it is to be in effect. All apprentices must attend all schooling and/or off-the-job training required by the relevant Area Joint Apprenticeship Training Committee.
The Apprenticeship Standards shall be registered with the Bureau of Apprenticeship and Training, Employment Training Administration, U.S. Department of Labor.
Section 2. Apprenticeship Wages.
1st	Period	0	to 800 Hrs	- 60% of Journeyman Rate
2nd	Period	801	to 1600 Hrs	- 70% of Journeyman Rate
3rd	Period	1601	to 2400 Hrs	- 75% of Journeyman Rate
4th	Period	2401	to 3200 Hrs	- 80% of Journeyman Rate
5th	Period	3201	to 4000 Hrs	- 85% of Journeyman Rate
6th	Period	4001	to 4800 Hrs	- 90% of Journeyman Rate
7th	Period	4801	to 5600 Hrs	- 95% of Journeyman Rate
When classes are in		session	during the school, the apprentice(s) must satisfactorily complete	
related technical training prior to receiving period wage increases. Classes will be held from September through May each school year for a minimum of 144 hours per year; for 3 years, totaling a minimum of 432 hours over the term of apprenticeship.
Section 3. Apprenticeship & Training Trust Fund.
The parties’ signatory hereto to participate and be a party to the "AGREEMENT AND DECLARATION OF TRUST - OP & CMIA LOCAL UNION #692 CEMENT MASON APPRENTICE TRAINING AND JOURNEYMAN RETRAINING EDUCATION FUND". Each signatory party will receive a copy of the AGREEMENT AND DECLARATION OF TRUST. The AGREEMENT AND DECLARATION OF TRUST and the Fund are created, Established and maintained, for the purpose of providing such benefits as now are, or hereafter
7
may be, authorized and permitted by law for Participants and in accordance with its provisions written within and in the Apprenticeship Program, Journeyman Upgrading Training Program and in the Funds other rules and regulations authorized and/or created within the AGREEMENT AND DECLARATION OF TRUST. It is understood, however, that the Journeyman Upgrading Training Program will be created and maintained at the discretion of the Trustees of the Fund, as opposed to the Apprenticeship Training Program whose existence is mandated by this Trust Agreement.
All Employers subject to the terms of this agreement shall contribute the amount of monies specified as the Apprenticeship Fund under Appendix A, Wage and Benefits. Entitled Wage & Benefit Contributions shall be made in a manner prescribed by the BOARD OF TRUSTEES of the AGREEMENT AND DECLARATION OF TRUST but shall be reported upon the same reporting form as is used in reporting contributions to other fringe benefits and Employers may be privileged to make contributions to separate funds in a single payment by bank check.
Should the APPRENTICESHIP PROGRAM, for any reason, be abandoned at the State level, the contributions called for herein shall be disbursed in the manner set forth in the most current Trust Document.
ARTICLE VI
NO DISCRIMINATION EQUAL BENEFITS - EQUAL OBLIGATION
Section 1.	Membership in Union not Compulsory. Membership in the Union is not compulsory. Employees have the right to join, not join, maintain or drop their membership in the Union, as they see fit. Neither party shall exert any pressure on or discriminate against an employee in regards to such matters.
Section 2.	Equal Obligation to Contribute. Membership in the Union is separate, apart and distinct from the assumption by one of his equal obligation to the extent that he 'receives equal benefits. The Union is required under this Agreement to represent all of the employed in the bargaining unit fairly and equally without regard as to whether or not an. employee is a member of the Union. The terms of this Agreement have been made for all employed in the bargaining unit and not only for members in the Union, and the Agreement has been executed by the EMPLOYER after it has satisfied itself that the Union is the choice of a majority of the employees in the bargaining unit. Accordingly it is fair that each employee in the bargaining unit pays his own way and assumes his fair share of the obligation along with the grant of equal benefits contained in the Agreement.
Section 3.	Service Fee Requirement. In accordance with the policy set forth under Sections I and 2 of this Article, all employees shall, as a condition of continued employment, pay to the Union, the employees, exclusive collective bargaining representative, an amount of money equal to that paid by other employees in the bargaining unit who are members of the Union, which shall be limited to an amount of money equal to the Union's usual and regular initiation fees and its regular and usual dues. For existing employees, such payments shall commence seven (7) days
8
following the date of execution of this Agreement and for new employed, the payments shall commence seven (7) days following, the date of employment.
Section 4.	Agency Shop Clause. If the National Labor Relations Board, in General Motors Corporation and United Automobile Workers, NLRB Case No. 7-CA-2560, hold the Agency Shop clauses or arrangements are in violation of the National Labor Act as regards employers under the Interstate Commence provisions of the Act, then upon the happening of such event, if such occurs, the provisions of this Article shall be inoperative and void as to those employers engaged in Interstate Commerce.
Section 5.	Immigration Reform and Control Act. Where applicable, the Union will attempt to comply, in good faith, with the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986.
ARTICLE VII RESPONSIBILITIES AND RIGHTS
Section 1.	Insurance Coverage. No employee shall work for any EMPLOYER unless said EMPLOYER has his men insured under the State Worker’s Compensation Laws and is complying with Social Security, Unemployment Insurance Act and all laws covering the same regardless of the number of men employed by the EMPLOYER.
Section 2.	Access to Premises. The Union's Business Manager or Business Agent's, carrying proper credentials, shall be allowed to visit jobs during working hours to interview the contractor, steward, or men at work, but shall in no way hinder the progress of the work.
Section 3.	Stewards. There shall be a steward on each job who shall be appointed by the union. He shall be subject to the same terms of employment as any other employee working on the job. The Steward shall have reasonable time to see that this Agreement is enforced, but as far as possible without inconvenience to the Employer. In addition, the Steward shall have top seniority in the bargaining unit, except for the Foreman.
Section 4.	Right to Work. The EMPLOYER and the employees realize that individual employees have the right to work and associate with and for whom they please. This right is not only inherent in the laws of this State and of this Nation, but is necessitated by the interrelated nature of the work covered by this Agreement. All workmen are at liberty to work or cease to work for whomever they see fit, and EMPLOYERS are at liberty to employ or discharge whomever they see fit in accordance with the terms of this Agreement. Accordingly, the refusal of any individual employee to work with any other employee, workman or person shall not constitute a violation of this Agreement.
Section 5.	Union Security.
(a)	Employees shall be reduced in the reverse order in which they were hired. Employees who are more than sixty (60) days in arrears with their Union dues, may be replaced by a paid-up member who is a qualified Cement Mason. The Union shall indemnify and save the Employer harmless against and all claims, demands, suits, or other forms of liability, which may arise out
9
of, or by reason of, action taken by the Employer in relying upon any request by the Union for the enforcement of this Article.
(b)	Fifty Percent Clause. All contractors working in the jurisdiction of Local 692 - Area 406 shall employ 50% of the work force from employees who are members of Area 406, plus the odd man.
Section 6.	Scope.
(a)	Occupational. This Agreement shall cover all phases of cement construction, masonry and finishing as more fully described in Article II, Section I of this Agreement. The work covered by this Agreement shall be performed only by Cement Mason employees and shall not be performed by EMPLOYERS or any member of a firm of EMPLOYERS.
(b)	Subcontracting. The EMPLOYER agrees not to sublet, assign or transfer any work covered by this Agreement which is or may be performed at the site of the construction project-to any person, firm or corporation, except where the subcontractor subscribes and agrees in writing to be bound by the full terms of this Agreement and complies with all of the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
(c)	Employees shall work only for recognized and qualified EMPLOYERS. No employee shall be permitted to work for an EMPLOYER that does not provide all materials, labor and equipment necessary to complete any job. No EMPLOYER shall be entitled to employ members of Area 406 where such EMPLOYER contracts to supply labor only.
(d)	The term "equipment" in this clause is not meant to infer hand tools normally furnished by the Cement Mason.
Section 7.	Pre-Job Conference. Employer will meet with the Union prior to the commencement of work on any project at such times as the Union may request for the purpose of a pre-job conference.
ARTICLE VIII
ADJUSTMENT OF DISPUTES
Section 1.	Joint Arbitration Board. A Joint Arbitration Board shall be created for the purpose of promoting harmony resolving differences as to the interpretation or application of this Agreement.
Section 2.	Composition. Such Joint Arbitration Board shall be comprised of six (6) members, three (3) to be selected by each of the parties. In addition, alternates shall be appointed so that at all times a full board is available for the making of decisions by a majority vote.
Section 3.	Grievances. The parties shall submit to the Joint Arbitration Board and the Joint Arbitration Board shall resolve all grievances and disputes that may arise between the parties as to any misunderstanding as to the meaning or intent of this Agreement.
10
Section 4.	Impartial Umpire. In the event of the failure of the Joint Arbitration Board to arrive at a majority decision if the deadlock cannot be broken, and the Joint Arbitration Board is unable to agree on a neutral third party within a reasonable time, the parties shall select an impartial umpire from a panel of seven (7) nationally known arbitrators supplied by the
American Arbitration Association, Chicago office. The award of such neutral third party shall be final and binding upon all parties, provided, however, that if either party should refuse to submit such dispute or controversy to the Joint Arbitration Board of umpire, then either party shall have the right to go into Court for the purpose of enforcing such submission or compliance.
Section 5.	Expense of Umpire. Expense of the impartial umpire shall be borne by the losing party.
Section 6.	Strikes and Lockouts. There shall be no strike or lockout pending the deliberation of the Joint Arbitration Board.
ARTICLE IX
INVALIDITY AND SEVERABILITY
In the event of the invalidity of any provision of this Agreement, the remaining provisions of this Agreement shall not be affected, but shall remain in full force and effect.
ARTICLE X
DURATION, AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION
Section 1.	Term. This Agreement shall become effective June 1, 2009 and remain in effect to and including May 31, 2012. It shall continue in effect from year to year thereafter, June 1st to and including May 31st of each year, unless for amendment or termination is given in the manner provided herein.
Section 2.	Notice to Amend or Terminate. Either party desiring to amend or terminate this Agreement must notify the other party in writing at least one hundred twenty (120) days prior to June 1, 2012 and prior to any year thereafter. Whenever notice is given for amendments the nature of the amendments desired must be specified in the notice, and until a satisfactory conclusion is reached therein, the original provisions of the Agreement shall remain in full force and effect.
Section 3.	Mutual Amendment at any Time. This Agreement shall be subject to amendment at any time by mutual consent of the parties hereto. Such amendment shall be reduced to writing, state the effective date thereof and be executed in the same manner as was this Agreement.
11
Section 4.	Prior Agreements Superseded. This Agreement superseded and renders null, void and ineffective any prior agreements between the parties and all or any provisions of such agreements.
Section 5.	Territorial Boundaries. The territorial boundaries of Area 406 shall be bounded on the North by Lake Michigan. The boundary to the East shall be Route No. 49 including the city limits of Chesterton and Valparaiso Indiana. Proceeding southward on Route No. 49 to the Jasper, Benton, and White County lines, including the city limits of Wheatfield, Rensselaer and Remington, Indiana. To the west the boundary shall be the Newton and Porter County Line including the city limits of DeMotte and Hebron, but not the city limits of Kouts, Indiana. Northward on Lake County Line to and including the city limits of Merrillville, Indiana, "but not" the city limits of Crown Point, Indiana. Northward to Route 30 and then Westward to Cline Ave to Route 30 and then Westward to Cline Avenue "but not" the city limits of Griffith, Indiana. Northward on Cline Avenue (eastside) to Lake Michigan.
ARTICLE XI
WAGES & BENEFITS
Section 1.	Wages. The wages for Cement Masons shall be the amount set forth in Appendix A, Wages and Benefits of this Agreement as specified for Cement Masons and Cement Mason Foreman.
Section 2.	Bond. The Union may require any contractor signatory to this Agreement to post a surety bond to cover wages and benefits in an amount up to Fifty Thousand Dollars ($50,000.00). The Union will not require a Northwest Indiana Contractors Association contractor to post a bond unless they have been delinquent for more than 30 days paying for wages or benefits.
Section 3.	Health & Welfare and Pension.
Health and Welfare Fund: The Employer agrees to contribute the amount set forth in Appendix A, Wages and Benefits, for Health & Welfare, for each hour worked by each employee covered by this agreement into a general fund hereinafter known as the “Indiana State Plasterers and Cement Masons Health and Welfare Fund”.
Pension Fund: It is mutually agreed by the Parties to this Agreement, that the Employer shall become a part of the Pension Fund, established by the Indiana State Council of Plasterers’ and Cement Masons’ Pension Fund. The contribution by the Employer shall be as set out in Appendix A, Wages and Benefits, for Pension for each hour worked per week by the Employees.
Payments shall be made in accordance with the rules and regulations as adopted by the Trustees of the Indiana State Council of Plasterers and Cement Masons Pension Fund, Indiana State Council of Plasterers and Cement Masons Health & Welfare Fund, and other trust funds established by the Union, and participating Employers. The Employer agrees to be bound by the Agreement and Declaration of Trust that established the aforesaid Trusteeship. The Employer designates as his representative among the Trustees of said Fund, such Trustees as are named in
12
said Agreement and Declaration of Trust as Employer Trustees, together with their successors selected in the manner provided in said Agreement and Declaration of Trust as the Document may be amended from these various Funds, shall be administered in accordance with all provisions of applicable law.
Said funds shall be administered as provided in Section #302 of the Taft-Hartley Act, as amended, to wit; An equal number of trustees shall be appointed by the joint action of both parties hereto. Said funds shall be maintained only for purpose of purchasing any or all of the following benefits for and on behalf of said employees:
Group Term Life Insurance/Disability Benefits/Hospital, Surgical, and Medical Care/Pension
Section 4.	Vacation. The Employee agrees to deduct the amount set forth in Appendix A, Wage and Benefits for the Vacation Fund.
Section 5.	Further, it is agreed that the amount of working dues check-off per hour that is to be deducted from the employee’s earned income shall be an amount duly established by the Union in accordance with their by-laws and constitution. Said deduction shall only be made from the employee’s wages after the employer has been duly furnished a proper authorization card by the employee as called for by Labor-Management Law.
Hold Harmless. The Union agrees to hold the EMPLOYER free from all liability in connection with the collection of its own working assessment (dues) check-off, except for ordinary diligence and care in transmittal of the monies to the UNION.
Section 6. Colored Materials, Scattered on Dust-on Hardness or Steel Dust, Power Machines and Power Grinders Operators. Employees actively working with colored materials, gypsum, gunite and/or scattered or dust-on hardness and/or steel dust or any combination of the aforesaid materials or employees operating power machines or power grinders of any kind shall receive twenty-five (.25) cents per hour more than the regular journeyman’s scale of wages, for the employees entire work day (minimum of eight (8) hours), and the applicable overtime rate of said twenty-five cents (.25) when overtime premium for the hours during the same work day. Employees required to perform day grinding with high-speed power grinders shall be furnished individual respirators and the employed Cement Masons working at that vicinity, and when this operation is performed in closed quarters, ventilation shall be provided.
Employees actively working with toxic epoxies shall receive fifty (.50) cents per hour more than the journeyman’s scale of wages, but not to be paid for less than eight (8) hours.
Section 7.	Employees who operate any power trowel and/or float machines and applies the above materials shall receive fifty (.50) cents per hour more than the journeyman’s scale of wage, but not to be paid for less than eight (8) hours.
Section 8.	Health and Safety. Cement Masons on the job shall be supplied with all necessary equipment when handling material that is dangerous to their health, such as rubber gloves, goggles, respirators and other articles necessary to perform such jobs.
13
Section 9. The Employer has established a Trust Fund to be known as the CONSTRUCTION ADVANCEMENT FOUNDATION OF NORTHWEST INDIANA, which trust fund shall be used to establish and conduct educational programs for the general public, employer members, employee members, and other with respect to new techniques, ideas, and methods which will improve the industry and increase the contribution that the industry and its employees can make to the community, and to carry out such other purposes as may be set forth in the Agreement and Declaration of Trust executed by said Association and said Trustees with the purpose and intent to promote, support, and improve the interest and common good of the construction industry of the area.
The EMPLOYER shall pay to the CONSTRUCTION ADVANCEMENT FOUNDATION OF NORTHWEST INDIANA twelve cents (.12) for each hour worked by all EMPLOYEES of the EMPLOYER covered by this Agreement or any modification to it. Modifications shall include Presidential Agreements, project agreements and the NEA maintenance agreements. Also BCRC, the Employer shall pay to the BCRC eight cents (.08) for each hour worked by all employees of the employer covered by this Agreement or any modification to it. Modification shall include presidential agreements, project agreements and the NEA maintenance agreements. Such payments shall be made monthly to BCRC.
Payments required to be made to said fund shall be deemed to be governed by the provisions of this Agreement pertaining to the enforcement as to the collection of other payments required to be made by the Employer.
Section 10.	The Employer agrees to contribute the amount set forth in Appendix A, Wages and Benefits for the amount specified for Apprenticeship.
Section 11.	Elevators, Stages, or Swinging Scaffolds. Employees working on elevators, stages, or swinging scaffolds over twenty-five (25’) feet high shall be paid twenty-five (.25) cents per hour more than journeyman’s scale for standards work.
Section 12.	One check must be made payable to the Indiana State Council Plasterers and Cement Masons Health and Welfare Fund (ISC P&CM H&W Fund) and mailed to Edward B. HealthSCOPE Benefits at P.O. Box 50440, Indianapolis, IN 46250 for all Deductions and Fringe Benefit Contributions. (Health & Welfare, Pension, Apprentice Fund, C.A.F., B.C.R.C., Vacation, and Work Assessment.)
Section 13. Local #692 - Area #406 and the Association signatory to this Agreement may, by a written amendment signed by all such parties, increase the hourly contribution rate to any of the Trust Funds by decreasing the hourly wage rate (or the hourly contribution rate for any of the other Trust Funds) by the same amount. Any such changes shall not increase the total per hour amounts paid by employers. The Union shall promptly give notice to all contributing employers of any such changes.
Section 14. The Union and the Employer herewith agree to work together towards a goal of completing a commercial agreement by June 1, 2010 with the first meeting to occur in August 2009.
14
SIGNATURE PAGE
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement effective June 1, 2009.
NORTHWEST INDIANA CONTRACTORS ASSOCIATION
PLASTERERS AND CEMENT MASONS
LOCAL 692 - AREA 406
TOM KLEBAN - BUSINESS REPRESENTATIVE
(219) 771-0766
610 E. Main Street Griffith, Indiana 46319
15
APPENDIX A
ARTICLE XI
WAGES AND BENEFITS
OPERATIVE PLASTERERS & CEMENT MASONS LOCAL #692
AREA #406 GARY INDIANA CEMENT MASONS
June 1, 2009 through May 31, 2012
Section 1. Wages and Benefits
The following amounts outlined for each Area shall be paid for each hour worked by each employee.
Area 406
Journeyman	$	33.25
Foreman (10% above Journeyman)	$	36.58
General Foreman (.50 above Foreman)	$	37.08
Health and Welfare	$	7.98
Pension	$	10.46
Apprentice	$	0.40
Industry	$	0.12
BCRC	$	0.08
Vacation Pay	(Deduct)	$	5.00
Working Assessment (Deduct)	$	2.35
International Assessment (Deduct)	$	0.52
TOTAL PACKAGE	$	52.29
Effective January 1, 2010 there will be a fifty cent ($0.50) increase to be disbursed to the Health & Welfare Fund.
Effective June 1, 2010 there will be a one dollar and fifty-nine cent ($1.59) increase to be used as voted by the membership
Effective June 1, 2011 there will be a one dollar and sixty-three cent ($1.63) increase to be used as voted by the membership
The contribution rates set forth under Article XI, Section 1, Appendix A, for each hour worked covered by this Agreement for Area 406 for Health & Welfare, Pension, Vacation Apprenticeship, Dues Check-Off, BCRC, and Industry Funds shall be combined into one check made payable to the Indiana State Council of Plasterers & Cement Masons H&W and Pension Fund (ISC P&CM H&W Fund) and mailed to P.O. Box 50440, Indianapolis, Indiana 46250.
The Union reserves the right to divert any future increase from wages to benefits upon thirty (30) days written notice to the contractor.
16