Master Labor Agreement
Southern Nevada Plasterers 2011-2012
OP&CMIA Local 797
SOUTHERN NEVADA PLASTERERS
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ARTICLE 1	COVERAGE	3
ARTICLE 2	UNION RECOGNITION	4
ARTICLE 3	SUB-CONTRACTING	4
ARTICLE 4	MANAGEMENT RIGHTS	5
ARTICLE 5	STRIKES-LOCKOUTS	6
ARTICLE 6	JURISDICTIONAL DISPUTES	6
ARTICLE 7	GRIEVANCE AND ARBITRATION PROCEDURE	7
ARTICLE 8	DISPATCH PROCEDURES	8
ARTICLE 9	BUSINESS REPRESENTATIVE AND CRAFT STEWARD	9
ARTICLE 10	CRAFT FOREMEN, GENERAL FOREMEN AND ARTISAN	9
ARTICLE 11	SCHEDULING OF SHIFTS	10
ARTICLE 12	PAYMENT OF WAGES	11
ARTICLE 13	PREMIUM PAY	12
ARTICLE 14	WORKING RULES	12
ARTICLE 15	TRUST FUND OBLIGATIONS	14
ARTICLE 16	PUBLIC WORKS PROJECTS	17
ARTICLE 17	HOLIDAYS	17
ARTICLE 18	CONFLICTING AGREEMENTS	18
ARTICLE 19	GENERAL PROVISIONS	18
ARTICLE 20	MARKET RECOVERY COMMITTEE	18
ARTICLE 21	JOURNEYMAN UPGRADING	19
ARTICLE 22	SUBSTANCE ABUSE PREVENTION POLICY	19
ARTICLE 23	TERM - TERMINATION - RENEWAL	21
APPENDIX A	WAGES FOR JOURNEYMEN	23
APPENDIX B	WAGES FOR APPRENTICES	24
APPENDIX C	LIGHT COMMERCIAL WORK	25
APPENDIX D	MAINTENANCE WORK	26
APPENDIX E	RESIDENTIAL	26
APPENDIX F	COMPETITIVE BIDDING ADJUSTMENT	26
APPENDIX G	MEMORANDUM AGREEMENT	27
Local 797 Plasterers’ Master Labor Agreement 2011-2012
1
MASTER LABOR AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
NEVADA CONTRACTORS ASSOCIATION PLASTERING CONTRACTORS HEREINAFTER (N.C.A.)
UNITED BUILDING CONTRACTORS ASSOCIATION PLASTERING CONTRACTORS
HEREIN AFTER (U.B.C.A.)
PAINTING AND DECORATING CONTRACTORS ASSOCIATION PLASTERING CONTRACTORS
HEREIN AFTER (P.D.C.A.)
WESTERN WALL AND CEILING CONTRACTORS ASSOCIATION PLASTERING CONTRACTORS
HEREIN AFTER (W.W.C.C.A.)
ASSOCIATED GENERAL CONTRACTORS ASSOCIATION AND THEIR PROXIED CONTRACTORS
HEREINAFTER (A.G.C.)
AND
OPERATIVE PLASTERERS AND CEMENT MASONS
INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATION, LOCAL UNION 797
THIS AGREEMENT is entered into this first day of July, 2011 by and between the Nevada Contractors Association on behalf of its members, United Building Contractors Association on behalf of its members, Painters and Decorators Contractors Association on behalf of its members, Western Wall and Ceiling Contractors Association, Associated General Contractors on behalf of its members (hereinafter referred to as “The Employer”) and the Operative Plasterer’s and Cement Masons International Association, Local union 797 (hereinafter referred to as “The Union”).
WITNESSETH:
PURPOSES:
WHEREAS, the employer is engaged in general plastering work in Southern Nevada; and
Local 797 Plasterers’ Master Labor Agreement 2011-2012
2
WHEREAS, in the performance of his present and future contracting operation, the employer is employing and will employ large numbers of plasterers; and,
WHEREAS, the employer desires to be assured of his ability to procure employees for all of the work which he may do in the area, hereinafter defined as Southern Nevada, in sufficient numbers, and with the necessary skills to assure continuity of work in the completion of his construction contracts; and
WHEREAS, it is the desire of the parties to provide, establish and put into practice, effective methods for the settlement of misunderstandings, disputes or grievances between the parties, to the end that the employer is assured continuity of operation and the employees are assured continuity of employment, and industrial peace is maintained and the business of the industry efficiently maintained and increased;
NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the promises and respective covenants and agreements of the parties, each of which shall be interdependent, it is hereby agreed:
ARTICLE 1
COVERAGE
1.0	1 Geographic Scope
This agreement shall apply to, and cover all employees of the employer performing construction work as defined herein, within the area of the State of Nevada, it is recognized that work covered by the project labor agreement for construction at the Nevada Test Site and Tonopah Test Range shall be excluded from the coverage of this agreement.
For those Employers already signatory to the collective bargaining agreement with, or who become signatory to the collective bargaining agreement with the Operative Plasterers’ and Cement Masons’ Local Union 797 for Northern Nevada, this Agreement shall only apply to the area of Southern Nevada, more particularly the counties of Clark, Lincoln, Esmeralda and Nye.
1.0	2 Jurisdictional Scope
The covered work is that as defined in the International Constitution which is within the recognized jurisdiction of the Operative Plasterers’ and Cement Masons’ International Association of the United States and Canada, Local 797; area practice; and all work as may be awarded to the Union in the future. This includes but is not limited to: Smooth and finish surfaces of poured or full systems of EIFS including sticking and shaping of foam pieces or surfaces by adhesive or mechanical installation, all sprayed or troweled on fireproofing, interior cover coats including all plastering systems recognized by our International Association; installation of all types of lath and all lathing trims in any interior or exterior applications; installation and patching of GFRG and GFRC pieces with adhesive or mechanical fastening systems; all cutting, shaping, rodding, carving, leveling, brooming of rock, water and pool features including all interior swimming pool finishes, but not limited to pebbletech or white plaster finishes; all Venetian or decorative interior plaster; all acoustical finish systems including, but not limited to, Baswaphon.
Plasterers shall also have jurisdiction over all work or processes which represent technological change, replacement, modification or substitution for the work described above. In addition, Plasterers shall perform any and all work and use any and all new materials or techniques involved in plaster construction including but not limited to what is known as green or sustainable construction technology.
Local 797 Plasterers’ Master Labor Agreement 2011-2012
3
ARTICLE 2
UNION RECOGNITION
The employers have satisfied themselves that the Union represents a majority of employees performing work covered by this agreement and thereby recognizes the Union as the exclusive bargaining representative for all employees of the employer hereinafter classified, over whom the Union has jurisdiction.
It is the intention of the parties to create a collective bargaining agreement within the meaning of section 9a of the National Labor Relations Act of 1947, as amended, and the units covered by this agreement are a voluntarily created multi-employer collective bargaining unit. The recognition of majority support is based on an unequivocal request for recognition by the Union as majority representative along with the Union having shown or offered to show evidence of its majority support.
The Union recognizes the Nevada Contractors Association, the United Building Contractors Association, Painters and Decorators Contractors Association and the Western Wall and Ceiling Contractors Association as the sole and exclusive bargaining representative for its respective members who have authorized the N.C.A., U.B.C.A., P.D.C.A. and the W.W.C.C.A. to represent them. A list of such authorizations has been furnished to the Union and the N.C.A., U.B.C.A., P.D.C.A. and the W.W.C.C.A. agrees to immediately notify the union when any authorization has been canceled or new authorizations have been executed.
The agreement shall bind each and every employer who has authorized the Association to represent them with the same force and effect as if the agreement were entered into by each member individually. The employer shall be, and continue to remain, liable under this agreement for the term, irrespective of whether such members shall resign from the Association prior to the expiration date of this agreement and such liability shall be deemed to have survived the termination of such membership and remain in force for the term of this agreement.
ARTICLE 3
SUB-CONTRACTING
To protect and preserve the work of employees covered by this agreement, which they have traditionally performed, the signatory employer agrees that all on-site construction work covered by this agreement shall be performed either by employees of the employer, or if subcontracted, the work will be subcontracted to a person, firm or corporation signatory to this agreement.
Off-site work traditionally performed by local employees of the employer, shall be performed either by the employer, or if subcontracted, the wages, fringe benefits, terms and conditions of this agreement shall be applicable to all such work.
A subcontractor is defined as any person, firm or corporation who agrees under contract, either in writing or verbally, with the signatory employer or his subcontractor, to perform work covered by this agreement.
The purposes of this article are to preserve and protect the work opportunities normally available to Employees and workmen covered by this Agreement, maintenance and protection of standards and benefits of employees and workmen negotiated over many years, and preservation of the right of Union employees, employed hereunder, from being compelled to work with non-union workman.
Local 797 Plasterers’ Master Labor Agreement 2011-2012
4
In some instances a Contractor signatory hereto joint ventures with a non-union Contractor to bid on certain projects.
If the Contractor joint ventures with a non-signatory entity, the non-signatory entity shall not perform and/or subcontract any work covered by the classifications in this Agreement.
However, the joint venture shall be afforded the opportunity to sign a Project Agreement.
In the event this joint venture is successful in being low bidder and awarded a contract, the joint venture shall become signatory to this Agreement for this project only.
If the non-signatory partner of the joint venture refuses to become signatory, the signatory contracting partner of the joint venture shall assume all responsibilities of the payment of wages, fringe benefit contributions and subcontract obligations for all classifications listed in the Agreement
This Agreement shall be binding upon each Contractor, its successors, assigns and purchasers. The Contractor agrees that it will not sell its assets or any portion of the business without first obtaining an agreement from the purchaser that it will abide by the terms of this Agreement for the term thereof.
The Contractors also agree that any other work, which falls within the jurisdiction of Local 797, will be performed consistent with this Article.
In the event that a project contains a Disadvantage Business Enterprise (DBE) goal/requirement, the employer shall be allowed to contract with needed DBE participants so long as DBE participant is willing to sign a project specific labor agreement with the Union for work covered by the Union under the MLA.
ARTICLE 4
MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
All the rights, duties and prerogatives of the employer to manage, control and direct its business operations and activities are vested in and retained by the employer, including, the assignment and direction of its employees.
The employer shall be the sole judge of the number and classifications of employees required to perform work subject to this agreement. The employer shall have the absolute right to hire, promote, suspend, discharge or lay off employees at their discretion, and to reject any applicant for employment. If the employee is considered “ineligible for rehire”, the employer is to inform the Union in writing. When the Employer has notified the Union in writing that a worker is ineligible for rehire, the Employer shall not be required to rehire the worker if dispatched at a later date unless they elect to do so. Applicants who are not eligible for rehire shall not be entitled to show up time or other compensation unless they are employed.
The number of employees required to perform any operation covered by this Agreement shall be determined by the employer provided that if an employer, in determining the number of employees lowers the number of employees customarily used to perform any operation, the Union may have the issue of such reduction in employees resolved by the grievance and arbitration procedure provided in Article 7 of this Agreement. In resolving such disputes, consideration shall be given to the necessity for additional employees as well as to other pertinent factors.
Because the employer and the Union recognize the necessity of eliminating restrictions on production and promoting efficiency, nothing shall be permitted that restricts production or increases the time required to do
Local 797 Plasterers’ Master Labor Agreement 2011-2012
5
the work, and no limitation shall be placed upon the amount of work which an employee shall perform, nor shall there be any restriction against the use of any kind of machinery, tools or labor-saving devices; provided, however, that no employee shall be required to work under conditions that are injurious to his health or safety or are in conflict with present well established customs regulating such use.
This agreement supersedes all existing labor agreements heretofore in effect between the employers and the union.
No employer signatory to this agreement shall be required to pay higher wages or be subject to less favorable working conditions than those applicable to other employers with employees represented by the union performing similar work.
ARTICLE 5
STRIKES - LOCKOUTS
It is the purpose and intent of the parties that all grievances or disputes arising between them over the interpretation or application of the terms of this agreement shall be settled by the procedure set forth in Article 7. During the term of this agreement, the union shall not call or engage in, sanction or assist in any strike against, or any slow down, or stoppage of the work of the employer. The Union will urge the employees it represents to perform their services for the employer, where required by the employer to do so. During the term of this agreement, an employer will not cause or permit any lockout of its employees represented by the Union.
If a signatory subcontractor is performing work on a project, during which time any other employer(s) is declared to be unfair by the Building and Construction Trades Council and the work thereon is stopped for that reason, the Union shall not be deemed to have violated this agreement, if, during the period of said stoppage of work, the employees represented by the Union fail to perform their work.
For the purposes of this Article, “Subcontractor” is understood to mean, where the signatory employer is doing only part of the whole project and applies where the signatory employer has received the contract for its portion of the project from the prime contractor on the project.
The prohibition on the union calling or engaging in a strike, slow-down, or work stoppage does not apply if a signatory employer fails to comply with or execute any settlement or decision reached under Article 7 of this agreement.
ARTICLE 6
JURISDICTIONAL DISPUTES
The Union guarantees, during the term of this agreement, that there shall be no strikes, slowdowns or stoppages of work occasioned by jurisdictional disputes between the Union signatory hereto and any other Union.
All jurisdictional disputes shall be referred to the International Presidents of the Unions affected, for determination. Such determination shall be reduced to writing, signed by the International Presidents or their authorized representatives. Upon receipt of evidence of an agreement, the determination shall be accepted by and become binding upon the employer and the Union.
Local 797 Plasterers’ Master Labor Agreement 2011-2012
6
In the event the employer becomes signatory to the impartial jurisdictional disputes board or its successor plan or board, disputes as to jurisdiction of work claimed by other unions than those affiliated with the Operative Plasterers and Cement Masons International Association, Local Union No. 797 shall be referred to, and settled in accordance with, the procedural rules and regulations of the impartial jurisdictional disputes board or its successor. A decision rendered by said impartial jurisdictional dispute board or its successor in any given jurisdictional determination shall be implemented immediately by the employer involved.
All jurisdictional disputes shall be handled exclusively in the manner specified in this Article and may not be referred to the grievance and arbitration procedure provided in this agreement.
ARTICLE 7
GRIEVANCE AND ARBITRATION PROCEDURE
All disputes or grievances arising out of the interpretation or application of any of the terms or conditions of this agreement shall be submitted for determination and be determined by the procedures set forth in this Article.
No grievance, dispute or complaint shall be recognized, or have any validity, unless called to the attention of the employer, in writing, by an authorized representative of the union, within fifteen (15) days of the time the circumstances giving rise to the grievance first occurred, or within the time the Union reasonably should have known of the occurrence.
The craft steward is to receive grievances or disputes from covered employees and shall immediately report them to the business agent or special representative who shall immediately attempt to adjust said grievance or dispute with the employer or its representative.
It is the purpose and the intent of the parties hereto that all grievances or disputes arising between them over the interpretation or application of the terms of this agreement shall be settled by the procedures set forth in this section and that during the term of this agreement, the Union on behalf of whom this agreement is made shall not, call, engage in, sanction or assist in a strike against or any slowdown or stoppage of the work of the employer, and will urge the employees it represents to perform their services for the employer on the work described herein when required by said employer to do so; and during the term of this agreement, a employer signatory to this agreement shall not cause or permit any lockout of the employees represented by the union whose behalf this agreement is made.
In cases of violation, misunderstanding, or differences of opinion in interpretation of this agreement by either party, there shall be no cessation or stoppage of work except as in the cases where a signatory employer fails to pay wages due or is delinquent in contributions to any trust fund established under this agreement.
Should a controversy, dispute or disagreement arise during the term of this agreement over interpretation, the difference shall be adjusted in the following manner:
All complaints, to have any validity, must be filed in writing within fifteen (15) days after the matter or dispute or disagreement is alleged to have occurred.
Errors in paychecks must be filed in writing within ten (10) working days from payday.
Upon receipt of a written report setting forth in detail the nature of the specific issue in controversy, a representative of the union and a representative of the employer shall attempt to reach a settlement of the dispute.
Local 797 Plasterers’ Master Labor Agreement 2011-2012
7
If a settlement is not reached within five (5) days, the dispute or grievance may be referred to arbitration by either or both parties, and the decision of the arbitrator shall be final and binding on all parties and grievant.
If within thirty (30) days of the signing of this Agreement, the parties agree to meet and select a permanent arbitrator, such arbitrator shall be selected as follows:
The Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service shall be requested to submit the names of seven (7) qualified arbitrators. Each party, through their appointed representatives, shall have the right to reject three of the names submitted, and the remaining seventh person shall be selected as the permanent arbitrator. The Business Manager and the Director of Labor Relations shall meet yearly to review the performance of the permanent Arbitrator.
The Arbitrator’s fee and all incidental expenses shall be paid equally by the parties.
No jurisdictional disputes involving the Union on whose behalf this agreement is made shall be submitted under this grievance and arbitration procedure, but shall be determined in the manner provided in Section (6) of this agreement. All Disputes or grievances arising out of the interpretation or application of any terms or conditions of this agreement shall be submitted for determination, and shall be determined by the procedures set forth in this Section (7). It is expressly understood and agreed that in the event of arbitration, the arbitrator, in determining any grievance or dispute shall have no authority to modify, vary, change, ad to, or remove any of the terms or conditions in this agreement.
ARTICLE 8
DISPATCH PROCEDURES
The employer will first call the Union dispatch office for all workers. If Union representatives are requested to supply workers, they will promptly relay such request to the dispatch office. Upon an employer’s request for employees, the Union will immediately refer qualified and competent registrants to that employer in sufficient number as required by the employer in the manner and under the conditions specified in this agreement.
Reasonable advance notice, (but no later than Twenty-four (24) hours prior to the required reporting time), will be given by the employer to the dispatch office when requesting employees. In the event Forty Eight (48) hours after such notice if the dispatch office does not furnish such employees, the employer may procure employees from any other source or sources. If employees are so employed, the employer will immediately report to the union’s dispatch office each such employee by name and classification.
Employers may request two (2) workers by name from the out-of-work list. The Union then has the right to refer to that employer the individual at the top of the union’s out-of-work list.
A written “referral” slip will be given to each worker dispatched to a job, as evidence that the worker is being dispatched in accordance with the provisions of the agreement. No signatory employer will permit anyone to begin work without first being provided with the referral slip.
Except in case of emergency, no employees are to be borrowed or loaned to another employer to avoid the hiring hall procedure.
If an employer takes over the activities of another employer at a particular jobsite, the employees of the latter may continue to operate at the jobsite for the employer taking over without further registration or dispatch. In such cases, the dispatch office shall be notified of the change, by the employer taking over in writing.
Once an employee has been dispatched to a employer, the employee is entitled to continue in the employ of that employer on other jobsites, if the employer so directs.
Local 797 Plasterers’ Master Labor Agreement 2011-2012
8
The selection of applicants for referral to jobs shall be on a non-discriminatory basis and in accordance with all applicable federal and state laws and shall not be based on, or in any way affected by, union membership.
The rules and regulations of the union’s job referral system will be posted at the union hall and a copy provided to a signatory employer upon request.
ARTICLE 9
BUSINESS REPRESENTATIVE AND CRAFT STEWARD
The Union’s business agent, or special representative, shall have access to the project during working hours. He shall make every reasonable effort to advise the employer, or employer’s representative, of his presence on the project and shall not stop nor interfere with the work of any employee without the permission of the employer, or its representative.
When employees covered by this agreement are employed on a job, the Union shall designate a Craft Steward, who shall be a Plasterer referred to the Employer by the Union. The Craft Steward shall perform his/her duties as a Craft Steward with the least amount of inconvenience to the Employer and the Employer shall allow the Craft Steward a reasonable amount of time for the performance of such duties. The Craft Steward is to work as an employee and not use the position as a Craft Steward to avoid performance of his/her duties as a Plasterer. On overtime work, the Craft Steward shall always be the second Plasterer employed for overtime work if he is qualified to perform such work. The Craft Steward is to work up to the completion of the job and shall be the second-to-last Plasterer to be discharged as long as he/she is qualified to perform the remaining work.
The Craft Steward may be discharged for cause. If the Craft Steward is discharged without cause, the Craft Steward shall be paid for all lost time up to 30 days. The Union reserves the right in its sole discretion to remove any Craft Steward as Craft Steward. Prior to lay-off of the Craft Steward, the Contractors agree to notify the Union in writing 24 hours in advance and agree to meet with the Union if requested.
The term Craft Steward as used in this Agreement means only those employees covered by this Agreement who have been trained and certified by the Union to serve as a Craft Steward.
The Craft Steward shall monitor the Employer’s compliance with the Agreement and shall receive disputes from covered employees. In the event that the Craft Steward becomes aware of a grievance, the Craft Steward shall immediately report it to the Business Agent who shall immediately attempt to adjust said grievance or dispute with the Contractor or his representative in accordance with the procedures set forth in Article 7. The Craft Steward shall not stop the individual employer’s work for any reason or tell any employee covered by this Agreement that he cannot work on the job.
ARTICLE 10
CRAFT FOREMEN, GENERAL FOREMEN AND ARTISAN
The selection of the individual who will be plasterer foreman or plasterer general foreman is at the sole discretion of the employer. It is understood that a plasterer foreman or a plasterer general foreman shall be an employee within the jurisdiction of local 797. It is also understood that the foreman shall receive the basic
Local 797 Plasterers’ Master Labor Agreement 2011-2012
9
foreman wage rate. The foreman may work with the tools of the trade in accordance with the provisions of Article 4.
A plasterer foreman may supervise the work of employees in more than one craft. If a dispute arises with respect to this supervision, the dispute shall be resolved according to the procedure set forth in article 7 of this agreement on the basis of custom and practice.
An employee designated by the employer as foreman shall be paid the appropriate rate. An employee designated to supervise other foremen shall be classified as a general foreman and paid as such. On any crew requiring four (4) or more including hod carriers and tenders, one (1) plasterer will be designated as foreman. A Plasterer foreman shall supervise no more than 20 employees. If there are more than 20 employees, a second foreman will be designated. If a Contractor has more than one foreman on a Project, a General foreman shall be designated and receive General Foreman’s pay.
If a craftsperson supervises other crafts persons from all trades in directing artistic and theme compositions, including but not limited to plaster carving such as rocks, trees, themed landscapes and fountains; carving, creating master and molds for ornamental elements; in place ornamental architectural carving of gypsum or cementitious material; and statuesque features both in place and cast, at the discretion of the employer, that craftsperson shall be paid the Artisan rate. There would be no more than one Artisan per project and the Artisan may also work with their tools. At the conclusion of the artistic portion of the Project, the Artisan’s wage rate at the discretion of the Employer would return to his or her appropriate rate.
ARTICLE 11
SCHEDULING OF SHIFTS
11.01 Single Shifts
Eight (8) consecutive hours exclusive of lunch period, between 4:30 a.m. and 4:30 p.m. shall constitute a day’s work. Forty (40) hours, Monday, 4:30 a.m. through Friday, 4:30 p.m., shall constitute a week’s work.
11.02 Special Shifts
If maintenance or remodeling work cannot be performed on the regular shift because of the fact that establishments cannot suspend operations during the day, a special single shift may be employed starting at a time coinciding with required operations of the establishment, Monday through Friday, the employer shall produces evidence in writing to the union twenty-four (24) hours in advance of a bona fide job requirement that work can only be performed outside of or in addition to the regular day shift due to safety conditions or other requirements if the special shift is to last five (5) or more days..
11.03 Multiple Shifts
When so elected by the employer, multiple shifts may be established for three or more consecutive working days, provided that the Union is notified in writing twenty-four (24) hours in advance of the effective date of the starting of such multiple shift operations. Workers on multiple shifts shall not be interchangeable with those working on a single shift basis. In no event, shall the regular working hours of shifts overlap, and any interval between shifts shall not exceed one (1) hour, except when a special shift is established. It is understood that a single and a multiple shift may work concurrently on a project.
The Friday graveyard shift ending on Saturday morning will be considered Friday work. The Saturday graveyard shift ending on Sunday morning will be considered Saturday work. The Sunday graveyard shift ending on Monday morning will be considered Sunday work.
Local 797 Plasterers’ Master Labor Agreement 2011-2012
10
ARTICLE 12
PAYMENT OF WAGES
The hourly wage rates and classifications on all work covered by the terms of this agreement shall be in accordance with appendix “a” and “b”, incorporated herein as part of this agreement.
Distribution of each “package” increase shall be at the option of the Union; the union shall give the employer sixty (60) days notice of the distribution between wages, health and welfare, vacation, apprenticeship, and/or a pension plan, foundation for fair contracting or/and a safety program
All wages must be paid weekly. The individual employer shall show on the paycheck stub the individual employer’s name, business address, payroll week ending date, total hours, total overtime hours, itemized deductions and net pay, plus each contribution made with respect to the payroll period. An employee who is laid off or terminated will be paid all wages due at the time of termination or layoff.
In cases where an employee is forced to leave a job prior to the end of a scheduled shift as a result of an industrial injury certified by medical evidence satisfactory to the employer, the employee shall suffer no reduction in wages for the balance of that day as a result of the injury unless it is proven the employee is, or was, under the influence of drugs or alcohol, when the accident occurred.
When two or three shifts are worked, the first shift shall work eight (8) consecutive hours, exclusive of meal period, for which eight (8) hours’ straight time shall be paid, Monday through Friday. The second shift shall work seven and one-half (7 1/2) consecutive hours, exclusive of meal period, for which eight (8) hours’ straight time shall be paid, Monday through Friday. The third shift shall work seven (7) consecutive hours, exclusive of meal period, for which eight (8) hours straight time shall be paid, Monday through Friday.
Any employee reporting for work at the regular starting time and for whom no work is provided, shall receive pay for two (2) hours at the appropriate rate for so reporting, unless they have been notified before the end of the last preceding shift not to report; and any employee who reports for work and for whom work is provided shall receive not less than four (4) hours pay; and if more than four hours are worked in any one day the employee shall receive not less than the hours worked for that day.
Any employee who reports without his necessary hand tools or in an unfit condition to work and who is not hired for such reasons shall not be entitled to any show-up time or travel and subsistence pay. Any terminated employee shall be paid only for actual hours worked on the day of termination.
A deviated starting time may be established. When the project is assigned to such earlier starting time, when a full time employee, (defined--an employee who has been in pay status consecutively for 30 days) works a designated premium day and is absent from work the next scheduled work day without an excused absence from his employer and or supervisor, that employee may be paid at the straight time rate for that designated premium day provided that employee has worked less than forty hours (40) in that pay period, provided, the employer has provided that employee with a contact person and telephone number. Any dispute arising out of this sub section and/or article shall be subject to the grievance procedure set forth in Article 7 of this agreement.
Pre-employment paperwork up to one (1) hour will be done on employees’ time as long as they are dispatched twenty-four (24) hours prior to starting time.
Local 797 Plasterers’ Master Labor Agreement 2011-2012
11
ARTICLE 13
PREMIUM PAY
13.01 Overtime Pay
The first three (3) hours outside the regularly constituted shift shall be at the rate of time and one-half (11/2). All additional hours shall be at double time (2x). On Saturday work, the first ten (10) hours shall be at time and one-half (1-1/2) and all additional hours at double time (2x). Sundays and holidays shall be paid at double time (2x) rate.
For employees on the second shift, all hours worked in excess of seven and one-half (7 1/2) hours, 3rd shift seven hours (7) for eight (8). All time worked or hours paid for Saturday, Sunday and holidays shall be paid for at the appropriated overtime rate. When it is necessary to begin or end a shift during Sunday hours, in order for an employee to complete a forty (40) hour week, the overtime rate will not apply.
13.02 High Time
On jobs where employees are required to work from swinging scaffolds, suspended from a rope or cable, bosun chair, brackets, cantilevers, or outrigger from the ground, they shall receive one dollar ($1.00) per hour above the journeyman rate of pay. Employees shall be paid high pay only for actual time of exposure on the scaffold, boatswain chair, outriggers, etc.
13.03 Foreman, General Foreman and Artisan
Plasterer Foreman rate will be $2.50 above journeyman plasterer Base Wage rate.
General Foreman rate will be $4.25 above journeyman plasterer Base Wage rate.
Artisan rate will be $7.00 above journeyman plasterer Base Wage rate
13.04 Nozzle man
The nozzle man applying fireproofing material shall receive $1.00 above journeyman plasterer Base Wage rate for the period in which he operates any nozzle. The single pass depth is not to exceed 1 % inches.
ARTICLE 14
WORKING RULES
14.01 Transportation of Employees and Tools
Employees shall travel to and from the job on their own time and by means of their own transportation, outside of their regular working hours.
All safety tools as well as specialty tools will be furnished by the employer.
A plasterer reporting for work shall have in his or her possession, adequate tools to do the job. Such tools as hawk, trowel common, notched trowel, margin trowel, pointing and angle float, angle paddle, scarifier or scratcher, hatchet, cutting knife, spring loaded tape measure, chalk line, plumb bob and two ft level and gloves. It is recommended that plasterers wear the customary craft uniform which will consist of white pants and shirt.
Local 797 Plasterers’ Master Labor Agreement 2011-2012
12
14.02 Lunch
Plasterers shall be afforded an uninterrupted lunch period of one-half (1/2) hour. Said lunch period shall be provided beginning three (3) hours after commencement of the shift; and no later than five and one-half (5 1/2) hours after start of the shift. Under all circumstances, and without exception, the employee shall be afforded a half-hour lunch period as job conditions permit, no later than five and one-half (5 1/2) hours from start time. Failure of the employer to grant such lunch period shall constitute a violation of this agreement. Meal periods may be staggered to meet job requirements. Should any employee work in excess of ten (10) hours, an additional one-half (1/2) hour meal period on the employer’s time shall be afforded at that time and every four (4) hours thereafter. A coffee break shall be allowed any time before noon, with plasterers having a fifteen (15) minute break.
14.03 Health & Safety
Sanitary, cool water and proper drinking cups shall be made available.
A plasterer reporting for work shall have reasonable and adequate certifications to perform their job duties. These certifications may include, but are not limited to; scissor lift, boom lift, scaffold user and OSHA certifications.
14.04 Pre-Job Conferences
Pre-job conferences on all projects covered under the terms of this agreement shall be held as follows:
1)	On all jobs where the cost of the contract to the employer exceeds five (5) million dollars.
2)	On all jobs where the employer, including a subcontractor, does not have a bona fide office within the jurisdiction of the union.
3)	Where special conditions warrant a pre-job conference.
4)	For local employers, pre-job conferences shall be held by mutual agreement of the employer and the union provided the employer, upon request by the union, shall provide the union, in writing, the name, address and approximate starting date of each subcontractor.
a) In the event that a employer at, a pre-job conference, or upon the request of the union in the case of a local employer, does not possess the names of all subcontractors then available, then the employer will notify the union of the name, address and approximate starting date of each subcontractor when such information is available to the employer.
5)	All pre-job conferences shall be held at least one week before the commencement of the job. It is recognized that in the employ of the employer are certain key employees who are necessary to the efficient continuity of his operation. It is, therefore, agreed that employers from out of the Southern Nevada area, who are moving in or returning to perform a project in this area, shall be permitted to transfer a maximum of one key employee into the area covered by this agreement and shall not exceed such additional numbers as may be agreed upon at a pre-job conference.
Local 797 Plasterers’ Master Labor Agreement 2011-2012
13
14.05 High-Rise Projects
On high-rise construction projects, where extreme weather conditions exist (cold weather and wind), consideration shall be given to providing suitable shelter for employees to utilize during lunch period. On such projects, in the event a employer chooses to provide storage for personal hand tools of plasterers on the job, and in the event of loss or damage to such tools, the employer shall replace the tools upon proper verification of the loss.
14.06 Miscellaneous
Fifteen (15) minutes before the end of a shift shall be granted for clean-up time for tools and equipment.
In the event of a shortage of plasterer hod carriers, plasterers may tend themselves on a day by day basis.
14.07 Apprentice Ratio
Employers who employ one or more journeymen steadily must employ an apprentice. Additional apprentices must be employed in the ratio of one (1) apprentice to four (4) journeymen, if available.
14.08 Make-Up Day
The Employer shall be allowed to work a make-up day under the following conditions:
1)	Must be the result of inclement weather or other conditions beyond the control of the Contractor:
2)	Must be job site-specific;
3)	Will not be mandatory and every employee will be given the opportunity to work or refuse to work without penalty;
4)	The Union, Employer, and the employee shall sign off on the make-up day prior to make-up day;
5)	Overtime rates will be paid to all employees if any trade assisting the plasterers on that make up day is
paid overtime. Otherwise, in all respects, the make-up day shall be treated exactly as the day missed.
ARTICLE 15
TRUST FUND OBLIGATIONS
15.01 General Obligations
All payments required to be made by each employer to the Vacation Savings Plan, the Health and Welfare Trust Fund, the Pension Trust Fund, and the Apprenticeship Training Trust under this Agreement, shall be due and payable to the appropriate Trust Fund no later than the thirtieth (30th) day of the month for all hours worked by employees covered by this Agreement during the preceding month. An employer who has not made such payment by the thirtieth (30th) day of the month shall be considered as in violation of this Agreement and a delinquent employer. The Union has the right to withhold services from any and all jobs of such delinquent Contractor or Subcontractors, if proper payment is not made. Should the Union withhold services from any delinquent Contractors for any and all jobs covered by this Agreement, it will not be considered a violation of the no strike-no lockout clause contained in this Agreement. The Contractor agrees to comply with the Joint Trust Fund Collection Policy in existence at the time of this Agreement and as amended by the Board of Trustees.
Local 797 Plasterers’ Master Labor Agreement 2011-2012
14
15.02 Surety Bonds
Any Employer who is adjudged a habitual delinquent in the payment of any contributions to any trust fund established under this Agreement shall be required to post a cash or surety bond in the amount of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00). Such bond shall be deposited with a custodian designated by the trustees within ten (10) days of this notice to the employer requiring the employer to post the bond. The duration of the bond shall be determined by the trustees. The failure of an employer to post such a bond shall be considered a violation of this Agreement, and the Union shall have the right to take economic action including, but not limited to, the right to withhold services, refuse to dispatch employees, and take strike action against such an employer.
A.	Each employer signatory to, or bound by, this Agreement shall furnish a Fringe Benefit Payment Bond, letter of credit or similar security in such form as may be approved by the Board of Trustees of the various trust funds as follows:
NUMBER
OF EMPLOYEES
0-5
6-12
13-25
26-50
51-75
76 or more
FACE AMOUNT
$7,000.00
$12,000.00
$25,000.00
$50,000.00
$75,000.00
$100,000.00
B.	Said Bonds (or other suitable security) shall be in favor of the currently designated Administrator (or whomsoever the Board of Trustees shall designate) of all the aforesaid Fringe Benefit Trust Funds referred to in this Agreement. In the event an Employer fails to furnish a Fringe Benefit Payment Bond (or other suitable security) within ten (10) days after requested, in accordance with the above procedure, the Union shall be relieved of all obligations under this Agreement insofar as concerns such Employer, in addition, in order to preserve its own interests and protect its members, immediately upon knowledge of any such event, the Union shall authorize and direct its members to refuse to work for such Employer.
15.03 Health and Welfare
A Health and Welfare Fund known as the Cement Masons’ and Plasterers’ Health and Welfare Fund has been established by the employers and the union by an agreement and declaration of trust dated August 1, 1968, and subsequently amended by the parties. The employers agree to abide by said agreement and declaration of trust and, further, to make payments to the fund in the amount designated in Appendix A of this Agreement. Participation by the employers in said trust shall be for the duration of this Agreement and any renewals of extensions thereof, or for the period employees are employed under the terms of this agreement. The employer accepts the trustees appointed by the Associations as their trustees.
15.04 Pension Fund
A Pension Fund known as the Cement Masons’ and Plasterers’ Trust has been established by an Agreement and declaration of trust dated July 1, 1975 and which may be subsequently amended by the parties to this agreement. The employer agrees to abide by said agreement and declaration of trust, to accept the trustees appointed by the associations as their trustees, and, further, to make payments to the fund in the amount determined in Appendix A of this agreement. Participation by the employers in said trust shall be for
Local 797 Plasterers’ Master Labor Agreement 2011-2012
15
the duration of this agreement and any renewals or extensions thereof, or for the period employees are employed under the terms of this agreement.
15.05 Vacation Savings Plan
During the term of this agreement and any extensions or renewals thereof, the employer shall make payments to the Cement Masons’ and Plasterers’ Joint Vacation Trust Fund in the amount designated in Appendix A of this agreement. An agreement and declaration of trust establishing such trust fund has been executed by the parties and all employers accept the trustees appointed by the associations as their trustees. All employers further agree to remit their contributions at the time and in the manner prescribed by the board of trustees.
15.06 Supplemental Dues
Subject to the following conditions, the employer agrees that each employee may give written authorization to the board of trustees of the cement masons’ and plasterers’ vacation savings trust to pay to the union from funds held by the trustees on his behalf in accordance with Appendix “A” for each hour of his employment (hours worked, or paid) in each payroll period as supplemental dues owed by the employee to the union.
The Union shall bear the entire responsibility for obtaining the written authorization from the employee and furnishing the authorization to the board of trustees in a form satisfactory to the trustees. All costs, expenses and fees of the board of trustees’ incident to the accounting, administration and remittance to the union of the supplemental dues payments shall be borne solely and entirely by the union. The employer and union agree to amend the agreement and declaration of trust in the Cement Masons’ and Plasterers’ Vacation Savings Trust for the purpose of authorizing, allocating and distributing the foregoing sums. This provision shall in no way affect the obligation of the employer to pay the full amount of vacation contributions specified in this agreement.
All written authorizations referred to above shall be irrevocable for a period of one year from the date of the execution and shall renew automatically from year to year thereafter, unless the employee has served written notice upon the board of trustees and on the union, not more than twenty (20) days and not less then ten (10) days prior to the expiration of each period of one year or of the period of this agreement, whichever is sooner, terminating the authorization.
15.07 Apprenticeship Fund Contributions
During the term of the agreement the employers shall make payments to the Cement Masons’ and Plasterers’ Joint Apprenticeship Trust Fund in the amount designated in Appendix “A” of this agreement. An agreement and declaration of trust establishing such trust fund has been executed by the parties and all employers signatory hereto agree to accept the trustees appointed by the associations as their trustees and to remit their contributions at the times and in the manner prescribed by the board of trustees.
15.08 Contract Administration and Industry Fund
The Union recognizes that the association needs to expend certain sums to administer the labor contract on behalf of signatory employers and promote programs designed to improve the construction industry.
Local 797 Plasterers’ Master Labor Agreement 2011-2012
16
During the term of this agreement and any extensions or renewals thereof, each individual employer covered by this agreement shall contribute the sum of eight (.08) cents per hour for each hour worked by employees under the terms of this agreement to the Nevada Contractors Association, the United Building Contractors Association, Painters and Decorators Contractors Association, Western Wall and Ceiling Contractors Association and the Associated General Contractors Contract Administration and Industry Fund. For the purpose of administering this fund the individual employer by becoming signatory to this agreement does hereby designate the appropriate employer committee to act as agent in all matters concerning the fund. If at any time during the term of this agreement the association signatory here to shall give sixty (60) days; advance notice in writing to the union, this clause shall become null and void and will be deleted from the agreement effective on the date specified in such notice.
At any time during the term of this agreement, the contractors may, upon thirty (30) days advance written notice to the union, increase the contribution to the contract administration and industry fund not to exceed an additional three (3) cents per hour for each hour paid.
The associations agree to meet periodically to update the contract administration and industry fund distribution list.
ARTICLE 16
PUBLIC WORKS PROJECTS ZONE PAY
On a project being performed under prevailing wages published at the time of bidding/contract date for that specific project, wages paid will remain in effect as per the that prevailing wage rate for the duration of that project. Any wage increases negotiated in this contract shall not apply. After twenty-four (24) months from the date to proceed for that project, employees on that project shall receive maintenance of benefits. .
Workers on public works projects shall be entitled to receive the following sums on jobs located fifty (50) miles or more from the city hall of Las Vegas, Nevada:
Zone 1	0-50 miles	Base Wage rate
Zone 2	over 50 miles	$3.25 per hour above Base Wage rate
ARTICLE 17
HOLIDAYS
The following days are recognized as holidays: New Year’s Day, President’s Day, Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day, Veterans Day, Thanksgiving Day, the Friday following Thanksgiving Day, and Christmas day. If any of the above holidays fall on Sunday, the Monday following shall be considered a legal holiday. Work on such days shall be paid for at double time. No work shall be required on Labor Day, except in cases of extreme urgency. If other basic trades get Martin Luther King Day as a holiday, employees, employed under this agreement shall also be afforded that right.
Local 797 Plasterers’ Master Labor Agreement 2011-2012
17
ARTICLE 18
SAVINGS CLAUSE
It is not the intent of either party to violate any laws or any rulings or regulations of any governmental authority or agency having jurisdiction of the subject matter of this agreement. The parties agree that, in the event any provisions of the agreement are held or constituted to be void, as being in contravention of any such laws, rulings, or regulations, the parties agree to enter into immediate negotiations thereon. The remainder of the agreement shall remain in full force and effect, unless the parts found to be void are wholly inseparable from the remaining portions of this agreement.
ARTICLE 19
GENERAL PROVISIONS
The individuals signing this agreement in their official capacity and the signatories hereto guarantee and warrant their authority to act for and bind the respective parties or organization that their signatories purport to represent.
This agreement contains all of the covenants, stipulations and provisions agreed upon by the parties hereto and no agent or representative of either party has authority to make changes. The parties shall not be bound by or liable for any statements, representation, promise, inducement or agreement not set forth herein.
Any provision or procedures contained in the bylaws of the union which relate to the relations between the employers and their employees, in conflict with the terms of this agreement, shall deemed to be waived, and such bylaws and procedures which may hereafter be adopted by the union shall have no application to the work hereunder, to the extent they are in conflict.
No party to this agreement shall cancel the agreement because of a claimed breach thereof, or file any action for damages because of a claimed breach of this agreement, without first giving notice in writing to the other party and allowing three (3) days to such other party for redress or correction. Nothing contained in this section shall be deemed to limit the rights of the union under Article 7 of this agreement.
ARTICLE 20
MARKET RECOVERY COMMITTEE
The parties to this Agreement recognize the necessity of assuring the competitive position of the parties within the industry during the term of this Agreement. Consistent with that recognition, the parties will continually monitor the effectiveness of this Agreement during its term as may be necessary to assure the work opportunities of the employees and the competitive positions of the individual employers. To implement the intent of this paragraph, the parties to this Agreement hereby establish a Committee composed of three (3) representatives appointed by the Union and three (3) representatives appointed by the contractor associations. This Committee will review requests for changes in the terms and conditions of the Agreement that may be necessary to preserve work opportunities for the employees and individual employers covered by the Agreement. The Committee is authorized to approve and implement such changes as it deems to be in the best interest of the parties to the Agreement.
Local 797 Plasterers’ Master Labor Agreement 2011-2012
18
ARTICLE 21
JOURNEYMAN UPGRADING
The union shall continue to manage an upgrading program for all members to cover the E.I.F. Systems, blueprints and cross training, and etc.
ARTICLE 22
SUBSTANCE ABUSE PREVENTION POLICY
The parties recognize the problems which drug and alcohol abuse have created in the construction industry and the need to develop drug and alcohol abuse prevention programs. Accordingly, the parties agree that in order to enhance the safety of the workplace and to maintain a drug and alcohol free work environment, individual employers may require applicants or employees to undergo drug and alcohol screening. The parties agree that if a screening program is implemented by an individual employer, the following items have been agreed upon by labor and management:
1)	It is understood that the use, possession, transfer, or sale of illegal drugs, narcotics, or other unlawful substances is absolutely prohibited while employees are on the employer’s job premises or while working on any site in connection with work performed under the agreement.
2)	All applicants or newly hired employees will undergo a drug test at the direction of the Employer, but not less than five (5) days after commencement of work, at a facility agreed upon by the Employer and the Union. The cutoff levels for both the initial test and the confirmation test will be established by the Federal Department of Health and Human Services. The facility where the sample is tested will be approved by The Federal Department of Health and Human Services. The Employer agrees to pay each applicant or employee who takes and passes the drug test for all the time it takes to undergo the drug test up to a maximum of two (2) hours travel time plus lab time. If an employee fails any drug test and has time coming to him or her, the employer may withhold the cost of the drug test from the final check. Employers may use an oral fluid test or urine screen, solely as a type of pre-employment screening process. Testing procedures shall be conducted in a manner consistent with the products’ manufacturing specifications (“Avitar ORAL screen” or Branan Medical Corp. “Oratect”). Any “nonnegative” test results shall be designated as inconclusive. Employers may seek a urine test at a certified laboratory in accordance with the drug testing procedure set forth in this collective bargaining agreement to confirm results.
3)	Applicants not passing the drug and alcohol screen will not be placed on the employer’s payroll or receive any compensation. Employees not passing the drug and alcohol screen will be removed from the employer’s payroll. The employer agrees to pay the cost for administering the drug and alcohol screen.
4)	The employer may require that an employee be tested for drugs and alcohol where the employer has reasonable cause to believe that the employee is impaired from performing his/her job. Observation must be made by at least two (2) persons, one (1) of whom may be a union employee. This provision shall be applied in a non-discriminatory manner. For employees who refuse to take a test where the prerequisites, as set forth in this paragraph, have been met; there will be a presumption that the test result would have been positive for an unlawful substance.
Local 797 Plasterers’ Master Labor Agreement 2011-2012
19
5)	An employer may require that an employee who contributed to an accident be tested for drugs and alcohol where the employer has reasonable cause to believe that the accident resulted from drug or alcohol usage.
6)	Unannounced, random selection alcohol and/or drug testing of all employees may be conducted from time-to-time at the discretion of management. Employees will be chosen at random by use of a random selection process using a random number generator. In addition, an employee who has voluntarily sought rehabilitation from alcohol or drugs and who has returned to work following the successful completion of such a program may be subject to unannounced follow-up testing, for a period of up to but no longer than two (2) years. It is agreed that all employees working for employer are subject to this policy.
7)	It is understood that the unsafe use of prescribed medication, or where the use of prescribed medication impairs the employee’s ability to perform work, is a basis for removal.
8)	A sufficient amount of a sample shall be taken to allow for an initial test and a confirmation test. The initial test will be an enzyme multiplied immunoassay technique (emit). In the event a question or positive result arises from the initial test, a confirmation test must be utilized before action can be taken against the employee or applicant. The confirmation test will be against the employee or applicant. The confirmation test will be by gas chromatography - mass spectrometry (gc/ms). The cutoff levels for both the initial test and confirmation test will be those established by the national institute of drug abuse. Confirmed positive samples will be retained by the testing laboratory in secured long term frozen storage for a minimum of one (1) year. Handling and transportation of each sample must be documented through strict chain of custody procedures.
9)	Present employees, if tested positive, shall have the prerogative for a rehabilitation program at the employee’s expense. When such program has been successfully completed, the employer shall not discriminate in any way against the employee. If work for which the employee is qualified exists, he/she shall be reinstated, after testing positive a employee may be tested at will, for a period of six (6) months.
10)	Any dispute which arises under this drug and alcohol policy may be submitted to the grievance and arbitration procedure.
11)	In the event an individual employer is required, as a condition of contract award, to abide by the terms and conditions of an owner’s drug policy, the employer will notify the union in writing prior to implementing such policy.
12)	The establishment or operation of this policy shall not curtail any right of an employee found in any law, rule or regulation. Should any part of this policy be found unlawful by a court of competent jurisdiction or a public agency having jurisdiction over the parties, the remaining portions of the policy shall be unaffected and the parties shall enter negotiations to replace the affected provision.
13)	The employer shall indemnify and hold the union harmless against any and all claims, demands, suits, or liabilities that may arise solely out of the employer’s application of the substance abuse program.
The Employers will be allowed to conduct periodic jobsite drug testing on construction projects under the following conditions:
(1)	All of the Employees of the Employer employed on the site must be tested;
(2)	Analysis shall be conducted by a Federal Department of Health and Human Services
certified lab.
Local 797 Plasterers’ Master Labor Agreement 2011-2012
20
ARTICLE 23
TERM - TERMINATION - RENEWAL
This agreement shall be effective as of July 1, 2011 and shall remain in full force and effect from year to year thereafter unless canceled or modified as herein provided. Either party to the agreement may give written notice to the other of a desire to change, modify or terminate the agreement no sooner than ninety (90) days or later than sixty (60) days prior to June 30, 2012 or June 30 of any succeeding year.
The union agrees that in the event that either party should exercise its right under the first paragraph of this section, the union will, for a period of sixty (60) days prior to June 30 of any such year, bargain with the employer with respect to all wage rates, working conditions and hours of employment for the work herein covered, and the employer agrees to bargain in the same manner.
In the event the parties engage in negotiations to amend, modify or negotiate a new agreement and no agreement is reached between the parties and a strike or a lockout occurs, the parties will continue to negotiate with each other until an agreement is reached.
Notwithstanding the provisions of this article and any other article of this agreement, the parties hereto may reopen this agreement on June 30, 2012 to re-negotiate changes, amendments, and modifications only with respect to wages and contributions to existing fringe benefit trust funds. If either party desires to reopen this agreement for said purposes, notice must be given in writing at least sixty (60) days prior to June 30, 2012. It is specifically understood that notwithstanding the provisions of Article 5 of this agreement, if the parties fail to reach an agreement on such matters, it will not be a violation of this agreement if either party engages in a strike or lockout, as the case may be.
Nevada Contractors Association
Operative Plasterers’ and Cement Masons’ International Local 797
Date__________________________
Date__________________________
Sean Stewart
President
Marc Leavitt
Business Manager/Financial Secretary
United Building Contractors Association, Inc.
Operative Plasterers’ and Cement Masons’ International Local 797
Date	Date
Melbourne Joseph Administrator
Marc Leavitt
Business Manager/Financial Secretary
Local 797 Plasterers’ Master Labor Agreement 2011-2012
21
Painters & Decorators Contractors Association Las Vegas Chapter	Operative Plasterers’ and Cement Masons’ International Local 797
Date		Date	
Thomas Pfundstien Senior Executive Director Painters & Decorators Contractor Association Las Vegas Chapter	Marc Leavitt Business Manager/Financial Secretary
Western Wall and Ceiling Contractors Association	Operative Plasterers’ and Cement Masons’ International Local 797
Date		Date	
Bob Campbell Southwest Regional Manager	Marc Leavitt Business Manager/Financial Secretary
Associated General Contractors	Operative Plasterers’ and Cement Masons’ International Local 797
Date		Date	
_D_a_n_O__’S__h_ea	 Director of Labor Relations	Marc Leavitt Business Manager/Financial Secretary
Local 797 Plasterers’ Master Labor Agreement 2011-2012
22
APPENDIX A
BASE WAGE RATES FOR JOURNEYMEN
Effective Date	July 1, 2010
Base Wage Rate	$32.38
(Includes Vacation/Sup Dues/International Work dues)
Health & Welfare	$	7.30
Pension	$	4.30
Apprenticeship	$	.63
C. A. F.	$	.08
Total	$44.69	
Breakdown for Vacation, Supplemental Dues and International Working Dues.
Vacation	$2.50
Supplemental Dues	.90
International Working Dues.45
Total	$3.85
Wage Package increase for 2011 will be $0.75 to be for Health & Welfare effective October 1, 2011.
Wage increase allocations for each year will be made in April of each increase year and the Associations and Contractors will be notified directly after the Allocation Meeting by mail, email or fax.
Foreman	$2.50	per	hour	above	journeyman	Base	Rate
General Foreman	$4.25	per	hour	above	journeyman	Base	Rate
Artisan	$7.00	per	hour	above	journeyman	Base	Rate
All overtime to be figured off of base rate, then the $3.85 for vacation, supplemental dues and international dues will be deducted after taxes and submitted to applicable trust funds along with all other fringes.
Employees covered by this agreement shall be entitled to receive the following sums on jobs located fifty (50) miles or more from the city hall of Las Vegas, Nevada:
Zone Pay
Zone 1	0-50 miles	Base Wage rate
Zone 2	over 50 miles	$3.25 per hour above Base Wage rate plus fifty-one (51) cents per mile for
one round trip per week.
Free Zone Cities
Boulder City
Mesquite
When an Employer furnishes transportation to workers to and from the jobsite on the Employer’s time no travel or zone pay shall be paid.
Local 797 Plasterers’ Master Labor Agreement 2011-2012
23
APPENDIX B
WAGES FOR APPRENTICES
Apprentices shall be paid a progressive basis of the journeyman’s Base Wage Rate, provided, however, that no apprentice shall receive an increase in pay at the end of any one period, unless his progress on the job and related technical instruction is deemed satisfactory by the Joint Apprenticeship Committee. The current Apprenticeship is a four (4) year five thousand (5,000) hour term. The contractor understands that the training period minimum hours and base wage may be modified at a later date as approved by the Board of Trustees and the State Apprenticeship Council.
The first 1250 hours of the term of apprenticeship shall be a probationary period, during which time the apprentice may be terminated by the Committee at the written request of either party to the indenture, without a hearing before the Committee.
Apprentices shall be paid the following percentages of the Journeyman Base Wage Rate inclusive of vacation pay, and the following fringe benefit contributions:
Training Period	Hours	% of Base Wage	Contribution Schedule
1st	0-900	60%	No fringe benefits
2nd	900-1250	65%	Health & Welfare
3rd	1250-2500	70%	Health and Welfare; Vacation pay deducted from wage
4th	2500-3750	80%	Health and Welfare; Vacation; Pension
5th	3750-5000	90%	Health and Welfare; Vacation; Pension; Apprenticeship
Contractors shall not pay the apprentice a higher rate of pay than specified above and shall pay the apprentice for the proper period as stipulated in the apprentice’s Apprenticeship Agreement.
“Wages for Apprentices” of the Apprenticeship Standards for the Plastering and Cement Masons Industry, which have been approved and agreed to by the respective signatories to this Agreement, and which may subsequently be amended from time to time by the Trustees of the Cement Masons’ and Plasterers’ Joint Apprenticeship Trust Fund, are hereby referred to and made a part of this Agreement.
Local 797 Plasterers’ Master Labor Agreement 2011-2012
24
APPENDIX C
LIGHT COMMERCIAL WORK
This appendix relates to all wood frame, concrete block, tilt-up and poured-in-place concrete construction, including, but not limited to shopping centers, stores, offices, buildings, warehouses, churches, and fast food establishments, where the total cost of the project does not exceed twenty (20) million dollars.
The following wage rates shall apply to any project that meets the definition of light commercial work as defined above.
70% of the Base Rate
Full Fringe Benefit Rates
Excluded from this light commercial rate are any hotel gaming project where a Nevada unlimited gaming license or live gaming is in effect; or any public works project.
It is agreed that members that work on targeted projects shall remain on the out of work list.
The employer agrees to notify all workers on such projects that they are working at the seventy percent (70%) rate within three (3) days of work commencement.
A joint labor-management committee consisting of an equal number of employers and union representatives shall be established, with the authority to do the following:
(1)	Adjust the maximum twenty (20) million dollars upward when required in order to preserve the project from being performed by non-signatory, non-union employers.
(2)	Adjust the seventy (70%) labor rate when required in order to preserve the project from being performed by non-signatory, non-union employers.
Apprentices shall not be affected by the light commercial rate until such apprentice reaches seventy percent (70%) status.
There shall be no established shift starting time under the light commercial provisions of this agreement.
Local 797 Plasterers’ Master Labor Agreement 2011-2012
25
APPENDIX D
MAINTENANCE WORK
Hotel and/or casino maintenance duties covered by this appendix are hereby limited to patch work, small replacements, and other routine work required to keep the establishment operating. It is understood that under no circumstances is this classification to be used for remodel, tenant improvement or new construction work.
The wage and benefits for maintenance work shall be as follows:
80% of the Base Rate
Full Fringe Benefit Rates
APPENDIX E
RESIDENTIAL
It is hereby agreed by both labor and management that when market conditions change in the future, we will meet to negotiate terms and conditions with the intention of incorporating a residential wage package into this agreement.
APPENDIX F
COMPETITIVE BIDDING ADJUSTMENT
In the event that an employer, and/or employers association, that is signatory to this agreement is planning to bid on a privately funded commercial project he/ they shall notify the local union business manager, in writing, prior to bidding on the project for any mutually agreed upon competitive adjustment. This adjustment will be done on a project by project basis only and any mutually agreed upon competitive adjustment will be reduced to writing and be made available to all employers signatory to this agreement.
Local 797 Plasterers’ Master Labor Agreement 2011-2012
26
APPENDIX G
MEMORANDUM AGREEMENT
It is agreed between the undersigned, (“Employer”) and the Operative Plasterers’ and Cement Masons’ International Association, Local Union 797, (“Union”) in consideration of services performed and to be performed by Plasterers for the employer as follows:
1.	The employer agrees to comply with all of the terms, including wages, hours and working conditions, as set forth in the agreement, referred to as the Plasterers Master Labor Agreement date July 1, 2011; between the Nevada Contractors Association, United Building Contractors Association, Painting and Decorating Contractors Association, Western Wall and Ceiling Association, Associated General Contractors and the Operative Plasterers and Cement Masons International Association, Local Union 797, and the agreement establishing the following funds:
(a)	Cement Masons’ & Plasterers’ Joint Vacation Trust Fund;
(b)	Cement Masons’ & Plasterers’ Health and Welfare Trust Fund;
(c)	Cement Masons’ & Plasterers’ Pension Trust Fund;
(d)	Cement Masons’ & Plasterers’ Apprenticeship Committee Trust Fund;
and any amendments, modifications, extensions and renewals of such labor agreement, trust agreements and funds. The labor agreement, trust agreements and funds specifically incorporated by reference and made a part of this memorandum agreement.
2.	The employer agrees to pay to the Cement Masons’ and Plasterers’ Joint Vacation Savings Plan; the Cement Masons’ and Plasterers’ Health & Welfare Trust Fund; the Cement Masons’ and Plasterers’ Pension Trust Fund; and the Cement Masons’ and Plasterers’ Apprenticeship Committee Trust Fund. The payments shall be made in the amounts and manner provided for in the labor agreement and trust agreements, and the rules and procedures adopted by the trustees of the trust funds and all amendments, modifications, extensions and renewals.
3.	The provisions of Article 7 of the labor agreement are excluded in their entirety from the memorandum agreement, and the terms and conditions of such Article 7 shall not apply in any manner to the union and the employer in the event a dispute should arise over the terms of the labor agreement, and/or this Memorandum Agreement.
In the event a dispute is not resolved between the union and the employer, then in addition to the union’s rights as set forth in the above paragraph, the union shall also have the option of submitting and dispute to an impartial arbitrator for a final and binding decision. In the event the union submits such a dispute to arbitration and the parties cannot agree upon the selection of an arbitrator within five (5) days, then the arbitrator shall be selected from a list of five (5) names provided by the federal mediation and conciliation service. The Arbitrator's fees and all incidental fees shall be paid equally by the union and the employer.
4.	The terms of the special provisions for light commercial work of the labor agreement can be applied only upon the employer providing the union with written verification that the job project meets the specified definition of light commercial work.
5.	By virtue of signing this agreement, the employer hereby agrees that when performing work in the state of Nevada, the Employer shall be bound by, and shall perform all work under, the terms and conditions contained in the applicable Cement Masons’ and Plasterers’ Master Labor Agreement for such area, including, but not limited to, the hiring hall requirements, and the subcontracting requirements contained in said applicable Master Agreement.
Local 797 Plasterers’ Master Labor Agreement 2011-2012
27
6.	This agreement shall remain in full force and effect until June 30, 2012 and shall continue from year to year thereafter unless either party shall give written notice to the other of a desire to modify or cancel the agreement not more than ninety (90) days prior to and not less than sixty (60) days prior to June 30, 2012 or June 30th of any succeeding year that the agreement may be modified or canceled. Notwithstanding the year-to-year extension, the contractor shall be bound for the term of any successor labor agreement between the Plasterers’ and Cement Masons’ and the Contractor Associations unless appropriate notice to cancel is give prior to July 1, 2012.
Date: __________________________________________________________________________________________
Contractor: ____________________________________________________________________________________
Address: _______________________________________________________________________________________
License#:_______________________________________________________________________________________
Phone #:_____________________________________Fax #:_____________________________________________
Signed by: _____________________________________________________________________________________
Name: __________________________________________________________________________________________
Title: _________________________________________________________________________________________
Plasterers Cement Masons Local 797
Date: __________________________________________________________________________________________
Signature: _____________________________________________________________________________________
Title: _________________________________________________________________________________________
Association Preferred. (Please initial one)
N.C.A._______________ U.B.C.A._______________ P.D.C.A.______________W.W.C.C.A.__________________
Local 797 Plasterers’ Master Labor Agreement 2011-2012
28
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
CONTRIBUTIONS IN BEHALF OF SUPERINTENDENTS: The Union and the Employer agree that when employees are working in a supervisory position above the rank of general foreman, the individual Employer may make payments with respect to his work into the Plasters and Cement Masons Health and Welfare Trust Fund and the Plasters and Cement Masons Pension Trust Fund, on the basis of 160 hours per month, in accordance with the schedules set forth in the Master Agreement, regardless of hours worked by such employee in a month; provided, however, the individual Employer having made one (1) payment on an employee shall continue to make such payments so long as the employee is in his employ in a like supervisory capacity.
Superintendents covered under this paragraph (e) shall be allowed a one-time option to discontinue coverage, if requested in writing to the Employer within ninety (90) days following the effective date of this Agreement.
Local 797 Plasterers’ Master Labor Agreement 2011-2012
29
NOTES
Local 797 Plasterers’ Master Labor Agreement 2011-2012
30