Continental S| Airlines
AGREEMENT between CONTINENTAL AIRLINES, INC. and INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MACHINISTS AND AEROSPACE WORKERS
Flight Attendants
April 1, 2000 - October 1, 2004
Table of Contents
TOO
Section 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13	Subject Recognition Definitions General Compensation Scheduling Required Meetings and Training Traveling Expenses Vacation Sick Leave Medical Examinations Alcohol and Drug Testing Filling of Vacancies System Furloughs, Base Reductions, and Base Closures
14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27	Leaves of Absence Uniforms Seniority Personnel Files Investigations Grievance Procedure System Board of Adjustment Jobsharing Partnership Flying Non Flying Duties Benefits Missing, Interned or Hostage Union Security and Dues Check-Off Duration Letters of Agreement Index
Table of Contents - Contract Sections
TOC
Contents - Letters of Agreement
Letter Subject
1	Add Pay Items
2	Automation of Reserve Day Trades
3	Automation of Self-Adjustment System
4	Bid Line Construction
5	Building Speaker Lines
6	Cabin Tidying
7	Computer Based Training
8	Conscientious Reporting Program
9	Continental Express Bridge to	Continental
10	Continental Express Trial Period
11	Continental Micronesia LPPs
12	COPA
13	Crew Bunk Installation
14	Customer Complaints
15	Domestic Partner Health and Welfare Benefits
16	Duty Free Bonus Payments
17	Flight Time for Committee Work
18	FMLA
19	Foreign Language Speaker Staffing
20	Foreign Language Tuition Reimbursement and Pass With Condition
21	ISM Pay Rates
22	Management Retention of Seniority
23	New Technology
24	Preferential Bidding
25	Profit Sharing
26	Protection of Flight Attendants From Assault
27	Safety Committee
.28	Seniority When Transferring From	Subsidiaries
29	Sick and Welfare Committee
30	Splitting Trips at Non Hub Locations
31	Vacation Accrual
32	Work Life Committees
Table of Contents - Letters of Agreement
Section 1 - Recognition
In accordance with certificate (C-6232) issued by the National Mediation Board on October 31, 1990, Continental Airlines, Inc. (the ‘‘Company”) hereby recognizes the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers (the “IAM” or the “Union”) as the duly designated and authorized collective bargaining representative of the flight attendants in the employ of the Company for the purposes of the Railway Labor Act, as amended. This Agreement shall be applicable to flight attendants employed by the Company assigned to bases in the United States, its territories and possessions within the jurisdiction of the Railway Labor Act, as amended. All flight attendant duties shall be assigned to and 'performed exclusively by flight attendants holding positions on the System Seniority List in accordance with the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
Employees covered by this Agreement will be governed by all reasonable rules, regulations and orders of the Company which are not in conflict with the express terms of this Agreement. Unless specifically abridged or modified by an express term of this Agreement, the Company retains full and complete right and power to exercise its reasonable management authority in the operations of its business. Such management authority includes, but is not limited to, the right to manage and direct the work force, including, but not limited to, the right to hire, promote, demote, transfer, and control operations and to establish and/or change work schedules and requirements; the right to determine the type of work to be performed and the right to change and introduce different methods, equipment, and facilities; the right to determine and change the number, size and location of bases and facilities, and the number of employees and the work to be done at each; and the right to establish and/or change reasonable Company rules and to maintain discipline and efficiency. The Company will have the right to discharge or otherwise discipline employees for just cause subject to the appeal procedure provided herein. No retained management right will be waived except by the express written agreement of the parties.
Recognition 1 -1
C.	The Union and the flight attendants will not engage in any strike, including a sympathy strike, during the term of this Agreement. The Company reserves the right to seek injunctive relief for any violations of this no-strike clause. The Company agrees not to lock out any flight attendants during the term of this Agreement.
D.	Successorship and Mergers
1.	This Agreement shall be binding upon any successor or assign of the Company unless and until changed in accordance with the provisions of the Railway Labor Act, as amended. For purposes of this paragraph, a successor or assign shall be defined as an entity which acquires all or substantially all of the assets or equity of the Company through a single transaction or multi-step related transactions which close within a twelve (12) month period.
2.	No contract or other legally binding commitment involving the transfer of ownership or control pursuant to a successorship transaction, whether by Sale, transfer or lease of the Company or substantially all of its assets, will be signed or otherwise entered into unless it is agreed as a material and irrevocable condition of entering into, concluding and implementing such transaction that the rates of pay, rules and working conditions set forth in this Agreement will be assumed by the successor employer, and employees on the then current flight attendant seniority list will be employed in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement. The Company shall give notice of the existence of this Agreement to any purchaser, transferee, lessee, or assignee of the operation covered by this Agreement or any substantial part thereof. Such notice shall be in writing with a copy to the Union, at the time the seller, transferor, or lessor executes a definitive agreement with respect to a transaction as herein described.
3.	In the event of a merger of airline operations between the Company and another air carrier the Company will require, as a condition of any such operational merger that provisions be included requiring that the surviving carrier provide for fair and equitable integration of the pre-merger flight attendant seniority
Recognition 1 --2
list in accordance with Sections 3 and 13 of the Allegheny Mohawk LPPs.
4.	In the event of a merger of airline operations, this Agreement shall be considered to be amendable as provided in the Duration Section of this Agreement and Section 6 of the Railway Labor Act. Integration of the flight attendant groups shall not occur until the applicable seniority lists are merged pursuant to procedures as described above, and agreement is reached over rates of pay, rules, and working conditions for the post-merger craft or class. Prior to such agreement, the terms and conditions of this Agreement shall continue to apply to the employees whose names appear on the Company’s flight attendant seniority list.
5.	The following additional requirements shall be applicable in the event of a merger, purchase or acquisition involving the Company, regardless of the identity of the surviving carrier or whether formerly separate operations are to be integrated.
a.	Unless and until any operational merger is finally effectuated, the Union will continue to be recognized as the representative of the pre-merger Company flight attendants, so long as such recognition is consistent with the Railway Labor Act and any applicable rulings or orders of the National Mediation Board. Recognition of a post-merger representative shall be governed by the Railway Labor Act and by any applicable rulings or orders of the National Mediation Board.
b.	Subject to applicable securities and other laws and regulations, the Company will review with the Union the details of any material agreements relating to successorship transactions in a timely manner, provided that no financial or other confidential business information need be disclosed unless suitable arrangements are made for protecting the confidentiality and use of such information.
c.	In advance of any operational integration, the Company or surviving carrier, if different than the Company, will accept
Recognition 1 - 3
the integrated seniority list accomplished in accordance with Sections 3 and 13 of the Allegheny Mohawk LPPs.
d.	The inflight operations of the Company and those of the other air carrier shall be kept separate unless and until the processes described in paragraphs (D) (3) and (4) above are completed. During such time of separate operations, flight attendants shall not be interchanged without the Union’s written consent.
e.	Until the processes described in paragraphs (D) (3) and (4) above are completed, no employee covered by this Agreement shall be furloughed as an effect of the merger, purchase or acquisition.
f.	The Company or surviving carrier, if different than the Company, shall meet promptly with the Union upon request to negotiate the implementation of the requirements of this paragraph.
6.	The Company agrees to arbitrate any grievance filed by the Union alleging a violation of this Paragraph D on an expedited basis directly before the System Board of Adjustment sitting with a neutral arbitrator mutually acceptable to both parties. If a mutually agreed upon arbitrator cannot be selected within three (3) days of the filing, an arbitrator will be selected pursuant to Section 20 of this Agreement. The dispute shall be heard no later than thirty (30) days following the submission to the system board (subject to the availability of the arbitrator), and shall be decided no later than thirty (30) days following submission, unless the parties agree otherwise in writing.
Recognition 1-4
Section 2 - Definitions
A.	Airport Alert
“Airport Alert” is that period of time a flight attendant is required to be at the airport available for assignment to flight duty.
B.	Base
A “base” is a location where a flight attendant is based, which may consist of co-terminals.
C.	Bid Line
A “bid line” is a full bid period of assignments for a flight attendant, in her/his base, with specific dates and trips delineated. It includes scheduled time, as well as known special assignments, and/or reserve duty days.
D.	Block to Block
“Block to Block” means the period of time beginning when an aircraft first moves away from the ramp blocks and ending when the aircraft comes to a stop at the ramp blocks, at either intermediate stops or final destination.
E.	Calendar Day
“Calendar Day” means from midnight to midnight.
F.	Co-terminal
A “Co-terminal” is two or more airports serving the same geographical area.
Definitions 2 - 1
G.	Deadheading
c “Deadheading” means the transport of a flight attendant for the purpose _ of covering or returning from a flying assignment.
H.	Displaced	C
.....
“Displaced” means the forced transfer of a flight attendant from one base to another.
I.	Domestic Partner
G Domestic Partner shall mean a person who has an intimate, committed C relationship of mutual caring with a flight attendant who is not legally married, which relationship is intended to be permanent, and who meets each of the following criteria:	r
1.	Have resided at the same residence and household as the flight	C
attendant for at least six (6) consecutive months while in such a	C
committed relationship, and	(
c
2.	Be at least eighteen (18) years of age and not legally married, and	-
3.	Be mutually responsible with the flight attendant for each other’s
welfare and obligations, and	'-■■■
c
4.	Is not related by blood or adoption to the flight attendant, and (
c
5.	Be the sole domestic partner with the flight attendant, and have been so for at least six (6) consecutive months, and
6.	Be of the same gender as the flight attendant, and	(.
I
7.	Have provided the Company with either a notarized affidavit affirming his/her qualification as a domestic partner pursuant to this paragraph, or a copy of a certification/registration of a domes-tic partnership from a governmental body pursuant to an applica-ble state or local law authorizing such certification/registration.
(
Definitions 2-2	...
J.	Drafting
“Drafting” is the mandatory assignment of a flight attendant to a trip pairing.
K.	First Flight Attendant
“First Flight Attendant” means a flight attendant who, in addition to performing flight attendant duties, is responsible for coordinating and directing the activities of the cabin crew, and for completing all required reports and documentation.
L.	Flight Attendant
“Flight Attendant” means an employee of the Company whose duties consist of performing or assisting in the performance of cabin service, standby duty, ground service, and related duties, as defined by the Company Policies and FA A regulations, in a resourceful and gracious manner. These duties include responsibility for applying these services for the welfare, comfort, and safety of passengers. The flight attendant will assist passengers with the completion of custom and immigration forms when necessary. Whenever the term flight attendant is used, it will include the male and female gender.
M.	Flight Time Credit
“Flight time credit” is actual flight time on regularly scheduled flights, extra sections, charter trips, or other flights where the flight attendant is assigned as member of the crew.
N.	Foreign Language Base
A “Foreign Language Base” (FLB) is a base which is staffed exclusively by flight attendants who have been qualified as foreign language speakers. FLB may also be used to refer to FLSs who are based in foreign language bases.
Definitions 2-3
O.	Foreign Language Speaker
A “Foreign Language Speaker” (FLS) is a flight attendant who has been qualified in accordance with Company standards and this Agreement to perform flight attendant duties in markets in which the ability to speak a foreign language is required. Foreign language speakers will assist passengers with the completion of customs and immigration forms and other necessary customer service translation information. Foreign language speaker flight attendants will make announcements over the public address system on the flight as required when directed by the ISM or First Flight Attendant. Foreign language speakers may be based in any base. Foreign language speakers who are not based in foreign language bases form the “at-large” group of foreign language speakers.
P.	International Service Manager
“International Service Manager” (ISM) means a flight attendant who, in addition to the duties of a regular flight attendant, is responsible for (a) the coordination, leadership, and direction of the cabin service crew in accordance with service standards, (b) coordination of Inflight sales, and (c) preparation and handling of all reports and documentation as may be required by the Company.
The ISM will assist the flight attendants in the performance of their responsibilities for the preparation and handling of all forms, reports and documentation, and all accounting and paperwork required for sales and transactions on the flight. The ISM shall be responsible for reporting and depositing all receipts from all such transactions in accordance with Company requirements. In addition, the ISM shall be responsible for all briefings and announcements on the public address system on board the aircraft. The Company shall furnish all necessary tools and equipment for the performance of such duties.
Q.	Published Time
“Published time” is time listed on crew routings provided to crew members by the Company.
Definitions 2-4
Reserve
“Reserve” is a flight attendant who is required to be available for assignment to flight duty, either as a Call-in, a Ready, or on airport alert reserve duty. Flight attendants on reserve or airport alert status are required to perform traditional flight attendant duties, which may include customer service duties at the airport.
2
R Days
“R Days” are calendar day(s) of required availability for assignment to flight duty which may be scheduled in Unes of time, placed in open time, used in reassignment, or assigned.
72 Hour Window
The “72 hour window” is the time during which open time first becomes available to flight attendants for trip trading for the next bid month. The 72 hour window will open at least three 24-hour periods before 0001 Central Standard Time of the first day of the new bid month. The 72 hour window will be indicated on the bid packet.
Specially Qualified
A “specially qualified” flight attendant is a flight attendant on the System Seniority List who has satisfied special requirements (in addition to the normal flight attendant requirements) under the Company’s qualifications, and is awarded a position utilizing such special qualifications. These flight attendants may be required to make a minimum commitment to the special qualifications program(s) in which they elect to participate. Current programs include Foreign Language Speakers, International Service, and International Service Managers.
Trip Pairing or Trip
A “trip pairing” or “trip” is one or more flight segments. A “flight segment” is an individual component of a trip or trip pairing, which includes no more than one take-off and one landing. Trip pairings are
Definitions 2-5
published in the monthly bid packets.
2
W.
Unscheduled Trip
An “unscheduled trip” is a trip not operated on published schedules, such as an extra section, a ferry flight or a charter, etc.
X. Voluntary Furlough
“Voluntary Furlough” means a furlough which is accepted (e.g., to avoid being displaced) by a flight attendant who has the right to displace the most junior flight attendant on the system.
Definitions 2 - 6
Section 3 - General
Nondiscrimination
The Company and the Union will comply with all applicable Federal,
State, and local anti-discrimination laws.
Records
1.	Flight attendants must maintain and provide the Company with a current address, telephone number and emergency contact telephone number. Flight attendants will not be required to notify the
Company of their whereabouts on days off or when on vacation.
2.	A flight attendant will not be required to update her/his employment records more frequently than once a year, except medical records, home address, telephone number, emergency contact, and benefits, including pass eligibility.
3.	A copy of any form required to be completed by flight attendants will be made available to the flight attendant upon request.
4.	Any information other than verification of employment, length of service and salary requested by any person(s) or agency(s) except an authorized governmental agency, will not be released without
the written permission of the flight attendant involved.
Passes
1.	Flight attendants will be granted on-line passes and reduced rates for themselves and eligible family members that are extended to other non-management employee groups. Any improvements provided to other non-management employees will be extended to flight attendants and the Union will be notified of changes in the pass policy.
General 3 - 1
3
2.	Once each year each flight attendant shall be entitled to designate one (1) travel companion to receive pass travel privileges. Each flight attendant may designate either one (1) travel companion or one (1) spouse for pass travel privileges, but not both. A married flight attendant may elect to designate a person other than her/his spouse as the travel companion, however should a married flight attendant so elect, her/his spouse will forfeit the spousal pass entitlement. Travel companions shall be entitled to the same travel privileges as are spouses under the Company’s pass travel policies and shall, for purposes of travel be treated the same as spouses. The service charge for Companions shall be the same as the service charge applicable to spouses, however flight attendants designating travel companions who are not entitled to tax-free travel pursuant to the Internal Revenue Gode (a person other than a dependent child, parent or spouse) shall bear the tax burden of providing pass travel to such companions. ’' Such costs shall be handled in the same manner as are the similar costs associated with Buddy pass travel.
3.	Retired flight attendants and their spouses and eligible unmarried children will be granted the same on-line passes and reduced rate privileges as are other Company non-management retirees. They will also be eligible for other airline passes to the extent qualified by other carriers. For the purpose of this paragraph only, retired flight attendants will include flight attendants who retired on or after their fortieth birthday and have attained a minimum of twenty (20) years of seniority. The flight attendant’s adjusted seniority date will be used to determine years of seniority.
D.	Passports/Inoculations
1.	Passport renewal reimbursement will be provided to active flight attendants.
2.	Inoculations recommended by an appropriate United States governmental agency for any destination served by the Company shall be made available to flight attendants without charge. Such inoculations will be provided at Company des
General 3-2
ignated locations only. It will be the flight attendant’s responsibility to keep her/his inoculation records current.
E.	Savings Clause
Should any part of this Agreement be invalid by reason of any existing or subsequently enacted legislation or court decision, such invalidation of any part or provision of the Agreement will not invalidate the remaining portions, which will remain in full force and effect. In the event of such invalidation, the parties agree that the invalid practice will be abandoned, and the Company will comply with the legislation or court decision. In addition, should any part of this Agreement or any Company policy or practice which pertains to a mandatory subject of bargaining, become invalid by reason of any existing or subsequently enacted legislation, regulation, or court decision, the parties agree to meet and confer for the purpose of agreeing upon a cure to the invalidity. If the parties are unable to reach agreement, the matter will be referred to a neutral arbitrator on an expedited basis.
E System Seniority List
1.	Upon request, but no more frequently than once a month, the Company will provide the Union with system-wide lists of flight attendants in seniority and alpha order.
2.	Once during each month, the Company will provide the Union with the following information:
a.	List of flight attendant transfers,
b.	List of flight attendants who have been removed from the seniority list, and
c.	Names, addresses, and telephone numbers on file of new hires and the bases to which they have been assigned.
d.	List of address, area code and telephone number changes submitted by flight attendants to the Company. The list shall
General 3-3
include the name, employee number and base for each flight attendant submitting such a change during the previous month.
Luggage
If the flight attendant on duty is required to check her/his luggage, the Company will establish procedures for handling luggage.
H.	Insurance Indemnification
1.	If a flight attendant is named as a defendant in any civil action for damages (including any such action initiated by a fellow employee, or any such action or case arising in a comparable tribunal outside of the United States) arising out of such flight attendant’s performance of her/his duties with the Company, the Company through it’s insurers, will indemnify and save harmless the flight attendant from any money judgement or award rendered against her/him including a judgement for damages based on such flight attendant’s negligence.
2.	It is expressly understood that such indemnification of any flight attendant is limited by all terms and limitations of the Company’s policy with its insurers. This provision will apply to civil actions for damages against a flight attendant’s estate.
I.	Telephones
The Company will provide flight attendants access to a reasonable number of working telephones for free local calls in each base, data ports, and toll free numbers to Scheduling.
J.	Date/Time Stamps
Electric date/time stamps available at all times will be provided in each base.
General 3-4
Employment Verification
Upon a flight attendant’s request, the Company will issue a letter verifying the status of that flight attendant’s employment and other requested employment data.
Special Transportation
1.	A flight attendant who becomes ill down line may be required to see a doctor before returning to her/his base. S/he will be flown home by the most direct route, (positive space on line) as soon as s/he is capable of traveling. The Company will provide hotel accommodations and per diem until the flight attendant is able to return home. In addition, the Company will reimburse expenses incurred traveling to and from a doctor and/or hospital. The Company will not be required to provide transportation to cities which are not served by the Company.
2.	In the event the flight attendant dies while away from her/his base on Company business, the Company will return the remains to the flight attendant’s base or alternate on-line city.
Orders in Writing
All orders to flight attendants involving a reduction in force, filling of vacancies, change in bases, furloughs, and leaves of absence will be in writing. They will be placed in the flight attendants’ mailboxes and/or mailed to their residence.
Union Locking Mailbox
The Union may place a locking mailbox in each base in a location reasonably accessible to flight attendants. The mailbox may be permanently mounted on a wall or as appropriate.
Lounges
The Company will furnish lounges for flight attendants at all bases.
General 3 - 5
P.	Bulletin Boards	•('
('•
1.	Glass enclosed lockable bulletin boards (maximum dimensions 3’ x 5’) acceptable to the Company may be provided by the Union at flight attendant bases. Each Board will be labeled as “Union.” The Union and the Company will determine the location of the bulletin f board by mutual agreement. Keys will be issued only to the Base ( Chairperson and to the Base Director.	f
0
2.	The Company grants the use of Union Bulletins Boards and Union Bulletin Books in the flight attendant work area at each base for informational purposes only. Management retains the right to remove any objectionable document at any time.	(
r
Q.	Flight Attendant Mailboxes
Materials approved by District 142 of the I AM may, with prior approval of the Base Director or the Staff Vice President, Inflight, be distributed through the Company’s flight attendant mailboxes. Prior approval will not be required for:
c c c
(
1.	Union meeting notices, including agendas, or
2.	Notices of Union officer nominations/elections, including associ-ated procedural instructions, or
(
3.	Ratification announcements, or	(
4.	Direct administrative correspondence with individual flight atten- f dants relating to grievances, dues, or change of address matters.
R.	Copy of this Agreement
The Company will provide each flight attendant with a copy of this @ Agreement within 60 days of the signing Of this Agreement. All new flight attendants will receive a copy when hired. The Union and the q Company will jointly prepare an index to this Agreement, which will be placed in each copy of the Agreement before distribution. The cost of
General 3-6
printing and distributing this Agreement will be paid by the Company. The cover of the Agreement will be decided by mutual agreement between the Company and the Union.
Parking
Parking will be provided in a flight attendant’s base. At her/his option, a flight attendant will receive a commuting expense payment of thirty dollars ($30.00) per month in lieu of parking at her/his base. A flight attendant may change her/his election one time each year, or upon residence or base change. It is the parties’ intent that these amounts be non-taxable to the extent permitted by law.
Deadhead
1.	A flight attendant deadheading will be considered on duty. S/he is
encouraged to travel out of uniform. Deadhead attire will be in accordance with Company regulations for First Class business attire as specified for mid-week pass travel.
2.	In accordance with the Company’s non-revenue travel policy a flight attendant deadheading shall be provided first class accommodations when available. All seats will be located in the nonsmoking area when available.
3.	Pairings shall be constructed to provide that a flight attendant shall deadhead on-line on the most direct route available and all such travel accommodations shall be “must ride.” In addition, pairings shall also be constructed to provide that a flight attendant deadheading to his/her base at the conclusion of a trip shall travel online on the first available flight.
a.	Crew members deadheading to operate a flight will be boarded by order of chain of command.
i.	Captain
ii.	First Officer
iii.	Second Officer
General 3 - 7
iv.	ISM/FFA
v.	Remaining flight attendants in order of
Company seniority.
b.	Crew members deadheading upon completion of a flight will be boarded in the following order:
i.	Captain
ii.	Remaining crew members in order of
Company seniority.
4.	Crew Scheduling will provide deadheading flight attendants advanced seat assignments according to the following priorities:
a.	Overwing emergency exit rows.
b.	If seating in emergency rows is unavailable, or if the deadhead is unscheduled, seating will be assigned first in aisle seats, then in window seats, and only if neither is available, in any other available seats.
c.	If more than one deadheading flight attendant is scheduled on a flight, additional deadheading flight attendants will be assigned a block of seats near another emergency exit.
5.	Flight attendants shall be required to deadhead by air only on U.S. carriers operating under FAR Part 121, or scheduled carriers under FAR Part 135 (or successor regulations) or foreign air carriers who are members of IATA, or with the flight attendant’s concurrence, comparable air carriers (e.g., Lear Jet operators).
U.	Crew Breaks
The provisions of this Paragraph shall apply only to flight segments beginning and/or ending in locations outside the United States or Honolulu.
1.	On B-777 aircraft, a separate bunk module area will be provided
for crew rest. On all other aircraft, four crew rest seats are to be blocked for crew rest. These seats are not to be assigned to customers, even in a Class A oversale. The designated seats will have a curtain provided for privacy. Signs or makeshift curtains are not permitted. Crew rest seats will not be required for flights of less than eight hours (8:00).
3
2.	The International Service Manager/FFA will honor seniority in scheduling and coordinating crew rest breaks for the other crewmembers. Rest breaks will be approximately evenly divided among crewmembers and will occur during non-service periods. However, in no case on flights scheduled for eight hours (8:00) or more will the rest periods be less than one hour (1:00), and on flights scheduled for twelve hours (12:00) or more rest breaks will not be less than two hours (2:00) in duration.
3.	All scheduled cabin services are to be completed by all flight attendants before the start of any crew rest period.
4.	On aircraft with seating capacity of more than 160 passengers, no more than four flight attendants may be on break at any one time. On aircraft with seating capacity of 160 passengers or less, no more than two flight attendants may be on break at any one time. Flight attendants are to sit upright in the assigned crew rest seats. No other seats may be used by flight attendants for rest breaks. Flight attendants are not permitted to sleep on the floor.
V.	Crew Meals
1.	Meals shall be provided whenever an on-duty period exceeds six hours (6:00) and there is no scheduled ground time of one hour and fifteen minutes (1:15) or more during such on-duty period. A second meal shall be provided whenever an on-duty period exceeds twelve hours (12:00) and there is no scheduled ground time of one hour and fifteen minutes (1:15) or more during such on-duty period.
2.	Meals shall be provided whenever the report time falls between 0001 - 0715 and the flight is not the originating flight of the pairing.
General 3-9
3.	When in-flight progress indicates that a crew’s actual block-to-block time on the ground will be less than one hour and fifteen minutes, a crew may request that food be available at Company designated down-line stations.
4.	A flight attendant who is not provided a meal as required by the terms of this paragraph shall receive payment in the following amount: Breakfast - $10.00, Lunch - $10.00, Dinner - $15.00.
5.	The Company will meet at the Union’s request, at least semi-annually, with representatives of the Union to review and discuss the type of crew meals currently being boarded to insure that they are palatable and of reasonable nutritional quality and quantity.
W.	Effective upon signing of this Agreement, the Company will assume the cost of ten hours (10:00) of credited flight time per month for each one hundred (100) Continental flight attendants on the system seniority list to conduct Union business in all bases. This credited flight time is to be used only for conducting Union business. Such credited flight time may be used by one or more flight attendants designated by the President - Directing General Chairman of the Union, or his designee.
X.	As soon as reasonably practicable the Company will provide locking overhead compartments on all aircraft.
Y. The Company will provide the Union with copies of official notices and postings pertaining to flight attendants and any document which is posted in the flight attendant briefing books.
General 3-10
[This Page Intentionally Left Blank]
Section 4 - Compensation
A.	Base Pay Rates
Flight attendants will be paid the hourly flight pay base rates set forth below. Their hourly rates will be determined by their seniority for pay purposes.
	Effective 12/24/99	Effective 12/24/00	Effective 12/24/01	Effective 12/24/02	Effective 12/24/03
1st 6 mos.	$18.15	$18.60	$19.00	$19.25	$19.50
2nd 6 mos.	18.50	18.96	19.00	19.25	19.50
2nd year	20.64	21.16	21.68	22.23	22.78
3rd year	21.80	22.35	22.90	23.48	24.06
4th year	23.51	24.10	24.70	25.32	25.95
5th year	25.22	25.85	26.50	27.16	27.84
6th year	29.26	29.99	30.74	31.51	32.30
7th year	31.09	31.87	32.66	33.48	34.32
8th year	32.78	33.60	34.44	35.30	36.18
9th year	34.01	34.86	35.73	36.63	37.54
10th year	35.73	36.62	37.54	38.48	39.44
11th year	36.83	37.75	38.69	39.66	40.65
12th year	38.66	39.63	40.62	41.63	42.67
13 th year	40.11	41.11	42.14	43.19	44.27
14th year	41.78	42.82	43.90	44.99	46.12
15 th year	43.02	44.30	45.59	46.87	48.15
1. International Override
International flying, including Honolulu, but exclusive of Canada and Mexico, shall receive an hourly override of two dollars ($2.00) flight pay per hour.
Compensation 4-1
4
B.	Incentive Pay Rates
Flight Attendants will be paid the following incentive pay rates for all block hours flown in excess of two hundred and twenty-five hours (225:00) per calendar quarter, including vacation and deadhead, to a maximum of three hundred and thirty hours (330:00), except that no incentive pay will apply for block hours flown in excess of one hundred and ten (110:00) hours in a bid month.
	Effective 12/24/99	Effective 12/24/00	Effective 12/24/01	Effective 12/24/02	Effective 12/24/03
1st 6 mos.	$23.15	$23.60	$24.00	$24.25	$24.50
2nd 6 mos.	23.50	23.96	24.00	24.25	24.50
2nd year	25.64	26.16	26.68	27.23	27.78
3rd year	26.80	27.35	27.90	28.48	29.06
4th year	28.51	29.10	29.70	30.32	30.95
5 th year	30.22	30.85	31.50	32.16	32.84
6th year	34.26	34.99	35.74	36.51	37.30
7th year	36.09	36.87	37.66	38.48	39.32
8th year	37.78	38.60	39.44	40.30	41.18
9th year	39.01	39.86	40.73	41.63	42.54
10th year	40.73	41.62	42.54	43.48	44.44
11th year	41.83	42.75	43.69	44.66	45.65
12th year	43.66	44.63	45.62	46.63	47.67
13 th year	45.11	46.11	47.14	48.19	49.27
14th year	46.78	47.82	48.90	49.99	51.12
15th year	48.02	49.30	50.59	51.87	53.15
Compensation 4-2
C.	Holiday Pay
4
A flight attendant who works on Christmas Day and/or New Years Day shall receive five dollars ($5.00) per hour add pay for each hour (prorated for partial hours) s/he is away from base or performing airport alert duties occurring on that day. For purposes of this paragraph, the date will be determined using local time at the departure station.
D.	Starlight Pay
Flight attendants shall receive an additional thirty-five cents ($0.35) (effective April 1, 2002, fifty cents ($0.50)) for each block hour (prorated for partial hours) actually flown between the hours of 2200 and 0600. For purposes of this paragraph, time will be determined using local time at the departure station.
E.	Short Crew Pay
Short crew pay shall apply to aircraft having more than 160 customer seats. The Company shall designate the initial staffing level on all such aircraft in the monthly bid packets. In the event that a trip on an aircraft having more than 160 customer seats is flown with fewer than the complement of flight attendants that was designated on the bid packet for that aircraft, an amount equal to the wage rate of a fifteenth (15th) year flight attendant times the hours flown times the number of flight attendants fewer than the initial complement shall be divided among the remaining flight attendants, except that if the flight attendant(s) is paid for the trip and is replaced by Inflight management personnel, no short crew pay shall be paid. Short crew pay shall be divided equally among the remaining flight attendants on the short-crewed trip.
F.	International Service Managers (ISM) Pay
The Company has established the International Service Manager (ISM) Program and assigns certain leadership responsibilities to the job description. The Program requires a minimum commitment of twelve (12) consecutive months.
Compensation 4-3
1.	The compensation rates of ISMs after the effective date of this Agreement, based on continuous length of service as an ISM, will be as follows:
1st ISM year: 20% above base rate in A. above, up to $4.60/hour.
2nd ISM year: 25% above base rate in A. above, up to $5.50/hour.
In addition to any other premium pay on flight segments designated by the Company, an ISM will receive an additional two dollars ($2.00) flight pay per hour. The Company may add or delete flight segments to receive this premium. Flight segments which qualify for this premium are: International flying, including Honolulu, but exclusive of Canada and Mexico.
2.	ISMs who leave the program, except as a result of a reduction in force, transfer, or an authorized leave of absence, before completing twelve (12) consecutive months who later wish to re-enter the program must re-apply. If accepted, they will not receive credit for prior ISM service.
3.	ISMs who voluntarily leave the program after completing twelve (12) consecutive months who later wish to re-enter the program must reapply. If accepted, they will be credited with prior ISM service. However, ISMs who voluntarily leave the program after completing twelve (12) consecutive months will be readmitted if they notify the Company of their desire to re-enter the program within sixty (60) days of leaving the program. The flight attendant cannot bump any other active ISM, but will receive the next available ISM vacancy in his/her base to which his/her seniority entitles him/her.
4.	ISMs who are removed from the program for cause, including poor work performance, who later wish to re-enter the program must reapply. If accepted they will not be credited for prior ISM service.
5.	ISMs who leave the program as a result of a reduction in force or a transfer, and who re-enter the program when “recalled” will
Compensation 4 - 4
6.
7.
8.
retain all prior ISM seniority. To retain ISM seniority credit, transferees must accept the next ISM position offered to them in their new base. ISMs who are deactivated due to over staffing will be placed on a priority wait list in base seniority order. Priority activation status will be relinquished upon transfer or resignation from the program.
Consecutive service may be interrupted without penalty by an authorized leave of absence. Pay seniority in the ISM Program will not accrue during an authorized leave of absence.
Program leave(s) may be offered when overstaffing exists in the ISM program. The leave(s) will be awarded in seniority order to those individuals holding ISM qualifications in the base in which the over staffing exists, as determined by the Company. Once a program leave has been granted, it may not be rescinded except for operational needs. Special qualification program service will not accrue while on program leave, and pay overrides will not apply.
Flight attendants selected for promotion to the ISM Program must have completed a minimum of three (3) years of satisfactory active service and meet all requirements as defined in the Company International Service Manager job description. The Company will determine which candidates are selected to enter the program, using criteria to be determined and weighted by the Company in its sole discretion, which may include but not be limited to quality of work performance, attendance, aptitude, and seniority. Foreign language skills are strongly preferred and ordinarily a prerequisite for the ISM selection.
( e €
C
c c G € G C c c c ( ( c. c
(
(•
G.	First Flight Attendant Pay	~
Flight attendants shall receive two dollars ($2.00) for each block hour < flown as the First Flight Attendant (FFA) (“A” position) on aircraft with 160 or fewer customer seats; flight attendants shall receive three dollars ($3.00) for each block hour flown as the FFA (“A” position) on aircraft q with more than 160 customer seats.
€
Compensation 4-5	ft
H.	Galley Pay
Effective April 1,2000, flight attendants working galley positions on B-757 or widebody (2 aisle) aircraft on international flights, exclusive of Canada and Mexico, will receive an additional fifty cents ($0.50) (effective April 1, 2002, one dollar ($1.00)) for each block hour (prorated for partial hours) actually flown on such trips.
I.	Pay
1.	On the first day of each calendar month a flight attendant will be issued a paycheck in an amount equal to forty hours (40:00) (twenty hours (20:00) for jobshare flight attendants) pay at the appropriate hourly rate, provided s/he was on active duty during the previous two (2) weeks or due to receive credited time for such two (2) weeks.
2.	On the sixteenth day of each calendar month a flight attendant will be issued a pay/expense check containing:
a.	An amount equal to the value of twenty-five hours (25:00) (twelve hours and thirty minutes (12:30) for jobshare flight attendants) if the flight attendant was on active duty or due to receive credited time for the previous two (2) weeks,
b.	Pay earned in excess of sixty-five hours (65:00) (thirty-two hours and thirty minutes (32:30) for jobshare flight attendants) for the previous month,
c.	Other claims for pay submitted for the prior month if submitted by the first day of the current month, and
d.	All travel expenses and/or per diem due for the previous month.
3.	Compensation due on the sixteenth will be reduced by an amount equal to any reduction (s) in compensation incurred for the previous month.
Compensation 4 - 6
J.	Reserve Guarantee
1.	Flight attendants and ISMs on Reserve status for a full calendar month will be paid all compensation actually earned or the value of eighty-three hours (83:00) at the applicable base hourly rate, whichever is greater. The monthly guarantee for Reserve ISMs will be calculated at their ISM rate plus $2.00 to include the ISM override. The monthly guarantee for Reserve language speakers will be calculated at their flight attendant rate plus $2.25 (effective 4/1/02, $2.50) to include their language speaker override.
2.	The monthly guarantee for Reserve flight attendants and Reserve ISMs will be reduced by four hours (4:00) for each day the Reserve is unavailable for duty.
K.	Paycheck/Vouchers
1.	The Company will make each flight attendant’s pay check available at her/his base on the first and sixteenth day of each month during office hours. The Company will provide direct deposit of a flight attendant’s paychecks to banks or credit unions designated by the Company with the proper authorization executed by the flight attendant. The Company will not charge for this service.
2.	Flight attendants are expected to provide immediate notice to the Company of any pay check errors. Any errors in pay checks in excess of $50.00 gross amount will be corrected by a special check within two (2) business days after the day the flight attendant notifies the Company of the paycheck problem, except when the shortage is due to the flight attendant’s neglect or mistake. In those cases, the error will be corrected on the next regular pay period. The Company will make every reasonable effort to resolve differences of opinion concerning insurance and/or pass charge deductions by the next scheduled payday.
3.	A flight attendant’s flight pay voucher(s) for the month will be available to her/him in her/his base by the sixteenth day of the following month.
Compensation 4 - 7
4
4.	Flight attendants will be furnished a written itemized statement of all wages and deductions made on their paycheck stubs.
L.
Deadhead Pay
Flight attendants will be credited with full flight time for all deadhead by air and ferry time. Surface deadhead pay will be calculated by dividing the surface mileage by forty (40) and multiplying the quotient by the flight attendant’s hourly base rate.
M. Flight attendants on Reserve or Airport Alert status are only required to ' perform traditional flight attendant duties, which may include customer service duties at the airport.
k,
< N. Holding Pay
Flight attendants will be paid $15.00 per hour pro rata by minute as holding pay, for all unscheduled ground time over thirty minutes (:30) C	if required to remain with passengers or perform customer service
(	duties. Flight attendants will be paid such holding pay in addition to all
( other compensation.
c
/ 0. Trip Rig
Prior to pairing origination, each trip pairing that contains a scheduled rest period of over twenty nine hours (29:00) shall have the following minimum pay value added to line value, or the flight time, whichever is greater:
1.	A flight attendant who departs her/his base on a trip pairing shall
receive a minimum of one hour (1:00) of pay for each four hours (4:00) elapsed period, prorated until s/he returns to her/his base.
2.	Such trip rig pay shall be computed so as to include the time required to report for duty prior to flight, but not less than one hour (1:00), and the time subsequent to her/his return including the fifteen minutes (: 15) continuation of duty time after a trip arrives at the block (thirty minutes (:30) for trips when Customs clearance is required).
Compensation 4-8
4
P.
(
3.	A flight attendant’s trip rig pay will be based on scheduled or actu-
al duty time, whichever is greater.	p
r
4.	The difference between the flying pay earned during such period _ and the minimum pay provided in this paragraph shall be comput-ed as an extension of the final portion of the return trip to such C flight attendant’s base.	(
“Overs” Protection	x-
r
If, in the last seven (7) days of the bid month, a flight attendant loses flight time, such as a flight cancellation, her/his projected line value shall remain as it was immediately prior to the loss of flight time. That ( is, s/he will be protected against the loss of his/her overs due to flight f cancellation during the final seven (7) days of the bid month.	( <
(
Q. Foreign Language Speaker Pay
(
Qualified flight attendants who are required to speak a foreign language C will be paid an additional two dollars and twenty-five cents ($2.25) ( (effective April 1, 2002, two dollars and fifty cents ($2.50)) flight pay ( per hour actually flown on flight segments that are designated as speak-er positions for that foreign language. In addition, the Company will determine on a monthly basis the number of designated foreign language speaker lines, and will pay the same number of active flight attendants, in seniority order, an additional two dollars and twenty-five C cents ($2.25) (effective April 1, 2002, two dollars and fifty cents Q ($2.50)) flight pay per hour actually flown, except that no flight atten- ( dant shall receive both the foreign language premium and the senior flight attendant premium.	.•
R. Duty Free
The Company in its discretion may develop marketing or promotional programs for flight attendants and ISMs including but not limited to a program for flight attendants and ISMs to receive a commission based on a Company established percentage of total duty free sales on inter- -national flight segments. Duty free commission shall be distributed c
Compensation 4-9
equally among all the flight attendants working the flight. (See also, Letter of Agreement #16, Duty Free Bonus Payments.)
Pay Guarantee
Flight attendants will be paid a salary based upon the monetary value of their bid line after adjustment procedures have been completed or all compensation actually earned, whichever is greater. If a flight attendant decreases or increases her/his line projection, the pay guarantee will be decreased or increased by the same amount. If a flight attendant loses time due to operating irregularities, her/his pay will be protected to the monetary value of the line projection in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.K.1 and 3.
All flight time for pay purposes will be computed as actual time or time published on trip pairings, whichever is greater.
For each day of publicity, or promotional assignment, (not including transitional duty), a flight attendant will be paid four hours (4:00).
Bid Line Holders will receive four hours (4:00) of pay, or pay for actual hours flown, whichever is greater, for an “R” day.
Drug/Alcohol Testing Pay
A flight attendant shall receive, in addition to all other compensation $20.00 for each instance s/he is required to submit to random drug/alco-hol testing.
Drafting Pay
A flight attendant who is drafted shall receive, in addition to all other compensation, three hours (3:00) pay and credit.
Compensation 4 -10
Section 5 - Scheduling
A.	Line Construction
1.	Bid lines with a majority of flight time in the forty-eight (48) contiguous United States will be constructed not to exceed ninety hours and thirty minutes (90:30). All other bid lines will be con-structed not to exceed ninety-five hours (95:00). Flight attendants ( who are awarded any line with less than seventy hours (70:00) £ original flight time line projection will be pay protected up to sev- £• enty hours (70:00).	r
f
2.	If sufficient vacations are scheduled in any month such that the time vacated can make a complete line of vacation relief, such (” lines will be posted as a regular bid. Vacation relief lines will not change after bids are posted. However, if a vacation slot is (' dropped due to leave of absence, resignation, etc., that vacation relief line will no longer be valid. Vacation relief lines will be .
guaranteed at least seventy hours (70:00). Remaining vacation time will be placed in open time for use for adjustments, trip trades, and/or move-up lines.
3.	Reserve bid lines may include, but are not limited to, Airport Alert < duty and Charter Reserve.	z
4.	Flight attendants available for a full bid month will have a mini- 1 mum of eight (8) days off at their base.
5.	Time permitting, charters, extra sections and scenic flights ( (excluding variable staffing positions) assigned to a base which are not in the bid lines will be placed in open time unless a particular flight attendant(s) has been requested by the charter organization. „
6.	The Company will not schedule any pairing with more than one ® (1) segment following a red-eye flight segment, and in no case will © a flight attendant be reassigned to fly more than two (2) segments following a red-eye flight segment. For purposes of this para
Scheduling 5-1
graph, a red-eye flight is one which is scheduled to depart before 0200 and scheduled to terminate after 0400, local time.
7.	Relief from all duty on domestic trips for not less than one (1) twenty-four hour (24:00) period will be provided to each flight attendant at her/his base at least once during any seven (7) consecutive calendar days. Relief from alt duty on international trips for not less than one (1) twenty-four hour (24:00) period will be provided to each flight attendant during any seven (7) consecutive calendar days. Relief from all duty on international trips for not less than one (1) twenty-four hour (24:00) period will be provided to each reserve flight attendant at her/his base at least once during any seven (7) consecutive calendar days, unless assigned to a trip pairing published in the bid packet that does not return the flight attendant to her/his domicile during seven (7) consecutive calendar days. In this case the twenty-four hour (24:00) period may be downline.
8.	If a flight attendant loses a minimum day(s) off or set of days off on the last day(s) of her/his monthly bid line, the minimum day(s) off will be restored within the following month.
9.	A flight attendant may voluntarily reduce her/his day(s) off below the monthly minimum to perform special assignments for the Company. S/he will not have her/his day(s) off restored to the minimum.
10.	Between the first and fifth day of the bid month additional lines may be constructed from remaining vacation drops, month-to-month adjustments and any remaining open time. Regardless of how constructed, these additional lines will be awarded in seniority order to reserve flight attendants who have indicated such a preference. The lines will be constructed to comply with Section 5.A.I.
Scheduling 5 - 2
B.	Hours of Service
1.	Check-in time for a flight, trip and all deadhead assignments will be as follows:
a.	Aircraft with more than 160 customer seats:
One hour and fifteen minutes (1:15) at all bases, (one hour (1:00) on board aircraft);
One hour (1:00) at all layover points.
b.	Aircraft with 160 or fewer customer seats:
One hour (1:00) at base, (forty-five minutes (:45) on board aircraft);
Forty-five minutes (:45) at all layover points.
c.	Deadheading:
Forty-five minutes (:45) for all aircraft at all points.
d.	A flight attendant who is unable to report for her/his trip assignment must contact Scheduling as early as physically possible. At least two hours’ (2:00) notice is required.
2.	The Company may not reduce the check-in time for a flight attendant at her/his domicile without her/his permission.
3.	If the Company reduces a flight attendant’s check-in time, s/he will receive pay and flight time credit as if s/he had reported for duty at the time specified in Section 5.B.I.
4.	If a bid line holder is more than fifteen minutes (: 15) late for her/his required check-in time, a reserve will be assigned the open trip and the lineholder will be replaced. The lineholder will receive a report late if s/he arrives before schedule departure. A lineholder
Scheduling 5-3
5
who arrives after scheduled departure will receive a missed trip.
5.
On trip pairings where the initial segment is a deadhead between flight attendant bases (for example, EWR-IAH or CLE-EWR) flight attendants may elect to check-in at the deadhead destination base, which will be his/her new point of origin. Check-in may not be done at outstations. Such check-in times will be the same as those required for other originating pairings. A flight attendant must notify Crew Scheduling if s/he elects to check-in downline a minimum of twenty-four hours (24:00) prior to the deadhead departure time. A flight attendant exercising this election shall be responsible for her/his transportation to the new point of origin. S/he will also be responsible for providing Crew Scheduling with a contact number for use in the event of reassignment. Flight attendants utilizing this downline check-in option shall conform to reasonable Company procedures governing such check-in. A flight attendant electing to check-in downline who complies with the terms of this paragraph shall receive her/his regular pay for the scheduled deadhead segment.
6.	When a pairing ends with a deadhead segment, a bid line holder may, with prior notice to Crew Scheduling, and a reserve may, with prior approval from Crew Scheduling, elect not to fly such deadhead segment but shall then be responsible for any alternative transportation to another airport. A flight attendant electing not to fly a deadhead segment shall receive her/his regular pay for the scheduled deadhead segment.
7.	Duty limitations
a.	The maximum duty limitation for trips between the fortyeight (48) contiguous United States and Mexico, the Caribbean, Canada, Central America and Alaska or for trips wholly within the forty-eight (48) contiguous United States will be fourteen hours (14:00) scheduled; sixteen hours (16:00) actual.
Scheduling S - 4
b.	The maximum duty limitations for all other trips will be sixteen hours (16:00) scheduled; seventeen hours and thirty minutes (17:30) actual, except as provided in c. below.
c.	On a non-stop flight scheduled over twelve hours (12:00) flight time, flight attendants may be scheduled to a maximum of the combination of check-in time, scheduled flight time, and debriefing time. Actual duty time may exceed scheduled duty time by three hours and thirty minutes (3:30). Under no circumstances shall a flight attendant be required to remain on duty in excess of nineteen hours (19:00).
d.	In the case of an irregular operation, flight attendants may be required to exceed these duty limitations to deadhead for required rest. The deadheading must begin before the end of the actual duty limitation.
8.	A flight attendant will be on-duty from the time s/he is required to report for duty at the designated reporting place or does report for such duty, whichever is later. The duty period ends at the conclusion of any non-flying duty, block-in from deadheading, or the later of fifteen minutes (:15) (thirty minutes (:30) for trips when Customs clearance is required) after block-in of a flight, or actual release.
9.	Rest periods
a.	Minimum scheduled rest periods will be:
1.	Ten hours (10:00) block in to block out at home base domicile.
Exception: Newark based reserves will be scheduled for a minimum rest period of eleven hours (11:00) block in to block out at their base.
2.	Nine hours (9:00) block in to block out at a layover station.
Scheduling 5 - 5
b.	Actual rest periods may not be less than:
1.	Nine hours (9:00) block in to block out at home base domicile.
2.	Eight hours and forty-five minutes (8:45) block in to block out at a layover station.
c.	Flight attendants scheduled for a duty day of 14:01 to 16:00 hours will be scheduled for the following minimum rest period:
1.	Twelve hours (12:00) free from duty.
2.	Ten hours (10:00) free from duty provided the next rest period is fourteen hours (14:00) free from duty.
d.	A reserve assigned to a non-stop flight segment scheduled for more than twelve hours (12:00) flight time on the final day of a trip pairing shall be free from all duty for the remainder of the calendar day of his/her scheduled arrival, and in no event shall receive less than a minimum of sixteen hours (16:00) free from all duty at her/his domicile upon completion of such trip assignment.
e.	The Company will not interrupt a flight attendant’s minimum rest, starting at the conclusion of the duty period, except in emergency circumstances or as provided in paragraph 1.16 below. Emergency circumstances include notification of operational changes to the flight attendant’s schedule and urgent personal situations (e.g., death in the family). Nothing in this paragraph is intended to alter or extend the minimum rest provisions of paragraph B.9 above.
Reduced Flying
1.	Subject to the operational needs of the Company and to the terms of this Section, flight attendants may reduce their scheduled hours below sixty-five hours (65:00) in a bid month.
Scheduling 5-6
5
2.	If a flight attendant intends to fly less than forty hours (40:00), notice of such intent must be provided in accordance with the provisions of this paragraph.
a.	To be eligible to reduce their schedules below forty hours (40:00) in a bid month flight attendants must provide advance notice in the month(s) preceding the month in which such reduction is desired. The notice must be provided for each month that a reduction below forty hours (40:00) is desired, even when those months are consecutive.
b.	The Company shall designate the time and manner required for the notice to be provided, whether through the normal monthly bid process, by means of a special form, or by such other means as will be sufficient to effectively initiate the actions and processes contemplated by this Section.
c.	The submission of a notice of intent to perform reduced flying shall not be considered to be a guarantee or an assurance that a flight attendant desiring to reduce her/his flying will be able to do so. All trip drops and trip trades conducted by such flight attendants will remain subject to the normal rules, procedures, and restrictions, if any, which are generally applicable to such transactions.
d.	A flight attendant who has not indicated her/his intention to fly less than forty hours (40:00) in a month in the manner indicated by the Company shall not be eligible or entitled to do so.
3.	Pay consequences of election to fly less than forty hours (40:00)
a. On the first day of the calendar following the month in which a flight attendant provides notice of her/his desire to be eligible to fly less than forty hours (40:00) the flight attendant will be issued a paycheck in an amount equal forty hours (40:00) (twenty hours (20:00) for job share flight attendants or flight attendants on half month leaves) pay at the appro
Scheduling 5-7
priate hourly rate, provided s/he was on active duty during the previous two (2) weeks or due to receive credited time for such two (2) weeks. (This pay is an estimated amount due for the last half of the preceding month.)
b.
On the sixteenth day of the calendar month following the month in which a flight attendant provides notice of her/his desire to be eligible to fly less than forty hours (40:00) s/he will be issued a pay/expense check containing an amount equal to the value of twelve hours and thirty minutes (12:30) if the flight \attendant was on active duty or due to receive credited time for the previous two (2) weeks, and pay earned in excess of the amount(s) previously received for the previous month’s flight time. (This pay is an estimated amount due for the first half of the current month plus “cleanup” pay from the prior month.)
$4
c. On the first day of the calendar month following the month in which the flight attendant desired to fly less than forty hours (40:00) the flight attendant will be issued a paycheck in an amount equal to twenty hours (20:00) pay at the appropriate hourly rate, provided s/he was on active duty during the previous two (2) weeks or due to receive credited time for such two (2) weeks. (This pay is an estimated amount due for the last half of the prior month.)
For example: A flight attendant desiring to fly less than forty hours (40:00) in April must advise the Company of her/his desire in March in the manner designated by the Company. The flight attendant will receive:
1.	A pay check on April 1 containing an amount equal to the value of forty hours (40:00) for flying performed in the last half of March,
2.	A pay/expense check on April 16th containing an amount equal to the value of twelve hours and thirty minutes (12:30) for flying performed in the first half of
Scheduling 5-8
April plus March “cleanup” pay/expenses, and
3.	A pay check in an amount equal to twenty hours (20:00) pay at the appropriate hourly rate on May 1 for flying performed in the second half of April.
4.	The May 16th pay/expense check will contain “cleanup” for flying performed in excess of thirty-two hours and thirty minutes (32:30) in April, or in the event that the flight attendant flew fewer than thirty-two hours and thirty minutes (32:30) in April, the corresponding deduction.
PLEASE NOTE THAT THE PAYCHECKS RELATING TO A MONTH IN WHICH A FLIGHT ATTENDANT HAS DESIGNATED HER/HIS DESIRE/ INTENTION TO FLY LESS THAN FORTY HOURS (40:00) WILL BE PAID BASED UPON TWELVE AND A HALF HOURS (12:30) FOR THE MIDMONTH PAYCHECK AND TWENTY HOURS (20:00) FOR THE FIRST OF THE MONTH PAYCHECK, REGARDLESS OF WHETHER THE FLIGHT ATTENDANT ACTUALLY DROPS TIME.
4.	If a flight attendant drops no time, and actually flies all of her/his scheduled trip pairings, s/he will still receive paychecks reflecting her/his notice of desire to fly less than forty hours (40:00). Such a flight attendant will receive pay for all remaining unpaid hours on the following month’s cleanup paycheck.
5.	Seniority and benefits
a.	A flight attendant electing to fly less than forty hours (40:00)
will accrue and retain seniority and longevity in the same manner as all other flight attendants, unless s/he elects to fly no hours and receives no flight credit for an entire month.
b.	A flight attendant electing to fly less than forty hours (40:00)
Scheduling 5-9
shall receive all variable pay elements (including on-time bonuses), passes in accordance with Corporate policy, and group insurance coverage (including medical, dental, vision, expense reimbursement accounts, personal accident, longterm disability, Company paid life, and optional group universal life), and shall also receive full vacation, sick leave, and occupational injury accruals as provided for in the Collective Bargaining Agreement, unless s/he elects to fly no hours and receives no flight credit for an entire month.
.5-'
6.	Any flight attendant who engages in outside employment while electing to fly less than forty hours (40:00) will be subject to discharge unless s/he has received prior written permission.
7.	A flight attendant who flies no hours and receives no flight credit for an entire month will be considered to have been on a personal leave of absence for that month, including for purposes of benefit accruals and entitlements, and for incentive programs and payments. A flight attendant who flies no hours and receives no flight credit for the entire month in consecutive months will accrue seniority for all purposes for the first ninety (90) days, and thereafter will accrue seniority for bidding and pass longevity purposes only.
8.	Either party may request a meeting to discuss the administration of the program at any time during the life of this Agreement.
D.
Bidding on Schedules
1.	Monthly Bid Periods for bidding, pay, and scheduling are established as follows:
January	30 days	Jan 1-30
February	30 days*	Jan 31- Mar 1
March	30 days	Mar 2 - Mar 31
April	30 days	Apr 1 - 30
May	31 days	May 1 - 31
June	31 days	Jun 1 - Jul 1
July	30 days	Jul 2 - 31
Scheduling 5-10
(
August	30	days
September	31 days
October	31	days
November	31 days
December	30 days
*Leap Year will make February a 31-day bid month.	C7
Aug 1 - Aug 30
Aug 31- Sep 30
Oct 1 - 31
Nov 1 - Dec 1
Dec 2-31
-5
Should the Company have a need to alter the bid periods estab- (~ lished above by more than two (2) days, the Union and the Company will meet and agree on any changes. When the bid periods are changed, a notice of those changes will be posted in the bulletin books and clearly noted in the bid package.	(*
c
2.	If a bid period varies from a calendar month, it will be noted on the bid package.
c
3.	The Company will determine the method of line construction. The \ Company will construct pairings, determine the number of bid C lines flown, construct the lines, and designate pairings requiring ( special qualifications, except as otherwise provided in this ( Agreement.	f
4.	Bids will be awarded in seniority order. ISM positions will be S' awarded in seniority order to ISMs. The positions of FLSs in Foreign Language Bases will be awarded in seniority order to G FLSs speaking the same language (in the same Foreign Language ( Base).	(_
5.	The criteria for variable staffing will be included in the bid pack- J ets. If, at the time of bid line construction, the criteria are met, and v; the variable positions can be constructed as a line of time, they will '<••• be published and available for bid.	(
6.	Under extraordinary circumstances, all lines may be rebulletined Q for the balance of the bid period. If there is insufficient time to rebid the lines, flight attendants will fly replacement pairings with-in the affected line.
C Scheduling 5-11	.
k. ■
5
c p e r
r k.
/■ <58^
C v
r
c c
c
7.	A flight attendant who does not submit a bid before the bid closing, or who fails to bid sufficient choices, will be awarded the first numerically unawarded line in seniority order for which s/he qualifies.
8.
To be eligible to bid a line, a flight attendant must be qualified and current. S/he must be available for no less than fifteen (15) consecutive days of the bid period.
9.	Two (2) active flight attendants who are assigned to the same base and want to fly a line of time together may “buddy” bid. Procedures for buddy bidding may be established by the Company and will be stated in the monthly bid packet. Flight attendants who are buddy bidding will be allowed to position bid.
10.	Bid packets shall be distributed in each domicile no later than the fifteenth of each month unless unusual circumstances prevent such timely distribution. Bid packets will reflect positions/assignments. Bids shall close no earlier than six (6) days after distribution.
Month to Month Line Adjustments
Flight attendants who bid incompatibly are subject to the following month-to-month line adjustment procedures:
1.	Trips and trip pairings originating in the old bid period will be flown to completion.
2.	If a flight attendant is unable to fly the first trip(s) in the new bid period and her/his original new month line projection is reduced by three hours (3:00) or more, s/he will be subject to adjustment.
3.	A flight attendant who is subject to adjustment shall have the option of utilizing the self-adjustment window.
4.	The self-adjustment window will occur during the adjustment period.
5.	The following rules will govern all flight attendants’ self-adjustments:
Scheduling 5-12
■.5‘-
a.
b.
c.
d.
e.
Adjustments are to be made to ± three hours (3:00) of the ( flight attendant’s awarded line value using trips in the base on days originally scheduled to work.
If there are no trips in the base which can satisfy (a) above, then adjustments are to be made to ± three hours (3:00) of the flight attendant’s awarded line value using trips in her/his base on any available day(s).
If there are no trips in the base which can satisfy either (a) or (b) above, a flight attendant may adjust her/his line with any / trip in the base on any day(s) which will bring her/his line ’ value as close as possible to, but not more than five hours (5:00) greater than, the originally awarded line value. C
Adjustments must be made to comply with minimum rest (" periods and on-duty limitations.
/“■
If a flight attendant is unable to adjust her/himself or if s/he fails to do so, regardless of the reason(s) for such inability or failure, the Company will adjust her/him using the above { parameters.	(
(
1.	If no trip(s) is available, the flight attendant may first be assigned to “RA” days on days originally scheduled to fly, and then on a remaining day(s) off in the new bid -period.
c
2.	A flight attendant may require that the Company not ( use RA days when adjusting her/his schedule. If a ( flight attendant elects this option, and is not adjusted, or not fully adjusted, then her/his guarantee will be reduced accordingly.
c
3.	A flight attendant on an “RA” day will be considered a Ready reserve.
€ C C
Scheduling 5 -13
c.
c
© r
c c c-
c
c ('
c c c
k c c c c c F. c c.
f.	Flight attendants who may be awarded incompatible schedules from one month to the next will be allowed to submit adjustment requests before the published bid closing date and time.
g-
Jobshares and Partners bidding incompatibly will be adjusted up to a minimum of forty hours (40:00), plus or minus two hours (2:00). Half-month leaves will be adjusted to a minimum of thirty-two hours and thirty minutes (32:30). Jobshare, Partner and half month leave lines will be adjusted down if they exceed fifty-five hours (55:00).
■5.;.
h.	Should a carry-over pairing interfere with regularly scheduled training, the training date will be dropped and a new training date within that bid month must be scheduled by the flight attendant.
i.	Once adjustments are complete, a list will be posted in each base with the names of flight attendants who have been adjusted with assignments added to their bid line. Each flight attendant who appears on the list is responsible for checking the computer terminal to determine her/his new schedule. A flight attendant’s adjusted schedule will not be final until the 72-hour window begins.
Foreign Language Speaker (“FLS”) Provisions
1.	Flight attendants who are staffed in a foreign language base (“FLB”) shall have one (1) language designated as their “primary” language.
2.	Pick up of open time in an FLB by flight attendants not having a language qualification may be denied if Scheduling anticipates that FLB reserves will be used to cover the trip.
3.	An FLB reserve who has been assigned to a trip requiring his/her primary language qualification may only be displaced or opted out by a lineholder holding the same primary language qualification.
Scheduling 5-14
~5.'
5.
The Company shall be entitled to construct additional FLS lines in bases other than FLBs (“at-large” speaker lines).
a.	At-large FLS lines shall first be awarded in seniority order from among bidders in the base holding the primary language qualification.
b.	If there are insufficient bidders holding the primary language qualification at-large FLS lines shall then be awarded in seniority order to any other bidder in the base.
c.	The Company shall be entitled to staff flights on which it determines that FLSs are needed with any combination of FLB flight attendants and at-large FLSs from other base(s) in numbers no greater than those which have been agreed upon by the Company and the Union.
FLSs who are staffing at-large speaker lines solely pursuant to Section 5.F.4.a above shall be subject to all of the provisions and limitations relating to FLSs who are staffed in the FLB and shall, for purposes of Section 5.G.5 below, be deemed to be staffed in the FLB for the entire bid month in which they hold the at-large line. Flight attendants who are entitled to and are holding at-large speaker lines without regard to Section 5.F.4.a above shall be considered to be staffed in the base in which they bid, and shall not be subject to the Section 5.G.5 limitations applicable to FLSs.
(• e
c c c c G (
C ('* c c
( f c c c c c
Regardless of any other provision herein, leaves, jobshares, reduc- (j tions and displacements, and transfers into foreign language bases ( shall be awarded to foreign language speakers according to their seniority from among those holding and/or bidding for the same primary language position(s). In addition, for purposes of drafting and assignment of reserves, the Company may first assign FLBs having the required primary language qualification.	(3
' I €
C
Scheduling 5-15
Adding, Dropping, or Trading Trips
1.	Personal drop
Flight attendants may personal drop a trip pairing subject to operational requirements. Requests will only be accepted the day before report time of the trip pairing and will be granted on a first come, first served basis.
2.	Equipment change
In the event of an equipment change which does not require the original number of flight attendants scheduled, Scheduling will first reassign reserves, if any. If the trip still does not require the remaining number of flight attendants, the senior bid line holder(s) may take or opt off the trip. However, FLSs and the ISM may be required to take or complete the trip when the trip still needs their special qualification(s). If the trip does not require the original number of FLSs, the senior FLS may take or opt off the trip. If the reserve is not reassigned and travels on the same flight, s/he will be included in the senior option as provided in Section 5.G.6. The surplus flight attendant (who is either bumped off or who opts off the trip) shall, at her/his option, be pay protected in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.K.
3.	Restoration of days off
A flight attendant who is entitled to restoration of a day(s) off and who declines payment for the day must be given the day off within ninety (90) days after the original day(s) was lost, on a regular scheduled work day(s). When there is a choice of days off to be restored, the restoration will be given on a day(s) mutually agreed upon by Scheduling and the flight attendant. Restoration of a day(s) off during a multiple day pairing will be either the first or last day of the pairing subject to mutual agreement between the flight attendant and Scheduling. A flight attendant will receive pay and credit for the value of the flight time lost on the restored day(s). If a flight attendant must drop a multiple day pairing to
Scheduling 5-16
restore a day(s) off, s/he will have the option of not accepting reassignment for the remainder of the dropped pairing. In this case the flight attendant will either have her/his guarantee reduced or receive her/his pay guarantee in accordance with Section 5.K. Unless a flight attendant declines payment or will be unable to maintain the eight (8) day minimum, s/he will receive five hours (5:00) pay in addition to all other pay for the month in lieu of a restored day(s) off. If the day being restored was a reserve flight attendant’s immovable day off, the restored day will likewise be immovable.
4.
Trip duplication
When two (2) or more flight attendants are assigned to the same trip in the same position, the trip will be awarded by seniority option. When a flight attendant is removed from a trip due to a trip duplication or any other Company error, s/he will have the option of being released from assignment and having her/his Une guarantee reduced or receive her/his line guarantee in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.K. If the trip duplication is a result of Company error, and if the error is not corrected prior to the calendar day of the trip, the senior flight attendant involved in the duplication error shall have the first option of being released from assignment with no reduction in her/his line guarantee.
i
Trip trades and pick-ups
(
a. General Rules applicable to all trip trades and pick-ups:
1.
2.
Minimum days off, minimum rest and maximum duty limitations will apply. Jobshare/half month leave and Partnership flight attendants may not exceed fifty-five hours (55:00).
c
Requests for trades must be made through the comput- g er at least one (1) calendar day, central time, before g scheduled departure time of the first trip, except that if g the trip being dropped occurs after the trip being picked
Scheduling 5-17
5
up, the request must be made at least twelve hours (12:00) prior to the trip being picked up. Trades involving two (2) trips which both have scheduled departures less than one (1) calendar day after the trade must be done by exception, and are subject to operational needs. Trades other than with open time (except position trades on the same pairing) may also be requested up to six hours (6:00) prior to check in through the trip trade exception line.
3.	A trade between two (2) flight attendants on the same trip pairing may be requested at check in, even if it involves the FFA (“A” position).
4.	A trade between two (2) flight attendants in the same base may be for an entire pairing or for a portion of a pairing provided that the offered time begins and ends at the base. The Company will provide a Crew Communications System (“Crew Com”) bulletin board for the advertising of flight attendant trips or portions of trips for trade/pick up within the domicile. The flight attendant is required to fly her/his original trip if no other flight attendant picks up that flying within six (6) hours prior to scheduled departure.
5.	If the FFA (“A” position) is picked up from open time, seniority option shall be permitted among the flight attendants on the same pairing.
6.	Only two (2) flight attendants may participate in a trip trade. Three (3) way trades are not permitted. One (1) flight attendant may drop one (1) or more pairings to another flight attendant without picking up any pairing in return.
7.	Complete line trades are permitted including line trades between bid line holders and reserves. Line trades will be permitted even if vacation is involved with either
Scheduling 5-18
(
line. Line trade requests must be submitted one (1) calendar day local time before the first day of the new bid month.
8.	There must be a minimum of one hour and thirty minutes (1:30) from block-in to block-out between trip pairings scheduled for the same duty day.
9.	Trip trade requests must be for trips originating in the same bid month. No month to month trades are allowed.
10.	A bid line holder may displace a reserve flight attendant assigned to a trip(s) at any time up to twelve hours (12:00) before the departure time, provided the bid line holder is more senior than the reserve flight attendant, except as provided in Section 5.G.6.
11.	Reserve FLSs may only be displaced by senior FLS bid line holders having the same primary language qualification.
c c°
c
c G
C
c c c
(
c
12.	Reserve ISMs may only be displaced by senior ISM bid line holders.
13.	Open time trades involving an unequal number of days cannot cause a decrease of flight time of more than two L hours (2:00). Open time trades involving an equal (* number of days are not subject to the two-hour (2:00) ( decrease parameter. A single duty period which con-tains a flight segment that departs the base before mid- _ night and a return segment arriving back in the base after 0400 local time (“redeye turns”) will be consid- G ered to be one day pairings. For trip trading purposes, ® this pairing will be considered to occur on the pairing ® origination date.	0
c
Scheduling 5 -19
5~
14.	Open time trades may involve multiple trip pairings. There must be a minimum of one hour and thirty minutes (1:30) block-in to block-out between' trip pairings scheduled for the same duty period.
15.
Trip trades with open time will be allowed only when sufficient reserve coverage exists as determined by Scheduling.
16.	Flight attendants may not adjust schedules to conflict with or eliminate scheduled training or required meetings without the prior written permission of their Base Director.
17.	Scheduling may adjust flight attendant schedules to conflict with training or required meeting day(s) so long as Scheduling secures a new date to replace those missed due to the reassignment.
18.	Pick up of ISM open time by flight attendants not having ISM qualifications may be denied if Scheduling anticipates that ISM qualified flight attendants will be used to cover the trip.
19.	The placement of trips on other flight attendant’s lines to facilitate trip trading (“parking”) is not permitted.
b.	Trip trades and pick-ups involving flight attendants and Foreign Language Speakers not in a Foreign Language Base.
1.	Flight attendants and FLSs will have unlimited trip trades with, and pick ups from, open time in their base, and unlimited trip trades with other flight attendants and FLSs in their base subject to the provisions of Section 5.G.5.a above.
2.	Less than fourteen hours (14:00) prior to departure, flight attendants and FLSs may pick up open time in any base.
Scheduling 5-20
5
3.	Minimum days off, minimum rest and maximum duty limitations will apply.
c.	Trades and pick-ups involving Foreign Language Speakers in a Foreign Language Base
1.	Foreign Language Speakers in a Foreign Language Base (FLB) will have unlimited trip trades with, and pick ups from, open time in their primary designated language in their base, and unlimited trip trades with other FLBs having the same primary designated language in their base subject to the provisions of Section 5.G.5.a above.
2.	Between sixteen hours (16:00) and fourteen hours (14:00) prior to departure Foreign Language Speakers in a Foreign Language Base (FLB) will have unlimited pick ups from open time in designated languages for which they are qualified in their base, subject to the provisions of Section 5.G.5.a above.
3.	Less than fourteen hours (14:00) prior to departure FLBs may pick up any other open time in any base.
4.	Minimum days off, minimum rest and maximum duty limitations will apply. FLBs who do not maintain a sixty-five hour (65:00) (forty hours (40:00) for jobshares and partners; thirty-two hours and thirty minutes (32:30) for half-month leaves) minimum in their primary designated language may only pick up and trade time in their primary designated language.
d.	Trip trades and pick-ups involving International Service Managers
1.	ISMs will have unlimited trip trades with, and pick ups
from, ISM open time in their base, and unlimited trip trades with other ISMs in their base subject to the pro
-21
( C c-c ^2 r
€ G
( (* /■ L c c
( fr"
c /■
c
c
<3 « G € c c
Scheduling 5
visions of Section 5.G.5.a above.
2.	ISMs cannot drop trips to non-ISMs, however, an ISM can pick up a trip from a non-ISM in their base. This must be handled through the trip trade exception desk.
3.
Less than fourteen hours (14:00) prior to departure ISMs may pick up any trip, including a non-ISM trip, from open time in any base.
4.	Minimum days off, minimum rest and maximum duty limitations will apply. ISMs who do not maintain a sixty-five hour (65:00) (forty hours (40:00) for jobshares and partners; thirty-two hours and thirty minutes (32:30) for half-month leaves) minimum of ISM trips may only pick up and trade ISM time.
5.	Only active ISMs can trade for open time ISM trips.
6.	ISMs will be paid the flight attendant rate of pay when
they acquire non-ISM trips.
e.	Trip trades involving trips having days which are blocked due to minimum staffing requirements
1.	Reserves Needed means the minimum number of reserve flight attendants needed to staff flights, as determined by the Company (“MIN LVL” - available on the CMPD screen in CMS).
2.	Reserves Available means actual flight attendant reserves available for duty (“NET RESV” - available on the CMPD screen in CMS).
3.	To calculate Reserve Coverage for a particular day, subtract Reserves Needed from Reserves Available.
Scheduling 5-22
To determine Reserve Coverage for a trip pairing, add the cumulative sum of Reserve Coverage for each day of the trip pairing.
Example:
Date:	'J th	8th	9>h
Reserves Available:	94	102	107
Reserves Needed:	100	100	110
Reserve Coverage:	-6	+2	-3
Reserve Coverage for this three day trip is -7 (-6+2-3).
Flight attendants desiring to trade two trips each of \ which contains one (1) or more days that are blocked C due to minimum staffing coverage restrictions may do ( so if the trip being dropped has a greater cumulative (" sum Reserve Coverage than the trip being picked up, / and:
I
a.	If the trip being dropped occurs later in the month, its lowest Reserve Coverage day can be no more C than five (5) lower than the lowest Reserve Q Coverage day on the trip being picked up, or (
( b. If the trip being dropped occurs earlier in the .
month, its lowest Reserve Coverage can be no : lower than the lowest Reserve Coverage day on the trip being picked up. This trade must be exe- Q cuted at least seven (7) days prior to the first day (’ of the trip being dropped.	/
6.	Trading Example 1:
	Trip 1			Trip 2		
Date:	7th	8th	Qth	18th	19th	20th
Reserves Available:	95	102	107	104	109	94
Reserves Needed:	100	100	110	100	110	100
Reserve Coverage:	-5	+2	-3	+4	-1	-6
The Reserve Coverage for Trip 1 is (-5+2-3) = -6
The Reserve Coverage for Trip 2 is (+4-1-6) = -3
A flight attendant wants to drop Trip 2 and pick up Trip 1. Since Trip 2 (the trip being dropped) has better Reserve Coverage, the trip trade is acceptable under paragraph 5, above. Trip 2 is later in the month, so paragraph 5.a applies. The lowest day in Trip 2 is -6, and the lowest day in Trip 1 is -5. Since the lowest day in Trip 2 is only 1 lower than the lowest day in trip 1, the trade is allowed under paragraph 5.a.
Trading Example 2:
	Trip 1			Trip 2		
Date:	7*	8th	9<h	18th	19th	20th
Reserves Available:	105	108	97	94	100	109
Reserves Needed:	100	no	105	100	100	110
Reserve Coverage:	+5	-2	-8	-6	0	-1
The Reserve Coverage for Trip 3 is (+5-2-8) = -5
The Reserve Coverage for Trip 4 is (-6+0-1) = -7
Scheduling S - 24
5;
On the third day of the month a flight attendant wants to drop Trip 3 and pick up Trip 4. Since Trip 3 (the trip being dropped) has higher Reserve Coverage, the trade is acceptable under paragraph 5. Trip 3 is earlier in the month, so paragraph 5.b applies. Since the lowest day in Trip 3 (-8) is lower than the lowest day in Trip 4 (-6), the trade would be denied. In addition, the trip trade . does not occur at least 7 days prior to the first day of Trip 3 (the 2nd), and would be denied for this reason ■ also.
7.	All trip trades involving carryover pairings will be handled pursuant to the rules of this paragraph 5.G.5.e.
a.	The beginning Reserve Coverage for days in carryover trips occurring in the following bid month will be considered to be zero (0).
b.	When a flight attendant trades off of a day in a carryover trip which occurs in the following bid month, the Reserve Coverage will be reduced by one (1).
c.	When a flight attendant picks up a day in a carryover trip which occurs in the following bid month, the Reserve Coverage will be increased by one (1).
8.	In summary, if the trip you want to drop is later in the month than the trip you want to pick up, paragraphs 5 and 5.a, above apply. If the trip you want to drop is earlier in the month than the one you want to pick up, paragraphs 5 and 5.b, above apply. If the trip you want to drop is earlier in the month than the one you want to pick up, the trade must be accomplished seven calendar days before the first day of the trip being dropped (see, 5.b). Finally, both trips must have blocked days (see, 5).
Scheduling 5-25
6. Seniority option
Under the following circumstances reserve flight attendants may be opted out of a position by a lineholder, but only if the lineholder is a more senior flight attendant. At the airport, only the open bid position is available for senior option. If a more senior flight attendant opts for the open bid position, the reserve flight attendant assumes the position vacated by the more senior flight attendant. The reserve may only be opted out of a position once, and the seniority option can occur only at the beginning of a pairing and before preflight duties begin. Reserve flight attendants assigned to a load position which is a different pairing number shall not be opted out of the position, unless the pairings contain identical flight segments. Reserve FLBs may only be opted by FLB lineholders having the same primary language qualification. FLBs may not senior opt non-language speaker positions. Non-speaker reserve flight attendants assigned to an FLS position may be opted by a more senior lineholder.
I.-5-
H.	Open Time
1.	All unassigned time, except as defined in Section 5.A.5, will be available in each base. Load/variable staffing may be included in open time, but is not required to be. Additionally, the Company shall provide at the beginning of the adjustment period approximately three (3) ISM, FLS, FLB, and FA hours of open time per ISM, FLS, FLB, and FA line in each base. All trip(s) that are placed in open time and changes to open time will be made available as soon as possible. Time may be moved from one base to another to accommodate staffing requirements and the operations.
2.	The Company will request flight attendant volunteers to work required positions on inaugural flights. Selection of the crew will take into account availability (trip conflicts), special qualifications and/or situations, and seniority. Inaugural position(s) may also be placed in open time.
Scheduling 5 - 26
5
I.
3.	All trips removed from open time by a bid line holder and placed ( in the bid line holder’s schedule will become part of her/his bid g line for the month unless the flight attendant contacts Scheduling within one hour (1:00) of the transaction to withdraw it.
4.	The Company may place reserve days in open time. These days f will be referred to as “RO” days. RO days may be picked up by ( lineholders provided they are legal and available to fly on the day(s) picked up. A trip assignment on an RO day(s) is limited to £-the RO day(s). An RO day where no assignment occurs does not constitute a calendar day free from duty. A flight attendant who " picks up an RO day shall be paid and credited for the value of a reserve day or the value of the assigned trip if it is greater. ( (
Reserve Duty
1.	A reserve is always subject to reassignment.	-
c,
2.	Regular reserve Unes will be published with a minimum of ten (10)
days off. On reserve lines built with more than ten (10) days off, € the reserve guarantee will be reduced by four (4) hours for each day off in addition to ten (10). A regular reserve flight attendant who is involuntarily assigned a line with more than ten (10) days off may, at her/his option, contact crew scheduling to restore reserve day(s) and corresponding guarantee, provided that such restored line retains a minimum of ten (10) days off. ISM reserve lines will be published with twelve (12) days off. One set of four (g (4) days off on the line will be designated immovable. Reserves (| will automatically be released from duty at 1700 local time prior /J to immovable days off unless prior assignment has been made. In U the event the four (4) immovable days are at the end of the larger block of days off, the provision for early release from duty does not apply.	Ji
V
3.	Reserve assignments may be classified as either “Ready” or “Call-out” reserve. Except as provided in 1.7.b below, reserve assign- g ments which are dropped or traded will retain their original classi-fication.	Z.
Scheduling 5-27
a.	Ready reserves must be available to be contacted for duty assignments on a twenty-four (24) hour standby basis.
b.
Call-out reserves are required to be available to be contacted for duty assignments only during assigned notification periods contained in the monthly bid packet. Assigned notification periods may not exceed either eight hours (8:00) or number more than two (2) in a calendar day. Scheduling may change the assigned notification period(s) a maximum of four (4) times in a bid period provided that the newly assigned notification period(s) does not exceed a total time of eight hours (8:00) in a calendar day.
1.	Scheduling may attempt to contact Call-out reserves outside of the notification period. If contacted, the Call-out reserve must accept the assignment.
2.	Call-out reserves may be converted to Ready reserve status a maximum of four (4) days per bid period.
c.	Reserve time in each base will be constructed so that a minimum of fifty percent (50%) of the reserve time is Call-out reserve.
d.	For the first three (3) days of each bid period, and during the Fourth of July, Thanksgiving and Christmas holidays which will be from July 1 to July 7; 3 days before Thanksgiving, 3 days after Thanksgiving and Thanksgiving day, and December 21 to January 4 respectively, all reserves will be Ready reserves. .
4.	Reserve flight attendants will be given flight assignments after consideration of all of the following (listed in order of importance):
a.	Prevent flying into a scheduled day off.
b.	Need for foreign language speaker qualification.
Scheduling 5-28
c.	Maximize utilization of available duty periods.
i
d.	The more limited availability of Call-out reserves.	'
e.	Assignment on a first-in, first-out (FIFO) basis.
(
I
5.
7.
f.	Equalization of duty periods assigned (leveling).
When applying the above-listed criteria flight attendants’ expressed preferences through the reserve request screen will also be considered. Reserve flight attendants will be provided an opportunity to express their preference for Airport Alert assignments and for minimum flying or maximum flying. Reserves selecting the option to fly more hours are indicating a willingness to be turned first upon completion of trips or have days off rolled first to increase flying time. (However, other reserves may also have their days off rolled or be turned if insufficient reserve coverage exists.) Reserve flight attendants desiring maximum flying will be given flying assignments prior to other similarly situated flight attendants who have expressed a preference for minimum flying.
Reserve flight attendants must be able to report for duty on two hours (2:00) notice. Reserves must keep Scheduling advised of local phone numbers where they can be reached while on reserve duty. An alternate contact number such as a beeper is permitted. Scheduling will attempt to contact each reserve flight attendant at least twice within twenty minutes (:20). Scheduling will call each contact number twice to allow for a dialing error. A reserve flight attendant will respond to a beeper contact within twenty minutes (:20). The two hour (2:00) report time will begin at the time the reserve is first called or beeped.
A reserve may trade a day off with another reserve in her/his base.
a.	Trades may be done anytime during the month, however, the request must be made at least one (1) calendar day, Central time prior to the day to be traded.
Scheduling 5-29
b.	Reserves may trade an unlimited number of days off with the
reserve availability pool. Call-out reserves may trade a maximum of four (4) days which shall be call-out status and originally awarded contact periods. Days acquired through additional call-out trades and ready reserves’ trades will be Ready reserve days.
c.	Reserves must maintain availability for the shortest trip in their base.
d.	Minimum reserve coverage will be determined by Scheduling. Reserve pool trades will start with the 72-hour open window and end on the first day of the bid month.
e.	When a reserve elects to trade an immovable day(s) off, only the traded day(s) will become a movable day off.
8.	When a reserve performs Airport Alert duty for a four hour (4:00) period, s/he may be extended for an additional two hours (2:00) only if there are no Reserves available at home on duty who are eligible for a multiple day trip. A trip assignment must be given within the six hour (6:00) alert period, or the reserve will be released by Scheduling into a day(s) off, crew rest, or a twenty-four hour (24:00) break. If an Airport Alert is assigned to a trip entitling her/him to per diem, the per diem shall commence when the flight attendant started her/his alert assignment.
9.	A reserve flight attendant who completes an airport alert assignment of two hours (2:00) or more with no flight assignment shall receive four hours (4:00) pay. When a reserve flight attendant is given a flight assignment after completing two hours (2:00) of Airport Alert duty, such reserve flight attendant shall receive two hours (2:00) pay in addition to any hours flown. A reserve flight attendant who reports for duty and is subsequently released shall receive two hours (2:00) show-no-go pay. A flight attendant shall not be entitled to receive both Airport Alert pay and show-no-go pay for the same duty period.
Scheduling 5-30
10.	Reserves who are unassigned after completing Airport Alert or are returning to duty from a day(s) off, may pick up any trip in open time for the next day departing prior to 0900 local time or may pick up an airport alert assignment beginning prior to 0900 local time.
a.	A call in to Scheduling must be accomplished between 1500 and 1800 Central Time or within thirty minutes (:30) of the termination of the Airport Alert assignment if the assignment terminates after 1800. These trip pick-ups may be denied if incompatible with the number of duty days or when the reserve is at or above sixty-five (65) credit hours in the month.
b.	A reserve who picks up a trip in this manner will be released to check-in twelve hours (12:00) prior to scheduled departure, but may be subject to reassignment in accordance with paragraph 5.K (for example, if the trip has been cancelled or if s/he has been displaced by a senior bid line holder). A pickup may only be denied when necessary to equalize duty periods (leveling) between reserves.
11.	An automated voice-response assignment system will be used to facilitate reserve assignments and releases. Scheduling will attempt to have assignments for all trips and airport alert assignments that begin before 1200 on the following day available on the VRS no later than 2100 Central time.
12.	All Call-out reserves not previously given an assignment for the following day are required to call the assignment VRS between 2100 and 2400 Central time on the evening before any duty day to:
a.	Confirm trip assignments and airport alert assignments for the following day. If no assignment is provided, the reserve shall be considered released until her/his Call-out period(s) on the following day;
Scheduling 5 - 31
b.	Confirm the times of their Call-out responsibilities for the following day if no assignment has been provided;
c.	Confirm that their status has not been changed to Ready reserve for the following day.
d.
A Call-out reserve who fails to contact the VRS between 2100 and 2400 Central time prior to a day of duty shall be converted to Ready reserve for the remainder of her/his scheduled block of reserve days. Such conversion shall not be considered as part of the limitation set forth in paragraph 5.I.3.b.2.
5.
13.	Ready reserves must call the VRS between 2100 and 2400 to confirm trip assignments and airport alert assignments for the following day. All ready reserves will remain ready reserves, subject to assignment/ reassignment, even if an assignment has been confirmed through the VRS.
14.	Reserve flight attendants assigned to Airport Alert will not be assigned a trip which leaves two hours (2:00) beyond the end of the alert assignment without her/his agreement unless insufficient reserve coverage exists.
15.	Reserve flight attendants may call Scheduling once a day about their status and/or to request a release from standby duty.
16.	Reserve flight attendants must contact Scheduling before leaving the airport after the completion of their assigned trip, Airport Alert assignment or scheduled training. Within thirty minutes (:30) of such contact, Scheduling will give the reserve flight attendant her/his next assignment or release her/him for crew rest. Upon release to crew rest Scheduling will only contact a reserve flight attendant during the last hour of the crew rest period at home base.
17.	Reserve flight attendants who are given an assignment by the VRS will be given the pairing number, check-in time, termination time and date, and the open position(s) on the pairing. If the pairing is not contained in the monthly bid schedules, the Company will
Scheduling 5-32
b 3
make available information regarding the complete assignment including layover points, length of layover, length of duty day and scheduled return to base.
18.	Whenever possible, reserve flight attendants who have been given a trip assignment/Airport Alert will be released until the designat- ( ed reporting time of such assignment.	(
(
19.	Subject to Company agreement, a reserve flight attendant who loses a duty day(s) due to illness, injury or emergency drop will be allowed to make up the lost day(s) on her/his remaining day(s) off that month. The day(s) on which the make-up occurs is subject to mutual agreement. When a lost day is made up in this manner four ( hours (4:00) will be returned to the flight attendant’s reserve guar- f antee.
20.	At the time a reserve flight attendant becomes a bid line holder ' F.
s/he will remain on reserve status until released by Scheduling. \ This will occur at the end of the last trip assignment of the bid C month in which s/he is a reserve flight attendant or on the last day ( of the month, whichever is later. No days off are restored as a £ result of carry-over trips unless the resulting loss reduces the flight attendant’s days off below the applicable minimum. In cases ~ where a lineholder is returning to reserve duty all conflicting days v off will be restored so that the published amount of days off remain.	C
21.	Reserve flight attendants are required to carry their passports dur-ing any trip/Airport Alert assignment.	/,■
22.	Reserves must call Scheduling to remove themselves from duty when they are ill. A separate call is required on each scheduled duty day on which the reserve is ill, unless the reserve is aware that C the illness will prevent working for multiple duty days, in which Q case a minimum of one (1) call for each block of duty days on @ which the reserve is ill is required.	0
23.	If a reserve flight attendant is displaced by a bid line holder after
Scheduling 5-33
reporting to the airport and is not reassigned, s/he shall receive two hours (2:00) pay and credit. His/her duty period shall commence at the time s/he is scheduled to report to the airport or when s/he reports to the airport, whichever is later.
24.	A reserve flight attendant who has an assignment which carries into his/her day off four hours (4:00) or more, or past midnight if her/his originally scheduled arrival time was 1900 Local time or earlier, shall have his/her day off restored in accordance with Section 5.G.3, provided s/he maintains minimum reserve days off. In the event a reserve flight attendant has an assignment which carries into his/her day off, s/he shall be given the day off unless the Company has to roll such day due to operational requirements.
Drafting
Drafting is the mandatory assignment of a flight attendant(s) or ISM(s) in reverse order of seniority to fly a trip pairing that cannot be covered by a reserve flight attendant. Drafting for ISM trips may be limited to reverse order of seniority among ISMs. When there are no reserve flight attendants available and eligible for flight assignment, the Company may assign open time in the following order:
1.	Time permitting, the Company may assign the trip in seniority order to any flight attendant who is legal and willing to work the trip assignment;
2.	Time permitting, in reverse order of seniority, any flight attendant who can be contacted who will not have his/her regularly scheduled trip assignment interrupted by such drafting;
3.	Time permitting, in reverse order of seniority, any flight attendant who can be contacted without regard to his/her scheduled trip assignments;
4.	If unable to cover the trip assignment by the application of the first, second, or third steps above, the Company may draft any flight attendant to the trip in reverse order of seniority who will cause the least delay of the trip.
Scheduling 5-34
5.	A flight attendant who has been drafted shall be replaced with a reserve flight attendant at the first point where operational requirements permit, and the Company has a qualified reserve flight attendant who is available and eligible to fly.
6.	A bid line holder who is drafted will be paid and credited for ( her/his originally scheduled credited time missed due to the draft- ( ing or for her/his actual credited time flown, whichever is greater. $
K. Loss of Flight Time
Notice on same calendar day as departure
(
(
Within two hours (2:00) of being notified that a flight attendant has f lost her/his trip pairing or any portion thereof for any reason other < than her/his own unavailability for duty s/he may:
a.	With the concurrence of the Company, be relieved of all £ assignment responsibility with no loss of pay, or	C
Be given a replacement pairing.
If a Severe Weather Action Plan (SWAP) is in effect, the Company may have the following options:
c ( (• c e e
a.	Provide a replacement pairing up to four hours (4:00) past C
the time the original trip was scheduled to depart, or
c c
b.	Provide a replacement pairing at the time of notifying the flight attendant of the loss of her/his trip pairing, or
c.	Provide a replacement pairing within two hours (2:00) of C notifying the flight attendant of the loss of her/his trip pair- fez ing. A flight attendant who is required to remain available (g) for assignment pursuant to this paragraph K.2.C more than four hours (4:00) past the time the original trip was sched-uled to depart shall receive an additional four hours (4:00) 2^
■ i-	CW
pay and credit.	w
&
C
Scheduling 5-35
3.	Notice of one or more calendar day
At the time of the notification, if the Company does not advise the flight attendant of a replacement pairing or relieve her/him of responsibility, at her/his option s/he will:
a.
Make up the time lost on days not originally scheduled to fly in which case her/his line guarantee will be adjusted. S/he will then be relieved of all reassignment responsibility; or
b.	Make up the time as close as possible to the time lost on days originally scheduled to fly with no loss of pay. S/he will then be relieved of all reassignment responsibilities; or
c c c c c c c c
c c c c
c.	Be subject to reassignment in accordance with the following:
1.
2.
After 1600 local time the day before check-in of the original trip, the flight attendant may contact Scheduling which will advise the flight attendant whether s/he is likely to be given a trip assignment.
If s/he chooses to remain subject to reassignment, the flight attendant must contact Scheduling between 1800 and 2200 local time the day before the original trip was scheduled to depart. Scheduling will either reassign the flight attendant or relieve him/her of all responsibility with no loss of pay.
c
4.	Reassignment and/or replacement pairing provided for in Section 5.K.1 and 3, above will comply with the following:
a.	Reassignments may not be scheduled to depart earlier than two hours (2:00) before the scheduled departure of the trip lost. If an earlier reassignment interferes with a flight attendant’s prior day off, s/he shall receive fifteen dollars ($15.00) per hour, in addition to his/her regular rate of pay, for all time worked prior to the scheduled departure of the trip lost.
Scheduling 5 - 36
b.	Reassignments may not be scheduled to interfere with the f next scheduled calendar day off appearing in the flight atten- £ dant’s bid line without the flight attendant’s consent.
c.	Flight attendants who are reassigned to domestic trips, other than those resulting from changeover pairings, which are C scheduled to terminate more than two hours (2:00) after the ( original scheduled arrival time of the trip lost shall receive f fifteen dollars ($15.00) per hour and fraction thereof (prorat-ed), in addition to their regular rate of pay, for all time on x duty beyond the original scheduled arrival time of the trip ; lost.
c
d.	Reassignments may be a combination of multiple and/or sin- ( gle duty periods.	(„
5.
Reassignments which occur after leaving the base will comply with the following:
c c
b.
c.
If, after leaving her/his base, a flight attendant loses a portion ( of a scheduled trip, s/he may be reassigned other flying pro- ( vided the trip is scheduled to return the flight attendant to ■ her/his base within twelve hours (12:00) of her/his original f-scheduled arrival. The assignment cannot be scheduled to ' extend more than eight hours (8:00) into a flight attendant’s calendar day off.	v
If the reassigned trip causes a flight attendant to be on duty four or more hours (4:00) into the flight attendant’s calendar day off, / or past midnight if her/his originally scheduled arrival time was / 1900 Local time or earlier, the flight attendant will have her/his day off restored through mutual arrangement with Scheduling or receive five hours (5:00) pay and credit in Heu of restoring C the day off (providing s/he maintains the eight (8) day off min-imum).	(g
A flight attendant who is required to remain at a downline location to protect equipment that is unserviceable for
c
Scheduling 5-37
5
mechanical reasons will be returned to her/his base no later
than twenty-four hours (24:00) after her/his originally scheduled return. If this requirement causes a flight attendant to be on duty four (4) or more hours into the flight attendant’s calendar day off, the flight attendant will have her/his day off restored through mutual agreement with Scheduling or receive five hours (5:00) pay and credit in lieu of restoring the day off (providing s/he maintains the eight (8) day off minimum).
d.	With her/his concurrence, a flight attendant may be reassigned to a trip(s) which exceed the parameters above.
e.	After leaving her/his base a flight attendant may be reassigned even though the flight attendant’s trip(s) is operating.
6. When a flight attendant becomes ineligible for his/her next scheduled trip(s), s/he shall notify Scheduling as soon as possible upon return to her/his domicile from the trip which caused her/him to become ineligible. At that time s/he shall be subject to reassignment in accordance with Section 5.K.I.
Notification
Whenever possible, Scheduling will notify flight attendants of cancellations, equipment substitutions or delays over thirty minutes (:30). This will usually be feasible when Scheduling has at least two hours (2:00) notice of the change. At downline stations, Crew Coordination will notify the “A” position flight attendant only.
Waiving of Limitations
A flight attendant may waive any limitations with the exception of the following:
1. Except as provided in this Section, the flight attendant must have a minimum of eight (8) calendar days free from duty at her/his base within each bid period.
Scheduling 5 - 38
5
2.
3.
4.
A flight attendant must have one (1) twenty-four (24) hour period free from duty in any seven (7) consecutive calendar day(s) as pro- q vided in this Section.
A flight attendant must retain minimum rest periods as provided in this Section.	C
c
A flight attendant may not schedule herself/himself in excess of f maximum scheduled on-duty limitations as provided in this Section. In case of irregular operations, a flight attendant may elect ' to waive the maximum scheduled on duty limitations to return to her/his base on the last segment of a pairing.	C «
c
c c
( c / V c c c c. (
V...
c
€ €
(
Scheduling 5
-39
Section 6 - Required Meetings and Training
A.	Flight attendants may be required to attend general meetings. Meetings will be scheduled into bid lines whenever possible. In no event will they be scheduled with less than seven (7) days notice. General meetings which are required will be with compensation as follows:
1.	Ona day scheduled to fly, a Bid Line Holder will receive full pay and credit for the trip(s) or trip pairing(s) missed. On a day not scheduled to fly, a Bid Line Holder will receive four hours and fifteen minutes (4:15) flight time pay and credit;
2.	Flight attendants who do not hold a Bid Line will receive four hours and fifteen minutes (4:15) flight time pay and credit.
B.	Except as otherwise provided in Paragraph G below, when the Company directs a flight attendant to attend training or meeting(s) away from his/her domicile, s/he will receive fee-waived positive space (PS-5B or equivalent) Company Business passes from either his/her home or domicile to and from the training or meetings. When returning to domicile from such training or meetings, if necessary to return to duty on the same or the following day, the pass will be designated as “must ride.” If a flight attendant who is returning to domicile is not scheduled for duty in the same day or the following day or if the Company elects not to designate the pass as “must ride,” and the flight attendant is required to remain at the training site for additional day(s), s/he shall receive one (1) day’s training pay (four hours and fifteen minutes (4:15)) for each additional calendar day that s/he is required to remain at the training site, and for each such day the Company shall provide suitable hotel accommodations and expenses as provided in Sections 7.A and 7.D.
C.	The provisions of Sections 5.A.4., 5.A.7. and 5.B.7. through 5.B.9. will
apply to all required general meetings, and to initial new equipment and recurrent training.
Required Meetings and Training 6-1
Flight attendants will be required to attend qualification training, both initial new equipment and recurrent. Such training will not remain a part of a flight attendant’s pay guarantee unless the flight attendant has actually attended such training, and will be paid as follows:
1.	Initial new equipment training will be paid at four hours and fifteen minutes (4:15) per day for each day a flight attendant is required to attend a scheduled classroom training session.
2.	Recurrent training will be paid at four hours and fifteen minutes (4:15) per day up to a maximum of two (2) days for each calendar year.
3.	Flight attendants who are required to drop trips to attend recurrent training because training was not offered on their days off will be allowed to elect either to be released from duty with no protection (i.e., her/his pay guarantee will be reduced accordingly) on nontraining days where trips were dropped, or to be protected in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.K.3. A bid line holder who has elected such protection will receive full pay and credit for the trip(s) missed, or for the recurrent training plus any credit from reassigned trips, whichever is greater.
c c
( (
E.	Home study assignments will be paid one hour (1:00) flight time pay and credit.
F.	Initial new equipment and recurrent training will be scheduled when- ( ever possible on days free from duty at the flight attendant’s base, or .■ < with Company concurrence on “R” days during the bid period. Scheduling will adjust schedules which conflict with initial new equipment training to restore, as closely as possible, the flight attendant’s originally awarded line projection.	"
G.	When flight attendants are attending mandatory training away from their geographic base, the training will be available as a pairing con-taining deadhead segments to and from the training. Flight attendants £ who attend training by picking up these pairings will receive per diem in accordance with Section 7, such per diem to start with the flight
Required Meetings and Training 6-2
attendant’s check-in for the deadhead to attend the training and ending with her/his block-in for the return deadhead segment. Flight attendants who are attending mandatory training away from their geographic base, and who elect to do so without flying such deadhead pairings will receive per diem in accordance with Section 7 from their report for training to their release from training.
International Service Managers attending required training related solely to the ISM program will be paid at the rate of four hours and fifteen minutes (4:15) flight time pay and credit for each day of training, not to include travel to and from training.
6
When a flight attendant is required to attend training immediately preceding or immediately following a duty period, s/he shall be paid a minimum of one hours’ (1:00) pay for such training. Such training shall not exceed one hour (1:00).
Flight attendants are responsible for maintaining their flight qualifications by completing all required training. Failure to do so will result in removal from flight status and may result in release from the Company. (For leave of absence rules see, Section 14.A.3)
A Union official may address new hire flight attendant training classes for informational purposes. The Union will provide the Company an agenda for such presentation. The Company will notify the Union of the date and time for the presentation at least seven (7) days in advance. The Union shall be allowed up to a maximum of two hours (2:00) to make its presentation. A Company representative may be present.
Required Meetings and Training 6-3
(■
Section 7 - Traveling Expenses	C
(°
The Company will provide single occupancy accommodations to flight g attendants laying over at regular layover stations. It is the flight atten-dant’s responsibility to check in and check out, and, at check out, to pay for personal incidental expenses such as telephone bills, room service charges, etc.	C
c
The Company will provide transportation between the airport and the £ hotel at all layover points. Ground transportation shall be available within thirty minutes (:30) of block-in. When ground transportation is * not available within such time limit, the flight attendants, as a crew, may utilize other means of ground transportation (i.e., one (1) taxi for C each four (4) crewmembers) and be reimbursed in accordance with (• Corporate policy for such transportation expense (including gratuity). (L Crewmembers shall attempt to minimize the expense of such ground transportation.
When a flight attendant is away from her/his base at a location that is not a regular layover station, or away from her/his base for a general C meeting or training purposes, the Company will reimburse her/him for C reasonable actual expenses for single occupancy lodging, unless the ( Company provides accommodations at that location.	z
Per Diem	"
(...
1.	Expense allowance (per diem) for time away from base, shall be I’ paid for each hour (or fraction thereof) from scheduled or actual ( report time, whichever is later, to block-in time at home domicile at the end of a trip pairing. Per diem shall be paid at the following rates:
a.	Domestic flights and flights including destinations in Canada,
✓‘J"
Central America, the Caribbean, and Mexico - $1.95/hr.
a
b.	International flights (exclusive of those in sub-paragraph a.
above) - $2.50/hr.
Traveling Expenses 7-1
2.	International per diem rates shall become applicable upon scheduled or actual check-in, whichever is later, or block-out for the international destination if check-in occurred for a domestic segment, for flight segments that will overnight at an international location as described in paragraph D.l.b. above, and will remain in effect until the crew member blocks in at a location described in paragraph D.l.a. above.
3.
Per diem payment for pairings that bridge two (2) bid periods will be paid in the second bid period’s expense check. In no event will a flight attendant receive per diem and actual expenses applicable to the same period.
E. When a flight attendant is away from her/his base for general meetings or training, the Company will reimburse her/him for reasonable actual meal expenses for which receipts are provided, not to exceed the maximum amounts set forth in the corporate expense guidelines.
E In the course of working a trip, if a flight attendant’s scheduled or known ground time between flights is five hours (5:00) or more (four (4:00) or more hours if the ground time begins between the hours of 2100 and 0559), s/he will be provided a hotel room at or near the airport, except that if such ground time occurs in the flight attendant’s domicile, accommodations shall be provided only upon a timely request by the flight attendant to Scheduling.
G.	The Company, in coordination with the Union, shall maintain a list of suitable hotels, including hotels near the airport and hotels near the center of the metropolitan areas served by Continental.
H.	When irregular operations require flight attendants to remain in an unscheduled location or to stay in an unscheduled hotel the Company will provide each flight attendant on the crew a means to contact a person at their place of residence (for example pre-paid phone cards may be provided) to advise them of the changed circumstances.
Traveling Expenses 7-2
I.	Hotel Gainsharing
7
1.	Flight attendants who cancel hotel rooms in accordance with the
provisions of this paragraph I shall be reimbursed a portion of the resulting savings from such cancellations. The amount of such C reimbursement shall be reviewed annually, but shall not be less C than twenty dollars ($20.00) for each cancelled hotel room. (
2.	Hotel gainsharing shall apply to U.S. mainland and Honolulu hotel rooms, and shall be available only to the flight attendant scheduled to occupy the room.	'
C
3.	A flight attendant must cancel her/his room no more than seventy- (■ two (72:00) and no less than twenty-four hours (24:00) prior to the f original check-in time for the trip.
4.	Cancellations may only be accomplished by contacting the Corporate Travel Department, either by phone between 8:00 a.m. -and 5:00 p.m. Central Time, or by such other method as may be I authorized by the Company, it being the parties’ desire to automate ( this gainsharing program when such automation becomes reason- ( ably practicable.
5.	A room may only be cancelled by the flight attendant who is scheduled to occupy it; flight attendants may not cancel hotel rooms for other flight attendants.	(
V,.
6.	Flight attendants will be required to provide the following infor- ,. mation in order to cancel an hotel room:
a.	Name, Base, and employee number, and
b.	Inbound flight number, and
c.	Check-in time, and
Traveling Expenses 7-3
d.	Layover city, date the pairing commences, date of the layover where the room cancellation is to occur, and the hotel where it is to occur.
7.	Room cancellations shall be final and may not later be rescinded.
8.	A flight attendant who has cancelled an hotel room shall thereafter be ineligible to trade or drop the trip on which the cancellation occurs.
9.	A flight attendant who becomes ill or who is reassigned or recrewed after canceling her/his hotel room must notify Crew Scheduling as soon as possible that s/he cancelled the room so that prompt arrangements for overnight accommodations may be made for the replacement flight attendant.
10.	Gainsharing payments shall be included on the flight attendant’s clean-up pay check in the month following the cancellation.
11.	Flight attendants will not be entitled to receive gainsharing payments for hotel cancellation (s) that are not in full and complete compliance with all of the provisions of this paragraph I.
Traveling Expenses 7 - 4
Section 8 - Vacation
A.	Basis of Accrual
1.	Employees accrue vacation credits based on their vacation seniority date and months worked in the preceding calendar year.
2.	Regular vacation with pay is based on an employee’s service with Continental. Employees placed in service on or before the fifteenth of a month will accrue vacation from the first of the month. Employees placed in service after the fifteenth of the month will accrue vacation from the first day of the following month.
B.	Vacation Schedule
1.	At the end of the calendar year of hire, flight attendants will accrue
up to seven (7) days of vacation to be taken the following year. The vacation days will be accrued as follows:
	Days Of Earned Vacation As Of
Month Hired January February March April May June July August September October November December	January 1 Of Following Year 7 6 6 5 5 4 4 3 2 2 1 0
Vacation 8 -1
2.	Vacation shall be taken within the calendar year following the year of accrual in accordance with the following schedule:
Completed Years of Service	Base Vacation Accrual	Vacation Plus Flex Accrual
1	7 Days	14 Days
2-9	14 Days	21 Days
10-17	21 Days	28 Days
18-24	28 Days	35 Days
25-29	35 Days	42 Days	y
30 and above	37 Days	44 Days
Vacation Pay
1.	Vacation will be paid at a rate of 4:09 per day.
2.	Vacation pay will be paid at the flight attendant’s applicable rate at the time vacation is taken.
Vacation Administration
1. The vacation bidding process will begin no later than the 10th day of September for the following year. Bids will close no later than the 5th of October. Vacation bid awards will be posted no later than November 15th. Flight attendants will have thirty (30) days to resolve any dispute over the vacation bid results. On December 16th, the list will be final. All vacations will be awarded in seniority order within each base. A flight attendant may elect to split her/his vacation into periods of not less than seven (7) days each. A flight attendant may have a maximum of five (5) vacation periods. If the number of vacation days is not equally divisible by seven (7), the flight attendant may have one (1) vacation period of less than seven (7) days.
Recognition 8-2
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
Except for those on one half (1/2) month leaves of absence, flight attendants absent without pay for sixteen (16) days or more during a bid period will have their vacation accruals reduced by l/12th the applicable annual amount.
c
A flight attendant will be given the opportunity to move her/his vacation (+) or (-) three (3) days unless extraordinary circumstances exist, except that the movement of the vacation may not cause it to crossover from one (1) bid period to another. If the movement of a vacation is into or within a blocked period (holiday times, etc.) it will be considered and granted if staffing permits. (Approval may be unlikely.) All vacation slides must be received before the closing date for bids for the month in which the vacation is to occur.
A flight attendant who changes bases will retain her/his vacation period(s). In the case of a new base opening, the flight attendant(s) may be required to re-bid for her/his remaining vacation days.
Vacation periods may be exchanged by a flight attendant with another flight attendant. Their request must be submitted in writing by the 15th of the month before the earliest of the calendar months involved in the trade. Flight attendants may exchange a vacation period with an open vacation period. The request must be submitted in writing thirty (30) days before the earliest of the calendar months involved in the trade.
Not later than one (1) calendar day before her/his vacation begins, f a flight attendant who is scheduled for jury duty, medical or O.I. leave, may defer her/his vacation until later in the year. When s/he returns to work, s/he will choose from available vacation periods. If no vacation period is open, s/he will be paid on the January 16th paycheck of the following year at the rate applicable in December. L If s/he elects to carry over such vacation to the following year s/he Q will choose from available vacation periods after vacation periods (g for that year have been awarded.
Vacation 8 - 3
7.	The Company will post, with the vacation bid form, the number of available vacation bid slots for each vacation period in each month. The number of vacation bid slots available for each vacation period in each month shall be determined by the Company, taking into account the projected operations and flight attendant availability (projected headcount, attrition, and absence, etc.).
C E. Vacation Deferrals
1.
c
c
( c
c
Vacations may be deferred by the Company if required by the needs of the service.
8
c c
(. ■
/
(■
(
L
V
k
©
a.	Vacations deferred by the Company may at the flight attendant’s request, be paid off.
b.	A flight attendant who elects not to be paid off for her deferred vacation may choose a vacation, in seniority order, from time available or made available in the remainder of the year of the cancellation.
c.	Vacations must be taken within the calendar year following accrual unless advance approval to defer is given by the Company.
2.	Before a flight attendant’s vacation may be canceled, volunteers in the base will be solicited who are willing to change their vacation. If there are not enough volunteers, then flight attendant vacations in the base will be canceled in reverse order of seniority. If a vacation is canceled, a flight attendant will be given at least thirty (30) days advance notice unless s/he agrees to a shorter notice.
3.	If a flight attendant’s vacation has been canceled by the Company and s/he has incurred non-refundable expenses (i.e., deposits, etc.), the Company will reimburse the flight attendant for those expenses.
Recognition 8-4
F.	Vacation Bid Month
1.	Flight attendants who wish to fly during their scheduled vacation periods may submit vacation fly through request forms to opt to fly during their scheduled vacation. Vacation fly through request forms must be submitted no later than the fifth of the month at 1000 central time before the month the vacation is scheduled.
2.	Flight attendants who choose to fly during their scheduled vacation period will be paid for all trips flown during the vacation period in addition to vacation pay. Vacation fly through hours will be included in line projections.
G.	Flex Vacation Program
1.	Vacation days bought under the FLEX Vacation Program will be
paid at the rate of 2:50 per day.
2.	A flight attendant may, during the annual benefits enrollment elect to contribute her/his Flex payments for the following year to his/her 401(k) Savings Plan account in lieu of taking Flex vacation. In addition, s/he may elect to “sell” a week of regular vacation accrued for use in the following year, to be contributed to her/his 401(k) Savings Plan account. The maximum vacation contribution for any year shall be two (2) weeks of vacation, one Flex and one regular week. Contributions shall be treated as employee contributions, and are subject to Internal Revenue Code Section 401(a)(17) limits.
H.	Vacation Payments Upon Termination
1.	A flight attendant who leaves the Company either voluntarily or
involuntarily will receive full payment only for unused vacation time credited from the previous year.
2.	A flight attendant who has not completed eight (8) months of Company service is not eligible for vacation pay upon termination.
Vacation 8-5
c t’ © © ©
<r € & € € c c €
e €
C c c c £ t <L c t t c. t. @ ■®
® <-€
3.	In the event of the flight attendant’s retirement, permanent disability or death, current year accruals will be paid.
a.	When a flight attendant leaves between the first and fifteenth of the month, vacation credit will accrue up to the end of the previous month.
b.	When a flight attendant leaves between the sixteenth and the end of the month, vacation credit will accrue up to the end of the month in which the employee leaves.
8
Recognition 8-6
Section 9 - Sick Leave
? 9
A. For each month a flight attendant is in pay status, s/he will accrue five hours (5:00) sick leave credit, and five hours (5:00) of occupational injury leave. This includes time on paid sick or occupational injury leave. If her/his pay status changes during a month, s/he will receive a full month’s accrual only if s/he is in pay status for sixteen (16) days or more, or if s/he is on a half (1/2) month leave of absence. The maximum accrual in the sick leave bank is one thousand hours (1,000:00), and in the occupational injury bank is four hundred hours (400:00).
B.	After accruing the maximum one thousand hours (1,000:00) in the sick leave bank a flight attendant will begin accruing an additional two hundred and fifty hours (250:00) to be placed in a separate catastrophic bank to be used for major, long term illness or injury (i.e. longer than thirty (30) calendar days). The catastrophic bank will be available only after the one thousand hour (1,000:00) regular bank has been exhausted. Each flight attendant on the system seniority list on the date of signing of this Agreement shall also have forty-two hours (42:00) automatically placed into her/his catastrophic bank when her/his regular bank reaches four hundred hours (400:00).
C.	A flight attendant who is absent as a result of maternity, or who as a result of a single injury or illness, has used more than two hundred fifty-five hours (255:00) of sick leave shall re-accrue sick leave at the rate of seven hours (7:00) each month until s/he reaches the same level of sick leave s/he had at the onset of the injury, illness or maternity.
D.	For the purpose of sick leave and occupational injury credit, a new flight attendant placed on the payroll between the first and the fifteenth of the month, inclusive, will be considered as having been employed on the first day of the month. A new flight attendant placed on the payroll after the fifteenth day of the month will be considered as having been employed on the first of the following month.
Sick Leave 9 -1
When a bid line holder misses a flying assignment because of a qualified occupational injury, withdrawals from the occupational injury bank will be made to restore the flight attendant’s pay for all scheduled trips awarded at the time the occupational injury occurs which are missed due to the injury, or to exhaust the bank if it contains insufficient hours. The provisions of Section 9.F below will apply to all illness or injury situations, except for awarded trips missed by a bid line holder due to a qualified occupational injury.
When a flight attendant misses a flying assignment because of sickness or injury, withdrawals from the appropriate bank will be made to restore the flight attendant’s month end pay total or to exhaust the bank if it contains insufficient hours, unless a flight attendant elects not to use her/his sick leave to restore pay. In the case of reserve flight attendants, four hours (4.00) for each day of sickness or injury will be withdrawn from the appropriate bank, unless the flight attendant elects not to use her/his sick leave to restore his/her end pay total or to exhaust the bank if it contains insufficient hours. Reserve flight attendants whose appropriate bank is exhausted or who elect not to use sick leave will have their guarantee reduced by four hours (4:00) for each duty day on which they are unavailable due to illness or injury. Flight attendants on full month sick leave who have not been awarded a line of time, will be paid eighty-five (85:00) hours (eighty-three hours (83:00) for reserve flight attendants), with appropriate deductions from their bank(s).
A flight attendant who makes up hours lost due to illness or injury will not have such hours deducted from her/his sick or occupational injury leave bank.
Medical Verification
When a flight attendant calls in sick or injured, s/he must call Scheduling. Medical verification of the illness or injury and/or physician’s release that the flight attendant is fit to perform her/his duties may be required before the flight attendant is permitted to return to work in accordance with the following:
Sick Leave 9 - 2
1.	Each time a flight attendant reaches four (4) sick incidents during
any twelve (12) months of active service, s/he will provide to her/his supervisor satisfactory verification from an accredited physician that s/he was unable to perform her/his regular duties because of illness.
2.	The Company will advise the flight attendant, in writing, that s/he has reached the third incident, and further incidents will be handled under Section 9.H.1 above. The letter will also state that failure to provide medical verification could result in disciplinary action.
3.	The medical verification must include:
•	a written statement from an accredited physician confirming that the flight attendant was and, if appropriate, currently is unable to perform her/his regular duties
•	date and time of visit
•	date of next visit, if applicable
•	medication prescribed,	if applicable
•	restrictions, if any
4.	The flight attendant must actually be seen by the medical doctor in a timely manner, but no later than seventy-two hours (72:00) after notifying Scheduling of an illness/injury. The verification must be prepared and signed by the doctor after an in-person visit by the flight attendant to the doctor’s office. This note must be submitted to the base on or before check-in time of the flight attendant’s first trip following the illness or injury. If a doctor’s release is not received, the flight attendant will have seventy-two hours (72:00) after her/his first trip flown or Airport Alert assignment to provide the note.
5.	The Company may also require medical verification for all sick calls originating during the Fourth of July, Thanksgiving and Christmas holidays which will be from July 1st to July 7th; any trip touching Thanksgiving Day; and December 20th to January 4th respectively. If the Company intends to require medical veri-
Sick Leave 9-3
fication for sick calls occurring during such holiday period, the Company will first notify the Union and give flight attendants adequate notice. Such notice for the Fourth of July holiday will be posted in the Briefing Books on June 14th and June 28th; Thanksgiving: November 1st and November 15th; Christmas: December 1st and December 15th. Flight attendants who have had no absences in the prior twelve (12) calendar months will not be subject to the medical verification requirement imposed during these holiday periods.
6.
Nothing in this Agreement will prevent the Company from requiring a flight attendant to provide satisfactory verification of an incapacitating illness from an accredited physician when circumstances suggest that abuse or misuse of sick leave has occurred.
9/.
Occupational Injury
1.	Occupational injury absences which are caused by the same accident and are part of the same occupational injury claim will be considered to be a single incident.
2.	Any flight attendant desiring to challenge or protest action(s) by the Company relating to occupational injury, may in addition to any other appeal raise her/his claim to the Union’s designee(s) who will attempt to achieve a prompt resolution of the matter with the Senior Director, Inflight Administration.
During absences due to occupational injuries, a flight attendant who has applied for or is receiving workers’ compensation benefits will receive direct payment from the Company equal to only thirty percent (30%) of the forty hour (40:00) semi-payment paid on the first of the month, thirty percent (30%) of the twenty-five hour (25:00) semi-payment paid on the sixteenth of the month, and thirty percent (30%) of pay earned in excess of sixty-five hours (65:00) in a month. The Company shall deduct an amount equal to all hours paid (directly and indirectly via workers’ compensation) from the flight attendant’s occupational injury bank. This will continue until the flight attendant’s occupational injury bank is exhausted. When a flight attendant’s occupational injury bank
Sick Leave 9-4
is exhausted, s/he may continue to supplement Workers’ Compensation benefits using her/his sick leave bank on an hour for hour basis, deducting one hour (1:00) of sick bank for each additional hour paid from the sick bank. Workers’ Compensation benefits will continue in accordance with state law.
K.	Flight attendants who receive state worker’s compensation benefits will have their occupational injury leave pay reduced by the same amount excluding any lump sum payment resulting from a temporary total disability and/or temporary partial disability.
9
A flight attendant on sick leave or occupational injury leave who engages in outside employment without receiving prior written permission from the Company may be subject to discipline up to and including termination.
M.	All credit for sick leave and occupational injury will be canceled if employment stops. No payment for accumulated sick leave or occupational injury credit will be made. A flight attendant on leave of absence or on furlough status will retain, but not accrue sick leave credit.
N.	A flight attendant’s per diem and lodging, as provided in Section 7 (Traveling Expenses), will be provided until the flight attendant returns to her/his base if s/he becomes ill or injured while en route, unless the flight attendant is at the place of their residence.
O.	If a flight attendant has been absent due to illness or injury for thirty (30) days or more, s/he may bid for the month s/he returns to duty. S/he must first provide written verification from her/his personal doctor indicating s/he will be able to return by the fifteenth day of such month.
P.	Misuse of sick leave or occupational injury leave, excessive absenteeism or unreliable attendance will be grounds for termination.
Q.	A flight attendant’s pay voucher will show her/his sick leave accrual and occupational injury leave accrual each month.
Sick Leave 9-5
If a flight attendant’s spouse or minor child is injured or becomes ill so that the flight attendant is unable to report for work, s/he will be allowed to use sick time for up to three (3) consecutive days, or the duration of the pairing, whichever is greater. The absence will be treated the same as the flight attendant’s sick time, and will count for attendance/ disciplinary purposes.
Sick Leave 9-6
Section 10 - Medical Examinations

A.	The Company may require a fitness for duty medical examination when it has a reasonable basis to believe that a flight attendant’s physical or mental health impairs his/her ability to safely perform the duties of a flight attendant, or when a flight attendant claims such an inability and the Company has a reasonable basis to believe that the flight attendant’s physical or mental health does not impair his/her ability to safely perform flight attendant duties. The supervisor will contact the Staff Vice President, Inflight or her/his local management designee for a second review and authorization before requiring the fitness for duty. The Company will pay for the examination by a Company approved medical examiner. Unless s/he is earlier found to be not fit for duty, an active flight attendant held out of service for a fitness for duty will continue to receive her/his regular pay for fourteen (14) days or until the first scheduled date for her/his examination by the Company approved medical examiner, whichever is later. The medical examiner will provide both the Company and the flight attendant with her/his diagnosis, treatment and prognosis.
B.	If the flight attendant disagrees with the medical examiner’s findings, s/he has the right to have another examination by a qualified medical examiner of her/his choice at her/his expense. S/he will schedule this examination to occur within fourteen (14) days after s/he receives the Company approved medical examiner’s findings, and will provide the Company with a copy of her/his medical examiner’s diagnosis, treatment, and prognosis immediately upon receiving it. Reasonable additional time will be allowed if her/his medical examiner believes that special laboratory analysis or other procedures are needed either to confirm or disprove the Company approved medical examiner’s findings.
C.	Medical Dispute Resolution Procedures
1.	If the findings of the flight attendant’s medical examiner confirm those of the Company-approved medical examiner, the findings will be final.
Medical Examination 10-1
2.	If the findings of the two (2) medical examiners disagree, the flight
attendant may make a written request for the appointment of a third medical examiner to resolve the conflict. S/he must do so within ten (10) days of receiving the second report. The Company will then ask the two (2) medical examiners to agree upon a third qualified and disinterested medical examiner (preferably a specialist in the area of the flight attendant’s possible disability).
3.	The third medical examiner is entitled to the written conclusions of the other two (2) medical examiners if s/he wishes them. S/he will make a further examination of the flight attendant.
4.
The third medical examiner will mail a copy of her/his findings to the Company and the flight attendant within ten (10) days of the third examination. Reasonable additional time will be allowed if
10
the third doctor believes special laboratory analysis or other procedures are needed.
5.	The Company and the flight attendant will each pay one-half (1/2) of the expenses for the third medical examiner.
6.	The third medical examiner’s findings will be final and binding on the Company and the flight attendant.
7.	If the final opinion is that the flight attendant is fit to fly, s/he will be returned to flight status immediately. If s/he has been withheld from service against her/his wishes, s/he will be paid retroactively any difference between what s/he did earn (including unemployment compensation if any) and what s/he would have earned had s/he been in flight status for the period between the date of the first scheduled examination by the Company approved medical examiner, and the date s/he was returned to flight status, except as provided in paragraph 8 below.
8.	A flight attendant who fails to obtain her/his second examination within fourteen (14) days after receiving the Company approved medical examiner’s findings, as provided in paragraph B above, shall forfeit all claim or entitlement to any pay from the end of that
Medical Examination 10-2
10
fourteen (14) day period until the second examination actually occurs, unless the parties expressly agree to the contrary.
9.	In the event that the flight attendant becomes entitled to retroactive pay pursuant to paragraph 7 above, her/his paycheck shall be issued as a special check made available to the flight attendant within two (2) business days after the day the Company was notified that the flight attendant was fit to fly.
D.	Any medical information obtained through any of these examinations will be kept strictly confidential. This does not prevent providing this information to relevant management to determine appropriate actions. The information will not be given to any other person without the written permission of the flight attendant.
E.	Medical examinations involving possible drug and alcohol abuse will be handled under the Company’s published Drug and Alcohol Policy.
Medical Examination 10 - 3
Section 11 - Alcohol and Drug Testing
t.. ■
Part 1 - Testing Occasions
Random Testing
1. All flight attendants will be subject to random drug and/or alcohol
testing to the extent required by applicable federal regulations.
2.
The Company may conduct random drug and/or alcohol testing of flight attendants any time just before, during, or just after a trip sequence. A flight attendant undergoing drug and/or alcohol testing will, for the purpose of Federal Aviation Regulations relating to duty time and minimum rest, be deemed to be on duty until the testing collection process is completed.
11
3. Following positive verification of identification using photographic identification, flight attendants selected for random drug and/or alcohol testing will be given a written notice, in duplicate, stating the location where the flight attendant is to report for the collection process, and advising him that refusal or failure to immediately report and to provide the required urine and/or breath specimen will result in termination of the flight attendant’s employment.
Post Accident Testing
1.	Post accident drug and/or alcohol testing of flight attendants will be required when the Executive Vice President, Operations, Senior Vice President Flight Operations, the Staff Vice President Inflight, or the Staff Vice President Safety and Regulatory Compliance determines that an event has occurred which constitutes an aircraft “accident” as defined in applicable federal regulations and the flight attendant’s performance contributed to the accident and/or his performance cannot be completely discounted as a contributing factor to the accident.
Alcohol and Drug Testing 11-1
(
2.	Flight attendants required to submit to post accident testing shall ( do so as soon as possible after the accident. If unusual circum-stances result in a delay of the testing, the flight attendant(s) must remain available for alcohol testing for a period of eight hours _ (8:00) following the accident. Drug testing may be required up to thirty-two hours (32:00) following the accident. (Normally both drug and alcohol test collection will be required, and will be ( administered at the same time.)	f
3.	If the flight attendant has incurred significant physical injury in the accident, medical treatment will take priority over drug and/or alcohol testing. Drug and/or alcohol testing shall be accomplished as soon as possible after necessary medical aid has been rendered.
Reasonable Cause Drug Testing
When reasonable cause exists, based on observable and objective criteria, to believe that a flight attendant is using drugs prohibited by applicable federal regulations, the Executive Vice President, Operations, Senior Vice President Flight Operations, the Staff Vice President Inflight, or the Staff Vice President Safety and Regulatory Compliance may require that the flight attendant submit to drug testing. Reasonable cause must be established by direct observation of two (2) management officials, one (1) of whom may be a management designee, and one (1) of whom must be trained in detecting the indications of drug use. The two (2) officials must substantiate and concur in the decision to recommend that the flight attendant be tested. Once the determination is made, the testing will be done promptly. Reports and observations must be documented.
c c a C G
C c c
( € C C
( G (
D. Reasonable Cause Alcohol Testing
When reasonable cause exists, based on articulable observation of the V.. flight attendant’s appearance, behavior, speech, or body odors, to (f believe that a flight attendant is using alcohol in a way which is pro- Q hibited by applicable federal regulations, the Executive Vice President, Operations, Senior Vice President Flight Operations, the Staff Vice J President Inflight, or the Staff Vice President Safety and Regulatory ;
Alcohol and Drug Testing 11 - 2
Compliance may require that the flight attendant submit to alcohol testing. Reasonable cause, based on such articulable observation must be established by direct observation by a management employee who is trained in detecting the indications of alcohol abuse. Once the determination is made, the testing will be done promptly. The reason for any delay shall be documented.
Part 2 - Drug Testing Procedures
A. Specimen Collection
1. The Company may elect to have collections services performed by a third party agency.
2.
Collection and shipment of urine specimens for drug testing shall
be in accordance with applicable federal regulations.
3.	Urine specimens shall be split.
4.	If testing of the first half of the specimen yields a confirmed negative result, the Company shall order that the second half of the specimen be destroyed.
B.	Drug Testing Laboratories
Drug tests will be performed only at laboratories certified by the National Institute of Drug Abuse.
C.	Medical Review Officer
1.	The Company shall designate the medical review officer (MRO). The MRO will be a licensed medical doctor who has knowledge of substance abuse.
2.	The MRO shall perform his responsibilities in accordance with applicable federal regulations.
Alcohol and Drug Testing 11-3
D. Retesting
A flight attendant who has been notified that his test resulted in a confirmed verified positive finding may request a retest of the split portion of the specimen by the same laboratory which tested the original sample, provided he does so within seventy-two hours (72:00) following such notification. At the flight attendant’s option and expense, the second test will be done at a different NIDA certified laboratory.
2.	If a second specimen (which must also be split) was provided at the time of the original collection, the flight attendant may request that the second sample also be tested. At the flight attendant’s option and expense, the second sample will be tested at a different NIDA certified laboratory.
3.	To the extent that it is practically feasible and does not conflict with applicable federal regulations, a flight attendant who has been notified of a confirmed verified positive result may elect to have the specimen(s) DNA tested at the flight attendant’s expense. DNA testing will only be done at accredited forensic laboratories which have been certified through the American Association of Blood Banks, the American Society of Crime Laboratory Directors or a laboratory that follows the technical working group for DNA analysis methods. All specimen transfer shall be done in accordance with applicable federal regulations.
4.	Should the test of either the split portion of the initial specimen or the second specimen be negative, then the test shall be considered to be negative. Similarly, should the DNA testing establish conclusively that either specimen is not that of the flight attendant, the test shall be deemed to be negative.
E. Positive Drug Tests
1.	After receiving a confirmed positive, but before verifying that result, the MRO will make all reasonable attempts to contact the flight attendant (including, if necessary requesting that the Staff
Alcohol and Drug Testing 11-4
Vice President, Inflight direct the flight attendant to contact the MRO) to discuss the test result.
2.	Following the discussion with the flight attendant and any other appropriate inquiry the MRO will determine whether to verify the test result.
3.	In the event that the MRO verifies the confirmed positive result, s/he shall in addition to any other duties, refer the matter to Continental’s Employee Assistance Program Director, who shall notify the Staff Vice President Inflight.
Part 3	- Alcohol Testing
Testing for alcohol shall be conducted in accordance with applicable federal regulations by appropriately certified personnel. The Company shall not be obligated to preserve breath specimens for retesting. A flight attendant who has been informed that he has tested positive for alcohol at a concentration of 0.02 or higher may request that a blood alcohol test be administered. Such testing must be administered as soon after the breath test as is reasonably possible.
Part 4	- Consequences of a Verified Confirmed Positive Drug Test
A.	Inadvertent Ingestion
1.	Inadvertent and unknowing ingestion of any drug of abuse (or its metabolite) shall not be grounds for discipline.
2.	The burden of proving inadvertent and/or unknowing ingestion rests upon the flight attendant.
B.	Illicit Drugs
1.	Except as described in paragraph A above, on her/his first such occasion, a flight attendant who has a verified confirmed positive drug test, shall be given the following options:
Alcohol and Drug Testing 11 - 5
a.	Voluntary resignation without eligibility for rehire.	(
b.	Termination for cause. However, a flight attendant exercis-ing this option may be conditionally reinstated subject to the following terms and conditions:	C
i.	The flight attendant must submit to initial evaluation by Continental’s EAP Director or the Director’s designee. (Eligibility for conditional reinstatement will not be contingent upon a diagnosis of chemical dependency.)
ii.	If one is recommended, the flight attendant must successfully complete the course of rehabilitation recommended by Continental’s EAP, including all continuing terms and conditions attached to such course of rehabilitation. The rehabilitation will be directed and facilitated by Continental’s EAP, but will be funded entirely by the flight attendant, except that s/he shall not be precluded from using any insurance benefits to which s/he is otherwise entitled.
iii.	The flight attendant must execute and deliver to the EAP Director an undated letter of resignation to be used to terminate the flight attendant’s employment should s/he fail to satisfy any of the terms of this Paragraph B or of the rehabilitation directed by EAP.
iv.	During the remainder of her/his career with Continental, should the flight attendant subsequently fail any drug test the undated letter of resignation will be accepted by the Company, and her/his employment severed.
c c c
c (• (
c ( (
S''
( c c c (t c
c
v.	The flight attendant shall commit in writing to remain g drug free for the remainder of her/his career at £ Continental and shall agree in writing to be subject to “no notice” drug testing at the direction of the J Company as frequently as the Company may decide for
Alcohol and Drug Testing 11-6
a period of five (5) years from the completion of the formal rehabilitation program. (Following the five (5) year period during which the flight attendant shall be subject to no notice testing, s/he shall be obligated only to submit to such further testing as may be required by applicable federal regulations or this Agreement.)
vi.	If the flight attendant fails to comply with the provisions of the conditional reinstatement, termination will result, and her/his right to challenge such termination through the grievance process shall be waived. No grievance of the matter shall be permitted.
vii.
A flight attendant who is offered conditional reinstatement shall be solely responsible for ensuring that s/he is fully licensed and certified to perform the duties of a commercial flight attendant.
T1
viii. If a flight attendant elects to use this option B, but the Company nevertheless declines to conditionally reinstate her/him despite his/her compliance with the terms of this Paragraph, the Company shall reimburse her/him for all out of pocket costs for his/her course of rehabilitation.
Part 5	- Consequences of A Positive Alcohol Test
A. When a flight attendant’s breath alcohol test indicates an alcohol concentration between 0.02 and 0.039, s/he shall be retested no sooner than fifteen minutes (.15) from the administration of the initial test. If the second test also indicates an alcohol concentration between 0.02 and 0.039, the flight attendant shall not be permitted to resume flight duties until either eight hours (8:00) have elapsed since the original test, or his breath alcohol test indicates an alcohol concentration of less than 0.02. If the second test indicates an alcohol concentration below 0.02, the test shall be considered negative, and the flight attendant shall be permitted to resume flight duties.
Alcohol and Drug Testing 11-7
B.
C.
D.
A flight attendant whose breath alcohol test indicates an alcohol con- ( centration between 0.02 and 0.039 twice within eighteen (18) months (. shall thereafter be subject to no notice alcohol testing for a period of twelve (12) months from the time of the second such test.	"
€
If a flight attendant’s breath alcohol test indicates an alcohol concen- C tration of 0.04 or greater, s/he shall be required, as a condition of con- ( tinning employment, to undergo evaluation by Continental’s EAP (" Director, or the Director’s designee and to complete any rehabilitation recommended by EAP prior to resuming any flight duties. Such reha- ( bilitation shall be funded entirely by the flight attendant, except that s/he shall not1 be precluded from using any insurance benefits to which s/he is otherwise entitled. In addition, s/he shall be subject to no notice alcohol testing for a period of five (5) years from the date of her/his ( completion of the formal rehabilitation program. Thereafter the flight ('. attendant will not be subject to further no notice testing relating to the (-rehabilitation.
If at any time during the balance of the flight attendant’s career s/he has 1 a breath alcohol test indicating an alcohol concentration of 0.04 or f greater, s/he shall be forever barred from working as a flight attendant ( for Continental, or from performing any other safety sensitive duties at ( Continental.	,
Part 6	- No Notice Testing
i
A.	No notice is drug and/or alcohol testing administered by the Company t in aid of rehabilitation as described elsewhere in this Part. Flight atten- ( dants will be subject to no notice testing under each of the following circumstances:
1.	The flight attendant has submitted to a rehabilitation program requiring no notice testing.
2.	A System Board of Adjustment has directed no notice testing. £ c
3.	The flight attendant has had a previous verified confirmed positive drug test result, a breath alcohol test indicating an alcohol concen-
Alcohol and Drug Testing 11-8	/
(	tration of 0.04 or greater, or two breath alcohol tests indicating an
£	alcohol concentration between 0.02 and 0.039 within eighteen (18)
months.
B.	During the period a flight attendant is subject to no notice testing, the C’ Company may require no notice drug and/or alcohol testing as fre-C	quently as it deems necessary or advisable.
C.	No notice testing may be conducted just before, during, or just after any q	trip sequence.
( Part 7 - Voluntary Rehabilitation
A flight attendant who has not had a verified confirmed positive drug test result or a breath alcohol test indicating an alcohol concentration of 0.04 or greater, may enter voluntarily into any FAA approved drug and/or alcohol rehabilitation program, including any such program recommended by Continental’s EAP. A flight attendant who has voluntarily entered into a rehabilitation program pursuant to this Part shall be entitled to use any accumulated sick leave to the extent needed to complete the rehabilitation program. Upon completion of the formal rehabilitation program and appropriate certification by the FAA, the flight attendant shall assume the bid position to which s/he is otherwise entitled by the terms of this Agreement.
11
Part 8	- Refusal or Failure to Cooperate
A flight attendant who refuses or fails to cooperate in any drug or alcohol test as mandated by applicable federal regulations or by this Agreement, or in any rehabilitation related testing by refusing to provide a breath or urine specimen, or a breath or urine specimen of sufficient quantity will be withheld from service without pay pending investigation. If the investigation fails to find a valid medical reason for the flight attendant’s failure to cooperate, or in the case of an insufficient specimen if a medical evaluation determines that there was no genuine inability to provide the required specimen, s/he shall be terminated.
Alcohol and Drug Testing 11 - 9
Part 9	- General
11
A.	Consistent with applicable federal regulations and Part 1, Paragraph A.3, above, a flight attendant will be permitted to notify the Union regarding any matter concerning this Section as soon as possible.
B.	A flight attendant who is subjected to random drug and/or alcohol testing shall be paid as provided in Section 4.W. (Note: alcohol and drug testing are sometimes conducted together. A flight attendant who is required to provide both a breath and a urine specimen on the same occasion shall receive only one (1) payment for such an occurrence, not two (2).)
C.	Except for no notice testing, drug testing shall be limited to those drugs (and their metabolites) listed in applicable federal regulations.
D.	In the event that the flight attendant requests, or applicable federal regulations require that, a blood test be accomplished, the drawing of the blood shall only be done by a trained, qualified, medical professional, and only in a clinical setting.
E.	It is the parties’ intent that this Section be and remain in full compliance with all applicable federal laws and regulations. In the event that any portion of this Section is found not to be in compliance with such laws and regulations, or if later amendments to existing laws and regulations or new laws and regulations are adopted which are not consistent with the provisions of this Section, the parties will meet and confer regarding changes necessary to bring the Section into compliance.
Alcohol and Drug Testing 11 - 10
Section 12 - Filling of Vacancies
A.	Awarding of Vacancies
1.	Seniority will be honored in filling vacancies. Vacancies will be awarded to the senior qualified eligible bidders in the following order:
a.	For those additional positions required to fully staff the system when the Company determines that there are more system flight attendant positions available than currently active flight attendants:
1.	Displaced flight attendants who have retained priority recall rights to the base in which a vacancy occurs,
2.	Furloughed flight attendants and flight attendants on Company offered leave of absence (who have expressed a desire to return to work) and who have retained priority recall rights to the base in which a vacancy occurs,
3.	Furloughed flight attendants (except those who were voluntarily furloughed and who have not yet notified the Company of their desire to return) and flight attendants on Company offered leave of absence who have expressed a desire to return to work who are without priority recall rights, and flight attendants with a transfer requests on file who are not ineligible to transfer under Section 12.B.5 below,
4.	Newly hired flight attendants if any,
5.	The most junior flight attendant in bases where an over complement exists.
Filling of Vacancies 12-1
b.	When the additional positions have been staffed, or when the Company determines that there are sufficient currently active flight attendants to staff the available system flight attendant positions:
1.	Displaced flight attendants who have retained priority recall rights to the base in which a vacancy occurs,
2.	Flight attendants with transfer requests on file who are not ineligible to transfer under Section 12.B.5 below,
3.	The most junior flight attendant in bases where an over complement exists.
2.	A probationary flight attendant may transfer only once during her/his probationary period unless furloughed, displaced or her/his base closes.
3.	A flight attendant who reaches a termination warning level of discipline will not be eligible for voluntary transfer for six (6) months from the date the discipline is imposed. If the Company announces a displacement may occur in a flight attendant’s base, s/he will become eligible to transfer for that month as specified in Section 12.A.1 above, provided s/he has been in the base for a minimum of six (6) months.
B.	Base Transfers
■	1. A flight attendant, whether active or inactive, who wants to transfer to a different base must file a bid. The bid form is provided by the Company.
2.	Transfers of specially qualified flight attendants may be restricted by the rules governing each special qualification program, including the requirement for a minimum initial commitment.
3.	The deadline for requesting or withdrawing a transfer will be 1000 hours local time on the fifth of the month. Transfers will be award
Filling of Vacancies 12-2
ed as soon as possible, but no later than the fifteenth of the month.
4.	Transfer requests remain on file until granted, replaced or withdrawn, rescinded by the Company, or until July 1st, whichever comes first. (All requests will automatically expire on July 1st each year. Flight attendants who continue to desire to transfer after July 1st must therefore resubmit such requests.) Transfer requests for positions which require a foreign language qualification will not be accepted until the foreign language qualification is obtained.
5.
When a flight attendant is awarded a transfer to a different base, s/he will not be eligible to transfer again to another base for six (6) months from the date of the transfer, unless all eligible transfers have been awarded and vacancies still exist. If a new base is opened or the flight attendant’s base closes, s/he will be eligible to transfer according to Section 12.A.1, above.
6.	Specially qualified flight attendants transfer as flight attendants. Flight attendants filling language speaker positions will not be eligible to transfer from the foreign language speaker program for twelve (12) months from the date they enter the position.
7.	To be eligible to become an ISM an employee must have three (3) consecutive years of flight attendant seniority and must have a clean work record. All ISM positions will be posted, and interviews will be offered in seniority order to qualified applicants. Positions will be filled by interview placement. Foreign language skills are strongly preferred and ordinarily a prerequisite for the ISM selection. Selected applicants will receive the necessary classroom training for the position and must successfully pass a test based on the material used in the training class at the completion of the training. Flight attendants who are currently in the ISM program or are on the wait list who are not foreign language qualified will be expected to become proficient in one (1) or more of the foreign languages required by the Company. ISMs transferring to another international base will transfer as flight attendants and be added to the regular ISM wait list.
Filling of Vacancies 12-3
12
8.	A transfer request file/box will be available in each base.
9.	Flight attendants should date/time stamp their request form and retain their copy before filing the form. Disputes regarding transfers will require the flight attendants copy of date/time/signed transfer request.
10.	Hardship transfers may be awarded by mutual agreement between the Staff Vice President Inflight or her/his designee and the President - Directing General Chairman of the Union or her/his designee.
11.	A flight attendant awarded or assigned a transfer must accept the award or assignment.
12.	Whether vacancies exist or not, the Company will grant transfer requests each month, to the extent possible, in seniority order to allow eligible flight attendants to change bases. The transfer request will be awarded provided that seniority is not violated or vacancies created.
13.	A flight attendant transferring voluntarily shall have a period of at least four (4) consecutive days free from duty in the current or upcoming bid period for travel/relocation time. A flight attendant who voluntarily transfers and does not have at least four (4) consecutive days free from duty in the current or upcoming bid period, or who requires additional travel/relocation time, may contact Scheduling to assist in adjusting the line of time if she/he has exhausted all other available options to accommodate her/his relocation. If Scheduling is unable to provide the necessary consecutive days free from duty at the time of the relocation, additional time may be granted in accordance with the procedure described in Section 14.B.2. The adjustment will be on a non-paid basis and must be arranged within thirty (30) days of the effective date of the transfer.
Filling of Vacancies 12-4
Opening of a New Base
The Company will post a notice of a newly established base at all existing bases as far in advance as possible, but not less than thirty (30) days in advance of the new base opening. The notice will state the anticipated number of vacancies. It will remain posted in the bulletin books until the initial vacancies for the new base are filled. All flight attendants, including those who are specially qualified, will be entitled to bid the vacancies. They will be awarded in system seniority order. A flight attendant awarded a transfer to a newly established base will be notified at least fifteen (15) days in advance of the effective date of the new assignment.
Temporary Vacancies
1.	When temporary vacancies exist, notice will be posted as far in advance as possible. Flight attendants and or specially qualified flight attendants in a base that has an over complement may bid for the temporary vacancies. They will be awarded in system seniority order. If no or insufficient bids are received from the base(s) that is over complement, the most junior flight attendants and/or specially qualified flight attendants from the base will be assigned to fill the remaining temporary vacancy(s). If there are no bases over complement, the Company will post the temporary vacancies in all bases. They will be awarded in system seniority order and/or considering special qualifications, if applicable. If no or insufficient bids are received, the most junior flight attendants and/or specially qualified flight attendants on the system will be assigned to fill the remaining temporary vacancy(s)
2.	If there is insufficient time to utilize the procedures in Section 12.D.1 above, the vacancies will first be offered in seniority order to those flight attendants who have permanent transfers on file to that base, and then filled by assignment of the most junior flight attendants and/or specially qualified flight attendants from the base(s) which has an over complement of flight attendants. If no base is over complement, the most junior flight attendants and/or specially qualified flight attendants on the system may be assigned
12
Filling of Vacancies 12-5
12
to fill the vacancy(s). If these procedures are utilized, the Union will be notified as soon as practicable.
3.	A notice or order regarding temporary assignment(s) will show the length of such assignment if known, the temporary base, and anticipated number of vacancies to be filled, and will state that flight attendants assigned to temporary vacancies outside their geographic domiciles will be provided fee-waived positive space (PS5B) passes, single occupancy accommodations as provided in Section 7.A as needed, and per diem as provided in Section 7.D from the time the temporary assignment begins to its conclusion, except that per diem shall not be due for blocks of days off of three (3) or more.
4.	At the conclusion of any temporary assignment, a flight attendant will be allowed to resume her/his position at her/his base.
E. A flight attendant awarded a transfer to fill a permanent vacancy may bid for a bid line in her/his new base. This also applies to a flight attendant assigned to fill a temporary vacancy, provided the assignment is made before the close of bids in the base to which s/he is temporarily assigned and the assignment is for the entire month.
Filling of Vacancies 12 - 6
Section 13 - System Furloughs, Base Reductions, and Base Closures
A.	The Company’s goal is to maintain its flight attendant group intact. However, if it is necessary to reduce the number of flight attendants (“System Furlough”) or to adjust staffing levels in the bases (“Base Reduction”), the Company will first offer leaves of absence to the potentially affected flight attendant groups.
B.	If a System Furlough and/or Base Reduction is necessary, the following will apply:
1.	Seniority will be used in selecting flight attendants to be furloughed. The most junior flight attendant on the system will be involuntarily furloughed first. An involuntary furlough occurs when a flight attendant’s seniority is insufficient to allow her/him to hold any position on the system.
2.	Seniority will be used in selecting flight attendants to be displaced from their base. The most junior flight attendant in the base will be displaced first.
3.	Inactive flight attendants are subject to furlough or displacement.
C.	In the month before a System Furlough, Base Reduction, or a Base Closure the Company will post a written notice stating:
1.	The approximate number of flight attendants to be furloughed or reduced;
2.	The name and seniority of each flight attendant in the base who may be subject to furlough or displacement;
3.	Location of anticipated system permanent vacancies:
4.	Location of the most junior flight attendants on the system in the case of a furlough or Base Closure.
System Furloughs, Base Reductions, and Base Closures 13-1
D.	The notice will be posted in the Briefing Books no later than thirty (30) days before the first day a flight attendant will be subject to furlough or displacement.
E.	Flight attendants who may be subject to a furlough, displacement, or base closure will be given written notice not later than twenty-five (25) days before the date they may be furloughed or displaced, stating:
1.	That a Base Reduction and/or System Furlough and/or Base Closure may occur, and that no later than twenty (20) days prior to the date s/he may be furloughed or displaced s/he must submit his/her preference for the following options. His/her preference should be indicated in order of preference. Preference will be awarded in order of seniority until the option is no longer available, subject to the limitations provided in Section 13.B:
a.	Fill a permanent vacancy on the system to which her/his seniority entitles him/her and for which s/he is qualified; or
b.	Displace the most junior flight attendant on the System; or
NOTE: If options a and/or b are available, but waived, the flight attendant will not be entitled to exercise these options again.
c.	Be placed on voluntary furlough in her/his base; or
NOTE: If this option is awarded, the flight attendant must state whether or not s/he wishes to temporarily return in a month(s) in which job shares and/or personal leaves are granted. A furloughed flight attendant electing active duty for such month(s) must return on the first day of the month(s), unless authorized not to return. S/he must return to furlough status during any month(s) when her/his services are not required, until recalled to a permanent vacancy. A furloughed flight attendant may not bump an active flight attendant from the payroll.
System Furloughs, Base Reductions, and Base Closures 13-2
d.	Take a one (1) year Company offered leave of absence. A flight attendant will be removed from the System Seniority List and considered resigned if a vacancy is available, and s/he fails to return from his/her leave of absence after one (1) year, unless the leave is extended in writing by the Company. Flight attendants accepting the one (1) year leaves, and those in the base where the one (1) year leave is offered who are on contiguous Company offered leaves, will retain and continue to accrue seniority and longevity.
2,	The location of anticipated system permanent vacancies.
Moving/Relocation
1.	If a flight attendant is being required to change bases to a different
geographic domicile as a result of a System Furlough, Base Reduction, or Base Closure s/he is entitled to payment of $500 relocation pay. In the event of a Base Closure, a flight attendant who chooses to displace the most junior flight attendant on the system rather than fill an existing vacancy, will waive the $500 relocation pay.
2.	Alternatively, upon presentation of receipts for such expenses, a flight attendant will be eligible for reimbursement of actual moving expenses if s/he is being required to change bases to a different geographic domicile as a result of a System Furlough, Base Reduction, or Base Closure, and if s/he moves within one (1) year of the effective date of the transfer to a location within a radius of one hundred and fifty (150) miles of her/his newly awarded domicile. Moving expenses, including the packing, transport, and unpacking of household goods, mileage at $0.22 per mile for each vehicle driven (maximum of 2 vehicles), unrefunded security deposits, charges for the breaking of leases, short term storage of household goods, and hotel and meal expenses for the flight attendant and her/his immediate family while enroute will be paid to a total maximum of $10,000 (ten thousand dollars). In the event of a Base Closure, a flight attendant who chooses to displace the most junior flight attendant on the system rather than fill an existing
System Furloughs, Base Reductions, and Base Closures 13-3
13
vacancy, will waive the reimbursement of actual moving expenses.
3.	A flight attendant who is moving and who is eligible for reimbursement pursuant to paragraph F.2 above will be given one (1) day of travel for each four hundred (400) miles or fraction thereof (of at least one hundred (100) miles) from her/his current residence to her/his new domicile using the most direct AAA routing, to a maximum of seven (7) days. Additional time may be granted in accordance with the procedure described in Section 12.B.13. The flight attendant shall designate the moving days prior to the open window in the month of the move.
4.	The mileage and cost obligations under this section will be the actual mileage and cost incurred in the move, but in no case greater than the mileage and cost of moving from the current residence to the newly awarded domicile. These days must be taken as a block, and flights or duty days falling within the block will be paid to a maximum of four (4) days.
5.	A flight attendant who is required to change bases to a different geographic domicile will be entitled to fee waived, positive space (PS5B) passes from her/his residence to his/her new base for three (3) months from the effective date of her/his transfer, and to fee-waived space available passes for a further three (3) months. This paragraph will not apply to a flight attendant who is either furloughed or takes the one (1) year leave option.
G. Furlough
1.	When a flight attendant is involuntarily furloughed, s/he will remain on furlough status from her/his base until a permanent vacancy occurs at her Zhis base or at another base to which her/his seniority entitles her/him. If such a vacancy occurs, the flight attendant will be recalled from furlough, unless s/he has been removed from the System Seniority List. If more than one (1) flight attendant is on furlough from a base and insufficient permanent vacancies occur to accommodate all such flight attendants, such flight attendants may elect in seniority order who will remain
System Furloughs, Base Reductions, and Base Closures 13 - 4
displaced or on furlough and who will fill the vacancy(s) that occurs.
2.	When a flight attendant is awarded a voluntary furlough, s/he will remain on furlough status until s/he is recalled to the base from which s/he was furloughed, or until the Company receives notification of his/her election to fill any permanent vacancy on the system to which her/his seniority entitles her/him, and s/he is subsequently awarded such a vacancy. The flight attendant’s notification must be in writing and shall be sent by certified mail to Corporate Inflight Administration in Houston. A flight attendant who has submitted his/her notification of election to return to any permanent vacancy on the system must fill the next available permanent vacancy in accordance with seniority or s/he will be removed from the System Seniority List and will be administratively terminated, unless s/he has withdrawn his/her election to return no later than 1000 Central time, on the fifth day of the month in which the vacancy is to be awarded. At the expiration of five (5) years from the date of the voluntary furlough a flight attendant who has not submitted his/her notification of election to return to any permanent vacancy on the system will be removed from the System Seniority List and will be administratively terminated.
3.	Except as otherwise provided herein, a flight attendant who has not been recalled within five (5) years of the date of his/her furlough will be removed from the System Seniority List and will be administratively terminated.
When a flight attendant is furloughed s/he shall be paid for vacation days accrued in the prior year and not taken in the current year. Such vacation shall be paid at the flight attendant’s current rate of pay at the time of payment. Unless s/he returns from furlough in the same calendar year in which s/he was furloughed, when a flight attendant returns from furlough s/he may elect either to be paid for the vacation days s/he accrued in the year in which s/he was furloughed, or to take an available vacation period in the calendar year in which s/he returns.
System Furloughs, Base Reductions, and Base Closures 13-5
I.
1.
13
(
Furloughed flight attendants and displaced flight attendants, ( including flight attendants displaced due to a Base Closure, will have priority recall rights to the base from which they have been ‘ furloughed or displaced for two (2) years, regardless of subsequent transfer(s). Unless such flight attendants notify the Company of € their desire to waive recall to their prior base by the deadline set f forth in Section 12.B.3, they will be required to return to their for- ( mer base when recalled.	c
Seniority will be honored in filling vacancies. Vacancies will be awarded to the senior qualified eligible bidders in the following order:
a.	For those additional positions required to fully staff the system when the Company determines that there are more system flight attendant positions available than currently active flight attendants:
1.	Displaced flight attendants who have retained priority recall rights to the base in which a vacancy occurs,
2.	Furloughed flight attendants and flight attendants on Company offered leave of absence (who have expressed a desire to return to work) and who have retained priority recall rights to the base in which a vacancy occurs,
3.	Furloughed flight attendants (except those who were voluntarily furloughed and who have not yet notified the Company of their desire to return) and flight attendants on Company offered leave of absence who have expressed a desire to return to work who are without priority recall rights, and flight attendants with a transfer requests on file who are not ineligible to transfer under Section 12.B.5.
4.	Newly hired flight attendants if any,
r c c
c 6
( c
c c
( c
c
c
I c c
(
System Furloughs, Base Reductions, and Base Closures 13-6
5.	The most junior flight attendant in bases where an over
complement exists.
b.	When the additional positions have been staffed, or when the Company determines that there are sufficient currently active flight attendants to staff the available system flight attendant positions:
1.	Displaced flight attendants who have retained priority recall rights to the base in which a vacancy occurs,
2.	Flight attendants with transfer requests on file who are not ineligible to transfer under Section 12.B.5,
3.	The most junior flight attendant in bases where an over complement exists.
R
J.	To maintain eligibility for recall, furloughed flight attendants must keep ™ a current address and telephone number on file with the Company. Notices of recall sent to the flight attendant’s current address on file by certified mail will be deemed proper notice.
K.	A flight attendant will be removed from the System Seniority List and considered resigned if s/he fails to accept recall from system furlough within fourteen (14) days of notification of recall.
L.	Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 12.B.5, a flight attendant who has been displaced or furloughed and who has accepted a position in a new base will not be required to remain in his/her new base for six (6) months.
M.	When it is determined that a base reduction or furlough is necessary, the Company will notify the Union before it notifies the affected flight attendants.
System Furloughs, Base Reductions, and Base Closures 13-7
N.	Furlough Pay
1.	If a flight attendant is furloughed by Continental, s/he shall be entitled to a furlough allowance in the following amount, to be paid in monthly installments beginning with the first day of the calendar month following furlough, with each installment equal to at least a month of pay unless a half month is all that remains:
13
Completed Years of Service
One (1) full year of service Two (2) full years of service Three (3) full years of service Four (4) full years of service Five (5) full years of service Six (6) full years of service Seven (7) full years of service Eight (8) full years of service Nine (9) full years of service Ten (10)+ full years of service
Furloug
One-half (1/2) month
One (1) month
One and one-half (1 1/2) months
Two (2) months
Two and one-half (2 1/2) months
Three (3 ) months
Three and one-half (3 1/2) months
Four (4) months
Four and one-half (4 1/2) months
Five (5) months
A “month of pay” for purposes of this paragraph shall be the average monthly pay for the particular furloughed flight attendant for the twelve (12) months just prior to the date of his/her furlough. “One-half months pay” shall be a “month of pay” divided by two. Flight attendants subject to the provisions of this paragraph shall be granted six (6) months of on-line passes at normal boarding priority and subject to normal rules and regulations.
2.	If a furloughed flight attendant accepts employment at Continental or any of its subsidiaries, s/he shall not be entitled to the provisions of paragraph N.I above.
System Furloughs, Base Reductions, and Base Closures 13-8
Section 14 - Leaves of Absence
A. General Rules
1.	A flight attendant who wants a leave of absence or an extension of
a leave of absence must submit a written request to her/his supervisor. The Company’s response will be in writing. A flight attendant may request to return early. An early return is at the Company’s discretion.
2.	A flight attendant returning from an authorized leave of absence will be allowed to return to her/his pre-leave status and base if her/his seniority so permits. If s/he is returning on the first of a month, s/he may file a bid in the prior month as long as bids are open for her/his flying in the month of return. If s/he is unable to bid or fails to bid before returning to duty, s/he will be awarded the first numerically unawarded line in seniority order.
3.	While on a leave of absence, a flight attendant who wishes to do so may attend any available training sessions to retain or regain her/his qualifications if her/his physical condition permits. The Company will provide passes, hotel accommodations and meal expenses pursuant to the applicable provisions of Sections 6 and 7, to flight attendants attending training away from their base while on leave of absence. A flight attendant who has not remained qualified during her/his leave will be held out of service until requalified. S/he will not be paid until s/he resumes active service.
4.	Any flight attendant who engages in outside employment while on a leave of absence will be subject to discharge unless s/he has received prior written permission. This does not apply to a Company offered leave.
5.	Unless specifically stated to the contrary, all leaves of absence will be without pay.
Leaves of Absence 14-1
6.
7.
If it becomes necessary to cancel a leave or leaves due to operational requirements, the Company will first attempt to meet its need through voluntary leave cancellations at the affected base. The Union will be notified. If an insufficient number of flight attendants volunteer to cancel their leaves, the Company may cancel the required number of leaves at that base in reverse order of seniority.
A flight attendant returning from a leave of absence will notify the Company as soon as possible of his/her desired effective date of return to work. Such notification shall not be less than fifteen (15) days prior to the desired date of return. The Company will schedule the flight attendant for any required drug or alcohol screening (required for all leaves of ninety (90) days or more) and any necessary training. The Company will place the flight attendant into the training class next scheduled in his/her base following its receipt of the notification of the desire to return to work, but in no event will such training be scheduled to commence more than fifteen (15) days after the desired effective date of return. The returning flight attendant is responsible for learning the time and place of both the drug/alcohol screening and any training necessary to regain her/his qualifications. Subject to successful completion of the drug/alcohol screen, the flight attendant will be returned to the payroll on the date training commences, or if no training is required on the desired effective date of return stated in the flight attendant’s notice.
8.	Full month leave and jobshare requests will be combined and then awarded in seniority order. Subject to the needs of the service, jobshares and/or full month leaves will be granted prior to offering half (1/2) month leaves.
9.	The provisions of this Agreement, including but not limited to the provisions of this Section, are not intended in any way to be in derogation or diminution of the rights provided in the Family and Medical Leave Act, 29 U.S.C. §2601 et seq. To the extent these contractual benefits may be determined to be in conflict with rights or privileges granted by the Family and Medical Leave Act, the
( (.’ c € r ( c c c r c c (■ € ( C ( (
(
(; (.
(. (.. (
£ (< ( r
f
Leaves of Absence 14 - 2
Act shall be controlling, and its terms shall be applied as if they were the terms of this Agreement.
a. Flight attendants who are using FMLA leave to recover from a serious health condition or to care for a family member who has such a condition may take the leave on an intermittent basis if the treating medical care provider deems it necessary.
b.
For the purpose of tracking intermittent FMLA leave usage, flight attendants shall be entitled to two hundred and fifty hours (250:00) (three (3) months at eighty-three and one-third hours (83:20) per month) of FMLA leave in any twelve (12) month period. Flight attendants will be charged the actual time missed or four hours and nine minutes (4:09) (eighty-three and one-third hours (83:20) per month divided by twenty (20) days per month) for each day or portion of a day missed for FMLA leave purposes, whichever is less.
14
B.	Company Offered and Personal Leaves of Absence
1.	Flight attendants may be granted Company-offered leaves of absence without pay on a seniority basis.
2.	With the written authorization of the Base Director, flight attendants may be granted employee requested personal leaves of absence without pay at the Company’s discretion based on the requirements of the service and the reason(s) for the request.
3.	While on a Company-offered leave of absence, a flight attendant will accrue seniority for all purposes for the first ninety (90) days, irrespective of bid/calendar months. S/he will then accrue seniority for bidding and pass longevity purposes only.
4.	While on an employee requested personal leave of absence, a flight attendant will accrue seniority for all purposes for the first ninety (90) days, irrespective of bid/calendar months. S/he will then accrue seniority for bidding and pass longevity purposes only.
Leaves of Absence 14-3
5.	A flight attendant whose last trip of the month extends into the month her/his leave begins may be required to complete the trip if there is insufficient reserve coverage during the first three (3) days of the month.
14
a.	If all open trips for the first three (3) days of the new bid month can be covered with Reserves (allowing coverage for unforeseen circumstances), flight attendants with carry-in trips will be released by the first day of the new bid month.
b.	Flight attendant releases will be made in seniority order.
c.	A list(s) showing both flight attendants who will be required to complete their trips, and those who do not need to do so, will be posted in the appropriate base.
6.	One (1) or more leaves may be withdrawn by the Company within ninety-six hours (96:00) after posting if awarded due to administrative error. In such case, the Company will notify the flight attendants affected by the change. All leave disputes must be brought to the Company’s attention within ninety-six hours (96:00) after posting of leave results.
7.	If the Company grants additional Company offered leaves, it will first grant leaves from the list of flight attendants whose requests were filed by the deadline. Any remaining leaves will be granted on a first come, first served basis.
C.	Medical Leaves of Absence
1.	Leaves of absence required due to illness or non-occupational injury will be granted upon written verification of disability from " a qualified medical doctor. Any such leave may not exceed the L lesser of: (1) the period of disability, or (2) six (6) years, or (3) the flight attendant’s total length of active service. While on this type (g of leave, the flight attendant accrues seniority for all purposes. At $ the end of the maximum period, the flight attendant will be admin- 2 istratively terminated and removed from the System Seniority List. * i \.t.
Leaves of Absence 14 - 4
2.	Leaves of absence required due to occupational injury will be granted upon written verification from a qualified medical doctor. Any such leave may not exceed the lesser of: (1) the period of disability, or (2) six (6) years, or (3) the flight attendant’s total length of active service. While on this type of leave the flight attendant accrues seniority for all purposes. At the end of the maximum period, the flight attendant will be administratively terminated and removed from the System Seniority List.
3.	Maternity and other pregnancy related conditions will be treated like any other disability. A flight attendant may continue to fly through the end of the 27th week of her pregnancy provided she is fit to perform her duties.
a.	She will then be placed on a maternity leave of absence. At the time of the birth of the baby the flight attendant may, at her option, elect on a one time basis to extend the maternity leave up to twelve (12) months following her pregnancy.
b.	A flight attendant on leave for maternity will continue to accrue seniority for all purposes until the later of either the end of the eighth (8th) week following the birth of her child or the first ninety (90) consecutive days of her leave.
c.	A flight attendant on a maternity leave of absence will be eligible for sick leave benefits until eight (8) weeks following the date of delivery with verification from her doctor that she is unable to fly.
4.	A flight attendant who wants to return to duty will provide a statement from her/his personal physician. The statement will verify that s/he is physically fit to perform her/his duties.
5.	These provisions are subject to the Company’s right to require a medical examination under Section 10.
T4
Leaves of Absence 14-5
D.	Parental Leave of Absence	( .
(•
Any non-probationary flight attendant who has not been granted mater-nity leave in conjunction with a birth may request an unpaid parental leave within twelve (12) months after the birth or adoption of his/her child. A request for parental leave must be submitted in writing and include the requested dates. The leave request may not exceed ninety C (90) days. The Company will not deny the parental leave, however the f granting of any extensions beyond the initial ninety (90) days shall be entirely at the Company’s discretion. Seniority for all purposes will accrue for the first ninety (90) daysK irrespective of bid/calendar months. Thereafter, seniority will accrue for bidding and pass longevi- -ty purposes only.	C
(
E.	Military Leave of Absence	(.
Leaves of absence, including duration and reemployment rights, for , flight attendants who enter into the military service of the United States, including reserve duty, will be governed by applicable statute(s). Flight attendants on military leaves will retain and accrue seniority for all pur- (.
poses.
( F. Educational Leave of Absence
1.	A flight attendant may be granted an educational leave of absence for a period equal to the enrollment (i.e., a semester, a quarter, or a trimester), which may not exceed two-hundred and seventy (270) C days, with the written authorization of the Base Director. At the (• end of the leave, s/he may apply for additional educational leave.
2.	A flight attendant on educational leave will continue to accrue sen-iority for all purposes for the first ninety (90) days. Thereafter, s/he will accrue seniority for bidding and pass longevity purposes only.	C
3.	The flight attendant is responsible for submitting verification that । the leave is for educational purposes.
Leaves of Absence 14-6
G.	Funeral Leave of Absence
1.	A flight attendant will be given up to four (4) consecutive days (inclusive of days free of duty) with pay for trips missed/duty days to attend the funeral or memorial service for a member of her/his immediate family. A flight attendant may elect to extend this four (4) day period by adding unused vacation remaining in the current year. Vacation may be used only in blocks of seven (7) days, or in a smaller block if the flight attendant has no seven (7) day blocks remaining, to a maximum of fourteen (14) additional days. If a flight attendant has no remaining vacation or requires additional time, additional extensions may be granted without pay at the request of the flight attendant at the discretion of the Company.
2.	A flight attendant’s immediate family means her/his:
mother, father, grandmother, grandfather, grandchildren, mother-in-law, father-in-law, spouse, children, domestic partner, dependent (including step-children) living in her/his home, legal dependant, legal guardian (in lieu of parent), sister, and brother.
3.	The Company will provide positive space on-line passes for travel to attend the funeral/memorial service and to return from downline locations. The Company will also assist in other travel arrangements as needed.
H.	Emergency Leave of Absence
1.	Flight attendants may request emergency leave without pay by submitting written requests to their supervisors. Flight attendants on emergency leave will accrue seniority for all purposes for the first ninety (90) days, irrespective of bid/calendar months. Thereafter, seniority will accrue for bidding and pass longevity purposes only.
2.	The Company will make every reasonable effort to grant leave requests in the case of a critical illness, death, or injury of a mem
14
Leaves of Absence 14-7
14
I.
ber of the flight attendant’s immediate family (as defined in Section 14.G.2).
3.	A flight attendant on emergency leave may elect to receive vacation payoff in lieu of taking vacation block(s) remaining in the year. Vacation payoffs will occur only in block(s) of seven (7) days or in a smaller block if the flight attendant has no seven (7) day blocks remaining.
Jury Duty Leave of Absence
1.	A flight attendant will be excused from regular duties on days when s/he is required to be present for jury duty or is subpoenaed to testily in an administrative or judicial proceeding. A flight attendant who receives a summons for jury duty or a subpoena to testify shall inform her/his immediate supervisor no later than forty-eight hours (48:00) after receiving such notice.
2.	A lineholder flight attendant will receive flight pay loss for flight time dropped due to the requirement to be present to testify at the Company’s request, or to be present for jury duty. A lineholder flight attendant who is called for jury duty will receive flight pay loss for flight time dropped due to the requirement to be present for jury duty. A reserve flight attendant will receive no loss of guarantee, and two hours (2:00) actual flight credit for each duty day required to testify for the Company or assigned to jury duty.
3.	In order to receive flight pay loss for flight time dropped due to the requirement to be present to testify at the Company’s request, or to be present for jury duty, a flight attendant may be subject to reassignment in accordance with Section 5.K on days dropped other than the day(s) when s/he is testifying or appearing for jury duty. A flight attendant will not be reassigned to trips in a different geographic domicile without her/his consent.
4.	If a flight attendant has five (5) or more consecutive days of jury duty/obligation to testify for the Company, or a combination of five (5) or more consecutive days of such duty and flight duty s/he
Leaves of Absence 14-8
shall receive a period of two (2) calendar days free from duty with no loss of pay for trips or reserve days missed. That is, s/he shall not be subject to reassignment on those two (2) days free from all duty.
5.	A flight attendant who adjusts her/his schedule after receiving a notice of jury duty or obligation to testify will only be entitled to receive flight pay loss (including pay for scheduled reserve days) for the originally scheduled trips/reserve days on which s/he is required to testify for the Company or is assigned to jury duty.
6.	A reasonable amount of time for the flight attendant to return to his/her home and to report to her/his domicile at the conclusion of such service shall be allowed. When deemed operationally necessary by the Company, a flight attendant will cooperate fully in seeking to obtain an excuse, deferral, or rescheduling of the jury duty or obligation to testify.
7.	A flight attendant may be required to provide adequate proof of jury or witness service.
8.	Flight attendants on leave of absence pursuant to this Section will retain and accrue seniority for all purposes.
J. Union Leave of Absence
1.	Flight attendants accepting official positions with the Union will be granted an unpaid Union leave of absence for a period that is equal to the term of office to which s/he was elected or appointed.
2.	Flight attendants on union leave shall retain and accrue seniority for all purposes. Such flight attendants shall receive benefits under the Continental Regular Benefit Program on the same basis as provided for active employees. Upon return from Union leave flight attendants will be credited with the maximum vacation, sick leave and occupational illness or injury allowances provided by this Agreement in effect for employees of like seniority.
Leaves of Absence 14-9
The Union may request that a flight attendant be removed from service on a trip by trip basis to conduct Union business. Subject to operational requirements, the Company will grant the drop and release the flight attendant without pay.

14
4.
6.
Upon the effective date of this Agreement employees who are on a Union leave of absence will receive the same personal pass privileges provided to active flight attendants.
(
For the purpose of administering this Agreement, the Executive Board of Local Lodge 2339 will receive Company business passes on a PS5B classification (fee waived). The Union and the Company may agree to provide such passes to additional designated flight attendants.
Up to twenty (20) officials designated by the President and Directing General Chairman of District Lodge 142 shall receive passes over the Company system during their term of office for use in connection with their work. Such passes shall be Company business passes at PS4B level (fee waived).
Leaves of Absence 14 - 10
Section 15 - Uniforms
The Company will determine the standard uniform(s), which shall include an overcoat and luggage. All flight attendants will be required to have at least two (2) complete uniforms. Flight attendants will wear uniforms as prescribed in Company regulations at all times while on duty except that a flight attendant will not be required to deadhead or ferry in uniform. Company regulations respecting uniforms apply at all times when a flight attendant is in uniform, including time off.
Each new flight attendant is responsible for purchasing two (2) complete standard uniforms and other required items, which may be paid for by check or payroll deduction, at the flight attendant’s option.
All Company issued insignia and uniform items provided by the Company will be on a loan basis. Flight attendants will not be required to turn in their uniform items when going on a leave of absence or when a changeover to a new uniform occurs. Upon resignation or termination, the flight attendant will be required to return her/his current uniform items and will remain obligated to the Company for any purchases made by payroll deduction. They must be in the same condition as when last worn on flight duty or the cost to the Company of all such items will be deducted from the flight attendant’s last paycheck. A flight attendant will not be required to return any items which s/he has purchased.
Flight attendants will keep their uniforms clean and in good repair. The Company has the right to determine when uniform items need replacing.
Flight attendants will be provided an annual allowance based on active service, mutually agreed upon by the Company and the Union, for the replacement of uniform items due to normal wear and tear, and for the acquisition of uniform pieces and accessory items not part of the standard uniform. When new optional items are introduced they shall be offered at a discount of no less than twenty-five percent (25%) for the first ninety (90) days that they are available to be ordered. A maximum of fifty percent (50%) of a flight attendant’s annual allowance granted
15
Uniforms 15-1
c
in any year may be carried over for use in the following year.	(
t F. Flight attendants will be provided, at Company expense, replacement uniform items lost due to damage or theft while at work. They will also _ be provided the new standard uniform and/or new required items if the style changes. Shipping of uniform items shall not be at flight attendant expense, unless such expense results from flight attendant error.
(
G The Company shall bear the cost for alterations to the sleeves and/or hems of new uniform pieces when such alterations are made by an J approved vendor.
(
H.	A flight attendant may wear her/his Union pin on her/his uniform. The (.
Company will designate where the pin will be worn.	(
(•,
I.	A maternity uniform will be issued on a loan basis to flight attendants flying while pregnant. The flight attendant will retain her regular uni-form.
J.	Flight attendants may purchase additional uniform items if they so ( desire.	(
(
C
(.
(•
(
I
c
I
c
€ € ( Uniforms 15-2	,
UNIFORM ALLOWANCE PROGRAM POINTS
FEMALE ITEMS:			MALE ITEMS:			
Style #	Description	Points	Style #	Description	Points	
11101	Blazer, D.B. 1 Stripe	26	12101	Blazer, D.B. 1 Stripe	30	
11111	Blazer, D.B. 2 Stripe (ISM only)	26	12111	Blazer, D.B. 2 Stripe (ISM only)	30	
11481	♦♦Maternity dress	20	42201	Trousers	13	
11401	Dress	19	12951	♦Int’l. serving jacket (two stripe - ISM)	10	
11151	Shirt jacket - short sleeve	14	12991	♦Int’l. serving jacket (one stripe)	10	
41201	Slacks	13	43871	Sweater - Cardigan - long sleeve	8	
41301	Skirt	13	42811	Sweater - Cardigan - vest	8	
41251	Walking Shorts	11	42861	Sweater - v-neck pullover - vest	8	
11951	♦Int’l. serving jacket (two stripe - ISM)	10	43851	Sweater - v-neck pullover - 1/s	8	
11991	♦Int’l. serving jacket (one stripe)	10	42511	Shirt - long sleeve blue stripe	8	
115141	Blouse - long sleeve white	4	42541	Shirt - short sleeve blue stripe	8	
115241	Blouse - short sleeve white	4	42514	Shirt - long sleeve white	4	
115111	Blouse - long sleeve blue stripe	8	42544	Shirt - short sleeve white	4	
115441	Blouse - short sleeve blue stripe	8	12901	Butcher Block Apron	3	
41801	Sweater - pullover - long sleeve	8	12606	Belt - black	3	
41851	Sweater - pullover - vest	8	42621	Belt - all weather coat	3	
43871	Sweater - Cardigan - long sleeve	8	42711	Tie - Chain link print	3	
43851	Sweater - Cardigan - vest	8	42716	Tie - Nautical print	3	I'5
11901	Pinafore Apron	8	42719	Tie - Block print	3	
12901	Butcher Block Apron	3	42713	Tie - Stripe print	3	
42621	Belt - a/w coat	3	12751	Shoulder Slide - 1 Stripe	2	
11611	Belt - dress	2	12761	Shoulder Slide - 2 Stripe (ISM only)	2	
41741	Tie - floppy - chainlink print	2	43055	Winter overcoat scarf	2	
41742	Tie - floppy - nautical print	2	43735	Pocket Handkerchief - nautical print	1	
41749	Tie - floppy - block print	2	43755	Pocket Handkerchief - chainlink print	1	
41743	Tie - floppy - stripe print	2	43745	Pocket Handkerchief - gold solid	1	
43055	Winter overcoat scarf	2				
43735	Pocket Handkerchief - nautical print	1				
43755	Pocket Handkerchief - chainlink print	1				
43745	Pocket handkerchief - gold solid	1				
Basic complement of the following items is provided by the Company:
One	-	All Weather Overcoat or Wool Overcoat every 3 years (3 year replacement	eligibility policy)
One	-	Maternity Dress (loaned to the flight attendant from the base)
Two	-	Int’l. Serving jackets per year (International based flight attendants only.)
EACH FLIGHT ATTENDANT WILL RECEIVE 75 POINTS PER YEAR.
* / ** Additional quantities of these items may be purchased using either points, credit card or money order by flight attendants wishing to have extra items in addition to the basic complement.
Uniforms 15 - 3
Section 16	- Seniority
16
A.	Seniority
1.	Seniority for bidding purposes begins to accrue when a person is placed on the flight attendant payroll. If more that one flight attendant is placed on the seniority list on the same day, they will be placed in order of their age, from the oldest to the youngest. Seniority for bidding purposes will govern bidding on schedules, charters and reserve duty, vacation selection, filling of vacancies, furloughs, recalls from furlough, transfers, exercise of options, and the granting of personal or educational leaves of absence. Unless adjusted under this Section, bidding seniority will not be changed. It will continue to accrue while her/his name remains on the flight attendant System Seniority List.
2.	Seniority for purposes of pay, vacation accrual, and pass eligibility will begin to accrue on the date a person is placed on the flight attendant payroll. A flight attendant who is already a Company employee will be credited with prior service for the purposes of vacation accrual and pass eligibility. Seniority for pay and vacation accrual will accrue during all periods of active service and for periods of inactive service of less than ninety one (91) consecutive days, irrespective of bid/calendar months. Unless otherwise expressly provided by this Agreement, seniority for pay and vacation accrual will be retained but not accrued during periods of inactive service. Seniority for pass purposes will be retained and accrued for all periods of active service and for all periods of inactive service subsequent to the signing of this Agreement. Active service for purposes of this paragraph will be the time a flight attendant is on the payroll.
3.	Seniority dates and accruals in effect on the date of signing of this Agreement will remain, and will not be retroactively affected as a result of any rule changes in this Agreement.
Seniority 16 - 1
B.	Seniority Protests
1.	Within ten (10) days after January 1st and July 1st, the Company will post up-to-date copies of the revised Flight Attendant System Seniority List in each base. They will contain the names of all flight attendants entitled to seniority. One (1) will be in seniority order, and the other will be in alphabetical order.
2.	Flight attendants will have thirty (30) days after the distribution of the list in which to protest any errors in writing. The protest will be limited to errors or changes occurring after the distribution of the prior System Seniority List.
3.	Flight attendants who are returning from a leave will have thirty (30) days from the date of return to service in which to protest the list.
4.	Should there be an error, the Company will prepare a list of corrections. It will post such list no later than March 11th or September 8th. The Company will provide a copy of the list(s) of corrections to the President - Directing General Chairman of the Union or his designee.
5.	Regardless of other provisions of this Agreement to the contrary, when the Company and the Union mutually agree that a seniority list should be changed to comply with the provisions of this Agreement, or when it has been established through the grievance procedure that a list should be changed, such change will be posted currently. It is understood that any resulting adjustment in the list shall not create any liability to the Company or the Union.
C.	Period of Probation
1.	During the first eight (8) months of active service, the flight attendant will be on probation, and the Company will have the right to dismiss, furlough or discipline any flight attendant on probation.
16
Seniority 16-2
C
2.	A flight attendant who is unavailable for duty during her/his pro- (.' bationary period for fifteen (15) consecutive days or longer will have her/his period of probation extended accordingly.
3.	Neither the probationary flight attendant nor any representative of such flight attendant, including the Union, will be entitled to chai- C lenge the flight attendant’s discipline, furlough, or dismissal under ( the Agreement’s Grievance Procedure and System Board of ( Adjustment.	<
.16.
D.
E.
A flight attendant will be removed from the System Seniority List if s/he leaves the Company by retirement, death, resignation, recall rights or under the circumstances provided for in Section 14 (Leaves of Absence).
A flight attendant who transfers to or performs any non-flying duties below the Director level within Inflight related areas (Inflight, Inflight Employee Relations, Inflight Training, Corporate Training, Inflight Recruiting, or Inflight Scheduling) will retain and continue to accrue seniority for all purposes, and will be subject to Section 16.D. Flight attendants transferring to positions below the Director level outside the Inflight areas specified will continue to accrue seniority for all purposes for twelve (12) cumulative months. They will then be removed from the System Seniority List. Flight attendants transferring to Director level or above positions will be removed from the System Seniority List, except those Directors in Inflight who are on the seniority list on the effective date of this agreement.
c c c c
c c c
( c ( c c c
V
(..
g
k. c c c
Seniority 16-3
Section 17	- Personnel Files
A personnel file will be maintained for each flight attendant in her/his base. Upon request, a flight attendant’s file will be made available for inspection by the individual flight attendant. With written permission from the flight attendant, a Union representative may inspect the file at a mutually acceptable time.
1.	All letters regarding discipline that are placed in a flight attendant’s file will be given to the flight attendant in person or sent by certified mail return receipt requested. It will be sent no later than seven (7) calendar days from the date the discipline was rendered.
2.	A flight attendant will receive a copy of any other derogatory report or letters that are placed in her/his personnel file. In addition, a copy of the material will be provided to the flight attendant.
a.	A passenger complaint letter will not be placed in a flight attendant’s personnel file unless it can be established that s/he is the flight attendant involved in the letter.
b.	The Company will review passenger complaint letters that are placed in a flight attendant’s file with the flight attendant.
c.	The Company will consider any comments or correspondence received from a flight attendant regarding a passenger complaint letter and will attach said comments or correspondence. A copy of the Flight Report which deals with the flight in question will be included if the flight attendant so requests, provided the Flight Report makes reference to the incident and it has been timely filed or has been requested by a flight attendant supervisor.
After twelve (12) months of active service, all disciplinary, complimentary, or complaint letters contained in a flight attendant’s personnel file will be considered void provided there has not been any other discipline related incident involving the flight attendant during the twelve
Personnel Files 17 -1
(12)	month period, provided that if a flight attendant has received a termination warning notice his/her disciplinary, complimentary, or complaint letters will not be considered void unless there has not been any other discipline related incident involving the flight attendant for a period of eighteen (18) months following the issuance of the termination warning. If a flight attendant requests that any void letters be removed from her/his file, all void letters will be removed.
D.	A flight attendant may attach her/his relevant comments to any observation or evaluation reports placed in her/his file.
E.	The flight attendant’s file maintained by the Human Resources Department will be opened for inspection at a mutually acceptable time at the request of the individual flight attendant and/or by her/his Union representative(s) with the written permission of the flight attendant. Further, the flight attendant and/or her/his Union representative(s), with the written permission of the flight attendant, will be given copies of any material in the file.
Personnel Files 17-2
Section 18 - Investigations
When the Company conducts an investigation which may lead to disciplinary action, or discharge, the flight attendant shall be entitled to the following:
1.	An opportunity to present information relevant to the investigation, and
2.	The presence of a Union representative, if reasonably available. If the Union representative is not available another employee covered by this Agreement will be present if requested by the employee.
3.	Copies of all documents or reports relative to the incident which is being investigated will be provided for review by the flight attendant alleged to be involved.
A flight attendant may be held out of service with pay by the Company during its investigation of a matter which may lead to discipline or discharge. Flight attendants will not be withheld from service for a period longer than fourteen (14) days.
Before the beginning of an investigatory meeting, the Company will verbally brief the flight attendant concerning the incident it is investigating. If, during the investigation, the Company becomes aware of other incidents, it will not be prevented from investigating and taking action it considers appropriate regarding the other incidents.
All discipline and discharges, except oral warnings, shall be issued in writing within seven (7) days of notification of the flight attendant. Such notices shall be sent as provided in Section 17.B.1 (Personnel Files). A copy of all written discipline will be sent to the Base Chairperson.
A flight attendant shall not normally be disciplined later than thirty (30) days from the time Inflight management has reasonable first knowledge of the incident giving rise to the discipline. In the event a flight atten
Investigation 18-1
dant is on leave of absence, furlough or vacation of more than fourteen (14) days during this thirty (30) day period, such thirty (30) day period may be extended by a period equal to the length of the leave of absence, furlough or vacation.
F. A flight attendant who has passed the probationary period shall not be discharged without a fair meeting, with the presence of his/her Union representative if requested, for the opportunity to present relevant information before a designated Company representative.

(’ c (
t
(• (.. c c c I
I I c
Investigation 18 - 2
A.
Section 19 - Grievance Procedures
Representation
1.	The Union will be represented by properly designated Base Chairpersons at each location on the system. Base Chairpersons will be empowered to settle all local grievances or disputes not involving changes in policy or the intent and purposes of this Agreement, at the Step 1 level.
The Union will advise the Staff Vice President, Inflight, in writing, of the individuals who serve as Base Chairpersons.
The Union will be further represented by the President - Directing General Chairman of the IAM or a designated IAM District 142 representative who will be empowered to handle and settle grievances at all levels of the grievance procedure.
2.	The Company will be represented at each location by one (1) or more authorized officials who will be empowered to settle local grievances or disputes, but such settlement may not involve any change in the intent and purpose of the Agreement or Company Policy. The Company will advise the Union, in writing, of the individuals who serve as authorized officials.
The Company will be further represented on a Vice Presidential level for dealing with the IAM President - Directing General Chairperson or her/his designated IAM District 142 representative.
No Company employee directly involved in the matter which gave rise to the grievance will sit as hearing officer at any step.
3.	The Union and the Company will, at all times, keep the other party advised, through written notice, of any change in authorized representatives.
Grievance Procedure 19-1
4.	The President - Directing General Chairman of the IAM and/or his/her designated IAM District 142 representative and a reasonable number of Grand Lodge Representatives of the Union shall be permitted to enter any location on the Company’s system where employees under this Agreement are located for the purpose of representing such employees upon prior notification to the Company at that location.
5.	All Base Chairpersons will be allowed free access and availability to all work areas within their respective areas of representation in order to conduct their business in a proper, efficient, and expedient manner. Base Chairpersons will be allowed time off for purposes of investigating, presenting and adjusting grievances or to attend meetings provided for in this Agreement.
B.	Procedure
19
1.	The procedure for presentation and adjustment of grievances that may arise between the Company and the Union with reference to interpretation or application of any provisions of this Agreement shall be as set forth below. Grievances must be filed promptly after the cause giving rise to the grievance is evident, and no grievance will be valid if not filed within thirty (30) days of the date the employee first knew or could reasonably be expected to have known of the grievance. Grievances filed under paragraph E below which involve wage claims must be filed promptly after the cause giving rise to the grievance is evident, and such wage claims will not be collectible for a period earlier than thirty (30) days prior to the date of the filing of the grievance or the date the grievance arose, whichever is more recent.
Step 1: Any employee having a complaint or grievance in connection with the application of this Agreement will discuss the matter with the immediate supervisor. If unable to secure satisfactory adjustment in this manner, the employee may present the grievance to the Base Chairperson. If in the Chairperson’s opinion the complaint is justified, the written grievance may be filed on a prescribed form provided
Grievance Procedure 19-2
by the Company which shall include the grievant’s name(s) specific Section of the contract allegedly violated or in dispute, remedy sought, date discussed with the supervisor and the grievant’s signature(s). The written grievance may be appealed to the Base Director who shall schedule a mutually agreeable hearing date in that base within fourteen (14) days. The Base Director or her/his designee(s) will make themselves available to the Union’s base grievance representative(s) at least twice each calendar month for the purpose of scheduling such first level hearings. Normally such hearing shall be held within thirty (30) days of the date the appeal was filed. A decision in writing shall be rendered not later than thirty (30) days (ten (10) days for discharge cases) following the hearing.
Step 2: If the decision at Step 1 is not satisfactory, the Base Chairperson may refer the matter to the District General Chairperson, who may appeal the matter to the Staff Vice President, Inflight or one designated representative who must be at least Director level. The appeal must be made in writing within thirty (30) days after the Step 1 decision. The grievance must be presented at a hearing within thirty (30) days from the date of appeal to Step 2. The hearing will be consolidated with other pending appeals and will be conducted at one (1) location, unless mutually agreed otherwise. A written decision will be rendered by the Company within thirty (30) days (ten (10) days for discharge cases) after adjournment of the hearing.
2.	If the Step 2 decision is not satisfactory to the President - Directing General Chairman of the IAM or her/his designee, then the matter may be appealed to the System Board of Adjustment as provided in Section 20. Provided however that any case may be submitted by either party for discussion between the Company’s Staff Vice-President, Labor Relations and the President - Directing General Chairman of the IAM prior to being heard by the System Board.
Grievance Procedure 19-3
3.	Notwithstanding the above, grievances relating to matters general in character which cannot be settled at the local level may be submitted by the Union in writing to and discussed between the designated Company Vice President and the President - Directing General Chairman of the I AM or her/his designee.
a.	If a mutually satisfactory resolution of the matter is not reached within fourteen (14) days after the grievance is submitted, then the matter may be referred within seven (7) days to the President of the Company or his/her designated representative.
b.	If a mutually satisfactory resolution of the matter is not reached pursuant to the above steps, then within fourteen (14) days of the Company’s decision it may be appealed to the System Board of Adjustment in accordance with Section 20.
4.	The Staff Vice President, Inflight and the President - Directing General Chairman of the IAM or their designee(s) will meet twice each year, between March 1 and April 30, and between September 1 and October 30, for the purpose of attempting to settle all outstanding grievances then pending before the System Board. For those cases which are not settled, a means and schedule for final resolution will be set. The settlement conferences shall be conducted at a mutually agreed location.
C.	General
1.	An employee may be suspended from the service of the Company pending a hearing, which shall be prompt, when the Company judges such action is justified by legitimate business reasons. Such action shall not be deemed a violation of this Section.
2.	The Union will be given a reasonable opportunity to secure the presence of necessary individual(s) to fairly conduct hearing and meetings required in connection with a grievance. If any necessary employee is based at other than the location where the hearing or meeting is to be held then such employee will be furnished
Grievance Procedure 19-4
free PS5B travel over Company lines to attend the hearing or meeting.
3.	The Company will not discriminate against any witness called to testify in any hearing or investigation under this Agreement.
4.	Union representatives and necessary employee witnesses will be released from duty on a non-paid status.
5.	In assessing discipline, the Company will consider the gravity of the offense, seniority, and work record of the employee.
6.	At each step of the Grievance procedure, the Company and Union recognize a desire and need to handle grievances within the time limits set forth in this Section. It is further recognized that the Company or Union representative may request reasonable time limit extensions.
7.	The Union’s decision to withdraw grievances, not to process or appeal a grievance to the next step shall not in any way prejudice its position on the issues involved. The Company’s decision to settle a grievance shall not prejudice its position on the issues involved.
8.
An employee may elect to have legal counsel present only at the System Board of Adjustment, and only after having signed a Union representation waiver.
19
9.	Notwithstanding any of the provisions of this Section, probationary flight attendants are not entitled to file grievances under this contract regarding discipline or discharges, nor shall such employees be entitled to challenge discipline or discharges taken against them.
10.	Any decision made during the grievance procedure which is not appealed within the time limits provided in the contract shall be final and binding, except by mutual agreement of the Company and the Union which will not be unreasonably withheld.
Grievance Procedure 19-5
Section 20 - System Board of Adjustment
20
In compliance with Section 204, Title II, of the Railway Labor Act, as amended, there is hereby established a System Board of Adjustment for the purpose of adjusting and deciding disputes of grievances which may arise under the terms of this Agreement and which are properly submitted to it after exhausting the procedures for settling disputes, as set forth in Section 19.
A. Composition and Selection of the Board
1.	The System Board of Adjustment shall consist of one (1) neutral referee selected by the parties to serve a Chairperson, one (1) individual appointed by the Company and one (1) individual appointed by the Union.
Each and every Board member shall be free to discharge their duty in an independent manner, without fear that their individual relations with the Company or with the Union may be affected in any manner by any action take by them in good faith in their capacity as a Board member. Board members who are employees of the Company shall be granted necessary time off for the performance of their duties as Board members.
2.	There shall be a standing panel of a minimum of twelve (12) referees from which the parties shall jointly select on a case by case basis the Chairperson for the System Board of Adjustment.
a.	Each party shall appoint six (6) members to this standing panel.
b.	Either party may terminate the services of a referee on the panel at any time (except as to cases already scheduled for hearing) upon thirty (30) days written notice to the other party and to the referee whose services are being terminated. The party who originally appointed the referee to the panel must thereafter appoint a new referee to the panel. Each party is limited to two (2) such terminations of the other
System Board of Adjustment 20 - 1

(
e
c c
c
c c
c c
c c
c c
c c
c B.
C
c c
c
party’s appointments to the panel for the length of the Agreement, but may terminate without limitation the services of referees it appointed to the panel.
3.	If the parties are unable to jointly select a referee from the standing panel to hear a case, the Secretary to the Board shall make a request to the National Mediation Board for a panel of seven (7) arbitrators from which the parties will select the referee to hear the case at hand. Such selection will be made by each party in alternate turns striking a name from the list until one remains. The parties shall alternate striking the first name from the list.
4.	Notwithstanding the foregoing, the parties may at any time mutually agree to select a referee who is not a member of its standing panel to sit as Chairperson of the System Board of Adjustment for such case or cases as the parties may mutually agree.
5.	If after selecting a referee, it is determined that the referee is unable to hear the matter within forty-five (45) days after selection, the parties may by mutual agreement select another referee for the case. If the second referee selected also cannot hear the case within the original forty-five (45) day period described above, the referee who can hear the case the earlier of the two (2) shall be used.
Docket
1.	Each grievance presented to the Board shall be treated as a separate case, unless the parties mutually agree otherwise. Grievances involving more than one (1) employee or incident with similar facts and circumstances may be treated as one (1) case.
2.	The Board shall meet at such location or locations where the parties may agree, generally to be the location(s) where the grievance arose or the location most convenient to the majority of the individuals necessary to the proceedings. If the parties cannot agree to a location, then the neutral referee shall decide.

System Board of Adjustment 20 - 2
3.	It shall be the Company’s responsibility to establish and maintain ( a docket of grievances properly appealed to the System Board of („ Adjustment. The docket shall be updated quarterly each calendar year, with a copy mailed to the office of the President - Directing General Chairman of the IAM.
4.	Notice of grievances appealed to the Board shall be served in writ- C ing upon the other party and shall include a statement by the ( appealing party of its understanding of:	(
('
a.	The facts leading to the grievance	r
b.	The question or questions at issue
c.	The position of the appealing party
d.	The position of the other party.	I
5.	A copy of this Agreement and the notice of dispute, together with ( all appeals and answers from the earlier grievance steps shall be z provided to the Chairperson prior to the taking of any other evi-dence in the proceedings. Copies of all documents filed with the Chairperson or correspondence relating to the proceeding or dis-pute shall be provided to the other party and to other members of the Board.
20
(
6.	The Chairperson shall preside at meetings and hearings. It shall be , the responsibility of the Chairperson to guide the parties in the presentation of testimony, exhibits, and arguments at hearings to the end that a fair, prompt and orderly hearing of the dispute is ■ afforded.	L •
Immediately following the hearing or at any time prior to the < issuance of a final decision in the matter, upon the request of either / v party or any member of the Board the members of the Board shall convene in executive session to discuss the issue(s) before it.
7.	The parties mutually agree to endeavor toward a speedy final deci- © sion in every case presented to the Board, and in effecting such agree to minimize the time spent in presenting evidence and argu-ing motions in the hearing, filing briefs, and to compel the Board
System Board of Adjustment 20-3
to issue the final decision as soon as possible following the close of the hearing.
8.	The Union will be represented at Board hearings by such person or persons as it may choose and designate, and the Company will be represented by such person or persons as it may choose and designate. Evidence may be presented either orally or in writing or both. The Board may, at the request of either the Union or the Company, call any witnesses who are employed by the Company and who may be deemed necessary to the dispute.
9.	Decisions of the Board in all cases properly referred to it shall be final and binding upon the parties hereto and the parties must abide by that decision.
10.	The Board shall have jurisdiction over disputes between the Union, employee and the Company growing out of the interpretation or application of any of the terms of this Agreement. The System Board shall decide only the dispute or issue submitted to it, and shall have no power to add to, subtract from or alter the provisions of the contract between the parties. The jurisdiction of the Board shall not extend to proposed changes in hours of employment, basic rates of compensation, or working conditions covered by this Agreement or any amendment thereto. The System Board shall have the authority to make whole any employee or group of employees for losses incurred as a result of action by the Company found to violate this Agreement, including reinstatement, restoration of back pay, lost benefits, lost seniority and other actual losses attributable to the Company’s actions.
11.	Unless the parties mutually agree, no recording, stenographic or otherwise, shall be permitted of the proceedings.
12.	In the event of a Board award, not subject to further appeal, which requires the reinstatement of a discharged grievant, the Company shall designate a date for reinstatement which shall be not later than thirty (30) days after the date the Company receives the final award, nor earlier than fourteen (14) days after receipt of the final
20
System Board of Adjustment 20 - 4
award without the consent of the grievant. The grievant shall be required to comply with all reasonable directives from the Company designed to prepare him/her for return to duty. The parties may mutually agree to extend the date of reinstatement.
C.	Expenses and Transportation
1.	Each of the parties hereto will assume the compensation, travel expense, and other expenses of the witnesses called or summoned by it. Witnesses who are employees of the Company shall receive free transportation over the lines of the Company from the point of assignment to the point at which they must appear as witnesses and return, to the extent permitted by law.
2.	The expenses and compensation of the Chairperson of the System Board, and the costs incurred in holding hearings and meetings of the Board shall be bome equally by the parties.
3.	Board members shall be furnished positive space free transportation over the lines of the Company for the purpose of attending meetings of the Board, to the extent permitted by law.
D.	Nothing herein shall be construed to limit, restrict, or abridge the rights or privileges accorded either to the employees or to the Company or to their duly accredited representatives, under the provisions of the Railway Labor Act, as amended.
System Board of Adjustment 20-5
Section 21 - Jobsharing
Each month the Company will calculate the block hours to be flown and the lineholders and reserves required to staff those block hours, and will make positions in excess of those required in each base available for jobshares/leaves.
Two (2) active flight attendants (and only two (2)) who are assigned to the same base who want to share a line may bid for jobshare flying. Jobshares will be awarded before the posting of lines for bid.
Although both flight attendants must bid the numbers desired by both Jobshare awards will be determined by the seniority of the senior flight attendant bidding. The line will be awarded to the senior flight attendant.
The two (2) flight attendants awarded a bid line for jobshare flying will split such bid line 50/50 to the extent possible. It is expected that each jobshare flight attendant will have a minimum of forty hours (40:00) in her/his share of the monthly bid line unless an even split of the trips on the bid line does not permit a minimum of forty hours (40:00).
A jobshare flight attendant may request a personal drop(s), subject to operational requirements, which reduces her/his monthly projection below forty hours (40:00). Additionally, a jobshare flight attendant may trip trade with open time, subject to operational requirements, and such trade may reduce her/his monthly projection below forty hours (40:00). Similarly qualified jobshare flight attendants will be permitted to trade with each other regardless of whether one flight attendant may go below forty hours (40:00). Language qualified flight attendants must maintain forty hours (40:00) in their primary language specialty before being permitted to pick up trips outside such primary language specialty.
Within forty-eight hours (48:00) after the bid results are posted, the jobshare flight attendants will notify Scheduling of the names of the jobshare flight attendant responsible for covering each specific trip(s) for the month.
21
Jobsharing 21 -1
€
G.	Pay will be based on the flight attendant’s credited flight time in her/his (■ portion of the jobshare bid line.	£
H.	A jobshare flight attendant is limited to a monthly maximum of fifty-five hours (55:00).
I.	The Company will not be responsible for resolving any disputes ( between jobshare flight attendants.	(
. c
J.	Two (2) reserves jobsharing a line must treat each block of reserve days as a trip. Therefore, they may not split blocks of days unless one (1) _ block must be split to evenly divide the line.
c
c
(
21
Jobsharing 21-2
Section 22 - Partnership Flying
A.	For purposes of this Section, active flight attendants are those currently holding a place on the monthly bidding seniority list. For example, if a flight attendant is on furlough or in a management position, and is not on the bidding seniority list for the month of October, s/he is not eligible to be included in the October 15, award process. Once returned to work, and placed on the monthly bidding seniority list, his/her name shall be placed on the Partnership Flying waiting list, if s/he so chooses by submitting the appropriate request.
B.	Active flight attendants having at least two years seniority as flight attendants, including those who are already in the program and who desire to continue shall be eligible to bid for partnership vacancies. To be considered for an annual award, bids must be submitted no later than 10.00 a.m., central time, October 5. On or before September 15, the Company will post the anticipated number of annual permanent partnership vacancies. Following receipt of the October 5 bids, the Company, in its discretion, will determine the final number of annual permanent partnership vacancies that will be available in each base. The total number of partnership lines will not be more than five percent (5%) of the expected base complement on January 1 of the following year, unless the parties mutually agree to exceed this amount.
C.	Annual awards shall be granted based on seniority among similarly qualified flight attendants competing for partnership positions within each base. An ISM who has applied for entry into the program and whose bid is not awarded due to a lack of application by other ISMs will be given an opportunity to elect to change her/his application to apply for the bid as a flight attendant or to place her/his name on the waiting list described in paragraph F below as an ISM.
D.	Partnership flying awards shall be announced annually on October 15 for the ensuing calendar year. A flight attendant who is awarded his/her partnership bid will be required to remain in the partnership position for the duration of the partnership award except as otherwise expressly stated in this Section. Removals from the program due to hardship may
Partnership Flying 22-1
22
be granted upon mutual agreement between the Staff Vice President of Inflight or her/his designee and the President - Directing General Chairman of the Union or her/his designee.
E.	Flight attendants who have been awarded partnership flying may elect to form voluntary partnerships with any other similarly qualified flight attendants who also have been awarded partnership flying in their base no later than November 15 by submitting a partners team request in such form as the Company may establish. Those flight attendants who have not submitted partners forms by 10:00 a.m., central time, November 15, will be paired by the Company in order of seniority (i.e., the most senior unpaired flight attendant with the next most senior unpaired flight attendant). Final annual partnership teams will be posted no later than December 1. All partnership awards, whether voluntary or seniority controlled, will be limited to flight attendants in the same base and to qualified partners (i.e., language speakers with other language speakers holding positions in the same primary language and ISMs with ISMs).
F.	If the Company determines to fill vacancies which occur during the year as a result of the transfer, termination, furlough, or displacement of partnership flight attendants, it will do so by awarding the remainder of the year of partnership flying in seniority order to flight attendants whose names shall be maintained on base partnership flying waiting lists. The lists shall contain the names of eligible flight attendants who bid, but were not awarded partnership positions as well as those of eligible flight attendants whose written bids are received any time after the October 5 deadline, but prior to 10:00 a.m., central time, on the fifth day of the month. A flight attendant may remove his/her standing partnership bid at any time by withdrawing it in writing, but the deadline for such withdrawal in any given month shall be 10:00 a.m., central time, on the fifth. All bids, whether submitted during the year or pursuant to the annual rebid as provided in paragraph A above, will be removed from the active file prior to the annual posting of anticipated openings as provided in paragraph A above. All flight attendants who wish to be considered for inclusion in the following year’s program must submit bids every year, including incumbent participants and those who submitted bids during the course of the year.
Partnership Flying 22 - 2
Partners who elect to transfer in accordance with the provisions of Section 12 will be removed from the partnership program once the transfer is awarded. When such a flight attendant reports for duty in her/his new base, s/he may place his/her name on the waiting list at his/her new base. In the event that the transfer is rescinded the flight attendant shall return to his/her previous base as a non-partner flight attendant. A flight attendant whose partner exits the program (e.g., as the result of a transfer, termination, furlough, displacement, etc.) will continue in the program, and will be paired with another unpaired partner, or if a vacancy is announced by the Company, with the next person on the waiting list. If there are no other unpaired partners and no flight attendants on the waiting list the remaining partner will drop fifty percent (50%) of his/her line each month until a new partner is awarded using these procedures.
Monthly partnership line awards will be determined by the bid of the senior partner on the team. The two partners will split the line 50/50 to the extent possible. Two (2) reserve partners sharing a line must treat each block of reserve days as a trip, therefore they may not split blocks of days unless one block must be split to evenly divide the line.
Within forty-eight (48) hours after the bid results are posted, the partners will notify Scheduling of the name of the partner responsible for covering each specific trip for the month.
Pay will be based on the flight attendant’s credited flight time in her/his portion of the partnership bid line.
A partnership flight attendant is limited to a monthly maximum of fifty-five scheduled hours (55:00) in any month.
A partnership flight attendant may request a personal drop(s), subject to operational requirements, which reduces her/his monthly projection below forty hours (40:00). Additionally, a partnership flight attendant may trip trade with open time, subject to operational requirements, and such trade may reduce her/his monthly projection below forty hours (40:00). Similarly qualified partnership flight attendants will be permitted to trade with each other regardless of whether one flight atten-
Partnership Flying 22 - 3
( dant may go below forty hours (40:00). Language qualified flight atten-dants must maintain forty hours (40:00) in their primary language spe-cialty before being permitted to pick up trips outside such primary lan- " guage specialty.
c?
M.	The Company will not be responsible for resolving disputes between partnership flight attendants regarding the monthly division of their ( line.	c
N.	Partnership flight attendants will accrue and retain seniority and longevity in the same manner as all other flight attendants.
c
O. Partners shall receive all variable pay elements (including on-time ( bonuses and 401(k) match), passes in accordance with Corporate poli- ( cy, and group insurance coverage (including medical, dental, vision, („ expense reimbursement accounts, personal accident, long-term disabil-ity, Company paid life, and optional group universal life), shall also receive full vacation accrual as provided for in the Collective Bargaining Agreement, and two and one half hours (2:30) of sick leave ( accrual plus two and one half hours (2:30) OJI bank accrual for each ( month the flight attendant remains on the payroll but shall not be eligi- ( ble for flex dollars.
22
P.
Either party may request a meeting to discuss the administration of the program at any time during the life of this Agreement. In addition, it Ll shall have a duration which is coterminus with the Collective (. Bargaining Agreement.	{.
(•
It is understood that the Partnership Program is not intended to replace , month-to-month jobshares, as provided for in Section 21. The Company will continue to determine the availability of monthly job- k shares in the same manner and upon the same bases as it has in the past, C without regard to the existence of, or level of participation in the Partnership Program.	@
c
Partnership Flying 22 - 4
c c
Section 23	- Non Flying Duties
A.	Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 1 above, the Company may utilize either Inflight management personnel or scheduled flight attendants on a trip(s) as long as any resulting displaced flight attendants suffer no flight pay loss.
B.	If a flight attendant engaged in non-flying duties within the Company returns to flight attendant status, s/he will be permitted to return to the base to which s/he is assigned. If the flight attendant does not have sufficient seniority to hold her/his previously assigned base, s/he will be permitted to fill a permanent vacancy to which her/his system seniority entitles her/him or to displace the most junior flight attendant on the system, provided the flight attendant is junior to her/him. After the flight attendant accepts one (1) of these assignments, or is furloughed, her/his seniority rights will be governed by the provisions of this Agreement.
Non Flying Duties 23-1
Section 24	- Benefits
A. Each Flight attendant covered by this Agreement shall be eligible to participate in certain Company wide benefit programs made available to other employees of the Company on the terms and conditions established in the benefit programs for flight attendants’ participation, and pursuant to the terms of such programs. Before any changes are made to such programs, the Company will notify the Union in writing in advance of the effective date of such changefs). Upon request by the Union, the Company will meet to explain the change(s). The Company wide benefit programs presently include:
c c G ('
1.	Continental Airlines Regular Benefit Program, current plans G include:	G
v
Medical Indemnity programs	—>	("
Health Maintenance Organization programs
Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance	"
Group Term Life Insurance
Employee Reimbursement Accounts	(
Dental plans	C
Vision plans	(
c
2.	Continental Airlines Flexible Benefit Program	f
24
This program gives flight attendants an election to receive one week of vacation as cash, received over the course of the follow- G ing year, or flight attendants may direct the same amount into their C 401(k) accounts.	G
C
3.	Continental Airlines, Inc. Savings Plan (commonly called a . 401 (k) plan)
Benefits 24-1
s e
€
a. Effective January 1, 2001, in lieu of other employer matching contributions, the employer shall contribute annually an amount equal to:
1.	For flight attendants having four (4) or fewer completed years of service on January 1, one dollar for each dollar contributed by the flight attendant during the following calendar year then beginning, to a maximum of three hundred dollars ($300.00);
2.	For flight attendants having five (5) through nine (9) completed years of service, twenty-five percent (25%) of the flight attendant’s contribution up to four percent (4%) of compensation (as limited by Section 401(a)(17) of the Internal Revenue Code);
3.	For flight attendants having ten (10) through fourteen (14) completed years of service, fifty percent (50%) of the flight attendant’s contribution up to four percent (4%) of compensation (as limited by Section 401(a)(17) of the Internal Revenue Code);
4.	For flight attendants having fifteen (15) or more completed years of service, fifty percent (50%) of the flight attendant’s contribution up to six percent (6%) of compensation (as limited by Section 401(a)(17) of the Internal Revenue Code).
b.
Any otherwise permissible contribution may be limited to the extent necessary to allow all contributions to all of the employer’s qualified plans to be deductible under applicable IRS Code provisions.
2'
4.	Continental Airlines Retirement Plan
a. Effective on the date of ratification of this Agreement, flight attendants shall receive Credited Service, as defined in the Continental Retirement Plan (“CARP”), for service per-
Benefits 24 -2
24
( formed prior to 1984. No such credit shall be given for any ( period with respect to which the flight attendant accrued ben- £ efits under any other retirement plan qualified under section 401(a) of the Internal Revenue Code.	_
c
B. Flight attendants shall also be eligible to participate in a retiree bridge medical plan having the following attributes:	(
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
Participants must be between the ages of 60 and 65.
At the time of retirement, the flight attendant’s sick leave bank will S enable her/him to participate in the contributory funding aspect of * the plan by using fourteen (14) hours of sick leave for each month -of such participation.	(
(B
The cost to the retiree will be the same as for an active employee for equivalent coverage provided that the retiree has sick leave in her/his bank at the time of retirement sufficient to span the time for : which coverage is needed.
(
If a flight attendant has insufficient sick leave in his/her bank to (' participate in the contributory funding aspect of the plan for any ( period of time for which the flight attendant is eligible and desires / such coverage, s/he may obtain coverage at a non-contributory . rate.
Coverage terminates at age 65.	(.
e
Spouse/dependent coverage will be available on the same basis ( (contributory/non-contributory), but must terminate when the . spouse/dependent reaches age 65 or the retiree dies (except that " upon the flight attendant’s death, the spouse/dependent may elect ' to use any remaining sick leave in the manner described above, (-and then will be eligible for COBRA coverage).	(^
(J
€
C
Benefits 24-3	$
Section 25	- Missing, Interned or Hostage
A.	If a flight attendant is involuntarily missing-in-action, held hostage or taken prisoner of war while performing official duties for the Company, s/he will be entitled to full pay and accrual of all benefits. This will continue for an indefinite period of time or until proof of death is legally determined. Pay and benefits will be given to the beneficiary(ies) designated by the flight attendant. In the absence of a letter of instruction designating beneficiaries, the Company will deposit all applicable benefits for said flight attendant until her/his status has been legally determined.
B.	A flight attendant will maintain and continue to accrue seniority and longevity for pay purposes during periods in which s/he is held hostage, prisoner, or missing-in-action. All retirement fund accruals and contributions will continue during this period.
BENEFICIARY FOR MISSING, INTERNED OR HOSTAGE PROVISION
NAME
EMPLOYEE NUMBER______________________________________________
SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER_______________________________________
ADDRESS _____________________________________________________
NAME OF BENEFICIARY_____________________________________
RELATION TO EMPLOYEE __________________________________
ADDRESS
PHONE______________________________________________
SIGNATURE OF EMPLOYEE_________________________________
Missing, Interned or Hostage 25-1
Section 26	- Union Security and Check-Off
26
A. Union Security
1.	Each employee now or hereafter employed as a flight attendant covered by this Agreement shall, as a condition of continued employment within sixty (60) days following the beginning of such employment or the effective date of this Agreement, whichever is later become a member of the Union, and shall maintain membership in good standing (as described below) in the Union so long as this Section remains in effect; provided, that such condition shall not apply with respect to any employee to whom such membership is not available upon the same terms and conditions as generally applicable to any other member of his/her occupation or with respect to any employee to whom membership is denied or terminated for any reason other than the failure of the employee to tender the initiation and reinstatement fees, assessments, and monthly dues uniformly required of other employees in his/her occupation as a condition of acquiring or retaining membership.
For the purpose of this Agreement “membership in good standing” in the Union shall consist of the payment by the employee of initiation fees (except in case of authorized and permissible transfers from other lodges of the Union) uniformly required of other employees of like status, plus the payment of dues (as hereinafter described) for each calendar month, plus the payment of such assessment (s), within prescribed time limits, as may be levied in accordance with the procedures set forth in the Union’s “Constitution of the Grand Lodge, District and Local Lodges, Counsels and Conferences.”
2.	If an employee, who is required to become a member of the Union, as provided in this Section, does not become a member of the Union within the time limits specified in this Section for employees in his/her occupation covered by this Agreement, the Union shall notify the appropriate Company Vice President with a copy
Union Security and Dues Check-off 26 - 1
to the employee, that such employee has failed to become a member of the Union as required by this Section and is, therefore, to be discharged. The Company shall then promptly notify the employee involved that s/he is to be discharged from the service of the Company and shall promptly take proper steps to discharge said employee.
3.	When an employee holding seniority under the Agreement leaves and then returns to the coverage of the Agreement from a position in which s/he was not covered, s/he must assume her/his obligation to the Union within seven (7) calendar days after return. Failure to comply will cause the employee to be discharged. If an employee covered by this Agreement becomes delinquent by more than two (2) calendar months in the payment of monthly dues, including assessments, the Union shall notify the employee in writing, certified mail, return receipt requested, with a copy to the appropriate Company Vice President that said employee is delinquent in the payment of monthly membership dues as specified herein and, accordingly, will be subject to discharge as an employee of the Company. Such letter shall also notify the employee that s/he must remit the required payment within seven (7) days from receipt of such notice or be subject to discharge by the Company.
4.	If such employee still remains delinquent in the payment of dues after receipt of said notice, the Union shall notify, in writing the appropriate Company Vice President with a copy to the employee, that the employee has failed to remit payment of dues within the grace period allowed herein and is, therefore, to be discharged. The Company shall then promptly notify the employee involved that s/he is to be discharged from the service of the Company, and shall promptly take the proper steps to so discharge the employee.
5.	The Company will, within three (3) working days after the receipt of notice from the Union, discharge any employee who is not in good standing in the Union as required in the preceding paragraph, subject to the provisions of paragraph G. below.
Union Security and Dues Check-off 26 - 2
6.
An employee terminated at the request of the Union as per this ( Article and under this Agreement shall be deemed to have been discharged for cause and the Company shall not be liable for any wages or pay claims of any type from such employee. In the event " of a court judgment to the effect that the discharge was improper, the Union hereby agrees to hold the Company harmless and will reimburse the Company for any cost whatsoever involved. (
In any event it is agreed that the Company will not be required to terminate any employee, in compliance with this Section, prior to thirty (30) days from the Union’s notification to the Company to do so, in order that the Company be able to hire a suitable replacement for the employee in question.
B.
Dues Check-Off
c c ( (■
During the life of this Agreement, the Company will deduct from the pay of each member of the Union and remit to the Union monthly membership dues uniformly levied in according with the Constitution and Bylaws of the Union, provided such member of the Union voluntarily executes the agreed form, which is hereunder included in this Agreement to be known as the “Check-Off Form”, which shall be prepared and furnished by the Union. The Company will not be required to deduct monthly membership dues from the pay of employees covered by this Agreement unless: (1) The Company has received a Check-Off Form, and (2) the dues for the employee conforms to the applicable dues for employees of his/her occupation at his/her point on the system. The Union agrees that it shall indemnify and hold the Company harmless from and against any liability whatsoever for compliance with dues check-off procedures provided in this Agreement.
c c
( c c
G (..
Q (
c
<8
€
C C
Union Security and Dues Check-off 26 - 3
INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MACHINISTS
AND AEROSPACE WORKERS
AND
CONTINENTAL AIRLINES
AUTHORIZATION FOR CHECK-OFF OF INITIATION FEE AND OF UNION DUES
I hereby authorize the Company to deduct form my first paycheck of the month the amount equivalent to fifty percent (50%) of the initiation fee as established and levied in accordance with the Constitution and Bylaws of the Union and to pay such amount directly to the designated officer of said Union.
Additionally, I authorize the Company to deduct from the second paycheck of the month the amount equivalent to fifty percent (50%) of the initiation fee as established and levied in accordance with the Constitution and Bylaws of the Union and to pay such amount directly to the designated officer of said Union.
I further authorize the Company to deduct the amount equivalent to the monthly dues as established and levied in accordance with the Constitution and Bylaws of the Union and to pay such amount directly to the designated officer of said Union. Said dues shall be deducted from the second paycheck of the next month and every month thereafter.
Contributions or gifts to the Local Lodge and/or District Lodge 142 of the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers are not tax deductible as charitable contributions for Federal income tax purposes. However, they may be tax deductible under other provisions of the Internal Revenue Code.
Employee Number	Occupation
Initiation Fee	Monthly Dues
Employee Signature	Date
Employee Name (please print) Home Address	Station/Location
State
ZipCods
City
Union Security and Dues Check-off 26 - 4
c
Section 27	- Duration	(
Upon ratification, this Agreement will become effective on the date of signing, and	\
will continue in full force and effect for fifty-four (54) months after that date, and will renew itself without change until each succeeding twelve-month anniversary of such date thereafter unless written notice of intended change is served by either party in accordance with Section 6, Title 1 of the Railway Labor Act, as amended, or by mutual agreement of both parties, ninety (90) days but not less than thirty (30) days C prior to the duration date.
Signed, this 1st day of April, 2000	C
r
For:	For:	<
Continental Airlines, Inc. C.D. McLean, Executive Vice President, Operations Debbie McCoy, Senior Vice^ President, Operations Mike Campbell, Senior ^Qice President, Human Resources & Labor Relations ■Sam Risoli, Staff Vice President, Duration 27 - 1	International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers	(. Carla Winkler, Grand Lodge^Representative	C_ ( /fa!/ &( William O’Driscoll, President - Directing General Chairperson Je^O^ver, General Chairperson	' (■ Brent Thompson, General Chairperson	> € € €
c x <^0/2 / Dan Casey, Sta^yie^resicfent, Labor Relations i	/ C	/.//)	/ c	y^r z-^-—	 jW^ummerford, Staff Vice w	resident, Finance („	Wendy Ro$prock, Senior Director, ('	Inflight c q	Tracy Lee, Junior Director, Finance c c c c c c c c. c (B X®5* w c	Art Teolis, General Chairperson Pam Baldwin, President, Newark Mike Bisesi, President, Cleveland Chris Gaessner, President, Los Angeles Sheila Hammond, Negotiating Committee L^^^ev^^^^ievancelR^p^N^mk Christopher ^^^^^^^^^^eRep, Los Angeles Brian Wozniak, President, Houston Duration 27-2
LETTER OF AGREEMENT
between
CONTINENTAL AIRLINES, INC.
and
THE INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MACHINISTS AND AEROSPACE WORKERS
Regarding Add Pay Items
WHEREAS, the parties wish to make clear the manner in which certain elements of flight attendant pay will be credited upon the adoption of the new collective bargaining agreement (the “CBA”),
NOW, THEREFORE, the parties hereby agree as follows:
ITEMS TO BE PAID IN ADDITION TO ALL OTHER PAY
Regardless of anything in the CBA to the contrary, the following items will be paid for all hours flown which qualify for the listed premium, in addition to all other pay:
$2.00/hour International Service Manager Override (see, CBA Section
4.F.1)
(NOTE: Included as part of base for ISM reserves - see, CBA Section 4.J.1)
$2.25/hour ($2.50 effective 4/1/02) Foreign Language Speaker (see, CBA Section 4.Q)
(NOTE: Included as part of base for FLS reserves - see, CBA Section 4.J.1)
$2.00/hour “International” Flying Override (see, CBA Section 4.A.1)
$0.50/hour ($1.00 effective 4/1/02) Galley Pay (see, CBA Section 4.H)
$2.00/$3.00/hour First Flight Attendant (“A” position) Pay (see, CBA Section 4.G)
Add Pay Items (Letter of Agreement 1) - 1
Short Crew Pay (see, CBA Section 4.E)
$5.00/hour Incentive Pay (see, CBA Section 4.B)
Regardless of anything in the CBA to the contrary, the following items will be paid in addition to all other pay:
Holiday Pay (see, CBA Section 4.C)
Starlight Pay (see, CBA Section 4.D)
Duty Free Commissions (see, CBA Section 4.R and LOA 16, Regarding
Duty Free Bonus Payments)
$20.00/instance Drug/Alcohol Testing Pay (see, CBA Section 4.X)
$15.00/hour Holding Pay (see, CBA Section 4.N)
Five hours (5:00) for a restored day off (see, CBA Sections 5.1.24, 5.G.3, and 5.K)
AGREED, this 1st day of April, 2000.
For:
Continental Airlines, Inc.
Sam Risoli
Staff Vice President, Inflight
For:
International Association Of
Machinists And Aerospace Workers
William O’Driscoll
President - Directing General Chairperson
Add Pay Items (Letter of Agreement 1) - 2
April 1,2000
Mr. William O’Driscoll
President - Directing General Chairperson
Air Transport District Lodge 142
400 N.E. 32nd Street
Kansas City, MO 64116
RE: Automation of Voice-Response Reserve Day-Trade System
Dear Bill:
This will confirm our conversations regarding the automation of the voiceresponse reserve day-trade system required by the new collective bargaining agreement.
As you know, the automation is being provided by a vendor company. I am informed that the system should be installed within ninety (90) days following ratification of the contract, and available for use not more than thirty (30) days thereafter.
In the interim, we have agreed that the Company will continue its present adjustment practice, subject to terms of Section 5 of the collective bargaining agreement.
AGREED:
Very truly yours,
Staff Vice President, Inflight
Xi//
William O’Driscoll
President - Directing General
Chairperson
Automation of Reserve Day Trades (Letter of Agreement 2) - 1
April 1,2000
Mr. William O’Driscoll
President - Directing General Chairperson
Air Transport District Lodge 142
400 N.E. 32nd Street
Kansas City, MO 64116
RE: Automation of Voice-Response Self-Adjustment System
Dear Bill:
This will confirm our conversations regarding the automation of the voiceresponse self-adjustment system required by Section 5.E of the new collective bargaining agreement.
As you know, the automation is being provided by a vendor company. I am informed that the system should be installed within one hundred and twenty (120) days following ratification of the contract, and available for use not more than sixty (60) days thereafter.
In the interim, we have agreed that the Company will continue its present adjustment practice, subject to terms of Section 5 of the collective bargaining agreement.
AGREED:
Very truly yours,
Staff Vice President, Inflight
William O’Driscoll
President — Directing General Chairperson
Automation of Self-Adjustment System (Letter of Agreement 3)-l
June 24,1996
Mr. William O’DriscolI
President - Directing General Chairman
Air Transport District Lodge 142
400 N.E. 32nd Street
Kansas City, MO 64116
Re: Bid Line Construction
Dear Bill:
This will confirm our discussions regarding the construction of bid lines. We have agreed that when the Company finds it necessary to do so, it may build up to twenty percent (20%) of the bid lines with a maximum of five percent (5%) more hours than are reflected in Section 5.A.1 of the collective bargaining agreement.
Please confirm your understanding that the foregoing accurately reflects our agreement by signing one copy of this letter and returning it to me. Thank you.
Very truly yours,
Agreed:
/s/
Ron Howard
Vice President, In-Flight
& Food Services Division
/s/
William O’Driscoll
President - Directing General Chairman
Bid Line Construction (Letter of Agreement 4) - 1
LETTER OF AGREEMENT
between
CONTINENTAL AIRLINES, INC.
and
THE INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MACHINISTS
AND AEROSPACE WORKERS
Regarding Building Speaker Bid Lines
WHEREAS, the Company and the Union agree that the number of speaker positions published in the monthly bid lines should closely approximate the number of available speakers,
NOW, THEREFORE, the parties agree as follows:
The Company wilt not intentionally publish more speaker positions in the monthly bid lines than there are speakers expected to be available for the month. The parties recognize that unawarded positions may result due to unforeseen leaves, resignations or terminations.
AGREED, this 1st day of April, 2000.
For:
Continental Airlines, Inc.
Sam Risoli
Staff Vice President, Inflight
For:
International Association Of
Machinists And Aerospace Workers
William O’Driscoll
President - Directing General Chairperson
Building Speaker Bid Lines (Letter of Agreement 5) -1
June 24, 1996
Mr. William O’Driscoll
President - Directing General Chairman
Air Transport District Lodge 142
400 N.E. 32nd Street
Kansas City, MO 64116
Re: Bid Line Construction
Dear Bill:
This will confirm our discussions regarding the construction of bid lines. We have agreed that when the Company finds it necessary to do so, it may build up to twenty percent (20%) of the bid lines with a maximum of five percent (5%) more hours than are reflected in Section 5.A.1 of the collective bargaining agreement.
Please confirm your understanding that the foregoing accurately reflects our agreement by signing one copy of this letter and returning it to me. Thank you.
Very truly yours,	Agreed:
/s/
Ron Howard
Vice President, In-Flight & Food Services Division
/s/
William O’Driscoll
President - Directing General Chairman
Cabin Tidying (Letter of Agreement 6) -1
LETTER OF AGREEMENT
between
CONTINENTAL AIRLINES, INC.
and
THE INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MACHINISTS
AND AEROSPACE WORKERS
Regarding
Computer Based Training
WHEREAS, the parties hereto recognize that technological advances and changes make predicting future circumstances an uncertain undertaking, and
WHEREAS, the parties desire that flight attendants be fairly compensated for their training duties, and
WHEREAS, the parties do not desire to impede the adoption of technological advances which may increase the efficiency of flight attendant training and make such training more convenient and accessible,
NOW, THEREFORE, the parties hereby agree as follows:
In the event that the Continental Airlines, Inc. (the “Company”) elects to institute computer based training (“CBT”) program(s), the Company will promptly notify the International Association of Machinists (the “Union”) that it so intends, and the parties will, as soon as mutually convenient, meet and confer regarding the appropriate compensation for such CBT training.
Computer Training (Letter of Agreement 7) - 1
To facilitate these discussions the parties hereby agree to exchange relevant information regarding the CBT, practices and policies at other airlines, whether actual or anticipated, and any other pertinent information in their possession.
AGREED, this 1st day of April, 2000.
For:
Continental Airlines, Inc.
Staff Vice President, Inflight
For:
International Association Of
Machinists And Aerospace Workers
William O’Driscoll
President - Directing General Chairperson
Computer Training (Letter of Agreement 7) - 2
LETTER OF AGREEMENT
between
CONTINENTAL AIRLINES, INC.
and
THE INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATIONS OF MACHINISTS
AND AEROSPACE WORKERS
Regarding
Conscientious Reporting Program
WHEREAS, the parties desire to provide a uniform method of resolving issues related to certain matters relating to reporting for duty;
NOW, THEREFORE, the parties agree as follows:
A.	This Agreement establishes standards for managing flight attendant attendance when certain unavoidable circumstances preclude flight attendants from reporting as scheduled. While all concerned are required to conduct themselves with reasonableness, prudence, and good judgment, the obligation and responsibility to report for work as scheduled remains that of each flight attendant.
B.	This Agreement governs circumstances in which flight attendants are unable to report for scheduled assignments due to any of the following:
1.	Unforcasted severe weather conditions or other natural disasters
(i.e., blizzards, hurricanes, earthquakes, and other similar events), or
2.	Hazardous or impassable roads resulting from severe weather or natural disasters, or
3.	Enroute mechanical problems, or
4.	Unexpected airport closures.
Conscientious Reporting Program (Letter of Agreement 8) -1
C.	This Agreement applies to flight attendants whose usual mode(s) of transportation to report for work are rendered unavailable by any of the conditions in paragraph B only if there are no other reasonable alternative means of timely reporting for their scheduled assignments. Flight attendants living in geographic locations other than their assigned base who commute via air are required to ensure that they have at least one (1) primary and one (1) back-up Continental flight, both of which have seat availability, (The jumpseat will not satisfy this requirement.) and are scheduled to arrive at least one (1) hour prior to the flight attendant’s scheduled report time.
D.	This Agreement does not apply to any other circumstance or condition related to a flight attendant’s failure to report for her/his scheduled assignment, or to timely report for her/his scheduled assignment, including personal emergencies.
E.	When a flight attendant anticipates that she/he will miss her/his scheduled assignment she/he will immediately contact Crew Scheduling. A flight attendant commuting by air will notify Crew Scheduling that she/he will be utilizing the back-up flight immediately upon discovering that she/he is unable to commute using the primary flight, regardless of the reason for such inability. S/he shall also recontact Crew Scheduling immediately upon discovering that s/he will be unable to commute on her/his back-up flight. Upon notification to Crew Scheduling, the flight attendant shall be subject to assignment at the discretion of Crew Scheduling as follows:
1.	She/he may be directed to report to her/his original trip pairing or to a portion of the original trip pairing, joining it at a later point; or
2.	She/he may be assigned a substitute pairing scheduled to fly on the same days as the original pairing; or
3.	She/he may be assigned a substitute pairing which begins on any day following the start of the original pairing, so long as the substitute pairing terminates on the same day as the original pairing; or
Conscientious Reporting Program (Letter of Agreement 8) - 2
4.	She/he may be assigned Airport Alert duty in her/his base on any day or consecutive days contained in the original pairing; or
5.	She/he may be given any other substitute assignment which is mutually agreeable to the flight attendant and Crew Scheduling.
F.	A flight attendant given an assignment pursuant to Paragraph E will be compensated as if the original assignment had never occurred, and the substitute assignment had in fact been her/his original assignment. If no substitute assignment is given, the original assignment shall be treated as a personal drop, and the flight attendant shall receive no pay or credit relating to it.
G.	A flight attendant who is unable to meet her/his scheduled report time as a direct result of any of the circumstances listed in paragraph B, and who has complied fully with all of the terms of this Agreement be considered to have an authorized absence without pay, and shall not be subject to discipline as result of her/his inability to report, unless such inability occurs repeatedly.
AGREED, this 1st day of April, 2000.
Continental Airlines, Inc.
Sam Risoli
Staff Vice President, Inflight
International Association Of
Machinists And Aerospace Workers
William O’Driscoll
President - Directing General Chairperson
Conscientious Reporting Program (Letter of Agreement 8) - 3
June 13, 1994
Ms. Carla Winkler
General Chairperson
International Association of Machinists
and Aerospace Workers
400 N.E. 32nd Street
Kansas City, Missouri 64116
Dear Ms. Winkler:
This will confirm our discussions in negotiations whereby it was agreed that:
Continental Express Flight Attendants who have completed their probationary period and who have furnished Continental Express with a preferential bid form indicating a desire to transfer to Continental Airlines subject to the following conditions:
a.	Continental will notify the Union of all flight attendant vacancies at Continental and the effective date when such vacancies will be filled.
b.	All preferential bid forms must be on file with Continental Express at least five (5) days before the Union is notified of Continental vacancies.
c.	Continental Express Flight Attendants shall transfer to Continental in seniority order based on the preferential bid forms on file.
d.	Successful bidders will be placed on the seniority list one day prior to the date vacancies are due to be filled.
Continental Express Bridge to Continental (Letter of Agreement 9) -1
e.	Continental Express may delay the transfer of successful bidders to Continental due to operational requirements. The Union shall be notified of any such delays in the transfer.
f.	The number of Continental Express flight attendants who shall be eligible to transfer to Continental Airlines will be limited to ten percent (10%) of the number of Flight Attendants on the preferential bid list or eight (8) Flight Attendants per class, whichever number is smaller.
g.	All Continental Express Flight Attendants seeking to transfer to Continental must satisfy Continental’s qualifications for Flight Attendants.
h.	Seniority for pay purposes and vacation accruals, benefits and pass privileges will begin with the date such flight attendant was placed on the Continental Express System Seniority List.
i.	For bidding and all other competitive purposes at Continental, seniority will begin with the date such flight attendant was placed on the seniority list as a Continental Airlines Flight Attendant.
j.	Continental Express Flight Attendants transferring to Continental will retain and accrue their Continental Express seniority for bid purposes at Continental Express. In the event a Continental Express Flight Attendant is furloughed from Continental, such flight attendant will have the right to transfer back to Continental Express if vacancies exist.
k.	Any Continental Express Flight eligible to transfer to Continental who refuses to accept an available position shall be precluded from entering a preferential bid form for one year from the date of the Flight Attendant’s refusal to transfer.
Continental Express Bridge to Continental (Letter of Agreement 9) - 2
1.	This Side Letter shall apply only so long as Continental owns a majority interest in Continental Express.
m.	The provisions of this Side Letter may be modified by mutual agreement.
Sincerely,
/s/	/s/
David A. Loeser Senior Vice President Human Resources Continental Airlines, Inc.	Dennis J. Crabtree President Continental Express, Inc.
AGREED TO:
/s/
Carla Winkler
General Chairperson
IAM, District 142
Continental Express Bridge to Continental (Letter of Agreement 9) - 3
LETTER OF AGREEMENT
between
CONTINENTAL AIRLINES, INC.
and
THE INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MACHINISTS
AND AEROSPACE WORKERS
Regarding
Continental Express Trial Period
WHEREAS, the parties hereto desire to establish a reasonable basis for the initial employment by Continental of flight attendants who are presently or may in the future be employed as flight attendants at Continental Express,
NOW THEREFORE, the parties agree as follows:
1.	Continental Express flight attendants employed by Continental pmsuant to this Letter of Agreement shall be considered to be on a trial basis for a period not to exceed ninety (90) days of active employment at Continental. During that trial period, flight attendants shall not be considered to be on probation, however, neither the flight attendant nor the Union shall be entitled to challenge Continental’s right to permanently return such flight attendant(s) to Continental Express for failing to demonstrate her/his ability to perform the duties of a Continental flight attendant during the trial period, either pursuant to the Grievance Procedure and System Board provisions herein, or otherwise. Terminations of employment and other discipline for cause shall be treated in the same fashion as is applicable to all other non-probationary flight attendants. A former Continental Express flight attendant, regardless of whether s/he is still in her/his trial period, who is terminated for cause shall not be entitled to return to Continental Express.
2.	In the event that Continental offers employment to an Express flight attendant who is unable to be released by Express for the next available
I
Continental Express Trial Period (Letter of Agreement 10) -1
training class, s/he shall be placed on the Continental flight attendant System Seniority List and given a seniority number and date as though s/he attended that class.
3.	If more than one (1) Continental Express flight attendant is placed on the Continental flight attendant System Seniority List on the same day, they shall be placed in the same seniority ranking as they had at Continental Express.
4.	Nothing herein shall require that Continental guarantee or offer employment to any Continental Express flight attendant, or that an employment offer be extended to any Continental Express flight attendant who fails to successfully complete Continental’s flight attendant training.
AGREED, this 24th day of June, 1996.
For:
Continental Airlines, Inc.
/s/
Ron Howard
Vice President - In-Flight
& Food Services Division
For:
International Association Of Machinists And Aerospace Workers
/s/
William O’Driscoll
President - Directing General Chairman
Continental Express Trial Period (Letter of Agreement 10) - 2
April 1,2000
Mr. William O’Driscoll
President - Directing General Chairperson
Air Transport District Lodge 142
400 N.E. 32nd Street
Kansas City, MO 64116
Re: Continental Micronesia LPPs
Dear Bill,
This letter will confirm our understanding regarding the treatment of the Continental Micronesia flight attendants.
In the event of a merger of airline operations between the Continental Micronesia and another air carrier the Company will require, as a condition of any such operational merger that provisions be included requiring that the surviving carrier provide for fair and equitable integration of the pre-merger flight attendant seniority list in accordance with Sections 3 and 13 of the Allegheny Mohawk LPPs.
Very truly yours,
A).
Michael H. Campbell
Senior Vice President, Human Resources and Labor Relations
Continental Micronesia LLPs (Letter of Agreement 11) -1
April 1,2000
Mr. William O’Driscoll
President - Directing General Chairperson
Air Transport District Lodge 142
400 N.E. 32nd Street
Kansas City, MO 64116
RE: COPA
Dear Bill:
This will confirm our conversations regarding the Company’s code-share with COPA.
We have assured you that Continental has no intention of code-sharing on COPA flights into Continental hub locations. In the unlikely event that such a code-share is considered in the future, we have agreed that we will promptly notify the Union and meet to discuss such code-sharing with the Union prior to implementing any such code-sharing arrangement with COPA.
Very truly yours,
Sam Risoh
Staff Vice President, Inflight
COPA (Letter of Agreement 12) - 1
April 1,2000
Mr. William O’Driscoll
President - Directing General Chairperson
Air Transport District Lodge 142
400 N.E. 32nd Street
Kansas City, MO 64116
RE: Installation of B-777 Crew Bunks
Dear Bill:
This will confirm our conversations regarding the installation of the B-777 crew bunk modules.
As you know, the installation of the crew bunk modules will require that each aircraft be rotated out of the fleet for a substantial period of time. We have secured the vendor’s commitment to begin installation in about September, 2001. Subsequent aircraft will be rotated into the installation schedule at the rate of approximately one aircraft per month. We will continue to accelerate this schedule if we are able to do so.
In the interim, we have agreed that the Company will continue its present practice of providing six (6) passenger seats for crew rest in accordance with the provisions of Section 3 of the collective bargaining agreement.
AGREED:
Very truly yours,
Sam Risoh
Staff Vice President, Inflight

William O’Driscoll
President - Directing General Chairperson
Crew Bunk Installation (Letter of Agreement 13) -1
April 1,2000
Mr. William O’Driscoll
President - Directing General Chairperson
Air Transport District Lodge 142
400 N.E. 32nd Street
Kansas City, MO 64116
RE: Customer Complaints
Dear Bill:
This will confirm our conversations regarding the handling of customer complaints.
Upon receiving In-flight’s receipt of a customer complaint, if the Company intends to use the complaint for disciplinary purposes an investigation will be conducted as follows:
1.	The flight attendant will be promptly notified of the complaint and its substance in sufficient detail to identify the date of the incident, the flight on which it occurred, and the substance of the complaint.
2.	The Company will promptly attempt to obtain any additional information from the customer pertinent to the incident.
3.	If the Company has insufficient information to ascertain the facts of the matter and the customer declines to provide additional information, the complaint shall be disregarded.
4.	The flight attendant and/or his/her representative shall be provided an opportunity to review the complaint and respond to its content
Customer Complaints (Letter of Agreement 14) -1
prior to the rendering of any disciplinary action.
5.	This Letter is not intended to change or extend the time limits provided for in Section 18, Investigations and Section 19, Grievance Procedure, of the collective bargaining agreement.
Please confirm your understanding that the foregoing accurately reflects our agreement by signing one copy of this letter and returning it to me. Thank you.
Very tody yours,
am Risoh
Staff Vice President, Inflight
Agreed:
William O’Driscoll
President - Directing General
Chairperson
Customer Complaints (Letter of Agreement 14) - 2
April 1, 2000
Mr. William O’Driscoll
President - Directing General Chairperson
Air Transport District Lodge 142
400 N.E. 32nd Street
Kansas City, MO 64116
RE: Domestic Partner Health and Welfare Benefits
Dear Bill:
This is to confirm the understanding recently reached in collective bargaining negotiations regarding the provision of benefits, including health and welfare (health, dental and vision care insurance), dependent life insurance, and COBRA continuation benefits for flight attendants’ domestic partners, as that term is defined in the collective bargaining agreement.
We have agreed that, to the extent Continental is able to make them available, the Company will make the above-referenced benefits available to Domestic Parmers. It is understood, for example that some states’ insurance regulations do not allow Health Maintenance Organization health insurance coverage for domestic partners.
Flight attendants shall be entitled to designate a domestic partner in lieu of a spouse for these benefits upon ratification of the collective bargaining agreement, and each year during the Company’s annual benefits enrollment period.
Domestic Partner Health and Welfare Benefits (Letter of Agreement 15) -1
To the extent reasonably possible, benefits will be provided on a basis consistent with similar benefits for employees' spouses, except that flight attendants obtaining domestic partner benefits shall be responsible for any cost(s) incurred which are not incurred or borne by the Company for the same benefit(s) when provided to employees’ spouses. By way of example only, such costs may include federal and state tax liabilities. The Company is expressly authorized to deduct all such additional costs from flight attendants’ pay checks.
Please confirm your understanding that the foregoing accurately reflects our agreement by signing one copy of this letter and returning it to me. Thank you.
Agreed:
Very truly yours,
Sam Risoli
Staff Vice President, Inflight
William O’Driscoll
President - Directing General
Chairperson
Domestic Partner Health and Welfare Benefits (Letter of Agreement IS) - 2
LETTER OF AGREEMENT between
CONTINENTAL AIRLINES, INC.
and
THE INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MACHINISTS AND AEROSPACE WORKERS
Regarding Duty Free Bonus Payments
WHEREAS, the parties desire to increase duty free sales on international flights, and
WHEREAS, under the current commission program for duty free sales on international flights, flight attendants receive a minimum ten percent (10%) commission, evenly divided by all flight attendants working the segment, and
WHEREAS, the parties intend to provide incentive for flight attendants to maximize such sales,
NOW, THEREFORE, the parties agree to implement the following duty free sales “bonus” plan:
Effective, April 1, 2000, on flights with sales exceeding $500.00 per segment, the ISM and the one-assistant flight attendant working the duty free cart will receive bonus payments of $10.00 and $5.00, respectively. For each additional $250.00 per segment after the first $500, the ISM and the one assistant flight attendant working the duty free cart will receive bonus payments of $5.00 and $2.50, respectively.
AGREED, this 1st day of April, 2000.
Continental Airlines, Inc.
Sam Risoli
Staff Vice President, Inflight
International Association Of
Machinists And<Aerospace Workers
William O’Driscoll
President - Directing General Chairperson
Duty Free Bonus Payments (Letter of Agreement 16) - 1
June 24, 1996
Mr. William O’Driscoll
President - Directing General Chairman
Air Transport District Lodge 142
400 N.E. 32nd Street
Kansas City, MO 64116
Re: Flight Time for Committee Work
Dear Bill:
This will confirm our discussions regarding the provision of credited flight time to be available for use for Union participation in Committee activities as provided in the collective bargaining agreement and the various letters attached thereto. The Company has agreed to provide an additional amount equal to fifteen percent (15%) of the Union hours provided pursuant to Section 3.W to be available for such committee work.
Please confirm your understanding that the foregoing accurately reflects our agreement by signing one copy of this letter and returning it to me. Thank you.
Very truly yours,
Agreed:
/s/
Ron Howard
Vice President, In-Flight
& Food Services Division
/s/
William O’Driscoll
President - Directing General Chairman
Fight Time for Committee Work (Letter of Agreement 17) -1
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING between
CONTINENTAL AIRLINES, INC. and
THE INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MACHINISTS AND AEROSPACE WORKERS
Regarding Family And Medical Leave (“FMLA”)
Continental Airlines, Inc. (“CAL” or “the Company”) and the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers (“IAM” or “the Union”) have reached this memorandum of understanding in order to comply with the provisions of the Family Medical Leave Act of 1993 (‘TMLA”). This memorandum of understanding provides some benefits which are greater than those set forth in the CAL/IAM agreement. FMLA leave may be used up to twelve (12) months after the birth or adoption of a child, when a family member suffers a serious health condition requiring continuing care and a medical health care provider certifies that the flight attendant is needed for such care, and when the flight attendant her/himself is seriously ill or injured. Family member is defined as spouse (as recognized by state law where the flight attendant lives), a parent (a biological parent or person who raised the flight attendant when he/she was a child), son or daughter (a biological, adopted, foster or step child, legal ward or minor child who is being raised by the flight attendant). The child(ren) must be under 18 years of age or incapable of self-care (due to mental or physical disability). Each non-probationary flight attendant who has been available for duty for 60% of the time during the twelve (12) month period immediately preceding the commencement of the FMLA leave is entitled to the equivalent of ninety (90) calendar days (approximately sixty (60) work days) of unpaid FMLA leave in any twelve (12) month period. All FMLA leave is unpaid.
1.	Flight attendants are required to give thirty (30) days advancenotice if the leave is foreseeable, such as with the birth or placement of a child or planned medical treatment. If thirty (30) days is not practicable, as much advance notice as possible should be given.
Family and Medical Leave (Letter of Agreement 18) - 1
2.	The Company may require medical certification for FMLA leave and will
be using the prescribed Department of Labor model form. Flight attendants may be required on a periodic basis, to provide evidence of continuing eligibility for FMLA leave.
3.	When FMLA leave entitlement is exhausted, additional leave may be granted in accordance with the CAL/IAM agreement. Flight attendants suffering from serious health conditions or who are pregnant will have the option of using paid sick leave prior to utilizing unpaid FMLA leave. All flight attendants may choose to exhaust unused vacation time before using FMLA leave.
4.	Flight attendants who are using FMLA leave to recover from a serious health condition or to care for a family member who has such a condition may take the leave on an intermittent basis if the treating medical care provider deems it necessary. For the purpose of tracking intermittent FMLA leave usage, flight attendants shall be entitled to two hundred, fifty hours (250:00) (three (3) months at eighty-three and one third hours (83:20) per month) of FMLA leave in any twelve (12) month period. Flight attendants will be charged the actual time missed or four hours and nine minutes (4:09) (eighty-three and one third hours (83:20) per month divided by twenty (20) work days per month) for each day or portion of a day missed for FMLA leave purposes, whichever is less.
5.	Seniority for all purposes will continue to accrue during the ninety (90) days of family medical leave. Thereafter, continuing absences will accrue bid seniority only. Application of family medical leave will not be considered for attendance related purposes.
6.	The Company will maintain group health benefits during the family medical leave period on the same conditions as coverage would have been provided if the flight attendant had been employed continuously during the leave period.
Family and Medical Leave (Letter of Agreement 18) - 2
7.	Flight attendants on FMLA leave who wish to travel must request a letter of authorization. This letter must be signed and approved by the employee’s supervisor and the Employee Relations Manager. The original letter of authorization must be carried with the eligible traveler when traveling. Pass travel on matemity/patemity leaves is available with authorization. Pass travel during a serious health condition leave is available only for travel to/from the location of the family member requiring care.
8.	Nothing in this agreement shall preclude a flight attendant from taking family medical leave (a) before the birth of a child for prenatal care if her condition makes her unable to work or (b) before the actual placement or adoption of a child if an absence from work is required for the placement, adoption or foster care to proceed.
9.	The Company and the Union agree to meet and confer after the Department of Labor promulgates the final regulations implementing FMLA to ensure that this memorandum of understanding complies with those regulations.
By: /s/_____Jo Richard_______
On behalf of Continental Airlines, Inc.
By: /s/______William O’Driscoll__________
On behalf of
International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers
Date: 6/15/94
Date: 6/15/94
Family and Medical Leave (Letter of Agreement 18) - 3
LETTER OF AGREEMENT
between
CONTINENTAL AIRLINES, INC.
and
THE INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MACHINISTS
AND AEROSPACE WORKERS
Regarding
Foreign Language Speaker Stalling
WHEREAS, the parties desire to ensure that the number of foreign language speaker lines does not prevent a minimum number of non-speakers from the opportunity to staff its aircraft on routes where language is required,
NOW, THEREFORE, the parties hereby agree as follows:
The Company may fill language positions on all flight segments with preferential bids from the most senior qualified flight attendants having the required language qualifications, except for the following positions which shall be staffed in seniority order:
At least one (1) position on all narrowbody aircraft staffed with three (3) flight attendants, two (2) positions on all narrowbody aircraft staffed with five (5) flight attendants, three (3) positions on B-757 and the B767-200, four (4) positions on DC-10 and the B767-400, and five (5) positions on B747 and B777 aircraft.
In the event additional aircraft types are added to the Company’s fleet, the limits for those aircraft will be established by reference to comparable aircraft types presently in the fleet listed above. In the event that there is no comparable aircraft type in the list above, the parties shall meet and agree upon the appropriate numbers. Prior to such agreement, the Company may staff such aircraft using the principles stated in this Letter. The Union shall
Foreign Language Speaker Staffing (Letter of Agreement 19) - 1
be entitled to challenge the Company’s designation (as not being “comparable”) utilizing the grievance procedure set forth in the Collective Bargaining Agreement. The Company agrees to expedite the processing of such grievance if requested by the Union.
AGREED, this 1st day of April, 2000.
FOR:
Continental Airlines, Inc.
Sam Risoli
Staff Vice President, Inflight
FOR:
International Association Of Machinists
And Aerospace Workers

William O’Driscoll
President - Directing General
Chairperson
Foreign Language Speaker Staffing (Letter of Agreement 19) - 2
LETTER OF AGREEMENT between
CONTINENTAL AIRLINES, INC. and
THE INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MACHINISTS AND AEROSPACE WORKERS
Regarding Foreign Language Tuition Reimbursement
WHEREAS, Continental desires to promote the acquisition and utilization of foreign language expertise among its flight attendants, and
WHEREAS, the parties recognize that the cost of acquiring language skills can be significant, and
WHEREAS, Continental is, under certain circumstances willing to assist in deferring some or all of the costs of such training, and
WHEREAS, the parties hereto desire to establish specific parameters for the reimbursement of language training expense,
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereby agree as follows:
1.	The Company will designate from time to time those languages for which
it has a business need, and for which it is willing to provide educational expense reimbursement.
2.	The Company may require as a condition of reimbursement that flight attendants wishing to obtain reimbursement submit such advance information regarding instructional programs as it may deem necessary or desirable.
3.	No later than thirty (30) days following the submission of all information
required pursuant to paragraph 2 above, the Company will indicate whether the instructional program is approved for this reimbursement program.
Foreign Language Tiiition Reimbursement and Pass with Condition (Letter of Agreement 20) - 1
4.	Seniority shall govern the selection(s) in the event that there are more applicants than the Company can accommodate for either the jobshare/leave features of this program or in competition for positions in foreign language bases.
5.	Flight attendants engaging in foreign language instructional programs pursuant to this agreement shall be entitled to priority consideration for leaves and jobshares should they so request for a maximum period of one (1) year from the initial date of enrollment in the language program.
6.	The Company shall select objective standards/means (comparable to Berlitz standards) for determining language proficiency/qualification. Upon request by the Union, the Company will promptly meet and confer regarding the standards which are being applied and/or the means by which those standards are applied.
a.	The testing authority will utilize a ranking system made up of three (3) categories:
1.	Pass
2.	Pass with Condition
3.	Fail
b.	A flight attendant may enter the “Pass with Condition” program if the testing authority so recommends.
c.	A “Pass with Condition” flight attendant must be generally conversant in the language, even if s/he does not possess sufficient skill or knowledge of the language to qualify as a Continental Foreign Language Speaker. It is the intent of this Program that such individuals have the opportunity to develop the necessary language skill by utilizing the language while working the speaker position on a three (3) month trial basis.
Foreign Language Tuition Reimbursement and Pass with Condition (Letter of Agreement 20) - 2
d.	Flight attendants falling into the “Pass with Condition” category will be subject to the following rules:
1.	Flight attendants may only qualify for the “Pass with Condition” Program one (1) time per language.
2.	“Pass with Condition” participants will be transferred into language speaker vacancies only if vacancies remain in the base after “pass” candidates are transferred.
3.	“Pass with Condition” flight attendants will have three (3) months to develop their skill level. At the end of three (3) months, they will be retested. If they do not achieve a “pass” ranking at that time, they will be returned to their prior base. Such flight attendants may subsequently seek transfers to language speaker positions, but must first qualify by achieving a “pass” ranking. No flight attendant may receive a second “Pass with Condition” ranking in the same language.
4.	During the three (3) month trial period, the flight attendant may receive flight evaluations to review language proficiency.
5.	“Pass with Condition” flight attendants will receive the language override on the terms provided in the parties’ collective bargaining agreement.
6.	“Pass with Condition” lineholders will be included in the senior attendant premium numbers.
7.	Upon demonstration of language proficiency and the submission of receipts (or outstanding charges) from a program approved pursuant to paragraph 3 above, the Company will reimburse expenses incurred (limited by the expense reimbursement parameters contained in corporate policy) for the program, and all tuition or other similar charges to a
Foreign Language Thition Reimbursement and Pass with Condition (Letter of Agreement 20) - 3
maximum of $4,000.00. “Pass with Condition” flight attendants will not be entitled to the $4,000.00 reimbursement unless and until they have achieved the test result of “pass.”
8.	A flight attendant who has obtained tuition reimbursement pursuant to this program may be assigned by the Company to a foreign language base, and if so assigned, will remain in the base for a period of at least eighteen (18) months from the date of the assignment. A “Pass with Condition” flight attendant who subsequently obtains tuition reimbursement and is assigned to a Foreign Language Base will remain in the base for a period of at least eighteen (18) months from the date of the conversion of her/his ‘Tass with Condition” ranking to a “pass” ranking.
9.	Flight attendants holding a foreign language qualification may be required to revalidate their language proficiency on an annual basis. The Union shall be entitled to observe the administration of the qualification and/or revalidation processes established by the Company.
AGREED, this 1st day of April, 2000.
Continental Airlines, Inc.
Staff Vice President, Inflight
International Association Of
Machinists And Aerospace Workers
William O’Driscoll
President - Directing General
Chairperson
Foreign Language Tbition Reimbursement and Pass with Condition (Letter of Agreement 20) - 4
April 1,2000
Mr. William O’Driscoll
President - Directing General Chairperson
Air Transport District Lodge 142
400 N.E. 32nd Street
Kansas City, MO 64116
Re: International Service Manager (ISM) Pay Rate
Dear Bill:
This will confirm our discussions during the recently concluded collective bargaining agreement negotiations. We agreed that for the term of the 2000 -2004 collective bargaining agreement all - current International Service Managers who had attained their third yeai^ISM rate as of June 23, 1992 will continue to receive no less than the third year ISM pay rate override that was in effect prior to that date (30% above base rate up to $6.30 per hour).
Please confirm your understanding that the foregoing accurately reflects our agreement by signing one copy of this letter and returning it to me. Thank you.
Very truly yours,
Sam Risoli
Staff Vice President, Inflight
Agreed:
William O’Driscoll
President - Directing General
Chairperson
ISM Pay Rates (Letter of Agreement 21) -1
April 1,2000
Mr. William O’Driscoll
President - Directing General Chairperson
Air Transport District Lodge 142
400 N.E. 32nd_Street
Kansas City, MO 64116
Re: Management Retention of Seniority
Dear Bill,
This letter will confirm our understanding regarding the treatment of seniority for Inflight management employees.
We have agreed to clarify that management employees below the officer level currently on the flight attendant system seniority list should remain on the list. They will be subject to any seniority integration process as described in Section 1 of the collective bargaining agreement in the event the provisions of Section 1 (D) become applicable.
We have further agreed that employees not currently on the flight attendant system seniority list serving in management position(s) at the. director level or above, and those transferred into such positions after the date of this Agreement will only be entitled to placement or retention on the seniority list in the event the provisions of Section 1 (D) become applicable.
Please confirm your understanding that the foregoing accurately reflects our agreement by signing one copy of this letter and returning it to me. Thank
Staff Vice President, Inflight
Agreed:
William O’Driscoll President-Directing General Chairperson
Management Retention of Seniority (Letter of Agreement 22) - 1
©
e c
c
c
c c
c c
LETTER OF AGREEMENT b ctween
CONTINENTAL AIRLINES, INC.
and
THE INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MACHINISTS
AND AEROSPACE WORKERS
Regarding
Implementation Of New Technology
WHEREAS, the parties desire to provide for an orderly process to resolve issues raised by the use of new technology which affect flight attendant duties;
NOW, THEREFORE, the parties as follows:
In the event that the use of new technology will result in material changes to the duties performed by flight attendants dining the term of the collective bargaining agreement, the parties will promptly meet for the purpose of agreeing upon the method and particulars of the implementation of the new technology.
c c c c c
AGREED, this 1st day of April, 2000.
International Association Of
Machinists And Aerospace Workers
r k._ .
c
C
Continental Airlines, Inc.
Sam Risoli
Staff Vice President, Inflight
William O’Driscoll
President - Directing General
Chairperson
New Technology (Letter of Agreement 23) - 1
June 24,1996
Mr. William O’Driscoll
President - Directing General Chairman
Air Transport District Lodge 142
400 N.E. 32nd Street
Kansas City, MO 64116
Re: Preferential Bid Systems
Dear Mr. O’Driscoll:
This is to confirm our discussions regarding the future possibility of adopting a computerized preferential bid system for flight attendant monthly bidding.
Although the Company is not currently considering conversion to such a system, should it decide to explore that possibility during the term of the current collective bargaining agreement, Continental agrees to refrain from implementing any such system without first securing the prior written consent of the IAM. Continental further agrees that it will notify the Union and invite its assistance and comment regarding the particular system to be selected and the method of introduction and implementation in the event that the Company seriously considers the adoption of a computerized preferential bid system.
Please confirm your understanding that the foregoing accurately reflects our agreement by signing one copy of this letter and returning it to me. Thank you.
Very truly yours,	Agreed:
/s/
Ron Howard
Vice President, In-Flight & Food Services Division
/s/
William O’Driscoll
President - Directing General Chairman
Preferential Bidding (Letter of Agreement 24) - 1
April 1,2000
Mr. William O’Driscoll
President - Directing General Chairperson
Air Transport District Lodge 142
400 N.E. 32nd Street
Kansas City, MO 64116
RE: Profit Sharing
Dear Bill:
This will confirm our conversations during the recent collective bargaining agreement regarding the Company’s profit sharing program.
The Company has agreed that flight attendants’ will be entitled to profit sharing on a basis which is no less favorable than other employee groups (pilots, agents, technicians, dispatchers, or office/clerical).
Very truly yours,
Sam Risoli
Staff Vice President, Inflight
i
Profit Sharing (Letter of Agreement 25) -1
April 1,2000
Mr. William O’Driscoll
President - Directing General Chairperson
Air Transport District Lodge 142
400 N.E. 32nd Street
Kansas City, MO 64116
RE: Protection of Flight Attendants from Assault
Dear Bill:
This will confirm our conversations regarding the Company’s continuing efforts to ensure that flight attendants enjoy a safe work environment.
As you know, the Company believes that everyone, including our employees and passengers, has the right to be free from the threat of physical violence against them.
Be assured that Continental intends to continue its policy of not tolerating physical assaults against its employees, including its flight attendants. An on-duty flight attendant who is the victim of a physical assault will have the full cooperation of the Company in pursuing criminal charges brought by appropriate authorities. When it is necessary for flight attendants to meet with law enforcement authorities or to appear as witnesses in connection with such an occurrence, they will be given time off with pay to do so, and other appropriate assistance (e.g., EAP assistance) as may be required.
Very tiruly yours, ,
Sam Risoli
Staff Vice President, Inflight
Protection of Flight Attendants from Assault (Letter of Agreement 26) - 1
April 1,2000
Mr. William O’Driscoll
President - Directing General Chairperson
Air Transport District Lodge 142
400 N.E. 32nd Street
Kansas City, MO 64116
RE: IAM Safety Committee
Dear Bill:
This will confirm our discussion regarding the Union’s Safety Committee.
We have agreed that the in the event of an accident or incident involving a Continental aircraft the Union’s Safety Committee Chairperson will be notified at the time the Company’s “Go Team” receives its notice.
A Company designee or the members of the Company’s Safety Department will, upon request, confer with the Union’s Safety Committee Chairperson and/or the Union’s Director of Safety and Health to provide relevant information and discuss matters pertaining to the affected flight attendants. In addition, the Union’s Safety Committee Chairperson and appropriate Safety Committee representatives will, if needed, be provided positive space business travel passes to attend related debriefing(s).
AGREED:
Staff Vice President, Inflight
William O’Driscoll
President - Directing General Chairperson
Safety Comittee (Letter of Agreement 27) -1
June 24, 1996
Mr. William O’Driscoll
President - Directing General Chairman
Air Transport District Lodge 142
400 N.E. 32nd Street
Kansas City, MO 64116
Re: Seniority When Transferring From Subsidiary Corporations
Dear Bill:
This will confirm our discussions during the recently concluded collective bargaining agreement negotiations. We agreed that the transfer of seniority when employees are hired from subsidiarieswill be governed by Continental’s corporate policy.
Please confirm your understanding that the foregoing accurately reflects our agreement by signing one copy of this letter and returning it to me. Thank you.
Very truly yours,	Agreed:
/s/ Ron Howard Vice President, In-Flight & Food Services Division	/s/ William O’Driscoll President - Directing General Chairman
Seniority When Transferring From Subsidiaries (Letter of Agreement 28) - 1
April 1,2000
Mr. William O’Driscoll
President - Directing General Chairperson
Air Transport District Lodge 142
400 N.E. 32nd Street
Kansas City, MO 64116
Re: Sick and Welfare Committee
Dear Bill:
This will confirm the our discussions during the recent collective bargaining negotiations regarding occupational injury transitional return to work duty and light duty programs.
Nothing in this letter should be understood to require that the Company establish, maintain, or retain a particular level, of either transitional or light duty, however should the Company elect to do so, it is our intention that these policies be implemented in an equitable, uniform and reasonable manner.
Should the Company elect to continue to utilize or to implement a transitional duty program, it will only do so in consultation with a flight attendant Sick & Welfare Committee comprised of flight attendants appointed by the Union and management representatives, to be established in each flight attendant base. These Committees shall be responsible for identifying and recommending appropriate work opportunities for flight attendants who have been released by their physician to work in some capacity, but who remain medically restricted from performing in-flight flight attendant duties. Such work opportunities may only encompass such duties as are within the returning flight attendant’s medical restrictions. The duration of transitional opportunities shall be determined by the Company, but may not exceed the period of partial disability.
■
Sick and Welfare Committee (Letter of Agreement 29) - 1
Should the Company elect to continue its Transitional duty program, the program shall have the following features:
1.	Transitional duty assignments will be available only for flight attendants
who sustain occupational injuries and are temporarily unable to perform their regular inflight duties.
2.	A flight attendant may be assigned to perform transitional duty only if the treating and/or consulting physician has released the flight attendant for Limited Duty, and work is available within the identified restrictions. A flight attendant whose restrictions are not removed after one hundred twenty (120) days of a transitional duty assignment will be returned to either Sick Pay, Occupational Injury Pay or unpaid leave status.
3.	For the purpose of determining the maximum number of days a flight attendant shall be assigned transitional duty, the following shall apply:
a.	A flight attendant whose most recent full month bid award contained seventeen (17) or more days off will be assigned transitional duty for no more than three (3) days per week.
b.	A flight attendant whose most recent full month bid award contained sixteen (16) or fewer days off will be assigned transitional duty for no more than four (4) days per week.
c.	A flight attendant who held weekends off on her/his most recent full month bid award will not be required to work weekends while on transitional duty.
4.	The parties will exert every reasonable effort to avoid conflicts between transitional duty and medical appointments or therapy sessions required for the flight attendants recovery from her/his injury. That is, flight attendants will try to schedule such appointments on days/times free from transitional duty, and where reasonably possible, the Company will schedule transitional duty around the flight attendant’s medical
Sick and Welfare Committee (Letter of Agreement 29) - 2
appointments. When unavoidable conflicts do occur, the flight attendant shall be entitled to attend the medical appointment, and her/his transitional duty pay shall be prorated for the absence.
5.	A flight attendant performing Transitional Duty for a full bid month will be paid eighty-five (85) times her/his regular base hourly rate per month. This amount will be prorated for any absences or partial months.
6.	Flight attendants on transitional duty shall be considered to be full time active employees for all pinposes, including but not limited to having entitlement to all regular travel pass and reduced-rate travel benefits for themselves, their buddies, and their eligible dependents.
Please confirm your understanding that the foregoing accurately reflects our agreement by signing one copy of this letter and returning it to me. Thank you.
Very truly yours,
Staff Vice President, Inflight
Agreed:
William O’Driscoll
President - Directing General
Chairperson
Sick and Welfare Committee (Letter of Agreement 29) - 3
April 1,2000
Mr. William O’Driscoll
President - Directing General Chairperson
Air Transport District Lodge 142
400 N.E. 32nd Street
Kansas City, MO 64116
RE: Splitting Trips at Non-hub Locations
Dear Bill:
This will confirm our conversations regarding the splitting of trips at non-hub locations for trip trading purposes.
We have agreed that if during the term of the current collective bargaining agreement technological advances allow the Company to automate the splitting of trips at non-hub locations (commonly referred to as “jetway trades”), the parties will meet to discuss the possibility of permitting flight attendants to engage in such trades, and if so, the processes and procedures applicable to such trading activity.
Very truly yours, v
Sam Risoli
Staff Vice President, Inflight
■
Splitting Trips at Non-hub Locations (Letter of Agreement 30) - 1
April 1, 2000
Mr. William O’Driscoll
President - Directing General Chairperson
Air Transport District Lodge 142
400 N.E. 32nd Street
Kansas City, MO 64116
RE: Vacation Accrual
Dear Bill:
This will confirm our conversations regarding the vacation accrual for flight attendants hired after the date of ratification of the collective bargaining agreement.
We have agreed that, notwithstanding anything in the collective bargaining to the contrary, flight attendants hired after the date of ratification of the collective bargaining agreement will accrue fourteen (14) days of vacation, inclusive of Flex vacation, when they have completed years one (1) through four (4) of service with the Company.
Very truly yours,
Staff Vice President, Inflight
AGREED:
William O’Driscoll
President - General Chairperson
Vacation Accrual (Letter of Agreement 31) - 1
June 24,1996	"
€
Mr. William O’Driscoll
President - Directing General Chairman	f
Intemational Association of Machinists
& Aerospace Workers	(
Kansas City, MO	(
c
Re: Work Life Committees	v
c
Dear Bill:	(
This will confirm our discussions during the recently concluded collective bargaining agreement negotiations, in which the Company agreed to provide the Union with < « notice of the formation and the initial meeting of Flight Attendant employee committees which have been created to deal with questions or issues directly relating , to the work life of a Flight Attendant, not including collective bargaining matters. (An C example of such an employee committee is the Occupational Injury Recovery (* Committee.) The Union shall have the right to attend and participate in these .• committee meetings.
Please confirm your understanding that the foregoing accurately reflects our ( agreement by signing one copy of this letter and returning it to me. Thank you. \
Very truly yours,
/s/
Ron Howard
Vice President, In-Flight
& Food Services Division
Agreed:
/s/	C
William O’Driscoll	Q
President - Directing General Chairman
Work Life Committees (Letter of Agreement 32) -1
INDEX TO CONTRACT
AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA
"A" position (First Flight Attendant) pay	4 - 5; LOA 1 - Add Pay
Add pay items	LOA 1 - Add Pay
Adding, dropping or trading trips	5-17
ADJUSTMENTS adjustments - compliance with minimum rest	5-13
adjustments - compliance with on-duty limitations	5-13
adjustments - failure to self-adjust	5-13
adjustments - inability to self-adjust	5-13
adjustments - incompatible bids	5-12
adjustments - incompatible schedule requests	5 -14
adjustments - jobshares	5-14
adjustments - partners	5-14
adjustments - posting	5 -14
adjustments - required meetings	5-20
adjustments - self-adjustment rules	5-13
adjustments - self-adjustment window	5-12
adjustments - 72 hour window defined	2-5
adjustments - training conflict	5-20
adjustments - training/carry-over pairing conflict	5-14
adjustments - use of RA days	5-13
adjustments - vacation bid months	8-5
adjustments - when schedule becomes final	5-14
Air Micronesia - LPPs	LOA 11 - CAL Micronesia
AIRPORT ALERT airport alert - assignment limit	5-32
airport alert - call to scheduling	5-31
airport alert - definition	2-1
airport alert - duties	4-8
airport alert - generally	5-30
airport alert - open time pick-up	5-31
airport alert - pay	5-30
airport alert - per diem	5-30
airport alert - show-no-go pay	5-30
ALCOHOL TESTING alcohol testing - blood test	11 - 10
alcohol testing - compliance with the law	11 -10
Index - Page - 1
INDEX TO CONTRACT
ALCOHOL TESTING (continued) alcohol testing - concentration between 0.02 and 0.039	11-7/8
alcohol testing - concentration greater than 0.039	11-7
alcohol testing - consequence of positive test	11-7
alcohol testing - generally	11-5
alcohol testing - notice to union	11 -10
alcohol testing - pay	11-10
alcohol testing - post accident	11 -1/2
alcohol testing - random testing	11 - 1
alcohol testing - reasonable cause	11-2/3
alcohol testing - refusal to cooperate	11-9
alcohol testing - return from leave	14-2
alcohol testing - subsequent offenses	11-8
alcohol testing - testing occasions	11 -1/2
alcohol testing - voluntary rehabilitation	11-9
Allegheny - Mohawk	1 -4
Arbitration	1 -4; 20-1
Assaults - protection from	LOA 26 - Protection From Assault
AT-LARGE SPEAKERS at-large speakers - bid awards	5-15
at-large speakers - line construction	5-15
at-large speakers - staffing	5-15
Attendance	9 - 6; LOA 18 - FMLA
Automated voice response - reserve assignments	5-31
BBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBB
Base - definition	2-1
BASE CLOSURE base closure - contents of notice	13 - 1/2
base closure - notice	13 - 1
base closure - time for posting of notice	13-2
BASE REDUCTION base reduction - contents of notice	13 -1/2
base reduction - definition	13 - 1
base reduction - notice	13 -1
base reduction - notice to union	13-7
base reduction - time for posting of notice	13-2
Base transfers	12-2/4
Index - Page - 2
INDEX TO CONTRACT
BENEFITS
benefits - 401(k)	24-1
benefits - 4010c) match	24-2
benefits - 401 (k) vacation contribution election	8-5
benefits - changes to Company-wide programs	24-1
benefits - eligibility for Company-wide programs	24-1
benefits - flexible benefit program	24-1
benefits - regular benefit programs	24-1
benefits - retiree bridge medical	24-3
benefits - retirement plan (CARP)	24 - 2/3
Bid line - definition	2-1
Bid line construction (see, line construction)	LOA 4 - Bid Lines
Bid line holder - displacement of reserve	5-19
Bid packets - availability and distribution	5-12
BID PERIODS bid periods - change by more than 2 days	5-10/11
bid periods - variance from calendar month	5-11
BIDDING bidding - award of vacancy	12-6
bidding - ban on preferential bidding	LOA 24 - Pref Bid Systems
bidding - following 30 day or more medical absence	9-5
bidding - vacation	8-2
BIDS bids - at-large speakers	5-15
bids - award of FLS bids	5 - 11
bids - award of ISM bids	5 -11
bids - awarded in seniority order	5-11
bids - buddy bidding	5 - 12
bids - close of bids	5 - 12
bids - eligibility	5 - 12
bids - failure to bid	5 -12
bids - insufficient choices bid	5 - 12
bids - rebidding	5 - 11
Block to block - definition	2- 1
Blocked days - trip trading and examples	5 - 23/25
Briefing books - furlough notice	13 - 1
Bulletin boards	3-6
Bulletin boards - keys	3-6
Bulletin books	3-6
Index - Page - 3
INDEX TO CONTRACT
ccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccc
Cabin tidying	LOA 6 - Cabin Tidying
Calendar day - definition	2-1
Call-out - reserve	5-30
CARP	24-2
Carryover pairings - trip trading	5-25
Chain of command - deadhead boarding order	3-7
CHECK-IN TIME check-in time - downline for initial segment deadhead	5-4
check-in time - flights, trips and deadhead	5-3
check-in time - late reporting bid line holder	5-4
check-in time - reduction of time	5-3
Commuting expense reimbursement	3-7
COMPANION PASSES	
companion passes - generally	3-2
companion passes - service charge	3-2
companion passes - taxes	3-2
Company insignia	15 - 1
Compensation - base pay rates	4-1
Computer based training	LOA 7 - Computer Training
COPA	LOA 12-COPA
Copy of Agreement	3-6
Co-terminal - definition	2 - 1
Crew Com bulletin board - trip trades	5-18
CREW MEALS crew meals - generally	3-9
crew meals - meetings to discuss	3-10
crew meals - payment	3-10
crew meals - times provided	3-9
CREW REST crew rest - aircraft with less than 160 seats	3-9
crew rest - aircraft with more than 160 seats	3-9
crew rest - bunks on B-777	3-8
crew rest - cabin service	3-9
crew rest - class A oversale	3-9
crew rest - flight less than 8 hours	3-9
crew rest - flights over 12 hours	3-9
crew rest - flights over 8 hours	3-9
crew rest - generally	3-9
Index - Page - 4
c
( (	INDEX TO CONTRACT	
€	CREW REST (continued) crew rest - reserve	5-6
	crew rest - rest breaks	3-9
	crew rest - seats on aircraft except B-777	3-8
C ■	crew rest - seniority	3-9
c	Current address	3-1
X	Customer complaints	17-1; LOA 14 - Cust. Complaints
	DDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDD	
c		
c	Date/time stamps	3-4
c	Day trades - automation	LOA 2 - Automation Day Trades
	DAYS OFF days off - immovable reserve	5 - 27/30
c	days off - immovable restoration	5-17
	days off - ISM reserves	5-27
c	days off - jury duty	14 - 8/9
	days off - loss of a minimum day	5-2
	days off - minimum at base	5-1
(	days off - reassignment interfering with	5 - 37/38
(■ c	days off - reserves	5-27
	days off - restoration	5 -16/17
	days off - voluntary reduction	5-2
	DEADHEAD deadhead - advance seat assignment	3-8
c	deadhead - attire	3-7
	deadhead - definition	2-2
(	deadhead - first class accommodations	3-7
	deadhead - generally	3-7
c	deadhead - IATA carriers	3-8
	deadhead - incentive pay	4-2
	deadhead - initial segment hub to hub	5-4
	deadhead - last segment of pairing	5-4
c	deadhead - must ride	3-7
	deadhead - on duty	3-7
	deadhead - Part 121 carriers	3-8
	deadhead - pay	4-8
	deadhead - return flight, order of boarding	3-8
p .	deadhead - to working flight, order of boarding	3-7

Index - Page - 5
INDEX TO CONTRACT
Death benefits	8 - 6; 24 - 3; 25 -1
Death on duty - return to base	3-5
Derogatory reports and letters (see, customer complaints)	 DISABILITY disability - medical leave of absence	17-1 14 - 4/5
disability - occupational injury pay coordination	9-5
DISCHARGE discharge - delinquent dues, Company held harmless	26-3
discharge - delinquent union dues	26 - 2/3
DISCIPLINE discipline - factors to be considered	19-5
discipline - investigation	18-1
discipline - letters, manner of delivery	17-1
discipline - opportunity to present relevant information	18-2
discipline - time limit for issuing	18-2
discipline - to be issued in writing	18-1
DISPLACEMENT displacement - displaced, definition	2-2
displacement - FLB reserves	5 -14; 5 -19
displacement - FLS	5-15
DOMICILE domicile - hotel room for long ground times	7-2
domicile - training away from	6-1
DOMESTIC PARTNER domestic partner - bereavement leave	14-8
domestic partner - emergency leave	14-8
domestic partner - definition	2-2
domestic partner - health & welfare benefits	LOA 15 - Domestic Partners
DRAFTING drafting - definition	2-3
drafting - FLS	5 - 15
drafting - generally	5-34
drafting - ISMs	5-34
drafting - order of assignment	5-34
drafting - pay	4- 10; 5-35
drafting - replacement of draftee	5-35
DRUG TESTING drug testing - blood test	11 - 10
drug testing - commitment to remain drug free	11 -6
drug testing - compliance with the law	11 - 10
drug testing - conditional reinstatement	11 -6
Index - Page - 6
INDEX TO CONTRACT
DRUG TESTING (continued) drug testing - conditional reinstatement, failure to comply	11-7
drug testing - consequences of confirmed positive test	11-4/7
drug testing - costs of rehabilitation	11-6
drug testing - declination to reinstate	11-7
drug testing - DNA testing	11-4
drug testing - illicit drugs	11-5
drug testing - inadvertent ingestion	11-5
drug testing - insufficient specimen	11-9
drug testing - laboratories	11 -3
drug testing - medical review officer	11-3
drug testing - NIDA certified laboratories	11 -4
drug testing - notice to union	11 -10
drug testing - pay	4-10; 11 - 10
drug testing - positive tests	11-5
drug testing - post accident	11 -1/2
drug testing - procedures	11-3/5
drug testing - random testing	11 - 1
drug testing - reasonable cause	11-2
drug testing - refusal to cooperate	11-9
drug testing - retesting	11-4
drug testing - return from leave	14-2
drug testing - specimen collection	11-3
drug testing - split specimens	11-3
drug testing - testing occasions	11-1/3
drug testing - voluntary rehabilitation	11-9
drug testing - voluntary resignation	11-6
Drug/alcohol testing pay	4 -10; LOA 1 - Add Pay
DUES CHECK-OFF dues check-off - form	26-4
dues check-off - generally	26-3
Duration	27-1
DUTY FREE duty free - bonus payments	LOA 16 - Duty Free
duty free - commissions	LOA 1 - Add Pay
Duty period - limitations	5-5
Index - Page - 7
INDEX TO CONTRACT
EEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEE
Emergency contact number	3-1
Emergency leave of absence	14-7
Employment records update	3-1
Employment verification	3-1; 3-5
Excessive absenteeism - ground for termination	9-5
EXPENSES expenses - general meetings	7-2
expenses - training	7-2
FFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFF
Family and medical leave act - see, FMLA
First flight attendant ("A" position) - definition	2-3
First Flight Attendant ("A" position) - pay	4-6
FLB (Foreign Language Speaker Base) FLB - foreign language base definition	2-4
FLB - minimum primary language time	5-21
FLB - open time pick-up	5-21
FLB - open time pick-up outside base	5-21
FLB - trip trades, primary language	5-21
FLB reserves - displacement	5-14
FLB reserves - senior opting	5-14
FLEX	24-1
FLEX - Vacation 401 (k) contribution election	8-5
Flight attendant - definition	2-3
Flight attendant mailboxes - union use, notices	3-6
Flight attendant records	3-1
Flight qualifications - responsibility for & failure to maintain	6-3
Flight time credit - definition	2-3
Flight time for union business	3-10
FLS (Foreign Language Speaker) FLS - assignment of reserves	5-16
FLS - at-large speaker lines	5-15
FLS - bid line holder, displacement of reserve	5-19
FLS - drafting	5-15
FLS - foreign language speaker definition	2-4
FLS - foreign language speakers generally	5-14
Index - Page - 8
INDEX TO CONTRACT
FLS (continued) FLS - jobshare awards	5-15
FLS - leave awards	5-15
FLS - pass with condition program	LOA 20 - Foreign Language Tuition
FLS - premium pay	4 - 10; LOA 1 - Add Pay
FLS - primary language	5-14
FLS - reductions and displacements	5-15
FLS - reserve, displacement by FLS lineholder	5-19
FLS - staffing	LOA 19 - Foreign Language Speakers
FLS - transfer into FLB	5-15
FLS - tuition reimbursement	LOA 20 - Foreign Language Tuition
FMLA	14-3; LOA 18-FMLA
Funeral leave of absence	14-7
FURLOUGH furlough - award of vacancies	13-6/7
furlough - contents of notice	13 - 2/3
furlough - failure to accept recall	13-7
furlough - inactive flight attendants	13-1
furlough - maintaining eligibility for recall	13-7
furlough - notice	13-1
furlough - notice of recall	13-5
furlough - notice to union	13-8
furlough - order of selection	13 - 1
furlough - pay	13-7
furlough - recall rights	13-6
furlough - sick leave accrual	9-5
furlough - time for posting of notice	13-2
furlough - time for recall	13-5
furlough - vacation to be paid	13-5
GGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGG
Galley pay	4-6; LOA 1 - Add Pay
GENERAL MEETINGS general meetings - attendance	6- 1
general meetings - minimum notice	6- 1
general meetings - pay	6-1
general meetings - scheduled into bid lines	6-1
general meetings - scheduling	6-1
Index - Page - 9
INDEX TO CONTRACT
GRIEVANCES
grievances - access to work areas	19-2
grievances - appeal from step one decision	19-3
grievances - failure to adhere to time limits	19-5
grievances - general matters	19 - 4/5
grievances - general, suspension from service	19-4
grievances - grievance procedure generally	19 - 2/4
grievances - hearing officers	19-1
grievances - necessary witnesses	19-4
grievances - nondiscrimination against witnesses	19-5
grievances - presence of counsel	19-5
grievances - probationary flight attendants	19-5
grievances - release for hearings	19-5
grievances - representation	19-1
grievances - settlement conferences	19-4
grievances - settlement/withdrawal not precedential	19-5
grievances - step one	19 - 2/3
grievances - step one settlements	19-1
grievances - step two	19-3
grievances - step two appeal to System Board	19-3
grievances - time for filing	19-2
grievances - time limit applicability	19-5
grievances - time off for base chairpersons	19-2
GROUND TIME ground time - crew meals if insufficient ground time	3-10
ground time - holding pay for unscheduled over 30 min.	4-8
ground time - hotel for known time over 4/5 hours	7-2
GUARANTEE guarantee - line guarantee, trip duplication	5-18/19
guarantee - no loss for jury duty	14-8
guarantee - pay	4-10
guarantee - reserve	4-7
guarantee - reserve restored for make-up	5-36
guarantee - sick leave adjustments	9-2
HHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHH
Hardship transfers	__________________________________________________________________12-4
Holding pay 4 - 8: LOA 1 - Add Pay
Index - Page -10
INDEX TO CONTRACT
Holiday pay	4-3	i; LOA 1 - Add Pay
Holidays - medical verification for sick absence		9-3
Hostage		25 - 1
HOTELS hotel - accommodations at layover stations		7-1
hotel - accommodations, mandatory meeting out of base		6-1
hotel - accommodations, mandatory training out of base		6-1
hotel - check-in, check-out		7 -1
hotel - ground time in excess of 5 hours		7-2
hotel - hotel gainsharing		7-3/4
hotel - ill after canceling		7-4
hotel - information required to cancel		7-3
hotel - list of suitable hotels		7-2
hotel - mandatory out of base meeting		6-1
hotel - mandatory out of base training		6-1
hotel - method for gainsharing cancellation		7-3
hotel - pay for gainsharing cancellation		7-3
hotel - payment for personal incidentals		7-1
hotel - reassignment after canceling		7-4
hotel - re-crewing after canceling		7-4
hotel - reimbursement		7-1
hotel - time for gainsharing cancellation		7-3
hotel - time for gainsharing payments		7-3
hotel - transportation between hotel & airport		7-1
Hours of service		5-3/6
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII
ILL DOWNLINE
ill downline - hotel	3-5
ill downline - per diem/expenses	3-5
ill downline - special transportation	3-5
Immovable day off - trading	5-30
Inaugural flights - selection to work	5-26
INCENTIVE PAY incentive pay - block hours flown	4-2
incentive pay - rates	4-2
incentive pay - vacation and deadhead	4-2
Ineligible for next trip - reassignment	5-38
Index - Page -11
INDEX TO CONTRACT
Information to be provided to union	3-3/4
INITIAL NEW EQUIPMENT TRAINING initial new equipment training - pay	6-2
initial new equipment training - scheduling	6- 1/2
Initiation fees	26-1
Inoculations	3-2
Insurance indemnification	3-4
International override	4-1; LOA 1 - Add Pay
International Service Manager - see, ISM	2-4
Invalidity of contract provision	3-3
INVESTIGATIONS investigations - initial briefing	18-1
investigations - withholding from service	18-1
Involuntary furlough/recall	13-5
IRREGULAR OPERATIONS irregular operations - opportunity to contact home	7-2
irregular operations - severe weather action plan (SWAP)	5-35
irregular operations - waiver of limitations	5-38
ISM (International Service Manager) ISM - authorized leave of absence from program	4-4
ISM - bid line holder, displacement of reserve	5-19
ISM - generally	2-4
ISM - international service manager definition	2-4
ISM - minimum ISM time	5-22
ISM - open time pick-up by non-ISMs	5-20
ISM - open time pick-up in base	5-21
ISM - open time pick-up out of base	5-22
ISM - override	LOA 1 - Add Pay
ISM - partnerships	22-1
ISM - pay	4 - 4; LOA 21 - ISM Pay
ISM - pay for non-ISM acquired time	5-22
ISM - pay, additional override	4-4
ISM - pay, credit for prior service	4-4
ISM - qualifications & selection	4-5; 12-3
ISM - recall to program from RIF or transfer	4-4
ISM - re-entry into program after causal removal	4-4
ISM - re-entry into program after voluntary departure	4-4
ISM - requirements for selection for program	4-4/5
ISM - reserve days off	5-27
ISM - reserve, displacement by ISM lineholder	5 -19
ISM - training pay	6-3
Index - Page - 12
INDEX TO CONTRACT
ISM (continued)
ISM - transfers	12-3
ISM - trip trades in base	5-21/22
JJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJ
JOBSHARES
jobshares - adjustments	5-14
jobshares - award	21 - 1
jobshares - disputes between flight attendants	21-2
jobshares - line splits	21 - 1
jobshares - minimum time	21 - 1
jobshares - monthly maximum	21-2
jobshares - notice to scheduling	21-2
jobshares - pay	21-2
jobshares - personal drops	21 - 1
jobshares - reserves	21-2
JURY DUTY jury duty - days off	14 - 8/9
jury duty - leave	14-8
jury duty - notice of summons	14-8
jury duty - pay	14 - 8/9
jury duty - reassignment	14 - 8/9
jury duty - time to return home	14-9
LLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLL
Labor protective provisions	1 -4
Layover - expenses	7-1
LEAVES leaves - awarding of leaves, jobshares	14-2
leaves - cancellation	14-2
leaves - Company offered	14-3
leaves - disputes regarding awards	14-4
leaves - drug/alcohol testing on return	14-2
leaves - educational	14-6
leaves - emergency	14-7
leaves - FLS	5-15
Index - Page - 13
INDEX TO CONTRACT
LEAVES (continued) leaves - flying carry-in trips	14-4
leaves - flying last trip before leave	14-4
leaves - FMLA	14-3
leaves - funeral	14-7
leaves - general rules	14 -1/3
leaves - immediate family, definition	14-8
leaves - intermittent FMLA	14-3
leaves - jury duty	14-9
leaves - jury duty, notice of summons	14-9
leaves - length of medical leave	14-5
leaves - length of occupational injury	14-5
leaves - maternity treated like other disabilities	14-5
leaves - maternity, fly through 27th week	14-5
leaves - maternity, maximum length	14-5
leaves - maternity, use of sick leave benefits	14-6
leaves - medical leaves	14 - 5/6
leaves - military	14-6
leaves - notice of return	14-2
leaves - outside employment	14-1
leaves - parental	14-6
leaves - passes while on funeral leave	14-7
leaves - passes while on union leave	14-10
leaves - pay	14-1
leaves - personal leaves	14-3
leaves - return from leave	14-1
leaves - return from medical leave	14-6
leaves - return from union leave - benefit accruals	14-10
leaves - seniority while on Company offered	14-4
leaves - seniority while on educational	14-6
leaves - seniority while on emergency leave	14-7
leaves - seniority while on jury duty	14-9
leaves - seniority while on maternity	14-6
leaves - seniority while on medical	14-5
leaves - seniority while on military	14-6
leaves - seniority while on occupational injury leaves	14-5
leaves - seniority while on parental	14-6
leaves - seniority while on personal leave	14-4
leaves - seniority while on union leave	14-9
leaves - sick leave accrual	9-5
leaves - training upon return	14-2
Index - Page - 14
INDEX TO CONTRACT
LEAVES (continued) leaves - training while on leave	14-1
leaves - union , trip by trip	14-10
leaves - union leaves	14-10
leaves - use of vacation with funeral	14-7
leaves - withdrawal due to administrative error	14-4
Limitations waivers	5-38
LINE CONSTRUCTION line construction - at-large speaker lines	5-15
line construction - bid lines	5-1
Une construction - general meetings	6-1
line construction - generally	5-1
line construction - method	5-11
line construction - reserve move-up lines	5-1
line construction - reserves	5-27
line construction - vacation relief lines	5-1
line construction - variable staffing	5-11
line construction - reserve bid lines	5-1
Line trades	5-18/19
LINEHOLDER lineholder - displacement of FLB reserves	5 - 15
lineholder - jury duty flight pay loss	14-8
lineholder - pick-up of open time	5-27
lineholder - replacement for reporting late	5-3
lineholder - reserve becoming lineholder, release	5-33
lineholder - senior opting reserves	5-26
Load/variable staffing - open time	5-26
Locking overhead bins	3 - 10
LOSS OF FLIGHT TIME loss of flight time - generally	5 - 35/39
loss of flight time - notice on same day	5-35
loss of flight time - one day or more notice	5-36
loss of flight time - SWAP	5-36
Lounges	3-5
Luggage	3-4
Index - Page - 15
INDEX TO CONTRACT
MMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMM
Management flying	23-1
Management rights	1 -1
MATERNITY maternity - leave	14 - 5/6
maternity - rapid reaccmal of sick leave	9-1
maternity - uniforms	15-2
Maximum on-duty limits - waiver	5-39
MEDICAL EXAMINATIONS medical exams - challenging a fitness for duty result	10-1
medical exams - dispute resolution procedures	10 - 1/2
medical exams - drug and alcohol abuse	10-3
medical exams - fitness for duty	10-1
MEDICAL VERIFICATION medical verification - abuse/misuse of sick leave	9-4
medical verification - holiday periods	9-4
medical verification - occupational injury	9-3
medical verification - sick leave	9-3
Meeting - travel for mandatory out of base	6-1
MERGER merger - arbitration	1 -4
merger - contract continuation	1-3
merger - generally	1-2
merger - implementation	1-4
merger - no furlough	1-4
merger - recognition of union	1-3
merger - separate operations	1 -4
Military leave of absence	14-6
Minimum days free from duty	5-39
MINIMUM REST PERIODS minimum rest periods - authorized interruptions	5-5
minimum rest periods - generally	5-39
Missing, interned or hostage	25 - 1
MONTH TO MONTH ADJUSTMENTS - see, Adjustments	
Monthly bid periods	5-10
Moving expenses - required relocation	13 -3/4
Index - Page - 16
INDEX TO CONTRACT
nnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnn:
New base - transfers	12-3
New technology	LOA 23 - New Technology
No notice drug/alcohol testing	11-9
No strike, no lockout	1-2
Nondiscrimination	3-1
Non-flying duties	23-1
Notification of cancellations, equipment subs & delays	5-38
QOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO
OCCUPATIONAL INJURY occupational injury - accrual	9-1
occupational injury - generally	9-4
occupational injury - make up	9-2
occupational injury - maximum bank	9-1
occupational injury - medical verification	9-3
occupational injury - misuse	9-5
occupational injury - outside employment	9-5
occupational injury - protest	9-4/5
occupational injury - same claim	9-4
occupational injury - withdrawals from bank	9-2
occupational injury - workers' compensation coordination	9-5
Official notices provided to union	3 - 10
One-in-seven free from duty	5-39
OPEN TIME open time - "A" position pick-up, senior opt	5-18
open time - charters	5-1
open time - extra sections	5 -1
open time - FLB pick-up outside primary language	5-21
open time - generally	5 - 26/27
open time - ISM pick-up out of base	5-22
open time - ISM trades limited to ISMs	5-21
open time - load/variable staffing	5-26
open time - pick-up by airport alerts	5-31
open time - pick-up by FLBs, primary language	5-21
open time - pick-up by ISMs in base	5-21
open time - pick-up by reserves returning from days off	5-31
I
Index - Page - 17
INDEX TO CONTRACT
OPEN TIME (continued) open time - pick-up in base	5-20
open time - pick-up in speaker bases/non-speakers	5-14
open time - pick-up out of base	5-20
open time - pick-up out of base, FLBs	5-21
open time - removal by bid line holder	5-27
open time - RO days	5-27
open time - scenic flights	5-1
open time - to be available in base	5-26
open time - trades with equal number of days	5-19
open time - trades with multiple trip pairings	5-18
open time - trades with unequal number of days	5 - 19
Orders to be in writing	3-5
Outside employment - occupational injury & sick leave	9-5
Overs protection	4-9
PPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPP pj> p p p p p p p
Parental leave of absence	14-6
Parking	3-7
"Parking" of trips prohibited	5-20
PARTNERSHIPS partnerships - active flight attendants	22-1
partnerships - adjustments	5-14
partnerships - annual awards	22- 1
partnerships - awards	22-1
partnerships - disputes between flight attendants	22-4
partnerships - duration of the program	22-4
partnerships - eligibility	22-1
partnerships - formation of partnerships	22-2
partnerships - ISMs	22- 1
partnerships - line splits	22 - 3
partnerships - maximum flying	22 - 3/4
partnerships - monthly awards	22-3
partnerships - notice to scheduling of split	22-3
partnerships - number of lines	22- 1
partnerships - pay	22-3
partnerships - personal drops	22 - 3/4
partnerships - seniority	22-4
Index - Page - 18
INDEX TO CONTRACT
PARTNERSHIPS (continued) partnerships - vacancies	22-2
partnerships - variable pay elements	22-4
partnerships - voluntary transfers out of base	22-3
Passenger complaint letters	17-1
PASSES passes - companions	3-2
passes - funeral leave	14-7
passes - generally	3 - 1
passes - improvements	3-1
passes - online	3-1
passes - reduced rate	3 -1
passes - required move	13-4
passes - retirees	3-2
passes - seniority	16-1
passes - system board meetings	20-5
passes - union leave	14-10
passes - union officials	14-10
PASSPORTS passports - renewal	3-2
passports - reserves to carry	5-33
PAY pay - "A" position (First Flight Attendant)	4 - 6; LOA 1 - Add Pay
pay - airport alert	5 - 30
pay - airport alert duty 2 hours or more	4-10
pay - base rates	4- 1
pay - bid line holders - R days	4-10
pay - crew meal not provided	3 - 10
pay - deadhead	4-8
pay - downline check-in	5-4
pay - drafting	4-10; 5-35
pay - drug & alcohol testing	4- 10
pay - duty free bonus	LOA 16 - Duty Free
pay - duty free sales	4-9
pay - election to fly less than forty hours	5-7/9
pay - FLEX vacation	8-5
pay - flight time calculation	4 - 10
pay - flight time for deadhead by air	4-8
pay - flight time for ferry flights	4-8
pay - foreign language speakers	4-9
pay - furlough	13-8
Index - Page - 19
INDEX TO CONTRACT
PAY (continued) pay - galley pay	4-6
pay - general meetings	6-1
pay - guarantee	4-10
pay - holding pay	4-8
pay - holiday pay	4-3
pay - home study training	6-2
pay - hotel gainsharing	7-3
pay - incentive rates	4-2
pay - initial new equipment training	6-2
pay - ISM acquiring non-ISM time	5-22
pay - ISM rate	4 - 4; LOA 21 - ISM Pay
pay - ISM training	6-3
pay - international override	4-1
pay - jobshares	21 -2
pay - jury duty	14 - 8/9
pay - last segment deadhead	5-4
pay - leaves	14-2
pay - mandatory out of base meeting	6-1
pay - mandatory out of base training	6-1
pay - mandatory relocation	13-3/4
pay - marketing & promotional programs	4-10
pay - medical dispute resolution	10-3
pay - overs protection	4-9
pay - partners	22-3
pay - profit sharing	LOA 25 - Profit Sharing
pay - RDO (restored day off)	5 - 16/17
pay - reassignment into day off	5 - 37/38
pay - recurrent training	6-2
pay - reduction of check-in time	5-3
pay - remaining available in SWAP	5-35
pay - senior flight attendant	4-9
pay - seniority	16-1
pay - short crew	4-3
pay - show-no-go, airport alert reserves	5-30
pay - starlight (night) pay	4-3
pay - surface deadhead	4-8
pay - training, generally	6-1/3
pay - training concurrent with duty period	6-3
pay - trip rig	4-9
pay - vacation	8-2
Index - Page - 20
INDEX TO CONTRACT
PAY (continued) pay - vacation fly through	8-5
pay - while on sick leave	9-1
PAY PROTECTION pay protection - senior opt	5-16
pay protection - trip duplication	5-17
PAYCHECKS paychecks - available in base	4-7
paychecks - direct deposit	4-7
paychecks - errors	4-7
paychecks - first of the month	4-6
paychecks - generally	4-6
paychecks - pay rules	4-6
paychecks - sixteenth of the month	4-6/7
paychecks - stubs to have itemized statements	4-8
paychecks - voucher to reflect sick/OI banks	9-5
paychecks - vouchers generally	4-7
PER DIEM per diem - airport alert	5-30
per diem - domestic	7-1
per diem - generally	7-1/2
per diem - international	7-2
per diem - out of base training	6-2
per diem - pairings bridging 2 bid periods	7-2
per diem - rates	7- 1/2
per diem - sick downline	9-5
per diem - temporary vacancies	12 - 5/6
Personal drops - partners	22-3
PERSONNEL FILE personnel file - customer complaints	17-1
personnel file - delivery of discipline letters	17-1
personnel file - inspection	17-1/2
personnel file - inspection by union representative	17 - 1
personnel file - removal of materials after 12 months	17-1
Positions available for jobshares	21 - 1
Positions available for leaves	21 - 1
Preferential bid - Continental Express to Continental	LOA 9 - COEX bridge to CAL
Primary language - minimums	5-21
PROBATION probation - generally	16-2/3
probation - grievances	16-3; 19-5
Index - Page - 21
INDEX TO CONTRACT
PROBATION (continued) probation - transfer	12-2
probation - unavailability for duty	16-3
Profit sharing	LOA 25 - Profit Sharing
Promotional programs - pay	4-10
Published Time - definition	2-4
RRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRR
R days - definition	2-5
RA days - considered Ready reserves	5-13
RA days - use in adjustments	5-13
RDO pay	LOA 1 - Add Pay
READY RESERVES ready reserves - generally	5 - 27/28
ready reserves - RA days	5-13
REASSIGNMENT reassignment - after leaving base	5-37
reassignment - equipment change, reserves	5-16
reassignment - generally	5 - 35/38
reassignment - ineligible for next trip	5-38
reassignment - interference with day off	5-37
reassignment - jury duty	14 - 8/9
reassignment - original trip operating	5-38
reassignment - protecting equipment downline	5 - 37/38
reassignment - reserve	5-27
reassignment - scheduled departure	5-36
reassignment - unable to report	LOA 8 - Conscientious Reporting
Recall from fin-lough - notice	13-5
Recognition	1 -1
RECURRENT TRAINING recurrent training - pay	6-2
recurrent training - scheduling	6-1
Redeye turns - single duty period	5-19
Reductions - FLS	5 - 15
Release of employment information	3 -1
Relief from duty - 1 in 7	5-2
Index - Page - 22
INDEX TO CONTRACT
RELOCATION
relocation - passes	13-4
relocation - pay	13-3/4
Reporting for work - unavoidable circumstances	LOA 8 - Conscientious Reporting
Required meetings - conflict with schedule adjustment	5-20
RESERVE reserve - airport alert	5-30
reserve - airport alert assignment limit	5-32
reserve - assignment by automated voice response (VRS)	5 - 31/32
reserve - assignment carrying into day off	5-34
reserve - assignments, FLS	5-15
reserve - attempts to contact	5-29
reserve - automatic ready during holiday periods	5-28
reserve - availability pool	5-30
reserve - beepers	5-29
reserve - call-out contact by scheduling	5-28
reserve - call-out generally	5-28
reserve - call-out percentage per base	5-28
reserve - call-out periods	5-28
reserve - call-outs to contact VRS	5-31/32
reserve - calls to scheduling regarding status	5-32
reserve - contact scheduling at end of trip/assignment	5-32
reserve - conversion to lineholder	5-33
reserve - coverage, trip trades	5-20
reserve - coverage, trip trading blocked days	5-22
reserve - day off restoration	5-34
reserve - day trades	5 - 29/30
reserve - days off	5-27
reserve - definition	2-5
reserve - displaced by lineholder, no reassignment	5 - 33/34
reserve - displacement by lineholder	5-19
reserve - duties	4-8
reserve - failure to contact VRS	5-31
reserve - flight assignment priorities	5 - 28/29
reserve - guarantee	4-7
reserve - immovable days off	5-27
reserve - immovable days off, restoration	5 -17
reserve - information from VRS	5 - 32/33
reserve - line construction	5-27
reserve - loss of a day	5-34
reserve - make up of lost day	5-34
Index - Page - 23
INDEX TO CONTRACT
RESERVE (continued)
reserve - minimum availability	5-30
reserve - open time pick-up, returning from days off	5-31
reserve - opportunity to express preference	5-29
reserve - passports to be carried	5-33
reserve - phone numbers	5-29
reserve - ready reserves to contact VRS	5-32
reserve - ready, generally	5 - 27/28
reserve - release to check-in	5-31
reserve - release to crew rest	5-32
reserve - release to report	5-33
reserve - reporting for duty	5-29
reserve - reporting ill	5-33
reserve - reserve duty	5 - 27/34
reserve - rolling of day off	5-34
reserve - subject to reassignment	5-27
reserve - trades with reserve availability pool	5-30
reserve - trading immovable days off	5-30
Reserves available - trip trading blocked days	5-22
Reserves needed - trip trading blocked days	-	5-22
Rest breaks	3-8/9
Rest periods	5 - 5/6
Restoration of days off (RDO)	5 -16/17
Retiree bridge medical program	24-3
Retirement	24 - 1/3
RO days - placement in open time	5-27
sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss
Safety committee	LOA 27 - Safety Committee
Savings clause	3-3
SCHEDULING scheduling - general meetings	6-1
scheduling - initial new equipment training	6-1
scheduling - recurrent training	6-1/2
scheduling - red-eye segments	5-1/2
SELF-ADJUSTMENT Self-adjustment - automation	LOA 3 - Automation self adjustment
Self-adjustment - rules	5-13
Index - Page - 24
INDEX TO CONTRACT
SELF-ADJUSTMENT (continued) Self-adjustment - window	5-12/13
SENIOR OPT senior opt - equipment change	5-16
senior opt - FLB reserves	5-14
senior opt - ISM, equipment change	5-16
senior opt - open time pick-ups	5-18
senior opt - pay protection	5-16
SENIORITY seniority - bidding	16-1
seniority - Company offered leave	14-3
seniority - corrections to list	16-2
seniority - educational leave	14-6
seniority - emergency leave	14-7
seniority - filling vacancies	12-1
seniority - jury duty	14-9
seniority - list changes by mutual agreement	16-2
seniority - lists to be posted in each base	16-2
seniority - management retention	LOA 22 - Management Seniority
seniority - maternity leave	14-5
seniority - medical leaves	14-4
seniority - military leave	14-6
seniority - missing, interned or hostage	25-1
seniority - occupational injury leave	14-5
seniority - parental leave	14-6
seniority - partners	22-4
seniority - passes	16-1
seniority - pay	16-1
seniority - personal leaves	14-3
seniority - protests	16-2
seniority - removal from list	16-3
seniority - retroactive changes	16-1
seniority - transfer to Inflight management	16-3
seniority - transfer to non-Inflight management	16-3
seniority - transferring from subsidiaries	LOA 28 - Seniority From Subsidiaries
seniority - union leave	14-9
seniority - vacation accrual	16-1
Seniority option	5-26
Short crew pay	4-3; LOA-Add Pay
Show-no-go - airport alert	5-30
I
Index - Page - 25
INDEX TO CONTRACT
Sick and welfare committee	LOA 29 - Sick & Welfare Committee
SICK LEAVE sick leave - accrual	9-1
sick leave - accrual while on leave or furlough	9-5
sick leave - catastrophic bank	9-1
sick leave - election not to use	9-2
sick leave - make up	9-2
sick leave - maximum bank	9-1
sick leave - medical verification	9-3
sick leave - misuse	9-5
sick leave - outside employment	9-5
sick leave - rapid reaccrual	9-1
sick leave - use for spouse or minor child's illness	9-6
sick leave - withdrawal from bank	9-2
Speaker lines - number to be published	LOA 5 - Building Speaker Lines
Specially qualified	2-5
Splitting trips at non-hub locations	LOA 30 - Splitting Trips
Staffing - at-large speakers	5-15
Starlight pay	4 - 3; LOA 1 - Add Pay
Strike - no strike, no lockout	1-2
Successorship	1-2
SWAP (severe weather action plan) - loss of flight time	5-35
SYSTEM BOARD system board - chairman to preside	20-3
system board - composition	20-1
system board - decisions final & binding	20-4
system board - docket	20-2
system board - docket maintenance	20-3
system board - documents to be provided to chairman	20-3
system board - expenses and transportation	20-5
system board - jurisdiction	20-4
system board - location of meetings	20-2
system board - minimizing time	20 - 3/4
system board - notices	20-3
system board - passes	20-5
system board - railway labor act controls	20-5
system board - recordings	20-4
system board - referee unable to hear case	20-2
system board - reinstatement of discharged grievant	20-4
system board - selection of members	20-1
system board - selection of neutral if no agreement	20-2
Index - Page - 26
INDEX TO CONTRACT
SYSTEM BOARD (continued)
system board - termination of referee from panel_________________________________________20 - 1/2
System furlough - definition	13-1
System seniority list - generally	3-3; 16-1/2
Telephones	3-4
Temporary vacancies	12 - 5/6
Termination	8-6; 26-2/3
Time - movement between bases	5-26
Trades - reserves	5 - 29/30
TRAINING training - carryover conflict, adjustments	5-14
training - computer based	LOA 7 - Computer Training
training - conflict with schedule adjustment	5-20
training - dropping trips to attend	6-2
training - home study pay	6-2
training - out of base pairing with deadhead	6-2/3
training - out of base per diem	6-3
training - pay if concurrent with duty period	6-2
training - travel for mandatory out of base	6-1
training - union address to new hire classes	6-3
Transitional duty	LOA 29 - Sick & Welfare
TRANSFERS transfers - acceptance of award	12-4
transfers - bidding	12-2
transfers - deadline	12-2/3
transfers - FLS	5-15
transfers - foreign language speakers	12-3
transfers - hardship	12-4
transfers - ISMs	12-3
transfers - newly established base	12-4
transfers - probationary flight attendants	12-2
transfers - request box available in base	12-4
transfers - requests to be resubmitted annually	12-3
transfers - requests to remain on file until July 1	12-3
transfers - six month freeze	12-3
transfers - specially qualified	12-3
Index - Page - 27
INDEX TO CONTRACT
TRANSFERS (continued)
transfers - termination warning	12-2
Transportation to and from hotels	7-1
Travel companions	3-2
Travel time - required move	13-4
Travel/relocation time - voluntary move	12-4
Trial period - Continental Express	LOA 10 - COEX Trial Period
Trip	2-5
TRIP DROPS trip drops - generally	5-16
trip drops - ineligibility if hotel cancelled	7-4
TRIP DUPLICATION trip duplication - generally	5-17
trip duplication - senior opt	5-17
Trip Pairing	2-5
Trip rig	4-8/9
TRIP TRADES trip trades - 3 way trades	5-18
trip trades - blocked days	5 - 22/25
trip trades - blocked days, examples	5 - 24/25
trip trades - carryover pairings	5-25
trip trades - complete lines	5-18/19
trip trades - Crew Com bulletin board	5-18
trip trades - FLBs, primary language	5-21
trip trades - general rules	5-17/20
trip trades - in base	5-21
trip trades - ineligibility if hotel cancelled	7-4
trip trades - ISM pick-up non-ISM time	5-22
trip trades - ISMs in base	5-23
trip trades - minimum time block-to-block	5-19
trip trades - month-to-month	5-19
trip trades - one way trades	5-18
trip trades - open time, equal days	5-19
trip trades - open time, multiple trip pairings	5-20
trip trades - open time, redeye turns	5-19
trip trades - open time, reserve coverage	5-20
trip trades - open time, unequal days	5-19
trip trades - portion of a pairing	5-18
trip trades - reserve coverage	5-22
trip trades - reserves available	5-22
trip trades - reserves needed	5-22
Index - Page - 28
INDEX TO CONTRACT
TRIP TRADES (continued)
trip trades - time for requests__________________________________ 5-17/18
trip trades - vacation 5-18/19
uuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuu
Unemployment compensation - involuntarily withheld	10-2
UNIFORMS uniforms - alterations	15-2
uniforms - annual allowance	15-1
uniforms - carryover of allowance	15 -1/2
uniforms - Company insignia	15-1
uniforms - initial purchase	15-1
uniforms - maintenance	15-1
uniforms - maternity	15-2
uniforms - new item discount	15-1
uniforms - points	15-3
uniforms - replacement due to theft or damage at work	15-2
uniforms - requirements	15-1
uniforms - return of Company items	15-1
uniforms - union pins	15-2
uniforms - when worn	15-1
Union committees - flight time	LOA 17 - Flight Time For Committees
Union dues - delinquent	26-2
Union leave of absence	14 - 9/10
Union passes	14-10
Union pins - wearing on uniforms	15-2
UNION SECURITY union security - failure to maintain union membership	26 -1/2
union security - generally	26-1
union security - union membership required	26-2
Union use of flight attendant mailbox	3-6
Unscheduled Trip	2-6
Index - Page - 29
INDEX TO CONTRACT		c
vvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvv		c €
VACANCIES		r c
vacancies - awarding of temporary	12-5	
vacancies - bidding in new base	12-5	(
vacancies - order of priority in filling	12-1	c
vacancies - partnerships	22-2	
vacancies - per diem for temporary vacancies	12 - 5/6	
vacancies - seniority to be used in filling	12-1	c
vacancies - temporary, notices	12-5	(
vacancies - travel/relocation time	12-4	
VACATION		
vacation - 401(k) contribution election	8-5	
vacation - accrual	8-1	
vacation - accrual when absent	8-3	c
vacation - administration	8-2/4	
vacation - bidding	8 - 2	c
vacation - changing bases	8-3	C’
vacation - conflict with jury duty	r	8-3	(
vacation - conflict with medical leave	|'	8-3	
vacation - deferral by the Company	8-4	c
vacation - deferral for jury duty/medical reasons	8-3	(
vacation - deferral, reimbursement of expenses	8-4	
vacation - deferral, solicitation of volunteers	8-4	(
vacation - deferrals generally	8-4	c
vacation - exchange of periods	8-3	
vacation - fly through	8-5	(
vacation - furloughed flight attendant	13-6	r
vacation - new hire accrual rates	LOA 31 - Vacation Accrual	k.
vacation - number of bid slots	8-4	(
vacation - pay	8-2	(■
vacation - pay for FLEX	8-5	
vacation - pay for fly through	8-5	
vacation - payment upon termination	8-6	
vacation - schedule after first year	8-2	
vacation - schedule, first year	8-1	
vacation - slides	8 - 3	£
vacation - trip trades	5 - 18/19	
Index - Page - 30
INDEX TO CONTRACT
VACATION (continued) vacation - use with funeral leave	14-7
Variable pay - partners	22-4
Variable staffing - line construction	5-11
Voluntary furlough	2-6
Voluntary reduced flying (VRF)	5-6/7
Volunteers - inaugural flights	5-26
VRF (Voluntary Reduced Flying) VRF - effect of flying no hours	5-10
VRF - effect on benefits	5 - 9/10
VRF - effect on seniority	5-9
VRF - notice of intent to fly less than 40 hours	5-7
VRF - outside employment	5-10
VRF - pay consequence of minimum flying election	5 - 8/10
VRF - program review	5 -10
VRS - information to be provided to reserve	5-33
wwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwww
Waivers of limitations
Workers' compensation - occupational injury coordination
5 - 38/39
9-4/5
Index - Page - 31
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
Recognition
Definitions
General
Compensation-
Scheduling	—	-
Required Meetings and Training
Traveling Expenses
Vacation
Sick Leave
Medical Examinations
Alcohol and Drug Testing
Filling of Vacancies
System Furloughs, Base Reductions, and Base Closures
Leaves of Absence
Uniforms
Seniority
Personnel Files
Investigations
Grievance Procedure
System Board of Adjustment
Jobsharing
Partnership Flying
Non Flying Duties
Benefits
Missing, Interned or Hostage
Union Security and Dues Check-Off
Duration
Letters of Agreement
Index