STIPULATION OF AGREEMENT
Agreement made thi^Qlay of October, 2007, by and between Local 2110, UAW (“Union”) and The New Press (“Press”) to extend the Collective Bargaining Agreement in all its terms and conditions except as modified hereafter:
Article 1. Term: The collective bargaining agreement shall be for a term of three years from October 1,2007 up to and including September 30,2010.
Article 4 Union Activity: Add final sentence, “Such requests shall not be unreasonably denied”.
Article 7 Non Discrimination: Will now read in its entirety “The Press is committed to an inclusive work environment with a respect for difference and a dedication to fairness; the Press recognizes that proactive efforts are required to insure the well-being of the staff in this regard. The Press will not discriminate on the basis of race, sex, gender identity, economic status, religion, sexual orientation, physical ability, Union activity, marital and/or parental status, citizenship, national origin, size, age, or veteran status. This policy applies to all terms and conditions of employment including, without limitation, hiring, placement, promotion, compensation, leaves of absence, layoff, termination, and use of interns and temporary employees.”
Article 8 Affirmative Action: Will now read in its entirety “The Press is committed to affirmative action and workplace diversity, which were part of the Press’ original mission statement and remain core principles. The Press shall continue to make strong and sustained efforts in recruitment, hiring and promotion, in-house training, and mentoring to foster career development in furtherance of this principle. In addition, the Press shall continue to work with the Affirmative Action Committee to improve the current representation of minorities throughout the Press, especially in those classifications where they are underrepresented. The Affirmative Action Committee shall be invited to meet regularly with the Joint Union-Management Committee to discuss their mutual efforts in pursuit of the Press’ diversity mission.
The Press will work with the Affirmative Action Committee and the Join Union-Management Committee to identify potential job openings as early as possible. The Affirmative Action Committee shall promptly provide suggestions as to the implementation of the affirmative action/diversity search. The Press will work with the Affirmative Action Committee to create a documentary record of affirmative action/diversity efforts and hires, to inform and guide future job searches as openings occur.
In cases of possible termination, the Press shall consult with the Joint Union-Management Committee to ensure that employees are provided with support and guidance to avoid termination if possible.
>
Article 10 Health and Safety: Will now read in its entirety “The Press shall maintain a safe and healthy workplace and ensure that each employee has a comfortable workspace. The Joint Union-Management committee will meet to discuss issues of health and safety and in cases of emergency.
15. Interns: Will now read in its entirety: “The Press may engage interns for up to six (6) continuous months. Any intern becoming a regular employee will have his/her seniority retroactive to their original date of hire. All interns, regardless of whether they are participating in the regular intern program or serving as a specialized intern in a particular area, will apply to the Press through the Intern Coordinator and will share in administrative responsibilities (front desk duty, telephones, publicity mailings, etc.) as directed by the Intern Coordinator.”
Article 22 Training and Professional Development: Will now read in its entirety “The Press is committed to developing, whenever practicable, a diversity of skills and experience among its staff through professional training and career development. The Press will continue its present practice of paying for all professional training it requires and considering requests submitted in advance to pay for non-required professional development.
There shall continue to be a joint mentoring committee to establish and oversee a mentoring program.
The Press will support proposals made through the Joint Union-Management Committee, with input from interested staff, for regular professional development activities at the Press, including, by way of example, luncheons with guest speakers, New Press alumnae events, and attendance at appropriate conferences, both on and off site. In addition, members of the joint mentoring committee shall be invited to meet regularly with the Joint Union-Management Committee to discuss their efforts.
Article 26 Holidays: Add the final sentence “Excused time off to participate in civic activities on Election Day shall not be unreasonably withheld”.
Article 32 Wages and Minimums: The Press will provide annual wage increase as follows:
$1,700 per person, effective October 1, 2007.
$1,700 per person, effective October 1,2008 $1,700 per person, effective October 1, 2009
Category 1 minimum will be increased to $30,000 effective October 1,2007. Category 2 minimum will be increased to $32,000 effective October 1,2007, $32,500 effective October 1,2008, $33,000 effective October 1,2009.
Category 3 minimum will be increased to $34,000 effective October 1, 2007, $34,500 effective October 1, 2008, $35,000 effective October 1,2009.
Article 33 Health Care: Will now read in its entirety “The Press will contribute $18,750 a year to maintain a fund for the purpose of providing health care coverage for the partners, spouses, and children of members of the bargaining unit. Any additional amounts for family/spouse/child-related premiums for the unit shall be covered by unit employee contributions, with the exact contribution breakout by employee to be determined by the Union. Any additional increases in costs each year due to a change in demographics or health care costs above the $18,750 shall be covered by staff contributions. Any money left over in the fund at the end of each year will be rolled over into next year’s fund. The Union will determine the way the money from this fund is allocated. The fund will no longer include an annual $5,000 contribution drawn from a reduction of the Press’ pension contribution for bargaining unit employees. Employees with partners or spouses may not use the fund to cover partners or spouses who have health care coverage through their respective employers.
Article 34 Pension: Will now read in full “The Press will contribute an amount equivalent to 5% of the employee’s gross salary toward its defined contribution pension plan.”
Article 38 Union Mention: add “trade catalogs”.
For The New Press
Ao