This Agreement is made and entered into on this day of June, 2009 by and between Hearst SOCO Newspapers, LLC, d/b/a The Advocate (“The Company”) and Local 2110, UAW (“The Union”).
1.	The collective bargaining agreement between the parties is hereby extended for a term of two (2) years from October 1, 2008 up to and including September 30, 2010, in all of its terms and conditions except as modified and amended as set forth below.
2.	Article 6, Salaries, shall be amended to provide that effective October 1, 2008, there shall be an increase of 2.5% and that such increase shall also apply to the minimum rates. During tine second year of the agreement, beginning on October 1,2009, should the Company provide a salary increase to other Company employees, the same such salary increase shall also be provided to bargaining unit employees. Within fourteen (14) business days of the signing of this Agreement, affected employees shall receive retroactive payments for the October 1, 2008 salary increase.
3.	Article 7, Holidays and Personal Days, shall be amended to provide for six (6) designated paid holidays (New Year’s Day, Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day, Thanksgiving and Christmas), one (1) floating paid holiday, and four (4) paid personal days for each calendar year. Employees may take a floating holiday or a personal day to observe Martin Luther King Jr.’s Birthday and/or Washington’s Birthday, consistent with section 7.4, Personal Days, of the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
4.	Article 9.1 C, Health Benefits, shall be amended to delete the 4% cap on increases to employee contribution rate for medical, dental, and vision coverage.
5.	Article 11.6, Seniority and Layoffs, shall be amended to provide an increase in notice of layoffs to four (4) weeks with the Company’s option to issue pay in lieu of notice in the form of payroll continuation through separation date.
6.	Article 11.9, Mileage, shall be amended to provide that mileage reimbursement will not go below $.40 per mile unless the average gas prices in Fairfield County falls below $2 a gallon.
)
7.	Article 11.11, Meal Stipend, is amended to provide for an increase to $9 per shift.	■
8. Article 16, Termination, is amended to provide for the contract duration to run from
J