LOCAL AGREEMENTS
LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING
AND RATES y^ ■ Between ;
LOCAL 862
and the '
Ford Motor Company
Louisville Assembly Plant
Building Chairperson
Bruce W Day
Bargaining Committee
Steven M. Stone	Steven Rixman
JcfT Donohue	George McClinton,
Skilled Trades
District Committee Representatives
Mike Beaven	Jim Fisher	George Palmer
James Boggan	Barry Ford	Angie Perronie
Kevin Bush	Steve Goodlett	Fred Willard
Larry Carrico	Herb Hibbs	Bobby Wines
Mike Craven	Gary Keen	Mike Parker,
Skilled Trades
Benefit Representative
Ed Hardesty
Employee Resource Coordinators
Orville Griffin	Joe	Rapp
Employee Support Service Programs	Representatives
Bob Hatfield	Jim	Warren
Health and Safety Representatives
Janice Jones	Jim	Kruse
Production Standards Representative
Ralph Hearn
Quality Representative
David Allen
Introduction
This booklet is intended to acquaint you with certain Company policies and terms of the agreement negotiated between the management of the Louisville Assembly Plant and Local 862 of the UAW. These policies and agreements are subject to change by the Company or by agreement between the Company and the Union. For the detailed rules governing such matters as vacation, holiday pay, and other matters covered- by union agreement, you should consult the Master Agreement which became effective September 29, 2003, copies of which are available in the Labor Relations Office.
Both the Company and the Union recognize their respective responsibilities as participants in the program of the President’s Committee on Equal Employment Opportunity and their responsibilities under federal and state laws relating to fair employment practices. Thus, the Louisville Assembly Plant is known as an Equal Opportunity Employer.
It is anticipated that a full understanding of company policies and terms of negotiated agreements is essential to maintain order, to provide job security and to promote sound company-employee relations, Your supervisor or a representative of the Labor Relations Office will be glad to answer your questions.
Important Suggestions
1.	Read the Agreements carefully - both the Master and Local Agreement. It is your responsibility to learn their contents. If you have any questions, contact your Committeeperson.
2.	Your supervisor has an obligation to call your Committeeperson - if you so request.
3.	Discuss any complaints you may have with your Supervisor and Committeeperson immediately.
4.	Keep informed. Read the Bulletin Boards and the Electronic Media daily and know the plant rules.
5.	DO NOT sign any papers without first reading them. Be sure of what you are signing. If you are unsure, ask your Committeeperson.
6.	VERY IMPORTANT - Keep the Company informed of your correct address and telephone number. This is your responsibility. It could effect the status of your employment.
7.	5-DAY NOTICE - If at any time you should receive a 5-Day Notice (Registered Mail), contact Management (Labor Relations) immediately and report the reason for your absence and get a call in number and the name of the person you spoke with. This applies even if you are on Medical Leave of Absence. Should you fail to properly respond to a 5-Day Notice, you can be terminated as a 1 O-Day Quit.
ii
8.	Employees with less than six (6) months seniority who are absent, for any reason, for a period of three (3) days and fail to call in to Management and report their reason for absence, are subject to immediate termination without a 5-Day Notice being sent to them.
9.	Attend the regular business meeting of your Local Union. Meetings are held the Tuesday following the second Monday of every month.
10.	Vote in all union elections. You have an obligation to let the leadership know your position.
iii
Table of Contents
EMPLOYEE INFORMATION
Change of Address/Phone Number.......... 1
Conduct in the Plant................... 1
Coveralls.............................. 1
Employee Support Services Program (ESSP)..........................2
Emergency Calls.........................2
Food Service............................3
Foul Weather Gear.......................3
Gloves..................................3
Housekeeping............................4
Insurance...............................4
Labor Relations Office..................4
Line Time...............................4
Lockers.................................4
Medical Facilities......................5
Medical Placement.......................5
Medical Visitation......................6
National Guard Duty.....................6
Occupational Injury.....................6
Parking Facilities......................7
Paycheck Distribution...................7
Payday for Afternoon Shift..............7
Payday Falling on a Holiday.............8
Pay Shortages...........................8
Personal property Damage (Wearing Apparel).......................8
Physical Therapy (PT)...................9
Your Supervisor....................... 10
Union Meetings........................ 10
Reporting Procedure: Reporting Your Absence.......................... 11
iv
AGREEMENTS
Kentucky Truck Plant Recognition Agreement......................... 15
Overtime Agreement - Non-Skilled.....20
Promotional Job Posting Agreement....29
Seniority Agreement.................37
Shift Preference Agreement..........48
Quality Leader Agreement............52
Preparatory Time Agreement..........59
Settlement Agreement................61
LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING
Attendance I Days Off Absentee Control Procedure..........62
Attendance Recognition Program.......63
Eight (8) Percent Scheduled Off.....64
Emergency Calls.....................65
Excused Absence.....................67
Excused Absence Pay.................68
Go Home List........................69
Paid Planned Day Off Process (Five Day Excused Absence).........71
Payment of Sick Days................75
Vacation Scheduling.................76
Bids I Surveys I Classifications
■ Assignment Preference - Janitors and Booth Cleaners..................78
Behr Equipment Operator.............79
Bidding in Plant Services...........80
Data Mite Readings - Body Area.......81
E-Coat Hang/Unhang Staffing.........82
Elimination of Classifications......83
Employee Transfer Notice............84
Pre-Delivery Assignments............85
v
Product Specialist.......................86
Quality Upgrade/Repairs..................87
Quality Upgrader - Restroom Calls........88
Repair Versus Quality Upgrade Classification...........................89
Sewing Room..............................90
Survey 3"1 Shift Utility Before
Posting 2nd Shift Jobs................91
Transfer of Operation....................92
Utility Personnel........................93
Web Based Job Posting System.............94
Plant Services
Cleaning in Material Handling Areas......95
Cleaning Is Inspection - FTPM/FPS........96
Cleaning Rest Rooms and Break Areas.....97
Janitors Overtime........................98
Janitors Working Line Time...............99
Operation of Plant Scrubber............. 100
Parking Lot Maintenance................. 101
Plant Cleaning Schedule................. 102
Steam Cleaning Material Handling Equipment.............................. 103
Trash Container Service................ 104
Trash Room Personnel................... 105
Trash Room Staffing.....................106
Facilities
Cafeteria Committee.................... 107
Facility Issues........................ 108
Medical Facility Staffing.............. 109
Painting of Bay Locations............... 110
Staffing of Medical Department During Peak Hours...................... 111
Water Fountains and Fans............... 112
Water Test............................. 113
vi
Health & Safety
Combustion Equipment Safety........... 114
Emergency Gate Access................. 115
Emergency Lighting.................... 116
Emergency Notification................ 117
Emergency Responders.................. 118
Employees Working on Roof............. 120
Entrance Vestibules................... 121
Ergonomic Process..................... 122
Ergonomic Protective Gloves........... 124
First Responder Training.............. 125
Heat Stress Program................... 126
In-Plant Use of Hazardous Materials and Chemicals....................... 127
Job Safety Analysis (J SA)............ 128
Operation of Power Equipment......... 129
Outside Contractor on Company Property............................ 130
Overhead Protective Wire Guarding.... 132
Preventative Maintenance Logl ........ 133
Propane Powered Vehicles.............. 134
Spray Booth Fire Protection System... 135
Traffic Flow - Chassis Line...........	136
Wet Stock............................. 137
Operations
Cost Meetings......................... 138
Employee Communication................ 139
Hours Before Holidays and Kentucky Derby...................... 140
Inclement Weather Condition Procedures.......................... 141
Included Work - Material Handling.... 143
Joint Manpower Planning and Control Committee............................. 144
vii
Kentucky Derby Festival Impact........ 145
LineSpacing.......................... 146
Line Speed Change.................... 147
Line Time Notification............... 148
Locker Purge......................... 149
Locker Purge Protocol................ 150
Maintenance Building Units in Body Shop......................... 151
Medical Restriction Placement Committee............................ 152
Memorial Plaque...................... 154
Moving Materials for Skilled Trades... 155
Pager for Part-time Committeeperson... 156
Relief Pattern Changes-Mass vs. Tag .... 157
Relief Ratios........................ 158
Relocation of Fans and Water Coolers.. 159
Retiree Appreciation.................. 160
Shift Starting Time Changes.......... 161
Sourcing Initiatives................. 163
Surveillance Inspection.............. 164
Vendor Work and Sorting.............  165
Weld Inspector Line Time in Tear Down Booth........................... 166
Working Through Lunch................ 167
Workload Reallocation Procedure....... 168
Work Standards File Retention........ 169
Overtime
Overtime Equalization................ 170
Overtime Refusal Record Keeping....... 171
Weekend Overtime Scheduling.......... 172
Pay Practices
Daily Report of Time Procedure........ 173
Pay Shortages........................ 175
viii
Skilled Trades
For matters related to Skilled Trades, please refer to the Skilled Trades Section of the Local
Agreement.
Training Driver Safety Training............... 176
Local Training Committee............. 177
Material Handling - Industrial
Lift Truck and Tow Motor Operator Training.................. 179
Supervisor/Committeeperson Early Intervention Training.......... 180
Versatility Training for Absenteeism Coverage............................. 181
New Spray Painter Training........... 182
Prior Letters of Understanding....... 184
EMPLOYEE INFORMATION & AGREEMENTS
The following is provided for your information and assistance. We hope that you will read this booklet in its entirety and refer to it often. We want you to be proud that you are a member of the “UAW/Ford Family” and feel certain that you will continue to find the Louisville Assembly Plant a good place to work.
CHANGE OF ADDRESS I PHONE NUMBER — It is important that your personnel record with the Company be accurate at all times. Any change in address or telephone number should be reported to the Labor Relations Office. A copy of the changes will be provided upon request.
CONDUCT IN THE PLANT — For the well being of all employees and for the proper operation of the plant, it is necessary to have rules and regulations governing the conduct of employees. Shop rules have been posted in the plant. Additional copies may be obtained at the Labor Relations Office.
COVERALLS — It is the Company’s obligation to furnish coveralls/uniforms of the proper type and in condition to afford protection intended. The Company will offer two options to employees during the open enrollment period every 18 months: 1) the option to participate in the coverall program which includes laundry
service or 2) the Company will purchase uniforms (shirt/pant combinations) for which the employee will be responsible for upkeep. If a problem arises concerning coveralls/uniforms, the Committeeperson should discuss it first with the department superintendent. If it is not resolved, it should be referred to Human Resources.
EMPLOYEE SUPPORT SERVICES PROGRAM (ESSP) — Life often presents employees with unexpected challenges at work and at home. The Employee Support Services Program (ESSP) supports UAW-represented Ford workers and their families with a variety of services during changes or difficult decision-making times.
At the core of ESSP is the Employee Assistance Plan (EAP). The Plan provides employees and their families a voluntary and confidential way to obtain counseling, support or professional assistance.
Additional ESSP services address family issues, provide referrals for childcare and disseminate information about personal health and fitness. ESSP is the source for information on wellness activities and for consultation regarding personal decisions.
Contact the ESSP office at (502) 364-3659 (dayshift) or (502) 364-3537 (nights) for confidential assistance.
EMERGENCY CALLS - Emergency calls should be directed to (502) 364-3662. It is the policy of the Louisville Assembly Plant to no
2
tify employees as soon as possible of emergency calls received for them. A record of such calls is maintained and emergency calls will be handled promptly and in the manner dictated by the nature of the telephone message. In order to insure that the message has been delivered, a procedure will be established whereby delivery of the message has been confirmed. To expedite the delivery of emergency messages, the caller should provide your social security number, department number and name of your supervisor.
FOOD SERVICE — The Company provides food service, cafeteria and machine vending, through an agreement with another company -presently Eurest Dining Services. This vendor has the exclusive right by contract to prepare and sell food on plant premises. All other food preparation or sales on plant premises are prohibited.
The Company and its food service provider remain committed to regular, daily, food cart service to the Sealer Deck.
FOUL WEATHERGEAR—Appropriate foul weather gear — two-piece rain suit, hat and galoshes, if required — will be made available upon request to those employees required to work outside when inclement weather conditions exist.
GLOVES — On those operations which are authorized gloves, it is the Company’s obligation to furnish gloves of the proper type and in condition to afford the protection intended.
All members of supervision will be instructed that in the event they are supplied gloves which
3
do not meet the above requirements, such gloves shall be replaced upon request.
HOUSEKEEPING —A clean and orderly work place is a safe work place. All of us have a responsibility to our families and fellow employees to keep our work areas in a clean and orderly condition.
INSURANCE (Hospital, Life, Medical, Surgical and Disability) — Complete information about insurance programs may be obtained by telephoning the National Employee Service Center 1-800-248-4444. This is a toll free number.
LABOR RELATIONS OFFICE — The Labor Relations Office will be open for employees to conduct business as well as check distribution from 6:00 a.m. through the normal Final Area lunch hour of the evening shift during the normal work week.
LINE TIME (Changes in Posted Quitting Times) — Management will make the final determination shortly after lunch as to the number of hours to be worked, and the responsible parties will be notified of this determination. Under normal operating conditions, employees will be given prior notice of at least two (2) hours of a change in posted quitting times.
LOCKERS — Personal lockers are available for employees. In order to be assigned a locker in one of the designated locker rooms, employees must complete a request form in the Labor Relations Office.
4
MEDICAL FACILITIES — The Company provides diagnosis and treatment of all occupational illnesses and injuries at all times. It also provides first aid or temporary care for non-oc-cupational injuries or minor illnesses, until you can get to your own doctor. In cases of any injury or illness, an employee needs to immediately contact their supervisor, who will arrange to have them released to the medical facility in a timely manner.
MEDICAL PLACEMENT — The Company will place medically restricted personnel in accordance with the terms of the Collective Bargaining Agreement and Letters of Understanding utilizing the procedures below:
1.	Management, with information from the Plant Medical Department, will attempt to place restricted personnel on appropriate operations consistent with their capabilities, limitations and seniority.
2.	The process for placement of restricted personnel is to review operations starting with the lowest seniority employee within the department of the restricted employee for placement. It is further understood that available operations within the employee’s classification will be given due consideration.
3.	Should an issue arise in placing a restricted employee, the Plant Medical staff, along with the Plant Placement Committee, will assist in the placement of the employee on an operation that is consistent with their capabilities and limitations.
5
4.	If all of the above efforts fail to place the medically restricted employee, the Company may exercise its rights under Article VIII, Section 27 of the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
5.	Management will review the medical placement of any employee at the request of the Union.
MEDICAL VISITATION — Supervisors should not refuse or unreasonably delay an employee’s request to go to the medical facility for illness or injury. Related complaints will be promptly investigated by Labor Relations and the employee’s Committeeperson.
Employees desiring proof of medical visitation or treatment will be provided such documentation upon request.
NATIONAL GUARD DUTY — Employees who are members of the National Guard or Military Reserves will be given consideration for early quit (12:00 midnight) to those employees who have weekend military obligations and who notify their supervisors in advance.
OCCUPATIONAL INJURY — The Company will provide transportation home for employees injured at work who are unable to drive, or arrange for alternate transportation. I f an employee is required to leave Company property for treatment of occupational injury or illness, the Company will compensate them for their transportation.
If occupational medical restriction(s) are issued to an employee, the Medical Department will
6
provide the employee notice of the length of their restriction(s) at the time the restriction(s) are issued.
PARKING FACILITIES —The Company provides ample parking space for employee vehicles. Park with care, giving consideration to your fellow employee’s vehicle. Do not park in aisles. Drive at a safe speed and follow the traffic flow pattern established for entering and leaving the parking lot. The parties have agreed to recycle plastic drums for use as trash receptacles in the employee parking lots. We ask that you help keep the lots clean by using the drums provided to dispose of your trash.
PAYCHECK DISTRIBUTION — Management will distribute hourly paychecks during the first hour of the shift. This understanding is based on the fact that the paychecks have been received at the plant and no unusual operating conditions exist.
The Labor Relations Office will be open for check distribution from 6:00 a.m. through the normal Final Area lunch hour of the evening shift during the normal work week.
PAYDAY FOR AFTERNOON SHIFT — During local negotiations the Company and Union representatives discussed the matter of Thursday payday for afternoon shift employees. You were advised that we will continue the practice of paying employees on the afternoon shift on Thursday. However, in the event that absenteeism on the afternoon shift on Friday exceeds the comparable absenteeism on the other afternoon shifts
7
of the week, it may become necessary to deviate from such practice. In the event this is contemplated, the Union will be notified and a meeting will be held with the Union Committee and Labor Relations before any deviation of the practice becomes effective.
PAYDAY FALLING ON A HOLIDAY — The afternoon shift will receive their paychecks the Tuesday before Thanksgiving and the Wednesday before Good Friday. This practice is dependent upon the Plant’s ability to receive paychecks to support this timetable. The company reserves the right to alter this distribution schedule if required by changes in Ford Motor Company payroll policy.
PAY SHORTAGES — Under present operating conditions, when an employee discovers a pay shortage of one hour or more, they may request payment of such shortage from their supervisor. Such shortage claim will be paid Friday locally. If the shortage is a day’s pay or more, the employee may request that a separate check be issued from Corporate Payroll.
PERSONAL PROPERTY DAMAGE (WEARING APPAREL) - The following procedure is to be used to submit a claim for reimbursement for shoes and clothing which are damaged in actions such as acid spills, fire fighting and line ruptures.
•	Obtain a Personal Property Damage claim form from Labor Relations.
•	Complete the form in its entirety and return it to Labor Relations with the damaged property and the original receipt or a
8
receipt showing replacement of the item. Depreciation of the damaged property will be taken into account. The form and item will be turned into Worker Compensation for action.
•	The Workers Compensation Representative is responsible for processing the form and receipt and submitting the claim to Workers Compensation in Dearborn, Michigan for action.
•	The reimbursement should appear in the claimants paycheck approximately 45 days after submission of the claim.
•	You may contact the Workers Compensation Representative at (502) 364-3638 with questions regarding the procedure or status of your claim. For off shift employees or anyone else, you may contact Labor Relations for information or status which will require a 24 hour turnaround.
PHYSICAL THERAPY (PT) — The parties recognize the importance of physical therapy for physical rehabilitation, work conditioning, work readiness and back care. The Company agrees to make every effort to allow employees to attend their scheduled therapy appointments. Accordingly, the Company has implemented a process whereby the daily PT schedule is provided to the parties in advance, to better plan for job coverage of employees going to physical therapy. The Union understands, however, that on an infrequent basis, such appointments may need to be promptly rescheduled at a time that is agreeable to both Company and employee.
9
YOUR SUPERVISOR - No individual in the Company will have as much to do with your welfare and progress as your immediate supervisor. They are the members of Management whom you should contact for information and assistance. Since they are responsible for the operation of your department, they must maintain established standards of quality and see that the desired quantity is produced. They are also responsible for maintenance of discipline and all in-plant communications.
UNION MEETINGS — You are reminded that meetings of the local Union are held on the Tuesday following the second Monday of every month at the Ron Gettelfinger Hall, (502) 969-9136, located at 3000 Fern Valley Road, or the Owen C. Hammons Hall (502) 241-9491, located at 2702 New Chamberlain. The Union Committee room phone numbers are (502) 364-3654 and (502) 364-3918.
10
REPORTING PROCEDURE REPORTING YOUR ABSENCE
Employees have the responsibility to report to work and be on time. The company, however, recognizes that there may be occasions when it will be necessary for employees to be absent or tardy. On these occasions, employees are required to notify the Company utilizing the steps outlined below:
•	Whenever possible, request permission in advance to be absent or tardy. (Personal leave hours are specifically provided for this purpose.)
•	If you are unable to provide advance notice, you must call in before the start of the shift and report your absence or tardiness. The Plant maintains specific call-in telephone lines for this purpose. The telephone number is 1 (866) 893-0576 and this system will automatically record your call-in. You must call each day you are absent.
•	If you are absent for three (3) or more consecutive days as a result of illness, you must call either the Plant Medical Department at (502) 364-3629 or Labor Relations at (502) 364-3645, and request a Conditional Medical Leave.
VERIFYING YOUR NEED TO BE ABSENT OR TARDY
When you are absent or tardy, you must verify your need to be away from work through Labor Relations using the following procedure:
11
•	Each employee should review the previous day’s DROT and verify how they were carried.
•	Employees who are carried A or L must report to Labor Relations and verify their reason for being absent or tardy. Employee’s have three (3) working days from the date of the occurrence to report.
•	Employees must verify their absence or tardiness in person and on their own time. Boxes for depositing absence verifications are located in ‘A’ Aisle by the Labor Relations Office and in the west employee entrance vestibule. An electronic date stamp is provided at both locations.
LEAVES OF ABSENCE
CONDITIONAL MEDICALS — A written conditional medical leave is issued for illness or injury expected to keep you from work for three (3) or more days. Such a leave can only be obtained from the Labor Relations Office. We suggest that you protect your seniority by obtaining a conditional medical leave by notifying the Labor Relations Office by (1) personal visit, (2) telephone (502) 364-3642 or 364-3645, (3) letter or telegram, or (4) notification by agent. All employees who are absent 3 or more days due to illness or injury or who have been issued a conditional medical leave must report to the Plant Medical Department before reporting to the job for verification of ability to return to work. In order to avoid delays when returning to work, it would be advisable to plan to obtain clearance the day before you plan to return to work.
12
By following the above procedure, you will be assured that proper medical information is furnished and that records reflect the proper amount of leave of absence time. By doing so, you will help assure correct payment of any sick benefits to which you might be entitled as well as proper pay for actual time worked.
FAMILY AND MEDICAL LEAVE ACT OF 1993 (FMLA) - You may qualify for non-paid time off to (1) care for your child after birth, (2) care for your spouse, child or parent who has a serious health condition, or (3) due to a personal serious health condition that makes you unable to perform your job. To ensure that you meet the all of the qualifications for FMLA, you must apply in person at the Labor Relations Office prior to taking time off.
PERSONAL—You may obtain a personal leave for compelling reasons (other than personal illness or injury) for a period up to 30 days, if you can be spared, by making a request with your supervisor. The request must be approved by your supervisor in order to be valid. Such leave may be extended upon approval of the Supervisor for Labor Relations.
FAILURE TO REPORT
FIVE (5) DAY NOTICES — Article VIII, Section 5 of the Master Agreement describes the reasons for which seniority shall be broken. Subsection (4) addresses Failure to Report and prescribes the form of the five-day notice that the Company must send to an employee’s last
13
known address according to the Company’s records. Therefore, it should be important to you to keep the Company record of your address accurate at all times. Failure to do so may result in loss of seniority and termination of employment because a change in address without notifying the Company, so that the notice is sent according to the Company’s record but is not claimed by the addressee, is not considered to meet the test of “impossibility” to respond to the notice.
Should you receive a five (5) day notice, you have a responsibility to communicate with the Company within five working days after the notice is sent (excluding Saturdays, Sundays and Holidays). This responsibility is excused only by proof that you could not have responded.
14
KENTUCKY TRUCK PLANT RECOGNITION AGREEMENT
It is mutually agreed between the Ford Motor Company, Vehicle Operations, Louisville Assembly Plant, and the International Union, UAW, Local 862, on January 23, 1969 at Louisville, Kentucky, that the following provisions will establish the Kentucky Truck Plant Agreement.
WITNESSETH:
WHEREAS, the company is planning to transfer its Truck Operations from its Louisville Assembly Plant at Louisville, Kentucky, to its Kentucky Truck Plant, in O’Bannon, Kentucky.
WHEREAS, the Company is willing to transfer the affected employees from the affected employees from the Louisville Assembly Plant to the Kentucky Truck Plant.
NOW, THEREFORE, it is agreed as follows:
1.	The Company hereby recognizes the Union as the exclusive collective bargaining representative for hourly-rated employees of the Company at its Kentucky Truck Plant, falling within the categories comprising the contract unit referred to in Article I, Section I of the Collective Bargaining Agreement dated October 25, 1967 as it applies to the Louisville Assembly Plant. It is understood that the Collective Bargaining Agreement dated October 25,1967, is applicable to such new unit pursuant to its Article I, Section 4. The Kentucky Truck Plant, in O’Bannon, Kentucky, shall be a separate unit for the purpose of providing representation and operating
15
under the Collective Bargaining Agreement and shall not be deemed part of other existing units.
2.	The order of transfer of those employees who are offered and elect to transfer to the Kentucky Truck Plant will be determined at the discretion of Management.
3.	Employees who are offered and elect to transfer to the Kentucky Truck Plant shall carry to the Kentucky Truck Plant the seniority they have at the Louisville Assembly Plant and shall retain no seniority rights with respect to the Louisville Assembly Plant, except as provided in Paragraph 14 below.
4.	Transferred employees will be placed on model change-over layoff from the Louisville Assembly Plant if necessary in accordance with Article VIII Section 21(a) of the Master Agreement. The layoff period may be extended if needed by the mutual consent of the parties.
5.	Employees so laid-off will be recalled as their jobs start up at the Kentucky Truck Plant irrespective of Company seniority in accordance with Article VIII, Section 21(b).
6.	The Company will survey those employees to be offered transfers to the Kentucky Truck Plant. The affected employees will be solicited on a onetime basis and their individual decisions will be irrevocable. The employees shall have one week to accept in writing such transfer. The Company, in the instance of those employees who refuse to transfer, shall reassign these employees to the Passenger system at the discretion of Management. Those employees remaining on Truck
16
operations at the time their job ceases and who have declined transfer shall exercise their seniority in accordance with the Master Agreement and the Louisville Assembly Plant Seniority Agreement within a period of 5 working days following the cessation of their operation.
7.	The Company will also survey those employees whose assignments cover both Passenger and Commercial: (1) Skilled trades, (2) Plant services, (3) Unloader pilers on the unloading dock, (4) Receiving checkers, (5) Standard parts crib, (6) Tug operators, (7) Fork operators, (8) Tool crib attendants. Seniority of those who have indicated a desire to transfer shall be given due consideration; however, those to be transferred shall be at the discretion of the Company as it is necessary to operate both plants efficiently. The employee shall have one week to accept in writing such transfer.
8.	The Company shall not be obligated to consider an employee who has indicated a desire to transfer to the Kentucky Truck Plant for promotion, non-promotional, or other transfer to a job outside the Truck Operations.
9.	A procedure shall be established whereby an employee who is on the rolls as of the date of this Agreement and whose operation is not affected, and who is not included in the survey, (such as passenger assembly operations) may go to the employment office and indicate his desire to transfer to the Kentucky Truck Plant. This procedure will be in effect for one month following the conclusion of the surveys in accordance with Paragraph 6 and 7. The transfer of these employ
17
ees shall be at the sole discretion of the Company; however, seniority will be given due consideration. Employees who are transferred will have their seniority determined in accordance with Paragraph 3 of this Agreement.
10.	Employees laid off as a result of being displaced by greater seniority employees under Paragraph 6 above will be offered transfers as work which they can perform becomes available at the Kentucky Truck Plant. If they transfer, they shall carry to the Kentucky Truck Plant the seniority they have at the Louisville Assembly Plant and shall retain no seniority rights with respect to the Louisville Assembly Plant, except as provided in Paragraph 14 below.
11.	Transfers from the Louisville Assembly Plant will not be considered as involving layoff from said plant for any purposes, except as provided in No. 4 above.
12.	Classification and wage rates currently in effect on the Truck and supporting operations at the Louisville Assembly Plant will be extended and instituted at the Kentucky Truck Plant.
Local agreements to be in effect at the Kentucky Truck Plant under the Collective Bargaining Agreement shall be negotiated locally.
a.	An employee on the rolls of the Louisville Assembly Plant as of the date of this Agreement and who is subsequently laid off in a reduction in force at either the Louisville Assembly Plant or the Kentucky Truck Plant shall during the fourth week from the date of his layoff effect in writing at the
18
Employment Office of the plant from which he is on layoff to:
If on other than a skilled classification, exercise his seniority against the lowest seniority employee in the labor pool at the other plant, or remain on the recall list from his present location.
b.	If on a skilled classification, exercise his seniority against the lowest seniority employee on his classification at the other plant, or remain on the recall list from his present location.
If the employee elects to exercise his seniority in either a or b above, the Company shall effect such seniority adjustment by the end of the fourth week of the employee’s layoff unless the employee by that time has been recalled to his present location.
Any employee who makes no election in writing during the fourth week of his layoff at the Employment Office of the plant from which he is on layoff shall be deemed to have elected to remain on the recall list from his present location.
Ford Motor Company International Louisville Assembly Plant Union Local 862
T.L. LaVeck
H.E Dean
R.L Doughty
R.W. White
R.B. Thomas
R.T. MacCrackin
S. Rowe
G. Nixon
O.C Hammons
G.R. Wagoner
19
OVERTIME AGREEMENT -NON-SKILLED
Equalization List
The following overtime equalization lists will be maintained as follows:
Clean-Up Department
An equalization list will be maintained in the Clean-Up Department, by classification, by shift.
Production
Repair - Repairmen working in Chassis, after the gas fill operation, will equalize overtime with the Repairmen assigned to Pre-delivery in their respective Repair classification, by shift. Repairmen, prior to gas fill, will equalize overtime with their respective Repair classifications in Chassis and Trim, by shift and will not equalize with Pre-Delivery.
The Company agrees that appropriate Repair will be scheduled whenever Roll Test is scheduled to run production.
Equalization lists will be maintained for the following groups as indicated:
Paint Sprayers - By Superintendent’s area department, by shift
Paint Mixers - By shift
Drivers - By department, by shift
Utility (all groups) - By Superintendent’s area, designated department zones, by shift
Caster & Camber (tow-in, DROT 6350 R) by shift
20
Quality Leaders will equalize overtime by department, by shift.
For employees working on tire and wheel operations, all scheduled non-production overtime hours will be rotated between the second and third shift employees.
Production Control
All classifications by classification, by department, by shift except Purchasing in which all classifications shall constitute one group.
Quality Control
By classification, by department, by shift assigned except Utility Inspector, and Receiving Inspector. Utility Inspector will share overtime with Inspectors assigned to Pre-Delivery. Receiving Inspector shall constitute a separate group by shift.
This will confirm the understanding that all Door, Deck, Hood Fit & Adjust (DDHF&A employees) working in Pre-Delivery will equalize as one group, by shift and supplemented by other DDHF&A employees in Body, by seniority.
Overtime Administration Provisions
The Provisions Regarding Overtime are as Follows:
1.	All overtime hours worked shall be recorded.
2.	All reasonable means will be employed to equalize overtime by classification or groups indicated above. Management will make all reasonable efforts to keep the
21
overtime equalization spread within a classification and/or overtime group within fifty (50) hours. It is further understood that such equalization of overtime opportunity shall be given not later than the second overtime opportunity occurring after the imbalance occurs.
3.	Equalization of overtime will be based on the number of hours paid.
4.	Employees who refuse overtime assignment for any reason will be charged for the hours they would have worked provided they have been given the proper notification in accordance with the applicable provisions governing overtime in the Master Agreement.
5.	An employee will not be charged for refusing an overtime opportunity offered for work during their lunch period. All overtime worked during a lunch period is charged in the normal fashion.
6.	Employees who accept a voluntary overtime assignment and fail to report for work will be charged double the number of hours they would have been charged.
7.	Employees absent for any reason will be charged for the overtime they would have otherwise been scheduled to work on that day.
8.	An employee entering an overtime group will assume the maximum number of hours on the new classification.
9.	Loaned employees shall be charged with overtime on their group overtime list.
10.	Employees transferred from one shift to
22
another in the same classification will be placed in same numerical position on the overtime equalization list as they were before the transfer.
11.	Employees transferring from one overtime group to another on the same shift and in the same classification will move into the same numerical position in the new group as in the old group before the move.
12.	In applying the above provisions of this Agreement, all reasonable means will be employed to equalize overtime among shifts.
13.	In applying the above provisions of this Agreement, all reasonable means will be employed to equalize overtime among utility groups within a department.
14.	Employees on a temporary classification shall not equalize overtime on that classification in which they are temporarily or permanently classified. However, if all the employees permanently classified are scheduled to work overtime and additional employees are needed, temporary classified employees may be utilized. When reclassified to their permanent classification, they will assume the high hours of that classification.
15.	Management shall post the overtime sheets once each week in a mutually agreed upon location. The department Superintendent or equivalent, will be responsible for the coordination of overtime equalization in each department. The Daily Report of Time (DROT SHEET) of the previous
23
work day will be available for the perusal of the appropriate district committeeperson and the appropriability of changes can be checked. Employees will have two (2) weeks to correct an error in the hours indicated on the overtime sheets.
16.	Supplementing Overtime Group a. The Pre-Delivery Trim Repair classification will be supplemented in the following order:
1.	Department Trim Repair
2.	Pre-Delivery General Utility
3.	Department Utility Group 3
4.	Department Quality Leaders b. The Repair General classification
(Shop Department 6340 N) will be supplemented in the following order:
1.	Department Repair General
2.	Department Utility Group 3
3.	Department Quality Leaders
c.	The Pre-Delivery drivers will be supplemented in the following classification order:
1.	Chassis department drivers
2.	Pre-Delivery General Utility
3.	Pre-Delivery Accent Stripe Applicator
. 4. Pre-Delivery Assemblers
5.	Chassis department classifications other than Repair, Utility Group 3, Quality Leaders, and Inspectors.
d.	The Pre-Delivery Inspector Final Accept classification will be supplemented in the following order:
24
1.	Inspector-Road Test (dynamic drive)
2.	Final Area Inspectors
3.	General Utility in the Shop
e.	When supplementing the Superintendent’s area Utility groups, the low overtime Utility within the department’s other overtime group shall be utilized.
f.	When it becomes necessary to supplement the Inspector classification, the senior Assemblers in the department affected will be given the opportunity to qualify.
Overtime Administration Provisions - Central and Production Plant Services
The Provisions Regarding Overtime for the Clean-Up Group are as Follows:
The Company will develop and implement within 90 days of ratification, an overtime scheduling system patterned from the Skill Trades overtime scheduling system.
1.	Plant Services employees will be offered twelve (12) hour shifts before being supplemented by production employees.
2.	Overtime will be charged according to number of hours paid.
3.	Employees who accept the overtime opportunity and fail to report to work will be charged double the number of hours they would have been charged.
4.	To be properly excused from overtime, an employee must submit an Opt-Oflf request through the Plant Services Overtime
25
Scheduling System which is under development. All Opt-Off requests for Saturday and Sunday must be submitted by 8:00 a.m. of the Wednesday preceding the Saturday and Sunday being refused. Overtime refused will be charged accordingly.
5.	Employees must be notified before the end of shift to be charged with any overtime for the following shift.
6.	When either rolling or being rolled from a shift, employees will be placed in the same numerical position on the overtime equalization list as they were before the roll, and will have . 1 hour added to their new overtime equalization hours.
7.	The Company will post the final weekend schedule by 8:00 AM Thursday
Clean-Up Overtime Procedures-Supplement-ing Paint Spray Booth & Duct Cleaner Classifications
1.	Spray Booth & Duct Cleaner employees will be offered twelve (12) hour shifts before being supplemented.
2.	Production employees in the Paint Department will sign up on the H321 DROT form indicating #2 or #3 shifts or both.
3.	The H321 DROT run will be collected at lunch every Wednesday for processing. Employees will be selected by rotation only. Rotation is area A through G and back to A.
4.	The weekend cleanup sheet will be posted no later than Thursday morning.
5.	When an employee elects not to sign up
26
for weekend cleanup, he or she will not be charged for those hours available on Saturday or Sunday. Hours worked for weekend cleanup will not be charged.
6.	This cleanup overtime procedure will not affect overtime hours worked Monday through Friday or production work on weekends.
7.	Only employees that will not impact overtime equalization will be considered for special events or programs.
8.	Production related tasks take priority over supplementing weekend cleanup. If the weekend work assignments have been completed, management reserves the option to utilize by classification those employees by overtime equalization. Employees will be surveyed and if refused, will be charged for overtime refusal.
27
Nothing in the foregoing shall be construed as abrogating or modifying the Company’s rights as expressed in Article IV, Section 6 of the Master Agreement or of the comparable clause in any new Collective Bargaining Agreement which replaces the September 29, 2003 Agreement.
Ford Motor Company International
Louisville Assembly Plant UnionLocal 862
Vehicle Operations Region 3
Union Affairs	National Ford Dept.
28
Promotional Job Posting Agreement
It is mutually agreed between the Ford Motor Company, Vehicle Operations, Louisville Assembly Plant, and the International Union, UAW, Local 862, on September 29,2003, at Louisville, Kentucky that the following provisions will govern promotional job posting issues when employees bid on an open classification:
1.	All jobs open for bid will be posted each Tuesday, provided it is not a holiday, and remain up for three days. Before a bid is posted, Management will make every effort to complete all surveys and manpower reassignments to afford interested bidders the best information about the available openings. Acceptance letters will be posted for all non-skilledjobs the following Monday, provided it is not a holiday.
2.	Under present operating conditions, bidding on a lower paid or non-production job will be allowed on jobs that are now normally posted. Employees accepted on a non-production or lower paying classification will not be permitted to bid on another job for at least six (6) months from the date of the acceptance.
a.	Openings created by bidding down on production classifications will be filled, in the first instance, by promotional department bid and then plantwide.
b.	Secondary openings created by bidding down on production classifi
29
cations will be filled by department survey of the General Labor Pool classifications.
3.	Bidding on jobs with equal pay will not be permitted more often than every four (4) months.
4.	Bidding on jobs with a higher rate of pay or skill shall be permitted as often as every sixty (60) days.
5.	Any employee who has accepted a job by bid shall be placed on the job not later than fifteen (15) calendar days after the acceptance letter has been posted unless by mutual agreement the time is extended.
6.	Any employee who has accepted a job by bid will be allowed to submit a shift preference card thirty calendar (30) days after the acceptance letter is posted.
7.	When the bid closes, the Company and Union will compile the bids in a seniority manner. After a job has been posted for bid, the bid list will be used for 30 calendar days from the date the bid closed.
8.	When employees bid on a job and do not withdraw their bid prior to the acceptance letter being posted, they must accept the job on which they bid for not less than the time described above. If for any reason after accepting a job through bidding then requesting to be relieved of the job to which they have been transferred, employees shall not be permitted to return to the job they left. They shall be sent to the Labor Relations Office and, in turn, shall be placed on a list to be eligible for transfer based on
30
seniority and qualifications to available work. Available work is defined as exhausted bids or openings historically filled by new hires, reinstates, or rehires. The Company and Union shall mutually consult and agree upon any such transfer. Openings created as a result of employees giving up their classifications, under the terms of this section (9) of the agreement, will in the first instance be filled by department bid and then plant-wide bid. Secondary openings will be filled by department seniority survey. Employees who are offered and refuse such transfer will not be allowed to apply for this type of transfer for a period of 12 months from the date the transfer was offered. Those employees who accept such transfer will not be allowed to bid or apply for any future openings for a period of 12 months from the effective date of transfer.
9.	Pursuant to the Louisville Job Posting Agreement, employees will be permitted to register their desires of promotion or transfer, to job vacancies occasioned by an increase in production or classification, which the Company fills, with a pay rate above the base assembly rate.
Temporary Assignments
In the event a temporary non-skilled assignment is required for more than six months, other than seasonal jobs or medical replacements, the Company agrees to permanently fill the position in accordance with the existing bid procedure .
31
Temporary Rates — In the event it becomes necessary for the Company to put into effect temporary classifications for vacation, other authorized leaves or temporary special operations, the senior assembler in the department will be given the opportunity to qualify for placement on such temporary classifications.
If Temporary Inspectors are needed to supplement the Inspector classification, the senior assemblers in the Department affected will be given the opportunity to qualify.
Non-Promotional Agreement
Before any non-promotional moves occur, they will be discussed jointly at the weekly Joint Manpower Planning Meeting.
When personnel are required in another department and or area, the Company will consider department transfer of seniority employees, on the same shift, to fill a shortfall.
The Company will provide applications to interested personnel in the Labor Relations Office. The application will be retained for one calendar year. To be considered for a department transfer, the application must be on file in the Labor Relations Office for thirty (30) calendar days prior to management considering the applicant for a transfer. Any employee who has been offered and does not accept a transfer will not be eligible for consideration until at least six (6) months have elapsed from the date of the offer by management. An employee making a transfer to another department or area must be
32
capable of performing the work task in the new department or area. If the employee is unable to perform the job, the employee will be sent back to the department they were transferred from. Once a transfer is made, the applicant will not be permitted another transfer using this avenue until at least twelve (12) months have elapsed from the date of the transfer. Any employee who accepts a transfer to another department will be able to submit a shift or starting time preference card thirty (30) days from the transfer.
Labor Relations will publish a listing of personnel interested in a department or area transfer quarterly to management and union representatives.
It is further understood that the Company will act on applications for non-promotional transfers as stated under Article IV, Section 2 (b).
Assignment Preference
Before any surveys occur, they will be discussed jointly at the weekly Joint Manpower Planning Meeting.
•	BURKE PORTER OPERATION - When assigning employees to the Burke Porter operation, the Company will give due consideration of such assignments to the senior qualified employee, plant-wide, within the classification ofTrim Repair.
•	CHASSIS DEPARTMENT. SECTION R - When assigning employees to Chassis Department, Section R, due consideration will be given to the senior qualified em
33
ployee within the Utility classification within the Chassis Department.
DIRT ANALYST BACK-UP - The Company will train a back-up to provide absentee coverage. When such assignment openings occur, the senior Utility will be given due consideration by survey.
DRIVER OPENINGS (CHASSIS) - All Chassis driver openings will be filled by survey within the classification, by seniority, by shift, prior to bidding.
INSPECTOR - FINAL ACCEPTANCE (Pre-Delivery) - The Company agrees that openings will be filled by seniority survey of employees in the Inspector - Final Line classification from the supporting departments (excluding those Inspectors already holding a job filled by survey). If the survey becomes exhausted, the opening will be filled by bid.
PRE-DELIVERY ASSIGNMENTS: When filling a permanent opening in PreDelivery (other than Utility), a survey of employees holding the same classification as the opening, in other departments, will be conducted in seniority order.
INSPECTOR AND REPAIR CLASSIFICATIONS: The parties agree that employees that hold a survey position in the inspector and repair classifications will be eligible to be surveyed, in line of seniority, for the same jobs on different shifts within their classification.
CLEANER - GENERAL - When assignment openings occur for Cleaners in Plant
34
Services, the senior Cleaner will be given due consideration.
•	SPRAY BOOTH & DUCT CLEANER -When assignment openings occur for Spray Booth & Duct Cleaners in Paint Department, the senior Booth Cleaner will be given due consideration.
•	MATERIAL HANDLING POSITIONS: The Material Handling Department employees will be surveyed for both the “frame fork” position and the “yard dog” position, as well as all other dock positions, by classification, by seniority. Remaining open positions will be placed for bid.
•	QUALITY LEADER BACK-UP: The senior Utility in the zone will be given due consideration for such placement, if qualified.
•	TAG RELIEF - The senior Utility in the zone will be given due consideration for replacing the relief person for short term absences, if qualified.
This agreement shall become effective concurrently with the effective date of a new Collective Bargaining Agreement which replaces the October 29, 1999 Collective Bargaining Agreement or any extension of the October 29, 1999 Collective Bargaining Agreement other than an extension for a temporary or indefinite period shall remain in effect for the same period as such new or extended Collective Bargaining Agreement, except as otherwise expressly provided herein.
35
In accordance with Article IV, Section 2(a) of the Collective Bargaining Agreement, pertaining to promotions, this agreement is signed subject to the approval of the National Ford Department of the UAW and the Human Resource Staff of the Company.
Ford Motor Company International
Louisville Assembly Plant UnionLocal 862
Vehicle Operations UAW Region 3
Union Affairs
National Ford Dept.
36
SENIORITY AGREEMENT
It is mutually agreed between Ford Motor Company, Vehicle Operations, Louisville Assembly Plant, and the International Union, Local 862, on November 9, 2003 at Louisville, Kentucky that the following provisions will govern seniority, occupational groupings, reduction in force and recall issues.
1.	General Seniority Principles
A.	Seniority shall be exercised at a time of reduction in force, recall, bidding on betterjobs, and where a job has been eliminated on a plant wide basis.
B.	Seniority employees informing the Labor Relations Office of their desire to quit on a certain day and/or hour shall be considered terminated as of the day and/or hour and all their previous seniority shall be cancelled.
C.	The names of employees shall be placed on a plant wide seniority list in order of their seniority. In the event of reductions in force or recall, employees shall be laid off or recalled according to their standing on the plant wide seniority list except as otherwise provided therein. Seniority lists will be posted monthly at the east and west main entrances and the main entrance to the paint facility.
2.	Tie Break
A.	Other Than Skilled —The principle covering seniority tie-breaks for all other employees at the Louisville Assembly Plant
37
shall be as follows:
1)	Employees with a transfer leveling seniority date will be administered in accordance with the provisions of Article VIII, Section 1 C of the Master Agreement.
2)	Seniority of employees hired on the same day will be by the last four digits of the Social Security number. The highest number will be the senior employee. If the last four are the same, the highest full Social Security number will be the senior employee.
B.	Vacation Scheduling Tie Break - Employees transferred from other plants will establish the same plant seniority date, the employee with greater company seniority will be the senior employee for vacation scheduling.
3.	Occupational Groupings
Other Than Skilled Occupational Groups - In the event of a reduction in force, employees in Designated (3-B) classifications listed below may be kept at work out of line with plant wide seniority on the type of work in their classification only in accordance with the Master Collective Bargaining Agreement. Employees in any of these classifications who are laid off from the active rolls shall not be recalled to their former classifications in this group while there is a seniority employee working who can qualify for that classification. Employees in these Designated (3-B) Classifica
38
tions working out of line with plant wide seniority will work according to their seniority in each classification:
GROUP I - GENERAL LABOR POOL
Assembler Body
Assembler Chassis
Assembler Paint
Trim Stock to Car (Assembler)
GROUP II - BODY
Designated (3-B)
Quality Leader
Door, Deck, Hood- Fit & Adjust
Undesignated
Transfer & Line Up Welder (all types Spot & Gun)
Metal Touch Up & Repair SPC Data Coordinator Utility (all groups)
Welder - Arc Acetylene & Gas
GROUP HI - PAINT
Designated (3-B)
Quality Leader Behr Operator Paint Mixer Paint Repair Pt. Sol. & Proc. Equip -
Attendant
Paint Sprayer
SPC Data Coordinator Utility (all groups)
Undesignated
Block Sander/
Masker
Body Sealer
Spray Booth &
Duct Cleaner
Transfer & Line Up
39
GROUP IV-TRIM
Designated (3-B)
Quality Leader
Door, Deck, Hood Fit
& Adjust
SPC Data Coordinator
Trim Repair
Utility (all groups)
Undesignated
Chrome Stock
Body Molding
Dome Light
Installation Heater Installation Instrument Panel
Installation
Line Up-Scheduler
Transfer & Line Up Windshield &
Backlight
Installation
GROUP V-CHASSIS Designated (3-B)
Quality Leader Accent Stripe -
Applicator
Body Decker
Door, Deck, Hood Fit
& Adjust
Dinger - Painted Body Sheet Metal
Motor Decker Repair General SPC Data Coordinator Utility (all groups)
Undesignated
Check & Shim -
Caster & Camber Driver-Car & Truck Front Seat
Installation Transfer & Line Up
GROUP VI -PRODUCTION CONTROL
Designated (3-B)
Assembly Stock Checker
Billing Clerk
Clerk Schedule
40
Clerk Stock Inventory
Crib Attendant
Industrial Tow Tug Operator
Line Feeder
MRC
Receiving Checker
Shipping Clerk
Stock Status, Control & Follow Up
Utility (all groups)
GROUP VII - QUALITY CONTROL
Designated (3-B)
Defective Stock Repair
Greenbelt
Inspector - Body
Inspector - Final Acceptance
Inspector - Final Line
Inspector - Paint
Inspector - Receiving
Inspector - Road Test
Inspector-Trim
QLS Coordinator
SPC Data Coordinator
Utility (all groups)
GROUP VIII - PLANT SERVICES
Designated (3-B)
Cleaner - General Utility
Cleaner - General
Industrial Lift Truck Operator Lye Tank & Kolene Operator
Power Sweeper Operator
41
4.	Reductions in Force
A. Other Than Skilled
1)	In the event of a reduction in force, the following classifications will be reduced as follows:
a.	Utility or Surveillance Inspector Classifications - An employee so classified will be returned to their former classification and department in line with their seniority.
b.	System Validation Operation - The current operators will be re-classified as, Inspector - Final Acceptance, within the Pre-delivery Department.
c.	Inspector-Road Test Classification -Affected employees will exercise his or her seniority within their classification by department;
d.	Relief Operations - Employees on such operations will exercise his or her seniority within their classification by department by shift.
e.	Stock Status, Control & Follow-Up / Forklift or Receiving Checker Classification - The senior employee affected in either of the two classifications shall exercise his or her seniority against the least senior employee in the other classification or be assigned available work. If the employee has elected not to exercise his or her seniority and returns to available work they shall retain recall rights to their original classification only.
42
f.	Tow Tug or Stock Status, Control & Follow-Up / Forklift Classifications -When a simultaneous opening occurs in another department, that opening shall be filled through Seniority Survey of the classification affected.
g.	MRC, QLS, Greenbelts, and SPC Data Coordinators - Are each considered separate groupings. Employees in any of these positions will exercise seniority within their grouping, and then will be returned to their former classification and department in line with their seniority.
2)	An employee on a Designated (3-B) classification, other than the classifications identified above - The employee will exercise his or her seniority as follows: a. By seniority within their classification;
b.	Against the least senior employee in the labor pool classifications within their department;
c.	Against the least senior employee in the labor pool classification plant wide.
3)	An employee on an undesignated or labor pool classification - The employee will exercise his or her seniority as follows: a. By seniority within their classification within their department;
b.	Against the least senior employee in the labor pool classification within their department;
43
c.	Against the least senior employee in labor pool classification plant wide.
4)	Employee in classifications listed as Designated (3-B) - The Company shall transfer and place those with least seniority on jobs where they are needed and accorded full seniority rights as of date of transfer.
5)	Employees transferred from one department to another shall qualify by holding two-thirds of operation in three (3) days and full operation in a reasonable length of time to be decided by the Department Supervisor and the Committeeperson.
6)	During a layoff for change of models, the Company may lay the employees off as their work on the outgoing model is completed, and bring them back as their classifications or departments begin work on the new model. Any work done in the plant while it is shut down for change of models and vacation shutdown will be done by employees from the top of the plant wide seniority list with the exception of work covered by the classifications in paragraphs 3(a) and 3(b) Designated. Exceptions may be made by local agreement.
Interpretation of the Seniority Agreement between Ford Local 862 UAW and the Ford Motor Company, paragraph 10 means, “During a complete shut down for change of models, and not to be misconstrued as a curtailment in production.”
7)	Temporary layoff within the Stock Status Control & Follow Up Classification will
44
be by seniority of qualified employees within the department.
It is understood that the bumping employee must be qualified, that no break-in training will be necessary and that the bumping employee’s work output will be comparable to that of the employee bumped.
8)	It is further agreed that during periods of temporary layoffs the greater seniority Quality Control employees by classification will work within the department in which their work assignments are located, with exception of Inspector-Receiving which is covered by separate agreement.
5.	Recall
A.	Job Openings in Designated (3-B) classifications as a result of increase in production or classification will be filled in the first instance by the recall of employees previously reduced from Designated (3-B) classifications who are on the active roll at the time the opening occurs. Employees have the right to decline, but in doing so will forfeit all recall rights to such classification. Recall rights will also be forfeited for those employees who have accepted a bid to another classification.
B.	Employees reduced from Undesignated jobs will retain recall rights to that classification so long as they remain in the department from which reduced and have not been transferred to another classification.
C.	Employees reduced from General Labor Pool Classifications will retain recall rights
45
for six (6) months from the reduction in force date provided the employee has not been accepted on a bid job or previously declined such recall opportunity.
D.	Employees transferred from the Shop, including chassis hoist, due to a reduction in force, excluding those on temporary assignments, will retain recall rights for six months from the transfer date provided the employee has not been accepted on a bid job or previously declined such recall opportunity.
46
This agreement shall become effective concurrently with the effective date of (a) any new Collective Bargaining Agreement which replaces the October 29, 1999 Collective Bargaining Agreement or (b) any extension of the October 29,1999 Collective Bargaining Agreement (other than an extension for a temporary or indefinite period) and shall remain in effect for the same period as such new or extended Collective Bargaining Agreement, except as otherwise expressly provided herein.
In accordance with Article VIII of the Master Agreement pertaining to seniority, local occupational groupings, reduction in force and recall agreements, this agreement is signed and subject to the approval of the National Ford Department of the UAW and the Labor Affairs Department of the Company.
Ford Motor Company International Louisville Assembly Plant UnionLocal 862
Vehicle Operations
UAW Region 3
Union Affairs
National Ford Dept.
47
SHIFT PREFERENCE AGREEMENT
1.	For the purpose of allowing seniority employees to exercise shift preference, shift assignments will be open for adjustment at any time. However, the Company reserves the right, following discussions with the Union, to make an exception thirty (30) days prior to and/or thirty (30) days after job one of the regular production of a new major model launch.
a.	Once employees have exercised shift preference, they will not be allowed to exercise shift preference again for four months from the date they are placed on the new shift.
b.	In accordance with the above, the shift roll letter will be published the first week of each month with the eligible rolls to be completed by the end of the month.
c.	The parties agree that unless the employee agrees or emergency operating conditions exist, employees will not be required to roll or change shifts except at the beginning of a workweek. Employees will be given one (1) weeks notice of all shift rolls.
d.	Probationary employees may not apply for shift preference.
2.	In exercising shift preference, eligible seniority employees will exercise their seniority by classification within the production department if there is an employee
48
with lesser plantwide seniority in the same classification in the same production department on the chosen shift.
a.	Employees in Designated 3-B classification will be assigned as above except such assignment shall be by classification within their department.
b.	Pertaining to the Inspector Classification, “department assigned” shall be interpreted as plantwide, excluding Pre-delivery rather than department to which assigned. Inspectors in PreDelivery will be considered a separate department for shift preference.
c.	Repairmen working in Chassis, after the gas fill operation, will exercise seniority with the Repairmen assigned to Pre-delivery in their respective Repair classification, by shift. Repairmen working prior to the gas fill operation, will exercise seniority with their respective Repair Classifications by department, by shift.
d.	Employees assigned to Plant Maintenance shall have the opportunity to submit a shift preference card, if they so desire to roll to another shift. The shift preference card must be submitted to the department superintendent.
e.	Employees in the skilled groups assigned to a shift other than their chosen shift because of a reduction in force shall have their shift preference card canceled.
49
3.	The Master Agreement recognizes “that it is impossible to operate the Plant efficiently with all the older employees on any one shift and, therefore, seniority alone cannot be the sole determining factor in applying the above principle, “ i.e., shift preference based on seniority. When Management finds that recognition of the expressed preference of employees would result in inefficiency, the Union will be notified of the adjustment necessary and the manner in which it will be affected.
4.	The principles as mutually agreed to herein shall apply to all departments going on a two-shift operation at the Louisville Assembly Plant.
50
This agreement is signed subject to the approval of the proper representatives of the National Ford Department of the UAW and the Wage Administration Section, Corporate Labor Affairs of the Ford Motor Company.
Ford Motor Company Louisville Assembly Plant	International UnionLocal 862
Vehicle Operations	UAW Region 3
Union Affairs	National Ford Dept.
Corporate Labor Affairs	National Ford Dept. International Union -UAW
51
Quality Leader Agreement
It is mutually agreed between the Ford Motor Company, Vehicle Operations, Louisville Assembly Plant and the International Union, and UAW Local 862, on this date, October 13, 2003 , that the following provisions will govern the roles and responsibilities, group composition, overtime and agreement between shifts for the “Quality Leader” Classification.
Louisville Assembly Plant’s Leader Roles and Responsibilities - Production
1.	Plan, schedule and facilitate group meetings.
a.	Prepare agenda
b.	Maintain an “issues” matrix
c.	Retain sign-in sheets
2.	Facilitate communication between shifts and groups.
a.	Communicate with next shift on any issues from your shift
b.	Communicate with next shift on all FPS items
c.	Coordinate sign-off sheet from both shifts before any FPS changes are implemented
d.	Check with down-line groups to identify any concerns originating from your group
e.	Report any incoming concerns to upstream groups
f.	Participate in Quality Leader meetings
g.	Communicate issues to supervisor as needed
h.	Communicate issues to appropriate union official as needed
52
3.	Solve problems using authority delegated
a.	Follow chain of command (problem resolution processes)
b.	Able to contact anyone by e-mail, radio, pagers and phones to request information/ assistance
c.	Invite necessary personnel to meetings as needed
4.	Plan and coordinate group activities including:
a.	Recognition
b.	FPS, QOS, and ISO assessment preparation
c.	Presentations
d.	Cleaning and inspection
5.	Plan for, provide and arrange for group member FPS training
a.	Maintain training matrix (dates trained or to be trained)
b.	Enroll group members for training
c.	Communicate training needs to Training Department/TDL and supervisor
d.	Survey group members to determine who is available for training dates scheduled
e.	Communicate training survey to supervisor who will schedule training
6.	Promote safety, quality and housekeeping
a.	Schedule and Conduct safety walks with group
b.	Report safety concerns immediately to supervisor
c.	Begin all group meetings with a scripted safety talk, when provided
53
d.	Follow safe work practices (lead by example)
e.	Work with groups to resolve quality issues f. Contact supervisor for any quality issues g. Coordinate with supervisor on containment of quality issues
h.	Communicate quality feedback to group
i.	Promote application of 5 S’s (standardize, sort, stabilize, shine and sustain)
7.	Promote and ensure constant improvement in the groups
a.	Review of SQDCME measurables to determine top overall issues
b.	Review internal quality metrics
8.	Obtain materials and supplies for the group
a.	Coordinate with supervisor for the material needs for the upcoming week
b.	Assure group members have all safety equipment (PPE) needed for the job
c.	Assure group members have all of the safe and proper tooling needed for the job
d.	Coordinate with supervisor to ensure group has all the cleaning supplies needed for cleaning and inspection
e.	Assure all meeting materials are available
f.	Assure all needed materials are available at line side
g.	Pull the “pull cards” and give to route driver. Each leader will have a separate box.
h.	Work with group members and management to set the min/max levels on material
i.	Notify supervisor immediately of stock shortages
54
9.	Be knowledgeable of and capable of performing all operations in group
a. Provide coverage for group members when away from job (e.g. emergency first aid visits or as called for in other provisions of the local agreement). In the event there is no alternative for a Quality Leader providingjob coverage for a physical therapy appointment, the supervisor will notify the District Committeeperson in advance.
10.	Maintain group records (CPIP, measurables)
11.	Participate in Plant/Department and related FPS meetings as needed and communicate needs of the group
12.	As needed, participate in efforts to evaluate group’s progress & effectiveness through the FPS process
13.	Responsible for tracking SQDCME performance and encouraging group to meet goals
14.	Coordinate annual vacation survey with group members and management
15.	Employ former Quality Leader Guidelines
a.	Assist each operator to achieve proper quality levels on all units.
b.	Help implement PSO’s and AIO’s and assure compliance on a regular basis.
c.	Assist in damage control program.
d.	Assist with all parts shortages and “work backs”.
e.	Provide assistance during an equipment breakdown.
55
f.	Develop an understanding of process sheets (QPS).
g.	Quality Leaders will not be required to go beyond their department to rework a defect.
h.	Quality Leaders will not be used for normal absentee or relief coverage.
i.	Quality Leaders will self-relieve and will rotate breaks within the department except those tag relieved by mutual agreement.
Group Composition
1.	The number of employees assigned to each group will vary depending on plant geographyjob content and the natural relation of operations. In most cases, each group will retain the Quality Leader to base operation assignments currently in place. There will be no more than twelve (12) base operations assigned to a group except by mutual agreement. The company commits to reduce the number of base operations assigned to each group to no more than ten (10) by the end of this agreement. Further, the company agrees to consider smaller Quality Leader to base operation ratios in the future as business conditions permit.
2.	Absentee coverage utility will be assigned to groups as well, but loaned in the traditional fashion.
3.	In an effort to maintain a consistent level of performance and versatility, the Company will commit to train Utility in each zone to perform all functions of the Qual
56
ity Leader position in the event of a shortterm absence. The senior Utility in the zone will be given due consideration for such placement, if qualified.
Overtime
Quality Leaders will equalize overtime by department, by shift.
Agreement Between Shifts
Before a proposed change from one CIWG group is implemented, there will be agreement from the similar group on the other shift. Agreement between the groups regarding the proposed change will be documented in both groups’ meeting minutes. This understanding is intended to improve communication and ensure consistency between CIWG groups and eliminate conflicting proposals. It does not affect management’s right to manage the business.
57
This agreement is signed subject to the approval of the proper representatives of the National Ford Department of the UAW and the Wage Administration Section, Corporate Labor Affairs of the Ford Motor Company.
Ford Motor Company Louisville Assembly Plant	International UnionLocal 862
Vehicle Operations	UAW Region 3
Union Affairs	National Ford Dept.
Corporate Labor Affairs	National Ford Dept. International Union -UAW
58
Preparatory Time Agreement
It is mutually agreed between the Ford Motor Company, Vehicle Operations, Louisville Assembly Plant, and the International Union, UAW, Local 862, on October 1, 1999 at Louisville, Kentucky that the following provisions shall establish the preparatory time set forth therein:
The following classifications will be given personal preparatory time as indicated below:
Classification	Time
Sprayers - Paint	18 Minutes
Spraybooth
Welder Arc, Acetylene 6 Minutes
& Gas - (in booths)
The Company reserves the right to provide personal preparatory time within or outside the starting and quitting bells.
This agreement shall become effective concurrently with the effective date of (a) any new Collective bargaining Agreement which replaces the October 29, 2003 Collective Bargaining Agreement (other than an extension for a temporary or indefinite period) and shall remain in effect for the same period as such new or extended Collective Bargaining Agreement, except as otherwise expressly provided herein.
59
In accordance with Article IV, Section 4 of the Collective Bargaining Agreement, pertaining to relief, this agreement is signed subject to the approval of the National Ford Department of the UAW and the Employee Relations Staff of the Company.
Ford Motor Company Louisville Assembly Plant	International UnionLocal 862
Vehicle Operations	UAW Region 3
Union Affairs	National Ford Dept.
Corporate Labor Affairs	National Ford Dept. International Union -UAW
60
SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT
It is mutually agreed between the FORD MOTOR COMPANY (Louisville Assembly Plant), and the INTERNATIONAL UNION, UNITED AUTO WORKERS OF AMERICA (UAW) (Local 862, Louisville Assembly) on November 9, 2003, at Louisville, Kentucky, that this acknowledges successful conclusion of all local issues in 2003 local negotiations. This is subject to final ratification by the membership.
FORD MOTOR COMPANY Louisville Assembly Plant John C. Tankesley Robert L. Bearden Brian T. Griffin Tamara L. Hatfield Christopher P. Heglar V Bruce Hepke
Vehicle Operations
Jeffrey M. Faistenhammer
INTERNATIONAL UNION
UAW Local 862
Bruce W. Day Steven M. Stone Steven Rixman Jeffrey M. Donohue George McClinton
UAW Region 3
Terry Thurman, Director
Robert A. Breedlove
Union Affairs UAW National Ford Department
The Union, through its duly authorized representative, hereby certifies that the foregoing agreement between the Company and the Union was properly ratified by the membership on November 9, 2003, at Louisville, Kentucky.
Bruce W. Day
61
October 1, 1999
Mr. D.A. Mitchell, Chairman
United Auto Workers of America
Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding:
Absentee Control Procedure
Dear Mr. Mitchell:
During the course of the 1999 local negotiations, the parties discussed absenteeism and absentee control procedures at the Louisville Assembly Plant.
This will confirm the understanding that the Company will make every effort to conduct an absentee hearing within a reasonable time frame, not to exceed three weeks excluding days of absence for any reason, following the initial day of absence.
Sincerely,
B. E. Freer, Supervisor
Labor Relations and Hourly Personnel
62
October 2, 2003
Bruce W. Day, Chairperson
United Auto Workers of America
Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: Attendance Recognition Program
Dear Mr. Day:
During the course of the 2003 local negotiations, the parties discussed the need to establish a perfect attendance recognition award for the Louisville Assembly Plant.
This will confirm the understanding that the Company reaffirms its commitment to recognize the top employees with perfect attendance at the end of the calendar year.
It is further understood that the recognition will be a tangible award consistent with the Company’s guidelines on reward and recognition.
Sincerely,
Brian T. Griffin, Manager
Human Resources
63
September 22, 2003
Mr. Bruce W. Day, Chairperson
United Auto Workers of America
Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: Eight (8) Percent Scheduled Off
Dear Mr. Day:
During these 2003 local negotiations, the Union expressed concern regarding the number of employees scheduled off for vacation and personal excused days in a given zone each day.
The Company agrees to establish a minimum number of employees to be off each day within each zone. Each zone will allow a minimum of 8 % of the employees on roll to be scheduled off each day for any combination of vacation and personal business days. These provisions do not exclude those employees that have exhausted their paid days off as long as their absence does not negatively impact operational effectiveness.
Sincerely,
Brian T. Griffin, Manager
Human Resources
64
September 20, 1999
Mr. D. A. Mitchel), Chairman
United Autoworkers of America
Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: Emergency Calls
Dear Mr. Mitchell:
During the course of 1999 local negotiations, the Company and the Union discussed the procedures for receiving and dispersing emergency telephone messages. This will confirm our understanding regarding the procedures that will be established thirty days following the ratification date of the local agreement.
•	All emergency messages will be received by Plant Security at the Truck Gate.
•	A journal for recording emergency messages will be maintained by Plant Security at the Truck Gate.
•	On receipt of an emergency message, the Plant Security representative will record the emergency message, employee name, department, last four digits of the Social Security Number and time of message.
•	The Plant Security representative will notify the employee’s supervisor or superintendent of the message. The Plant Security representative will record the name of the supervisor or super-
65
intendent and the time they were notified of the message in the journal. The supervisor or superintendent will be instructed to notify the Plant Security Representative once the message has been delivered to the employee.
•	In the event the supervisor or superintendent does not make a return call to Plant Security within fifteen minutes, the Plant Security representative will once again make contact for confirmation purposes and notation in the journal.
All efforts will be made to ensure that emergency messages are delivered as expeditiously as possible. However, personal and business related messages cannot be accepted by the Company. Abuses of the emergency message procedure will be periodically reviewed by management, union representatives and where necessary, affected personnel.
Sincerely,
J. A. Stick, Manager
Human Resources
66
October 21, 1990
Mr. S. M. Stone, Chairman
United Auto Workers of America
Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding:
Excused Absence
Dear Mr. Stone:
During the course of the 1990 local negotiations, the subject of excused absence was discussed.
The parties agree that in the event of a major disaster, fire or rescue mission, employees AWOL due to their service in a volunteer Fire Department, emergency rescue team or National Guard, will not have their documented absence disqualify them from any entitled benefit.
Sincerely,
T. M. Ryan, Manager
Industrial Relations
67
October 11,1999
Mr. D. A. Mitchell, Chairman
United Auto Workers of America
Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding:
Excused Absence Pay
Dear Mr. Mitchell:
This will confirm the understanding reached during the course of the 1999 local negotiations pertaining to the timely submission of excused absence pay requests.
The Company agrees to provide the employee a print screen copy of TWOs Task H308 to verify that their excused absence pay has been processed as requested. The supervisor will provide the H308 copy to the employee within two days after the employee submits their written request for an excused day off. In the event an employee does not receive payment, a special check will be issued if requested by the employee.
Sincerely,
J. A. Stick, Manager
Human Resources
68
September 2, 2003
Mr. Bruce W. Day, Chairperson
United Auto Workers of America Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: Go Home List
Dear Mr. Day:
During the course of these negotiations, the Company and Union discussed the development of a “Go Home” procedure for Seniority employees. As a result of these discussions, the company agreed to the following:
1.	As personnel are available, employees within the zone who have achieved seniority will be given the opportunity to “Go Home.” Seniority employees will be given the opportunity to participate in the “Go Home Program” regardless of previous AWOLs, medicals, or any other absence codes.
2.	In order to assure everyone is afforded an equal opportunity, a copy of the H321 printout will be used to determine the order in which the zone is surveyed and to document participation. The supervisor will use a copy of the H321 to record the dates on which each seniority employee is surveyed. New seniority employees entering a zone will be placed on the list by the last 4 digits of their social security number until a new H321 report is printed.
3.	Employees who are off for any reason when
69
they are due to be surveyed will lose their turn on that day.
4.	Employees will be given the opportunity to participate in the “Go Home Program” regardless of outstanding personal leave or vacation allowance and will not be required to use such allowance.
5.	On scheduled production Saturdays, employees will be surveyed just as they would during the week. An employee who goes home on a scheduled production Saturday will be counted as their turn on the “Go Home” list. However, an employee that is surveyed that does not go home will not be counted or recorded on the “Go Home” list.
6.	Continuity of the program will be maintained by the “Go Home” list being posted at the supervisor’s desk. Continuity will not be broken by supervisory shift rolls.
7.	Employees leaving the plant in less than 4 hours for any reason, except those sent out by the Plant Medical Department, will count toward the “Go Home” list.
8.	In the event the “Go Home” list is exhausted on any given day, probationary employees may participate on that day.
Sincerely,
Brian T. Griffin, Manager
Human Resources
70
October 2, 2003
Mr. Bruce W. Day, Chairperson
United Auto Workers of America
Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: Paid Planned Day Off Process (Five Day Excused Absence)
Dear Mr. Day:
The following provisions will apply for personal leaves of absence contained in the Master Agreement on Mondays through Fridays, and a written form will be utilized to implement the procedure.
In accordance with Article IX, Section 25 (C) of the Master Agreement: “An employee may use up to one (1) week (40 hours) of his vacation provided under Subsection (b) of Section 24, as limited in the Agreement, in units of no less than 1/2 day periods (4 hours), with pay at his base hourly rate, exclusive of any premium, for an absence excused by the Company because of:
(1)	Excused absences because of his/her illness for which he/she does not receive accident and sickness insurance benefits;
(2)	Absences excused by the Company because of any personal reason, or
(3)	Additional scheduled vacation time immediately prior to or following his other vacation time.
71
In order to implement these provisions the following procedure is established:
a.	Every supervisor will have a calendar on which he/she will denote any requests which they received from their hourly employees to be off during a scheduled workday, Monday and Fridays included. Days off must be requested in writing and will be handled on a first-come basis. Requests for days off will not be accepted more than 30 days in advance of the requested day off and will only be accepted during any full shift to be worked during this 30 day period, (e.g., the earliest opportunity an employee could request time off would be the beginning of the first full shift within the 30 day period prior to the day off requested.) Requests will be handled on a first come basis, however, in the event multiple requests are received within the same shift for the same day off, seniority will be the daily tiebreaker in granting paid excused absence request (s).
b.	The supervisor will write the employee’s name on the calendar, on the date the employee desires to be off from work. At the same time, employee form (Employee Request for Planned Day Off With Pay) will be processed. Failure to respond to the employee’s written request, more than two scheduled working days after the request is made, will automatically excuse the employee’s absence.
72
c.	The supervisor will review the requested days with the superintendent. The superintendent will enter each request on a master calendar which will be retained in the superintendent’s office. Ifapproved, it will be so noted on the calendar.
d.	As soon as the decision is made, the supervisor will be told so that the hourly employee can be advised of the decision as soon as possible.
e.	After the hourly employee has been informed that the request has been granted, it will not be canceled without the concurrence of the hourly employee, in writing.
f.	At the end of each month, the Superintendent will submit the supervisor’s copies of the disposition of Request for Planned Day Off with the necessary form to the Department Manager who has the responsibility to assure this procedure for obtaining a day off is an effective, working procedure.
The continuing success of the “Excused Absence Payment Allowance” program depends upon a realistic approach to scheduling days off. The supervisors must be able to manage their work force by developing versatility among their operators so that an absent employee’s job can be covered with a minimal loss of efficiency; superintendents are expected to maximize the number of scheduled days off in their departments by providing a back-up operator to the supervisor who encounters difficulty in covering for any scheduled absent employee.
73
Management shall have the right to deny time off if it feels the impact on production is too great. However, the Company will allow the minimum of 8% to be scheduled off each day as described in a Letter of Understanding in this agreement.
Sincerely,
Brian T. Griffin, Manager Human Resources
October 11,1999
74
Mr. D. A. Mitchell, Chairman
United Auto Workers of America
Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: Payment of Sick Days
Dear Mr. Mitchell:
During these 1999 local negotiations, the Union and Company discussed ways of improving attendance while not penalizing employees for being absent for legitimate medical reasons.
The parties agree to implement the following on a trial basis for a minimum of one year from the date of ratification of this agreement. At any time thereafter, either party may terminate this agreement within thirty (30) days following written notice.
Seniority employees may be excused and paid, (if the employee has remaining personal days) for unscheduled absence days by providing written documentation from a licensed physician to Labor Relations that verifies the reason(s) for the employee’s absence. Such documentation must pertain to the employee’s own injury or illness.
If a determination is made by Labor Relations that the documentation provided is sufficient, authorization for payment will be given.
Sincerely,
J. A. Stick, Manager
Human Resources
75
October?, 1999
Mr. D. A. Mitchell, Chairman
United Auto Workers of America
Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: Vacation Scheduling
Dear Mr. Mitchell:
During the course of the 1999 negotiations, the parties discussed the practice of vacation scheduling for those employees desiring to use all or part of their vacation in less than 40-hour increments.
It is agreed that vacation time scheduled during the regular scheduling period will be calendared and approved in no less than forty-hour increments except in the following situations:
1.	In weeks in which there is a holiday, the remainder of the week may be scheduled for vacation so long as the entire remainder of the week is scheduled.
2.	If an employee has less than forty hours available and chooses to schedule the remainder or his or her vacation time, all remaining time must be taken in a single block.
Employee requests for rescheduling must be submitted in writing on a form provided by the Company, and will be given consideration provided there will be no adverse impact on the affected
76
areas. Approved requests will be noted on a master calendar in the department.
Sincerely,
J. A. Stick, Manager Human Resources
77
September 3, 2003
Mr. Bruce W. Day, Chairperson United Auto Workers of America Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: Assignment Preference - Janitors and Booth Cleaners
Dear Mr. Day:
This will confirm the understanding reached by the parties during the course of the 2003 negotiations.
When assignment openings occur for Janitors in Production and Central Plant Services, the senior Janitor will be given due consideration.
When assignment openings occur for Spray Booth and Duct Cleaners in the Paint Department, the senior Spray Booth and Duct Cleaner will be given due consideration.
Sincerely,
Brian T. Griffin, Manager
Human Resources
78
October 11, 1999
Mr. D. A. Mitchell, Chairman
United Auto Workers of America
Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: Behr Equipment Operator
Dear Mr. Mitchell:
During the course of 1999 local negotiations, the Union expressed concerns regarding staffing of the Behr Equipment Operation.
The Company agrees to post the current Behr Equipment Operator vacancy. The operation will remain a red circled position with the Company having the right to attrition upon further vacancy.
Sincerely,
G. E Gajewski
Paint Area Manager
79
August 30, 1999
Mr. D. A. Mitchell, Chairman
United Auto Workers of America
Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: Bidding in Plant Services
Dear Mr. Mitchell:
This will confirm the understanding reached during the course of the 1999 local negotiations pertaining to bidding for cleanup jobs in Plant Services.
The Company agrees that the existing practice of selecting janitors from the active rolls will be discontinued in favor of selection of qualified employees through the existing plant bidding system consistent with Article IV, Section 2(a) of the National Agreement.
Sincerely,
M. A. Smith,
Manufacturing Engineering Manager
80
October 11, 1999
Mr. D. A. Mitchell, Chairman
United Auto Workers of America
Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Subject: Data Mite Readings - Body Area
Dear Mr. Mitchell:
During these 1999 local negotiations, the parties discussed the assignment of Data Mite readings to the Utility Group 4 classification in the Body Area.
This letter will confirm the understanding reached that when the present operator vacates the job, the Company will bid the position with a Statistical Process Control classification.
Sincerely,
S.	E. Bednark, Manager
Body Department
81
October 3, 2003
Mr. Bruce W. Day, Chairperson United Auto Workers of America Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, KY
40213
Letter of Understanding: E-Coat Hang/Unhang Staffing
Dear Mr. Day:
This letter is to assure the local union that the Company can foresee no changes in the staffing of the e-coat hang and unhang operations given the current facility layout and tooling. The Company does, however, reserve the right to implement changes in the facility layout and/or tooling which could result in manpower efficiencies.
Sincerely,
Brian T. Griffin, Manager
Human Resources
82
October 4, 1999
Mr. D. A. Mitchell, Chairman United Auto Workers of America Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: Elimination of Classifications
Dear Mr. Mitchell:
Under normal operating conditions, management has no intent to eliminate any existing classifications from the Occupational Group Agreement during the life of this agreement.
Sincerely,
J. A. Stick, Manager Human Resources
83
November 3, 1993
Mr. K. Yates, Chairman
United Auto Workers of America
Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: Employee Transfer Notice
Dear Mr. Yates:
During the course of the 1993 local negotiations, the subject of committeeman notification of employees transferring departments was discussed.
The parties agree that when an employee transfers from on committeeman’s area to another, the receiving committeeman will be notified prior to the transfer.
Sincerely,
T.D. Smith, Manager
Employee Relations
84
September 5, 2003
Mr. Bruce W. Day, Chairperson United Auto Workers of America Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: Pre-Delivery Assignments
Dear Mr. Day:
During the course of these 2003 negotiations, the Company and the Union discussed issues relating to assignments in Pre-Delivery.
The Company agrees that repair work within the Pre-Delivery department will be performed by employees in the following classifications existing in Pre-Delivery: Trim Repair, Paint Repair, Chassis Repair, General Repair, Metal Touch Up & Repair (ding-man).
Further, it is agreed that in the event of absenteeism or an overflow of repair work, all repair classifications will be covered first by utilizing those classified General Utility in Pre-Delivery before supplementing with Utility from supporting departments.
When filling a permanent opening in Pre-Delivery (other than Utility), a survey of employees holding the same classification as the opening, in other departments, will be conducted in seniority order.
Sincerely,
Brian T. Griffin, Manager
Human Resources
85
October 14, 2003
Mr. Bruce W. Day, Chairperson United Auto Workers of America Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding:
Product Specialist
Dear Mr. Day:
During the course of2003 local negotiations, the Union expressed concern that the Company was not giving Quality Leaders and senior Utility the opportunity to work as “Product Specialists”. This letter will confirm the Company’s commitment to provide Quality Leaders and Utility the opportunity to qualify for Product Specialist openings when they occur.
The parties also agree to establish a system to allow the Product Specialist Group to be supported by a rotating group of Quality Leaders (supplemented by Utility operators as required). These employees will serve for a pre-determined period of time during new model launch related activities.
It is understood that nothing in this letter precludes the Company’s right of assignment, and the Company maintains the right to exclude individual employees for cause.
Sincerely,
Brian T. Griffin, Manager
Human Resources
86
October 21, 1990
Mr. S.M. Stone, Chairman
United Auto Workers of America
Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: Quality Upgrade / Repairs
Dear Mr. Stone:
During the course of the 1990 local negotiations, the subject of quality upgrades and repairs was discussed.
The parties agree to jointly review classification and work assignment disputes between the Repair and Quality Upgrade classifications. In the area of proper classification the parties agree that the classification in question will be determined by the 60% rule. It is further understood that the Company maintains the right to utilize the entire workforce on both the Repair and Quality Upgrade classifications
Sincerely,
T.	M. Ryan, Manager
Industrial Relations
87
November 3, 1993
Mr. K. Yates, Chairman
United Auto Workers of America
Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: Quality Upgrader -Restroom Calls
Dear Mr. Yates:
During the course of the 1993 local negotiations, the subject of quality upgraders providing restroom calls was discussed.
The parties agree that quality upgraders will continue to provide restroom calls as required.
Sincerely,
T.D. Smith, Manager
Human Resources
88
October 24, 1993
Mr. J. K. Yates, Chairman
United Auto Workers of America
Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: Repair Versus Quality Upgrade Classification
Dear Mr. Yates:
During the course of 1993 local negotiations, the Union expressed concern that the Quality Upgrade Classification would be assigned to the Pre-Delivery Area. This letter is to confirm that under present operating conditions, management has no intent to displace or replace the Repair Classification with Quality Upgrade Classification in the Pre-Delivery Area
Sincerely,
T. D. Smith, Manager
Employee Relations
89
September 29, 1999
Mr. D. A. Mitchell, Chairman
United Auto Workers of America
Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: Sewing Room
Dear Mr. Mitchell:
During the course of the 1999 local negotiations, the subject of the sewing room was discussed.
The parties agree that Management will give due consideration to the senior utility employee in Chassis when openings in the cushion/sewing room are filled. In addition, Management agrees to ensure an adequate supply of butt pads, aprons, and cushions will be available.
Sincerely,
J. A. Stick, Manager
Human Resources
90
August 29, 2003
Mr. Bruce W. Day, Chairperson United Auto Workers of America Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: Survey 3rd Shift Utility Before Posting 2nd Shift Jobs
Dear Mr. Day:
This will confirm the understanding reached during the course of the 2003 local negotiations pertaining to Utility bid opportunities. The parties agree that when there are multiple Utility jobs available on the second (2nd) shift and they are not filled due to bid exhaustion; the third (3rd) shift will be surveyed by seniority to fill the day shift open Utility position or positions as needed. This will allow the third (3rd.) shift employee to roll to day shift and fill the open position.
Sincerely,
Brian T. Griffin, Manager
Human Resources
91
October 17, 1996
Mr. J. K. Yates, Chairman
United Auto Workers of America
Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: Transfer of Operation
Dear Mr. Yates:
During the course of 1996 local negotiations, the parties discussed the option of permitting employees to follow their transferred operations to other departments. This letter will confirm our understandings that employees will be given the option of following their operation, provided that at least 51 % of the operation is being transferred to another department.
Sincerely,
T. D. Smith, Manager
Employee Relations
92
September 5, 2003
Mr. Bruce W. Day, Chairperson United Auto Workers of America Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: Utility Personnel
Dear Mr. Day:
This will confirm the understanding reached during the course of the 2003 local negotiations pertaining to the Utility classification.
Under normal operating conditions, the Company will retain Utility personnel to assure appropriate absentee coverage and to maintain effective operations.
Under normal operating conditions, excess assemblers will be loaned out of their zone prior to utility personnel being loaned out of their zone.
Sincerely,
Brian T. Griffin, Manager
Human Resources
93
September 22, 2003
Mr. Bruce W. Day, Chairperson United Auto Workers of America Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: Web-Based Job Posting System
Dear Mr. Day:
During the course of the 2003 local negotiations, the parties discussed the need to improve upon the electronic job posting system currently used by the plant.
The parties have investigated and plan to implement a web-based job posting and shift preference selection system. The program will be run on regular plant computers. Adoption of the system may require the parties to review and potentially revise the existing job posting agreement.
The current rules and procedures will remain in effect until the new system comes on line.
Sincerely,
Brian T. Griffin, Manager
Human Resources
94
October 14, 2003
Mr. Bruce W. Day, Chairperson
United Auto Workers of America
Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: Cleaning in Material Handling Areas
Dear Mr. Day:
This will confirm the understanding reached during the course of the 2003 local negotiations pertaining to the scheduling of overtime for clean-up work in Material Handling.
The Material Handling Department will schedule Plant Services for weekend overtime if there is sufficient work. All Plant Service’s employees will be scheduled for overtime before being supplemented by Material Handling classifications on overtime.
Sincerely,
Brian T. Griffin, Manager
Human Resources
95
September 30, 2003
Mr. Bruce W. Day, Chairperson United Auto Workers of America Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: Cleaning Is Inspection - FTPM/FPS
Dear Mr. Day:
This will confirm the understanding reached during the course of the 2003 local negotiations. The Union expressed concern that the Company was not properly assigning clean-up personnel to support the Cleaning Is Inspection element of the Ford Total Preventative Maintenance Process (FTPM).
This letter will confirm the Company’s commitment to assign clean-up personnel to support the Cleaning Is Inspection process as required and in a manner that does not replace traditional clean-up work. Further, the parties will agree on the proper work assignments for work group members, clean-up personnel and maintenance personnel.
In addition, the Company agrees to assign properly trained employees from Plant Services and Maintenance to clean inside fixtures, guarding and light screens.
Sincerely,
Brian T. Griffin, Manager
Human Resources
96
October 14, 1979
Mr. R. A. Gettelfinger, Chairman United Auto Workers of America Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: Cleaning Rest Rooms and Break Areas
Dear Mr. Gettelfinger:
During the course of 1979 local negotiations, the subject of maintenance and clean-up of rest rooms and break areas was discussed. This letter is to reaffirm the Company’s commitment to insure that all plant rest rooms and break areas will be cleaned and maintained as required.
As committed to the Union, the names of the hourly employees assigned the clean-up of the rest rooms and break areas will be available upon request. In addition, the names of supervisors responsible for the maintenance of said areas will also be available upon request.
Sincerely,
T. M. Ryan, Manager
Industrial Relations
97
September 16, 1999
Mr. D. A. Mitchell, Chairman
United Auto Workers of America
Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: Janitors Overtime
Dear Mr. Mitchell:
During the course of these 1999 negotiations, the Company and the Union discussed the practice of assigning over line time overtime clean-up work to production employees.
It is agreed that the company will offer the over line time overtime opportunities for clean-up work to the Clean-Up classifications prior to working production employees over line time. If additional manpower is required, production employees may supplement the Clean-Up classifications. This agreement does not preclude the incidental assignment of clean-up work to production employees during line time.
Sincerely,
J. A. Stick, Manager
Human Resources
98
October 24, 1993
Mr. J. K. Yates, Chairman
United Auto Workers of America
Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: Janitors Working Line Time
Dear Mr. Yates:
During the course of 1993 negotiations, the Union expressed concern that janitors assigned to production departments were not being permitted to work line time. This letter will confirm management’s commitment to work production janitors line time hours. It is understood that this agreement does not preclude management from achieving normal efficiencies or balancing any cost associated with this commitment.
Sincerely,
T. D. Smith, Manager
Employee Relations
99
October 15, 1999
Mr. D. A. Mitchell, Chairman
United Auto Workers of America
Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: Operation of Plant Scrubber
Dear Mr. Mitchell:
During these 1999 local negotiations, the parties discussed the need to run the plant scrubber on a frequent basis to maintain cleanliness in the facility.
The Company agrees to operate, under normal operating conditions, a minimum of one (1) scrubber no less than eight (8) hours per day on weekends during this local agreement.
Sincerely,
M. A. Smith
Manufacturing Planning Manager
100
Septembers, 1993
Mr. K. Yates, Chairman
United Auto Workers of America
Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: Parking Lot Maintenance
Dear Mr. Yates:
During the course of the 1993 local negotiations, the subject of parking lot maintenance was discussed.
The parties agree that Management will review the current parking lot maintenance program and ensure that all employee parking lots will be cleaned and maintained on a regular basis.
Sincerely,
T. D. Smith, Manager
Employee Relations
101
September 3, 2003
Mr. Bruce W. Day, Chairperson United Autoworkers of America Local 862 6707 Grade Lane Louisville, KY 40213
Letter of Understanding: Plant Cleaning Schedule
Dear Mr. Day:
During these 2003 local negotiations, the parties discussed the need to inspect and deep clean restrooms, break areas and offices throughout the plant, including the Paint Department.
This is to confirm that the Company agrees to power wash, sanitize, paint and repair damaged equipment as needed, in plant bathrooms, locker rooms, break areas and offices in addition to the normal cleaning schedule.
It is further agreed that a cleaning schedule will be published with a minimum of four (4) plant facilities cleaned per month.
Sincerely,
Brian T. Griffin, Manager Human Resources
102
September 13, 1999
Mr. D. A. Mitchell, Chairman
United Auto Workers of America
Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: Steam Cleaning Material Handling Equipment
Dear Mr. Mitchell:
This will confirm the understanding reached during the course of the 1999 local negotiations pertaining to the steam cleaning of material handling equipment.
The Company will have all Company owned material handling equipment steam cleaned on a semi-annual basis by the Industrial Lift Truck and Tow Tractor Repair personnel. The equipment will be painted as needed.
Sincerely,
M. A. Smith, Manager Manufacturing Planning
103
September 22, 2003
Mr. Bruce W. Day, Chairperson United Auto Workers of America Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: Trash Container Service
Dear Mr. Day:
During the course of the 2003 local negotiations, the Union discussed the need to service and sanitize the containers used to transport trash from the building.
This will confirm the understanding that during the summer months, April through September, the containers will be deep cleaned and sanitized every month. For the remaining months of the year, the containers will be cleaned on an as-needed basis. Complaints generated as a result of the sanitation of the containers will be addressed as they are identified.
Sincerely,
Brian T. Griffin, Manager
Human Resources
104
September 16, 1999
Mr. D. A. Mitchell, Chairman
United Auto Workers of America
Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: Trash Room Personnel
Dear Mr. Mitchell:
During the course of these 1999 negotiations, the Union expressed concern that trash room personnel in the Final area were no longer being permitted to work the same hours as the production employees in Chassis.
This letter is to confirm management’s commitment to work the trash room personnel the same number of hours as the production employees in Chassis.
Sincerely,
M. A. Smith, Manager Manufacturing Planning
105
September 20, 1999
Mr. D. A. Mitchell, Chairman
United Auto Workers of America
Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: Trash Room Staffing
Dear Mr. Mitchell:
During the course of 1999 local negotiations, the Union expressed concern that the Company was embarking on significant changes in the configuration, operating and staffing levels in the Trash Room. This letter is to assure the Local Union that the Company can foresee no changes during the life of this agreement in the configuration and staffing levels to the Trash Room, except those occasioned by normal attrition and efficiencies.
Sincerely,
J. A. Stick, Manager
Human Resources
106
September 3, 2003
Mr. Bruce Day, Chairperson
United Autoworkers of America
Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: Cafeteria Committee
Dear Mr. Day:
During the course of the 2003 Local Negotiations, the subject of the cafeteria Committee was discussed.
The parties agree that the Plant Cafeteria Committee will be reestablished with joint representation from Union and Management. The committee will be chaired by the plant HR Manager or designee and will develop recommendations and proposals for general cafeteria improvements.
Sincerely,
Brian T. Griffin, Manager
Human Resources
107
October 2, 2003
Mr. Bruce W. Day, Chairperson
United Auto Workers of America
Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: Facility Issues
Dear Mr. Day:
During the 2003 local negotiations, the company and union discussed several issues that could not be resolved due to facility or resource constraints. The parties agreed to continue to explore feasible solutions to the following issues during the upcoming contract period:
•	Relocation of the plant training facilities to the front of the building including the pursuit of available funding from UAW-Ford Joint Programs or state and local agencies.
•	Options for signage or vehicle displays on the stacker building.
•	An access road to a parking area nearer to the Paint Department in.the event the company constructs a new paint shop.
Sincerely,
Brian T. Griffin, Manager
Human Resources
108
October 15, 1999
Mr. D. A. Mitchell, Chairman
United Auto Workers of America
Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: Medical Facility Staffing
Dear Mr. Mitchell:
During the course of the 1999 local negotiations, the subject of staffing of the medical facility during non-production hours was discussed.
The parties agree that the medical facility will operate on the weekends, holidays and/or nonproduction days when 300 or more employees are scheduled to work on a shift.
Sincerely,
J. A. Stick, Manager
Human Resources
109
October 19, 1999
Mr. D. A. Mitchell, Chairman
United Auto Workers of America
Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: Painting of Bay Locations
Dear Mr. Mitchell:
During the course of negotiations the parties discussed the need to highlight evacuations routes as well as improve identification of telephone locations.
It is agreed that the Company will install decals to help identify telephone locations.
The Company and Union will jointly identify posts where location signs are currently hidden or obscured. In such locations, the Company agrees that new visible location markers will be painted on such posts.
It is further agreed that following the facility changes occasioned by the UI52 project, bay columns showing evacuation routes will be painted with high-visibility paint.
Sincerely,
J. A. Tankesley
Plant Manager
110
October 21, 1999
Mr. D. A. Mitchell, Chairman
United Auto Workers of America
Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding:	Staffing of Medical
Department During Peak Hours
Dear Mr. Mitchell:
During the course of negotiations, the parties discussed the need to staff the medical department during peak times during the day.
It is agreed that the Company will ensure that a minimum of two staff nurses are scheduled to work during peak daytime hours, including between shifts.
Sincerely,
J. A. Stick, Manager
Human Resources
111
September 29, 2003
Mr. Bruce W. Day, Chairperson United Auto Workers of America
Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: Water Fountains and Fans
Dear Mr. Day:
This will confirm the understanding reached during the course of the 2003 local negotiations pertaining to repair or replacement of water fountains and fans.
With respect to the repair or replacement of water fountains and fans, the following will apply:
•	The Company, prior to May of each year, will perform an inspection of all water fountains and fans.
•	Cleaning of fans, as well as making required repairs and replacements of fans or fountains, will be completed by June of each year.
•	Fans or fountains that need replacement or repair found after June 1 of each year, will be fixed or replaced within five working days.
•	An adequate inventory of fans, water fountains and replacement parts for man-cooling fans will be maintained.
Sincerely,
Brian T. Griffin, Manager
Human Resources
112
November3, 1993
Mr. K. Yates, Chairman
United Auto Workers of America
Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: Water Test
Dear Mr. Yates:
During the course of the 1993 local negotiations, the subject of the water test was discussed.
The parties agree that Management will review the maintenance of the water test facility and take steps to reduce the unpleasant odors.
Sincerely,
T.D. Smith, Manager
Human Resources
113
September 18, 2003
Mr. Bruce W. Day, Chairperson United Auto Workers of America Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: Combustion Equipment Safety
Dear Mr. Day:
During the 2003 local negotiations, the Company and Union discussed the importance of the Company’s Combustion Equipment Safety Program. It is agreed that the Company will provide the Union’s Health & Safety Representatives copies of all inspection and audit documentation of the plant’s combustion systems to include the names of those Skilled Tradespersons completing the work.
Sincerely,
Brian T. Griffin, Manager
Human Resources
114
September 12, 1999
Mr. D. A. Mitchell, Chairman
United Auto Workers of America
Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: Emergency Gate Access
Dear Mr. Mitchell:
This will confirm the understanding reached during the course of the 1999 local negotiations pertaining to the egress by emergency vehicles to the service road and Gate 8.
The Company agrees that no trailer trucks will be staged along the service road leading to Gate 8 which is used for emergency service vehicles.
Sincerely,
C. L. Pate, Manager
Material Control and Logistics
115
September 15, 2003
Mr. Bruce W. Day, Chairperson
United Auto Workers of America
Local 862
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: Emergency Lighting
Dear Mr. Day:
This will confirm the understanding reached during the course of the 2003 local negotiations pertaining to emergency lighting inspections.
It is agreed that the Company Safety Engineers will conduct a review of the plant emergency lighting system with the Union Health & Safety Representatives.
Regular tests of the emergency lighting system will be performed at 30 day intervals as required by Company guidelines. These tests will be performed by skilled trades personnel. Written records will be maintained by Central and Paint Department Maintenance and will be made available to the Union Health & Safety Representatives upon request.
Sincerely,
Brian T. Griffin, Manager
Human Resources
116
September 20, 1979
Mr. D. A. Mitchell, Chairman
United Auto Workers of America
Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: Emergency Notification
Dear Mr. Mitchell:
During the course of 1999 local negotiations, the subject of scheduling overtime as a result of emergencies/breakdowns was discussed. This letter is to confirm our understanding that the Union will be notified of the time, nature and duration of the emergencies/breakdowns and the operations affected.
Sincerely,
J. A. Stick, Manager
Human Resources
117
October 14, 2003
Mr. Bruce W. Day, Chairperson
United Auto Workers of America
Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: Emergency Responders
Dear Mr. Day:
The parties recognize the value and significant importance of the role performed by the Plant’s Emergency Response Team and the Medical First Responders.
Continued support for these two groups is reflected in the following actions agreed to during the 2003 local negotiations:
Equipment - The parties agree to purchase or provide the following items:
•	Four (4) new self-contained breathing apparatus (SCBA) air packs with 60 minute carbon fiber air cylinders with factory installed PASS alarm.
•	Two (2) spare 60 minute carbon fiber cylinders.
•	Converting three (3) pull behind carts, utilizing the teams own design, to segregate and store gear and equipment to facilitate a quick response.
•	Two (2) additional automated external defibrillators (AEDs) with wall cabinets
118
to be added to the three that are already in the plant.
•	One (1) properly rated 32 foot, fiberglass extension ladder.
•	A new communication system which includes new alpha-numeric text pagers and improved capability to send pages to the response teams.
•	A large storage cabinet and a four-drawer file cabinet to store Medical First Responder training equipment and supplies.
•	Installation of trailer hitches on the Teams in-plant vehicles to pull the carts referenced above.
Training - The parties agree to the following:
•	Continued efforts to achieve certification for all the Medical First Responders.
•	Additional training/practice time for the Emergency Response Team
•	A 90-day pilot initiative to train First Responders in 3.9 hour blocks to allow for more regular and frequent training with minimal impact on production.
Sincerely,
Brian T. Griffin, Manager
Human Resources
119
September 13, 1999
Mr. D. A. Mitchell, Chairman
United Auto Workers of America
Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: Employees Working on Roof
Dear Mr. Mitchell:
During the course of these negotiations, the Company and Union agreed to the following procedures governing employees working on the roof.
Whenever the work location is on the roof, two properly assigned employees with a radio will be assigned to the task.
Sincerely,
M. A. Smith, Manager
Manufacturing Planning
120
Novembers, 1993
Mr. K. Yates, Chairman
United Auto Workers of America
Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: Entrance Vestibules
Dear Mr. Yates:
During the course of the 1993 local negotiations, the subject of vestibule entrances was discussed.
The parties agree that Management will take the necessary steps to ensure that entrance vestibules are safe and passable during inclement weather.
Sincerely,
T.D. Smith, Manager
Employee Relations
121
October 13, 2003
Mr. Bruce W. Day, Chairperson
United Auto Workers of America
Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: Ergonomic Process
Dear Mr. Day:
This letter will confirm the parties commitment to the ergonomic process as a means to improve the health and safety of employees. Both parties jointly agree to regular reviews of the progress at intervals consistent with the guidelines listed below:
•	A Preliminary Job Overview must be conducted within two weeks after an ergonomic referral has been submitted to the Area Committee. Based on the Overview, the Area Committee determines if the referral will be given a Concern Log Number.
•	Ergonomic concerns open longer than three months will be presented to the Central Ergonomics Committee with all appropriate documentation.
•	The Central Committee will make a determination of action needed and send the issues back to the Area Committee for implementation no later than three months after being submitted to the Area Committee.
122
•	Any concern open longer than six months will be presented to senior plant leadership (both Union and Company) at the Plant Safety Process Review Board (SPRB).
•	Unresolved issues on the Concern Log that remain open for greater than 12 months shall be forwarded to the Division SPRB unless the parties mutually agree.
Sincerely,
Brian T. Griffin, Manager
Human Resources
123
October 16, 1999
D. A. Mitchell, Chairman
United Auto Workers of America
Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: Ergonomic Protective Gloves
Dear Mr. Mitchell:
During the course of 1999 local negotiations, the Union expressed concerns on the availability of protective gloves when it is determined that this form of protective apparel would benefit an employee on a production operation.
This will confirm the understanding that a pair of protective gloves will be distributed through General Stores when a requisition is submitted by the section supervisor.
It is further understood that the Local Ergonomic Committee will resolve disputes on glove frequency or replacement of protective gloves.
Sincerely,
J. A. Stick, Manager
Human Resources
124
August 13, 1999
Mr. D. A. Mitchell, Chairman
United Auto Workers of America
Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: First Responder Training
Dear Mr. Mitchell:
During the course of the 1999 local negotiations, the parties discussed the need to maintain and support the First Responder program.
Following the ratification of the local agreement, the Company will develop a plan to conduct the required course for the first-time trainees during each quarter of calendar year 2000 to increase the number of First Responders throughout the plant by year-end. This training will be conducted during weekday working hours. It is understood for volunteers to replace any First Responders who are no longer participating in the program.
It is further understood that the Company will continue to provide the existing First Responder group necessary refresher training each year over the course of the agreement, to meet their continuing education requirements.
Sincerely,
J. A. Stick, Manager Human Resources
125
September 18, 2003
Mr. Bruce W. Day, Chairperson United Auto Workers of America Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: Heat Stress Program
Dear Mr. Day:
This will confirm the understanding reached by the parties during the 2003 local contract negotiations. The Company agrees to retain the Heat Stress Program at the Louisville Assembly Plant.
It is agreed that the Company will provide ice and/or liquids whenever the temperature reaches 90 degrees or higher within the plant during the summer months for the life of the 2003 agreement. It is further understood that on day(s) when temperatures exceed 100 degrees in the plant, management will review other avenues to address this abnormal condition.
Additionally, the Company will continue to expand the pilot program begun in Paint involving the installation and use of drink dispensers to replace the portable drink containers.
Further, the Company agrees to inspect the roof top air houses during the Is' and 2nd quarters of each year and to make every effort to have any repairs identified corrected no later than the end of the summer shutdown period.
Sincerely,
Brian T. Griffin, Manager
Human Resources
126
October 21, 1990
Mr. S.M. Stone, Chairman
United Auto Workers of America
Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: In-Plant Use of Hazardous Materials and Chemicals
Dear Mr. Stone:
During the course of the 1990 local negotiations, the subject of in-plant use of hazardous materials and chemicals was discussed.
While the parties agree that the current Company Hazardous Communication Standard Program is effective, occasionally products appear in the plant for use that have not been approved by the Company. In order to deal with this program, the Company agrees to re-publish Company Policy Letters and Directive on the use and procurement of hazardous materials and chemicals for all affected salaried employees. The United Auto Workers and Company Health & Safety Representatives shall be notified upon relocation of hazardous materials within the plant.
Sincerely,
T. M. Ryan, Manager
Industrial Relations
127
September 17, 2003
Mr. Bruce W. Day, Chairperson United Auto Workers of America Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: Job Safety Analysis (JSA)
Dear Mr. Day:
This will confirm the understanding reached during the course of the 2003 local negotiations pertaining to job safety analysis (JSA).
The Company and the Union recognize the value of performing job safety analysis of production jobs. The Company agrees to continue to utilize the two (2) appointed core JSA Coordinator positions to work with the Safety Office. The Company recognizes that at times it may be useful and productive to increase the number of appointed JSA Coordinators to conduct job safety analysis. Accordingly, the parties agree to jointly appoint additional JSA Coordinators from each of the Departments to be used as needed to supplement the two core JSA Coordinators.
It is further understood that all appointed JSA Coordinators will be trained by the Company as prescribed by the UAW-Ford National Joint Committee on Health and Safety and when not assigned to the task of conducting job safety analysis, the coordinators will return to their regularly assigned classification within their department and /or area.
Sincerely,
Brian T. Griffin, Manager
Human Resources
128
September 18, 1999
Mr. D. A. Mitchell
United Autoworkers of America
Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: Operation of Power Equipment
Dear Mr. Mitchell:
Unsafe power equipment must be taken out of service. Employees must insure that the following items are not unsafe or inoperative before starting work with their vehicle: lights, horn, seats, brakes, etc. If any of these items are found to be defective, they should be reported to the supervisor immediately. Operators must not attempt to repair vehicles.
The Company will continue the current licensing and training procedure for all drivers of power equipment, and they will be instructed that only power equipment in safe operating condition may be driven.
Questions or disputes regarding the above may be referred to the Company and Union Safety Representatives, who will be the final authorities on such matters.
Sincerely,
J. A. Stick, Manager Human Resources
129
September 18, 2003
Mr. Bruce W. Day, Chairperson United Auto Workers of America Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: Outside Contractor on Company Property
Dear Mr. Day:
This will confirm the understanding reached during the course of the 2003 local negotiations pertaining to outside contractor identification while on Company property.
The Company will require all outside contractors to provide the following information for posting in the Construction Commodity Management (CCM) Office while they are on-site:
•	Name of contractor and telephone number.
•	On-site manager and telephone number.
•	On-site safety representative and telephone number.
•	Name of Company representative overseeing project.
In the interest of plant security and safety, all personnel employed by a contractor will be required to wear a numbered contractors badge provided by the Company, while on the premises.
It is further understood that the contractor will publish a list of personnel working, their trade,
130
the numbered badge provided to their employee, and their starting and quitting times. The listing will be furnished by the contractor on a daily basis to the Plant Risk Manager and on a weekly basis to the Skilled Trades Representative.
Sincerely,
Brian T. Griffin, Manager
Human Resources
131
September 28, 1999
Mr. D. A. Mitchell, Chairman
United Auto Workers of America
Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: Overhead Protective Wire Guarding
Dear Mr. Mitchell:
During the course of 1999 local negotiations, the subject of production personnel performing repair work on the overhead protective wire guarding was discussed.
It is the position of the Company that production employees will not perform production or repair work in overhead protective wire guarding.
Performing work in the overhead protective wire guarding is restricted to plant emergency services personnel or other authorized personnel.
Sincerely,
J. A. Stick, Manager
Human Resources
132
October 25, 1984
Mr. R. A. Gettel finger, President United Auto Workers of America Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: Preventative Maintenance Log
Dear Mr. Gettelfinger:
During the course of 1984 local negotiations, the subject of Preventative Maintenance Logs on the chassis body hoist was discussed. This letter is to confirm our understanding that the Preventative Maintenance Logs will be available for review by the Union Health & Safety Representative, the District Committeeperson or the affected operator.
Sincerely,
G. A. Biasiolli, Manager
Industrial Engineering
Concur: T. M. Ryan, Manager
Industrial Relations
133
October 11,1999
Mr. D. A. Mitchell, Chairman
United Auto Workers of America
Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: Propane Powered Vehicles
Dear Mr. Mitchell:
During these local negotiations the parties discussed the issue of annoying fumes from propane powered vehicles.
The Company agrees to inspect and maintain all propane-powered vehicles on no less than a quarterly basis to reduce any abnormal smells, and to ensure that these vehicles operate as cleanly as possible.
Sincerely,
J. A. Stick, Manager
Human Resources
134
October 21,1990
Mr. S.M. Stone, Chairman
United Auto Workers of America
Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: Spray Booth Fire Protection System
Dear Mr. Stone:
During the course of the 1990 local negotiations, the subject of a spray booth fire protection system was discussed.
The parties agree that the current operation and maintenance of spray booth fire protection systems meet or exceed all Company or OSH A standards. However, the Union has expressed concern about the fire protection systems when they are operated on manual. The Company agrees to post instructions for manual operation of fire protection systems and to provide affected hourly and salaried employees with required training.
Sincerely,
T. M. Ryan, Manager
Human Resources
135
September 29, 1999
Mr. D.A. Mitchell, Chairman
United Auto Workers of America
Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: Traffic Flow - Chassis Line
Dear Mr. Mitchell:
During the course of 1999 local negotiations, the parties discussed the subject of traffic flow at the end of the Chassis Line where production units are driven off the end of the line and plant traffic crosses from one aisle to another aisle.
This will confirm that the Company will cut grooves in the flooring near the end of the line to alert those driving in the area to be alert to the stop sign and production traffic lane.
It is further understood that the flow of traffic and compliance with powered material handling vehicle safety guidelines by plant and contractor personnel will be monitored by the Plant Safety Engineers during the term of the agreement.
Sincerely,
J. A. Stick, Manager
Human Resources
136
October 24, 1993
Mr. K. Yates, Chairman
United Auto Workers of America
Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letters of Understanding: Wet Stock
Dear Mr. Yates:
During the 1993 local negotiations, the subject of wet stock was discussed. This will reaffirm management’s commitment to abide by health and safety grievance settlements dated November 12, 1974:
•	B27865	Frames
•	B32756	B32880 Seat Springs
•	B27864	Bumpers
Changes in product and facility	have made ob-
solete portions of the cited grievance settlements. However, the letter will reaffirm the Company’s commitment to the principles outlined in those settlements. The Company will continue to make every effort to ensure employees are provided with dry stock.
Sincerely,
T. D. Smith, Manager Employee Relations
137
September 17, 2003
Mr. Bruce W. Day, Chairperson
United Auto Workers of America
Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: Cost Meetings
Dear Mr. Day:
During the course of these negotiations, the Company and Union discussed the importance of the Company sharing financial data with the Union.
It is agreed that the Company will invite a member of the Local Bargaining Committee or their designee to a regularly scheduled meeting with the Plant Controller to discuss Total Cost information.
Sincerely,
Brian T. Griffin, Manager
Human Resources
138
September 2, 2003
Mr. Bruce W. Day, Chairperson United Auto Workers of America Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: Employee Communication
Dear Mr. Day:
The Company recognizes the importance of good communication between the Company, the Union and the employees. To further this process, the Company will continue to provide paper supplies and the use of the plant’s copy machines to support the publishing of the weekly newsletter distributed to the workforce.
Sincerely,
Brian T. Griffin, Manager
Human Resources
139
October 21,1990
Mr. S. M. Stone, Chairman
United Auto Workers of America
Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: Hours Before Holidays and Kentucky Derby
Dear Mr. Stone:
During the course of the 1990 local negotiations, the subject of the hours before holidays and derby was discussed.
The parties agree that under normal operating conditions, on production shifts which precede contract holidays and Derby Day, where management schedules 8 hour shifts, the union will waive back-up pay in order to permit the scheduling of shifts back to back. Nothing in the understanding prohibits management from scheduling overtime on these days. This agreement will require the approval of the National Ford Department and Employee Relations Staff before it can be put into effect.
Sincerely,
T. M. Ryan, Manager
Industrial Relations
140
September 25, 1999
Mr. Bruce W. Day, Chairperson
United Auto Workers of America
Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: Inclement Weather Condition Procedures
Dear Mr. Day:
During the course of these local negotiations, the company and union discussed inclement weather condition procedures for the Louisville Assembly Plant.
The company remains committed to quickly and effectively remove snow from parking lots and walkways to the building. Plant forces will be used to clear walkways and to sand gate entrances only. A professional service with appropriate equipment has been retained to remove snow accumulations from the parking lots (when snow accumulations are approximately 2 inches or more).
During periods of severe weather, the company will work closely with local and state authorities monitoring travel conditions in the area, and use the information provided to select the best course of action relative to any schedule adjustments, consistent with corporate guidelines, for the Louisville Assembly Plant and its employees. The company will communicate any operating sched
141
ule adjustments to employees through pre-selected television and radio stations. These stations will be identified in a plant bulletin to be published in the Fall of each year
Sincerely,
Brian T. Griffin
Human Resources Manager
142
October 25, 1984
Mr. R. A. Gettelfinger, President United Auto Workers of America Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letters of Understanding: Included Work - Material Handling
Dear Mr. Gettelfinger:
During the course of 1984 local negotiations, the subject of line supervision performing included work within the Materials Department was discussed. This letter is to reaffirm Management’s obligation to the principles established in the Master Collective Bargaining Agreement between the Ford Motor Company and the UAW, specifically:
•	Supervisors are not to order materials historically ordered by employees in included classifications.
•	And the stocking of lines will be performed by employees in included classifications.
Sincerely,
T. M. Ryan, Manager
Industrial Relations
143
September 20, 1999
Mr. D. A. Mitchell, Chairman
United Auto Workers of America
Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: Joint Manpower Planning and Control Committee
Dear Mr. Mitchell:
During the course of 1999 local negotiations, the subject of a Joint Manpower Planning and Control Committee was revisited. Both parties concur that manpower concerns could be proactively identified and resolved through regular joint meetings. These meeting would address manning levels, bid postings, temporary classifications, relief ratios, vacation scheduling, personal leave, early lunch periods, relief shutdowns, transfers and assignment of new hires.
This letter will confirm the Company’s commitment to re-establish the plant’s Joint Manpower Planning and Control Committee. The Committee will be chaired by the Human Resources Manager and meet on a regular basis and consider all manpower planning and control issues that the parties deem appropriate. The Committee will also focus on manpower issues that effect the efficient administration of the local agreement.
Sincerely,
J. A. Stick, Manager
Human Resources
144
September 22, 2003
Mr. Bruce W. Day, Chairperson United Auto Workers of America Local 862 6707 Grade Lane Louisville, Kentucky 40213
Letter of Understanding: Kentucky Derby Festival Impact
Dear Mr. Day:
During the current negotiations, the parties discussed at some length the changing demographics in the workplace and the need to seek alternative processes or programs to meet the needs of the changing work force and not hinder productivity, quality, and shareholder value.
This will confirm the understanding reached by the parties during the 1999 local contract negotiations. The parties will discuss work concepts and/or schedules as outlined in the Collective Bargaining Agreement that will reduce the loss of production and absenteeism during the Kentucky Derby Festival activities.
It is further understood that any work schedules and/or concepts are to be approved in writing by Labor Affairs for the Company and the National Ford Department for the Union.
Sincerely,
Brian T. Griffin, Manager
Human Resources
145
September 20, 1999
Mr. D. A. Mitchell, Chairman
United Autoworkers of America
Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: Line Spacing
Dear Mr. Mitchell:
When mechanical spacing devices fail to operate properly, supervision in the affected area will promptly take necessary steps to space units manually with hourly employees until the maintenance department provides proper spacing.
Sincerely,
J. A. Stick, Manager
Human Resources
146
September 20, 1999
Mr. D. A. Mitchell, Chairman
United Auto Workers of America
Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: Line Speed Change
Dear Mr. Mitchell:
This will confirm the understanding reached during the course of the 1999 local negotiations pertaining to line speed changes.
The Company will provide the union production standards representative with a letter of the plant line speeds following a permanent line speed or model change.
The Company also commits that it will notify the district representative on the impacted shift when there is a line speed adjustment.
Sincerely,
J. A. Stick, Manager
Human Resources
147
September 29, 2003
Mr. Bruce W. Day, Chairperson United Autoworkers of America Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: Line Time Notification
Dear Mr. Day:
Steps will be taken to assure that all direct labor employees are properly relieved. Management will make the final determination shortly after lunch as to the number of hours to be worked, and the responsible parties will be notified of this determination. Under normal operating conditions, employees will be given prior notice of at least two (2) hours of a change in posted quitting time.
Sincerely,
Brian T. Griffin, Manager
Human Resources
148
October 17, 1996
Mr. J. K. Yates, Chairman
United Auto Workers of America
Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: Locker Purge
Dear Mr. Yates:
This letter will confirm our understanding reached during 1996 local negotiations that under normal operating conditions, the local Bargaining Committee will receive five (5) days notice prior to any Company locker purge and the general workforce will receive a two (2) day advance notice. It is understood that nothing in this letter precludes management from entering any locker on Company property for cause.
Sincerely,
T. D. Smith, Manager
Employee Relations
149
October 14, 1979
Mr. R.A. Gettelfinger, Chairman United Auto Workers of America Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: Locker Purge Protocol
Dear Mr. Gettelfinger:
During the course of 1979 local negotiations, the subject of union representation during locker purges was discussed. This is to reaffirm the Company’s prior commitment to insure that on all plant locker purges a ratio of one committeeperson per guard will be maintained.
Sincerely,
T. M. Ryan, Manager
Industrial Relations
150
September 8, 2003
Mr. Bruce W. Day, Chairperson United Auto Workers of America Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: Maintenance Building Units in Body Shop
Dear Mr. Day:
During the course of these 2003 negotiations, the Company and Union discussed the subject of Maintenance building units in the Body shop over the weekend.
The Company reaffirms that it is not the intent of Maintenance to run production units. However, it is expected that Maintenance personnel will need to run a limited number of units to prove out equipment when production is not normally scheduled. The parties agree to discuss any issues that may arise related to proving out the equipment.
Sincerely,
Brian T. Griffin, Manager
Human Resources
151
October 4, 1999
Mr. D. A. Mitchell, Chairman
United Auto Workers of America
Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: Medical Restriction
Placement Committee
Dear Mr. Mitchell:
During the current 1999 negotiations, the parties discussed the need to place medically restricted employees on operations that are within their capabilities and limitations. On occasion, management is unable to locate operations within the employee’s medical restrictions. Such situations may require expertise from various internal or external sources as outlined in the Local Letters of Understanding on “Medical Placement Procedures.”
During these local contract negotiations, the parties agreed there was a necessity to continue the use of the Plant Placement Committee. The committee will act as a consultant to management and union whenever they encounter a placement condition that is beyond their area of responsibility or expertise. The committee will comprise of the following plant personnel
Plant Physician
Staff Nurse
Safety Engineer
Human Resource Associate Department Superintendent Plant Ergonomist
152
Due to the many variables involved with the placement of a restricted employee, the following will also participate on the committee as a resource for meeting the placement of the restricted employee.
Unit Union Representative
Unit Health and Safety Representative
Physical Therapist
Worker Compensation Representative
The committee will meet as needed, but no less than once each month during the term of the agreement.
If all of the above efforts fail to place the medically restricted employee, the Company may exercise its rights under Article VIII, Section 27 of the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
Sincerely,
J. A. Stick, Manager -Human Resources
153
September 4, 2003
Mr. Bruce W. Day, Chairperson United Autoworkers of America Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: Memorial Plaque
During the course of2003 local negotiations, the parties discussed the desire to provide a lasting memorial remembrance to the families of employees who die while actively employed.
This will confirm the understanding that following the death of an active employee, the Company will send one memorial plaque to the immediate family of the deceased employee.
It is understood that upon implementation of this new memorial recognition procedure, the previous Company practice of stopping the assembly line in memory of a deceased employee will be discontinued.
Sincerely,
Brian T. Griffin, Manager
Human Resources
154
September 5, 2003
Mr. Bruce W. Day, Chairperson
United Auto Workers of America
Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: Moving Materials for Skilled Trades
Dear Mr. Day:
During the course of these 2003 negotiations, the Company and Union discussed the subject of moving incoming materials for the skilled trades department.
This letter will confirm the understanding that any materials received on the dock for the skilled trades department can be moved by Material Handling to a “staging area” to be picked up by Skilled Trades.
Sincerely,
Brian T. Griffin, Manager Human Resources
155
September 2, 1999
Mr. D. A. Mitchell, Chairman
United Auto Workers of America
Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: Pager for Part-Time Committeeperson
Dear Mr. Mitchell:
This will confirm the understanding reached during the course of the 1999 negotiations pertaining to a pager for the part-time committeeperson.
The Company will provide a digital pager to the part-time #1 shift skilled trades committeeperson.
Sincerely,
J. A. Stick, Manager Human Resources
156
October 17, 2003
Bruce W. Day, Chairperson
United Auto Workers of America
Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: Relief Pattern Changes - Mass vs. Tag
Dear Mr. Day;
During the course of the 2003 local negotiations, the parties discussed the plant’s adoption of a mass pattern of relief concurrent with the end of Explorer Sport production. The Company acknowledges the local Union’s original intention to support mass relief until the Plant’s Body Shop could be facilitized for more four-door Explorer production at current line speeds at which time the parties would jointly review the practice for continuation.
The national parties addressed relief patterns during 2003 national bargaining. A letter titled “Relief Pattern Changes - Assembly Operations” was established. This new agreement requires any subsequent permanent adjustments in relief patterns to be referred to the national parties for decision.
Sincerely,
Brian T. Griffin, Manager
Human Resources
157
September 23, 1999
Mr. D. A. Mitchell, Chairman
United Auto Workers of America
Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: Relief Ratios
Dear Mr. Mitchell:
This will confirm the understanding reached by the parties during the 1999 local contract negotiations.
The current relief ratios in effect are as follows:
Classification	Relief Ratio
Paint Sprayer	1-5
Wheel and Tire Hanging	
Operation - Chassis	1-5
Welder-Arc, Acetylene	
and Gas	1-6.5
Sincerely,
J. A. Stick, Manager Human Resources
158
October 24, 1993
Mr. J. K. Yates, Chairman
United Auto Workers of America
Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: Relocation of Fans and Water Coolers
Dear Mr. Yates.
During the course of the 1993 local negotiations, the Union expressed concern that fans and water fountains were not being moved simultaneously with the relocation of employee operations. This letter will confirm management’s intent to move fans and water fountains simultaneously with the relocation of employee operations. If, for any reason, this cannot be done, the Union will be notified and given an alternative completion date.
Sincerely,
T. D. Smith, Manager
Employee Relations
159
October 15, 2003
Mr. Bruce W. Day, Chairperson
United Auto Workers of America
Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: Retiree Appreciation
Dear Mr. Day:
The parties recognize the significant contributions that the Plant’s retirees have made, and continue to make, towards the Plant’s overall success in a wide range of endeavors.
To recognize their continued service and support, the parties have agreed to work together to host an annual retiree appreciation event. The availability of Company funding, if any, will be subject to the approval of the Vehicle Operations Finance Office.
Sincerely,
Brian T. Griffin, Manager
Human Resources
160
September 18, 2003
Mr. Bruce W. Day, Chairperson United Auto Workers of America Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: Shift Starting Time Changes
Dear Mr. Day:
When multiple start times are available in the same department, same shift, all employees within that classification, performing similar work in the department, will be given consideration for the assignment by requesting it.
Once employees have exercised start time preference, they will not be allowed to exercise start time preference again for four (4) months from the date they are placed on the new start time.
For purpose of applying the above provisions, employees in Plant Services, Material Handling, and Quality Control are considered as separate, plantwide departments.
The above provisions apply to all inspectors, except those on surveyed positions.
In the event some employees have a complaint with reference to the above subject, the Committeeperson may register the complaint to the Labor Relations Supervisor for immediate investigation. If the employee in question is
161
qualified, assignments to the contrary will be readjusted.
Sincerely,
Brian T. Griffin, Manager Human Resources
162
October 19, 1999
Mr. D. A. Mitchell, Chairman
United Auto Workers of America
Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: Sourcing Initiatives
Dear Mr. Mitchell:
During the current negotiations the parties discussed after market opportunities for the Louisville Assembly plant.
This will confirm the understanding that the Company, in cooperation with the Union and the Local Job Security, Operational Effectiveness and Sourcing Committee (LJSOESC), within six (6) months of the effective date, will study after market opportunities. Additionally, it is mutually agreed to consider changes that may be needed to attract these opportunities on a competitive and profitable basis.
If it is established that certain work can be performed competitively, as judged by the criteria identified in the Master Collective Bargaining Agreement, management will adopt the LJSOESC’s proposal and, barring unique or unforeseen circumstances, bring the work in-house.
Sincerely,
J. C. Tankesley Plant Manager
163
September 1, 1999
Mr. D. A. Mitchell, Chairman
United Auto Workers of America
Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: Surveillance Inspection
Dear Mr. Mitchell:
During the course of these negotiations, the Company and the Union discussed selection, reductions in force, and recall rights of Surveillance Inspectors. As a result of these discussions the Company agreed to the following:
•	Surveillance Inspectors will be selected by plant wide survey of all non-surveillance Inspector classifications.
•	In the event of a reduction in force, a Surveillance Inspector will return to their previous department.
•	A reduced Surveillance Inspector will retain recall rights to Surveillance Inspector for six months from the reduction in force date.
•	This agreement excludes employees in the Inspector-Road Test classification.
Sincerely,
J. A. Stick, Manager
Human Resources
164
September 24, 1987
Mr. L. R. Sparks
Acting Building Chairman
United Auto Workers of America
Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: Vendor Work and Sorting
Dear Mr. Sparks:
During the course of 1987 local negotiations the party discussed the conduct and activities of vendors performing work on Company property. With respect to the Union’s concerns regarding vendor rework and sorting, the Company agrees to provide the Union with written or verbal notice of vendors working in the plant and requires that said vendors will adhere to all existing Company Safety Rules and Practices.
Sincerely,
T. M. Ryan, Manager
Industrial Relations
165
September 24, 2003
Mr. Bruce W. Day, Chairperson
United Auto Workers of America
Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: Weld Inspector Line Time in Tear Down Booth
Dear Mr. Day:
During the course of these 2003 negotiations, the Company and the Union discussed the issue of line time for Weld Inspectors in the weld tear down booth.
This letter will confirm the Company’s commitment to work all Weld Inspectors the same hours during production.
Sincerely,
Brian T. Griffin, Manager
Human Resources
166
September 18, 2003
Mr. Bruce W. Day, Chairperson
United Auto Workers of America
Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: Working Through
Lunch
Dear Mr. Day:
During the course of these 2003 local negotiations, the Company and Union discussed the issue of employees working through lunch. Both parties acknowledge that business conditions occasionally develop that require some operations to work through a lunch period to meet production demands. However, the Company recognizes the importance of a regular lunch break for employees and will not rely on working through lunch programs as a regular course of business.
Sincerely,
Brian T. Griffin, Manager Human Resources
167
September 20, 1999
Mr. D. A. Mitchell, Chairman
United Auto Workers of America
Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: Workload Reallocation Procedure
Dear Mr. Mitchell:
During the course of the 1999 local negotiations, the Union expressed concern over the Plant’s workload reallocation procedure. This letter is to confirm the understanding that the plant will begin workload reallocations on the # 2 shift. This understanding is intended to insure that workload reallocations are begun on the shift with the maximum resources for problem resolution. This understanding does not preclude management from beginning work reallocations on the # 3 shift once those reallocations have begun on the # 2 shift. In addition, to insure consistency between the shifts, an employee may request to have his or her workload reallocation reviewed simultaneously with his or her counterpart prior to his or her reallocation of work.
Sincerely,
J. A. Stick, Manager
Human Resources
168
September 18, 2003
Mr. Bruce W. Day, Chairperson
United Auto Workers of America
Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: Work Standards File Retention
Dear Mr. Day:
During the course of the 2003 local negotiations, the subject of work standards files was discussed.
The plant will retain all production standards documentation on file for one (1) year.
Sincerely,
Brian T. Griffin, Manager
Human Resources
169
September 17, 2003
Mr. Bruce W. Day, Chairperson
United Auto Workers of America
Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: Overtime Equalization
Dear Mr. Day:
During the course of the 2003 local negotiations, the subject of overtime equalization was discussed. This letter is to confirm our understanding that overtime equalization spreads will be reported in the weekly Task Force meeting on both 2nd and 3rd shifts. Superintendents will discuss the conditions and actions necessary to correct persistent and/or deteriorating out-of-spread equalization groups.
Sincerely,
Brian T. Griffin, Manager
Human Resources
170
October 25, 1999
Mr. D. A. Mitchell, Chairman
United Auto Workers of America
Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: Overtime Refusal Record Keeping
Dear Mr. Mitchell:
This will confirm the position of the Company that no employee will be charged for refusing an overtime opportunity if it is less than eight (8) hours from the end of his or her prior work shift.
Sincerely,
J. A. Stick, Manager
Human Resources
171
August 26, 2003
Mr. Bruce W. Day, Chairperson
United Auto Workers of America
Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: Weekend Overtime Scheduling
Dear Mr. Day
During the course of 2003 local negotiations, the Union expressed concerns regarding the scheduling of weekend overtime.
In order to ensure that the appropriate classification and employees are scheduled for the overtime, each department will participate in an overtime meeting every Thursday as part of the Task Force meetings. In the meetings, management will review with the Union committeepersons in attendance, the proposed weekend overtime work plan including the classification(s), employee(s) and hours scheduled. In the event that the Task Force meeting is not held, the information will then be provided in the Friday Start-Up meetings.
Questions or disputes regarding the overtime scheduling should be referred to Labor Relations.
Sincerely,
Brian T. Griffin, Manager
Human Resources
172
September 28, 1999
Mr. D. A. Mitchell, Chairman
United Auto Workers of America
Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: Daily Report of Time Procedure
Dear Mr. Mitchell:
During the course of the 1999 negotiations, the union raised the ongoing problems associated with employee pay shortages and improper absence coding.
This will confirm that the Company will not tolerate improper pay practices and absence coding that may have an adverse impact on an employee’s pay.
It is the primary responsibility of the section supervisor to properly pay, code and assign hourly personnel. The Daily Report of Time (DROT) is to be posted in the immediate work area by the section supervisor within the first two (2.0) hours of the shift. Once the Daily Report of Time is posted, each employee is responsible to review the Daily Report of Time and notify the section supervisor of any discrepancies. In the event of an error, the section supervisor is to make a correction as expeditiously as possible.
In order to correct future pay shortages and posting deficiencies, the Company will maintain sta
173
tistics on pay shortages and posting of Daily Report of Time complaints by a section supervisor. Where required, corrective payroll input training will be provided to the section supervisor experiencing greater than normal pay shortages and coding errors.
In the event these issues are not properly controlled and continue, the section supervisor involved will be dealt with in accordance with established Company procedures.
Sincerely,
J. A. Stick, Manager
Human Resources
174
September 20, 1999
Mr. D. A. Mitchell, Chairman
United Auto Workers of America
Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: Pay Shortages
Dear Mr. Mitchell:
Under present operating conditions, when employees discover a pay shortage of one hour or more, they may request payment of such shortage from their supervisor. Such shortage claims will be paid on the Friday of the week it is reported.
Sincerely,
J. A. Stick, Manager
Human Resources
175
September 22, 2003
Mr. Bruce W. Day, Chairperson
United Auto Workers of America
Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: Driver Safety Training
Dear Mr. Day:
This letter will confirm the understanding reached by the parties that completion of the Plant’s formal Driver Safety Training program, consisting of both classroom and hands-on instruction, will be required of any employee who moves into a classification which requires driving of production units inside the plant. This formal training must be completed by any new operator before he/she assumes in-plant driving responsibilities.
A condensed version of the training, to be completed in a 15 to 30 minute session, will be developed and provided to temporary operators assigned to the job when normal coverage is not available. The supervisor will retain sign-off sheets reflecting the completion of the condensed training.
Sincerely,
Brian T. Griffin, Manager
Human Resources
176
October 21, 1990
Mr. S. M. Stone, Chairman
United Auto Workers of America
Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letters of Understanding: Local Training Committee
Dear Mr. Stone:
In recent years the growth utilization and effectiveness of training programs at the Louisville Assembly Plant have been remarkable. As a result, the UAW, the Company and our customers have derived many desirable benefits. This is due in large measure to the interest and sincere commitment of employees, the local union, and management. We have come to recognize that effective training is a long-term process requiring substantial commitment of time, attention and resources on the part of both the Union and Company.
During the course of 1990 Local Negotiations the party reaffirmed their commitment to strong and effective training programs which enhance the Company’s competitive standing as well as providing growth opportunities for our employees. To this end the parties have agreed to establish a Joint Training Committee which, in conjunction with existing training resources, will develop, review and foster Local Training Programs. The standing committee will consist of
177
three members from local management and three members appointed by the Union. The committee will report directly to the Employee Relations Manager and the Building Chairman. They will meet as required and have access to necessary information and resources.
Sincerely;
T. M. Ryan
Employee Relations Manager
178
September 14, 2003
Mr. Bruce W. Day, Chairperson
United Auto Workers of America
Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: Material Handling -Industrial Lift Truck and Tow Motor Operator Training.
Dear Mr. Day,
During the course of these 2003 negotiations, the Company and Union discussed the training of Industrial Lift Truck and Tow Motor Operators before a new operator is assigned to an area or industrial equipment.
The Company reaffirms the commitment made in 1999 to jointly develop and implement a training program for new employees in the Material Handling Department. A joint task force will refine the plan developed from the 1999 negotiations. The Company will implement the program incorporating a sign-off sheet for the trained operator and their supervisor. Operators must successfully complete the program before they can be assigned a route supporting production.
Sincerely,
Brian T. Griffin, Manager
Human Resources
179
October 2, 2003
Mr. Bruce W. Day, Chairperson United Auto Workers of America Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: Supervisor/ Committeeperson Early Intervention Training
Dear Mr. Day:
During the course of the 2003 local negotiations, the parties reaffirmed the importance of early intervention training for Supervisors and Committeepersons to prepare them to identify and help employees in need of EAP support . The national parties have agreed to jointly develop a training program for this purpose.
Once the “Early Intervention Training Module” is released for use, the plant will train all Supervisors and Committeepersons within 12 months, consistent with the National Program Center’s training plan and timing.
Sincerely,
Brian T. Griffin; Manager
Human Resources
180
September 14, 2003
Mr. Bruce W. Day, Chairperson
United Auto Workers of America
Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: Versatility Training for Absenteeism Coverage
Dear Mr. Day:
This will confirm the understanding reached during the course of these 2003 local negotiations pertaining to versatility training for absentee coverage utility.
The Company agrees to develop a versatility training chart by work group and implement a training plan to ensure that Utilities receive the necessary training to provide coverage as required in their area. This chart will be posted on the floor in each zone, consistent with FPS requirements.
Sincerely,
Brian T. Griffin, Manager
Human Resources
181
September 5, 2003
Mr. Bruce W. Day, Chairman
United Auto Workers of America
Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: New Spray Painter Training
Dear Mr. Day:
During the course of these 2003 negotiations, the Company and Union discussed the need for training of New Spray Painter(s) assigned to the paint department.
It is agreed that the following agenda will be used for training New Spray Painter(s):
1.	New painters will spend the first two hours upon entering the paint facility completing an orientation with the Quality Leader. This time will include the following items being addressed:
a.	Panel check the future painter ensuring employee is not positive for craters.
b.	Discussion on contaminates that are crater causing agents.
c.	Quality Leader will give employee tour of the appropriate zone.
2.	Quality Leader from the enamel booths will fully explain the function and intent of a spray gun.
a	. Purpose and function of the following parts of the gun
182
•	Trigger
•	Air Cap
•	Fluid Needle
•	Proper pressures (air, fluid flow, electrostatic)
3.	The painter will then watch a “Proper painting Techniques” CD-Rom by themselves.
4.	The above mention CD-Rom will then be watched a second time in detail with a paint trainer or Quality Leader that will answer and explain questions from the trainee.
5.	Both will then go to a training location for a minimum of four hour individual training on proper technique. The length of the training beyond four hours in this booth will be determined by Paint Management and the trainer.
6.	After completion of training the employee will then train on new base operation in the main enamel/prime booth. This training will continue daily for a maximum of five days.
7.	The Superintendent and the District Committeeperson will mutually select the trainer for each class of new painters.
Sincerely,
Lisa Skidmore
Paint Area Manager
183
September 30, 2003
Mr. Bruce W. Day, Chairperson United Auto Workers of America Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding Prior Letters of Understanding
Dear Mr. Day:
During the course of the 2003 negotiations, the Company and the Union discussed the Letters of Understanding in the 1999 Local Agreement that do not apply to current working conditions.
The following letters will be omitted from the 2003 Local Agreement. However, if business conditions change such that a Letter may be relevant again, the parties agree to discuss reinstatement of the Letter.
Date	Letter of Understanding	Page#
1999	Cafeteria Improvements	Page	48
1999	Drink Container Replacement	Page	60
1999	Electronic Bid System Application	Page	62
1999	Electronic Shift Preference System	Page	65
1999	Feasibility Study-Shift Starting Time	Page	80
1999	Fitness Center Utilization	Page	83
1999	General Utility Classification -
Mat. Hdlg. Dept.	Page	88
1999	Industrial Lift Truck & Tow
Tractor Repair	Page	96
1999	Meditation Room	Page	118
184
1999	Plant Telephone Directory	Page 141
1996	Powerhouse Overtime Equalization	Page 142
1999	Selection Process Procedure -Body Area	Page 157
1999	Survey - Material Handling Department	Page 171
1993	Tutone Spray Booth	Page 180
1999	Unpublished Local Letters of Understanding	Page 181
Sincerely,
Brian T. Griffin, Manager Human Resources
185
186
LOCAL AGREEMENTS
SKILLED TRADES LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING
Between
LOCAL 862
and the
Ford Motor Company
Louisville Assembly Plant
Agreements Dated November 9, 2003
Table of Contents
Introduction............................1
Agreements
Changeover Agreement....................2
Group Leader Agreement..................7
Overtime Agreement.....................14
Seniority Agreement....................18
Shift Preference Agreement.............23
Letter of Understandings
Appendix F - Openings..................26
Appendix F - Reduction in Force........27
Absences - Replacement of Skilled
Personnel for Scheduled Absences.......28
Absences - Industrial Lift Truck and
Tow Motor Replacement Personnel........41
Apprentice - Graduating Assignments....29
Maintenance Building Units in
Body Shop..............................30
Certification of Maintenance Welders...31
CMM Plant Visitation Protocol..........32
Computer Related / Telephone Service
Assignments............................33
Contractor Transport Vehicle...........34
Insulated Coveralls....................35
Electrician Job Assignment.............36
Electronic Repair Equipment in the
Body Department........................37
Final Area Broadcast Monitors..........38
Full Utilization.......................39
Industrial Truck Repair.................40
Steam Cleaning Material Handling Equipment...............................43
Lines of Demarcation - FTPM/FPS.........43
Kit Installation........................44
Non-Traditional Assignments.............45
Oiler Staffing Levels...................47
Outside Contractor on Company Property .. 48
Overtime................................50
Personal Tools - Maintenance............52
Project Coordinator.....................53
Project Crew............................54
Refrigeration Training..................55
Schafer and Ampro Racks.................56
Sprinkler Work..........................57
Training............................... 58
Warranty and Equipment Repair...........60
Skilled Trades Work Assignments Committee...............................61
ii
Introduction
This Skilled Trades section is intended to acquaint the Skilled Tradesperson with certain Company policies and Agreements and Letters of Understanding negotiated between the management of Louisville Assembly Plant and Local 862 of the UAW. These policies and agreements are subject to change by the Company or by agreement between the Company and the Union. Refer to the Production, Non-Skilled section of this agreement for language that is applicable to all hourly employees. For the detailed rules governing such matters as vacation, holiday pay, and other matters covered by Union agreement, you should consult the Master Agreement which became effective September 29, 2003. Copies are available at the Labor Relations Office.
CHANGEOVER AGREEMENT
This agreement shall become effective upon receipt of written notice from the Union on ratification and shall remain in effect until September 29, 2007. However, it is subject to termination by either party upon thirty (30) days notice in writing to either party.
Periods exist when it becomes necessary to place additional employees on skilled classifications of work when journeymen are not available. This agreement is entered into to define the application of “Changeover” classifications when workers are not available in journeymen’s classifications in the Maintenance Department.
1.	The term “Journeyman” as used in this agreement means any person:
A.	Who presently holds a journeyman classification, or
B.	Who has served a bonafide apprenticeship which meets the standards established by the Federal Committee on apprenticeship, and has a certificate which substantiates the claim of such services, or
C.	Who has had eight (8) years practical experience in the trade and can establish satisfactory proof thereof.
2.	Plant employees will be given the opportunity to transfer to Changeover classifications provided they have filed applications and have qualifications that are acceptable to Management. However, the Company’s right to hire any non-jour-neyman employees for work in the skilled clas
2
sifications is still recognized. Such non-journeyman transferees (other than apprentices) shall be known as “Changeover” (Transferred). Non-joumeymen employees newly hired for work in the skilled classifications (other than apprentices) shall be known as “Changeover” (New). Changeover employees shall be regarded as temporary for a period of three (3) months on the Changeover classification.
3.	For the purpose of identifying Changeover employees and to prevent an automatic movement in the journeymen classification, changeover employees shall be designated in their respective classification in the following manner:
The letters “C.O.T.” will indicate a Changeover (Transferred) employees and the letters “C.O.N” will designate a Changeover (New) employee.
4.	Changeover employees will not be reclassified to journeymen classifications until such time as they have met the requirements of Section 1(c) of this agreement, and then only if they are able to demonstrate ability through job performance and/or examinations, commensurate with those required of journeymen. Such reclassified Changeover employees shall be granted seniority as a journeyman from the date of reclassification to journeyman.
5.	Changeover employees shall enter the Changeover classification at the minimum rate of the journeyman classification unless a C.O.T. has a rate, prior to transfer, higher than the mini
3
mum of the C.O.T. classification in which event they will retain the higher rate.
6.	Changeover employees will exercise seniority within their Changeover employee classification ‘as of the date of entry into the Changeover group without regard to whether transferred (C.O.T.) or newly hired (C.O.N.).
A.	Changeover employees (Transferred) shall not acquire seniority within the skilled department, but will continue to accumulate seniority on the classification to which they belonged before transferred, except as provided in Section 4 above. Upon a reduction in force from the Changeover (Transferred) classification employees affected will return to the classification held before such transfer, in line with their seniority.
B.	Changeover employees (New) shall acquire seniority as provided for in Section 4 above and in the general labor pool.
7.	In the event of a reduction in force in the skilled departments, layoff will be made in the following order:
A.	All Changeover employees, both transferred and new, will be laid off before any qualified journeyman or apprentice in the same classification is laid off.
B.	Probationary journeymen.
C.	Qualified journeymen and apprentices in accordance with the Local Seniority Agreement.
4
8.	No Changeover employee shall be eligible to work premium time days (Saturdays, Sundays and Holidays) while any journeyman or apprentice on the same classification in the same department has not been given the opportunity to work.
9.	Changeover employees shall be required to sign a wavier indicating consent to the terms and conditions of this agreement and expressly waiving the accumulation of seniority in the skilled trades department.
5
This agreement is signed subject to the approval of the proper representatives of the National Ford Department of the UAW and the Wage Administration Section, Corporate Labor Affairs of the Ford Motor Company.
Ford Motor Company
Louisville Assembly Plant
International
UnionLocal 862
Vehicle Operations
UAW Region 3
Union Affairs
UAW National Ford Department
6
Group Leader Agreement -Skilled Trades
It is mutually agreed between the Ford Motor Company, Vehicle Operations, Louisville Assembly Plant and the International Union and UAW Local 862, that on this date, November 9, 2003, that the following classification and rate will be established for the Louisville Assembly Plant, effective,________________.
Classification
Title	Rate
Team Leader	.50 Above
This classification is applicable to employees performing the broad scope of Group Leader functions and duties for a Continuous Improvement Work Group. It is not intended to cover employees who may perform a few of the Leader duties, but who do not have overall responsibility for leadership and performance of the CIWG. The “$ 0.50 above rate” premium will be applied to the existing classification of the selected Leader.
Selection
1.	Leaders will be selected by seniority survey from among the journeyman members of the group. Apprentices are not eligible for the classification but may serve as a group coordinator, by mutual agreement of the parties, if no journeyman elects to serve as the leader.
2.	The survey will be conducted every six months.
7
Group Composition
1. The number of employees assigned to each group will vary depending on plant geography, job content and the natural relation of operations. A group may be comprised of multiple trades assigned to a crib, work area or project.
Overtime
Leaders will continue to equalize overtime within their current trade.
Leader Roles and Responsibilities
See attachment B.
8
This agreement is signed subject to the approval of the proper representatives of the National Ford Department of the UAW and the Wage Administration Section, Corporate Labor Affairs of the Ford Motor Company.
Ford Motor Company International
Louisville Assembly Plant UnionLocal 862
Vehicle Operations UAW Region 3
Union Affairs
National Ford Dept.
9
Attachment B
Louisville Assembly Plant’s Skilled Trade Leader
Roles and Responsibilities
Plan. Schedule and Facilitate Group Meetings
Prepare agenda
Begin group meetings with a scripted safety talk, when provided.
Keep group focused and on task during meetings by following the 7-step process.
Review group progress using SQDCME measurables, the 5 S’s and issue resolution matrices.
Ensure all members of team are given the opportunity to voice concerns and opinions
Identify group members responsible for achieving group objectives
Retain sign-in sheets
Invite personnel necessary to facilitate issue resolutions. (Manager(s), Superintendent(s), Supervisor(s), ME(s), Engineer(s), etc.)
Inform production group leaders of meeting times and invite them to attend in order to facilitate communication.
Safety
Conduct Safety Walk with supervisors and group members.Document through agendas, check sheets, start-up form, and sign-in sheets. Review items to assure closure.
10
Coach your group on plant and department safety policies
Facilitate Communications Between Other Shifts. Groups and Management
Ensure pertinent information is forwarded to other shifts via available communication methods. (E-mail, comm, boards etc)
Meet with supervisor/facilitator to communicate necessary information regarding group activities and unresolved issues.
Attend department future work planning meetings in order to communicate group needs and relay information of upcoming work back to group members.
Communicate with area production group leaders and attend production group meetings as needed.
Actively Support the 7-Step Process
Work with the salary facilitator in maintaining the Group activity board.
Track SQDCME performance
Maintain Error Proofing/Quick Change Over matrices documenting improvements and continued functionality.
Assure waste reduction ideas are documented on value stream map posted on zone board.
Post Group Training Matrix.
Maintain Zone safety cross and charts.
11
Follow the 5S’s
Conduct a 5S audit weekly with the supervisor present.
Maintain a critical parts list, keep current and post in the area.
Assure all parts in the area are labeled with min/ max quantities.
Assist the supervisor to submit master requisition for industrial materials (gloves, supplies, etc.) for zone, manage requisitions to zone’s budget for industrial materials, and maintain the Line Side Bins with proper Min/Max levels.Know the environmental procedures and assure they are followed in your area. Know how to locate the Ford Tox #’s And MSDS sheets for your area.
Training
Complete training needs analysis.
Assist the supervisor in scheduling and completion of group training as identified by training needs analysis. Group members should complete BEW1&2, C1WG1,2&3, Single Point Lessons, OEE, 8-D, Error Proofing, High Climbing, ECPL, 5 Whys, R&M Introduction.
Identify training needs based on new equipment installation
Error Proofing
Assist supervisor to maintain all visual aids in the area, logbook, stickers, etc. Review visual aids and logbook to assure all are current.
12
Assist in developing and maintaining area QPS sheets.
Assist with ensuring visual factory practices are in place in your area. (Air Gauge, match markers etc.)
Schedule Group Activities
Work with the supervisor to schedule Cleaning Is Inspection for your areas as needed. Assist in getting supplies to support the activity, and verify documentation (7 Steps) is updated at the end of the activity.
Recognize employees/groups when milestones are reached following the LAP Recognition Process.
Team with supervisor to develop group level objectives from the plant master schedule and communicate to the group, policy deployment. Assure the group is making progress.
Work with union and management to facilitate TEG participation in the EEM process.
Organize group preparation for FTPM, FPS, QOS and ISO audits.
13
OVERTIME AGREEMENT -SKILLED TRADES
Maintenance Appendix F employees are working under the provisions of Appendix H 3 (c) Temporary Changeover Pool of the.Master Collective Bargaining Agreement.
Equalization Lists
Skilled trades classifications will equalize overtime by classification, by shift, plantwide.
Inspector-Tooling and Layout classification will equalize overtime by classification across all shifts.
Powerhouse-The Powerhouse Engineer-Leader, Powerhouse Engineer and Boiler Fireman will constitute one group for the purpose of sharing overtime.
The parties agree that the overtime spreads in the Powerhouse will be reviewed six (6) months after ratification of the 2003 local agreement to gauge whether the changes made below are effective in managing the OT spread. For skilled tradespersons on a seven-day operation, an employee will be charged for overtime created by their own absence if they are in position to be surveyed for the overtime. An Apprentice in a seven-day operation will not be offered a sixth day of work in a given pay period unless all Joumeypersons in that classification have been offered a sixth day of work in that same pay period. The same stipulation shall also apply to seventh day of work
14
in a pay period. To facilitate training, Management retains the right to adjust the scheduled days off for the Apprentices.
Overtime Administration Provisions
The Provisions Regarding Overtime for Skilled Trades are as Follows:
1.	Overtime will be charged according to number of hours paid.
2.	Employees who accept the overtime opportunity and fail to report to work will be charged double the number of hours they would have been charged.
3.	To be properly excused from overtime, an employee must submit an Opt-Off request through the Plant Skilled Trades Overtime Scheduling System. All Opt-Off requests for Saturday and Sunday must be submitted by 8:00 a.m. of the Wednesday preceding the Saturday and Sunday being refused. For all other overtime opportunities, an employee must submit their Opt-Off requests 48 hours in advance.
4.	Employees will not switch scheduled overtime hours. Failure to adhere to procedure will result in a penalty charge.
5.	Employees must be notified before the end of their shift to be charged with any overtime for their following shift.
6.	When either rolling or being rolled from a shift, employees will be placed in the same numerical position on the overtime equalization list
15
as they were before the roll, and will have. 1 hour added to their new overtime equalization hours.
7.	When an adjustment is made to correct hours in the TWOS record for a skilled tradesperson, the Maintenance Supervisor or Superintendent that submits the adjustment, will ensure that a similar adjustment is made on the skilled trades weekly overtime survey, and notify the Skilled Trades Representatives of the adjustment
8.	The Company will investigate and consider new overtime procedures and systems which would be utilized to improve the efficiency and accuracy of scheduling overtime in the skilled trades department.
9.	The Company agrees to replace production support skilled trades when absent during production hours due to training.
10.	Housepainters will be offered 12 hours of overtime Monday through Friday in the week preceding (or equivalent) and during any planned weekend scheduling of the (C.O.T) Housepainters.
16
This agreement is signed subject to the approval of the proper representatives of the National Ford Department of the UAW and the Wage Administration Section, Corporate Labor Affairs of the Ford Motor Company.
Ford Motor Company International
Louisville Assembly Plant UnionLocal 862
Vehicle Operations UAW Region 3
Union Affairs
National Ford Dept.
17
Seniority Agreement - Skilled Trades
It is Mutually agreed between Ford Motor Company, Vehicle Operations, Louisville Assembly Plant, and the International Union, Local 862, on October 13,2003, at Louisville, Kentucky that the following provisions will govern seniority, occupational groupings, reduction in force and recall issues.
1.	General Seniority Principles
A.	Seniority shall be exercised at a time of reduction in force, recall, bidding on better jobs, and where a job has been eliminated on a plant wide basis.
B.	Seniority employees informing the Labor Relations Office of their desire to quit on a certain day and/or hour shall be considered terminated as of the day and/or hour and all their previous seniority shall be cancelled.
C.	The names of employees shall be placed on a plant wide seniority list in order of their seniority. In the event of reductions in force or recall, employees shall be laid off or recalled according to their standing on the plant wide seniority list, except as otherwise provided therein. Seniority lists will be posted monthly at the east and west main entrances, and the main entrance to the paint facility.
2.	Tie Break
A.	Appendix F — Skilled Trades - In the
18
event more than one employee is selected from a skilled trades bid list, the first employee to be classified from the bid list shall establish date of entry seniority for all those employees accepted from that bid list. Seniority by classification shall be determined first by date of entry, then by Company date of hire. In the event the Company date of hire is the same, the employee with the highest (last four digits only) Social Security number shall be considered senior.
B.	Apprentices — Effective October 17,1996. Seniority of new Apprentice entrants with identical date of entry (DOE) will be determined first by plant seniority, then by company seniority. In the event the Company seniority is the same, the employee with the highest last four digits of social security number shall be considered senior.
3.	Occupational Groupings
A. Appendix F — Skilled Trades — Skilled non-production workers of the maintenance department shall constitute a skilled occupational group with separate group seniority. Those working in that group on June 20, 1941, shall have seniority in that group. Those transferred to that group after June 20, 1941, shall have seniority in that group only from date of original entry. Those classifications in the maintenance department which shall constitute the separate skilled seniority group are as follows:
19
Leader (in classification employee is Leader over)
Auto Mechanic
Carpenter
Electrician
Industrial Lift Truck & Tow Tractor Repair Inspector-Tooling & Layout
Millwright
Oiler
Painter
Plumber-Pipefitter
Repair-Power Tool (Combined former Pneumatic Equipment & Tool Repair 9-17-77) Tinsmith
Tool Maker
Welder-General
4.	Reductions in Force
A. Appendix F — Skilled Trades —The order of layoff and recall for Skilled Trades employees shall be by seniority date of entry by classification with the following exceptions: 1. The principle covering seniority in the Power House for all skilled tradesmen shall be as follows:
Three classifications shall be covered under this agreement. A-l Power House Engineer Leader (25-7-017-7), A-2 Power House Engineer (35-7-017-0) and A-3 Boiler Fireman (35-7-0380). In the event of a reduction in force, the least senior Lead Engineer with sufficient seniority shall have the right to bump the least senior Engineer; the least senior Engineer with sufficient seniority shall have the right to
20
bump the least senior Boiler Fireman; the least senior Boiler Fireman affected shall have then exercised his rights under the Skilled Trades Layoff Provision.
2. Seniority of employees classified 38-7-084 Tool Repair as of August 21, 1957, and who have been or are later reclassified to 38-0-144, Pneumatic Equipment Repair in accordance with this agreement will have original date of entry in the Maintenance Department on Tool Repair classification.
This agreement shall become effective concurrently with the effective date of (a) any new Collective Bargaining Agreement which replaces the October 29, 1999 Collective Bargaining Agreement or (b) any extension of the October 29,1999 Collective Bargaining Agreement (other than an extension for a temporary or indefinite period) and shall remain in effect for the same period as such new or extended Collective Bargaining Agreement, except as otherwise expressly provided herein.
21
In accordance with Article VIII of the Master Agreement pertaining to seniority, local occupational groupings, reduction in force and recall agreements, this agreement is signed and subject to the approval of the National Ford Department of the UAW and the Labor Affairs Department of the Company.
Ford Motor Company Louisville Assembly Plant
International
UnionLocal 862
Vehicle Operations UAW Region 3
Union Affairs
National Ford Dept.
22
SHIFT PREFERENCE AGREEMENT — SKILLED TRADES
1. For the purpose of allowing seniority employees to exercise shift preference, shift assignments will be open for adjustment at any time. However, the Company reserves the right, following discussions with the Union, to make an exception thirty (30) days prior to and/or thirty (30) days after job one of the regular production of a new major model launch.
A.	Once employees have exercised shift preference, they will not be allowed to exercise shift preference again for four months from the date they are placed on the new shift.
B.	In accordance with the above, the shift roll letter will be published the first week of each month, with the eligible rolls to be completed by the end of the month.
C.	The parties agree that unless the employee agrees, or emergency operating conditions exist, employees will not be required to roll or change shifts except at the beginning of a workweek. Employees will be given one (1) weeks notice of all shift rolls.
D.	Probationary employees may not apply for shift preference.
2.	In exercising shift preference, eligible seniority employees will exercise their seniority by classification within the production department if there is an employee with lesser plantwide se
23
niority in the same classification in the same production department on the chosen shift.
A.	Employees assigned to Plant Maintenance shall have the opportunity to submit a shift preference card, if they so desire to roll to another shift. The shift preference card must be submitted to the department superintendent.
B.	Employees in the skilled groups assigned to a shift other than their chosen shift, because of a reduction in force, shall have their shift preference card canceled.
3.	The Master Agreement recognizes “that it is impossible to operate the Plant efficiently with all the older employees on any one shift and, therefore, seniority alone cannot be the sole determining factor in applying the above principle, “ i.e., shift preference based on seniority. When Management finds that recognition of the expressed preference of employees would result in inefficiency, the Union will be notified of the adjustment necessary and the manner in which it will be affected.
4.	The principles as mutually agreed to herein shall apply to all departments going on a two-shift operation at the Louisville Assembly Plant.
24
This agreement is signed subject to the approval of the proper representatives of the National Ford Department of the UAW and the Wage Administration Section, Corporate Labor Affairs of the Ford Motor Company.
Ford Motor Company Louisville Assembly Plant	International UnionLocal 862
Vehicle Operations	UAW Region 3
Union Affairs	National Ford Dept.
25
Skilled Trades - Letters of Understanding
October 25, 1984
Mr. R. A. Gettelfinger, President United Auto Workers of America
Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: Appendix F Openings
Dear Mr. Gettelfinger:
During the course of 1984 local negotiations, the subject of Appendix F classifications (skilled trades) was discussed. This letter will confirm our understanding concerning openings in (Appenticeable Trades) Appendix F classifications. We will continue our past practice of notifying and allowing those employees who feel they have the appropriate qualifications to make application in the Personnel Office for openings which occur in the (Appenticable Trades) Appendix F Classifications.
Sincerely,
T. M. Ryan, Manager
Industrial Relations
26
October 14, 1979
Mr. R. A. Gettelfinger, Chairman United Auto Workers of America Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: Reduction in Force -Appendix F
Dear Mr. Gettelfinger:
During the course of the 1979 local negotiations, the subject of reductions in force options for Appendix F employees was discussed. This letter will reaffirm the past practice of allowing employees in Appendix F classifications with unit seniority and date of entry seniority to exercise:
(a)	their unit seniority to available work within the labor pool, or
(b)	their date of entry seniority for lay off purposes.
Sincerely,
T. M. Ryan, Manager
Industrial Relations
27
October 29, 1999
Mr. D. A. Mitchell, Chairman
United Auto Worker of America
Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: Replacement of Skilled Personnel for Scheduled Absences
Dear Mr. Mitchell:
This will confirm the understanding reached by the parties during these 1999 local negotiations pertaining to the replacement of core skilled trades personnel during scheduled absences.
The Company agrees to replace the core skilled classifications for planned absences in the Central Engineering Department with personnel on the 5280 Daily Report ofTime, or by scheduling overtime.
Sincerely,
M. A. Smith, Manager Manufacturing Planning
28
October 16, 2003
Mr. Bruce W. Day, Chairperson United Auto Workers of America Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: Apprentices - Graduating Assignments
Dear Mr. Day:
During the course of the 2003 local negotiations, the parties discussed the initial assignments of graduating apprentices.
Before a graduating apprentice is assigned to fill a job opening, the journeyperson on the same shift will be surveyed, by seniority, for the opening. Any secondary job openings resulting from filling jobs pursuant to this provision, may be filled by the graduating apprentice or other journeypersons at management’s discretion.
Sincerely,
Brian T. Griffin, Manager
Human Resources
29
September 8, 2003
Mr. Bruce W. Day, Chairperson United Auto Workers of America Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: Maintenance Building Units in Body Shop
Dear Mr. Day:
During the course of these 2003 negotiations, the Company and Union discussed the subject of Maintenance building units in the Body shop over the weekend.
The Company reaffirms that it is not the intent of Maintenance to run production units. However, it is expected that Maintenance personnel will need to run a limited number of units to prove out equipment when production is not normally scheduled. The parties agree to discuss any issues that may arise related to proving out the equipment.
Sincerely,
Brian T. Griffin, Manager
Human Resources
30
September 7, 1999
Mr. D. A. Mitchell, Chairman
United Auto Workers of America
Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: Certification of Maintenance Welders
Dear Mr. Mitchell:
This will confirm the understanding reached during the course of the 1999 local negotiations pertaining to certification of maintenance welders.
The Company agrees to pay applicable re-certification fees for industrial maintenance welders.
Sincerely,
M. A. Smith
Manufacturing Planning Manager
31
September 28, 1999
Mr. D. A. Mitchell, Chairman
United Auto Workers of America
Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: CMM Plant Visitation Protocol
Dear Mr. Mitchell:
During the course of these local negotiations, the Company and Union discussed appropriate protocol when United Auto Workers of America -represented personnel from other Company locations visit the Louisville Assembly Plant to perform included work.
This will confirm the understanding reached by the parties during the 1999 local contract negotiations that the Company will notify the Unit Chairperson of scheduled visitation(s). Plant personnel of the same skilled classification will be offered the overtime opportunity to work with the plant visitor(s) on a one for one basis.
Sincerely,
M. A. Smith, Manager Manufacturing and Planning
32
October 16, 2003
Mr. Bruce W. Day, Chairperson
United Auto Workers of America
Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: Skilled Trade Assignments - Computer Related and Telephone Service
Dear Mr. Day:
During the current negotiations the parties discussed the possibility of using skilled trades personnel to perform certain computer-related services being provided by outside vendors.
It is understood that the Company will assign the transport of printers, monitors and hard drives, to skilled trades during the PC renewal period only. It is further understood that cable drop installations and necessary connections will be assigned to plant skilled trades. Further, tradespersons will be trained to perform certain services for the plant telephone system currently being provided by outside vendors. Where an unforeseen condition arises, the parties agree that further discussion may be required.
Sincerely,
Brian T. Griffin, Manager
Human Resources
33
September 13, 1999
Mr. D. A. Mitchell, Chairman
United Auto Workers of America
Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: Contractor Transport Vehicles
Dear Mr. Mitchell:
This will confirm the understanding reached during the course of the 1999 local negotiations pertaining to the use of transport vehicles by contractors while performing work on Company property.
The Company has agreed to allow one (1) transport vehicle per contractor for use by their management in conducting business on Company property. It is further understood that the transport vehicle is to meet Company standards and the driver must abide by the prevailing plant safety rules of safe driving.
Requests for an additional transport to meet physical impairment conditions are to be directed to the Manufacturing Planning Manager for resolution.
Sincerely,
J. A. Stick, Manager
Human Resources
34
September 9, 1999
Mr. D. A. Mitchell, Chairman
United Auto Workers of America
Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: Insulated Coveralls
Dear Mr. Mitchell:
This will confirm the understanding reached during the course of the 1999 local negotiations pertaining to insulated coveralls for Skilled Trades employees.
The parties agree to establish a six (6) month trial program to provide insulated coveralls to those skilled trades employees who are regularly required to perform work outside the building. The intent of this pilot program is to evaluate the administration of the program regarding the distribution and replacement of insulated coveralls to select skilled trades employees. After six months, either party may end the pilot program by providing written notice to the other party.
It is understood that all other skilled trades employees will continue to be issued insulated coveralls on a daily basis as needed. Such employees will be expected to return these coveralls at the end of each use.
Sincerely,
M. A. Smith
Manufacturing Planning Manager
35
September 15 1999
Mr. D. A. Mitchell, Chairman
United Auto Workers of America
Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: Electrician Job Assignment
Dear Mr. Mitchell:
This will confirm the understanding reached during the course of the 1999 local negotiations pertaining to Electrician job assignments. The following language will be added to the Electricianjob assignments:
•	Electricians on the plant floor will do automation programming, including data changes, downloading and uploading of program changes.
•	Robot programs, including step positions, will be taught and modified by electricians. Any functions requiring the use of robot teach pendants will be done by electricians.
•	Electricians on the plant floor will enter all nomenclature changes and updates on the program readouts and ladder diagrams.
Sincerely,
M. A. Smith, Manager Manufacturing Planning
36
October 29, 1999
Mr. D. A. Mitchell, Chairman
United Auto Workers of America
Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: Electronic Repair Equipment in the Body Department
Dear Mr. Mitchell:
This will confirm our understanding reached during the course of 1999 negotiations pertaining to the purchasing of electronic repair equipment in the Body Department.
Management agrees to submit cost savings projects and/or pursue other avenues to obtain funding to purchase the requested electronic repair equipment.
Sincerely,
S. E. Bednark, Manager
Body Department
37
September?, 1999
Mr. D. A. Mitchell
United Auto Workers of America
Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: Final Area Broadcast Monitors
Dear Mr. Mitchell:
During the course of 1999 local negotiations, the installation and programming of the Final Area Broadcast Monitors was discussed. The Company intends to continue the practice of having UAW-represented skilled trades persons be assigned the responsibility to program Final Area Broadcast Monitors. This letter will confirm the Company’s intent to train and assign UAW Journeymen to program Final Area Broadcast Monitors. The training will be jointly recommended and approved by the Company, UAW, and the Technical Skills Program.
Sincerely,
J. A. Stick, Manager Human Resources
38
October 29, 1999
Mr. D. A. Mitchell, Chairman
United Auto Worker of America
Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: Skilled Trades Full Utilization
Dear Mr. Mitchell:
This will confirm the understanding reached by the parties during these local negotiations pertaining to the definition of full utilization within the skilled trades classifications.
The Company will continue the current practice for weekend assignments of offering overtime opportunities, as defined in the National Agreement, to impacted skilled personnel that are affected by outside contracting of traditional work. The weekend hours offered to affected trades will be based on the scope of the traditional work performed by the contractor.
It is further understood that the Company will meet with the Union prior to the vacation and Christmas shutdown to analyze work assignments and outside contracting plans for traditional work, in an effort to increase the utilization of skilled trades classifications during these periods.
Sincerely,
M. A. Smith, Manager Manufacturing Planning
39
November 3, 1993
Mr. K. Yates, Chairman
United Auto Workers of America
Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: Industrial Truck Repair
Dear Mr. Yates:
During the course of the 1993 local negotiations, the subject of work allocation of Industrial Truck Repair was discussed.
The parties agree that Industrial Truck Repairmen will be available to change industrial vehicle batteries on the weekends as required.
Sincerely,
T.D. Smith, Manager
Employee Relations
40
October 16, 1999
Mr. D. A. Mitchell, Chairman
United Auto Workers of America
Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: Industrial Lift Truck and Tow Motor Replacement Personnel
Dear Mr. Mitchell:
During the course of 1999 local negotiations, the Union expressed concerns on replacing personnel in the Industrial Lift Truck and Tow Motor Repair complex.
This will confirm the understanding that the Company will afford four (4.0) hours of overtime on each facing shift to cover tasks within the Industrial Lift Truck and Tow Motor Repair complex where a planned absence occurs.
Sincerely,
J. A. Stick, Manager Human Resources
41
September 13, 1999
Mr. D. A. Mitchell, Chairman
United Auto Workers of America
Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: Steam Cleaning Material Handling Equipment
Dear Mr. Mitchell:
This will confirm the understanding reached during the course of the 1999 local negotiations pertaining to the steam cleaning of material handling equipment.
The Company will have all Company owned material handling equipment steam cleaned on a semi-annual basis by the Industrial Lift Truck and Tow Tractor Repair personnel. The equipment will be painted as needed.
Sincerely,
M. A. Smith, Manager Manufacturing Planning
42
September 29, 1999
Mr. D. A. Mitchell, Chairman
United Auto Workers of America
Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: Lines of Demarcation - FTPM/FPS
Dear Mr. Mitchell:
This will confirm the understanding reached during the course of the 1999 local negotiations. The Union expressed concern that the Company was not properly assigning clean-up personnel to support the Ford Total Preventative Maintenance Process (FTPM).
This letter will confirm the Company’s commitment to assign clean-up personnel to support the FTPM process as required, and in a manner that does not displace other classifications.
In addition, the Company agrees to assign properly trained employees from Department 25 and 26 to clean inside fixtures, guarding and light screens.
Sincerely,
M. A. Smith, Manager
Manufacturing Planning
43
October 24, 1993
Mr. J. K. Yates, Chairman
United Auto Workers
Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: Kit Installation
Dear Mr. Yates:
During the course of 1993 local negotiations, the subject of “kit” installation was discussed. This letter will reaffirm management’s commitment to provide the skilled trades work force, opportunities to install kits in accordance with guidelines established by B & A Operation Engineering. Copies of the guidelines will be provided to the skilled trades committeeperson. Notice and discussions on kit installation matters will be conducted through the existing outside contract procedure.
Sincerely,
T. D. Smith, Manager
Employee Relations
44
October 13, 2003
Bruce W. Day, Chairperson
United Auto Workers of America
Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: Non-Traditional Assignments (Skilled Trades)
Dear Mr. Day:
During the course of the 2003 local negotiations, the parties agree skilled tradespersons may be assigned various non-traditional support positions, such as Material Expeditors, FTPM Coordinators, etc. This letter applies only to the selection of skilled tradespersons.
This letter confirms the understanding when skilled personnel are being considered for support positions, selection will be based upon a seniority survey from the trade chosen by management. Employees currently assigned to any of these positions will not be subject to the provisions of this letter as long as they remain on their current non-traditional support position(s).
This does not abrogate any National Agreement language on selection of skilled trades personnel for specific programs where either special skills are required or where this local process conflicts with National Language, letters or programs (i.e. Joint Programs, Health & Safety
45
Training or processes, other specific training, etc.).
The parties reserve the right to deviate from the provisions of the selection process in this letter by mutual agreement.
Sincerely,
Brian T. Griffin, Manager
Human Resources
46
October 14, 2003
Mr. Bruce W. Day, Chairperson
United Auto Workers of America
Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: Oiler Staffing Levels
Dear Mr. Day:
During the course of the 2003 local negotiations, the Union expressed concern that the Company was embarking on significant changes in the staffing levels of employees assigned to the Oiler classification.
This letter is to assure the Local Union that the Company can see no changes during the life of this agreement in the staffing level of the Oilers, except those occasioned by normal attrition, efficiencies or changes in skilled trades work assignments.
Sincerely,
Brian T. Griffin, Manager
Human Resources
47
September 18, 2003
Mr. Bruce W. Day, Chairperson United Auto Workers of America Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: Outside Contractor on Company Property
Dear Mr. Day:
This will confirm the understanding reached during the course of the 2003 local negotiations pertaining to outside contractor identification while on Company property.
The Company will require all outside contractors to provide the following information for posting in the Construction Commodity Management (CCM) Office while they are on-site:
•	Name of contractor and telephone number.
•	On-site manager and telephone number.
•	On-site safety representative and telephone number.
•	Name of Company representative overseeing project.
In the interest of plant security and safety, all personnel employed by a contractor will be required to wear a numbered contractors badge provided by the Company, while on the premises.
It is further understood that the contractor will publish a list of personnel working, their trade,
48
the numbered badge provided to their employee, and their starting and quitting times. The listing will be furnished by the contractor on a daily basis to the Plant Risk Manager and on a weekly basis to the Skilled Trades Representative.
Sincerely,
Brian T. Griffin, Manager
Human Resources
49
September 2, 2003
Mr. Bruce W. Day, Chairperson United Auto Workers of America Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: Overtime - Skilled Trades
Dear Mr. Day:
This will confirm the understanding reached during the course of the 2003 local negotiations pertaining to skilled trades overtime.
The Company agrees to provide the Skilled Trades Committeeperson with the overtime spread between the shifts on a weekly basis. Further, the Company agrees to notify the Skilled Trades committeeperson of weekly corrections and adjustments made to the overtime list and to effect those adjustments on a timely basis.
Every effort will be made to utilize the weekly overtime schedule to determine which skilled trades will be asked to work additional hours beyond the published schedule.
Where Skilled Trades employees give forty-eight (48) hours of notice of their intent to opt out of overtime, the Company will make every effort possible to notify the department of the employee’s opting out of the overtime to afford the opportunity to other employee(s). To facilitate the timely notification, all requests for opt
50
ing out of overtime will be submitted through the plant E-mail system and will be addressed to the Superintendent in Central Maintenance and the maintenance department where the employee is scheduled for the overtime.
Sincerely,
Brian T. Griffin, Manager
Human Resources
51
September 20, 1999
Mr. D. A. Mitchell, Chairman
United Autoworkers of America
Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: Personal Tools - Maintenance
Dear Mr. Mitchell:
Personal tools of maintenance employees, which are stolen, will be replaced at no cost to the individual provided there is evidence of forced entry into the employee’s toolbox. All maintenance employees must declare their personal tools and toolboxes. An itemized list of personal tools and toolboxes, verified by a member of management, will be maintained in the Central Engineering Office.
Sincerely,
J. A. Stick, Manager
Human Resources
52
October 4, 1999
Mr. D. A. Mitchell, Chairman United Auto Workers of America Local 862
6707 Grade Lane Louisville, Kentucky 40213
Letter of Understanding: Skilled Trades Project Coordinator
Dear Mr. Mitchell:
During the current negotiations, the parties discussed the utilization of skilled trades personnel on project work and the effectiveness of the concept.
It is agreed that the Company will implement the use of the Skilled Trades Project Coordinator, identified in the Letter of Understanding of September 16, 1996, at the Louisville Assembly Plant.
The parties agree to follow the Letter of Understanding on “Expansion of Skilled Trades Project Coordinator Classification” in the scope of selection, training, assignment of duties, classification and duration of assignment. It is further understood that the candidate selected will be replaced once the position is assumed as Skilled Trades Project Coordinator.
Sincerely,
J. A. Stick, Manager
Human Resources
53
October 21, 1990
Mr. S. M. Stone
Building Chairman
UAW Local #862 6707 Grade Lane Louisville, Kentucky 40213
Letter of Understanding: Skilled Trades Project Crew
Dear Mr. Stone:
During the course of 1990 Local Negotiations the subject of the Skilled Trades Project Crew was discussed. This letter will confirm the understanding that the Company will continue the utilization of the four man Project Crew established in 1987. In addition, the Company agrees to utilize the existing Central Maintenance Department Project Crew to limit, where feasible, and in conjunction with the Master Agreement, the outside contracting of skilled work. The parties also agree to utilize the Project Crew to seek opportunities to resource skilled work which have previously been outsourced.
The Plant Engineering Manager will be responsible for the planning and direction of the Project Crew. Project crew Issues will be handled through the regularly scheduled Outside Contracting Meetings.
Sincerely,
G. A. Biasiolli
Manufacturing Engineering Manager
54
September 7, 1999
Mr. D. A. Mitchell, Chairman
United Auto Workers of America
Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: Refrigeration Training
Dear Mr. Mitchell:
This will confirm the understanding reached during the course of the 1999 local negotiations pertaining to training of plumber/pipefitters in refrigeration.
The Company agrees to provide additional training to those plumber/pipefitters who currently work on refrigeration. This training will be jointly recommended and approved by the Company and the Technical Skills Program.
Sincerely,
M. A. Smith
Manufacturing Planning Manager
55
October 28, 1999
Mr. D. A. Mitchell, Chairman
United Auto Workers of America
Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: Schafer and Ampro Racks
Dear Mr. Mitchell:
This will confirm our understanding reached during 1999 negotiations that the assembly of Schafer and Ampro racks will be assigned to the Millwright classification on a trial basis. There will be a monthly review meeting with the skilled trades representative and/or Unit Committee to ensure satisfaction during the trial period.
Sincerely,
J. C. Tankesley
Plant Manager
56
September 20, 2003
Mr. Bruce W. Day, Chairperson United Auto Workers of America Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: Sprinkler Work
Dear Mr. Day:
During the course of the 2003 Local Negotiations, the parties discussed extensively, the issues surrounding the repair of the sprinkler systems. The topic is difficult to resolve, as it is full of complex issues that have legal ramifications. The Parties were unable to find a workable solution to this issue during the 2003 negotiations.
However, the Company understands the sensitive nature of this issue and the Union’s desire to insource this work. In this regard, the Company agrees to jointly continue to pursue viable options that would allow this work to be performed in house competitively and in compliance with State regulations.
Sincerely,
Brian T. Griffin, Manager
Human Resources
57
September 16, 2003
Mr. Bruce W. Day, Chairperson
United Auto Workers of America
Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: Training - Skilled Trades
Dear Mr. Day:
During the course of the 2003 local negotiations, the parties discussed several concerns related to the training of the skilled tradespersons. This letter is to confirm our understanding of those issues associated with: 1) identifying the training needs of the tradespersons, 2) scheduling Journeypersons before the Apprentices, 3) training opportunities in excess of 30 days, and 4) simultaneous training opportunities.
The Company agrees to periodically survey the skilled trades for training needs consistent with maintaining and improving their core job skills. The Company will use the survey to help develop the training offerings through the plant’s Technical Skills Program.
Further, when the need for additional training or instruction in a given area is identified within a skilled trades classification, the Company will make a concerted effort to schedule the Joumeypersons for training in advance of the Apprentices. If the Company, in an effort to
58
maximize training funds and/or opportunities, finds that it is necessary to adjust an apprentice’s or joumeyperson’s training schedule, the Skilled Trades Committeepersons will be notified.
The Company and Union will discuss Skilled TradesTraining assignments in excess of 30 days in an effort to ensure that seniority employees are given adequate consideration.
In the event Management offers identical training simultaneously at Louisville Assembly Plant (LAP) and another location, the choice of location for taking the training will be offered by seniority. If the number of participants choosing the distant location is too low, then employees will be selected in reverse seniority order.
Sincerely,
Brian T. Griffin, Manager
Human Resources
59
September 26, 1999
Mr. D. A. Mitchell, Chairman
United Auto Workers of America
Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: Warranty and Equipment Repair
Dear Mr. Mitchell:
This will confirm the understanding reached during the course of these 1999 local contract negotiations pertaining to performance of warranty work.
The position.of the Company is that certain warranty work must be performed by the equipment manufacturer to maintain the equipment warranty. However, the Company will have the manufacturer train the applicable skilled trades personnel or, without voiding the warranty, have the skilled trades personnel work with the manufacturing representative to make the equipment repair.
It is further understood, the union will be notified of the start and duration of the manufacturers’ warranty period. Notification will be provided during the weekly Outside Contracting Review meeting between the parties.
Sincerely,
M. A. Smith, Manager
Manufacturing Engineering
60
Septembers, 1999
Mr. D. A. Mitchell
United Auto Workers of America
Local 862
6707 Grade Lane
Louisville, Kentucky
40213
Letter of Understanding: Skilled Trades Work Assignments Committee
Dear Mr. Mitchell:
During the course of 1999 local negotiations, the Union requested that the Company reaffirm its acceptance and support for the current Skilled Trades Work Assignments and the process by which disputes are jointly resolved. This letter will confirm the Company’s intent to continue to recognize and support the current Skilled Trades Work Assignments Committee. The committee consists of Skilled Trades persons from the various trades to review disputes arising out of the Skilled Trades Work Assignments, and other lines of demarcation related issues. The committee will be empowered to investigate work assignment disputes, and recommend resolutions to the local Bargaining Committee and Operating Management. If either party chooses not to accept the committee’s recommendation, the matter then may be referred to the grievance procedure.
It is understood that no recommendation made by the committee, or actions taken based on such recommendations will constitute a change to the
61
existing Skilled Trades Work Assignments since such change can occur only through Collective Bargaining. However, it is agreed that any recommendation made by this committee and accepted by the parties will remain in force for the life of the current agreement unless altered, eliminated or ratified by Collective Bargaining.
Sincerely,
J. A. Stick, Manager
Human Resources
62
Reference
Pages
Louisville Assembly Plant
IMPORTANT TELEPHONE NUMBERS*
Local 862 Ron Gettelfinger Hall
(LAP Unit #1)	969-9136
Local 862 Owen Hammons (KTP Unit #2)	Hall 241-9491
Absentee Reporting	1-866-893-0576
Building Chairman	364-3657
Committee Room (Union)	364-3654
Emergency - Employee Contact	364-3662/3661
Employee Assistance Representative (ESSP)	364-3659/3657
Employee Involvement Coordinator	364-3674
Fire	364-3662/ 3661
Fitness Center	364-3105 /3515
Hourly Personnel	364-3642
Information	364-3673
Labor Relations	364-3649 / 3645
Medical	364-3630/3629
Payroll	364-3821/3642
Quality Liaison Representative	364-3588	
2
Safety Engineer	364-3465
Union Health & Safety Representatives	364-3658
Security	364-3662
Training Coordinator (UAW)	364-3666
Workers Compensation	364-3638
Work Standard Representative	364-3698
* A11 phone numbers are area code (502) unless otherwise noted.
Company Address (mail):
Ford Louisville Assembly Plant
P.O. Box 32990
Louisville, KY 40232
3
BENEFIT PROGRAM FORD-UAW LOCAL 862
1. National Employee Service Center.	1	-800-248-4444
2. T.E.S.P.H.E.	1	-800-544-3333
3. Blue Cross/Blue Shield of Kentucky	1	-800-572-6860
4. Blue Cross/Blue Shield MI Dental	1	-800-482-5146
5. Concordia Dental	1	-800-937-6432
6. S.VS. Vision (Detroit)	1	-800-225-3095
652 Eastern Blvd., Clarksville, IN.	282-7404
5611 Preston Hwy, Louisville, KY	969-6222
10404 Shelbyville Road, Louisville, KY	254-7004
7. Unicare (John Hancock) 1	-800-572-1581
8. Ford Optional Life (Bankers)	1	-800-742-8215
9. Long Term Health Care Pilot Program (VNA)	584-2456
10. Second Opinion (BCBS) 1	-800-832-6789
11. Employee Support Services Program Rep., Bob Hatfield	364-3659
12. Employee Support Services Program Rep., Jim Warren	364-3537
4
13.	UAW Benefit Representatives	969-3198 I 969-3286
14.	Committee Office	364-3654
15.	Ford Money Market
Account	1-800-462-2614
16.	Ford Legal Services	456-4222
17.	Autotruck Federal Credit Union 459-8981
18.	Humana KPPA -
Health Insurance	1-877-857-7551
19.	A-X-Z Plan-
(www.axz. ford.com)	1 -800-348-7709
*A11 phone numbers are area code (502) unless otherwise noted.
5
Paid Holiday Plan
November 14, 2003 November 27, 2003 November 28, 2003 December 24, 2003 December 25, 2003 December 26, 2003 December 29, 2003 December 30, 2003 December 31,2003
January 1,2004 January 2, 2004 January 19, 2004
April 9, 2004
April 12,2004 May 31,2004
July 5, 2004
September 6, 2004 November 2, 2004 November 12, 2004 November 25, 2004 November 26, 2004 December 24, 2004 December 27, 2004 December 28, 2004 December 29, 2004 December 30, 2004 December 31,2004
January 17, 2005 March 25, 2005 March 28, 2005 May 30, 2005 July 4, 2005
Veterans Day
Thanksgiving Day Day After Thanksgiving Christmas Holiday Period Christmas Holiday Period Christmas Holiday Period Christmas Holiday Period Christmas Holiday Period Christmas Holiday Period
Christmas Holiday Period Christmas Holiday Period Martin Luther King Jr. Day Good Friday
Day After Easter
Memorial Day Independence Day Labor Day
Federal Election Day Veterans Day Thanksgiving
Day After Thanksgiving Christmas Holiday Period Christmas Holiday Period Christmas Holiday Period Christmas Holiday Period Christmas Holiday Period Christmas Holiday Period
Martin Luther King, Jr. Day Good Friday
Day After Easter
Memorial Day
Independence Day
6
September 5, 2005 November 8, 2005 November 14, 2005 November 24, 2005 November 25, 2005 December 26, 2005 December 27, 2005 December 28, 2005 December 29, 2005 December 30, 2005
January 2, 2006 January 16, 2006
April 14, 2006 April 17, 2006 May 29, 2006
July 4, 2006
September 4, 2006 November 7, 2006 November 13, 2006 November 23, 2006 November 24, 2006 December 25, 2006 December 26, 2006 December 27, 2006 December 28, 2006 December 29, 2006
January 1, 2007 January 15, 2007
April 6, 2007
April 9, 2007 May 28, 2007
July 4, 2007
September 3, 2007
Labor Day
Election Day
Veterans Day
Thanksgiving Day
Day After Thanksgiving Christmas Holiday Period Christmas Holiday Period Christmas Holiday Period Christmas Holiday Period Christmas Holiday Period
Christmas Holiday Period Martin Luther King, Jr. Day Good Friday
Day After Easter
Memorial Day Independence Day
Labor Day
Federal Election Day
Veterans Day
Thanksgiving Day
Day After Thanksgiving Christmas Holiday Period Christmas Holiday Period Christmas Holiday Period Christmas Holiday Period Christmas Holiday Period
Christmas Holiday Period Martin Luther King, Jr. Day Good Friday
Day After Easter
Memorial Day Independence Day
Labor Day
7
2005	
JANUARY S	M	T	W	T	F	S 1 2	3	4	5	6	7	8 9	10	11	12	13	14	15 16	17	18	19	20	21	22 23	24	25	26	27	28	29 30 31	JULY S	M	I	W	T	F	S 1	2 3	4	5	6	7	8	9 10	11	12	13	14	15	16 17	18	19	20	21	22	23 24	25	26	27	28	29	30 31
FEBRUARY S	Nl	I	W	I	F	S 1	2 3	4	5 6	7	8	9	10	11	12 13	14	15	16	17	18	19 20	21	22	23	24	25	26 27 28	AUGUST S	Nl	T	W	I	F	S 1	2	3 4	5	6 7	8	9	10	11	12	13 14	15	16	17	18	19	20 21	22	23	24	25	26	27 28	29	30	31
MARCH S	M	T	W	T	F	S 1	2 3	4	5 6	7	8	9	10	11	12 13	14	15	16	17	18	19 20	21	22	23	24	25	26 27	28	29	30	31	SEPTEMBER S	M	T	W	I	F	S 1	2	3 4	5	6	7	8	9	10 11	12	13	14	15	16	17 18	19	20	21	22	23	24 25	26	27	28	29	30
APRIL S	M	T	w	I	F	S 1	2 3	4	5	6	7	8	9 10	11	12	13	14	15	16 17	18	19	20	21	22	23 24	25	26	27	28	29	30	OCTOBER S	M	T	W	T	F	S 1 2	3	4	5	6	7	8 9	10	11	12	13	14	15 16	17	18	19	20	21	22 23	24	25	26	27	28	29 30 31
MAY S	M	T	W	T	F	S 1	2	3	4	5	6	7 8	9	10	11	12	13	14 15	16	17	18	19	20	21 22	23	24	25	26	27	28 29	30	31	NOVEMBER S	M	I	W	T	F	S 1	2	3	4	5 6	7	8	9	10	11	12 13	14	15	16	17	18	19 20	21	22	23	24	25	26 27	28	29	30
JUNE S	M	T	W	T	F	S 12	3	4 5	6	7	8	9	10	11 12	13	14	15	16	17	18 19	20	21	22	23	24	25 26	27	28	29	30	DECEMBER S	M	T	W	T	F	S 1	2	3 4	5	6	7	8	9	10 11	12	13	14	15	16	17 18	19	20	21	22	23	24 25	26	27	28	29	30	31
8
2006	
JANUARY S	M	T	W	T	F	S 1	2	3	4	5	6	7 8	9	10	11	12	13	14 15	16	17	18	19	20	21 22	23	24	25	26	27	28 29	30	31	JULY S	M	T	W	T	F	S 1 2	3	4	5	6	7	8 9	10	11	12	13	14	15 16	17	18	19	20	21	22 23	24	25	26	27	28	29 30 31
FEBRUARY S	M	I	W	I	F	S 12	3	4 5	6	7	8	9	10	11 12	13	14	15	16	17	18 19	20	21	22	23	24	25 26	27	28	AUGUST S	M	T	W	T	F	S 1	2	3	4	5 6	7	8	9	10	11	12 13	14	15	16	17	18	19 20	21	22	23	24	25	26 27	28	29	30	31
MARCH S	M	T	W	I	F	S 12	3	4 5	6	7	8	9	10	11 12	13	14	15	16	17	18 19	20	21	22	23	24	25 26	27	28	29	30	31	SEPTEMBER S	M	T	W	T	F	S 1	2 3	4	5	6	7	8	9 10	11	12	13	14	15	16 17	18	19	20	21	22	23 24	25	26	27	28	29	30
APRIL S	M	T	W	I	F	S 1 2	3	4	5	6	7	8 9	10	11	12	13	14	15 16	17	18	19	20	21	22 23	24	25	26	27	28	29 30	OCTOBER S	M	T	W	I	F	S 1	2	3	4	5	6	7 8	9	10	11	12	13	14 15	16	17	18	19	20	21 22	23	24	25	26	27	28 29	30	31
MAY S	M	T	W	T	F	S 1	2	3 4	5	6 7	8	9	10	11	12	13 14	15	16	17	18	19	20 21	22	23	24	25	26	27 28	29	30	31	NOVEMBER S	M	T	W	T	F	S 12	3	4 5	6	7	8	9	10	11 12	13	14	15	16	17	18 19	20	21	22	23	24	25 26	27	28	29	30
JUNE S	M	T	W	T	F	S 1	2	3 4	5	6	7	8	9	10 11	12	13	14	15	16	17 18	19	20	21	22	23	24 25	26	27	28	29	30	DECEMBER S	M	I	W	T	F	S 1	2 3	4	5	6	7	8	9 10	11	12	13	14	15	16 17	18	19	20	21	22	23 24	25	26	27	28	29	30 31
9
2007	
JANUARY S	M	T	W	I	F	S 12	3 4	5	6 7	8	9	10	11	12	13 14	15	16	17	18	19	20 21	22	23	24	25	26	27 28	29	30	31	JULY S	M	T	W	T	F	S 1	2	3	4	5	6	7 8	9	10	11	12	13	14 15	16	17	18	19	20	21 22	23	24	25	26	27	28 29	30	31
FEBRUARY S	M	I	W	I	F	S 1	2	3 4	5	6	7	8	9	10 11	12	13	14	15	16	17 18	19	20	21	22	23	24 25	26	27	28	AUGUST S	M	I	W	I	F	S 12	3	4 5	6	7	8	9	10	11 12	13	14	15	16	17	18 19	20	21	22	23	24	25 26	27	28	29	30	31
MARCH S	M	T	W	T	F	S 1	2	3 4	5	6	7	8	9	10 11	12	13	14	15	16	17 1B	19	20	21	22	23	24 25	26	27	28	29	30	31	SEPTEMBER S	M	T	W	T	F	S 1 2	3	4	5	6	7	8 9	10	11	12	13	14	15 16	17	18	19	20	21	22 23	24	25	26	27	28	29 30
APRIL S	M	I	W	T	F	S 1	2	3	4	5	6	7 8	9	10	11	12	13	14 15	16	17	18	19	20	21 22	23	24	25	26	27	28 29 30	OCTOBER S	M	T	W	T	F	S 1	2	3 4	5	6 7	8	9	10	11	12	13 14	15	16	17	18	19	20 21	22	23	24	25	26	27 28	29	30	31
MAY S	M	T	W	T	F	S 1	2 3	4	5 6	7	8	9	10	11	12 13	14	15	16	17	18	19 20	21	22	23	24	25	26 27	28	29	30	31	NOVEMBER S	M	I	W	T	F	S 1	2	3 4	5	6	7	8	9	10 11	12	13	14	15	16	17 18	19	20	21	22	23	24 25	26	27	28	29	30
JUNE S	M	T	W	T	F	S 1	2 3	4	5	6	7	8	9 10	11	12	13	14	15	16 17	18	19	20	21	22	23 24	25	26	27	28	29	30	DECEMBER S	M	T	W	I	F	S 1 2	3	4	5	6	7	8 9	10	11	12	13	14	15 16	17	18	19	20	21	22 23	24	25	26	27	28	29 30 31
10
LOCATION - FFFF U. S. ASSEMBLY PLANTS
NEGOTIATED RATES EFFECTIVE OOO1O BODY CONSTRUCTION A GROUP#2	09-29-03	09-20-04	09-19-05	09-18-06
38 0 0190 METAL TOUCH UP & REPAIR	25.930	25.930	26.450	27.245
38 0 0170 METAL TOUCH UP & REPAIR-LONG				
WHEEL BASE (WIXOM)	26.205	26.205	26.730	27.530
38 0 0160 METAL TOUCH UP & REPAIR/BRAZE	25.930	25.930	26.450	27.245
B GROUP #3				
54 0 0010 BODY BUCK SET UP	25.830	25.830	26.345	27.135
54 0 0020 CAB BUCK SET UP	25.830	25.830	26.345	27.135
38 0 1530 DOOR, DECK, HOOD - FIT & ADJUST	25.830	25.830	26.345	27.135
41 0 0170 FLANGER - PANEL	25.830	25.830	26.345	27.135
41 0 0140 METAL FINISHER	25.830	25.830	26.345	27.135
41 0 0210 METAL FINISHER - LEAD JOB	25.830	25.830	26.345	27.135
42 0 0070 TORCH SOLDERER	25.830	25.830	26.345	27.135
54 0 0170 WELDER - ARC, ACETYLENE & GAS	25.830	25.830	26.345	27.135
LOCATION - FFFF U. S. ASSEMBLY PLANTS NEGOTIATED RATES EFFECTIVE	09-29-03	09-20-04	09-19-05	09-18-06
54 0 0110 WELDER-GATE LINE	25.830	25.830	26.345	27.135
C GROUP #4				
54 0 0060 BOX BUCK SET UP & SPOT WLEDER	25.695	25.695	26.210	26.995
74 0 0270 GRIND & DISC HAMMER - NOT METAL FINISH	25.695	25.695	26.210	26.995
42 0 0160 TINNER	25.695	25.695	26.210	26.995
54 0 0240 WELDER - GUN - MERRY-GO-ROUND	25.695	25.695	26.210	26.995
54 0 0540 WELDER - SPOT & GUN - OFF BUCK	25.695	25.695	26.210	26.995
54 0 0550 WELDER - SPOT & GUN - SUB ASSEMBLY	25.695	25.695	26.210	26.995
DGROUP#5				
01 0 2660 ASSMEBLER - BODY SHOP	25.585	25.585	26.095	26.880
27 0 2610 BODY TRANSFER	25.585	25.585	26.095	26.880
00011 PAINT				
A GROUP#2				
53 0 0260 LYE TANK & KOLENE OPERATOR	25.930	25.930	26.450	27.245
38 0 0460 PAINT REPAIR	25.930	25.930	26.450	27.245
BGROUP#3
43 0 0010 BRUSH TOUCH UP	25.830	25.830	26.345	27.135
43 0 0510 PAINT SPRAYER	25.830	25.830	26.345	27.135
72 0 0230 POLISHER - PAINT - WHEEL	25.830	25.830	26.345	27.135
72 0 0600 WET SANDER - HAND & MACHINE	25.830	25.830	26.345	27.135
72 0 0660 WET SANDER - ROBOT TENDER - WIXOM	26.040	26.040	26.560	27.355
C GROUP #4				
72 0 0550 BLOCK SANDER	25.695	25.695	26.210	26.995
45 0 0010 BODY SEALER	25.695	25.695	26.210	26.995
27 0 0600 BODY STACKER - ELEVATOR	25.695	25.695	26.210	26.995
43 0 0130 GLAZER & PICKUP SANDER	25.695	25.695	26.210	26.995
43 0 0320 PAINT MIXER	25.695	25.695	26.210	26.995
DGROUP#5				
01 0 2710 ASSEMBLER - PAINT SHOP	25.585	25.585	26.095	26.880
43 0 0020 BODY PREPARATION	25.585	25.585	26.095	26.880
27 0 2610 BODY TRANSFER	25.585	25.585	26.095	26.880
72 0 0560 DRY SANDER	25.585	25.585	26.095	26.880
43 0 0210 MASKER	25.585	25.585	26.095	26.880
LOCATION - FFFF U. S. ASSEMBLY PLANTS
NEGOTIATED RATES EFFECTIVE	09-29-03	09-20-04	09-19-05	09-18-06
43 0 0840 TRANSFER APPLICATOR - DI - NOC	25.585	25.585	26.095	26.880
E GROUP#6				
27 0 1240 PAINT HANDLER	25.370	25.370	25.875	26.650
00012 TRIM				
A GROUP #2				
38 0 0870 TRIM REPAIR - INCLUDING GLASS	25.930	25.930	26.450	27.245
B GROUP #3				
04 0 0170 ASSEMBLY - CHECK & ADJUST	25.830	25.830	26.345	27.135
51 0 0070 CUSHION BUILDER	25.830	25.830	26.345	27.135
38 0 1530 DOOR, DECK, HOOD - FIT & ADJUST	25.830	25.830	26.345	27.135
51 0 0160 HEADLINING TACKUP & TUCK UP	25.830	25.830	26.345	27.135
01 0 2850 PULL TOP COVER & CAULK IN VINYL	25.830	25.830	26.345	27.135
51 0 0190 SOFT TOP TRIM	25.830	25.830	26.345	27.135
C GROUP #4
01 0 0030 ARM REST ASSEMBLY	25.695	25.695	26.210	26.995
01 0 1580 ASSEMBLY - VISORS	25.695	25.695	26.210	26.995
27 0 0600 BODY STACKER - ELEVATOR	25.695	25.695	26.210	26.995
01 0 1840 BOW HANGER	25.695	25.695	26.210	26.995
01 0 2450 CHROME STOCK BODY MOLDING	25.695	25.695	26.210	26.995
38 0 0150 DEFECTIVE ASSEMBLY STOCK REPAIR	25.695	25.695	26.210	26.995
01 0 2270 DOME LIGHT INSTALLATION	25.695	25.695	26.210	26.995
01 0 0230 FRONT SEAT BACK ASSEMBLY	25.695	25.695	26.210	26.995
01 0 2530 FRONT SEAT INSTALLATION	25.695	25.695	26.210	26.995
01 0 2630 GLASS SETTER - MOVABLE	25.695	25.695	26.210	26.995
01 0 2700 HEATER INSTALLATION	25.695	25.695	26.210	26.995
01 0 1670 INSTRUMENT PANEL INSTALLATION	25.695	25.695	26.210	26.995
01 0 2880 LAZY BACK INSTALLATION	25.695	25.695	26.210	26.995
04 0 2220 SERVO UNIT - ASSEMBLE & CHECK	25.695	25.695	26.210	26.995
38 0 0750 SEWING MACHINE ASSEMBLY REPAIR	25.695	25.695	26.210	26.995
04 0 2230 STEERING COLUMN - ASSEMBLE & CHECK	25.695	25.695	26.210	26.995
01 0 3770 TRIM & ASSEMBLY IN SEDAN DELIVERY PANELS	25.695	25.695	26.210	26.995
01 0 3780 TRIM MOLDING GARNISH	25.695	25.695	26.210	26.995
	LOCATION - FFFF U. S. ASSEMBLY PLANTS NEGOTIATED RATES EFFECTIVE	09-29-03	09-20-04	09-19-05	09-18-06
	01 0 2440 TRIM PANELS & REMOTES 01 0 3970 WINDSHIELD & BACKLIGHT INSTALLATION	25.695 25.695	25.695 25.695	26.210 26.210	26.995 26.995
	D GROUP #5 27 0 2610 BODY TRANSFER 01 0 4320 TRIM STOCK TO CAR	25.585 25.585	25.585 25.585	26.095 26.095	26.880 26.880
	E GROUP #6 53 0 0090 BODY CLEAN UP	25.370	25.370	25.875	26.650
	00013 CHASSIS 38 0 0960 DINGER-PAINTED BODY SHEET METAL 38 0 0520 REPAIR - MOTORS	26.340 26.170	26.340 26.170	26.865 26.695	27.670 27.495
	A GROUP#2 38 0 0260 REPAIR - GENERAL	25.930	25.930	26.450	27.245
	B GROUP#3 38 0 1530 DOOR, DECK, HOOD - FIT & ADJUST	25.830	25.830	26.345	27.135
C GROUP #4
43 0 0150 ACCENT STRIPE APPLICATOR	25.695	25.695	26.210	26.995
01 0 0240 BODY DECKER	25.695	25.695	26.210	26.995
04 0 0600 CHECK & SHIM - CASTER & CAMBER	25.695	25.695	26.210	26.995
05 0 0280 DRIVER - CHECKER - FOR SHIPPING	25.695	25.695	26.210	26.995
04 0 0150 EMISSION TEST OPERATOR - PRODUCTION	25.695	25.695	26.210	26.995
04 0 0770 FINAL CAR CHECKER	25.695	25.695	26.210	26.995
01 0 1020 MOTOR DECKER	25.695	25.695	26.210	26.995
43 0 0610 PAINT SPRAYER - CHASSIS	25.695	25.695	26.210	26.995
04 0 1830 TIMER - LINKAGE & CARBURETOR ADJUST	25.695	25.695	26.210	26.995
01 0 3700 TIRE & WHEEL CHANGER	25.695	25.695	26.210	26.995
27 0 0230 TRANSFER & LINE UP - CHASSIS & TRIM	25.695	25.695	26.210	26.995
43 0 0890 WHEEL SPRAYER	25.695	25.695	26.210	26.995
DGROUP#5				
01 0 1650 ASSEMBLER-CHASSIS	25.585	25.585	26.095	26.880
01 0 1750 BODY BOLTER	25.585	25.585	26.095	26.880
04 0 0380 CHECKER - PRODUCTION	25.585	25.585	26.095	26.880
52 0 0560 DRIVER - CAR & TRUCK	25.585	25.585	26.095	26.880
01 0 0780 HOIST OPERATOR - FRONT FENDER
LOCATION - FFFF U. S. ASSEMBLY PLANTS
NEGOTIATED RATES EFFECTIVE	09-29-03	09-20-04	09-19-05	09-18-06
ASSEMBLY DECKER	25.585	25.585	26.095	26.880
01 0 1050 HOIST OPERATOR - TRANSMISSION TO MOTOR	25.585	25.585	26.095	26.880
01 0 1780 HYDRAULIC RIVETER ON FRAME	25.585	25.585	26.095	26.880
04 0 1640 ROADABILITY MACHINE OPERATOR	25.585	25.585	26.095	26.880
01 0 3800 TIRE MOUNT & ASSEMBLY	25.585	25.585	26.095	26.880
E GROUP #6				
23 0 1340 WASHER & CLEANER oo	25.370	25.370	25.875	26.650
00020 PRODUCTION CONTROL				
05 0 0090 CAR SPECIFICATIONS	25.830	25.830	26.345	27.135
05 0 0130 CHECKER - ASSEMBLY STOCK	25.930	25.930	26.450	27.245
05 0 0550 CHECKER - CYCLE	25.695	25.695	26.210	26.995
05 0 0260 CHECKER-RECEIVING	25.695	25.695	26.210	26.995
05 0 0300 CHECKER-SHIPPING	25.695	25.695	26.210	26.995
05 0 1440 CHECKER-UNIT LIST	25.830	25.830	26.345	27.135
08 0 0380 CLERK - RECEIVING & STOCK	25.695	25.695	26.210	26.995
08 0 0410 CLERK-SCHEDULE
08 0 0440 CLERK-SHIPPING
12 0 0170 CRIB ATTENDANT - HEAD
52 0 0090 DRIVER - TRUCK
52 0 0480 DRIVER - TRUCK - SEMITRAILER
17 0 1380 FOLLOW UP - PURCHASE ORDER
52 0 0360 INDUSTRIAL LIFT TRUCK OPERATOR
52 0 0370 INDUSTRIAL TOW TRACTOR DRIVER
27 0 0220 LINE FEEDER
04 0 1380 LINEUP-SCHEDULER
27 0 0360 LOAD & UNLOAD MULTILEVEL CARS
69 0 0050 PAPER BALING
27 0 2440 PICKER-PACKER
08 0 0030 RAILROAD CAR PLACER
56 0 0170 RESURFACER - POLISHING BELT & WHEEL
46 0 0020 SALVAGE - CARTON
53 0 0400 SPRAYER - OIL RUST PROOFING, ETC.
27 0 1860 STOCK HANDLER
17 0 1540 STOCK STATUS CONTROL & FOLLOW UP
25.830	25.830	26.345	27.135
25.695	25.695	26.210	26.995
25.695	25.695	26.210	26.995
25.830	25.830	26.345	27.135
27.015	27.015	27.555	28.380
25.930	25.930	26.450	27.245
25.655	25.655	26.170	26.955
25.405	25.405	25.915	26.690
25.655	25.655	26.170	26.955
25.830	25.830	26.345	27.135
25.695	25.695	26.210	26.995
25.290	25.290	25.795	26.570
25.695	25.695	26.210	26.995
25.830	25.830	26.345	27.135
25.830	25.830	26.345	27.135
25.290	25.290	25.795	26.570
25.585	25.585	26.095	26.880
25.370	25.370	25.875	26.650
25.830	25.830	26.345	27.135
LOCATION - FFFF U. S. ASSEMBLY PLANTS
NEGOTIATED RATES EFFECTIVE	09-29-03	09-20-04	09-19-05	09-18-06
04 0 0790 TELETYPE OPERATOR & LINE UP CHECKER	25.695	25.695	26.210	26.995
27 0 2530 TOOL CHASER	25.930	25.930	26.450	27.245
52 0 0420 TRACKMOBILE OPERATOR	25.830	25.830	26.345	27.135
00030 QUALITY CONTROL				
06 7 0310 INSP-TOOLINE & LAYOUT-NEW				
(SEE PROGRESSION TABLE)	29.120-29.320	29.120-29.320	29.705-29.905	30.600-30.800
w 05 0 1790 INSPECTOR-BODY	25.930	25.930	26.450	27.245
05 0 1840 INSPECTOR - FINAL ACCEPTANCE INSPECTION 25.930		25.930	26.450	27.245
05 0 1800 INSPECTOR - FINAL LINE	25.930	25.930	26.450	27.245
05 0 1810 INSPECTOR - PAINT	25.930	25.930	26.450	27.245
05 0 1080 INSPECTOR - RECEIVING	25.930	25.930	26.450	27.245
04 0 1740 INSPECTOR - ROAD TEST	25.930	25.930	26.450	27.245
05 0 1820 INSPECTOR-TRIM	25.930	25.930	26.450	27.245
06 7 0300 INSPECTOR-TOOLING & LAYOUT	29.810-30.010	29.810-30.010	30.410-30.610	31.330-31.530
00040 MAINTENANCE
38 0 0020 AUTOMATIC SPRAY GUN MAINTENANCE
43 0 0910 BEHR AUTO COLOR ENAMEL SPRAY EQUIPMENT OPERATOR
25 7 0060 BLACKSMITH
54 0 0040 BURNER - SALVAGE
25 7 0440 CARPENTER
25 7 0540 CEMENT FINISHER
23 0 0070 CLEANER-GENERAL
08 0 0270 CLERK - MAINTENANCE
25 0 0630 DEL PARK FILTERING SYSTEM
25 7 0770 ELECTRICIAN
23 0 0520 GARAGE ATTENDANT - GENERAL
25 7 1180 HYDRAULIC REPAIR
25 7 1200 INDUSTRIAL LIFT TRUCK & TOW TRACTOR REPAIR
23 0 0770 LABORER
24 7 0230 LAYOUT & DEVELOPER - SHEET METAL
&	LIGHT IRON
25.830	25.830	26.345	27.135
26.205	26.205	26.730	27.530
29.450-29.650	29.450-29.650	30.045-30.245	30.950-31.150
25.695	25.695	26.210	26.995
29.335-29.535	29.335-29.535	29.925-30.125	30.830-31.030
29.030-29.230	29.030-29.230	29.615-29.815	30.510-30.710
25.080	25.080	25.580	26.345
25.830	25.830	26.345	27.135
26.205	26.205	26.730	27.530
29.810-30.010	29.810-30.010	30.410-30.610	31.330-31.530
25.370	25.370	25.875	26.650
29.550-29.750	29.550-29.750	30.145-30.345	31.055-31.255
29.450-29.650	29.450-29.650	30.045-30.245	30.950-31.150
25.290	25.290	25.795	26.570
29.810-30.010	29.810-30.010	30.410-30.610	31.330-31.530
LOCATION • FFFF U. S. ASSEMBLY PLANTS
NEGOTIATED RATES EFFECTIVE	09-29-03	09-20-04	09-19-05	09-18-06
25 7 1370 MACHINE REPAIR	29.810-30.010	29.810-30.010	30.410-30.610	31.330-31.530
25 7 1620 MECHANIC - AUTO	29.450-29.650	29.450-29.650	30.045-30.245	30.950-31.150
25 7 1660 MILLWRIGHT	29.450-29.650	29.450-29.650	30.045-30.245	30.950-31.150
25 0 1760 OILER 43 0 0550 PAINT SOLUTION & PROCESS	25.830	25.830	26.345	27.135
EQUIPMENT ATTENDANT	25.830	25.830	26.345	27.135
25 7 1950 PAINTER	29.335-29.535	29.335-29.535	29.925-30.125	30.830-31.030
25 7 2130 PIPECOVERER	29.450-29.650	29.450-29.650	30.045-30.245	30.950-31.150
25 7 2300 PLASTERER	29.450-29.650	29.450-29.650	30.045-30.245	30.950-31.150
25 7 2340 PLUMBER-PIPEFITTER 25 7 2370 PLUMBER-PIPFITTER/WELOER	29.450-29.650	29.450-29.650	30.045-30.245	30.950-31.150
(TWIN CITIES ONLY) WHERE CERTIFICATION IS REQUIRED FOR	29.550-29.750	29.550-29.750	30.145-30.345	31.055-31.255
HIGH PRESSURE WELDING, INCUMBENTS OF
THIS CLASSIFICATION ARE CERTIFIED TO
PERFORM SUCH WORK, WILL BE PAID 08 CENTS PER HOUR ABOVE THEIR BASE HOURLY RATE FOR THE TIME THEY ARE ASSIGNED TO PERFORM SUCH WORK
23 0 1030 POWER SWEEPER OPERATOR
36 7 0060 PYROMETER & INSTRUMENT INSTALLATION & REPAIR
25 7 1740 REPAIR - OFFICE MACHINES
16 7 0250 REPAIR-POWER TOOLS
23 0 0900 SEALER PUMP ATTENDANT
50 0 1440 SEMISKILLED MACHINIST
25 7 1600 SERVICE GARAGE REPAIR
23 0 0080 SPRAY BOOTH & DUCT CLEANER
25 7 2950 TINSMITH
50 7 2060 TOOL MACHINE OPERATOR
50 7 2050 TOOLMAKER
25.100
29.810-30.010
29.550-29.750
29.335-29.535
25.585
25.695
28.790-28.990
25.695
29.450-29.650
29.550-29.750
29.810-30.010
25.100
29.810-30.010
29.550-29.750
29.335-29.535
25.585
25.695
28.790-28.990
25.695
29.450-29.650
29.550-29.750
29.810-30.010
25.600
30.410-30.610
30.145-30.345
29.925-30.125
26.095
26.210
29.370-29.570
26.210
30.045-30.245
30.145-30.345
30.410-30.610
26.370
31.330-31.530
31.055-31.255
30.830-31.030
26.880
26.995
30.255-30.455
26.995
30.950-31.150
31.055-31.255
31.330-31.530
LOCATION ■ FFFF U. S. ASSEMBLY PLANTS
NEGOTIATED RATES EFFECTIVE	09-29-03	09-20-04	09-19-05	09-18-06
23 0 1350 WASHER & CLEANER	25.100	25.100	25.600	26.370
55 7 0430 WELDER - GENERAL	29.550-29.750 WHERE CERTIFICATION IS REQUIRED FOR HIGH PRESSURE WELDING, INCUMBENTS OF THIS CLASSIFICATION ARE CERTIFIED TO PERFORM SUCH WORK, WILL BE PAID 08 M	CENTS PER HOUR ABOVE THEIR BASE HOURLY RATE AT THE TIME THEY ARE ASSIGNED TO PERFORM SUCH WORK 25 7 2990 WELDING MACHINE & WELDING	29.550-29.750	30.145-30.345	31.055-31.255
FIXTURE REPAIR	29.550-29.750	29.550-29.750	30.145-30.345	31.055-31.255
23 0 0090 WINDOW WASHER-HIGH	25.695 23 0 1130 YARD MAINTENANCE & SPECIAL	25.695	26.210	26.995
EQUIPMENT OPERATOR	25.695 7 SKILLED LEADER-MAXIMUM 4 INCREMENTS ABOVE JOURNEYMAN MAXIMUM-MINIMUM	25.695	26.210	26.995
.20 BELOW MAXIMUM
00060 POWERHOUSE
35 7 0020 AIR COMPRESSOR OPERATOR
35 7 0080 BOILER REPAIR
35 7 0380 BOILER-FIRE HAND
25 7 0770 ELECTRICIAN
35 7 0410 OVEN HEATER TENDER
35 7 0180 POWER SERVICE - HEAT, STEAM, AIR & WATER
35 7 0170 POWERHOUSE ENGINEER
35 7 0177 POWERHOUSE ENGINEER LEADER
35 7 0760 PUMP REPAIR
35 7 0820 REFRIGERATION MAINTENANCE & INSTALLATION
25 7 2800 WASTE DISPOSAL EQUIPMENT OPER. & MINOR MAINTENANCE
00070 MISCELLANEOUS
54 0 0040 BURNER - SALVAGE
23 0 0070 CLEANER-GENERAL
29.450-29.650 29.450-29.650 29.450-29.650 29.810-30.010 29.030-29.230	29.450-29.650 29.450-29.650 29.450-29.650 29.810-30.010 29.030-29.230	30.045-30.245 30.045-30.245 30.045-30.245 30.410-30.610 29.615-29.815	30.950-31.150 30.950-31.150 30.950-31.150 31.330-31.530 30.510-30.710
29.450-29.650 29.550-29.750 30.090-30.290 29.450-29.650	29.450-29.650 29.550-29.750 30.090-30.290 29.450-29.650	30.045-30.245 30.145-30.345 30.695-30.895 30.045-30.245	30.950-31.150 31.055-31.255 31.620-31.820 30.950-31.150
29.810-30.010	29.810-30.010	30.410-30.610	31.330-31.530
29.450-29.650	29.450-29.650	30.045-30.245	30.950-31.150
25.695 25.080	25.695 25.080	26.210 25.580	26.995 26.345
LOCATION - FFFF U. S. ASSEMBLY PLANTS
NEGOTIATED RATES EFFECTIVE	09-29-03	09-20-04	09-19-05	09-18-06
08 0 0290 CLERK - MISCELLANEOUS	25.695	25.695	26.210	26.995
08 0 0970 CLERK - STOCK INVENTORY	25.695	25.695	26.210	26.995
08 0 0600 CLERK - TYPIST	25.695	25.695	26.210	26.995
21 0 0110 CRANE OPERATOR - ELECTRIC, STEAM OR DIESEL 25.930		25.930	26.450	27.245
21 0 0090 CRANE OPERATOR - SALVAGE YARD CRANE ONLY	26.170	26.170	26.695	27.495
04 0 0160 EMISSION TEST OPERATOR - EXPERIMENTAL	25.830	25.830	26.345	27.135
28 0 0050 FIRST AID	25.830	25.830	26.345	27.135
28 0 0030 FIRST CLASS GROUP	25.930	25.930	26.450	27.245
01 0 0720 HOIST OPERATOR	25.585	25.585	26.095	26.880
72 0 0230 POLISHER - PAINT - WHEEL	25.830	25.830	26.345	27.135
46 0 0320 SALVAGE - GENERAL	25.585	25.585	26.095	26.880
58 0 0520 STAT. PROCESS CONT. PROD. IMPROVEMENT				
DATA SPECILIST	25.930	25.930	26.450	27.245
58 0 0010 TEAM LEADER/COORDINATOR	50 ABOVE	.50 ABOVE	.50 ABOVE	.50 ABOVE
08 0 1050 TIMEKEEPER	26.420	26.420	26.950	27.760
08 0 1057 TIMEKEEPER LEADER	10 ABOVE	.10 ABOVE	.10 ABOVE	.10 ABOVE
00080 FABRICATION (KENTUCKY TRUCK PLANT)
05 0 0020 ASSEMBLY STOCK ORDER FILLER	25.695	25.695	26.210	26.995
68 0 0070 BALANCER - DRIVE SHAFT	25.695	25.695	26.210	26.995
87 0 0090 DRILL - TEMPLATE MARK UP	25.695	25.695	26.210	26.995
78 0 0830 DRILL SHARPENER	25.695	25.695	26.210	26.995
01 0 2130 ENGINE MODIFICATION	25.585	25.585	26.095	26.880
01 0 3530 FABRICATION - DRIVE SHAFT	25.585	25.585	26.095	26.880
81 0 0570 FRAME PIERCING MACHINE ATTENDANT	25.695	25.695	26.210	26.995
83 0 0470 LATHE - RECLAIM -DRIVE SHAFT	25.695	25.695	26.210	26.995
41 0 0570 LAYOUT & SET UP - TUBING				
WIRING & FABRICATION	26.580	26.580	27.110	27.925
05 0 1900 MATERIAL CONTROLLER	25.830	25.830	26.345	27.135
41 0 0590 OPERATOR - TUBING - WIRING & FABRICATION	25.695	25.695	26.210	26.995
05 0 0040 TERMINAL OPERATOR & STOCK				
INVENTORY CONTROL	25.930	25.930	26.450	27.245
59 0 4200 VEHICLE ASSEMBLY TECHNICIAN	26.205	26.205	26.730	27.530
LEVEL I	25.585	25.585	26.095	26.880
LEVEL II	25.800	25.800	26.315	27.105
LEVEL III	26.005	26.005	26.525	27.320
	LOCATION - FFFF U. S. ASSEMBLY PLANTS NEGOTIATED RATES EFFECTIVE	09-29-03	09-20-04	09-19-05	09-18-06
	LEVEL IV	26.205	26.205	26.730	27.530
	59 0 4207 VEHICLE ASSEMBLY TECHNICIAN-LEADER	26.960	26.960	27.500	28.325
	54 0 0170 WELDER - ARC. ACETYLENE & GAS	25.830 .	25.830	26.345	27.135
	54 0 0130 WELDER - AUTOMATIC - DRIVE SHAFT	25.695	25.695	26.210	26.995
	00088 NON-DETROIT AREA ASSEMBLY PLANTS				
	58 7 0020 TEAM LEADER/COORDINATOR - SKILLED	.50 ABOVE	.50 ABOVE	.50 ABOVE	.50 ABOVE
bJ	58 0 0010 TEAM LEADER/COORDINATOR - UNSKILLED	.50 ABOVE	.50 ABOVE	.50 ABOVE	.50 ABOVE
	58 0 0169 UTILITY - BODY CONSTRUCTION-GROUP 3	.05 ABOVE	.05 ABOVE	.05 ABOVE	.05 ABOVE
	58 0 0179 UTILITY - BODY CONSTRUCTION-GROUP 4	.05 ABOVE	.05 ABOVE	.05 ABOVE	.05 ABOVE
	58 0 0199 UTILITY - BODY CONSTRUCTION-GROUP 5	.05 ABOVE	.05 ABOVE	.05 ABOVE	.05 ABOVE
	58 0 0249 UTILITY - BODY PAINT-GROUP 3	.05 ABOVE	.05 ABOVE	.05 ABOVE	.05 ABOVE
	58 0 0259 UTILITY - BODY PAINT-GROUP 4	.05 ABOVE	.05 ABOVE	.05 ABOVE	.05 ABOVE
	58 0 0319 UTILITY - CHASSIS-GROUP 3	.05 ABOVE	.05 ABOVE	.05 ABOVE	.05 ABOVE
	58 0 0329 UTILITY - CHASSIS-GROUP 4	.05 ABOVE	.05 ABOVE	.05 ABOVE	.05 ABOVE
	58 0 0339 UTILITY - CHASSIS-GROUP 5	.05 ABOVE	.05 ABOVE	.05 ABOVE	.05 ABOVE
	58 0 0279 UTILITY - ENAMEL-GROUP 3	.05 ABOVE	.05 ABOVE	.05 ABOVE	.05 ABOVE
58 0 0289 UTILITY - ENAMEL-GROUP 4	.05 ABOVE	.05 ABOVE	.05 ABOVE	.05 ABOVE
58 0 0299 UTILITY - ENAMEL-GROUP 5	.05 ABOVE	.05 ABOVE	.05 ABOVE	.05 ABOVE
58 0 0129 UTILITY - GENERAL - TRIM-GROUP 2	25.930	25.930	26.450	27.245
58 0 0209 UTILITY - TRIM-GROUP 3	.05 ABOVE	.05 ABOVE	.05 ABOVE	.05 ABOVE
58 0 0219 UTILITY - TRIM-GROUP 4	.05 ABOVE	.05 ABOVE	.05 ABOVE	.05 ABOVE
58 0 0229 UTILITY - TRIM-GROUP 5 58 0 0139 UTILITY RELIEF-GENERAL-BODY PAINT	.05 ABOVE	.05 ABOVE	.05 ABOVE	.05 ABOVE
& ENAMEL-GROUP 2	25.930	25.930	26.450	27.245
58 0 0119 UTILITY-GENERAL 58 0 0099 UTILITY-GENERAL-BODY CONSTRUCTION-	25.930	25.930	26.450	27.245
GROUP#2	25.930	25.930	26.450	27.245
58 0 0149 UTILITY-GENERAL-CHASSIS-GROUP #2 9 UTILITY MISCELLANEOUS .05 ABOVE	25.930	25.930	26.450	27.245
00089 DETROIT AREA ASSEMBLY PLANTS				
58 7 0020 TEAM LEADER/COORDINATOR - SKILLED	.50 ABOVE	.50 ABOVE	.50 ABOVE	.50 ABOVE
58 0 0010 TEAM LEADER/COORDINATOR - UNSKILLED	.50 ABOVE	.50 ABOVE	.50 ABOVE	.50 ABOVE
9 UTILITY (WHERE APPLICABLE)	.05 ABOVE	.05 ABOVE	.05 ABOVE	.05 ABOVE
LOCATION - FFFF U. S. ASSEMBLY PLANTS NEGOTIATED RATES EFFECTIVE	09-29-03	09-20-04	09-19-05	09-18-06
00090 WAYNE INTEGRAL STAMPING & ASSY PLANT				
59 0 5110 BODY AND STAMPING TECHNICIAN	26.340	26.340	26.865	27.670
LEVEL I	25.585	25.585	26.095	26.880
LEVEL II	25.695	25.695	26.210	26.995
LEVEL III	25.930	25.930	26.450	27.245
LEVEL IV	26.040	26.040	26.560	27.355
LEVEL V	26.340	26.340	26.865	27.670
59 0 5117 BODY AND STAMPING TECHNICIAN LEADER	26.960	26.960	27.500	28.325
25 7 3320 ELECTRICIAN - WAYNE ISA - ELECTRICAL				
UMBRELLA	30.215-30.650	30.215-30.650	30.820-31.265	31.745-32.205
LEVEL I	30.215	30.215	30.820	31.745
LEVEL II	30.320	30.320	30.925	31.855
LEVEL III	30.650	30.650	31.265	32.205
7 LEADER	.50 ABOVE			
25 7 3440 INDUSTRIAL TRUCK & TOW REPAIR				
WAYNE ISA - MECH UMB	29.935-30.260	29.635-30.260	30.535-30.865'	31.450-31.790
LEVEL I LEVEL II LEVEL III 7 LEADER
25 7 3410 MACHINE REPAIR - WAYNE ISA -MECHANICAL UMBRELLA LEVEL I LEVEL II LEVEL III
7	LEADER
25 7 3400 MILLWRIGHT - WAYNE ISA -MECHANICAL UMBRELLA LEVEL I LEVEL II LEVEL III
7	LEADER
25 7 3420 PIPEFITTER - WAYNE ISA -MECHANICAL UMBRELLA LEVEL I
29.935 30.065 30.260 .50 ABOVE	29.935 30.065 30.260	30.535 30.665 30.865	31.450 31.585 31.790
30.215-30.650	30.215-30.650	30.820-31.265	31.745-32.205
30.215	30.215	30.820	31.745
30.320	30.320	30.925	31.855
30.650	30.650	31.265	32.205
.50 ABOVE			
29.935-30.260	29.635-30.260	30.535-30.865	31.450-31.790
29.935	29.935	30.535	31.450
30.065	30.065	30.665	31.585
30.260	30.260	30.865	31.790
.50 ABOVE			
29.935-30.260	29.635-30.260	30.535-30.865	31.450-31.790
29.935	29.935	30.535	31.450
LOCATION - FFFF U. S. ASSEMBLY PLANTS
	NEGOTIATED RATES EFFECTIVE	09-29-03	09-20-04	09-19-05	09-18-06
	LEVEL II	30.065	30.065	30.665	31.585
	LEVEL III	30.260	30.260	30.865	31.790
	7 LEADER	.50 ABOVE			
	50 7 3000 TOOL & DIEMAKER - WAYNE ISA -				
	TOOL & DIE UMBRELLA	30.215-30.650	30.215-30.650	30.820-31.265	31.745-32.205
	LEVEL 1	30.215	30.215	30.820	31.745
	LEVEL II	30.320	30.320	30.925	31.855
NJ	LEVEL III	30.650	30.650	31.265	32.205
	7 LEADER	.50 ABOVE			
	25 7 3430 WELDER - WAYNE ISA -				
	MECHANICAL UMBRELLA	29.935-30.260	29.935-30.260	30.535-30.865	31.450-31.790
	LEVEL 1	29.935	29.935	30.535	31.450
	LEVEL II	30.065	30.065	30.665	31.585
	LEVEL III	30.260	30.260	30.865	31.790
	7 LEADER	.50 ABOVE			
25 7 3450 WELDING MACH & WELDING FIXTURE
REP - WAYNE ISA MECH	29.935-30.260	29.935-30.260	30.535-30.865	31.450-31.790
LEVEL 1	29.935	29.935	30.535	31.450
LEVEL II	30.065	30.065	30.665	31.585
LEVEL III	30.260	30.260	30.865	31.790
7 LEADER	.50 ABOVE			
00091 OHIO ASSEMBLY PLANT				
25 7 3500 ELECTRICIAN-ELECTRICAL UMBRELLA	30.215-30.650	30.215-30.650	30.820-31.265	31.745-32.205
LEVEL I	30.215	30.215	30.820	31.745
LEVEL II	30.320	30.320	30.925	31.855
LEVEL III	30.650	30.650	31.265	32.205
7 LEADER	.50 ABOVE			
25 7 3520 MILLWRIGHT-MECHANICAL UMBRELLA	29.935-30.260	29.935-30.260	30.535-30.865	31.450-31.790
LEVEL I	29.935	29.935	30.535	31.450
LEVEL II	30.065	30.065	30.665	31.585
LEVEL III	30.260	30.260	30.865	31.790
7 LEADER	.50 ABOVE			
25 7 3510 PIPEFITTER-MECHANICAL UMBRELLA	29.935-30.260	29.935-30.260	30.535-30.865	31.450-31.790
LEVEL I	29.935	29.935	30.535	31.450
LOCATION - FFFF U. S. ASSEMBLY PLANTS				
NEGOTIATED RATES EFFECTIVE	09-29-03	09-20-04	09-19-05	09-18-06
LEVEL II	30.065	30.065	30.665	31.585
LEVEL III	30.260	30.260	30.865	31.790
7 LEADER	.50 ABOVE			
50 7 3100 TOOLMAKER-MECHANICAL UMBRELLA	30.215-30.650 30.	215-30.650 30	.820-31.265 31.	745-32.205
LEVEL I	30.215	30.215	30.820	31.745
LEVEL II	30.320	30.320	30.925	31.855
LEVEL III	30.650	30.650	31.265	32.205
7 LEADER	.50 ABOVE			
59 0 4200 VEHICLE ASSEMBLY TECHNICIAN	26.205	26.205	26.730	27.530
LEVEL I	25.585	25.585	26.095	26.880
LEVEL II	25.800	25.800	26.315	27.105
LEVEL III	26.005	26.005	26.525	27.320
LEVEL IV	26.205	26.205	26.730	27.530
59 0 4207 VEHICLE ASSEMBLY TECHNICIAN LEADER	26.835	26.835	27.370	28.190
25 7 3530 WELDER GENERAL-MECHANICAL				
UMBRELLA	29.935-30.260 29.	935-30.260 30.	535-30.865 31.	450-31.790
LEVEL 1	29.935	29.935	30.535	31.450
LEVEL II	30.065	30.065	30.665	31.585
LEVEL III	30.260	30.260	30.865	31.790
7 LEADER	.50 ABOVE			
00092 DEARBORN ASSEMBLY PLANT				
05 6 0720 MATERIAL CONTROL ASSOCIATE A	25.930	25.930	26.450	27.245
05 6 0710 MATERIAL CONTROL ASSOCIATE B	25.830	25.830	26.345	27.135
05 6 0700 MATERIAL CONTROL ASSOCIATE C	25.585	25.585	26.095	26.880
23 6 0230 PLANT SERVICES ASSOCIATE A	25.830	25.830	26.345	27.135
23 6 0220 PLANT SERVICES ASSOCIATE B	25.585	25.585	26.095	26.880
23 6 0210 PLANT SERVICES ASSOCIATE C	25.290	25.290	25.795	26.570
06 6 0010 PROCESS CONTROL SPECIALIST	26.040	26.040	26.560	27.355
01 6 0010 PRODUCTION FLOOR TEAM ASSOCIATE	25.930	25.930	26.450	27.245
01 6 0020 PRODUCTION FLOOR TEAM TECHNICIAN	26.040	26.040	26.560	27.355
7 TEAM LEAOER/COOROINATOR	.50 ABOVE			
Reporting an Accident or Incident When Help is Required
In the event of an emergency, call 711.
When reporting an emergency, remain calm and provide the following information:
□	Your name and telephone number you are calling from.
□	Your exact location in the building by department and column location.
□	The type of emergency you are reporting (fire, medical emergency, etc.)
□	Do not hang up until the operator has all the information they need and authorizes you to hang up.
Notify the supervisor. Supervisors shall then contact the Safety Engineers and the Union H&S Representatives so they may begin their investigation.
Notify the Union Office at 3654 / 3655 / 3656 to report the incident.
If Medical is not open, please call Security at 3662 or :all 711 in an emergency.
•	Follow instructions above for reporting an incident when help is required.
•	Security will notify the First Responders/ERT Members utilizing two-way radios and pagers.
•	I f the patient can be safely moved, meet Security outside the medical Department on A-aisle for evaluation or while awaiting transportation to an outside medical facility.