LOCAL AGREEMENTS
Between
SERVICE AND PARTS OPERATIONS FLINT PROCESSING CENTER DIVISION OF GENERAL MOTORS CORPORATION FLINT, MICHIGAN
AND
LOCAL 659, UAW
JULY 15, 2004
PLANT TELEPHONE NUMBERS UAW - Work Centers
Chairperson..................635-6724
District #1 .................635-5780
District #2..................635-5832
District #3..................635-6800
District #4..................635-6281
District #5................. 635-5551
Management - Health and Safety Office..........635-5300
UAW-Health & Safety Work Center................635-1157
UAW Work Family/ADAPT Representative Work Center ....................635-6420
UAW-Benefit Representatives Work Center 1st Shift.....................635-5825
2nd Shit......................635-6150
Workers Compensation......................1	-800-489-4646
Labor Relations Department/Hourly Personnel 635-5625	635-5626	635-5214
Health Services Department.....................635-5271
Fire and Emergency 911#
Security.......................................635-5281
UAW-Quality Network/Training Work Center.......635-6740
UAW-Industrial Hygiene Work Center.............635-6081
UAW-Communications Department..................635-1066
UAW-Ergonomics Work Center.....................635-1043
Life-Steps.....................................635-6676
W1.JI3
FOREWARD
Dear Member:
The following pages contain the essential Local Agreements and understandings between your Shop Committee, SPO Flint Unit, Local 659, UAW and local Management of Service and Parts Operations Flint Processing Center Division of General Motors Corporation, Flint, Michigan.
It should be understood that this Local Agreement, coupled with the UAW-GM National Agreement, is a technical outline of the conditions of employment at this location.
While this booklet constitutes the Local Agreement, it does not cover every situation that may arise. Read this agreement carefully and if you have any questions regarding its contents or any situation not covered herein, your Committeeperson will assist you as provided in Paragraph 29 of the National Agreement.
Your Shop Committee feels that a well-informed and active membership is the best guarantee for a strong Union. It is the policy of your Union to pursue a solution to the problems of all its members.
Only by each member doing a serious conscientious job of policing an agreement, can that agreement be effective and workable.
ISI Shop Committee
UAW Local 659
SPO Unit
MEMBERS OF UAW LOCAL 659 SPO UNIT
INTRODUCTION
You are a member of Local 659, UAW. As a member of the Local, you are entitled to certain rights and benefits which flow from agreements between your International Union and the General Motors Corporation, plus those agreements negotiated locally by your Local Union Bargaining Committee and the Management of Service and Parts Operations Flint Processing Center, Division of General Motors Corporation, Flint, Michigan.
Before your Union, no one had any rights or benefits. You did what you were told or would quit or be fired. When you became too old to work, you were cast aside without the benefit of a pension. When you were laid off there was no JOBS bank or S.U.B. pay to supplement your meager unemployment insurance. Seniority was unheard of and length of service meant nothing. Starvation wages prevailed throughout the industry. Then, in 1937 your Union came into being. From a one-page document signed by the Union and the General Motors Corporation in 1937 to the present National and Local Agreements, your rights have increased tremendously.
Realizing that an uninformed Membership is of little or no value in the successful operation of a Local Union, this booklet contains sufficient information to enable our members to conduct themselves intelligently and successfully while working in the plant.
Article 41, on page 120 of our International Constitution reads as follows:
Duties of Local Union Members
Section 1.	It shall be the duty of each member to conscientiously seek to understand and exemplify by practice the intent and purpose of her/his obligation as a member of this International Union.
Section 2.	It shall be the duty of each member to render aid and assistance to brother or sister members in cases of illness, death or distress, and in every way acquit her/himself as a loyal and devoted member of the International Union.
Section 3.	It shall be the duty of each member to participate in all Local' State, Provincial, and Federal elections through registration and balloting.
Carry this booklet with you. Study it and the National Agreement carefully. Read the Constitution of the International Union. Also, read the Local 659 paper “The Searchlight”, and “Solidarity" magazine, which is mailed to you monthly.
YOU ARE THE UNION
The Union means all of us - YOU, the working men and women who belong to it. It can be no better or no worse than YOU make it. These rights won for you can become dead pieces of paper if YOU do not protect them and use them. Your standard of living, the well-being of your family, and the education of your children all depend on how well you support your Union and keep it an active force for the betterment of all its members. YOU, as an active member, can make it better. You can't make it better by unfair criticism in the shop, or at “gin mill bull sessions". The place for constructive criticism is at the Union Hall and at membership meetings. A good Union member attends their meetings.
/S/ Your Shop Committee
UAW Local 659
SPO Unit
PREFACE
Service and Parts Operations, Flint Processing Center, Division of General Motors Corporation and UAW Local No. 659 recognizes the moral principles involved in the area of civil rights and raffirmed in their collective Bargaining Agreement their commitment not to discriminate because of age, race, color, sex, religion, national origin, disability or sexual orientation as required by appropriate state and federal law.
The use of pronouns in this Agreement which are indictive of gender are for grammatical purposes only and give equal responsibilities, rights and privileges to all employees without regard to sex.
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
GM SERVICE AND PARTS OPERATIONS GENERAL MOTORS CORPORATION FLINT PROCESSING CENTER
MEMORANDUM of AGREEMENT entered into this 30th day of June 2004 between GM Service and Parts Operations and the United Automobile, Aerospace, and Agricultural Implement Workers of America, Local #659. Issues resolved are as follows:
All issues involved in the matters covered by the Union's “60-Day Notice to Employer” dated June 24, 2003. the Union’s Local Demands presented on August 21,2003. all grievances filed prior to September 23, 2003. and subsequent attachments and negotiations have been resolved as of this day. The implementation of this Agreement is subject to written notice of ratification by the Local Union to be given to Management by July 15,2004. After such notice of ratification is received from the Local Union by Management, this Agreement will be effective as provided for herein upon approval of the General Motors Corporation and the International Union.
In witness whereof, the parties have caused their names to be subscribed by their duly authorized representatives this 30th day of June, 2004.
Local #659
United Automobile, Aerospace and Agricultural Implement Workers of America
Leo H. Laurin Michael G. Fray Brian D. Alexander Pern C. Windels David C. Coon TroyS. Scully
Vern Bums
General Motors Department, International Union, United Automobile, Aerospace, and Agricultural Implement Workers of America
Ken Scott
Flint Processing Center GM Service and Parts Operations General Motors Corporation
John Scheid R. J. Cochrane Jeffrey A. Setzke John D. Ellery Edward L. Driver
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Seniority Agreement......................................1
Advancement/Transfer Statement of Policy................13
Paragraph 71 - Administrative Rules...................i. .21
Paragraph 71 - Equalization Groupings ..................29
Shift Preference Agreement..............................31
Grievance Procedure ....................................37
Wage Agreement .........................................41
Flowchart ..............................................47
Transitional Work Center Agreement......................48
General Information ....................................53
Team Concept Agreement .................................61
LoanoutAgreement .......................................74
Production Letters .................................... 75
SKILLED TRADES
Apprentice Agreement .................................  80
Power House Agreement ..................................87
Skilled Trades Acquisition .............................89
Skilled Trades Letters................................ .91
Skilled Trades Guidelines...............................97
LOCAL DEMANDS AND ISSUES Local Demand Index.....................................108
Local Issues ..........................................116
LOCAL SENIORITY AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
SERVICE AND PARTS OPERATIONS FLINT PROCESSING CENTER DIVISION OF GENERAL MOTORS Corporation
and
LOCAL #659
UNITED AUTOMOBILE, AEROSPACE, AND AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA
This agreement entered into this 30th day of June, 2004 between the local Management of Service and Parts Operations - Flint Processing Center? Division of General Motors Corporation and the Shop Committee of Local #659, UAW. It is understood that this Agreement must be approved by the Personnel Staff of Service and Parts Operations - Ceritral Office and the Corporation, and the International Union, UAW. In the event of failure of approval of either party, the matter will be referred back to the parties for further negotiations.
SECTION I- PURPOSE
The purpose of this Agreement is to define and describe the seniority provisions, which will govern the seniority status of employees within the bargaining unit.
1.	Employees of Service and Parts Operations - Flint Processing Center shall be divided into two divisions:
(a)	All hourly rated employees in the bargaining unit except those employee; in skilled trades classifications shall
' be known as Division #1.
1
(b)	All hourly-rated employees in the bargaining unit employed in skilled trades classifications shall be known as Division #11.
2.	ACQUIRING SENIORITY
(a)	Employees will acquire seniority in accordance with the provisions of the National Agreement.
(b)	In placing employees' names on the Seniority List, in accordance with Paragraph 58 of the National Agreement, where two or more employees have the same seniority dale, they shall be listed on the Seniority List alphabetically by last name, ’A" to "Z*.
(1)	. For those employees with a plant seniority date of 1-7-85 or less; when two or more employees have the same plant seniority date, they shall be listed on the seniority list by corporate seniority date. In the event two or more of these employees also have the same corporate seniority date they shall be listed alphabetically by last name, “A" to “Z".
(c)	Seniority of employees, hired under the special hire provisions; e.g., Appendix A Area Hire Agreement and etc., will be governed by the applicable provisions of the National Agreement.
3.	DIVISION #1
Seniority for Division #1 shall be by Division-Wide General Group or by non-interchangeable occupational groups as identified in the Local Wage Agreement.
4.	DIVISION #11
Division #11 shall be composed of all skilled trades dassifi-
2
cations. Seniority shall be by non-interchangeable occupational groups in skilled trades. Each skilled classification shall constitute a separate non-interchangeable occupational group.
SECTION II - TEMPORARY LAYOFFS
DIVISION #1
1.	In the event of temporary layoffs resulting from plant rearrangements or breakdown of equipment, or for other reasons known to be temporary, employees may be laid off according to their seniority standing within their equalization group provided those who remain are able to perform the work.
2.	Temporary layoffs which are known in advance to be necessary and of a known duration and which do not exceed sixty (60) calendar days or any negotiated extension thereof will be applied as follows:
(a)	Employees within equalization of hours groups by shift will be laid off by inverse seniority.
(b)	Employees with greatest seniority will be laid off first unless they apply to work as provided herein, subject to the following:
(1.) Temporary employees and employees with less than one-year seniority will be laid off first.
(2.) These provisions will not be cited or relied upon by any employee or the Union for a claim of back pay or any other claim of liability against the Corporation.
(3.) In any event, Management may retain employees who are necessary to perform the work to be done during the layoff period.
3
(c)	Employees with one or more years of seniority who desire to work will apply for such during the first fifteen (15) days of each new year to the supervisor on forms supplied by Management. Applications will apply to all short-term layoffs during the period of January 30 to January 29 the following year. Applications will remain in effect until canceled by the employee or the next application period, whichever comes first. Cancellation of applications must occur one (1) week in advance of any short-term layoff.
(d)	Management will examine the file of applications submitted by employees with more than one year's seniority who request to work. The applicants with the longest seniority in the affected equalization group/s will be retained for the available work. Any employees who are required to work in any group, in addition to those who apply, will be selected from among those with more than one year's seniority beginning with employees with the least seniority.
(e)	Employees will be recalled in reverse order to that which they were laid off.
3.	Following a temporary layoff resulting from any of the above reasons, as work becomes available, employees will be recalled to their regular equalization groups on a seniority basis provided they can do the work.
4.	In the event the temporary layoff continues for longer than sixty (60) calendar days, Section III will apply unless the sixty (60) calendar day period is extended by written permission with the Shop Committee.
DIVISION #ll
1.	When it is necessary to temporarily lay off joumeypersons, journeypersons will be laid off according to their seniority
4
standing within their equalization group as provided in Paragraph 174 of the National Agreement. This will not apply, however, to situations involving less than a full shift, or emergency situations.
2.	In the event the temporary layoff continues for longer than sixty (60) calendar days, Section IV will apply unless the sixty (60) calendar day period is extended by written permission with the Shop Committee.
3.	Temporary layoffs which are known in advance to be necessary and of known duration will be handled as described in Section II, Division #l, Paragraph 2.
SECTION III	- PERMANENT LAYOFF AND RECALL PROCEDURE
DIVISION #1
1.	This section is intended to cover layoffs in Division #l due to reduction in production, but not due to changes in methods, products or policies which are provided for in Paragraph 59 of the National Agreement.
2.	The following procedure will apply in reference to permanent layoffs in the respective Division.
(a)	First the required number of employees with the least seniority in the Division-Wide General Group will be laid off in line with their Division-Wide seniority.
(b)	In the adjustment of manpower following the layoff in the application of this section, Division #1 shall be by operational area departmental non-interchangeable occupational groups as referenced in Section I, Paragraph 3. or operational area wide by classification. Operational areas are established as follows:
5
(1)	Processing (Plant 1)
(2)	Service (Plant 2)
(3)	Burton
(c)	Employees not needed in non-interchangeable occupational groups will be reduced from their group by seniority to equal or lower rated General Group classifications in their operational area within the Plant. It is understood that an employee will be reduced to the next highest rated job, seniority permitting, if he is able to perform the work.
(d)	Employees not needed in classifications in the Division-Wide General Group will be removed by seniority to equal or lower rated interchangeable occupational classifications within their operational area seniority permitting. It is understood that an employee will be reduced to the next highest rated job, seniority permitting. Failing to meet these provisions, the employee will be reduced to an available opening within the Division-Wide General Group, seniority permitting. In applying these provisions, it is understood this employee must be able to perform the work.
(Refer to flow chart)
(e)	When it is necessary to permanently transfer employees from one operational area to another, either in the adjustment of manpower or as a result of a permanent layoff, the employees in the Division-Wide General Group will be transferred in line with their plant-wide seniority from the operational area in which they are working.
(f)	When it is necessary to permanently transfer employees in NIO classifications from one operational area to another in a permanent manpower adjustment,
6
the employees in the respective groups will be transferred in line with their plant-wide seniority, from the operational area in which they are working provided they are capable of doing the work.
(g)	Employees laid off from the Division-Wide General Group will be recalled to the Division-Wide General Group in line with their Division-Wide seniority providing they can do the available work.
(h)	Employees laid off or transferred from non-interchangeable occupational groups will be returned to their NIO groups as vacancies occur in line with the Division-Wide seniority providing they can do the available work.
3.	Management will endeavor to minimize the loss of time to employees in placing them in accordance with this layoff and recall procedure and, in any event, employees eligible to be retained on other jobs will be placed within ten (10) working days.
4.	When an employee is transferred from one non-interchangeable occupational group, or occupational group, to another, for any reason, there shall be no loss of seniority; however, in cases of transfer under Section III of this Agreement, such transfers shall be presumed to be for more than thirty (30) days, and therefore, the seniority of the employees will be carried into the new group and will become effective as of the day of transfer.
5.	When employees are laid off who have the same seniority date, they will be laid off alphabetically by the last name beginning with the letter 7’ and will be recalled in reverse order beginning with the letter “A”. Employees hired under the special hire provisions; e g., Appendix A and etc. will be governed by the applicable provisions of the National Agreement.
7
SECTION IV	- PERMANENT LAYOFF AND RECALL PROCEDURE - DIVISION II
1.	This section is intended to cover layoffs in Division II, due to a permanent reduction in force.
2.	Employees not needed in each skilled non-interchangeable occupational group will be laid off from the plant and recalled in line with their skilled non-interchangeable occupational group seniority.
3.	Employees who have been reclassified from Employee-in-Training (E.I.T.), Employee-in-Training-Seniority (E.I.T.S.), or Apprentice to journeyperson status and are subsequently not needed will be laid off and recalled in line with their skilled non-interchangeable occupational group seniority. Such employees will be assigned to the Division-Wide General Group and reduced to their last held classification or equal rated job, seniority permitting, within their former operational area department, provided the employee is able to perform the work. Failing to meet these provisions, the employee will be reduced to an available opening within the Division-Wide General Group, seniority permitting. A joumeyperson or E.l.T.S. employee may elect to be laid off in which case he/she will sign a waiver form provided for that purpose and he/she will be furnished a copy. If the employee signs a waiver, he/she will be recalled to work only in the skilled group in which he/she holds seniority.
4.	Employees of joumeyperson status with no in-plant seniority, who are not needed in a skilled non-interchangeable occupational group, will be laid off from the plant and recalled in line with their skilled non-interchangeable group seniority.
5.	When a qualified journeyperson is transferred from one skilled trades group to another, in which he/she is also a qualified joumeyperson, there shall be no loss of seniority. However, he/she will have a date of entry seniority and will
8
retain his/her seniority, but not accumulate seniority in the classification from which he/she was transferred.
6.	Employees laid off from the Employee-in-Training (E.l.T.) or Employee-in-Training-Seniority (E.l.T.S.) or journeyperson non-interchangeable occupational groups having identical dates of entry or skilled trades seniority dates will be laid off by plant-wide seniority. In situations wherein the plant-wide seniority date is identical, employees will be laid off alphabetically by the last name beginning with the letter ”Z" and will be recalled in reverse order beginning with the letter "A'. Employees hired under the special hire provisions; e.g., Appendix A and etc., will be governed by the applicable provisions of the National Agreement.
7.	Division II employees shall be required to sign a waiver which can be obtained from their supervisor if he/she is not desirous to accept recall to the skilled classification from which he/she has recall rights.
SECTION V - GENERAL PROVISIONS
1.	Any employee who is transferred from a job classification in the bargaining unit to a position outside the bargaining unit but in the plant, and is later transferred to a job classification in the bargaining unit, shall be credited with seniority in accordance with Paragraph #69 of the National Agreement. Such employee may be returned to his/her last previous classification, seniority permitting; thereafter he/she may be placed in accordance with the provisions of Section III or IV whichever is applicable to this Agreement.
2.	In the event of a permanent manpower adjustment, it is understood, that in applying Paragraph 2(c) and (d), employees will not be transferred to the Checker-Export or the Leader classifications.
9
3.	When it becomes necessary to permanently transfer employees within an operational area from one shift to another in an adjustment of manpower not due to a reduction in force, employees in a specific classification will be transferred on the basis of low seniority, provided they can do the work. High seniority volunteers will be used prior to forcing low if they have made their requests known in advance of the manpower adjustment.
4.	When it becomes necessary to permanently transfer employees within an operational area from one department to another in an adjustment of manpower not due to a reduction in force, employees in a specific classification and on the shift affected will be transferred, provided they can do the work, on the basis of low seniority from the department to be reduced. High seniority volunteers will be used prior to forcing low if they have made their requests known in advance of the manpower adjustment.
5.	When it becomes necessary Io permanently transfer employees within an operational area from one supervisor to another within the same department in an adjustment of manpower not due to a reduction in force, employees in a specific classification, and on the shift affected, will be transferred oh the basis of low seniority from the supervisors area to be reduced. High seniority volunteers will be used prior to forcing low if they have made their requests known in advance of the manpower adjustment.
10
6.	In manpower adjustments as a result of a reduction in force, but not as a result of a permanent layoff, the low seniority employee in the classification affected will be reduced within the operational area, all shifts included. High seniority volunteers will be used prior to forcing low if they have made their requests known in advance of the manpower adjustment.
7.	When necessary to perform work connected with the annual inventory period requiring the temporary transfer of employees from their department, they will be transferred by classification and shift, lowest seniority first. It is understood that once the inventory is in progress further movement of employees will be as they complete their inventory assignments.
8.	When it becomes necessary to move an operation from one operational area department to another as defined in Section III, Paragraph 2(b) of this Agreement resulting in manpower realignment, Management and the local Shop Committee will meet in advance of such move to review and arrive at a mutually satisfactory resolution to any required manpower adjustment.
9.	Within the scope of the American Disabilities Act (ADA), in those situations where an employee can no longer perform work within his/her classification due to Plant Medical restrictions, the employee will be referred to the Joint ADAPT Representative. Failure to place the employee in line with his/her medical restrictions on a job within the plant, seniority permitting, such employee will be seen by the Plant Medical Director and, if deemed necessary, referred to the employee’s attending physician for placement on a disability leave of absence. It is understood these provisions do not supersede any applicable provisions of the National Agreement.
10.	No provisions of this Agreement shall be retroactive prior to the date thereof. Any supplements to, modifications of, changes or additions to this agreement, as written and approved, must be submitted to the Personnel Staff of Service and Parts Operations Central Office and the Corporation and the International Union, UAW for approval.
11
This Local Agreement is subject to written notice of ratification to Management by the Local Union not later than the 15th day of July 2004.
After written notification of ratification is received from the Local Union, this Agreement will be effective as provided herein upon approval of the Personnel Staff of General Motors Service and Parts Operations - Central Office and the General Motors Corporation and the International Union, UAW.
If either party desires to cancel, modify or change this Agreement, it shall, at least sixty (60) days prior to the date when it proposes such cancellation, modification or change become effective, give notice in writing of the proposed cancellation, modification or change to the other party. Within ten (10) working days after receipt of notice to modify or change this Agreement, a conference will be arranged to negotiate the proposal.
In witness whereof, the parties hereto have caused their name to be subscribed by their duly authorized officers and representatives the day and year first above written.
Local #659 General Motors Service and Parts Operations Flint Processing Center, United Automobile, Aerospace, and Agricultural Implement Workers of America	General Motors Service and Parts Operations Flint Processing Center Division of General Motors
Leo H. Laurin	R. J. Cochrane
Michael G. Fray	Jeffrey A. Setzke
Brian D. Alexander	John D. Ellery
Perry C. Windels David C. Coon Troy S. Scully Vern Bums General Motors Department, International Union, United Automobile, Aerospace, and Agricultural Implement Workers of America Ken Scott	Edward L. Driver
MANAGEMENTS STATEMENT OF POLICY REGARDING REQUESTS FOR ADVANCEMENT/TRANSFER
A.	The Advancement/Transfer Policy will be applied as follows:
1.	Management will perform a Manpower Adjustment as deemed necessary.
2.	Prior to posting any primary openings Management will identify and post manpower adjustments that will take place during the Manpower process.
3.	Management will post primary openings on the Friday preceding the week of the Manpower Adjustment Process by 8:00 a.m. indicating the classification, department, and shift available. Employees will then have until Tuesday at 8:00 a.m. to submit applications for the posted openings. Each employee is responsible for placing their own application in the collection box. The highest seniority applicant capable of performing the posted opening will be placed on the Monday following the application period. Employees will not be canvassed and those applications not honored will not remain on file. In the case of multiple posted openings, an employee filing for more than one opening will number his/her applications as to preference.
a. If the primary opening is filled from the classification where an identified reduction has been posted the Manpower Adjustment will be considered complete based on the applicable provisions of the Local Seniority Agreement.
4.	After the primary openings have been filled Management will post the secondary openings created from the filling of the primary postings by 12:00 p.m. on the
13
Tuesday proceeding the effective Monday of the Manpower Adjustment. Employees will then have until 8:00 a.m. on Thursday to submit applications for the posted secondary openings. Each employee is responsible for placing their own application in the collection box. The highest seniority applicant will be placed on the Monday following the application period. Employees will not be canvassed and those applications not honored will not remain on file. In the case of multiple posted openings, an employee filing for more than one opening will number his/her applications as to preference.
a. If the secondary opening is filled from the classification where an identified reduction has been posted the Manpower Adjustment will be considered complete based on the applicable provisions of the Local Seniority Agreement.
5.	Vacancies generated from the filling of secondary openings may be filled from within the department where the opening occurs. The department Supervisor will honor written requests by classification in seniority order to move to the available opening. Employees desirous of moving to another job under their Supervisor within the department, shift, and classification must make their request known to their Supervisor in writing (AVO) by the Friday of the start of a manpower adjustment process in order for their request to be honored. Employees transferred under this process must be capable of performing the available work.
6.	After the AVO process the final opening will be back filled from the reductions posted at the start of the Manpower process. The process flow will be as outlined below.
14
a. Employees who are being reduced from their Supervisor area/department will displace the low seniority employee within the operational area in the same classification, seniority permitting. Those employees who are being reduced from the classification will be placed in the available openings in line with their seniority from high to low wage rate. If all the remaining openings are for the same wage rate, employees will be retained on their shift in line with seniority.
7.	If a secondary opening is filled by an employee from a Unit Wide classification, Stock Attendant, Power Sweeper Driver, or Leader then the third opening will be posted the following week and the provisions of paragraphs 6 and 6 (a) will apply.
8.	Any employee desirous of canceling an application must do so prior to the application being honored, in any event, no later than when the applications are picked up from the collection boxes on Tuesday and Thursday mornings at 8:00 a.m. Each employee is responsible for placing their own cancellation in a collection box.
9.	Whenever a job posting occurs, the Joint ADAPT Representatives will evaluate the restrictions of each employee assigned to Department 0318 and/or sick leave. If a posting goes unfilled, employees that exceed the 120 dav time limit will be evaluated to (1) determine their capability of performing the available iob opening or (2) fill the last available move in the manpower process.
10.	Employees who have transferred to an open job via the posting process and cannot perform the work within a one week period will be returned to their last held job or an open job within the classification if their
15
previous job has been filled. The opening created will then be filled from the next highest seniority applicant from the week of the initial posting. After the one week time frame applicants must remain on the posted job.
11.	An employee who voluntarily relinquishes their truck driver license may not apply for a truck driver license for a period of six (6) months.
12.	Openings within the inspection department will be made available to the inspection group prior to posting the opening unit wide. Seniority will be used as the basis for the selection.
13.	When posting for the Burton Operational Area or the following classifications, it is agreed the scope of selection will be unit wide, all shifts.
Battery Attendant Crib Attendant Fire Equipment Person Inspection Classifications Oiler - Machinery and Equipment Washing Machine - Maintenance Laborer - Yard Maintenance Metal Finisher - Bumper Driver - Licensed Trucks, & Passenger Cars Metal Cleaner-Hand Waste Water Neutralizer
Garage Attendant General Attendant Checker - Export Stock Room Clerk Paint Mixer - Control Person
14.	When posting for all remaining General Group or NIO classifications it is agreed the scope of selection will be by operational area, which is defined as Plant #1, Plant #2, and the Burton Warehouse.
16
15.	Management will reduce complex wide those classifications that require complex wide postings.
16.	In the event the seniority of employees is equal, it is understood that the applications will be honored alphabetically by the last name, beginning with the letter “A". Those employees hired under the special hire provisions; e.g., Appendix A, etc., will be guided by the applicable provision of the National Agreement.
17.	Employees transferred to E.l.T. or E.l.T.S. status may apply for a classification equal to or lower rated than the classification and operational area held at the time of transfer into Skilled Trades.
18.	Employees desirous of advancement or transfer under this policy may obtain the necessary form from their supervisor. This form will be signed and dated by the employee and his/her supervisor with one (1) copy placed in the posting box and one (1) copy retained by the employee.
19.	Employees returning to work from sick leave in less than one hundred twenty (120) days, will be eligible to return to their last job held prior to their leave of absence. Those employees returning to the regular workforce from sick leave subsequent to this time parameter will, seniority permitting, be returned to their shift, starting time, department, and his/her last held classification.
20.	Management agrees that all Division I employees new to the plant will be placed via the posting procedure. In addition, the parties agree to meet in advance to discuss manpower flows during periods of excessive hiring.
17
21.	Employees reduced from a classification will be eligible to return to the classification they were reduced from if an opening occurs within sixty (60) days of their reduction. Any employee reduced from a classification will be required to file an AVO with the Personnel Department within one (1) week of the reduction. Any placements within the sixty (60) day window will be automatic if an AVO is on file.
22.	Management agrees to honor all Job Posting Applications and/or manpower adjustments prior to shift and Time Preference applications.
B.	Transfer Procedure between Operational Areas
1.	In addition to the posting procedure, a seniority employee may file an application (PD-589) applicable to all shifts for transfer from one operational area to another. Such applications will be honored provided there is an application on file by an employee in the Operational Area into which the applicant is desirous of transferring. If an employee is subsequently moved from the operational area of his/her choice, he/she may reapply.
2.	In filling a vacancy as a result of a manpower adjustment, recall, or hire, the following procedure will apply:
a.	Postings will be made for job openings in operational areas where vacancies occur.
b.	PD-589’s will be honored to the operational area where vacancies occur and/or used to backfill posted job openings.
c.	Openings created by honoring PD-589 moves will be posted as secondary openings.
18
d.	Recalls and/or hires will be forced to backfill remaining openings in operational areas not filled by applications.
3.	It is understood these PD-589 provisions will not be cited as a basis of a backpay claim.
C.	General Provisions:
1.	In the transfer of employees under the PD-589 provisions, an employee's application must be received by Management no later than the end of their shift on Thursday prior to the primary posting.
2.	Employees desirous of canceling PD-589's must submit a written request to Management no later than the end of their shift on Thursday prior to the primary posting.
3.	Employees transferring under the PD-589 provisions must be capable of performing the available work.
4.	PD-589's on file will also be used during periods of manpower adjustments from one operational area to another rather than forcing low seniority employees.
5.	Management will make every practicable effort to complete the weekly manpower adjustment by 1:00 pm on Thursday.
D.	Skilled Trades Process
1.	When an opening occurs in/out of the paint system, or when an employee applies for a shift change to the affected shift, the employee having the highest seniority (and an application on file) fills the opening by either AVO or shift preference.
19
2.	If no employee has a preference. Management will honor seniority rights for assignment.
3.	It is understood that temporary special project assignments do not affect an employees seniority rights or a return to their established job unless a prior agreement is reached between the Union and Management.
4.	Employees desirous of moving in/out of the paint system must make their request known to their Supervisor in writing (AVO) by Friday prior to the effective Monday, in order for their reguest to be honored.
20
Management's Statement of Policy For Paragraph 71 - Administrative Rules
1.	It is the purpose of Paragraph 71 of the National Agreement to equalize overtime work among the employees engaged in similar work. Therefore, it is desirable that overtime assignments within an equalization group should be given as far as practicable to those employees of the group who are among those lowest in hours.
2.	Equalization hours will be credited in terms of paid hours involved. (Example: One hour at time and one-half equals one and one-half credit hours; one hour at double time equals two credit hours.)
3.	An employee who works on a paid holiday, covered by Paragraph 203 of the National Agreement shall be credited only for hours paid under the Working Hours Section and not for hours paid under Paragraph 203.
4.	When hours are available to an employee within their equalization group or classification and he/she is absent or fails to work for any reason or if he/she declines an offer of work, the hours available will be credited, except that hours lost by reason due to jury duty, bereavement, short term military leave, compensable injury, or occupational disease shall not be charged. This includes available weekend and/or Holiday overtime that any jury duty, bereavement, short term military leave, compensable injury or occupational disease adjoins. However, when a compensable injury or occupational disease exceeds fourteen (14) davs (from date of injury). Paragraph No. 7 below will apply. The Plant Joint ADAPT Representatives will be used when determining the original date of injury for compensable and occupational disease injuries.
21
A.	Once working, if additional hours become available and an employee is absent he/she will not be charged the additional hours in which the employee was not available. This is not intended to interfere with the provisions of the Memorandum of Understanding on Overtime.
B.	Daily overtime lost while attending joint functions will not be charged unless the available overtime is paid.
C.	Daily overtime lost when absent under the provisions of Paragraph 109 of the National Agreement will be charged.
D.	When canvassed to work through lunch only those employees accepting such work will be charged.
E.	An employee who returns to work after an overtime canvass has been completed will be canvassed for work in line with his/her equalization group, after notifying Management of his/her intent to work the available overtime. In periods of partial overtime it is understood that call-ins are not an acceptable means for reserving weekend overtime assignments.
F.	Employees who do not accept available hours outside of their assigned Operational Area or classification will not be charged.
5.	Supervisors will be responsible to offer partial overtime to employees by canvass. Employees will be responsible to sign the appropriate document to acknowledge rejection or acceptance of the partial overtime offered.
6.	Management will be responsible to maintain a copy of weekly
canvass and hours sheets for a fifty-two (52) week calendar
22
year. Employees who find an error on their reported equalization of hours will have sixty (60) days to request to have his/hers hours corrected. Failure to do so within the specified time frame will result in no change to the disputed hours. A duplicate copy of the weekly equalization sheets will be provided to the Union.
7.	An employee on authorized leave of absence for a period of fourteen (14) days or less will have the hours he/she would have had available credited to the employee as provided in Paragraph 4 above. An employee on an authorized leave of absence for more than fourteen (14) days shall cease to have available hours credited to the employee and upon returning to any equalization group will be credited with the median hours of the group.
8.	An employee new to the Flint SPO bargaining unit or returning from a job outside of the bargaining unit will be charged with the highest hours of any equalization group he/she enters.
9.	A seniority employee reluming from permanent layoff will be credited with the median hours of the equalization group, which the employee may enter. Employees returning from temporary layoff will be charged overtime hours in the same manner as specified in Paragraph 7 above.
10.	Employees transferred to a different equalization group will be credited with the median hours of the group. However, if the new group is unoccupied or consists of only one employee who has since vacated the group, the employee entering the group will establish hours in the following manner;
A.	Occupied group (one employee or more) - Receive existing median hours of the occupied group.
B.	Unoccupied group for more than one week - Carry existing hours into the group.
23
C.	New equalization group - Employees will enter with their existing hours and the median will be determined from the composite hours of the group,
11.	Any employee who is loaned to a different equalization group on his/her shift or time will continue to equalize hours with their regular group and will not establish any right to work in the other group to the exclusion of the regular members of that group.
A.	If an employee is loaned to a different start time and/or shift and is unable to work within his/her regular equalization group, the overtime hours within his/her regular equalization group will not be charged.
B.	Employees assigned to a different start time or shift due to a hardship reguest will continue to be charged available overtime within their regular egualization group.
C.	Equalization of hours will be the guideline for determining overtime assignments during partial shift overtime and temporary start time changes. Preference will be given to the lowest houred volunteer unless the regular assigned employee has Qualified to work. Seniority will continue to be the basis for temporary start time changes when overtime is posted full or mandatory.
12.	Union committeepersons shall not be considered within any equalization group. When an employee ceases to be a committeeperson, the employee shall be credited with the high hours of the equalization group in which the employee is then to work.
A.	Alternate committeepersons and Paragraph 25 (National Agreement) replacements shall equalize hours in their regularly assigned egualization group except when working overtime hours for representation.
24
B.	When an employee ceases to be an alternate committeeperson, he/she shall have his/her existing hours charged to the group unless his/her hours are lower than the lowest in the group, then he/she shall be charged the same hours as the lowest in the group.
13.	If an employee who has left company premises after the close of his/her shift is summoned to work overtime and declines to accept such work, he/she will not be charged the overtime hours not worked. If an employee is summoned to work such overtime prior to leaving company premises or before expiration of his/her respective shift and declines such work, he/she shall be charged with the hours. In the event an employee accepts the overtime work, but fails to return to perform such work, he/she shall be charged with the overtime hours. These provisions apply to any overtime operation and encompass all equalization groups.
A.	After all employees in a certain equalization group have been offered work pursuant to the provisions of Paragraph 71 of the National Agreement, and it is necessary to supplement that group for overtime work, Management will supplement from among the low median houred equalization group within the same classification from other departments within the same operational area. If enough employees to fill requirements have still not accepted, Management will, insofar as practicable, offer such work opportunity to employees who are in the low median houred equalization groups within the same operational area.
B.	When conditions arise where Management is unable to obtain the required number of people through supplementation, the low seniority employees from the affected equalization group will be forced to work the available overtime in accordance with the provisions of the Memorandum of Understanding on Overtime.
25
14.	Skilled trades employees who have overtime work available in a skilled classification other than their own or within their classification on another shift and decline to accept such work shall not be charged unless the available hours are continuous in their trade.
15.	When over and under coverage is required within a specific trade the lowest houred employee canvassed will have the over or under option.
16.	Equalization of hours will be rolled back to zero (0) upon ratification of the new Local Agreement. Thereafter, at the start of the first full pay period in the month of February each year. When two or more employees within the same equalization group have the same hours, the highest seniority employee will be listed first.
17.	Employees who are scheduled to work partial overtime on week days/weekend/Holiday overtime and fail to show up for any reason other than bereavement, short term military leave, documented hospitalization, compensable injury, or occupational diseases will be charged double the available overtime hours.
18.	When the plant is scheduled to work full for daily or weekend overtime, all employees within an equalization group will be charged accordingly.
19.	Management will make a good faith attempt to post mandatory daily and weekend overtime twenty-four (24) hours in advance of the scheduled overtime.
20.	For purposes of equalization of overtime hours, those employees being trained are to be handled in the following manner:
A.	Employees being trained on-site on their regular shift will be available to work overtime in line with their standing within their equalization group.
26
B.	Division II employees being trained on-site on other than their regular shift will be afforded the opportunity to work the overtime hours of his/her regular equalization group or to work overtime on the shift the training takes place after the affected equalization group has been exhausted.
C.	Employees being trained off-site will not be available or charged daily overtime. However, Management will attempt to canvass these employees in line with equalization for available weekend overtime. If contact is not made, no hours will be charged to the affected employees.
21.	For Division II, equalization of hours records will be updated Monday of each week such that the low houred employees on Monday will be the low houred employees for the week.
22.	For Division I, equalization of hours records will be updated Monday of each week, such that the low houred employees on Monday will be the low houred employees for the week. Equalization within these areas will be by classification, starting time, and department during the week, and by total equalization group on weekends and Holidays where multiple shift starting times exist within a department. During the Christmas Holiday period, equalization of hours records will be updated daily to allow for an equitable distribution of overtime hours.
23.	In the application of Apprentice and Joumeyperson/EITS overtime groupings, overtime will be made available first to the Journeyperson/EITS group.
24.	There are no provisions in the National Agreement for equalizing hours between shifts. However, Management assures the Union that it will schedule overtime hours between shifts as equitably as operating conditions permit, including, where practicable, the rotation of work between
27
shifts. It is understood, over and under coverage is not required to cover absenteeism in all cases. Equalization of hours happens over a period of time, not on a daily, weekly or even a monthly basis, as projects and workload balancing are ongoing. Should any problems arise in this regard, they should be directed to Labor Relations for discussion and resolution where appropriate.
A. As project work occurs the parties agree to discuss the affect the assignment of such work will have on the egualization of hours between shifts.
25.	Prior to the annual inventory purge the parties agree to review and discuss the selection of employees to perform the purge. The affected employees will equalize amongst themselves and will carry hours charged back to their existing equalization group.
26.	Temporary employees (A10's) will be assigned to vacation replacement egualization groups by Operational Area and shift.
27.	Any modifications of the equalization groups or these Administrative Rules will be handled through mutual discussion and resolution between the parties at the Shop committee Step of the procedure.
28
GENERAL MOTORS SERVICE AND PARTS OPERATIONS FLINT PROCESSING CENTER DIVISION OF GENERAL MOTORS PARAGRAPH 71 - EQUALIZATION GROUPINGS
Listed below are the equalization groups for the purpose of applying Paragraph 71 of the National Agreement under the present operating conditions. These groups are on the basis of each shift within the defined areas, and there is no equalization between shifts. Equalization within these areas will be by department, classification, and shift starting time during the week, and by the total equalization group on weekends and holidays where mulitple shift starting times exist within department. Exception to this procedure shall apply to the Christmas Holiday Period. (Refer to Paragraph 22 of the Administrative Rules.)
DIVISION I
SERVICE (Plant 2)
Service will be divided as follows:
❖	Defined Teams
❖	Department 122 (Binnables)
❖	Department 123 (Export / Post Line)
❖	Department 124 (Dock #3)
❖	Department 126 (Dock #4)
❖	Department 127 (Rail Dock)
❖	Department 128 (Consolidation)
❖	Department 129 (Bulk)
PROCESSING (Plant 1)
Processing will be divided as follows:
❖	Defined Teams
❖	Department 302 (Sanitation)
❖	Department 305 (A4/Flo-Coat)
29
❖	Department 306 (Primer Alley Hang)
❖	Department 307 (Primer Alley Wrap)
❖	Department 109 (Maintenance-Division I)
❖	Department 310 (Sanitation)
❖	Department 311 (Paint Shop Yard)
❖	Department 312 (Receiving and Warehouse)
❖	Department 315 (Inspection)
❖	Department 318 (TWO)
BURTON

❖	Department 0642 (Burton)
DIVISION II
Equalization within the skilled trades will be by classification and shift.
Those employees classified as Employees-ln-Training-Seniority and Joumeypersons, within a given trade, will equalize together. Those employees classified as Employees-ln-Training and Apprentices, within a given trade, will equalize together.

30
GENERAL MOTORS SERVICE AND PARTS OPERATIONS FLINT PROCESSING CENTER DIVISION OF GENERAL MOTORS CORPORATION LOCAL SHIFT PREFERENCE AGREEMENT
This agreement entered into this 30th day of June 2004 between the local Management of General Motors Service and Parts Operations - Flint Processing Center. Division of General Motors Corporation and Local #659, UAW. It is understood that this Agreement must be approved by the Personnel Staff of General Motors Service and Parts Operations - Central Office and the Corporation and the International Union, UAW. In the event of failure of approval of either party, the matter will be referred back to the parties for further negotiations.
1.	The following provisions are not to conflict in any way with the principle stated in Paragraph 75 of the National Agreement in that any agreement pertaining to shift or time preference must have sufficient flexibility to give full protection to efficiency of operations under circumstances and conditions.
2.	During normal operations, employees with seniority may make application in writing to their supervisor on forms supplied by Management for transfer to another shift, and/or starting time on the same shift, within the same classification within his/her operational area in which they are working at the time of application. A copy of the application will be tendered the employee.
3.	Employees desirous of transferring on a shift or time preference must submit a written reouest to Management no later than the end of the shift on Tuesday of the week that precedes the effective Monday.
31
a.	Applicant must be fully qualified to perform the work satisfactorily.
b.	The employee, whose job may be taken by the applicant, must be fully qualified to perform satisfactorily the job to be vacated by the applicant.
4.	In the event that more tnan one application is received, for a preferred shift or time, such applications will be processed in seniority order.
5.	In the event more than one employee, having the same seniority date, makes application to a preferred shift or starting time, such applications will be processed in alphabetical order, "A" to "Z", using the letters of the employee's last names. Seniority employees hired under the special hire provisions; e.g., Appendix A Area Hire Agreement, etc., will be governed by the applicable provisions of the National Agreement.
6.	Division II employees who are granted transfers to a preferred shift/starting time, cannot make application for additional consideration under the same provision for a period of six (6) months, unless after transfer the employee is forced to another shift/starting time or as the result of the creation of a new shift starting time.
7.	Division I employees will be limited to not more than two (2) shift transfers and (2) time transfers per calendar year to be used at the discretion of each individual, unless the employee is forced to another shift or starting time or the creation of a new shift or time.
8.	When shift or time preference applications are honored, efforts will be made to notify the affected employees on the Thursday preceding the Monday when the change will become effective. Employees desirous of canceling shift or time preference applications must submit a
32
written request to Management no later than Tuesday of the week, which precedes the effective Monday.
9.	If seniority employees are needed on a given shift or time, they will be assigned to that shift or time while their services are required or until shorter seniority or temporary employees capable of doing the job are available. The parties agree that such transfers of seniority employees shall not exceed thirty (30) days, except by mutual agreement with the Shop Committee.
10.	Not withstanding this agreement, employees may be assigned to any shift or time to be trained for a job. The duration of such training will not exceed thirty (30) days.
11.	It is recognized that, under certain circumstances, such as home conditions or ill health, it may become necessary for an employee to request a temporary change of shift or time. Such requests shall be made in writing to the supervisor on forms supplied by Management, stating the reason for the request and the length of time for which the change is desired. Consideration will be given to the merits of such requests, and wherever practicable, applicants will be temporarily transferred for a maximum period of thirty (30) days, as follows:
a.	To any vacancy that may exist in the employee's seniority division on the shift or time desired that the applicant can do.
b.	If no vacancy exists, another employee may voluntarily trade shifts or times with the applicant for the requested length of time if the exchange is satisfactory to Management.
c.	Any extensions of the thirty (30) days will be by mutual agreement with the Shop Committee.
33
12.	The shift preference rights of employees having dual seniority status under Paragraphs 73(a), 160, and other pertinent paragraphs of the National Agreement shall be in accordance with their seniority status in the skilled trades group.
a. For the purpose of shift preference in the skilled trades groups, shift preference applications shall be honored on a unit-wide basis by trade and by date-of-entry seniority into that trade except that E.l.T. employees of each trade shall be considered a separate group from E.l.T.S./ Journeypersons of that trade.
13.	In exercising shift preference in the skilled trades group, when two or more employees have the same plant skilled, original skilled, and plant seniority date, applications will then be processed by GM seniority date. If the above are all the same date, then applications will be processed in alphabetical order "A" to "Z", using the letters of the employee’s last names. Seniority employees hired under the special hire provisions; e.g., Appendix A Area Hire Agreement, etc., will be governed by the applicable provisions of the National Agreement.
14.	It is understood that the shift or time preference provisions contained herein shall not conflict in any way with National or Local Agreements.
15.	No provision of this agreement shall be retroactive prior to the date hereof unless otherwise specifically stated herein.
16.	In emergencies caused by such situations as absenteeism, expansion or contraction of the number or size of the shifts or times, any major manufacturing change or shortage of material, "temporary transfers"
34
may be made by Management without regard to seniority or shift/time preference. For the purpose of this agreement, such "temporary transfers" shall not be for a period in excess of thirty (30) days, except by mutual agreement with the Shop Committee.
17.	Any supplements to, modifications of, changes or additions to this Agreement, as written and approved, must be submitted to the Personnel Staff of General Motors Service and Parts Operations - Central Office and the Corporation and the International Union, UAW for approval.
This Local Agreement is subject to written notice of ratification to Management by the Local Union not later than the 15th day of July 2004,
After written notification of ratification is received from the Local Union, this Agreement will be effective as provided herein upon approval of the Personnel Staff of General Motors Service and Parts Operations - Central Office and the General Motors Corporation and the International Union, UAW.
If either party desires to cancel, modify or change this Agreement, it shall, at least sixty (60) days prior to the date when it proposes such cancellation, modification or change become effective, give notice in writing of the proposed cancellation, modification or change to the other party. Within ten (10) working days after receipt of notice to modify or change this Agreement, a conference will be arranged to negotiate the proposal.
35
In witness whereof, the parties hereto have caused their name to be subscribed by their duly authorized officers and representatives the day and year first above written.
Local #659
General Motors
Service and Parts Operations Flint Processing Center, United Automobile, Aerospace, and Agricultural Implement Workers of America
General Motors
Service and Parts Operations
Flint Processing Center Division of
General Motors
Leo H. Laurin Michael G. Fray Brian D. Alexander Perry C. Windels David C. Coon Troy S. Scully
R. J. Cochrane Jeffrey A. Setzke John D. Ellery Edward L. Driver
Vem Burns
General Motors Department, International Union, United Automobile, Aerospace, and Agricultural Implement Workers of America
Ken Scott

36
GENERAL MOTORS SERVICE AND PARTS OPERATIONS FLINT PROCESSING CENTER DIVISION OF GENERAL MOTORS CORPORATION LOCAL GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
Agreement entered into this 30th day of June. 2004 between the Local Management of the General Motors Service and Parts Operations - Flint Processing Center. Division of General Motors Corporation and the Shop Committee of Local #659, UAW.
SECTION I	- PURPOSE
The purpose of the Agreement is to outline the Local Grievance Procedure concurrent with the mechanics of the Grievance Procedure as contained in the National Agreement in order to further strengthen sound relationships between the Union and Management at this Division.
SECTION II	- NOTIFICATION TO MANAGEMENT REGARDING SHOP COMMITTEEPERSONS AND ALTERNATES
Notification of Shop Committeepersons and Alternates shall be in accordance with Paragraph 25 of the National Agreement. When a substitution is necessary, written notice shall be given to Management covering each individual case as far in advance as possible. Such notice shall contain the name of the substitution duration of the Committeeperson's absence, and the fact that he/she shall resume his/her Union representation duties upon his/her return to work in the plant. Failure to return as stated in the first written notice will require a second notice prior to the return date specified on the first notice.
37
SECTION III	- GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
1.	If the grievance is not adjusted by the Supervisor (First Plant Step), the Committeeperson shall write up the grievance in accordance with the Grievance Procedure. The Committeeperson may elect to have the aggrieved party assist him/her and another Committeeperson in appeal to higher supervision (Second Plant Step). II is understood that the second plant step means the General Supervisor. If the grievance is not adjusted at the second plant step, it may be appealed to the Shop Committee.
2.	Management has agreed that in implementing the provisions of Paragraph 77 of the National Agreement, complaints regarding unjust or discriminatory layoffs or discharges will be handled promptly according to the grievance procedure. In this regard, if a grievance is not resolved at the Paragraph 30 meeting, it may be appealed to the Shop Committee. If a Notice of Appeal is not submitted by the Shop Committee within five (5) working days of the decision from the second plant step to Management, the matter will be considered closed.
3.	Employees who have a grievance or place a call for representation under one supervisor and are subsequently moved to another location within the same representational district in the plant, on the same shift, may be returned, if requested by the Committeeperson, to be present during the bargaining of their grievance at the plant steps of the Local Grievance Procedure. An employee who has a grievance protesting a disciplinary layoff in one representational district and is subsequently moved to another representational district in the plant on the same shift, will be returned also, if requested by the Committeeperson, to be present during the bargaining of his/her grievance at the plant steps of the Local Grievance Procedure.
38
SECTION IV	- INVESTIGATION OF GRIEVANCES
The Chairperson of the Shop Committee shall notify the Personnel Department (Labor Relations), not later than 12:30 p.m. on the day prior to the regular or special Management Shop Committee Meeting, of those grievances to be bargained at the Management - Shop Committee Meeting. The Union Appeal Letter will be dated and timed. The Union's copy will serve as the authorization letter allowing the designated member of the Shop Committee to make a further investigation pursuant to Paragraph 33 of the National Agreement.
This Local Agreement is subject Io written notice of ratification to Management by the Local Union not later than the 15th day of July 2004.
After written notification of ratification is received from the Local Union, this Agreement will be effective as provided herein upon approval of the Personnel Staff of General Motors Service and Parts Operations - Central Office and the General Motors Corporation and the International Union, UAW.
If either party desires to cancel, modify or change this Agreement, it shall, at least sixty (60) days prior to the date when it proposes such cancellation, modification or change become effective, give notice in writing of the proposed cancellation, modification or change to the other party. Within ten (10) working days after receipt of notice to modify or change this Agreement, a conference will be arranged to negotiate the proposal.
39
In witness whereof, the parties hereto have caused their name to be subscribed by their duly authorized officers and representatives the day and year first above written.
Local #659
General Motors
Service and Parts Operations Flint Processing Center, United Automobile, Aerospace, and
Agricultural Implement Workers of America
General Motors
Service and Parts Operations
Flint Processing Center Division of
General Motors
Leo H. Laurin Michael G. Fray Brian D. Alexander Perry C. Windels David C. Coon Troy S. Scully
Vern Burns
General Motors Department, International Union, United Automobile, Aerospace, and Agricultural Implement Workers of America
Ken Scott
R. J. Cochrane Jeffrey A. Setzke John D. Ellery Edward L. Driver

40
LOCAL WAGE AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
GENERAL MOTORS SERVICE AND PARTS OPERATIONS FLINT PROCESSING CENTER DIVISION OF GENERAL MOTORS CORPORATION
AND
LOCAL #659 UNITED AUTOMOBILE, AEROSPACE, AND AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA
1.	The classification and base rates herein listed constitute the Wage Agreement at this location as of June 30.2004,
2.	The base rates shown include all increases pursuant to Paragraph 101 of the 2003 National Agreement between the Corporation and the UAW.
3.	The Agreement cancels and supersedes all previous Local Wage Agreements including supplements.
4.	Hiring Rates will be governed by the applicable paragraphs of the National Agreement between General Motors Corporation and the UAW.
5.	Rehires who return to the division in which they previously worked and who were getting the job rate at time of separation will receive the job rate.
6.	Reinstatements with seniority will receive the job rate.
41
7.	Call-in Pay, Straight Time, Time and one-quarter, Time and one-half, Double Time, and Double Time and one-quarter will be paid in accordance with the provisions of the 2003 National Agreement.
8.	Policy of Rates on Transfers:
(a)	The employee permanently transferred to a higher-rated job will be paid the rale of the job to which transferred.
(b)	Temporary employees transferred or assigned to a higher or lower-rated job or to a job assignment will receive wages in accordance with Paragraph 98 of the National Agreement.
(c)	An employee permanently transferred to a lowerrated job will be paid the rate of the job at the time of transfer.
(d)	When an employee is regularly assigned to work in two or more differently rated classifications, he/she will be paid the rate of the highest classification for the entire shift.
(e)	When an employee is temporarily assigned to a higher-rated job on any given day, he/she will be compensated at the higher-rated job for all hours worked on that day, providing he/she works on such higher-rated job for one (1) hour or more.
This Local Agreement is subject to written notice of ratification to Management by the Local Union not later than the 15th day of July 2004.
After written notification of ratification is received from the Local Union, this Agreement will be effective as provided herein upon approval of the Personnel Staff of General Motors Service and Parts Operations - Central Office and the General Motors Corporation and the International Union, UAW.
42
If either party desires to cancel, modify or change this Agreement, it shall, at least sixty (60) days prior to the date when it proposes such cancellation, modification or change become effective, give notice in writing of the proposed cancellation, modification or change to the other party. Within ten (10) working days after receipt of notice to modify or change this Agreement, a conference will be arranged to negotiate the proposal.
In witness whereof, the parties hereto have caused their name to be subscribed by their duly authorized officers and representatives the day and year first above written.
Local #659 General Motors Service and Parts Operations Flint Processing Center, United Automobile, Aerospace, and Agricultural Implement Workers of America Leo H. Laurin Michael G. Fray Brian D. Alexander Perry C. Windels David C. Coon Troy S. Scully Vem Bums General Motors Department, International Union, United Automobile, Aerospace, and Agricultural Implement Workers of America Ken Scott	General Motors Service and Parts Operations Flint Processing Center Division of General Motors R. J. Cochrane Jeffrey A. Setzke John D. Ellery Edward L. Driver
43
JOB CLASSIFICATIONS AND RATES
Division Wide General Group	Job Class.	Rate Effective ' 9003-5JM	Rate Effective 919-M 9-17-2006	Rate ■ Effective
Assembler Parts Banding Machine Operator	6020	25.58	26.09	26.87
(Automatic including Set-up)	6030	25.58	26.09	26.87
Battery Attendant Carton Machine-Operate	6040	25.72	26.23	27.02
& Set-up	6090	25.78	26.30	27.09
Checker Export	6010	25.58	26.09	26.87
Conveyer Attendant Driver-Licensed Trucks &	6250	25.58	26.09	26.87
Passenger Cars	6310	25.71	26.22	27.01
Driver-Power Truck Inside	6295	25.58	26.09 .	26.87
General Attendant	6027	25.78	26.30	27.09
Laborer-General Miscellaneous	6485	25.25	25.76	. 26.53
Lead Attendant	6509	26.09	26.61	27.41
Leader Machine Operator-Including	6510	25.78	26.30	27.09
Set-up & Supply	6555	25.39	25.90.	26.68
Metal Cleaner Hand	6600	25.39	25.90	26.68
Paint Mixer Control Person	6680	25.78	26.30	27.09
Parts Handler Relief Person	6683 6690	25.45	25.96	26.74
The Relief Person's rate shall be $.10 over the job relieved (or equal to the regular assigned relief person’s rate whichever is higher).
Stock Attendant	6835	25.58	26.09	26.87
Stock Room Clerk	6820	25.58	26.09	26.87
Sweeper-Factory	6855	24.95	25.45	26.21
Sweeper-Power Driven Equipment	6865	25.25	25.76	26.53
Unitizer	6925	25.25	25.76	26,53
44
JOB CLASSIFICATIONS AND RATES		
	Job	Rate Rate Rate Effective Effective Effective
Non-lnterchanqeable	Class.	9-18-20UJ- 9-19-2005- 9-18-2006
Occupational Group		9-18-2005 9-17-2006
Cleaner-Booth, Machine, Exhaust Stack & Conveyor	6170	25.25 25.76 26.53
Crib Attendant	6270	25.71 26.22 27.01
Fire Equipment Person	6330	25.78 26.30 27.09
Inspector - Special Assignment	6435	26.06 26.58 27.38
Receiving	6400	25.58 26.09 26J7
Sheet Metal	6425	25.94 26.46 27.25
Laborer-Yard Maintenance	6490	25.25 25.76 26.53
Metal Finish-Bumper	6610	25.94 26.46 27.25
Oiler Machinery& Equipment	6650	25.71 26.22 27.01
Washing Machine-Maintenance	6985	25.37 25.88 26.66
Waste Water Neutralizer	6990	26.40 26.93 27.74
	Rate	Rate	Rate
Job	Effective	Effective	Effective
Class.	9-18-2003-	9-19-2005-	9-18-2006
Skilled Trades	9-18-2005	9-17-2006
Building Repair General EIT-1530 EITS-0530 0030	29.33-29.53	29.92-30.12 30.82-31.02
Carpenter EIT - 1540 EITS - 0540 0040	29.40-29.60	29.99-30.19 30.90-31.10
Electrician EIT-1550 EITS-0550 0050	29.70-29.90	30.30-30.50 31.22-31.42
Inspector-Layout EIT-1560 EITS-0560 0060	29.72-29.92	30.32-30.52 31.24-31.44
Machine Repair-Machinist EIT-1580 EITS-0580 0080	29.70-29.90	30.30-30.50 31.22-31.42
Millwright EIT-1600 EITS-0600 0100	29.40-29.60	29.99-30.19 30.90-31.10
Painter & Glazier EIT-1610 EITS-0610 0110	29.33-29.53	29.92-30.12 30.82-31.02
Pipefitter EIT-1620 EITS-0620 0120	29.40-29.60	29.99-30.19 30.90-31.10
45
JOB CLASSIFICATIONS AND RATES
SKILLED TRADES	Job Class.	Rate Effective 9-18-2003-9-18-2005	Rate Effective 9-19-2005-9-17-2006	Rate Effective 9-18-2006
Stationary Engineer EIT-1645 EITS-0645	0145	29.72-29.92	30.32-30.52	31.24-31.44
Refrigeration Control EIT- 1660 EITS -0660	0160	29.56-29.76	30.16-30.36	31.07-31.27
Tinsmith EIT- 1680 EITS-0680	0180	29.40-29.60	29.99-30.19	30.90-31.10
Truck Repair EIT- 1690 EITS-0690	0190	29.40-29.60	29.99-30.19	30.90-31.10
Millwrinhl/Welder EIT-1710 EITS-0710	0300	29.56-29.76	30.16-30.36	31.07-31,27
46
FLOWCHARTS
SWEEPER
47
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
TRANSITIONAL WORK CENTER (TWC)
This Memorandum of Agreement, entered into this 30th day of June, 2004. between General Motors Service and Parts Operations, Flint Processing Center and United Automobile, Aerospace, and Agricultural Implement Workers of America (UAW), Local #659, is entered into for the purpose of defining certain issues relating to the Transitional Work Center.
We, the Management, and Union are in agreement that job security is a major concern to both parties. Management and the Union reaffirm this commitment to work for the preservation and growth of the Flint Processing Center. In an effort to provide meaningful work for employees with restrictions and a process for returning employees to the traditional work force.
I.	OBJECTIVES:
1.	To return Division I employees to the traditional work force.
2.	To provide placement opportunities for employees with temporary restrictions, which cannot be accommodated in the general work force. This , will also ensure compliance with Paragraph 72 of the National Agreement and the American Disabilities Act. This will be accomplished through the following:
a.	To provide employees with medical restrictions an opportunity to remain in the active work force instead of going on sick leave.
b.	To provide an internal procedure to administer Paragraph 72 of the National Agreement.
c.	To insure the Transitional Work Center is operated in a cost effective manner with the utilization of appropriate measures and reports.
48
II.	JOB ASSIGNMENTS
1.	During these negotiations much discussion took place regarding the job assignments of employees who have restrictions. As a result. Management agrees that the TWC operation is its own department (318) and equalization group, to be governed bv the following provisions: Station-code TZ has been established for TO part numbers less than 25 lbs, with a proper USB code of “U". Station-code TZ stock that has a USB code of “B” or “S” should not be unitized, they are to be transferred (if necessary) and sent directly to service.
2.	It is agreed that station code EN will be assigned to the TWC.
3.	On an ongoing basis the jobs committee will review additional work for assignment to TWC.
4.	Problems occurring as a result of the administration of the TWC will be handled on an individual basis through joint discussion.
III.	TRANSITIONAL WORK CENTER SUPERVISOR RESPONSIBILITIES:
To Include but are not limited to the following activities:
1.	Assist the Joint ADAPT Representatives with identification of jobs or TWC work that employees with medical restrictions can perform.
2.	Record keeping to ensure the TWC is operated in a cost-effective manner.
IV.	PLACEMENT:
1.	Employees will be assigned to the TWC by the medical department and the Joint Adapt Representatives based on the following criteria:
a.	Employees assigned to the TWC must be capable of performing the available work.
49
b.	Employees must have restrictions that will not < allow them to be placed in the traditional work force.
V.	OVERTIME
1.	Overtime in the department will be scheduled in line with operational requirements.
2.	All employees assigned to the department (no matter what their regular classification) will equalize together.
3.	In periods of heavy overtime reguirements Management may supplement the group with employees from other equalization groups per the applicable provisions of Managements Statement of Policy Regarding Paragraph 71 - Administrative Rules.
4.	Employees assigned to the department may be used to supplement other equalization groups during periods of overtime per the applicable provisions of Managements Statement of Policy Regarding Paragraph 71 • Administrative Rules providing they are able to perform the available job in its entirety.
VI.	CLASSIFICATION-RATE PAY
1.	Workers Compensation employees will be governed by law.
2.	Employees placed in the TWC will hold their classification, pay rate, and rights to the job they left for a period of up to one hundred and twenty (120) days.
3.	Employees with restrictions that go bevond the one hundred twenty (120) dav time parameter will have their classification changed to Unitizer (6925).
VII.
EMPLOYEE MOVEMENT
1.	Employees with restrictions of up to one hundred twenty (120) days will remain in the department until their
50
restrictions have been lifted at which time they will be returned to their regularly assigned job.
2.	Management will make job assignments within the TWC based on restrictions.
3.	The applicable provisions of the Local Agreement will govern temporary promotions and loan-outs.
4.	The lowest seniority employee capable of performing the available work or highest seniority volunteer will be loaned out.
5.	Employees may exercise their shift or time preference rights within the TWC.
6.	Employees may post for any open job during their assignment within the Department per the Local Agreement. Employees are only eligible to apply for jobs in the operational areas last worked in prior to being placed in the department. Seniority permitting, employees will be assigned to the posted job providing the associated work falls within their restriction.
7.	Whenever a job posting occurs, the Joint ADAPT Representatives will evaluate the restrictions of each employee assigned to Department 0318 and/or sick leave. If a posting goes unfilled, employees that exceed the 120 dav time limit will be evaluated to (1) determine their capability of performing the available lob opening or (2) fill the last available move in the manpower process.
This Memorandum of Agreement is subject to written notice of ratification by the Local Union. After Management receives such notice of ratification from the Local Union, this agreement will be effective as provided for herein upon approval of the General Motors Corporation and the International Union, UAW.
If'either party desires to cancel, modify or change this agreement, it shall, at least thirty (30) days prior to the date when it proposes such cancellation, modification or change become effective, give
51
notice in writing of the proposed cancellation, modification or change to the other party. Within seven (7) working days after receipt of notice to modify or change this agreement, a conference will be arranged to negotiate the proposal.
In Witness whereof, the parties hereto have caused their name to be subscribed by their duly authorized officers and representatives the day and the year first above written.
Local #659
General Motors
Service and Parts Operations Flint Processing Center, United Automobile, Aerospace, and Agricultural Implement Workers of America
Leo H. Laurin Michael G. Fray Brian D. Alexander Perry C. Windels David C. Coon Troy S. Scully
Vern Bums
General Motors Department, International Union, United Automobile, Aerospace, and Agricultural Implement Workers of America
Ken Scott
General Motors
Service and Parts Operations
Flint Processing Center
Division of
General Motors
R. J. Cochrane Jeffrey A. Setzke John D. Ellery Edward L. Driver
52
GENERAL INFORMATION
GENERAL SAFETY REGULATIONS
1.	Unsafe conditions and acts - Report to your Supervisor any unsafe conditions or acts you may observe. An unsafe condition would be a removed guard. An unsafe act would be climbing up racks.
2.	Instructions - Employees shall not operate any equipment until they have been properly instructed.
3.	Injuries/Near Misses - All injuries, however slight, should be reported to your Supervisor at once.
4.	Good Housekeeping -Keep the place about you clean and orderly. Pul all oily waste rags, rubbish, paper, etc., in the containers provided for that purpose.
5.	Suggestions -Employees are encouraged to submit safety suggestions.
6.	Horseplay -Running, horseplay, or the throwing of any type of material is strictly prohibited.
7.	Spitting -Spitting in drinking fountains or on floor is positively prohibited.
8.	Fireworks -Fireworks shall not be brought onto or exploded on the premises.
9.	Passengers - Passengers are not permitted on any type of lift truck or other motorized equipment except where a passenger seat has been provided and approved by the Safety Department.
10.	Clear Aisle Areas - All aisles must be kept clear of materials and debris, which could cause tripping and slipping hazards or unsanitary conditions.
11.	Trash -Trash of all kinds should be placed in containers provided for same.
53
12.	Food -Employees should not throw food or other debris on the floor at any time.
13.	Nails - Nails projecting from any source should be pulled or bent over to eliminate a hazard.
14.	Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) -Protective apparel and other safety equipment shall be worn on certain operations where specified by Supervision.
15.	Jewelry - Jewelry such as watches, bracelets and key chains may be restricted by the Supervisor based upon the nature of operation.
16.	Safety Shoes -The wearing of safety shoes, which may be purchased at company cost, is encouraged.
Footwear such as slippers, open toes or open-sided shoes, high heels, canvas shoes, and sandals are prohibited in the Flint Processing Center.
17.	Eye Protection -Employees shall wear approved eye protection at all times where specified by Supervision.
Safety glasses must be worn while cutting banding, metal wires, nailing, metal grinding, etc. Also, in any area posted and/or outlined with an orange line.
18.	Distraction -Employees shall not distract another employee or cause his attention to be diverted. This may cause an injury.
19.	Warning signals - All warning signals shall be obeyed.
20.	Pedestrians ■ Employees shall never stand or walk under a load suspended from a truck or hoist.
21.	Palletainers - When removing or placing stock in stacked palletainers, the lower portion of the front must always be locked and secured.
22.	Solutions - Employees working with any solution or sub
54
stance, which is harmful, shall wash hands before handling food or tobacco. Lunches shall not be stored in areas where these substances exist.
23.	Barrels and Containers -Bungs from containers holding oil, gas, acid or any unknown solution should be removed slowly to allow vapor or gas to escape gradually.
24.	Freight Cars -Employees must never remain in a freight car while a switch is being made that affects that car.
After switching has been completed, the Security Officer will place the blue flag or blue light on its proper upright position.
Report unsafe freight car doors to your Supervisor immediately - do not attempt to open.
Freight car doors must not be opened or closed with the forks of power trucks. The Boss Shark Cage must be utilized at all times when opening/closing rail car doors.
All Dock Plates must be removed when switching railcars. Report defective dock plates to your supervisor at once.
25.	Proper Lifting Technique -When lifting use your arm and leg muscles - don't use your back.
26.	Piling -Material Storage and Stacking guidelines must be followed when stacking all material.
27.	Climbing -Employees must never climb on stools, racks, palletainers, pickers carts or other portable equipment not specifically built for this purpose. Portable ladders and fixed ladders are specifically provided for this purpose.
28.	Ladders -All Straight ladders must be equipped with safety shoes or spikes.
a.	Ladders should be inspected prior to using.
55
b.	All defective ladders must be taken out of service.
c.	Step ladders must not be used as straight ladders and must be fully opened and on all four feet when in use.
d.	Ladders should be placed so that both feet have solid footing and must never be placed on boxes, barrels, trucks or other movable objects.
29.	Employees shall never position themselves between truck trailers and the dock or building, Three points of contact must be maintained at all times.
DISABILITY LEAVES
All Hourly Employees returning from disability Leaves of Absence must return through the Flint Processing Center Health Services. Upon returning to work, the employee must present the white copy of the return to work slip to the Personnel Department and the pink copy to their immediate supervisor. Employees returning from disability leaves of absence are expected to dear through Health Services in a timely fashion to facilitate a return to work at their regular start time and regular shift.
CHANGE OF ADDRESS
Whenever you move, be sure to change your address with the Personnel Department and the Union Hall Office. Please note that having the wrong address on your papers can mean the loss of your job in times of layoffs and recalls.
56
GENERAL MOTORS CALL-IN SYSTEM
FOR ABSENTEEISM (24 HOUR AVAILABILITY)
To report your absence: Dial 1-800-222-8889.
(Have pen and paper available to record Call-In Sequence #.)
Listen for System Usage Instructions.
Enter your Social Security Number Wait for Validation.
Enter Your Absence Reason Code.
1	= Late	5 = Injury
2	= Sick	6 = Death in Family
3	= Sickness/Accident	7 = Personal Time Off
in Family
4	= Car Trouble
Enter your expected Return to Work date.
2	digit Month & 2 digit Day
Record your Call-In Sequence Number.
Hang up.
EMPLOYEE IDENTIFICATION CARD (BADGES)
1.	Employees are to immediately report lost ID cards to Personnel, Security or Management.
2.	The Employee is to contact the Personnel Department to obtain a new employee ID Card.
3.	There is no charge for the replacement of lost ID cards for the
first reissue only. For each subsequent reissue, a $10.00 fee will be charged.
4.	Soiled or damaged ID cards are to be replaced without charge to the employee.
5.	SPO ID cards remain the property of SPO and are to be returned to SPO Management when employment is discontinued.
57
SHOP RULES
The purpose of these rules is not to restrict the rights of anyone, but to define them and protect the rights of all and insure cooperation.
Committing any of the following violations will be sufficient grounds for disciplinary action ranging from reprimand to immediate discharge, depending upon the seriousness of the offense in the judgment of Management.
1.	Failure to be in place ready to begin work when signal is sounded.
2.	Stopping work or making preparations to leave work (such as washing up or changing clothes) before the signal is sounded for lunch period or at the end of the shift.
3.	Falsification of personnel or other records.
4.	Ringing the clock card of another.
5.	Repeated failure to ring own clock card.
6.	Using another's badge or pass, or permitting another to use your badge or pass to enter the property.
7.	Failure to show pass or badge when entering the plant and when requested to do so by Plant Security or any member of Management.
8.	Absence without reasonable cause.
9.	Reporting late for work.
10.	Littering, or contributing to poor housekeeping, unsanitary or unsafe conditions on Plant premises.
11.	Leaving own department or the plant during working hours with-out permission.
12.	Distracting the attention of others, or causing confusion by
58
unnecessary shouting, catcalls or demonstration in the plant.
13.	Creating or contributing to unsanitary conditions.
14.	Possession of weapons on Company premises at any time.
15.	Refusal to obey orders of Supervision.
16.	Refusal or failure to do job assignment. (Do the work assigned to you and follow instructions; any complaint may be taken up later through the regular channels.)
17.	Unauthorized operation of machines, tools or equipment.
18.	Making scrap unnecessarily or careless workmanship.
19.	Horseplay, scuffling, running or throwing things.
20.	Wasting time or loitering in toilets or on any Company property during working hours.
21.	Smoking except in specifically designated areas and during specified periods.
22.	Threatening, intimidating, coercing or interfering with employees or Supervision at any time.
23.	Unauthorized soliciting or collecting contributions for any purpose whatsoever during working time.
24.	Unauthorized distribution of literature, written or printed matter of any description in working areas on Company premises during working time.
25.	Posting or removal of notices, signs or writing in any form on bulletin boards or Company property at any time without specific authority of Management.
26.	Misuse or removal from the premises without proper authorization of employee lists, blue prints, Company records or confidential information of any nature.
59
27.	Gambling, lottery or any other game of chance on Company premises at any time.
28.	Abuse, misuse or deliberate destruction of Company property, tools, equipment or the property of employees in any manner.
29.	Restricting output.
30.	The making or publishing of false, vicious or malicious statements concerning any employee, Supervisor, the Company or its products.
31.	Abusive language to any employee or Supervision.
32.	Fighting on the premises at any time.
33.	Theft or misappropriation of property of employees or of the Company.
34.	Possession of, or drinking of, liquor or any alcoholic beverage on Company property at any time. Reporting for work under the influence of alcohol, when suffering from alcoholic hangover, or in an unsafe condition.
35.	Sabotage.
36.	Disregard of safety rules or common safety practices.
37.	Assignment of wages or frequent garnishments.
38.	Immoral conduct or indecency.
39.	Throwing refuse or objects on the floors or out the windows.
40.	Repeated violations of shop or safety rules.
41.	Use, possession, distribution, sale or offering for sale, of narcotics or dangerous drugs including marijuana or any hallucinogenic agents, on Company property at any time. Reporting for work under the influence of narcotics or dangerous drugs.
60
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
TEAM CONCEPT
This Memorandum of Agreement, entered into this 30th day of June, 2004 between General Motors Service and Parts Operations, Flint Processing Center, and United Automobile, Aerospace, and Agricultural Implement Workers of America (UAW), Local #659, is entered into for the purpose of defining certain issues relating to individual teams within the Flint SPO operation.
We, the Management, and Union are in agreement that job security is our number one concern. Management and the Union reaffirm its commitment to work for the preservation and growth of the Flint Processing Center. In an effort to become more competitive and remain a viable work force, defined teams will pledge to process the highest quality product, at a competitive cost, in a clean and safe plant, where people can participate in and identify with the continued prosperity of the Flint Processing Center.
I. Self-Directed Work Force
1.	The parties agree that defined teams will utilize a team concept approach in managing. Wherein all team members will share in the responsibility for the performance of their assigned work.
2.	In an effort to fully implement the "Team Concept" and encourage each employee to participate, employees will assume responsibility for such items as:
a.	Participate in planning the size, shape, workflow and future of their defined team.
b.	Be responsible for their own productivity and emer-gency/personal relief.
c.	Be responsible for the rotation of their jobs to include, filling in on all jobs as necessary.
61
d.	Develop the ability to perform all Team tasks and functions including truck driving, material loading/ unloading, operating machinery, filling containers, etc. Team members must be capable of performing the Team tasks.
e.	Additionally, these employees will be expected to receive extensive training and be able to conduct training for new employees or others as future needs develop.
f.	Finally, implement any additional elements, which may become necessary or advisable to maintain or enhance Team viability.
II.	HOURLY CLASSIFICATION - NON-SKILLED
❖	LEAD ATTENDANT	6509
❖	GENERAL ATTENDANT	6027
III.	STAFFING - NON-SKILLED
1.	An eligible seniority employee plant-wide may make an application to the classification of General Attendant.
2.	Lead Attendant will be voted into position by a majority vote of the team. The vote will be conducted by secret ballot. He/She shall remain in position for one hundred twenty (120) days.
a.	Must know all jobs associated with Team and be able to perform them.
b.	If, at any time, the Lead Attendant should prove unable to perform his/her duties and responsibilities, he/she may be removed by Team Members with a two-thirds (2/3) majority vote conducted by secret ballot.
62
IV.	EMPLOYEE TRANSFERS ■ NON-SKILLED
1.	Per Local Agreement.
V.	REPRESENTATION
1.	Representatives will function in accordance with the GM-UAW National Agreement.
VI.	BASIC OPERATING CONCEPT
1.	The Team Concept will be implemented as the work system for defined Teams with the goal to achieve a self-directed work force. The teams, as a group, will be responsible for, but not limited to, the following:
•	Monitor quality of product. Identify problems to designated Management representatives for correction.
•	Enhance work environment.
•	Provide assistance and training to other
employees within the group, as well as new employees or others as needs develop and acceptance of the extensive training that may be required of them.
•	Accept responsibility for the Team's productivity.
•	Strive for constant improvement in cost, process and quality.
•	Participate in work group meetings.
•	Work with technical experts and/or support technicians on problems.
•	Provide input for consideration for the determining
63
of Team needs such as planning the Team's future structure, size, shape, work flow, etc.
•	Accept responsibility for Team emergency/ personal relief.
•	Accept responsibility for the rotation of their jobs to include filling in on all jobs as necessary.
•	Develop the ability to perform all Team tasks and functions including truck driving, material load/ unloading, operating machinery, filling containers, etc. Team members must be capable of performing all Team tasks.
VII.	OVERTIME
1.	Administered in accordance with Paragraph 71 Administrative Rules and Equalization Grouping.
VIII.	PROBLEM RESOLUTION PROCESS
1.	The Team will be responsible to use the Quality Network Problem Solving Process to address and resolve issues within the group.
a.	Salaried Coordinator and Lead Attendant are responsible for resolution.
b.	Issues that are not mutually resolved will be forwarded to the District Committeeperson and area General Supervisor for joint resolution.
c.	In the rare event the issue remains unresolved, The Shop Chairperson and area Superintendent will jointly meet to reach resolution.
d.	The final authority for resolution lies with the (JQC).
64
IX.	FUTURE ENHANCEMENTS
1.	Will be presented to the Joint Quality Council (JQC) by the Lead Attendant, or his/her designee, for approval prior to implementation. The parties recognize that the goal of future competitiveness and continued viability as a business depends on cooperation between them and a direct focus on achieving world-class levels of efficiency. The parties understand that this Team concept is a beginning and the process may require amendment, enhancement or even restructuring or cancellation.
65
This Memorandum of Agreement is subject to written notice of ratification by the Local Union. After such notice of ratification is received from the Local Union by Management, this agreement will be effective as provided for herein upon approval of the General Motors Corporation and the International Union, UAW.
If either party desires to cancel, modify or change this agreement, it shall, at least thirty (30) days prior to the date when it proposes such cancellation, modification or change become effective, give notice in writing of the proposed cancellation, modification or change to the other party. Within seven (7) working days after receipt of notice to modify or change this agreement, a conference will be arranged to negotiate the proposal.
In Witness where of, the parties hereto have caused their name to be subscribed by their duly authorized officers and representatives the day and the year first above written.
Local#659 General Motors Service and Parts Operations Flint Parts Plant, United Automobile, Aerospace, and Agricultural Implement Workers of America
Leo H. Laurin Michael G. Fray Brian D. Alexander Perry C. Windels David C. Coon Troy S. Scully
Vern Bums
General Motors Department, International Union, United Automobile, Aerospace, and Agricultural Implement Workers of America
Ken Scott
General Motors
Service and Parts Operations
Flint Processing Center Division of
General Motors
R. J. Cochrane Jeffrey A. Setzke John D. Ellery Edward L. Driver
66
FLINT PARTS PLANT
TEAM CONCEPT
RECOMMENDATIONS FOR TEAM DEVELOPMENT
1.	Teams will have the increasing authority and responsibility for
decisions that affect their work, that are not in conflict with contractual agreements and/or Corporation policy.
2.	Team areas will be defined jointly. (Union - Management)
3.	Training will be provided for all those involved, and all those involved are required to attend and participate.
4.	Teams will be provided the flexibility to make modifications through team input regarding items such as size, functions included, relationship with each other, etc.
5.	Teams will be committed to developing and continuing a mature relationship consisting of a problem solving approach • to the day-to-day administration of plant operations.
6.	Team approach will be consistent with the plant philosophy which consists of continuous pursuit of improvements of safety, quality, productivity, product, process, and the work environment.
7.	When necessary or appropriate, teams are encouraged to utilize plant Union and/or Management resources to assist in their activities.
8.	The team may elect leaders and alternates for a minimum term of one hundred twenty (120) days. The leader may relinquish his/her responsibilities at any time.
67
9.	Team meetings will be held once a week - 30 minutes -schedules to be determined jointly. Meetings to be jointly chaired by Salaried Coordinator and Lead Attendant.
10.	All employees will attend team meetings held during normal shift hours.
11.	If meetings are scheduled before or after normal shift hours, attendance will be voluntary. (Paid at premium rate.)
12.	Participation is encouraged in team meetings.
13.	Shop Committee members/Coordinators are an integral part of each team and will be participative to the greatest extent possible.
14.	Members are to be proficient in all operations within the team and rotate to retain proficiency.
15.	Salaried Coordinator and Lead Attendant will jointly present an update in the areas of Safety, Quality, Responsiveness, Cost, and People to the Joint Quality Council (JQC) monthly.
16.	Any changes or modifications to this, or to the guidelines as established, must be reviewed and approved prior to implementation by the Joint Quality Council (JQC).
68
FLINT PARTS PLANT
TEAM CONCEPT
ROLE OF COORDINATOR
In line with the plant philosophy of joint participation, the coordinator will support the increased responsibility and authority of teams.
Coordinators are responsible to solicit pertinent input from the team members and sincerely consider that input in the joint decision making process.
• Specific coordinators responsibility:
♦	Safety
♦	Training
♦	Quality
♦	Planning
♦	Absenteeism
♦	Maintain accurate and timely records and reports.
♦	Give direction as needed.
♦	Provide feedback of performance to team members.
♦	Control costs and budget in his/her area of responsibility.
♦	Administer contractual agreements and policies.
♦	Salvage reduction
69
♦	Support the Flint Parts Plant philosophy of a continuous pursuit of quality, productivity, and product improvement as well as the continuing personal and professional growth of fellow team members.
♦	Continuing a mature relationship with fellow team members.
♦	Be receptive to training.
♦	Work closely with his/her Lead Attendant and participative support:
♦	Team development
♦	Serve as a communication link and provide feedback to the team.
♦	Be a resource to team needs and assist in the utilization of other resources.
♦	Coordination of manpower needs.
♦	Assist the Lead Attendant with the development of team meeting agenda.
♦	Ensure that job rotation is maintained.
70
FLINT PARTS PLANT
TEAM CONCEPT
ROLE OF LEAD ATTENDANT
♦	Support the Flint Parts Plant Philosophy of a continuous pursuit of safety, quality, productivity, and product improvement as well as continuing personal and professional growth of fellow team members.
♦	Coordinate various team activities that support his/her overall functions.
♦	The Lead Attendant will not assume committeeperson or supervisors' responsibilities, but refer them appropriately.
♦	Emergency relief replacement.
♦	Provide unscheduled relief when absentee replacements are not readily available.
♦	Develop agenda and chair team meetings. Ensure minutes are recorded, reported and reviewed by the Joint Quality Council.
♦	Lead Attendant must know all jobs associated with team and be able to perform them.
♦	Responsible to ensure team members and absentee replacements are trained.
♦	Coordinate manpower needs with coordinator.
♦	Communicate and coordinate problem resolution with Union and Management.
♦	Assist team members - changeover of equipment, stock problems, housekeeping, help secure proper tooling and maintenance needs, supplies, safety, quality, etc.
71
♦	Ensure that job rotation is maintained.
♦	Be receptive to required Lead Attendant training, as well as other recommended training.
♦	Encouraged to attend all unit membership meetings.
♦	Continuing a mature relationship with fellow team members.
72
FLINT PARTS PLANT
TEAM CONCEPT
ROLE OF GENERAL ATTENDANT
♦	Safety of self and other team members.
♦	Quality on his/her operation(s).
♦	Support the Flint Parts Plant philosophy of a continuous pursuit of quality, productivity, and product improvement as well as the continuing personal and professional growth of fellow team members.
♦	Members will rotate all tasks.
♦	Attend/participate in team meetings and activities, such as problem resolution, team meeting agendas, recommendations, etc.
♦	Perform assigned tasks.
♦	Train, support, and assist other team members.
♦	Housekeeping of team area.
♦	Personal conduct, attendance, etc.
♦	Receptive to training.
♦	Continuing a mature relationship with fellow team members.
73
LOANOUT AGREEMENT
When it becomes necessary to loan an employee from one supervisor to another within the same department, Management will loan the low seniority employee within the selected classification under the supervisor.
When it becomes necessary to loan an employee from one department to another, but within the same operational area, the supervisor having the available manpower will loan the lowest seniority employee within the selected classification and department.
When it becomes necessary to loan an employee to another operational area, the supervisor having the available manpower will loan out the lowest seniority employee within the selected classification and department. However, when it becomes necessary to loan an employee to/from the Burton operational area, Management will loan the low seniority employee from within the operational area.
Management will use high seniority volunteers for the purpose of administering these provisions providing they have made their requests known in advance of any loanout situation.
It is understood that in all above situations, the affected employee must be capable of performing the available work.
Overtime Loanouts
In periods of partial overtime, if a loanout situation arises, loanout will be by high hours. Management will use low houred volunteers for the purpose of administering these provisions providing they have made their reouest known in advance of any loanout Situation. In periods of full or mandatory overtime, loanout will be handled on a seniority basis.
74
DATE: March 14,1997
During 1996 negotiations local plant management raised numerous concerns relative to competitive issues including artificial constraints to improved material flow put in place by local agreement provisions in regard to classification agreements, departmental structure, equalization agreements and loan out provisions in part. Lengthy discussions were conducted regarding the issues of throughput and competitiveness. The local parties agreed that improvements in both are critical to the long term success of the organization.
In this regard, the parties agree that a process will be implemented to jointly examine the optimum operating methods in the event of a change in process or commitment of new capital investment in the plant. If it is agreed that the new or modified process would be optimized by modifications to any of the existing agreement language or current operating procedures, the local parties will have the authority to make modifications to local agreement provisions as necessary.
In the event of a potential process change or new capital investment, a team of the affected Committeeperson, General Supervisor, the appropriate technical expertise, and other appropriate ad hoc members will be assembled to develop the operations structure to optimize throughput and competitiveness of the process. This team is to be facilitated by the Supervisor of Labor Relations or appropriate designee. Within 30 days a proposal is to be submitted to the Plant Manager and the Chairperson of the Shop Committee for joint review. If agreement cannot be reached in this time frame, or if the proposal does not gain approval from the aforementioned parties, the Plant Manager and the Chairperson of the Shop committee will have 30 days for discussion and resolution of the matter. Failure to reach resolution at this level may result in the cancellation of capital investment, new product or process changes, as applicable.
The rationale for modifications to the existing local agreement will consider the criteria of health and safety, quality, customer satisfaction, cost, timing, environmental issues, and the impact on long-term job stability. The Union acknowledges significant opportunities for the local operation to improve its competitive standing and reaffirms its commitment to the long-term success of the organization.
Shelley L. Hart	Kris Owen
Plant Personnel Director	Shop Committee Chairman
75
Friday, May 14,2004
Mr. Leo H. Laurin
Shop Chairman
UAW Local #659
Flint Processing Center
Dear Mr. Laurin,
This letter confirms the understanding reached by the parties pertaining to letter codes affixed to a department number. Letter codes affixed to a Department number are for accounting purposes only and do not affect the applicable manpower or loan out provisions of the Local Agreement. It is agreed that a supervisor with multiple letter codes within a department will be considered one supervisory area except as identified on the supervisory letter code spread sheet.
For the purpose of administering the weekly manpower adjustment or daily loanout provisions, it is agreed that the supervisor, department, assigned letter code and work area will be posted and kept up to date. The Union will be notified of any changes in the aforementioned spread sheet.
Sincerely,
R. J. Cochrane Personnel Director Flint Processing Center
76
July 26,2004
SUBJECT: Supervision Working
TO: General Supervisors
Supervisors
Contract Employees
There was much discussion during the course of the 2003 Local Negotiations regarding work belonging to Salary/Contract employees and work belonging to Bargaining Unit employees. Paragraph 215 of the National Agreement is very clear in this regard. Paragraph 215 of the National Agreement reads, in part,
“Supervisory employees shall not be permitted to perform work on any hourlyrated job except in the following types of situations: (1) in emergencies arising out of unforeseen circumstances which call for immediate action to avoid interruption of operations; (2) in the instruction or training of employees, including demonstrating the proper method to accomplish the task assigned."
Management does not condone Supervision performing Bargaining Unit work. Complaints of repeated violations of Paragraph 215 will be handled under the provisions of Paragraph (5a) of the National Agreement.
Questions regarding this letter are to be discussed with the Personnel Director.
John Schied
Plant Manager
77
TO: Mr. Michael J. Carsten
SUBJECT: BATTERY ATTENDANT
This is to confirm the understanding reached between the parties during local contract negotiations wherein it was agreed to establish a Battery Attendant classification at the existing rate of $16.23/hour. The Battery Attendant's primary function, while not all encompassing, is to maintain the cleanliness of the battery changing area and to assist the truck repairman in servicing and changing batteries.
It is understood the proposed Battery Attendant classification and wage rate is subject to approval by the National Parties. Your signature below will signify your acceptance of this understanding.
s/Michael J. Carsten	s/S. B. Pero
Chairman, Shop Committee	Personnel Director
11-12-93
78
Monday, May 17,2004
Mr. Leo H. Laurin Shop Chairman UAW Local #659 Flint Processing Center
Dear Mr. Laurin,
This letter confirms the understanding reached between the parties concerning the equalization of temporary employees (AIO's) during periods of overtime.
•	Daily Overtime: Temporary employees (A10's) assigned to a vacation replacement equalization group can work daily overtime after the entire operational area by shift has been canvassed to work the available overtime.
•	Weekend/Holiday Overtime: Temporary employees (A1 O's) assigned to a vacation replacement equalization group can work overtime on weekends and/or Holidays once the entire Plant regardless of shift has been canvassed for all available overtime.
Sincerely,
R. J. Cochrane Personnel Director Flint Processing Center
79
APPRENTICES
During these negotiations the parties discussed the importance of the Apprentice Program as the principal source for satisfying future skilled trades needs. It was pointed out that the development of a plan to meet skilled trades requirements will take into account all GM-UAW agreements concerning indenture of apprentices.
Accordingly, and with the understanding that all EEO and Corporation contractual requirements as specified above are met, during the 2003 GM-UAW Agreement - Apprentices will be identified immediately to fill open skilled trades SEL Slots each month. The Local Apprentice Committee will develop a specific plan for each year which includes the specific trades and timing, and which comprehends the business requirements of General Motors Service and Parts Operations, Flint.
Local #659
General Motors
Service and Parts Operations Flint Processing Center, United Automobile, Aerospace, and Agricultural Implement Workers of America
Leo H. Laurin Michael G. Fray Brian D. Alexander Perry C. Windels David C. Coon Troy S. Scully
Vem Bums
General Motors Department, International Union, United Automobile, Aerospace, and Agricultural Implement Workers of America
Ken Scott
General Motors
Service and Parts Operations
Flint Processing Center Division of
General Motors
R. J. Cochrane Jeffrey A. Setzke John D. Ellery Edward L. Driver
80
STATEMENT OF POLICYAPPRENTICE PROGRAM GENERAL ADMINISTRATION
1.	All apprentices will receive information pertinent to the Apprentice Program prior to their initial Apprentice assignment at an orientation conducted jointly by the local Apprentice committee. Should a subsequent layoff occur, Apprentices will be notified of information available at the Plant Personnel Office advising affected Apprentices of the procedures to be followed at the time of layoff.
2.	Supervisory personnel responsible for the supervision of Apprentices will be apprised of the importance and intent of timely Apprentice Reports. Progress Reports received after the tenth of the following month will be marked “late” prior to placement in the Apprentice's folder. Progress reports received late are of little value and seriously diminish the effectiveness of the report, as it pertains to satisfactory or unsatisfactory progress of the employee's training.
3.	The apprentice committee will periodically review the list of tools available for purchase by apprentices and make appropriate recommendations concerning changing or updating the listing.
4.	Apprentice Representatives will be sent to all meetings in conjunction with the Apprentice program.
5.	The local Apprentice Coordinators will meet bi-monthly or as required to review apprentice evaluations and discuss Apprentice Program matters.
6.	For those trades that are non apprenticeable, the parties agree to be governed by the applicable provisions of the National Agreement.
7.	The parties will be guided by Paragraphs 127(d)(1 )(2) of the National Agreement as to when additional qualified applicants will be added to the apprentice list.
8.	Existing skilled trades joumeyperson will not be displaced from their assigned shift to accommodate the training of apprentices.
81
RELATED TRAINING
1.	Apprentices who are placed on probation for unsatisfactory performance in their academic related training will be counseled by the Apprentice Committee prior to the next class registration period.
2.	Optional related classes will be available for each trade to be offered as electives in order that Apprentices with prior academic credit who elect to waive similar classes, may continue their related training up Io the maximum hours provided in Paragraph 145 of the GM-UAW National Agreement.
Note: The optional related class or classes agreed upon by the Joint Apprentice Committee will be started before the completion of the 7328 hours of floor training. In the case of Apprentices on first and third shifts, the class or classes must be completed before joumeyperson status is achieved.
3.	Requests for previous credit including requests for academic credit, pertinent to the Related Training Instruction of Apprentices will be reviewed with the Apprentice Committee. The local Apprentice Committee will advise Mott Community College when previous credit is to be awarded at the time that Apprentice records are forwarded to the college. Any subsequent requests for previous credit will be reviewed with the Apprentice Committee before final determination is made.
4.	The Apprentice Committee will meet as necessary with representatives of Mott Community College to discuss matters that affect Apprentices in related training at the college.
5.	Apprentice G.PA. for related training class will be adjusted every semester to fulfill the related training requirement of the GM-UAW National Agreement and Apprentice Training Agreement for completion to joumeyperson status.
82
PLANT TRAINING
1.	Apprentice shift changes will be made, in June, following the completion of related training classes in the spring. Shifts are balanced at this time on the basis of manpower needs. When more Apprentices are needed on a particular shift than are gained by the shift change, preference is given to the longer seniority Apprentices, who are offered the opportunity to remain on desired shifts. Once shift changes are made, Apprentice manpower is usually not adjusted between shifts until the next shift change since many Apprentices are enrolled in related training classes and can only change shifts at the end of a semester. Apprentices are afforded the opportunity to gain diversified experience on each of the primary shifts.
It will be necessary to move Apprentices from area to area to gain required hours under the training agreement. The Apprentice Committee is responsible for the coordination of this movement of Apprentices. It is mandatory; therefore, that plant supervision contact the apprentice coordinator for transfer approval, and discussion with the Apprentice Committee prior to transferring an Apprentice between shifts.
2.	The recording of apprentice hours for the purpose of period changes and graduation as required by the GM-UAW National Agreement and Apprentice Training Agreement will be handled by the apprentice coordinators. Weekly hours will be accumulated from payroll records. Apprentice training hours required in specific areas will be tracked and accumulated by the Skilled Trades Departments to insure training hours in all required areas defined in the Local and National Agreements. Auditing and checking of these hours will be maintained on a regular basis.
83
3.	The recording of Apprentice hours as required by the GM-UAW National Agreement and Apprentice Training Agreement will be handled by the apprentice coordinators. Weekly hours will be accumulated from payroll records. Auditing and checking of these hours will be maintained on a weekly basis.
4.	Safety training is an integral part of overall Apprentice Training. The present eighty (80) hour Safety Training Program will be continued and updated as the need arises to comply with applicable National Agreement provisions.
5.	Apprentices will receive diversified training and experience in all areas appropriate to their Skilled Trades Classifications. Under current operating conditions, Apprentices may be temporarily assigned, outside Service and Parts Operations as required to meet training needs in the areas designated in their shop training schedules.
84
TEMPORARY LAYOFF AND RECALL PROCEDURES
Skilled Trades [Reference Paragraph (177) of the National Agreement]
1.	Apprentices will not be retained and/or recalled for more than one work day, excluding overtime, if a joumeyperson or employee-in-training-seniority is laid off from that equalization group.
2.	In the event additional employees are required, within their ■equalization group, over and above those employees with journeyperson or employee-in-training-seniority status during a temporary layoff period the necessary apprentices will be retained and/or recalled on an equalization or hours basis as far as is practicable.
PARAGRAPH 71
1.	Upon assignment, a newly graduated apprentice will be given the median hours of the equalization group he/she enters.
a. An apprentice (initially being assigned, or subsequently recalled to skilled trades), and joumeypersons or employees-in-training-seniority being recalled from a non-skilled group, or the Jobs Bank will be given the median hours of the equalization group to which the employee is assigned.
2.	When scheduling overtime joumeypersons and employees-in-training-seniority in current skilled equalization groups will be afforded the first opportunity to perform the available overtime work. Thereafter, and providing it does not interfere with their Shop Training Schedule, apprentices, while currently associated with such equalization groups will be offered the remaining overtime hours in that skilled trades equalization group. It is further understood in applying the
85
provisions of the above paragraph that some delay may be encountered at the point an employee acquires joumeyperson status.
3.	In accordance with Paragraph (141)(a) of the National Agreement, apprentices may be assigned to overtime work when all journeypersons and employees-in-training-seniority in the apprentices' classification on the shift in the plant to which the apprentice is regularly assigned are either scheduled to work overtime or have had the opportunity to work overtime.
It is understood that any future changes in the Apprentice Program instituted by the GM-UAW National Skilled Trades and Apprentice Committee may require modification or deletion of the above statement of policy in whole or in part.
86
FLINT PROCESSING CENTER MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING REGARDING POWERHOUSE STAFFING
There has been much discussion between the parties regarding appropriate staffing levels in the SPO Flint Powerhouse. Both Union and Management are in agreement that the health and safety of employees is our primary consideration. Further, both Union and Management recognize the need to maintain operational efficiency in the Powerhouse. Accordingly, given the current operating conditions, processes and equipment, the following staffing levels are agreed to by the parties:
•	Two (2) Stationary Engineers will be utilized per shift on regularly scheduled workdays, Monday through Friday.
•	Two Stationary Engineers will be utilized when steam is required for both heat and paint production on weekends and holidays. These Stationary Engineers will be assigned to perform tasks in line with the Stationary Engineer classification (both repair and operation).
•	One Stationary engineer will be utilized when steam is required for either heat or paint production on weekends and holidays. This Stationary Engineer will be assigned to perform tasks in line with the Stationary Engineer classification (both repair and operation).
•	The Powerhouse will be shut down when neither heat nor paint production require steam, unless there are other tasks to be performed, which Management deems requires the attention of a Stationary Engineer(s).
It is the intent of Management to assign seven (7) Stationary Engineers to staff the Powerhouse with three (3) Stationary Engineers assigned to first shift, two (2) Stationary Engineers assigned to second shift, and two (2) Stationary Engineers assigned to third shift based on the current manpower configuration. At such time a Stationary Engineer attrites out, it is the intent of Management to staff the Powerhouse with six (6) Stationary Engineers assigning two (2) Stationary Engineers to first shift, two (2) Stationary Engineers to second shift, and two (2)
87
Stationary Engineers to third shift. Further, with the implementation of this agreement, the Powerhouse operations will change from a seven (7) day operation to a traditional five (5) day operation commensurate with other Division II bargaining unit members. The swing shift employee(s) will be placed on one of the three regular shifts. Future changes in this regard will be discussed in accordance with Paragraph 88 of the National Agreement.
In response to the Union's concern, which is shared by Management, regarding the need for an alert system for those periods of time when only one Stationary Engineer may be in the Powerhouse, Management will provide a man-down radio. This radio activates when the radio moves to a prone position and will trigger an alert to the base, which will be maintained in Security on a 24-hour basis. During these periods of time, the man-down radio will suffice in place of an additional Stationary Engineer. For scheduled absences/vacations and known disability leaves, Management is agreeable to canvas for over/under coverage. Further, a Safe Operating Procedure will be developed for those instances when a fault may occur in the Powerhouse requiring immediate attention when only one (1) Stationary Engineer is in attendance. In those work assignments involving recognized hazards, Management will assign the appropriate number of skilled trades personnel. Management will continue to review the work at issue to insure adequate manpower is assigned and employee safety is maintained. When such assignments involve work situations, which may be hazardous to an employee, appropriate precautions will be taken.
Management	Union
R. J. Cochrane	L. H. L.
Date: 2/12/04
88
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING REGARDING
SKILLED TRADES CONSOLIDATION AND ACQUISITION
The Local Parties have discussed at great length their shared concern's regarding the Flint Processing Center's Skilled Trades workforce, Management's need to become more competitive and flexible in work practices, and the Union’s goal of retaining work in house. Hence, the Parties have explored the tools available to them, as afforded by the 2003 National Agreement.
Accordingly, the parties agree to a combination of the (0200) Welder Maintenance (Gas &Arc), and (0100) Millwright classifications. It is agreed that the affected Journeypersons will retain their current skill date. Appropriate on-the-job and classroom training will be identified and implemented. It is understood that the National Parties must approve the combining of the above cited trades. Failing approval by the National Parties, it is agreed that a solution will be sought in accordance with Documents 63 and 112 of the 2003 National Agreement.
In implementing this agreement, the Local Parties will develop criteria to consolidate the affected employees. On-the-job training will be provided as appropriate in the respective Shop Training Schedules. Classroom training will be in accordance with the appropriate curriculum. Further, reclassified employees will be red-circled at the appropriate Journeyperson rate they currently hold until such time as they achieve Joumeyperson status in the trade to which they are reclassified. It is understood that upon completion of the Millwright/Welder combination the higher of the two wage rates will be afforded to all affected employees.
Following completion of the Local Plan, it will be submitted to the National Parties for review and approval. Subsequent to the approval of this consolidation plan by the National Parties, Local Management is agreeable to hire eight (8) Skilled Trades employees, that does not include any currently owed to satisfy SEL. The eight (8) does include any that may be allocated by Divisional or National Parties.
89
It is understood that the following supplementation agreement applies in the event additional personnel is required in a given trade due to the scope of the work:
1.	Canvass all trades personnel available in the classification needed to work up to seven (7) days per week twelve (12) hours per day.
2.	Canvass the next low houred Skilled Trades classification available and capable of performing the work.
3.	Canvass other Skilled Trades classifications by hours in ascending order, provided they are available and capable of performing the work.
Management	Union
R. J. Cochrane	LHL
2/12/04
90
DATE:	Novembers, 1993
TO:	Mr. Michael J. Carsten
Chairman, Shop Committee Flint Parts Plant
FROM: S. B. Pero - Personnel Director
This letter confirms the understanding reached during 1993 Local Negotiations wherein it was agreed to adhere to the 1992 agreement between Dave Vanden Bosch and yourself pertaining to the annual oven cleaning project as noted below:
Soley as a means of settlement and without prejudice to either party's position, the following is agreed to for the 1992 annual oven cleaning:
1.	It is agreed the Pre-clean and Chemical Dry Clean phases of the project will be done by outside source to be selected by Management.
2.	The clean-up phase will be done by property trained Flint Parts Plant Division I bargaining unit employees.
3.	Thirty (30) days prior to any oven cleaning project a Paragraph 183 meeting will be convened to discuss the project. The Union will have two (2) weeks from this date to discuss with Management which classification group of in-house employes will perform the above specified work.
4.	It is agreed that Division II employees will be assigned in the same capacity as they have been in the past regarding the oven cleaning project.
s/D. Vanden Bosch 5/28/92 s/Michael J. Carsten 5/28/92 Superintendent	Chairman, Shop Committee
Sincerely,
s/S.B. Pero
Personnel Director
s/Michael J. Carsten	11-12-94
Chairman Shop Committee	Date
91
STATEMENT OF POLICY
During (he course of the current negotiations, the Union expressed to Management a number of skilled trades concerns including the following subject:
•	Repair and removal of asbestos
•	Inspection of rental equipment
•	Spread of overtime hours between shifts
Considerable discussion regarding these subjects transpired between the parties. With regard to the repair and removal of asbestos, Management assured the Union that it has and will continue to repair and remove asbestos within the plant where conditions warrant as expeditiously as possible.
Relative to the inspection of rental equipment, Management is as concerned as the Union regarding the possibility of employees being required to operate unsafe equipment. The Union is assured that Management will continue to be guided by appropriate State and Corporate regulations governing the use of such equipment.
With regards to the spread of overtime hours between shifts, the parties recognize the language set forth in the Paragraph 71 Administrative Rules, Paragraph 24, which reads:
24.	There are no provisions in the National Agreement for equalizing hours between shifts. However, Management assures the Union that it will schedule overtime hours between shifts as equitably as operating conditions permit, including, where practicable, the rotation of work between shifts. It is understood, over and under coverage is not required to cover absenteeism in all cases. Equalization of hours happens over a period of time, not on a daily, weekly or even a monthly basis, as projects and workload balancing are ongoing. Should any problems arise in this regard, they should be directed to Labor Relations for discussion and resolution where appropriate.
A. As project work occurs the parties agree to discuss the affect the assignment of such work will have on the equalization of hours between shifts.
Management reassures the Union of its commitment to schedule overtime within the parameters of these provisions.
92
January 15,1988
Mr. Mike Thompson
Chairman of Shop Committee
Flint Parts Plant
Dear Mr. Thompson:
During the recently concluded negotiations a great deal of controversy arose over the awarding of maintenance and construction work in the Flint complex to outside contractors rather than to the skilled employes of the Flint Parts Plant represented by the UAW, Local 659.
In order that we might address this concern I would propose that we jointly form a committee. This committee will then jointly formulate a process wherein our represented skilled tradesmen can competitively bid for work of this nature.
It is my suggestion that this committee be formed as soon as possible and that they be asked to present for our joint approvals and signatures a bid process no later than March 1,1988.
Sincerely,
s/L. L. Browning
Plant Manager
LLB:rm
93
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
SKILLED TRADES
During these contract talks (1993 Local Negotiations), Management directed their concerns to the Local Shop Committee as to inefficient and non-competitive work rules (lines of demarcation) within the skilled trades department. It is hereby agreed to that following the ratification of the Local Agreement, the local parties will establish a Paragraph 182 committee comprised of representatives from the Skilled Trades, Shop Committee and Plant Engineering Management to review and make recommendations to the Plant leadership on minor changes to the Lines Of Demarcation in an effort to become more competitive.
s/Michael J. Carsten	s/S. B. Pero
Chairman, Shop Committee	Personnel Director
11-12-93 Date
94
OPPORTUNITY RAPID CHARGE AGREEMENT
The following agreement has been reached between Management and the Union at the Flint Processing Center as settlement to the Opportunity Rapid Charge (ORC) corporate wide initiative. As it relates to connecting and disconnecting trucks to and from the chargers, and watering batteries it is agreed that the operators may connect/disconnect trucks to rapid chargers and water batteries provided all safety training and safety precautions are met. It is understood that the maintenance of batteries will continue to be properly assigned to the Truck Repair (0190) skilled trade classification.
It is agreed that there will be no reduction in Truck Repair (0190) head count as a result of operators’ connecting/disconnecting lift trucks to rapid chargers. Should future attrition needs be identified that may impact Truck Repair (0190) head count, Management agrees to pursue retraining under Document 63 and other applicable provisions of the National Agreement for the purpose of retaining impacted bargaining unit members in the Flint Processing Center. Further, Maintenance Management agrees to support plant Operations and Maintenance activities by providing adequate Truck Repair coverage when motive equipment (such as fork trucks, man ups, etc) is being used in an effort to countermeasure potential safety and operational issues. Additionally, it will remain Management's intention to maintain all motive power equipment in the plant using bargaining unit Truck Repair (0190) classified employees. As final settlement it is further agreed that the work of Magnaflux inspection and repair will be assigned to the Truck Repair (0190) skilled trade and Management will provide the necessary tools and supplies needed to perform such work.
Employees assigned to the Battery Attendant classification (6040) will remain classified as such until the installation of the Opportunity Rapid Charge (ORC) is complete. If ORC is determined to be incapable of meeting the motive power needs of the Flint Processing Center, the job assignment will be returned to the previously established practices and classifications.
Management	Union
R. J. Cochrane	Leo H. Laurin
Date: 6/30/04
95
September 28,1990
Mr. Mike Carsten
Chairman of Shop Committee
Flint Parts Plant
Dear Mr. Carsten:
In accordance with the settlement of Demand #71 of the 1990 Local Negotiations, the following list contains those items referenced in Local Issue #185 of the 1987 Local Agreement.
Sincerely,
S/S. B. Pero
Personnel Director
SBP/vh
96
SKILLED TRADES GUIDELINES
1.	TINSMITHS:
1.	Lays out and fabricates sheet metal up to and including ten (10) gauge for use in construction, altering and repairing plant equipment.
2.	Makes and installs sheet metal and/or Plexiglas safety guards to and including 10 gauge, including expanding metal and screens up to 8 gauge.
3.	Changes all filters in ventilating and air conditioning systems.
4.	Plan job, layout work (except major construction and rearrangement program) and carry through to completion the fabrication and erection of all sheet metal parts and equipment such as ventilation systems, exhaust hoods, cyclones, tanks, containers, bins, screens, and partitions; machine guards, cornices, troughs, flashings, baffles, stacks, etc. The installation, removal, and repair of ventilation and exhaust fan units will be done by Tinsmith classification. It is further understood if replacement or repair of bearings and shafts can be done without the removal of the unit, it will be done by the Millwright classification. Appeal Case N-1042 Grievance # 050347.
5.	May fabricate angle iron up to 1 1/2x1 1/2 x 3/16 in conjunction with job assignment.
6.	May be required to do machine spot welding occasionally in conjunction with job assignment; also use torch for cutting and heating.
7.	Uses scaffolding and ladders, and fork trucks and work basket.
8.	Hangs and installs all sheet metal signs.
9.	Revamps and repairs all metal chairs and desks.
97
10.	Installs rollers in filing cabinet drawers.
11.	Repairs and relocates all ceiling pans requiring alteration and T-bars and supports, (exception - other trades will remove and replace ceiling tiles concerned with their job assignment in line with established practices.)
12.	Hauls all material, tools, and equipment needed to do the job.
13.	May fabricate hangers in conjunction with job assignment.
14.	May use power equipment in conjunction with job assignment.
15.	Unloads and hauls all equipment pertaining to trade (182 Meeting Settlement dated 11-20-70).
16.	Makes all guards of Plexiglas.
17.	Haul, install, and repair metal doons (except Hauser-man doors), excluding installation, of overhead doors.
2.	MILLWRIGHTS/WELDER:
1.	Installs and aligns, erects and dismantles, all iron or steel structures, makes all rigging and fabricates and erects structural steel and miscellaneous iron not covered by other trades.
2.	Adjusts all conveyor belts, fabricate, erect, maintain, repair, install hoists, various conveyor and conveyor drives, tram rails and other overhead metal structures, belting, cranes, and auxiliary equipment, pangbom systems, shot blast, elevators, couplings, silencers, hoppers, (thicker than) 10 gauge.
3.	Installs and aligns all motors, drives, clutches, and brakes (except wiring), and small motor, pumps, etc.,
98
excluding fractional motors.
4.	Fabricates and installs steel frames (excluding installation of block wall door frames) partitions (not Hauserman) racks and bins thicker than ten (10) gauge.
5.	Repair plant equipment such as towveyor trucks and Air Right Racks, and palletainers.
6.	Transports all plant and office equipment and all heavy materials not covered by other trades.
7.	Removing and replacing towveyor plates.
8.	Use cutting and heating torch when related to the job.
9.	Materials used consist of brass, copper, babbit, steel, reinforcing steel, sulphur, lead, all types of bolts, anchor bolts, rivets, wood and other materials.
10.	Plowing and removal of snow and ice on driveways and parking lots, (settlement of Grievance #28907) and in accordance with #183 and Appendix F of N.A.
11.	Moving of platform scales from dock to general area of scale use. (settlement of Grievance #523675).
12.	Moving of all computer equipment to and from the general computer areas of use.
13.	Christmas decorations will be done by both the Millwright and Electricians. (Settlement of Grievance #173246).
14.	Performs all types of maintenance welding and construction welding, except certified welding.
15.	Welds, bums, brazes structural steel pipe, cast iron, cast steel, aluminum and alloys in all positions.
16.	Bums with acetylene only when related to the job.
99
17.	Also does soldering not related to other trades.
3.	PLUMBER AND FITTER:
1.	Fabricate and erect all piping, layout, cut thread, replace, install, adjust, and maintain all pipe lines, valves, regulators, pipe covering and fittings for steam, water, air, oil, acid and other liquids or gases, selecting proper pipe and hose for job.
2.	Make repairs on pumps and related equipment.
3.	Inspect and test completed installations and repairs.
4.	Install all sprinkler systems.
5.	Required to lead and caulk joints.
6.	Fabricates and erects all pipe hangers and supports relate to job.
7.	Installs and repairs all coils and condensers not associated with other trades.
8.	Unloads all prime paint, kerosene, CO2, and alum entering plant by tank trucks.
9.	Handle and transport all materials used by pipe fitters except when rigging is necessary.
10.	Maintains heating system in warehouses and office excluding work performed by the refrigeration control classification.
11.	Repairs and maintains Lamson Tube System, except electrical.
12.	Uses fork truck with basket to install or repair pipes or equipment.
100
13.	Removes the Cuno filters from the paint shop and plant areas (Settlement of Grievance #802716).
14.	Repairs and maintains all piping on machines.
4.	MACHINE REPAIR - MACHINIST:
1.	Diagnose trouble in all types of machines.
2.	Disassemble, adjust, repairs, and replaces parts and reassembles.
3.	Inspects and test when repairs are completed.
4.	Does all machine work related to trade.
5.	Realigns spindles and shafts, fits bearings, changes feed and speed control gears.
6.	Repairs and adjusts chain drives (excluding drives in towveyor pits, belt conveyor, plastisol machines).
7.	Rework worn parts and make replacement parts.
8.	Remodels, revamps and rebuilds machine except framework.
9.	Repairs all bicycles.
10.	Removes and replaces all machine heads.
11.	Turns armatures.
5.	ELECTRICIANS:
1.	Diagnoses electrical trouble in all electrical equipment, including power units and all plant wiring systems (excluding IBM equipment outside of load centers and power supply to same) and makes necessary repairs.
2.	Installs and repairs any and all electrical equipment
101
such as conduit runs, transformers, circuit breakers, alarm systems, cables, etc.
3.	Repairs electrical motors and repairs electrical brakes and clutches.
4.	May use power truck when related to job.
5.	Does read and work from blueprints and schematic drawings.
6.	Installs and repairs speed switches except sheave and belt.
7.	Checks and repairs armatures.
8.	Makes all mounting brackets related to trade, limits of 1 1/2x11/2x3/16.
6.	TRUCK REPAIR:
1.	Repairs and replaces all parts such as motors, hydraulic pumps, hydraulic lines, etc., related to trade.
2.	Maintains batteries and operates chargers.
3.	Changes batteries.
4.	Does all electrical work connected with trade except Barrett control panels.
5.	Does all hauling of trucks broken down in plant except where rigging is necessary.
6.	Puts on or takes off all parts and accessories on all equipment related to the trade, excluding windshields, snow plow, and the normal repair and installation of salt spreader will be done by the proper classification, except during an emergency.
7.	Remove, replace, repair, and install all trailer hitches on
102
trucks and tuggers, except when heating and welding is required.
8.	Remove and replace tires from all wheels.
9.	Hauls all oils and fluids related to trade.
10.	Works on all gas, diesel, electrically powered trucks including tractors, lawnmowers, solid state, etc.
11.	Truck repair will use jumper batteries on all plant equipment. (Settlement of Grievance #893562.)
7.	PAINTERS AND GLAZIERS:
1.	Mixes all materials related to trade.
2.	Hauls all thinners and paint from paint house utilized by trade.
3.	Prepares own work for job.
4.	Removes all switch plates, hardware, etc., and replaces same after job is completed.
5.	Hauls all materials and equipment related to trade to and from job locations.
6.	Cleans and prepares all surfaces to be painted by washing, steam cleaning, wire brushing, patching, and sandblasting.
7.	Does all painting, general and/or special pertaining to building, and all stenciled signs, machines and equipment including floors and storage tanks.
8.	Installs all glass, new or used, and cuts same, and in accordance with Paragraph # 183 and Appendix F -National Agreement.
9.	Does all caulking and puttying related to trade.
103
10.	Installs wallpaper.
11.	Applies all paints and sealers related to plant or equipment with the use of various equipment such as brushes, spray, rollers and others as the job indicates.
12.	Washes or otherwise prepares all ceilings, walls, windows, Hauserman partitions and other surfaces prior to painting.
13.	Installs all decals, stencil identification, masking tape, throughout the building.
14.	Makes connection to air outlets with air hoses, where available.
15.	Uses and drives fork truck when used in painting.
16.	Installs Plexiglas when used as/or in place of windows or partitions.
17.	Will paint all of the buildings parts of the warehouse, including all piping, stairways, walkways, walls, posts, girders, and platforms.
8.	CARPENTERS:
1.	Repair and construct wooden structures and equipment such as forms, platforms, floorings, work benches, storage bins of wood, office partitions of wood, casings, tables, doors, scaffolding, sheds, counters, ceilings, etc.
2.	Plan, layout and select proper materials for the job; materials used consist of wood, wood substitutes.
3.	Uses a variety of carpenter hand and power tools, ladders, slings, scaffolding, etc.
4.	Installs, replaces, repairs, all Hauserman partitions and doors.
104
9.	BUILDING REPAIR:
1.	Repairs all roof areas, pours and finishes and repairs cement floors, footings and sidewalks.
2.	Installs and maintains all types of tile, asphalt, rubber, ceramic, etc.
3.	Lays blocks and bricks.
4.	Does plastering and repairing of same.
5.	Repairs parking lots, driveways, and sidewalks.
6.	Does own digging, grading, and filling for cement forms.
7.	Installs forms for sidewalks and slabs for general concrete work. (Settlement of Grievance #926947).
8.	Repairs or drills all holes made in masonry concrete walls. (Settlement of Grievance #844258).
9.	Cuts and installs rubber floor mats (Settlement of Grievance #201540 - Paragraph #182 Meeting of 4/27773).
10.	REFRIGERATION CONTROL:
1.	Install, maintain, and service air conditioning and refrigeration equipment and parts.
2.	Replace motors, switches, etc., related to trade and do necessary soldering.
3.	Check refrigeration gas and renew where necessary.
11.	COMBINED SKILLED CLASSIFICATIONS:
1.	That the lighting of gas heaters in the Grand Blanc Facility will be performed by a Pipefitter and electrician working together. (Settlement of Grievance #184364).
2.	Installing of the Christmas decorations will be done by
105
the electrician and millwright groups. (Settlement of Grievance #173246).
3.	One pipefitter and one electrician will reset the paint drop valves in the flo-coat areas. (Settlement of Grievance #844252).
The above job descriptions are intended to describe the duties of an employee's in general terms and does not necessarily describe all his/her duties.
Skilled trades employee's will continue to keep their area clean as established by past practices.
12.	INSPECTOR - LAYOUT:
1.	Makes the layout from specifications, drawings, sketches, etc., furnished by the designer and prepares layout drawings of product or portions of equipment.
2.	Develops design of details not completely defined and makes complete layout drawings sufficient for detailer for production.
3.	May coordinate work with other groups concerned with the particular product.
4.	Should have a fair knowledge of available manufacturing facilities and their limitations.
5.	Layout and check all samples previous to mounting on sample boards and kit boards.
13.	STATIONARY ENGINEER
1.	Safe and efficient operation of all boilers and boiler auxiliary equipment in the Flint and Burton facilities (feed water pumps, condensate pumps, water softeners, water test/chemical treatment, calibrations, etc).
2.	Safe and efficient operation of all air compressors and auxiliary equipment in the Flint and Burton facilities
106
(compressed air fillration system, receiver tanks, moisture separators, etc.).
3.	Maintenance and repair of all Powerhouse equipment in the Flint and Burton Facilities (boilers, pumps, air compressors, controls, feed water systems, condensate systems, etc.).
4.	Electrical repairs that fall within the scope of Stationary Engineer training (fuses, switches, breakers, lighting fixtures/bulbs, electrical safety devices.)
5.	Powerhouse and Plant readings (electric, natural gas, water, steam, compressed air, etc.).
6.	Reading, recording, and replacing circular charts.
7.	May use power equipment in conjunction with job assignment.
8.	May use power truck when related to job.
107
ALPHABETICAL INDEX UNIT WIDE ISSUES/GRIEVANCES APPLICABLE TO EMPLOYEE RELATIONS
ISSUE	PAGE
NO.	YEAR	NO.
A	ADA Accommodations............. 133 ......1999	...167
Agreements, Letters, and Issues .248 .....2003	...209
Air Conditioning -
Paint Mixer-Control Person......52 .......1987	.....139
Aisle Congestion.................71	 1999	 145
Apprentice - Continuance...... 110 .......1999	 159
Apprentice Program.............106 .......1993	 157
Apprentice Rate Changes....... 126 .......1996	 164
Asbestos.........................73	 1987	 146
Attendance - Substantiation.... 109 .... .1993 .....159
B Battery Attendant Breaks......... 121 .......1996	 162
Battery - Machine Operator.... 119 .......1999	 162
Battery Maintenance........... 120 .......2003	 162
Battery Wells....................29	 1984	 129
Bin Checks.......................56	 1973	 140
Blood Drive.....................224	 2003	 200
Breathing Apparatus............227 .......2003	 201
Business Plan.................. 135	 1999	 168
C Cabs on Outside Trucks.............20 .......2003	 124
Cafeteria-Availability..........55 .......1999	 140
Cafeteria - Open All Shifts... 127 .......1973	 164
Cafeteria Service................ 1	 1984	 116
Cash Allowance...................32	 1976	 130
Cash Allowance System...........33 .......1976	 130
Cash Sales - Hours...............23	 1993	 126
Cash Sales -
Other Parts Processed at Flint... 22 .....1976	 125
Chauffeur License............... 19	 1973	 123
108
Classifications - Loan Out....
Coffee Machines...............
Coveralls.....................
Crib-Inventory................
Damaged Clothing..............
De-rail Flag..................
Desk Lamps....................
Diesel Rate...................
Dock #1-Break Area............
Docks #3 & #4-Refrigerator....
Docks - Switching.............
Doors-Docks...................
Doors - Openers...............
Drinking Fountains............
Dual Supervision..............
East Tunnel - Repair..........
Electrical Sub-Station........
Electronic Devices............
ELPO-Noise Deadener...........
Elpo Refurbishment............
Emergency Messages............
Ergonomic - Wrap..............
Export Area - Improvements.... Fans - Plant #2...............
Fascia-Satellite..............
Federal Express...............
Fiberglass Wrap...............
Fire Brigade..................
Fire Department...............
Fire Equipment Person.........
Fire Equipment Person -Replacement...................
Fire Equipment - Repair.......
First Responder Equipment.....
96 ......1990	 154
136 ......1999	 168
37 ......1984	 133
137 ......2003	 168
60 ......1973	 142
48 ......1979	 138
138 ......1999	 168
84 ......1976	 150
139 ......2003	 169
140 ......1999	 169
141 ......2003	 169
142 ......1999	 170
213 ......2003	 196
95 ......1993	 153
12 ......1996	 120
210 ......2003	 195
64 ......1976	 143
246 ......2003	 208
230 ......2003	 202
143 ......1999	 170
68 ......1973	 144
77 ......2003	 147
144 ......1999	 170
145 ......1999	 171
146 ......1999	 171
81 ......2003	 149
147 ......1999	 171
90 ......1999	 152
34 ......1979	 131
35 ......1973	 131
205 ......2003	 193
241 ......2003	 207
226 ......2003	 201
109
Fitness Center 24/7.............117	 2003	 161
Fitness Center - Audio/Video ... 225 ....2003	 200
Flag - POW/MIA.................. 97	 1993	 154
Flagging-TruckDocks............ 18 ......1979	 123
Floor - Gate #3 Stairway...... 112 ......1999	 159
Floor - Gate #4 Covering...... 114 ......1999	 160
Floor - Resurfacing............ 116	 2003	 161
Floors - Maintenance............ 3 ......1979	 116
Fluids-Heat.....................223	 2003	 200
Front Office................... 171	 2003	 179
Garage..........................207	 2003	 194
Gate #4 - Repairs.............. 215	 2003	 197
G Guardrail......................... 148	 1999	 171
Guardrail-Roof................. 149	 1999	 172
Guardrail - Work Stations..... 150 ......1999	 172
H Heat.............................. 102	 1993	 156
Heat-Issues.................... 118	 1999	 161
Heaters - Operational......... 103 ......2003	 156
Heaters and Fans-PM............ 101	 2003	 156
Heating and Ventilation......... 2 ......1979	.... .116
Hospital Hours................. 113	 1996	 160
Hot Water Dispenser -Break Areas:....................209	 2003	 195
Hot Water Dispenser - Cafeteria .208 ....2003	 194
Idled Plant Equipment..........239 ......2003	 206
I Injured on Job..................... 59	 2003	 141
Insect Repellant................ 89......1993......151
Insect Spraying................. 88	 1990	 151
Inspector-Replacement..........206 ......2003	 193
J Job Description - Export......... 151 ......1999	 173
Job Descriptions................ 28	 1976	 128
L Lighting Improvements............ 152 ......1999	 173
Limited Duty.................... 61	 1973	 142
Line Record Sheets............. 63 ......1976	 143
110
Local Agreement - Printing..... 111 .......2003	 159
Local Issues - Republished..... 72 ........2003	 146
Locker Check..................... 65	 1973	 144
Locker Rooms.................... 153	 1999	 173
Lockers......................... 154	 1999	 174
Lunch-Plant #2.................. 155	 1999	 174
M Maintenance - Truck Driver......... 82 .......1979	 149
Management - Working............203 .......2003	 192
Manpower Adjustments -Corrections..................... 107	 1993	 158
Manual Operation of Primer Alley Conveyer................... 91	 1990	 152
Manual Operations of Primer Alley Conveyor................... 92	 1993	 152
Material Storage - Safety....... 58 .......1976	 141
Medical Attention -After Shift Hours................ 43	 1976	 135
Medical Appointments (Pay) .... 131 .......2003	 166
Medical Transportation.......... 44 .......1987	 136
Medical Transportation - Burton.. 45 ......1987	 136
Medication Trays................. 46	 1993	 137
Metal Finishers................. 156	 1999	 174
M.l.T. Tags...................... 67	 1973	 144
MillwrightWelder -Motorized Flatbed................238	 2003	 205
O Oilers - Repair and Calibration .. 94 ........1990	 153
Order Selectors................. 160	 1999	 176
Outside - Representatives......240 ........2003	 206
Outside Trucks................... 16	 1976	 122
Ovens and Flo-Coat -
Inventory - Paint Shop......... 79 ........2003	 148
Overtime Canvassing............ 4 .........1984	 117
Overtime - Burton Skilled Trades. 5 .......1990	 117
Overtime - Inspectors.......... 6 .........1973	 117
111
P Paint Shop - Job Descriptions... 104 .......1993	 157
Paint Totes - Transport....... 157 ......2003	 175
Parking Facilities............. 15	 2003	 121
Parking Lot - Changes........ 158 .......1999	 175
Parking Lot - Safety......... 159 .......1999	 175
Parking Lots - Repairs........220 .......2003	 199
Payroll - Confidential........ 161 ......1999	 176
Payroll Deductions - Cancellation 31 ....1976	 130
Payroll - Distribution........ 162 ......1999	 176
Payroll - Logged.............. 163	 1999	 177
Personnel - Hours............. 164	 2003	 177
Phone-ELPO Lab................214 .......2003	 197
Phone - Powerhouse............ 165 ......1999	.... .177
Phone-T.D.D. Plant #2 ........ 166	 1999	 178
Phones - In-plant..............167	 1999	 178
Phones - Pay.................. 168	 1999	 178
Pipes - Identification........ 169 ......1999	 179
Plant Appearance.............. 170	 2003	u... .179
Power Sweepers - Yard......... 40 .......1984	.....134
Powerhouse.................... 172	 1999......180
Powerhouse - Burton Manpower. 234 .......2003	.... .204
Powerhouse -
Eliminate Swing Shift.........233 .......2003	 204
Powerhouse - Noise Deadener.. 231 .......2003	 203
Powerhouse - Safety Shoes.... 237 .......2003	.... .205
Powerhouse - Safety Tools.....228 .......2003	 202
Powerhouse-TV Monitor.........235 .......2003	 204
Powerhouse - Training.........236 ..... .2003 .....205
Preferred Job - Multiple Moves.. 100 ....1993	 155
Preventative Maintenance...... 83 .......1984	 149
PM Scheduling.................. 86	 2003	 150
Project - Completion Dates.... 173 .... . .1999 ...180
Protective Clothing........... 26 .......1976	 127
Protective Clothing - Battery Job. 174 ..1999	 181
Protective Clothing - Policy.. 175 ......1999	 181
112
R Racks - Hauling Two High............ 47 ......1973	 137
Racks Cleaned..................... 27	 1984	 128
Racks - Repair................... 176	 1999	 182
Radios............................ 39	 1984	 134
Rail Dock Plant #2 - Break Area	.177 ......1999	 182
Rail Dock Plant #2 - Windbreak	.212 ......2003	 196
Record Disclosure.................247	 2003	 209
Research & Packaging Work....	76 ......1973	 147
Restrooms Refurbishing.......... 178 ......2003	 182
R.I.F............................ 179	 1999	 183
Rolled Belts......................204	 2003	 192
Rubber Mats....................... 54	 1973	 139
S Safety Chains........................ 87	 1987	 151
Safety Glasses.................... 21	 1976	 124
Safety Glasses Vendor.......... 123 .......1996	 163
Safety Tours......................180	 1999	 183
Sanitation......................... 8	 2003	 118
Sanitation-Administration Office. 11 ......1999	 120
Sanitation - Manpower.......... 9 .........1999	 119
Sanitation - Maintenance....... 7 .........2003	 118
Sanitation - Saturday Work..... 10 ........1976	 120
Sanitation - Supplies Distribution .14 ....2003	...121
Satellite Areas-Refurbished. ...219 .......2003	 198
Screen Guard - Primer Alley .... 181 ......1999	 183
Shower - Curtains.................217	 2003	 198
Sick Leave Bumping............. 115 .......1996	 160
Skill Center-SPO................. 182	 1999	 184
Skilled Trades-Acquisition.....245 ........2003	 208
Skilled Trades - Assignments.... 183 ......1999	 184
Skilled Trades - Canvassed .... 244 .......2003	 208
Skilled Trades - Cross Training.. 125 .....1996	 164
Skilled Trades - ELPO Coverage 243 ........2003	 207
Skilled Trades -Percent Working.................. 85	 1973	 150
113
Skilled Trades -Retained Classifications...... 184 ......2003 ......185
Skilled Trades - Safety Training .129 ...2003 ......166
Skilled Trades -Supplemental Agreement........242 ........2003	.... .207
Skilled Trades -Technology Training...........124 ........2003	 163
Snow Removal from Racks....... 13 ........1979	 121
Sourcing - Access..............200	 2003	 191
Sourcing - Opportunities......201 ........2003	 191
Spare Parts, etc............... 30	 1976	 129
Steam Room - Plant #2..........185	 1999	 185
Store -UAW/GM................. 186	 1999	 185
Supervisor Area - Letter Codes. .134 .....2003	 167
T Temporary Promotions............. 24 ........2003	 126
Temporary Promotions -Inspector Special Assignment ...57 .......1976	...140
Time Study.................... 108	 1993	 158
Tools - Management Furnish.... 49 ........1973	 138
Tools - Replacement........... 50 ........1999	 138
Tornado - Skywam.............. 198 .......1999	 190
Tornado Warning (1990)......... 42	 1990	 135
Tornado Warning................ 41	 1976	 134
Towels - Reinforced...........222 ........2003	 199
Towels-Work Areas.............221 ........2003	 199
Trailer Doors..................187	 1999	 186
Training - Quality............ 188	 1999	.... .186
Training - Requests...........232 ........2003	 203
Training - Safety..............189	 1999	 187
Training Skilled Trades....... 93 ........1990	 153
Train Wells.................... 17	 1976	 122
Trash Cans - Steam Cleaning... 62 ........1973	.... .143
Travel Time.................... 51	 1973	 138
Truck Repair Leased/Rental... 98 .........1993	 155
114
Tugger Wheels................... 36	....1990 ......132
Tunnel - Condensation..........190 ......1999 ......187
Turnstiles..................... 105	....1993 ......157
U UPS-Burton......................... 80	....1987.....148
Uniforms........................ 38	....1993 ......133
Uniforms - Contract........... 191 ......1999 ......187
Union Label.....................199	....2003 ......190
V Vacation - Disposition............ 99 ......1993 ......155
Vacation - Eligibility........ 128 ......2003 ......165
Vacation (Mandatory Saturday).. 132 .....1996 ......167
Vendors........................ 122	....2003 ......163
Vents Repaired..................216	....2003 ......197
Wearable Gas Meters............229 ......2003 ......202
W Wash-up Time....................... 78	....1976 ......148
Wastewater - Sludge Removal ..192 .......1999 ......188
Weed/Grass Cutting............. 25 ......1984 ......127
Wind Curtain....................211	....2003 ......195
Window Cleaning................. 53	....1976 ......139
Windows........................ 193	...1999 ......188
Work - Bargaining Unit.........202 ......2003 ......191
Work Alone - Elevations/
Voltage Equipment............. 70 ......1993 ......145
Working Alone................... 69	...1999 ......145
Work During Lunch.............. 66 ......1973 ......144
Work Orders.................... 194	...1999 ......188
Work Surfaces...................130	...1984 ......166
Y Yard Overtime...................... 75	...1976 ......147
Yard - Plant #1 and #2-Resurfaced 74 ....2003 ......146
Yard - Maintained...............195	...1999 ......188
Yard - Racks................... 196	...2003 ......189
Yard-Shacks.....................218	...2003 ......198
Yard-Truck Storage.............197 ......1999 ......190
115
UNIT WIDE ISSUES/GRIEVANCES
ISSUE #1 (Issue #2- 1984)
Cafeteria Service
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER:
Management is committed to maintain dependable food service. In this regard, complaints concerning food service should be brought to the attention of Management for investigation and follow up with the vendor.
ISSUE #2 (Issue #4 - 1979)
Heating and Ventilation
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER:
In the interest of providing an environment conducive to climate control and energy efficiency, Management will continue to maintain the existing electric doors and heat curtain.
In Plant #1, it is Management's intent to provide adequate heat control on the Receiving dock.
ISSUE #3 (Issue #5- 1979)
Floors - Maintenance
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER:
In settlement of this demand, additional equipment will be purchased for maintenance of floors. In addition, Management will establish a program wherein aisles will be sealed as conditions permit and needs dictate.
116
ISSUE #4 (Issue #12- 1984)
Overtime Canvassing
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER:
During discussion of this issue, the Union cited employe concerns relating to late notification of daily overtime requirements. Management assures the Union that employes will be given as much advance notice as is practicable so that they can make any personal arrangements that may be necessary.
ISSUE #5 (1990)
Overtime - Burton Skilled Trades
That clear language be supplied to the Skilled Trades personnel on the equalization of hours with the Burton facility and this location.
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER:
The parties agree that Skilled Trades employes assigned to the Burton Plant will equalize by classification and shift during weekends and Holidays with those Skilled Trades employes in like classification at the Flint Facility.
ISSUE #6 (Issue #194- 1973)
Overtime - Inspectors
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER:
It is Management's intention to schedule all employes for overtime on a fair and equitable basis consistent with maintaining the efficiency of operation. In view of the above, Inspectors will be scheduled for overtime as determined by the same criteria utilized when scheduling operational departments for overtime.
117
ISSUE #7 (Demand #P-009 - 2003)
Sanitation - Maintenance
The Union demands that Management provide consistent sanitation coverage in both Primer Alley and the Maintenance shops whenever Skilled Trades works on non-production overtime on weekends and Holidays.
Additionally, when Skilled Trades project work is being done elsewhere in the facility, adequate sanitation coverage will be provided for clean-up prior to the start of the next production shift.
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER:
It is understood that not all weekend maintenance projects need area sanitation coverage. However, in instances where sanitation coverage is required during periods of time when Maintenance is working, sanitation services will be provided.
ISSUE #8 (Issue #12 - 1979, amended
with Demand #0-124-2003)
Sanitation
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER:
In discussion of this demand, it was quite clear that both parties are deeply interested in providing employees with clean and adequate rest room facilities. Therefore, it is Management's intent that toilet facilities shall be maintained properly through the performance of regular Plant Engineering Department functions.
In addition, it is Management's policy to continue to supply the grade of toilet, hand tissue, and liquid soap which is presently being utilized in the rest rooms within the complex.
118
Under present operating conditions, toilets in the Flint Processing Center will be disinfected and deep cleaned on a regular basis.
Management assures the Union that the truck repair area will be cleaned regularly.
Management recognized its commitment to maintain clean and sanitary conditions in all its plants and will review the areas discussed between the parties for specific attention.
Management will employ adequate manpower to fulfill this responsibility.
ISSUE#9 (Demand #P-005, P-018-1999)
Sanitation - Manpower
Union demands more sanitation manpower and Issue 8 be upheld.
Union demands that two sanitation employees be added on a permanent full time basis to sanitize restrooms.
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER:
In these negotiations, the parties thoroughly discussed the concerns relative to the issue of sanitation staffing during periods of overtime.
The parties agree that overtime work will continue to be scheduled by Management to meet the needs of the business. Moreover, when departmental overtime is scheduled full the Sanitation employees assigned to the department will be scheduled to work. Sanitation coverage for departmental overtime scheduled as partial will be scheduled in line with Operational requirements on a commensurate basis.
Problems which arise in this area will be resolved to the mutual satisfaction of both parties.
119
ISSUE #10 (Issue #97- 1976)
Sanitation • Saturday Work
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER:
Management will schedule a front office Sanitation employe for work on Saturdays when the Computer Section is scheduled for full operations and a Sanitation employe's services are required.
ISSUE #11 (Demand #P-020- 1999)
Sanitation - Administration Office
Union demands that anytime anyone is working in Administration Offices, Sanitation Employees work.
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER:
Management agrees to provide Holiday coverage for the Administration.Offices when a sufficient number of people,are scheduled to work: Sanitation Management will coordinate the scheduling requirements with the facilities Management Representative assigned to the old central office.. Coverage problems in this regard should be directed to the General Supervisor of Labor Relations.
ISSUE #12 (Issue #12-1996)
Dual Supervision
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER:
Management recognizes that employees normally take orders from one supervisor. Management will instruct supervision to relay orders through the immediate supervisor. However, there are certain exceptions such as matters pertaining to safety whereby it might be necessary for other supervision to take immediate action.
120
Management acknowledged employees will be notified of changes in supervision. Management will review this issue with members of supervision with the objective of clearing up possible misunderstandings. Any complaints that management is not living up to the understanding will be investigated and handled on an individual basis.
ISSUE #13 (Issue #15- 1979)
Snow Removal from Racks
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER:
In this regard, it is Management's intent to remove snow from racks stored in the yard prior to conveyance inside the plant.
ISSUE #14 (Demand #P-024 - 2003)
Sanitation - Supplies Distribution
The Union demands that Management publish grievance settlement answer #848378 and #848379 in the 2003 Local Agreement
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER:
Management is in agreement to publish the settlement to grievances #848378 and #848379 in the demand section of the Local Agreement.
As final settlement to the above grievances it is mutually agreed that the distribution of sanitation supplies is work that properly belongs to the bargaining unit.
ISSUE #15 (Issue #22 - 1976, amended - 2003)
Parking Facilities
121
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER:
In line with current operating conditions and existing parking facilities, all parking lots are provided with adequate lighting. Lighting systems will be maintained in working order to insure proper illumination at all times.
Management shall continue to take the appropriate measures to clean, salt, sand, and/or plow parking lots in line with the attendant requirements.
Batteries and jump cables will be made available through Truck Repair.
ISSUE #16 (Issue #23 - 1976)
Outside Trucks
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER:
It is agreed making repairs, greasing and oil changing, to the pickup and dump truck except warranty work will be performed by the Maintenance Department.
Under current operating conditions, Management will repopulate the Garage Attendant Classification. It is understood between the parties, when Garage Attendant work is not available, the employee will perform duties inherent within the General Group classification. The scope of selection in filling this position will consist of Plant #1 General Group.
ISSUE #17 (Issue #23-1976)
Train Wells
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER:
The Union acknowledges that there are times when it is necessary
122
for employees Io enter the train well when cars are on the tracks. Existing derail and blue flag procedures were instituted to protect personnel and equipment and to insure safety. It is Management's policy that train wells will be routinely cleaned only when the track is clear. In accordance with existing safety policy, power trucks are not to be used to open or close rail car doors.
ISSUE #18 (Issue #23 - 1979)
"Flagging" • Truck Docks
MANAGEMENT'S ANSWER:
This demand is satisfactorily settled on the basis that because of the configuration of the truck docks at this facility and the availability of the Parts Handler, the assignment of "flagging” truck trailers for safety purposes falls within the Parts Handler classification.
ISSUE #19 (Issue #24- 1973)
Chauffeur License
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER:
Management shall reimburse the cost of a chauffeur's license provided the following conditions are met:
(1)	The employee has been authorized in writing to obtain a chauffeur's license by a member of Management.
(2)	The employee has previously obtained a chauffeur’s license as a qualification for outside driving jobs.
(3)	The employee must obtain such a license on his/her own time and provide proof of the issuance to Management.
123
ISSUE #20 (Issue #25 - 1976, amended - 2003)
Cabs on Outside Trucks
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER:
Management will make air cushions available for use by truck drivers.
In the interest of employee safety, Management is desirous of non-metallic wheels. All trucks are presently equipped with non-metallic wheels. Management will keep this policy in effect. Management will continue to maintain and install permanent closures on any trucks assigned to the outside yard. In addition, the lighting on these trucks will be maintained.
In line with safety policies, all lift trucks are required to be equipped with overhead guards.
Tire chains will be made available for all outside trucks.
It is the intent of Management to keep trucks in proper state of repair. Moreover, it is a policy of the Maintenance Department to clean vehicles on a regular basis when it should become necessary.
During the course of discussion concerning this issue, the parties debated the question what is and what is not truck repair work. For the purpose of resolving this demand, the actual installation of a battery into a truck is work performed by the Truck Repair classification. The driving of a truck on which a battery may be transported from the battery rack to the installation area is most frequently performed by Truck Repair.
ISSUE #21 (Issue #27 - 1976)
Safety Glasses
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER:
Management has an established policy covering the furnishing of
124
prescription ground safety glasses to employes who require them in conjunction with the Safety Department eye protection program. If the employe requiring prescription ground safety glasses furnishes to Management, a prescription requiring a change in lenses, the new lenses will be furnished and installed in the employe's frames at no cost to the employe. If an employee's prescription lenses are broken or damaged by job conditions which are hazardous to eye glasses and where there is no negligence on the part of the employe, the lenses will be replaced al no cost to the employee.
Employees who are permanently assigned in the yard during daylight hours may order tinted safety glasses or clip-on sun shades through the Safety Department. The Plano tinted safety glasses or clip-on sun shades must be signed for by the employe and he/she will be accountable for their disposition. Replacement of the Plano tinted safety glasses or clip-on shades will be handled in the same manner as the regular prescription safety glasses. It is understood that the wearing of tinted glasses or sunglasses will not be permitted within the plant unless medically authorized.
Tissue dispensers and cleaner fluid for cleaning glasses are available throughout the plant in convenient locations. Management will review any situations brought to its attention and, where needed, additional dispensers will be installed. Management provides these items for the convenience of its employees, therefore, it intends to property maintain and supply them.
ISSUE #22 (Issue #28- 1976)
Cash Sales - Other Parts Processed at Flint
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER:
Parts that are processed but not stocked in Flint have on occasion been diverted from the Unit Room or Paint Shop to the Plant #2 Cash Sales to satisfy an employe request to purchase. The Union
125
has stated that a list of such parts, processed in Plant #1 but not stocked in Flint, should be made available to Cash Sales for convenience in such instances. Management agrees to make such information available at Cash Sales for employe convenience.
ISSUE #23 (1993)
Demand cash sales be open longer and part number retrieval be put back to our inspection group and more manpower on phone to order parts.
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER:
Effective August 27,1993, a change was made which will enable Michigan GM employes to access the price and availability of a part number through Tracs 2000. This change should significantly reduce the demand on cash sales representatives allowing them greater accessibility in assisting employes who do not know the part number for a desired part. In addition, the current hours for parts order/pickup will be extended two hours on Wednesdays and Fridays until 4:30 p.m. Order pickup hours will be evaluated on an ongoing basis to meet customer requirements.
ISSUE #24 (1996, amended - 2003)
Temporary Promotions
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER:
Temporary promotions will be filled by offering the assignment to the highest seniority employee under the supervisor where the promotion occurs. When it becomes necessary to go outside the supervisor's group to obtain the employee to fill the temporary opening, Management will offer the temporary promotion to the highest seniority employee within the selected classification under the selected supervisor's group provided no other supervisor has an employee in the same classification to loan. Failing to fill the
126
temporary opening the vacancy will be filled via the provisions of Local Loanout Agreement. It is understood the selected employee must be capable of performing the available work.
ISSUE #25 (Issue #37 - 1984)
Weed/Grass Cutting
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER:
In final settlement of this issue, the cutting of weeds/grass will be performed by bargaining unit employes. Equipment suitable to accomplish this assignment will be provided by Management.
Management plans to continue the practice of having Plant #1 grass cut by a non-skilled bargaining unit employe.
ISSUE #26 (Issue #40- 1976)
Protective Clothing
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER:
Management will continue the practices as outlined below:
In the event of inclement weather, rain gear has been assigned to those employes in the Maintenance and frame yard group who have job assignments outside in the weather. Those employes assigned outside without advance notice will, when necessary due to the weather, be furnished rain gear or cold weather gear. Foul weather gear will also be made available at the Burton location. Insulated coveralls will be made available for cold weather use in conjunction with standard coveralls. (In addition, Management will provide removable canvas covers for the regular Plant #1 yard tuggers that haul racks, etc., in and out of the plant.)
127
ISSUE #27 (Issue #41 - 1984)
Racks Cleaned
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER:
Both parties are desirous of insuring the safety of all employes. Accordingly, Management will reemphasize to those employes whose job assignments involve transporting and/or decking of empty racks, that rack accessories be removed or secured in a proper manner prior to movement or tiering.
ISSUE #28 (Issue #42- 1976)
Job Descriptions
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER:
The parties agreed to reinstate the 1973 provisions and understandings:
1.	As a final settlement, it is agreed that the card file, as currently maintained in Dispatch and used for the surplus storage areas, should be the responsibility of a Stock Attendant Accordingly, Management will fill the vacancies with hourly-rated employes.
Previous discussion regarding the Stock Attendant and Truck Driver classifications has been resolved to the satisfaction of both parties in the settlement of Appeal Case N-837.
2.	The inspection functions performed by the Metal Anish - Bumper in the Paint Shop is considered Sheet Metal Inspector work and the individual performing this job will be so classified.
3.	Management has established the classification Checker -Export and those Checkers currently assigned to the Export Department will be so classified.
128
4.	The job assignment of following red seal orders is classified as Parts Handler.
5.	Under current conditions, the gardening and lawn work formerly performed by outside sources has been assigned to bargaining unit personnel. The individual assigned to this work will be classified as a Gardener. It is understood that this person will be assigned other duties during those periods of time when lawn work is not performed.
ISSUE #29 (Issue #42 - 1984)
Battery Wells
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER:
Management currently has a maintenance program in effect wherein battery wells are cleaned of built-up grease and acid on a periodic basis. Battery wells requiring a more frequent cleaning should be addressed through the submission of a work order to the Maintenance Department by the employe's immediate supervisor.
ISSUE #30 (Issue #43 - 1976)
Spare Parts/Fan, Water Coolers, Heaters, Repairs.
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER:
Management intends to perform repairs and replacements of water fountains in an expedient manner. For this reason, efforts will be made to expedite these tasks as soon as the need presents itself. Further, to insure that all fans are ready to provide maximum service, an investigation will be made each spring and the necessary repairs will be promptly arranged. Similarly, efforts will be made to evaluate and perform repairs needed on heaters before the beginning of cold weather. Management will keep the necessary parts for repair of such equipment on these items that experience shows to present the most difficulty.
129
ISSUE #31 (Issue #45- 1976)
Payroll Deductions - Cancellation
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER:
Payroll deductions that are made by option of the employe will be canceled promptly following proper notification by the employe that he wishes to stop the deduction.
Management means to cancel such deductions the week following the week of proper notification.
ISSUE #32 (Issue #30- 1976)
Cash Allowance
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER:
During the discussion of this demand, the Union explained that the problem did not involve temporary transfers in the nature of daily absentee replacement, sick leaves, vacations and personal leaves, but with temporary transfers to higher-rated jobs caused by fluctuations in production schedules which extend for more than two weeks. It is not Management's intention to extend such transfers beyond the two-week period.
Management will review the particular circumstances concerning such increases in production at the end of one week. If the job opening still exists, it will at the end of the twoweek period be filled in accordance with the National Agreement.
ISSUE #33 (Issue #46- 1976)
Cash Allowance System
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER:
In recognition of the discussion between the parties, Management
130
will continue the present system for cash allowance that will permit each Superintendent to continually be apprised of the cash allowance situation in his/her area. To accommodate this, each General Foreman will accumulate for his/her area, each foreman's individual daily records of cash allowances on a weekly basis. These records will indicate the employee involved, the classification to which he/she was assigned, the specific reason for the assignment and the extent of the assignment. After each General Foreman has reviewed the records for his/her area, they will be forwarded to the Superintendent for his/her review. It is expected that any inconsistencies or omissions will be promptly investigated and the necessary corrections initiated.
The District Committeeperson may request to review the cash allowance records in the operational area affected. In addition, the Chairperson or Committeeperson-at-Large may review a copy of the cash allowance sheets maintained within the Labor Relations Department. Any specific problem in this regard maybe brought to the attention of Management.
In further discussion of the demand, Management has reaffirmed its intention to permanently classify employes to those jobs where a continuing need has been shown to exist.
ISSUE #34 (Issue #44- 1979)
Fire Department
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER:
Management will continue to support the Corporation's policy with regard to the continuation of a Fire Brigade and the training thereof, which includes the review of equipment and procedures with Fire Brigade members.
ISSUE #35 (Issue #188- 1973)
Fire Equipment Person
131
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER:
Management has the duty of making regular visual inspection of all fire equipment in the interest of both property and employe safety.
The manual cleaning and maintenance of fire extinguishers is work properly falling within the bargaining unit.
Replacing defective parts, refilling and recharging extinguishers is work properly falling within the bargaining unit.
It is necessary that Management test the fire truck to assure its being in operable condition in the event of an emergency.
The cleaning, refilling or recharging of the truck and its equipment and other routine maintenance is work properly falling within the bargaining unit.
When unusually hazardous conditions occur while bargaining unit employes are torch cutting or welding in the plant, qualified bargaining unit employes will be assigned to 'stand by* with fire extinguishing equipment.
The surveillance of potential fire hazards, the determination of the necessity for using extra precautions, such as standing fire watch, and the supervision of such activities are necessarily the function of the Plant Security Department.
ISSUE #36 (1990)
Management replace and/or repair all noisy tugger wheels by the Maintenance department
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER:
Management informs the Union that a procedure is in place whereby tugger wheels are replaced per the normal work order request.
132
ISSUE #37 (Issue #49- 1984)
Coveralls
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER:
The parties agreed to reinstate Management's Answer to 1976 Issue #51, which reads as follows:
"The parties have had discussion relative to purchasing a lighter weight coverall prior to the initiation of this demand. A lighter weight coverall has been purchased and is currently available at this location. In addition, Management assures the Union that coveralls will continue to be provided to employes who are now receiving them. Further, coveralls will be made available to employes working on the engine line and in the Export area at the Burton facility, where deemed necessary. Moreover, Receiving Dock employes will be issued coveralls upon their request."
It was agreed to make available to the Metal Finishers and Sanders coveralls with zippers.
ISSUE #38 (1993)
Uniforms for everybody in the plant
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER:
Management assures the Union that coveralls/uniforms will continue to be provided to employes assigned to jobs exposing them to an abnormal amount of dirt, grime, grease, etc.
It is agreed that as the work is currently constituted employes assigned to picking operations in High Rise and H & J will be eligible to receive coveralls/uniforms. Further, employes exposed to inclement weather conditions resulting from inoperable outside doors will be eligible for appropriate apparel under the coverall/uniform program.
133
(Issue #246 - 1990)
Management agrees to include Paint Shop employees assigned as Rack Builders and Loaders on a regular basis in the Uniform Coverall Program.
ISSUE #39 (Issue #50- 1984)
Radios
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER:
This issue is resolved on the basis of the Don Nemecek letter dated January 23,1990, concerning the Flint Parts Plant Radio Policy.
ISSUE #40 (Issue #53- 1984)
Power Sweepers - Yard
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER:
Management will continue to review the need for the equipment at issue and when deemed appropriate will recommend the purchase of such equipment
ISSUE #41 (Issue #54- 1976)
Tornado Warning
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER:
It is the intent of Management to take necessary precautions during inclement weather conditions by posting Plant Security personnel on roofs of the affected plants as lookouts. These security officers are equipped with two-way radios and remain at their stations until an all-clear has been issued.	a.
134
Management has established an in-plant procedure when an actual tornado alarm is sounded. This procedure involves intermittent blasts of the siren for a period of one minute. In addition, tornado guides are utilized to direct employes to their respective shelter areas. (Tornado shelters have been established at Burton and Fire Brigade members have been designated to serve as guides.)
ISSUE #42 (1990)
Local Issue #67... Tornado warnings... add: Management will notify the employes of all tornado warnings as they are posted by "N.0.AA" weather radio and updated as changes are made.
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER:
In discussion of this demand, the Union cited concern for the welfare of employes during adverse weather conditions. Management understands fully the Union's concerns and is committed to maintaining the well being of its employes while in the Plant The current Tornado procedure is dictated in Issue #67 of the .1987 Local Agreement. As settlement to this demand, Management assures the Union that every precaution will be made to insure the safety of all employes. Further the Union's question regarding the restroom shelter areas will be referred to the Health arid Safety Department for resolution. The parties will be guided by their recommendation.
ISSUE #43 (Issue #57- 1976)
Medical Attention - After Shift Hours
It is recognized that an employe, due to illness or an on-the-job injury, may require medical attention during his normal working hours. Employes assigned to Burton who require such treatment and are transported to the Plant #1 Hospital have on occasion incurred difficulty in being returned to their respective plant during
135
normal working hours. In those instances where employes are delayed beyond their normal quitting time for reasons other than medical treatment, Management will afford them the proper monies for the period in question. This will also apply in those instances of plant injury or occupational disease, where the employe is transported to a municipal hospital from Burton or Plants #1 or #2, and is detained past his shift solely as a result of Management's failure to pick him up promptly.
ISSUE #44 (1987)
Medical Transportation
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER:
In those situations where the Plant Medical Department or its representative, determines that a GMSPO employe be transported by ambulance to the hospital or medical clinic for medical reasons and the employe's insurance carrier does not cover the cost of the ambulance, the bill may be submitted to GMSPO Medical Department for review and payment. In those cases where the employe requests that an ambulance be called, the transportation cost will remain the employe's sole responsibility.
ISSUE #45 (1987)
Medical Transportation - Burton
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER:
During the discussion of this demand, the Union expressed concerns with regard to undue delays in the transporting of Burton employes for medical purposes. In this regaid, Management assures the Union that every effort will be made to provide employes transportation as expeditiously as possible. Further, a 'self help tray* containing aspirin, cold capsules, etc., will be provided in a designated and monitored area at the Burton facility. It is understood, however, that should abuse of this system occur, the tray will be removed.
136
ISSUE #46 (1993)
Provide medication trays in Plant #2 for employee's utilization.
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER:
•	Self-help trays will be established in the following areas:
•	Service: Shipping/Receiving office, area outside of Superintendent's office.
•	Processing: Paint Shop Office; Maintenance Office.
•	Burton: Administration Office.
ISSUE #47 (Issue #57- 1973)
Racks - Hauling Two High
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER:
Movement of materials by powered industrial trucks is a matter which warrants careful consideration by both parties. It is Management's intent to insure that when materials are moved by powered industrial trucks, they are transported in a safe manner and in full accordance with General Motors Service Parts Operation's safety instructions for industrial trucks. Management will review with all drivers of power trucks their specific responsibilities relative to safe operating rules for power trucks.
In this regard, drivers will be instructed not to transport palletainers and racks over two (2) high and drivers with short forks will be instructed to utilize (fork) extension to deck racks.
137
ISSUE #48 (Issue #58- 1979)
De-rail Flag
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER:
The de-rail flag will be handled in accordance with Divisional operating procedures.
ISSUE #49 (Issue #59-1973)
Tools • Management Furnish
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER:
Management will furnish all tools and equipment necessitated by production employes in the performance of their job assignments.
ISSUE #50 (Demand #ST-015 - 1999)
Tools - Replacement
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER:
The parties agree that Local Issue #50 of the 1996 Local Agreement will read as follows: ‘It is recognized that skilled employees provide their own tools while in the plant. However, Management will reimburse, repair or replace skilled employees personal tools broken or damaged in the course of their work assignment in an expeditious manner provided the employee is free of negligence and turns in his broken or damaged tool to Management.’
ISSUE #51 (Issue #60-1973)
Travel Time
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER:
Under the present operating conditions, employes who are 138
temporarily transferred between Plant #1 and Plant #2 will be allowed sufficient time to return to their department al the conclusion of the shift in the event they are working in other than their normal plant at the end of the shift.
ISSUE #52 (1987)
Air Conditioning - Paint Mixer-Control Person
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER:
After the new paint system is fully operational and no major sheet metal is being processed on the existing flo-coat system, Management has agreed to review the feasibility of providing an air-conditioned work space for the Paint Mixer-Control Person on the second floor of the Paint Shop.
ISSUE #53 (Issue #94 - 1976)
Window Cleaning
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER:
Settled on the basis that the inside window cleaning will continue to be performed by the Janitor classification. The Janitor classification will also be assigned to dean the outside of the windows on the ground floor level.
ISSUE #54 (Issue #97 - 1973)
Rubber Mats
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER:
Management will continue to make rubber mats available. Further, employes presently authorized mats will continue to utilize such. These mats shall be made available upon the request of the applicable employe.
139
ISSUE #55 (Demand #0016- 1999)
Cafeteria-Availability
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER;
It is Management’s intention that the cafeteria provide service when the plant is open and there are enough people scheduled to warrant its operation. The parties fully understand that the viability of the cafeteria is based on its patronage by the plants employees. Failure to support the cafeteria in this regard may result in reduced services.
ISSUE #56 (Issue #108-1973)
Bin Checks
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER:
In discussing this demand with the Union, it was claimed that the problem arose as a result of salaried employes making bin checks and counting stock. Under the present operating procedures and methods utilized in the various plants, it is Management’s policy to have bargaining unit employes count quantities of stock wherein physical handling of the stock is required. It is recognized that salaried employes may be required to make a visual check of a bin or location in order to determine whether stock is contained in that bin or location.
ISSUE #57 (Issue #108-1976)
Temporary Promotions - Inspector Special Assignment
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER:
When it is necessary to make temporary promotions to the Inspector - Special Assignment classification in Plant #1, employes of the Inspection classifications in Plant #2 will be considered as
140
within the scope of selection for temporary replacement promotions when an absence in the Inspector Special Assignment classification is anticipated in advance and is known that such replacement will be necessary for a full work day or longer.
Employes in the Inspection classifications in Plant #2 will be considered as within the scope of selection for temporary promotions to the Inspector - Special Assignment classification in Plant #1 when such temporary promotions are due to the increased workload.
Such temporary promotions, as outlined above, will be made by seniority from the Inspection classifications in Plants #1 and #2.
ISSUE #58 (Issue #114 - 1976)
Material Storage - Safety
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER:
In discussion of this demand between the parties, the Union expressed concern over the storage and/or picking of material from metal source gons. It is Management's practice to store material in such a way as to provide safety as well as protect the material. In addition, an employe's job assignment should not require climbing on anything other than equipment designed for climbing. When it is established that an unsafe condition exists, Management will take the necessary steps to correct such conditions.
ISSUE #59 - (Issue #133 - 1973, amended with Demand C- 029 -2003)
Injured on Job
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER:
In case of an injury to an employee on Company time and
141
Company property, the current practice is to compensate the employee until the end of his/her scheduled shift if the injury occurs after having worked three (3) hours of the shift. If injured during the first three (3) hours of the shift the employee will receive benefits as prescribed by existing laws and insurance regulations. This practice will be continued until such time as insurance provisions, laws or subsequent agreements dictate a change.
ISSUE #60 (Issue #138- 1973)
Damaged Clothing
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER:
Clothing is subject to normal wear and damage and Management assumes no responsibility for such damage. However as a matter of policy, those cases where damage is caused by equipment failure or other similar circumstances where the employe is free of negligence, it is Managements policy to give consideration to fair reimbursement to the employe.
ISSUE #61 (Issue #140 - 1973)
Limited Duty
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER:
In the discussion of this demand the Union alleged that employes on properly authorized limited duty were not being allowed to work overtime within their equalization group when their respective jobs were scheduled. The assignment of work is the sole responsibility of Management. However, in the event there is work under the present conditions which the above-cited employes can do in its entirety for the scheduled overtime required, the employes will be scheduled to work in their equalization group, if, under Paragraph 71 of the National Agreement it is practicable and in accordance with the equalization of hours of the employes in the group.
142
ISSUE #62 (Issue #143 - 1973)
Trash Cans • Steam Cleaning
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER:
The need for the steam cleaning of trash cans on a weekly basis has been eliminated with the institution of plastic liners. Trash cans will be cleaned on an as-needed basis in the future. Specific instances should be brought to Management's attention for correction. Trash containers located in cafeterias, lunch rooms, and vending areas will be equipped with flip tops. Trash containers currently present throughout the warehouse that contain flip tops will be maintained.
ISSUE #63 (Issue #172- 1976)
Line Record Sheets
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER:
Picking records are presently utilized by Management for assistance in determining various factors such as manpower scheduling, determining work flow, future production requirements, etc. However, it is recognized that line count records, in themselves are not necessarily indicative of quantity or quality of work and they will not be used as the basis for harassment or discipline.
ISSUE #64 (Issue #183- 1976)
Electrical Sub-Station
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER:
In the discussion of this demand the Union indicated concern with the blocking of electrical control panels in substations. In this regard, it is the intent of Management to maintain the proper
143
clearance between the storage area and the electrical panels. In addition, appropriate housekeeping measures will be maintained in these areas.
ISSUE #65 (Issue #185- 1973)
Locker Check
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER:
As a matter of normal operating policy, Management will continue its present practice to endeavor to have a member of the bargaining unit present whenever an employe's locker is to be opened. It is recognized that there may be isolated instances where this is not possible. Such cases will be held to a minimum.
ISSUE #66 (Issue #186- 1973)
Work During Lunch
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER:
It is not the intent of Management to disrupt an employe's lunch hour. However, when existing operational conditions dictate that employes work through their lunch hour in order to remedy a specific situation, a rule of reason will be applied.
ISSUE #67 (Issue #187- 1973)
M.I.T. Tags
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER:
Resolved on the basis of Appeal Cases N-1021 - L. Comparoni, N-1022 - R. Scharf, and N-1023 - L Comparoni.
ISSUE #68 (Issue #197- 1973)
Emergency Messages
144
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER:
All emergency messages will be delivered promptly to the employee.
ISSUE #69 (Demand ST-017- 1999)
Working Alone
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER:
Settled on the basis that Management intends to maintain the current maintenance practice whereby skilled employees do not work alone, but maintain contact with one another via a buddy system. Where disputes arise the parties will be guided by the safe operating practice. This language is not intended to indicate that two skilled trades people need to be assigned to each skilled trades assignment.
ISSUE #70 (Issue #122-1993)
Work Alone Elevations/Voltage Equipment
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER:
With regard to employes working at elevations and on voltage equipment the applicable provisions of the Joint Health and Safety Training Manual and MIOSHA guidelines will apply.
ISSUE #71 (Demand C-129 - 1999)
Aisle Congestion
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER:
The parties agree to the following revision of local issue #71 of the 1996 Local Agreement as final settlement to the above demand: The parties agree that it is desirable to keep all aisles in the
145
warehouse as clear and free of material as possible to promote good safety practices. It must be recognized, however, that due to heavy receipts it becomes necessary to utilize available space for temporary storage. Management assures the Union that it will exercise good judgment and safe operating practices under these conditions. Further, Management will continue to review the markings on all main aisles and remark those where deemed necessary.
ISSUE #72 (2003)
Local Issues - Republished
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER:
The parties agree to include all applicable Local Agreement issues in the 2003 Local Agreement
ISSUE #73 (1987)
Asbestos
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER:
The Union is assured that, during those times when it is necessary to perform work involving asbestos, Management will continue to take all safety precautions necessary as stipulated by MIOSHA regulations and the GM/UAW Health and Safety Training Manual.
ISSUE #74 (Issue #14 - 1979, amended 2003)
Yard - Plant #1 and #2 - Resurfaced
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER:
Management is currently involved in a program to resurface the Plant #1 and #2 yard. It is understood that resurfacing will be accomplished in sections to avoid interruption of Plant operations.
146
It is Management's intent to continue its present efforts in this regard (weather permitting), with the objective of resurfacing all areas requiring repair in the Plant #1 and #2 yard.
ISSUE #75 (Issue #87- 1976)
Yard Overtime
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER:
When considering overtime, Management will evaluate yard requirements and will schedule yard employes accordingly.
ISSUE #76 (Issue #144- 1973)
Research & Packaging Work
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER:
It is Management's continuing policy to have employes assigned within the bargaining unit pick and transport plant stock and cartons to the Research and Packaging Laboratory and also return it to location. It is understood that the handling of stock by salaried employes in the performance of their job when assigned to the laboratory is necessary and requisite to Management conducting its business.
ISSUE #77 (Demand #P-013- 2003)
Ergonomic-Wrap
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER:
Management shares the Union's concern that cartons be Ergonomically friendly to Employees. To that end, packaging which presents Ergonomic concerns will be reviewed by the Joint Ergonomic Team. Management and Union leadership encourage the Joint Ergonomic Team to solicit operator input for design-in, when exploring viable solutions to these concerns.
147
ISSUE #78 (Issue #53- 1976)
Wash-up Time
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER:
Under present conditions due to the inherent nature of the job requirements of metal finishing, Management will allow five (5) minutes immediately preceding the start of the lunch period and five (5) minutes prior to the close of the shift to Metal Finishers.
ISSUE #79 (1987, amended-2003)
Ovens and Flo-Coat - Inventory ■ Paint Shop
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER:
In applying the provisions of Section V, Paragraph 7 of the Local Seniority Agreement in the Paint Shop proper, it is agreed that Management will first assign employees by low seniority to clean the flo-coat and ovens and chip the prime line in that order with the understanding that those employees must be capable of performing the work. It is further understood that, once the subject work has begun and it becomes necessary to assign additional manpower to any of these assignments, Management will assign the low seniority employee who is still assigned within the Paint Shop proper, during this period, who is capable of performing the work. It is also understood that those low seniority employees assigned to perform the above work will be entitled to any overtime necessary to complete such work.
ISSUE #80 (1987)
UPS - Burton
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER:
In the discussion of the above demand, the Union's concerns dealt
148
with the loading of the small step vans of UPS at the Burton facility. Management assures the Union that bargaining unit employes will assist the drivers of these vehicles in the loading operation.
ISSUE #81 (Demand #P-017 - 2003)
Federal Express
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER:
Fed Ex employees will not perform Bargaining Unit work.
ISSUE #82 (Issue #25- 1979)
Maintenance ■ Truck Driver
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER:
In discussion of this demand, it was agreed that the use of a fork truck for Receiving and Shipping of Maintenance-related material is work that normally falls within the Division I Group. However, it is recognized that Division II employees will use a fork truck as a tool of the trade and in cases where special handling or rigging of such material is required, Receiving and Shipping of same will be performed by Division II employes.
ISSUE #83 (Issue #29 - 1984)
Preventative Maintenance
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER:
The parties agreed to reinstate Management's Answer to 1976 Issue #133, which reads as follows: "Management constantly strives through its preventative maintenance program to keep all operating equipment in good repair. Management assures the Union that the preventative maintenance program will be continued to insure proper equipment is available to meet operational requirements."
149
ISSUE #84 (Issue #71 - 1976)
Diesel Rate
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER:
Management will pay Truck Repair wages for truck repair work; however, it is agreed that a $.25 per hour allowance will be paid to Truck Repairmen for work performed on diesel equipment pursuant to the Local Wage Agreement rules.
ISSUE #85 (Issue #90- 1973)
Skilled Trades - Percent Working
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER:
It is not Management's intent to utilize non-skilled employes on work which is normally encompassed by skilled trades classifications. Overtime for skilled trades employes will be based on the same criteria utilized to schedule operational departments for overtime work.
ISSUE #86 (Demand #ST-028- 2003)
PM Scheduling
The Union demands that all Preventive Maintenance be scheduled based upon Manufacturers recommendations and /or jointly established best practices as agreed upon between the Union and Management Capacity Assurance Coordinators.
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER:
It is Management's intent to set PM schedules based upon OEM recommended service schedules. There may be circumstances wherein the recommended service schedules need to be altered
150
(i.e. operating conditions, frequency of use). When these situations arise, it is agreed that the rationale for the change will be reviewed and discussed between the Joint CAC's. Unresolved concerns will be referred to the Plant Quality Council for discussion and mutually satisfactory resolution.
ISSUE #87 (1987)
Safety Chains
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER:
Chains for the Maintenance Department are currently available. In addition, Management will continue to review this situation to insure MIOSHA regulations are maintained.
ISSUE #88 (1990)
Demand Management spray for mosquitoes through the spring and summer months.
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER:
The parties recognize that during certain times of the year, insects may become a nuisance. In the past, when these conditions have occurred appropriate action has been taken by Management to rectify the situation. The Union is assured that Management will continue to address these situations on a continued basis.
ISSUE #89 (1993)
Demand that Management has insect spray for employes in Paint Shop. GMARA will not give it out any more.
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER:
Insect repellent is normally stocked in the Maintenance crib for employe use during periods of high infestation of insects. It is Management's intent to insure an adequate supply of repellent is maintained.
151
ISSUE #90 (Demand #C-O41 - 1999)
Fire Brigade
MANAGEMENT’S ANSWER:
As final settlement to this demand it is agreed that meeting schedules and agendas will be set and published annually to aid in the communication of yearly fire brigade training.
ISSUE #91 (1990)
Demand when Management puts the line in Primer Alley on manual that all employes involved be compensated.
MANAGEMENT’S ANSWER:
The parties are in agreement to mutually establish a Methods Team comprised of Primer Alley employes to identify procedural changes that may be needed when operating conditions require the Primer Alley System to be placed on manual operation.
ISSUE #92 (1993)
Line in Primer Alley on manual. Demand Management abide by issue #232 of the 1990 local agreement. Establish a Methods Team comprised of Primer Alley employes to identify procedural changes that may be needed when operating conditions require the Primer Alley System be placed on manual operation.
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER:
The parties are agreeable to establish a procedure to be followed when conditions require the Primer Alley System be placed on manual operation.
152
ISSUE #93 (1990)
An improvement on amount of schooling and/or training that is made available to the tradesmen.
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER:
The parties discussed the importance of training its Skilled Trade employes. In this regard, the parties agree that as training needs are identified they should be brought forward to the Joint Quality Council for consideration.
ISSUE #94 (1990)
That Maintenance personnel be required to do the repair and calibration of the oilers on the paint line and be sent to the appropriate school in order to handle this job in a competent manner.
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER:
As settlement to this demand, Management agrees that the repair and calibration of the automated oilers in the Paint System will be assigned to the Machine Repair trade. It is further understood that the vendor will be used for periodic inspections and technical assistance as needed.
ISSUE #95 (1993)
That bottled water coolers replace the drinking fountains in the entire complex plant
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER:
Water samples taken as recently as November 1,1993, did not support the necessity to change to a different water supply system. The Union is assured it is Management's intent to continue the Planned Maintenance Program with regards to frequency in changing filters. If coloration or odor is detected from a particular
153
water fountain, a member of the health and safety committee should be notified so a sample can be taken for analyzation. With regard to those water fountains emitting water with an unpleasant taste, management will pursue with central office engineering an equitable solution to the problem. It is management's intent to insure safe drinking water be provided to all employes.
ISSUE #96 (1990)
Demand classified people stay in their classification when loaned out to another area if an employee is doing that job on the ticket.
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER:
As resolution to this demand, Management advises the Union that the Union's concerns in this area may be brought to Labor Relations to be addressed where circumstances dictate.
ISSUE #97 (Issue #186-1993)
For Plant Security to maintain the POW/MIA Flag at Gate #4 and also the Plant to furnish the Flag.
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER:
As a final settlement to the Union's concern, it is agreed that in addition to the conditions set forth in Local Issue #257, Management agrees to replace the POW/MIA Flag as needed, but not to exceed four (4) per year.
Management agrees that when it becomes necessary to remove the American Flag due to inclement weather conditions, Management will also remove the aforementioned UAW and POW/MIA Hags.
154
ISSUE #98 (1993)
Truck Repair - the bargaining unit repair all leased equipment.
MANAGEMENT'S ANSWER:
In final resolution of this demand, Management is agreeable to continue the practice of utilizing the Truck Repair classification to make ordinary type repairs to rental/lease industrial trucks. Out of the ordinary repairs, i.e., recalls, modifications, safety, engineering design problems, etc., may require the truck to be returned to the manufacturer for repair/replacement. Factory representatives called to the plant will be utilized for instructional purposes only.
ISSUE #99 (1993)
Management give disposition within 48 hours when an employe requests vacation time off before, during and after the vacation application period.
MANAGEMENT'S ANSWER:
In settlement of this demand, it is Management's intent to notify employes of the disposition of their vacation requests within two calendar weeks from the date of closure of the application period and to provide disposition of individual vacation requests within 48 hours of the request. The Shop Committee will be notified of any delays in this procedure.
ISSUE #100 (1993)
Preferred Job Selections - On all multiple moves of more than one (1) employe within the same classification the higher seniority employe has right to preferred job.
When more than one application is honored to a department high seniority will have preference to a particular job.
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER:
The parties recognize Management's right to job assignment. In 155
addressing the Union's concerns expressed during local negotiations, Management is agreeable to review with the union representatives manpower placements involving multiple moves into a specific classification and operational area prior to actual placement.
ISSUE #101 (Demand #C-086 - 2003)
Heaters and Fans - PM
The Union demands that all fans and heaters at the Flint Processing Center be identified for the Planned Maintenance process for cleaning, repairing, and/or replacement on a quarterly basis.
MANAGEMENT'S ANSWER:
Management will abide by the provisions set forth in the 2003 National Agreement Quality Network Planned Maintenance initiatives regarding this issue.
ISSUE #102 (1993)
Turn heat on all winter and spring. Don't turn off steam until June of each year.
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER:
In settlement of this demand, the parties will mutually agree to the start up and shut down of the heating system to the Plant.
ISSUE #103 (Demand #C-096 - 2003)
Heaters - Operational
The Union demands that issues surrounding HVAC at the Flint Processing Center be discussed and resolved to the satisfaction of both parties.
156
MANAGEMENT'S ANSWER:
Management and the Union will discuss and resolve mutual concerns regarding heat issues to the satisfaction of both parties. A committee will be established consisting of representatives from Maintenance, Shop Committee, and Labor Relations. The committee will report status updates to the PQC. Further, Plant heaters will be placed on a PM to ensure they are properly cleaned and maintained to the maximum operating efficiency.
ISSUE #104 (1993)
That every job classification have a job description and be posted.
MANAGEMENT'S ANSWER:
Management is agreeable to place applicable Method Team job descriptions in assigned work areas in the Paint Shop. The Parties understand that the job descriptions are general in nature and not to be interpreted as all encompassing.
ISSUE #105 (1993)
Demand that turnstiles be freewheeling at all times when exiting the plant.
MANAGEMENT'S ANSWER:
Granted
ISSUE #106 (1993)
APPRENTICE PROGRAM: Demand we implement Apprentice Program at Flint S.P.O.
MANAGEMENT'S ANSWER:
Much discussion transpired between the parties during local negotiations regarding the feasibility of an Apprenticeship Program 157
at the Flint Parts Plant. Based on the understanding reached between the parties, following these negotiations, Management will pursue with the GM-UAW Skilled Trades and Apprentice Committee the implementation of a Truck Repair Apprentice Training Program that is tailored to the needs of the Flint Parts Plant. Other trades will be pursued as requirements dictate.
ISSUE #107 (1993)
The Union demands that any mistake made by Management on manpower moves or shift preferences and brought to Management's attention by the Union be corrected without undue delay.
MANAGEMENT'S ANSWER:
As valid concerns are brought to the attention of Management, immediate steps will be taken to correct the situation.
ISSUE #108 (1993)
The Union demands that Management notify employees and the Union before they conduct an idle time study, or Methods Team analysis.
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER:
In discussion of this demand, the Union expressed concern relative to various Management studies commencing without prior communication with the affected employes and their Union representatives. The parties agree that such studies are sensitive in nature and could be conducted more effectively if affected personnel were notified in advance. The Union is assured that it is Management's intent to communicate in advance with both the affected employes and Union representatives prior to conducting such studies.
158
ISSUE #109 (1993)
Attendance: The Union demands that Management explain to employes who are required to substantiate all absences just what it means so that employes understand what Management's meaning is.
MANAGMENTS ANSWER:
An employee who is required to substantiate his/her absence must present evidence to Management establishing that the absence in question was for reasonable cause. In this regard, Management will review with its supervisors what is expected of the employe 1 when requiring substantiation and that the employee is made aware of what form of substantiation is required.
ISSUE #110 (Demand #ST-033 -1999)
Apprentice Continuance
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER:
The Parties will continue the Apprentice Program for Skilled Trades.
ISSUE #111 (2003)
Local Agreement - Printing
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER:
Management is agreeable to pay the cost of printing an adequate supply of 2003 Local Agreement books.
ISSUE #112 (Demand #C-137 - 1999)
Floor - Gate #3 Stairway
159
MANAGEMENT’S ANSWER:
As settlement to this demand Management will make the necessary repairs to the tunnel entrance stairs as deemed necessary , by the Joint Health and Safety Department per the stairway inspection procedure described in the Safety Manuel of Practice.
ISSUE #113 (Issue #0-17-1996)
Hospital Hours
MANAGEMENT’S ANSWER:
Presently the Medical Department is staffed twenty-four (24) hours per day Monday through Friday. Weekend coverage is determined on a weekly basis by Management based on the type of work and number of employees being scheduled. In addition, Management is in agreement to make first responder training available to maintenance employees.
ISSUE #114 (Demand #C-077 - 1999)
Floor - Gate #4 Covering
MANAGEMENT’S ANSWER:
Management will purchase additional floor covering to be used in the gate 4 area during periods of inclement weather. Additionally, concerns involving cleanliness should be brought to the attention of Labor Relations.
ISSUE#115 (IssueP-005- 1996) .
Sick Leave Bumping
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER:
When administering the manpower adjustment the parties agree that employees on sick leave may be replaced seniority permitting
160
by an employee who has a valid shift or time preference on file. Employees on sick leave who are transferred to a different starting time will be notified by certified mail.
ISSUE #116 (Demand SC-121 - 2003)
Floor - Resurfacing
The Union demands that Management repair and level out all floors in the Flint Processing Center and that all work be assigned to the properly classified Bargaining Unit members.
MANAGEMENT’S ANSWER:
Management will continue the practice of assigning floor repairs to the proper Bargaining Unit classification on an as needed basis.
ISSUE #117 (Demand #0-032 - 2003)
Fitness Center 24/7
The Union demands that the Wellness/Fitness Center be opened twenty-four hours a day, seven days a week.
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER:
Resolved on the basis the Fitness Center will be open 24 hours a day 7 days a week when the plant is operating. It is understood that misuse, abuse, theft and/or unauthorized usage could potentially be grounds for closure of the Fitness Center when not staffed. Concerns of this nature will be discussed and resolved by the Key 6. Installation of a suitable badge access system is required prior to 24 x 7 availability of the Fitness Center.
ISSUE #118 (Demand #C-026, C-088, C-122, P-001 - 1999)
Heat - Issues
161
MANAGEMENT’S ANSWER:
Much discussion took place relative to the above issues throughout these negotiations. As final resolution to the above demands, it is agreed that the heat in the Plant will be tested and operable prior to October 1, of each year. Additionally, a high speed door will be purchased and installed for the North East entrance (Tunnel) to Primer Alley. Further, the overhead heater located on Dock #7 between spots 10/11 will be relocated to an area between spots 6/7.
ISSUE #119 (Demand #ST-014 - 1999)
Battery - Machine Operator
Union demands that the Battery Machine Operator continue to rotate on a daily basis as per past practice for ergonomic reasons. '
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER:
As final settlement to this demand the parties agree to be guided by the recommendation of the joint ergonomics team regarding this issue.
ISSUE #120 (Demand #ST-O35 - 2003)
Battery Maintenance
MANAGEMENT’S ANSWER.
Settled on the basis of the Memorandum of Understanding regarding Opportunity Rapid Charge.
ISSUE #121 (Issue #P-064 -1996)
Battery Attendant Breaks
162
MANAGEMENT’S ANSWER:
As settlement to this demand Management agrees to provide adequate break time to all employees classified as battery attendant.
ISSUE #122 (Demand #0002 - 2003)
Vendors
The Union demands that all Vendors, Contractors, Suppliers, etc. that do business with the Flint Parts Plant Processing Center be unionized.
MANAGEMENT’S ANSWER:
Resolved on the basis that a list will be provided to the Union upon the conclusion of Local Negotiations.
ISSUE #123 (Issue #C-13 and P-91 -1996)
Safety Glasses Vendor
MANAGEMENT’S ANSWER:
Management and the Union will mutually agree on an additional vendor for safety glasses. It is understood that the vendor selected must be already approved and listed on the Corporate Contract.
ISSUE #124 (Demand #ST-024 - 2003)
Skilled Trades - Technology Training
The Union demands that Management provide all Division II
163
Bargaining Unit Employees with training in all new technologies applicable to their specific Skilled Trade group.
MANAGEMENT’S ANSWER:
Both the Union and Management agree that a highly trained Skilled Trades workforce is of paramount importance to the Flint Processing Center. As new technologies are introduced training needs will be jointly identified and pursued by the parties.
ISSUE #125 (Issue #ST-02- 1996)
Skilled Trades - Cross Training
MANAGEMENT’S ANSWER:
Those Skilled Trades employees classified as Electrician, Millwright or Pipefitter whom are desirous of cross training in Primer Alley within their own trade will be afforded the opportunity, as circumstances permit, on a straight time only basis.
ISSUE #126 (Issue #ST-35- 1996)
Apprentice Rate Changes
MANAGEMENTSANSWER:
Management understands the necessity of preparing the appropriate paper work for apprentices to receive applicable rate changes and tool allowances. In this regard, Management assures the Union that it will make every effort to ensure that apprentices receive their appropriate rate changes in a timely manner.
ISSUE #127 (Issue #16- 1973)
Cafeteria • Open All Shifts
164
MANAGEMENT’S ANSWER:
Use of the cafeteria is for the services available and shall not be used to consume the items purchased for employees on random relief.
Use of cafeteria facilities during periods of relief will be granted with the understanding that this use in no way expands or changes the relief system as presently constituted. It is agreed that abuses, misuses, or detriment to the efficiency of operations could result in discontinuance of this policy.
ISSUE #128 (Demand #0-039 - 2003)
Vacation - Eligibility
The Union demands that Management grant approval on all vacations to those Bargaining Unit members who have met the vacation application criteria. Furthermore, the Union demands that Management agree to hire vacation replacement employees to insure that all Bargaining Unit members vacation requests are granted.
MANAGEMENT’S ANSWER:
Management recognizes the desirability of providing vacation time off with pay, up to the vacation entitlement to which an employees seniority will entitle them to in a manner which preserves the maintenance of efficient operations while giving consideration to the desire of each employee. Accordingly, when A10 temporary vacation replacement employees are working in the plant, it is the intent of Management to allow employees the opportunity to take the time off they requested during the February vacation sign-up period. During periods of time when A10 employees are working in the plant, requests for time off not submitted during the sign-up period will be handled on an individual basis in line with contractual provisions and the efficiency of plant operations.
165
ISSUE #129 (Demand #ST-029 - 2003)
Skilled Trades - Safety Training
The Union demands that all Division II Bargaining Unit Employees be trained in all safety protocol.
MANAGEMENT’S ANSWER:
Management agrees to provide required safety training to all Division II employees.
ISSUE #130 (Issue #13- 1984)
Work Surfaces
MANAGEMENT’S ANSWER:
Management is intent on maintaining floor and yard surfaces in a proper state of repair. Damaged work surfaces should be brought to the attention of the Maintenance Department for appropriate action.
ISSUE #131 (Issue P-027 -1996, amended with Demand #C-030 -2003)
Medical Appointments (Pay)
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER:
It is not feasible to pay second and third shift employees for time spent at medical treatment outside of their regular shift. However, the Plant Medical doctor is in agreement to flex his/her hours one day per week to schedule appointments for second shift employees with work related illnesses and injuries at a closer proximity to their shift starting times. Second shift employees designated a time slot after 3:00 p.m. for medical appointment will be allowed to start their shift at the conclusion of their appointment.
166
ISSUE #132 (Issue P-010 - 1996)
Vacation (Mandatory Saturday)
MANAGEMENT’S ANSWER:
During discussion of this demand, the Union expressed concern over employees being forced to work a mandatory Saturday. It is recognized that an employee may need to be excused from working a Saturday deemed as a mandatory under the provisions of the plan B overtime agreement. Accordingly, requests for time off will be determined on an individual basis by management using the same criteria used during the week to determine requests for time off that were not preapproved during the vacation sign up period. Problems in this regard should be directed to higher management.
ISSUE #133 (Demand C-076 - 1999 )
ADA Accommodations
Union demands Management comply with provision of providing a sign language interpreter as needed for business related meetings, also for the visually and mentally impaired.
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER:
Management will make accommodation for employees with special needs in line with the American Disabilities Act (ADA) previsions.
ISSUE #134 (Demand #P-005 - 2003)
Supervisor Area-Letter Codes
The Union demands that the issue of supervisor area-letter codes be discussed and resolved to the satisfaction of both parties.
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER:
Settled as agreed to in the Cochrane / Laurin May 14, 2004 letter regarding supervisor letter codes.
167
ISSUE #135 (Demand #C-069 - 1999)
Business Plan
Union demands that Management review with all employees the Flint-SPO Parts Plant 5 Year Business Plan.
MANAGEMENT’S ANSWER:
Business considerations are based on the SQRCP Metric Process. This information is available to all employees on a daily basis.
ISSUE #136 (Demand #C-018-1999)
Coffee Machines
MANAGEMENT’S ANSWER:
Management agrees to install water filters on all vending coffee machines. The replacement filters will be scheduled through the preventative maintenance program (PM).
ISSUE #137 (Demand #ST-017-2003)
Crib - Inventory
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER:
It is Management intent to continue the current operating condition wherein, all inventory in the Maintenance Crib is purchased and managed through the On Line Material Purchasing and Inventory Control System (OLIMPIC). The system is programmed to do all of the maintenance stores ordering based on the min/max bank concept.
ISSUE #138 (Demand #C-096 -1999)
Desk Lamps
Union demands that Management provide desk lamps for all Checkers, Parts Handlers and Export workers.
168
MANAGEMENT’S ANSWER:
As final settlement to this demand, Management will provide desk lamps as mutually deemed necessary by the parties.
ISSUE #139 (Demand #0025 - 2003)
Dock #1 - Break Area
MANAGEMENT’S ANSWER:
It is recognized by both parties that the Conference Room may be available for use.
ISSUE #140 (Demand #0089 - 1999)
Docks #3 & #4 - Refrigerator
MANAGEMENT’S ANSWER:
Following negotiations Management agrees to provide an additional refrigerator in the Dock #3 and Dock #4 break area.
ISSUE #141 (Demand #0037 - 1999, amended with Demand #P-040-2003)
Docks - Switching
Union demands that ail trailers that are switched on all docks and all shifts be done with a UAW Parts Handler blocking and chocking each and every trailer. Grievance #0753501.
MANAGEMENT’S ANSWER:
The issues as discussed herein are resolved based on the R.W. Phillips letter relative to the above, dated November 30, 1999. Additionally, under present operating conditions the work of blocking and chocking trailers is work property assigned to the
169
Bargaining Unit (6683) Parts Handler classification. It is understood that the applicable provisions of the Local Wage Agreement will apply.
ISSUE #142 (Demand #0118- 1999)
Doors - Docks
MANAGEMENT’S ANSWER:
As settlement to this demand Management is in agreement to put the tension adjustment of the overhead doors on a thirty (30) day preventative maintenance review as compared to the existing ninety (90) day period.
ISSUE #143 (Demand #ST-031 ■ 1999)
Elpo Refurbishment
Union demands that Management place the maintenance efforts necessary to repair all deficiencies in the Elpo and Flo-Coat operations.
MANAGEMENT’S ANSWER:
Management advises the Union that efforts are presently underway to refurbish the Elpo system and to make necessary repairs found during the refurbishment process.
ISSUE #144 (Demand #0086 -1999)
Export Area - Improvements
MANAGEMENT’S ANSWER:
As final settlement to this demand, Management will add lighting and electrical outlets as mutually deemed necessary by the parties.
170
ISSUE #145 (Demand #C-091 - 1999)
Fans - Plant #2
MANAGEMENT’S ANSWER:
Following negotiations Management agrees to install one fan in the Export Department and two fans in Department #126.
ISSUE #146 (Demand #C-040 - 1999)
Fascia - Satellite
MANAGEMENT’S ANSWER:
As Final Settlement management agrees to install two doors, a Plexiglass window, a sound deflector and shade the windows above the satellite area.
ISSUE #147 (Demand #0-143 - 1999)
Fiberglass Wrap
Union demands that all fiberglass wrap be removed from all overhead pipes.
MANAGEMENT’S ANSWER:
Management’s plans are to continue the process of wrapping the pipes in question with a thin metal sheathing. This process has been successful in reducing the tears in the fiberglass insulation.
ISSUE #148 (Demand #C-085 - 1999)
Guardrail
Union demands that Management install guardrail in Dept.
171
0129 Drop-Off Area from EE-13 to EE-17 on both sides of the aisle and also in front of all restrooms for safety reasons.
MANAGEMENT’S ANSWER:
As settlement to this demand Management agrees to install a barrier in front of the permanent rack section in the Department #129 Drop Area. Additionally, guardrail will be installed in front of the restrooms deemed appropriate by the Safety Department.
ISSUE #149 (Demand #C-119 - 1999)
Guardrail - Roof
MANAGEMENT’S ANSWER:
The Safety Manual of Practice states, “Any employee approaching closer than six (6) feet to a roof edge must be protected by a standard barrier guard or be wearing a personal restraining mechanism which allows a drop of not more than six (6) feet". As such, the Flint Processing Center already has relocatable guardrails in place on the roof for employee use should a situation arise where an employee must be on the roof within the six (6) foot barrier limit.
ISSUE #150 (Demand #C-144 - 1999)
Guardrail - Work Stations
Union demands that guardrails be installed when employees work stations are exposed or near traffic.
MANAGEMENT’S ANSWER:
Management will be guided by the recommendations of the Joint Health and Safety Department regarding this issue.
172
ISSUE #151 (Demand #P- 006 - 1999)
Job Description - Export
Union demands that Export Department be provided job descriptions in written form with visual aids included.
MANAGEMENT’S ANSWER:
Standard operating procedures will be developed and posted in the Export Department.
ISSUE #152 (Demand SC-087 - 1999)
Lighting Improvements
MANAGEMENT’S ANSWER:
During these negotiations the parties held extensive discussion relative to the issue of lighting and its relationship to Safety and Quality. Although several actions have taken place to improve lighting levels, several areas of concern continue to exist. Therefore it is agreed that, Management will pilot ideas as they come forward in an effort to continue progress in this area. These pilot projects will include, but are not limited to, the following:
1.	Replacement process for burned out bulbs.
2.	Lights on Pick Trucks
3.	Use of new technology bulbs as they become available.
ISSUE #153 (Demand #C-021 - 1999)
Locker Rooms
MANAGEMENT’S ANSWER:
As part of the restroom renovation project, Management agrees to refurbish the existing showers in the Service Warehouse Men's and Women’s locker room. Additionally, plans are being made to
173
add a women's shower room Io the Processing Operational Area as part of the proposed wellness center.
ISSUE #154 (Demand SC-107 - 1999)
Lockers
Union demands that Management provide full size lockers to all bargaining unit members and that they be located near said employees job sites (size commensurate with Dept. 129 lockers).
MANAGEMENT’S ANSWER:
Full size lockers will be provided to all employees at the Flint Processing Center and be located in the vicinity of the employees work area.
ISSUE #155 (Demand #P-016 - 1999)
Lunch - Plant #2
Union demands that Plant #2 lunch period start at 11:00 a.m. for 1st shift employees.
MANAGEMENT’S ANSWER:
Under present operating conditions the lunch period in the Service Warehouse will be scheduled from 11:00 a.m. to 11:30 a.m. Should conditions arise which necessitate a change, Management will notify the Union in advance under the provisions of Paragraph 88 of the National Agreement.
ISSUE #156 (Demand #P-013- 1999)
Metal Finishers
174
MANAGEMENT'S ANSWER:
Management will employ a sufficient number of Metal Finishers on first and second shifts to ensure a quality process while maintaining the efficiency of operations.
ISSUE #157 (Demand #ST-016 - 2003)
Paint Totes - Transport
MANAGEMENT’S ANSWER:
It is Management’s intent to use the Millwright trade to transport Paint Totes within the plant. However, it is understood there may be emergency occasions when a Truck Driver may have to move a Paint Tote.
ISSUE #158 (Demand #0-148 - 1999)
Parking Lot - Changes
MANAGEMENT’S ANSWER:
Shop Committee input will be involved in any changes to the East and West Parking Lots. The safety of plant employees will be assured prior to making any changes.
ISSUE #159 (Demand #C-003 - 1999)
Parking Lot - Safety
Union demands clearly painted lines be maintained by our bargaining unit members for entering and exiting parking lots, including directional arrows to aid in the traffic flow and safety.
MANAGEMENT’S ANSWER:
The parking lots at the Flint Processing Center are painted as needed depending upon the condition of the painted lines. In addition, to increase safe driving habits in the East parking lot, a barrier fence is being installed to separate the North and South
175
halves of the lot. Further, the West entrance to the East parking lot will be re-opened to enhance the flow into and out of the parking area.
ISSUE #160 (Demand #P-008- 1999)
Order Selectors
Union demands that new Order Selectors be purchased for all pickers in high rise.
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER:
At the time funds become available Management will give top consideration to replacing the trucks in question.
ISSUE #161 (Demand #C-024 - 1999)
Payroll-Confidential
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER:
Management will remove the social security number and the net pay amount from the draft delivery list prior to check distribution.
ISSUE #162 (Demand #C-074 - 1999, amended with Demand #C-126-2003)
Payroll-Distribution
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER:
Normally payroll checks will be distributed to all shifts on Wednesday of each week. It is understood that there may be unforeseen circumstances (i.e. Holidays, etc.) which may alter this pay procedure. Checks will continue to be dated for cashing purposes on Thursday. Continued violations of this check cashing policy may be grounds for canceling this agreement. It is
176
Management intent to make a good faith effort to issue pay checks by 10:00 am on Thursday when available if not available on Wednesday.
ISSUE #163 (Demand #0-028 - 1999)
Payroll - Logged
Union demands that the direct deposit paychecks be logged back in at Personnel in the same manner as the regular blue paychecks are.
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER:
Granted.
ISSUE #164 (Demand #C-013 - 1999, amended 2003)
Personnel - Hours
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER:
As a means to provide continued service to the second shift the Personnel office will continue the present practice of keeping the office open into second shift hours. Additionally, a Personnel Representative will arrange to stay beyond the start of the 5:18 p.m. shift as special circumstances require.
ISSUE #165 (Demand #ST-018- 1999)
Phone-Powerhouse
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER:
As final settlement Management agrees to install one telephone with outside call capability in the powerhouse office.
177
ISSUE #166 (Demand #C-045 - 1999)
Phone-T.D.D. Plant #2
Union demands Local Issue #191 be amended to provide a booth built for a T.D.D. phone in primer alley. Also, that a
T.D.D. phone and booth be provided for plant 2.
MANAGEMENT’S ANSWER:
The phone in question will be placed in a suitable area for its intended use.
ISSUE #167 (Demand #C-038 - 1999)
Phones - Inplant
MANAGEMENT'S ANSWER:
As final settlement Management agrees to install in-plant emergency telephones where deemed appropriate by the parties.
ISSUE #168 (Demand #0039 - 1999)
Phones-Pay
Union demands that pay phones be installed in or at Dock 7, Dock 1, Fascia and that these and all existing pay phones be enclosed.
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER:
As final settlement Management agrees to relocate the existing pay phones to other areas of the plant as the parties deem appropriate.
178
ISSUE #169 (Demand SST-001 - 1999)
Pipes - Identification
Union demands that all pipes in the facility, including Burton, be painted to identify gas, steam, water, etc. and that all work be done by our painter classification per UAW GM pipe labeling agreement.
MANAGEMENT'S ANSWER:
Management will be guided by the applicable provisions on piping systems found on page #74 of the Safety Manual of Practice.
ISSUE #170 (Demand #C-112 -2003)
Plant Appearance
The Union demands that all plant physical properties and equipment in disrepair be repaired and/or replaced as needed, and that all work be performed by the proper Bargaining Unit classifications. Furthermore, all work to be completed within six (6) months of the Local Agreement ratification.
MANAGEMENT'S ANSWER:
The subject of this Demand has been thoroughly discussed between the parties, The parties will jointly identify necessary repairs following negotiations. Management will address areas of mutual concern. Future concerns should be brought to Management’s attention. Issues identified will be addressed as mutually agreed.
ISSUE #171 (Demand #0105- 2003)
Front Office
179
MANAGEMENT’S ANSWER:
Based upon current conditions, SPO Flint Processing Center employees will continue to provide sanitation and maintenance coverage while the Front Office building remains open. Furthermore, in the event the Front Office building is repopulated : the sanitation and maintenance work will be assigned to the proper
Bargaining Unit classifications.
ISSUE #172 (Demand #ST-003, ST-004 - 1999)
Powerhouse
Union Demands that Management assign Powerhouse in Burton to the Stationary Engineer classification. Demand the Union be advised of Management’s plans on the Flint and Burton Powerhouses and that Powerhouse Fireperson and Repairperson be classified accordingly so that said employees be allowed to continue Powerhouse Maintenance in its entirety.
MANAGEMENT’S ANSWER:
The work associated with maintaining the boiler system at the Burton Warehouse will be assigned to Powerhouse Personnel. Further, at the time of the Powerhouse conversion the parties agree to seek an amendment to the Local Wage Agreement to reclassify the employees assigned to the Powerhouse Fire- person (0135) and Powerhouse Repairperson (0140) trade to the Powerhouse Stationary Engineer classification (5679). Further Management agrees to provide the training, if required, for the employees impacted by this agreement, per the 1999 National Agreement.
ISSUE #173 (Demand #C-133- 1999)
Project - Completion Dates
Union demands that all agreed upon projects and/or work orders identified through negotiations be given a completion
MANAGEMENT’S ANSWER:
At the conclusion of Local Negotiations items requiring completion will be reviewed on a weekly basis during Shop Committee meetings until the completion of each project.
ISSUE #174 (Demand #P-025- 1999)
Protective Clothing - Battery Job
MANAGEMENT’S ANSWER:
Employees assigned to the Battery Attendant classification will be provided with boots to protect their shoes when working in the Battery Charging Area.
ISSUE #175 (Demand #C-043, C-019 - 1999)
Protective Clothing - Policy
Union demands any employee required to work in dock wells or outside in cold inclement weather be paid a boot allowance of $200.00 annually or as needed for the purchase of insulated American Union made boots.
Union demands all cold weather clothing be cleaned and same clothing be returned to the same employee that turned it in or employee be allowed to clean same set of cold weather clothing.
MANAGEMENT’S ANSWER:
It Management's position that the existing policy of returning all cold weather gear in June for cleaning and inventory purposes is proper. To resolve the issue at hand, Management will add to the existing cold weather gear policy, allowing those employees who
181
returned cold weather gear in June to check the same item back out at the start of the next years cold weather season two weeks prior to the date of any new issuance of cold weather gear. It is understood that the employee must still be entitled to the use of cold weather gear for this policy to apply. Additionally, it is agreed that those employees assigned to chock and block trailers in the truck wells will be issued insulated boots. The parties agree that employees who are entitled to insulated boots are required to return them upon leaving this assignment.
ISSUE #176 (Demand #ST-009 - 1999)
Racks-Repair
Union demands that all rack repair be done by our skilled trades bargaining unit members (including welding, fabricating, painting, replacing wood floors, etc.) on site and that no contracts be let out for rack repair.
MANAGEMENT’S ANSWER:
As settlement to this demand, the Union may present a proposal to insource this work which will be presented at a jobs committee meeting following the conclusion of Local Negotiations.
ISSUE #177 (Demand #C-104 - 1999)
Rail Dock Plant #2 - Break Area
MANAGEMENT’S ANSWER:
As final settlement to this demand, it is agreed that a guardrail will be installed around the existing break area on the rail dock..
ISSUE #178 (Demand #C-087 - 2003)
Restrooms Refurbishing
182
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER:
At the conclusion of Local Negotiations the parties agree to identify and develop a punch list of repairs in an expeditious manner. Once a list has been established, a time table will be developed so that repairs are monitored to completion.
ISSUE #179 (Demand #C-065 - 1999)
R.I.F.
Union demands that all (R.I.F.) and off sites be staffed by our members.
MANAGEMENT’S ANSWER:
Management agrees to be guided by the provisions as set forth in the 1999 National Agreement.
ISSUE #180 (Demand #C-105 - 1999)
Safety Tours
Union demands that Management provide language in the Local Agreement to allow the alternate committee persons to conduct weekly safety tours with supervisors.
MANAGEMENT’S ANSWER:
Mutually resolved between the parties.
ISSUE #181 (Demand #ST-O24 -1999)
Screen Guard- Primer Alley
Union demands that the Screen Guard in Primer Alley be restarted and done to completion in regards to expanding metal on the walking surface of the conveyor screen guard.
183
MANAGEMENT’S ANSWER:
At the present time, there are no plans to install the expanding metal on the surface of the conveyor screen guard. The additional weight of the expanding metal would require a complete reengineering of the entire screen guard and primer alley steel structure which cannot be cost justified at this time. Moreover, the structure as it exists today is sound structurally and safe for employees to be on. Accordingly, Management agrees to retrofit the ladders used on the screen guard with wider bases to give each ladder greater stability.
ISSUE #182 (Demand #0-110 - 1999)
Skill Center - SPO
Union demands that the SPO Skill Center be moved from Swartz Creek schools back to the plant.
MANAGEMENT’S ANSWER:
At the present time, plans are for the SPO Skill Center to be moved from the Swartz Creek Adult Education Building to the SPO Flint Processing Center.
ISSUE #183 (Demand ST-013-1999)
Skilled Trades - Assignments
Union demands that all Division II work remain with Division II employees with no exceptions.
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER:
Skilled trades work assignments will be made in line with Paragraphs 182,183 and Appendix F of the National Agreement.
184
ISSUE #184 (Demand #ST-014 - 2003)
Skilled Trades - Retain Classifications
The Union demands that all Skilled Trades classifications be retained and populated to the satisfaction of both parties throughout the duration of the 2003 Local Agreement.
MANAGEMENT ANSWER:
Settled as resolved in the 2003 Local Wage Agreement.
ISSUE #185 (Demand C-124 - 1999)
Steam Room - Plant #2
Union demands that sound proof the steam room in Plant 2.
MANAGEMENT’S ANSWER:
It is Management's intention to clean up the area in and around the Service Warehouse steam room. In addition, the door leading into the area will be kept shut, which will alleviate some noise concerns. Additionally, the pressure reducer valve will be insulated to reduce noise.
During the start-up phase of the 1999-2000 heating season, the parties will work together to reduce/eliminate additionally identified noise issues.
ISSUE # 186 (Demand #C-068 - 1999)
Store-UAW/GM
Union demands that Management provide for a SAFETYAJAW-GM Pride Store to be stocked with Union Made/American Made products.
185
MANAGEMENT’S ANSWER:
Management will provide an area for a UAW operated plant store. The Local Union will be responsible for inventory, staffing, financial considerations and compliance with all Federal Government, State Government, Local Government and GM Corporation rules and regulations.
Store operating hours will be restricted to breaks, lunch, and before and after shifts, on days the plant is open for normal operation. Further, it is understood, the store will not interfere with the efficiency of plant operations.
Merchandise sold at the store is not to be inflammatory nor offensive, will not compete with other activities in the plant and will offer a mix of UAW and GM Logo items. Any problems with the plant store will be brought to the attention of the Union. If they continue without resolution, Management can determine the cessation of the store operation.
ISSUE #187 (Demand #C-153 - 1999)
Trailer Doors
Union demands a bargaining unit employee be assigned to oil all trailer doors on a regularly scheduled full time basis.
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER:
It is Management's position that the oiling of trailer doors is not the responsibility of the Flint Processing Center. Trailer doors which cannot be safely opened should be red tagged and the Traffic Department notified so the trailer can be called out for repair.
ISSUE #188 (Demand #P-012 - 1999)
Training-Quality
186
MANAGEMENT’S ANSWER:
The parties agree to use the GM/UAW Joint Training Coordinator to assist in providing appropriate quality training for the Flint Processing Center.
ISSUE #189 (Demand SST-021 - 1999)
Training - Safety
Union demands that Management build a Safety Training Center with a classroom, simulated confined space platform, video equipment that won’t interfere with employee break areas.
MANAGEMENT’S ANSWER:
It is Management's intent that the Flint Processing Center use all available resources to provide the highest quality safety training for all Flint Processing Center employees.
ISSUE #190 (Demand #0128-1999)
Tunnel - Condensation
MANAGEMENT’S ANSWER:
As settlement Management agrees to install wall-mount fans in the tunnel to reduce the condensation build up during humid days.
ISSUE #191 (Demand #0073 - 1999)
Uniforms - Contract
MANAGEMENT’S ANSWER:
Management will inform the Union of any changes to the uniform vendor.
187
ISSUE #192 (Demand #C-117 - 1999)
Wastewater - Sludge Removal
MANAGEMENT’S ANSWER:
It is Management's position that the cited areas do not need to be enclosed as they are properly diked to handle emergency situations. Furthermore, removal of sludge and wastewater are done during off shift hours so as to not interfere with regular shift operations.
ISSUE #193 (Demand #C-121 - 1999)
Windows
Union demands that all windows/smoke vents be repaired so that they are operable.
MANAGEMENT’S ANSWER:
As final settlement to this demand Management agrees to repair and/or replace the broken windows and frames along the bank of smoke monitor windows located above processing south.
ISSUE #194 (Demand # C-023 - 1999)
Work Orders
MANAGEMENT’S ANSWER:
This issue is resolved on the basis of the new Planned Maintenance work order system which is intended to better track and prioritize maintenance work orders.
ISSUE #195 (Demand #C-005 - 1999)
Yard - Maintained
188
Resurface to include lines painted and maintained by our Bargaining Unit employees to keep rows for picking in the rack yard, shroud yard and areas not completed to reduce trip hazards, cut down on back injuries and increase our safety potential. This resurfacing must be done within the first six months of the new contract. Additionally, proper snow removal to be accomplished with each snow fall.
MANAGEMENT’S ANSWER:
Identified areas of concern in the yard will be addressed. In addition, lines will be painted on a trial basis in the processing and shroud yards to determine if this approach increases safety and organization in the outside yards.
ISSUE #196 (Demand #0-001 -1999, amended with Demand #P-015-2003)
Yard - Racks
Union demands that anytime racks are being brought to or taken from Plant 1 Operational Area Rack Yard, Plant 1 Operational Area members will be in attendance to do the work.
MANAGEMENT’S ANSWER:
Resolved on the Phillips-DeVore settlement letter, dated 12/3/99, which stales,
“As final settlement it is agreed that employees assigned to the Plant #2 Operational Area can drop off racks in the identified rack marshalling areas in the outside Yard. Further, it is the responsibility of the Department 311 Yard drivers to locate the racks from the marshalling areas into storage areas other than the identified rack marshalling areas.”
189
ISSUE #197 (Demand #C-008- 1999)
Yard - Truck Storage
MANAGEMENT'S ANSWER:
It is Management’s intent to use the coal shed as a housing area for yard trucks when the Powerhouse is converted to natural gas. In the mean time Management agrees that yard trucks will be housed during cold weather periods in the Dock #1 garage area.
ISSUE #198 (Demand C-#147- 1999)
Tornado - Skywarn
Union demands that Management monitor and maintain skywarn communications system.
MANAGEMENT’S ANSWER:
Pinkerton Security monitors the Civil Defense radio broadcast during periods of inclement weather. Should warnings be issued the Genesee County Central Dispatch notifies our Plant immediately as we are the lead contact point for all Flint area GM sites that are east of our location.
ISSUE #199 (Demand #C-003-2003)
Union Label
The Union Demands that all product shipped from the Flint Processing Center be stamped with a “proudly processed by UAW Local 659 Membership” logo.
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER:
Resolved on the basis this topic will be discussed at the Plant Quality Council for practical and cost effective implementation.
190
ISSUE #200 (Demand #0088 - 2003)
Sourcing - Access
The Union Demands that the Local Sourcing Representative at the Flint Processing Center be allow access to all off-site locations.
MANAGEMENT'S ANSWER:
The Union will be allowed access to off-site locations provided proper procedures are followed and appropriate authorizations are obtained.
ISSUE #201 (Demand #C-103 - 2003)
Sourcing - Opportunities
The Union Demands that Management make a long term commitment to the Flint Processing Center by insourcing additional processing, warehousing, and distribution work. Further, the Union demands that Management invest in necessary capital resources in plant equipment and technology required to secure and enhance future employment
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER:
Much discussion took place between the parties regarding the issue of sourcing. Management is committed to working with the Union to investigate all opportunities to insource new work.
ISSUE #202 (Demand #C-100 - 2003)
Work - Bargaining Unit
The Union Demands that all Flint Processing Center business related paperwork and computer work be properly assigned
191
to the Bargaining Unit employees at the Flint Processing Center.
MANAGEMENT’S ANSWER:
In final settlement of this demand, Management and Union will abide by the decisions from the Jacksonville Leadership Meeting, held June 19-20,2001. It was agreed that Management is not to perform Bargaining Unit Work. Some examples of Bargaining Unit work are chasing, inventorying, and locating stock. The parties also recognize that Management may assist hourly employees in resolving issues regarding these tasks.
Further, concerns regarding workplace environment should be raised at the Plant Quality Council. It is understood that this document does not circumvent any provisions or rights afforded under the 2003 National Agreement.
ISSUE #203 (Demand #C-109- 2003)
Management - Working
The Union demands that all Management/Supervision personnel be limited to contractual verbal instruction and direction only and that all physical work be performed by the properly classified Flint Processing Center Bargaining Unit Members.
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER:
Management will abide by Paragraph 3 and 215 of the National Agreement.
ISSUE #204 (Demand #P-012- 2003)
Rolled Belts
The Union demands that Management supply rolled belts to the Flint Processing Center.
192
MANAGEMENT’S ANSWER:
Management currently utilizes the services of Genesee County Association for Retarded Citizens (GCARC) to untangle and roll rack belts for the Flint Processing Center. Based upon current operating conditions, it is Management's intent to continue this practice.
ISSUE #205 (Demand #P-027 - 2003)
Fire Equipment Person ■ Replacement
MANAGEMENT’S ANSWER:
In the event an additional Fire Equipment person is required on a temporary basis, applicable provisions of the Local Agreement will be adhered to. Management is agreeable to train two (2) replacement Fire Equipment persons. It is Management's intent to retain two (2) trained temporary replacement Fire Equipment persons.
ISSUE #206 (Demand #P-041 - 2003)
Inspector - Replacement
The Union demands that the issue of Inspector replacements be discussed and resolved to the satisfaction of both parties.
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER:
Management is agreeable to post for six (6) unit wide temporary replacement Inspectors. The six (6) highest seniority applicants chosen will be appropriately trained. These employees will be used for absences, vacations, and disability leaves etc. When it becomes necessary to loan a trained employee to the Inspection Departments, Management will use trained high seniority volunteers on the shift affected prior to forcing the trained low
193
seniority employee to another shift. Those trained employees will be used to supplement the Inspection equalization groups after all the proper Inspection equalization groups have been canvassed. Furthermore, the current trained employees identified will be added to the list of trained temporary replacement Inspectors. It is understood between the parties that employees must satisfactorily complete their training to remain in the absentee replacement pool. It is Management's intent to retain six (6) trained temporary replacement Inspectors.
ISSUE #207 (Demand #P-047 - 2003)
Garage
MANAGEMENT’S ANSWER:
Management is agreeable to reinstate the Phillips-DeVore letter, dated 11/29/99. Further, Management agrees that the work of cleaning and maintaining the former Administrative Offices Executive Garage will continue to be assigned to the proper Bargaining Unit classifications, on an as needed basis.
ISSUE #208 (Demand #0-008-2003)
Hot Water Dispenser - Cafeteria
The Union demands that Management purchase and have Bargaining Unit members install a “hot water dispenser” in the cafeteria with access during all shift times for all employees use.
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER:
Management is agreeable to install a hot water dispenser in the cafeteria.
194
ISSUE #209 (Demand #C-115- 2003)
Hot Water Dispenser - Break Areas
The Union demands that Management purchase and have Bargaining Unit members install "hot water dispensers" in all satellite and break areas at the Flint Parts Plant and the Burton Facility.
MANAGEMENT’S ANSWER:
Management is agreeable to install hot water dispensers in the satellite areas.
ISSUE #210 (Demand #0-013-2003)
East Tunnel - Repair
The Union demands that Management replace and repair the material on the sides and roof of the tunnel on the east end of the Paint Shop going out to the yard. Work to be done by the proper skilled trades at the Flint SPO location.
MANAGEMENT’S ANSWER:
Management is agreeable to make necessary repairs to the tunnel at the east end of the Paint Shop.
ISSUE #211 (Demand #C-015- 2003)
Wind Curtain
The Union demands Management to repair or replace the wind curtain at the west end of the hang side of the Paint Shop. Work to be done by the proper skilled trades at the SPO Flint location.
195
MANAGEMENT’S ANSWER:
Management is agreeable to repair/replace sections of the wind curtain at the west end of the hang lines, as necessary.
ISSUE #212 (Demand #0024 - 2003)
Rail Dock Plant #2 - Windbreak
MANAGEMENT’S ANSWER:
Management is agreeable to installation of a windbreak to protect from cold during rail switch.
ISSUE #213 (Demand #C-048 - 2003)
Doors - Openers
The Union demands that all dock doors (inside) be retrofitted with electric openers at the Flint Processing Center.
MANAGEMENT’S ANSWER:
Union and Management share a common concern for employee safety in the workplace. Specifically, the shared concern of force required to manually open dock doors has been the subject of discussion, with exploration of viable alternatives, at Plant Safety Review Board meetings. From those discussions, it is agreed that the feasibility of dock door openers will be explored. One opener unit has been ordered and is scheduled for installation and testing for potential application to docks 1, 6, and 7. Union and Management are jointly involved in this process and will work toward a mutually satisfactory resolution of any obstacles which may arise which may prevent implementation of door openers. Applications to docks 3 & 4 will follow implementations on docks 1,6, and 7. Status updates to be provided to PSRB (Plant Safety Review Board).
196
ISSUE #214 (Demand #C-062 - 2003)
Phone-ELPO Lab
The Union demands that Management install a telephone line with outside call capability in the Primer Alley ELPO Lab.
MANAGEMENT’S ANSWER:
As final settlement it is agreed to install a telephone line with outside capability in the ELPO lab. It is understood that the outside line is being installed for business purposes only and that its usage will be monitored on a monthly basis. Abuses in this regard will be viewed as sufficient grounds to reverse the outside call capability of the aforecited phone.
ISSUE #215 (Demand #0-111.-2003)
Gate #4 - Repairs
MANAGEMENT’S ANSWER:
In final settlement of this demand Management agrees to make necessary repairs to the gate #4 awning and heat lamp assembly.
ISSUE #216 (Demand #C-113 - 2003)
Vents - Repaired
The Union demands that all vents (roof and window) be inspected, and repaired (as needed) in the spring of every year as to be ready for the summer, also, this includes the Burton facility. All work be performed by the proper Bargaining Unit classifications.
MANAGEMENT’S ANSWER:
The subject of this demand has been thoroughly discussed between the parties. The parties will jointly identify necessary
197
repairs following negotiations. Management will address areas of mutual concern. Future concerns should be brought to Management's attention. Issues identified will be addressed as mutually agreed.
ISSUE #217 (Demand #C-114- 2003)
Shower - Curtains
MANAGEMENT’S ANSWER:
Management is agreeable to provide new shower curtains and to maintain the shower rooms as appropriate. An adequate supply of replacement shower curtains will be maintained in the crib.
ISSUE #218 (Demand #0119 - 2003)
Yard - Shacks
MANAGEMENT’S ANSWER:
Management agrees to make necessary repairs and repaint yard shacks as needed. Further, a cleaning schedule will be developed to ensure that shacks will be cleaned properly on a regularly scheduled basis.
ISSUE #219 (Demand #0123 - 2003)
Satellite Areas - Refurbished
MANAGEMENT’S ANSWER:
Management agrees with the Union that the satellite areas should be maintained in a safe and clean manner. Following these negotiations, Management and Union will tour the satellite areas and jointly develop a list of necessary repairs and cleaning. The parties will also review the current seating to determine adequacy 198
based upon usage and the necessity of furniture repair/replace-ment based upon condition.
ISSUE #220 (Demand #C-125 -2003)
Parking Lots - Repairs
MANAGEMENT’S ANSWER:
Management is agreeable to perform necessary minor repairs in the employee parking lots. Further, as appropriate, resealing and re-striping will be performed as deemed necessary. In the event major repairs are deemed necessary, Management will pursue funding via the A.R. process. Major repairs will be dependent upon available funding.
ISSUE #221 (Demand #0-091 - 2003)
Towels - Work Areas
The Union demands that Management supply paper towels to all lines and all work areas at the Flint Processing Center.
MANAGEMENT'S ANSWER:
Management is agreeable to provide/install 15 paper towel dispensers. The locations will be identified by the Union.
ISSUE #222 (Demand #0-090 - 2003)
Towels - Reinforced
MANAGEMENT’S ANSWER:
It is agreed to supply reinforced paper toweling to the sanitation and maintenance departments.
199
ISSUE #223 (Demand #C-097 - 2003)
Fluids - Heat
MANAGEMENT’S ANSWER:
Under present operating conditions it is agreed that the current practice of providing beverages to the Plant Membership when heat and humidity index are at dangerous levels is adequate.
ISSUE #224 (Demand #0-049 - 2003)
Blood Drive
The Union demands Management, with resolution; have discussion pertaining to Bargaining Unit members giving blood at the Flint Processing Center.
MANAGEMENT’S ANSWER:
It is Management's intent to encourage all employees to participate in the in-plant Red Cross blood drives. It is understood that the scheduling of time off the job to participate will be based on daily business needs and area absenteeism. Further, this topic is referred to Plant Quality Council for development of an SOP.
ISSUE #225 (Demand #0-035-2003)
Fitness Center - Audio/Video
The Union demands Management abide by the guidelines of the Center for Human Resources by installing audio and video equipment in the Wellness/Fitness Center. To be installed by the proper skilled trades group.
MANAGEMENT’S ANSWER:
Management agrees to install the audio and video equipment as
200
listed below in the Wellness Center: Stereo sound system -including console AM/FM, receiver, CD/cassette player and ceiling speakers.
All associated integration components - wall plates, connectors and cabling.
Boom box.
4 - 25” televisions.
2 - 25” televisions with VCR/DVD.
ISSUE #226 (Demand #C-053 - 2003)
First Responder Equipment
The Union demands that Management, with resolution, replace wom out or outdated equipment for the "First Responders” at the Flint Processing Center.
MANAGEMENT’S ANSWER:
Management has recently provided new communication devices to the First Responder Team.
The Plant Safety Review Board, which includes the Plant Medical Director and Local Joint Health and Safety Committee, will develop an SOP focused on keeping First Responder supplies current (I.E., replacing wom out equipment).
ISSUE #227 (Demand #C-064 - 2003)
Breathing Apparatus
The Union demands that Management purchase SCBA equipment for specific areas in the Flint Processing Center
201
and that the issue be discussed and resolved to the satisfaction of both parties.
MANAGEMENT’S ANSWER:
Management is agreeable to purchase two (2) self contained breathing apparatus units.
ISSUE #228 (Demand #C-065 - 2003)
Powerhouse - Safety Tools
MANAGEMENT'S ANSWER:
In final settlement of this Demand, Management recently purchased two (2) sets of non-conductive tools for the Stationary Engineers. Management will also provide two (2) 100 foot hazard proof trouble lights.
ISSUE #229 (Demand #C-067 - 2003)
Wearable Gas Meters
MANAGEMENT’S ANSWER:
Management is agreeable to purchased two (2) “four-gas" wearable gas meters.
ISSUE #230 (Demand #C-068-2003)
ELPO - Noise Deadener
The Union demands that noise deadening sound enclosures be installed around the ELPO paint system pumps (spray pumps, paint and chemical pumps and any other noise source in ELPO paint and oven) to be identified by the UAW Industrial Hygiene Technician.
Furthermore, all work to be performed by the proper
202
Bargaining Unit classifications.
MANAGEMENT’S ANSWER:
This subject is referred to the Plant Safety Review Board for discussion and mutually satisfactory resolution. Corrective action will be taken on pumps, motors, etc., that exceed the allowable Health and Safety DCB readings based upon applicable Health and Safety Guidelines.
ISSUE #231 (Demand #C-069 - 2003)
Powerhouse - Noise Deadener
The Union demands that noise deadening sound enclosures be installed around Powerhouse compressors, fans, blowers, and any other noise source identified by the UAW Industrial Hygiene Technician.
Furthermore, all work to be performed by the proper Bargaining Unit classifications.
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER:
This subject is referred to the Plant Safety Review Board for discussion and mutually satisfactory resolution. Corrective action will be taken on pumps, motors, etc., that exceed the allowable Health and Safety DCB readings, based upon applicable Health and Safety Guidelines.
ISSUE #232 (Demand #P-014 - 2003)
Training • Requests
MANAGEMENT’S ANSWER:
Management and Union are in agreement that a well-trained workforce is beneficial to improving the competitive position of the Flint Processing Center. Based upon current operating conditions,
203
employee requests for cross-training will be given consideration. Time in affording the requested training will be dependent upon operational efficiencies and absenteeism. Management will make a good faith effort to honor training requests in a timely manner.
ISSUE #233 (Demand #ST-002 - 2003)
Powerhouse - Eliminate Swing Shift
The Union demands that the Powerhouse swing shift be eliminated and that Management place Stationary Engineers on regular shifts.
MANAGEMENT’S ANSWER:
Satisfactorily resolved on the basis of the MOU regarding Powerhouse Staffing.
ISSUE #234 (Demand #ST-003 - 2003)
Powerhouse - Burton Manpower
MANAGEMENT’S ANSWER:
In those work assignments involving recognized hazards, Management will assign the appropriate number of Skilled Trades personnel. Management will continue to review work at issue to insure adequate manpower is assigned and employee safety is maintained. When such assignments involve work situations which may be hazardous to an employee, appropriate precautions will be taken.
ISSUE #235 (Demand #ST-005- 2003)
Powerhouse - TV Monitor
204
MANAGEMENT’S ANSWER:
Management agrees to install a TV monitor connected to the Plant communication system in the Powerhouse control room.
ISSUE #236 (Demand #ST-012 - 2003)
Powerhouse - Training
The Union demands that Management provide training classes on Powerhouse controls, calibration, and technical troubleshooting for all Stationary Engineers.
MANAGEMENT’S ANSWER:
Satisfactorily resolved on the basis that Stationary Engineers will continue to receive proper and adequate training in all phases of their trade. It is of mutual interest to both parties that appropriate training is provided to the Stationary Engineers as increased technological changes are introduced.
ISSUE #237 (Demand #ST-013-2003)
Powerhouse - Safety Shoes
The Union demands that Management provide safety shoes to all Stationary Engineers.
MANAGEMENT’S ANSWER:
Management is agreeable to purchase one (1) pair of boots for each Stationary Engineer commensurate in type to those provided for Parts Handlers assigned to working in dock wells.
ISSUE #238 (Demand #ST-015-2003)
Millwright/Welder - Motorized Flatbed
The Union demands that Management supply the
205
Millwright/Welders Skilled Trades classification with a two-person flatbed motorized Taylor-Dunn type wagon.
MANAGEMENT’S ANSWER:
Management is agreeable to provide a flatbed for use by the Millwright/Welders.
ISSUE #239 (Demand #ST-018 - 2003)
Idled Plant Equipment
The Union demands that there be a process established whereby the Flint Parts Plant Maintenance Department can identify and secure useful Plant equipment from idled or closed GM facilities.
MANAGEMENT’S ANSWER:
Management will investigate the feasibility of this request. If it is determined that useful equipment is available, the parties will work collectively to secure items beneficial to the Flint Processing Center.
ISSUE #240 (Demand #ST-025 - 2003)
Outside - Representatives
The Union demands that anytime any company or factory representatives come on site for warranty issues, technical assistance, or inspections, all physical work will be performed by the proper Flint Processing Center Bargaining Unit employees.
MANAGEMENT’S ANSWER:
It is Management’s intention to continue the practice of utilizing factory representatives called to the Plant for instructional purposes only.
206
ISSUE #241 (Demand #ST-031 - 2003)
Fire Equipment - Repair
MANAGEMENT’S ANSWER:
In final settlement to this demand, the maintenance and repair of fire prevention equipment, such as pump house pumps, motors, etc., will be assigned to the proper Bargaining Unit classification. It is understood that “key checks” will continue to be performed by Plant Security Personnel.
ISSUE #242 (Demand #ST-007 - 2003)
Skilled Trades - Supplemental Agreement
The Union demands that a written supplemental agreement be discussed to resolution between the parties to ensure that all efforts are made to retain all Skilled Trades work in house.
MANAGEMENT’S ANSWER:
Satisfactorily resolved on the basis of the Memorandum of Understanding regarding Skilled Trades Consolidation and Acquisition.
ISSUE #243 (Demand #ST-022 - 2003)
Skilled Trades - ELPO Coverage
MANAGEMENT'S ANSWER:
It is Management's intent, based upon current operating conditions, to assign sufficient Skilled Trades personnel in the ELPO paint system. In those work assignments involving recognized hazards, Management will review the work situation and ensure that appropriate precautions are taken. In those situations where these employees are scheduled for required
207
training, and their services would otherwise have been required in the ELPO paint system, their assignments will be covered by reassignment and/or over/under coverage.
ISSUE #244 (Demand #ST-034 - 2003)
Skilled Trades - Canvassed
MANAGEMENT’S ANSWER:
When Plant 1 and 2 are scheduled as mandatory it is understood that maintenance employees will be canvassed to work full.
ISSUE #245 (Demand #ST-001 - 2003)
Skilled Trades ■ Acquisition
MANAGEMENT’S ANSWER:
Settled on the basis of the MOU regarding Skilled Trades Consolidation and Acquisition.
ISSUE #246 (Demand #C-040 - 2003)
Electronic Devices
The Union demands that Management be prohibited from using any electronic communication devices for disciplinary purposes.
MANAGEMENT’S ANSWER:
During these negotiations the parties thoroughly discussed concerns relative to electronic devices and discipline. While the parties agree that Management is responsible for maintaining
208
discipline and efficiency of operations, Management assures the Union that equitable and fair treatment of all Employees will be maintained. It is not Management’s intent to manage Employees readiness for work via the Time and Attendance System, however, it is expected that employees will be in place and ready to begin work at the start of the shift.
ISSUE #247 (Demand #C-052 - 2003)
Record Disclosure
MANAGEMENT’S ANSWER:
Management and Union reaffirm their commitment to the disclosure of information during the grievance procedure. Management will provide employee discipline records to appropriate Shop Committee members upon request.
ISSUE #248 (Demand #C-098-2003)
Agreements, Letters, and Issues
The Union demands that Management reinstate all prior demands, memorandums, letters, and grievance settlements, etc.
MANAGEMENTS ANSWER:
All past agreements, letters, and issues not modified or changed during these negotiations will remain in effect upon ratification.
209
January February	March
Sun	Men	Tue	Wed	Thu	Fri	Sat	Sir	Mon	Tue	Wed	Thu	Fri	Sat	Sir	Mon	Tue	Wed	Thu	Fri	Sat
				1	2	3	1	2	3	4	5	6	7		1	2	3	4	5	6
4	5	6	7	8	9	10	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	7	8	9	10	11	12	13
11	12	13	14	IS	16	17	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	14	15	16	17	18	19	20
18	19	20	21	22	23	24	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	21	22	23	24	25	26	27
25	26	27	28	29	30	31	29							28	29	30	31			
April	May	June
Sir	km	Tue	Wed	Thu	Fri	Sal	Sim	Mon	Tue	Wed	Thi	Fri	Sat	Sim	Mon	Tue	Wed	Thu	Fri	Sat
				1	7	3							1			1	7	3	4	$
4	5	6	7	8	9	10	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	6	7	B	9	10	11	12
							9	10	11	12	13	14	15							
11	12	13	14	IS	16	17								13	14	15	16	17	18	19
							16	17	18	19	20	21	22							
18	19	20	21	22	23	24								20	21	22	23	24	25	26
							23	24	25	26	77	28	29							
25	26	27	28	29	30		30	31						27	28	29	30			
July
August September
Sir |Mon|Tue|Wed|Ttu	Fri	Sat	Sir	Mon	Tue	Wed	Thj	Fri	Sat	Sir	Mon	Tue	Wed	Thu	Fri	Sat
aS	2	3	1	2	3	4	5	6	7			•*: V	1	2	3	4
4 5 6 7 8	9	10	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	5	6	7	8	9	10	11
11 12 13 14 15	16	17	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	12	13	14	IS	16	17	18
18 19 20 21 22	23	24	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	19	20	21	22	23	24	25
25 26 27 28 29	30	31	29	30	31			*	&	26	27	28	29	30		4
October
November
December
2005
January February	March
Sen	Mon	Tue	Wed	Thj	Fri	Sat	Sin	Mon	Tue	Wed	Thu	Fn	Sat	Sun	Mtn	Tue	Wed	Thj	Fri	Sat
						1			1	2	3	4	s			1	2	3	4	S
2	3	4	S	6	7	8	6	7	8	9	10	II	12	6	7	8	9	10	II	12
9	10	11	12	13	14	1$														
							13	14	IS	16	17	18	19	13	14	IS	16	17	18	19
16	17	IS	19	20	21	22														
							20	21	22	23	24	25	26	20	21	22	23	24	25	26
73	24	25	26	27	28	79														
30	31						27	28						27	28	29	30	31		
April	May	June
Str	Mon	Tue	Wed	Thu	Fri	Sat	Sir	Mon	Tue	Wed	Th	Fn	Sal	Sun	Mon	Tue	Wed	Thi	Fn	Sat
					1	2	1	2	3	4	S	6	7				1	2	3	4
3	4	S	6	7	8	9	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	5	6	7	8	9	10	II
10	II	12	13	14	IS	16	IS	16	17	18	19	20	21	12	13	14	15	16	17	18
17	18	19	20	21	22	23	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	19	20	21	22	23	24	25
24	25	26	27	28	29	30	29	30	31					26	27	28	29	30		
July	August September
Sen	Mon	Tue	Wed	Thu	Fri	Sat	Sen	Mon	Tue	Wed	Thu	Fn	Sat	Sin	Mon	Tue	Wed	Thi	Fn	Sat
					1	2		1	2	3	4	S	6					1	2	3
3	4	5	6	7	8	9	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	4	5	6	7	8	9	10
10	II	12	13	14	15	16														
							14	15	16	17	18	19	20	11	12	13	14	IS	16	17
17	18	19	20	21	22	23														
							21	22	23	24	25	26	27	18	19	20	21	22	23	24
24	25	26	27	28	29	TO														
31							28	29	30	31				25	26	27	28	29	30	
October November December
Sin	Mon	Tue	Wed	Thj	Fri	Sat	Sen	Mon	Tue	Wed	Thu	Fri	Sat	Sen	Mon	Tue	Wed	Th:	Fn	Sat
	> •					I—1			1	7	3	4	5					1	2	3
2	3	4	5	6	7	8	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	4	5	6	7	8	9	10
9	10	II	12	13	14	15														
							13	14	15	16	17	18	19	11	12	13	14	IS	16	17
16	17	18	19	20	21	22														
							20	21	22	23	24	25	26	18	19	20	21	22	23	24
?3	74	75	76	77	78	79														
30	31						27	28	29	30				25	26	27	28	29	30	31
2 0 0 6
January February	March
Sun	Mon	Tue	Wed	Thu	Fri	Sal	Sir	Mon	Tue	Wed	Thu	Fri	Sat	Sir	Mon	Tue	Wed	Thu	Fri	Sat
1	2	3	4	5	6	7				1	2	3	4				1	2	3	4
8	9	10	11	12	13	14	5	6	7	8	9	10	II	5	6	7	8	9	10	II
IS	16	17	18	19	20	21	12	13	14	IS	16	17	18	12	13	14	IS	16	17	18
22	23	24	25	26	27	28	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	19	20	21	22	23	24	25
29	30	31					26	27	28					26	27	28	29	30	31	
April	May	June
Sun	Mat	Tue	Wed	Thu	Fri	Sat	Sir	Mon	Tue	Wed	Thu	Fri	Sat	Sir	Mon	Tue	Wed	Thu	Fri	Sat
						1		1	2	3	4	S	6					1	2	3
2	3	4	5	6	7	8	7	8	9	10	II	12	13	4	S	6	7	8	9	10
9	10	II	12	13	14	IS														
							14	IS	16	17	18	19	20	II	12	13	14	IS	16	17
16	17	18	19	20	21	22														
							21	22	23	24	25	26	27	IB	19	20	21	22	23	24
23	24	75	26	27	28	29														
30							28	29	30	31				25	26	27	28	29	30	
July	August September
Sun	Mon	Tue	Wed	Thu	Fri	Sat	Sir	Mon	Tue	Wed	Thu	Fri	Sat	Sir	Mon	Tue	Wed	Ttu	Fri	Sat
						1		-:	1	2	3	4	5			>			1	2
2	3	4	5	6	7	8	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	3	4	5	6	7	8	9
9	10	11	12	13	14	IS														
							13	14	IS	16	17	18	19	10	II	12	13	14	IS	16
16	17	18	19	20	21	22														
							20	21	22	23	24	25	26	17	18	19	20	21	22	23
23	24	25	26	27	28	29														
							27	28	29	30	31	WW	ft	24	25	26	27	28	29	30
30	31		r																	
October November December
Sir	Mon	Tue	Wed	Thu	Fri	Sat	Sir	Mon	Tue	Wed	Thu	Fri	Sat	Str	Mon	Tue	Wed	Thi	Fri	Sat
1	2	3	4	5	6	7				1	2	3	4				: >		1	2
8	9	10	11	12	13	14	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	3	4	5	6	7	B	9
														10	11	12	13	14	15	16
15	16	17	18	19	20	21	12	13	14	IS	16	17	18							
														17	18	19	20	2)	22	23
22	23	24	25	26	27	28	19	20	21	22	23	24	2S							
														24	2S	26	27	28	29	30
29	30	31					26	27	28	29	30			31	*					

January February	March
Sir	Mon	Tue	Wed	Thu	Fri	Sal	Sir	Mon	Tue	Wed	Thu	Fri	Sat	Sun	Mon	Tue	Wed	Tin	Fri	Sat
	1	2	3	4	5	6					1	2	3					1	2	3
7	8	9	10	11	12	13	4	5	6	7	8	9	10		5	6	7	8	9	10
14	IS	16	17	18	19	20	II	12	13	14	IS	16	17	11	12	13	14	IS	16	17
21	22	23	24	25	26	27	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	18	19	20	21	22	23	24
28	29	30	31				25	26	27	28				25	26	27	28	29	30	31
April	May	June
Sir	Mon	Tue	Wed	Thu	Fn	Sat	Sir	Mon	Tue	Wed	Thj	Fri	Sat	Str	Mon	Tue	Wed	Thu	Fri	Sat
1	2	3	4	5	6	7			1	2	3	4	5						1	2
8	9	10	II	12	13	14	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	3	4	S	6	7	8	9
IS	16	17	18	19	20	21	13	14	IS	16	17	18	19	10	11	12	13	14	15	16
22	23	24	25	26	27	28	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	17	18	19	20	21	22	23
29	30						27	28	29	30	31			24	25	26	27	28	29	30
July	August September
Sir	Mon	Tue	Wed	Tto	Fri	Sat	Str	Mon	Tue	Wed	Thu	Fri	Sat	Sun	Mon	Tue	Wed	Thu	Fri	Sat
1	7	3	4	5	6	7				1	2	3	4							1
8	9	10	11	12	13	14	5	6	7	8	9	10	II	2	3	4	5	6	7	8
														9	10	II	12	13	14	15
IS	16	17	18	19	20	21	12	13	14	IS	16	17	18							
														16	17	18	19	20	21	22
22	23	24	25	26	27	28	19	20	21	22	23	24	25							
														23	24	25	26	27	28	29
29	30	31					26	27	28	29	30	31		30						
October November December
Sir	Mon	Tue	Wed	Thu	Fri	Sat	Sir	Mon	Tue	Wed	Thu	Fri	Sat	Sir	Mon	Tue	Wed	Thu	Fri	Sat
	1	2	3	4	5	6					I	2	3							1
7	8	9	10	11	12	13	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	2	3	4	5	6	7	8
														9	10	II	12	13	14	15
14	IS	16	17	18	19	20	11	12	13	14	IS	16	17							
														16	17	18	19	20	21	22
21	22	23	24	25	26	27	18	19	20	21	22	23	24							
														23	24	25	26	27	28	29
28	29	30	31				25	26	27	28	29	30		30	31					
2 0 0 8
January February	March
Sin	Mon	Tue	Wed	Thj	Fri	Sat	Sin	Mon	Tue	Wed	Thu	Fri	Sat	Sui	Mon	Tue	Wed	Thu	Fri	Sal
		1	2	3	4	S						1	2							1
														2	3	4	5	6	7	8
6	7	8	9	10	II	12	3	4	S	6	7	8	9							
														9	10	II	12	13	14	IS
13	14	IS	16	17	18	19	10	II	12	13	14	IS	16							
														16	17	18	19	20	21	22
20	21	22	23	24	25	26	17	18	19	20	21	22	23							
														73	74	25	26	27	28	29
27	28	29	30	31			24	25	26	27	28	29		30	31					
April	May	June
Sui	Mon	Tue	Wed	Thu	Fri	Sal	Sui	Mon	Tue	Wed	Ttu	Fri	Sat	Sui	Mon	Tue	Wed	Thu	Fri	Sat
		1	2	3	4	S					1	2	3	1	2	3	4	5	6	7
6	7	8	9	10	II	12	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	8	9	10	11	12	13	14
13	14	IS	16	17	18	19	II	12	13	14	IS	16	17	IS	16	17	18	19	20	21
20	21	22	23	24	25	26	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	22	23	24	25	26	27	28
27	28	29	30				25	26	27	28	29	30	31	29	30					
July	August September
Sui	Mon	Tue	Wed	Thu	Fri	Sat	Sui	Mon	Tue	Wed	Thu	Fri	Sat	Sui	Mon	Tue	Wed	Thu	Fri	Sat
		1	2	3	4	5						1	2		1	2	3	4	5	6
							3	4	S	6	7	8	9							
6	7	8	9	10	11	12								7	8	9	10	II	12	13
							10	11	12	13	14	15	16							
13	14	IS	16	17	18	19								14	IS	16	17	18	19	20
							17	18	19	20	21	22	23							
20	21	22	23	24	25	26								21	22	23	24	25	26	27
							74	25	76	27	28	29	JO							
27	28	29	30	31			31			>				28	29	30				
October November December
Sui	Mon	Tue	Wed	Thu	Fri	Sat	Sui	Mon	Tue	Wed	Thu	Fri	Sat	Sun	Mon	Tue	Wed	Thu	Fri	Sat
			1	2	3	4							1	$5%	1	2	3	4	5	6
							2	3	4	5	6	7	8							
S	6	7	8	9	10	11								7	8	9	10	11	12	13
							9	10	11	12	13	14	15							
12	13	14	IS	16	17	18								14	IS	16	17	18	19	20
							16	17	18	19	20	21	22							
19	20	21	22	23	24	25								21	22	23	24	25	26	27
							73	74	75	76	27	?R	79							
26	27	28	29	30	31		30							28	29	30	31			
NOTES
NOTES
EMPLOYEE BENEFITS GENERAL TELEPHONE NUMBERS
Health Care
Salary Inquiries.................1-800-489-4646
Hourly Inquiries.................1-800-489-4646
COBRA............................1-800-489-4646
Group Life Insurance Salary Inquiries.........................1 -800-489-4646
Hourly Inquiries.................1-800-489-4646
Death Claims.....................1-800-489-4646
Investments Savings-Stock (SSPP).......................1-800-489-4646
Personal Savings (PSP)...........1-800-489-4646
Pensions & Retirement Center (PAC) Estimates/Credited Service.................1-800-489-4646
GM Retirees-AII Services.........1-800-489-4646
Language Interpretation ServicefTDD.......1-800-821-0301
Layoff/UC SUBenefit/LBP/UC/TRA/G IS/IPP..............1 -800-489-4646
Sickness & Accident S& A Claim................................1-800-489-4646
GMAwareline...............................1-800-244-3460
GM Vehicle Purchase.......................1-800-235-4646
T uition Assistance......................1 -800-228-2946
GMAC Demand Notes.........................1-888-271-4066
GMAC Mortgage.............................1-800-964-4622
GM-UAW Legal Services.....................1-810-257-0400
1-800-482-7700
GMAC Insurance............................1-800-642-2886
Employee Placement........................1-800-628-4473
(Voice response System)
GM Wage & Employment Verification Center
P.O. Box 5020 Southfield, Ml 48086-5020 ..1-800-886-3913
Contact your Local Personnel Office For
Name/Address Changes, Tax Exemptions, Savings Bonds, Employment