SETTLEMENT A GREEMENT
BETWEEN AK STEEL CORPORATION
AND
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA INTERNATIONAL UNION AND LOCAL 1865
This is to confirm the agreement reached this 3 lsl day of August. 2000 between AK Steel Corporation (‘'Company”) and the United Steelworkers of America AFL-CIO-CLC (“Union”) for a successor agreement to the current labor agreement, which consists of the Labor and Benefit Agreements between Armco Steel Company, L.P. and the USWA dated August 1. 1989 as extended by the various extension agreements in 1993 and 1994 and continued and modified by the various agreements entered into during the course of the negotiations in 1993, 1994 and 1995, by the Interest Arbitrator’s Decision, and by the March 19, 1997 Letter, and which remain in effect until midnight on August 31, 2005, except as specifically modified by this Settlement Agreement, as follows:
This Settlement Agreement provides for the following:
1.	An expiration date of 12:01 a.m. September 1,2005.
2.	Effective March 1, 2001, increase the standard hourly wage rate for each job by $0.50.
Effective September 1,2002, increase the standard hourly wage rate for each job by $0.50.
Effective March 1,2004, increase the standard hourly w'age rate for each job by $1.00.
Incentive workers will have these rate increases applied to the hourly add-on.
3.	Additional changes set forth in the attached Appendices through.
IN WITNESS WHERFf . the parties hereto have caused this A?’ meat to be executed by their duly authorized represei..ative this the day of.
ak steel corporation
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA
AKSTEEL CORPORATION ASHLAND WORKS
USWA NEGOTIATIONS COMPANY PROPOSAL August 31, 2000
• Pensions
For Each Year of
Continuous Service
Up to 30 years
In excess of 30 years
Effective 9/1/01
(For Retirements on or After 9/1/00.)
S52.50
70.00
Effective Date 9/1/03
(For Retirements on or After 9/1/00.)
$56.25
75.00
•	Transition Benefit
Provide a Transition Benefit, for 30-year pensions, of $300 per month until age 62 or eligibility for Social Security.
Permanent Incapacity Pension
Accept Union proposal of August 24, 2000. (	ft J
Institute for Career Development and Overtime Control Fund Appendix Accept Union proposal of August 25, 2000. Q ft	I
•	Vacation Eligibility
Years of Service
Entitlement—Weeks of Vacation
1 but	less than 3	1
3 but	less than 8	2
8 but	less than 15	3
15 but	less than 24	4
24 or more	5
• REACT Coverage
On the contract effective date, the Company will provide REACT coverage for all employees as set forth below:
a.	Eliminate paragraph 3.14(e) of tire Pension Agreement such that no charges for the Pre-Retirement Survivor Annuity under such paragraph will be made.
b.	Provide automatic coverage of employees under paragraph 3.14 of the Pension Agreement, except for those participants who continue their coverage under the Pre-Pension Spouse provision under paragraph 3.13 of the Pension Agreement.
c.	Provide that participants will not be eligible to elect Pre-Pension Spouse Coverage
under parag t 3.13 Pension Agreement, except for: ‘Pension Spouse Coverage that (i) is in effect as of August 31,2000, and (ii) is not subsequently terminated by the participant.
Automatic Five-Year Term Certain - Pre-Retirement Death
On the contract effective date, the Company will expand paragraph 3.17 of the Pension Agreement as set forth below:
Pre-Retirement Death
3.17(d)(1) In the event a participant who is eligible to retire (on other than a deferred vested pension) makes application for retirement during any calendar month and then dies in the month in which his retirement occurred (while such application for retirement is pending), the benefits provided under this paragraph 3.17 will be paid as if the participant had survived until such requested retirement date. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, the protection afforded by this paragraph (1) shall be inapplicable to any participant who has, on or after January 31, 1995, filed an application for retirement and then revoked the same; provided, however, the protection provided by paragraph (2) below shall be applicable.
(2)	In the event a participant who is accruing continuous service and who is eligible to retire on a 30-year, 60/15, 62/15, or normal retirement dies prior to making application for retirement, the benefits provided under this paragraph 3.17 shall be payable in the amount determined in accordance with paragraph 3.3(b) or (c), if applicable, after taking into account the adjustments to be made by paragraphs 3.7 and 3.13(f) as though the participant had retired on the date of his death.
Automatic Fifty Percent Spouse Option
On the contract effective date, the Company will provide that the automatic 50 percent Spouse Option will:
a.	Provide in paragraph 3.15(g) that if a participant’s spouse dies prior to the death of the participant, the net reduced pension otherwise payable to such participant during his remaining lifetime will be increased effective with the month following the month the spouse died, by eliminating the reduction applied in paragraph 3.15 (a); and
b.	Use in paragraph 3.15(a) of the Pension Agreement a revised Table of Percentages, Exhibit B, (which will be mutually agreed upon by the parties) that reflects the additional costs of providing the increased pension benefits payable to the participant subsequent to the death of the participant’s spouse.
Payments to Certain Surviving Spouses
•	• On the contract effective date, the Company will provide to the existing group of pre-1993 surviving spouses currently receiving these lump sum payments for the
term of the' tract effective date. Collective Bargain Agreement with annual payments increased by the attached schedule:
	11/00	5/01	11/01	5/02	11/02	5/03	1 H/03	5/04	11/04	5/05 |
Pre’74	$500	$525	$525	$550	' 5550	$575	$575	$600	S600	$625 |
Post’74	300	325	325	350	no	350	l no	375	575	375
•	No Recovery of Certain Pension Overpayment
♦	• Provide that any pension benefit overpayment shall not be deducted from future benefit payments unless the calculation error was caused by the participant’s failure to notify the Company of his or her entitlement to Social Security disability benefits, or by a fraudulent or deceptive act of the participant.
•	Program of Insurance Benefits (Active Employees)
•	• Life Insurance
On the contract effective date, the Company will increase life insurance by S5,000 for all active employees. On the contract effective date, the Company will increase life insurance for future retirees from $5.000 to S 7,500. The reduction from the active life insurance amount to the retiree amount occurs at age 62 regardless of age of retirement. ..
•	• Sickness and Accident Benefits
On the contract effective date, all classifications of Sickness and Accident Benefits will have the weekly benefits increased as set forth below:
On the Contract Effective Date:
One Year After the Contract Effective Date: Three Years After the Contract Effective Date: Four Years After the Contract Effective Date:
S75 per week
25 per week
25 per week
25 per week
•	• Vision Benefits
On the contract effective date, the Company will increase the vision benefits to die levels set forth below:
Vision	Benefit
Examination	$35
Frames	55
Lenses (Per Lens):	|	
Single Vision	25
Bifocal	30
Trifocal	35
Lenticular	40
Contact	40
•	• Denta! Be': ts	*. ■
On the contract effective date, the Company will increase the calendar year maximum benefits to SI,600. Additionally, the orthodontic coverage will be increased to 85 percent with a lifetime maximum of $1,800.
•	• Chiropractic Coverage
On the contract effective date, the Company will increase the Major Medical annual cap for chiropractic services to $700.
•	• Hearing Aids
On the contract effective date, the Company will increase the hearing aid benefit for active employees (including covered dependents) to $1,000 for the term of the Agreement. Coverage will be included in the Traditional Plan.
•	• Major Medical
On the contract effective date, the Company will increase the lifetime maximum to $500,000.
•	• Mammograms, Prostate Examinations and PSA Exams
On the contract effective date, these exams shall be covered by Major Medical.
•	• Working Spouse Provision
Al
On the contract effective date, the Company will amend the requirement that a p working spouse must purchase health care coverage when made available by his/her employer to apply only to working spouses who are not considered part-time employees; i.e., a part-time employee is one who works 32 hours or less per week. Include premium reimbursement on working spouse, per attached.
•	•Additions to 401K Plan—per attached side letter.
•	• Lifetime Maximum Under Community Choice
Increase lifetime maximum for in network to $2,000,'
•	Program of Insurance Benefits (Future Retirees)
••	Major Medical
Increase lifetime maximum to $100,000.
Eliminate annual maximum.
••	Mammograms. Prostate Examinations, and PSA Exams
On the contract effective date, these exams shall be covered by Major Medical.

-4-
•	• Lifetime Mcf ‘unt Under Community Choice * ~ Increase lifetime maximum for in network to S2.000.000.
•	• Workin? Spouse Provision	>	9
Include premium reimbursement on working spouse, per attached,
•	Additional Continuous Service
Accept Union proposal, on contract effective date. /4 ftftjz z\/ ft IX"
•	Union Committeeman and Officials
Accept August 24, 2000, Union proposal, on contract effective date, fl? P )
•	Unpublished Industry Letters
Renew safety and health indemnification (4/15/80), duty of fair representation (3/1/83), and application of no-strike clause to sympathy strikers (3/1//83) unpublished industry letters. No renewal of other unpublished industry letters.
• Seniority Charts
fpp
F-I p 'V
I--3
Update within 30 days of contract effective date.
• Resolve Incentive Issues for Clerks and Electric Power	$ ffl& IX (x
Withdraw Unfair Labor Practice Charge Requestniz "Contracting Out Arbitt atiun-decisions} With Azreement-^u Trade and Crnft/Cnnizactinz Out Memorandum—
• All Other Previously Azreed Tentative Agreements ft ft ft $ /
fa vEvf&ffrMr
•-Relect Ait Other Union PropusjZt
•	Employment Security
Accept Union proposal of June 7, 2000./?^^'
/7? (i b f
•	Sinsle-Day Vacation
Accept attached proposal,	fl fl fl •
• Probationary Employees
Accept Union proposal of August 31,2000.

• Holiday Scheduling
Company and Union shall meet and discuss issue.
7
Assigned Mai^ -'iance Seniority Department Chart '
Accept Union proposal of August 25, 2000.

• Vacation Bonus
Accept Union proposal of June 7, 2000
”	t>)g.7J£.s2	id
e> OrtC^A-wc. \^c<< Loe*	d
QaA,™!	?
0	0//z?3£y GrK/'O	I
A ea rti
-6-
EXHIBIT 3F
Amend Section 2.5 of the Pension Agreement (Eligibility for Permanent Incapacity Retirement) as follows:
A participant shall be considered to be permanently incapacitated (as “'permanently incapacitated” is used herein) only (a) if he has been totally disabled by bodily injury or disease so as to be prevented thereby from engaging in any employment to which he would be entitled according to the terms of the Basic Agreement.
&

/ • / r.
COMPANY PROPOSAL A ugust 30, 2000
Re:	Institute for Career Development (TCP)
and Overtime Control Training Fund (OCTF)
The Company agrees to the following: transfer the remaining balance in the discontinued OCTF to the ICD ledger account; all OCTF obligations shall remain eliminated; and the existing ICD agreement shall be continued.
d. Effective November 1, 1999, spouses of any participant in this Plan who are employed by any employer which offers health care coverage must enroll in that plan if the spouse’s employer pays any part of the cost of such coverage. This requirement is not applicable for employees’ spouses who work less than 32 hours. In the event the spouse is required to pay more than 50% of the cost of the coverage, the company will reimburse the employee for any premium/cost paid by the spouse which is more than 50% of the cost ofcoverage for that employee.
!C , 2000
COMPANY PROPOSA L
August 9, 2000
Mr. Ernest R. “Billy” Thompson
Director, District 8
United Steelworkers of America 85C Michael Davenport Blvd., Suite B Frankfort, Kentucky 40601
Dear Mr. Thompson:
Re: Section 4 OIK Retirement Savings Plan
This confirms the following agreements reached during die 2000 negotiations regarding the Section 40IK Retirement Savings Plan applicable to die USWA Production and Maintenance Bargaining Unit, effective [contract effective date].
I.	Individual participant Plan contributions will be permitted to the maximum amount allowable by law.
2.	Up to and including tivee additional Plan investment options may be selected by the Union from the available fund options. The Union agrees to meet with representatives of the fund manager prior to notifying die Company of its selection(s).
3.	Plan participants who have taken a loan under the Plan provisions for an amount less than the maximum loan available under Plan and legal restrictions will be permitted to take a second loan for the remaining amount up to said restrictions.
Sincerely,
L. W. Gonce Manager
Industrial Relations
Confirmed:
Ernest R. “Billy” Thompson, DistZ?6t Director United Steelworkers of America
Date
Exhibit 38
September 1, 2000
Mr. Ernest R. Thompson
Chairman - Union Negotiating Committee
United Steelworkers of America
Five Gateway Center
Pittsburgh, PA 15222
Dear Mr. Thompson:
This is to confirm our understanding with respect to employees who are accruing pension continuous service as of September 1,2000 and who incurred breaks in basic labor agreement and pension continuous service due to layoff after January 1,1980 and who were recalled or rehired prior to September 1, 2000:
1.	Employees who meet the above criteria will be credited with one additional year of pension . continuous service (and basic labor agreement continuous service) except as they were recalled within three years following the date last worked in which case they will be credited with the lesser of (a) one additional year of pension continuous service (and basic labor continuous service) or (b) a period of pension continuous service (and basic labor continuous service) equal to the period between the date that such employee sustained a break in pension continuous service (and basic labor continuous service) and the date such employee was recalled.
2.	Continuous service credited in (1) above will also apply to continuous service for vacation eligibility purposes.
Yours very truly,
AK Steel
Chairman - Negotiating Committee
Confirmed:
United Steelworkers of America
Emest R. Thompson
Chairman - Union Negotiating Committee
9*
Provide additional with the: provisions
Pension Agreement axewi^edTable
ects
rdance
(b) f us^in paragraph 3.15(a) of tl
Exhibit B, (which will be mutually reed upon by the parti providing the. increased pensio the participant's spouse.
enefrts payable to the zjarticipan
Percentages, e additional costs of
quent to the death of
i	—zi
Additioriai ContinUo
ervrce
. UigDaJes
Afisee to co
h. Union Committeemen and Officials
Effective August 31,2000, amend the definition of earnings contained in paragraph 1.1(h) of the Pension Agreement to add to the group of union committeemen and officials for whom earnings maybe adjusted to be "fairly representative'* because they were absent on union business, the following:
ICD Committee
Special Payi
Agree to inc.
ot- J*
Payments,
k.
Transition
Accept Cpmpany'
set f
D.

Provide a transitionyBe^efit, for 30-Yea/ Pensions, of $3 for'^Social ^ecurity Disability.
No Recovery of Certain. Pension Overpayment

Agree with Company’s proposed language.
Three additional elections in 401 (k) Plan.
Form Union committee to work with Fidelity an
legibility
ct elections.
^?rll 15, l?ic
Hr- 12 Mc3ridt, ?r»xldert Vnitad S : telvcrxjrrx of Axerlzi five Catavay Canter
Tittsburjh, ?«mnxylvania 1521
p<ar Br - Mclrldc:
<	Icdlsj ts ib< Aaj-25-, 2, UJO Ajrtiaer.:. the
S--»«l 0=5755.1*5 «=d the tel:«d Sc.c’vurker;
««•««»< --= i« the teles, dl5C*.5«d -_h. telbiV rale
! / /J”	' *	1 “4 U<41"' of the 0=iF«i I:.-.. $•■•«! Ub = r Atre-
BtS - ( SH d 1 •. X CO'*_ . 1I l) 47 ’ PTOViJ i ST* i X	i
-___e	*3 tba laxlc Labcr Ajr*««n:s a' the other
C«rd-^-----1 C==..t« St.u Co^e-l.,} <a4 -hc a??UeaS1<	*-d 5.5- lev;.
The Union has raxffir-ei tha- «* <c	- >
uie reasonable provision! <-r *he xAze->\I^ v " v. ’^'5 * Taxpomc— Lltzy to Jurist the hours cf their c:’8ne*	7" ®- *•« eplsytts x: the plant*
«-.?pc?:dv« 1.-. prc==:l.-.t **.', end hula.{1Ij t-e--^.; As ,t* 2‘.-f •*£,-\v-:- bs Union hax -reaffirmed that 4 r V'H .<	s *..« p-oj-a-x. further, the
ettlve toe?ere-.l = n ,' ■■■ ^l.to er.tour.se th, tr5S£ end vill di;toure;e jrea.--, i.^/--	'‘"i’ *r’'h '■*-'-i:ts 4:1- P-'
bodies to intervene In the resolution’of'i-y:= I’vernser.-.el
Psresreph S ol Settles 11 c‘ -he United Stetes Steel 3sslt Uber Ajree-»ent (end Sts nat^tr. Frovlsions. id e-y. 1= th< j„<: Ube. A{-tt_e..,{ a, the *?tLfO8?;”n‘t*afeC^=i;S,t S:"!	*:‘ ts th* Forties' litentleo '.het
the teles -« net l-.bl, fer «r7 ve.-k-een-etted injuries, dlssbllltles er disposes vhlch rjy be interred by esyloyee;. i3 ordt. .. e/fe.cit,t, thi£ <.;t=. whether er set 1: is expressly .toted in the J.slt Uber ASreenettcs end io eooourore the teden to dixz.-*rxe Its ©.lljatioa to cooperite vith *r.d «;x3: che Cospxnles in fulfill* inX their rtspc^lbUitles under the Jxxle Uber Z£rec=1entx *od the Ixv, each Coxpxny shall indexnify the Vslm. ixx co=:i;ce„( o/flcers. *£e2:x( *nd e=ployeeft xjilns: clji*xs,*nd suits ,or dxu<£ex vhen such clxLsx or suits involve or arise	।
dr== the Union a participation or involveacn: lr. contractual safety and health xxtters and art based on any injury cr illness, iscludir.i death, of'tsployees of that Company arlaizx or xrevinx cu: of and in the course of tht anployscmt of such asploytts by that Ccrepany, am cap: th4Z chit Oblltacion shall not apply to a clxir < o. au.. baa* on an explicit overt act of ntjlijence on the part, of the Union o: any ajent o. the Vnles or to a claim or suit based upon an agreement by the Union to indemnity or lm_isrt employee! of that Company.
The obligation of each Company to indemnify the Union sha11 be subject	i
to the follovimj comdition-s:	**	**	।
1. The Vnlor. shall five the Company immxdiate vritter. notice	'
of any claim aade ajaicst the Union, its cocntlttees, of.lctn, ajenti and exployCCI Mhxll effectively
- 2 -
fully with the Co«?any, at no expense to the Orspany, In the invextig*tloz and defense cf all clalax, and shall not have taken and will take no artion prejudicial co the successful defense of the el*Is; and
3.	The Cospany shall have all rights of defense, setoff, eounterclala and subrogation in connection with such clxixx which aay be available to the Union, Its coer-nlttees, officers, agents and employees and any necessary person shall execute such instrusert* as *ay be reasonable and appropriate to enable the Company to exercise such Tights; and
4.	The Company shall have no duty to indemnify the Union, its eosexitzees, officers, agents, or employees against any clain resulting in whole-or in part iron the failure or refusal of a xnber cf the Union to use equipment or procedures established and made knovm to the employees by the Company when such failure or refusal vxs overtly erndontd or supported in any tanner by the Vr.ior.; and
5.	Failure of the Union to comply with Paragraphs 1, 2, and 3 hereof shall relieve the Company of any obligation to ladcnnify the Union against any elals subject to such failure.
6.	The Company may terminate on thirty days’ notice its duty to Indemnify the Union against claims of which the Company has not had written notice at the tine of giving the Union notice of termination. Such t.eminatioa shall not relieve the Company of any obligation to indemnify the Union against any cl a in of which the Corp any had written notice before giving the Union notice of termination.
The provisions of this Agreement shall be subject to and effective according to the applicable provisions of Federal and state laws.
/7
IIpy rf McSridePresiden: United Steelworkers of America
March 1, 19S3
Mr. Lloyd McBride, President United Steelworkers of America ’ Five Cctviy Carter Pittsburgh, PA 15222
User Hr. McBride:
This will cotfirs our under*terding that the Coordinating Committee Steel Companies iha.ll in--dernify the Union and held it hamless against final judicial orders for backpay only in cases in which one of these Companies is neld to have discharged an employee without just cause and the Union is held to have breached it* duty of fair representation to that same employee due to the manner in which it handled said employee1* discharge grievance. Xs part of this understanding, th* Union agrees to cooperate fully with the Companies in vigorously defending all such lawsuits.
Confirmed:
Lloyd McBride, President United Steelworkers of America
March 1, 1933
Hr. J. Iruce Johnston, Chairman Coordinating Committee Steel Companies United Stazes Steel Corporation 600 Grant Street Pittsburgh, PA 15230
Dear Hr. Johnston:
Bering the course of our 1933 negotiations a question was raised concerning the application of Section 4-3 cf the lasic Labor Agreement between United Steelworkers cf America and U. S. Steel Corporation and the comparable provisions Ln the Agreements with the other Coordinating Committee Steel Companies and these Companies designated in the cf Agreement 1980 Iron Ort Negotiations", dated April 9, 1977, in situations where an employee engages In a sympathy work stoppage.
There are two recent arbitration awards which deal with this matter. United States Steel Corporation (Gary works), Case Nos. USS-15,40 UI -15,40x~ano Inland Steel CornuanyT" Grievance No. 10-N-32, Appeal No. 1278, Award Iio. S777 Zach cf them holds that the broad language of the no-strike provision in the agreement prohibited tne conduct cf the grievant in refusing to work in support cf a strike by ncn-unit employees and, Ln each, rhe arbitrator sustained the discipline imposed by the Comp any.
Thia letter will confirm and publicly acknowledge the Union’s position in the matter. Ve agree with and thus do not intend to challenge the application and interpretation of the no-strike contract language as determined by the arbitrator Ln each of rhe above-mentioned cases. The Union deems itself bound by .those awards, in particular the rulings that the broad language of the no-strike clause barred work stoppages or interruptions; or impeding of work by individual employees for purposes of expressing sympathy with other unions, organizations, individuals or causes.
Lloyd Mc3ride, President
United Steelworkers of America Confirmed:
-6 4
COMPANY PROPOSAL
August 31, 2000
________________,2000
Mr. Ernest R. “Billy” Thompson
Director, District 8
United Steelworkers of America
85C Michael Davenport Blvd., Suite B
Frankfort, Kentucky 40601
Dear Mr. Thompson:
Re: Production and Maintenance Clerks
This confirms our understandings during the 2000-year negotiations involving the establishment of incentive coverage for the Production and Maintenance Clerks. Those understandings follow:
1.	For employees hired after the effective date of the agreement, a new position of Plant Clerk shall be established at a Zone 6.
2.	The new Plant Clerk position shall be incentive rated.
3.	The new incentive plan shall be designed to provide a 25 percent incentive opportunity. based on twenty-four (24)-hour slab production.
4.	The new incentive plan shall become effective within 60 days following the effective date of the new collective bargaining agreement.
5.	All existing Production and Maintenance Clerks shall be paid the new incentive rate but shall remain vested in the current seniority units.
6.	No work jurisdiction boundaries shall exist between the Production and Maintenance Clerks nor the Plant Clerk assignments.
Sincerely,
L. W. Gonce Manager Industrial Relations
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
CONCERNING INVESTIGA TIVE SUSPENSIONS
During the negotiations of the 2000 Basic Labor Agreement (the "2000 BLA”), the parties discussed the appropriate use of investigative suspensions and agreed to the following:
1. Employees relieved from duty by the Company for purposes of determining if an employee has violated a work rule or policy shall not be relieved from work for more than ten calendar days. Should the Company conclude, during this period, that the employee has violated a plant rule or policy, the days the employee was relieved from work may be counted towards any suspension issued by the Company for the stated infraction. For days an employee is relieved from work, which are not counted towards an employee suspension for an alleged infraction, the employee will be compensated for lost earnings.
AK STEEL CORPORATION
L. William Gonce
Manager, Industrial Relations
AK Steel Corporation
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA
Ernest R. “Billy” Thompson, Chairman Union Negotiating Committee United Steelworkers of America
September 1, 2000
Mr. Ernest R. “Billy” Thompson
District Director
United Steelworkers of America
AFL-CIO’CLC, District 8
85C Michael Davenport Blvd., Suite B
Frankfort. Kentucky 40601
Dear Mr. Thompson:
Company Proposal 7-12-00*
Re: Memorandum of Understanding on Safety Shoe Allowance (To Replace Appendix D paragraph 7)
The following understanding has been agreed to regarding safety shoe allowances to replace existing paragraph #7 of Appendix D. August 1. 1989.
7.	Memorandum of Agreement on Safety Shoe Allowance
Effective September 1, 2000. the Company will continue its policy dated October 1. 1999 of providing new employees up to Si 05.00 for the cost of an initial pair of AK Steel approved safety shoes for wear at the plant. Such payment will be made under procedures established by Ashland Works Management and currently in effect at the facility. The Company will continue its existing practice of providing replacement safety shoes as needed.
Sincerely.
L. W. Gonce
Manager Industrial Relations
Confirmed:
United Steelworkers of America
4
/if'
August 25, 2000
B-I7 Printing Preparations (New Contract)
Mr. L. W. Gonce
Manager, Labor Relations
AK Steel Corporation
P. O. Box 191
Ashland, KY 4! 105-0191
Dear Mr. Gonce;
This will confirm our agreement that within seven days of the ratification of the 2000 agreement, the Union and the Company shall meet for the purpose of reviewing and confirming negotiated changes to the BLA, since 1989, for incorporation in the 2000 agreement.
Sincerely,
Ernest R. ‘‘Billy” Thompson, Chairman Union Negotiating Committee
Confirmed:
L. W. Gonce, Manager, Labor Relations
}
Company Proposal 7-12-00*
September 1,2000
Mr. Ernest R. “Billy” Thompson
District Director
United Steelworkers of .America
AFL-CIO-CLC, District 8
85C Michael Davenport Blvd., Suite B Frankfort, Kentucky 40601
Dear Mr. i hompson:
Re: Letter of Agreement on Printing of Contracts
This will confirm the understanding reached during our 2000 negotiations on the issue of printing the Collective Bargaining Agreements and Benefit Booklets (the "Agreements).
Upon ratification of the new Collective Bargaining Agreement, the parties will create mutually acceptable new Agreements.
Said Agreements shall be printed at the expense of the Company. The printed .Agreements will be distributed in a manner mutually acceptable to the parties.
The parties shall make best efforts to complete and distribute the Agreements within three (3) months of the ratification of the Agreements.
The Company will provide the Union with electronic versions of all of the Agreements.
Sincerely.
Confirmed:
Ernest R. "Billy" Thompsom District Director United Steelworkers of America

AK Steel Corporation
PO. BOX 191
ASHLAND. KENTUCKY 4 1 105-0191
TELEPHONE 406.337.584 7
EaCSJmilE 606.379.7317
_____________,2000
Mr. Emest R. “Billy” Thompson
District Director
United Steelworkers of America
AFL-CIO-CLC, District 8
85C Michael Davenport Blvd., Suite B
Frankfort, Kentucky 40601
L. William Gone* manager
INDUSTRIAL relations
Dear Mr. Thompson:
Re: Overtime A ver aging
xc
This letter is to confirm that during the course of the 2000 negotiations, the Company agreed with the Local Union’s request that effective September 1.2000, the following overtime amendment will be applied to all supplementary agreements in effect at die Ashland Works on September 1, 2000:
Employees transferring between department, units or lines of progression will be given overtime hours equal to the average overtime hours currently in the unit or line of progression to which they transfer. The average overtime hours will be calculated by adding the number of overtime hours (overtime hours worked plus refusals') on the unit overtime list and dividing the total by the number of employees on the list.
This amendment supercedes all supplementary agreement overtime language to the contrary.
Sincerely.
L. W. Gonce
Manager
Industrial Relations
Confirmed:
Emest R. "Billy” Thompson, District Director United Steelworkers of America
Ashland Works
Union Proposal
Holidays June 7, 2000
A-8	Holidays
Modify Section 11 Subsection “11.321 The Holidays specified are" to include:
Martin Luther King’s Birthday.
eel Corporation
Ashland Works
Union Proposal Family and Medical Leave Act June 7, 2000
B-11 Family and Medical Leave
Add the following sentence to the first paragraph of the Family and Medical Leave Benefits M.O.U.
"Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to provide lesser benefits than required under federal law/'
AK Steel Corporation Ashland Works Union Proposal Employment Security June 7, 2000
B-2	Employment Security
EMPLOYMENT SECURITY PLAN
Increase the continuous service requirement for purposes of eligibility for the protections of the Employment Security Plan to three years of continuous service for those employees hired on or after September 1, 2000.
AK Steel Corporation Ashland Works Union Proposal
Vacation Option Plan June 7, 2000
B.13 Day at a time Vacation
Mr. Earnest R. "Billy" Thompson, Chairman
Union Negotiating Committee
United Steelworkers of America
Dear Mr. Thompson:
Subject: Single-Day Vacations
Employees entitled to three or more weeks of vacation will be allowed to designate one week of vacation to be taken in single days according to the following procedures.
1.	Employees must elect to take this option at the time of scheduling their regular vacation.
2.	Employees must notify supervision by 7:00 a.m. Wednesday prior to the calendar week in which the employees desire to take a single day of vacation, However, in case of emergency, this advance notice requirement may be waived by mutual agreement between the employee and supervision.
In the event the employee's schedule is such that he is not scheduled on the requested vacation day, the requested day will not be charged against the employee's vacation allotment.
3.	Vacations under these guidelines will be granted at times most desired by employees (longer service employees will be given preference as to choice), but the final right to allot days of vacation is exclusively reserved to the Company in order to insure the orderly operations based on the operating conditions during the week for which the vacation is requested.
Additionally, Management reserves the exclusive right to deny an employee's request for a single day's vacation during a week which contains any of the specified holidays, mill outages, and for other legitimate reasons.	?n
4.	Employees' requests for weekly vacation periods shall be given priority over single-day vacation requests
*
5.	Time thus paid will^be' counted as hours worked for purposes of determining overtime or premium pay liability.
6.	A day of vacation taken pursuant to this Memorandum of Understanding shall mean calendar day and the employee shall not be entitled to work during such calendar day.
7	In the event an employee elects to schedule a week of vacation pursuant to this Understanding and has not taken ail five days by November 1 he shall be assigned days of vacation as may be mutually agreed upon by the Company and the employee. In the event the parties are unable to reach agreement, the Company shall have the sole discretion to assign days of vacation.
8.	Each of the five single vacation days shall be paid at a rate equal to one fifth of the weekly vacation pay applicable to the week in which the day is actually taken.
9.	Disputes arising out of this Agreement shall be processed as provided for in Section 7.8 of the Basic Labor Agreement.
IG.For the purpose of holiday pay eligibility, under the provisions of Subsection 11.411 2 of the B.L.A., employees who elect either the day before or the day after a holiday as vacation under this program shall be eligible under 11.41, for such holiday pay, provided they worked their last scheduled turn immediately before and their first scheduled turn immediately after such holiday and vacation day.
Very truly yours,
John G. Hritz, Executive Vice President and General Counsel AK Steel Corporation
Confirmed:
Earnest R. "Billy" Thompson, Chairman
30
August 1, 1999
Mr, Andrew V. Ra
Union Ne Uni
airman Committee orkers of America'
5teway Center
ittsburgh, PA 15222
Dear Mr, Palm:
During the negotiations leading to the >9^Basic Laipdr Agreement it was   agreed that the probationary period for new employees and those hired after a
break in continuity of service subsequent to At
would increase from
520 to 1,000 hours of actual work. This will confirm the understanding of the parties that eligibility for coverage under the Program of Insurance Benefits (PIB) will commence for such employees following 60 calendar days from the date of last hiring rather than at the completion of the probationary period.
Sincerely,
Thomasyy^Sterling ViceJ=>fesident
■Employee Relations
Confirmed:
Andreyv'V. Palm, Chairman Uaitfn Negotiating Committee
<-AJ
ASSIGNED MAINTENANCE DEPARTMENT

UNI T//I		UNIT J/2*		UNIT 05		UNIT #6 PLANT PROJECTS
Assigned Maim.		Assigned Maim.		Assigned Maim.		Assigned Maim.
Inspector	15	Inspector 15				
		Steel Melting	Caster	Inspector	15	Mill Inspector Leader	14
Leader	14	Leader 14	Leader 14	Leader	14	
Repairman SMI*	13	RepSMP 13	RepSMP 13	Repairman SMP	13	
Repairman A	13	Rep A 13	Rep A 13	Repairman A	13	
Repairman B	12	Rep B 12	Rep B 12	Repairman 13	12	
Rdnairmdn C		LQ	Reo C 10	RenC ID	Repairman C			IQ	
						
Maintenance Pool
Unassigned journeyman	(13), (12),(10)
Apprentices	(Scale)
I f'l^nprsl I In it	I _ .	—_ _ -_	 .. . _   	—.. _	-	Clerical Unit	
I UCllCIcii Mini	r		
	Mill Clerk		6
‘This is a single Seniority Unit with two lines of progression.
1RONMAK1NG		STEELMAKING		FINISHING		PROJECTS	
Rigger		Rigger		Rigger		Rigger	
Leader	13	Leader	13	Leader	13	Leader	>3
Rigger A	12	Rigger A	12	Rigger A	12	Rigger A	12
Rigger B	11				Rigger B	11				► Rigger B	Il <—		►- Rigger B	II
Rigger C	9	Rigger C	9	Rigger C	9	Rigger C	9
Helper A	7	Helper A	7	Helper A	7	Helper A	7
Helper B		5	Heiner B			5	Helper!)			5	liclner.n			5
Weld		Weld		Weld		Weld	
Leader	13	Leader	13	Leader	13	Leader	13
Welder A	12				Welder A	12 ◄			Welder A	12				Welder A	12
Welder D	11	Welder B	II	Welder B	11	Welder B	11
Weld(f C. ..		2	ftcldit.g			2	WdskLC			i	Welder C			_9
	Pipe		Pipe		
	Leader	13	Leader	13	
	Filter A	12	Fitter A	12	
	Fitter B	II	-> Fitter B	II	
	Fitter C	9	Fitter C	9	
	Helper A	7	Helper A	7	
	/ Heiner 13		__5	Helper B		5	
	yy Electrical Construction		Electrical Construction		
	Leader	13	Leader	13	
uA	XX Electrician A	'2 <		>■ Electrician A	12	<
i 1 । ।	yiS- Electrician B	11	Electrician B	II	
	Electrician C	9	Electrician C	9	
	""-				
	IklpjrA			2	Heiner A			1	
Pipe Leader	13	Pipe Leader	13
Fitter A	12	Fitter A	12
Filter B		 11	► Filler 13	11
Fitter C	9	Filter C	9
Helper A	7	Helper A	7
Helper B		5	Helper B			5
Electrical Construction		Electrical Construction	
Leader	13	Leader	13
Electrician A	12				Electrician A	12
Electrician B	II	Electrician B	11
Electrician C	9	Electrician C	9
IklRtLA		—2	HcJl’JlA			7
O. II. .11.

AK Steel Corporation Ashland Works Union Proposal Vacation Bonus June 7, 2000
A-7-b Vacation Bonus
Effective August 1. 2001, a vacation bonus of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) per week will be paid to employees for each week of vacation taken in the ten (10) consecutive week period beginning with the first full week following the week containing New Year's Day.
///A A/
Company Proposal 7-12-00 ’
September 1.2000
Mr. Ernest R. "Billy7’ Thompson District Director
United Steelworkers of America
AFL-CIO-CLC, District 8
85C Michael Davenport Blvd.. Suite B
Frankfort. Kentucky 40601
Dear Mr. Thompson:
Re: Lag Dates
This letter is to confirm that during the course of the 2000 negotiations the parties agreed that the existing benefit lag date system shall continue in effect unchanged for the term of the new Collective Bargaining Agreement.
Sincerely,
L. W. Gonce Manager Industrial Relations
Confirmed:
Ernest R. “Billy” Thompson. District Director United Steelworkers of America
COMPANY PROPOSAL
August 31, 2000
_____________, 2000
Mr. Ernest R. "Billy” Thompson
District Director
United Steelworkers of America	i..
AFL-CIO-CLC. District 8
85C Michael Davenport Blvd., Suite B
Frankfort, Kentucky 40601
Dear Mr. Thompson:
Re: Grieva n ce Backlog
This letter is to confirm that during the course of the 2000 negotiations the parties' agreed that cooperative efforts to successfully address both the grievance backlog and continuing disagreements over aspects of contracting out were essential steps towards enhancing Labor-Management relations at the Ashland Works. Consistent with this, and in recognition of the understandings reached in contracting out, the parties agree to the following:
1.	All contracting out grievances and requests for expedited arbitration currently pending in the grievance procedure are hereby resolved on a non-precedent setting basis.
2.	The Company will make payments totaling $2,900,000 in accordance with a detailed payment schedule to be developed and provided by the Union.
Sincerely,
L. W. Gonce Manager Industrial Relations
Confirmed:
Ernest R. “Billy” Thompson, District Director United Steelworkers of .America
p
COMPANY PROPOSAL
August 31, 2000
_______________, 2000
Mr. Ernest R. "Billy” Thompson
Director District 8
United Steelworkers of America
85C Michael Davenport Blvd., Suite B Frankfort, Kentucky 40601
Dear Mr. Thompson:
Re: Capital Investment
This confirms the Company’s commitment that during the term of the new collective bargaining agreement, a blast furnace top charging equipment change for the Amanda Blast Furnace shall be undertaken. The extent and scope of such work will be determined solely by the Company and may consist of the latest tec lino logical methods and processes available to the Company at such time as the work commences. Furthermore, the Company restates its intention to maintain the blast furnace to maximize its operation based upon market conditions.
Sincerely,
L. W. Donee Manager Industrial Relations
Confirmed:
Ernest R. “Billy” Thompson, District Director United Steelworkers of America
Date
37
5
///
Union Counter Proposal August 31, 2000
___________, 2000
Nir. Ernest R. “Billy” Thompson
District Director-
United Steelworkers of America
AFL-CIO-CLC, District 8
85C Michael Davenport Blvd., Suite B Frankfort, Kentucky 40601
Dear Mr. Thompson:
Re: Unassigned Personnel
This letter is to confirm that during the course of the 2000 negotiations, the Company agreed with the Local Union’s request that effective (contract effective date), the management will post in the Assigned Maintenance Repair Department the number of permanent vacancies which presently exist in each Assigned Maintenance Repair Unit based upon the number of Assigned Maintenance Repairmen working in the unit who are not incumbent in that unit. Management may delay the transfer of a successful bidder in the event it believes such transfer will dilute the craft. In no event shall such delay last longer than six (6) months.
Sincerely,
L. W. Gonce Manager Industrial Relations
Confirmed:
Ernest R. “BiII/’ Thompson, District Director United Steelworkers of America
Union Issue B-5 Neutrality
COMPANY PROPOSAL
August 30, 2000
No letter agreement on “Neutrality’*
COMPANY PROPOSAL 8/31/00
(UNPUBLISHED LETTER)
MEMORANDUM REGARDING TRADE AND CRAFT REVITALIZATION AND CER TAIN CONTRA CTING-OUT MA TTERS
In the negotiations for a new labor agreement, the parties conducted the reviews provided for in the contract provisions concerning the Revitalization of the Trade and Craft forces and the Contracting-Out Annual Review. Comprehensive sets of understanding, set forth below, resulted from these reviews. This Memorandum will become effective on September 1, 2000, and will remain in effect for the term of the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
A.	Minimum Craft Workforce Levels
1.	The Company will maintain the following minimum craft workforce levels:
Craft Position	Workforce Level
Assigned Maintenance Repairmen	150
Pipefitters	15
Welders	25
Riggers	31
Electrical Construction	19
Electronics	57
Steam Power	16
Electric Power	13
Roundhouse Repairmen	19
Machinists	16
Bricklayers	12
Refrigeration Repairmen	4
The minimum workforce levels identified above are based on the current operation at the Ashland facility, and in the event the Company adds new facilities or operations, the parties shall meet to discuss the appropriate manning levels for such additions.
2.	The craft positions of Carpenter, Tinner, and Painter shall be combined to create a single new position known as CPT Technician. Incumbents of these positions shall be paid at the level of Zone 13 with the same incentive earnings as those employees assigned to Unit 6. Additionally, the craft position of Electric Repairman will receive the same incentive earnings as those employees assigned to Unit 6.
The craft positions listed below will have no minimum workforce levels. After incumbent employees permanently vacate these positions, any remaining work may

be assigned to the crafts listed in Section A, paragraph 1 above.
Craft Position CPT Technician Electric Repair
. 4. Each employee u.hne craft positions listed above in Section A, paragraphs 1 and 2 will be scheduled not less than 40 hours in their craft.
5.	At least four of the Machinists identified in Section A. 1 may be assigned to the present segment repair facility and may be assigned to machining work that is currently being contracted out. The Company shall meet with the local Union Contracting-Out Committee to review the work to be performed in order that the shop can function in the most cost effective manner and so as to optimize the utilization of those additional Machinists. Consistent with the provisions of Section A, the volume of machining work which exceeds that which the total plant force of Machinists are able to cover shall be considered properly contracted out. The four Machinists referenced above shall receive an incentive eamings opportunity consistent with the incentive paid to existing Machinists.
6.	The workforce levels established in this Memorandum may be modified as necessary in the event that any of the exceptions set forth in Section B of the Employment Security Plan should apply.
B.	Assigned Maintenance Department
1.	The craft positions of Rigger. Welder, Pipefitter, and Electrical Construction will be established in Steelmaking, Ironmaking, and the Finishing seniority units of the Assigned Maintenance Department. A new seniority unit, Unit No. 6 (Plant Projects), will be established in the Assigned Maintenance Department to supplement other departments and reduce the number of contractors.
a.	The craft positions of Rigger, Welder. Pipefitter, and Electrical Construction will be eliminated from the Maintenance Shops seniority department.
b.	The craft positions newly established in the Assigned Maintenance Department will be posted for bid for employees incumbent to the Rigger, Welder, Pipefitter, and Electrical Construction crafts within 30 days from the effective date of the Collective Bargaining Agreement. All craftsmen currently incumbent to those positions eliminated from the Maintenance Shops seniority department may bid within seven days from the posting of the newly established craft positions in the Assigned Maintenance Department. If a craftsman incumbent to any eliminated position does not make a timely bid, the Company will assign the employee to a newly established craft position in the Assigned Maintenance Department.
c.	The number of permanent vacancies in each of the newly established crafts in each of the Assigned Maintenance Units will be determined by the Company and initially will not be less than the number of crafts currently assigned.
d.	Overtime opportunities will be provided to the specific craft in each of the Assigned Maintenance units; i.e., separate overtime logs will be maintained by unit for each craft.
e.	Vacation scheduling units consisting of the newly created craft positions of Riggers,
Welders, Pipefitters, and Elec tri (^Construction in each Assigned Maintenance, seniority unit shall be maintained. \	Zy
2.	Successful bidde.. m the newly established craft positions u4 the Assigned Maintenance Units, in accordance with Section B, paragraph 1 above, will receive the regular craft Journeyman wage rate plus the incentive earnings opportunities from the Assigned
. Maintenance Repairmen Incentive Plan existing in the unit to which they are permanently assigned.
a.	The current Assigned Maintenance Incentive Plan for the Finishing Department will be redesigned to provide an increased incentive eamings opportunity of 13 percent. The parties will meet to^msous^ the Incentive Plan design to ensure a plan target of 25 percent is achievableonTanornialoperating basis.
b.	The incumbent craftsmen in the Plant Project Unit, pursuant to Section B, paragraph 1 above, will have their existing incentive earnings opportunity increased to the average of the Blast Furnace and Finishing Mill Assigned Maintenance Repair Incentive Plan.
c.	The inclusion of the newly established crafts in an Assigned Maintenance Incentive Plan will not lower the incentive pay for employees eligible for payments under those Incentive Plans.
C. Overtime Opportunities

During outages,/craftsmen incumbent in the specific department in which contractors of the same trade or craft are performing outage work in the plant will be provided the opportunity to work 16-hour shifts for the duration of the outage. The Plant Projects group-whioh supplemeats-tho department during-outages will-be provided the-oppor—C.
-ryTVty	16 hniir -hifin far Hurntinn nf the ruttnaa. The Contracting-Out
Committee will approve as properly contracted out all contracting-out requests and Jv notices for all non-production work performed during outages.
2.	For purposes of this Memorandum, an outage is defined as the period of time a production unit is idled in an operating department for the purpose of performing maintenance work.
3.	This Section C will not apply to the contracting out of work as permitted by Section 2.4 of the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
D. Certain Contractins-Qut and Other Matters
1.	The work items listed on Attachment A will be considered properly contracted out. In the event of any reduction in force resulting in layoffs, the work items listed in Attachment A will be retrieved from the contractor forces and assigned to affected, qualified bargaining unit employees.
2.	At the regularly scheduled meetings of the Contracting-Out Committee, the parties will meet and attempt to resolve any problems in connection with the application and administration of this Memorandum. The Committee will continue to discuss contracting-out notices and any other current problems with respect to contracting out brought to the //n attention of the Committee. Disputes arising from the application or administration of ' this Memorandum will be processed in accordance with Sections 2.44 - 2.47 or Section
6 of the collective bargaining agreement.
3.	The Union witha^ws its grievances regarding the initial posting/manning and Incentive Plan at the ESM facility on the basis that the ESM facility Incentive Plan will be modified effective September 1,2000, to reflect this unit as an indirect incentive under the Steelmaking Unit Incentive Plan.
4.	The Company will maintain a minimum workforce level of 28 Masonry Utilitymen.
5.	Include Electric Power and Steam Power in Incentive Plans, indexed as indirects to Blast Furnace production.
FOR THE UNION:
FOR THE COMPANY:
L'FG/Ai
ATTACHMENT A
ASHLAND WORKS MEMORANDUM REGARDING TRADE AND CRAFT REVITALIZATION
AND CER TAIN CONTRA CTING-OUT MA TTERS
•	Grass Cutting/Weed Control
Snow Removal
Janitorial Work (Leader Janitor and Janitor on seniority unit chart for Sanitation Dept.)
Pressure Washing
Trash Hauling and Dumpster Truck
Water Truck/Vacuum Truck
Sludge Hauling and Sludge Handling
•	Slag Pot Repair
•	Unloading and Loading Materials at the Marquis Terminal

-5-
■A /ZV7 T
COMPANY PROPOSAL
August 31. 2000
(UNPUBLISHED)
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
The parties agree to the following regarding the unpublished Memorandum Regarding Trade and Craft Revitalization and Certain Contracting-Out Matters:
1.	For purposes of paragraph A.5. any machining work performed by contractors in a week during which the Company has offered Company Machinists an opportunity to work eight hours of overtime in the week shall be considered a volume of machining work which exceeds that which the total plant force of Machinists are able to cover.
Overtime Opportunities
2.	For weeks in which contractors are in the plant performing work not covered by Section C, paragraph 1, craftsmen incumbent in the specific department in which contractors of the same trade or craft are performing such work will be provided the opportunity to work eight hours of overtime per week. The Contracting-Out Committee will approve as properly contracted out requests and notices for all non-production work performed during weeks for which the Company provides the aforementioned eight-hour per week overtime opportunity.
FOR THE UNION:
Tim Imes
President 1865
John Thompson
Grievance Committee Chairman
FOR THE COMPANY:
L. W. Gonce
Manager, Industrial Relations
Daniel Hines
Industrial Relations Manager
Dennis Ward
Contracting-Out Chairman

UNION PROPOSAL OFFICE & TECHNICAL 08/31/00 (ua>	i )
MEMORANDUM
Regarding Office & Technical Bargaining Rights
This will confirm the parties’ understandings regarding the Office & Technical unit. The USWA will withdraw all objections to the OAT decertification election as well as any pending 0<&T grievances. The Company will withdraw its appeal of the Regional Director’s decision and agrees there will be no discrimination by the Company against former OAT Bargaining unit employees.
The four (4) OAT coal injection operator jobs will be transferred into the Production and Maintenance unit and will be paid at the next highest zone that corresponds to their current rate of pay. Each incumbent OAT employee on those positions will be afforded the option of becoming a member of the bargaining unit represented by the USWA or remaining as a non* rep resented employee. Any employee who elects to remain non-represented shall remain in that position until a natural attrition event or transfer causes a permanent vacancy.
All future permanent vacancies in the coal injection operator positions shall be posted for bid in accordance with the terms of the basic labor agreement
FOR THE UNION
FOR THE COMPANY