Local
Agreement between UAW and
VISTEON CORPORATION
LOCAL 892 SALINE
Agreement Dated
September 29, 2003
This Booklet Property of
IMPORTANT INFORMATION YOU SHOULD KNOW
Read the agreement, both master and local, carefully. If you have any questions, contact your Union Committeeperson.
Keep informed. Read monitors, posting boards, and bulletin boards daily.
Discuss any complaints you may have with your Supervisor and Committeeperson immediately.
Do not sign any papers without first reading same. Be sure of what you are signing.
VERY IMPORTANT - Keep both the Union and the Company informed of your correct address and telephone number. This is your responsibility. It could affect the status of your employment.
5-DAY NOTICE - If at any time you should receive a 5-DAY NOTICE (registered mail) contact management immediately (734-429-6999) and report the reason for your absence. Also, get the name of the person to whom you are reporting. This applies even if you are on medical leave of absence. Should you fail to properly respond to the 5-DAY NOTICE, you can be terminated as a 10-DAY QUIT.
Employees with less than six (6) months seniority who are absent, for any reason, for a period of three days and fail to call in to management and report their reason for absence, are subject to immediate termination without a 5-DAY NOTICE being sent to them.
ABSENCES - When you know in advance, you should request permission for the time off from your Supervisor. If an emergency arises where you are unable to give advance notice, you should telephone the Attendance Tracking System at 1-877-305-0192. You will be issued a confirmation number, which is your evidence that you reported your absence.
Your Supervisor has an obligation to call your Committeeperson if you so request.
Your Home DROT Supervisor has the responsibility to correct any errors regarding pay shortages.
SHORT-TERM ILLNESS OR INJURIES
If you are absent due to an illness or injury, and have medical evidence from your doctor, you must present your doctor's letter to the Medical Department when you return to work. You must do this to ensure that you are not improperly coded AWOL. If you have Personal Time available, and wish to use it to cover your absence, inform Labor Relations. Labor Relations will change you code appropriately.
•
Be sure to give your "Short-Term Medical Justification" to your Supervisor when you report to work. If Labor Relations has approved Personal Time to cover your absence, be sure your Supervisor processes your pay.
12.	MEDICAL LEAVES OF ABSENCE
•	Report to the Medical Office for leave when disabled.
•	Report immediately to request from the Company and UNI-CARE.
•	If you have any questions concerning insurance, contact your Hourly Benefits Representative (734-429-6383).
13. IN-PLANT INJURIES
•	Report immediately all accidents and injuries to your Supervisor.
•	Report these injuries to the Medical Department for evaluation and future treatment if necessary.
•	Record date and witnesses of accident or injury for future reference.
•	Failure to comply with the above may result in an industrial injury being considered personal with a loss of compensation.
RULES AND REGULATIONS
For the purposes of promoting the safety of employees and property and maintaining order and efficiency, "Rules and Regulations" are established as necessary concerning conduct on Company property and the use of facilities. In the event changes in Plant Rules and Regulations are contemplated, Management will discuss these changes with the Union. Such discussion will take place as far in advance of implementation as practicable. The Company will not take disciplinary action for failure to comply with a new "Rule and Regulation" or a previously uninforced established rule prior to advance notification to the Union and the employees.
IMPORTANT PHONE NUMBERS
UAW Local 892
601 Woodland Drive Saline, Michigan 48176 (734) 429-5140 uaw892.org
Region 1A
(313) 291-2750
Solidarity House UAW 8000 E. Jefferson
Detroit, Michigan 48214 (313) 926-5000
Emergency
Attendance Tracking System
Union Office
Labor Relations and Hourly Personnel Office
Medical
Workers Compensation
Security
Employee Support Services Program
National Employee Services Center
(734) 429-6666
(877) 305-0192
(734) 429-6920
(734) 429-6999
(734) 429-6400
(734) 429-6942
(734) 429-6900
(734) 429-6984 or (734) 429-6948
(800) 248-4444
UAW, Local 892 Executive Board
Page 2 of 63
Mark Caruso Ken Papenhagen II Terri Coffey Russ Creech Kim Tindall Chuck Christensen Kim Armstrong Ron Sizemore Debi Muncy Ken Papenhagen Sr.	President Vice President Recording Secretary Financial Secretary Trustee Chairperson Trustee Trustee Guide Sergeant-at-Arms Retiree President
UAW, Local 892 In Plant Committee Tom Kanitz	Plant Chairman TFC Chair
Dave Matthews Bill Eaddy Walt Disbrow Barry Stephens Kathy Kruger Don Miller Don Ensor Betty White Jodie Uroda Monica Bass Bettie Bonner Jesse Gomez Bob Holtz Jason Schiffman Jeri Feeman Wanda Wesley Keith Jacobs Monique Wilson Rebecca Branch Shawn LaMonde Keith Baker	Production Bargaining Committee Production Bargaining Committee Skilled Trades Bargaining Committee District Committee District Committee District Committee District Committee District Committee District Committee Alt. District Committee Alt. District Committee Alt. District Committee Alt. District Committee Alt. District Committee Alt. District Committee Alt. District Committee Alt. District Committee Alt. District Committee Alt. District Committee Alt. Skilled Trades Rep. Alt. Skilled Trades Rep.
UAW, Local 892 Appointed Representatives Tom Blumhardt Ken Williams Dennis Keezer	J.A.C. Rep. Health and Safety Rep. Health and Safety Rep.
Alt. Health and Safety Rep.
Alt. Health and Safety Rep.
Dusty Kelley Vera Lockley Pat Riddick Bob Belaire	Benefits Rep. Alt. Benefits Rep. E.S.S.P. Rep. E.S.S.P. Rep.
Alt. E.S.S.P. Rep.
Cathy Pelham Jerry Lowe Royale Thompson Gale Kayner Bob Coffey	Alt. E.S.S.P. Rep. E.R.C. Rep. E.R.C. Rep. E.R.C. Rep. GEN/Production Standards
Page 3 of 63
Eric Wurster
Dick Graham
Joe Dzwonkowski
Alt. GEN/Production Standards
Quality Rep.
Alt. Quality Rep.
Education and Training
INDEX
Overtime Equalization Agreement
Area Wide Equalization of Overtime
Voluntary Overtime Pool
Shift Preference Agreement
Non-Promotional Transfer Agreement
Job Posting Agreement
Temporary Classifications
Occupational Grouping Agreement
Seniority Group 1Z
Seniority Group 2Y
Seniority Group 3Y
Seniority Group 4Y
Memoranda of Understanding
Bulletin Boards
Cafeteria and Vending Services
Call-In Procedure
Chairs
Cleaner Job Assignments
Cleaning/Outside Grounds
Disciplinary Action Report Facts
Dual Supervision
East and West Hourly Security Gates
Emergency Phone Calls
Employee Training
Fans and Ventilation
Grievance Meetings
Hilos Outside -Winter
Industrial Lift Truck Operator
Industrial Lift Truck Operator Assignment
Intra-Plant Transfers of Operations
Late Paycheck Pick-up
Line Speeds
Medical Facilities
Medical Parking
Mold Weights
Molding Department Structure
Opening of Tool Boxes and Lockers
Parking Facilities
Paycheck Delivery
Pay Shortages
Personal Status Changes
Plant Visitation Program
Protective Clothing and Foul Weather Gear
Quality Concern Action Plan
Quality Control Inspection Procedures
Rest Rooms and Locker Rooms
Safety Equipment - Presses
Safety Glasses
Seniority Tiebreaker
Note: Insert Page Numbers Here
Page 4 of 63
Shipping and Receiving Checker Responsibilities	Note: Insert Page Numbers Here
Smoking Policy
Starting Time Preference
Temporary Layoff/Reduction in Force Notification
Tool Box Storage
Tornado Plan
Union Information
Water Fountains
Work Assignments and Safety
SKILLED TRADES
Skilled Trades Overtime Equalization Agreement
Apprentice, Journeyman Work Relationship
Barrelman Rotation-Maintenance and Power Service
Barrelman Rotation-Tool Room
Prototypes
Skilled Trades Candidates
Work Uniforms
Skilled Trades Utilization Committee/Leaders
Memoranda of Understanding Addendum
Seniority Tiebreaker Skilled Trades
LOCAL AGREEMENT DEFINITIONS
PAST PRACTICES
Carpenter, Floor Repair, Cement Repair, Window Repair, Painter and Glazier
Die Cast-Diemaker
Electrician
Hydraulic
Industrial Lift Truck and Tow Tractor Repair
Inspector-Tooling and Layout
Machine Repair
Millwright
Toolmaker
Welder—Tool and Die
Power Service—Heat, Steam, Air and Water
Refrigeration Maintenance and Installation
Refrigeration Maintenance and Installation Classification
LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING
Purging Presses
JSOE Committee
PMEA/FESU
Cleaning Schedules
Regrind Cleaning
Normalized Standards
Employees Working in Isolation
Electrical Enclosures
Overtime-Press Area, Departments 2712 and 2721	Note: Insert Page Numbers Here
Loaning of Employees
Scheduling of Employees Working Overtime
Overtime Scheduling in the Injection Molding Area
#3 Cleaners
Overtime in the Molding Area
Overtime Spread
Page 5 of 63
Charging of Overtime during Premium or Overtime Hours
Facility Improvements
Cafeteria Hours during Weekend
Employee Notification Logs
Union Notification of Shift Changes
Assignment of Cutting and Defacing Scrap
12-Hour Scheduling for Overtime Supplementation
Millwrights performing Rigging
Weekend Overtime Assignments in the Skilled Trades
Diecast/Diemaker
Metal Removal Trades
Fabrication of Tables, Screw Bins, and Common Carriers
In-House Repair
Incidental Work
Skilled Trades Troubleshooting
Distribution of MDI Approved Employees
Warranty/Service Agreements
Warranty Work Performed by Outside Contractors
Access to Plant Level Sourcing
Skilled Trades Assisting Vendors
Outside Contracting and Labor Clearances
Inverse Seniority and Layoffs
Departmental Structure Changes
Attendance Improvement Program
Local Continuous Improvement Steering Committee
Investigate the Use of Technology
Ford Production System
Continuous Improvement
Classification of Industrial Lift Truck Operator
Sequential Checking
Final Inspector Classification
Competitive Operating Agreement
#3 Cleaner 12-Hour Coverage
Toolroom Training
Wage Scales
NOTES
OVERTIME EQUALIZATION AGREEMENT
It is mutually agreed between Visteon Corporation, Saline Plant, and the International Union, U.A.W., Local 892, on September 29, 2003 at Saline Michigan, that the following provisions, within the constraints and guidelines allowed under Article VIII, Section 28, of the Master Agreement, shall govern the procedure for overtime equalization at the Saline Plant.
1.	Overtime shall be equalized by classification within a department by shift.
2.	Maintenance of records - Overtime records (call-in log and surveys) will be maintained on the basis of hours properly offered and hours worked for 120 days in each department and/or equalization group. Overtime will be scheduled from one common system that is linked to TWOS. The standard scheduling unit is the upcoming weekend and the following week’s daily overtime.
3.	Overtime scheduling procedures
a)	Notwithstanding the Letter of Understanding dated October 4, 1993 entitled ‘Overtime in the Molding Area’, overtime for the Press Operator classification will be scheduled first by surveying in the home department. When a need for labor still exists after surveying the home
Page 6 of 63
department, the remainder of the Press Operator classification will be filled by surveying the Press Operator classification in the other molding department prior to going to the VOT.
b)	An overtime posting board will be located in a central area in each department. The Company will conduct periodic audits of TWOS tasks H719 (green sheets) within the departments and review any non-compliance with the Policy Committee for appropriate action.
c)	The overtime refusal sheet (printed copy of H-321) will be located on the overtime board within the department, posted by the 4th hour of the shift on Tuesday. It is the employees responsibility to refuse an overtime opportunity by the end of the shift on Wednesday. This is done by indicating such refusal on the posted overtime refusal sheet within the department and placing his/her initials adjacent to his/her name.
d)	The weekly overtime report (H-719) will be located on the overtime board within the department. The report will be posted by the 4th hour of the shift on Wednesday with any corrections to be noted on the overtime report and to appear on the following week’s printout.
e)	Weekend and the following week’s overtime schedule will be located on the overtime board within the department no later than the 4th hour of the shift on Thursday prior to the overtime, when operationally feasible. The department overtime schedule will be posted by name, date, and classification unless scheduled 100 percent. Department employees will be responsible for checking their schedule.
f)	The Overtime Coordinator will be responsible to notify affected employees of changes to the posted schedule. The Overtime Coordinator should also obtain the employee’s initials (where practical) when the employee is notified of changes to a weekend overtime schedule, when the employee is available. In cases where the employee is not available, the coordinator will indicate the reason not available on the survey form.
g)	The overtime records will be retained for at least 120 days. This requirement will not apply to voluntary overtime pool employees.
4.	Charging employees OT
a)	It is the policy of the Saline Plant that an employee may be bypassed, at his/her request, in scheduling overtime when less than all of the employees on his/her classification and shift within the department are scheduled, providing another qualified employee within his/her classification, shift, and department is available to work such overtime. Such overtime not worked will be charged. Employees bypassed under this provision shall not work overtime in other departments.
b)	Employees not available to work overtime for any reason (except mandatory short-term active duty as a member of the United States Armed Forces Reserve or National Guard) will be charged for such missed opportunity when properly notified.
c)	Hires, rehires, reinstates, transfers, and reclassification (permanent or temporary) shall be charged hours equal to the highest employee on the classification on the shift in the department who is within spread.
d)	Employees loaned to and working overtime in another department, shift, or classification shall be charged the overtime on their regular classification and department. Loans exceeding two weeks should be discussed by the parties as needed (i.e. temporary layoff, launch, etc.).
e)	In addition, employees loaned to another department, if available, will be required to work mandatory overtime; i.e., nine hours and Saturday; within their own classification and department. Employees who cannot work such overtime, due to scheduling conflicts with the loaned department, shall not be charged for overtime missed in their home department.
f)	Employees loaned or assigned to another department who have been properly scheduled to work overtime are required to work the 9th hour outside of their home department as required by management, per the Master Agreement and will be charged accordingly to the home department.
g)	Overtime incurred by employees while attending Employee Involvement meetings will be charged to the home department and classification.
5.	OT Equalization
a)	The overtime spread on a shift within a department and classification will be 36 hours or less. The proper method for scheduling overtime should be from low to high hours within a classification, on a shift. In the event of a deviation from this scheduling method, the Supervisor must notify the Union in advance.
Page 7 of 63
b)	When an employee is scheduled for overtime and such scheduling causes an out-of-spread condition, the Union may request a meeting with the department Superintendent, the overtime coordinator and/or Supervisor involved for the express purpose of devising remedial action. This meeting shall take place no later than the second day following the request. If this meeting fails to resolve the out-of-spread condition within a reasonable period of time, the matter may be dealt with in accordance with the Local Letter of Understanding dated October 4, 1993.
c)	When distribution of overtime between shifts exceeds 100 hours (when comparing low hours on each shift), management and the Union will meet at the Union’s request to discuss remedies to correct the situation, which could include the possibility of adjusting starting times to satisfy a "cross shift" agreement. Whenever operationally feasible, and to the extent that quality and productivity considerations permit, management will move such work to the contesting shift. When the above conditions are not met, contesting employees will be offered the opportunity to cross shifts in order to equalize overtime. When a “cross shift” agreement has been reached, between the parties, to equalize overtime, and an employee refuses such overtime, they will be charged double the offered hours.
i.	Initiation of a cross shift letter requires the majority of the ‘low hour’ shift employees to be in favor of implementation.
d)	Efforts should be made on a weekly basis to keep departments and shifts within spread. Every reasonable attempt will be made on the part of the overtime coordinators and Superintendents to schedule the shift with the least amount of hours to work necessary overtime.
6.	Failure to work scheduled overtime
a)	When an employee accepts available overtime and is AWOL for the overtime assignment, he/she shall be charged double the amount for the accepted overtime. Employees accepting overtime and then absent, for reasons of bereavement, jury duty, pre-approved vacation and excused absences, or medically documented and excused absence will be charged in the normal manner.
b)	If an employee has been scheduled and accepts an overtime opportunity for overtime assignment and he/she is absent on the day prior to assignment, he/she must advise the Company no later than four hours prior to the end of his/her regular shift on the day prior to the premium time assignment that he/she will or will not report to work.
c)	If the employee does not notify the Company, he/she will be charged double the hours he/she would have been paid had he/she worked the premium assignment and another employee may be scheduled to work in his/her place. If the employee, when notifying advises the Company that he/she will not report for work, he/she will be charged in the normal manner (exception: when the department was scheduled 100 percent).
d)	In the event the employee reports for work on the premium assignment and he/she did not notify the Company, he/she may be sent home without liability of call-in-pay.
e)	Employees refusing offered overtime in the first instance, forcing a survey of all other employees on the classification who also refuse, but accepting the same overtime in the second instance, or are forced, will be double charged.
7.	Bumps
a)	The employee initiating a shift preference bump shall assume the highest hours within spread on the overtime sheet on his new shift. The employee being bumped shall assume the hours of the highest employee within spread.
b)	When a new shift is added to an existing department, the new employees shall assume the lower hours in spread taken from the existing shifts within their respective classifications.
8.	Rollback of hours
a) Saline Plant overtime records will revert to zero hours for each employee at an agreed upon date following contract ratification and every other year on the first Monday in October thereafter.
Page 8 of 63
AREA WIDE EQUALIZATION
OF OVERTIME
It is mutually agreed between Visteon Corporation, Saline Plant, and the International Union, U.A.W., Local 892, on September 29, 2003 at Saline, Michigan, that the following provisions, within the constraints and guidelines allowed under Article VIII, Section 28, of the Master Agreement, shall govern the procedure for area wide equalization of overtime at the Saline Plant.
1.	The existing practice of floor inspection overtime equalization will be as follows:
Area 1: Molding, Consoles, Miscellaneous Assembly, and related UQA
Area 2: Hard IP, Soft IP, and related UQA
a)	Floor inspection overtime schedules will be posted at a predetermined location for each equalization area. Floor inspectors will be permitted to change equalization areas on the first Monday in February, June, and October, on the basis of plant seniority.
b)	Starting time preference within an equalization area shall be open year round; however, a floor inspector exercising this preference must wait 90 days to again be eligible to bump starting time. In the event an inspector’s starting time is discontinued, the 90 day waiting period shall not apply. Reduction inforce and shift preference for floor inspectors will continue to be administered on a plantwide basis.
2.	Industrial Lift Truck Operators will equalize overtime plantwide. However, daily overtime may first be scheduled for drivers according to department of assignment so long as the contractual language regarding overtime scheduling is maintained.
a)	Starting time preference with an equalization area shall be open year round; however, an industrial lift truck operator exercising this preference must wait 90 days to again be eligible to bump starting time. In the event an industrial lift truck operator’s starting time is discontinued, the 90 day waiting period shall not apply. Reduction-in-force and shift preference for industrial lift truck operators will continue to be administered on a plantwide basis.
i.	Industrial Lift Truck Operators are not permitted to trade jobs with any other Industrial Lift Truck Operators for the purpose of obtaining a different starting time and/or assignment without management approval.
b)	Industrial Lift Truck Operator absences shall be covered by contacting the Material Handling Department through the use of "Outlook" or by phone. The operators shall be assigned from that department or the use of 12 hour coverage. In the event that no operator is available, it is imperative that the “back-up hi-lo driver procedure” be followed.
c)	It is the policy of the Saline Plant to use 12 hour coverage for Industrial Lift Truck Operator to cover scheduled absences. On those occasions where coverage is not available on both ends of the shift due to AWOLs, it is the intent of the Saline Plant Management to use the back up drivers when such coverage is not available.
d)	Industrial Lift Truck Operators have the responsibility to express their interest in same day or next day overtime through an established notification process.
3.	#3 Cleaners will be considered to be one group for the purposes of overtime. #1 Cleaners will be
considered to be one group for the purposes of overtime.
4.	Follow-up and Stock Control in the Injection Molding departments will be considered to be in one group for the purpose of overtime.
5.	The classification of Statistical Process Control Product Improvement Data Specialist shall equalize overtime within their respective classifications and shift, by Superintendent.
Page 9 of 63
6.	The classification of Checker-Production Machine Setter in the Panel assembly area will equalize overtime by shift.
7.	The classification of Battery-Handle and Maintain will be considered to be one group for the purposes of overtime.
8.	During an overtime period, should an event occur which would cause employees to be sent home, management of the affected operations will make every effort to cancel the high to low hour employees to the extent that this is operationally feasible.
VOLUNTARY OVERTIME POOL
It is mutually agreed between Visteon Corporation, Saline Plant, and the International Union, U.A.W., Local 892, on September 29, 2003, at Saline, Michigan, that the following provisions, within the constraints and guidelines allowed under Article VIII, Section 28, of the Master Agreement, shall govern the exercise of Voluntary Overtime Equalization at the Saline Plant.
1.	Each hourly employee, excluding Skilled Trades, working in the unit will be assigned to a Voluntary Overtime Pool. The employees will be enrolled within the area to which they are assigned, or if they so desire, may designate another area by making application in the Labor Relations and Hourly Personnel Office. Areas consist	of:
a)	Pool	1 (Molding)
b)	Pool	2 Water-based Paint/Soft-feel	Paint,	Consoles, and Service Pack)
c)	Pool	3 (Panel Assembly - including	Escape line)
d)	Pool	4 (Foam)
2.	Employees may change areas during the first week of February and the first week of August each year. Employees will only be allowed to work in their designated pool. One shift must have elapsed between the last shift worked and the VOT shift assigned.
a)	Employees entering a different voluntary overtime (VOT) pool or new employees shall assume VOT pool hours at the average of the high and low hours within their respective pool.
b)	Newly hired employees wishing to change voluntary overtime (VOT) pools due to a change in their work VOT area must request such change during the eighth week of their employment.
3.	Selections for the pool will be based on a review of medical restrictions, attendance, and workmanship records for six months immediately preceding the date application is made. Employees that incur an excessive number of medically related absences and employees that incur unexcused absences (AWOLs) may be ineligible for VOT for one year.
4.	An employee cannot refuse overtime in his/her own department to work voluntary overtime in another area. Any employee who does so, will be double charged in both the home and VOT equalization groups.
5.	Except for compelling reasons, an employee selected for the pool will be expected to work offered overtime. Scheduled employees, who must be absent, are required to call in to notify the Company of such absence as soon as possible. Employees that are AWOL for a VOT opportunity will be charged AWOL and in addition will be charged hours double the normal AWOL charge.
6.	Up-to-date lists of eligible employees by pool area will be maintained by the Labor Relations Office, who will furnish the lists to each area Overtime Coordinator. These pool lists will be in alphabetical order. It is expected that all members of the pools will receive a fair share of the overtime assigned to the pools. A copy of the VOT list will be provided to the Union.
7.	A sign-up sheet will be posted for each shift in each area in a central location by Monday noon each week. Pool employees desirous of working weekend overtime must sign the sheet in order to be scheduled
Page 10 of 63
for the following weekend. The sign-up sheets will be taken down Tuesday at 4:00 P.M. Voluntary overtime will be scheduled and the list of scheduled pool employees posted by noon Thursday. Pool employees will be required to check the posted schedule to determine their job assignment if scheduled. An employee may only sign the list for the pool, for which they are assigned.
8.	If a pool employee should be scheduled for overtime in his/her home department, after being scheduled for voluntary overtime he/she must notify the department overtime coordinator, so that a replacement can be obtained.
9.	Voluntary pool employees’ voluntary overtime hours outside the regular equalization group will be maintained in a separate overtime group. Voluntary overtime hours outside this equalization group will not be charged to the home department, however, overtime hours charged in the home department will be added to the voluntary pool overtime list.
10.	Unsatisfactory job performance by pool members on voluntary overtime will be reviewed by the parties, these employees may be ineligible for the VOT for one year.
11.	Employees desiring to work weekend overtime under this agreement must not have been AWOL during the prior week. For purposes of this provision, the following absences would not disqualify the employee from working voluntary pool overtime:
•	Paid Personal Leave
•	Vacation
•	Bereavement (under paid time policy)
•	Military Duty
•	Approved Personal Leave in Advance of Absence
•	Acts of God
•	Temporary Layoff
•	Holidays
•	Justified Medical Leave of Absence
•	Union Leave
12.	It is understood that by agreeing to institute the above procedure, neither party is giving up, modifying, or in any way compromising any of it’s rights under Appendix H or related memoranda of any of the provisions of the Agreement.
13.	During an overtime period, should an event occur which would cause employees to be sent home after completing at least 4 hours of work, management of the affected operation(s) will make an effort to send VOT employees home first. Exceptions to this may occur for operational reasons (i.e., special training, medical restrictions) when in the judgment of management such deviation is warranted.
SHIFT PREFERENCE AGREEMENT
It is mutually agreed between Visteon Corporation, Saline Plant, and the International Union, U.A.W., Local 892, on September 29, 2003 at Saline, Michigan, that the following provisions, within the constraints and guidelines allowed under Article VIII, Section 28, of the Master Agreement, shall govern the exercise of shift preference.
1.	Employees will exercise their shift preference by seniority, within their classification, within their department. In the skilled trades, employees will exercise their shift preference by seniority within their classification plantwide.
2.	For all non-skilled trades classifications, Saline Plant seniority will be the seniority date used for exercise of shift preference. Skilled trades will exercise their shift preference on the basis of date of entry into the respective classification. In both cases, Company seniority will be used to break ties for shift
Page 11 of 63
preference between two or more employees who have the same Saline Plant seniority or date of entry. Shift preference bumps will be binding when Form 250-7220 is completed and presented to the employees Supervisor.
3.	Shifts will be open for adjustment year round on an individual basis under the provisions of paragraph 1. To be eligible to exercise shift preference all of the following criteria must be met by each employee desirous of bumping:
a)	The employee desirous of bumping to another shift must meet the requirements of paragraphs 1, 2, and 4 with respect to the employee being bumped.
b)	Notice must be given to the Supervisor by the employee desirous of bumping to another shift. The shift adjustment, provided the employee is so eligible, will take place not later than the Monday following notification. When he/she is available, an employee being bumped to another shift as a result of the exercise of shift preference rights under this agreement will be provided 5 calendar days notice, and will verify notification by signing and dating his/her form, Employee Turnaround Print (H294).
c)	An employee will be allowed to bump shifts three (3) times per year (a year is defined as a rolling year) with the only exceptions being changes resulting from his/her promotion, non-promotional transfer, or as a result of being bumped by a senior employee exercising shift preference, or as a result of a reduction in force.
4.	In order that the Company may efficiently operate its business and maintain an operating balance of
experience and skill on any shifts recognized under the Master Agreement, all lesser seniority employees are exempt from shift preference bumps by more senior employees under the following conditions:
a)	Have been in their respective classifications for a period of 30 days or less.
b)	Are on a temporary classification replacing another employee for vacation, leave of absence, etc., for a period of 30 days or less.
c)	Are classified temporary as a result of new model launch for a period of 30 days.
5.	In addition to the shift preference rights under paragraph 3, preceding employees classified as Assembly and Disassembly in the areas listed below, will be permitted to exercise shift preference by classification within the area listed on a monthly basis. The effective date of such area bumps will take place on the third Monday of each month. Bump slips must be submitted by the end of the employee’s shift on Friday of the first full week of the month.
•	Panel Assembly Area (includes Escape Line)
•	Service Pack, Water-based/Soft-feel Paint, and Consoles
•	Foam Area
6.	Employees must meet requirements of paragraphs 1 through 4 of this Agreement in order to be eligible for the monthly area wide shift bump. An assembler will be permitted to exercise shift preference on a plantwide basis during the months of March, June, September, and December. Bump slips must be submitted by the third Friday of the month prior to the month in which wall to wall bumps are processed.
7.	For shift change request, the eligible employee will sign an Employee Turnaround Print (H294), and a shift preference form in the department clerk’s office. A legible copy of the shift preference application form will be provided to the employee and the Union.
8.	The Statistical Process Control Product Improvement Data Specialist classification will be eligible to change Superintendent’s area by seniority every 180 days.
9.	In addition to shift preference rights under paragraph 3 of this Agreement, Paint Sprayers may exercise year round shift preference against lesser seniority employees in their classification plantwide. Employees must be eligible to exercise shift preference under paragraphs 1 through 4 of this Agreement. Additionally, it is understood that employees will be permitted only to bump onto operations which they are qualified to perform.
Page 12 of 63
10.	In order to ensure quality parts, the parties agree to discuss freezing bumps during launches.
This agreement shall become effective concurrently with the new Collective Bargaining Agreement dated September 29, 2003, and shall remain in effect for the same period as such new Collective Bargaining Agreement, except as otherwise expressly provided herein.
In accordance with Article VIII, Section 28(a), of the Master Agreement, pertaining to Shift Preference, this agreement is signed subject to the approval of the National Ford Department of the UAW and the Employee Relations Staff of the Company.
NON-PROMOTIONAL TRANSFER
AGREEMENT
It is mutually agreed between Visteon Corporation, Saline Plant, and the International Union, U.A.W. Local 892, on September 29, 2003 at Saline, Michigan, that the following provisions, within the constraints and guidelines allowed under Article IV, Section 2(b), of the Master Agreement, shall govern the exercise of non-promotional transfers.
1.	This procedure is established in order to implement the provisions of Article IV, Section 2(b), concerning non-promotional transfers.
2.	A seniority employee may apply for a non-promotional transfer at the Employee Relations and Hourly Personnel Office by completing a form provided for that purpose. The employee making such application may specify department and/or area, as well as classification, if so desired.
3.	An employee will be eligible to have applications on file for only two jobs at any one time. An employee may change the jobs applied for at any time before a non-promotional transfer is offered.
4.	The non-promotional application file will be maintained by seniority and classification.
5.	The Labor Relations Office will maintain an alphabetical file of applications of employees who accept or decline a non-promotional transfer. Such applications will be retained for a period of 180 days. An employee who declines a non-promotional transfer will be ineligible to apply for another non-promotional transfer for a period of 180 days from the date the employee declines the offer.
6.	Non-promotional applications withdrawn before a job is offered will be initialed and dated by the applicant and retained in an alphabetical file for one year.
7.	An employee who accepts a non-promotional transfer will not be eligible for promotion until 90 days elapse from the date of the transfer.
8.	Effective as of the date of this agreement, up to one (1) non-promotional transfers to the assembly-disassembly classification will be offered monthly. These will be processed in the normal manner..
9.	A copy of each non-promotional application shall be provided to the Union on the date of filing by the employee. The Union will also be provided a copy of each offered non-promotional opportunity and a copy of the employee's acceptance or rejection of the offered opportunity. Applications must be on file seven or more calendar days prior to the receipt of the requisition.
10.	Management will select a secondary opening within twenty (20) working days from the date the position was vacated.
Page 13 of 63
11.	These secondary openings will be counted as part of the three (3) per manager (Hard IP, Soft IP, Consoles/Molding, MP&L), per year, available for the plant. This limit will commence no later than December 1, 2003. Subsequent years will run from October 1, through September 30, 2007 for the remainder of the contract. All selections under this provision will be concurred by the Labor Relations Supervisor.
This agreement shall become effective concurrently with the effective date of the 2003 Collective Bargaining Agreement and shall remain in effect for the same period as such new Collective Bargaining Agreement, except as otherwise expressly provided herein.
In accordance with Article IV, Section 2(b), of the Master Agreement, pertaining to local non-promotional transfers, this agreement is signed subject to the approval of the National Ford Department of the U.A.W. and the Employee Relations Staff of the Company.
JOB POSTING AGREEMENT
It is mutually agreed between Visteon Corporation, Saline Plant, and the International Union, U.A.W., Local 892, on September 29, 2003 at Saline, Michigan, that the following provisions, within the constraints and guidelines allowed under Article IV, Section 2(a) of the Master Agreement, shall govern the procedure for posting and filling of promotional job openings.
1.	Notwithstanding the existing language regarding non-promotional transfers found in Article 4, Section 2b, of the Master Agreement, in the event that a designated position becomes available, an employee shall be eligible to bid on that position, regardless of the rate of pay. If a job is to be filled it will be posted within 30 days unless mutually agreed to by both parties. Jobs will be posted for a 48 hour period, from 11:00 A.M. to 11:00 A.M., excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays
a)	In the event that a person selected on the job posting is of the same or higher pay rate and is the high seniority, eligible available employee, management may fill the subsequent opening with a secondary opening. Management will select a secondary opening with twenty days from the date the position was vacated.
b)	These secondary openings will be counted as part of the 12 total, per year, available for the plant. This limit will commence no later than December 1, 2003. Subsequent years will run from October 1, through September 30, for the remainder of the contract.
2.	An employee will be eligible to bid on two postings per 24 hour period provided the departments for any like classifications on any two postings are different.
3.	An employee shall apply for a job by completing the job vacancy notification form and by completing an Hourly Job Application form in quadruplicate. The bidding employee will retain the last copy of the Hourly Job Application as a receipt and place the remaining three copies in a sealed receptacle provided for that purpose. The posting and Hourly Job Application forms will be located in the hall adjacent to the main hourly entrance. All postings shall include the department name, number, pay rate, shift and date of posting. A notice that a job is available for bid will be posted on the bulletin board at the west hourly entrance.
4.	An applicant who is selected, or who refuses a job prior to going on the job will not be eligible to apply again for 60 days. The 60 days will start from the day the applicant refuses the job. The applicant will write refused next to their name on the bid sheet and initial and date the bid sheet. An applicant who refuses or is disqualified within five working days of being transferred to a job opening will be returned to the Labor Pool, Group 1Z.
5.	The selecting Supervisor and the Union Committeeperson shall orally discuss the posting and bids prior to the final selection.
Page 14 of 63
6.	The selecting Supervisor shall give consideration to all eligible candidates in seniority order, from the highest seniority applicant to the lowest seniority applicant, until a selection is made. An employee’s refusal shall be noted and initialed on the posting. The selecting Supervisor shall make his selection known to the Union in writing, and the reason for the selection no later than ten (10) days after the posting is closed for bids. The Supervisor and the Union Committeeperson shall orally discuss the selection and attempt to reach a mutual understanding. The Committeeperson shall make his objection known to the Supervisor if he does not concur with the selection. The Committeeperson shall acknowledge notification of the selection by signing and dating the Supervisor’s copy of the bid sheet.
a)	If a posting must be cancelled, the Supervisor must, at the time of the cancellation, notify the Union in writing of the reasons thereof.
b)	The selecting Supervisor’s Superintendent must sign-off on the posting before the selection will be considered official.
i.	Prior to initiating a grievance, disputes will be discussed at the Labor Relations/Bargaining Committee meeting.
7.	The Union copy of the job posting will be returned to the Committeeperson at the time he acknowledges receipt of notification of selection. The Union copy shall be a legible carbon copy of the original posting.
8.	An employee who is selected will be notified of the selection as soon as possible, and will verify such notification by signing the turnaround (H294). A selected employee will be transferred as soon as possible, but not later than the second Monday, following the selection, except in cases of selected applicants from designated jobs who must be replaced.
9.	An applicant who is selected will not be eligible to apply for a non-promotional transfer until 90 days has elapsed on the job.
10.	After the selection is made, the posting number, the name, and seniority of the selected employee will be posted on the bulletin board in the west warehouse, the posting board by the Labor Relations Office and a copy given to the Union.
11.	The Company will maintain a list of employees with recall rights to a classified position and/or those granted ‘next available opening’ via the grievance procedure to a classified position. The Company will review this list prior to placing any classified positions up for bid.
12.	Deviations from the provisions of this Agreement may be made by mutual agreement between the parties.
TEMPORARY CLASSIFICATIONS
The following procedure has been developed for the placement of and removal of employees on temporary classifications:
1.	Any seniority employee who desires to be considered for filling a temporary opening may complete a form intended for this purpose at the Labor Relations and Hourly Personnel Office. Completed forms will be filed by classification requested and retained for a period of three (3) months from the date of application.
2.	The Union will be notified, in writing, of all employees on temporary openings and the reason for such openings on a weekly basis.
Page 15 of 63
3.	Any issues/concerns with employees on temporary classifications should be expressed to the Supervisor with the opening as soon as the issues arise.
4.	When a temporary opening occurs, the selecting Supervisor will give initial consideration to those qualified personnel within his department and those applications on file for the classification being filled.
5.	Temporary classifications for 30 days or less will be filled by the Supervisor who has the vacancy. Temporary classifications of 31 days or more, will be reviewed by Labor Relations, the Union, and the Supervisor who has the vacancy, at the Union’s request, and the appropriate course of action will be agreed to.
6.	The Supervisor reclassifying an employee temporarily will be required to note the reason for the temporary opening and the duration of the assignment on the Employee Turnaround Print (H294 form). This information will be available for review by the Union.
7.	Temporary classifications filled for annual new model launch periods will be reviewed by the Labor Relations office and the Union at the end of 30 days and the appropriate course of action will be determined and implemented.
8.	Employees holding temporary classifications, who have prior experience as a temporary within the past 30 days will be subject to bumping by employees on the classification, in the same shift preference group, having greater seniority. Employees who are assigned temporary classifications without the benefit of prior experience will not be subject to bumping by senior employees until a period of 30 days has elapsed.
9.	At the completion of a temporary assignment, the Supervisor will forward a completed Employee Turnaround Print (H294) to Labor Relations to return the employee to his or her former permanent classification and/or department.
10.	In the event a reduction in force occurs, employees on temporary assignment will be incorporated, in seniority order, in their original classification and are subject to being bumped.
11.	It is understood by the parties that deviations may be required from the above procedure due to the requirements of the annual launch period. When deviations are made, Labor Relations office will meet and discuss with the bargaining committee the reasons for such deviations.
This agreement shall become effective concurrent with the effective date of the 2003 Collective Bargaining Agreement, and shall remain in effect for the same period as such new Collective Bargaining Agreement, except as otherwise expressly provided herein.
In accordance with Article IV, Section 2(a), of the Master Agreement, pertaining to local Job Posting Agreement, this agreement is signed subject to the approval of the National Ford Department of the U.A.W. and the Human Resources Staff of the Company.
OCCUPATIONAL GROUPING AGREEMENT
It is mutually agreed upon between Visteon Corporation, Saline Plastics Plant, and the International Union, U.A.W., Local 892, on September 29, 2003, at Saline, Michigan, that the following provisions, within the constraints and guidelines allowed under Article VIII, Section 14, of the Master Agreement, shall govern the exercise of seniority and occupational groupings within the Saline Plant.
SENIORITY GROUP 1Z
Assembly and Disassembly with Hand and Power Tools
Page 16 of 63
Cleaner - General Group #1
Production Worker
SENIORITY GROUP 2Y
Crib Attendant - Head Tool
Checker - Cycle
Checker - Shipping and Receiving
Driver
Injection Press Operator
Industrial Lift Truck Operator
Oiler
Paint Mixer and Spray Equipment Control
Paint Sprayer
Press Operator
Battery Handle and Maintain
Inspector - Final
Inspector - Floor
Inspector - Receiving
Reaction Mold Operator
Lye Tank and Kolene Operator
Stock Chaser
Salvage General
Mask Maker
Plastic Extruding Machine - Operate and Set-up
Cleaner - General Group #3
Plastic Mold Equipment Attendant
Mold Handler and Storage
Automatic Sonic Assembly Machine Operator
Cast Skin Operator
Statistical Process Control Product Improvement Data Specialist
Welder Automatic - S.O.M.
Salvage General-Industrial Lift Truck Operator
SENIORITY GROUP 3Y
Automatic Assembly Machine Operator - S.O.M.
Checker - Production
Repair - Production
Follow-up and Stock Control
Spot Welder
Utility/Relief
Machine Setter
Foam Equipment & Set Up
Cast Skin Machine Operator Set Up
Driver - Truck - Semi Trailer
SENIORITY GROUP 4Y
Employees on Nontraditional Jobs
All Workers’ Compensation Employees who are unable to perform job responsibilities normally covered under the Collective Bargaining Agreement, and thereby assigned to nontraditional work, will be in one occupational grouping for overtime equalization, reduction-in-force, and shift preference purposes, with the provisions that in order for these employees to exercise their overtime or seniority rights, they must be able to satisfactorily perform the nontraditional job responsibilities (both technical and physical job requirements) involved, and implementation of their seniority rights does not create job displacements which cause other Workers’ Compensation Employees to return to “No Work Available” status. The parties specifically agreed
Page 17 of 63
that removal from the nontraditional work group for placement within the traditional work force does not constitute a “reduction-in-force”.
1.	a) Employees classified as Machine Setter will in the first instance exercise their seniority against the employee with the least seniority within their classification within their department; then against the least seniority operator within the department, then against the least seniority employee in Group 1Z, plantwide.
b)	It is understood that Checker Production Machine Setters in Panel Assembly area will be considered to be in one department for shift preference.
c)	In a reduction in force, employees classified as Checker Production Machine Setter in the panel area, will in the first instance, exercise their seniority against the least seniority Checker Production M/S in the panel area, then against the least seniority Checker Production in the panel area, then against the least seniority Group 1Z in the panel area, then against the least seniority employee Group 1Z, plantwide.
d)	In the event of a reduction in force, employees assigned to Paint Sprayer/MS will, in the first instance, exercise their seniority against the least seniority Paint Sprayer/MS in their department, then against the employee with the least seniority within their classification plantwide, then against the least seniority Paint Sprayer within their department, then against the least seniority Paint Sprayer plantwide, then against the least seniority employee in Group 1Z, plantwide.
2.	Employees classified as Utility will in the first instance exercise their seniority against the employee within their classification and department; then against the employee in the department with the least seniority carrying the classification over which he was classified as Utility; then against the least seniority employee in Group 1Z, plantwide.
3.	In the event of a reduction in force, the classifications of Floor Inspector, Receiving Inspector, and SPC Specialist shall be bracketed. Employees holding these classifications shall in the first instance exercise their seniority against the employee with the least seniority within the combined group; then against the least seniority in Group 1Z, Plantwide. Any employee assuming the classification of SPC Specialist must have taken the necessary training prior to assuming this classification, and be qualified to perform SPC job responsibilities. The company will make initial training (120 hours) available, for those currently non-qualified employees who elect the bump option, in a timely manner once employees have identified themselves.
4.	Employees in seniority Group 3Y, unless otherwise provided for in this agreement, will in the first instance exercise their seniority within their classification within their department, then against the least seniority employee in Group 1Z within their department; then against the least seniority employee in Group 1Z, plantwide.
5.	Employees classified as Plastic Mold Equipment Attendants will in the first instance exercise their seniority against the least seniority employee within their classification and department; then against the least seniority P.M.E.A. Plantwide, then against the least seniority Injection Press Operator within their department; then against the least seniority Injection Press Operator Plantwide, then against the least seniority employee in Group 1Z, plantwide.
6.	Unless otherwise provided in this Agreement, employees in seniority Group 2Y will in the first instance exercise their seniority against the least seniority employee in their classification and department; then against the least seniority employee in their classification, Plantwide; then against the least seniority employee in Group 1Z, plantwide.
7.	Employees classified as Follow-Up and Stock Control in the Injection Press area shall be permitted to exercise their seniority first in their own department; then against the lowest employee so classified in the press area of 271 and 272 combined; then against the least seniority employee in Group 1Z, plantwide.
8.	Employees classified as Foam Equipment and Set-Up, in the event of a reduction in force, will in the first instance exercise their seniority against the lowest seniority employee classified as Foam Equipment and Set-Up in the department; then against the least seniority employee classified Foam Equipment and
Page 18 of 63
Set-Up, plantwide; then against the least seniority Reaction Mold Operator in the department; then against the least seniority Reaction Mold Operator plantwide; thereafter, against the least seniority employee in Group 1Z, plantwide.
9.	Employees classified as Injection Press Utility will in the first instance exercise their seniority against the employee with the least seniority within their classification and department; then against the least seniority employee within their classification, plantwide; then against the least senior operator in his/her home department; then against the least senior operator plantwide; thereafter against the least seniority employee in Group 1Z, plantwide.
10.	Those employees holding designated jobs in the 2Y or 3Y Occupational Groups who are demoted through a reduction in force shall retain recall rights to their former designated jobs for 90 days following the reduction in force. Recall of employees to designated jobs shall be accomplished in the same manner as the reduction in force. This provision shall not apply to laid off employees, whose rights to designated recall continues to be governed by VIII, 11 (g) of the Master Agreement. The 90 days will start from the date of the reduction and continue until expiration or a requisition is made by operations management.
11.	All Crib Attendants will be in one group for overtime equalization, shift preference and seniority purposes.
12.	In the event of a reduction in force, employees classified as Cast Skin Machine Operator Set-up will in the first instance exercise their seniority against the lowest seniority employee within their classification in their department; then against the least seniority employee within their classification Plantwide; then against the least seniority Cast Skin Operator in their department; then against the least seniority Cast Skin Operator Plantwide; thereafter, against the least seniority employee in Group 1Z, plantwide.
13.	In the event of a reduction in force on a shift of a Plantwide classification, the least seniority employee on the shift shall be reduced.
This Agreement shall become effective concurrently with the effective date of the 2003 Collective Bargaining Agreement and will remain in effect for the same period as such new Collective Bargaining Agreement, except as otherwise expressly provided herein.
In accordance with Article VIII, Section 14, pertaining to Local Occupational Grouping Agreements, this Agreement is signed subject to the approval of the National Ford Department of the U.A.W. and the Employee Relations Staff of the Company.
MEMORANDA OF UNDERSTANDING
It is mutually agreed and understood between the Visteon Corporation, Saline Plant, and the International Union, U.A.W. Local 892, on September 29, 2003, at Saline, Michigan, that the following listed disposition concluded previous Local Negotiations at the Saline Plant.
BULLETIN BOARDS
The Company has provided the Union with five (5) glass enclosed bulletin boards with lock and key. These boards are located in the five main employee break areas where they serve a dual purpose, for official Union notices on one side and for approved employee swap notices on the other side. The Union will be responsible for keeping the boards current and orderly and for limiting the use of the swap boards to Saline Plant employee non-commercial use only.
The Company also will provide each department with a bulletin board to be mounted on the Supervisor’s production office for the posting of overtime scheduling and other appropriate announcements.
CAFETERIA AND VENDING SERVICES
Page 19 of 63
The main hourly cafeteria will continue to post, prior to lunch hours, the menu for the following day. A variety of vending services will continue to be provided in the on-floor cafeteria including fresh fruits and fruit juices. Ice cream vending machines will be provided at the H-1 and H-12 break areas. Limited food services will be on weekends when 550 or more employees are scheduled on a shift.
Background music will continue to be provided in main and on-floor cafeterias.
The lunch hour in the main cafeteria will be 10:30 a.m. to 1:00 p.m. and 7:00 p.m. to 9:00 p.m., with other existing hours remaining the same. When and if the Company decides to raise cafeteria prices, the Union will be advised of such price increases.
CALL-IN PROCEDURE
The following procedure is established in accordance with Article VIII, Section 5, and Article X, Section 6, of the Master Agreement. Employees unable to report to work due to one or two, day illness, or who are unable to report to work on time that day, are to call the Attendance Tracking System at 1-877-305-0192 on each scheduled workday of the absence or tardiness. Call-in numbers will be issued and logged, by the Attendance Tracking System. Employees who are absent for three (3) or more days due to illness and require a Conditional Sick Leave of Absence, or who require an extension of a Conditional Sick Leave, are to call the Labor Relations and Hourly Personnel Office not later than the third day of absence during normal business hours. Conditional Sick Leaves of Absence forms will be issued by the Medical Department (734-429-6400).
Employees who are responding to quit notices, medical leave expiration notices or other such mailings are to immediately call the Labor Relations and Hourly Personnel Office during normal business hours (734429- 6999). Call-in numbers will be issued and logged by Labor Relations personnel. During hours when the Labor Relations and Hourly Personnel Office is not open, employees are to call the Plant Security Office (734-429-6900) which will issue, log, and initial call-in numbers and advise that callers must also contact the Labor Relations and Hourly Personnel Office on the following normal business day.
An employee will be allowed to use Paid Excused Absence (paid personal) days to cover unscheduled absences if the employee calls in to notify the plant at least one hour prior to the start of the shift on the day of absence. Justifiable reasons are those kinds of absences that cannot be anticipated in advance, such as illnesses and significant family or personal crises. Unjustifiable reasons are those kinds of absences that can normally be planned ahead of time, such as court dates, medical appointments and family outings. This provision is intended to cover unexpected emergencies and is not to be used to extend vacations, or holidays. Proof of absence reason may be required in suspected cases of abuse.
The Labor Relations and Hourly Personnel Office call-in log and Security Office call-in log will be made available for the Union’s perusal upon request.
CHAIRS
Chairs or stools will be provided at employee work stations provided the safety, efficiency, or prescribed method of operation are not impaired. A reserve supply of five (5) chairs will be maintained in the General Stores Crib.
CLEANER JOB ASSIGNMENTS
The changing of injection press filters will be assigned to the Cleaner Group #3 classification.
CLEANING/OUTSIDE GROUNDS
Page 20 of 63
The outside grounds of the Plant will be cleaned by the #3 cleaners three times per year. It is also agreed that the parties will meet to discuss any additional outside cleaning in the event it is required.
DISCIPLINARY ACTION REPORT FACTS
Facts will be made available on the Union’s copy of Form 4600 by insertion of a carbon or a copy will be made to provide the Union representative with this information.
DUAL SUPERVISION
The Company agrees to the principle that employees should normally take instruction from one (1) Supervisor. However, this does not preclude other members of Management from carrying out their responsibility to take action if the immediate Supervisor is not available, such as cases of emergency situations, unsafe acts, misconduct, etc.
EAST AND WEST HOURLY SECURITY GATES
The East and West hourly gates have card access 24 hours per day. Exceptions to this may include plant shutdowns, holidays, etc.
EMERGENCY PHONE CALLS
When emergency phone calls are received by the Plant Security Office, employees will be notified as soon as possible. Plant Security will maintain a log of emergency calls which will include the date and time of the call, the caller’s name, the name of the employee to be notified, the nature of the emergency, any message to be delivered, the person notified in the plant, the time the employee was notified, and the Security Officer’s initials. The person notifying the employee will advise Security when the employee is notified, or if contact cannot be made. The emergency phone call log will be available for the Union’s perusal upon request.
EMPLOYEE TRAINING
It is Saline Plant policy to provide adequate job specific training and to adhere to NJCHS Guidelines that all employees will receive all required health and safety training to enable him/her to operate the necessary tools, equipment, and machinery assigned to his/her classification and department prior to being placed on the job.
FANS AND VENTILATION
Adequate fans or ventilation will be provided throughout the plant, provided that the safety, efficiency or prescribed methods of operations are not impaired. Following relocation or rearrangement of facilities of equipment, additional fans will be provided if conditions so warrant.
Two (2) airplane type fans will be maintained in reserve for replacement purposes or for new installations.
Major spray painting touch up of parts will be confined to existing booths or in non-populated areas of the plant.
The Company and the Union will tour the plant each year during May and November, at the Union’s request, to jointly determine the plant’s heating and cooling requirements, if any.
The Company will maintain a complement of six (6) yellow fans at the general stores.
GRIEVANCE MEETINGS
Page 21 of 63
Unit second stage grievance meetings will be held weekly at 1:00 p.m. on Tuesday or at a mutually agreed upon day(s) and time. The parties agree to meet more frequently if the grievance load exceeds an unreasonable number. Furthermore, the parties agree to strive to process grievance payments in a timely manner.
HILOS OUTSIDE - WINTER
Hilos used outside on a regular basis will be equipped and prepared for outside use during the winter months. This equipment will continue to be maintained in a satisfactory operating condition.
INDUSTRIAL LIFT TRUCK OPERATORS
Industrial Lift Truck Operators must receive CMMS Training in addition to all applicable safety training prior to receiving an operators license. In addition, Industrial Lift Truck Operators have the responsibility to maintain an active CMMS PV number and may be assigned duties utilizing all functions of the bar code scan technology.
INDUSTRIAL LIFT TRUCK OPERATOR ASSIGNMENT
As a matter of both plant policy and good safety practice, only licensed employees should be assigned to operate industrial lift trucks, tow train tractors, or other plant vehicles. All operators of industrial lift truck and tow tractors will, when operating their vehicles in plant aisles, have their headlights turned on. To the extent possible, and recognizing that service to production operations must be maintained, Industrial lift Truck and Tow Tractor Operations during the major shift starting and quitting times should attempt to minimize driving in the major aisles used by employees entering and leaving the plant and west warehouse.
Lift trucks and tow tractors removed from service for safety reasons must be approved by garage personnel before being returned to service in the plant.
Vehicle traffic will be routed so the garage will not be used as a thoroughfare.
INTRA-PLANT TRANSFERS OF OPERATIONS
In the event of a transfer of operation(s) within the plant from one department to another, the parties will meet prior to the effective date of such transfer to establish a mutually agreeable means of selecting the employee(s) who will transfer with the identified operation(s).
LATE PAYCHECK PICK-UP
Paychecks not delivered to employees at regularly scheduled times will be sent to the Security Office at the end of each shift. Employees may pick up their paycheck at the Security Office 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.
LINE SPEEDS
The speed of all continuously moving lines will be specified by Industrial Engineering and set and maintained in accordance with such specifications. In addition, the speed of these lines will be locked out in accordance with the standards set by Industrial Engineering. Complaints of incorrect line speeds will be investigated and corrected to specific work standards.
MEDICAL FACILITIES
Page 22 of 63
As part of the Company’s medical program a physician shall be available for employee examinations, consultations, and treatment, if necessary. Both the number of employees working and the type of operations being performed on weekends shall determine the necessity for a nurse. Medical facilities will be provided on the #1 shift when, in the judgment of Management, conditions justify such services. In the event that an employee is injured when medical facilities are closed, supervision shall notify the Security activity who will arrange to transport the employee to the hospital for immediate treatment. Minor first aid will continue to be administered in the plant.
Employees returning from Short Term Medical Absences (three days or less) will report to the Medical Department before or during their shift, on non-working time, to present medical information from their doctor to justify their medical absences.
The Company will post requirements for documentation necessary to justify medical absences.
MEDICAL PARKING
It is mutually agreed that employees desiring to use automobile parking areas now commonly considered as reserved for the “medically restricted” must secure official “handicapped” state vehicle license tags and approval from the Plant Medical Department. Failure to secure such tags and approval will result in automatic suspension of the privilege. Exceptions will be made upon approval of the plant’s Medical section only for necessary temporary situations not to exceed 45 days. All restricted parking must be containable within the now available areas.
MOLD WEIGHTS
Mold weights are on most molds coming into the plant at the present time, and in the future, molds will contain the weight as they are received into the plant.
MOLDING DEPARTMENT STRUCTURE
Medium Press and Super Press will remain as separate departments for shift preference and overtime purposes, unless otherwise specified in this agreement.
OPENING OF TOOL BOXES AND LOCKERS
It is Saline policy that plant management will open employees tool boxes only in emergency situations. A member of Management, plant security and a Union representative should be present when a tool box or hourly locker is opened. At that time an itemized receipt will be issued for any tools or other items removed.
PARKING FACILITIES
The parking lot will be cleaned and snow removed as often as necessary to be maintained in an acceptable manner. The parking lot will be patrolled by plant Security at irregular intervals during work shifts. Between April 1 and November 1 a special parking area will be reserved for motorcycles. To prevent litter, bottles, cans, etc. in the parking lot, and to minimize the damage done to employees’ vehicles by same, and to generally improve opportunities to identify and/or apprehend trespassers in the interest of minimizing damage, vandalism, and theft of employees’ vehicles, employees will not be permitted to loiter in the parking lot for any reason.
PAYCHECK DELIVERY
It is Saline Plant policy that hourly paychecks be delivered prior to the end of the fifth hour of work (the first hour following lunch period). Exceptions may be necessary during periodic audits by the plant Controller’s Office, or special pay situations such as early payday due to holidays.
PAY SHORTAGES
Page 23 of 63
In cases of hours paid shortages, the employee should immediately notify his Supervisor to correct the shortage with the Timekeeper.
In cases of rate shortages or benefit shortages, the employee should immediately notify his Supervisor to correct the shortage with the Labor Relations and Hourly Personnel Office.
Employees who receive less than forty (40) hours pay during the workweek, due to a pay shortage, will be issued a special check during the same workweek.
PERSONAL STATUS CHANGES
Each hourly employee is responsible for insuring that his current address, phone number, dependents, and marital status are listed accurately on Company records.
Bond, dependent, address, phone number, marital status and name changes must be made at the Labor Relations and Hourly Personnel Office, during normal business hours. The employee will be provided a receipt of such change upon request.
Employees on layoff or leaves of absence must immediately notify the Hourly Personnel Office in person or by telephone of necessary changes of addresses or telephone numbers. Employees making such changes by telephone may request a call-in number.
PLANT VISITATION PROGRAM
The Saline Plant Visitation Program procedures are detailed in the Customer Plant Visits memorandum, dated June 20, 1996.
PROTECTIVE CLOTHING AND FOUL
WEATHER GEAR
A sufficient amount and variety of sizes of sanitary, cold and foul weather clothing maintained by the Company will be provided to employees who are not regularly scheduled to work outside.
Aprons will be issued to employees upon request. Gloves, smocks, finger guards and/or other protective clothing will be provided as required.
Winter coats, knit hats, and heavy coveralls will be maintained for issue by the General Stores Crib.
QUALITY CONCERN ACTION PLAN
The Quality Concern Action Plan procedures are detailed in the Saline Plant Quality Procedures Manual and is titled SPQP 5.5.1.1-1 These procedures shall be posted in production areas.
QUALITY CONTROL INSPECTION
PROCEDURES
Release of rejected parts: In the event that a Quality Production Supervisor overrules a reject made by an hourly Inspector, the Supervisor shall sign off on the reject tag and checkpoint tag in question to authorize release of the rejected parts. If the reject is for multiple containers of parts, the Supervisor will sign the first checkpoint tag. The Inspector may refer to that tag number or subsequent tags for those parts that day.
Deletions of gages, equipment and/or tests from the procedure will be specifically authorized by Quality Production Supervision. All equipment otherwise required shall be provided. The hourly Inspector will report any missing equipment immediately to the Area Superintendent.
Page 24 of 63
REST ROOMS AND LOCKER ROOMS
The Company will continue to maintain rest rooms in an operable manner with the union’s assistance in abating vandalism to doors, latches and soap dispensers. Soap dispensers will be mounted above birdbaths. Rest room attendants will report all such deficiencies to their Supervisor on a daily basis.
Sanitary items will be installed and maintained in all women’s rest rooms. Cleaning and "GI" schedules shall be provided to the UAW Leadership including revisions as required.
SAFETY EQUIPMENT—PRESSES
Safety equipment for the cleaning and servicing of injection presses will continue to be provided as required.
SAFETY GLASSES
Safety glasses are required to be worn by all employees at all times on the manufacturing floor, except in designated break areas and the departmental offices.
SENIORITY TIEBREAKER
The following order will be used to break seniority ties as necessary under all procedures within this Local Agreement:
1.	Saline Plant Seniority
2.	Ford Company Seniority
3.	Alphabetically “A” to “Z”, with “A” having highest seniority.
SHIPPING AND RECEIVING CHECKER RESPONSIBILITIES
Shipping and Receiving Checkers will not be responsible to sign for material which they do not physically receive and check.
SMOKING POLICY
Smoking will be prohibited in all areas of the.
STARTING TIME PREFERENCE
When a classification, within a department, has more than one starting time per shift, qualified employees will be given their preference of starting times in seniority order. The effective date of the new starting time for the employee exercising his/her preference shall take place not later than 5 days following notification to Supervisor. It is not Plant policy to eliminate a starting time solely due to the exercise of bumping rights by a qualified employee under this provision. A minimum of sixty (60) days shall have elapsed since an employee last changed starting times. Exceptions to this provision are for changes in department starting times, changes due to promotions, non promotions, shift preference bumps, or reductions in force.
It is understood that exceptions may be made in cases of employees with excessive discipline for absenteeism.
TEMPORARY LAYOFF/REDUCTION IN FORCE NOTIFICATION
The Company will notify the Union of each temporary layoff and reduction in force as far in advance as possible.
In the case of a shift change necessitated by a temporary layoff or reduction in force, the affected employee will be accorded five calendar days’ notice of the action when circumstances surrounding the layoff allow that period of notification to occur.
Page 25 of 63
TOOL BOX STORAGE
Employees taking vacation or leaves of absence may have their tool boxes stored in the General Stores Crib if they so desire. Tool boxes will be locked, banded, and a receipt given to the employee. Employees transferred, either voluntarily or involuntarily, to a job not requiring tools must return their tools and tool boxes to the crib before transferring to the new job.
TORNADO PLAN
The Saline Plant Tornado Plan consists of two stages, Tornado Watch and Tornado Warning.
Tornado Watch
1.	Original notification of a tornado watch is received by the Plant Security Department from the Saline Police Department or the National Weather Service. This alert may also be received by Security when monitoring the scanner channels in the Security guardhouse.
2.	When notification of a tornado watch is received, Security personnel will monitor the following channels on the scanner in the guardhouse:
■	Saline Police Department
■	Saline Fire Department
■	National Weather Service
■	Washtenaw County Sheriff's Department
Security will also monitor one of the following local radio stations for further severe weather status:
■	WAAM (1600-AM)
■	WTKA (1050-AM)
■	WIQB (102.9-FM)
■	WQKL (107.1-FM)
3. In addition to the above monitoring efforts by Security, available Safety and/or Security personnel will be dispatched to locations around the perimeter of the plant property to observe developing weather conditions. When a tornado watch condition exists, the senior management representative and the UAW must be advised by Plant Security. At this time, a security radio will be provided to the management representative to allow direct contact with Plant Security until the threat of severe weather no longer exists.
Tornado Warning
1.	The determination of a tornado warning will be the responsibility of the ranking Plant Security employee on duty. This decision will be based on activation of the Saline City warning signal, information from radio monitoring efforts or reports of a sighting by Safety/Security personnel.
2.	When determination has been made that the plant is threatened by a tornado, the "take cover" warning will be announced throughout the facility via the public address system. General guidelines for this action will be any confirmed sighting of a funnel cloud within the area bordered by I-94 and M-14 on the north, US-23 on the east, M-50 on the south and M-52 on the west. Related map is available and located at the Security guardhouse. The decision to initiate the "take cover" procedure will be made by the senior management representative at the plant.
3.	When the "take cover" warning is announced throughout the plant all employees in the plant will be directed to the shelter areas in the basement of the building.
4.	It is important that during the "take cover" process there is no evacuation of the Plant. All employees are to be instructed to remain inside the shelter area in the basement. This shelter area includes the hallways, locker rooms, cafeteria and office areas located in the basement.
5.	When information has been received by Plant Security that the facility is no longer threatened by a tornado or other severe weather conditions, the senior management representative will be advised. This individual will determine if the "take cover" process has ended and employees will be instructed to return to their work stations.
UNION INFORMATION
Page 26 of 63
The Company will furnish the following employee information to the Local Union. This information will be placed in the Union’s in-plant mailbox.
1.	Two current copies of the Daily Hourly Personnel Activity Report for each day such report is processed.
2.	Two current copies of the Alphabetical Listing of all Saline Plant employees on the active employment roll on a weekly basis.
3.	Two current copies of the Occupational Group Seniority listing of all Saline Plant employees on the active roll on a weekly basis.
4.	One current copy of all Authorization Cards to deduct Union initiation fees and monthly dues. Included on the authorization card for rehires will be the name of the Ford location where the employee previously worked.
5.	One current copy of the Employee Overtime Record of all Saline Plant employees on the active roll on a weekly basis.
6.	One current copy of the list of employees who are classified as temporary on a weekly basis. Hourly status changes for temporary classified employees will be available in the Labor Relations and Hourly Personnel Office for review by the Union on a weekly basis.
7.	One copy of all non-promotional transfers initiated by the Labor Relations and Hourly Personnel Office.
8.	Two copies of the Plant Seniority, Ford Seniority Sequence - Employee Status Register will be provided to the Union on a monthly basis.
9.	The Company agrees to provide to the Union two copies of all hourly retirement notifications in advance of the employee’s effective retirement date.
10.	Security incident reports, concerning safety issues involving UAW represented employees, will be provided to the Union safety representative on a timely basis.
11.	Copies of normalized work standards shall be provided to the Union Production Standards/GEN after such standards have been established. Manufacturing Engineering Industrial Engineers may be consulted for information and explanation of work standard.
WATER FOUNTAINS
Plant management will provide adequate water fountains on the manufacturing floor. Two spare water fountains will be retained in the General Stores Crib. Additional water fountains will be provided if conditions so warrant.
WORK ASSIGNMENTS AND SAFETY
It is the Saline Plant policy to follow safe work practices at all times and that no employee will be required to work under unsafe conditions. If more than one employee is necessary to insure job safety on a work assignment, an appropriate number will be used. The "buddy system" (minimum of 2 people) will be used for employees going onto the roof whether work is being performed or not. Additionally, a radio will be provided to maintain communication. No locked out equipment will be unlocked without the consent of the Safety Engineer. In the interest of safety, whenever a person(s) is required to work overhead or in a lift, the work area must be barricaded and a spotter with knowledge of the JLG’s operating capabilities will be on site to assist in an emergency or contact the medical department in case of an injury. Platform lifts will have emergency operating instructions posted near manual controls.
Page 27 of 63
This agreement shall become effective concurrently with the new Collective Bargaining Agreement dated September 29, 2003 and shall remain in effect for the same period as such new Collective Bargaining Agreement, except as otherwise expressly provide herein.
This agreement is signed subject to the approval of the National Ford Department of the UAW and the Employee Relations Staff of the Company.
SKILLED TRADES OVERTIME
EQUALIZATION AGREEMENT
It is mutually agreed between Visteon Corporation, Saline Plant, UAW, Local 892, on September 29, 2003, at Saline, Michigan, that the following provisions, within the constraints and guidelines allowed under Article IV, Section 6, of the Master Agreement, shall govern the procedure for overtime equalization of Skilled Trades and Appendix F employees at the Saline Plant.
1.	All skilled trades and Appendix F employees shall rotate overtime by classification, by shift,
plantwide.
2.	Overtime records will be maintained on the basis of hours properly offered, and hours worked. Overtime will be scheduled from one common system that is linked to the TWOS tasks. The standard scheduling unit is the upcoming weekend and the following week’s daily overtime.
a)	It is the policy of the Saline Plant that an employee may be bypassed, at his/her request, in scheduling overtime when less than all of the employees on his/her classification and shift within the department are scheduled, providing another qualified employee within his/her classification, shift, and department is available to work such overtime. Such overtime not worked will be charged.
b)	Employees not available to work overtime for any reason (except mandatory short-term active duty as a member of the United States Armed Forces Reserve or National Guard) will be charged for such missed opportunity when properly notified.
c)	Weekly overtime lists (H-719) will be posted at an established location in each department. They shall be posted in the department with any corrections to be noted on the overtime sheet and to appear on the following week’s printout.
3.	Weekend overtime will be posted no later than 4:00 p.m. on Tuesday prior to the overtime. The names will be posted on Wednesday as in prior agreements.
a)	The department overtime schedule will be posted by name, date, and classification unless scheduled 100 percent. The overtime posting will be placed at one established location each week in each department. Department employees will be responsible for checking their schedule. The Overtime Coordinator will be responsible to notify affected employees of changes to the posted schedule.
b)	Weekend overtime scheduled after the end of an employee’s shift on Thursday of the same week shall not be charged if refused, when notified in the proper manner.
c)	Skilled Trades will continue to use the green card (refusal) system now in use. These overtime refusal cards will be due during your shift on Tuesday for the afternoon shift and Wednesday for the midnight and day shifts. The 12-hour “preference” card will be due concurrently.
d)	In the event of refusals exceeding the requirements for weekend overtime, 12-hour coverage will be the first course of action to cover the shortages. If schedules cannot be met with available 12-hour coverage, employees can be “musted”.
4.	The overtime spread on a shift within a department and classification will be 36 hours or less. The proper method for scheduling overtime should be from low to high hours within a classification, on a shift. The overtime spread between shifts, within a classification will be 100 hours or less. For scheduling problems caused by out-of-spread conditions, see Local Letter of Understanding dated October 4, 1993.
a) Initiation of a cross shift letter requires the majority of the ‘low hour’ shift employees to be in favor of implementation.
Page 28 of 63
b)
When employees of a particular trade elect to cross shifts to equalize overtime, and the employees of the low hour shift refuse any weekend overtime, they shall be charged double the offered hours.
5.	Hires, rehires, reinstates, transfers, and reclassification (permanent or temporary) shall be charged hours equal to the highest employee on the classification on the shift in the department who is within spread.
a) Employees loaned to and working overtime in another department or shift shall be charged the overtime on their regular classification and department. Employees temporarily loaned or forced to another shift and unable to work overtime in their home department caused by a conflict in scheduling will not be charged. Loans exceeding two weeks should be discussed by the parties as needed (i.e. temporary layoff, launch, etc.).
6.	When an employee accepts available overtime and is AWOL for the overtime assignment, he/she shall be charged double the amount for the accepted overtime. Employees accepting overtime and then absent, for reasons other than bereavement or medically excused, for the overtime assignment, shall be charged double the amount for accepted overtime.
a)	If an employee has been scheduled and accepts an overtime opportunity for overtime assignment and he/she is absent on the day prior to assignment, he/she must advise the Company no later than four hours prior to the end of his/her regular shift on the day prior to the premium time assignment that he/she will or will not report to work.
b)	If the employee does not notify the Company, he/she will be charged double the hours he/she would have been paid had he/she worked the premium assignment and another employee may be scheduled to work in his/her place. If the employee, when notifying advises the Company that he/she will not report for work, he/she will be charged in the normal manner (exception: when the department was scheduled 100 percent).
c)	When a skilled trades of Appendix F employee refuses overtime and is then forced to work because the overtime coordinator has gone through the entire list, he/she shall be charged double the offered hours so that the overtime list will continue to be rotated. If an employee refuses an overtime opportunity in the first instance, and then accepts the same opportunity in the second instance, he/she shall be double charged.
7.	The employee initiating a shift preference bump shall assume the highest hours within spread on the overtime sheet on his new shift. The employee being bumped shall assume the hours of the employee that bumped, if within spread, otherwise of the highest employee within spread.
a) When a new shift is added to an existing department, the new employees shall assume the lower hours in spread taken from the existing shifts within their respective classifications.
8.	Overtime for apprentices shall be equalized with journeyman of their respective trade after completion of 1000 hours of their indentured apprenticeship program.
9.	All Skilled Trades overtime for extended downtime periods, such as July or Christmas shutdowns will be scheduled using the same green sheet (H719) hours as the last work week prior to the shutdown. These hours will be used for all overtime, weekend & daily, for the duration of the shutdown.
10.	Saline Plant Skilled Trades overtime records will revert to zero hours for each employee on October 6, 2003, and every other year on the first Monday in October thereafter.
SKILLED TRADES
It is mutually agreed between Visteon Corporation, Saline Plastics Plant, and the International Union, UAW Local 892, on September 29, 2003, that the following provisions will apply to the skilled trades:
APPRENTICE, JOURNEYMAN WORK
RELATIONSHIP
Page 29 of 63
It is Saline Plant policy that no apprentice will work without a journeyman scheduled in his/her respective trade.
No apprentice shall be assigned to perform work without a journeyman until completion of 3000 hours of the indentured apprenticeship unless qualified to perform the task involved. Good judgment shall prevail in all apprentice assignments to insure quality training with safe working conditions. Apprentices will be rotated on all three shifts and to all maintenance areas in a manner and sequence determined by the local Joint Apprenticeship Committee.
BARRELMAN ROTATION—MAINTENANCE
AND POWER SERVICE
The plant recognizes that it is desirable to periodically rotate skilled tradesmen to better familiarize them with various production and construction processes. It is Saline Plant policy to rotate newly hired journeymen through the areas defined in Barrelman Rotation in their first year of employment.
In addition, it is normal procedure that a journeyman will be assigned a regular area after the first year of employment.
The areas for Barrelman rotation will be as mutually agreed to between the Maintenance Department and the Union and will include only journeymen in the areas defined. Apprentices will be added to Barrelman areas as required to accomplish training requirements as determined by the Joint Apprenticeship Committee and reviewed by Maintenance Management. After each journeyman has been assigned to an area, he may request a rotation as follows:
•	On the first Monday of April and the first Monday of October, area changes may be made, providing the request was made ten days prior to.
•	Journeymen who are absent from work for any reason during the Area Preference Survey must indicate in writing his or her preference to the skilled trades Bargaining Committeeperson, or take available work upon return to work.
•	Journeymen desiring to bump to another shift and wishing to be included in that shift’s area rotation must submit his/her shift preference bump slip no later than two (2) weeks prior to the date area rotations are to be implemented.
•	If two or more journeymen are requesting the same area, date of entry will be the determining factor.
•	In cases of shift preference bumps, the affected employees will exchange areas.
•	In cases of temporary loans from area to area, the lowest seniority journeyman in the area shall be loaned.
It is understood that rotational moves must be consistent with efficient operations and limited to 50% of the affected trade in each area and that exceptions may be made in cases of medically restricted employees. In one man areas, the least seniority will move.
BARRELMAN ROTATION—TOOL ROOM
Diecast Diemakers and Toolmakers will be rotated from bench work to maintenance (630) coverage by volunteers from the classification on a monthly basis. Volunteers may indicate their desire by signing a posting which will be available no less than 7 days prior to the end of the current quarter. In the event that no one volunteers, the position(s) will be filled weekly, starting with the assignment of the lowest seniority journeyman until the entire list has been exhausted. If there continues to be a lack of volunteers for the Barrelman on subsequent postings, the position will be rotated weekly among the remaining journeyman until the entire list has been exhausted. Notwithstanding the above one week rotation, management may, for good cause, extend the (non-volunteer) assignment for an additional week.
Page 30 of 63
Weekend floor coverage will be assigned to those journeymen normally assigned to that position provided that they are scheduled for weekend overtime. The vacancy will be filled by rotating through the list of journeymen on the classification not restricted from working on the floor in the event the journeyman normally assigned to the position is not scheduled for weekend overtime. Toolmakers will rotate to the maintenance job assignments under the provisions of the Maintenance Department Barrelman Rotation Agreement.
PROTOTYPES
The following was agreed upon as a working definition for use in distinguishing “prototype” material from other fabrication:
“A prototype is any device, fixture, or other fabricated item which is (1) in some way unique as compared to other similar items, and (2) developed for a specific application(s).”
Subsequent exact duplicates would not themselves be prototypes, although nearly identical items fabricated thereafter (but incorporating one or more refinements of a material nature) continues to be defined correctly as prototypes.
SKILLED TRADES CANDIDATES
It is Saline Plastics Plant policy to hire the best qualified journeymen in all trades. Plant management recognizes the desirability of hiring approved apprentice graduates or other journeymen with eight years verifiable experience in the respective trade being hired. Any employee in the Plant who is qualified may make application for skilled trades assignment in the Hourly Employment Office. When openings occur in the skilled trades, all such in-plant applicants who appear to be qualified will be considered and interviewed for the respective trade to be filled.
WORK UNIFORMS
For those expressing a preference, work uniforms will be supplied in lieu of coveralls to all skilled tradespeople, (excluding Welders who are required to wear fire resistant coveralls), Foam Equipment and Set Up persons, and PMEA’S. New sets of uniforms will be issued when the old set is no longer usable. An employee using a uniform will be required to turn in the old set prior to the issuance of new uniforms on a one for one basis. Failure to turn in uniforms under this provision will result in a charge for each uniform issued at a cost not to exceed the cost of purchase to the Company. The cost of the uniform(s) shall be automatically deducted from the employees paycheck after consultation with the employee and the Union and the loss is determined to be the fault of the employee. Coveralls will be available to skilled trades upon request when accompanied by a 416 signed by the Supervisor.
SKILLED TRADES UTILIZATION
COMMITTEE/LEADERS
Management of the Visteon Corporation, Saline Plant sanctions and supports the formation of a Skilled Trades Utilization Team composed of the Saline Plant Skilled Trades Leaders. The Leaders consist of one elected representative from each UAW Local 892 Skilled Trades Group per shift. The Leaders will be elected on a semi-annual basis coinciding with Barrelman dates thereafter. These shorter terms will provide for a democratic sharing of ideas and concerns, and will help facilitate a combined management-labor teamwork effort. The purpose of this combined team effort is:
1.	Provide input on assigning skilled work.
2.	Provide input on how newly generated in-house work will be assigned on preventative maintenance and other matters regarding skilled trades utilization.
Page 31 of 63
3.	Track overtime.
4.	Attend outside contracting and sourcing meetings as required.
5.	Assist in scheduling of materials on major projects.
6.	Make Barrelman survey.
MEMORANDA OF UNDERSTANDING
ADDENDUM
November 28, 1984
SENIORITY TIEBREAKER SKILLED
TRADES
The following order will be used to break seniority ties among Appendix F employees as necessary under all procedures within this Local Agreement:
1.	Saline Plant Skilled Date-of-Entry Seniority
2.	Ford Company Skilled Date-of-Entry Seniority
3.	Ford Company Seniority
4.	Alphabetically “A” to “Z”, with “A” having highest seniority
This addendum to the Saline Plant Local Agreement supersedes any and all references and procedures concerning “Seniority Tiebreaker” contained in the Local Agreement dated October 24, 1984.
This agreement shall become effective concurrently with the 2003 Collective Bargaining Agreement, and shall remain in effect for the same period as such Collective Bargaining Agreement, except as otherwise expressly provided herein.
This agreement is signed subject to the approval of the National Ford Department of the UAW and the Employee Relations Staff of the Company.
LOCAL AGREEMENT
DEFINITIONS OF PAST PRACTICE
The following definitions of past practice have been agreed upon by representatives of Local 892, U.A.W., and Visteon Corporation Saline Plant, pursuant to paragraph 6 of the Skilled Trades Supplemental Agreement. These definitions do not necessarily cover all work assignments performed by the trades involved. It is understood that these definitions are subject to the provisions of paragraph 5 and 6 and Exhibit II of the Skilled Trades Supplemental Agreement and Company’s letter to the Union dated December 7, 1970, subject, Skilled Trades Work Assignments. The above language applies to the skilled trades classifications identified hereafter:
Carpenter, Floor Repair, Cement Repair, Window Repair, Painter & Glazier
1.	Install, maintain, and repair pedestrian doors except key core. Assist Millwrights on installation of wood overhead doors where required.
Page 32 of 63
2.	Perform painting and labeling on machines, signs and buildings, as required.
3.	Perform masonry installation and removal where materials are to be salvaged. This does not preclude other classifications performing incidental masonry removal.
4.	Block molds, machinery and fixtures for shipment, including fabrication of shipping boxes and new pallets.
5.	Install and repair non metal roof flashing and weather seals.
6.	Perform major painting and numbering on manufacturing equipment, hi-los, tow motors and other in plant vehicles.
7.	Install and repair floor tile, ceiling tile, ceramic tile and masonry floors.
8.	Lay out, fabricate and install wood construction.
9.	Apply floor sealer.
10.	Install glass, excluding Plexiglas guards.
10.	Repair roof leaks with tar, gravel and other non-metal sealers and non-metal flashing.
11.	Compact sand when preparing ground for pouring cement.
Die Cast - Diemaker
1.	Machine parts using machines such as mills, lathes, shapers, grinders, electrical discharge machines, and numerical control as do Toolmakers and Machine Repair.
2.	Install, remove, and replace mold core ejector pins and mold core pins. Install mold locator rings except during normal mold changes.
3.	Remove or attach components necessary to provide access to the mold, such as cam slide operated by hydraulic cylinder. If assistance is required, other appropriate classifications may be assigned.
4.	Drill and tap holes in mold core and cavity block for mounting electrical switches.
5.	Grind with hand grinders on molds.
6.	Polish molds as required.
7.	Repair flashing problems, mold damage, cams or slides, and clean vacuum holes.
8.	Repair and maintain Reaction Mold Tools and Vacuum Form Tools. Clean out vacuum holes in the Reaction Mold Tools and repair bondo material. Assist in troubleshooting foam leaks.
9.	Perform all current model work related to foam molds and skin molds including studding (attach with stud welder) and internal tubing, assembly and disassembly of powder cast skins and the repair, cleaning and vapor honing of molding surfaces.
Page 33 of 63
Electrician
1.	Fabricate, install and repair electrical equipment.
2.	Repair, rebuild and connect all electrical motors including the removal and replacement of bearings.
3.	Assist Power Service—Heat, Steam, Air and Water, and Refrigeration personnel in servicing Power
House related electrical equipment as required. Perform electrical construction and electrical building maintenance. Service and maintain electrical power circuitry excluding control circuitry on Power House related equipment.
4.	Electricians install electrical wiring and switches, plus conduit associated with electrical wiring.
5.	Install and repair electrical panels, may be assisted by such trades as Millwright and Welder - Tool and Die as appropriate.
6.	Install and connect heater bands, switches and electrical components on injection presses. Disconnect electrical components on injection presses where epic quick disconnect plugs are not available. Make all electrical connections on injection presses where epic quick disconnect plugs are not available on both the mold and press.
7.	Install and repair area lighting equipment.
8.	Repair and replace electrical components on liquid filled transformers.
9.	The input of all programs, both initial and subsequent, is the responsibility of included Electricians.
10.	Perform resolve alignments, tuning up, calibrating and servo set up of motors and encoders.
11.	Electrical troubleshooting will be performed by Electricians, and controls engineers with other support personnel if requested.
Hydraulic
1.	Rebuild, replace and make repairs on components of process equipment, including air motors, regulators, lines, rotators, hydraulic lines, valves, cylinders, pumps, water line pumps, valves and vacuum pumps, and lines, inclusive of city water lines starting at the east guard building.
2.	Maintain heat exchangers and oil reclaim/oil farm equipment. Connect hydraulic hoses on injection and foam molding machines and molds. Disconnect hydraulic components on injection molding and foam molding machines and molds where quick disconnects are not available.
3.	Perform soldering and leading as required.
4.	Maintain all vacuum systems, including tubing and piping.
5.	Maintain lawn and fire protection sprinkler systems except some Power House related equipment.
6.	Operate sanitation auger in trenches, drains and manholes.
7.	Fabricate, install, and remove piping and tubing associated with water, gas, and chemical systems, use devices to check such systems for leakage or deterioration.
Page 34 of 63
8.	Maintain nitrogen systems on all equipment, not to include power services equipment.
9.	Clean, rebuild, maintain and test all spray.
10.	Repair and relocate (if necessary) all air valves.
11.	Repair and rebuild all hydraulic and pneumatic.
12.	Perform analysis of hydraulic oil particle contamination and water content.
13.	Maintain air over oil tools, such as; rivet guns also repair air powered nippers.
14.	Hydraulic Repair will perform hydraulic and pneumatic calibration where qualified.
15.	Repair, install, and rebuild paint guns from the Water Based Paint, Soft Touch Paint, and 228
Paint areas.
Industrial Lift Truck and Tow Tractor Repair
1.	Uses acetylene torch and arc welder as required.
2.	Welders - Tool and Die may assist in such maintenance and repair.
3.	The Carpenter - Painter also performs major painting tasks as required.
4.	Performs mechanical, electrical, hydraulic, welding, bumping and painting activities necessary to the maintenance and repair on such moving equipment as:
Industrial Lift	Transporters
Tow Tractors
Tractors
Cars
Portable Welders
Scrubbers Bicycles Sludge Buggies
Stackers
Trucks
Sweepers
Personnel Carriers Line Painters Vert-alifts
Inspector-Tooling and Layout
1.	Inspect tools, dies, jigs, fixtures and gages using measuring instruments, such as comparators, coordinate measuring machines, height gages, calipers, micrometers, indicators, and gage blocks.
2.	Maintain, update and clean precision measuring devices such as micrometers, calipers, and dial indicators.
3.	Inspect molded parts for dimensional approval and quality problems requiring Layout Inspection skills, using
blue prints, mylars, and related inspection equipment.
4.	Inspect machined parts which require the use of blue prints for said inspections.
Page 35 of 63
5.
Inspect tools, dies, jigs, gages and fixtures using blue prints and related inspection equipment.
6. Check part “fit to gage” dimensions for the Production Part Approval Process on new model parts.
Machine Repair
1.	Machine parts using such equipment as mills, shapers, grinders, latches and shop machines, including electronic discharge machines and numerical controls, as do Die Cast-Diemakers and Toolmakers.
2.	Perform machining for other maintenance classifications as required. Other trades also operate shop machines and equipment related to the work of their trades.
3.	Repairs parts track on equipment.
4.	Replaces punches on riveters as do Toolmakers and unskilled classifications.
5.	Disassemble, repair and reassemble machinery and robots as required.
6.	Repair, maintain, and rebuild portable air tools for production and skilled trades, such as screw guns and die grinders.
7.	Assist other trades in shaft alignment as required.
8.	Maintain clutches on machinery.
9.	Maintain defective injection molding nozzles.
10.	Maintain and repair tracks, slides, shuttles, transfer arms or any part of a machine on which no production operation is performed.
11.	Maintain, repair, replace, and rebuild welding guns for production, including fabricating and/or replacing adapters, pins, and insulators. (This includes fabrication of internal tubes which may be installed by Welder-SOM classification).
Millwright
1.	Install, maintain, repair, rebuild and dismantle overhead conveyors, endless belt conveyors, slats and roller conveyors, conveyor drives and related conveyor clutches, belts, tracks, pulleys and drive couplings. Make floor repairs on reduction boxes on conveyors.
2.	Lay out, fabricate, erect and dismantle structural steel, conveyors, structural equipment and structural machinery, building beams and metal office partitions.
3.	Maintain crane tracks, cables, hoists and hooks. Maintain furnaces.
4.	Lay out, fabricate, form and install sheet metal pertaining to the Millwright trade.
5.	Remove, install and align electric motors which cannot be handled by one man.
Page 36 of 63
6.	Perform rigging when the specialized skill of a Millwright is required for unbalanced loads except when performing machining. This agreement has no effect upon the current past practices of other skilled trades persons.
7.	Repair and fabricate common racks and common carrier baskets which are used solely to transport parts from one operation to another not to include mask repair work such as spindles.
8.	Repair and fabricate paint fixture stands for production and storage use.
9.	Fabricate and install all new structural metal on vehicles.
10.	Assist Electricians on changing of bearings and rotors which require rigging to remove and replace.
11.	Operate heavy equipment (backhoe, dump truck, all lift trucks over 15 tons and related construction
equipment) used for maintenance/repair on construction. This excludes snow removal, trash compactor boxes, and grounds maintenance tasks.
12.	Layout and fabricate complex multiple brackets that require the use of equipment normally used by the Millwright classification for bending, notching, hole punching, etc., (as opposed to making simple brackets that may be performed by any trade for required tasks).
Toolmaker
1.	Lay out, build and maintain tools, jigs, trunnions, fixtures, gauges, templates, and dies, performing such operations as machining, assembling, disassembling, cleaning, fitting, etching, stamping, lapping, grinding, and filing.
2.	Machine parts using machines such as mills, lathes, shapers, electrical discharge machines, and numerical control as do Die Cast-Diemakers, and Machine Repair.
3.	Repair and modify tooling on equipment, and clean tooling when assembly and disassembly are required.
4.	Replace punches on riveters as do Machine Repair and unskilled classifications.
5.	Replace probes and/or punches on machines where close tolerance adjustments are required.
6.	Maintain and repair the jaws, fixtures, or any part of a machine that holds a part for a production
operation to be performed on it. (End of Arm Tooling, UPN 105 Robots). If a robot holds a production part and it is deemed to be a fixture from the wrist out, it is toolmaker work. This is consistent with the rest of the unloaders, such as in the press area being a toolmaker assignment. Robots such as the clip cells, glue guns and paint guns as in Water-based/Soft-feel Paint will continue to be assigned to machine repair and or related trades.
7.	Repair and fabricate all hot stamp rest pads (nests and fixtures) heads and dies.
8.	A Toolmaker will be assigned to assist set-up with the dies on all togglelock machines as required.
Page 37 of 63
Welder - Tool and Die
1.	Perform welding, cutting, brazing, soldering, and leading, using such equipment as:
•	Arc Welder
•	Heliarc Welder
•	Oxyacetylene Torch
•	Oxypropane Torch
•	Self-Propelled Line Cutter
•	Arc Cutting Rod
•	Automatic Wire Feed
•	Plasma Torch
2.	Perform welding on Plant vehicles of all types as do Industrial Lift Truck and Tow Tractor Repairmen.
3.	Perform welding functions on molds and tooling for Plant Tool Room.
4.	The above does not preclude other skilled trades or Mask Makers from performing such welding
functions as required by their classifications.
5.	Assemble all common racks which are used solely to transport parts from one decorating operation to another.
6.	Assemble all common baskets which are used solely to transport parts from one decorating operation to another.
7.	Assemble paint fixture stands for production and storage use.
Power Service - Heat, Steam, Air and Water
1.	Operate, maintain, lubricate and perform minor repair on equipment related to the Power House or Power Service such as boilers, pumps, compressors, water pollution facilities, steam traps on Power House equipment, steam condensate return systems, portable heaters, make up air units and permanent heaters.
2.	Perform blow downs, water tests, adding of chemicals, annual inspections, take pressure and temperature readings and adjust and renew packing as necessary to prevent leakage on Power House or Power Service related equipment.
3.	Change filters and clean equipment assigned to their jurisdictions as required.
4.	Service and repair drinking fountains.
5.	Maintain and repair electrically, hydraulically, pneumatically operated temperature and pressure controls, and control circuitry on Power House related equipment.
6.	Operate and maintain waste treatment plant and related equipment, including the treating of effluent water, testing of industrial water leaving the Plant, and maintenance of lagoons.
7.	Start and stop nitrogen chambers on Water-based Paint.
8.	Graduating Power House apprentices will be required to obtain a boiler operator’s license prior to participating in the Power Service Barrelman rotation.
Page 38 of 63
9.	The above does not preclude the assignment of appropriate skilled trades to the repair or installation of any equipment named above if such assignment is stipulated by other guidelines in this agreement.
Refrigeration Maintenance and Installation
1.	Performs same job assignments as do Power Service - Heat, Steam, Air and Water.
2.	Repair, rebuild and/or install of major components of refrigeration equipment directly involving the refrigerant cycle, e.g., compressor, evaporator and condenser.
Refrigeration Maintenance and Installation Classification
Pursuant to the provisions of the Wage Claims Agreement dated September 13, 1974, the Refrigeration Maintenance and Installation classification has been added to the Rate and Classification Schedule for the Saline Plant. Said classification shall be implemented according to the following:
1.	The new classification and rate shall be applied to employees currently classified as Power Service - Heat, Steam, Air and Water, who are regularly assigned to perform refrigeration work as defined herein, in addition to other duties heretofore or currently assigned to the Power Service - Heat, Steam, Air and Water classification. Such refrigeration work is defined as the repair, rebuild or installation of major components of refrigeration equipment directly involving the refrigerant cycle, e.g., compressor, evaporator and condenser.
2.	The Power Service - Heat, Steam, Air and Water classification and rate shall continue to be applied to employees who are regularly assigned to perform work heretofore or presently assigned to employees so classified other than the refrigeration work defined in paragraph 1 above as requiring the application of the new classification and rate.
3.	Management reserves the sole right to determine the Company’s present intention to apply the new classification to the employees assigned to the Power House working the rotating seven-day schedule and to at least one employee per shift assigned to the floor on patrol and servicing production. Any increase or reduction in the number of employees to whom the new classification is applied will be made when, in Management’s judgment, such changes are warranted by operating conditions and the workload of refrigeration work as defined in paragraph 1 above.
4.	Employees promoted to the new classification from qualified journeymen classified Power Service -Heat, Steam, Air and Water will be selected pursuant to the provisions of Article IV, Section 2(1), and of the Local Job Posting Procedure Agreement.
5.	Employees on the above classification shall be on a common seniority list for purposes of layoff and recall.
6.	Employees on the above classifications shall be considered as being on the same classification for purposes of the application of the Local Shift Preference Agreement provided they are qualified. In the exercise of shift preference, an employee will assume the classification of the employee bumped, except that an employee bumping a different classification will have the option to retain his/her classification if he/she has seniority on that classification and shift to do so.
7.	Employees on the above classifications shall be on a common list for purposes of application of the Local Overtime Equalization Agreement.
8.	Management will make every reasonable effort to assign refrigeration work as defined in paragraph 1 above to employees on the new classification; however, it is recognized that under unusual circumstances, or for purposes of overtime equalization, it may become necessary to assign employees
Page 39 of 63
classified as Power Service - Heat, Steam, Air and Water to perform such refrigeration work assignments. In such circumstances, the Three-Day Transfer Agreement shall govern the rate of pay they shall receive.
LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING
PURGING PRESSES
October 15, 1979
Mr. Paul Quick
Bargaining Unit Chairman
Local 892, U.A.W.
Saline Plant
Dear Mr. Quick,
During our local negotiations we discussed the procedures used when the purging of presses is required. Please be advised that the following information will be distributed to all Production Supervisors:
Subject: Air Exhaust Procedure for Purging Presses in Super Press Area
The following is a procedure to be followed whenever the large presses in the Super Press Area are to be purged and excessive fumes may occur. It is generally known that if the barrel heats override or a cap is to be burned from the extruder barrel, fumes in excess of normal purgings are created. To make sure that these fumes can be properly exhausted, the P.M.E.A. responsible for that particular press is to notify his Supervisor of the intended action.
The area Production Supervisor is to take the following action:
Obtain the press number and closest column location of the press to be purged.
Notify the Power House (ext. 6407) giving the location and press number. Request the exhaust vents be turned on.
In the event excessive fumes and smoke are created and do not appear to be immediately carried away, again notify the Power House (ext. 6407) so that additional exhaust fans can be started up.
Please notify your P.M.E.A.’s of the above procedures and make it effective immediately.
A. Ruggerio, Manager
Industrial Relations
JSOE COMMITTEE
October 4, 1993
P. D. Quick, Chair
Bargaining Committee
UAW Local 892 - Saline
Dear Mr. Quick:
In the course of these negotiations, both parties have expressed their intent to pursue certain modifications to the present division of responsibilities which today serves to define “Supervisory” functions. Specifically, both agree that the plant’s long-term interest is best served by designing an increased scope of responsibility for the represented work group and re-defining the role of the first-line Supervisor to resemble
Page 40 of 63
more that of a coordinator/facilitator. To further these objectives, the following initiatives are mutually agreed to be undertaken, using the plant’s JSOE Committee as the principal guidance mechanism:
•	Define the specific activities and functions which will be delegated to the hourly work force as individuals or to work groups. Define the responsibilities which will remain at the facilitator/coordinator level.
•	Jointly develop and deliver training which will prepare the respective groups for their redefined roles, and also undertake other preparations deemed necessary to implement the revisions referenced above.
•	At a point mutually determined, implement the revised practices simultaneously throughout the facility.
The parties agree to commence the above initiatives immediately upon conclusion of the current negotiations, with a view to expediting the timing of the transition to a new work organization. Additionally, both parties agreed that the concept of work groups selecting candidates for openings should not co-exist with that of “secondary openings”, and therefore if the approach resulting from our efforts features work group personnel selection, “secondary openings” would be concurrently discontinued.
J. F. Foutch, Manager
Employee Relations
October 27, 1999
PMEA/FESU
Tom Kanitz UAW, Local 892 Saline Plant
Mr. Kanitz
This letter is to confirm our understanding reached in the 1999 Local Negotiations concerning the transfer of employees classified as Plastic Mold Equipment Attendant and Foam Equipment and Set-up. Employees so classified may request, in advance, transfer to the same classification in other departments as openings occur. Management will honor such requests, up to two per year by classification. When such requests are granted, the job of the employee being transferred will be filled in the normal manner.
Steve Van Nostrand
Human Resources Manager
CLEANING SCHEDULES
September 29, 2003
Mr. Tom Kanitz
Chairman, Local 892, UAW
Saline Plant
Dear Mr. Kanitz
This letter confirms the Company’s intent to maintain cleaning schedules that allow for monthly major cleaning of the on-floor cafeteria. In addition, water based paint and soft touch paint cleaning will be done as necessary at the concurrence of Engineering and Safety, not to exceed three (3) weeks without being cleaned.
Page 41 of 63
Sherri Black,
Human Resources Manager
REGRIND CLEANING
October 27, 1999
Mr. Tom Kanitz, Chairman
UAW Local 892
Saline Plant
Dear Mr. Kanitz,
This letter confirms the Company's intent to maintain the following cleaning procedure for the Regrind area:
Monthly Cleaning
•	All horizontal surfaces (bus bars, mezzanines, platforms, machinery surfaces, lights, ceiling fixtures, pipes, etc.) and exposed walls need to have the dust swept off starting from the ceiling down. This cleaning is to be done every month either as a one time event or an equivalent partial schedule throughout the month set up by the Regrind Supervisor.
•	All floors will be swept to remove dust and debris.
•	This cleaning is for fire prevention and health and safety.
•	Two cleaners will be requested for each room and JLG Lifts will be needed to complete the job. This can be superceded by a partial cleaning crew throughout the month.
•	Point of contact for any questions concerning the cleaning should be addressed to the Regrind Supervisor.
Semi-Annual Cleaning
•	It is recommended that a full cleaning take place every six months, or as close as possible to this time line. The long weekend at Easter and Thanksgiving will be the tentative semi-annual dates. This cleaning will encompass the following highlights:
1.	All exposed walls will be washed down with water. The most important part of cleaning the walls with water is not to affect any of the electrical hardware. We will cover any equipment that we do not want exposed.
2.	From the ceiling to the bus bars, the cleaners should only brush the dust off. From the bus bars down, they can use water and wash down the walls and squeegee after.
3.	All the exposed walls as well as the floors, the pits inside the grinders, the equipment itself, and any fixtures they can brush off will be included.
4.	All equipment will be wiped down after the wash down as needed.
5.	The extruder room, grinder room, reclaim area, and SFU area will all be included.
6.	When cleaning out the pits for the grinders, all the material that is removed will be placed into blue racks so we can weigh and account for it.
7.	Any walls with racks blocking their way do not have to be washed down.
•	This cleaning is for fire prevention and health and safety.
•	Six cleaners and two grinder operators can accomplish this task by juggling shifts of moving racks and cleaning.
•	Point of contact for any questions concerning the cleaning should be addressed to the Regrind Supervisor.
Page 42 of 63
Steve Van Nostrand
Human Resources Manager
NORMALIZED STANDARDS
September 29, 1987
Mr. H. R. Graham, Chairman UAW Local 892
Saline Plant
Dear Mr. Graham,
This letter will affirm our agreement to establish normalized standards on jobs at the Saline Plant within six months after the onset of production on major integrated operations brought into the plant subsequent to this agreement. There may be occasions when it will not be possible to comply with this policy. In these instances, management will consult with the union and provide reasons for the deviation. Further, it is understood that nothing in this agreement shall preclude the right of management to restudy standards on operations where a change in method, design, tools, volume or materials, parts or processes has taken place.
J. F. Foutch, Manager Industrial Relations
EMPLOYEES WORKING IN ISOLATION
October 24, 1988
Mr. Paul D. Quick
Chairman, Local 892, U.A.W.
Saline Plant
Dear Mr. Quick,
The Saline Plant reaffirms its intent to continue periodic visits by Security Guards to areas where single employees work or may work in isolation. These visits will be made in the course of normal security patrols, and will include the Toolroom, Regrind, Mask Repair and the Trash Dock.
J. F. Foutch
**letter revised during 1990 negotiations
October 8, 1990
Mr. K. Williams UAW - Local 892 Saline Plant
Dear Mr. Williams,
ELECTRICAL ENCLOSURES
Page 43 of 63
The local union strongly indicated that the Company needs to recognize the fact that only electricians and qualified engineers be allowed to enter electrical enclosures under live power. This letter is to serve as an endorsement of that principle. The Company does not encourage unqualified employees placing themselves in positions of jeopardy.
Sincerely,
J. F. Foutch, Manager Employee Relations
OVERTIME - PRESS AREA, DEPARTMENTS 2712 AND 2721
October 15, 1979
Mr. Paul Quick
Bargaining Committee Chairman
Local 892, U.A.W.
Saline Plant
Dear Mr. Quick,
This letter is to affirm that during Local Negotiations we have agreed that Departments 2712 and 2721 in the Press area are to be considered separate and distinct departments for shift preference and overtime purposes, unless otherwise specified in this agreement.
Sincerely,
A. Ruggerio, Manager
Industrial Relations
OVERTIME CHARGING DURING SHUTDOWN PERIODS
September 29, 2003
Mr. Tom Kanitz
Plant Chairman
UAW Local 892
Saline Plant
Dear Mr. Kanitz,
During the course of 2003 negotiations, the parties discussed the topic of overtime charging during shutdown periods. The parties agreed to reprint the procedures outlined in the Letter of Understanding dated June 23, 1987 entitled ‘overtime charging during vacation shutdowns and Christmas breaks’. These procedures are as follows:
•	Employees not scheduled to work during the vacation or Christmas shutdown period(s) should not incur any overtime charges during said period unless they have been properly offered the overtime work.
•	Employees working during the shutdown period who are properly offered to work overtime should be charged whether the work is refused or accepted.
Sherri Black,
Human Resources Manager
Page 44 of 63
LOANING OF EMPLOYEES
September 29, 1987
Mr. H.R. Graham, Chairman
UAW - Local 892
Saline Plant
Dear Mr. Graham,
During the 1987 Local Negotiations the Union expressed concern over the loaning of employees who were scheduled to work overtime in their home department, but were instead loaned to another department.
While it is understood that there will be occasions where the exigencies of production, machine breakdowns or other emergencies may require that employees be loaned, deliberate scheduling of employees for the sole purpose of loaning them out to another department is not the policy of the Saline Plant.
J. F. Foutch, Manager
Industrial Relations
SCHEDULING OF EMPLOYEES WORKING OVERTIME
October 8, 1990
Mr. K. Williams
UAW - Local 892
Saline Plant
Dear Mr. Williams,
During the 1990 local negotiations the parties had numerous conversations regarding employees working overtime who were not properly scheduled within their equalization group or from the voluntary overtime pool sign up list. While it is understood that, on occasion, non scheduled employees may be utilized to cover emergencies and absenteeism, use of these employees barring such conditions is not the policy of the Saline Plant.
Sincerely,
J. F. Foutch, Manager
Employee Relations
October 8, 1990
OVERTIME SCHEDULING IN THE INJECTION MOLDING AREA
Mr. K. Williams UAW - Local 892 Saline Plant
Dear Mr. Williams,
During the 1990 local negotiations, the Union voiced concerns over the scheduling of overtime in the Injection Molding area. This letter will acknowledge that it is not the intent of the Saline Plant to schedule twelve hour coverage excessively in one classification in order to free up personnel with knowledge to perform work outside their classification. Rather, the policy of the Saline Plant is to schedule the appropriate Injection Molding personnel in the classification where the actual vacancy exists.
Page 45 of 63
Sincerely,
J. F. Foutch, Manager Employee Relations
October 27, 1999
Mr. Tom Kanitz
UAW Local 892 Saline Plant
Mr. Tom Kanitz
#3 CLEANERS
This letter is to confirm that should supplementation of the #3 Cleaner classification be required for weekend overtime, 12 hour coverage (subject to availability at both ends of the shift), will be offered to the classification.
Steve VanNostrand
Human Resources Manager
OVERTIME IN THE MOLDING AREA
October 4, 1993
Mr. P. Quick
UAW - Local 892
Saline Plant
Dear Mr. Quick,
This letter is to confirm our understanding that should overtime supplementation of the Industrial Lift Truck Operator classification plantwide, and the PMEA, Injection Press Operator, Injection Press Operator Utility/Relief, and Follow-up and Stock Control classifications within the molding area be required, 12 hour scheduling will be offered to obtain the necessary coverage, if circumstances allow and subject to availability at both ends of the shift.
J. F. Foutch, Manager
Employee Relations
September 29, 2003
Mr. Tom Kanitz
UAW Local 892 Saline Plant
Dear Mr. Kanitz,
OVERTIME SPREAD
During the 2003 negotiations, the Union expressed concern over the overtime spread for skilled and nonskilled employees within departments and between shifts. This letter acknowledges the validity of the Union’s concern over the current review process for overtime equalization out-of-spread conditions. To
Page 46 of 63
address this concern a regular weekly meeting will be held between the Labor Relations Office and the Bargaining Committee to review spread conditions.
If out of spread conditions exist and do not appear to be correcting themselves in the near term, the Labor Relations Representative and the appropriate Bargaining Committeeperson will meet with the Area Superintendent to resolve the condition. The Superintendent will be required to outline an action plan to correct the condition.
If the condition persists, a ‘cross shift letter’ can be initiated by a majority survey of employees by classification on the low hour shift. After the initial survey has been conducted, a subsequent survey can be requested after 90 days has elapsed.
Additionally, the Labor Relations Office will provide necessary training on proper scheduling techniques and launch a joint task force to examine current local overtime provisions which may result in out-of-spread conditions. To assist this effort, current TWOS task modifications will be examined. For example, additions and deletions to employees’ cumulative overtime hours will require documented rationale and be subject to review by the Union and Labor Relations.
These provisions are not intended to substitute for the encouraged practice of Union Representatives’ meeting directly with Production Supervisors, Overtime Coordinators, and/or Production Superintendents to discuss and devise remedial actions for out-of-spread conditions.
Sherri Black, Manager
Human Resources
CHARGING OF OVERTIME DURING PREMIUM OR OVERTIME HOURS
October 4, 1993
Mr. Paul Quick
UAW - Local 892
Saline Plant
Dear Mr. Quick:
During the 1993 local negotiations, the Union expressed concern regarding the charging of overtime hours to employees offered opportunities to work unanticipated additional hours during premium or overtime hour situations. This letter acknowledges that the Saline Plant management will not charge those employees who refuse overtime opportunities which arise in the course of a premium hour situation.
J. F. Foutch, Manager
Employee Relations
September 29, 2003
Mr. Tom Kanitz, Chairman
UAW Local 892
Saline Plant
Dear Mr. Kanitz,
FACILITY IMPROVEMENTS
Page 47 of 63
The following is a list of Saline Plant facility improvements and/or changes that have been agreed to by the Company during the time of this agreement. It should be understood that upon completion of these items, the Company has fulfilled all commitments originating from our discussions during 1999 2003 Local Negotiations.
•	Purchase one additional set up jumper cables to be retained in the Security Office
•	Install lighted and heated smoking shelters
•	Purchase one additional glass bulletin board
•	Paint basement
•	Renovate east warehouse restroom
•	Purchase hose cutting machine for hi pressure hose
•	Purchase Lathe for Toolroom
•	Purchase Lathe for Machine Repair
•	Purchase new Iron Worker with new dies
•	Hi Los for Maintenance Area
•	Install walk-up window at Security Office for paycheck pick-up
Sherri Black,
Human Resources Manager
CAFETERIA HOURS DURING WEEKEND
October 27, 1999
Mr. Tom Kanitz, Chairman
UAW Local 892
Saline Plant
Dear Mr. Kanitz,
During the 1999 Local Negotiations, the Union expressed concern regarding access to the plant cafeteria during weekend hours. As a result of these concerns, the parties agree to meet and discuss methods to improve the profitability of opening the cafeteria for fast food and grilled entrees for headcount numbers approaching 550 employees per shift on weekends.
Additionally, the Company agrees to maintain 8 outside picnic tables presently in use around the plant.
Steve Van Nostrand
Human Resources Manager
EMPLOYEE NOTIFICATION LOGS
October 15, 1979
Mr. Paul Quick
Bargaining Committee Chairman
Local 892, U.A.W.
Ford Motor Company
Saline Plant
Dear Mr. Quick,
Page 48 of 63
During 1979 Local Negotiations, the Union requested that certain information be made available regarding employees who are called in for unscheduled overtime, or return from temporary layoff, or who are called and advised not to report to work.
Please be advised that Employee Notification logs involving such calls will be made available for Union perusal upon request.
Sincerely,
A. Ruggerio, Manager
Industrial Relations
UNION NOTIFICATION OF SHIFT CHANGES
October 8, 1990
Mr. K. Williams
UAW - Local 892
Saline Plant
Dear Mr. Williams,
During the 1990 local negotiations, the Union expressed concern over the fact that it was unaware of most of the employees who voluntarily change shifts on an informal, temporary basis. This letter will acknowledge the intent of the Saline Plant management to notify the Union of any voluntary employee loans to another shift of which it has knowledge. This notification will be made through Labor Relations and will occur as soon as possible after Labor Relations has been notified by the Superintendent/Supervisor involved with the loan.
Sincerely,
J. F. Foutch, Manager
Employee Relations
ASSIGNMENT OF CUTTING AND DEFACING SCRAP
October 15, 1979
Mr. Paul Quick
Bargaining Committee Chairman
Local 892, U.A.W.
Ford Motor Company
Saline Plant
Subject: Assignment of Cutting and Defacing Scrap
At the Saline Plant it has been the normal practice to assign both Tool and Die Welders and Millwrights to cut and deface scrap in the Salvage area. Although it is our opinion that these duties do not require the central skills of either trade, it is currently not the intention of Saline Management to change this practice.
Sincerely,
A. Ruggerio, Manager
Industrial Relations
Page 49 of 63
12-HOUR SCHEDULING FOR OVERTIME SUPPLEMENTATION
October 15, 1979
Mr. Paul Quick
Bargaining Committee Chairman
Local 892, U.A.W.
Saline Plant
Dear Mr. Quick,
This letter is to confirm our understanding that should overtime supplementation of the skilled trades be required, twelve (12) hour scheduling will be offered to obtain the necessary coverage.
Sincerely,
A. Ruggerio, Manager
Industrial Relations
MILLWRIGHTS PERFORMING RIGGING
September 29, 1987
Mr. H. R. Graham, Chairman
UAW Local 892
Saline Plant
Dear Mr. Graham,
During 1987 Local Negotiations we agreed that Millwrights would perform rigging of unbalanced loads where their specialized skills are required for multiple rigging. There was much concern that this demand would impact adversely upon the work practices of other skilled tradespersons who have occasion to use other rigging methods in the performance of their duties.
It is our understanding that existing practices which allow the use of come-alongs, chokers, and slings for the removal of screws, barrels, spacers, dogbones, slides, etc. by other tradespersons continued unchanged.
It is also understood that mold and tool handling by toolroom personnel will continue unaffected by this agreement.
J. F. Foutch, Manager
Industrial Relations
WEEKEND OVERTIME ASSIGNMENTS IN THE SKILLED TRADES
October 8, 1990
J. F. Foutch, Manager
Employee Relations
Ford Motor Company
Saline Plant
Dear Mr. Foutch,
Page 50 of 63
During the 1990 local negotiations, the Company expressed concern over weekend overtime assignments in the skilled trades. In the event a significant problem arises in connection with overtime equalization’s impact on the assignment of trades personnel, the Union and Management will meet to discuss remedies of these situations.
Sincerely,
L. W. Holdridge
Skilled Trades
Bargaining Committee
DIE CAST/DIEMAKER
October 4, 1993
Mr. P. Quick
UAW Local 892
Saline Plant
Dear Mr. Quick,
During 1993 negotiations, the Union expressed concern regarding the use of a single Die Cast Diemaker on large molding jobs. This letter is to affirm the Company’s commitment to provide additional assistance to a Die Cast Diemaker when the situation justifies it, and to assign two Die Cast Diemakers to complex, heavy jobs where the work cannot be performed safely by just one such employee.
J. F. Foutch, Manager
Employee Relations
METAL REMOVAL TRADES
October 27, 1999
Mr. Tom Kanitz, Chairman
UAW Local 892
Saline Plant
Dear Mr. Kanitz,
This letter affirms the Company's intent to promote safe work practices among the metal removal trades. In order to support production during weekend overtime, these skilled trades employees will continue to be instructed that they should never operate a stationary metal removal machine without a second person present. Supervision in the area being serviced must provide a second person to be present during this machining operation.
Steve Van Nostrand
Human Resources Manager
FABRICATION OF TABLES, SCREW BINS, AND COMMON CARRIERS
September 29, 1996
Lyle C. Goodridge, Chairman
Bargaining Committee
UAW Local 892-Saline
Dear Mr. Goodridge:
Page 51 of 63
During the 1996 Local Negotiations, discussions focused on fabrication of tables, screw bins and common carriers. This will confirm the understanding reached between the parties that the Company will give initial consideration to utilizing Saline Plant Skilled Trades for the purpose of fabricating these products.
Understanding that Management will need to take into account workload projections, efficient utilization of resources and costs.
Sincerely,
Cyndi Selke, Manager
Human Resources
IN HOUSE REPAIR
October 27, 1999
Mr. Tom Kanitz
Bargaining Committee Chair
UAW Local 892
Saline Plant
Dear Mr. Kanitz,
During the 1999 Negotiations, the Union and the Company agree that certain job assignments, such as inhouse repairs, may be necessary in order to maintain prompt repair schedules to support production operations. These job assignments will be mutually agreed upon by the parties and will be determined and assigned based on training and equipment familiarity.
Steve Van Nostrand
Human Resources Manager
INCIDENTAL WORK
October 27, 1999
Mr. Tom Kanitz
Bargaining Committee Chair
UAW Local 892
Saline Plant
Dear Mr. Kanitz,
This letter affirms the commitment by the parties to improve machine/equipment/tooling "up-time" by agreeing that skilled trades personnel perform incidental work. Incidental work is comparatively minor work that is complimentary to a principal job which requires unique and central skills of a particular trade. It is understood by both parties that incidental work may be performed by multiple trades in the role of providing assistance to the primary trade assigned to a task.
Steve Van Nostrand
Human Resources Manager
October 27, 1999
SKILLED TRADES TROUBLESHOOTING
Page 52 of 63
Mr. Tom Kanitz
Bargaining Committee Chair
UAW Local 892
Saline Plant
Dear Mr. Kanitz,
During the course of the current negotiations the Union expressed concern that the skilled trades personnel were being eliminated from the "troubleshooting process" by the use of engineering personnel and vendors/outside contractors on tooling/equipment problems. This letter reaffirms the Company's intent to include the trades personnel in a "troubleshooting" capacity as appropriate, to increase efficiency of operations and decrease the amount of machine/equipment/tooling downtime experienced.
Steve Van Nostrand
Human Resources Manager
DISTRIBUTION OF MDI APPROVED EMPLOYEES
October 27, 1999
Tom Kanitz, Chairman
UAW Local 892
Saline Plant
Dear Mr. Kanitz,
During 1999 Local Negotiations, the parties discussed the appropriate distribution of MDI approved employees assignments in Skilled Trades classifications. This letter serves to confirm the parties agreement to discuss distribution of MDI approved employees during the Barrelman process and seek mutual agreement.
Steve Van Nostrand
Human Resources Manager
WARRANTY/SERVICE AGREEMENTS
September 29, 1987
H. R. Graham, Chairman
UAW Local 892
Saline Plant
Dear Mr. Graham,
This letter confirms our agreement to provide upon union request the terms of warranty or service agreements on specific incoming equipment. It should be understood that occasions may arise wherein vendors may be compelled to provide “after warranty” assistance due to either (1) a “fitness for use inadequacy” or (2) unsatisfactory performance to specifications. The Company specifically maintains that either condition is an acceptable reason for “after-warranty” arrangements.
J. F. Foutch, Manager
Industrial Relations
Page 53 of 63
WARRANTY WORK PERFORMED BY OUTSIDE CONTRACTORS
October 8, 1990
Mr. K. Williams
UAW - Local 892
Saline Plant
Dear Mr. Williams,
During the 1990 local negotiations, the Union expressed concern over warranty work being performed by outside contractors. This letter acknowledges the intent of Saline Plant management whenever warranty work is performed, an appropriate tradesman will be assigned to work with the vendor for the purposes of training when, in the opinion of management, (1) sufficient resources are available within the area to permit this assignment and (2) it is judged to have meaningful learning value.
Sincerely,
J. F. Foutch, Manager
Employee Relations
ACCESS TO PLANT LEVEL SOURCING
October 8, 1990
Mr. K. Williams
UAW - Local 892
Saline Plant
Dear Mr. Williams,
During the 1990 local negotiations, the Union expressed concern regarding access to plant level sourcing decisions and related discussions at Saline. This letter acknowledges our agreement that a member of the local bargaining committee shall be invited to attend the weekly Product Planning Meeting.
Sincerely,
J. F. Foutch, Manager
Employee Relations
SKILLED TRADES ASSISTING VENDORS
October 4, 1993
Mr. P. Quick
UAW Local 892
Saline Plant
Dear Mr. Quick,
During the 1993 Local Negotiations, the parties had numerous discussions concerning the procedures to be followed when vendor agents are working on the plant floor to debug or troubleshoot tools and equipment which they have fabricated, warranted or sold to this facility. This letter acknowledges that it is management’s intent to have a skilled trades person assist and learn from the agent when working on equipment that has been released to production.
Page 54 of 63
J. F. Foutch, Manager Employee Relations
OUTSIDE CONTRACTING AND LABOR CLEARANCES
October 27, 1999
Mr. Tom Kanitz, Chairman UAW Local 892 Saline Plant
Dear Mr. Kanitz,
During the course of the 1999 Local Negotiations, the parties discussed at length the issues, problems and procedures of the Saline Plant in regard to our outside contracting and labor clearance process.
The parties agreed that an Outside Contracting Review Committee, comprised of both Union and management personnel, will be established to discuss outside contracting requests. These joint information-sharing meetings will serve as an effective communication and notification tool. The Committee will meet on a scheduled weekly basis in the spirit of joint problem solving and to reinforce the parties respective contractual rights and obligations. The Committee shall include the management representative(s) requiring an outside contractor as well as any production, engineering, toolroom, maintenance and/or construction employees the Skilled Trades Bargaining Representative and the Labor Relations department consider necessary.
The purpose and intent of this letter is to recognize the high level of skill and ability in our skilled trades workforce and to better utilize this valuable resource consistent with both the letter and spirit of the Master Agreement and relevant Letters of Understanding. However, management will reserve their right to make the final decision as to whether work shall be done by Company personnel or outside contractors and in turn, the Union reserves their right to grieve if they believe a contractual violation has then occurred.
Steve Van Nostrand
Human Resource Manager
October 15, 1979
INVERSE SENIORITY AND LAYOFFS
Mr. Paul Quick
Bargaining Committee Chairman
Local 892, U.A.W.
Saline Plant
Dear Mr. Quick,
Regarding our conversations during Local Negotiations concerning inverse seniority, the following will be Saline Plant policy. When any layoffs occur at the Saline Plant, time permitting, the parties will discuss such layoffs and, where inverse seniority procedures are applicable, such procedures will be applied in accordance with the Master Agreement.
Sincerely,
Page 55 of 63
A. Ruggerio, Manager Industrial Relations
DEPARTMENTAL STRUCTURE CHANGES
October 24, 1984
Mr. Paul D. Quick
Chairman, Local 892, UAW
Saline Plant
Dear Mr. Quick,
During 1984 Local Negotiations, the Union expressed concern about the possible adverse impact of departmental structure changes upon the local operating agreements. Such structural changes are made only for sound business reasons, however, the Company and Union will meet to discuss with intent to resolve the equalization of operating agreements. Upon Union request, the parties will meet to discuss such matters as they arise.
J. F. Foutch, Manager
Employee Relations
LOCAL CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT STEERING COMMITTEE
October 27, 1999
Mr. Tom Kanitz, Chairman
UAW Local 892
Saline Plant
Dear Mr. Kanitz:
This letter confirms the parties mutual recognition of their common goal to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of our operations through continuous improvement actions in an effort to increase our business competitiveness and therefore our job security as we strive to make Saline a center of operational excellence.
At Saline, Local Continuous Improvement Steering Committee has the responsibility to review operational efficiency, consistent with Appendix I and Appendix M of the Master Agreement.
The Saline Plant Management Team and the UAW, Local 892 are committed to making Saline a Center of Operational Excellence. Accordingly, the parties pledge to work collectively and cooperatively together at every level of the organization to gain the work force's commitment to continuous improvement initiatives crafted and employed to make the Saline Plant a center of operational excellence.
Steve Van Nostrand
Human Resources Manager
INVESTIGATE THE USE OF TECHNOLOGY
September 29, 2003
Mr. Tom Kanitz, Chairman
UAW Local 892
Page 56 of 63
Saline Plant
Dear Mr. Kanitz,
During the course of 2003 local negotiations, the parties addressed the concept of implementing and maintaining a computerized overtime scheduling system. The parties agreed that such a system would be designed and initiated post contract ratification, at which time a joint task force consisting of both Company and Union representatives will be established. This joint task force will work with the vendor to design and implement the computerized scheduling system and identify locations in which sign-up station(s) will be located.
Sherri Black
Human Resources Manager
VISTEON PRODUCTION SYSTEM
September 29, 2003
Mr. Tom Kanitz, Chairman
UAW Local 892
Saline Plant
Dear. Mr. Kanitz
During these negotiations, the parties recognized the fact that the launch of the Visteon Production System and on-going changes in technology may create a need to modify work practices and evaluate classifications.
The intent of this letter is to mutually acknowledge the potential competitive advantage the implementation of improved systems and technologies can provide the Saline Plant. In order to fully capitalize on these opportunities, the parties mutually agree to on-going evaluation of expanding the roles and cooperation between classifications that affect inventory management.
Sherri Black
Human Resources Manager
CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT
October 27, 1999
Mr. Tom Kanitz, Chairman
UAW Local 892
Saline Plant
Dear Mr. Kanitz
During these negotiations, the parties reaffirmed the need to communicate about the quality of our products and the need for continuous improvement at every level of the organization. Communications among the UAW Quality Representative, Plant Management, Hourly Liaisons, Final Inspectors, Quality Coordinators, engineering, and Continuous Improvement Workgroups can significantly improve our quality. Accordingly, the parties agree to work together to improve our communication process including monthly meetings and/or more frequent communications as required by quality issues with the FPS Quality Coordinators, Hourly Liaisons and Final Inspectors. Issues with the subject process should be discussed in the UAW-Ford Local Quality Council as outlined in Appendix Q of the UAW-Ford Master Agreement.
Steve Van Nostrand
Page 57 of 63
Human Resources Manager
CLASSIFICATION OF INDUSTRIAL LIFT TRUCK OPERATOR
September 29, 2003
Mr. Tom Kanitz
Plant Chairman
UAW Local 892
Saline Plant
Dear Mr. Kanitz,
During the course of 2003 Local Negotiations, the parties discussed the topic of ensuring consistency among our non-skilled classifications.
As a result of discussions, the parties agreed that tug drivers will be classified as Industrial Lift Truck Operators except in areas mutually agreed upon by Union and Management.
Sherri Black
Human Resources Manager
September 29, 2003
SEQUENTIAL CHECKING
Mr. Tom Kanitz Plant Chairman UAW Local 892 Saline Plant
Dear Mr. Kanitz,
During the course of 2003 Local Negotiations, the parties discussed the need to increase competitiveness by improving the quality of our product.
In the interest of Quality and efficiency and to meet the needs of our competitive market, employees assigned to the assembly-disassembly classification will be required to perform quality checks on elements of the jobs prior to their requisite assembly operation (sequential checking). Sequential checking is defined as checks performed on operations hidden by subsequent operations as well as instructions on quality alerts.
Sherri Black
Human Resources Manager
TESTING THE INTEGRITY OF PRODUCTION PROCESSES
September 29, 2003
Mr. Tom Kanitz
Plant Chairman
UAW Local 892
Saline Plant
Dear Mr. Kanitz,
Page 58 of 63
During the 2003 negotiations the Company and the Union had discussions regarding the importance of testing the integrity of production processes. The parties agreed that it is appropriate to test these processes for repeated errors by use of impromptu studies, quality audits, and systematic process reviews.
The Joint Quality Representative will receive advance notice and all pertinent information related to each audit. This process will be reviewed by the parties after one year.
Sherri Black
Human Resources Manager
FINAL INSPECTOR CLASSIFICATION
September 29, 2003
Mr. Tom Kanitz
Plant Chairman
UAW Local 892
Saline Plant
Dear Mr. Kanitz,
During the course of 2003 Local Negotiations, the parties discussed the need to improve the relationship with our customers as it relates to the classification of Final Inspector. The parties agree to utilize the following process in the selection of employees to fill the Final Inspector classification:
1.	Form a Joint Committee, consisting of the Quality Manager and the UAW Quality Representative.
2.	Establish minimum criteria for eligible candidates.
3.	Post the job in accordance with local provisions.
4.	Review employee qualifications as outlined in Article IV, Section 2(a) of the Master Agreement.
5.	Jointly conduct interview(s) with eligible candidates and evaluate candidates .
6.	Based on information received during the joint interview process, the Company will select the best qualified candidate.
Sherri Black
Human Resources Manager
Page 59 of 63
COMPETITIVE OPERATING AGREEMENT
September 23, 2003
Mr. Tom Kanitz
Plant Chairman
UAW Local 892
Saline Plant
Dear Mr. Kanitz,
During the course of 2003 Local Negotiations, the parties discussed at length the need to improve the profitability of Saline Plant’s products as well as specific initiatives to make Saline Plant more competitive relative to other Tier One Automotive Suppliers in order to attract investment and new business. With the aim of assuring the Plant’s future viability, the parties agreed to the following:
•	Saline Plant will adopt COA (Competitive Operating Agreement) principles and will begin migrating to those principles in the following manner:
o The parties agreed to apply COA principles to any new business sourced to the Saline Plant.
o Additionally, the parties will investigate migration of the COA principles to existing business, where practical, to ensure the viability and competitiveness of the Saline Plant
•	The COA principles discussed will address the following key issues with the aim of increasing value to the business, making Saline more competitive in the market place for investment by improving Safety, Quality, Delivery and Cost. The COA principles may include, but are not limited to:
o Improving the stability and continuity of job assignments during product launches to improve quality and productivity and reduce excessive employee movement throughout the plant.
o Increasing assignment flexibility of employees to incorporate production service activities and tasks.
o Reducing restrictions on overtime scheduling in order to make the plant more competitive and support operational requirements.
o Identifying opportunities to improve direct versus indirect ratios.
The parties further agreed to work together to improve the profitability of Saline Plant products:
■	It is agreed that joint discussions would be held to identify and develop specific action plans to improve the profitability of present and future Saline products. These discussions will be held at the regularly scheduled Job Security and Operational Effectiveness meetings (Saline Plant’s Continuous Improvement Meetings). Additionally, a dynamic subcommittee will be formed to investigate and procure new business. This subcommittee also will benchmark our products and processes against our direct competitors. The committee will meet on a quarterly basis.
■	Supervisors, Superintendents and Committeepersons will attend thorough training regarding the principles and expectations of the COA Agreement, including special contract language, Safety, Quality and Cost presentations, prior to its implementation. In addition, employee education and feedback forums will be provided via E.I meetings or line meetings.
■	In migrating toward the COA principles, the Company and the Union will continue to actively and in good faith uphold and support the principles of the UAW National and Local 892 Agreements. In addition, the Company and the Union will support equal accountability and high expectations from every employee (both salaried and hourly) at the Visteon Saline Plant.
Page 60 of 63
It is understood that any changes or waivers of any agreements or practices will not be effective unless agreed to by the local parties involved and approved in writing by the Labor Affairs Office of the Company and the National Ford Department of the Union.
Sincerely,
Sherri Black
Human Resources Manager
#3 CLEANER 12-HOUR COVERAGE September 29, 2003
Mr. Tom Kanitz Plant Chairman UAW Local 892 Saline Plant
Dear Mr. Kanitz,
This letter is to confirm our understanding that it is the responsibility of management to schedule overtime of the #3 Cleaner Classification. If 12-hour coverage is required, it will be subject to availability at both ends of the shift
Sherri Black
Human Resources Manager
TOOL ROOM TRAINING September 29, 2003
Mr. Tom Kanitz Plant Chairman UAW Local 892 Saline Plant
Dear Mr. Kanitz,
During the course of 2003 Local Negotiations, the parties discussed the topic of Toolroom Training.
As a result of discussions, the parties agreed to develop the scope of training and number of employees to be trained through the Technical Services Program (TSP) process.
Sherri Black
Human Resources Manager
Page 61 of 63
The following are members of the 2003 Saline Plant Local Negotiations Team.
International Union, UAW Local 892	Visteon Corporation Saline Plant
Tom Kanitz, Chairman	Sherri Black, HR Manager
Mark Caruso, President	Dale Wilson, Labor Relations Supervisor
Dave Mathews, Bargaining Committee	Beth Gratopp, Area Manager
Bill Eaddy, Bargaining Committee	Julie Smith, Sr. Labor Rep
Walt Disbrow, Skilled Trades Bargaining	Jim Rebbeck, Superintendent
Barry Stephens, District Committee	Corey Childs, Superintendent
Kathy Kruger, District Committee	
Shawn LaMonde, Skilled Trades Alt. District
Page 62 of 63
This agreement is signed subject to the approval of the National Ford Department of the UAW and the Labor Affairs Staff of Visteon Corporation.
International Union,
UAW Local 892
Tom Kanitz, Chairman
Mark Caruso, President
Dave Mathews, Bargaining Committee
Bill Eaddy, Bargaining Committee
Walt Disbrow, Skilled Trades Bargaining
Barry Stephens, District Committee
Kathy Kruger, District Committee
Shawn LaMonde, Skilled Trades Alt. District
Date
Visteon Corporation
Saline Plant
Sherri Black, Human Resources Manager
Dale Wilson, Labor Relations Supervisor
Beth Gratopp, Area Manager
Julie Smith, Sr. Labor Rep
Jim Rebbeck, Superintendent
Corey Childs, Superintendent
Date
Page 63 of 63