AGREEMENT
Between
ft
h t( r >h >t <>i Autor o’ e < < npor < ts
HURON, OHIO
INTERNATIONAL UNION, UNITED AUTOMOBILE, AEROSPACE AND AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA, UAW
LOCAL 913
January 18, 2010 through
January 30, 2013
INDEX
	Article	Section	Page
401(k) Plan	17	H	58
Accidental Death and Dismemberment	17	E	56
Bargaining Committee	4	1	9
Bereavement Leave	12	4	45
Breaks	7	2	28
Bulletin Boards	2	7	7
Call Back Pay	7	4	29
COLA	15		53
Dental Insurance	17	C	56
Direct Deposit	13	16	52
Disability Insurance	17	A	56
Dues Deduction	2	4	5
Employee Assistance Program	17	G	58
FMLA	12	9	48
Grievance Procedure	5	1,2,3,4, 5,6	11
Health & Safety	11		38
Health & Safety Complaint Procedure	11	3	42
Holiday Pay Eligibility	10		37
Holiday Schedule	10		37
Hours of Work	7	1	28
Job Postings	6	13	25
Jury Duty	12	5	46
Launch Team Operator	6	14	27
Layoff: Recall from	6	9	23
Layoff: Classification Elimination	6	8E	22
Layoff: Indefinite	6	8D	2!
Layoff: Return Rights	6	10	23
Layoff: Temporary	6	8C	20
Layoff: Voluntary/lndefinite	6	8B	20
Layoff: Voluntary/Temporary	6	8A	19
Leaves of Absences	12	1-7	44
Life Insurance	17	D	56
Life Insurance - Optional	17	F	56
Long Term Disability Insurance	17	B	56
Maintenance Department Agreement	18		60
Management Rights	3	1,2,3,4	7
Medical Leave	12	3	45
Medical Plan	17		54
Military Leave	12	6	47
New Work	13	12	51
Non-Discrimination	2	2	5
Overtime Notification	8	3	32
Overtime Pay	7	5	29
Overtime Sunday Night Start-up Procedure	8	9	34
Pay Check Shortages	13	13	51
Pay Day	13	15	52
Pay Rates	Exhibit A		70
Personal Leave	12	1	44
Promotions to Skilled Trades	18	E	63
Reporting for Work Pay	7	3	29
Return Early from Leave	12	2	44
Rotation Procedure	8	1	30
Safety Committee	11	2	39
Safety Representative	4	3	10
Seniority: Shift Preference	6	7	18
Seniority: Special for Bargaining Committee	6	6	18
Seniority: Acquiring	6	1	15
Seniority: List	6	3	17
Seniority: Loss of	6	2	16
Shift Premium			72
Skilled Trades Committee Person Leaving Job for Union Business	4	2	10
Stock Purchase Plan	17	I	59
Supervisors Working	13	8	50
2
Temporary Employees	13	6	49
Temporary Job Bid	6	12	24
Temporary Transfer	6	II	23
Travel for the Company	13	21	53
Tuition Assistance	13	9	50
Union Leave	12	7	47
Union Responsibility	2	8	7
Union Security	2	3	5
Vacation Eligibility	9	1,2,5	36
Vacation Scheduling	9	4	35
Vision Care Plan	17	J	59
Weekend Representation	4	4	10
Worker’s Compensation: Work Assignments	6	5	17
3
AGREEMENT
This Agreement is made and entered into this 18"1 day of January 2010 by and between the Huron, Ohio Plant of International Automotive Components located in Huron, Ohio (hereinafter designated and referred to as the “Company”) and the International Union, United Automobile, Aerospace and Agricultural Implement Workers of America, UAW, and its affiliated Local Union 913 (hereinafter designated and referred to as the “Union"), through the duly authorized representatives of both parties.
Article I Purpose
The purpose of the agreement is to state the relationship that will exist between the two parties; establish the wages, hours and working conditions in the Huron, Ohio bargaining unit; provide for prompt and fair disposition of differences which may arise between the parties during the term of this Agreement. It is recognized by both parties that in order to remain competitive Continuous Improvement must be present in all areas of the business. Training is an integral part of Continuous Improvement. The Company and the Union agree to pursue various forums for developing and implementing Continuous Improvement and to support such activities. Positive training results can be achieved only when both parties are involved in the planning and participation of such training.
Article 2 Recognition
Section 1:	Employees Covered under Agreement
The Company recognizes the Union as the exclusive bargaining agent for all full-time regular production and maintenance employees but excluding office clerical
4
employees, security persons, salespersons, guards and supervisors as defined in the Act, for the purpose of collective bargaining with respect to rates of pay, wages hours of employment and other conditions of employment at the Huron Plant
Section 2:	Non-Discrimination
It is the policy of the Company and the Union that they will not discriminate against anyone because of race, color, creed, sex, age, national origin, religious or political affiliation, handicapped status, or status as a veteran of the Vietnam era.
Section 3:	Union Security
Effective with the signing of the Agreement and as a condition of continued employment, all present employees who are or who later become members of the Union shall remain members. It is also agreed that any new employee shall upon completion of thirty (30) calendar days of sendee become and remain a member.
Section 4:	Membership Dues Deduction
The Company agrees, during the life of this Agreement, to deduct Union membership dues and initiation fees levied by the International Union or the Local Union in accordance with the Constitution or By-Laws of the Union, from the pay of each employee who executes, or has executed, and delivered to the company an authorization for such (check off) on forms supplied by the International Union, united Automobile, Aerospace and Agricultural Implement Workers of America. The authorization if any presently on file with the Company shall be considered satisfactory.
Deduction Dates: The Company agrees to deduct from the first full week paycheck of each calendar month of members of the Union, the regular monthly membership dues and initiation fees and to pay the amount so deducted. In the
5
instance of a new employee, such deductions shall be made from the first effective pay of that employee in the month following the completion of the probationary period.
Remittance Dates: All sums so deducted shall be remitted to the Secretary-Treasurer of the Union no later than one (I) week after such deductions are made.
Records: The Company will furnish the Secretary-Treasurer of the Union a monthly record of those from whom deductions have been made, together with the amount of such deductions. Such lists shall also include employee numbers and will show employees laid off and recalled during the month, as well as those going on leave of absence. If a mistake is made, the parties will meet to resolve the situation.
Waiver: The Union shall indemnify and save the Company harmless against any and all claims, demands, lawsuits, or other forms of liability that may arise out of or by reason of action taken by the Company in making payroll deductions of Union membership dues or fees as herein provided.
Section 5:	UAW V-Cap
The Company agrees during the life of this Agreement to deduct from the first full-week paycheck of each calendar month employee voluntary contributions to UAW V-Cap, providing each employee executes the appropriate authorization.
Section 6:	Contract Booklets
The Company will pay all costs for printing new contracts for all employees covered under this agreement and will supply the grievance forms needed to administer the grievance procedure. The contracts shall bear both the Corporation and the UAW logos and be printed by a union printer and bear the union bug.
6
Section 7:	Bulletin Boards
A glass enclosed locked bulletin board will be provided for the Union’s use for notices relating to their business. All notice must be approved by the Manager, Human Resources (or designee) prior to posting. The placement of the bulletin board will be in an area acceptable to both the Company and the Union.
Notices shall be restricted to the following:
1.	Notices of Union recreational or social affairs.
2.	Notices of Union elections, appointments and results of Union elections pertaining to local plant.
3.	Notice of Union meetings and educational classes.
Section 8:	Union Responsibility
The Union recognizes and assumes the responsibility imposed upon it as the exclusive bargaining representative of the employees covered by this Agreement.
The Union agrees that the employees covered by this Agreement individually and collectively should perform and render efficient work and service. The parties agree to strive for the common goal of a fair day’s work for a fair day’s pay.
Article 3 Management Rights
Section 1:	Right to Manage Business
The Company retains the exclusive right to manage its business, including the right to decide the number and location of plants, the machine and tool equipment, the products to be manufactured, the method of manufacturing, the schedule of production, the process of manufacturing or
7
assembling, together with all designing, engineering, and the control of raw materials, semi-manufactured and finished parts which may be incorporated into the products manufactured; to maintain order and efficiency in its plant and operations, to make improvements, and to time study operations and set standards of production using such time studies, to hire, lay off, assign, transfer, and promote employees and to determine the starting and quitting time, the number of hours to be worked and all other areas not specifically covered necessary to manage the operation; subject only to such regulations and restrictions governing the exercise of these rights as are expressly provided in this Agreement.
Section 2:	Sole Right to Discipline for Cause
The Company retains the sole right to discipline and discharge employees for cause, provided that in the exercise of these rights it will not act wrongfully or unjustly or in violation of the terms of this Agreement.
Section 3:	Sub-Contract/Outsourcing
During the course of these negotiations, the Company and the Union discussed the issue of work which has historically been done by Bargaining Unit employees at this location. The Company has advised the Union that prior to contracting such work, the Union will be notified and a meaningful discussion held regarding the factors involved in the contemplated decision. In no event shall any seniority employee who customarily performs the work in question be laid off as the direct and immediate result of work being performed by an outside contractor.
This provision of the Agreement will be applied to all decisions being, contemplated where International Automotive Components has control of such activity.
8
Section 4:	Shop Rules
The Company shall have the right to establish reasonable shop rules and policies from time to time that are not inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement. Such rules and policies will be prominently posted in the plant. Management will notify the union fourteen (14) calendar days before implementing changes in these rules or policies. The Union reserves the right to protest the application of these rules and policies through the grievance procedure.
Article 4 Representation
Section 1:	Bargaining Committee
For the purpose of representation for grievances and for bargaining representation there shall be a Bargaining Committee consisting of five (5) members: Is' shift committee person, 2nd shift committee person, 3rd shift committee person, a Skilled Trades representative, and a Chairperson. The Chairperson and Skilled Trades representative shall be assigned to the first shift. Each committee person will be entitled to have an alternate to handle their duties in their absence. The names of the Bargaining Committee and their alternates shall be certified in writing, to the Company by the Union.
If the amount of employees continues to grow over the life of the agreement, the Company and Union may meet to determine if the above number of representatives is sufficient.
Under the current operating structure of the plant, the primary responsibility of the Bargaining Committee is the representation of the employees in the bargaining unit. It is also understood that the Committee will also perform work for the Company when hours are available. If the current conditions change, the Company and the Union will meet to
9
discuss the proper number of Committee Members and the number of hours available for Union Business.
Section 2:	Skilled Trades Committee Person Leaving Job for Union Business
When a Skilled Trades Committee Person has to leave his or her place of work to attend to Union business, he or she shall conduct such business at the beginning or end of the shift, if possible, unless the nature of the issue requires direct observation. When conducting such business, he or she shall first notify the immediate supervisor, explaining the reason for the request. Such request will be granted, without undue delay, keeping in mind the need for production. If it is necessary to go into any area other than his or her own, the supervisor of this department shall be notified of the nature of the Union business. Upon return to work, the representative shall notify the supervisor of his or her return. This is to record Union business lost time.
Section 3:	Union Safety Representative
The Union may appoint a Safety and Health Representative to work in conjunction with the Company to further the Safety and Health of the employees of the plant. The time spent on these duties will vary based on the work required. The Union Health and Safety Representative will coordinate the need for his/her time with the Manager of Safety using the procedure outlined in Section 2 above. This Representative will be assigned to the Is' shift to work with the appropriate Company personnel.
Section 4:	Weekend Representation
Whenever 10 or more employees arc scheduled to work on the weekend per shift, the Union may appoint a steward for the purposes of representation. This steward must be able to perform the work being done and will be included as part of the number requested.
10
Article 5
Grievance Procedure
Section 1:	Purpose
The purpose of the grievance procedure is to resolve differences in interpretation of the provisions of the Agreement. Any such item not brought to the attention of the Company within three working days of the alleged violation or three working days from the time the violation could reasonably have been known to the aggrieved, will not constitute the basis for a grievance.
Section 2:	Grievance Steps
Step 1
Any employee who believes he/she has a grievance shall first discuss it with his/her Supervisor, or at the employee’s request the designated committee person and the supervisor, in an attempt to settle the matter. If the employee is not satisfied with the Supervisor’s oral disposition of the complaint, he/she may request that the Supervisor send for the designated Committee Person for further discussion of the matter. Upon this request, the Supervisor will send for his/her designated Committee Person without undue delay and without further discussion of the matter.
If the complaint or grievance cannot be resolved through the above procedure, the grievance shall be reduced to writing stating the issue to be resolved and the relevant provision(s) of the contract that is alleged to have been violated. The grievance shall be dated and signed by the employee and Committee Person and filed with the Supervisor involved. A copy of the grievance will be given to the Human Resources Department within twenty-four (24) hours. The Supervisor shall render his/her decision in writing to the Committee Person within two (2) working days.
11
Grievances resolved at the first step arc non-precedent setting.
Step 2
If the grievance has not been resolved at Step I between the Supervisor and the Committee Person, the Grievance Committee may take the grievance to the next step of the procedure by referring it in writing within four (4) working days of the Company’s last answer at Step 1. A meeting will then be scheduled with the Bargaining Committee, the Human Resources Manager, or designee and the Department Manager, who will attempt to resolve the grievance. Plant Management will provide a written answer within four (4) working days.
Appeal Time Limits
Any grievances in the above steps not answered or appealed within the time limits shall automatically be referred to the next step of the Grievance Procedure unless, the time limit has been mutually extended by the Union and the Company in writing.
Step 3
If the grievance is not resolved at Step 2, it may be appealed to the next step. Such appeal will be in writing and within four (4) working days from the Company’s answer at Step 2. Once a grievance has been appealed to Step 3, a meeting will be arranged between the Plant Manager or the designee, the Human Resources Manager, the Chairperson of the Bargaining Committee, and the International Union Representative who will attempt to resolve the grievance.
Within ten (10) working days after the Step 3 meeting, the Company will send its written decision on the grievances that were heard to the International Union. The International Union has ten (10) days from receipt of the above to appeal
12
the grievance and/or grievances to arbitration and to give written notice to the Company of its intention to arbitrate.
The parties shall have the option of appealing a third step answer to the plant review board. Time limits to appeal are consistent with appeal to arbitration. Cases appealed to plant review board will be made in writing and sent to the Corporation Labor Relations department. Within 10 days of receipt of a dispute, a hearing will be scheduled with the chairperson of the bargaining unit, International Representative, Plant Human Resource Manager and a representative of the Corporation Labor Relation Staff. Disposition of cases will be given in writing not later than ten (10) calendar days after the meeting. Time limits can be extended by mutual agreement. If the disposition given by the Company after the plant review board is unsatisfactory, the matter may be appealed to arbitration or the parties may mutually agree to a non-binding mediation with the Labor Management Cooperation, Toledo or mediator from the FMCS. Such appeal to arbitration must be made within ten (10) days of receipt of the plant review board decision/mediation.
Selection of an arbitrator panel list (minimum 7 arbitrators) will be requested from the FMC. Final selection is done, by alternating striking method.
Section 3:	Arbitrators Fee
The fees and expenses of the arbitrator shall be shared equally by the parties. All other expenses, such as attorney fees or investigative reports, shall be bom by the party incurring them. The decision of the arbitrator shall be Final and binding on all parties to this Agreement.
Section 4:	Power of Arbitrator
The Arbitrator shall not be empowered to add to, subtract from, or change any of the terms of the Agreement, any supplements or additions thereto, nor be empowered to order
13
back pay for a period longer than thirty (30) days prior to the date of submission of the written grievances. The Arbitrator shall have jurisdiction only to interpret, apply and determine compliance with the provisions of this Agreement and to modify the degree of discipline imposed by the Company, insofar as the Arbitrator may deem necessary for the determination of the grievance appealed to them. The Arbitrator shall have no power to establish wage rates, work, schedules, or any dispute arising under any pension plan, 401K, or insurance programs. The Arbitrator shall have no power to substitute his/her discretion to act by this Agreement or any supplement or amendment thereto. In the event the Arbitrator decides they have no power to decide or rule on an issue, they shall so rule and the matter shall be referred back to their parties.
Section 5:	Disposition of Grievances
Power of Settlement: The Plant Management shall have full authority to settle grievances; likewise, the Union will have full authority to settle, adjust, modify the grievance, up to and including withdrawing the grievance at any time.
Section 6:	Grievance Meetings
Grievance meetings between Management and the Bargaining Committee, when necessary will be held on dates and at times by mutual agreement.
Section 7:	Overtime During Grievance Meetings
If a Committee Person is required for the purpose of attending grievance meetings prior to, or after, his/her scheduled shift, the time so spent in such meetings shall be considered as part of his/her scheduled work hours. Time worked in excess of his/her scheduled work hours; as defined above, shall be paid as overtime at one and one-half times his/her straight time hourly wage rate consistent with Article 7.
14
Section 8:	Company and Union Agreements
Il is mutually agreed and understood that any Agreement reached by the Company and the Union in binding and cannot be changed by an individual.
Section 9:	Disciplinary Action
In the event disciplinary action is taken, other than an oral warning, in connection with an employee, both the employee and the Union shall be given prompt written notice of such action. The employee shall be permitted an interview with his Committee Person or the Chairperson if the Committee Person is not available before being requested to leave the plant, unless the situation warrants immediate removal from the premises. The Company shall have three (3) working days from the alleged violation or three (3) working days from the time the violation could have been reasonably known to the company to issue disciplinary action against an employee.
Section 10:	Suspension or Discharge
A grievance concerning a suspension or a discharge of a seniority employee may be presented in writing and referred to Step 2.
Article 6 Seniority
Section I:	Acquiring Seniority
Probationary employees shall be regarded as probationary until their names have been placed on the seniority list. There shall be no responsibility for the re-employment of a probationary employee if he/she is laid off or discharged during this period. Employees may acquire seniority after sixty (60) calendar days. If the employee is retained by the Company for full probationary period, the seniority of such
15
employee shall commence with the employee’s most recent date of employment.
When more than one (I) employee reports for work on the same day, such employees will be entered on the seniority list alphabetically on date of hire.
Section 2:	Loss of Seniority
An employee shall be terminated and lose seniority if:
1.	The employee quits.
2.	The employee is discharged for just cause and not reinstated.
3.	The employee is absent for three (3) consecutive work days without notification to the Company.
4.	The employee fails to return to work from a layoff within three (3) days after the Company has notified the employee to return by certified mail sent to the last address furnished to the Company by the employee. Unusual circumstances will be handled on a case by case basis.
5.	The employee fails to return to work at the expiration of a written leave of absence.
6.	The employee is laid off for a period equal to the seniority accumulated at the time of the layoff or twenty-four (24) months, whichever is greater.
7.	The employee retires.
8.	Obtaining any type of leave of absence for the purpose of seeking employment or work elsewhere.
16
9.	On a medical leave of absence for 24 months or the length of the employee’s seniority, whichever is lesser.
Section 3:	Seniority List
The Company shall prepare a seniority list each month showing seniority of each employee. A copy of each list shall be distributed to the Chairperson of the Bargaining Committee.
Within thirty (30) days after the ratification of this Agreement and every six months thereafter during the term of this Agreement, the Company will provide the Local Union the names, addresses and phone numbers of all unity employees. The Local Union shall retain such information in confidence and shall disclose it only to those officials of the Union whose duties require them to have such information.
Section 4:	Employees Transferred Outside Bargaining Unit
Employees who are transferred or promoted by the Company to positions outside the Bargaining Unit may for a period not exceeding six (6) months from the date of transfer or promotion at the Company’s discretion be assigned by the Company back to the Bargaining Unit. Such returning employees will be placed in an available opening or, shall replace the lowest seniority employee plant-wide. Such employee will be credited, upon their return to the bargaining unit, with plant-wide seniority from their last date of hire or re-hire less the amount of time the employee spent as a salaried employee. After six (6) months out of the bargaining unit such employee will forfeit all seniority rights in the bargaining unit.
Section 5:	Available Work for Workers Compensation
Any seniority employee who has been incapacitated at his/her regular work because of an industrial injury, may
17
displace a lesser seniority employee in the plant, seniority permitting, on the job that hc/she is capable of doing by mutual agreement.
Section 6:	Special Seniority
The Bargaining Committee, including their alternates who are Tilling in for the Committee Person for a work week or more, who have been designated by the membership to represent the employees shall head the seniority list on their shift during their terms of office for layoff and recall purposes only. The Chairperson shall head the seniority list on all shifts. Regardless of seniority, the Chairperson will be assigned to the day shift.
Section 7:	Shift Preference
An employee will exercise Shift Preference no more than once every six (6) months. In order to exercise shift preference the employee must be actively working in the classification and have more seniority than the junior person in their classification on the shift the employee is requesting. (Actively working means that the employee is not on a leave of absence, layoff, or on light duty.) The junior person in the classification on the shift the employee is requesting will be the one affected by the shift bump.
Shift preference requests may not be used by an employee to change classifications.
An employee who wishes to change shifts must fill out a shift change request and submit it to the Human Resources Department by the end of the employee’s shift on Wednesday. All shift preference requests will become effective at the beginning of the week after the employee being bumped has at least two (2) weeks notice. If an employee’s shift preference move is not completed according to these time limits, the shift bonus and lost overtime, if any, will be paid to the employee who would have qualified for it if the shift move would have been made on a timely basis.
18
An employee who has been bumped from a shift through no fault of his/her own, will be allowed to exercise Shift Preference, even though such employee has exercised Shift Preference within the last six (6) months. An employee who is bumped off of his/her shift and does not have the seniority to bump anyone will fill the open job regardless of shift.
Shift assignments may be delayed due to operational considerations but shall be implemented once the operational problem no longer exits. The Union will be informed in advance if an employee’s shift is being changed or a shift preference request will not be honored due to operational considerations.
Shift changes as a result of job bidding and reductions in force are not restricted in any way by this section.
Section 8A: Voluntary Layoffs during a Temporary Layoff
Voluntary layoffs will be offered during periods of Temporary layoffs and will be awarded by seniority in the classifications and shift affected where efficiencies will not be adversely impacted. The Company will post a notice on the board and give the Chairperson a copy. To be considered for the voluntary layoff, the employee must sign the posting. The posting will identify the estimated range of time the layoff is expected to last. Employees who sign up and are awarded the voluntary layoff under this section will be required to stay on layoff un to the identified range of the layoff. If business conditions change, an employee on voluntary layoff may be recalled to his/her job classification prior to the identified range of the layoff. It is understood that if the layoff is extended beyond the identified range of time, an employee who volunteered for the layoff will have the right to return to work provided he/she has the seniority to hold a job.
19
Section 8B: Voluntary Layoffs during an Indefinite Layoff
Voluntary layoffs will be offered during periods of Indefinite layoffs and will be awarded by seniority in the classifications affected where efficiencies will not be adversely impacted. The Company will post a notice on the board and give the Chairperson a copy. To be considered for the voluntary layoff, the employee must sign the posting. The posting will identify the estimated range of time the layoff is expected to last if known. Employees who sign up and are awarded the voluntary layoff under this section will be required to stay on layoff up to the identified or unidentified range of the layoff. If business conditions change, an employee on voluntary layoff may be recalled to his/her job classification prior to the identified range of the layoff. It is understood that if the layoff is extended beyond the identified range of time, an employee who volunteered for the layoff will have the right to return to work provided he/she has the seniority to hold a job.
Section 8C: Temporary Layoff
If a layoff is expected to last less than two (2) weeks (14 calendar days), the following will occur:
1.	Volunteers will be offered the layoff as outlined in Section 8A above.
2.	If not enough employees volunteer, the least senior employees in the classification and shift will be laid off.
If the need arises, requiring the recall of laid off employees earlier than planned; the recall will be most senior forced first, then by least senior who volunteered. Temporary layoff may be extended by mutual agreement.
This procedure will only be implemented if a senior employee is required to go to the streets. The Company may elect to utilize employees in other areas of the plant. If other
20
jobs are available, a layoff will not be considered. If the need arises, requiring the recall of laid off employees earlier than planned, the recall will be most senior forced first, then by least senior who volunteered. Temporary layoff may be extended by mutual agreement.
Section 8D: Indefinite Layoff
If a layoff is expected to last MORE than two (2) weeks (14 calendar days), the following will occur:
1.	Volunteers will be offered the layoff as outlined in Section 8B above
2.	If not enough employees volunteer, the least senior employees in the plant will be laid off according to their plant-wide seniority. (Excluding Machine Repair, Tool and Die, and Electrician employees who will be bypassed) These employees will be laid off by seniority within their own classification.
3.	All probationary and temporary employees shall be laid off prior to any seniority employee being placed on a lay off.
The remaining employees who have the seniority to be in the plant will be placed into jobs and shifts according to their seniority as follows:
The company will determine the appropriate number of employees required in each classification and shift. Employees will be left in their classification and shift providing they have the seniority.
If employees are displaced from their classification due to lack of seniority, the employee will have the option of being placed in their job classification on another shift or in a
21
different classification held by the least senior employee on their current shift.
If employees are displaced from their shift due to lack of seniority, the employee will be placed on the shift in which they have the seniority to hold. If the employee can’t hold their classification on the shift in which they have the seniority to hold, they will be permitted to bump into a job seniority permitting the exceptions listed below:
Electrician Data Entry Clerk Mold Setter Lead Mold Setter Lab Auditor Service Tech
Machine Repair Quality Layout Auditor Tool and Die Production Technician Process Painter
Compliance Environmental Technician
Employees will be permitted to hump into these jobs if they had previously held the job (within the last three (3) years), or have performed a minimum of 120 hours of work in the classification they arc bumping during the previous 12 months provided they have the seniority to do so. If the employee cannot be placed, they will be laid off.
If a layoff is expected to last longer than two (2) weeks, the concept of last employee in, first employee out shall be utilized.
Section 8E: Classification Elimination
When changes in methods, products, or processes would cause the elimination of a classification, those employees affected should be offered other work that is similar in duties and rate of pay. Affected employees will be given the opportunity to bump younger seniority employees regardless of shift and classification, seniority permitting, except Machine Repair, Mold Setter, Lead Mold Setter, Molding Production Tech, Tool and Die, Quality Layout Auditor, Compliance Environmental Technician and Electrician, however, if the affected employee has been classified in and
22
worked on any of these jobs (within the last three (3) years), the employee will be permitted to bump into that job provided they have the seniority to do so.
Section 9:	Recall from Layoffs
Recall from layoff back into the plant will be by the most senior first, except those employees who volunteer for layoff will be recalled after employees who were forced to be on layoff.
Section 10:	Return Rights
An employee who has been removed from their classification due to a reduction in force will retain return rights to that classi fication for a period of one (1) year from the effective date of the reduction in force. An employee will be given the opportunity to return to their classification and shift before the job is filled.
If an employee has on file in the Human Resource Department a form stating they do not want return rights, they waive future recall right to their prior classification. This form must be on file prior to recall or person must accept the recall.
An employee can only hold return rights to one (l)job classification.
Section 11:	Temporary Transfer
The Company shall have the right to temporarily assign qualified employees on the shift from one classification to another to cover for employees who are absent due to illness, vacation, leaves of absences or to fill temporary jobs or conditions or situations that may arise for a period not to exceed thirty (30) calendar days, with the provision that it may be extended by mutual agreement with the Bargaining
23
Committee. Assignments that involve an increase in pay will be made based on the following:
•	Assignments will be on a voluntary basis when possible and will be made by the most senior qualified person who volunteers for the job. If assignment is mandatory, it will be based on lowest seniority employee qualified to do the job. Employees temporarily assigned will receive the higher rate between their job and the transfer job whichever is greater.
For assignments that do not require an increase in pay will be made by the following:
•	The least senior in the classification will be assigned.
For Overtime purposes, the employee temporarily transferred will be eligible to work overtime in the transferred job/department only after all permanent employees in the job/classification have been given the opportunity to work the overtime.
*Note: The transferred employee’s first obligation is to his/her Home Department.
Temporary transfer forms will be supplied to the Union for any transfer.
Section 12:	Temporary Job Bid
Upon prior discussion with the Union, the Company may choose to temporarily bid a job that is expected to last between 30 - 180 calendar days. These time limits may be extended by mutual agreement. Employees temporarily transferred will receive the higher rate between their job and the transfer job, whichever is greater. For instances of Long Term absences, the bidder will have the option of first acceptance to the position should the long term absence become permanent. Otherwise, upon conclusion of the
24
Long Term absence, the incumbent, upon return, will return to his/her previous position and the bidder will return to his/her previous position. An employee on a Temporary Job Bid will not have shift transfer or bumping rights.
Section 13:	Job Postings
When newly created jobs and/or vacancies occur, such jobs shall be posted on the Company bulletin boards for a period of three (3) working days. The notice will identify the job showing the job title, labor grade, department, shift, and the anticipated date of the job vacancy. Employees may make bids for posted job vacancies on forms provided by the Company. The completed form will be submitted to the Human Resources Department with a copy given to the employee. The Chairperson will be given a copy of all job postings, job bids and the names of successful job bidders, if any, prior to the job being awarded.
Selection of employees for openings in the following classifications will be based on seniority:
Operator (Mold-Acoustic-Assembly)
Cycle Counter Launch Team Material Handler Custodian Inventory Control Service Technician Acoustics Technician	Extruder Operator Quality Auditor Compound Tech Pull Coordinator Compound Coordinator Grinder Operator Switcher Truck Operator
When filling a vacancy in the Material Handler job classification, the employees in the classification will fill the departmental material handling assignment prior to the job being posted for bid plant wide. These employees must have the proper form on tile prior to the opening.
25
Selection of employees for openings in the following classifications will be based on meeting minimal qualifications with the job being awarded to the most senior:
Electrician	Machine Repair
Mold Setter	Tool and Die
Lead Mold Setter	Production Technician
Lab Auditor Service Tech	Process Painter
Compliance Environmental Technician
An employee who accepts an opening within the Bargaining Unit and goes to that job is deemed to have that classification. The employee may request and will be allowed to return to their former classification and shift within five (5) working days of the effective date of the transfer. Employees exercising this option will not be permitted to bid on another job for six months. After such thirty (30) working days in the new job, such employee shall be permanently assigned to the new job classification.
Jobs which have been posted for three (3) working days and which have received no qualified bids from employees during the three (3) working day period may be filled by; (1) honoring qualified laid off employees or, (2) by the hiring of new employees. Job bids which have been received after the notice has been posted on the bulletin board for three (3) working days will have no validity. The company agrees to, on request, post the name of the successful bidder, if any, and if there were none, to post such a statement.
An employee who is awarded the bid must accept the assignment. Successful bidders may not bid again for 90 days. Employees will be moved into their new job as soon as possible but not longer than 20 calendar days from the date
26
the job is awarded. Failure to move an employee in the 20 day time limits will result in employee being paid the new rate of the job being awarded beginning on the 21" day unless mutual agreements have been made with the employee, union representative, and company.
Section 14:	Launch Team Operator
During the period of time that new work is being launched at the Huron plant, the company will post for Launch Team Operators with the following guidelines:
1.	Seniority bid for all employees regardless of timing of last bid
2.	Successful bidder must remain in bid for at least 180 days after Job 1.
3.	After 180 days, the employee will be given the option to return to their previous classification or remain in the products full production, providing they have the seniority to do so.
4.	There will be a separate overtime classification for each Launch Team.
5.	A Launch Team Operator will receive $0.25 more than a regular operator until the conclusion of this 180 day launch period.
6.	If the Launch Operator is laid off temporarily for any reason from the Launch, he/she will return to his/her normal classification until recalled.
27
Section 15:	Return Rights
If an employee is given the opportunity to return to the classification where they hold return rights, and they decline to accept the job, their return rights are cancelled effective on the date that the employee declines the return to the classification.
Article 7 Hours of Work
Section 1:	Work Hours
The regular workweek shall be forty (40) hours per week, eight (8) hours per day, five (5) days per week, Monday through Friday. This does not constitute a guarantee by the Company of hours per day or per week. There shall be specific starting time and quitting times for each shift, department, and group. It is understood that this may change from time to time according to customer schedule changes and requirements. Every effort will be made to give employees 24 hours prior notice in the changing of hours of work.
Employees on continuous operations will be allowed a twenty-minute paid lunch. All other employees will be on an eight and a half (8'/i) hour day with thirty minute unpaid lunch. Continuous operations are defined as those operations that are not able to overlap due to the nature of the process. The workweek will begin on Monday (Sunday night for third shift).
Section 2:	Breaks
The Company shall establish a ten (10) minute rest period in the first half of the shift and a ten (10) minute rest period in the last half of the shift. Employees scheduled to work
28
overtime will be granted a fifteen minute rest period at the end of the regular shift. Each period/periods will be scheduled at a time convenient to operations.
Section 3:	Reporting for Work Pay
An employee permitted to report to work on his/her regular shift or scheduled overtime without having been previously notified that there is no work available, shall receive a minimum of four (4) hours call-in pay at his/her regular hourly rate; provided, however, this provision shall not apply in cases of power failure, fire, Acts of God, work stoppages, labor disputes or any other conditions beyond the control of the Company. The Company shall have the right to avail itself of the service of any such employee for the four (4) hours, or any part thereof, which the employee is entitled to receive pay.
Section 4:	Call Back Pay
If an associate has worked his scheduled hours and after having left the Company property he is called back for emergency work, he will be paid a minimum of four (4) hours pay or the time worked, whichever is greater, at the appropriate overtime rate.
Section 5:	Overtime Pay
Time and one-half (1%) will be paid for all hours worked over 40 hours in a work week. I'he following will count as hours worked: Holiday, Bereavement, Union Business, Jury Duty, Vacation, Free Day, and Lack of Work. Double time (2X) will be paid for all hours worked on Sundays and Holidays. Overtime will not be pyramided.
29
Article 8
Overtime Distribution Equalization
Section 1:	Rotation Procedure
I.	A volunteer list will be established within each overtime grouping in the plant by seniority. If overtime is needed, the required number of employees will be notified that they arc working starting with the most senior. A line will be drawn below the name of the last person who works the overtime. Should overtime be needed on a subsequent day, the first employee to be assigned from this volunteer list will be the employee whose name is right below the line. The opportunity to work overtime will continue to rotate on down this voluntary list by seniority.
2.	Should the overtime opportunity not be filled by volunteers from within the group, the Company and the Union will work to develop a trial out of department overtime practice. The Company will fill the required overtime from this list in the same manner as described in number (1) above with the most senior qualified volunteer being assigned first and continuing down the list of qualified volunteers by seniority until the requirement is fulfilled. A line will be drawn below the last person who worked. If additional employees are needed the first qualified person below the line will be assigned to the overtime opportunity.
3.	If the required overtime is not filled by volunteers, the Company will use a list of all employees in the overtime grouping by seniority. The least senior on the list will be the first to be forced to work the overtime. If additional employees are needed we
30
will continue up the seniority list to obtain the number of employees who will be required to work the overtime. Once the required number has been achieved, a line will be drawn above the last person to be assigned to mandatory overtime. If additional employees are needed the mandatory overtime will be assigned to the first person on the list above the line. Mandatory overtime will continue to rotate up the list by seniority.
Under the Rotation Procedure, the Company has agreed that during the normal work week (Monday through Friday), if an employee works overtime for two consecutive days, such employee will not be forced to work overtime on the third day. Weekend overtime is separate and the current practice will continue.
The practice for the Material Handling group of asking for volunteers within the overtime grouping first and then asking for volunteers within the classification but outside of the overtime grouping will continue. If the overtime opportunity is not filled by this procedure, then qualified volunteers from outside the classification will be used to fill the overtime prior to mandatory overtime within the overtime group.
An employee will not be required to work more than twelve (12) hours in a twenty-four (24) hour period.
Section 2:	Groups
Overtime rotation groups are established by classification and shift. Overtime shall be distributed amongst those employees within a group as equally as possible. By agreement between parties, overtime equalization groups may be changed or modified. For purposes of overtime distribution only, Material Handler classification will be broken down by department and be utilized when overtime is required in that department as outlined in Section 1.
31
Section 3:	Notification
Insofar as is practicable and consistent with production requirements, the Company will make every attempt to notify employees scheduled for daily overtime at least two (2) hours prior to the end of their shift, and employees scheduled for weekend work by the end of their shift on Thursday.
If the Company fails to provide two (2) hours advance notice to those employees required to work mandatory overtime, but had time to do so, no penalty will be applicable to the affected employees.
If the Company can not give two (2) hours advance notice due to causes beyond its control, for example, late customer notification, late employee call-offs, equipment breakdowns, or material problems, the Company and the Union will work together to find a way to assure that Customers needs are meet.
If the employee is properly scheduled for mandatory overtime but fails to remain and work such overtime the employee will be subject to the guidelines defined in the Attendance Policy.
Section 4:	Voluntary Where Practical
It is Management’s intention to schedule overtime on a voluntary basis whenever practical. A voluntary overtime sign up sheet will be posted on Monday, remain posted for two (2) days for each shift, and then be taken down. Once an employee signs the volunteer list and is notified that they have been scheduled, they are now committed to work. Failure to report for voluntary overtime will be treated the same manner as a missed forced day. Should it become necessary to schedule mandatory overtime after the rotation requirements of Section 1 of this Article have been followed, qualified probationary employees would be scheduled first, followed by the lowest-hour qualified seniority employee(s) in the classification. The parties recognize the need in a
32
J.l.T. environment to keep the customer satisfied, and therefore agree to cooperate in maintaining the work force necessary to meet the customer’s needs.
Whether forced in early or staying over, Employees will not be required to work more than twelve (12) hours per day. Employees will not be permitted to work more than sixteen (16) continuous hours. Employees will not be required to work overtime more than 2 days in succession during the week.
Section 5:	Records
Overtime records shall be maintained and kept at the Shift Superintendent’s desk for review and reference by the Union and Company should there be a question on proper assignment of overtime.
Section 6:	Equalization List
Rotational list shall contain the name of each seniority employee in the classification on the shift. It shall also contain up-to-date accumulated, rotational overtime progression, by date, for the Groupings.
Section 7:	Entering a Group
Employees with seniority entering a rotational group will be placed into the rotational list in accordance with their seniority.
An employee temporarily transferred for the week will enter the new rotational group in accordance with their seniority. However, their first obligation will be to their Home Department. These transferred employees will have the opportunity to work the overtime voluntarily before any forcing of other employees in the group they are transferred to.
33
Section 8:	Charging
Employees who accept overtime assignments that do not show up for work shall be subject to the Attendance Policy provisions.
Section 9:	Sunday Night Start-Up Procedure
The Company and the Union have agreed that the overtime required to start up the manufacturing operation on a Sunday night will belong to the required number of employees from the 3rd shift as long as the number of hours is three (3) hours or less.
In the case of the Maintenance Department, volunteers will be accepted to fill the required number of employees in the following order:
First, 3rd Shift
Second, 2nd Shift
Third, Is' Shift
If the required number is not filled from volunteers the appropriate number will be forced from the 3rd shift.
Article 9 Vacation
Section 1:	Vacation Year
The vacation year will extend from January I - December 31.
34
Section 2:	Schedule
Effective 1/1/2000
Less than one-year service: Time accrues at the rate of 3.3 hours per full month active employment, maximum 40 hours.
More than I year but less than 5 years, 2 weeks (80 hours)
More than 5 years but less than 15 years, 3 weeks (120 hours)
15 or more years, 4 weeks (160 hours)
Section3:	Vacation Rate of Pay
Vacation pay will be paid to eligible employees at the employees’ current rate of pay including shift premium. Vacation pay shall be given on the last scheduled payday prior to his/her scheduled vacation in a separate check.
Section 4:	Vacation Scheduling
The number of employees permitted time off on any given day will be left to the discretion of Plant Management and will be based on manning and production requirements. Every effort will be made to accommodate the employee’s request for vacation.
Based on history, it is expected that our customers will shutdown for up to two (2) weeks in July each year. Employees will be required to use one (I) week of their eligible vacation during this Vacation Shutdown. Notice for this shutdown will be announced no later than one (I) month prior to the shutdown, providing our customer’s schedules have not changed.
35
If employees are needed to work during the vacation shutdown, Section 9: Temporary Layoff will be implemented.
Employees who are scheduled to work during the shutdown will be permitted/required to schedule their vacation at a later date.
Employees are expected to schedule their eligible vacation days by January 31s1 of each vacation year. Approval or denial of these vacation requests will be by February 15 and based on seniority. After January 31st, vacations will be approved on a first come basis. Vacation requests of a full week or more must be submitted for approval seven (7) days prior to the date requested. Vacations of less than a full week must be submitted for approval thirty-six (36) hours prior to the date requested. Supervisors will respond to the employees vacation request within twenty-four (24) hours of being submitted.
Once an associate’s vacation request is approved, it can not be changed by either party unless mutually agreed upon.
Employees may take a maximum of one week of their vacation in four (4) or eight (8) hour increments.
Emergency vacation requests will be dealt with on a case-by-case basis and left to the discretion of the Supervisor.
Employees who have an approved vacation scheduled on a Friday or Monday will not be required to work the adjacent Saturday or Sunday.
Section 5:	Vacation Pay Eligibility
To be eligible for vacation pay, an employee must be on payroll as of December 31" and worked a minimum of 1200 hours for full vacation. Employees who work a minimum of 900 hours will be eligible for three fourths of their normal vacation. Employees who work a minimum of 600 hours
36
will be eligible for a half of their normal vacation. Employees who work less than 600 hours except for new employees are not eligible for any vacation. Employees in their first year of employment will be eligible for pro rata vacation at the rate of 3.3 hours for each month of active employment. Any employee, who leaves the Company or is terminated prior to December 31s' of the eligibility year, will not be eligible for vacation pay. An employee placed on layoff will receive pro-rata vacation pay in accordance with the above schedule.
Article 10 Holidays
Seniority employees shall be eligible for holiday pay for the following days:
2010-2011
Friday	4/2/10	Good Friday
Monday	5/31/10	Memorial Day
Monday	7/5/10	Independence Day
Monday	9/6/10	Labor Day
Thursday	11/25/10	Thanksgiving Day
Friday	11/26/10	Day after Thanksgiving
Friday	12/24/10	Christmas Holiday
Thursday	12/30/10	Christmas Holiday
Friday	12/31/10	New Years Eve Day
Monday	1/17/11	Martin Luther King Jr. Day
2011-2012
Friday	4/22/11	Good Friday
Monday	5/30/11	Memorial Day
Monday	7/4/11	Independence Day
Monday	9/5/11	Labor Day
Thursday	11/24/11	Thanksgiving Day
Friday	11/25/11	Day after Thanksgiving
Friday	12/23/11	Christmas Holiday
Monday	12/26/11	Christmas Holiday
37
Friday
Monday
12/30/11
1/16/12
New Years Eve Day Martin Luther King Jr. Day
2012-2013
Friday	4/6/12	Good Friday
Monday	5/28/12	Memorial Day
Wednesday	7/4/12	Independence Day
Monday	9/3/12	Labor Day
Thursday	11/22/12	Thanksgiving Day
Friday	11/23/12	Day after Thanksgiving
Monday	12/24/12	Christmas Holiday
Tuesday	12/25/12	Christmas Holiday
Monday	12/31/12	New Years Eve Day
Tuesday	1/1/13	New Years Day
Monday	1/21/13	Martin Luther King Jr. Day
Employees who have worked within fourteen (14) calendar days prior to the holiday will be eligible for holiday pay. Employees who work during the week of the holiday will be eligible for holiday pay as well.
Eligible employees must work their last full scheduled day prior to the holiday and their first full scheduled day following the holiday to receive pay for the holiday except if excused by the Human Resource Manager. Approval will not be unreasonably withheld.
An employee who accepts a holiday schedule and then is absent will not receive pay for the holiday.
ARTICLE 11 Health and Safety
Section 1: Management Responsibility and Joint Commitment
The Company is committed to providing a safe and healthy work environment and encourages the active involvement
38
and support of all employees. To achieve this end, the Company will:
•	Address serious safety hazards immediately.
•	Establish responsibilities of all levels of management and hold them accountable for implementing programs and procedures.
•	Ensure through proper support and training that all employees are aware of hazards and accept responsibility for working safely.
•	Establish and maintain operating procedures and programs.
•	Design, construct, continuously improve and operate facilities in a manner which encourages the elimination of work related injuries and illnesses.
•	Ensure that all operations conduct business in compliance with applicable safety and health laws and regulations.
The Union will actively participate in and support all aspects of the health and safety program. In order to provide for their own health and safety, employees will conduct themselves in accordance with the Company’s health and safety programs and policies.
Section 2:	Joint Health and Safety Committee
There shall be a plant health and safety committee established consisting of up to six (6) employees selected by the Union and up to six (6) management representatives selected by the Company. The Company representatives will include Operations, Materials, Facilities, Human Resources,
39
Safety Managers or their designees. The negotiating committee chairperson and the plant manager or designees shall co-chair the committee. In general, the committee shall develop, review and recommend standards and rales regarding health and safety, review plant injuries and illnesses, review the use of hazardous materials, review major layout changes, significant machine modifications, and new equipment for health and safety considerations, participate in health and safety inspections, including air and noise measurements, develop, review and recommend health and safety programs, and monitor the health and safety complaint procedure.
Specific duties of the Safety Committee include:
I.	Meet regularly to discuss the overall safety and health program and any problems that may have arisen in the program.
2.	Receive information on plant hazards and Company plans and timetables to control or eliminate such hazards.
3.	Make health and safety inspections of the plant at least monthly to detect, evaluate, and offer recommendations for control or elimination of potential health and safety hazards.
4.	The Safety Administrator and a Union Safety Committee Chairperson will receive immediate notification of all accidents that arise out of the course of employment to pennit immediate investigation. Within twenty-four (24) hours a written accident report will be submitted to the Health and Safety representatives.
5.	Selected members will accompany government inspectors, Company personnel, and consultants acting for the Company on all official OSHA safety inspections of the plant and to participate in these inspections. This includes participation in a measurement of workers exposure to potentially toxic materials and physical agents, i.e. air, water, noise, etc.
40
6.	Investigate any worker complaints about potential health and safety hazards.
7.	Have access to the chemical identity of any potential harmful physical agent or toxic substance to which employees are exposed, together with the appropriate safety data on agents or materials.
8.	Receives copies of the Company safety procedures and of reports concerning health and safety matters, such as accident reports, industrial hygiene survey reports, and injury statistics. It is understood that such information given to the Union is proprietary and cannot be released without prior approval of management.
9.	Review the Company’s preventative maintenance schedule.
10.	Be provided a copy of ANSI standards.
11.	Review and participate in the worker’s safety education and training program.
12.	Review new plant layout at the conceptual stage, new manufacturing equipment and major process changes where employees health and safety may be affected and make recommendations as needed.
13.	Review all shop rules regarding safety.
14.	Review any new standards and regulations and recommend appropriate changes in the work environment and plant procedures.
15.	The Company will make available, upon request, a copy of all health and safety and ergonomics grievances to the Health and Safety committee members.
16.	Selected Health and Safety and Ergonomics committee members will be afforded the opportunity to attend training on an annual basis provided by UAW Health and Safety and Ergonomics training and other resources that may be available.
17.	Evaluate machinery and equipment in the plant to insure that it is properly safeguarded. Special attention will be given to those mechanical power press operations that require the operators to place a part of their body in the die area. Continued efforts will be made to reduce the need for employees to place any part of their body in the die area.
41
This list does not prohibit committee members from establishing additional duties that further the safety and health of the plant.
The Company agrees to release members of the Safety Committee from their jobs to conduct safety related business while on Company paid time. The Union agrees this provision will not be abused.
The Union also agrees to become an active participant in the prevention of accidents and the elimination of hazards and to be a promoter of such activities.
Section 3:	Health and Safety Complaint Procedure
In the event an employee has a health and safety concern he/she will bring it to the attention of his/her supervisor. The supervisor shall respond to the issue within one working day. If the issue is not resolved, a Union Committee Person will be informed and may file a complaint. The Committee Person may refer the matter to the Union Health and Safety Representative and the Manager of Health and Safety for resolution. If the matter remains unresolved, it shall be submitted to the Plant Manager and the International Representative of the Union. Health and safety complaints can be subject to the Grievance and Arbitration Procedure and may be entered into the procedure at the International Representative and Corporate Labor Relations step.
Section 4:	Federal Law
Consistent with Federal law, no employee shall be required to perform work which involves a substantial probability that serious physical harm may occur.
42
Section 5:	Personal Protective Equipment
The Company shall furnish personal protective equipment where the Company requires such equipment. The associate is responsible for the reasonable care of such equipment.
The Company will continue their current practice of providing personal protective equipment such as gloves and safety glasses for applicable associates and areas.
Section 6:	Ergonomic Policy Statement
International Automotive Components, Huron is strongly committed to achieving our mission while protecting our most valuable resource — our associates.
We believe that tools, machinery, work stations, and work practices must be adapted to fit people.
It is towards this objective that the Management of this organization and Union work to support and promote cooperation in the study ofjobs and modifying and improving stressful tasks, so all associates can enjoy a safe and healthful place to work.
Section 7:	Working Alone
The Company and the Union agree that an employee will not be permitted to work alone in the plant due to safety concerns.
Section 8:	Prescription Safety Glasses
The Company will provide an allowance for prescription safety lenses and standard frames every two (2) years. Associates are responsible to use the Company designated provider in order to receive their pair of safety glasses. Glasses damaged at work will be replaced on an as needed basis.
43
Section 9:	Pay Continuation for Work Related Accident
An employee who suffers an injury or illness arising out and in the course of his or her employment, who is required by the Company to leave the premises, and is deemed unable to return to work, will be paid at his/her regular straight time rate to the end of the shift on the day of injury.
Section 10:	Outside Contractor Safety Program
The Company and the Union will develop an Outside Contractor Safety Program. Contractors will be required to follow the standards that are developed or face the removal from the plant property.
Article 12 Leave of Absences
Section 1:	Personal Leave of Absence
A personal leave of absence without pay may be granted by the Company to a seniority employee for reasons satisfactory to the Company (E.G. to attend funeral of family member not covered under bereavement, mandated court appearance) for periods up to thirty (30) days. Upon good cause, the leave of absence may be extended for an additional thirty (30) calendar day period, provided written application is made to the Company prior to the expiration of the leave and approval in writing is granted. Seniority shall accumulate during such leave of absence.
Section 2:	Return Early from Leave
Any employee who wished to return to work prior to the authorized expiration date of personal leave must notify the Company at least three days prior to returning to work unless the three (3) days requirement is waived by the Company.
44
Section 3:	Medical Leave of Absence
An employee who is absent from work because of documented illness, injury, disability or pregnancy for a period in excess of five (5) working days shall be granted a Medical Leave of Absence for the period of documented continuing disability. An employee requesting a Medical Leave of Absence must provide documentation form his/her attending physician, which states the date the disability began, the medical basis for the disability, and the expected date the employee can reasonably be expected to return to work. The provision of this Medical Leave of Absence section of the Agreement does not determine whether or not an employee may be eligible to receive sickness and accident benefits. A Medical Leave of Absence, may not exceed 24 months or the length of the employee’s seniority, whichever is lesser.
An employee returning after sick leave or after serious illness or accident must have a statement from the physician as to his/her fitness and nature or work, which he/she is able to perform.
The Company shall have the right to request an employee, either on Medical Leave of Absence or attempting to return from such leave, to submit to an examination by a Company physician. In the event there is a disagreement between the employee’s physician and the Company’s physician as to his/her physical fitness, the matter can be submitted to medical arbitration to an impartial board-certified specialist in the field of medicine in which the point of controversy exists. The findings of the impartial specialist shall be binding upon the employee, Union, and Company. The cost for the medical arbitration shall be shared by the parties.
Section 4:	Bereavement
In the event of a death of a seniority employee’s spouse or child the employee will be allowed an absence for up to five (5) work days to attend the funeral. In the event of a death in
45
a seniority employee’s immediate family (parent, step-parent, parent or grandparent of spouse, step-child, brother, sister, step-brother, step-sister, half brother, half sister, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, grandparent, or grandchild), the employee will be allowed an absence for up to three (3)_work days to attend the funeral. One (1) day for current Aunt or Uncle. Such day that is a regularly scheduled workday for the employee, they will receive pay (straight time hourly rate) provided that proof is submitted and the employee attends the funeral. In the event that an employee does not feel 3 days of bereavement is required, the employee will be paid for actual time taken. Multiple deaths will result in time off as listed above for each relative.
Section 5:	Jury Duty
The Company shall allow time off for the period of necessary jury service. The Company will pay the employee for required jury service, the difference between the amount received for each day’s service and the amount such employee would have been paid for the number of hours of such employee’s regular straight-time rate of pay, subject to the following: In no event shall total pay exceed eight (8) hours of such pay. The employee will not be entitled to receive such pay unless the employee has given the Company prior notice of jury duty call and presented to the Human Resources Department a signed statement from the jury clerk showing the days for which the employee received jury pay and the total amount received prior to any deductions by the jury clerk.
An employee who has been selected for jury duty and instructed by the court to report will be excused from work. An employee who is selected for jury duty and told that they do not have to report, will be required to come to work at the plant for their regular shift.
46
Section 6:	Military Leave
A.	Upon application, an employee may be granted a leave of absence to attend military encampment as a member of the Reserve of the Armed Forces or the National Guard for a period not to exceed two (2) weeks, eighty (80) hours, in any calendar year.
B.	Employees who enter into active service in the Defense Force of the United States shall have their seniority, re-employment and other rights provided for by applicable Federal Law. The term “Defense Force of the United States” is defined as and limited to the Unites States Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps, Coast Guard, National Guard or any reserve component thereof.
Section 7:	Union Leave
The Company will grant a written leave of absence without pay for Union members to transact Union business away from the premises of the Company for conventions, conferences, and schools. Persons requesting this type of leave of absence must submit such a request not less than one (I) week in advance of their intended absence, except that in cases beyond their reasonable control, only one working day notice need be given. It is understood between the parties that such absences from work must be consistent and satisfying customer requirements.
Section 8:	Union Office and Public Office
An employee elected to a permanent Union Office shall be granted a leave of absence for one year and will be extended upon application on an annual basis. An employee elected to public office, which necessitates his/her absence from work, shall, upon application to the Company, be granted a leave of absence for a period not to exceed one term in office. Such employees shall accumulate seniority during such absence. Upon his/her return to the Company,
47
he/she shall be returned to his/her regular standing on the seniority list and shall be returned to his/her previous job or it substantial equivalent, provided his/her previous job or its substantial equivalent, provided hi/shc has sufficient seniority. Time spent by employees on Union business shall be considered time worked and accredited when computing vacation and holidays.
Section 9:	FMLA
Associates eligible for an FMLA intermittent leave will have the first forty (40) hours of intermittent leave without penalty or be subject to the Attendance Policy guidelines. FMLA intermittent leave beyond forty (40) hours in a rotating calendar year will require the Associates to utilize any/all remaining vacation time for intermittent FMLA absence from the plant. Once all remaining vacation time has been utilized, FMLA intermittent time off will revert to unpaid time off without penalty or be subject to the Attendance Policy guidelines.
Article 13
General Provisions
Section 1:	Invalid Provision
It is agreed that any provision of this Agreement found to be in violation, or ruled illegal, under the law, shall be immediately null and void and that the subject matter of such provisions be then eligible for rc-ncgotiation.
Section 2:	Home Address
To protect his/her seniority, it is the employee’s responsibility to keep the Company informed of his/her correct home address and telephone numbers. Such changes must be in writing and submitted to the Human Resources Department.
48
Section 3:	Masculine Pronoun
The masculine pronoun, whenever used in this Agreement, shall include the feminine pronoun and the singular pronoun shall include the plural pronoun where the context requires it.
Section 4:	Sole Agreement
This agreement shall constitute the only agreement between the parties and shall not be modified except in writing, but may be treated as a living document by mutual agreement. All other agreements, either written or oral are reinstated except where otherwise modified during these negotiations.
Section 5:	Visitation
The International Business Representative and/or President of the Local 913 UAW shall be allowed to enter the plant upon timely notification to the Manager, Human Resources (or designee). Such approval will not be unreasonably withheld.
Section 6:	Temporary Employees
Company may hire temporary employees for purposes of filling in for employees on medical leaves, personal leaves, vacations, absenteeism, special assignments, temporary assignments, and manning greater than the number of at work people required. The union will receive a weekly manning report detailing the number of temporary employees in the plant. This provision will not be utilized if senior employees are on a layoff. The rate of pay for temporary employees will be the same as the new hire wage rate without any wage progressions. Temporary employees will be required to pay dues after 30 calendar days of continuous employment with the Company.
49
Section 7:	Federal Law
The Company and the UAW recognize their respective responsibilities under Federal and State law relating to fair employment practices and FMLA.
The Company and the Union recognize the moral principles involved in the area of civil rights and their commitment not to discriminate because of race, color, religion, age, sex, or national origin.
Section 8:	Supervisors
Supervisors shall not be permitted to do the work of the employees of the bargaining unit.
Note: Supervisors should notify the union prior to the following:
1.	In emergencies when Union employees are not immediately available to do the work.
2.	In the instructing and training of employees.
3.	Experimental work, prototype, work sampling.
Section 9:	Tuition Assistance
Employees with at least one (I) year seniority will be reimbursed up to a maximum of $1500 per contract year for the cost of tuition. Courses must be job related and approved in advance. Payment is made at course completion with proof of a grade of C or better. To be eligible to participate in this program, an employee must be active at work (Note: Medical Leave is considered Inactive status). If an employee goes on a leave after having been approved, they will be eligible to complete that course only and be ineligible to sign up for any additional course(s) until he/she returns to active employment.
50
Section 10:	Uniform
The Company will continue to provide uniforms as currently practiced in the past.
Section 11:	Union Office
The Company will provide the Union with suitable office space and equipment. The Union will insure the office will be used for legitimate union business.
Section 12:	New Work
When new jobs or machines are place in production and can not be properly placed into an existing classification, by mutual agreement, the Company will set up a new classification and rate covering the job in question, and will designate it as temporary. A copy of the temporary rate and classification title will be given to the Bargaining Committee. As soon as possible after machinery or other equipment has been installed and, in any event, within 30 calendar days after production employee has been placed on the job, the Bargaining Committee and the Company shall negotiate the rate and classification to be utilized.
Section 13:	Pay Check Shortages
If an employee has been paid incorrectly resulting in a pay shortage the following procedure will apply:
1.	Pay adjustment sheets will be available for employees in the Human Resources Department. The employee will obtain the form and list the claimed shortage. The employee will be required to obtain his/her supervisor’s signature verifying the shortage.
2.	The employee will submit the Pay Adjustment Sheet to Human Resources for processing.
51
3.	If a shortage is less than eight (8) hours it will be paid on the next pay check.
4.	If a shortage is the equivalent of eight (8) hours pay or more, a quick check will be written at the plant and provided to the employee before 4 PM on Friday.
Section 15:	Pay Day
Checks will be distributed on Thursday night for second shift employees and Friday for those employees working on third and first. Checks will be distributed prior to the last hour of the shift.
Section 16:	Direct Deposit
Bargaining Unit employees will be given the opportunity to elect to be paid by Direct Deposit.
Section 17:	Labor Management Meetings
The Company and Bargaining Committee will meet weekly to discuss issues of mutual interest.
Section 18:	Preferential Consideration for Employment
A seniority employee who has been permanently laid off from the International Automotive Components Huron may make application for employment at another International Automotive Components Corporation Plant. Permanently laid off employees who have made proper application for employment will be given preferential consideration in hiring at another International Automotive Components Plant provided they are capable of performing the work involved. Such employees who are hired will be considered as new employees and do not bring any previously earned seniority with them. Likewise, such employees hired will not be required to give up their recall rights at the Huron Plant.
52
Section 19:	Employee Orientation
The Company and the Union have agreed that the Union Chairperson (or designee) will be provided with a meaningful amount of time to address new employees during the New Employee Orientation Process.
Section 20:	Tool Allowance
The Company will replace broken or lost tool used at work. Replacement will be within thirty (30) days.
Section 21:	Travel for the Company
Transportation will be rented or mileage paid under the Company’s travel policy.
Article 14
No Strike or Lockout
During the term of the Agreement the Company agrees that it will not cause or engage in any lock out: and the Union agrees that it will not call, sanction or engage in any strike, slow-down or stoppage of work.
Any employee or employees, whether individually or collectively, who shall cause or take part in an strike, work stoppage, interruption, or impeding of work during the life of this Agreement, may be disciplined or discharged by the Company.
Article 15 COLA Frozen for the duration of this Agreement
Cost of living allowance shall be payable on the basis of one cent ($0.01) per hour worked for each .4 change in the index. (Urban Wage earners and Clerical 82-84 =100) Five ($.05) of the 2004 COLA remains in the float.
53
Article 17 Insurance and Other Benefits
Managed Choice	Preferred Benefits	Non-Preferrcd Benefits
Deductible	$0/0	$250/500
Emergency Room	90% after $50 co- pay; waived if admitted	90% after $50 co-pay; waived if admitted
Non-emergency use of Emergency room	Not Covered	Not Covered
Pre-certification Penalty	N/A	N/A
Office Visit	100% after $15 copay $20 co-pay eff 5-1-10	75% after deductible
Coinsurance	90%/10%	75%/25%
Annual Out of Pocket Limit	$750/81500	$1250/82500
Prescription	$10 co-pay-generic drags dispensed when available 30 day/100 units	75% after deductible generic drags dispensed when available 30 day/100 units
Mail Order Drugs	$8 co-pay 90 day supply	$8 co-pay 90 day supply
Mental/Nervous (inpatient)	90%;lesser of 45 days or $5000 per confinement combined with D/A	75% after deductible; lesser of 45 days or $5000 combined with D/A
Mental/Nervous (outpatient) (do not apply to out of pocket limits)	100% after $25 copay 20 visits per year	50% after deductible 20 visits per year
54
		
Alcohol/Drug (inpatient)	90%; lesser of 45 days or $5000 per confinement combined with M/N	75% after deductible; lesser of 45 days or $5000 combined with M/N
Alcohol/Drug (outpatient) (do not apply to out of pocket limits)	100% after $25 copay 20 visits per year	50% after deductible 20 visits per year
Well Baby	100% after $15 copay Exam, immunization & Office visit, 6 visits first yr. One visit per yr. Thereafter to age 6	Not Covered
Routine Physical Exam	100%after $15 copay once every 24 months	Not Covered
Mammograms	100% based on age: 35-40 yrs: One baseline 40-50 yrs: One every 24 mos. Or annually if primary care physician determines such 50+ yrs: Annually	75% after deductible 35-40 yrs: One baseline 40-50 yrs: One every 24 mos. Or annually if primary care physician determines such 50+ yrs: Annually
Well Woman Care Including Pap Smear & Pelvic	100% after $15 co-pay	Not Covered
Hearing Test	100% after $15 co-pay Must be referred,	75% after deductible
55
	once every 24 rnos.	
Chiropractic Care	90% after $15 copay maximum 15 visits annually must be referred	50% after deductible 15 visits per year
Employee contributions are frozen for life of this agreement.
Benefit continuation at layoff is the end of the month. When layoff occurs, plus one (1) month.
A.	Sickness and Accident
Frozen for the duration of this Agreement
$335/wcek for 26 weeks
(7 day waiting period)
B.	Long Tenn Disability
$0.43 per $100
C.	Dental
Frozen for the duration of this Agreement
Annual deductible $50/$ 100
Annual maximum $1400 per person
Preventative 100% reasonable and customary
Basic Restorative 85%
Major Restorative 60%
Ortho Lifetime Maximum of $850 for employees
Dependents up to age 19
D.	Life Insurance: Current Benefit is $35,000
Frozen for the duration of this Agreement
E.	Accidental Death and Dismemberment: Current
$35,000
Frozen for the duration of this Agreement
F.	Optional Term Life Insurance
1.	Employees will have the option of buying more coverage for themselves,
56
their dependents up to the age of 19 or longer if full time student, and their spouse. This cost will be paid by the associate. Evidence of insurability will be required after initial open enrollment period. Cost is as follows:
Self: Coverage	'/? to 5 times pay up to
	$500,000
Age	Cost per month per $ 1000
Under 30	$.04
30-34	$.05
35-39	$.07
40-44	$.10
45-49	$.18
50-54	$.32
55-59	$.57
60-64	$1.02
65-69	$1.83
70-74	$2.25
2.	Optional Term Life Insurance:
Effective
11/01/99
Dependents:
Rates are for 2004 (rates are experience rated and subject to change)
Coverage	Cost per month	
Option 1	Child $5,000	$1.50
Option 2	Child $10,000	$3.00
Option 3	Spouse $10,000	$2.00
Option 4	Spouse $20,000	$4.00
Option 5	Spouse $30,000	$6.00
Option 6	Spouse $40,000	$8.00
Option 7	Spouse $50,000	$10.00
Option 8	ISpouse $10,000,child $5,000	$3.50
Option 9	Spouse $20,000, child $5,000	$5.50
57
Option 10
Option 1 i
Option 12
Option 13
Option 14
Option 15
Option 16
Option 17
Spouse $30,000. child $5,000
Spouse $40,000, child $5,000
Spouse $50,000, child $5,000
Spouse $10,000, child $10,000
Spouse $20,000, child $10,000
Spouse $30,000, child $10,000
Spouse $40,000, child $10,000
Spouse $50,000, child $10,000
$7.50
$9.50 $11.50 $5.00 $7.00
$9.00 $11.00
$13.00
G. E. A. P.
Implement Employee Assistance Program “TEAM” effective 9/1/99
H. 401K
Eligibility	Age 21 and 12 months of service
Enrollment	Quarterly
Employee Contributions	1%- 16% Pre-tax, 1996 IRS maximum $9,500
Suspension of Employee Contributions	Cease contributions at any time
Employer Contribution	$.20 cents per hour worked Suspended effective 2-1-10
Vesting Schedule	100%
Investments	Various investments funds such as: Equity Fund Money Market Fund Bond Fund Investment Contract Trust (GIC) 1AC Corporation Stock Investment fund options may be changed from time to time.
Participant Statement	Quarterly
Hardship Withdrawals	Medical Bills not covered under a plan (expenses must be considered tax deductible under IRS guidelines) Post Secondary education
58
	expenses (self, spouse, dependent) Down payment on principle residence Prevent eviction
In-service distributions	Age 59 Vi without penalty
Normal Retirement	Age 65
Disability Retirement	Any age if totally and permanently disabled per Social Security guidelines
Death Benefit	100% paid to named beneficiary. If married one year, spouse automatically named beneficiary unless spouse elects otherwise
Forms of Benefit Payment	Lump Sum
Rollover	Distributions may be rolled over into another employer plan accepting rollovers or an IRA
I.	Stock Purchase Plan
Payroll Deduction, eligible after 90 days;
Company paid brokerage fee
J.	Vision Care
Frozen for the duration of this Agreement
Vision Testing Examination
Vision Exam	Covered - $5 co-pay
	Once every 24 months
Lenses-members may obtain either eyeglasses or contact lenses, but not both.
Frames/Standard lenses, less than 65mm in diameter	Covered - $ 10 co-pay
	$175 max every 24 months
59
Cosmetic lenses, not medically necessary	Covered up to a max of $35, members pay the difference
	Once every 24 months
Therapeutic lenses, medically necessary Covered - $ 10 co-pay	
Co-pays
* Exams ♦Frames, Lenses, and medically necessary contact lenses	$5 co-pay A combined $10 co-pay
Article 18 Duration
This Agreement shall become effective January 18, 2010, and shall remain in force through January 30, 2013, and thereafter for successive periods of one (I) year unless either party shall, on or before the sixtieth (60) day prior to expiration, serve written notice on the other party of a desire to terminate, modify, alter, re-negotiate, change or amend this Agreement.
Memorandums of Understanding for Maintenance Department
A.	Maintenance Seniority Date of Entry
During the 1999 negotiations, both the Company and the Union agreed to the following regarding the seniority of employees in the maintenance department:
I.	For the purpose of vacation eligibility, health insurance, and other benefits, an employees’
60
original seniority date shall prevail per existing contract language.
2.	Employees who enter a maintenance department classification shall for the purpose of layoff, recall, and shift preference, assume the date of entry into the department as his/her seniority date.
3.	A skilled trades employee who successfully bids for and is awarded another skilled trades classification shall assume the date of entry into the new classification as his/her seniority date for the purposes of layoff, recall, and shift preference.
4.	A skilled trades employee who is reduced out of his/her classification will have the option of going to an opening in the plant, seniority permitting, or electing a voluntary layoff.
5.	Should said employee elect a voluntary layoff rather than going to an opening in the plant, they will retain recall rights to their classification in maintenance only.
6.	For purposes of above, skilled trades classifications are identified as Tool & Die, Machine Repair, Electrician, Welder/Fabricator.
B.	Continuous Operation in Skilled Trades Department
During the 1999 negotiations, both the Company and the Union discussed at length the issue of the skilled trades department working a continuous schedule. Both parties recognize and agree that in order to keep up with the needs of the plant and the maintenance employees, other alternatives need to be explored which will allow for the upkeep and maintenance of the equipment while at the same time providing maintenance employees some relief of overtime hours. The parties have agreed
61
to form a joint committee within 90 days from the ratification of the agreement to evaluate options and alternatives to resolve this issue.
C.	Qualifications and Requirements in Skilled Trades Department
During the 1999 negotiations, both parties discussed and agreed on what type of qualifications and requirements are needed in our skilled trades classifications. The parties have identified what type of requirements would be necessary for someone entering the skilled trades classification as will as different skills cunent employees in maintenance should already possess. In order to be a world class operation, it is recognized that the skilled trades department needs to meet these qualifications and requirements. The Company and the Union are committed to providing training and other resources as required to assure that our maintenance department is fully qualified.
The parties will jointly determine what, if any, additional training is needed for our current employees in the maintenance department.
D.	Sub-Contract/Outsourcing
During the course of the negotiations, the Company and the Union discussed the issue of work which has historically been done by Bargaining Unit employees at this location. The Company has advised the Union that prior to contracting such work, the Union will be notified and a meaningful discussion held regarding the factors involved in the contemplated decision. In no event shall any seniority employee who customarily performs the work in question be laid off as the direct and immediate result of work being performed by an outside contractor.
62
This provision of the Agreement will be applied to all decisions being contemplated where International Automotive Components has control of such activity.
At such time as the Company contemplates the outsourcing or subcontracting of any of the work historically performed by the Bargaining Unit, it will complete a “Notice of Contemplation to Outsource/Subcontract” form and forward it to the Chairperson of the Bargaining Committee or the appropriate or both. The Company will then hold meaningful discussions with the Union in at attempt to keep the work in-house.
The Company will allow the Union reasonable time to respond to the Company’s notification. The Company and the Union agree that when evaluating said work, factors to be considered include; time, cost, equipment, competitiveness, quality, delivery, and employees currently capable of performing the work.
E.	Promotions of Skilled Trades Department
The Company and Union agree that it is in the best interest of both parties to promote from within Huron employees who meet the requirements of a skilled trades position. These requirements should be made available to those employees who are interested so that they may take it upon themselves to get additional training and/or schooling that may help them for future openings in the skilled trades department.
Within 90 days from the ratification of this agreement, the parties agree to meet for the purposes of setting progression rates for internal promotions to skilled trades and mold setters.
63
Letter of Understanding
Outsourcing
During the 2004 negotiations the Company and the Union had extensive discussions on the Company’s failure to consistently follow the procedure set forth in Memorandum “D” in the 1999 Company - Union Labor Contract.
In an effort to re-implement this language the Company is agreeing to the following:
I.	The Staff Manager responsible for the project being considered for outsourcing, will be responsible for communicating the details of the project with the Maintenance Committee Person and providing the outsourcing form for his signature.
2.	For work that is covered under Memorandum “D”, the Company will require a signed outsourcing form to accompany the Purchase Order through the approval process.
3.	The Company reaffirms that outside contractors will not be used to reduce the number of Maintenance personnel in the plant.
4.	The Human Resources Manager will monitor the process of compliance with Memorandum “D”. If the Union has any continuing problems with this process the HR Manager will take an active role in resolving the issue.
64
Letter of Understanding
Huron Lunch Period Work Schedule
The Company’s policy on scheduling a lunch break is to have an unpaid thirty (30) minute lunch period.
In operations that are scheduled on a three (3) shift continuous operation and are machine controlled the lunch period is paid and is twenty (20) minutes.
Indirect employees (i.e.; Material Handlers) who support an area that has a paid lunch will work the same schedule as the production employees in that area.
65
Letter of Understanding
Supervisors Working
During 2004 negotiations the Company and the Union discussed Article (13) Section (8), “Supervisors Working”. The Union expressed concern over the continued violation of this provision. The Company has agreed to again inform all salaried employees of the rules that must be followed.
If there is continued abuse, the Company and the Union will meet without delay to resolve the issue.
66
Letter of Understanding
3/2/00
Below are agreements reached during the grievance procedure at Step 3 on 2/3/00.
•	The company and Union have agreed that whenever work is to be scheduled on a Sunday, regardless of the day the decision is made to schedule, the employees to be scheduled will be taken from the Sunday signup sheet exclusively.
•	The company will advise all supervisors that: When attempting to recall employees back to work early from a tennporary layoff they will do so through the Human Resources department whenever practical; when not practical due to an emergency or off shift situation ever effort will be made to have a shift committee person or designee present during the telephone calling.
67
Letter of Understanding 9/5/01
Per our discussions of 9/5/01, we have agreed that associates in our Apprenticeship Program will be eligible to accept overtime assignments, outside of his apprentice classification, in his trade classification in the event that all tradesmen in that classification decline the opportunity and the apprentice is qualified to safely perform the work available.
68
The parties, each by its duly authorized officials and representatives hereby accepts this agreement and each and all terms and conditions thereof.
Agrood to by tho Compnny
Agrood to by tho U
p Blanchard
Doiki
Rickard
Boh Htiblck
Ed Mtihr
69
Appendix “A” Wage Rates
Frozen for the duration of this agreement
(The general increases are included in the schedule below)
Job classification
Custodian
Cust Serv Ship Prod Tech Acoustics Operator Assembler
Cycle Counter
Data Entry Clerk Inventory Control Material Handler Molding Operator
Production Base Rates
$14.30
$16.02
$14.76
$14.76
$14.76
$14.76
$14.76
$14.76
$14.76
70
Quality Auditor	  $14,76
Process Painter	  $15.02
Switcher Truck Operator	  $15.02
Compliance Environmental Tech	  $16.30
Lab Auditor	  $15.30
Acoustics Technician	  $15.76
Grinder Operator	  $14.76
Pass Through	  $14.76
Quality Layout Auditor	  $15.53
Extruder Operator	  $15.79
Extruder Tech	  $16.79
Production Technician	  $15.76
Launch Team	  $15.01
Pull Coordinator	  $15.79
Mold Setter	  $17.39
71
Mold Setter Lead	...................................... $18.39
Skilled Trades Base Rates
Electrician	...................................... $19.83
Lead Electrician	  $20.83
Machine Repair	  $19.22
Machine Repair Lead	  $20.22
Tool & Die	...................................... $20.53
Lead Tool & Die	  $21.53
Shift Premiums
A Shift Premium of $.30 per hour will be paid to all second and third shift employees.
New Hire Wage Rate
The pay rate for a new hire operator after all current employees are recalled from layoff will be $10.50 with no wage progression unless they successfully bid into a higher paying job.
72
2010
SiBfcAugusMK£|
Su M	Tu	V Th	F Sal
1 j 2	3	4 5	6 I 7 !
8 9	10	11 12	13 14
15 16	17	18 19	20 21!
22 23	24	25 26	27 28!
29 30	31		|
			
IB Su	sSebtemberM				
	M Tu V Th F Sa				
5 12	-XI' 6 7 8 13 i 14 i 15~		2 _9 16	3 4 10 11 17 18	
19	20	21 22	23	24	25
26	27	28129	30		
					
|»gpct6berafl
laSNovemtierWl
------). 1 ' £
3 4 i 5 i 6| 7| 8! 9]
10 iq 12^13 141 151 16!
17 18! 19 20121122] 23!
24 25’28" 27128 29! 30
3> ' I ! I \ 5
Su M Tu V Th F Sa| 1 [213 FTpS i 6 i
14
21
28
15
22
29
_16i 231 30!
17! 18
24! 25
|jMH>ec^6ergg|
12! 13 i
19 I 20!
26!271
ISu	M Tu	W Th	F Sal
		1 2	3 4!
5	6 1 7	8 9	10 11
' 1?	13l 14	15 16	17 i 181
			
19	20! 21	22 23	24! 25!
26	27| 28 1	29 30	31 > !
73
2011
‘ April '
_____May'____
IS M T V Th F Sai
3	4	5 j 6 i 7	1 8	_2 i 9 1
10	11	12! 13 I 14	15	16
17	1ft	191 201 21	22	23
				
■ 24	25	261 271 28	29	30 i
1		1 i		
15
J?2 29
BffSeptemberljl
!Su M Tu V Th F Sai	lyNo^rnber^l	
1!	11!	| 1 i 2 3 4 i 5 I		_ LL J ALAj
2 3 4 i 5 i 6 7 8 i	16 7’89 10 11 i 12 i	4 5 16 17 8 9 1 101
9 10 11 i 12 13 14 151	! 13 141 151 16 17 18 i 191	11 121 13 i 14 15 16: 171
• 16 17 18 i 19 ■ 20 21 22:	j 20 2lj 22123 24 251 261	18 19 20 21 22 231 24;
23 24 25'26127 28 291	127 28129130	J |	25 261 27128 29 301 311
130 31 i 1	r i “ s	L_L d j
74
2012
Su	<Feb'rudrvW-					S^MarcKMl				
	M	Tu W	Th	F Sa		Su	M	Tu V	Th	F Sa
		1	2	3 4					1	2 3
5	6	7 8	9	10 11		4	5	6 ; 7	8	9 10
12	13	14 15	16	17 18		11	12	13! 14	15	16 17
19	20	21 22	23	24 25		18	19	20! 21	22	23 24
26	27	28 29				25	26	27128	29	30 31
								I		
•SMI
4
M_T _W Th F Sai
121 13! 14
101 II
* 15
|27 281^3
10
17
24
18
25
! 15 16] 171 181 19 201 21! 122 23] 24* 25; 26; 27128-frfr ■
laSKluiiel
Su M Tu_V
Th F
Sal 2
11 12
18 19
25! 26
r
5
12
19
26
13
20
27
7 ] 8 !
141 15i
2ll 22!
28i 29
16
23
30
Su	M	Tu	W	Th	F	Sa
1	2	3	4	5	6	7
8	9	10	11	12	13	14
15	16	17	18	19	20	21
22	23	24	25	26	27	28
29	-	31				H
5
12
19
26

Su M Tu V Th F Sa!
J 1 ] 2 i 3! 4 I 5 ! 6 I
(7’815 iJOi 111 121 13i I 14 ISMsll?! 19i20; I 21 22 23|24i25(26}27!
28
29
30131! 1
(August9W8|
Su M Tu V Th F Sai
I^Septemb'eW
13
20
27
14 j 15
21 i 22
J? 23
281 291 30
|gN6vembeW]
Su M Tu W Th F Sa!
I 18 125
5
12
19
26
13 14
20 21
Si 3 1 10i 151 161 17 22 23! 24!
27! 28 29! 30|
Su M Tu V Th F Sa;
101 11: 17IJ8!
24 25
31:~~1
1	‘	__ s 1.
I 2 3 | 4 i 5	6 7 18!
i 9 10! 111 12	13 14 i 15 i
i 16 17 j 18! 19 i 23 24! 25! 26 i 30	!	]	20 21! 22! 27 28! 29! 1 i
Su M Tu V Th F
! 16 123 | 30
Sai
101 11;
17 i 181
241 25 =
311 !
19
26
22
29
75
ISagApriljMBl
2013
SRFebrua
SB
Su M Tu V Th F Sa
Su	M	Tu	V	Th	F	Sa|
					1	2 i
3	4	5	6	7	8	9 i
10	11	12	13	14	15	16:
17	18	19	20	21	22	23 i
24	25	26	27	28	29	30!
31						LJ
ISSSepieifiberg
Su M Tu V Th F Sa
1	2 1 3	4	5	6	7
8	9 i 10	11	12	13	14
15	16; 17	18	19	20	21
22	231 24	25	26	27	28
29	30i				
					
^OctobeT«i®Noyern6eW|aD®ember»
Su M Tu V Th F Sa;
6 7 13 14 20 21 27 28	J 2 ' 3 8 ; 9 ! 10 15! 161 17 22! 23! 24 29 30 31 i	4 5 i 11 121 18 19; 25 26;
Su	M Tu	W	Th	F	Sa|
				1	2 i
3	4 i 5	V	7	8	9 1
10	111 12	13	14	15	161
17	18 s 19	20	21	22	231
24	25j 26	27	28	29	30!
					J
15
22
29
Su M Tu V Th F Sa|
2
9 10; 11 16 17 18
23 24125 30i 31!
5 j 6 ; 7 j 12* 13 i 14 i J9, 201 21 i 261 27128;
76
Notes
77
Notes
78
Notes
79
Notes
80