AGREEMENT WITH
KING KULLEN GROCERY CO, INC.
AND
UFCW
a VOICE for working America
LOCAL 1500
INTERNATIONAL UNION, CLC
Effective Date: June 25, 2006
Expiration Date: June 26, 2010
INDEX
ARTICLE PAGE
Access to Stores...............................24	19
Agreement.......................................-	I
Checkoff........................................3	1
Conscription...................................14	13
Death in Family................................18	16
Employment of Minors...........................29	20
Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993 .........17B	16
Frozen Premium.................................8C	9
Full Time or Part Time Discharge...............10	12
Grievance Procedures and Arbitration...........26	19
Holidays........................................8	A	4
Hours of Work...................................5	2
Individual Agreements..........................23	19
Jury Duty......................................15	13
Laundry and Equipment..........................25	19
Leave of Absence...............................17	16
Legal Service Fund.............................33	22
Lunch Periods..................................19	17
Management Clause...............................4	2
No Strike Clause - No Lockouts.................27	19
Overtime........................................6	3
Part Time Hours and Minimum Call-In............28	20
Pension Fund...................................32	21
Premium Pay.....................................7	3
Probationary Period............................21	17
Promotions.....................................13	12
Provisions Applicable to All Funds.............34	22
Reclassification...............................22	18
Rest Periods...................................20	17
Savings........................................37	32
Seniority Rights................................i	1	12
Sick Leave - Full Time........................16A	13
Sick Leave - Part Time........................16B	14
Shop Stewards..................................35	23
Store Signs....................................30	20
Successors and Assigns.........................38	32
Sundays........................................SB	8
Term of Agreement..............................39	32
Transfer.......................................12	12
Union Recognition...............................I	1
Union Shop......................................2	I
Vacations - Full Time...........................9	10
Vacations - Part Time...........................9	11
Wages and Wage Increases.......................36	24
Welfare Fund...................................31	20
Agreement made this 25th day of June 2<JUt>. by and between the UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS UNION. Local 1501), chartered by the UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION. CLC, with offices at 221-1 o Jamaica Avenue, Queens Village. New York I 142S-2O35. hereinafter referred to as the UNION, and KING KULLEN GROCERY CO., INC having its principal place of business at 1S5 Central Avenue. Bethpage, New York 11 714-3'J2d, hereinafter referred to as the EMPLOYER.
Witnessed that in consideration of mutual promises covenants and conditions herein contained, and for other good and valuable considerations, the parties hereto do hereby agree as follows'
ARTICLE 1	- UNION RECOGNITION
UI .01: The Employer hereby recognizes the Union as the exclusive bargaining representative for its Store Employees, both Full Time and regular Part Time Employees, exclusive of Meat and Fish Department Employees. Store Managers, Assistant Store Managers. Assistant Managers and Supervisors, in all of its stores wherever located.
(H U2- A full time employee is an employee who regularly works lor the Employer thirty (30j or more hours per week. A regular part time employee ts an employee who regularly works for the Employer less than thirty hours per week, and such regular pan time employees shall have and receive only those rights and benefits spec ifically provided for them in this Agreement.
ARTICLE 2	- UNION SHOP
02.1)1: It shall be a condition of employment that j|) employees of the Employer covered by this Agreement who are members of the Union in good standing on the effective date of this Agreement, shall remain members m good standing and those who are not members on the effective date of this Agreement shall, as a condition of their continued employment by the Employer, become members of the Union on the thirry-first (31st) day following the beginning of their employment or the execution date of this Agreement, whichever is later, and they shall thereafter maintain their membership in the Union in good standing during the term of this Agreement.
02.02: Any employee who is expelled from membership m this Union because of non-payment of dues or initiation fees to the L^nion which would subject the employee to discharge under the provisions of the Labor Management Relations Act of 15)47, as amended, shall be subject to dismissal from employment within seven (7) days after receipt by the Employer, from the L'mon, of written notice setting forth such non-payment of dues or initiation fees.
ARTICLE 3	- CHECKOFF
(i3.1)1.	The Union shall provide the Employer with a duly executed authorization for checkoff of dues and initiation fees signed by each employee who shall be subject thereto, and such authorization shall conform with the requirements of the Labor Management Relations Act of 1^47 and the amendments thereto.
0.3,U2' The Employer agrees to deduct union dues and initiation fees from the wages of (he Employees m the bargaining unit who provide the Employer with such written authorization
!.)3 ()3: Such deductions shall be made weekly by the Employer from the wages of the employees in advance of the month due and will he transmit
ted to the Union by the tenth 1I Oth) day of the following month. If the Employer fails to remit the cheeked-off dues and the initiation fees as provided in this paragraph by the fifteenth (15th) day of the month due. the Union will have the right to turn the matter over to an attorney to institute any proceedings deemed appropriate for collection provided that the Union shall, prior to the said fifteenth (15th) day, orally notify' the Employer of the delinquency. In the event the delinquency is fumed over to an attorney for collection, the Employer agrees to be responsible for all reasonable collection expenses, including, but not limited to, reasonable attorneys' fees.
03.04: The Employer agrees to deduct weekly from the wages of those employees who have given proper authorization, such amounts due the Teachers Federal Credit Union and remit same to said Credit Union on a weekly basis. The Employer's obligation to remit to the Teachers Federal Credit Union shall be limited to the amounts, which it actually deducts from the employees' wages.
03.05: The Employer agrees to remit to the Union's ACTIVE BALLOT CLUB, on a monthly basis, an agreed upon amount to be deducted weekly from the wages of employees who are Union members and who have signed the necessary authorized deduction cards
03.0b: The LInion shall indemnify' and save the Employer harmless against any and all claims, demands, suits or other forms of liability that shall anse out of or by reason of action taken or not taken by the Employer in reliance upon such authorization and a list furnished to the Employer by the Union setting forth the amount of dues and initiation fees owing from each employee or for the purpose of complying with the provisions of any check-off authorization.
ARTICLE 4	- MANAGEMENT CLAUSE
04.01: The Employer reserves the right to the operation of its business and the direction of its working forces including but not limited to. the establishment of the opening and closing time of stores, the fixing of Employees starting and stopping hours, the assignment of w'ork shifts, the right to hire, transfer, suspend, lay off. recall, promote, demote, discharge for good cause, discipline Employees, assign Employees to relieve Employees from duty because of lack of work, transfer Employees from one store location to another, assign Employees, temporarily or permanently, to any store department within the bargaining unit, and to change the type of work to be performed by an Employee, subject, however, to the provisions of this Agreement.
04.02: Employees covered by this Agreement shall not be required to take a lie detector test.
ARTICLE 5	- HOURS OF WORK
05.01. The regular workweek for full time employees shall be as follows:
Forty (40) Hours - Five (5) Eight (8) Hour Days
Forty (40) hours per week, exclusive of meal periods, consisting of five (5) eight |S) hour days.
Forty (40) Hours - Four (4) Ten (10) Hour Days
Forty hours per week, exclusive of meal periods, consisting of four 14) ten (10) hour days.
The four (4) ten (10) hour shifts apply to full time employees hired or converted on or after June 23, 2002 or full time employees hired on or before June 22, 2002 who volunteer to work this shift.
Those full time employees hired on or before June 22. 20<i2 who volunteer for this schedule, if they opt out, they must provide the company with 3<t day s advanced notice. Newly hired or converted full time employees hired to work this shift if they opt out will forfeit their position with the company.
The employer reserves the right to opt out of this schedule at anytime Employees affected w dl be given prior notice and will be scheduled for five (51 - eight (S)hour day s.
05.02: Scheduling of Employees' starting and stopping time before store's opening hour and after store's closing hour will be permitted for the purpose of checking out and servicing customers.
05.o3: The Company shall post not later than 3:00 RM. each Saturday, the work schedule of employees covered under this Agreement tor the following week. If an employee is off on Saturday. then this employee's schedule shall be posted not later than 3.00 P.M. on Friday. In case of an emergency or any condition beyond the control of the Company, these schedules may be changed by the Company. Such changes will be made with due consideration for the Employee.
ARTICLE 6-OVERTIME
On.01: Employees covered bv this Agreement working in excess of forty (401 hours in a week, eight i8i hours in a day exclusive of meal periods, shall be paid tor such work at time and one-half their straight time hourly rate
Oh.<12: Employees covered by this Agreement working in excess of forty <-It)) hours in a week, ten (10) hours in a day exclusive of meal periods, shall be paid for such work at tune and one-half their straight time hourly rate
(lb.03: A part time employee who works on the sixth ibth) day in a work week, excluding Sunday, vv ill be paid time and one-half for work on that day. provided the employee has worked al! of his or her scheduled hours on the other five < 51 days oi such week.
Ob.04: In a week during which a bill day holiday occurs as herein provided and the employee qualifies, the number of hours constituting a regular work week for full time employees shall be thirty-two i32) hours per week consisting of four (41 eight t S t hour day s and any time worked in excess of said number of hours shall be paid at the overtime rate of pay as herein prov ided
Ob.05- Employees assigned to a four (4) ten 110) hour day workweek, in a week during which a full day holiday occurs as herein provided and the employee qualifies, the number of hours constituting a regular work week for those full time employees shall be thirty 130) hours per week and any time worked in excess of said number of hours shall be paid at the overtime rate of pay as herein provided.
dh.Ub: Overtime shall be worked as required by the Employer. Reasonable notice should be given to Employees on overtime assignments
ARTICLE 7 - PREMIUM PAY
tiV.ul: Full time employees, except when they are assigned to a late shin, shall receive premium pay of 75c per hour for all hours of work performed before 8:00 A.M. (before rcOO A.M. in the case of employees hired or appointed to full time status on or after June IT W88 and before 5:lt(i A M. in the case of employ ees hired or appointed to full time sums on or after June 21.1 WSl or after b.ito RM. pn.ri rded such hours of work are within the regular forty (40) hour work week.
07.02: All full time clerks who are assigned to work on Night Pack-Out shall be paid 10% of their regular rate in addition to their regular rate, for all hours worked after midnight. Such employees hired or appointed on or after June Nth. 1988 shall be paid a premium of no more than fifty ($50.00) dollars per week for a forty t40i hour week.
All full time clerks who are assigned, as cashiers shall be paid ,75tf per hour for all hours worked after midnight. Part time employees who work on a night shift from 12:00 A.M. midnight to 8:00 A.M. shall receive ten (10%) percent per week above their regular applicable progression scale or wage. All full lime employees hired or reclassified prior to June 21. 1998 who are assigned to work on a late shift shall be paid One Dollar ($1.00) per shift premium in addition to their regular rate. Any shift that commences at 12:00 Noon or later is a later shift within the meaning of this provision.
All full time employees hired or reclassified on or after June 21. 1998 who work a shift, which begins at 11:00 A.M. or later shall receive a premium of $1.00 per day per shift.
07.03: Key Person - A Key person so designated by the employer who presently works on a day-night pack-out crew shall receive premium pay at the rate of Seventy-Five Cents (.75c) per hour for all hours worked after 6:00 P.M. The key person shall also receive Two Dollars ($2.00) per night when the manager or assistant store manager is not present to lock up the store at closing and'or lock the store cash in the safe. If two employees were so designated as key persons, they would both receive the Seventy-Five Cents t.75it) per hour for all hours worked after 6:00 P.M.
07.04: Full time employees designated by the employer as Night Crew Chief on the night pack-out crew shall receive an additional premium of Two Dollars ($2.00i per night.
07.05: There shall be no pyramiding or duplication of overtime andor premium pay.
ARTICLE 8A - HOLIDAYS
08A.01: Any full time employee who works on Holidays shall be scheduled for eight (8) hours work providing that the store is open for eight (8) hours and further provided the employee is available to work eight (8) hours. In the event that the store is open for less than eight hours, such full time employees shall be scheduled for the hours that the store is open.
08A.02: Full time employees shall be given a reasonable opportunity to work on Holidays on a rotating seniority basis when the store is open for business.
OSA.03. If the Employer is unable to staff the store or department on a holiday. the Company may schedule the necessary employees by inverse order of seniority to complete the staffing. On those holidays that the stores are presently closed and where the Employer opens on such holidays in the future, the Employer will seek volunteers to work before requiring employees to work in inverse order of seniority.
4
HOLIDAYS - FULLTIME EMPLOYEES
i'SA 04 All full time employees hired on or before June 15, 14Q1, covered by this Agreement and who quality; shall receive the following legal holidays with pay:
New 'leaf's Day President's Day
(Washington's Birthday 1
Memorial Day Fourth of July
Labor Day
Presidential Election Day
Thanksgiving Day
Christmas Dav
n,SA.O5 All full time employees hired on or after June 16, I 1 or on or before June IS, 1004 covered by this agreement and who qualify, shall receive the following legal holidays with pav
New Year's Day Memorial Day Fourth of July Labor Day
Presidential Election Day
Thunksgiv ing Day
Christmas Dav
nSA.Uo: In addition to the holidays listed above, full time employees hired on or after June lo, |OQ] or on lir before June IS, l*W4. who have completed thirty (301 days employment prior to the annual date on which Washington's Birthday (President's Day i occurs, shall receive.) personal holiday [eight (S') hours pay] or iten (Id) hours pay for those employees assigned to work four (4) ten t Ht) hour shiftsi in lieu of Washington's Birthday (President’s Dayi. Said personal holiday must be granted and taken pnor to the end of each contract year, unless, the employee requests time off at a later date.
OSA 07 In addition to the holidays set forth above, full time employ ees hired or converted prior to June IS, I004 ttho have been in the employ of the employer for six 16) consecutive months as a regular full time employee shall be entitled to four (4) personal holidays during a contract year, one of which shall be the employee's birthday and the employee’s anniversary date of employment. One personal day shall be taken during the first six (6) months of the contract year and one during the second six i r> 1 months of the contract year.
(fJSA (>8: All full time employees hired or converted on nr after June Id. 1004 who have completed three 131 months of full time employ ment covered by this agreement and who qualify shall receive the following legal holidays with pay:
New Year’s Day Memorial Dav Fourth of July Labor Day
Presidential Election Day (if registered voter) Thanksgiv ing Day
Christmas Dav
08A.09: Full time employees who work on any of the above-named legal holidays shall receive in addition tu the holiday pay to which they are entitled, time and one-half (I 1.2) their regular hourly rate for al! hours worked on said holidays.
USA 10 Full time or part employees hired or converted on or after June lo, ]QQ| or on or before June IX, 1004 who quality and who are reclassified shall continue to receive a personal day in lieu of Washington's Birthday (President’s Day).
08A. 11: In addition to the holidays listed above full time employees hired or converted on or after June lu, NM4 shall receive after completing one (11
year of employment, one (I) personal day plus their birthday as a holiday.
08A. 12: After completing two i21 years of employment, one (1) additional personal holiday plus their anniversary date of employment as a holiday.
OSA. 13 After completing three (3) years of employment, three (3) additional personal holidays
0SA.I3A: For employees hired on or before June 18, 1994 and who have worked three (3) months consecutively and who are reclassified from part time to full time and have Washington's Birthday (President's Day) or a personal day in lieu of Washington's Birthday (President's Day) as a holiday. They shall receive only two (2) additional personal holidays upon completion of three (3) years of full time employment.
OSA. 14: On Christmas Eve, one half of the full time crew shall be excused one (I) hour before the end of the shift, and the other half of the full time crew shall be excused one (I) hour before the end of the shift for New Year's Eve. This applies to those full time employees working on the aforementioned days. If the Employer decides to close one (11 hour earlier on any of the above days, that shall be the hour off.
OSA. 15: When Christmas Eve and New 'tear's Eve fall on a Sunday, the employee shall be excused one (I) hour before the end of the shift on the Saturday preceding the Holiday.
OSA. IP: Only regularly scheduled workdays of the employee may be selected as personal holidays and only one employee from a store shall be assigned a personal holiday on any one- (I) day.
0SA.11-. The employee's birthday and anniversary holidays shall be assigned on the Monday following the week in which the birthday or anniversary occurred except tor holiday weeks, in which case said holidays shall be assigned on the following Monday. Only one (1) employee from a store shall be assigned such holiday in any one-week.
OSA. 18: In assigning personal holidays, the Employer shall take into consideration, besides other factors, the convenience of the employee.
OSA. 19; Personal holidays for aft employees are to be assigned and taken within the anniversary year in which they are earned, providing that the employee is in the employ of the Employer at such time.
OSA.20: Part time employees who are promoted to full time positions and have completed three (3) months of service shall be entitled to full time legal holidays immediately. Part time employees hired after June 15. 1991 and before June 19, 1994 who have completed three (3) months of service and who are promoted to a full time position shall be entitled to receive the employee's birthday and one (1j personal holiday after they have completed one (1) year of service (limit of two [2] personal holidays). After completing two 12) years of full time employment one additional personal holiday plus the anniversary of employment. After completing three (3) years of employment, three (3) additional personal holidays. Refer to 08A.I3 and 0SA.29 for clarification of whether an additional holiday or personal time will limit the three (31 personal holidays to only two (2) personal holidays as a maximum.
08A.20A: .Any part time employee hired on or after June 19. 1994 who converts to full time has to complete the year length of service before they qualify' for their respective personal holidays for the first year, then they would qualify' for the additional personal holidays as described in article OSA. 12 and 08A. 13.
6
i IS A.21: In order tn qualify for holiday pay, full time employees shall work their regularly scheduled day before and their regularly scheduled day following the holiday and shall also work all their scheduled hours during the week in winch the holiday occurs unless such absence is excused by the Employer, which excuse shall nor be unreasonably denied.
OXA.22: When a holiday occurs during the employee's vacation period, the employee's vacation shall he extended one 11) day, or at the option of the Employer, the employee shall receive eight iK| hours straight time >>r (ten 11 i)> hours straight time if assigned to four (41 ten 11<)) hour shiftsi pay in lieu of said holiday.
OSA.23: Should a regular tuil time employee's regularly scheduled day off fall on any of the above-named holidays, said employee shall be grunted another das oft'during the same week
OSA.24. When stores are closed on holidays, the entire night crew shall be given the option of working on the holiday at straight time as part of the workweek. In that event, the night crew shall not be scheduled to work on the night of the holiday
USA.25' Part time employees hired on or before June 15. |w| covered by this Agreement, who have completed three (31 or more consecutive months of employment with the Employer, shall receive four (4) hours holiday pay based on I heir regular straight time hourly wage rate for each of the following holidays:
New Year's Day President's Day
(Washington's Birthday i
Memorial Day Fourth ot Julv
Labor Day
Presidential Election Day
Thanksgiving Day
C hristmas Duv
()XA.2h : Part tune employees hired on or after June lb, 1 uo 1 or mi or before June 18, 1994 covered by this Agreement, who have completed three (31 or more consecutive months of employment with the Employer, shall receive four (4) hours holiday pay based on iheir regular straight lime hourly wage-rate for each of the follow mg holidays:
New Year's Day Memorial Day Fourth of July Labor Day
Presidential Election Day
Thanksgiving Day
Christmas Dav
(ISA.27: In addition to the holidavs listed above, part time employees hired on or after June lb, |w| or on or before June 18, 1994, who have completed three (3) months of employment prior to the annual date on which Washington's Birthday i President's Day i occurs, shall receive a personal holiday [four (4) hours pay] in lieu of Washington's Birthday (President's Day). Said personal holiday must be granted and taken prior to the end of each contract year, unless emplovee requests time off at a later date
08A.28: In addition to the holidays set forth above, part time employees hired on or before June IS. 1994 who have been in the employ of the Employer for six (6j consecutive months as regular part time employees shall be entitled to one (I) personal day, namely, the employee's birthday, and one additional personal holiday, namely the employee's anniversary date of employment Said employees shall receive four (4) hours holiday pay based on their regular straight time hourly wage rate for said holidays.
08 A.2O Any full time or part time employee hired on or before June 18. 1994 regardless of reclassification shall continue to receive the same paid legal holiday's they were entitled to prior to the employee s reclassification.
7
08A.30: All part time employees hired on or after June io. 1oQ4 covered by this agreement and who qualify’ who have completed four (4) months of continuous employment, shall receive four (4) hours holiday pay based on their regular straight time hourly wage for each of the following holidays:
New Year's Day	Presidential Election Day
Memorial Day	lif registered voter)
Fourth of July	Thanksgiving Day
Labor Day	Christmas Day
08A.31: To qualify' for such holiday pay, regular part time employees shall work their regularly scheduled day before and their regularly scheduled day following the holiday and shall also work all their scheduled hours during the week in which the holiday occurs. unless such absence is excused by the Employer which excuse shall not be unreasonably denied.
O8A.32: Any part time employee who works on Holidays shall be scheduled for four (4) hours work provided the employee is available to work four (4) hours.
OSA.33: Part time employees who work on any of the above-named legal holidays shall receive in addition to the holiday pay to which they are entitled. time and one-half their regular hourly rate for all hours worked on said holidays.
OSA 34 In addition to the holidays listed above, part time employees hired on or after June IP. 1994 shall receive after completing one (1I year of employment one (11 personal day. Does not apply to any person receiving Washington's Birthday (President’s Day) or a personal holiday in lieu of Washington s Birthday (President's Day).
OSA.35: After completing two (2) years of employment, an additional personal holiday, which is the employee's birthday.
08A.36: After completing three (3) years of employment, an additional personal holiday, which is the employee's anniversary date of employment.
O8A.37: The employee's birthday and anniversary holidays shall be assigned on the Monday following the week in which the birthday or anniversary occurred except for holiday weeks, in which case said holidays shall be assigned on the following Monday. Only one 11) employee from a store shall be assigned such holidays in any one- (1) week.
ARTICLE 8B-SUNDAYS
U8B.01: Full time employees shall be given a reasonable opportunity to work on Sundays on a rotating seniority basis when the store is open for business.
08B.02: All employees who work on Sundays shall be scheduled for four (4) hours work provided the employee is available to work four (4) hours.
Al Night crew employees who work on Sundays shall be scheduled for eight (8) hours work provided the employee is available, however it shall not be a violation of this Agreement for the Employer to schedule full-time Night Crew employees for four (4) hours work on Sundays, provided the scheduled starting time does not fall between 12:01 A.M. and 4:59 A.M. In the event a full-time Night Crew employee is scheduled to start work on Sunday between 12:01 A.M. and 4:59 A.M.. the eight (8) hour minimum shall apply.
B) Night Crew, Sunday Schedules - Any night crew employee hired prior to June 23, 2002 who on a voluntary basis w ishes to work less than eight (8)
8
hours must sign a waiver giving up the right to the eight i S i hours of work on Sunday. In no event shall a night crew employee be scheduled for less than four 14) hours.
Ci Full time employees hired or converted on or after June 23, 2002 that work on the night crew shall be scheduled a minimum of five (5) hours when scheduled to work on Sunday. Those employees that wish to work less than five 15) hours must sign a waiver. In no event shall a night crew employee be scheduled for less than four (4i hours.
Di If the Employer is unable to staff the store or department on a Sunday, the Employer shall have the right to require employees to work tn inverse order of seniority to meet the necessary scheduling requirements.
O8B.O3: Work performed by full time employees and part time employees hired prior to January 1. 14X7 shall be compensated at double 121 time the regular hourly rate of pay for hours worked on Sunday. Part time employees hired on or after January 1. 1 487 shall receive one and one-half 11 -1 21 times their regular rate of pay for work performed on Sunday. Full time employees hired on or after January 1, 14Qn shall be compensated at one and one-half (1-1'2) times their regular rate of pay for hours worked on Sunday
08B.04: Full time employees paid double (21 time for Sunday work, if converted to part time status, shall continue to be paid double (21 time Part time employees paid double (2) time for Sunday work, if converted to full time status, shall continue to be paid double (21 time. Part time employees paid time and one-half (1-1.2) for Sunday work, if converted to full time status on or after June IW 1Q-S8, shall continue to be paid time and one-half (1-12). Full time employees hired on or after January I, 1440. shall be paid time and one-half (1-1.2) for Sunday work, if converted to part time status, shall continue to be paid time and one-hal f (I -1 2).
08B.U5: Part time employees hired on or after June 22. 2008 shall receive straight time for the first (1st) twelve (12) months of employment for all hours worked on Sundays, which shall not be considered part of the regular workweek. Upon the completion of twelve (121 months of employment, the employee shall receive time and one half 11 -1 2x) their regular hourly rate of pay for all hours worked on Sundays.
ARTICLE 8C FROZEN PREMIUM
0SC.01: Effective January I, 14% full time or part time employees who received double time for work performed on Sunday shall receive a frozen premium rate, which is equal to the hourly straight time rate of pay they were earning as of January I, pop.
O8C.O2: In addition to this (frozen) premium hourly rate of pay. they shall receive their regular hourly rate of pay for each hour of work performed on Sunday. As their regular hourly rate increases, the frozen premium hourly rate shall remain the same, except in the event of a reclassification from part time to full time, full time to part time. Department Manager to full time or part time clerk, or full time or part time clerk to Department Manager, their frozen premium hourly rate will be equal to the hourly rate they would be entitled to after reclassification in addition to their regular hourly rate.
OSC.03: Effective January I, 10%, the frozen premium hourly rate for a newly appointed Department Head hired or appointed on or after January 1, 14% shall be no less than $ 18.00 per hour in addition to their regular hourly rate for work performed on Sunday
08C.04: Employees receiving the frozen Sunday premium shall receive this rate until their Sunday frozen rate is equivalent to half their regular hourly
4
rate of pay. Then at such point, the employee shall be paid time and one half (1 1/2x1 their hourly rate of pay for all hours worked on Sunday.
ARTICLE 9	- XACATIONS - FULL TIME
(N.01: All regular full time employees hired prior to June 16. 1991 eligible for one (11 week's vacation shall, in lieu of previous existing half-holidays, be granted one (1) additional day's vacation with pay which may be granted at the time of their vacation or at a time different from their vacation, or the employee may be paid one (1) additional day's pay in lieu thereof, at the discretion of the Employer. All regular full time employees eligible for two (21 weeks vacation or more shall be granted two (2) additional days vacation with pay in heu of previous existing ha If-holidays, which may be granted at the time of their vacation or at a time different from their vacation, or be paid two (2) additional day's pay in lieu thereof, at the discretion of the Employer. Such additional vacation day(s) must either be granted or the employees must be paid in lieu thereof.
09.02: Regular full time employees hired prior to June 18. 1994 who have completed twelve (12) consecutive months of full time employment shall receive two (2) weeks vacation with pay. One (1) week of which is earned and may be taken after six (6) months.
09.03: Regular full time employees who have completed seven (7) consecutive years of full time employment with the Employer shall receive three (3) weeks vacation w ith pay.
09.04; Regular full time employees who have completed ten (10) consecutive years of full time employment with the Employer shall receive four (4) weeks vacation with pay. Regular full time employees who have completed twenty-five (25) consecutive years of full time employment with the Employer shall receive five-15) weeks vacation with pay. However, when an employee is entitled to more than two {21 weeks vacation, the Employer reserves the right to grant or assign such additional week or weeks at a time or times different from the first two (21 weeks.
09.05’ Regular full time employees hired or those part time employees converted to frill time on or after June 19, 1994 shall receive:
One (1) week after twelve (12) months of employment Two (2) weeks after two (2) years of employment Three (3) weeks after seven (7) years of employment Four (4) weeks after ten (lOl years of employment Five (5) weeks after twenty five (25) years of employment
09.00: All full time employees laid off by the Employer shall receive pro-rata vacation for each month of continuous service rendered except those employees who have been discharged for good cause and/or have voluntarily left their employment.
09.(17: Full time employees resigning in good standing and who have given proper notice, who have earned vacation weeks which have not been taken will be paid for where six (6) month intervals have passed when entitled to up to two (2) weeks vacation by virtue of length of service; four (4) month intervals have passed when entitled to up to three <3) weeks vacation by virtue of length of service; and three (3) month intervals have passed when entitled to up to four (4) weeks vacation by virtue of length of service. Payment will include only those full weeks that have thus been earned.
10
vac ations - parttime
04(18: Regular part time employees hired on or before June is. W<J-| who have been consecutively employed by the Employer for twelve (12) months or more and who have worked SOO hours or more during the year shall be entitled to yacation us follows:
One (11 year - Twenty-Five (251 hours
Two (21 years - Fifty (50) hours
Seven 17) years - Seventy-Five (7S) hours Ten (10) years - One Hundred (100) h>’urs Twenty-five (25) years - One Hundred Twenty - Five (125) huurs
00.00: Regular part time employees hired on or after June Io. 1004 and prior to June 25, 200b who have been continuously employed by the Employer for twelve (12) consecutive months and who worked SOO hours or more during the year shall be entitled to vacation as follows.
One < 1) year - Twenty 120) hours
Two (2) years - Forty (40) hours
Seven 17j years - Seventy Five 1751 hours
Ten (10) years - One Hundred 1 IDO) hours
Twenty Five (25) years - One Hundred Twenty - Five (125) hours
1)4. JO Regular pan time employees hired on or after June 25, 20110 who have been continuously employed by the Employer for twelve 112) consecutive months and who worked 800 hours or more during the year shall be entitled to vacation as follows-
One (I) year - Twenty (20) hours
Two (2) years - Twenty < 20) hours
Three (31 years - Forty (40) hours
Seven (71 years - Seventy - Five (75) hours Ten ( HU years - One Hundred 1 ](>(>) hours Twenty-Five (25) years - One Hundred Twenty Five < 125) hours
09.11 Employees who do not meet the SOO-hour requirement during the year shall receive vacation pay based upon their total hours worked during the year divided by 52 For the purpose of computing "hours worked" all hours for which employees have been paid, including, but not limited to, holiday pay, vacation pay, sick leave pay, funeral leave, shall be included in making such computation.
0o.l2: A pan time employee with at least six (b) months continuous service shall, when permanently promoted to full time employment, receive a vacation entitlement computed on the basis of half-time credit from last starting date of continuous regular pan time employment, after first full year of full time employment.
09.13; The part time personal time and vacation entitlement earned as a pan time employee shall be paid or granted at the time of promotion to full time at the discretion of the Employer.
IJ4.14 The Employer reserves the exclusive nght to establish vacation assignments. Such assignments, however, will be made with due consideration tbr the semonty of the employee.
i)D.I5: Job classification premiums (excluding shift premiums) are to be included in vacation pay. for full time employees only The Employer agrees to issue separate checks for vacation pay.
(Jojo All part time employees with at least six (b 1 months of service shall.
I I
if permanently laid off, receive pro-rata vacation pay for each month of continuous service rendered.
09.17. The vacation benefits under this article shall not be payable to employees discharged for good cause.
ARTICLE 10	- FULL TIME OR PART TIME DISCHARGE
10.	01: The Employer agrees not to discharge an Employee who has been continuously employed for a period of more than thirty (30) days, except for good cause.
10.	02: Violation of Company rules, incompetency, dishonesty; drinking intoxicants during business hours, habitual absenteeism or lateness, insubordination. mishandling of Company property' or funds, violation of Company procedures for handling cash and/or receiving merchandise, falsification of employment application, or any of them, shall be considered among, but not the only good causes justifying the discharge of an employee under this article.
ARTICLE 11	- SENIORITY RIGHTS
11.01: Seniority' rights of employees in employment and in lay-off shall prevail on the basis of company-wide employment only.
11.02: In no event shall the lay-off or the closing of any store owned or operated by the Employer or the transfer of any employee from one store to another result in the loss of any seniority rights by an employee.
11.03: In the event of a store closing, the Employer will notify the Union two {21 weeks in advance, if possible, in writing, with a seniority list.
ARTICLE 12	- TRANSFER
12.01: The Employer shall have the right to transfer any of its employees between departments and or stores as business may require.
12.02: The Employer will notify the Union in writing at least one (I) week's notice prior to the permanent transfer of a full time employee and three (3) day's notice prior to the permanent transfer of a part time employee, the Union will be notified as soon as possible in the-case of an emergency transfer.
12.03: In the event an unusual increase in traveling expenses is incurred by a regular full time employee by reason of his or her transfer by the Employer from one store to another, such employee shall be reimbursed by the Employer for such added traveling expenses. In the event full time regular employees are transferred by reason of a store closing, a general layoff, or promotion, these transfers shall not be considered under this provision.
12.04: Those full time employees who are transferred more than 15 miles from their assigned stores, in cases of temporary transfers, shall receive $5.00 per day travel pay. Tolls paid in the case of temporary transfers shall be reimbursed regardless of mileage. Temporary transfers shall be limited to a period not to exceed thirty 130) days.
ARTICLE 13	- PROMOTIONS
13.01: Whenever possible, promotions shall be made by seniority, but the Company shall have the final decision as to whether the employee shall be promoted.
12
ARTICLE 14-CONSCRIPTION
14.01: In the event any member of the Union employed by the Employer is required to leave their position by reason of eonsenption by the United States Government for any form of military service upon termination of such service, providing that said employee has been granted an honorable discharge, has not enlisted for a term beyond the penod of emergency, and has applied to the Employer tor reemployment as required, and in accordance with the provisions of applicable laws, that such employees be reemployed in their former or equivalent position. Because the schedule of progressive wage increases herein prov ided depends on actual experience on the job, a person reemployed pursuant to this Article shall be credited only with months of actual payroll service, and when and if rehired. shall be paid at a rate no lower than their straight time rate at the time they entered military service, plus any across-the-board increases granted during the penod of their military service In no event shall such military service performed in any form whatsoever be construed against the employee, or deprive them of any of their rights and prerogatives ot an Employee or member of the Union
ARTICLE 15-JURY DUTY
15.nl: Employees who have completed ninety 141)) days of continuous service called for jury duty in a court of law necessitating a loss of the employee's straight time scheduled working hours shall be paid while on jury duty, less |ury pay. not to exceed ten ( 101 working days in any contract year (if Grand Jury, up to thirty 130) working days over the term of the agreement). To be eligible for pav under this provision, the employee shall present the jury serv ice notice to the Employer at least seven P) days before the start of the term as a juror and shall present to the Employ er a certificate of service showing dates, time of service and jury fees paid Employees receiving jury duty pay from any other employer shall not be eligible to receive pay for jury duty under this Agreement.
I 5 02: Any employee called for Jury Duty who, after having reported for such Jury Duty is excused for the day after 1:00 P.M., shall not be required io report for work on that day. When an employee on jury duty has served five (51 days during the week, they shall not be required to work on Saturday.
15.03. Part time employees after ninety (4i1i days of employment shall be entitled to paid jury duty leave for the actual time lost, as set forth on the employees weekly work schedule and m the case of jury duty will be paid as provided for regular full tune employees on a pro rata basis
ARTICLE IfrA - SICK LEAVE - FULL-TIME
IbA.OI: All regular full time employees hired on or before June 15, 144], shall, receive m a sick leave year, a maximum of ten (10) days sick leave with pay at their regular straight time rate of pay for eight (8) hours for days they are absent from work due to illness.
I fi.A.02: Those employees hired on or before June 15. 1441. who are in the employ of the Employer in a regular full time capacity on the last day of each sick leave year, shall be paid, on a pro-rata basis from their employ ment anniversary date for sick leave for which they were eligible dun ng the said sick leave year but which they did not use. Such unused sick leave must be paid w ithin thirty 130) days after the anniversary date of the sick leave year.
I bA.03: All regular full tune employees hired prior to June 18. 1444 shall be eligible to receive, one 11 j day paid sick leave ieight (8) hours pay ) for each full month of employment, with a maximum often 110) days.
lo.A <)4: All full time employees hired on or after June 10. 1941 and on or
13
before June 18, IW do not receive pro rata pay back for unused sick time; however, they do receive pay back based on number of months worked with a maximum of ten (10) days eight (8I hours per day. Such unused sick leave must be paid within thirty 130) days after the anniversary date of the sick leave year.
16A.05: In succeeding sick leave years the employee shall receive the full amount of sick leave of ten 110) days per contract year. All unused sick time must be paid within thirty' (30) days after the anniversary date of the sick leave year, a maximum of ten (10) days sick leave with pay at their regular straight time rate of pay, for eight (8) hours per day.
IbA.Ob: All regular full time employees hired or converted on or after June 19, 1994 after completing three (3) consecutive months of full time employment with the Employer are eligible to receive one {I) day paid sick leave (eight (8) hours) for each full month of employment to a maximum of four (4) days in the first sick leave year of their employment, thereafter, they shall receive six (t>) days paid sick leave (eight (8) hours per day) in the second sick leave year of their employment, and eight (81 days paid sick leave (eight (8) hours per day) in the third sick leave year of their employment. After the completion of three (3l years employment ten (lU) days paid sick leave (eight (8) hours per day) in each sick leave year.
16A.07: Full time employees assigned to a four (4) day ten 110) hour workweek their sick leave pay will reflect their ten 110) hour work schedule and will not exceed total hours allocated as listed in .Articles 16A.01, I6A.03, 1PA.04, I6A.05 & 16A.06.
lbA.08: All regular full time employees hired or converted from part time on or after June 18. 1994 do not receive pro rata pay back for unused sick time: however, they do receive pay for unused sick leave for full time at the end of each sick leave year based on the number of months worked w ith a maximum of hours as listed above in paragraph 16A.06.
lbA.09 A: regular part time employee who has worked continuously for three (3) months, shall not be required to serve a waiting period to be eligible for sick leave pay as a full time employee when they are permanently promoted to full time nor shall they be eligible to receive pay for unused sick days as a part time employee at the time of promotion.
16A.10: All full time or part tune employees retiring under the Local 1500 pension plan will receive pro rata pay for all unused sick leave for which they are entitled to but did not use.
ARTICLE 16B - SICK LEAVE - PART-TIME
16B.0I: Regular part time employees hired on or before June IS. 1994 shall receive paid sick leave commencing with the first scheduled day's absence due to illness on the following basis:
With one (1) year of continuous employment -three (31 scheduled days (maximum 12 hours per year).
With two (2) years of continuous employment -four (4) scheduled days (maximum lo hours per yean.
With three (3) years of continuous employTnent -five (5) scheduled days (maximum 20 hours per yean.
Part time employees, after two 12) years of continuous employment, shall be paid for unused sick days at the end of each sick leave year on the basis of four- (4) hours-straight time pay for each unused day. Such payment shall be
14
made on a pro-rata basis the first time that a pan time employee becomes eligible.
16B.02: Ail part time employees converted to hall time hired after June lb. ldu| and before June IS, ldQ4and who have worked continuously for three 13) months shall be entitled to one (I i sick k-ay e day for each month in a sick leave year with a maximum of hours as listed in loA Ao
1 oB.ii?' Regular part time employees hired on or utter June Id, 1094 and prior to June 25. 200b shall receive paid sick leave commencing with the first scheduled days absence due to illness on the following basis-
After one (I) year of continuous employment tour (4) hours sick leave pay for each four i4) months of employment to a maximum of three (31 days (twelve (I2j hours)
After two (21 years of continuous employment four (4) hours sick leaye pay for each three < 31 months of employment to a maximum of four (41 days (sixteen (lb) hours i.
After three (3) years ot continuous employment five (5) sick days to a maximum of twenty (20) hours, shall be paid for unused sick lea\e at the end of three' years employment.
I6B.04: Regular part time employees hired on or after June 25. 2000 shall receive paid sick lease commencing with the first scheduled days absence due to illness on the following basis:
After one (I) year of continuous employment four (4) hours sick leave pay for each four (41 months of employment to a maximum of three 13) days i twelve 112) hours)
After two (2) years of continuous employment four (41 hours sick leave pay for each four (4) months of employ ment to a maximum of three (31 days t twelve (121 hours)
After three 13) years ot continuous employment four 14) hours sick leave pay tor each three 13) months of employment to a maximum of four (41 days sixteen (16) hours)
After tour (4) years of continuous employment five 151 sick days to a maximum of twenty (20) hours
Part time employees, after three (31 years of continuous employment, shall be patd for unused sick days at the end of each sick leave year on the basis of four- (41 hours-straight tune pay for each unused day. Such payment shall be made on a pro-rata basis the first time that a part time employee becomes eligible.
I bB.(.)5: In order to he eligible tor the above sick leave, the full time and part time employees, if able, must notify the Employer rwo (2) hours prior to their scheduled starting time on the first day of absence of their inability to report tor work and as often as reasonably possible thereafter if such illness extends beyond one (I) day.
IbB ii(i Any employee covered by the Agreement who falsifies sick leave or who knowingly tries to collect sick leave under false pretenses, shall be liable to instant dismissal.
loB.07: In the event of permanent layoff of an employee, lull tune or part time, he or she shall receive payment for fifty per cent (50*'”) of unused sick
15
days, provided that said employee was otherwise eligible to receive pay tor unused sick days.
16B.08: The sick leave year shall commence on the following dates for all eligible employees: April 24. 2007, April 27, 2008, May 3, 2<HW and May 2, 2010.
ARTICLE 17	- LEAVE OF ABSENCE
17.01: Full time and part time employees with more than one (11 year's service. requesting a leave of absence for reasons other than the employee's illness or injury, shall be given said leave of absence by the Employer at its sole discretion, provided, however, that granting of such leave of absence shall not be unreasonably withheld.
17.02: All requests for leave of absence shall be in writing and must be submitted to the Employer at least two (2) weeks in advance of the date of the commencement of the requested leave of absence. The Employee shall be notified in writing with a copy to the Union if the requested leave is approved or denied. The notice shall specify’ the time limit placed on an approved leave of absence. Advance written request for leave of absence is not necessary in case of family emergency. However subsequent written notice and request shall be given as soon, as is reasonably possible.
17.03: A leave of absence granted by the Employer shall not constitute a break in seniority but if the leave of absence exceeds three (3) months in duration, then service for purpose of progression increases, vacations and all other benefits required to be paid under this Agreement shall not be earned during said leaves.
17.04: The Employer shall make all contributions to all funds required by this Agreement for any month in which the employee performs any work for which monthly contributions are required before taking the leave and after returning, but not for the months when no covered work is performed. However, in the case of an employee's illness or injury, contributions for Health and Welfare and Pension shall be made for a period not to exceed three (3) months while the employee is absent from work.
17.05: .An employee on an approved leave of absence will be automatically terminated if:
(a) the employee does not return to work when the leave of absence expires unless the Employer has agreed to an extension.
tb) the employee works elsewhere while on leave without express permission in writing from the Employer to be so employed.
17.96; An employee absent from work due to illness or injury shall retain his seniority' for a period not to exceed twelve (12l months.
ARTICLE 17B - FAMILY AND MEDICAL LEAVE ACT OF 1993
17B.01: The employer shall grant an employee a Family and Medical Leave of Absence under the act if qualified. The employer will determine eligibility' by the use of the rolling calendar year.
ARTICLE 18	- DEATH IN FAMILY
18.01: Regular full time employees, after thirty (301 days of employment, shall be entitled to three (3) days paid leave for all regularly scheduled work days lost from the day of death in case of death in the immediate family. The
16
"immediate family" is defined as the employee’s parent, child, brother, sister. spouse or spouse's parent. Regular full time employees shall be entitled to one 11) day’s paid leave for a regularly scheduled workday lost to attend the funeral or Memorial Sen ice of the employee's grandparent, grandchild, brother-in-law. sister-in-law, nephew or niece.
1802- Part time employees after thirty tJOj duy> of employment shall be entitled to paid leave for the actual time lost, as set forth on the employee’s weekly work schedule, in case of death in the immediate family as prosided for regular full time employees on a pro rata basis. Said employees shall be entitled to one (1) day’s paid lease, pro rata tor actual time lost on an employees regular work schedule, io attend the funeral or Memorial Service of the employ ee's grandparent or grandchild.
ARTICLE 19	- LUNCH PERIODS
I u.O[: One t J i hour shall be taken tor lunch.
ARTICLE 20	- REST PERIODS
2u.01: Full time employees and regular pan time employees shall receive a fifteen 115) minute rest period for each one-half 11 2) day worked which shall be considered as working time, except as pros ided in Article 2‘<
2O.()2. Full time employees assigned to a tour <41 ten 110) hour day workweek shall receive a fifteen 11 5) minute rest period for the first half 11 2) day worked and a twenty 120) minute rest period lor the second half 11 2) day w orked
ARTICLE 21	- PROBATIONARY PERIOD
21.01: Newly hired employees, unless otherwise in the C ontract provided, shall be on a thirty 130) day probationary period. If the employee docs not work continuously during the probationary period, such period shall be extended by the number of working days on which the employee has not worked during said period. The employer shall have the right to terminate the employment of any newly hired employee during said probationary period. The probationary period for new employees in new or remodeled stores shall be extended to sixty 160) day s from date of employ ment
21 .U2: Clerks promoted to a Department Head classification shall receive an increase of twenty (S2<J Olli dollars per week above the regular weekly wage, for forty (40 t hours, that they were receiving at the time of such promotion or the difference between their then said regular weekly wage (or forty <401 hours and the minimum wage for forty (4<)i hours then in effect in the department head classification to which they have been promoted, whichever is less. The increase shall be paid to such clerks during the probationary period of ninety <901 days, or until such probationary period is terminated by the Employer as herein provided, whichever first occurs. After the expiration of the ninety (op) days probationary period i unless such probationary period is terminated by the Employer, as herein provided) the said clerks shall receive as their wage the minimum regular weekly wage for the classification to which they have been promoted then in effect. In cither of the two above instances, however, said increase shall not be less than ten (SID t.Mli dollars above their prev ions regular weekly wage.
21 03. At any time during the probationary period, the Employer shall have the right to terminate satd probationary period and to revert and transfer the employee in question to the status or classification in which they were prior to their promotion
21.04- Any temporary or relief department head who has been in thjt capac
17
ity tor ninety (90) days or more, shall not be required to sustain any additional trial periods. provided the initial trial period has been completed within the most recent twelve (12) month period.
21.05: When an employee is newly hired in a Department Head classification the Employer shall have the absolute right to terminate the employment of such employee at any time during the probationary period of ninety (90) days.
2 J .flO: In the above instance, that is. in the case of promotion, or in the case of a newly hired employee, if the employee does not work continuously during such probationary period, the period shall be extended by the number of days, which the employee has not worked dunng the probationary period.
ARTICLE 22	- RECLASSIFICATION
22.01: A full time employee who is reclassified to part time shall be placed on the new hire pan time progression scale. They shall receive the minimum part time rate for (30) days and in addition, shall receive twenty-five ($.25) cents for each six (6) months of full time service to determine their part time rate Thereafter, they shall receive an additional twenty-five ($.25) cents per hour in accordance with the following schedule as described in article 36,19 and 36.20 for semi annual wage increases. In no event can they exceed rhe top maximum applicable rate for part time clerks on payroll as of the date of conversion.
22.02: A full time employee who is reclassified to part time shall at that time receive payment for earned full time vacation and full time personal time and one (I) year later shall receive vacation based upon the part time vacation schedule taking into account the employee's total length of service.
22.03: A full time employee who is reclassified to part time shall be eligible for part time sick leave on a pro rata basis for the balance of that sick leave year based upon the employee's total length of service. Thereafter, said employee shall be eligible for part time sick leave based upon his total length of service. If the employee at the time of reclassification has exhausted the sick time that he would have received as a part time employee, the employee shall not receive any sick time for the remaining sick leave year.
22.04: A part time employee who is reclassified to full time shall be placed on the new hire full time progression scale. They shall receive the minimum full time rate for after thirty (30) days In addition, they shall receive twenty ($20) dollars for each twelve (12) months of part time service to determine their full time rate. Thereafter they shall receive an additional twenty ($20) dollars per week in accordance with the following schedule as described in article 36.19 and 36.20 for semi annual wage increases. In no event can they exceed the top maximum applicable rate of pay for full time clerks on payroll as of the date of conversion.
22.05: A part time employee who is reclassified to full time shall at that time receive payment for earned part time vacation and part time personal time and one (11 year later shall receive vacation based upon the part time vacation schedule taking into account the employee's total length of service.
22.00: A part time employee who is reclassified to full time, shall be eligible for full time sick leave, less sick time used if any as a pan timer, for the balance of that sick leave year, based on the employees total length of service.
22.07: Upon reclassification from full time to part time, the Employer shall make part time contributions to the Welfare. Pension and Legal funds starting w ith the first (1st) day of the month following such reclassification.
18
ARTICLE 23	-INDIV IDUAL AGREEMENTS
23.01; The Employer does hereby agree nor to enter into any individual agreements with any ot the employees covered hereunder, which may conflict with, or modify any of the terms and provisions of this Agreement, or to attempt or require any security of any sort from such employee
ARTICLE 24	- ACCESS TO STORES
24.01: The Employer agrees to permit and authorize representatives of the Union to visit any of the Employer’s places of business at any time during normal working hours for the purpose of astertaming whether this Agreement is being properly observed, provided that there shall be no interruption of, or interference with, the Employer's business.
ARTICLE 25	- LAUNDRY AND EQUIPMENT
25.t>l: The Employer agrees to furnish and maintain for all employees covered herein, all aprons, uni forms, store coats and gowns and such tools and work equipment as may be required by the Employer for the performance of an employee's duties.
ARTICLE 2b - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE AND ARBITRATION
26.i11. All disputes, ditferences or grievances arising out of interpretation, application, breach or claim of breach of the provisions of this Agreement shall be settled in the following manner:
2n 02. Within two 12) calendar weeks of the occurrence of such dispute, difference or grievance, authorized representatives of the Union and the Employer shall, in good faith, endeavor to adjust such dispute, difference or grievance.
26.(13 In the event that the matter is not adjusted in the above step, a representative of the Employer charged with the responsibility tor labor relations and a duly designated representative of rhe Union shall attempt to adjust the same
2o.04: In the event the dispute, difference or grievance still remains unadjusted after compliance with the above step, then such dispute, difference or grievance may be submitted to arbitration by either party not later than thirty <3ii| days after the occurrence to an arbitrator mutually selected by the parties, for an expedited arbitration or to the American Arbitration Association for its designation of an arbitrator, in accordance with its rules, to hear and determine the matter. The decision of the arbitrator shall be final and binding upon the parties. The expenses of the arbitration shall be borne equally between the parties.
26.05: The arbitrator shall not have ihe authority or power to arbitrate new prov isions to this Agreement, or to arbitrate away either in whole or in part any provision of this Agreement, nor shall the arbitrator haw the power to add to, delete from, or modify any of the provisions of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 27	- NO STRIKE CLAUSE - NO LOCKOUTS
27.01 There shall be no cessation of work, no strikes no picketing, no slowdowns. no sit-downs or other interference with the operation of the Employer's business sanctioned by the Union, nor shall the Employer lock out for any cause whatsoever during the term of this Agreement.
27.02: The Union, by its officers, shall promptly make every effort to stop any cessation of work, strike, picketing, slowdown, sit-down, or other inter
|u
Terence with the operation of the Employer's business and shall order its members to return to work without delay.
27.03: An employee who engages in any such activity shall be subject to discipline, including termination, by the Employer.
ARTICLE 28	- PART TIME HOURS .AMD MINIMUM CALL-IN
28.01: Part time employees, except those who are available on a limited basis, such as Friday nights and/or Saturdays, only, will be scheduled for no less than sixteen {16) hours per week and four 14) hours per day, provided they are available to work sixteen (16) hours on a regular and continuing basis and further provided that they are available to work the Employer's schedule of hours and there is no drop in business.
28.02: Part time employees who are assigned temporarily to full time throughout the year or for the summer months shall receive their hourly rate of pay or SI0.375 per hour which ever is greater.
28.03 In a Holiday week a part timer who regularly works sixteen (16) hours will receive four (41 hours holiday pay in addition to the sixteen 116) hours of work.
ARTICLE 29	- EMPLOYMENT OF MINORS
20.01: The Employer does hereby agree not to employ any minors, which shall constitute a violation of any provisions of the State or Federal Statutes.
29.02: The parties agree that part time employees less than 18 years of age may be scheduled for 3 3/4 hours on days when school is in session (except Fridays and Saturdays). The pan time employee will receive a paid fifteen (15) minute rest period within the 3 3 4 hour schedule and shall be scheduled for no less than sixteen (16) hours per week when available.
29.03: The parties agree that, notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the collective bargaining agreement, part time employees under sixteen (16) years of age may be scheduled to work less than four (4) hours per day. but not less than three (3) hours per day. on those days and during those seasons (school year) when to do so would be in violation of law or regulation.
ARTICLE 30	- STORE SIGNS
30.01; The Union shall furnish and the Employer shall display the LJ.F.C.W.l. Union Store Card in each of the Employer's stores, gratis, for the period of this Agreement. Such cards shall remain the property' of the Union.
ARTICLE 31	- WELFARE FUND
t AI Full Time Employees
31 A.0I: The Employer agrees to contribute the sum of $469.40 per month to the UFCW Local 1500 Welfare Fund on behalf of each regular full time employee covered by the agreement who has completed thirty (30) days of service with the Employer. Contributions shall begin on the first 11st) day of the month following the completion of such period.
31A.O2: Effective on the dates indicated, monthly contributions to provide such benefits shall be in accordance with the following schedule:
October I, 2006 - $566.00 per month
October I, 2007 - $616.00 per month
20
October 1, 2008 - $b53.OO per month October I, 2<XN - $723.00 per month
(Bj Part Time Employees
3 IB.01: The Employer agrees to contribute the sum of $119.53 per month to the UFCW Local l5r<0 Welfare Fund on behalf of each regular part time employee who has completed six t6) consecutive months of regular part time service with the Employer.
Contributions shall begin on the first 11st) day of the month following the completion of such period-
31B.O2: Effective on the dates indicated, monthly contributions to provide such benefits shall be in accordance with the following schedule:
October 1.200b - $142.00 per month
October 1, 2007 - $158.00 per month
October 1.2008 - MbS.OOper month
October 1.2009 -4185 00 per month *
October 1, 2009 - an additional $ 10.00 per month maintenance of benefits provisions if necessary to maintain benefit levels
Any maintenance of benefit increase approved by the Trustees for either Cull or part time employees are in addition to the above stated rates.
31B.O3 The amount of the monthly contributions to the UFCW Local 1500 Welfare Fund and the method of calculation, where by a specific monthly sum is contributed for each class of employee, is a formula for providing gross income to the Fund and bears no relationship to the benefits provided.
ARTICLE 32	- PENSION FUND
(A)	Full Time Employees
32A.01 :The Employer agrees to contribute the sum of $204 t>0 per month to the UFCW Local 1500 Pension Fund on behalf of each regular full time employee covered by the Agreement who has completed thirty’ <30t days of sen ice with the Employer Contributions to provide such benefits as may be determined by the Trustees shall begin on the first 11st! day of the month next following the completion of such period.
32A.02: Effective on the date indicated, monthly contributions to provide such benefits as may be determined by the Trustees shall be in accordance with the following schedule
October 1. 2009 - $252.15 per month
(B)	Part Time Employees
32B.O1: The Employer agrees to contribute the sum of $08.19 per month to the UFCW' Local 1500 Pension Fund on behalf of each regular part time employee covered by the Agreement who has completed six i h) consecutive months of regular part time service with the Employer. Contributions shall begin on the first 11st) day of the month next following the completion of such period.
32 B.02 Effective on the date indicated, monthly contributions to provide such benefits as may be determined by the Trustees shall be in accordance with the following schedule:
October I, 2004 - $84.04 per month
21
ARTICLE 33	- LEGAL SERVICE FUND
(A)	Full Time Employees
33A.OI: Effective June 25. 2006 the employer agrees to contribute the sum of $2.25 per month to the UFCW Local 1500 Legal Service Fund on behalf, of each regular full time employee covered by the Agreement who has completed thirty (30) days of service with the Employer. Contributions shall begin on the first 11st) day of the month following the completion of such period
(B)	Part-Time Employees
33B.O1: Effective June 25. 2006 the employer agrees to contribute the sum of $2.25 per month to the UFCW Local 1500 Legal Service Fund on behalf of each regular part time employee covered by the Agreement who has completed six (6) months of service with the Employer.
Contributions shall begin on the first (1st) day of the month following the completion of such period.
ARTICLE 34	- PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO ALL FUNDS
34.01: There shall be no contributions to the Welfare Fund. Pension Fund and Legal Services Fund for those employees working full time for the summer period of May 15 to September 15 only, nor shall there be any change in part time contributions for part time employees working full time for the summer period only. Should such employees continue without interruption on a full time basis after the summer, the Employer shall pay as though there was no relief.
34.U2: Contributions to the Welfare Fund. Pension Fund and Legal Services Fund shall be remitted by the Employer to the Fund's office on or before the twentieth day (20th) day of each month. Every employee of record who works at least one day in the current month shall be considered to be employed for the entire month Tor the purpose of computing contributions for that month.
34.03: Upon the failure of the Employer to make payment of any contributions within fourteen (14) days of the date due, the Trustees shall be entitled at their sole option to take any action permitted by this Agreement, by the Agreements and Declarations of Trust establishing the Funds or by law’ to collect said contribution, together with interest, liquidated damages as established by the Trustees, attorneys' fees and court costs. Such interest and liquidated damages shall accrue starting on the day after the due date of the contributions (the twentieth day of the current month), and shall continue to accrue until said contributions, together with any accrued interest and liquidated damages, have been paid.
34.04: The Employer agrees that if it is delinquent in the payment of contributions to the Welfare Fund, to the extent that the Trustees have canceled the payment of benefits to said Employer's covered employees, the Employer will be responsible for all hospital, medical, surgical and other benefits that would have been paid by the Fund had the Employer's delinquency in making its contributions not resulted in the cancellation of any rights on the part of the Employer’s covered employees to receive any such benefits.
34.05: The Employer hereby accepts and ratifies the Agreements and Declarations ofTrust. as amended from time to time, establishing the Funds as if they were set forth herein in full, and ratifies the designation of the Trustees there under. The Trustees have assumed all responsibility for the administration of the Plans, and the Employer shall have no responsibility, except as herein provided.
34.06: The Employer shall make available to the Funds, any and all pertinent records of employees that rhe Funds may require to soundly and efficiently operate the Funds. The Trustees shall have the right to have the Employer's records audited by an accountant of the Funds’ ow n choosing, at the Funds' expense.
34.07: In the event the Employer fails to make contributions or provide records as required herein, the Trustees may. despite any other provision of this Agreement, submit to arbitration any issue with regard to these provisions. before an arbitrator designated tn accordance with the labor arbitration rules of the American Arbitration Association. The arbitrator shall, in the event a violation exists, make a finding and award, which shall direct payment to the Fund, including the costs of the arbitration, legal fees and audit expenses together with interest and liquidated damages as established by the Trustees.
34.08: Upon the written request of the Employer, the Trustees shall make annual financial reports to the Employer, which shall contain information relating to the application of the monies received and benefits paid by the Funds.
34.04: The Employer shall make contributions to the Welfare Fund on behalf of each employee on family or medical leave under the provisions of the Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA), 29 LLS S2o01. et eq., for each month or partial month the employee is on such leave. The failure of an employee to return to work from such leave, within the meaning of 24 IJ.S.C. S2o14 (cl (2k shall create no obligation on the part of the Union or the Welfare Fund to take any action to recover or io assist in the recovery of said contributions from said employee, nor will such failure to return to work relieve the Employer of its obligation to contribute to the Welfare Fund on behalf of said employee during the period specified in 24 U.S.C. S2614 (C i tit
34 10: In the case of any employee's illness or injury, contributions to the Welfare Fund and Pension Fund shall be made for a period not to exceed three (3) months while the employee is absent from work. In the case of any employee who is receiving Worker's Compensation benefits, contributions to the Welfare Fund shall also be made fur the seventh <7th). eighth (Sthland ninth <4th) months of such absence
ARTICLE 35	- SHOP STEWARDS
35.01: The Employer recognizes the right of the Union to have one (I) full time Shop Steward and one (11 part time Shop Steward in each store
35.02: The full time shop steward m each store shall nut be transferred without prior notice to and discussion with the Union.
35.03: The Union will provide the Employer with a list of the names of tts authorized Business Representatives and Shop Stewards and will keep said list current.
35.04: The Employer wdl, with adequate notice, arrange for one (11 full time Shop Steward from each store to have the same scheduled day off once each year with eight 1$) hours pay for the purpose of attending rhe Local I5ori Shop Steward's Seminar.
35.05: Shop Stewards shall not handle grievances and shall not interfere with the operation of the Employer's business, and shall not cause or engage directly or indirectly in any unauthorized strikes, work stoppages, slowdowns, or job actions.
23
ARTICLE 36	- WAGES AND WAGE INCREASES
36.01: Effective June 25, 2006, wage rates and increases shall be as follows:
DEPARTMENT HEADS PRESENTLY ASSIGNED
Department Heads on Payroll as of June 24, 2006 PRESENT
RATE b.’25/Oo	fc24/07	12,23,07	o/22 Os	1221,'nS	b, 21/09		5, )MQ
51015 00							
& Over 125 CfO	S (5.00	Stu.OO	S15.00	51't.OO	11000	liO.OO	
51015.H05104O 0051055.00		$1005.00	51H80 00	11090.00	II I00.0H	511 in.Ou	
59SO.HO S1005 HO	51020.no	$1030.00	5104500	5 IO55.OH	51 Do5.no	51075 oO	III 10 00
New Minimum Rates for Department Heads hired or appointed on or after June 25, 2006.
0 25 IK? 6 24 07	12.23.u7 b22.<)S	12 2) US b 21.119	12 20 0>>	5 I r. IU
5995.OH SJOJO.On 51020.00 1)0.15 00 51045.00 JJ055 m* SJ0b5.uo 5)075 HO
36.02: Full time clerks hired prior to June 23, 2002 assigned to relieve a Department Head for a week or more shall receive the difference between their weekly rate of pay and $865.00 per week to which they have been assigned or Ten ($10.00/ Dollars above their regular weekly wage, whichever is higher.
36.02: A Full time employees hired or converted on or after June 25. 200h and those full time employees hired prior to that date that have never relieved prior to June 23. 2002 shall receive the difference between their weekly rate of pay and $825.00 per week to which they have been assigned or Ten t $ J 0.00) Dollars above their weekly rate whichever is higher.
3&.02B: Part time employees who have never relieved a Department Head prior to June 21, 1998 shall receive a minimum rate of $650.00 for five (5) days forty (40) hours for each week of relief.
36.03: Effective June 25, 2006. where applicable, a store doing a volume of $200,000.00 or less, the company will not be required to appoint a Department Head at such stores. In the event that a store which has a Department Head and the $200,000.00 volume falls below $200,000.00 the Department Head assigned to that store will not receive a reduction in pay' but will be transferred to a store which does a volume greater than $200,(100.00 at the first available opportunity.
36.04: Clerks assigned to be in charge of the Department will receive fifteen ($15.00) dollars per week premium.
36.05: In stores where Departments do not do an average of $5,000,00 per week, the Company will not be required to appoint a Department Head at such stores. Clerk assigned to be in charge of the Department will receive fifteen ($15.00) Dollars per week premium.
DAIRY AND FROZEN FOOD HEAD CLERKS - FULL TIME
36.06: Full Time Dairy and Frozen Food Department Head Clerks, in stores which consistently have a gross volume of $100,000 and over per week, when designated by the Employer, shall receive ten ($10.00) Dollars per week in addition to their base weekly wage.
BOOKKEEPERS
36.07: Full time employees qualified to handle the Store Office clerical details and assigned to the responsibility as Bookkeeper shall receive twenty-five ($25.00) dollars per week in addition to their base weekly rate.
24
Bookkeepers will only be assigned in Stures which consistently have a gross volume ot'$30,000 and over per week.
3b.O8: Full time employees qualified and assigned to the responsibility of Assistant Bookkeeper shall receive six iStst'iO) dollars per week in addition to their base weekly wage.
3t>.00: Pan time employees qualified and assigned to the responsibility of Part Time Bookkeeper shall receive fifteen cents i. 15e) per hour above their regular hourly base rate
3b.10 All premiums presently paid shall be included in regular wages for purposes of determining the rate of overtime.
LEAD CLERKS
3b. 1 I Present employees designated, as Lead Clerks will be red circled As these employees leave their respective stores the company will no longer be obligated to designate a Lead Clerk position in that location but designated current employee will continue to receive the Lead Clerk premium ofTen i $ 10) Dollars in their assigned stores.
36 12 The Lead Clerks will open and close the store if required by the Company subject to the collective bargaining agreement
E WEEKLY ACROSS-THE-BOARD INCREASES AND WAGE PROGRESSIONS FOR FI LL-TIME CLERKS ON THE PAYROLL JUNE 24. 20116:
I.	Wage Increases
Present	0r»	1 2 24 Cir» ot. '■'4,iit	1 j 4 - ir	7 tie.'‘■’U.S	12 21 us	Or. 2 I I '.u	I 2 ■'41 IN	ll“ It. |
Full time								
Clerks	S2 >	$10	i|i>	$lu	$10	$|r>	$ 1II	
$<s	Mo	JQr..>	N47[l	Mil	p™.	$1 OOH	SI /'in	
	V4S	toss	$UhS	$u"f	sw	$44$	$1 /X'5	i 1.0111
$u|5	Mil	W”	i'jpn	Mo	Mil	$<M|I	$| IHXI	S 1 .1J 1 0
fjiv	i'll 5	$44 S	i'O.s		$ir<	VW		ii.mti
		yJ4n	SQ^rj			WO	S'JOt i	il.010
y* hi		ft’'	SQ-15	N'jSi	i'jr.5	$U7?		SQ-jfJ
S.X’C	$<ll	Mu	MO	yj^ri	Vmi	Wij	$'j\O	SuQO
	iul5	$u?s	i'J35	VM <	$o?5	i'ltii	$07S	$uQij
SSsS	Su 11)	yoji'i	iu^ll	$0411		into	yrn	
$Xyl 1		to | s	$42 5		iqjf	NQS5	SM	Wil
if'5	111	Mo	i‘J2o	$4.41	■S'j-lu	WlJ	NMno	$u ?r 1
	i-.us	M>s	$4 |S	$325	yns		$4S_S	$070
$st>5	$son	N'JOI.1	is ]n	i'<u	$U3U	$U4U	Wii	$u7ij
S-tiU		Ssus	$uo‘	So 1 s	f ^25	S'OA	$Q45	io 50
StSSf.	R-:Sij	is ui j	oil in	SOU)	$<11	Wij	MO	
XX'F 1	ma	i?ss	SS'J-	yJlV	Ms	i<5	$435	SQ50
$s45	icl7ll	5 S-11	if Uli	$4110	$Q|[|	Wil	Wil	$u50
$>.4u		sw	ska 5	Isos	$4115	$415	W5	$05ii
M5	Sir...	i* 71?	$SS<|	$8**1	$UI 111	io । <>	Su 20	Ju25
So 30		isps	$S’<	$6 A 5	isus	$411?	$U| s	$u25
$S25	Wil	if Oil	$; 711	is so	i	$'VO|I	$u 10	$<s
VOi	$645	SX55	SSo5	Ss-s	SW	s.w	$ui;S	i<s
if 15	$S4<J	SS5o	Sxou	$ K’l 1	JsXO	i?UI 1	$Wi	WS
SSI"	is IS	i.<4S	is 5 5	$*hN	$s"5	isx?	ifus	$U|1O
$305	Wil	SS4H	issii	f Still	SXTU		5.AMII	$4110
isiin	$Rj5	is is	SR45	Ms	Sht.f	S£7 5	if AS	$4(111
	Ss2v	is JO	SS4U	Wh	SShil	$\7,1	$xxo	$UOO
S7'Jt>	is i s	iff 5	$S?s	$S4C	is Si	$ssf	SR75	$41 Hj
Present	06. 25 06	12 24 06 06. 24 07	12'23.
$785	$8)0	$820	$830
$780	$805	$815	$825
$775	$S0o	$810	$820
$770	$795	$805	$815
$7r,5	$790	$80(i	$810
$760	$785	$795	$805
$755	$780	$790	$8(10
$750	$775	$785	$795
$745	$770	$780	$79(1
$740	$765	$7 75	$785
$735	$76(1	$77o	$780
$730	$755	$765	$775
$725	$750	$761)	$77(1
$720	$745	$755	$765
$715	$740	$750	$760
$710	$735	$745	$755
$705	$730	$74(1	$750
$700	$725	$735	$745
$695	$720	$710	$740
$690	$715	$725	$735
$685	$710	$720	$730
$680	$7i;5	$7|5	$725
$675	$700	$710	$720
$670	$695	$705	$715
$665	$o90	$7uO	$710
1660	$685	$695	$705
$655	$680	$69o	$700
$650	$075	$685	$695
$645	$670	$680	$690
$640	$665	$675	$685
$635	$660	$670	$6811
$630	$655	$665	$675
$625	$650	$660	$670
$620	$r45	$655	$665
$615	$640	$650	$660
$610	$635	$645	$655
$605	$63o	$640	$650
$MiO	$625	$63.5	$645
$595	$620	$630	$640
$590	$615	$625	$615
$585	$610	$620	$630
$58o	$605	$615	$625
$575	$61.16	$6io	$62«
$570	$595	$605	$615
$565	$590	$600	$610
$5hU	$585	$595	$605
$555	$580	$590	$600
$550	$575	$585	$595
$545	$570	$580	$590
$540	$565	$575	$585
$535	$56(i	$57u	$58o
$530	$555	$565	$575
$525	$550	$560	$570
$520	$545	$555	$565
$515	$540	$550	$560
$516	$535	$545	$555
$505	$530	$540	$550
$500	$525	$535	$545
$495	$52o	$530	$540
$49Tj	$515	$525	$535
$485	$510	$5?u	$530
06 22 08 12 21 OS 06 21 09 12.2(i.Q9 05.16 10
$840	$850	$860
$870	$87?
1835	$s45	$855	$885	$875
S83ii $S4n
$850	$880	$875
$825	$835	$845	$855	$875
$820	$830
$840	$850	$875
$815	$825	$835	$845	$850
$8|o	$820
$830	$840	$85o
$8o5 $8oO $795 $790 $785 $780 $775 $770 $ 765 $760 $755 $750 $745 $740 $735 $73o $725 $720 $715 $710 $705 $700 $695 $090 $685 $680 $67 5 $6 70 $665 $660 $655 $650 $645 $640 $635 $6,0 $625 $620 $615 $6|0 $605 $600 $5os $590 $585 $580 $575 $57o $565 $560 $555 $550 $545 $540
$8)5 $810 $805 $800 $795 $790 $785 $780 $775 $770 $7o5 $760 $755 $750 $745 $740 $735 $730 $725 $72o $715 $710 $705 $7(hi $695 $690 $685 $680 $675 $670 $665 $6t4i $655 $650 $M5 $640 $635 $630 $625 $62(1 $615 $610 $605 $6(HI $595 $590 $585 $580 $575 $570 $565 $560 $555 $55<i
$825 $835 $850 $820 $830 $850 $815 $825 $850 $8|0 $s2o $825 $805 $8|5 $825 $8iHl $810 $825 $795 $805 $825 $79o $80o $825 $785 $795 ’SKihi $780 $790 $800 $775 $785 $»X< $770 $780 $.8(1(1 $765 $775 $800 $7h0 $770 $775 $755 $765 $775 $750 $760 $775 $745 $755 $775 $740 $750 $775 $735 $745 $750 $73o $740 $750 $725 $735 $750 $720 $739 $750 $715 $725 $750 $710 $720 $725 $705 $715 $725 $7oO $710 $725 $695 $7o5 $725 $690 $700 $725 $685 $695 $7oo $680 $690 $700 $675 $685 $70o $n70 $680 $700 $665 $675 $7oO $6n0 $670 $675 $655 $665 $675 $650 $606 $675 $645 $655 $675 $640 $650 $675 $635 $645 $650 $630 $640 $65o $625 $635 $650 $620 $630 $&50 $615 $625 $65o $6|o $620 $625 $605 $ol5 $625 $600 $6|0 $625 $595 $605 $625 $590 $6(10 $625 $585 $595 $600 $580 $5W $600 $575 $585 $60o $57o $580 $600 $565 $575 $6(8) $560 $57{i $575
26
Piewni	Oil 25 <	* 1 2 24 on	oh *'4 IF	12.23	1“ 1 Ih Oh	L N > 1 1	< Csbt. ? 1	IN 1 2 'll IN	(15 10 10
$450	$il !=■		$515		$ .»	$545	$ 55 5	$570	$5'5
$4'5	$5 no		$51"	$52ij	i5..o	SS40	J55O	V?|J	
S4'n	$4‘1S			$515	S 525	$ S 3;.	$5511	$.'■711	$5' =
$4ns	$4011		$SiKi	$5|o	152U	$> $11	$?>[.»	$570	$5'5
S4t"ii1	$4X5			$5. .5	$=!=■	15Jo	$sso	$5-n	$5'5
$4 5;.	$4X0		<4wo	■S^I 111	$5 In	$' tn	$5 50		$5';.
$4 5o	$47 7		$4x5	$4'15	S5ln	V3ij	$55"	$57,,	\S7?
$445			$4X11	$4Ui’i	<5 h*	Vlll	i 5511	V'Fn	
$440	$4r,5		$4'5	$4111	S > 10	$5 .ti	$5;.11	15'i J	<>7?
$415	$4 bO		S4TCI	$4411	$5 111	$5 30	S5.= n	$570	$5'5
$430	$455		$4no	$4011	SSlii	<> i	$5-0	$5'0	$5'5
$425	$4^0		^■’o	$•1411	$5ln	V *o	$550	$57[l	$ = 75
S42U	$445	$450	$47i J	$4U0	$5 In	$311	S55U	<>■’11	< S 7 ’.
$41 =	$440	f4:'o	$4 "'ll	$4 UI J	<5 |o	$"311	5.55 n	$c7i]	S: >
1 ir Ie ••									
2 Wage Progressions.
HOURLY ACROSS THE BOARD INCREASES AND WAGE PROGRESSIONS FOR PART TIME CLERKS ON THE PAY ROLL JUNE 24, 200b:
nr. jj ox |22l 11;-:
Hr 2 | 1 IM 12 Ju IN ns |n 10
I. Wage Increases Pre,enl Ilf 25 Ue 12 2 4 । in or. 24 O7 12 23 O'
Pjrr-iimc
L l.;rk	$0	$0 20	$n 15
$ 1 5 P5	Sir		SIC. 2n	$lh.l=.
$ 1 5 c.i ।	$15 1’	$ 1 n 15	$ lb.3o
$15 55	$l$.,J0	$ln III	$ In.2 =
$ 1 5 50	$15 >.5	1 Ir. os	$|h.2ll
5 15 45	$|5 SO				$ 1 h I 5
$15411	$ 1 = 7;	$151=	Sir, m
$J5 35	$ 1 = 'll	$ 1 5 *1	Sin Ui
$15 3(i	$15.05	$15	$ t r> 1 H.i
115 25	$ J5.nl>	$15 ...0	$ 1 =.is
$ 13 20	115 55	115 75	$15 ill
$13 1 =	$15 =n	$ 1 5 71.1	115 55
5 1 5. In	$15 45	SI 5 n5	$ 1 5 .sn
$ 1 5 05	$ 1 5 40	$|i„o	$15 7S
$15 01.1	$1= 3=	s. 15 55	SIS '0
$|4u=.	$ 1 5 3"	$ 1 S.JO	$15 r.5
$14 no	$15 25	$15 45	$ 1 = r.11
$14 155	115 2n	$ 1 5 40	$15 55
$14 XIJ	$15 15	$15 .’5	115 511
$14.'5	$15 In	$ 1 5 30	$ 1 5 45
$14.70	$15 05	$15 2 =	$ 1 5 40
114 r,5	$ I $ no	SlS.Ju	$ 1 $ 35
$14 no	$14 1$	$15.15	$15 3n
$14 55	$14 in	115 I"	$1525
$14 SU	$14 ;5	$15 05	$15 2(1
$14 45.	$14X0	MSiui	$15 15
$14 40	$14 75	$14’45	$15 m
$14.3.5	$14 '0	$ 14 40	$ 1 5 05
$14 3U	$14 r.5	$14 *5	$15 on
$ 14 23	$14.00	$14.$0	$ 1 4 15
$ 1 4 JO	$14 <5	114 7s	$14.10
$14.15	$14 sn	$14 70	114X5
$14.10	S14 45	$14 n =	$14 Xil
$ 1 4 <15	$|4 4"	X 1 4 1.0	SI4 '$
1 1 4 IKI	$14 35	114 55	$14 '11
Si i Jii
Si । I S
$O 20 $i । 15
Sib $5
$1 r. Vi
Sir. 45
Sic. 4U
Sin 35 $lb 3d
Sin 25 $ I r, Ji i Sin 1 = Sin In $ in.I IS Sib Ln> 11 :• «5 SI e Mir $l.= x$ S 1 Xu SI s 7S SI= .7n S15 S3 $15 co $15 5.-$15 5" $15 45 $ I 5.411 sis
f 15 .Ui $15 25 $ I 3 20 Si;' is
Si sj.is $ I 5 I'lfi $14 15 $ I 4 10
$ In 7ll $lr. i.i Sir, nil $|n <5 Sih So S i n 45 $ In 4u $ In.35 Sin.Ill $lb 25 SI r. Ji i Sin 15 Sin 111 SlntiS $ 1 n Ol i £1 f. s5 115*1 115X5 SI 5 Xu $1 5 "5 $15 Oi $15 r.j $15 nri $15 55 $1= so S I =.45 $ 1 5 40 $15 .-5 $ I j >0 $15 2: SI5 2" $15.1 = $l=.|o Ilins
Sin on SI" 05
Sin xo $|n V $ 11. 70 SlbhS S [n mi
Sin 5o $!n4S $lr,4<i $Ip35 $ I n 30 Sin. 25
$ Jr. 15 $|n in $|Mij 1 |r> Hu $ I =■ i= $15 in $15 55 $|s sn $15 7' SIS 7'3 $ I 5 r>5 S15.r.ll $ Js.55 $15 = n $13 4 5 $15 40 $1 5 35 $15 3" Sis 25
$ 1 7 IIII Sin is $lh in Sir. X = $ I r. Xo Six'! S In."'ll Sin r.5 Sin r.n $|n $5 $ I n SO sin 45 S in 40
$ 1 b 30 $lb 25 $ I n 20 Sin I = $ tn.10 $ I n.ijs SJh.UO $15 is $ 15 if । $15 <■ $ 15 xil SIS '5 $15 7u $ I 5 nJ. $ I 5 mi $15 5$ $ I 5 50 SIS 45 $ I 5 40
$17 0'. Sl'os SP.OS sr.us $|7O5 $ I 7 05 $ln 7$ $15 ?s Sin 75 $ lb 75 $|h 75
Sin 5’1 Sir. 5*> $ I r. 50 Sib 50 Sin 5ll Sih 25 Sir. 2 = Sic. 25 Sic. 25 Sic 25 Sir, [HI $ 1 n c« I $|h 1*» $ I b 00 $ I r, OO
SI5 '5 S15 '5
$15 75 $15 75 $15 .so S 1 5 5ii
nS'Cll	Of Z IS	SI Zlt	SM 11	08 III	09 111	Sf 11 i	S? lit	Ob'OIi
Os 711	Sf 711	07 Clt	oo Zlt	S3 1 IS	so I it	OS 1 It	Of'I It	Sb Oil
OS Zll	orcii	SC Zlt	So Zlt	Ob 1 IS	Oi lit	ss in	Sf in	00 Hf
OS 71 s	Sf7lt	of Zlt	orzit	So'lit	Si lit	09 lit	ob III	SO 1 It
SZ'Z It	OS CIS	Sf CIS	Sf Zlt	00 CIS	<ig t ij	S9JIS	St-lit	»llli
Si CIS	SS CIS	Ob Zlt	or zit	So C1 s	sr in	Oi Hi	OSHI	SI I IS
Si Zlt	09 CIS	Sb CIt	SC Zlt	OI 711	06 HI	Si 1 It	SS'HS	OZ III
Si Zlt	S9 Clt	ns Zlt	n£ Zlt	SI Zlt	S6llt	OK lit	llO'l IS	SC lit
St'7 it	OiTIS	SS'ZIt	Sf'Clt	lie Cis	oOZli	SR'lit	S9 | It	nf'llt
iiO’lt If	Si 711	09 Zlt	ntilS	SZ CIS	SO CIS	Iks'I IS	Oi lit	Sf'llt
not n	Os CIS	SO Zlt	Sb CIS	Of CIS	01 VII	St.' 111	Si lit	Of 111
OO'l It	Sr CIS	Oi Zlt	OS CIS	Sf Zlt	si Clt	(Mi Zlt	08 I If	Sf I If
no fit	ilft-ZIS	Si Zlt	SS Clt	Ilf Zlt	OZ Zlt	sozii	S3 III	OS 1 It
ULI f 11	So'7It	OS Zlt	U°'7 11	sfCIl	see It	Ul'Zli	06 111	SS lit
svf is	IK) f 1 S	S8 CIS	S9 7 It	OS zu	Of Zll	S1 Z 11	Sb Hi	09' I 1 i
SZ fit	Si) fit	Ob CIS	Oi 7lt	SS CIS	Sf fit	oz zii	00 Zlt	S9 1 11
Si t II	01 fit	Sb Zlt	Si Clt	OOZIt	Of Zlt	SZ Clt	SOZII	Oi Ilf
SC fit	si-fit	no t It	08 Zlt	SOZlt	Sf Zlt	Of Clt	Ul'Zli	Si Ilf
S’Z'flt	07TH	s’O £ 15	SS'ZIt	Oi’Zli	OS Zlt	Sf'Zii	SI VII	OS' 1 It
nS'f It	SC CIS	01 fit	i >6'711	Si Clt	SST It	Of 711	07 Zll	ISMS
OS £ 1I	Of iIS	SI fIS	Sb 711	OR Zlt	09 711	Sf 'It	SC Clt	Ob'I If
OS t IS	Sf f 1f	OZ f IS	Chi fit	S3 Zlt	S9 Zlt	OS Zlt	lif e it	S6 Hf
OS fit	Ob fit	SZf IS	SO'flt	06 7 If	Oi'ZIt	SS Zlt	str is	OuZIt
OS fit	s'fflt	Of fit	n rf it	SbZIS	si Zlt	119'711	Ob Zll	SO Zll
Si fit	Iis’f It	Sf £11	SI fIt	ix) f H	OR Clt	S9'7 11	Sb Cli	nrzit
Si'fU	SS £ It	Ob f 1S	oz fIS	SO Mi	SR'ZIt	Oi 711	nS'Clt	SI Zll
Si fit	09 f 11	Sf f It	S7 Mi	01 Ml	OoZli	Si Clt	SS CI f	UZ'ZIt
Si fit	Su f It	OS fit	uf tit	sif it	Sb Zlt	OR Clt	0OZ1I	SZ Zlt
Si'fit	OifIS	SS'f 11	iff It	Off It	IHlf It	SRC IS	SOZII	Of 7It
HOUS	Si Ml	IlOf it	orflt	SC'f It	SO'fll	06 Zlt	Oi Zlt	S£ Clt
nom	08 £ 11	s’Of it	sb CIS	of f 11	II If 1J	Sb Zll	Si, CIS	ObCli
00 Mt	SS VIS	Oi f IS	OS f IS	Sf ill	SI £ 11	00 MI	08'Zlt	Sf Zlt
00 Mt	Ob'f J S	Si lit	SS fit	Of f 11	07 fit	Sil fit	S8 CIS	OS'Zlf
On'Mt	Sbflt	Ii8f It	Il9 f It	Sbflt	se t it	III fit	Ilb'ZIt	SS Zlt
SZbli	OObli	ssf i i	i'AU	OS f 1S	lift It	si'fis	Sb'Zlf	09 Zlt
S’Z’blt	sons	Oo MI	iii’f it	sS fit	Si’flt	net'll	00 Mi	SR'ZIt
SZ Mt	oins	Sbflt	Si lit	IN Ml	ot- £ 11	SC fit	SO M t	UL'Clt
SC Mi	SI tit	no Mt	OR fit	S‘9 fit	sf MI	Of fit	Ol'ilt	Si'CIS
SZ Mt	nZ'blt	sobit	SRflt	Oi f 11	OS £ It	Sf'f It	S If 11	OS'Zlt
nSblt	sent	orbit	no t It	Si fit	SS'f IS	Ilf fit	IIC'MI	S8 Zlt
Ofblt	lift-is	si bit	Sb’f 11	ns fit	O9'f I i	Sf fit	<7 Mi	Ub'Zli
OS Mt	Sf'bll	oz bis	00 b 1 f	S3 M1	S9 MI	nS'f If	Of flt	So'ZIt
OS Mt	Of MS	sc Mt	SOflt	06 f 11	Oi £ 11	SS £ It	Si'fit	iKl'f 11
OS Mt	sms	Of bit	orbit	Sbflt	Si til	09 fit	Off 11	SOflt
Si'blt	nS'blt	si'bll	sint	00 fit	OS f it	So'flt	Sf f IS	01 lit
S'L'blf	ssnt	Of bit	iifbli	SOflt	s’Rfit	lli'fll	OS f II	SI fit
Si Mt	oons	Sb Ml	SZ Mt	oins	Ob ill	Si'MJ	SS fli	nZ'flt
Si Mt	sms	OS MS	Of Mt	SI fit	S6 Mi	OR f 11	09 fit	SZ'f If
Si Mi	Hi tit	SS fit	Sf fit	ozfit	00 Mi	S3 fit	S9'f It	Of f 11
On Sit	sent	oa bit	Off It	SZbli	SO Mi	Ob'f 11	iii'f It	Sf f 11
uO'S 1t	nS'blt	so fit	sffii	Offli	01 Mi	Sbflt	Si fit	Ob'f It
00 sit	sms	OiMt	OS MS	sent	si bit	nO'f If	OR MI	Sb'Mt
00 s 11	Ob MS	Si tit	SS bit	Offli	07 bit	SO'flt	SR fit	iiSflt
00 s’ 1S	Sb MS	OS fit	omt	Sf Mt	SZ bit	01 fll	O6'f It	SS'f 11
sz sit	IM IS IS	SR fit	S'jflt	OS fit	Of Mi	SI Mt	SO'flt	09 f 11
SZ Sit	s(fs is	lib fit	oi'bll	SSbil	S£ bit	OC'flt	OOMI	S9 f If
SC S IS	II Is 14	Sb tIS	Si M t	IMf 11	Ob bit	SC'bll	SO MI	Ui'f It
SCSI!	SI SIS	on sit	OR fit	39 bl $	Srfll	Of IMS	01 bit	Si'fit
SC Sit	oz sit	Sn SIS	SS Mi	Oi fit	OS fl I	Sf bit	SI Mt	U8'f It
Os Sit	SCSI!	nrsis	Ob fit	Si'blt	SSMt	Ob bit	07'bli	S3'I If
OS Sit	Hf 'Sit	srsu	S6 bit	uRblt	09 fit	Sb'Mt	sz bit	Of. Mt
OS sit	St'S it	nC Sit	OOS 1 i	S8fll	so fit	nS'blt	uf tit	Sbflt
01 01 SO SOOC.'C 1 bO 17 9n !			RO Iz CT 5	surrw	iO<iC7I i	TM-t Vi r5CrFZr	7TT 90. 3Z.'9n	nrasay
6U
<A bj	Si b>	[11 tl j	>x '■'$	IL SS	I's s$	$t $s	si si	UK £$
ii< b\	by	id < >	Ob SS	Su S$	l < !- x	ur sf	nr xy	sx u$
tl; t-S	III n$	S 1 r.$	?r. SS	OS	riu e%	srstS	?C x$	<k- ^y
r»> b$	si'oi	h7p$	IHl p$		?lJ	ns'sS	। if s$	Sb j.y
bS	nt p$	SC nS	Sil K$	no :•?$	11. K$	is SS	sf Hi	ml 5S
1 Ij bS	<r r,$	Of bS	nJ pS	b’p’SS	s.sS	00 ss	lit :■:$	su '$
i. oS	i ly'by	if by	1 r.$	<JH bS	[»-:	l-'j 3S	$r S:y	m st
Si r.i	ss'pS	nt-1.$	IlC hS	yi b$	sS s$	tii>S	oc-si	5 1 'Rs
< by	1 N <1$	srm	■,7 pS	111 r.$	m? xy	li-d'S	s'y sS	07'
■„ h$	h'Q	OS P$	<>l 0$	s I V.S	Sb yy	ni ■-:$	1,0 Si	57 s$
'■L nt	Hi o$	is by	if h$	07 r-S	nil oS	■is :■:$	$ox$	Of s$
1 X > u I s	$. r'S	IN t,S	or h$	57 r.S	.•11 p$	iju ■.-:$	lie's!	if s$
no u 14	t ix <y%	Su r.S	?r	1 Ji b$	m td	>r. s$	SuS$	or :-:y
Uo tn$	sX 0$	<IC tiS	us oS	si r.s	b 1 h$	on oS	OX Si	sfx$
nil’ll is	00 0$	si. m	is <•■$	Htr.S	07 t,$	bOOf	St si	ns'sS
I II 1 1 1 1 i	it- bS	IK hS	G'j bS	p$	sr'r.s	111 by	IIOXS	is si
<7 UIS	Illi ms	SSf.S	y’-J n<	os nS	<il oS	sfr.S	so s$	llu Si
sc mi	S1 mis	00 r.S	HipS	-< h$	<1 td	HC	oh 0$	$u X$
57 nl $	id ids	Sh nS	St p$	IN b$	nt- 0$	.-7>S	$0 0$	tL
srms	Si uIs	IKCnlS	1 >?! b$	S'j 5%	st t.y	1 n’ 0 J	id oi	Si'sS
	tic ms	ill til $	> n$	llu Of	ny 7,$	if 0$	1 os	। ix si
'jb UIS	■.-; ms	"IS	>U, r.$	su m	si r,s	nr r.$	t>7 0$	Sy
11; h;-,	iji nIS	.-1 ms	sn'r-S	ih b<	ih r,$	bhcS	57 r.i	HO S$
II? 1.11 $	s’t'uli	i.'C nIS	is) n|$	ssrO	b,J bS	0$ 0$	1 < o$	$0 it
[IS III S	nr m$	s7 til $	.-i] til s	im p$	IL b>	bi	if oS	OH U$
ns iilS	;r ms	[It l»l\	'll 01 $	.m r.$	Su r.s	HU n$	nr o$	ior.i
ms	m ms	sildS	i i ms	111 j’ti 1$	OS Of	SU7,$	st'oS	hi os
s. ms	is ills	ot ms	07 id$	‘jlJ 01 $	SS O$	lie H'S	Os r.i	bl K$
ii ms	HU'[lf$	it- ms	< ms	Hl <01$	ll[> by	n rd	is r.i	IlC K$
?i. ms	Su,,is	n$ m$	nt m$	iirns	so m	0? bS	OU r.i	bC K$
?.ms	fL ms	>1- Ills	sfm$	11c ms	IHl ui$	$■: bS	by	01 Ki
IM J 1 1<	Su ms	iiuiilS	or ids	sc ms	$0 iil$	rib ni	Ui pS	st t.y
till 1 IS	IK Ills	o'ms	sr ms	tic tn $	m ms	So ot	Su 0$	iih'r.S
। HI IIS	sums	u; illy	Us nIS	a ms	sims	111 > m f	by	stv.S
Hl IIS	'.ifrnis	Su tl I $	si'iili	ot U1S	<ic m $	L-U 0 I $	?-J by	tib'oS
iM> 1 [ J	s-.oli	UK 1J1 S	t |u 111 $	■;r ms	<7 ms	'.11 lj 1 $	ur- t.y	5s of
<c i is	IM I IS	.-x m$	sums	11$ fj [ s	ut ms	5 1 OlS	50 0$	
sC'IIS	Sil 1 1 s	UP I1IS	Ou id$	■;? ms	sems	07 U1S	1K.1 ms	bUt.$
sC IIS	urns	■mins	£l h 1 $		tifm$	57 ms	coms	Hi 0$
$7 i is	■■■i ns	niri ।$	1 > ■-. Ills	in ms	/hois	urmi	n in r$	iu pS
$C 1 IS	uc ns	$n 1 is	"IS	II. His	o? ms	Sl 01$	s rm $	l IX <h$
II? 1 1 y	SC 1 IS	m ns	Cm 01 $	Su mt	ms	। >t m $	oC ol s	yfc b$
nf 1 IS	lit' 1 Is	$1 1 IS	sr, ill $	iK r>| <	ll'l Illi	sr ms	sc m$	(Jb h$
os 11$	sens	lie 11$	UH I >	m$	S'lllIS	0$ on	m ms	‘■b "S
IIS 11$	nr ns	<11$	si' II $	Or. ms	rr o|<	mt	■ i ms	III 1 l.lJ $
Ub 1 IS	-t IIS	nt ns	ri 1 1 1 $	st. ids	.-u ms	tiu-iils	nr ms	jims
Si. 1 IS	ik ns	rf ns	-I IIS	IM? 1 IS	us nIS	y'J 01 y	St OlS	m m$
Si. 1 IS	<; i is	ur ns	"7 ns	-;n 11$	ms	Ou ms	Os 1H S	<1 m$
IIS	iiu n$	sr 11 >	.< l IS	III 1 is	'lb'[j I y	se ms	m ms	nr uis
JL 1 IS	$u 1 is	r»? l i $	Hl 1 IS	Id 1 IS	it, m $	H? Ll [ >	no id f	-701$
Su IIS	m ns	SCI 1$	st Ils	ii7 1 IS	0'1 11$	Sill I S	sj'm$	of ms
w: t s	Su 1 1 s	'.in 1 1 S	tn- ns	■;c 1 is	■;< ms	[.ib <11 y	r». ’ills.	it ms
i II j 7 1 $	l]\ 11$	iu 11$	st- ns	'Ji 11 $	m ns	io Uis	$u ms	nr m$
[iii r i s	!A 1 IS	IL IIS	us 1 H	M 11$	$i ns	no ns	Hi nl$	st ms
OU 71 $	rib 1 ly	A 1 1$	Sy 1 1 >	Oh 11S	11C 1 1$	b'u 11 s	$s ms	0$ 111 s
hi ; i s	• r. 11$	r>S IIS	tin 1 1$	'.- P 11 s	?7 11S	m n $	no 01 $	ssms
$7 CIS	OU CIS	<:■: 11$	m US	Us 1 IS	m 1 it	■;i ns	ir,m$	in uiy
SC CIS	SO C 1 s	nr. 1 IS	Oi. 1 1 S	Sid IS	ii 1 is	07 ns	ihi ns	$U t.i 1 $
SCT1 $	m CIS	■m 11$	.-.111	।iu ns	or 11$	$7 1 IS	so 1 IS	Ou OlS
SC CIS	5171$	(MJ C I $	IK 1 IS	?n 11 $	sh US	ih j fy	m'i 1$	iu ms
SC CIS	tiC CIS	jiTl$	1 IS	I.1U 11$	os IIS	sills	-ins	us ms
ns CIS	sC CIS	m 7is	rib | ly	s. 1 IS	s? 1 IS	Oh 11 $	07 11 s	isms
1 L*[ l-ll	pH hC 71	tai TC ,;w	xu 1 l r 1	xi > C” ,Ji *	_ti f7 71	zu k 'jn IJ<» r? ri	Oll bL 0'1	J Aid
Present	Ob. 25 06	1 2.24HO 24 <)7		12'2	22 UiEllAih 12.21'vs		00.21.09 12 20 09 U5 to lo		
$7 75	$8.(rr		$8 30	$8 45	$Sb5	$8.80	$9 [((	$9 25	$4 SO
5.7.711	$8 u5		$8 25	$8 4(1	$8 r>0	$8 75	$4 1"	$9 25	$9 5<l
$7r>5	$8 00		$S.2u	$8 55	$8M)	$8 75	$9 |(l	$9.25	$9 50
St nil	$7 95		$8. 15	$8 30	$8.(41	$8 75	$m 10	$9.25	$9 50
$7 55	$7 90		$8 10	$8.25	$8,011	$8 75	$9,111	$9.25	$9 50
$7 511	$7 85		$8 10	$8 25	$8 t.11	$8 75	$9,111	$9 25	$9 35
57.45	$7 SO		$S IU	$8 25	$8 00	$8 75	$9 |(>	$9 25	$9 35
S 7.4i >	$7 75		$8. 1H	$8 25	$8.00	$8 75	$9. Io	$9.25	$9 35
$7 35	$7 70	$7.75	$8.! 0	$8 25	$8.hll	$8 75	$9. Ill	$Q.25	$9 35
$7 30	$7 o5	$7.75	$S 10	$8 25	$8,011	$8 75	$9,111	$9 25	$9 35
$7.25	$7 hll	$7.75	$S 10	$8 25	$8 bO	$8 75	$9. [O	$9 25	$9 35
$7.2ll	$7 55	$7.75	$S 10	$8 25	58 00	$8 75	$0 jr>	$9 25	$9 35
$7 15	$7 5(1	$7 75	$s.m	$8 25	$8 0O	$8.75	$9 10	$9.25	$9 35
$7 |Q	$7.45	$7 75	$s m	SS.25	$8 r.lj	$8.75	$9 10	$9.25	$9.35
$7 IIS	$7411	$7 75	$8 IG	$8 25	$8.till	$8 75	$9 111	$9.25	$9 35
	$?..K	$7 75	$8 1'1	$8 25	M r.U	$8.75	$9 10	$4.25	$9 35
Or Les<
2.	Wage Progressions
WEEKLY WAGE PROGRESSIONS FOR FULL TIME CLERKS HIRED ON OR AFTER JUNE 25. 2006
After 30 days.....$415.00 And will receive an increase of an additional
twenty't$20) dollars per week in accordance with the following schedule as described in article 36.18 and 36.19 for semi-annual wage increases.
36.13	: Full time clerks hired or concerted on or after June 25, 2006. shall not receive the general across-the-board wage increases. However, an employee who reaches the top of the progression scale during the term of the Agreement as a result of having been hired above the minimum or reclassified from part time to full time, shall be eligible to receive the across-the-board increases on June 24. 2007, December 23. 2007, June 22. 2008, December 21. 2008. June 21. 2009 and December 20. 2009 if applicable, provided that in no event shall such employee exceed the top clerk's rate of pay.
36.14	: All new full time clerks, hired or converted at or above the minimum rate for after thirty (301 days as described above shall in any event receive a minimum wage increase of ten ($10.00) dollars after thirty (30) days employment and thereafter shall receive an additional increase of twenty ($20) dollars per week in accordance with the schedule for semi-annual wage increase in accordance with the following schedule as described in article 36.18 and 36.19.
36.15	: All newly hired full time employees will receive credit of a minimum of one {11 year's service for w-ages only if w ithin the preceding twelve (12) months the prospective employees have worked in covered employment under Local 1500 and have so noted on the application at the time of their employment.
HOURLY WAGE PROGRESSIONS FOR PART-TIME CLERKS HIRED ON OR AFTER JUNE 25, 2006
June 25, 2006 January 1, 2007
After 30 Days $7.00 per hour $7.50 per hour
and will receive an additional increase of twenty-five (.$25) cents per hour in accordance with the following schedule as described in article 36.18 and 36.19 for semi-annual wage increases.
30
3b. I b: Part time clerks hired or converted on or after June 25, 200b shall run receive the general across-the-board wage increase. However an employee who reaches the top of the progression scale during the term of the agreement as a result of having been hired above the minimum or reclassified from full time to pan time, shall be eligible to receive the across-the-board increase on June 24. 2<»07 December 23, 2007, June 22. 2008. December 21. 2U0S. June 21, 21)00, December 20. 2UIN. if applicable, provided that tn no event shall such employee exceed the tup clerk's rate of pay.
3b. 1 7- All new part time clerks hired at or above the minimum rate tor after thirty (30) days as described above shall in any event receive a minimum wage increase of twenty-five (.250 cents after thirty (3ti) days employment and thereafter shall receive an additional increase of twenty-five (.25e) cents per hour in accordance vv ith the schedule for semi-annual wage increases in accordance with the following schedule as described in article 3o IS and 3b. 1Q.
3fi. IS: Employees hired or converted on or after June 25. 200b shall receive their increases on a semi-annual hasis in accordance with the following schedule
All employees hired in April, May. June, July, August and September shall receive their increases in December.
All employees hired in October. November. December, January. February and March shall receive their increases in June
3b.P: Said employees, on the appropriate date in June or appropriate date in December must be at the rate equal to one wage step higher than the rate at which they were hired. On each succeeding June and December, said employees shall advance to the next wage step until thev reach the applicable maximum.
3b.20: In the event of an increase in State or Federal Minimum Wage Requirements, the thirty <3D> day rate for newly hired pan time employees shall be a minimum of twenty-five i ,25c) per hour above the new Federal or State Minimum Wage
Employees on progression, last progression raise shall be given on 12 20 00
HOURLY WAGE PROGRESSION FOR PART TIME COURTESY CLERKS IN STORES WITH SALES VOLUME OF $300,000.00 PER WEEK OR MORE EFFECTIVE
After 30 Days After b Months
After 12 Months
After 18 Months
June 25, 20<)b $7.00 per hour $7 15 per hour $7.30 per hour $7.45 per hour
January I, 2007 $7.40 per hour $7.55 per hour $7.70 per hour $7 S5 per hour
After reaching the top ot the Progression Seales Courtesy Clerks hired on or aher 6 25 Ob shall receive an increase of .15c per hour in accordance with the following schedule as described m article 3b.IW Courtesy clerks that worked over thirty (30) regular hours in the pay period shall receive a premium of one 111 dollar per hour added to their straight time hourly rate of pay for all regular hours worked not to exceed $o 00 per hour.
Duties of Courtesy Clerk - Will be limited to bagging, collecting shopping carts, cleaning around check stands, sweeping, replenishing bags, stocking magazines, candy and soda by check stands, displays hy check stands and putting away overstock and throw backs.
31
ARTICLE 37	- SAVINGS
37.01: The parties hereto agree that should any article or subdivision of this Agreement be or become unlawful, invalid, ineffective or unenforceable by virtue of any acts, law or decisions of any established governmental agency or court, then any such article or subdivision shall not affect the validity and enforceability of any other article or subdivision thereof, and the remainder of this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect for its duration.
ARTICLE 38	- SUCCESSORS AND ASSIGNS
38.0	1: This Agreement shall bind and insure to the benefit of the Employer, its successors and/or assigns, and to the Union, its successors and/or assigns, whether in this or any other locality.
38.0	2: Any and all other benefits heretofore previously enjoyed by the employees shall remain in full force and effect for the duration of this Agreement, unless otherwise modified by negotiations.
ARTICLE 39	- TERM OF AGREEMENT
39.01: This Agreement shall be effective as of June 25, 2006 and shall continue in full force and effect until midnight, the 26th day of June, 2010, and shall be automatically renewed from year to year thereafter, unless at least sixty (601 days prior to the 26th day of June, 2010 or any annual date of expiration thereafter, written notice by registered mail is given by either party, to the other of a desire to amend or terminate this Agreement.
IN WITNESS THEREOF, they have affixed and signed signatures as duly authorized and legal representative of the Employer and the Union.
KING KULLEN
GROCERY CO.. INC.
UFCW UNION, LOCAL 1500CLC
o
Bram Cullen. President and Chief Operating Officer
Bv?2a - Go"'.
Bruce W. Both, President
32
ABC - Active Ballot Club
needs of working men and women.
ABC assists their campaigns and keeps them informed on the issues as organized labor sees them.
Today, there is a great need for labor to have a voice in political action. Help make sure our Union has that voice by joining ABC now.
Due to the many critical issues before Congress; state, city and local governments this year; it is important that we have sufficient funds to support our friends and defeat those candidates who do not support the working man and woman. We encourage all members to participate in the Active Ballot Club as a means of protecting our interests in the various governmental bodies and in the laws they pass that may affect our livelihood.
If you haven't already signed up. see your Union Representative or Service Representative. Sign up today!
Members employed by companies where there is no check-off will be able to purchase their ABC Membership Cards from their Union Representatives or Shop Stewards in the normal manner.
Contributions of gifts to the
UFCW Active Ballot Club are not deductible as charitable contributions for federal tax purposes.
Be Informed!!!
www.UFCWI500.org
u
a VOICE for working America
LOCAL 1500
THE WEINGARTEN DECISION: KNOW YOUR RIGHTS!
In a court case known as N.L.R.B. Vs. Weingarten, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled you have the right to have your Union Representative present when you are interviewed by your employer, if you reasonably believe the interview may lead to disciplinary action.
YOUR RIGHTS UNDER WEINGARTEN ARE:
1.	You have the right to request the presence of a Union Representative or Shop Steward during any investigatory interview you reasonably believe might result in disciplinary action.
2.	You have the right not to be interviewed until your Union Representative or Shop Steward is present.
3.	Your Union Representative or Shop Steward may assist you during the interview to organize and explain your facts.
REMEMBER WEINGARTEN BEFORE YOU GIVE UP YOUR RIGHTS!
Fraternally, Bruce W. Both, President
MEMBERS CAN CALL LOCAL 1500 REGARDING ANY MATTER 24 HOURS A DAY
800-522-0456