08-12-14;09:20AM;
; 915-771-9018
1 / 31
C’S-CS- 1	12: 1 ■’=M:
08-12-14:09:20AM;
;915-771-9018
#	2/31
oe-Cc-1 -;i2: ii=M:
Table of Contents
Cover Page	Page I
Table of Contents	Page 2 & 3
Preamble	Page 4
Article 1: Union Recognition	Page 5
Article 2: Union Security	Page 6
Article3: Check-Off Authorization	Page 6
Article 4: Rights of Management	Page?
Article 5: Contract Employees	Page 9
Article 6: No Strike - No Lockout	Page 10
Article?: Seniority	Page 10
Article 8: Lay-Off and Recall Process	Page 11
Article 9: Introductory and Temporary Employees	Page 11
Article 10: Employment Vacancies for Bargaining Union EE	Page 12
Article 11: Wages, Benefits, and Health and Welfare	Page 13
Article 12: Hours of Work and Overtime	Page 13
Article 13: Vacation	Page 14
Article 14: Grievance and Arbitration Procedure	Page 15-18
Article 15: Health and Safety	Page 18
Article 16: Leave of Absence	Page 19
Article 17: Visitation Rights	Page 20
Article 18: Captions and Terms	Page 20
CBA between Training, Rehabilitation & Development Institute Inc. and International Union of Operatinj^p^fyeers	AFL-CI0 (Local 351) Effective July 3111 2014 thru Aug 31 2017
:915-771-9018
#	3/31
08-12-14:09:2OAM:
08-C-s- 14; 12:1' =’-1;
31
Article 19: Savings Clause	Page 20
Article 20: Bulletin Boards	Page 20
Article 21: No Discrimination	Page 21
Article 22: ShopSteward	Page 21
Article 23: Uniforms	Page 22
Article 24: Neutrality	Page 22
Article 25: Physical Examinations	Page 22
Article 26: Discharge or Suspension	Page 23-25
Article 27: Duration and Signatures	Page 26
Article 28: Addresses of Employer and Union	Page 27
Schedule “A”	Page 28-31
Wages
Shift Differential
Longevity Incentive
Health and Welfare Contribution
Pension
Jury Duty
Holidays
Vacation
Call-in Pay Sick Leave Funeral Leave
•? I CBA between Training, Rehabilitation & Development Institute Inc. and International Union of I OperatingJEpgfneers Loo&y361 AFL-CIO (Local 351) Effective July 3 Is1 2014 thru Aug 31 2017
7
08-12-14;09:2OAM;
;915-771-9018
#	4
31
»	4	31
08	1 - ; 1 ' : 1 ‘ P '•/.;
PREAMBLE
THIS COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT (the “CBA”) is entered into effective as of tliis 31s1 day of July 2014, by and between Training, Rehabilitation & Development Institute, Inc., (TRDI) with its principal office at 425 Soledad Street, Suite 800, San Antonio, TX 78205 (hereinafter referred to as the "Employer”) and the International Union of Operating Engineers, Local 351, AFL-CIO, with its principal office at 6967 Commerce, El Paso, TX 79915 (hereinafter referred to as the "Union”.)
This written CBA represents the entire agreement between the parties. Any oral agreements are incorporated herein; and this Agreement can only be amended in writing. Accordingly, no explicit provision herein may be contradicted by evidence of any alleged prior, contemporaneous, or subsequent oral agreements of the parties.
4 | CBA between Training, Rehabilitation & Development Institute Inc. and International Union of ** 1 Operatii^&neers Lopa/spl AFL-CIO (Local 351) Effective July 314 s' 2014 thru Aug 31 2017
I Initials:	(/If
08-12-14:09:20AM;
;915-771-9018
#	5/31
; ?1	1	1 8
31
ARTICLE I; UNION RECOGNITION
Section I: The Employer recognizes the Union as the sole and exclusive bargaining agent in all matters concerning wages, hours of work and working conditions for all janitorial/custodial workers, including grounds maintenance workers, employed by TRDI and who are performing work under contract &GS-07P-09-UK-C-012! with the General Sendees Administration (GSA) Custodial Contract (the “GSA Contract”), excluding all office clerical employees, temporary employees, guards, managers, supervisors and crew leaders and professional employees as defined in die National Labor Relations Act, as amended.
Whenever the words “employee” or “employees” are used in this CBA, they designate only such employees as are covered by this CBA. Whenever in this CBA employees or jobs are referred to in tiie male gender, it will be recognized as referring to both male and female employees.
Section 2:	For purposes of this CBA, employees who:
(a)	Were referred by or continue to receive on-going support and services from a State or Federal Agency - or pursuant to a State or Federal program - for the severely handicapped or disabled;
(b)	Are employed under special certificates which have been issued by the United States Wage and Hour Administrator;
(c)	Are at the job site primarily for rehabilitative proposes;
(d)	Lack the mental capacity to understand traditional work instructions without special assistance from a certified rehabilitation trainer (the Employer will provide the Union documentation of any such condition including certification from a Health Care Professional upon receipt of “Authorization for Release of Information” from employee and the Union will maintain the privacy of such information as required by the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) Privacy Rule; and
(e)	Are directly supervised on a day-to-day basis by a rehabilitation trainer
will be considered “clients” and may choose to be excluded from the terms “employee” and “employees” as used herein and, thereby, from coverage under this CBA, provided, however, that any such choice by a “client” to be excluded from the bargaining unit must be voluntary and in writing, executed by the “client” or, where applicable, by a parent or duly appointed guardian.
Section 3:	Any employee who is excluded from coverage under this CBA as a “client” as set forth in Section 2, will pay as his or her Union dues a fee equal to 75 percent of the applicable Union dues for al) other employees covered under this CBA. These fees, which are for the representational costs incurred by the Union to represent those employees who are excluded as
Rehabilitation & Development InstituteInc? andInternational Union of
“ | Operating^Engfoeers Loca&35 I AFL-CIO (Local 351) Effective July 31M 2014 thru Aug 31 2017
i Initials:	/IlL
08-12—14:09:20AM;
;915-771-9018
#	8/31
; 91 ei >8	= e 31
“clients” under the terms of Section 2, will be deducted from the employees’ wages pursuant to Article 3 below.
ARTICLE 2: UNION SECURITY
Section 1: All employees covered under this CBA as defined in Article 1, will as a condition of their continued employment, and to die extent pennitted by applicable law, become members of the Union not later than the ninety-first (91st) day following the date of employment or the effective date of this CBA whichever is later, and will thereafter, remain members in good standing in accordance with Section 8 (a) (3) of the Labor-Management Relations Act, 1947, and any amendments or additions thereto. The Union will have sole responsibility for the enrollment of the employee and the Employer will not have responsibility of recognition of the employee as a union member until the Employer has received a signed enrollment card from die Union. The Employer will provide the Union with a list of hires and rehires, if any, each month. Said report will list employees hired the previous month. No report will be issued for months in which there are no hires or rehires.
Section 2: When work covered by this CBA is performed on property of die United States Government that is established and designated by federal and state law as a federal enclave for purposes of the National Labor Relations Act (as to which the provisions of any state’s “right-to-work” laws are inapplicable), the foregoing Article 2: Union Security provision will apply for the duration of such work. If work covered by this CBA is performed on property that is not clearly designated a federal enclave, then state right-to-work laws must be observed by the parties.
ARTICLES: CHECK-OFF AUTHORIZATION
Section 1:	A signed “Check-Off Authorization to Deduct Union Fees” from die employee involved must be received by the Employer no later than thirty (30) days from the date the Union enrolls the employees. Upon receipt of the employees’ authorization cards, die Employer will deduct from the employee’s pay (a) initiation fees; and (b) uniform union monthly dues as certified by the Union. The Union will acknowledge receipt of the employees’ remittance dues in writing upon receipt of payment to the Union. The Employer will not have any responsibility for die deduction of any kind of fees from die employee if a signed “Check-Off Authorization to Deduct Union Fees” is not received nor will the Employer have any responsibility to deduct dues for a period of more than thirty (30) days prior to the receipt of a copy of the Check-Off Audiorization. The Union will provide the Employer copies of all Check-Off Authorization cards upon the effective date of this CBA.
Section 2:	The Union further agrees to hold and save the Employer harmless of any and all legal actions arising from tiiese “Check-Off Audiorization to Deduct Union Fees” and Union Security Clause that may be instituted by anyone involved therein before a court, die National Labor Relations Board, or any other body asserting or having jurisdiction, against die Employer and further agrees to reimburse the Employer for any financial payment adjudged by a court, the
lining, Rehabilitation & Development Institute Inc. and International Union of ers Lopflui)51 AFL-CIO (Local 351) Effective July 31** 2014 thru Aug31 2017
I CBA between
:915-771-9018
#	7/ 31
08-12-14:09:20AM;
oe-C-e- t - ; 1 2 : i - CM:
;91=---1-=O18
National Labor Relations Board, or any other body asserting or having jurisdiction, against the Employer as well as reasonable costs and expenses involved in defense of any such action as set forth in this paragraph. This hold harmless clause will apply whether or not the Employer has received copies of the Check-Off cards.
Section 3:	Should a change in the amount of dues be made by the Union during the term of this CBA, the Union will provide written notice of such change to the Employer at least thirty (30) days prior to the effective date of the change.
ARTICLE 4:	RIGHTS OF MANAGEMENT
Section 1: Except as specifically limited by the express language of this CBA, die Employer has and retains exclusively to itself, all rights in the exercise of the functions of Management, including, but not limited to, the following rights: (a) manage and operate its business facilities; (b) direct its employees; (c) direct, plan, and control all operations; (d) establish and/or change existing methods, productivity standards, materials, equipment, facilities, accounting methods and hours of work to determine what products will be handled or distributed and sendee or work performed at its facilities by employees covered under this CBA and/or where they will otherwise be handled or sendees and/or work performed; (e) utilize suppliers and subcontractors; (f) test, select and hire employees and assign them to work as needed; (g) establish hours of work (It) transfer, promote and/or demote employees; (i) suspend, discipline and/or discharge employees for cause; (j) layoff and/or recall employees; and (k) establish and enforce rules and/or regulations related to the operation of any and/or all government and Employer facilities and /or employee conduct.
Section 2: The Employer is a non-profit agency that participates in the ABILITYONE Program (formerly referred to as the Javits-Wagner-O’Day Act, or JWOD and hereinafter referred to as “AbilityOne”), to combine forces and employ individuals with significant disabilities. The AbilityOne Program creates jobs and training opportunities for people who are blind or have other significant disabilities, as set forth in the ’ Committee Staff Agency Review Manual dated June 29,2007.
ABILITYONE PROGRAM ELIGIBILITY STATUS: Among the requirements for the Employer to participate in the AbilityOne Program, is that TRDI is responsible for conducting a preliminary Pre-Admission Applicant Evaluation2 in order to determine if an applicant meets the Committee’s definition of blind or severely disabled and not competitively employable3.
1	Code of Federal Regulations Title 41 Chapter 51 - Committee for Purchase from People Who Are Blind or
Severely Disabled
2	Committee Staff Nonprofit Agency Review Manual dated June 29,2007 § 3.14 sets forth Initial Assessment f Code of Federal Regulations Title 41 § 51 -1.3 states def, of jB/tW....(2) states def. Severely Disabled
CBA between Training, Rehabilitation & Development Institute Inc. and International Union of Operatinen^meers Loc	™	oni/i	->nr
1 AFL-CIO (Local 351) Effective July 31 “ 2014 thru Aug 31 2017
08-12-14:09:20AM;
;915-771-9018
8/ 31
By virtue of the Employer’s status as a federal contractor under the AbilityOne Program (formerly referred to as the Javits-Wagner-O’Day Act, or JWOD and hereinafter referred to as die AbilityOne Program, or “AbilityOne”), the Employer and the Union recognize that the Employer’s mission is to employ, train and rehabilitate individuals with severe disabilities. Furthermore the Union recognizes that federal law requires drat seventy-five (75) percent of the direct labor hours assigned to employees of the Employer must be assigned to AbilityOne Program eligible disabled employees. In connection with this federal requirement, employees are required to obtain an initial and, thereafter, annual medical examination/assessment at employees’ own expense to determine the employee’s eligibility status for purposes of the AbilityOne Program. Employees will further be required to sign a release autliorization which pennits the Employer and/or a qualified third party healthcare consultant to review medical or healthcare information related to die employee. The Employer will maintain medical and healdicare information regarding an employee confidential in accordance with the Health Insurance Profitability and Accountability Act (H1PAA).
Section 3: From time to time, the Employer may be required to discuss or release employee medical or healthcare information to the Union. In such a case, the Employer requires a signed release of information authorization from the employee and/or the employee’s parent or legal guardian prior to releasing any such information. The Union will not release the employee’s confidential medical or healthcare information to any other employee or to any other individual or entity who does not have a compelling need to know of the information without the employee’s and/or the employee’s parent or legal guardian’s written consent The Employer and the Union separately and jointly agree to observe and adhere to the Health Insurance Profitability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) and any other federal and state privacy laws applicable to employee healthcare infonnation.
Section 4:	This CBA covers employees who perform work under a “Custodial / Grounds”
contract. Should a need for a reduction-in-force arise the Employer agrees to discuss with the Union prior to any action taking place.
Section 5: The Employer will provide “drug free” facilities in accordance with any obligations to maintain a workplace that is free from illegal drug or alcohol abuse. In addition, the Employer reserves the right to administer mandatory drug testing and alcohol use on any/all employees randomly and does so in the event of any and all incidents, accidents or injuries while on the job.
Section6:	The Employer has and retains exclusive rights to adhere to tire Government’s
STANDARDS OF CONDUCT: The Employer shall be responsible for maintaining satisfactory standards of employee competency, conduct, appearance, and integrity and shall be responsible for taking such disciplinary action with respect to employees as may be necessary. The Employer is responsible for ensuring that employees do not disturb papers on desks, open desk drawers or cabinets, or use Government telephones, except as authorized. Each employee is expected to adhere to standards of behavior that reflect favorable on the Employer and the Federal Government. No smoking is allowed in buildings.
o | CBA between Training, Rehabilitation & Development Institute Inc. and International Union of ° [ Operalin&^mneers Loj^351 AFL-CIO (Local 351) Effective July 31fl 2014 thru Aug 31 2017
| Initials:
08-12 —14;09:2OAM;
;915-771-9018
#	9
3 1
08—: = -	12: 1-=M:
; 91 = - ~ ~ 1 - i e
Under the following condition, the Contracting Officer or his/her representative may request the Employer to immediately remove any employee(s) from the work site. When the Government determines such employee(s) to be: incompetent, careless, insubordinate, unsuitable or otherwise objectionable; or whose continued employment the Government deems contrary to the public interest, inconsistent with the best interests of security, or is identified as a potential threat to the health, safety, security, general well-being or operational mission of the facility and its population.
The Contracting Officer may also request the Employer to immediately remove any employee(s) from the work site(s) should it be determined that individuals are being assigned to duty who have been disqualified for either suitability or security reasons, or who are found to unfit for performing duties during their tour(s) of duty.
Employees who are removed from contract work sites shall be required to leave the work site immediately.
Section 7: CLEARANCE: Due to the nature of the services provided at this job site, the Government will request a clear background check for all employees. Employees will be required to pass an initial and annual background check conducted by the Employer and the Government. The Government retains the right to rescind an employee’s access and/or deny access at any time.
All employees will abide by all security regulations set forth by the United States Government The Employer cannot employ individuals for work if an individual is identified as a potential threat to the health, safety, security, genera) wellbeing, or operational mission of the installation and its population, nor will the Employer employ individuals who have an outstanding criminal warrant as identified through tlie National Crime Information Center (NCIC). NCIC checks will verify if person is wanted by local, state and/ or federal agencies. All employees must consent to NCIC background checks and employees who do not consent to a background check will be denied access to die installations. All employees will maintain Employer and Government identification passes / credentials and upon termination of employment return all such credentials to the Employer.
ARTICLE 5:	CONTRACT EMPLOYEES
Section 1: The Employer, in order to meet manpower demands, may utilize the employees of contract companies to supplement the Emploj'er’s workforce. The Employer may subcontract work which is specialized in nature, which involves infrequent or otiier unique demands, which has normally been subcontracted by the Employer or normally not performed by bargaining unit employees.
TI CBA between Training, Rehabilitation & Developmeut institute Inc and International Union of I OperatinoJS&pneers Localj35l AFL-CIO (Local 351) Effective July 31° 2014 thru Aug 3) 2017 | Initials: > V (IP
08-12 —14;09:20AM;
;915-771-9018
# 1OZ 31
O£I j : i ' : i
. •? i = -~~ 1	1 a
Section 2. The Employer agrees not to use subcontractor personnel for the purpose of laying off, avoiding recall of employees or avoidance of overtime. However, should employees refuse recall, overtime or be unable to perform the work the Employer the reserves the right to utilize any means to comply with customer requirements.
ARTICLE 6:	NO STRIKE - NO LOCKOUT
Section I: During the life of this CBA, the Union and the employees covered under this agreement will not authorize, and the employees will not participate in a strike of any kind, or any boycott, work stoppage, slow-downs, or any other type of organized interference, coercive or otherwise, with die Employer’s business.
Section 2: During the life of this CBA, the Employer will not lock out the employees.
ARTICLE 7:	SENIORITY
Section I: The Employer recognizes an employee’s seniority , which will be based on the length of continuous service, with previous, present and succeeding Employers, according to the Employer’s and the Union’s records, as an important factor to be considered in shift assignments, transfers, promotions, demotions, lay-offs and recalls after lay-off within the unit. It is understood, however, that in a possible case of a reduction of workforce the Employer will first and foremost consider whether an employee is eligible for purposes of the AbilityOne Program, the employee’s efficiency and capabilities and provided that when these factors are equal, the employee’s seniority will prevail.
Section 2:	No employee will acquire any seniority rights until he/she has been continuously employed by the present Employer for a period of ninety (90) calendar days.
Section 3:	A break in seniority will occur in the following events if an employee:
(a)	Quits
(b)	Is discharged for cause.
(c)	Takes an unauthorized leave	of absence
(d)	Is laid off for more than	six	(6) consecutive months.
Section 4:	The Employer will provide the Union with the most recent employee seniority list. The Union in turn will verify the employee seniority list for accuracy and acknowledge such to die Employer no later dian thirty (30) days after receipt of the list. If the Union does not verify the information within 30 days of receipt of die seniority list provided by the Employer, then the Employer information will be deemed to be accurate and operative for all purposes.
Section 5:	Employees hired on the same day will note seniority* by the earlier date and time hired.
10
CBA between Training, Rehabilitation & Development Institute Inc. and International Union of Operatingd&£ineers Local 3£J AFL-CIO (Local 351) Effective July 31° 2014 thru Aug 31 2017
Initials: > V vl/x
08-12-14;09:20AM;
;915-771-9018
# 11/ 31
ARTICLE 8:	Lav-off and Recall Process
Section 1:	In the event of a reduction of forces, the Employer will meet with the Union representative to advise of such action prior to taking any action. Employees not meeting the qualifications of the AbilityOne Program will be first to receive notices regardless of hire date.
The Employer vsrill recall employees meeting the AbilityOne Program eligibility criteria and
qualification guidelines first followed by employees meeting Seniority and qualification guidelines.
Section 2:	The Employer will give employees to be laid off two (2) calendar days’ notice of such layoff. If the Employer does not provide the full two (2) days’ notice, the employee will receive pay at his regular base rate of pay for each of his regularly scheduled working days within said two (2) day period.
Section3:	The Employer and the Union understand and agree, however, that it is not
discriminatory under this Agreement for the Employer as an AbilityOne Program federal contractor to confer a preference for applicants and employees who are AbilityOne Program-qualified for purposes of decisions by the Employer as to who to lay off, or recall, or in the assignment of hours and schedules.
ARTICLE 9:	INTRODCCTORTY AND TEMPORARY EMPLOYEES
Section 1:	Newly hired employees will be on an introductory period for die first ninety (90) days of employment During tills introductory period employees will receive the rates of pay provided in Schedule A, but will not be entitled grievance and arbitration under this CBA.
Section 2:	During the introductory period, the Employer may discipline and/or discharge any employee for any reason considered justifiable by the Employer or for no reason at all without recourse to the grievance procedure. Any employee so dismissed will not have a right to invoke the arbitration procedure of this CBA.
Section 3:	Upon completion of the ninety (90) day introductory period, employees will be placed on the seniority list as of the first date of employment. Once placed on the seniority list, the employees will be entitled to all benefits provided under this CBA, including lay-off and rehire after lay-off.
Section 4:	Temporary employees are those who are employed for a period of ninety (90) days ot less with notification to the Union

CBA between Training, Rehabilitation & Development Institute Inc. and International Union of Operatina&foineers Loeffl £51 AFL-CIO (Local 351) Effective July 31" 2014 thru Aug 31 2017
Initials:	Ulpx
08-12-14;09:2OAM;
,915-771-9018
# 12/ 31
;91=-~~l-?O18
ARTICLE 10 ; EMPLOYMENT VACANCIES FOR BARGAINING UNION CLASSIFICATIONS
Section I: Should die Employer determine the need to fill a new or existing job vacancy within the bargaining unit, die Employer will post the notice of vacancy or job opening on the employee bulletin board at all the facilities for a period of not less than five (5) working days. Any employee interested in applying for the vacancies must submit a written request of interest to die on-site Project Manager and follow the application instnictions on the vacancy form within the five (5) working day period. The notice of vacancy will contain, at a minimum, the following information:
b. c. d. e. f.
Date the notice is posted
Date and time of notice removal
Classification / Job Title to be filled
Position specifications, experience and minimum requirements
Rate of pay
Effective date the position is to be filled
Section 2: The Employer will award the position taking into consideration the following:
I)
2)
3)
4)
5)
First and foremost the applicant’s eligibility for the AbilityOne Program Qualifications and related experience
Previous trainings related to vacancy
Ability and willingness to perform die work required
Seniority
If two or more employees bidding for the vacant position are essentially equal with respect to all of the above criteria indicated in numbers one through four above, then the most senior employee wall be awarded the position.
Section 3: The Employer retains die right to utilize external sources to staff the vacant positions when qualified AbilityOne Program eligible individuals do not respond during the five day posting period or do not meet the required job qualifications prior to extending an offer to a non-AbilityOne Program eligible bargaining union senior employee as per Article 4: Rights of Management Section 2.
Section 4: Restrictions on Bidding: An employee who is awarded a job for which he bid must accept it provided the award is made within five (5) workdays of the effective start date that the vacancy is scheduled to be filled; otherwise the employee will have the option to withdraw his bid. If the bidding employee’s current job classification was in the same labor grade as, or a higher paid labor grade than the posted job being awarded, the employee will not be allowed to bid for another job vacancy for a period of twelve (12) months after being awarded die job, unless agreed upon by both parties.
Section 5: Disqualification of Bidder: An employee who is unable to perform the job to
17 CBA between Training, Rehabilitation & Development Institute Inc. and International Union of Operating&ttftheers LocalASl AFL-CIO (Local 351) Effective July 31“ 2014 thru Aug 31 2017
Initials:
Local/VM AF
08—12—14:09:2OAM;
;915-771-9018
# 13/ 31
OS-Cs-1-:12:
.915-“71-=01 &
which he bid to the satisfaction of the Employer within thirty (30) calendar days after being awarded the job shall be returned to the job classification and labor grade he held at the time of submitting the bid. The employee will be provided the reasons for such disqualification.
Section 6: An employee who bids and is awarded a position on a different contract that the Employer may have will maintain his/her Seniority date for purposes of vacation / longevity but the “hire” date on die new contract would be the date the employee started die new job.
ARTICLE 11:	WAGES, BENEFITS AND HEALTH AND WELFARE
Section 1: The Wages and Benefits including Healdi and Welfare rates, which will be effective during die term of this CBA, are set forth in Schedule "A”.
ARTICLE 12:	HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
Section 1:	Normal Hours: The provisions of this Article are intended only to provide a basis for determining the number of hours of work for which an employee will be entitled to be paid at straight time rates and will not be construed as a guarantee to any employee for any specific number of hours of work either per day or per week, or as limiting the right of the Employer to determine and fix work schedules and to require such employees to work any specified number of hours either per day or per week.
For pay purposes only the work shifts will be designated as: Shift One - 07:00 a.m. - 03:00 p.m. Shift Two: 03:00 p.m. — 11:00 p.m. Shift Three: 11:00 p.m. - 07:00 a.m.
Section 2:	Overtime: The rate of one and one-half times (1 l/z) the regular straight time hourly
rate of pay will be paid for all work performed in excess of forty (40) hours in any payroll period running Sunday 12:01 midnight through Saturday 12:00 midnight. Overtime will apply to “Hours Worked” only.
The allowance of overtime payment on any hour eliminates that hour from consideration for overtime on any other basis. The Employer and die Union agree that there shall be no pyramiding of premium or overtime pay and nothing this agreement shall be considered to require the payment of premium overtime pay more than once for the same hours worked.
In order to meet the operational or maintenance needs of the Employer, or in case of an emergency, employees may be required to work overtime with minimal advisement time.
The Employer will make every reasonable effort to distribute overtime opportunities as equally as practicable among employees (taking into consideration the work hour requirements of die AbilityOne Program) in their respective job classifications widiin a reasonable period.
| 2 | CBA between Training, Rehabilitation & Development Institute Inc. and International Union of | Operaiing-&gmeer$ Local 351 AFL-CIO (Local 351) Effective July 31“ 2014 thru Aug 31 2017 I Initials: A * * /Tlr^s.
08-12-14;09:20AM;
;915-771-9018
# 14/ 31
Section 3:	Davs Off: Where possible, each employee shall have two (2) regularly assigned days off in each forty (40) hour workweek and, if possible these days should be consecutive. Should an employee be assigned to work on either of his/her assigned days off, or both, he/she shall not be reassigned alternate days off or adjust shift set schedules to avoid payment of the accumulation of hours worked during such workweek unless the employee voluntarily agrees to change the day off.
Section 4:	Employees will be allowed to be in the work area ten (10) minutes prior to start of shift but will not clock in until five (5) minutes prior to starting time. Employees are required to leave the premises immediately after clocking out
Section 5:	The Employer utilizes the ADP Time and Attendance Biometric Time Clocks and/or the use of Company mobile phones as its time tracking system to capture and record all non-exempt employee time records and all hourly paid supplemental position time. The Biometric Time Clock / Company mobile phones electronic time keeping system and associated work records are the official basis for recording hours worked for all hourly paid employees of the Employer. This includes, but is not limited to, all non-exempt employees and all employees paid on an hourly supplemental position or contract. In order to ensure consistency of treatment for hourly paid employees, die data recorded in the ADP Time and Attendance Biometric Time Clock system will be considered the “official” record of the workday for these positions. Any dispute over actual hours worked or attendance will be resolved by referring the ADP Time and Attendance records.
ARTICLE 13:	VACATIONS
Section 1:	An employee’s vacation eligibility date will be the date of first hire by the Employer or predecessor contractor when and if service was continuous or the most recent rehire date following a termination.
Section 2:	The Employer will have the exclusive right to fix and determine the vacation schedule; however, whenever practicable the Employer will give consideration to the wishes of, and in the event of competing requests, die seniority of employees before scheduling vacation; but such schedule will necessarily be governed by the operating requirements of die contract.
Section 3:	Vacation will be compensated for at the Employees regular hourly rate of pay and will be calculated on die basis of an annual average of regular hours worked for the preceding twelve (12) months of work.
Section 4:	Payment of vacation time will be made to each employee entided thereto on his last regular payday after the commencement of his vacation or on the regular payday cycle.
Section 5:	Vacation time will not carry over or accumulate from year to year. It must be
■■oil!	—i—nwrnTrmnmiiiHii iiiia nTTrrn-nrrr^ir—i tui “th~ r rrrr i-—
i A I CBA between Training, Rehabilitation & Development Institute Inc. and International Union of
1	I OperatMSngineers Local 351 AFL-CIO (Local 351) Effective July 31s' 2014 thru Aug 31 2017
08-1 2-14;09:2OAM;
;915-771-9018
# 15/ 31
os-oe-1-:12:1'=M:
; 9 1 = - 7- 1	a
taken during the year that the employee has earned vacation eligibility, unless the Employer’s needs preclude the employee from taking his/her vacation time on such year. However, the required vacation must be given or payment made in lieu thereof before the next anniversary date, before completion of the current contract, or before the employee terminates employment, whichever occurs first. Vacation time will be earned on an employee’s date of hire anniversary with the Employer.
-Section 6: During the month of January employees will schedule vacation time in accordance with the sections mentioned above. Vacation time not scheduled during this month should be subject to availability of such available time.
Section?:	The employee may take his/her vacation time in more than one segment at his/her
request provided that it is in increments of a minimum of one (1) week and a maximum of two (2) weeks at a time for those employees with more than two weeks’ vacation earned and vested.
ARTICLE 14:	GRIEVANCE AND ARBITRATION PROCEDURE
Section 1:	A ’‘grievance” will be defined as any dispute or difference between the Employer and tire Union (and/or a member of the bargaining unit) with respect to die interpretation or performance of, or the rights of the parties under diis CBA. A grievance must be raised by an employee (or by the Union, on the employee’s behalf) within ten (10) working days of the event or omission of which the employee is complaining.
Section 2:
(a)	If any grievance arises, it will be resolved in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Article. The parties recognize that the time limits set forth in this CBA are jurisdictional and may be extended only upon the mutual written consent of both parties.
(b)	If an employee alleges tliat he is aggrieved:
STEP 1:	If a grievable matter arises that cannot be informally resolved by the
employee and immediate supervisor, the Union may reduce the grievance to writing and submit it to die Human Resource Director of die Employer (the “ HR Director”) within ten (10) working days of the event or omission of which the employee is complaining. Submission of the grievance will be by certified mail, return receipt requested. For purposes of service, die Employer and die Union will use the addresses listed in Article 28 of this CBA. A Business Agent of the Union and the HR Director will meet either in person or by phone conference to discuss die grievance widiin seven (7) working days from receipt of grievance by the Employer. At either party’s option, die aggrieved employee, the Union Steward, and/or the aggrieved employee’s supervisor may also be asked to attend die meeting. Within ten (10) working days following die conclusion of this conference, the HR Director will submit a written reply to the grievance to the
15
CBA between Training, Rehabilitation & Development Institute Inc. and International Union of Operating<£fa!faeers LocaKsil AFL-CIO (Local 351) Effective July 31” 2014 thru Aug 31 2017
Initials: .A ’	( Arx
08-12-14;09:20AM;
;915-771-9018
# 16/ 31
G£- :•*- 1-JI: 1 * PM;
; 91 =.--Ti - ?01 e
Business Agent via electronically or Certified Mail Return Receipt Requested.
STEP 2:	If the matter is not resolved to the Union’s satisfaction in Step 1, die
Union may submit die grievance in writing via Certified Mail - Return Receipt Requested to the Employer’s President (die “President’), with a copy to die HR Director within ten (10) working days following the conclusion of Step 1. For purposes of service upon the President, the parties will use die addresses listed in Article 28 of this CBA; however, the Employer herewith agrees that timely sendee of a Step 2 grievance upon the HR Director will constitute timely sendee upon the President. Within ten (10) working days following the Employer’s receipt of the grievance, the President or his/her designee will meet with a Business Agent of die Union or his designee and the Union Steward to discuss the grievance; where appropriate, the aggrieved employee and/or his/her supendsor may also be invited to participate in the meeting. Widiin five (5) working days following die conclusion of that conference, the President will submit a written response to the grievance to the Union representative via electronically or Certified Mail - Return Receipt Requested.
STEP 3:	If the grievance is not resolved in Step 2, either die Union or the Employer
may, within fifteen (15) working days following the date of the President’s written response, appeal the grievance to Arbitration. If the Union fails to appeal the grievance to arbitration within the fifteen (15) working days following the date of the President’s written response, the grievance will be deemed to have been withdrawn. In the event of Arbitration, the party invoking the Arbitration will request that the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Sendee (“FMCS”) submit a list of at least five and no more than seven arbitrators within thirty (30) calendar days. Upon receipt of the list of arbitrators, each party, beginning with the party which requested arbitration, will alternate in striking a name from the list until only one name remains. The Company and die Union agree that such arbitration hearing shall be scheduled by no later than one hundred twenty (120) days following selection of the arbitrator.
(c)	If the appropriate Employer representative fails to serve a timely response at either Step 1 or Step 2, the grievance will, for purposes of calculation of the time limits set forth above, be deemed to have been denied in its entirety on the last day the Employer’s response could have been timely served.
(d)	Regardless of whether it is the Union as an entity as opposed to an individual aggrieved employee that is the grievant, the grievance will be timely only if it is submitted within ten (10) working days after the event or omission complained of.
(e)	For die purposes of Article 14 only, working days will be defined as Monday through Friday (excluding federal holidays listed in Addendum A herein. If any deadline under these Sections (for either the Union or die Employer) falls on a holiday recognized by the United States Postal Service, the deadline will be extended to die first day which is not such a holiday.
i < i CBA between Training, Rehabilitation & Development Institute Inc. and International Union of 1 ° i Operatinc^ineers I/W351 AFL-CIO (Local 351) Effective July 31” 2014 thnt Aug 31 2017
08-12-14;09:20AM;
;915-771-9018
# 17Z 31
3	17	31
(f)	Where a grievance protests the discharge of an employee, the Union and Employer may mutually agree to waive STEP I and/or STEP 2 of the above process so as to permit die grievance to be referred directly to arbitration under Article 14 Section 2 (b) (STEP 3) and will continue to Section 3 below.
Section 3:
(a)	The neutral arbitrator to whom any grievance will be submitted in accordance with the provisions of Article 14 will have the audiority to interpret the CBA, to make findings of fact based upon the evidence submitted at the arbitration proceeding, and to apply the contractual provisions to said facts. The jurisdiction of an arbitrator selected under Article 14 Section 2 (b) STEP 3 is limited in diat the arbitrator has no authority to add to, subtract from, disregard, amend, or otherwise change or in any way modify the provisions of this CBA, and will limit the decision strictly to the interpretation of die language of diis CBA.
(b)	At any arbitration hearing under Article 14, if both parties involved agree to utilize the services of a court reporter, the expenses and fees incurred (including the cost of providing a copy of the record to the arbitrator) will be borne equally by the Employer and the Union. If only one party desires to utilize the services of a court reporter, it .may do so, and diat party will pay all of the court reporter’s fees and expenses, and provide a copy of the record to the arbitrator; provided, however, diat neither the paying party, the arbitrator, nor the court reporter will make a copy of the record available to die non-paying party.
(c)	The compensation and costs required to be paid to the arbitrator and arbitration sendee will be borne equally by the Union and the Employer.
Section 4:	The Employer will be under no obligation to pay any compensation to any employee or employees (including the Union Steward) for any time spent in processing or handling any grievance, including arbitration. At the request of the employee(s) involved, die Employer will attempt to schedule any such meetings (other than an arbitration hearing) at times which will minimize or eliminate any employee’s loss of working time.
Section 5:	The decision of the arbitrator, if rendered in accordance with the provisions of Article 14 Section 3, will be final and binding upon die Union, all bargaining unit employees, and die Employer.
Section 6:	If an arbitration decision results in an award of any wages (such as back pay) to a bargaining unit employee, the Employer will be obligated to make such payment no later than the regular scheduled payday falling on or immediately after the expiration of 28 days following the parties’ receipt of the arbitration award. Any monetary award issued by an Arbitrator not paid in a timely manner as required by this Section 6 will begin to accrue interest at the rate of one percent (1%) per annum and continue until the award is paid in full. The Employer’s
^ ^V^TcEIA between Training, Rehabililation & DevelopmeiitinTtitute IncandlntcmauonalUnionof	~
I OperatincUpripneers Locjl/>51 AFL-CIO (Local 351) Effective July 31*' 2014 thru Aug 31 2017
| Initials: Av

08—12—14:09:20AM;
;915-771-9018
# 18/ 31
G8-05- 1 4 ; 1 Z : 1 ' =•/;
obligation under this Section 6 will be waived if the Employer’s failure to make a timely payment is due to the fact that the employee moved and did not provide an accurate forwarding address in writing to the Employer.
Section 7:	The procedures set forth in the grievance and arbitration procedure of Article 14 (b) STEP 1 through STEP 3 may be invoked only by the authorized Union representative or die Employer.
Section 8:	The Employer and the Union recognize that the grievance procedure specified in Article 14 may not accommodate in all cases the needs of employees with severe mental or physical disabilities. Therefore, the Employer and the Union may, by mutual agreement, provide an alternative method for resolving a grievance as a reasonable accommodation to an employee with a severe disability where the existing grievance procedure is inappropriate or presents improper barriers to a severely disabled individual.
ARTICLE IS:	HEALTH AND SAFETY
Section 1:	The Employer and the Union will cooperate to promote employee safety and accident prevention in and around all operations and premises. The Employer will not place in jeopardy the employee’s health and safety and will take all precautions possible when instructing duties.
Section 2:	The Employer and the Union are committed to providing employees with a drug-free and alcohol-free workplace. It is the mutual agreement of both parties to protect the health and safety of employees and to promote a productive workplace, protect the reputation of the Employer, the Union and die employees. Consistent with these goals, the Employer prohibits the use, possession, distribution or sale of drugs, drug paraphernalia or alcohol on Employer and /or government / customer premises and/or while operating equipment and vehicles. Any violation of this policy will result in immediate termination of employment.
Section 3:	The Employer will provide, at no cost to the employee. Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) to employees working in job sites that require the use of PPE.
Section 4:	The Employer will maintain safe, sanitary and healthful conditions and will provide first aid equipment for employees in case of accident or illness.
Section 5:	Every employee will be responsible for maintaining his place of work in a clean and orderly condition. All employees are required to observe safety rules and regulations established by the Employer and / or the government facility, including die use of prescribed safety equipment to clothing.
Section 6:	As a condition of continued employment, all employees are required to conform
I o CBA between Training, Rehabilitation & Development Institute Inc. and International Union of 1 °	451 AFL-CIO (Local 351) Effective July 31s1 2OI4thruAug31 2017
08-12-14:09:20AM;
;915-771-9018
# 19
31
19
08-0=-1-;12:1"
;91c---I-=018
to all current work rules and regulations or those that may be issued and/or updated at the Employer’s and/or government’s discretion pertaining to the operations, health and safety of the employee, other employees and / or the worksite. The Union will be allowed ten (10) days from the announcement of a proposed work rule, regulation or change of an existing policy / practice to submit a request to negotiate such initiative or change. The Union will be deemed to have assented to such initiative or change if it has failed to submit such request within the ten (10) days.
Section 7:	It is the Employer’s policy to mandate an employee be tested for alcohol / drug use during any on-the-job incident.
ARTICLE 16:	LEAVE OF ABSENCE
Section 1: In accordance with the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1994 (FMLA), as amended, unpaid personal leave of absence will be granted for up to twelve (12) weeks for the birth of a child, and / or to care for such child; for the placement of a child for adoption or foster care; to care for the employee’s seriously ill spouse, child or parent; or because of a serious health condition that makes the employee unable to perform his or her essential job functions; and up to twenty-six (26) weeks for a family member (spouse, son, daughter or parent) being on or having been notified of a impending call or order to active duty in the Armed Forces in support of a contingency operation. Employees must meet the eligibility requirements contained in die FMLA, and any paid or unpaid leave will be offset against the above twelve (12) or twenty-six (26) weeks.
Section 2: All Leave of Absence including FMLA leave must be submitted by the employee in writing to the Employer 30 days prior to his/her intent to commence leave, or in case of emergency, as soon as practicable. Hie Employer may request a medical certification for FMLA taken to care for a spouse, child or parent who has a serious health condition or for a serious health condition of die employee. The Employer may, at its discretion, require a second or third opinion paid by the Employer and a certification of fitness to return to work.
Section 3: Short Term Military Annual Leave:	Employees ordered to active duty for
annual training with the National Guard or organized military reserve units shall be granted a leave of absence not to exceed a maximum of ten (10) working days each fiscal year, provided the employee furnishes the Employer a copy of their military orders at the time the leave is requested. Such leave of absence shall be referred to as military leave. Employees will be paid the difference between their regular base pay and their military pay provided a Leave and Earnings statement is submitted.
i n | CBA betweei^Training, Rehabilitation & Development Institute Inc. and International Union of
1 ' I Operating^eineers Local 251 ACI r',r' " —* 1	a..- ?i ->nr
I Initials: A t 1^-—
1 AFL-CIO (Local 351) Effective July 31" 2014 thru Aug 31 20)7
08—12—14;09:2OAM;
;915-771-9018
# 20/ 31
ce-oe- 1 - ; H: 1 ’ =M;
ARTICLE 17:	VISITATION RIGHTS
Section 1:	Officers of the Union will have the privilege of visiting members of the Union during working hours after notification to the Employer’s on site Project Manager has been made with at least one full business day in advance of the visit. In accordance with these visitation rights, the Union agrees not to interfere with the day-to-day operations at the job sites visited.
Section 2:	All visits are subject to applicable government laws and regulations governing visitors to the facility. The Union is solely responsible to obtain clearance and permission from any/all governmental facilities to enter any governmental facility served by the Employer under this CBA.
ARTICLE 18:	CAPTIONS AND TERMS
Captions or terms in and of this CBA are for convenience only and do not in any way limit or amplify any provisions thereof. Wherever die singular or plural number is used herein, it will equally include the other and wherever the masculine or feminine gender is used, it will equally include the other.
ARTICLE 19; SAVING CLAUSE
Section 1:	Should any part or provision of this CBA be rendered invalid by reason of any existing or subsequently enacted legislation or opinion of Court of Competent Jurisdiction, such invalidation of any part or provision of this CBA will not invalidate the remaining portions hereof, and they will remain in full force and effect
Section 2:	If there is any conflict between the terms and conditions of this CBA and any other Employer policy or Employee Handbook, the terms and conditions of this CBA will prevail. Emploj'er policy, procedure, rule or regulation not specifically addressed herein will be applicable to all employees covered under this CBA in addition to the terms and conditions of this CBA. The Union will be allowed ten (10) days from the announcement of a proposed work rule, regulation or change of an existing policy / practice to submit a request to negotiate such initiative or change. The Union will be deemed to have assented to such initiative or change if it has failed to submit such request within the ten (10) days.
ARTICLE 20:	BULLETIN BOARDS
Section 1:	The Employer agrees to provide the Union with a bulletin board; however, all material will require the written approval of the Director of Human Resources or his/Iier designee prior to posting.
Section 2:	No materials may be posted and no solicitations may be engaged in a federal facility where work is performed under this CBA, unless the posting or solicitation is done so in
7 0 I between Training, Rehabilitation & Development Institute Inc. and International Union of U | Operatin$<Mneers Lotfi 351 AFL-CIO (Local 351) Effective July 31*' 2014 thru Aug 31 2017 | Initials: AV

08-12-14;09:20AM;
i 915-771-901'8'
# 21/ 31
accordance with the rules and regulations in effect at tlie federal facilities covered by this CBA.
ARTICLE 21; NO DISCRIMINATION
Section 1:	The Employer and tlie Union agree that there will be no discrimination against any present or future employee, or against any applicant for employment, by reason of race, color, age, disability of any individual in accordance with applicable law, national origin, sex, veteran’s status or as a veteran of the Vietnam era.
Section 2:	The Employer and the Union understand and agree, however, that it is not discriminatory under tills CBA for the Employer as an AbilityOne Program federal contractor to confer a preference for applicants and employees who are AbilityOne Program-qualified for purposes of decisions by the Employer as to who to hire, promote, transfer, lay off, or recall, or in the assignment of hours and schedules,
ARTICLE 22:	SHOP STEWARD
Section 1:	The Union may select two (2) employees of the Employer to act as Shop Steward and each one will have one hour every two weeks to take care of Union business. This time will be administrated at the Shop Steward’s discretion and he will be required to clock in and out when conducting Union business. The Union will provide the name(s) of the acting Shop Stewardfs) to the on-site Project Manager in writing within thirty (30) days of the signing of this CBA. In case of a Shop Steward’s employment termination, the Union has 30 days to appoint a new Shop Steward and advise the on-site Project Manager of the new appointment.
Section 2:	A Shop Steward's authority will be limited to and will not exceed tlie following duties and activities:
(a)	The investigation and presentation of grievance to the designated Employer’s representative in accordance with the provisions of the CBA.
(b)	The Shop Steward may receive and may discuss grievances of employees on tlie premises of the Employer, but only to such extent as does not neglect, retard or interfere with tlie work or duties of employees. Time spent by the employee and die Shop Steward to discuss grievances shall be off tlie clock and the Employer will not be responsible for payment of time so spent. The Shop Steward will obtain permission from his respective supervisor prior to leaving his work assignments to handle grievances and report back to his supervisor upon return.
(c)	The transmitting of such messages and information which originate with and are authorized by the local Union, or its officers, provided that such messages and information have been reduced to writing and, if not reduced to writing, are of a routine nature and do not involve work stoppages, goods or any odier interference of the Employer’s business.
21
CBA between Training, Rehabilitation & Development Institute Inc. and Internationa! Union of OperatinwrpTgineers LoCTij 351 .AFL-CIO (Local 351) Effective July 31” 2014 thru Aug 31 2017 Initials: J ( Ak _
08-12 —14;09:20AM;
;915-771-9018
# 22/ 31
Oe-Oc-1	1 £: 1 '=M;
:9i=--_i-=oie
(d)	Any activities undertaken by the Shop Steward outside of his normal working hours will not be considered as time worked for pay or overtime purposes.
ARTICLE 23; UNIFORMS
The Employer agrees to provide uniforms as necessary at no cost to all employees. The Employer will replace sets of uniforms as they wear out or need to be replaced. AU employees will adhere to dress standards set by the contracting activity; employees not wearing appropriate uniform or personal protective equipment will not be allowed to perform work and time spent at the work site out of uniform or without PPE will not be considered as time worked for pay or overtime purposes.
ARTICLE 24:	NEUTRALITY
The Employer agrees to remain neutral during organizing campaigns in which Local 351 becomes involved at any site where employees of TRDI are employed.
ARTICLE 25:	PHYSICAL EXAMINATION
Section 1: To the extent required by the Contracting Agency, the Employer may require an employee to undergo a physical or mental examination on an initial and thereafter periodic basis. If necessary, the Employer will have the right to select the examining physician or appropriate healthcare professional, request die physician or appropriate healthcare professional to conduct specific required tests, and to receive a written report from the physician or appropriate healthcare professional as to the findings of the examination. Such reports will be considered and treated in a confidential manner according to HIPAA by the Employer.
Section 2: The Employer agrees to use its best efforts to identify and to provide a list of healthcare providers who are available to provide free or subsidized physical or mental examinations to employees covered under this CBA so as to minimize the costs of any required physical or mental examinations to the employees. Upon request the Employer will provide the Union widi a list each year with the names and addresses of the providers identified pursuant to this provision.
CBA between Training, Rehabilitation & Development Institute Inc. and International Union of Operating£p£ineers LocpknSl AFL-CIO (Local 351) Effective July 31*' 2014 thru Aug 31 2017
Initials: * *	( /IX
08-12-14;09:20AM;
;915-771-9018
# 23/ 31
C'S-Oe- 1 - ; 1 2 : 1 ’ ='4;
; 9 1E---1-S-G18	-	31
ARTICLE 26:	DISCHARGE OR SUSPENSION
Section 1:	An employee may be subject to immediate discharge for, but not limited to, the following: (This list is not all inclusive but will serve as examples of cause for immediate discharge of an employee.)
(a)	Dishonesty, which includes misuse of time cards, time clock, or time sheets.
(b)	Intoxication during working hours.
(c)	Use, possession and/or distribution of drugs or alcohol, or being under the influence of drugs or alcohol during working hours.
(d)	Fighting while on the premises.
(e)	Deliberate property or equipment damage or other such gross misconduct.
(f)	Not reporting to work, or over-staying an authorized leave of absence, without notifying the Employer for three (3) consecutive workdays.
(g)	Any false statement made on the application for employment, or to the medical examiner with the intent to deceive.
(h)	Unauthorized possession of any weapon, firearm or explosives within facilities.
(i)	Employees restricted by the Government from entering the Government
installation or facility where the Employee is assigned to work.
(j)	Sleeping on the job.
(k)	Failure to perform duties as directed or instructed without valid reason.
(1)	Three (3) unexcused absences in a month or excessive tardiness in a month.
(m)	Assisting or permitting anyone who does not have proper clearance or permission to access any government facility served by die Employer under this CBA.
(n)	Failure to maintain security clearance as required by the Contracting Agency.
Section 2:	The Employer will not discipline / discharge any non-probationary employee without just cause. With respect to any such discipline/discharge, the Employer will give one copy of die warning notice to die employee of any complaint against such employee, in writing, and a copy of the same to the Local Union. Wanting notices will become null and void upon reaching
T1 | CBA between Trainin' fehabilitaiion & Development Institute Inc. and International Union of 4 I OperatinoJEwgineers L 51 AFL-CIO (Local 351) Effective July 31“ 2014 thru Aug 31 2017
j Initials:^} \ *
08-12-14;09:20AM;
;915-771-9018
# 24/ 31
4	3 1
twenty-four (24) months from date of issuance.
Section 3:	The following will constitute, but not limited to, the Employer’s rules and regulations which the employees will be required to follow:
(I)	Gambling, including games of chance, operating of pools, lotteries, etc. within the facilities, will not be permitted. “Within facilities” includes the grounds portion of any facility.
(2)	Immoral conduct or indecency on the premises will not be permitted. It is understood that under certain circumstances progressive discipline steps may be omitted. This would only be in serious cases.
(3)	Insubordination or refrisal or intentional failure to perform assignment and/or failure to respond to emergency response procedure after duty hours. It is understood that under certain circumstances progressive discipline steps may be omitted. This would only be in serious cases.
(4)	Vending, soliciting or collecting contributions for any purpose whatsoever, at any time on the premises, unless authorized by the Employer’s Regional Manager.
(5)	Three (3) unexcused absences or three (3) unexcused tardies per month and/or abuse of sick leave will not be permitted.
(6)	Failure to perform work assigned to Employer standards.
(7)	Failure to report to work station or place of work after punching in on time clock or signing in or failure to leave work premises after punching out on time clock.
(8)	Failure to report for work after release by a doctor or physician including any workers’ compensation injury or illness.
(9)	Employees will not wash up or change clothes until their equipment is cleaned and stored.
(10)	Employees will not leave the premises before the end of their workday.
(11)	Creating or contributing to unsafe working conditions or harassment in the workplace will not be permitted.
(12)	Smoking and/or drinking soda or coffee in unauthorized areas on Employer time will not be permitted.
CBA between Training, Rehabilitation & Development Institute Inc. and International Union of Operating£irf?ineers LtrcaLtfil AFL-CIO (Local 351) Effective July 31“ 2014 thru Aug 31 201' Initials: > * \L I \
1 AFL-CIO (Local 351) Effective July 31 “ 2014 thru Aug 31 2017
08-12-14;09:20AM;
;915-771-9018
» 25/ 31
(13)	Sleeping on the job will not be permitted.
(14)	The use of abusive language and or harassment to Supervisor, fellow employees, or customers will not be pennitted. It is understood that under certain circumstances progressive discipline steps may be omitted. This would only be in serious cases.
Section 4:	Employees found guilty of violating the Employer’s rules and regulations may be disciplined / suspended without pay or discharged in the following manner:
(1)	First Offense:	Written wanting and counseling
(2)	Second Offense:	One (1) day suspension
(3)	Third Offense;	Dismissal/discharge or three (3) day suspension without pay, at the Employer’s discretion
(4)	Fourth Offense:	Dismissal/discharge or five (5) day suspension without pay, at the Employer’s discretion
Section 5:	Discharge or suspension must be by proper written notice to the employee, with a	
copy mailed or delivered electronically to the local office of the Union. Warning notices of complaints against an employee need not be for similar or same reasons for dismissal I discharge action taken by the Employer.
Operating Initials'
CBA between Training, Rehabilitation & Development Institute Inc. and International Union of
. - -	'	AFL-CIO (Local 351) Effective July 31s1 2014 thru Aug 31 2017
08-12-14;09:20AM;
;915-771-9018
# 26/ 31
« 25	3 1
r.s i 4	: i - =ti;
; 91 5 -“71 i e
ARTICLE 27:	DURATION	_ //' A
1/
This CBA will be in full force and effect from 12:01 AM -SfiptemeF--pL2014, to 12:00 midnight August 31,2017, and shall continue from year to year thereafter, unless written notice
of desire to modify or terminate this Agreement is served by either party upon the other sixty (60) days prior to the date of expiration. Should the parties ever fail to agree to the renewal terms and conditions of this CBA wages and benefits will remain unchanged.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement on the 'day of Jb'/i/ 2014.
Authorized Signature:
ING
INTERNATIONAL UNION OF ENGINEERS, LOCAL 351 4f£-CIO
TRAINING, REHABILITATION, & DEVELOPMENT INSTITUTE, INC.
Print Name:	\JHtW
Print Name:
Title:
26

CBA between Training, Rehabilitation & Development Institute Inc. and International Union of Operating Engineers Local 351 AFL-CIO (Local 351) Effective July 31*' 2014 thru Aug 31 2017
Initials: ffl/\ 
08-12-14;09:20 AM;
;915-771-9018
# 27/ 31

ARTICLE 28:	ADDRESSES OF EMPLOYER AND UNION FOR SERVICE
Employer:
Training, Rehabilitation & Development Institute, Inc.
425 Soledad St. Suite SOO
San Antonio, Texas 78205
Union:
International Union of Operating Engineers, Local 351, AFL-CIO,
6967 Commerce
El Paso, Texas 79915
27
CBA between Training, Rehabilitation & Development Institute Inc. and International Union of Operating^glheers LpcaV|51 AFL-CIO (Local 351) Effective July 3111 2014 thru Aug 31 2017 Initials:^! ' * C/lff (
naaccrt*
08—12—14:09:20AM;
:915-771-9O18
# 23/ 31
1 - ; 1 2 : i ■ =m;
SCHEDULE “A”
WAGES
Classification	Current	Effective 9/1/14	09/01/2015	09/01/2016
Floor Person (Floor Stripper)	$11.14	S 11.44/hr	$11.79	$12.19
Custodian/Groundskeeper	$ 10.93	$ 1123/hr	$11.58	$ 11.98
SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL
Shift differential will be thirty cents ($0.30) per hour worked. Shift differential will cover second and third shift (between 03:00pm and 07:00am).
LONGEVITY INCENTIVE
Any employee who has been employed at any of these locations for over eight (8) continuous years, shall be entitled to an additional twenty cents (S. 20) per hour worked
HEALTH AND WELFARE BENEFIT CONTRIBUTION
The total Health and Welfare Benefit (“HWB”) contribution to be paid by the Employer under this Agreement shall be as follows per hour paid not to exceed forty (40) hours per week.
Total Health and Welfare Benefit Amount
Classification	Current	9/1/2014	9/1/2015	9/1/2016
All Unit Employees	$3.71	$4.00	$4.25	$4.50
The Company and the Union agree and acknowledge that the HWB contributions mentioned above will be paid to cover the monthly premium of the Employer’s group health insurance plan not to exceed forty (40) hours per week per employee.
Any contribution in excess of the cost of the monthly premium of the Employer’s health insurance plan will be contributed to an employee’s saving 401 (a) account set up by the Employer.
not CBA between Training, Rehabilitation & Development Institute Inc. and International Union of ! OperatingzEpgftieers Laean&5 1 AFL-CIO (Local 35 J) Effective July 3 Is 2014 thru Aug 31 2017
I Initials:.^ 1
08-12-14:09:2OAM;
;915-771-9018
# 29/ 31
« -9	31
OS 8 - 1 4 ; i : 1 • = y :
; 91 i 1 a
PENSION
The total pension contribution to be paid by the Employer under this Agreement shall be as follows per hour paid not to exceed forty (40) hours per week.
Classification	Current	9/1/2014	9/1/2015	9/1/2016
All Unit Employees	$0.50	S0.50	$0.60	$0.70
JURY DUTY
An employee summoned for Jury Duty to a court of record shall be allowed, whenever possible, the necessary time off for such service.
HOLIDAYS
The Employer will pay eligible employees for the following holidays:
1.	New Year’s Day
2.	Independence Day
3.	Martin L. King's Birthday
4.	Labor Day
5.	President’s Day
6.	Thanksgiving Day
7.	Memorial Day
8.	Christmas Day
9.	Columbus Day
10.	Veteran’s Day
Employees will be paid their normal scheduled hours at their normal straight time hourly rate for holidays, and if required to work on a holiday shall be paid, in addition to the above straight time for the first eight (8) hours worked. To be eligible to receive holiday pay, an employee must be on the active payroll and must work the last regularly scheduled shift prior to and the first regularly scheduled shift following the holiday unless he is on vacation.
If a holiday falls within an employee’s vacation period, the employee shall be paid for their nonnal scheduled hours at straight time hourly rate in addition to vacation pay.
Holiday schedules should be posted at least two (2) weeks prior to such holiday. Should an employee be assigned to work on a holiday listed above, he/she shall not be reassigned alternate
7Q | CBA betwee "Training, Rehabilitation & Develq>inrat instituteInc?and fnteimationai UniorTof | OperatingJ/tftpneers Loom 251 AFL-CIO (Local 351) Effective July 31“ 2014 thru Aug 31 2017
I Initials: 4 1
OS-12-14;09:2OAM;
;915-771-9018
# 30/ 31
days off to avoid payment of accumulation of hours worked during such workweek.
The Employer will make every reasonable effort to distribute holiday working hours as equally as practicable among employees (taking into consideration the work hour requirements of the AbilityOne Program) in their respective job classifications within a reasonable period.
VACATION
An employee, who shall have attained the years of continuous sendee specified in die following table, shall receive a regular vacation corresponding to such years of continuous service with vacation pay as shown in the following table:
Years of Service
One (1) year of service
Five (5) years of service
Ten (10) years of service
Entitlement
Ten (10) days Fifteen (15) days Twenty (20) days
Employees may not earn pro-rated vacations. Employees may become eligible for vacations after successfully meeting their annual anniversaiy date each year of employment. If an employee does not meet their annual anniversary date each year, vacations shall be not paid and an employee shall not be eligible for vacations.
CALL-IN PAY
If an employee has completed his shift, leaves the premises, and is called back to the facility, he shall be guaranteed a minimum of two (2) hours pay or two (2) hours of work at the applicable rate. This provision shall not apply, however, when the employee is called in for work prior to his regular shift and is scheduled to work up to and through his regular shift.
SICK LEAVE
Employees shall be entitled to sick leave per year, with pay, at the employee’s regular rate of pay, as identified in Schedule “A”. The employer may require medical proof of illness for absences in excess of two (2) days with sick leave. No sick leave pay shall be paid for less than one half (1/2) day sick pay. If an employee works more than one half (1/2) day, the employee shall only be paid for hours worked and will receive no sick leave pay. The employee will accumulate one half (1/2) day per month or 6 full days per year Sick leave will be paid even if not used.
Classification	Current	Effective 9/01/14	Effective 9/01/15	Effective 9/01/16
All unit employees	6 days per year	6 days per year	6 days per year	6 days per year
IQ I CBA between Training, Rehabilitation & Development Institute Inc. and International Union of
E	- AFL-CIO (Local 351) Effective July 31 “ 2014 thru Aug 31 2017
08-12-14;09:2OAM;
; 91 5-771-9018
# 31 / 31
1 4; 12:1 '=M:
: 91 s-~“ i -=m e
FUNERAL LEAVE
1.	Funeral Leave is a benefit designed to permit an employee time off with pay from scheduled work to actually attend the funeral of a relative (as described below).
2.	Only work days which fall within two (2) calendar days before the day of the funeral or witinn two (2) calendar days after the day of the funeral qualify for this benefit.
3.	Up to three (3) work days per annum may qualify for fimeral leave in the event of tlie death of a member of their immediate household who is related by blood or marriage, or in the event of the death of a father, mother, child, sister, brother, grandparent, grandchild, son-in-law, daughter-in-law of the employee- Special circumstance may qualify for one (1) additional day if approved by the Regional Manager
4.	Additional time off (i. e., vacations, sick leave, or other benefits) may be approved based upon individual’s need and subject to Employer approval.
5.	Funeral Leave will not be granted unless the employee is actually attending the funeral. The amount of time off authorized will depend on circumstance and distance to be traveled.
INTERNATIONAL UNION O ENGINEERS, LOCAL 351
Authorized Signature:
RATING
Print Name:
Title:	fLlf-
TRAINING, REHABILITATION, & DEVELOPMENT INSTITUTE, INC.
3 t CBA between Training, Rehabilitation & Development Institute Inc. and International Union of OperatingXimineers Locales WFL-CIO (Local 351) Effective July 31“ 2014 thru Aug 3 J 2017